{
  "news": "It should have been the happiest day of their lives, a time for celebration and feasting on the £5,000 buffet spread. But for Mateisz and Joanna Golbow, both 22, their wedding day quickly turned in to a nightmare as almost the entire 120-strong guest list were struck down with food poisoning at the reception. The newly-weds realised something was awry when their guests kept disappearing to the toilet, before excusing themselves and making a swift exit. The couple (left) look elated on their special day, but the smiles quickly turned to frowns (right) when almost their entire guest were struck down with food poisoning and had to keep dashing to the toilet The chicken, eggs and salad at the buffet spread at the reception all contained some dangerous bacteria The guests, pictured here at the wedding, later complained about upset stomachs and vomiting from the food But the couple were so busy entertaining their guests they had failed to eat any thing and did not notice the extent of the disaster until the end of the reception. The guests who attended the wedding in Rudolowice, a village in south-eastern Poland complained of upset stomachs, vomiting, diarrhoea and headaches. Recounting her 'special' day, the devastated bride said: 'Every hour there were fewer and fewer people as they disappeared into the toilets and then went home or to hospital. 'Me and Mateusz had been so busy enjoying ourselves and socialising, we hadn't bothered to eat anything so we didn't notice until the end. 'And as nobody wanted to ruin our special day they didn't tell us what the problem was until we phoned the next day and asked why everyone had left so soon. 'Then it became clear that with everyone having the same symptoms, it was food poisoning. Mateisz and Joanna Golbow, both 22, said the catering company that supplied the food had ignored them Groom Mateusz added: 'Eighty people, including a one-year-old child, were treated for food poisoning. 'We then found out that the chicken, eggs and salads all contained some dangerous bacteria. 'We had to throw away more than £5,000 worth of food that had been left over and when we contacted the catering company they ignored us and now won't even answer the phone. 'What should have been the happiest day of our life turned out to be the worst for our friends and family.'",
  "summary": "Guests attended reception in Rudolowice, village in south-eastern Poland Newly-weds realised something was awry when people kept going to toilet But they had not eaten anything so did not notice full extent of problem Only became clear at end of reception that everyone had food poisoning Chicken, eggs and salads in £5,000 buffet contained dangerous bacteria",
  "translate": "Khách tham dự tiệc chiêu đãi ở Rudolowice, làng ở phía đông nam Ba Lan, New Weds nhận ra điều gì đó thật tồi tệ khi mọi người tiếp tục đi vệ sinh nhưng họ không ăn gì Gà, trứng và salad ngộ độc trong 5.000 bảng tự chọn có chứa vi khuẩn nguy hiểm"
}