{
  "news": "If you’ve ever found yourself browsing for online bargains in the middle of the night then don’t worry, you’re not alone. Because according to John Lewis, Britain’s 24-hour culture has created a new breed of ‘inshopniacs’, with the store reporting a 31 per cent surge in the number of people shopping online during the small hours. The retailer has found that an increasing number of parents kept awake by a crying baby, late-night gamers and shift workers are shopping online after dark. The trend was revealed in their How We Shop, Live & Look report, which charts changes in spending habits over the past year using data from its stores and website. It shows how major events shaped which products became bestsellers. In came lap trays, the sort used by families eating in front of the TV on Channel 4’s Gogglebox series, while the Prince George effect started a trend for children’s sailor suits. The wet winter prompted a surge in searches for wellies, while the spring heatwave led to a run on barbecues. On their way out in 2014 were adult onesies, napkin rings and black socks, in favour of pink socks – a change apparently inspired by the Wolf of Wall Street. Changes in technology also saw the demise of camcorders and photo albums as people use their phones to record videos and store images on their computer hard drives or Apple’s ‘cloud’. And it seems those who are struggling to get to sleep have given up on counting sheep and are using their smartphones or tablets to go shopping instead. The managing director at John Lewis, Andy Street, said: ‘Sales through our website between the hours of midnight and 6am have increased by 31 per cent over the past year, thanks in no small part to the fact that more customers are choosing to do their shopping using a smartphone or tablet.’ He went on to say: ‘The change also reflects the need for instant gratification. For example, late-night gamers who might be sitting up at 1am are no longer thinking about buying something when they go into town in two days’ time. ‘Instead they look to buy things online, there and then. And we see that parents who have woken up at some unearthly hour thinking I need that for my son or daughter. When they can’t get back to sleep, they just go online and order it.’ The report also revealed that Sunday is the busiest day of the week for purchases on the John Lewis website. Mr Street said: ‘You are seeing families spending the weekend thinking over what they might buy and then sitting down with their iPad on Sunday evening and making the commitment.’",
  "summary": "John Lewis says Britain’s 24-hour culture has created ‘inshopniacs’ Store reported a 31 per cent rise in people shopping online in early hours report shows how major events shaped which products became bestsellers Sailor suits inspired by Prince George are among this year's 'in' products Lap trays like those used in Channel 4's Gogglebox are also popular Camcorders, black socks and adult onesies are on the way out",
  "translate": "John Lewis nói rằng văn hóa 24 giờ của Anh đã tạo ra cửa hàng 'Inshopniacs' đã báo cáo sự gia tăng 31 % trong những người mua sắm trực tuyến trong báo cáo đầu giờ cho thấy các sự kiện lớn được định hình như thế nào sản phẩm trở thành bộ đồ thủy thủ bán chạy nhất lấy cảm hứng từ Hoàng tử George trong năm nay 'trong năm nay' trong năm nay ' Các sản phẩm khay vòng như những chiếc được sử dụng trong Gogglebox của Kênh 4 cũng là máy quay phổ biến"
}