{
  "news": "By Ashley Collman Authorities arrested a shooter who injured a man this afternoon at the Dayton VA Medical Center. Police have identified the shooter as 59-year-old Neil Moore, a retired hospital employee who used to work in the housekeeping department. Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl says the incident happened around 12:10pm today in a break room in the basement of the building and that at least three people witnessed the incident. Hospital employee Paul Burnside, 61, suffered a gun shot wound to his ankle fighting Moore for the gun, and Biehl says the two appeared to know each other. Burnside's injuries are non-life threatening and he is recovering at the hospital. Scroll down for video Suspect named: Police identified the shooter as retired hospital employee Neil Moore, 59, who used to work in the housekeeping department. Pictured above arriving at Montgomery County Jail Monday afternoon Emergency: The incident happened around 12:10pm Monday afternoon in a hospital break room. After shots were fired, the hospital's lobby was evacuated and the rest of the building sent into lock down. Those evacuated from the building pictured above An officer speaking on a police scanner after the incident said Moore 'came in looking for someone else to do harm to, didn't find him and fired at this guy'. Early reports indicate the shooting was domestic-related as the suspect's wife works at the hospital. Moore was later arrested when his sister drove him to Good Samaritan Hospital, about six miles away from the VA center. At Good Samaritan, Moore underwent a psych evaluation before police transported him to Montgomery County Jail. As he was leaving the Dayton Police Department Monday afternoon, Moore apologized for his actions to WDTN reporters. 'I'm sorry for what I did. I didn't mean to,' he said as he was let out of the building by police officers. He added that he was sorry 'to the people he hurt' and that it was an accident. Moore may be a veteran himself since he was seen wearing a Marines letterman jacket walking into jail and police were initially searching for a suspect driving a GM truck with 'disabled vet' tags. Police say they found Moore's revolver in his truck parked at his sister's house. One shot: Moore (pictured) allegedly injured hospital employee Paul Burnside, 61, in the incident and police say the two men appeared to know each other. Burnside is recovering from minor injuries to his ankle at the hospital Veteran? Moore appears to be a veteran himself since he was arrested wearing a Marines letterman jacket and police were searching for a suspect with 'disabled vet' tags After the shots were reported, the hospital's lobby was evacuated and the rest of the building sent into lock down as SWAT teams searched the building room by room for the suspect. The hospital will remain closed until police complete their investigation. The hospital has beds for about 450 people and provides medical, mental health and nursing home care to veterans. Today's incident echoes back to four years ago when Iraq War Army veteran Jesse S Huff shot himself at a soldier' monument at the hospital while wearing military fatigues. Huff had been a patient there and was wounded by an explosive device while serving in Iraq. The hospital has beds for about 450 people and provides medical, mental health and nursing home care to veterans. Above, more people wait outside the hospital following the evacuation The hospital will remain closed until authorities finish conducting their investigation Four years ago, another veteran shot himself at a memorial at the hospital. The hospital pictured today, above",
  "summary": "Police have identified the shooter as former Dayton VA Medical Center employee Neil Moore, 59 Dayton police Chief Richard Biehl says the shooting happened around 12:10pm Monday in a basement break room At least three people witnessed the shooting and one hospital employee, 61-year-old Paul Burnside, trying to grab the gun from Moore Burnside sustained a non-life threatening injury to the ankle and is recovering at the hospital An officer speaking on a police scanner said the suspect 'came in looking for someone else to do harm to, didn't find him and fired at this guy' He told reporters he was sorry for hurting someone and that it was an accident as he was led out of the Dayton Police Department this afternoon The incident may also be domestic in nature since Moore's wife works at the center Moore may be a veteran since his truck has 'disabled vet' tags on it and he was booked in county jail wearing a Marines letterman Moore was arrested at Good Samaritan Hospital, about 6 miles away",
  "translate": "Cảnh sát đã xác định người bắn là cựu nhân viên của Trung tâm Y tế Dayton VA Neil Moore, Cảnh sát trưởng 59 Dayton Richard Biehl nói rằng vụ nổ súng xảy ra vào khoảng 12:10 tối thứ Hai trong phòng nghỉ tầng hầm ít nhất ba người chứng kiến vụ nổ súng và một nhân viên bệnh viện, 61 tuổi -old Paul Burnside, cố gắng lấy khẩu súng từ Moore Burnside bị chấn thương không đe dọa đến tính mạng ở mắt cá chân và đang hồi phục tại bệnh viện , không tìm thấy anh ta và bắn vào anh chàng này ', anh ta nói với các phóng viên rằng anh ta xin lỗi vì đã làm tổn thương ai đó và đó là một tai nạn khi anh ta bị dẫn ra khỏi Sở Cảnh sát Dayton vào chiều nay, sự cố cũng có thể là người trong nước vì vợ của Moore Làm việc tại Trung tâm Moore có thể là một cựu chiến binh vì chiếc xe tải của anh ta có thẻ 'VET bị vô hiệu hóa' trên đó và anh ta đã bị đặt trong nhà tù quận mặc một lính thủy đánh bộ Moore đã bị bắt tại Bệnh viện Samaritan tốt, cách đó khoảng 6 dặm"
}