{
  "news": "A Darwin man has dug up his buried grandmother and cremated her body so he could sell off her burial plot for spare cash. This was revealed by NT News with further reports that Darwin City Council have been discussing whether to review the Cemetery Act, alderman Gary Haslett said. Mr Haslett said a 'black market' has emerged as there are locals who were 'dying to be buried' at the city's general cemetery. It is unknown which cemetery the Darwin man sold his grandmother's burial plot, however Darwin General Cemetery is at capacity with the exception of grave sites which were bought in advance. A Darwin man has dug up his buried grandmother and cremated her body so he could sell off her burial plot for spare cash This comes after reports of Darwin General Cemetery (pictured) reaching capacity with the exception of grave sits which were purchased in advance According the council's website, Darwin General Cemetery is closed along with others nearby including Pioneer Cemetery and Gardens Road Cemetery. 'The Darwin General Cemetery is a denominational cemetery which was opened in 1954 and closed in 1988,' the council's website states. 'It was reopened again in 1989 and subsequently closed in September 2003. No grave sites remain available within the Darwin General Cemetery with burials being undertaken into previously reserved grave sites only.' Most burials now take place at Thorak Regional Cemetery near Berrimah - about 16km from Darwin General Cemetery. General manager of infrastructure Luccio Cercarelli told NT News council is unaware of such incidents like the man selling his grandmother's grave site. But he did say private sales do sometimes occur between owners of empty grave sites who want to sell the burial rights to another person. An unidentified director further told NT News these are done very confidentially, so there is no way of ascertaining a figure for such transactions.",
  "summary": "A 'black market' for burial spots has emerged, according to Darwin City Council alderman Gary Haslett This is reportedly due to Darwin General Cemetery reaching capacity Consequently it is closed along with others nearby including Pioneer Cemetery and Gardens Road Cemetery Most burials now take place at Thorak Regional Cemetery near Berrimah - about 16km from the general cemetery",
  "translate": "Một 'chợ đen' cho các điểm chôn cất đã xuất hiện, theo Hội đồng thành phố Darwin, Alderman Gary Haslett, điều này được báo cáo là do Nghĩa trang chung của Darwin đạt được năng lực do đó nó đã đóng cửa cùng với những người khác gần đó Nghĩa trang khu vực Thorak gần Berrimah - cách nghĩa trang chung khoảng 16km"
}