{
  "news": "A man who murdered a mother and daughter in their own home by bludgeoning them with a hammer and repeatedly stabbing them with scissors will spend at least 32 years behind bars. Lesley Jonathon Cameron was jailed for life on Tuesday for the horrific December 2013 murder of Maureen Anne Horstman, 67, and her 26-year-old daughter Tamara Alexandra Horstman in broad daylight at their Warwick home, in Perth, WA. Cameron, who was 19 and at the time, also raped Tamara but it is not known if she was alive or dead. A used condom with DNA evidence was found after the incident, The West Australian Supreme Court heard. Maureen Anne Horstman (left), 67, and her 26-year-old daughter Tamara Alexandra Horstman (right) were bludgeoned with a hammer and stabbed to death with scissors in their own home in December 2013 Prosecutor James MacTaggart said Cameron's behaviour was 'sadistic' and he went on a 'killing spree'. 'It's violence for violence's sake,' he said. Mr MacTaggart said while it may have started out as a burglary, Cameron was aroused and then 'sexually violated' Tamara. The court heard Cameron first entered Tamara's bedroom where he hit her over the head twice before going into Maureen's bedroom and striking her once to the head. He then returned to Tamara's bedroom and raped her. Lesley Jonathon Cameron has been jailed for a minimum of 32 years for the horrific crime. He described himself at the time as a 'walking time bomb' Cameron's lawyer Dominic Brunello said it was an unplanned and chaotic attack and Cameron panicked. Mr Brunello said his client had a troubled childhood and was 'drug-addled' at the time but was now sorry. 'He makes no excuses for his conduct,' Mr Brunello said. The court heard Cameron described himself at the time as a 'walking time bomb' and that he told police he had taken ice and speed. Justice Eric Heenan noted Cameron had a criminal record that was 'virtually without interruption' since he was 10 years old. In a victim impact statement, Tamara's twin brother Nicholas Horstman, who discovered the bodies, said his sister was a dedicated student, loyal friend and widely loved. Maureen and Tamara are seen here in a family photo with Tamara's twin brother Nicholas. Tamara's father said he has suffered many sleepless nights and was 'internally wrecked' He and his father accepted Tamara's university graduation certificate the day after her funeral. Tamara's father said he suffered many sleepless nights and was 'internally wrecked'. Justice Heenan said the women were going about their lives peacefully at home and the crime showed the vulnerability of the community. 'This is one of the worst types of murders one can imagine,' he said. 'It is the kind of offence which every member of the population dreads because it shows the insecurity and vulnerability of everybody in the community to random crime,' he added. Justice Heenan noted there was a possibility Cameron would remain a threat if he did not address his mental health and substance abuse issues. He said just because Cameron was young did not make him any less dangerous but there was a possibility of rehabilitation. Outside court, Nicholas Horstman said he was very happy with the sentence. 'However, no sentence will ever be long enough,' he said. 'To my family, close friends and the wider community, thank you for your support over the last 16 months. I'm truly thankful.'",
  "summary": "Lesley Jonathon Cameron was just 19 when he committed the crimes He bludgeoned and stabbed Maureen, 67, and Tamara Horstman, 26 He entered their Perth home in broad daylight in December 2013 He also raped Tamara but it is not known if she was alive or dead Cameron described himself at the time as a 'walking time bomb' Claimed he had taken ice and speed on the day of the murders Tamara's twin brother said 'no sentence will ever be long enough' Justice Heenan said 'it shows the insecurity and vulnerability of everybody in the community to random crime'",
  "translate": "Lesley Jonathon Cameron mới 19 tuổi khi anh ta phạm tội mà anh ta bị phá hủy và đâm Maureen, 67 tuổi và Tamara Horstman, 26 tuổi, anh ta đã vào nhà của họ vào ban ngày vào tháng 12 năm 2013, anh ta cũng hãm hiếp Tamara nhưng không biết liệu cô ta còn sống hay chết Cameron đã tự mô tả mình vào thời điểm đó là một 'quả bom thời gian đi bộ' tuyên bố rằng anh ta đã lấy băng và tốc độ vào ngày của người anh em sinh đôi của Tamara nói rằng 'Không có câu nào đủ dài' Công lý Heenan nói 'nó cho thấy sự bất an và dễ bị tổn thương của Mọi người trong cộng đồng đối với tội phạm ngẫu nhiên '"
}