{
  "news": "A 49-year-old gunman who was holed up in a vintage blue bus has been shot dead following a seven-hour standoff with SWAT officers that involved heavy gunfire, tear gas and the use of an armored car. Mark Hawkins reportedly barricaded himself inside the Greyhound-style bus in the parking lot of a Walmart in Salem, Oregon, after he was approached by police, who believed him to be wanted. Seconds later, Hawkins, who was being hunted in Lane County for failing to appear on a charge of delivery of a controlled substance, allegedly fired his weapon from the front of the large vehicle. The bullet struck a police dog named Baco in the head, prompting an exchange of gunfire between officers and Hawkins. Numerous law enforcement agencies in the area then rushed to the scene. Scroll down for video Wrecked: Mark Hawkins, 49, who was holed up in a vintage blue bus has been shot dead following a seven-hour standoff with SWAT officers. Above, the bus is pictured in a wrecked off after the standoff on Friday Finally out: A law enforcement official is pictured dragging Hawkins (whose limb can be seen in the official's grip) out of the Greyhound-style bus, which was situated in the parking lot of a Walmart in Salem, Oregon Shot dead: The suspect (left and right), who was wanted in Lane County for failing to appear on a charge of delivery of a controlled substance, had barricaded himself in the vehicle after he was approached by police In the hours after the first shot, which occurred shortly before noon on Friday, SWAT officers and police fired more than a dozen rounds of tear gas at the bus in Turner Road - but to no avail. They locked down all shops in the area, including the Walmart, as they attempted to force Hawkins out of the vehicle. They finally decided to ram an armored car into the blue bus, according to KOIN.com. In incredible scenes, SWAT offers drove the car into the bus, punching holes in the larger vehicle. But the suspect apparently still refused to comply with officers and 'continued to brandish a handgun'. At around 6.30pm, police shot at the suspect multiple times. He was hit and wounded by nine bullets, causing him to slide out of the bus. He was then taken to a nearby hospital, where he later died. '[Hawkins] has since died of his injuries,' the Salem Police Department said on Friday night. It is not yet known whether the bus belonged to Hawkins - and if not, how he managed to get into the vehicle. The officers involved in the shooting - Officer Joshua Edmiston, Officer Vincent Dawson and Officer Sean Bennet - have now been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation, police said. Vintage: Hawkins allegedly fired a weapon from the front of the large vehicle. The bullet struck a police dog named Baco in the head, prompting an exchange of bullets between officers and Hawkins. Above, the bus Firing tear gas: In the hours after the first shot, which occurred shortly before noon on Friday, SWAT officers and police fired more than a dozen rounds of tear gas (pictured) at the bus in Turner Road - but to no avail Lock down: They locked down all shops in the area, including the Walmart, as they attempted to force Hawkins out of the vehicle. They finally decided to ram an armored car into the bus, it is reported Meanwhile, K-9 Baco was taken to a nearby vet, where he was treated and released. He is now recovering at home with his handler, according to the police department's Facebook page. An autopsy by the Oregon State Medical Examiner on Saturday showed that Hawkins was shot nine times by officers during the standoff. He apparently died of gunshot wounds to the chest. On his Facebook page, Hawkins is pictured smiling while cuddling his pet dog at his Eugene home. An investigation is ongoing. Recovering: The standoff occurred in the parking lot of this Walmart (right) in Turner Road. K-9 Baco (left), who was injured in the shooting, was taken to a nearby vet, where he was treated and released",
  "summary": "Mark Hawkins, 49, allegedly barricaded himself inside a vintage blue bus Wanted for failing to appear in court for 'delivery of controlled substance' During seven-hour standoff, Hawkins 'shot and wounded police dog' SWAT team fired over 12 rounds of tear gas in bid to force him out of bus They finally decided to ram armored car into vehicle, punching holes in it At about 6.30pm Friday, Hawkins was shot nine times by cops; later died Officers involved are on administrative leave; an investigation is ongoing",
  "translate": "Mark Hawkins, 49 tuổi, bị cáo buộc tự rào chắn trong một chiếc xe buýt màu xanh cổ điển muốn không xuất hiện tại tòa vì 'giao chất bị kiểm soát' trong thời gian bế tắc kéo dài bảy giờ Trong nỗ lực buộc anh ta ra khỏi xe buýt, cuối cùng họ đã quyết định đưa chiếc xe bọc thép vào xe, đấm vào đó vào khoảng 6h30 tối thứ Sáu, Hawkins đã bị cảnh sát bắn chín lần; Sau đó, các sĩ quan chết liên quan đang nghỉ hành chính; Một cuộc điều tra đang diễn ra"
}