{
  "news": "By Phil Duncan for MailOnline Follow @@PhilDuncanF1 Arsenal’s stars were willing to poke fun at themselves in a hilarious new advert. Theo Walcott and Olivier Giroud were among the all-star cast to team up with Stonewall – a lesbian, gay and bisexual rights charity in the UK – to help tackle homophobia in football. Walcott, currently sidelined with a knee injury which saw him miss last summer’s World Cup, is the first to appear on screen. Tan: A bare-chested Oliver Giroud says: 'I can't help I'm gorgeous' before winking to the camera (below left) Hair we go: Giroud flirts with the camera before club captain Mikel Arteta sprays his locks with hairspray ‘I can’t change that I look like Lewis Hamilton,’ he says in reference to comparisons drawn between the Formula One star and the Arsenal and England forward. Next up is the club’s captain Mikel Arteta. ‘I can’t change that my hair is perfecto,’ the Spaniard says while using hairspray to keep his locks in place. Santi Cazorla – one of the Premier League’s smallest players at just 5ft 6in – then appears, albeit comically with only half of his face on display. ‘I can’t change my height,’ he says during the 30-second advert. ‘I can’t change that I look like a Teenage Ninja Mutant Hero’, adds Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain before crocked Giroud probably provokes the biggest laugh. Out of shot: The advert pokes fun at Santi Cazorla's height. He's one of the shortest in the Premier League Seeing double: Theo Walcott (left) and Formula One star Lewis Hamilton, pictured at this week's GQ Awards Spraying his body with fake tan, the Frenchman says: ‘I can’t change that I am gorgeous,’ before winking at the camera. The advert forms part of the Rainbow Laces campaign and was filmed in conjunction with the club's betting partner Paddy Power. Rainbow laces will be distributed to players across the UK for next week’s round of fixtures. The Gunners will face Manchester City at the Emirates. Turtle Football: Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain's former team-mate Emmanuel Frimpong compared him to a Teenage Mutant Hero (below) Arteta, who hopes to return from injury for the eagerly-awaited clash, said: ‘We’re very happy to support the campaign and whilst the advert is a light-hearted look at the things we can’t change, discrimination in football cannot be tolerated and we need to work together to change this.’ Former Aston Villa and West Ham midfielder Thomas Hitzlsperger, the only openly gay player to have played in the Premier League, added: 'I’m proud to be working with Stonewall on the Rainbow Lace campaign. I want to show that being gay and a professional footballer is something that’s normal. 'The perceived contradiction between playing football, the man’s game, and being homosexual is nonsense.'",
  "summary": "Mikel Arteta and Santi Cazorla also starred in the hilarious advert Cazorla, one of the smallest players in the Premier League, pokes fun at his height, while Giroud is seen covering himself in spray tan Stars featuring in Rainbow Laces campaign aimed at helping to tackle homophobia in football",
  "translate": "Mikel Arteta và Santi Cazorla cũng đóng vai chính trong quảng cáo vui nhộn Cazorla, một trong những cầu thủ nhỏ nhất ở Premier League, chọc vào đỉnh cao của anh ấy, trong khi Giroud được nhìn thấy trên Spray Tan Stars có trong chiến dịch Rainbow Laces nhằm mục đích giúp giải quyết vấn đề Homophobia trong bóng đá"
}