{
  "news": "A couple have been arrested after allegedly leaving a baby in a freezing car outside while they had sex inside their feces-filled home. Louis Thomas Cope and Katrina Marie Norman, were detained by police after officers found an infant inside a minivan with the driver and passenger door completely open in temperatures below freezing. Police were initially called to the house in Gwinett County, Georgia after a complaint regarding animals at the property. Katrina Marie Norman, left, and Louis Thomas Cope, who have been accused of leaving a baby outside in a freezing car while they had sex inside their feces-filled home When officers arrived at the home in Snellville , they found the baby in the vehicle and when they knocked on the door, Norman 32, answered after several minutes wearing a pink lace suit and a blanket. According to a police report obtained by the Gwinett Daily Post, the responding officer wrote: 'Based on their appearance it has appeared they had left the child in the vehicle while having intercourse.' Cope, 23, reportedly told police that he and Norman had just returned from food shopping when Norman surprised him with pink lingerie. The couple insist that the child wasn't left unsupervised for more than a few minutes, but authorities say they had been on the scene nearly 15 minutes before the pair emerged. The report also added that once police entered the house, there was a strong smell of urine and feces and there was trash thrown about the floor with animal feces in children's bedrooms. Officers from Gwinett County Police, pictured, were called to the house after a complaint regarding animals at the home The report by the officer also added: 'I saw a knife lying on the ground within reach for a child to grab and hurt themselves.' Police also described the baby and the other two children living at the house as deprived. The pair have now been charged with maintaining a disorderly house and second-degree cruelty to children, which is a felony. Both have since been released after posting $16,900 bonds. Online booking sheets at Gwinett County jail also revealed the tattoos adorning both suspect's bodies with Cope's arm saying 'Family forever' and Norman's back saying 'Partners in crime.'",
  "summary": "Police were called to a home in Georgia after receiving an animal complaint When they arrived they found a baby left outside in a freezing minivan They discovered Louis Thomas Cope and Katrina Marie Norman inside Police report says it appears that they had been having intercourse Couple were arrested and have been charged with a child cruelty offence",
  "translate": "Cảnh sát đã được gọi đến một ngôi nhà ở Georgia sau khi nhận được khiếu nại của động vật khi họ đến, họ tìm thấy một em bé bị bỏ lại bên ngoài trong một chiếc minivan đóng băng, họ phát hiện ra Louis Thomas đối phó và Katrina Marie Norman trong báo cáo của cảnh sát nói rằng họ đã bị bắt giữ và đã bị buộc tội phạm tội tàn ác trẻ em"
}