{
  "news": "A piano teacher awaiting a jury's verdict on charges claiming he sexually assaulted an underage student has shot himself outside a New Hampshire courthouse, court officials say. Authorities say 75-year-old John Goodwin, of Atkinson, went on trial this week on six counts of aggravated felonious sexual assault. Prosecutors said that Atkinson, who pleaded not guilty, repeatedly sexually assaulted a student, who is now 24 years old, according to SeaCoastOnline. John Goodwin, 75, shot himself outside of Rockingham County Superior Courthouse on Friday morning while jurors were deliberating claims that Goodwin had sexually assaulted an underage student The former student testified he didn't come forward until 2013 because he was embarrassed, according to WMUR. The station reports Goodwin's lawyer acknowledged his client was 'touchy-feely,' but he didn't commit a crime. Court officials say the jury was deliberating when Goodwin shot himself late Friday morning near his car in a parking lot outside Rockingham County Superior Courthouse. He wasn't in custody. Court officials say Goodwin was airlifted to a hospital with life-threatening injuries from the self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to WPTZ. His health status has not been immediately disclosed. As of Friday afternoon, jurors were still deliberating, but court officials would not say if the jurors knew about the shooting. The New Hampshire Attorney General's Office is expected to release more information about the incident Friday evening. Goodwin was by his car outside Rockingham County Courthouse in New Hampshire when he shot himself. He was not in custody at the time and his health status has not been disclosed, though he was airlifted to hospita",
  "summary": "John Goodwin, 75, of Atkinson, New Hampshire, went on trial this week on six counts of aggravated felonious sexual assault He had pleaded not guilty in the case in which prosecutors said he repeatedly sexually assaulted a student, who is now 24 The former student said he didn't come forward until 2013 because he was embarrassed Court officials said he shot himself outside his car while not in custody He was airlifted to a hospital with life-threatening injuries but his condition has not been disclosed",
  "translate": "John Goodwin, 75 tuổi, ở Atkinson, New Hampshire, đã ra tòa trong tuần này với sáu tội tấn công tình dục trọng tội nghiêm trọng mà anh ta đã không nhận tội trong trường hợp mà các công tố viên nói rằng anh ta liên tục tấn công tình dục một học sinh, hiện đang 24 tuổi cho biết anh ta đã không tiến lên cho đến năm 2013 vì anh ta cảm thấy xấu hổ cho các quan chức tòa án nói rằng anh ta đã tự bắn ra ngoài xe trong khi không bị giam giữ, anh ta đã được đưa đến bệnh viện"
}