{
  "news": "A naked rampage in California has left residents of an apartment complex in shock after a bare man ran around their parking lot at night and smashed headfirst into vehicles. Clarisa Vidrio of Anaheim told KTLA News that she spotted 21-year-old Garrett Smith sprinting towards the trunk of her neighbor's van around 11:30pm on Saturday before he bounced off and did a backwards somersault. Distressed by the scene, she quickly got into her car and attempted to drive off, but a bloodied Smith erratically jumped on her bonnet. Vidrio sped up in a state of panic and dethroned the unclothed rider by bumping into a parked van. 'I saw the guy flying off the car... I literally thought I was going to die that day,' she recalled. Proving her observations, a surveillance camera caught the unusual incident unfold. Footage released, shows Smith getting up and wearily crouching over after he was hit. Another resident from the apartment complex then goes over to greet him before he starts running again. The witness described the scene as 'something beyond his imagination.' Caught on camera: Residents from an apartment complex in California have told of their shock after a young man ran naked through the parking lot in the dead of night and nearly killed himself Ouch: Clarisa Vidrio of Anaheim said she spotted 21-year-old Garrett Smith sprinting towards the trunk of her neighbor's van around 11:30pm on Saturday before he bounced off and did a backwards somersault Instinct: Distressed by the scene, she quickly got into her car and attempted to drive off, but a bloodied Smith decided to jump on her bonnet Stephen Trinkle, who also spotted Smith, told CBS News he was covered in sweat and blood. 'To take that much pain and then get up and take off again, it's just bizarre,' Trinkle added. Vidrio, who first saw Smith, immediately called 911 after she managed to get him off her car. Smith was arrested a mile away and taken to hospital with multiple injuries. He now faces charges of vandalism, being under the influence and resisting arrest. Swift move: Vidrio sped up in a state of panic and knocked the unclothed rider off by bumping into a van On the run: Smith was arrested a mile away and taken to hospital with multiple injuries Unusual incident: He now faces charges of vandalism, being under the influence and resisting arrest Denise Bustillos, another witness, concluded: 'It was a shocking thing. I think it affected all of us on the complex.' Vidrio's car was left seriously damaged as a result of Smith's naked rampage with her windshield shattered and bumper in tatters. She also bulldozed a neighbor's fence as she quickly pulled away. The van Smith plowed into was left with dents. 'When our neighbor told me the story... I didn’t believe her at first,' said Charlie Barnes, who owns the crumpled vehicle.",
  "summary": "Clarisa Vidrio of Anaheim said she spotted 21-year-old Garrett Smith sprinting toward's the trunk of her neighbor's van around 11:30pm on Saturday before he bounced off and did a backwards somersault Distressed by the scene, she quickly got into her car and attempted to drive off, but a bloodied Smith decided to jump on her bonnet Vidrio, immediately called 911 after she managed to get him off her car He was arrested a mile away and now faces charges of vandalism, being under the influence and resisting arrest",
  "translate": "Clarisa Vidrio của Anaheim cho biết cô phát hiện ra Garrett Smith, 21 tuổi, chạy nước rút về phía thân xe của người hàng xóm vào khoảng 11:30 tối thứ bảy trước khi anh bật ra và làm phiền vì hiện trường, cô nhanh chóng lên xe và cố gắng Để lái xe đi, nhưng một Smith Bloodied quyết định nhảy lên nắp ca -pô của cô, ngay lập tức gọi 911 sau khi cô tìm cách đưa anh ta ra khỏi xe của mình, anh ta đã bị bắt một dặm và bây giờ phải đối mặt với cáo buộc phá hoại, bị ảnh hưởng và chống lại việc bắt giữ"
}