{
  "news": "By David Mccormack PUBLISHED: 18:17 EST, 21 January 2014 | UPDATED: 18:28 EST, 21 January 2014 Shelley Bezanson, 28, of Osprey, Florida, is accused of purposefully killing pit bull-mix, Diamond, after the dog's vet refused to euthanize him A woman has been charged with animal cruelty after police claim she strangled her healthy seven-year-old dog to death with its leash. Shelley Bezanson, 28, of Osprey, Florida, is accused of purposefully killing pit bull-mix, Diamond, after the dog's vet refused to euthanize him. According to a police report, the dog died a ‘prolonged, painful and cruel death’. During October and November of 2013, police said Bezanson called her vet multiple times seeking to euthanize Diamond because he was, she insisted, ‘sick and old’. The vet refused, because Diamond was healthy, and suggested Bezanson take him to the humane society if she didn’t want him. Instead Bezanson choose to take matters into her own hands and end her poor pet’s life. On Nov. 14, she allegedly strangled Diamond using his leash and even turned up the music in her apartment so her neighbors wouldn’t hear his screams. A tip led Venice Police Department investigators to Bezanson, who tried to bury the animal at her mother's Venice home. She apparently told investigators: ‘I promised Diamond we would be together until the end, and this was the end.’ Beranson also told police that she would have been evicted if she did not get rid of Diamond, but did not want anyone else to have the dog, reports the Herald Tribune. Beranson told police she would have been evicted if she did not get rid of Diamond, but did not want anyone else to have the dog She was arrested and charged with animal cruelty on Friday. She is being held at the Sarasota County Jail on $25,000 bond. Sarasota County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Wendy Rose called the incident a ‘horrible story - particularly when you have so many willing rescue groups to help take the dog and give it a forever home.’ Bezanson also owned a kitten and a domesticated rat when she was arrested. In an interview with police, she allegedly added that she plans to adopt another dog.",
  "summary": "Shelley Bezanson, 28, of Osprey, Florida, is accused of purposefully killing pit bull-mix, Diamond, after the dog's vet refused to euthanize him She told police she would be evicted if she didn't get rid of him and she refused to contact the humane society According to police, Diamond died a 'prolonged, painful and cruel death' Bezanson has been charged with animal cruelty and is being held on $25,000 bond In an interview with police, she allegedly added that she plans to adopt another dog",
  "translate": "Shelley Bezanson, 28 tuổi, ở Osprey, Florida, bị buộc tội giết chết Pit Bull-Mix, Diamond, sau khi bác sĩ thú y của con chó từ chối tiêu diệt anh ta, cô ta nói với cảnh sát rằng cô ta sẽ bị đuổi ra nếu cô ta không thoát khỏi anh ta và cô từ chối Liên lạc với Hiệp hội Nhân đạo Theo cảnh sát, Diamond đã chết một 'cái chết kéo dài, đau đớn và tàn nhẫn' Bezanson đã bị buộc tội tàn ác động vật và đang bị giữ trên trái phiếu 25.000 đô la trong một cuộc phỏng vấn với cảnh sát, cô bị cáo buộc nói thêm rằng cô dự định nhận nuôi một con chó khác"
}