{
  "news": "The 12-year-old boy who died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound at a Boy Scout camp near San Diego on Monday has been identified. The San Diego County Medical Examiner's Office identified the boy on Tuesday as William Shook, of Las Vegas. Authorities are yet to determine whether Shook's death was a suicide or if the gun discharged accidentally. Ientified: Authorities identified the 12-year-old boy who suffered a fatal gunshot wound as William Shook Chaperone: The boy's father is Las Vegas attorney John Shook, who was chaperoning the trip Police are also trying to determine how the boy got the gun - according to KTNV, the gun is not registered, and authorities believe the boy brought it with him from Las Vegas. Shook is son of Las Vegas attorneys John Shook and Julie Shook, a deputy Clark County, Nevada, district attorney. The boy's father was at the camp as a chaperone. Police received a call early Monday morning that a boy had shot himself at the camp on Fiesta Island, Officer Matt Tortorella told The Associated Press. Officers found a gun in the boy's tent. It's not clear yet where the gun came from or how it got into the camp. Crime scene: Police say the 12-year-old shot himself in the head in a tent at Fiesta Island Youth Camp and Youth Aquatic Center Shut down: Police have closed the camp to visitors while they investigate the tragedy Police said that when they arrived, they found a 12-year-old boy in a tent with at least one gunshot wound. They tried to revive the child, but he died on the scene. The boy and his Boy Scout troop arrived at the camp on Sunday intending to stay until July 5. There were no firearm programs or activities available at the camp, and Boy Scouts of America policy does not allow personal firearms at its events, organization spokesman Deron Smith said. Distressed: Other campers have been provided with grief counselors following the death of one of their Scout group Summer holiday: The boys were to spend the week sailing, kayaking and swimming but a shooting in a 12-year-old's tent has cut the camp short 'This is an extremely sad day for our entire scouting family,' Boy Scouts of America said in a statement. 'Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and all those who experienced this tragedy. Our top priority is providing support to our community and for those in the grieving process.' The organization said grief counselors were sent to the camp. The boy's father was a chaperone for the troop, and about 20 Scouts were at the camp, Lieutenant Mike Hastings said. The weeklong summertime program allows Scouts to camp among sandy dunes on Mission Bay in San Diego. They can sail, kayak, and do other activities while earning merit badges.",
  "summary": "The 12-year-old boy who died Monday morning of a gunshot wound to the head has been identified as William Shook Police were called to the San Diego Boy Scout camp at 7:36am Monday When they arrived they found the boy dead of a gunshot wound inside a tent Police are investigating whether the wound was self-inflicted It is unclear how the boy came to be in possession of the gun The gun used in the shooting is unregistered and police believe the boy brought it from home The camp does not have a shooting range or firearm activities The boy's Scout group came from Las Vegas intending to stay until July 5 The boy's father was a chaperone at the camp",
  "translate": "Cậu bé 12 tuổi đã chết vào sáng thứ Hai vì vết thương do súng bắn vào đầu đã được xác định là cảnh sát William Shook được gọi đến trại Hướng đạo sinh San Diego lúc 7:36 sáng thứ Hai khi họ đến Vết thương bên trong một cảnh sát trong lều đang điều tra xem liệu vết thương có bị tự gây ra không, không rõ làm thế nào cậu bé bị sở hữu khẩu súng mà khẩu súng sử dụng trong vụ nổ súng là không đăng ký và cảnh sát tin rằng cậu bé đã mang nó từ nhà Một phạm vi bắn hoặc hoạt động của súng, nhóm Hướng đạo sinh đến từ Las Vegas dự định ở lại cho đến ngày 5 tháng 7, cha của cậu bé là một người đi kèm tại trại"
}