{
  "news": "Chelsea new boy Juan Cuadrado is beginning to settle into London life with the help of his Colombian teammate David Ospina, as they put their club rivalries to one side. The 26-year-old completed his £27million move to Stamford Bridge from Fiorentina during the transfer window - which saw Mohamed Salah go the other way on loan. Cuadrado, who could feature in Saturday's game against Aston Villa, took to Instagram to thank Ospina for helping him settle in. Juan Cuadrado (right) took to Instagram to thank David Ospina for helping him settle into London life 'Thanks buddy d_ospina1 for the invitation, blessings.' Ospina followed suit and posted the same photograph on his Instagram commenting: 'Best wishes buddy.' The duo starred for Colombia during the World Cup and can now look forward to coming up against each other when Arsenal and Chelsea meet at the Emirates in April. The explosive winger (left) is expected to add another dimension to Jose Mourinho's side in the title race Cuadrado (centre) could feature for his new side when they travel to struggling Aston Villa on Saturday Cuadrado joins the club at a vital point in the season with the title race hotting up between the Blues and Manchester City. The ex-Fiorentina man was pictured training with his new teammates earlier this week and Jose Mourinho will be hoping that the explosive winger can add another dimension to his squad. While Cuadrado is expected to make an instant impact, it's taken Ospina a little while to establish himself as Arsenal's number one but he's grasped the opportunity with both hands. The goalkeeper has kept three clean sheets in his last three Premier League games, including one in the Gunners impressive 2-0 victory at the Etihad. Arsenal travel to White Hart Lane on Saturday lunchtime to face arch-rivals Tottenham Hotspur, in what will be Ospina's first taste of the North London derby. Ospina has established himself as Arsenal's number one and has been impressive in recent games",
  "summary": "Chelsea's Juan Cuadrado took to Instagram to thank Arsenal's David Ospina for helping his settle into London life following his £27million move The winger could feature on Saturday against struggling Aston Villa Ospina has now established himself as Arsenal's number one goalkeeper Click here for all the latest Chelsea news",
  "translate": "Juan Cuadrado của Chelsea đã lên Instagram để cảm ơn David Ospina của Arsenal vì đã giúp giải quyết cuộc sống của anh ấy sau cuộc sống 27 triệu bảng Anh ấy có thể giới thiệu vào thứ Bảy chống lại Aston Villa Ospina hiện đã tự mình trở thành thủ môn số một của Arsenal, nhấp vào đây cho tất cả những người mới nhất của Chelsea Tin tức"
}