{
  "news": "A veteran truck driver from Texas claims he was fired for repeatedly putting down 'Jesus' as his co-pilot in his logbooks. Last month, Ramiro Olivarez, of Rio Grande Valley, received a letter of termination from his employer, the Falfurrias-based On Point Services, accusing him of submitting incomplete documentation and falsifying legal documents. But according to Olivarez, who is a devout Christian, his only crime was putting down the name 'Jesus' as his co-driver in his daily logbooks - something he has been doing throughout his career. Jesus, don't take the wheel: Veteran truck driver Ramiro Olivarez claims he was fired for repeatedly putting down 'Jesus' as his co-pilot in his logbooks Nuclear option: Olivarez said had his employers asked him to stop using the name of the Son of God, he would have complied, but they chose to terminate him The law requires truck drivers to sign their logbooks, but the name of a co-pilot can be written in, or left blank. Olivarez’s pink slip stated that the driver broke federal and state laws by using the name ‘Jesus.’ ‘Jesus is my co-driver, and I have no shame in that,’ he told the station KRGV. ‘That's my belief that he's with me.’ Olivarez said had his employers asked him to stop using the name of the Son of God, he would have complied, or possibly substituted it with a cross. The veteran trucker is convinced that he was let go because of his religious beliefs. The law requires truck drivers to sign their logbooks, but the name of a co-pilot can be written in or left blank He has called on his fellow Christian truck drivers to take a stand by following his example. ‘I strongly encourage you to put Jesus as your co-driver,’ he told the station.",
  "summary": "Ramiro Olivarez, of Texas, got a letter of termination accusing him of submitting incomplete documentation and falsifying legal documents Law requires truck drivers to sign their logbooks, but the name of a co-pilot can be written in, or left blank",
  "translate": "Ramiro Olivarez, ở Texas, đã nhận được một lá thư chấm dứt cáo buộc anh ta nộp tài liệu không đầy đủ và làm sai lệch luật pháp pháp luật yêu cầu lái xe tải phải ký vào sổ nhật ký của họ, nhưng tên của một đồng nghiệp có thể được viết hoặc để trống"
}