{
  "news": "By Sam Webb A 25-year-old man was shot to death on the street in a quiet New York neighbourhood, police have said. Jack Anthony Jackson Jr, of Park Place, Brooklyn, was gunned down on the Willoughby Avenue, close to Brooklyn Charter School, just before 11pm local time last night. Emergency services rushed to the scene but he was pronounced dead at the scene. His attacker is still at large, police said. A 25-year-old man was shot to death on a residential street in Brooklyn, New York. It has been reported he was in a fight with a group of men shortly before he died Witnesses said the man had just dropped off a backpack at a friend's home when he got into a fight with a group of men. One if the men pulled a gun and shot him in the chest, it was reported. 'He passed me just five minutes before it happened,' a 64-year-old resident of the block told the New York Daily News. 'We talked for a second. He said he was dropping off a bag at a friend's house ... He walked away singing a song. Next thing I know, that's it.' A witness said there were two gunshots and when he ran down the block he discovered the victim dying on the floor A police officer stands on a stoop and surveys the scene The witness said there were two gunshots and when he ran down the block he discovered the victim dying on the floor. He added: 'He was a respectable kid, I didn't know him to have enemies... I never expected to see him lying on the ground like that.' Pictures taken at the scene of the apparent murder show a body next to an automatic pistol and a baseball cap.",
  "summary": "Jack Anthony Jackson Jr hit in the chest by gunfire in Brooklyn, New York He reportedly got into a fight with a group of men shortly before he died Witness said 25-year-old said he had dropped off a backpack with a friend",
  "translate": "Jack Anthony Jackson Jr đánh vào ngực bởi tiếng súng ở Brooklyn, New York, anh ta đã đánh nhau với một nhóm người ngay trước khi anh ta chết cho biết anh ta 25 tuổi nói rằng anh ta đã bỏ một chiếc ba lô với một người bạn"
}