{
  "news": "California's whooping cough epidemic is here to stay. The state has seen in 2014 the highest number of whooping cough cases in nearly 70 years — and researchers say big outbreaks may become 'the new normal.' Two-month-old Saoirse Ball gets the whooping cough vaccine while being held by her mother Erinne (file photo) Data from the California Department of Public Health shows just how low the number of cases of the disease got before it began to spike again in the last few years Up until Nov. 26, the state has registered 9,935 cases of the illness. This number is so high, it hadn't been surpassed since the late 1940s, according to the California Department of Public Health. The last epidemic in California was in 2010, when 9, 159 cases were reported — including 10 deaths. A school nurse in Los Angeles prepares a whooping cough vaccine (file photo) Public health officials say one of the reasons for the higher number of cases is the use since the '90s of a type of vaccine that causes 'fewer reactions' but does 'not protect as long.' Experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warn that the most highly affected group was infants. But there was also a peak in cases among teens ages 14 to 16, according to the CDC. What's worse: the CDC warns that cases of the disease among teens is 'likely' to increase 'in the absence of a new vaccine or more effective vaccination strategy.' 'As long as currently available acellular pertussis vaccines are in use, it is likely that the “new normal” will be higher disease incidence throughout pertussis cycles,' the CDC said in its Dec. 5 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.",
  "summary": "Cases of the whooping cough, or pertussis, have reached its highest incidence since the late '40s Public health officials say one of the reasons is the use since the '90s of a type of vaccine that causes 'fewer reactions' but does 'not protect as long' The CDC warns: higher disease incidence may become the 'new normal' The most highly affected groups was infants, but teenagers are also at risk",
  "translate": "Các trường hợp ho gà, hay ho gà, đã đạt đến tỷ lệ mắc cao nhất từ cuối những năm cuối thập niên 40 của các quan chức y tế công cộng nói rằng một trong những lý do là việc sử dụng kể từ những năm 90 của một loại vắc -xin gây ra 'ít phản ứng hơn' nhưng không bảo vệ miễn là 'CDC cảnh báo: tỷ lệ mắc bệnh cao hơn có thể trở thành' bình thường mới ', các nhóm bị ảnh hưởng nhiều nhất là trẻ sơ sinh, nhưng thanh thiếu niên cũng có nguy cơ"
}