{
  "news": "By Harriet Arkell Coronation Street star Barbara Knox, 80, has been with drink driving in Cheshire, police said today Coronation Street actress Barbara Knox has been charged with drink-driving, police said this afternoon. The 80-year-old, who plays Rita Tanner in the ITV soap, was charged by Cheshire police today after attending a police station to answer bail. She was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence last month at Knutsford Police Station after going to visit her daughter, Maxine Ashcroft, 56, who had just been arrested for the same offence. A Cheshire Police spokesman said: 'Police have charged an 80-year-old woman with drink driving following an incident in Knutsford on 10 March 2014. 'The woman turned up at Knutsford Police Station in relation to a separate matter and was arrested.' He said Knox, of Knutsford, Cheshire, is due to appear before Macclesfield Magistrates' Court on 24 April. Earlier this week, Knox's daughter, of Lechlade, Gloucestershire, was fined and banned from driving for two years after pleading guilty to drink-driving. Magistrates in Macclesfield heard that Ashcroft was arrested after being stopped by police while driving home a relative, believed to be her actress mother, from a family gathering in Alderley Edge, Cheshire. Ashcroft's lawyer Nick 'Mr Loophole' Freeman said she had made a 'terrible error of judgement' in what was a 'classic case of alcohol anaesthetising good sense'. He said the divorcee had recently moved from Cheshire to a more rural location in Gloucestershire where the nearest shop was six miles away. Ashcroft was banned from driving for fined £960 and ordered to pay costs of £85 and a £96 victim surcharge. Soap legend: Knox, who was awarded the MBE in 2010, first appeared in Coronation Street in 1964 Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.",
  "summary": "The soap star was arrested at Knutsford police station on 10 March She'd gone to see daughter Maxine Ashcroft who was held for same thing Knox, of Knutsford, is due to appear before Macclesfield JPs on 24 April Two days ago Ashcroft, of Lechlade, admitted driving under the influence Actress's daughter was banned for two years and ordered to pay £1141",
  "translate": "Ngôi sao xà phòng đã bị bắt tại đồn cảnh sát Knutsford vào ngày 10 tháng 3, cô đã đi gặp con gái Maxine Ashcroft, người đã bị giam giữ vì điều tương tự Knox, của Knutsford, sẽ xuất hiện trước MacClesfield JPS vào ngày 24 tháng 4 hai ngày trước Ashcroft, của Lechlade, Được thừa nhận lái xe theo con gái của nữ diễn viên ảnh hưởng đã bị cấm trong hai năm và được lệnh phải trả £ 1141"
}