{
  "news": "As if running on the treadmill wasn't already hard enough work, a man has performed a dance routine on one. Choreographer Carson Dean has posted a video of himself performing a high-speed, energetic routine to Bruno Mars' catchy hit song, Uptown Funk. And to add to the talented feat, he doesn't lose his balance once or even appear to break into a sweat. Choreographer Carson Dean, starts his Uptown Funk routine with a series of turns on the treadmill Throughout the dance, Dean, who is based in Los Angeles, California, carries out a series of jumps, spins, high-kicks and even a flip - all while maintaining his balance. The professional dancer, choreographer, singer and actor posted the short clip, lasting a minute and a half, on YouTube. It was supposedly intended to be a short workout video, with the caption alluding to the lyrics from the Bruno Mars song: 'The best cardio workout! Don't believe me just watch.' But it's unlikely that many non-professional dancers will be able to imitate his acrobatic 'cardio workout'. The routine starts off slowly with a Dean strolling to the beat on the treadmill, alternating between going backwards and forwards. His movement gets progressively more high-energy, eventually introducing nifty footwork and turns. The professional dancer/choreographer, actor and singer starts to use the arms of the treadmill to conduct a series of tricks Dean moves on to more high-energy moves and high-kicks, all while remaining sweat-free By the end of the video, Dean uses the arms of the treadmill to lift himself up and employ high leg-kicks. But by far the most impressive moment, is when the choreographer once again uses the support arms of the treadmill to curl up and do a small flip. The viral video has already racked up 2,658,243 views, as well as 18,549 likes, with viewers amazed at Dean's slick moves and cool composure. YouTube user, Kandee Johnson posted: 'This is craazy!!!!! Some people can barely get off of a treadmill without falling!' The most impressive part of the video is when the dancer uses his upper-body strength to employ a small flip on the moving treadmill",
  "summary": "Choreographer Carson Dean dances to Bruno Mars' hit Uptown Funk The clip sees Dean perform an acrobatic routine on a moving treadmill YouTube video has racked up more than 2.5million views",
  "translate": "Biên đạo múa Carson Dean nhảy múa với Bruno Mars hit Uptown Funk The Clip cho thấy Dean thực hiện một thói quen nhào lộn trên một video YouTube đang di chuyển đã đạt được hơn 2,5 triệu lượt xem lượt xem"
}