{
  "news": "By Tim Shipman PUBLISHED: 19:30 EST, 11 April 2013 | UPDATED: 01:50 EST, 12 April 2013 Libel lawyer and Tory MP Sir Edward Garnier has put down amendments to the Government's Defamation Bill that would remove key sections designed to boost freedom of speech Plans to reform Britain’s ‘chilling’ libel laws to prevent businesses and politicians silencing their critics risk being derailed. Libel lawyer and Tory MP Sir Edward Garnier has put down amendments to the Government’s Defamation Bill that would remove key sections designed to boost freedom of speech. The legislation currently states that companies must show that financial damage was caused by something written by a journalist, academic or blogger, before they can sue for libel. Campaigners say the clause is vital to protect the interests of scientists and writers who have been muzzled by big business and drug firms under the threat that they might face ruinous damages. Sir Edward, a former Solicitor General, wants to strip that protection out of the Bill. He has also put down an amendment to remove a clause that prevents anybody performing ‘a public function’ from suing. That is seen by libel reform campaigners as a vital protection enshrining in law the freedom to criticise town hall chiefs. Sir Edward’s move, if successful, could allow councillors to bully cash-strapped local newspapers and deter negative coverage of their activities and use of public money. Lib Dem peer Lord Lester said: ‘My view is that it is extremely important that this clause ought to be preserved. Local authorities, like national authorities, cannot sue for reputation.’ Robert Sharp, of English PEN, another group calling for change to protect freedom of speech, said both subclauses were essential ‘to stop the inequality of arms that corporations use’. Sir Edward’s amendments will be debated in the Commons next Tuesday but the Government hopes to defeat them. Sir Edward's amendments will be debated in the Commons next Tuesday but the Government hopes to defeat them",
  "summary": "Sir Edward Garnier has put down amendments to the Defamation Bill He has also put down amendment to remove clause that prevents anybody performing ‘a public function’ from suing If successful, it could allow councillors to bully cash-strapped local newspapers and deter negative coverage of their activities",
  "translate": "Ngài Edward Garnier đã đưa ra các sửa đổi đối với dự luật phỉ báng mà ông cũng đã đưa ra sửa đổi để loại bỏ điều khoản ngăn cản bất kỳ ai thực hiện 'một chức năng công cộng' kiện nếu thành công, nó có thể cho phép các ủy viên hội đồng bắt nạt các tờ báo địa phương bị bắt nạt và ngăn chặn bảo hiểm tiêu cực của hoạt động của họ"
}