{
  "news": "By David Mccormack PUBLISHED: 15:07 EST, 16 February 2014 | UPDATED: 15:07 EST, 16 February 2014 A grateful widow has revealed how a kindhearted stranger made her Valentine’s Day after paying her grocery bill when her credit card got refused at the local supermarket. Tiffany Slawski of Thornton, Colorado, and her son - David, 7, and Brandon, 3 - are still coming to terms with the death of Mark, 47, who passed away last July. The grieving mom and her youngest son were shopping in their local supermarket on Friday when Brandon started to cry. Tiffany Slawski of Thornton, Colorado, and her son David, 7, contacted their local TV news station to express their deep gratitude to a stranger who paid their grocery bill on Friday Initially his mom thought his tears were because he was couldn’t have a soda. ‘I began to explain to him that you can't always have everything that you want,’ Tiffany told 9News. ‘He said, “I'm just sad my daddy died.” A woman next to us overheard, and she looked at me - and I, with a nod, confirmed yes. And she said, “I'm so sorry.'\" As fate would have it, the very same stranger was behind them as they got in line to pay for their groceries. Mark Slawski, left, died last July aged just 47, while right, his son David holds a photo of his parents together As fate would have it, the kindhearted stranger was behind the Slawskis in line as they waited to pay for their groceries Tiffany had an unexpected issue with her credit card, and had to leave her cart to get another card. When she returned, the kindhearted lady who had overheard her previous conversation with her young son had paid her $50 grocery bill. ‘I stood there and cried for a second,’ said Tiffany, who admits that the unexpected act of kindness left her almost speechless. She was so touched by the stranger's generosity that she contacted her local TV news network to speak out about what had happened and to hopefully find out who the lady is. 'She must be just a divine lady,' Tiffany said. 'She must be. I would just love meet her and thank her personally.' 'I'm glad I live in Colorado because we have great people in our state,' she said. Video: Stranger's act of kindness makes Valentine's Day one to remember",
  "summary": "Tiffany Slawski of Thornton, Colorado, has expressed her deep gratitude after a total stranger paid her $50 grocery bill as a random act of kindness Slawski, mom to two young boys, lost her husband Mark last July Her youngest boy, Brandon, 3, had started crying in their local supermarket because he missed his father The kindhearted stranger heard Tiffany comforting her boy and when her card was refused at the register, the good Samaritan stepped in",
  "translate": "Tiffany Slawski của Thornton, Colorado, đã bày tỏ lòng biết ơn sâu sắc sau khi một người hoàn toàn xa lạ đã trả hóa đơn tạp hóa 50 đô la của mình như một hành động ngẫu nhiên của Slawski, mẹ cho hai cậu bé, mất chồng Mark tháng 7 năm ngoái, Brandon, 3, đã Bắt đầu khóc trong siêu thị địa phương của họ vì anh nhớ cha mình, người lạ mặt tử tế đã nghe Tiffany an ủi cậu bé của mình và khi thẻ của cô bị từ chối tại Sổ đăng ký, người Samaritan tốt bụng bước vào"
}