{
  "news": "A 10-month-old German Shepherd puppy which was tied up by a chain had to escape by chewing through his own leg. The dog, called Rocky, was taken into the Orange County Animal Shelter in Mission Viejo, California, by his owner on Wednesday. Vets saw that the skin on his right hind leg was down to the bone and an infection had started to spread. Suffering: Rocky was taken into the Orange County Animal Shelter in Mission Viejo, California, by its owner on Wednesday after he chewed through part of his own leg to break free from a chain Consequences: Vets saw that the skin on his right hind leg was down to the bone and an infection had started to spread. As a result they were forced to amputate Shocking: An X-ray taken by vets at the Alicia Pet Care Center show the extent of the injuries the German Shepherd puppy inflicted on himself As a result he was transported to the Alicia Pet Care Center where a shocking X-ray revealed the extent of his injuries. They were so sever they were forced to amputate. The animal will have to wear a cone for the next two weeks while authorities investigate what happened. Rocky's owner, who hasn't been named, insisted he had no idea why the dog chose to bite into his own limb. It is against the law in California to tie an animal to a stationary object. Veterinarian Maria Bromme who performed the surgery, told ABC 7: 'We saw exposed bone, exposed muscle, the infection that started to set in. 'He came in walking, and then we took off the bandage and it really was a pretty gruesome sight, definitely took my breath away. It was really heartbreaking to see.' Surgery: During the procedure vets also performed a hernia and neutered Rocky Rehabilitation. As a result, Rocky will have to wear a cone for two weeks while authorities investigate what happened to him. The shelter is also looking for a family to take him in The shelter contacted Tiffany Norton, of Coastal German Shepherd Rescue, to come to Rocky's rescue. She brought him to the Alicia Pet Care Center for treatment. She told the station: 'It was likely a situation where he became entangled in a rope or chain that basically cut off the circulation on his foot, and he chewed his foot to free himself.' During the procedure to have his leg removed, he also had a hernia fixed and was neutered. The coastal rescue center is paying for Rocky's surgery and have set up a fundraising page to help gather donations. They are also looking for a family to take Rocky in.",
  "summary": "WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT Rocky was taken to the Orange County Animal Shelter by his owner Vets could see bone and muscle exposed on his right hind leg Was transported to the Alicia Pet Care Center where they amputated it Authorities are now investigating what happened to him His unidentified owner insists he did not know what happened Coastal German Shepherd Rescue are paying for the surgery and are asking for donations and a family to take Rocky in",
  "translate": "Cảnh báo nội dung đồ họa Rocky đã được đưa đến nơi trú ẩn động vật của Quận Cam bởi các bác sĩ thú y của anh ta có thể thấy xương và cơ bắp lộ ra trên chân sau bên phải của anh ta đã được chuyển đến Trung tâm chăm sóc thú cưng Alicia, nơi họ cắt cụt chính quyền CNTT hiện đang điều tra những gì đã xảy ra với anh ta chủ sở hữu không xác định của anh ta nhấn mạnh rằng anh ta không biết những gì đã xảy ra Cứu hộ người chăn cừu Đức đang trả tiền cho cuộc phẫu thuật và đang yêu cầu quyên góp và một gia đình để đưa Rocky vào"
}