{
  "news": "By Rob Cooper PUBLISHED: 05:31 EST, 27 May 2013 | UPDATED: 09:40 EST, 27 May 2013 Adult TV star: Sophie Dalzell, 19, was hauled before a court for kicking two police officers An adult television model let off wearing an electronic tag because it would ruin her on-screen work has been hauled before a court again for attacking two police officers while drunk. Sophie Dalzell, 19, said she was 'provoked' into kicking the officers during a night out in her hometown of Workington, Cumbria The adult TV model, who wore a bright pink tracksuit to court, had denied the assaults but was found guilty by magistrates. Cynthia Ray, chairman of the magistrates in Workington, said Dalzell used her foot as a weapon and the only mitigation was that just two blows were struck. But speaking outside the court, Sophie claimed the incident had arisen because she had been ‘provoked’ by others jealous of her lifestyle. She claimed: 'I just keep getting provoked. Basically, they’re jealous that I’ve got out of Cumbria and I’ve done something with my life. 'Modelling is just something I fell into and thoroughly enjoy. But what I really want to do is TV presenting. I’ve been on one course, but I want to go on a longer one.' She was ordered to attend a Thinking Skills course and given a community order. She was also told to pay more than £1,000 costs and compensation to the officers. Just last month Dalzell, of north Manchester, appeared in court after refusing to be fitted with an electronic tag on her ankle because 'appearance is everything' on Adult TV. Incredibly, when the presenter was hauled back to court, she successfully appealed against having the tag fitted after explaining it would compromise her career. Model: Dalzell, pictured outside court when she made a previous appearance before a judge (left), had denied the assault on two officers but was found guilty by magistrates Instead magistrates in Manchester fined the glamour model £200 with £75 costs after she admitted breaching a community order. After the case the model, who has appeared topless in men’s magazines, said: ‘A tag on my ankle wouldn’t look very good. It’s an eyesore. Your appearance is everything. I’m still mad about the whole situation.’ Magistrates were told she no longer works in adult TV and has moved into modelling, photo shoots, hosting and other presenting jobs. Compensation: Dalzell, pictured outside court last month, was ordered to attend a Thinking Skills course and given a community order by magistrates. She was also told to pay more than £1,000 costs and compensation to the officers Dalzell appeared in court after refusing to be fitted with an electronic tag on her ankle because 'appearance is everything' on Adult TV",
  "summary": "Sophie Dalzell, 19, kicked two police officers during a night out She claimed she was 'provoked' by others jealous of her lifestyle Adult TV model previously refused to wear a tag because 'appearance is everything' on screen",
  "translate": "Sophie Dalzell, 19 tuổi, đã đá hai sĩ quan cảnh sát trong một đêm ra ngoài, cô tuyên bố rằng mình đã bị 'khiêu khích' bởi những người khác ghen tị với mô hình truyền hình dành cho người lớn lối sống của cô trước đây đã từ chối đeo thẻ vì 'ngoại hình là mọi thứ' trên màn hình"
}