{
  "news": "Manchester United and City fans travelling from the south could soon be able to get to Old Trafford and the Etihad in a little more than an hour on a proposed high-speed rail line from London. The two-hour trip between London and Manchester currently means supporters have to 'allow for a full day' to get to the match, the project's boss insists. High Speed 2 chairman Sir David Higgins suggests a new £50billion line would cut the journey time in half for home and away fans coming from the south. Supporters arrive in Manchester after the travel chaos left some fans at risk of missing the kick-off on Sunday Manchester United and City fans travelling from the south could soon arrive in a little more than an hour The suggestion comes after United and Chelsea fans travelling from London were almost stranded on Sunday Fans travelling from London for the match between Manchester United and Chelsea risked not getting to Old Trafford in time following travel chaos on Sunday. CLICK HERE FOR SUNDAY'S FULL STORY 'If you knew guaranteed that a train was going to take an hour to get from London to Manchester you could get up for a football game or for a meeting and be back and save the rest of the day,' says Mr Higgins. The suggestion comes after United and Chelsea fans travelling from London were almost stranded as trains were suspended and cancelled hours before kick-off. United did not delay their 4pm start at Old Trafford despite fans struggling to make it in time. Those that failed to make the match missed a 94th-minute equaliser from Robin van Persie that salvaged a 1-1 draw against Jose Mourinho's Chelsea after Didier Drogba's opener. Like our Manchester United Facebook page. How the rail lines could change. CLICK HERE for the full details on other suggestion journey times being cut! The times in red show how long journeys currently take and the blue how long they could take with the plans",
  "summary": "The project's boss suggests journey time could be cut in half for fans It currently takes more than two hours to get from London to Manchester High Speed 2 chairman Sir David Higgins suggests new £50billion project",
  "translate": "Ông chủ của dự án cho thấy thời gian hành trình có thể bị cắt giảm một nửa cho người hâm mộ hiện tại, họ mất hơn hai giờ để đi từ London đến Manchester High Speed 2 Chủ tịch Sir David Higgins cho thấy dự án mới trị giá 50 tỷ bảng"
}