{
  "news": "Anthony DeNicola died after suffering an apparent heart attack while locked in a McDonald's restroom A widow is suing McDonald's after her husband suffered a fatal heart attack in the restroom - and no-one was able to help him because the door was 'dead-bolted from the inside'. Anthony DeNicola died after suffering an apparent heart attack in June 2013 at the fast food restaurant in Brooklyn, New York. In a $10million lawsuit filed by Anna DeNicola in Brooklyn Supreme Court last week, it is alleged that medical assistance to save Mr DeNicola was delayed because the one-stall restroom was shut with a slide lock. The 67-year-old grandfather, a part-time truck driver, had been meeting friends at the 86th Street branch for breakfast near his home in Bensonhurst before a fishing trip. He went to use the restroom, but when he had not returned several minutes later, his friends went to check on him. They received no answer when they knocked on the door. Emergency services were called, but it took firefighters around 15 minutes to open the door - and Mr DeNicola had already died. His son Anthony DeNicola Jr. said employees 'told them there's no way to get in, there's nothing they can do'. The 38-year-old told The New York Post: 'If somebody could have opened the door, they could have started CPR on him until emergency workers got there. 'What if somebody had been able to open that door? He'd still be here.' He added his late father had been planning a surprise retirement party for his wife, but instead, his funeral was held on that day. The family's lawyer, Stephen Spinelli, said there was no way to open the door to the restroom from the outside and employees at the restaurant were not helpful. He added the restaurant has 'a duty to offer their customers a safe environment'. The 67-year-old had been meeting friends at the 86th Street branch (pictured) near Bensonhurst, Brooklyn McDonald's Franchisee Paul Hendel told MailOnline: 'Our family-owned restaurant business has proudly served the Bensonhurst community for over 19 years and is committed to ensuring the safety of all our customers and employees. 'We were deeply saddened by the loss of our guest Anthony, who visited our restaurant regularly.' He added: 'As this is a legal matter, it would be inappropriate for me to comment further.'",
  "summary": "Anthony DeNicola died after suffering an apparent heart attack in 2013 In a $10million lawsuit, it is alleged medical assistance was delayed He was meeting friends at 86th Street branch near Bensonhurst, Brooklyn Friends were not able to help him because door was shut with slide lock Employees told them 'there's no way to get in, there's nothing they can do' McDonald's spokesman told MailOnline: 'We were deeply saddened by the loss of our guest Anthony, who visited our restaurant regularly'",
  "translate": "Anthony Denicola đã chết sau khi bị một cơn đau tim rõ ràng vào năm 2013 trong một vụ kiện trị giá 10 triệu đô la, người ta bị cáo buộc là hỗ trợ y tế đã bị trì hoãn, anh ta đã gặp gỡ bạn bè tại đường 86 gần Bensonhurst, Brooklyn Friends Các nhân viên nói với họ 'Không có cách nào để vào, không có gì họ có thể làm' Người phát ngôn của McDonald nói với MailOnline: 'Chúng tôi vô cùng buồn vì sự mất mát của khách Anthony, người đã đến thăm nhà hàng của chúng tôi thường xuyên'"
}