{
  "news": "(CNN) -- Win Tin, a founding member of Myanmar's National League for Democracy who was jailed for 19 years for political activism, has died at Yangon Hospital. He was 85. A National League for Democracy (NLD) spokesperson told CNN Win Tin was admitted to Yangon Hospital three weeks ago with a kidney problem. One of Myanmar's most prominent dissidents, Win Tin was a journalist and writer who joined with Aung San Suu Kyi during her campaign in 1988, according to Nyan Win, the current spokesperson for the NLD. He was arrested in 1989 by Myanmar's military rulers, who feared the strength of the pro-democracy movement. \"Immediately after his arrest, U Win Tin was kept without food and sleep for three days,\" Suu Kyi wrote about his imprisonment. \"It appeared that the interrogators wished to force him to admit he was my adviser on political tactics, in other words, that he was my puppet master.\" \"A man of courage and integrity, U Win Tin would not be intimidated into making false confessions,\" she added. Win Tin continued to push for democracy even while in prison, penning a letter to the United Nations that resulted in additional jail time. Despite his key role as a political leader, Win Tin's personal life was largely solitary. After he was released in 2008, he told CNN that he was a \"vagabond\" with no family or children because he had given his life to the fight for democracy in Myanmar. While he struck an optimistic note about the progress that had been made in his country after his release, he noted there was still a \"tremendous amount of work to be done.\" \"He was a great pillar of strength,\" said Nyan Win. \"His demise at this important political juncture of transition is a great loss not only to the NLD but also to the country. We are deeply saddened.\"",
  "summary": "Myanmar political activist and National League for Democracy founding member Win Tin has died at 85 He was arrested in 1989 by country's military rulers and was not released from jail until 2008 Win Tin lived alone, saying he forsook a family to devote his life to the fight for democracy",
  "translate": "Nhà hoạt động chính trị của Myanmar và Liên đoàn Quốc gia cho Thành viên sáng lập Dân chủ Win Tin đã qua đời ở tuổi 85, ông bị bắt giữ vào năm 1989 bởi những người cai trị quân sự của đất nước và không được ra tù cho đến năm 2008, giành được một mình, nói rằng ông đã từ bỏ một gia đình để cống hiến cuộc đời mình cho cuộc chiến cho dân chủ"
}