{
  "news": "Princes William and Harry paid tribute to a childhood friend', who died in a car crash 12 years ago, at a carol service. Both the princes joined forces to remember Henry van Straubenzee, a 'very special friend' of the brothers who was killed at the age of 18. They made a joint speech to the congregation of around 800 guests, which included Chelsy Davy and Tara Palmer Tomkinson. The service for Mr van Straubenzee, who was in the same class at school as Prince Harry, was held at St Luke's and Christ Church in Chelsea, London last night to raise money for a memorial fund set up in his name. Prince Harry (centre) and Prince William gave a joint tribute to their childhood friend Henry van Straubenzee at St Luke's and Christ Church in Chelsea on Tuesday evening, referring to him as a 'very special friend' Prince William (centre) delivered a speech at the memorial service for Mr van Straubenzee to 800 guests Prince Harry entertained the congregation as he described sharing childhood escapades during his teenage years - many of which he jokingly confessed were 'not for public consumption.' The Prince described Mr van Straubenzee as a 'Polzeath surfing legend and ladies' man with whom we shared so many special memories.' Mr van Straubenzee, of Hertfordshire, became friends with the princes when they were all pupils at Ludgrove prep school in Berkshire. He was a classmate of Prince Harry's, while his older brother Thomas was a friend of the Duke of Cambridge. The foursome were said to be inseparable as they were growing up. In recognition of his close bond with Mr van Straubenzee and the rest of his family, Prince Harry also affectionately described an 'infectious van Straubenzee laugh could turn a very bad day into a good one.' His brother, the Duke of Cambridge, stood opposite Prince Harry at the Lectern and urged people to remember the teenager and his memorial fund. 'He was a friend to many people here and a very special friend to us, who we share so many happy childhood memories with,' he said. The Duke added that 'Henry would be amazed' at the success of his memorial fund, set up to help children in Uganda, in giving so many people a chance at life. His brother then urged the congregation 'please sing your hearts out as Henry will certainly be watching.' Mr van Straubenzee is pictured in 2001 before his death near his and Prince Harry's prep school a year later Ellie Goulding, a favourite of the princes who sang at the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's wedding, is also understood to have performed at the service. It was organised by the Henry van Straubenzee memorial fund, which the princes became joint patrons of in 2009. Mr van Straubenzee was killed in a car crash in 2002 just outside his former prep school. He had been returning to the school, where he and the driver were both working as part of their gap year, when the car he was travelling in hit a tree. He was due to travel to Uganda later that year. Prince Harry is pictured on his way to St Luke's Church in Chelsea in London for the fundraising service Prince William (centre) joined his brother to make the tribute, as both were pictured outside the church Chelsy Davy (left) and Princess Eugenie (right) were both at the carol service memorial in Chelsea last night Singer Ellie Goulding (left) performed at the service, which Tara Palmer Tomkinson (right) also attended The service for the Henry van Straubenzee memorial fund was held at St Luke's Church in Chelsea in London The fundraising carol service takes place every year in memory of the teenager, and is frequently attended by both princes. The Henry van Straubenzee memorial fund was set up by his family after his death to raise money to help people in Uganda by improving education through investing in buildings and resources. It is the only charity which the brothers are joint patrons of. When they became patrons in 2009 Prince Harry said: 'Henry was one of my greatest friends and his death was truly shocking to many people. 'Henry would be so proud of his family and what they are doing in Uganda in his name.'",
  "summary": "Prince William and Harry gave a joint tribute speech in memory of friend Former classmate Henry van Straubenzee died in car crash in 2002 at 18 Mr van Straubenzee was friends with the princes at Ludgrove prep school Carol service held in his memory at St Luke's and Christ Church, Chelsea Prince Harry described him as a 'very special friend' and a 'ladies' man' Duke of Cambridge said they shared 'many childhood memories' with him Congregation on Tuesday included Princess Eugenie and Chelsy Davy",
  "translate": "Hoàng tử William và Harry đã có một bài phát biểu về sự tưởng nhớ chung để tưởng nhớ người bạn cũ Henry Van Straubenzee đã chết trong vụ tai nạn xe hơi năm 2002 lúc 18 tuổi, ông Van Straubenzee là bạn của các hoàng tử tại Dịch vụ của Trường Prep Prep Ludgrove được tổ chức trong ký ức của ông tại St Luke's và Christ Church , Hoàng tử Chelsea Harry mô tả anh ta là một 'người bạn rất đặc biệt' và một 'người đàn ông' nữ 'Công tước Cambridge nói rằng họ đã chia sẻ' nhiều ký ức thời thơ ấu 'với anh ta vào thứ ba bao gồm Công chúa Eugenie và Chelsy Davy"
}