{
  "news": "By Darren Boyle A woman accused of drowning defenceless kittens claims she must have been drugged, a court heard today. Marilyn Huck, 53, killed two cats at her home in north London, Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court heard. Appearing in a green top, tartan skirt and grappling with plastic bags, Huck spoke only to confirm her name and enter a plea. Marilyn Huck, pictured, told Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court: 'One wishes to plead not guilty to both charges' Marilyn Huck, pictured, pleaded not guilty to drowning two kittens at her home in Enfield, north London during a hearing at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court She told the Court: 'One wishes to plead not guilty to both charges.' She faces two counts of causing unnecessary suffering to a protected animal. Defence lawyer Jay Hussain said: 'Ms Huck says although she accepts that the kittens have died there was no intention on her behalf in respect of how the kittens had passed away. 'She says that her food and water was spiked by one of the complainants who reported her to the police regarding the two kittens.' Mr Hussain added: 'Her food was spiked at the time of this ordeal.' Huck was released on bail on the condition she does not contact the complainant directly or indirectly. Huck from Enfield, northeast London, will face trial at Highbury Magistrates' Court on September 24. Huck will face trial at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court, pictured, on September 24 after pleading not guilty to both charges Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.",
  "summary": "Marilyn Huck faces two counts of causing unnecessary harm to a protected animal Huck told the Court : 'One wishes to plead not guilty to both charges' She is accused of drowning two kittens at her home in Enfield, north London Huck claims that her food had been 'spiked' at the time of the incident",
  "translate": "Marilyn Huck phải đối mặt với hai tội gây ra tổn hại không cần thiết cho một con vật được bảo vệ mà Huck nói với tòa án: 'Một người muốn không nhận tội cả hai tội danh, cô ta bị buộc tội chết đuối hai con ở nhà của cô ta ở Enfield, phía bắc London Huck tuyên bố rằng thức ăn của cô ta đã 'tăng đột biến' tại thời điểm xảy ra vụ việc"
}