{
  "news": "Botox manufacturer Allergan has agreed to be bought by pharmaceutical giant Actavis for $66 billion following a six-month bidding war. The Los Angeles-based company fended off advances from hedge fund billionaire William Ackman and Canadian drug maker Valeant Pharmaceuticals in fear that neither would pump money into research and development. Allergan, founded in 1948 with an anti-allergy nose drop, acquired the rights to distribute botulinum toxin in 1989 and the wrinkle-freezing drug was approved for cosmetic use in 2002. Top-seller: Botox manufacturer Allergan has agreed to be bought by pharmaceutical giant Actavis for $66billion following a six-month long bidding war In 2013 sales were shy of $2 billion, up 12per cent from 2012, which meant Botox represented more than a third of Allergan's total sales. Actavis, which is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland and New Jersey, said Monday that it will spend $219 in cash and stock for each share of Allergan. Its current CEO Brent Saunders will lead the combined company. Commenting on Monday's deal, David E. I. Pyott, chairman and CEO of Allergan, said in a release: 'Today's transaction provides Allergan stockholders with substantial and immediate value, as well as the opportunity to participate in the significant upside potential of the combined company. 'We are combining with a partner that is ideally suited to realize the full potential inherent in our franchise. 'Together with we are poised to extend the growth story as part of a larger organization with a broad and balanced portfolio, a meaningful commitment to research and development, a strong pipeline and an unwavering focus on exceeding the expectations of patients and the medical specialists who treat them.' On news of the transaction, Actavis shares rose 3.5 percent to $252.22 on the New York Stock Exchange.",
  "summary": "Allergan fended off advances from hedge fund billionaire William Ackman and Canadian drug maker Valeant Pharmaceuticals It feared that neither would pump money into research and development Actavis, which is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland and New Jersey, said Monday that it will spend $219 in cash and stock for each share of Allergan",
  "translate": "Allergan đã vượt qua những tiến bộ từ tỷ phú quỹ phòng hộ William Ackman và nhà sản xuất thuốc Canada Valete Dược phẩm mà họ không sợ rằng sẽ không bơm tiền vào nghiên cứu và phát triển Actavis, có trụ sở tại Dublin, Ireland và New Jersey, cho biết hôm thứ Hai rằng họ sẽ chi 219 đô la tiền mặt và tiền mặt và Cổ phiếu cho mỗi cổ phiếu của Allergan"
}