{
  "news": "It is the scientific research that will provide husbands with the perfect excuse to join their mates in the pub. A leading psychologist claims men’s health and well-being are greatly improved if they see their friends twice a week. Professor Robin Dunbar of Oxford University claims in a report that while ‘talking with mates’ on a daily basis is valuable, to experience the real benefits of friendship men must meet up in person twice a week with four friends and ‘do stuff’. Meeting up: A leading psychologist claims men's health and well-being are greatly improved if they see their friends twice a week and 'do stuff' like a trip to the pub (library image) Recommended activities range from playing football or rugby to simply sharing a joke in the pub over a pint of beer. The report says that men who maintain social groups are healthier, recover from illness more quickly and tend to be more generous. Despite the findings, two out of five men claim they manage to meet their friends only once a week and a further third struggle to catch up that frequently. Men spend one fifth of their day socially interacting with people from their network of around 150 ‘acquaintances’, mainly through online social media, text and phone conversations. However, the research proves men need to actually get together in person to prevent the quality of their friendships eroding and, more importantly, experience the benefits associated with strong male bonds. Men, on average, spend just less than half of their social time with an inner circle of four to five close mates – and research suggests that this is linked directly to the banter that such a group inspires and its benefits. Through empirical studies, it has been proven that laughter is much less likely to occur if a social circle becomes bigger than five – and, because of laughter’s ability to produce the endorphin surges that give a sense of well-being, men may be subconsciously drawn towards ‘hanging out’ in social circles of this size. Online: Men spend one fifth of their day interacting with people from their network of around 150 'acquaintances', through online social media, text and phone conversations, the study showed (library image) Professor Dunbar, whose report was commissioned by Guinness, said: ‘Bonds can be formed through a range of activities from team sports to male banter – or simply having a pint with your pals on a Friday night. However, the key to maintaining strong friendships is to meet up twice a week and do stuff with the four people closest to you.’ Stephen O’Kelly, from Guinness, said: ‘When guys get together physically and more frequently with their mates, their friendships become stronger, better and a richer life results.’ The writer Danny Wallace said: ‘Science is telling us to have more fun together and do more stuff. This is great news, for we must obey science.’ The mental health charity Mind has warned that men can be hit by depression because of worries about money and job insecurity. Long working hours can also have a dramatic impact on men, but spending time with friends is considered a key part of combating depression.",
  "summary": "Robin Dunbar of Oxford University claims men must meet up in person twice a week with four friends and 'do stuff' Suggested activities include playing sport or having a joke over a pint of beer in the pub Findings suggest two out of five men only manage to meet their friends only once a week and a further third struggle to catch up that frequently",
  "translate": "Robin Dunbar của Đại học Oxford tuyên bố đàn ông phải gặp trực tiếp hai lần một tuần với bốn người bạn và 'làm những thứ' các hoạt động được đề xuất bao gồm chơi thể thao hoặc có một trò đùa về một ly bia trong các phát hiện của quán rượu cho thấy hai trong số năm người đàn ông chỉ quản lý Gặp gỡ bạn bè của họ chỉ một lần một tuần và một cuộc đấu tranh thứ ba nữa để bắt kịp điều đó thường xuyên"
}