{
  "news": "(CNN) -- Two U.S. marshals and a police officer were shot Tuesday while trying to serve an arrest warrant in St. Louis, authorities said. One of the marshals, John Perry, died, as did the suspected shooter. Perry, 48, had been a U.S. marshal for nearly 10 years. The second marshal was shot in the ankle and listed in fair condition after surgery, according to area police. Federal officials identified him as 31-year-old Theodore Abegg. The police officer was taken to a hospital and treated for a \"graze wound to the face and neck\" before being released, St. Louis police said. A police spokeswoman had previously said his injuries stemmed from a fall, not the shooting. Authorities identified the alleged gunman as Carlos Boles, 35. Police and U.S. marshals went to his residence early Tuesday to take Boles into custody, they said. He began shooting and officers returned fire, killing the suspect, they added. Four U.S. marshals have now been shot while serving arrest warrants this year. One marshal was killed in West Virginia in February, while another was injured in Florida in January. \"Our people and our partners are well trained and prepared, but it is impossible to predict when a wanted individual will make a fateful choice that results in the loss of life or injury,\" U.S. Marshals Service Director Stacia Hylton said in a statement. \"When that happens, and the life lost is a law enforcement officer or other public servant, it is an immeasurable tragedy felt by all.\" CNN's Kara Devlin, Mike Ahlers, and Alan Silverleib contributed to this report",
  "summary": "NEW: John Perry, 48, had been a U.S. marshal for almost 10 years The alleged shooter, identified as Carlos Boles, was also killed Police say he opened fire as they were trying to serve an arrest warrant A second U.S. marshal and a police officer were injured",
  "translate": "Mới: John Perry, 48 tuổi, đã từng là một nguyên soái của Hoa Kỳ trong gần 10 năm, người bắn bị cáo buộc, được xác định là Carlos Boles, cũng bị giết cảnh sát nói rằng anh ta đã nổ súng khi họ đang cố gắng phục vụ lệnh bắt giữ một nguyên soái thứ hai của Hoa Kỳ và một sĩ quan cảnh sát bị thương"
}