{
  "news": "Beirut, Lebanon (CNN) -- The Syrian regime says it has taken over a rebel stronghold in Homs, inflicting a strategic and psychological blow to rebels in the country's two-year-long crisis. Government forces took control of the Khalidiya neighborhood of Homs, Syrian state-run TV reported Monday. The area had been under rebel control for about a year. Controlling the area of Khalidiya is crucial as it helps regime forces gain control of the city of Homs. In turn, controlling Homs helps gain a handle on the main routes and territory between the coastal town of Tartus, on the Mediterranean, and the capital, Damascus. A regime capture of Homs could be a key turning point in the bloody war, which has killed more than 100,000 people. The rebel Free Syrian Army has not commented on the regime's claim. But on Saturday, dissidents reported violent clashes between rebels and government forces in Khalidiya. Fighters from Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia backed by Iran, joined the regime's side, the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. Opposition activists said the regime had taken over about 50% of Khalidiya. Khalidiya has been a rebel haven as the rest of Homs city suffered intense fighting. Syria's third-largest city is now riddled with scars from shelling and airstrikes that pummeled it last year. President Bashar al-Assad's forces have made notable advances in recent months, including the capture of Qusayr, a town near the Lebanese border. Hezbollah fighters were instrumental in that siege. CNN's Holly Yan contributed to this report.",
  "summary": "The Khalidiya neighborhood of Homs has been a rebel stronghold for about a year The area is crucial because it helps the regime gain control of Homs Opposition activists have said the regime has control of about half of Khalidiya A capture there could be a turning point in a war that has killed 100,000 people",
  "translate": "Khu phố Khalidiya của Homs đã trở thành một thành trì của Rebel trong khoảng một năm, khu vực này rất quan trọng vì nó giúp chế độ giành quyền kiểm soát các nhà đối lập Homs đã nói rằng chế độ có quyền kiểm soát khoảng một nửa Khalidiya có thể có một bước ngoặt trong một bước ngoặt trong một bước ngoặt trong một bước ngoặt trong Chiến tranh đã giết chết 100.000 người"
}