{
  "article_text": [
    "about a decade ago , only a few nearby low - mass stars with ages between 5 and 30myr were known .",
    "therefore , our knowledge about stellar evolution in this pre - main - sequence ( and post - t  tauri ) phase depended largely on interpolating between the well - studied clusters at ages @xmath9myr , e.g.  the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) , ic348 , and ngc2264 , and benchmark zero age main sequence ( zams ) clusters with ages between 30 and 100myr , e.g. the pleiades , ic2391 , and @xmath1per . in the last ten years , however , several nearby and young stellar associations have been discovered , which provide us with the target samples for in - depth studies of the stellar properties in this critical age range .",
    "most objects in these associations are spread over large areas of the sky , and have been identified primarily based on satellite all - sky survey data from rosat , iras , or hipparcos ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this paper concentrates on the @xmath2  chamaeleontis cluster ( hereafter @xmath2cha , age 6myr ) , the tw hydra ( twa , 8myr ) , @xmath3  pictoris moving group ( bpmg , 12myr ) , and tucana - horologium ( th , @xmath10myr ) associations .",
    "as these associations are all located within 100pc of the sun , and for all of them , a significant population of low - mass stars has been identified within the past few years , they are ideal for probing stellar evolution from the t  tauri phase to the main sequence .",
    "two stellar properties that are believed to undergo significant changes in this age range are magnetic activity and rotation , which are the main focus of this paper .",
    "magnetic activity is a collective term for all phenomena caused by the operation of the stellar dynamo , including photospheric spots , chromospheric flares and plages , and coronal emission .",
    "it is observed mainly in the x - rays in the case of coronal activity and in optical emission lines for chromospheric processes . according to our current understanding , main - sequence ,",
    "sun - like stars generate large - scale magnetic fields by means of an @xmath11-type dynamo , which operates in the transition layer between convective zone and radiative core ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "this type of dynamo is driven by the rotation of the star , and hence a strong rotation - activity correlation is observed for solar - type stars with ages @xmath12100 myr , initially found by @xcite and subsequently confirmed by numerous studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the correlation , observed both with coronal and chromospheric activity indicators , is usually seen as a linear increase of activity indicators with increasing rotation rate , followed by a saturation of the activity at high rotation rates .",
    "young t  tauri stars , however , are fully convective , and thus can not harbor a solar - type dynamo . as they evolve to the main - sequence ,",
    "a change in the magnetic field generation and , as a consequence , in the magnetic activity properties and their connection to stellar rotation can be expected .",
    "the rotation of stars themselves changes critically in the pre - main - sequence phase . as the stars contract",
    "hydrostatically to the zams , their rotation rates increase as a consequence of angular momentum conservation . in the first few myrs of their evolution ,",
    "the stars are believed to lose significant angular momentum due to magnetic interaction with their circumstellar environments ( see * ? ? ? * for a review ) , either by magnetic coupling between star and disk  a process often referred to as ` disk locking ' , see for example @xcite  or by an accretion powered stellar wind @xcite . once the disk is gone and the accretion has stopped , angular momentum removal is mainly controlled by stellar winds generated by magnetic activity . on the main - sequence ,",
    "rotational braking by winds leads to a decline of both rotation and potentially ( via a rotationally driven dynamo , see above ) magnetic activity @xcite .",
    "in summary , observational studies of magnetic activity , rotation , and their interrelationship can probe fundamental changes in stellar physics occurring between @xmath13 and 100myr .    in this paper",
    "we present a study of rotation and activity in young stars with ages between 6 and 30 myr , based on an extensive set of high - resolution spectra . by comparing the results from the associations listed above with literature data for younger and older clusters , we investigate the pre - main - sequence evolution of these properties . for the first time",
    ", we analyze a comprehensive set of h@xmath1 line measurements together with spectroscopic rotational velocities @xmath0 for a large sample of objects in our four target regions . in some sense , this is complementary to the work by @xcite , who published a rotation / activity study for twa , bpmg , and th based on @xmath0 and x - ray data .    in a previous paper , we investigated disk accretion for these associations based on the same multi - epoch dataset @xcite .",
    "our cleaned target sample for the current paper is introduced in  [ tar ] . in ",
    "[ obs ] , we present our observations , the data reduction and spectral analysis , as well as a detailed assessment of the measurement uncertainties .",
    "subsequently , we investigate h@xmath1 emission (  [ act ] ) and rotational velocities (  [ rot ] ) as a function of age and mass . in  [ rotact ] we focus on the rotation / activity connection . by comparing @xmath0 with previously measured rotation periods ,",
    "we obtain constraints on stellar radii for a subset of the targets (  [ periods ] ) .",
    "we summarize our results in  [ conc ] .",
    "this study is based on multi - epoch spectra of about 100 likely members of the four associations listed in  [ intro ] . from the total sample , we excluded objects identified as accretors in @xcite , because accretion affects emission lines and thus makes it difficult to assess chromospheric activity reliably . in @xcite , the main criterion to distinguish between accretors and non - accretors",
    "is the linewidth of the h@xmath1 emission feature . as thresholds we adopted 10  for the equivalent width ( ew ) and 200kms@xmath14 for the 10% width .",
    "we used the shape of h@xmath1 and additional emission lines like he6678  as complementary probes for accretion .",
    "four objects ( two in @xmath2 cha , two in twa ) are classified as accretors because their linewidths exceed both thresholds and they show he6678  in emission .",
    "one additional object , @xmath2 cha 11 , has very broad h@xmath1 as well .",
    "although the ew is below 10 , we classified it as an accretor based on a strong red - shifted absorption feature in h@xmath1 , a clear indication of infalling material . in total ,",
    "five accreting objects were excluded from the rotation / activity analysis in this paper .",
    "similarly , we excluded known unresolved binaries , since binarity might introduce additional line broadening .",
    "many known binaries in these associations are listed by , a few more have been identified in separate papers , e.g.  the close ao - resolved binary twa5a @xcite .",
    "additionally , the a - stars @xmath3pic and twa11a as well as the subgiant hd1555a were removed from the object list .",
    "the final cleaned target list comprises 74 stars .",
    "the spectral types for our sources have been collected from and @xcite . in a few cases where spectral types are missing in the literature",
    ", we obtained an approximate spectral type by simply comparing the appearance of the spectrum with other stars from our sample . for plotting purposes , we convert spectral types to a linear numerical scale , where one unit corresponds to one subclass , and zero is assigned to o0 stars .",
    "spectral type f0 then corresponds to 30 while m0 corresponds to 60 .",
    "our targets span the spectral type range from f5 to m3 . the distribution of spectral types favours late - type objects , as the sample includes 36 m- and 19 k - stars .",
    "spectral types are not equally distributed in all four associations : with one exception , all objects in @xmath2 cha and twa are k / m - stars . in the two older groups bpmg and th ,",
    "however , the distribution is balanced with more f / g - type objects .",
    "effective temperatures have been derived by fitting models to the observed spectra , and the detailed results from this analysis will be published in a forthcoming paper ( mentuch et al . , in prep . ) . in this paper , we make use of these @xmath15 to determine @xmath16 in  [ rotact ] .",
    "the magnetic field generation and , as a consequence , magnetic activity and possibly rotation depend critically on the stellar internal structure .",
    "for pre - main - sequence stars , it is particularly important to clarify if they are still fully convective or if they already have developed to a solar - like structure with a radiative core and a convective envelope . as outlined in ",
    "[ intro ] , a radiative core is mandatory for the operation of a transition zone , solar - type dynamo , while in fully convective objects alternative dynamo mechanisms are at work .",
    "the age at which a radiative core appears is mass - dependent : while solar - mass stars are only fully convective for 1 - 3myr , stars with 0.5@xmath17 need 10 - 20myr to develop a radiative core .",
    "objects with masses below 0.35@xmath17 are fully convective throughout their evolution .",
    "we used the theoretical evolutionary tracks by and ( * ? ? ?",
    "* updated version 1998 ) to assess the internal structure of our targets .",
    "in the three youngest associations , @xmath2 cha , twa , and @xmath3 pic , all objects with masses @xmath18 are not anymore fully convective , according to the models , where the depth of the convection zone increases towards higher masses . for th ,",
    "the mass limit between radiative and fully convective is roughly at 0.3 - 0.4@xmath19 , i.e.  comparable to the main sequence . converted to spectral types",
    ", this implies that all objects in our sample with spectral types earlier than m0-m2 already have a radiative core . in th",
    ", this applies to all objects earlier than m3 .",
    "all these limits are subject to uncertainties due to model inconsistencies , age spread , and uncertainties in the mass / temperature / spectral type conversion .",
    "this essentially means that almost all our targets in @xmath2 cha and twa are still fully convective or just at the limit to develop a ( small ) radiative core , while in @xmath3 pic , six out of 16 objects are clearly already in their radiative evolution . in th , with its large fraction of k / g / f stars , almost all objects have a substantial radiative core according to the models ( i.e.  basically a solar - like internal structure ) ; only the three m3 stars may still be fully convective .",
    "we will use these considerations as a guideline when discussing evolution in magnetic activity and rotation .",
    "the observations were taken on 12 nights distributed over four observing runs between december 2004 and july 2005 , using the echelle spectrograph mike at the magellan clay 6.5 m telescope on las campanas , chile . in total , the dataset comprises of @xmath20 high - resolution spectra with each star from our sample being observed on average over 6 times .",
    "the availability of multi - epoch data for each star allows for a reliable assessment of variability in the emission lines and provides us with high redundancy in the @xmath21 measurements . for more details about the observing runs ,",
    "see the log in @xcite .",
    "in addition to our target stars , we observed a sample of @xmath22 slowly rotating standard stars covering the spectral range from f8 to m2 from the list of @xcite .",
    "mike is a double echelle slit spectrograph , consisting of a blue and a red arm . in this study , we only make use of the red part , with spectral coverage from 4900 to 9300 . with a 035 slit width and no binning ,",
    "our spectra have a resolution of @xmath2360000 . depending on the brightness of the target ,",
    "the integration time was up to 30min . to accommodate for the slanted spectra and the wavelength dependence of this tilt",
    ", we developed a customized software package in eso - midas for data reduction .",
    "the details of this reduction procedure will be discussed in a forthcoming paper ( brandeker et al .",
    ", in prep . ) .      as an indicator of chromospheric magnetic activity , we measured the ew of the h@xmath1 feature at 6562.8  in the multi - epoch spectra in our sample .",
    "depending on the spectral type and the level of chromospheric activity , h@xmath1 is seen either as emission or absorption in our spectra .",
    "the ews are obtained by integrating the h@xmath1 line after continuum subtraction ; absorption is defined as positive ew , emission as negative .",
    "the continuum is approximated by a linear fit to data points in small regions to the immediate right and left of the feature .",
    "these continuum defining regions are between 6  and 10  in width , which corresponds to 200 to 450 data points in the spectra .",
    "we determined the projected rotational velocity @xmath0 by creating a template from spinning up a slowly rotating standard star of similar spectral type to the target star .",
    "the differences in spectral types between target and standard were usually less than two subclasses .",
    "the templates are created in 1kms@xmath14 increments ; we adopted as @xmath0 the value which produces the best @xmath24 fit between target and template .",
    "this procedure was carried out in three spectral regions for every available spectrum of a given star , with the average value taken to be the final @xmath0 of the target star .",
    "the three spectral regions used for the fit have a width of 30  and are centered at 5310 , 6250 , and 6815 .",
    "they are chosen to avoid emission features and transition regions between different orders of the spectra . since our earliest spectral type standard is an f7 star , we are unable to obtain @xmath0 measurements for stars that have spectral types significantly earlier than this .",
    "the availability of multi - epoch spectra allows us several independent measurements per star for both h@xmath1 ew and @xmath0 .",
    "the standard deviation from the average provides an estimate of the consistency of our results and the variability in h@xmath1 .",
    "all average h@xmath1 ew and @xmath0 measurements are listed in tables [ etacha]-[th ] .    for a subset of our objects , rotational velocities have already been published in the literature , compiled recently by @xcite .",
    "we use these values as a control sample in the error analysis ( see  [ error ] ) .",
    "strong emphasis was placed on the reliability of the rotational velocities .",
    "particularly , we are interested to find the lower limit in @xmath0 for which our results are trustworthy .",
    "we analyze the reliability and the accuracy of our measurements in a variety of ways . as explained in ",
    "[ spanalysis ] , we measure @xmath0 in three different wavelength bins in each available spectrum of our multi - epoch dataset , giving us at least 3 and on average 15 independent measurements per target . the value adopted for",
    "the star is the average over these individual measurements . from the individual measurements for each star we also obtain the standard deviation ( of the average ew ) , a measure for the spread in our datapoints for a given star , and thus a probe for the internal consistency of the method .",
    "[ f1 ] shows the standard deviation @xmath25 versus the average value of @xmath0 for all objects . as can be seen in the figure , @xmath25 is less than 2.5kms@xmath14 for the majority of our objects , confirming the reliability of our method .",
    "only 4 out of 74 stars , or 5% , have standard deviations exceeding 5kms@xmath14 .",
    "thus , a conservative estimate of the internal accuracy in our @xmath0 values is @xmath26kms@xmath14 .",
    "we adopt this as a preliminary lower @xmath0 limit .",
    "the standard deviation @xmath25 is used in the remainder in the paper as the uncertainty in individual @xmath0 measurements .    in the next step ,",
    "we compare the measured @xmath0 with published values , if available . as shown in fig .",
    "[ f2 ] , the majority of our values are within 8kms@xmath14 of those obtained from the literature . the two stars for which the difference between the measured and literature @xmath0 measurements exceed this amount are hip2729 and pz  tel , which are both fast rotators with @xmath0 exceeding 60kms@xmath14 .",
    "although the absolute difference between literature and our @xmath0 for both of these stars is large , the relative uncertainty is comparable to the slower rotating objects in the sample .",
    "thus , the comparison with the literature confirms the validity of our measurements . since this comparison encompasses both the errors in our own values and the errors in the literature values ( which are at least 3kms@xmath14 , see @xcite ) , we find that the absolute average uncertainty in our @xmath0 measurements is comparable to the internal accuracy , which has been found to be 5kms@xmath14 ( see above ) .",
    "thus , we can safely trust all values down to at least 5kms@xmath14 .",
    "finally , we explore the reliability of the method by using a standard star ( called a in the following ) to measure the @xmath0 of another standard ( called b ) of similar spectral type that has been spun - up to a determined value .",
    "that way , we produce a template with _ known _ rotational velocity , for which we can test the accuracy .",
    "this assumes that our standards are slow rotators with rotational velocities well below our detection limit .",
    "standard b is spun - up in steps of 1kms@xmath14 between 0 and 10kms@xmath14 .",
    "we repeat the measurements reversing the roles of the standards , i.e.  switching a and b. these sets of measurements are done for four pairs , representing cases in which we have more than one standard star per spectral type .",
    "this produces eight different pairings of standards with the same spectral type . in six of these pairings ,",
    "the measured @xmath0 approaches zero when the imposed @xmath0 approaches zero , demonstrating that in these cases our method produces highly accurate measurements of @xmath0 . in two pairings , however , the measured @xmath0 levels off at 5kms@xmath14 for imposed @xmath27kms@xmath14 .",
    "the best explanation for this result is that in these cases the standard a has a @xmath0 that is 5kms@xmath14 greater than that of standard b , and thus we are never able to measure values lower than 5kms@xmath14 .",
    "this is evidence for non - negligible rotational velocities in some of our standards , which is probably the dominant source of uncertainty in our measurements .",
    "the test shows , however , that these uncertainties are unlikely to exceed 5kms@xmath14 , thus confirming the lower reliability limit for our method . in the following ,",
    "we treat all @xmath21 values lower than 5kms@xmath14 as upper limits .",
    "we note that this affects only five objects .",
    "we estimate the uncertainty in the measurements of h@xmath1 equivalent width to be on average 0.2 .",
    "this estimate was arrived at by determining the average value of equivalent width obtained from regions of the continuum close to h@xmath1 that do not contain visible emission or absorption features . as can be seen in tables [ etacha][th ] ,",
    "the standard deviation @xmath25 in the average h@xmath1 ew , calculated over the multi - epoch data , is in many cases clearly higher than the measurement error , indicating significant variability ( see  [ var ] ) .",
    "magnetic activity and its interplay with rotation is a complex problem , as it depends on stellar age , mass , interior structure , and possibly interactions with disks in the early evolution . to disentangle the different processes",
    ", we will start in this section by analyzing h@xmath1 ew as a function of age and mass , we note that many of our targets have been identified in x - ray surveys , thus the selection might be biased towards more active objects .",
    "therefore , in the discussion of activity , we prefer to use criteria based on the upper limit of activity in our sample rather than the lower limit , since the latter one might be biased .",
    "the h@xmath1 feature is used routinely as an indicator of chromospheric activity , originating from photoionization and collisions in the hot chromosphere . a main tool to investigate",
    "the chromospheric activity is to plot h@xmath1 ew vs.   effective temperature , in our case represented by the spectral type .",
    "this plot is shown in fig .",
    "[ f4 ] for our young targets .",
    "two main features are obvious from this figure : a ) there is apparently no difference in the distribution of datapoints for our four target regions , spanning an age range from 6 to 30myr .",
    "this is further strengthened by the fact the the distribution of ews are statistically indistinguishable in the four regions .",
    "thus , the activity levels in the four associations are faily similar , as far as we can tell with our data ( see below ) , although their ages are somewhat different .",
    "b ) h@xmath1",
    "ews are a strong function of spectral type . while mid f - type stars exhibit h@xmath1 absorption of @xmath28 , the feature switches to emission at k2k4 spectral types . around m0 ,",
    "corresponding to masses of 0.70.8m@xmath29 , there is a clear ` knee ' in the distribution ; at the same time , the spread in ew increases , and the stars reach emission levels between 0 and @xmath30  at early / mid m spectral types .",
    "the strong change of h@xmath1 ew with spectral type does not only reflect a change in chromospheric activity , as the ew is additionally affected by the drop in the continuum level with stellar luminosity and the photospheric absorption in h@xmath1 , which is about zero for m dwarfs and increases towards earlier spectral types .",
    "the combined effects of photospheric continuum drop and h@xmath1 absorption are estimated from the h@xmath1 ew for our standard stars , which we already used as rotational velocity templates and which are selected to be non - active ( see * ? ? ?",
    ". a linear fit to their ew as a function of spectral type is shown in fig .",
    "[ f4 ] as a dotted line ; the object - to - object scatter around this line is typically @xmath31 .",
    "we note that this dashed line is consistent with the ews of non - active stars in the hyades and in the field for late k and early m spectral types @xcite , and with published ew for field f and g dwarfs .",
    "it is also in line with theoretical predictions for h@xmath1 ew _ without _ chromosphere from @xcite .",
    "thus , this line is an estimate for the pure photospheric contribution to the h@xmath1 ew .",
    "as can be seen in the figure , the dotted line follows the lower envelope of the ew for our young target stars between f8 and m2 .",
    "all ews for spectral types earlier than g8 are in agreement with the dotted line and thus pure photospheric values ; thus , these stars do not show measurable chromospheric activity . starting at spectral type g8 ,",
    "the ews measured for our targets show increasing excess with respect to the photospheric values , indicating a contribution from magnetic activity . as pointed out by @xcite",
    ", the onset of chromospheric activity will first tend to deepen the absorption feature by as much as 0.51  in relatively cool and thin chromospheres , where line formation is dominated by photoionization and not by collisions .",
    "this effect is not seen in our data , no object shows significantly more absorption than the photospheric values .",
    "thus , objects in transition between essentially non - active chromospheres to the collision - dominated regime are rare . the maximum level of magnetic activity and the fraction of active objects increases rapidly from early k to mid m spectral types .",
    "these results can be compared to studies of older and younger objects in a similar spectral range .",
    "we use three criteria :    \\a ) _ the spectral type ( or color ) at which h@xmath1 changes from absorption to emission . _",
    "this value was introduced by @xcite as an indicator of stellar age , as it is steadily shifting to later spectral types as the objects get older . in our sample ,",
    "the transition is at spectral types k2k4 , but it is only accurately defined for objects in th . as summarized in fig .",
    "5 of @xcite , the transition occurs at early m types in the hyades ( age 0.51gyr ) , at late k types in the pleiades ( age 125myr ) , and at mid k types in ic2602/2391 ( age 3040myr ) . for objects in the 15myr age range ( i.e.  younger than our sample )",
    ", the transition occurs at spectral types earlier than k0 @xcite  in fact , objects without h@xmath1 in emission are very rare at these ages @xcite .",
    "thus , the stars in th fit nicely in the evolutionary sequence defined in the literature , indicating a steady decline of activity in the pre - main - sequence evolution .",
    "using this criterion as an age indicator , we find that ages in the th association are most likely between 10 and 40myr , confirming previous estimates by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "\\b ) _ the fraction of k and m type objects with h@xmath1 emission . _ in our sample , practically all k / m objects are above the photospheric values , indicating activity , which is also the case for ( non - accreting ) stars younger than 6myr . a close to 100% fraction of active stars",
    "is also seen in pre - main - sequence clusters like ic2602/2391 with ages of 3040myr @xcite .",
    "in contrast , only a small fraction of active stars is seen in the hyades at an age of 0.51gyr ( @xmath32% , * ? ? ? * ) and in the old field population ( @xmath33% , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "criterion b thus confirms the drop in activity for objects older 30myr , but some of this effect might be due to the selection bias in our sample towards highly active objects ( see above ) .",
    "\\c ) _ the maximum level of activity in m type objects .",
    "_ m stars are the most active objects in our sample with ew ranging from zero to 1112 . to avoid being biased too much by a few extremely active objects , we do not take into account the most active 10% of the objects and thus obtain @xmath34  in our sample .",
    "we note that this value is mostly determined by objects in the three younger regions . for comparison ,",
    "the same procedure gives @xmath34  for objects younger than 6myr ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xmath35  in the pleiades , and @xmath36  in the hyades @xcite .",
    "again this criterion confirms a decline of activity , which is particularly significant between 30 and 100myr .    from all three tests ,",
    "a clear evolutionary sequence is apparent .",
    "our targets are significantly more active than objects in the pleiades , hyades , and older samples .",
    "thus , there is a clear decline of chromospheric activity from 30myr to 100myr and beyond .",
    "this decline leads to a reduction of the activity level in all spectral types , which includes the complete disappearance of measurable chromospheric emission at earlier spectral types .",
    "as the objects age from 30myr to 1gyr , the spectral range of non - active objects extends to later spectral types .",
    "eventually , among evolved main - sequence stars only a fraction of m - type objects can maintain chromospheric activity .",
    "the best interpretation of this behavior is a mass dependence in the lifetime of active chromospheres : according to the numbers given above , the timescale on which the chromosphere provides significant h@xmath1 emission are @xmath33myr for f and g stars , 10100myr for k stars , and @xmath37myr for m stars . a similar decline of activity",
    "can probably also be seen in the flare frequencies ( see  [ var ] )    maybe the best approach to explain this result is based on the different internal structure of the stars in our sample : while the f and g stars already have substantial radiative cores , most m stars are still fully convective .",
    "it is conceivable that once a rotationally driven @xmath38 dynamo is able to operate at the transition between convective and radiative zone , angular momentum loss through stellar winds quickly shuts down the magnetic activity .",
    "thus , the connection between dynamo activity and rotation could potentially be the origin of the quick disappearance of the activity for early - type objects .",
    "an alternative explanation for the decline of chromospheric activity on the pre - main - sequence might be that the change in the interior structure alters the properties of the magnetic surface field .",
    "this in turn might lead to a change in the dominating mechanism responsible for the heating of the chromosphere , which will then affect the h@xmath1 emission .    as already mentioned above",
    ", we do not see significant differences between the four associations covered with our sample .",
    "however , the spectral type coverage in the four regions is different , and thus it is not possible to carry out a more rigorous comparison of the four regions using the three criteria defined above . in th , for example , the number of m - type objects is very low , hampering a reliable assessment of the fraction of active objects and their maximum activity level .",
    "on the other hand , the younger groups @xmath2 cha , twa , and bpmg lack objects to spectral types between g5 and k5 , compromising an analysis for the onset of activity in those regions .",
    "thus , from our data alone we can not definitely rule out activity evolution between 6 and 30myr .",
    "when comparing our data with younger objects , however , we see evidence for activity evolution on this timescale , in the sense that the transition to emission occurs at somewhat earlier spectral types in t  tauri stars . taken together , the analysis in this section indicates that chromospheric activity steadily declines as the stars evolve from the t  tauri phase to the main sequence .",
    "since we have more than one epoch for most of our targets , we are able to probe variability in the h@xmath1 emission .",
    "because both photospheric h@xmath1 absorption and bolometric luminosity are not expected to change significantly ( i.e.  more than a few percent ) for these objects , variability in h@xmath1 ew basically traces changes in the level of chromospheric emission . for a few objects in the youngest regions , weak levels of episodic accretion",
    "can not be excluded and might contribute somewhat to the variability ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the primary estimate of variability is the standard deviations in our ew time series . in fig .",
    "[ f5 ] ( left panel ) we plot the absolute values of h@xmath1 ew @xmath25 vs.  spectral type .",
    "the dashed line marks the measurement uncertainty .",
    "as can be seen from this plot , many objects with late spectral types show significantly higher h@xmath1 variations than expected from the formal error , indicating variability in activity .",
    "interestingly , the onset of measurable variability occurs at early k spectral types , where h@xmath1 changes from absorption to emission .",
    "this confirms that the variations can indeed be attributed to chromospheric activity  stars without measurable activity and thus only photospheric h@xmath1 do not show variability .",
    "the plot shows no significant difference between the four groups , indicating that the level of variability does not strongly change between 6 and 30myr .",
    "h@xmath1 emission originates from active regions in the chromosphere , which are typically not uniformly distributed .",
    "thus , one main cause of the h@xmath1 variations is rotational modulation .",
    "additionally , the light curves can be affected by flare activity and overall changes in the activity level , e.g.  due to an activity cycle .",
    "our time sampling makes it difficult to distinguish between these three scenarios . in most cases , we have only one spectrum per night per target ; the longest time baseline is eight months .",
    "rotational changes occur on timescales of the rotation periods , which are typically a few days for our targets .",
    "these changes are periodic , but with our sparse sampling we are not able to recover the periods .",
    "general activity level changes are a long - term phenomenon , and thus might introduce a gradual trend in our time series .",
    "isolated flare events would be detectable , but only if they are clearly stronger than all other sources of variability .",
    "if several flares are present in our time series , it would again be difficult to identify the source of variability .",
    "we checked all h@xmath1 ew time series for signs of isolated flare events .",
    "since the typical flare length in the optical wavelength range is at most a few hours , a flare would appear as a single h@xmath1 measurement with significantly stronger emission than all other datapoints in this particular time series . as a clear flare event",
    ", we accept a positive 3@xmath25 outlier in the time series .",
    "it turns out that none of our objects exhibits such an event , although about 10 of them show 2@xmath25 outliers ( for example , the active stars twa10 and aumic in bpmg ) .",
    "thus , strong , isolated flares are rare in our sample .",
    "as already mentioned , flares last typically 12h in the optical .",
    "given our conservative detection limit , however , we would detect them only in the first 1020min , when their effect is most pronounced . in total",
    ", we have about 400 spectra , which thus cover about 100h .",
    "therefore , the flare frequency derived from our spectra is @xmath39 . assuming a flare duration of @xmath40h",
    ", this corresponds to a flare rate of @xmath41% .",
    "there are few reliable statistical constraints on ( average ) flare frequencies in the optical .",
    "derive rates of chromospheric flares for non - accreting t  tauri stars ( ages @xmath40myr ) and zams stars ( ages @xmath42myr ) based on multi - epoch multi - object spectroscopy , applying a similar criterion as we have used , but for h@xmath3 instead of h@xmath1 .",
    "they find flare frequencies of 0.06@xmath43 for t  tauri and 0.006@xmath43 for zams stars , concluding that the average flare frequency drops by a factor of ten as the stars evolve from 2 to 50myr .",
    "our result of @xmath39 is clearly lower than the value derived for t  tauri stars , which might indicate that our targets are in an intermediate evolutionary stage between t  tauri phase and zams in terms of their flare activity .",
    "stellar rotation is known to be a function of mass , age , and magnetic activity .",
    "these dependences will be discussed separately in the following subsections , with the goal of disentangling the involved processes .",
    "rotation is known to change as a function of stellar mass , mainly because the efficiency of angular momentum removal depends on magnetic activity , which in turn depends , as discussed in  [ evact ] , on stellar mass . in fig .",
    "[ f6 ] we plot @xmath0 versus spectral type , which we use as an indicator of stellar mass .",
    "early k spectral type roughly corresponds to 1m@xmath29 , early m to 0.5m@xmath29 .",
    "the majority of the objects have rotational velocities below 60kms@xmath14 , the four exceptions , @xmath44% of our total sample , are pz  tel and in bpmg and hip108422 , hip2729 , and cd-53544 in th . objects with @xmath45kms@xmath14 are called ultrafast rotators in the following .",
    "the overall appearance of this plot is comparable to @xmath0 distributions in young clusters . in the onc , for example , typical values for @xmath0 for g ",
    "m spectral types are in the range of 1230kms@xmath14 , while higher mass stars tend to rotate somewhat faster @xcite . for f ",
    "m spectral types , velocities @xmath4660kms@xmath14 are in general rare ( 510% , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , consistent with our dataset .",
    "the @xmath0 distributions in zams clusters like the pleiades @xcite or ic2391/2602 shows the same phenomenological appearance . in these clusters",
    ", the number of ultrafast rotators might be somewhat higher ( @xmath47% ) , as expected as a consequence of pre - main - sequence contraction and thus rotational acceleration ( see  [ rotvsage ] ) .",
    "for the early - type stars in our sample both the upper and the lower limit of the @xmath0 distribution decline steadily with spectral type .",
    "excluding the ultrafast rotators , the upper limit decreases from @xmath42kms@xmath14 at f5 to @xmath47kms@xmath14 at k5 , while the lower limit drops from @xmath425kms@xmath14 to the detection limit of 5kms@xmath14 in the same spectral range .",
    "a similar trend is seen in the pleiades .",
    "there are at least two possible explanations :    \\a ) the timescale on which the rotation of the stars is braked as a consequence of star - disk interaction ( see  [ rotvsage ] ) , depends on spectral type , in the sense that early type objects loose their disks faster than later types .",
    "evidence for mass - dependent disk lifetimes has been found recently @xcite , but further tests are needed to clarify the impact on rotational evolution .",
    "\\b ) the effect can also be understood as a consequence of a change in the stellar interior structure : as already discussed in  [ tar ] and  [ evact ] , all objects earlier than m0 in our sample do have a radiative core and thus are able to operate a solar - type dynamo . for these objects , a deep convection zone enables efficient angular momentum removal due to stellar winds and/or disk - locking @xcite . at any given age @xmath48myr ,",
    "stars with spectral types k have deeper convection zones than f  g stars @xcite .",
    "thus , as we approach later spectral types and the convection zones in the stars become progressively deeper , the rotational braking becomes more effective , resulting in reduced rotational velocities , as seen in fig .",
    "[ f6 ] .      to examine the evolutionary effects more in detail , we plot @xmath0 vs.  age in fig .",
    "[ f7 ] . in the upper panel ,",
    "we show only the four associations .",
    "as can be seen in the plot , the upper limit in @xmath0 increases with age ; the ultrafast rotators are only seen in older associations .",
    "this trend , however , might be a result of small number statistics . we compared the distributions of @xmath0 using a double - sided kolmogoroff - smirnoff test . specifically , we tested the null hypothesis ` the @xmath21 distribution in two associations is the same ' .",
    "it was found that with two exceptions all possible combinations of @xmath2 cha , twa , bpmg , and th give likelihoods for the validity of the null hypothesis larger than 25% . when comparing twa with older associations there is some marginal evidence for statistical differences , with false alarm probabilities of 6.2% ( bpmg ) and 6.3% ( th ) . in general , however , the four datasets are fairly similar .",
    "this is consistent with the results of @xcite , who find similar @xmath0 distributions for the onc ( 1myr ) and the pleiades ( 125myr ) .",
    "thus , the overall distribution of rotational velocities does not appear to change significantly in the pre - main - sequence phase .",
    "please note that this does not necessarily imply consistency with conservation of angular momentum throughout the pre - main - sequence phase , as the objects undergo a strong contraction ( see below for a more detailed assessment ) .",
    "a large scatter of rotation rates is seen at all ages . while the projection factor @xmath49 , age spread , and @xmath0 uncertainties all contribute to the scatter , the major reason for the large spread of the distribution is probably the spread in the initial rotation periods . in clusters with ages of 12myr ,",
    "the periods range from fractions of a day to @xmath22d @xcite , corresponding to rotational velocities ranging from @xmath9kms@xmath14 to @xmath50kms@xmath14",
    ". moreover , the @xmath0 distribution ( as well as the distribution of @xmath51 ) is highly asymmetric , hampering a rigorous statistical analysis . to mitigate this problem when investigating the rotational evolution we work in the following with typical ( median ) @xmath0 values for a given age , rather than with individual datapoints",
    "please note that by averaging over the rotational velocities in one particular group , we loose any information about the spectral type dependence of the rotation , which has been discussed in  [ rotspt ] .    in fig .",
    "[ f7 ] , we overplot the median values for each association as large octagons",
    ". we will compare these median @xmath0 with simple models for the rotational evolution . as starting value for the models",
    ", we used the typical @xmath21 of 815kms@xmath14 ( average 11.5kms@xmath14 ) at @xmath28myr given by @xcite . to take into account the pre - main - sequence contraction",
    ", we use radii from for a stellar mass of 0.8m@xmath29 , which is typical for our sample .    in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ f7 ] , we plot the expected rotational evolution for two extreme cases , constant angular momentum with a solid line ( model a ) and constant angular velocity with a dashed line ( model b ) . in this approach ,",
    "we follow @xcite who have done a similar comparison for stars with ages from 110myr . in model b ,",
    "the period is constant , as expected in a scenario with ideal ` disk - locking ' , and thus @xmath52 .",
    "model a , on the other hand , shows purely the spin - up due to contraction and thus @xmath53 .",
    "while both models are in good agreement with observations until ages of @xmath54myr , only model a is clearly consistent with the median @xmath0 at 30myr .",
    "model b , however , gives too low values for ages @xmath4610myr ; it truncates the @xmath0 distribution at the 20% quartile in bpmg and at the 10% quartile in th .",
    "thus , from 10 to 30myr the objects show rotation rates rather consistent with conservation of angular momentum than with constant rotation period .",
    "thus , the dominating effect for the rotational evolution in this time window is spin - up due to the pre - main - sequence contraction .",
    "this result is robust against uncertainties in the stellar radii , because only the ratio of radii is used in the calculation .    in strong contrast to our finding",
    ", for ages @xmath9myr the rotational evolution closely follows the track for constant angular velocity , as concluded by @xcite .",
    "there is growing evidence for a strong rotational braking in the first few myr , most likely produced by interaction with accretion disks and preventing the stars from spinning up by essentially locking the rotation period ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "our results now demonstrate that while the period may be locked until ages of @xmath55myr , in the following @xmath22myr the stars spin up without clear evidence for rotational braking .",
    "thus , rotational acceleration ( measured in period ) becomes significant at ages of 510myr  which is consistent with the typical lifetime of circumstellar disks @xcite .",
    "specifically , it has been shown that many of the youngest stars in our sample ( in @xmath2 cha and twa ) are affected by inner disk clearing measured from mid - infrared excess @xcite , while the oldest objects ( in th ) do not show any evidence for disks at mid - infrared wavelengths @xcite .",
    "thus , the change of the rotational regulation at 510myr coincides with the disappearance of the inner disks .",
    "it has to be emphasized , however , that all these considerations only apply to the _ typical _ evolution . for individual objects ,",
    "the period - locking timescale can vary by a lot  possibly due to different disk lifetimes .    to follow the evolution to the main sequence",
    ", we compared our dataset with the rotational velocity data in the pleiades . in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ f7 ] , we plot the median @xmath21 for f to m stars ( large octagon ) together with the quartile values ( horizontal bars ) .",
    "these numbers have been taken from ( their fig .  6 , averaged over all masses ) .",
    "in this plot we show for each model two evolutionary tracks , the first starts at 6myr and calculates forward in time ( as in the upper panel ) , the second starts at 125myr and calculates backwards .",
    "solid lines show again model a , i.e.  conservation of angular momentum without any rotational braking .",
    "the tracks from model a are barely consistent with the observational data .",
    "when started at 5myr , the predicted median in the pleiades is 21kms@xmath14 and thus too high ; when started at 125myr , they give a median of 5kms@xmath14 at 5myr , which is clearly too low .",
    "thus , rotational braking is likely involved in the evolution to the zams .    on the main - sequence ,",
    "rotation is mainly braked by angular momentum losses due to stellar winds , where the standard rotational braking law has been found to be @xmath56 @xcite .",
    "model c , shown in dotted lines , assumes angular momentum losses according to the skumanich law , again calculated in both directions . the tracks from model c , however , are clearly not in agreement with the observations . when calculated forward , the predicted median for the pleiades is well below the detection limit .",
    "conversely , for 5myr the model gives an unrealistically high median .",
    "thus , skumanich braking appears to be too strong .",
    "we can reproduce the @xmath0 evolution either by using an exponent of @xmath57 to @xmath58 instead of @xmath59 in the braking law , by using an exponential braking law with @xmath60 or by switching on the braking at about half way through the pre - main - sequence evolution .",
    "the latter scenario is not implausible , as most objects in the considered mass range develop a radiative core and thus the pre - requisite to operate a solar - type dynamo after about 30myr , see  [ intro ] .",
    "thus , our comparison with models gives the following results : a ) on timescales of @xmath5myr , weak rotational braking , possibly due to a skumanich - type activity - rotation connection , is required to find a good match to the observations .",
    "b ) from 530myr the rotational evolution is fully consistent with angular momentum conservation ; effects of possible rotational braking are too weak to affect the @xmath0 distribution significantly .",
    "again it should be emphasised that these results do only apply to the total sample . in  [ rotspt ]",
    "we do find that rotational velocities depend on spectral type for objects earlier than m2 .",
    "thus , for objects with ages between 5 and 30myr , stellar mass is the major factor which determines the rotation , rather than age .    in the previous sections we have already made connections between rotation and activity , to explain the evolution and mass - dependence of h@xmath1 emission and rotational velocities .",
    "the obvious next step is to investigate directly possible correlations between rotation and activity , which is the focus of the next subsection .      in order to obtain a physically meaningful picture of a possible connection between rotation and activity , we derived relative h@xmath1 luminosities ( i.e.  @xmath16 ) from the measured h@xmath1 ew .",
    "we focused on the objects with clear chromospheric h@xmath1 emission , and therefore excluded stars with spectral type earlier than k2 ( see  [ evact ] ) . in a first step",
    ", we corrected the ew for photospheric absorption , using the correlation between photospheric h@xmath1 absorption and spectral types derived in ",
    "[ evact ] from non - active reference stars ( see dotted line in fig .",
    "[ f4 ] ) . objects with corrected ew @xmath61  and thus insignificant chromospheric emission were excluded .",
    "the continuum at the wavelength of h@xmath1 was estimated using the stardusty1999 model spectra , which are based on the nextgen models refreshed with new water and tio opacities @xcite .",
    "we measured the continuum flux at 6562  for effective temperatures ranging from 3000 to 5000k and @xmath62 by approximating the spectrum around h@xmath1 with a linear fit .",
    "this value was divided by the bolometric luminosity for the respective effective temperature . as a result",
    ", we obtain scaling factors as a function of effective temperature to convert the h@xmath1 ew to @xmath16 .",
    "please note that this conversion depends neither on the radii of the objects nor on the distances , which are poorly constrained for many of our targets .",
    "the effective temperatures for our targets will be published in a forthcoming paper , see  [ tar ] .",
    "[ f8 ] shows the relative h@xmath1 luminosities as a function of @xmath0 .",
    "please note that by excluding non - active ( earlier type ) objects , the clear majority of the objects in the plot is fully convective . while the lower activity limit in this plot is a detection limit , the upper limit is reliably determined and can be compared with published samples . in our sample , we obtain @xmath63 , excluding the datapoint for twa10 , which possibly is affected by a flare event ( see  [ var ] ) .",
    "for the mass range of our sample , this value is roughly comparable with the upper limit in the pleiades @xcite , but clearly higher than in the hyades ( @xmath64 , * ? ? ? * ) , again indicating a decline of the general activity with age , as already discussed in  [ evact ] .    as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] , the upper limit of the range in activities is mostly flat .",
    "thus , activity is not strongly correlated with mass for 5kms@xmath65 .",
    "this holds even when we only consider objects with radiative core and thus the potential to operate a solar - type , rotationally driven dynamo .",
    "it is also important to note that the distribution of rotational velocities for the non - active stars ( not contained in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] ) is indistinguishable from the active stars ; they cover the full range from @xmath9 to 100kms@xmath14 , with a accumulation between 10 and 20kms@xmath14 .",
    "moreover , among the four slowest rotators in our sample with @xmath66kms@xmath14 ( shown as upper limits in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] ) , there is only one object with an activity level significantly below the range of datapoints for the faster rotators .",
    "thus , by and large the rotation - activity correlation derived from h@xmath1 emission is flat in our sample .",
    "these results can be compared phenomenologically with rotation - activity studies based on x - ray data .",
    "@xcite find that stars in twa , bpmg , and th are roughly comparable to t  tauri stars in the onc in terms of their x - ray properties .",
    "the activity in the onc has been studied in detail in the coup project ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "both in the coup data and in the sample of @xcite , there is no strong correlation between @xmath67 and rotation period .",
    "the rotation / activity relationship appears to be flat over a wide range of periods , interpreted as saturation with some indication for supersaturation , i.e.a decline of activity for the fastest rotators .",
    "this is very similar to what we observe in h@xmath1 .",
    "the two ultrafast rotators in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] appear to have below average activity levels , which might be interpreted as supersaturation .",
    "the two additional ultrafast rotators not plotted in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] have no measurable activity level , thus confirming this trend .",
    "however , since we have only very few datapoints at high rotational velocities , this should be treated with caution .",
    "still , it is interesting to note that the four ultrafast rotators are objects with radiative core , maybe implying that supersaturation might be associated to the presence of a solar - type dynamo .",
    "it is well established that field stars show a mostly linear relationship between rotation and relative x - ray luminosity @xcite . in young open clusters like ic2391 , ic2602 , and the pleiades with ages ranging from 30 to 150myr ,",
    "an intermediate situation is seen , with many objects in the saturated regime and an additional linear part ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a hint of a linear relation might also be seen in the sample of post t  tauri lindroos stars with ages between 10 and 100myr analyzed by .",
    "linear correlations between x - ray flux and rotation rate have additionally been found for young stars in taurus .",
    "@xcite argued that the linear part of the rotation / activity correlation in the onc may be hidden in the objects for which no periods have been measured .",
    "however , studies of magnetic activity at very young ages are problematic , because accretion additionally affects both x - ray and h@xmath1 luminosities , which in principle requires the strict separation of accretors from non - accretors .",
    "our h@xmath1 luminosity vs. @xmath0 plot does not reveal a strong indication for a linear regime in the rotation / activity relationship .",
    "the linear part can not be hidden at low and thus undetectable rotational velocities , as it has recently been found for field m stars @xcite , because even the slowest rotators in our sample show the same range of activity levels ( with one exception , see above ) . in summary , it is still not clear if the linear part of the rotation / activity correlation is already established at ages @xmath68myr .    in this context",
    "it is interesting to note that the rotation / activity relation of young stars is similar to very low mass ( vlm ) objects with masses @xmath690.3m@xmath29 .",
    "it is known that the rotational velocity at which saturation is reached drops quickly with decreasing object mass , with the result that most vlm objects appear in the saturated regime . as a consequence ,",
    "the skumanich type braking law breaks down @xcite , and a weak exponential braking law is expected with @xmath70 @xcite .",
    "such weak rotational braking is indeed required to model the rotational evolution in the vlm regime on timescales of @xmath41001000myr .    in the canonical picture of the rotation / activity connection ,",
    "the solar - type @xmath11 dynamo strongly depends on rotation , causing a linear relationship at low and moderate activity levels .",
    "the saturation effect is usually interpreted as an activity level where the stellar surface is covered by magnetic flux tubes and no further enhancement of activity ( and rotational braking ) is possible  thus the term ` saturation ' .",
    "( it is unlikely that this corresponds to a surface completely covered with starspots , given the fact that many ` saturated ' stars show strong photometric modulations due to rotation and thus have only a partially filled surface . )",
    "both vlm objects and very young stars , however , are fully convective and thus can not harbor a solar - type dynamo , which operates at the transition between convective and radiative zone ( see  [ intro ] ) .",
    "the kind of alternative dynamo that produces their magnetic activity , and how it depends on rotation , is still a matter of debate .",
    "but it is at least questionable to assume that the picture of the rotation / activity connection used for evolved solar - type stars can simply be extended to young stars and very low mass objects . for these types of objects",
    "` saturation ' can have two meanings : a ) they are saturated and do not follow the skumanich law , because they rotate too fast to be in the linear regime , as it is assumed in the standard paradigm .",
    "b ) their ` saturation ' is the consequence of a magnetic field generation fundamentally different from solar - type stars .    in the second case ,",
    "` saturation ' is not merely the consequence of fast rotation , but a more fundamental sign of a change in the magnetic field generation ( and thus the word ` saturation ' might be misleading ) . this idea has been proposed as an interpretation of rotation and activity data for open cluster stars by @xcite .",
    "basically , the barnes scheme suggest that the rotation / activity properties can be understood _ only _ in terms of the magnetic field generation : fully convective objects in the saturated or supersaturated regime ( on the ` c - sequence ' in the nomenclature of @xcite ) do not harbor a solar - type magnetic dynamo and thus do not follow the skumanich type rotational braking law . as the stars evolve from the t  tauri phase to the zams ( and develop a radiative core ) , the fraction of objects on the c - sequence drops quickly and reaches values @xmath71% at the age of the hyades . while the quantitative predictions of the @xcite scheme may not be convincing in all cases , the qualitative picture is consistent with the current rotation / activity data for the pre - main - sequence evolution .",
    "many of our target stars in @xmath2cha , twa , bpmg , and th are too old to be fully convective ( see  [ tar ] ) .",
    "depending on their mass , they have developed radiative cores with substantial radii already .",
    "thus , they present an interesting test case for magnetic field evolution .",
    "the fact that they show rotation / activity properties similar to younger stars ( and to fully convective vlm objects ) might indicate that it takes at least 30myr until the solar - type dynamo dominates the magnetic activity and rotational braking .",
    "this is supported by the weak rotational braking on the pre - main sequence found in  [ rotvsage ] .",
    "future investigations of the magnetic field properties of pre - main - sequence stars as a function of age hold great potential to clarify these issues .",
    "by combining our measured @xmath0 with previously published rotational periods , we can derive stellar radii ( times the unknown projection factor @xmath49 ) as @xmath72 , and compare these to evolutionary models , to constrain the age .",
    "this gives an age estimate independent of other indicators such as the lithium abundance and color - magnitude diagram constraints , although all these estimates are dependent on the particular evolutionary model used .",
    "the estimated @xmath73 thus test the self - consistency of the models .    because of the unknown projection factor @xmath49",
    ", a statistical sample is needed to derive the true @xmath74 .",
    "unfortunately , since our targets are widely distributed in the sky , monitoring campaigns to find photometric periods are time consuming , and only a small subset of our sample has photometric periods measured . in total , 16 periods have been measured in @xmath2cha @xcite and twa @xcite . of those ,",
    "13 are m dwarfs , out of which 12 have @xmath0 above our detection threshold . in fig .",
    "[ f9 ] we plot @xmath73 against effective temperature for those 12 targets , together with radius isochrones from models by .",
    "the errors in the @xmath73 are entirely dominated by errors in @xmath0 .",
    "although the statistical sample ( 12 ) may seem small , we are helped by the fact that the probability density distribution for the projection factor @xmath49 of a random orientation favors close to edge - on geometries ( see , e.g. , appendix a in @xcite ) :",
    "@xmath75    assuming a single age and the evolutionary models by , equation ( [ e : sini ] ) can be used to find a maximum - likelihood estimate for the age . to take into account the estimated measurement error @xmath25 , and to mitigate the singularity at @xmath76 , we assume the measured @xmath73 to be an outcome of a stochastic variable @xmath77 , where @xmath78 is the projection factor distributed according to equation ( [ e : sini ] )",
    ", @xmath79 is normally distributed with zero mean and variance @xmath80 , and @xmath81 is the model radius for a star of age @xmath82 and effective temperature @xmath15 .",
    "the probability distribution of @xmath83 is obtained by numerical integration ,    @xmath84}{\\sqrt{r_{\\mathrm{mod}}^2 - x^2}}\\,\\mathrm{d}x , \\label{e : r}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    and the maximum likelihood by finding the maximum of the likelihood function    @xmath85    to estimate conservative confidence intervals for this estimate , we integrate the probability density function @xmath86 to get the cumulative probability function @xmath87 .",
    "we then find the age limits @xmath88 and @xmath89 such that the probabilities    @xmath90    where @xmath1 is the significance and the probability function is    @xmath91    using the above relations we find the implied ages of @xmath2cha and twa to be @xmath92myr and @xmath93myr , respectively , where the quoted confidence interval is of 95% significance .",
    "these ages are slightly higher than , but consistent with , estimates from literature ( 6myr for @xmath2cha and 8myr for twa ) , indicating that the model radii with 95% confidence are good to within @xmath415% .",
    "rotation and activity are important parameters in the stellar pre - main - sequence evolution , because they trace changes of interior structure and magnetic fields as well as the dissipation of circumstellar disks .",
    "we present a spectroscopic study of rotation ( measured as @xmath0 ) and chromospheric activity ( measured as h@xmath1 ew ) for a sample of 74 young stars with spectral types f5m5 in stellar associations with ages from 6 to 30myr .",
    "more than half of the objects are still fully convective , while the remaining fraction has already developed a radiative core .",
    "the analysis is based on an extensive set of multi - epoch high - resolution spectra obtained with the 6.5 m clay magellan telescope .",
    "we achieve a rotational velocity accuracy of @xmath94kms@xmath14 . in the following ,",
    "we summarize our results :    1 .",
    "the range and distribution of h@xmath1 ews do not depend significantly on age in the considered age range ; instead they are a strong function of spectral type ( and thus stellar mass ) .",
    "mid f to early k type stars have h@xmath1 in absorption , while most later type objects show emission . until early k types ,",
    "the h@xmath1 ew are mostly consistent with pure photospheric absorption , while for later spectral types chromospheric emission dominates .",
    "the spectral type at which h@xmath1 goes into emission in our sample is clearly earlier than in older clusters pleiades and hyades , but later than in very young t  tauri stars .",
    "this indicates a mass dependence in the lifetime of active chromospheres . using this as an age criterion , as suggested by @xcite , we find that the plausible age of th is in the range between 10 and 40myr .",
    "the chromospheric activity measured in h@xmath1 clearly declines as a function of age from t  tauri stars ( 15myr ) to post t  tauri stars in our sample ( 630myr ) to zams objects ( 50100myr ) .",
    "4 .   many objects with spectral types later than early k show measurable variability in h@xmath1 ew on timescales of weeks and months , which can be attributed to chromospheric processes .",
    "most objects in our sample have projected rotational velocities between 5 and 60kms@xmath14 .",
    "additionally , four ultrafast rotators with @xmath0 between 70 and 130kms@xmath14 are seen , all in bpmg and th .",
    "the maximum and minimum of the @xmath0 range decreases between spectral types mid f to early k , indicating a dependence of rotation braking on the depth of the convection zone .",
    "the average rotational evolution between 5 and 30myr is consistent with angular momentum conservation . it does not agree well with constant angular velocity i.e.  ` period - locking '",
    "this is the opposite of what has been observed for ages 15myr @xcite and indicates a change in the rotational regulation at ages of @xmath4510myr , coinciding with the average lifetime of ( inner ) disks .",
    "this may be interpreted with a scenario where the rotation is regulated by disk interaction at early ages , while they are free to spin up after the disks have disappeared .",
    "7 .   by comparing our data with rotational velocities in the pleiades ,",
    "we see some evidence for weak rotational braking on timescales of @xmath5myr .",
    "this might be an exponential or a skumanich type rotational braking due to stellar winds ( @xmath56 ) , which is switched on after the objects have developed radiative cores , i.e.  after @xmath10myr .",
    "the rotation - activity relation , using @xmath95 , appears flat and thus ` saturated ' in our sample .",
    "the maximum level of @xmath95 is @xmath63 , more or less independent of rotational velocity .",
    "there is no clear sign of a linear rotation / activity correlation at low @xmath0 .",
    "the rotation - activity relation of stars with ages @xmath32myr is similar to fully - convective very low mass objects .",
    "the flat rotation / activity relation and the weak wind braking seen in these two object classes may not be due to ` saturation ' of a solar - type rotationally driven dynamo , as suggested in the standard picture .",
    "instead , the magnetic fields in these young objects are probably generated in a fundamentally different way from those in main - sequence stars .",
    "10 . by comparing our rotational velocities with rotation periods from the literature ,",
    "we find ages of @xmath6myr and @xmath7myr for @xmath2cha and twa , respectively , consistent with previous estimates from other methods .",
    "this agreement indicates that the stellar radii for m dwarfs from models by are good within @xmath415% .",
    ", c.  j. , & zwaan , c. 2000 , solar and stellar magnetic activity ( solar and stellar magnetic activity / carolus j.  schrijver , cornelius zwaan .",
    "new york : cambridge university press , 2000 .",
    "( cambridge astrophysics series ; 34 ) )                                      lrrrrl @xmath2cha 3 & -1.99 & 0.17 & 10.50 & 0.67 & m3.25 + @xmath2cha 4 & -3.40 & 0.61 & 5.96 & 1.00 & k7 + @xmath2cha 5 & -8.57 & 4.29 & 8.75 & 1.48 & m4 + @xmath2cha 6 & -5.04 & 0.42 & 20.89 & 1.05 & m2 + @xmath2cha 10 & -1.15 & 0.28 & @xmath965.0 & 0.93 & k7 +    lrrrrl twa 2a & -1.84 & 0.21 & 12.78 & 1.00 & m2e + twa 3b & -6.14 & 0.89 & 12.20 & 6.59 & m3.5 + twa 7 & -5.82 & 0.85 & @xmath965.0 & 1.59 & m1 + twa 8a & -8.00 & 1.42 & @xmath965.0 & 1.15 & m2 + twa 8b & -13.3 & 1.84 & 11.20 & 2.52 & @xmath4m5 + twa 9a & -2.14 & 0.45 & 11.26 & 0.53 & k5 + twa 9b & -4.31 & 0.60 & 8.39 & 0.61 & m1 + twa 10 & -13.6 & 9.63 & 6.33 & 1.18 & m2.5 + twa 11b & -3.45 & 0.62 & 12.11 & 0.93 & m2.5 + twa 12 & -4.83 & 0.85 & 16.22 & 0.94 & m2 + twa 13a & -3.01 & 0.69 & 10.46 & 1.10 & m1e + twa 13b & -3.00 & 0.74 & 10.33 & 1.19 & m2e + twa 15a & -8.81 & 0.51 & 21.33 & 2.16 & m1.15 + twa 15b & -8.59 & 1.35 & 32.33 & 1.86 & m2 + twa 18 & -3.32 & 0.36 & 24.12 & 0.74 & m0.5 + twa 19a & 2.60 & 0.13 & 28.35 & 0.71 & g5 + twa 21 & -0.11 & 0.18 & 6.00 & 1.00 & m1 + twa 22 & -11.5 & 1.95 & 9.67 & 2.37 & m5 + twa 23 & -2.44 & 0.19 & 14.78 & 1.72 & m1 + twa 24s & -0.30 & 0.16 & 13.87 & 1.13 & k3 + twa 25 & -2.36 & 0.54 & 11.78 & 1.86 & m0 +    lrrrrl ao men & -0.56 & 0.12 & 15.96 & 0.69 & k6/7 + au mic & -2.24 & 0.81 & 8.49 & 0.97 & m1 + hd 164249 & 5.43 & 0.09 & 22.50 & 1.97 & f5v + hd 181327 & 5.09 & 0.05 & 20.83 & 1.33 & f5.5 + hd 35850 & 4.31 & 0.18 & 52.00 & 1.00 & f7 + pz tel & 2.29 & 0.17 & 77.50 & 2.81 & k0vp + v343 nor & 2.22 & 0.15 & 17.00 & 1.00 & k0v + gj 3305 & -2.15 & 0.27 & 5.30 & 1.03 & m0.5 + gj 799n & -10.9 & 1.61 & 10.56 & 2.13 & m4.5e + gj 799s & -9.25 & 0.61 & 17.00 & 3.54 & m4.5e + hip 23309 & -0.77 & 0.13 & 5.77 & 0.73 & m0.5 + hip 23418a & -6.55 & 0.00 & 7.67 & 2.08 & m3v + hip 23418b & -6.06 & 0.00 & 21.00 & 4.36 & @xmath4m3 + hip 112312 & -6.61 & 0.14 & 14.00 & 1.73 & m4e + hip 112312b & -8.16 & 0.46 & 24.33 & 4.93 & m4e + hip 12545 & -0.56 & 0.00 & 9.30 & 0.64 & m0 +      cd -53544 & -1.43 & 0.24 & 82.22 & 5.02 & k6ve + cd -60416 & -0.48 & 0.04 & 10.11 & 0.60 & k3/4 + cpd -64120 & -0.19 & 0.12 & 30.22 & 1.09 & k1ve + gsc 8056 - 0482 & -5.31 & 0.44 & 34.22 & 5.61 & m3ve + gsc",
    "8491 - 1194 & -4.14 & 0.36 & 12.78 & 0.83 & m3ve + gsc 8497 - 0995 & -0.63 & 0.22 & 6.56 & 0.53 & k6ve + hip 107345 & -1.41 & 0.15 & 6.44 & 1.33 & m1 + hip 1993 & -1.01 & 0.11 & 9.50 & 0.55 & m1 + hip 2729 & -0.68 & 0.26 & 127.5 & 3.94 & k5v + hip 3556 & -0.79 & 0.02 & @xmath96 5.0 & 0.52 & m3 + hd 13183 & 2.70 & 0.13 & 21.00 & 0.71 & g5v + hd 13246 & 4.13 & 0.13 & 29.78 & 1.79 & f8v + hd 8558 & 2.62 & 0.10 & 12.11 & 0.60 & g6v + hd 9054 & 0.76 & 0.11 & @xmath96 5.0 & 0.53 & k1v + hip 105388 & 2.58 & 0.10 & 12.83 & 0.39 & g5v + hip 107947 & 4.26 & 0.05 & 30.42 & 1.38 & f6v + hip 108422 & 1.55 & 0.54 & 139.8 & 9.42 & g8v + hip 1113 & 2.57 & 0.05 & 6.00 & & g6v + hip 1481 & 4.06 & 0.00 & 22.67 & 0.52 & f8/g0 + hip 16853 & 3.41 & 0.10 & 17.80 & 0.41 & g2v + hip 21632 & 3.02 & 0.00 & 17.53 & 0.64 & g3v + hip 22295 & 3.54 & 0.29 & 41.33 & 2.10 & f7v + hip 30030 & 3.31 & 0.17 & 40.40 & 1.24 & g0 + hip 30034 & 1.30 & 0.26 & 9.73 & 1.71 & k2v + hip 32235 & 2.72 & 0.05 & 10.25 & 0.45 & g6v + hip 33737 & 0.77 & 0.52 & 8.93 & 0.26 & k3v + hip 490 & 3.72 & 0.03 & 14.50 & 0.55 & g0v + hip 9141 & 3.03 & 0.07 & 14.78 & 0.44 & g3/5v + tyc",
    "5882 - 1169 & 0.74 & 0.16 & 6.80 & 0.56 & k3/4 + tyc 7065 - 0n & 1.45 & 0.02 & 22.33 & 1.03 & k4v + tyc 7065 - 0s & 1.58 & 0.06 & 14.00 & 0.89 & @xmath4k4 + tyc 7600 - 0 & 1.76 & 0.25 & 18.80 & 0.86 & k1 +       and literature values compiled by @xcite .",
    "the error bars correspond to the scatter in our multi - epoch data . with the exception of hip2729 and pz  tel , the deviations are not larger than 8kms@xmath14 [ f2],width=566 ]       ew standard deviation as a function of spectral type compared with the measurement error ( dashed line ) .",
    "f0 corresponds to 30 , m0 to 60 .",
    "the datapoint for twa10 at spectral type m2.5 and h@xmath1 ew @xmath25 of 9.6  is not plotted .",
    "[ f5],width=566 ]         for 4 targets in @xmath2cha and 8 in twa .",
    "the dashed lines with labeled ages are the radius isochrones from , and effectively correspond to upper limits on @xmath73 for objects of a given age .",
    "even casual inspection clearly puts the age of these association between 5 and 20 myr .",
    "more careful analysis yields @xmath92myr and @xmath93myr for @xmath2cha and twa , respectively ( see  [ periods]).[f9],width=566 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> rotation and activity are key parameters in stellar evolution and can be used to probe basic stellar physics . here </S>",
    "<S> we present a study of rotation ( measured as projected rotational velocity @xmath0 ) and chromospheric activity ( measured as h@xmath1 equivalent width ) based on an extensive set of high - resolution optical spectra obtained with the mike instrument on the 6.5 m magellan clay telescope . </S>",
    "<S> our targets are 74 f  </S>",
    "<S> m dwarfs in the young stellar associations @xmath2  chamaeleontis , tw hydrae , @xmath3  pictoris , and tucana - horologium , spanning ages from 6 to 30myr . while the h@xmath1 equivalent widths for most f and g stars are consistent with pure photospheric absorption , most k and m stars show measurable chromospheric emission . by comparing h@xmath1 equivalent width in our sample to results in the literature </S>",
    "<S> , we see a clear evolutionary sequence : chromospheric activity declines steadily from the t  tauri phase to the main sequence . using activity as an age indicator </S>",
    "<S> , we find a plausible age range for the tuc - hor association of 1040myr . between 5 and 30myr </S>",
    "<S> , we do not see evidence for rotational braking in the total sample , thus angular momentum is conserved , in contrast to younger stars . </S>",
    "<S> this difference indicates a change in the rotational regulation at @xmath4510myr , possibly because disk braking can not operate longer than typical disk lifetimes , allowing the objects to spin up . </S>",
    "<S> on timescales of @xmath5myr there is some evidence for weak rotational braking , possibly due to stellar winds . </S>",
    "<S> the rotation - activity relation is flat in our sample ; in contrast to main - sequence stars , there is no linear correlation for slow rotators . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that this is because young stars generate their magnetic fields in a fundamentally different way from main - sequence stars , and not just the result of a saturated solar - type dynamo . by comparing our rotational velocities </S>",
    "<S> with published rotation periods for a subset of stars , we determine ages of @xmath6myr and @xmath7myr for the @xmath2cha and twa associations , respectively , consistent with previous estimates . thus we conclude that stellar radii from evolutionary models by are in agreement with the observed radii within @xmath8% . </S>"
  ]
}