{
  "article_text": [
    "predicting the dynamics of complex molecular networks that control living organisms is a central challenge of systems biology .",
    "while cell - wide , or organism - wide , models of genetic and molecular interactions appear well out of reach , predictive models of single pathways and small modular molecular networks of living cells have been studied with great success and are a matter of active research @xcite .",
    "given that the biochemical details of a chemical molecular network are known , standard techniques are at hand for their computer simulation .",
    "a method capturing molecular details is to use chemical monte - carlo simulations @xcite , less computationally costly and perhaps the most commonly used approach to modeling biochemical pathways and networks are differential equations which capture the underlying reaction kinetics in terms of rates and concentrations @xcite .",
    "this method is highly developed today and is broadly applied to predictive dynamical modeling from single pathways to complex biochemical networks @xcite .",
    "such mathematical models contain detailed information about the time evolution of the system which , in some circumstances , is more than we are interested in . for many biological questions , knowledge of the sequential pattern of states of the central control circuit of a cell",
    "would be a sufficient answer , as , for example , in cell cycle progression , cell commitment ( e.g. to apoptosis ) , and in stem cell control and differentiation .",
    "when we are interested in the path that a cell takes , the exact time course of the control circuit dynamics may not be needed , however , its modeling takes most effort and often one needs to know large numbers of biochemical parameters that are not easily obtained @xcite .",
    "indeed , recent research indicates that some molecular control networks are so robustly designed that timing is not a critical factor @xcite .",
    "vice versa , as a working hypothesis , this observation bears the chance for vastly simplified dynamical models for molecular networks , as soon as one drops the requirement for accurate reproduction of timing by the model , just asking for the sequence of dynamical patterns of the network .",
    "recent studies demonstrate , that such more simplified models indeed can reproduce the sequence of states in biological systems .",
    "for example , a class of discrete dynamical systems with binary states , mathematically similar to models used in artificial neural networks , has recently proven to predict specific sequence patterns of expressed genes as observed in living cells @xcite .",
    "such models are in the mathematical tradition of random boolean networks which , for decades , served as a simplistic analogy for how gene regulation networks could in principle work @xcite . in these historical studies , dynamical properties of random networks of discrete dynamical elements",
    "were studied to derive possible properties of ( the then hardly known ) regulatory circuits @xcite . in the new approach",
    "outlined above , however , similar mathematical elements now serve to simulate one specific known biological control network . from a different perspective , they can be viewed as a further simplification of the differential equation approach @xcite .",
    "recent application of this model class to modeling real biological genetic circuits show that they can predict expression pattern sequences with much less input ( e.g. parameters ) to the model as the classical differential equations approach .",
    "examples are models of the genetic network of _ a.  thaliana _",
    "@xcite , the cell - cycle networks of _ s. cerevisiae _ @xcite and of the mammalian cell - cycle @xcite , as well as the segment polarity gene network in _ d.  melanogaster _ @xcite .",
    "for example , the model by albert and othmer @xcite of the segment polarity gene network in _",
    "d.  melanogaster _ , as well as the model by li et al .",
    "@xcite of the _",
    "s.  cerevisiae _ cell - cycle control network , yield accurate predictions of sequential expression patterns , previously not obtained from such a simple model class . in these models , the dynamics can be viewed in terms of flow in state space of possible states of the network , converging towards so - called attractors , or fixed points , which here correspond to specific biological states .",
    "these attractors and their basins of attraction in state space mainly depend on the circuitry of the network , and their analysis yields further information about the robustness of the dynamics against errors or mutations .",
    "how generic is this approach ? in this article",
    "we address the question whether the approach of discrete dynamical network models is a more general method , namely whether constructing predictive dynamical models for gene regulation from boolean networks is a straightforward procedure that generalizes to other organisms .",
    "we choose the fission yeast ( _ schizosaccharomyces pombe _ )",
    "cell - cycle as an example system that on the one hand is well understood in terms of conventional differential equation models , but on the other hand is markedly different from the above examples , as _ s.  cerevisiae_. _",
    "s.  pombe _ has been sequenced in 1999 and has been used as a model organism only relatively recently @xcite .",
    "models exist @xcite that mathematically model the fission yeast cell - cycle with a common ode ( ordinary differential equation ) approach .",
    "these are based on a set of differential equations for the biochemical concentrations that take part in the network and their change in time ( and space ) .",
    "this approach allows to predict the dynamics of the fission yeast cell - cycle for the wild - type and some known mutant cells @xcite .    we will in the following",
    "construct a discrete dynamical model for the fission yeast cell cycle network .",
    "an interesting question will be , how far we will get without considering parameters , as kinetic constants etc .",
    ", that are a key ingredient of the existing models .",
    "we will base our model on the circuitry of the known biochemical network , only .",
    "let us in the next section briefly review the fission yeast cell cycle network , then define our discrete dynamical model in the subsequent section .",
    "this is followed by a section reporting our results , and then we will compare our findings with a similar model of the budding yeast ( _ s .",
    "cerevisiae _ ) network and conclude with a discussion .",
    "let us briefly review the regulatory processes that control the cell cycle in _",
    "saccharomyces pombe_. the full process of one cell division consists of four stages , named g1s  g2m . at the first stage ( g1 ) , the cell grows and , under specific conditions , commits to division . at the second stage ( s ) , dna is synthesized and chromosomes are replicated .",
    "this is followed by a `` gap '' stage g2 .",
    "the final stage ( m ) corresponds to mitosis , in which chromosomes are separated and the cell divides itself .",
    "eventually , after the m stage , the cell enters g1 again , thereby completing one cycle .",
    "the biochemical reactions that form the network that controls the fission yeast cell - cycle have been studied in detail over the last years @xcite .",
    "the major role is played by a cyclin - dependent protein kinase complex cdc2/cdc13 with a protein tyr-15 , a residue of cdc2 .",
    "tyr-15 acts as a label for high cdc2/cdc13 concentration .",
    "it is inactive during the g2 phase , when cdc2/cdc13 is phosphorylated , and becomes active during the g2m transition @xcite .",
    "the other members that participate in the cell - cycle control can be attributed to two different classes .",
    "the first class consists of positive regulators of the kinase cdc2/cdc13 : `` start kinase '' ( sk ) , a group of cdk / cyclin complexes ( cdc2 with cig1 , cig2 and puc1 cyclins ) , and the phosphatase cdc25 . a second class is composed of the antagonists of the complex cdc2/cdc13 : slp1 , rum1 , ste9 , and the phosphatase pp @xcite .    we give a full compilation of the network of key - regulators of the fission yeast cell cycle network in table 1 , corresponding to our current knowledge as given in @xcite .",
    ".the rules of interaction of the main elements involved in the fission yeast cell cycle regulation . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     in fission yeast , for example , phosphatase cdc25 is required for the g2m transition , while in the model of budding yeast @xcite the corresponding homologue mih1 is insignificant .",
    "the reason is that in the fission yeast cell cycle , cdc25 removes an inhibitory phosphate group from the residue tyr-15 of cdc2 , which is important for the right timing of the g2m transition .",
    "in contrast , the tyrosine residue in _ s.  cerevisiae _ cdc28 kinase ( fission yeast : cdc2 ) is not as critical and usually not phosphorylated .",
    "therefore , for a model of fission yeast , cdc25 is essential , whereas the homologue mih1 in budding yeast is not @xcite .",
    "one other example is the role of the protein cdc13 . in fission yeast it acts in a complex with cdc2 , while in the budding yeast model its functionality is represented by two complexes clb1,2/cdc28 and clb5,6/cdc28 , which exhibit some differences in interactions , as well as in timing .    despite of the differences in many details ,",
    "the general logic of both yeast cell cycles is surprisingly similar and exhibits a number of `` structural homologues '' .",
    "for example both exhibit a negative feedback loop similar in role : clb1,2/cdc28 activates cdc20 which inhibits clb1,2/cdc28 ( fission yeast : cdc2/cdc13 , tyr15 activate slp1,which inhibits cdc2/cdc13 ) .",
    "the most interesting comparison is in our view on the level of the global network dynamics . from this point of view , the _ s.  cerevisiae _ network is a strongly damped system , driven by external excitation .",
    "external signals are entering the network , triggering signal cascades in the network that induce the subsequent phases .",
    "in contrast , the network of _ s.  pombe _ corresponds to an auto - excited system ( there are two nodes with self - excitation - cdc2/cdc13 and wee1/mik1 ) with additional damping . here ,",
    "an external signal works as a trigger mechanism that counteracts internal damping , causing the auto - excitation to spread its activity in the system .    while these differences in the `` mechanics '' of the signalling networks are considerable , the overall dynamics is surprisingly similar .",
    "the state space picture is quite similar in both cases : one observes only a small number of attractors and just one big global attractor ( with @xmath0 resp .",
    "@xmath1 of all initial states ) which for both organisms corresponds to the stationary g1 state .    finally , a most prominent difference between the two yeast networks is their choice in biochemical machinery : _",
    "s.  cerevisiae _ relies more on transcriptional factors while _",
    "s.  pombe _ mostly relies on post - translational regulation @xcite . from the methodological point of view",
    ", we note that for this reason we were surprised to find our model for the _ s. pombe _ cell cycle network so robust against neglecting the vastly different time scales of interactions , which we expected to be the major difficulty in constructing a discrete dynamical model for _ s. pombe _ as compared to _ s.  cerevisiae_.",
    "we have constructed a boolean model for the biochemical network that controls the cell cycle progression in fission yeast _ s.pombe_ , and found a number of interesting results .",
    "the dynamics of this network reproduces the time sequence of expression patterns along the biological cell cycle , solely on the basis of the connectivity graph of the network , neglecting all biochemical kinetic parameters .",
    "the dynamics of the network is characterized by a dominant attractor in the space of all possible states , with an attractor basin that attracts most of all states .",
    "the network dynamics are robust against perturbation of the biological expression pattern .",
    "the results obtained from our model are in accordance with the existing ode model of fission yeast @xcite .",
    "let us discuss the differences between these two approaches .",
    "the _ s.  pombe _ ode system @xcite has several steady state solutions .",
    "one can identify every such solution with the corresponding physiological stage .",
    "the growth of cell size brings the cell from one phase to another via a series of bifurcations . at the same time , other variables indicate the degree of activity of various components of the cell regulatory nodes .",
    "one observes @xcite that the typical curves depicting this activity have almost rectangular shape .",
    "this motivates our choice of binary valued function to approximate protein concentrations in time .",
    "further , the ode - based model makes use of continuous system parameters , which we omit and replace by their signs , only . as a result , the ode bifurcation curve then corresponds to the boolean biological path .",
    "the main advantage of our boolean model is that we were able to drop 47 kinetic constants that were necessary in the ode approach and , while doing so , still reproduce the biological activation pattern of the system .",
    "this fact and our further observations point at built - in dynamical robustness of the network , which may provide a further mechanism for organisms to ensure functional robustness @xcite . in return",
    ", our study indicates that the regulatory robustness of biological chemical networks may allow for `` robust '' modeling approaches : our paradigm here is nothing but assuming that biochemical networks are functioning in a parameter - insensitive way  which motvated us to eliminate all tunable parameters from the model . that our model reproduces the biological sequence instantly without any further parameter tuning , confirms our assumption _ a posteriori_. we therefore encourage further modeling experiments with the here presented quite minimalistic approach , as it may prove a quick approach to predicting biologically relevant dynamical features of genetic and protein networks in the living cell .",
    "espinosa - soto c , padilla - longoria p , alvarez - buylla er , ( 2004 ) a gene regulatory network model for cell - fate determination during arabidopsis thaliana flower development that is robust and recovers experimental gene expression profiles .",
    "plant cell 16 : 2923 - 2939 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a boolean network model of the cell - cycle regulatory network of fission yeast ( _ schizosaccharomyces pombe _ ) is constructed solely on the basis of the known biochemical interaction topology . simulating the model in the computer , </S>",
    "<S> faithfully reproduces the known sequence of regulatory activity patterns along the cell cycle of the living cell . </S>",
    "<S> contrary to existing differential equation models , no parameters enter the model except the structure of the regulatory circuitry . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamical properties of the model indicate that the biological dynamical sequence is robustly implemented in the regulatory network , with the biological stationary state g1 corresponding to the dominant attractor in state space , and with the biological regulatory sequence being a strongly attractive trajectory . comparing the fission yeast cell - cycle model to a similar model of the corresponding network in _ s. cerevisiae _ , a remarkable difference in circuitry , as well as dynamics is observed . </S>",
    "<S> while the latter operates in a strongly damped mode , driven by external excitation , the _ s. pombe _ network represents an auto - excited system with external damping . </S>",
    "<S> + _ keywords _ : gene regulatory network ; yeast cell cycle ; boolean network models ; computer simulations ; robustness </S>"
  ]
}