{
  "article_text": [
    "the simplest semi - analytic model ( sam ) for galaxy formation might assume that the nature of a galaxy is determined solely by the mass and merging history of the dark matter halo or sub - halo within which it resides .",
    "but correlations between the observed properties of galaxies and their environments have been known for many years now .",
    "an increased fraction of early - type galaxies towards the centres of clusters @xcite , or the increased fraction of blue , star forming galaxies in clusters at high redshift compared to their low redshift counter parts , the butcher - oemler effect @xcite .",
    "massive elliptical galaxies in clusters are on average older than comparable ellipticals in the field @xcite and the interaction rate of galaxies in clusters increases with redshift much more rapidly than in the field @xcite indicating accelerated galaxy transformation in dense environments .",
    "recent studies of e.g. the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) and the deep2 survey show that the fraction of galaxies of a given mass populating the red - sequence is a strong function of the environment @xcite and that indeed the environment can play an import role @xcite in driving galaxy evolution .    on the theoretical side first indictations for a possible transition in the mode of galaxy formation were found by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite who predicted a transition mass scale at which cooling times start becoming larger than the free - fall time .",
    "differences arising from the environment are generally studied by assuming that the dark halo mass is a good proxy for the environment and that dark matter haloes greater than a few times @xmath5 m@xmath1 correspond to galaxy clusters ( for a comparison between dark halo mass and galaxy surface density see @xcite ) . regarding the formation of dark matter halos and the mass assembly of galaxies ,",
    "the cdm - paradigm predicts massive dark haloes to have a larger fraction of their final mass in progenitors at earlier times compared to low mass halos ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) resulting in an increased merger fraction of galaxies at larger redshifts in high density environments @xcite .",
    "furthermore , galaxies falling into dense environments are subject to interaction between the hot intra - cluster medium ( icm ) and the inter - stellar medium ( ism ) in form of ram - pressure stripping @xcite and shock heating ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that can allow for morphological transformation of galaxies by depriving them of gas @xcite and inducing star formation @xcite .",
    "the interplay between these processes will influence galaxies within a dark matter halo and should in a natural way account for many observations .",
    "models based on a phenomenological approach to stop cooling flows in halos above a critical mass ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and hence in dense environments prove to be promising by being able to reproduce the luminosity function and colour bi - modality of the local galaxy population ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "many of these effects are already seen in hydrodynamic simulations @xcite .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to illustrate the consequences that result from environmental effects usually omitted within semi - analytic models ( sam ) .",
    "these effects are real and automatically included in hydrodynamical simulations of sufficient resolution ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but we do not intend to claim that the implementation attempted in this paper is definitive or even , necessarily a substantial improvement over current modeling methods . rather we intend to show the sign of the effects and the rough order of magnitude of the effects produced . in many cases",
    "these physical effects produce consequences that seem at variance ( or even in some cases opposite ) to overly naive interpretations of the hierarchical scenario that are consequent to gravitational interactions alone .",
    "also , we wish to make clear at the outset that the physical effects described in this paper are independent of `` feedback '' which concept we define to be related to the return of energy , momentum and mass to the environment from evolving stars and central black holes .",
    "these feedback effects are also real , but they should not be confused with those gas physics effects that would necessarily occur even if there were neither stars nor agns . if the effects that we are adding to the sam prescription are found to be useful , the correct way to implement them will be to use comparisons with detailed high resolution numerical hydro simulations , which are just now becoming available , and of course feedback effects from central black holes @xcite must also be added to a comprehensive treatment for most accurate results .",
    "we briefly summarise here the additional gas physics we have included to our basic model introduced in section 2 that made the most important differences in the model predictions , before we show later the details of the implementation ( section 3 ) and first results ( sections 4 - 8 ) . for individual satellite galaxies we relaxed the generally applied assumption of instantaneous shock heating of hot gas in them when they fall into dense environments ( section [ sshock ] ) and added a prescription for ram - pressure stripping of gas ( section [ sram ] ) while they orbit in a dense environment .",
    "we modify cooling flows for central galaxies , generally the most massive galaxies within a dark matter halo , by taking into account the heating of the icm by gravitational heating from potential energy released by stripped gas from satellites ( section [ grav ] ) .",
    "this additional energy source , which is not usually included in sam treatments ( but automatically allowed for in hydro treatments ) adds energy to the gas in amounts comparable to the energy added by feedback processes .",
    "the main strategy behind the modelling approach we follow is first to calculate the collapse and merging history of individual dark matter halos , which is governed purely by gravitational interactions , and secondly to estimate the more complex physics of the baryons inside these dark matter halos , including e.g. radiative cooling of the gas , star formation , and feedback from supernovae by simplified prescriptions on top of the dark matter evolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "each of the dark matter halos will consist of three main components which are distributed among individual galaxies inside them : a stellar , a cold , and a hot gas component , where the latter is only attributed to _",
    "central _ galaxies , which are the most massive galaxies inside individual halos and typically are observed to reside in extended x - ray emitting coronal gas . in the following sections",
    ", we will describe briefly the recipes used to calculate these different components which are mainly based on recipes presented in e.g. @xcite ( hereafter , k99 ) , @xcite ( hereafter , c00 ) and @xcite ( hereafter , s01 ) , and we refer readers for more details on the basic model implementations to their work and references therein . in the remainder of this paper we call the _",
    "standard / old _ sam the model implementation presented in @xcite which is summarized in this section .",
    "the new additional environmental physics is presented in section [ envir ] . throughout this paper",
    "we use the following set of cosmological parameters motivated by the 3 year results of wmap @xcite : @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "we calculate the merging history of dark matter halos according to the prescription presented in @xcite .",
    "this approach has been shown to produce merging histories and progenitor distributions in reasonable agreement with results from n - body simulations of cold dark matter structure formation in a cosmological context @xcite .",
    "the merging history of dark matter halos is reconstructed by breaking each halo up into progenitors above a limiting minimum progenitor mass @xmath11 .",
    "this mass cut needs to be chosen carefully as it ensures that the right galaxy population and merging histories are produced within the model .",
    "progenitor halos with masses below @xmath11 are declared as _ accretion _ events and their histories are not followed further back in time .",
    "progenitors labelled as accretion events should ideally not host any significant galaxies in them and be composed mainly of primordial hot gas at the progenitor halo s virial temperature .",
    "the mass scale at which this is the case can in principle be estimated from the prescriptions of supernova feedback and reionisation presented in section [ cool ] .",
    "however , to achieve a good compromise between accuracy and computational time , we instead estimated @xmath11 by running several simulations with different resolutions and chose the resolution for which results in the galaxy mass range of interest are independent of the specific choice of @xmath11 . changing the mass resolution mainly affects our results at low galaxy mass scales , leaving massive galaxies nearly unaffected . throughout this paper",
    "we will use @xmath12 m@xmath1 which produces numerically stable results for galaxies with stellar masses greater a few times @xmath13 m@xmath1 .      as mentioned above ,",
    "once the merging history of the dark matter component has been calculated , it is possible to follow the evolution of the baryonic content in these halos forward in time .",
    "we assume each halo consists of three components : hot gas , cold gas and stars , where the latter two components can be distributed among individual galaxies inside a single dark matter halo .",
    "the stellar components of each galaxy are additionally divided into bulge and disc , to allow morphological classifications of model galaxies . in the following ,",
    "we describe how the evolution of each component is calculated .",
    "each branch of the merger tree starts at a progenitor mass of @xmath11 and ends at a redshift of @xmath14 .",
    "initially , each halo is occupied by hot primordial gas which was captured in the potential well of the halo and shock heated to its virial temperature @xmath15 ^ 2 $ ] k , where @xmath16 is the circular velocity of the halo ( * ? ? ?",
    "subsequently this hot gas component is allowed to radiatively cool and settles down into a rotationally supported gas disc at the centre of the halo , which we identify as the central galaxy ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the rate at which hot gas cools down is estimated by calculating the cooling radius inside the halo using the cooling functions provided by @xcite and the prescription in s01 . in the case of a merger between halos we assume that all of the hot gas present in the progenitors is shock heated to the virial temperature of the remnant halo ( in our new model including environmental effects we will relax this assumption , see [ sshock ] ) , and that gas can only cool down onto the new central galaxy which is the central galaxy of the most massive progenitor halo .",
    "the central galaxy of the less massive halo will become a satellite galaxy orbiting inside the remnant halo . in this way",
    ", a halo can host multiple satellite galaxies , depending on the merging history of the halo , but will always only host one central galaxy onto which gas can cool .",
    "the cold gas content in satellite galaxies is given by the amount present when they first became satellite galaxies and does not increase ( this will again will be modified in our new environmental prescription , see [ sshock ] , instead it decreases due to ongoing star formation and supernova feedback .    in the simplified picture",
    "adopted above , the amount of gas available to cool down is only limited by the universal baryon fraction @xmath17 @xcite . however , in the presence of a photoionising background the fraction of baryons captured in halos is reduced ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and we use the recipe of @xcite , which is based on a fitting formulae derived from hydrodynamical simulations by @xcite , to estimate the amount of baryons in each halo . for the epoch of reionisation , we assume @xmath18 , which is in agreement with observations of the temperature - polarisation correlation of the cosmic microwave background by @xcite .",
    "once cooled gas has settled down in a disc , we allow for fragmentation and subsequent star formation according to a parameterised global schmidt - kennicutt type law @xcite of the form @xmath19 , where @xmath20 is a free parameter describing the efficiency of the conversion of cold gas into stars , and @xmath21 is assumed to be the dynamical time of the galaxy and is approximated to be 1/40 times the dynamical time of the dark matter halo @xcite .",
    "feedback from supernovae plays an important role in regulating star formation in small mass halos and in preventing too massive satellite galaxies from forming @xcite .",
    "we implement feedback based on the prescription presented in k99 with @xmath22 here we introduce a second free parameter @xmath23 which represents our lack of knowledge on the efficiency with which the energy from supernovae reheats the cold gas . the expected number of supernovae per solar mass of stars formed for a typical imf is @xmath24 , and @xmath25 erg is the energy output from each supernova .",
    "we take @xmath16 as the circular velocity of the halo in which the galaxy was last present as a central galaxy .",
    "we allow for mergers between galaxies residing in a single halo .",
    "as mentioned earlier , each halo is occupied by one central galaxy and a number of satellite galaxies depending on the past merging history of the halo .",
    "whenever two halos merge , the galaxies inside them will merge on a time - scale which we calculate by estimating the time it would take the satellite to reach the centre of the halo under the effects of dynamical friction .",
    "satellites are assumed to merge only with central galaxies and we set up their orbits in the halo according to the prescription of k99 , modified to use the coulomb logarithm approximation of s01 .",
    "if the mass ratio between the two merging galaxies is @xmath26 ( @xmath27 ) we declare the event as a _",
    "major _ merger and the remnant will be an elliptical galaxy .",
    "we assume that the stellar components of the progenitors add up to form a spheroid , that the cold gas present in the progenitors ignites in a central star burst , and that the hot gas components add up .",
    "in the case of a _ minor _ merger @xmath28 , we assume that the stellar component of the smaller progenitor adds to the bulge of the larger progenitor and that the cold gas in the disc of the smaler progenitor settles down into the disc of the larger progenitor .",
    "the basic model introduced in the previous section already includes several environmental dependencies as e.g. the merger rate of galaxies increase more steeply with redshift in high density environments like clusters @xcite , a feature also seen in observations @xcite . in this section",
    "we intend to incorporate further physical effects that are important to model the evolution of the galaxy population and that are already self - consistently included in hydrodynamical simulations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "of these effects some were already implemented in similar ways in previous models by other authors , like e.g. ram - pressure stripping and shock heating ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "some of the effects of gravitationl heating have been discussed recently by @xcite but have not yet been implemented within the context of a sam .",
    "the main difference to the sam implementation of the previous section is that we here follow explicitly the heating of the hot gas phase by the conversion of gravitational potential energy . to avoid adding liberated energy twice to the hot gas phase we adopt the following prescription .",
    "initially , when the dark matter halo becomes more massive than @xmath11 , we set the temperature of the hot gas to @xmath29 . during the subsequent growth of the dark matter halo however",
    ", we do not automatically increase the temperature of the hot gas in the host to the new virial temperature of the host dark matter halo ( by host dark matter halo we always refer to the dark matter halo mass including all sub - structure ) .",
    "instead we let it only increase by the energy gained from the potential energy of the gas that is stripped from the substructure ( see parargraph [ grav ] and [ impl ] ) .",
    "at each step in our simulation we keep track of the specific energy of the hot gas component and thus are able to calculate its temperature @xmath30 .",
    "this allows us to define the parameter @xmath31 to calculate the energy needed to remove gas from a halo .",
    "we here assume that the cold gas phase has @xmath32 which sets @xmath33 for cold gas and @xmath34 for gas at the virial temperature of the halo .",
    "in general the liberated potential energy is sufficient to raise the temperature of the hot gas to the new virial temprature on a short time scale .",
    "another main difference to the old sam is that we allow satellites to have hot gas which is able to cool following the prescription in [ cool ] and to subsequently form stars in the disk of the satellite galaxy .",
    "we remove hot gas from the satellites using the prescriptions laid out in sections [ sshock ] & [ sram ] .",
    "the following sections are structured as follows , first we introduce our prescriptions for the stripping of gas from orbiting satellites by ram pressure and shock heating .",
    "this is necessary to help us approximate the rate at which potential energy is relased at each individual time step within our simulation . in the following two sections",
    "we then introduce the actual prescriptions for gravitational heating and its implemetation within our sam .      during the infall of satellite galaxies into dense environments ,",
    "shock heating of satellite gas is occurring with the gas being removed from the satellite on time scales much shorter than the hubble time ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "generally this process is implemented within sams by assuming that it is very efficient and quasi - instantaneous , thus depriving satellite galaxies of any reservoir of hot virialized gas ( e.g. wf91 , k99 , c00 ) . in the following",
    "we will relax this assumption and investigate its effects on the galaxy population .",
    "gas removal from the satellite occurs efficiently when the shock is depositing enough energy to heat the gas in the satellite above its virial temperature ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this condition can be expressed in terms of the adiabatic sound speed in the host halo , @xmath35 with @xmath36 and @xmath37 @xcite , and the satellite s maximum circular velocity @xmath38 as @xmath39 here we introduce a free model parameter @xmath40 which in effect regulates at which mass ratio , between infalling satellite and host halo , shock heating will occur . as we will show below the specific choice of @xmath40 does not change the properties of the overall galaxy population significantly and only has influence on satellite galaxies .",
    "the gas fraction of galaxies within clusters is an increasing function of radius @xcite supporting the assumption that whatever reduces the gas fraction must work on a time scale comparable to the dynamical time within the cluster .",
    "once the condition in eq .",
    "[ shock ] is satisfied , we therefore allow for gas removal from the satellite on some fraction @xmath41 of the host halo s dynamical time . in general we find that the gas in our simulations will be completely shock heated on time scales less than a gyr with a tendency for faster heating in low mass satellites as shown by the conditional probability distribution @xmath42 of infalling satellite galaxies in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] .",
    "shocks will not only heat the hot gas phase , but also penetrate deep within the satellite and heat the cold gas phase ( t. naab , private communication ) .",
    "we include this effect , sometimes neglected within sams , in the same manner as described above . in consequence at each time step within the simulation we have the following mass loss from each satellite due to shock heating which will be added to the hot gas content of the host central galaxy : @xmath43 a first comparison between our initial model ( labelled old sam ) , including instantaneous shock heating of only hot gas , in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] does not show any significant difference in the cold and hot gas mass function of central galaxies . on the contrary fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] shows that satellites tend to retain more cold and hot gas when the condition for shock heating , as laid out by eq .",
    "[ shock ] , requires them to fall into a much more massive host ( larger @xmath40 ) and if the time scale for shock heating is longer ( smaller @xmath44 ) . in all cases the amount of gas shock heated is negligible as compared to the hot gas content of the host central galaxy , explaining the lack of change in the gas mass function .",
    "the overall galaxy population at the intermediate to massive end is dominated by central galaxies which are unaffected by the specific choices of the shock heating parameters and we choose to omit these parameters for the remainder of this paper , i.e. set them to @xmath45 and @xmath46 .",
    "individual late - type galaxies within clusters show perturbed hi disks which are reduced in size with respect to their stellar disks ( for a review see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and are hi deficient with respect to field late type galaxies , a fact generally attributed to ram pressure stripping caused by the interactions between the hot icm and the ism of the satellite @xcite .",
    "the time scale for this process must be less than 1 gyr as indicated by the abrupt truncation of star formation in passive cluster spirals @xcite .",
    "however , it is very likely that ram pressure stripping alone is not sufficient to cause the observed hi deficit in satellite galaxies @xcite and that other processes like e.g. shock heating play an important role .",
    "furthermore , sams including ram pressure stripping alone , only report negligible changes in galaxy properties like colours and star formation rates @xcite .",
    "following @xcite we assume that gas is stripped from the satellite once the dynamical pressure is able to overcome the gravitational force binding the gas to the satellite . in terms of energy deposited within the satellite gas",
    "this can be approximated by : @xmath47 here we take @xmath48 as the velocity of the satellite perpendicular to its disk orientation and assume that the orbital velocity of the satellite is comparable to the sound speed @xmath49 of the hot gas .",
    "the efficiency of this process for a face - on disk should be maximal and minimal for an edge - on disk and we take this into account by assuming the disk orientation is random with respect to the infall direction .",
    "this is in good agreement with cosmological dark matter simulations which show that the spin vector of merging dark matter halos are randomly aligned to each other .",
    "we assign a random angle @xmath50 between the disk plane and the velocity vector of the satellite and calculate @xmath48 by @xmath51 @xcite . for simplicity",
    "we calculate the density @xmath52 by taking the average density of hot gas within the host halo s virial radius and take @xmath53 to be the characteristic half mass radius of the gas within the satellite .",
    "we introduce a free parameter @xmath54 which allows us to investigate the importance of this process .",
    "as we will show below , the efficiency parameter @xmath54 does not influence general galaxy properties significantly .",
    "equation [ ram ] is an upper limit to the expected ram pressure heating of the gas in the satellite as we neglect tidal stripping and the change in the velocity of the satellite while it orbits through the host halo ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the amount of cold disk gas stripped from the satellite can be calculated by : @xmath55 here we use in eq .",
    "[ ram ] the observed mean size - mass relation reported for disk galaxies from the sdds @xcite .",
    "we note that this might be an overestimate as disk galaxies tend to be smaller by a factor of up to @xmath56 at @xmath57 @xcite .",
    "@xmath58    not only cold gas in disks is subject to ram pressure stripping but also diffuse hot halo gas ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) and we model this process in the same way as for the cold gas case with the exception that @xmath59 in eq . [ ram ] and that the energy needed to heat a unit mass to the virial temperature of the host halo is less since the hot gas in the satellite is already at some temperature @xmath30 .",
    "the hot gas mass stripped from the satellite is    the rate at which material is stripped in our implementation of ram pressure varies from earlier approaches .",
    "e.g. @xcite assume instantaneous stripping of all gas once the ram pressure overcomes a characteristic restoring force per unit area in the galactic disk , calculated using the surface mass density at the half mass radius .",
    "other implementations have a more gradual stripping rate , assuming an exponential profile for the surface mass density of material in the satellite disk @xcite .",
    "common to both of these implementations is that they assume a radial profile for the gas density in the host halo and that the time dependence of the stripping is driven basicly by the physical location of the satellite within the halo . in our implementation",
    "the time dependency is due to the continued transfer of energy to the gaseous disk of the satellite . for a host halo that is not significantly changing its average gas density with time , we deposit a constant amount of energy per unit time within the gaseous disk of the satellite .",
    "the stripping rate we calculate in this way is initially larger than that from gradual models like the one of @xcite .",
    "such models however predict an increase in the stripping rate with time , due to the increasing ambient gas density while the satellite orbits towards the centre of the host halo .",
    "the effect of these different implementations on the galaxy populations is very mild . in our model",
    "the cold and hot gas mass function of central galaxies are mostly unaffected by ram pressure stripping from satellite galaxies in comparison to our initial sam shown in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] and in agreement with previous work @xcite .",
    "the reason we do not find significant changes in the overall galaxy population is that central galaxies dominate the mass range studied here and that the gas fraction of satellites is much less than that of centrals .",
    "increasing the efficiency @xmath54 by two orders of magnitude only marginally reduces the amount of hot and cold gas in satellites . therefore again we omit using this free parameter , i.e. set it to @xmath60 .",
    "the energy used to expel gas from satellites is contributed from the gravitational potential energy that is gained when a satellite becomes bound in the potential of the primary halo .",
    "the majority of dark halos are initially on parabolic orbits with @xmath61 before they become bound and merge . according to the virial theorem , maximally",
    "half of the potential energy gained could be used to heat the icm .",
    "we here take into account the energy gained by each infalling mass unit of gas and subtract from it the energy necessary to expel it from the potential of the satellite and to heat it to the virial temperature of the host .",
    "the rate at which energy is gained is connected to the rate at which gas is expelled from satellites @xmath62 , according to the prescriptions in section [ sshock ] & [ sram ] . at each time step within our simulation",
    "we calculate : @xmath63\\ ] ] where @xmath64 for cold gas and @xmath65 for hot gas that is stripped from the satellites .",
    "please note that eq .",
    "[ egrav ] is the actual surplus of energy available to heat the icm once the stripped gas of the satellite is heated to the virial temperature of the host .",
    "we model the dark matter halo of the host as a truncated isothermal sphere with core radius @xmath66 and calculate the amount of potential energy gained by the satellite when it reaches the virial radius @xmath67 of the host halo .",
    "for the halo we assume a characteristic value @xmath68 @xcite .",
    "it should be noted that in general the concentration of dark matter halos is a function of mass and redshift and that we ommit this dependency for the sake of simplicity at this stage . the gain in potential energy is then calculated as @xmath69 . within the simulation",
    "we will use the energy surplus calculated from eq .",
    "[ egrav ] to heat and to counter cooling within the hot gas of the host halo .",
    "[ egrav ] is generally not included in sams , although it appears to be necessary in order to conserve energy .    the time integral of eq .",
    "[ egrav ] can be quite substantial and , if expressed in terms of @xmath70 , we find values in fig .",
    "[ fig14000 ] for @xmath71 ranging from a few times @xmath72 to a few times @xmath73 in galaxies of @xmath74 and @xmath75 m@xmath1 , respectively .",
    "that this increase is driven by the environment becomes most evident when considering the dependence of @xmath71 on the dark matter halo mass in fig .",
    "[ fig14001 ] . above a halo mass of",
    "@xmath76 m@xmath1 @xmath71 increases steadily .",
    "however , it appears that this increase is steeper at larger redshifts .",
    "we find that the upper limit for @xmath71 lies around @xmath77 and that in general the most massive halos present at a given redshift tend to take on this values .",
    "one can understand this behaviour by considering the accretion of satellites onto halos .",
    "in general the most massive halos at any redshift have had the largest accretion rates in the past which explains the large amount of gravitational heating .",
    "it is worth comparing gravitational heating to other common heating mechanisms like supernovae and agn . comparing @xmath71 to @xmath78 and @xmath79 with values",
    "between@xmath80 @xcite and @xmath81 @xcite shows that in general gravitational heating is more efficient than supernovae feedback only in galaxies larger than a few times @xmath82 m@xmath1 and in halos more massive than @xmath83 m@xmath1 at @xmath14 .",
    "this regime correspond to massive field galaxies and extends into group like environments . for even more massive galxies and dark halo masses larger than @xmath84",
    "m@xmath1 gravitational heating starts dominating over proposed agn - feedback rates .",
    "this is very interesting as one is dealing with mostly rich group and cluster environments which are subject to a very substantial gravitational heating generally neglected within sams .",
    "furthermore , the most massive galaxies will have another large source of heating in addition to agn - feedback that will prevent ongoing star formation and will naturally reduce the overproduction of galaxies at the bright end of the luminosity function @xcite . again it is important to understand at which mass scales gravitational feedback operates at different times . at large redshifts",
    "it will become more important than supernovae and agn - feedback already in smaller halos and galaxies . as a consequence gravitational feedback can match agn - feedback at the epoch of peak qso - activity in the most massive halos and galaxies .    when considering the mass dependence of @xmath71 we find over a wide range of masses roughly a @xmath85 dependency .",
    "it is worth noting that from simple scaling arguments one would expect that @xmath86 , with @xmath87 as the total amount of gas expelled from satellite galaxies , indicating that the fraction of expelled gas to stellar mass of central galaxies scales as @xmath88 .",
    "going to smaller masses there is a distinctive break at a stellar mass of a few times @xmath13 m@xmath1 , which coincides with the break in properties of the galaxy population that is found in the sloan digital sky survey @xcite .",
    "our results suggest that this break could be the consequence of the accretion rate and hence the amount of gravitational energy that is released .      at the beginning of our merger tree ,",
    "i.e. when the dark matter halo first crosses @xmath11 we set the temperature of the hot gas to the virial temperature @xmath29 of that halo and allow it to cool as described in [ cool ] .",
    "once satellites fall onto the main halo , we calculate the amount of gas stripped from each individual orbiting satellite @xmath62 using eqs .",
    "[ shock ] , [ shock2 ] , [ ram ] & [ ram2 ] plus the contribution from gas that leaves the satellite halo because of supernovae feedback .",
    "this @xmath62 is then used in eq .",
    "[ egrav ] to calculate the amount of gravitational heating energy added to the icm .",
    "please not that in practice we use eq . [ egrav ] without the last term @xmath89 , because the hot gas of the host might not be at @xmath29 , but at some lower temperature @xmath30 , and therefor the stripped gas will not automatically be heated to @xmath29 as assumed in eq .",
    "[ egrav ] .",
    "the energy contribtuion we calculated in this way is then used to heat the host hot gas to @xmath29 .",
    "if the gas is allready at @xmath29 or if energy is left after elevating it to @xmath29 we allow the surplus of energy to be used to counter the energy losses due to our cooling prescription in [ cool ] and to reduce the amount of cooling gas . if there is still energy left after countering all the energy losses due to cooling we use it to increase the energy of the host hot gas .",
    "we here do not take into account the possiblility of gas leaving the host halo and getting lost once its energy gets to large to be bound , but instead assume it is marginally bound in a hot athmosphere .",
    "if two host halos merge we assume that the smaller one becomes a satellite and calculate @xmath90 according to its specific energy and use it in eqs .",
    "[ shock ] , [ shock2 ] , [ ram ] & [ ram2 ] . the satellites within this halo will now be considered satellites of the new host halo and contribute their potential energy to the new host .",
    "to illustrate the contribution from gravitational heating we display the contours of the conditional probability for the ratio of heating to cooling that individual galaxies experience in a given environment .",
    "the top panel in fig .",
    "[ fig14 ] shows the probability contours for central galaxies at @xmath91 in our simulaitons .",
    "we translate the deposited energy per unit time into a heating rate , labeled _ heat _ in fig .",
    "[ fig14 ] , by calculating the amount of cold gas that can be heated to the virial temperature of the dark matter halo the galaxy resides in .",
    "the cooling rate for central galaxies is calculated using the prescription outlined in section [ cool ] and is labeled _ cool _ in fig .",
    "[ fig14 ] .",
    "the left panel shows the contribution from gravitational heating to the hot gas of central galaxies as gas gets stripped from satellites .",
    "the heating rate for the central galaxies is up to @xmath92 times larger than the cooling rate and in the most dense environments the heating rate becomes @xmath93 m@xmath1 yr@xmath94 .",
    "the heating rate shows a clear environmental dependence reflecting the higher abundance of satellites which contribute to gravitational heating . from these results",
    "one expects that star formation will be terminated in central galaxies of dense environments .",
    "the importance of several physical processes depending on environment and redshift is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig14b ] .",
    "the top left panel shows the average cooling rate in systems for which the cooling time is shorter than the dynamical time of the halo .",
    "this cold accretion mode occurs in halos with masses below @xmath95 m@xmath1 and is most efficient at high redshifts in agreement with sph - simulations by @xcite and earlier analytic calculations @xcite .",
    "the solid line in the same figure is the maximum halo mass which shows cold accretion at each redshift .",
    "the average amount of cold gas in the ism reheated by supernovae is shown in the right top panel .",
    "supernovae are able to heat gas efficiently in small halos with masses below @xmath96 m@xmath1 and are responsible for shaping the low mass tail of the luminosity function @xcite .",
    "the results in the two top panels are usually incorporated in all semi - analytic models .",
    "the additional physics we included is shown in the lower panel of the same figure .",
    "it appears that the heating rate of the icm by gravitational heating is always very efficient in the most massive halos one finds at each redshift , with several thousand solar masses per year , and not very efficient in low mass halos .",
    "this is not too surprising considering that low mass halos do have less infalling sub - sructure than cluster sized halos .    to illustrate how the new environmental effect operates we followed the @xmath97trajectory of a random central and satellite galaxy back in time",
    "this trajectory is calculated as in @xcite by summing up the @xmath23 from all the progenitors present at a given redshift .",
    "the results for that are shown in the left panel of fig . [ fig45450 ] .",
    "the mass on the x - axes of the right panels is the sum of the stellar mass of all progenitors present at that redshift .",
    "we here distinguish between field and cluster environment by associating the field with a dark matter halo of @xmath98 m@xmath1 and the cluster with a dark matter halo of @xmath99 m@xmath1 at @xmath14 .    for field galaxies at early times ( @xmath100 )",
    ", when the mass in progenitors is still small ( @xmath101 m@xmath1 ) , gravitational heating is not important .",
    "heating / feedback will be dominantly provided by supernovae and some , if any , agns in massive galaxies . at late times",
    "gravitational heating is catching up with supernovae .",
    "central and satellite galaxies in the field are very unlikely to develop strong gravitational heating at any time during their evolution , as a consequence in first approximation it might be justified to neglect these effects when modelling their evolution . however , the situation is dramatically different for cluster galaxies .",
    "the central galaxies in these environments , that later become first brightest cluster galaxies generally have gravitational heating surpassing supernovae feedback at redshifts around @xmath102 .",
    "present - day cluster member galaxies on the other hand , depending on their mass , will surpass supernovae feedback at later times when their mass is large enough ( @xmath103 m@xmath1 ) and stop increasing in @xmath23 once they become cluster members .",
    "it is interesting to note that for the first brightest cluster galaxies gravitational heating steadily increases and continues to become very important at late times and that the overall energy released will exceed that of the agn but only later when the main agn activity is already over .",
    "the observed average cosmic star formation rate @xcite shows a strong decline at redshifts less @xmath104 and a modest decline at @xmath105 ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a trend generally recovered by semi - analytic models with varying accuracy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "one of the occurring problems in these models is the steep decline of the star formation rate at low redshifts while reproducing the star formation rates at high redshifts .",
    "different approaches have shown some progress in that respect by e.g. including feedback form super - massive black holes which helps reducing star formation in early type galaxies at late times or by the shut off of star formation in halos above a critical mass @xcite .",
    "the environmental effects introduced in the previous sections start operating effectively in high density environments like clusters of galaxies and are able to prevent cooling of gas and associated star formation .",
    "the average cosmic star formation rate @xcite in that sense provides an ideal way to compare our model predictions and to judge the importance of the effects we added .",
    "our model prediction , shown as the solid line in fig .",
    "[ fig15 ] , is in quite good agreement with the observations summarized by @xcite .",
    "our new model differs from the best fit initial sam ( dashed line ) in one very important point , we find higher star formation rates at @xmath105 and significantly lower ones at @xmath106 .",
    "furthermore , we have to reduce the energy deposited in the ism by super - novae as we do have additional environmental heating sources that counter the cooling rate and regulate the star formation .",
    "the reason for the change in shape of the cosmic star formation is that the environmental effects operate not like supernovae feedback which is essentially proportional to the star formation rate , but are dependent on the mass of the halo and its assembly time .",
    "we find that many galaxies which dominate the star formation rate at redshifts @xmath107 and that end up in dense environments at @xmath14 will not yet have assembled in groups and hence gravitational heating will not be significant . once the assembly starts taking place during the peak of the merger epoch around @xmath108 @xcite",
    "the environmental effects start to operate and to provide more feedback than the supernovae and as a consequence the star formation rate declines steeper than in a model with only supernovae feedback .    in fig .",
    "[ fig15b ] we split the contribution to the cosmic star formation rate into different environments according to the host dark matter halo mass .",
    "the top panel illustrates nicely the steep decline of the star formation rate in cluster environments compared to field environments , a signature of down - sizing by environment . in the lower panel",
    "we show how the new environmental prescriptions relate to the old sam prescription with same @xmath23 .",
    "as we mentioned above at low redshifts the star formation is heavily suppressed by up to a factor of six in cluster environments due to our implementation of gravitational heating , while in field environments not much changes .",
    "most of the star formation at late times occurs in low mass systems in moderate density environments .",
    "growing observational evidence suggests that the main sites of star formation activity changed from massive systems at early times to low mass systems at late times ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a possible explanation for down - sizing from the point of hierarchical modelling is that heating overcomes cooling at late times in massive systems @xcite .",
    "one approach to try to address this problem is e.g. using agn feedback @xcite .",
    "we here investigate how environmental effects influence down - sizing .",
    "as shown in figs .",
    "[ fig14001 ] & [ fig14b ] environmental heating is very important for the most massive galaxies and halos .",
    "in addition the mass scale affected by environmental heating decreases going to larger redshifts showing down - sizing .",
    "it is important to note that we do not claim that these are the sole responsible effects for causing down - sizing but that we investigate their contribution to down - sizing . in figures [ down1 ] & [ down2 ]",
    "we show the specific star formation rate @xmath109 in units of gyr@xmath94 as a function of the lookback time for galaxies with different present - day masses .",
    "additonally , we split the sample into galaxies residing in massive group / cluster ( @xmath110 m@xmath1 ) and field / small group ( @xmath111 m@xmath1 ) environments .",
    "the results for the best fit old sam without environmental effects show a long extended tail to low redshifts even for the most massive galaxies , and no strong difference between massive @xmath112 and low mass galaxies with @xmath113 ( fig .",
    "[ down1 ] ) .",
    "in addition there is no strong environmental dependence in the specific star formation rate .",
    "the new sam including environmental effects differs in several fundamental ways which are important with respect to down - sizing .",
    "first , massive galaxies with @xmath112 have a strongly peaked star formation epoch at lookback times around 11 gyrs with a strong decline to smaller lookback times and low mass galaxies with @xmath114 have only a modest decline showing the same trend as expected from down - sizing .",
    "second , we find a strong environmental dependence in form of galaxies more massive than @xmath115 being extremely rare in the field and low mass galaxies showing more star formation at late times in low dense environments .",
    "it is interesting to note that we do not find that galaxies of the same mass are significantly older in high density environments .",
    "one attractive point of agn - feedback is that it helps with the over - cooling problem in sams and at the same time helps in fitting the luminosity function at the bright end by limiting the mass of the most massive galaxies in the simulations .",
    "we here compare the prediction of our low redshift luminosity function with the sdss @xmath116band luminosity function of @xcite . as shown in fig .",
    "[ lf ] the agreement between the model and the observations is very good over a wide range of luminosities .",
    "we over - predict the abundance of very luminous galaxies compared to the sdss luminosity function , which might not be a problem considering that first brightest cluster galaxies are not properly covered by the sdss photometry nor are star burst galaxies ( ulirg ) having most of their energy output in the far infra - red part of the spectrum .",
    "another reason for finding a few too luminous galaxies is that we follow the merging of galaxies using a simplified model based on dynamical friction which is likely to overpredict the number of mergers for massive galaxies .",
    "it has been shown by @xcite that in these cases the luminosity function in clusters shows too many luminous galaxies compared to high resolution simulations that follow the orbits of galaxies in clusters .",
    "the results by the sdss @xcite or surveys like combo-17 @xcite show that that the galaxy population can be divided according to e.g. its @xmath117-colour into two separate regions with a so - called red - sequence of mostly early - type old non - star forming galaxies and a blue cloud of mainly late - type star forming galaxies . until recently sams have had problems in recovering a strong pronounced bi - modality and only with the inclusion of feedback processes or other cooling shut - off mechanisms",
    "could a good agreement to the data be achieved @xcite .",
    "although these models are successful in reproducing the overall distribution of colour in the galaxy population , they find different galaxies populating their red - sequence and blue cloud .",
    "we here predict the colour distribution of our model galaxies based on the inclusion of the environmental effects .",
    "the effect of dust on galaxy colors is estimated using the plane - parallel slab model of @xcite . for details of this model",
    "we refer the reader to @xcite and to references therein .",
    "[ color ] shows the colour - mass diagram and it is very clear to see that we produce a very pronounced bi - modality .",
    "the low mass part of our red sequence is dominated by satellite galaxies being part of a massive group or cluster environment .",
    "this is in agreement with recent findings of @xcite .",
    "the blue sequence at the low mass end on the other hand is dominated by star forming central galaxies in field environments . at",
    "mass @xmath118 central galaxies start to leave the blue sequence and occupy the red sequence with @xmath119 .",
    "a detailed comparison to the data of @xcite will be presented in a later paper in which we combine our sam with a large - scale n - body simulation .",
    "in this paper we presented a first step in including physical effects that are connected to the environment in which galaxies reside into a sam .",
    "our approach is novel in that we consider how much gravitational potential energy can be released by gas that is stripped from satellite galaxies , once one takes into account the energy needed to strip it .",
    "it turns out that this source of gravitational heating is very dependent on the environment , as the amount of potential energy gained for a unit mass coming from infinity increases with the mass of the dark matter halo , which is a good proxy for the density of the environment and we find a scaling with dark matter mass of @xmath120 .",
    "gravitational heating in general is more important for galaxies that reside in environments that can secure a steady infall of gas - rich satellite galaxies , whose stripped gas contributes potential energy .",
    "this is naturally the case for present day clusters and massive groups , and we indeed find in our simulations most of the gravitational heating occurring in these environments . at earlier times the sites of gravitational heating turn to somewhat smaller dark matter halos and hence less dense environments .",
    "this is not surprising considering that the mass of @xmath121 halos , the mass we can associate with massive groups and clusters today , decreases at earlier times .",
    "the build up of dark matter on the scales we consider here is approximately self - similar and one would expect roughly as much substructure falling into a @xmath121 halo at early times as on a @xmath121 halo at late times .",
    "the main difference will be in the higher gas fraction of the infalling satellites at earlier times .",
    "the higher gas fraction almost compensates for the lower potential energy per unit mass in the @xmath121 halos at earlier times causing them to have similar @xmath71 as their counter parts at low redshifts . in this respect our environmental effects are purely driven by the dark matter formation path .",
    "one of the natural outcomes from including gravitational heating is down - sizing @xcite in the star - formation rate of massive galaxies .",
    "central galaxies residing in the most dense environments generally have a very significant contribution by gravitational heating with @xmath122 which is greater than or comparable to the amount of feedback from agns @xcite .",
    "however , the way that these two heating sources operate is very different .",
    "while luminous agns will heat most efficient during a qso - phase that takes place at redshifts @xmath123 gravitational heating will start heating more efficiently than agns at redshifts @xmath124 .",
    "this is connected to the epoch when most massive environments assemble by merging of groups .",
    "besides being effective at late times , gravitational heating has the additional feature of showing a strong mass dependence that can produce the right trend of down - sizing in the star formation rate of galaxies .",
    "low mass galaxies around @xmath76 m@xmath1 generally have @xmath125 and star formation is regulated mainly by supernovae feedback which by itself will not produce down - sizing .",
    "galaxies more massive than that have @xmath126 and star formation will be regulated by gravitational heating . in summary",
    "the following picture emerges , at large redshifts a first episode of strong heating occurs when agns have their peak activity . during that phase a great deal of energy",
    "will be deposited within the ism / icm .",
    "after that gravitational heating will start kicking in mainly in the most massive systems regulating the cooling rate of gas and hence the star formation rate .",
    "we thus argue that down - sizing at low redshifts is a consequence of the redshift and mass dependence of gravitational heating , which is driven by the environment .    in a study of galaxy properties within the sloan digital sky survey ,",
    "@xcite find that galaxy properties show a bimodal distribution around @xmath127 m@xmath1 .",
    "galaxies more massive than this have generally older stellar populations than those less massive .",
    "it is an intriguing question to ask what could be the origin for this abrupt transition ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the reason for the transition must be closely related the ability to make stars .",
    "one natural suspect in this respect is feedback .",
    "the general prime suspect for feedback , supernovae and agn feedback , do not show a characteristic mass scale at which their action occurs .",
    "the energy output per unit stellar mass is independent of the mass of the galaxy for both agn and sn feedback , but increases as @xmath128 for gravitational heating .",
    "however , it should be noted that the effects of a given amount of heating can be scale dependent and hence introduce a characteristic mass scale for supernovae and agn feedback as well .",
    "additionally we find that gravitational heating shows a distinctive transition at a mass scale of @xmath129 m@xmath1 from being roughly constant at smaller masses to increasing steadily at higher masses .",
    "galaxies below @xmath130 in our simulation are mostly unaffected by gravitational heating and hence their star formation is regulated by supernovae feedback . above @xmath130 the situation changes when gravitational heating start becoming more important and able to influence star formation by contributing significant amounts of feedback .",
    "even when @xmath131 , it will be important as a source of feedback and regulator for star formation , because it operates independently of the star formation in contrast to supernovae feedback , and it will contribute significant amount of heating energy at late times .",
    "again , just as in the case of down - sizing , the feature that could cause the transition mass scale @xmath130 is the specific mass dependency and epoch when gravitational heating kicks in .",
    "it is interesting to make the connection between our work and previous work by @xcite who suggest a scale dependent bias for the galaxy population , in a sense that massive , red galaxies reside within high density environments . combining this with results of @xcite",
    "suggest that one should expect a drop in the star formation rate for present - day massive red galaxies that reside in massive environments , just as we predicted within our model .",
    "in this paper we included gravitational heating effects in our sam based on simplified physical models and made some first predictions / comparisons .",
    "the results so far seem very promising and we will present more detailed comparisons to observations in a follow - up paper .",
    "it is clear that this can only be viewed as a first step in trying to include environmental effects and that further comparisons to high resolution hydrodynamical simulations will be necessary to improve on this effort .",
    "+ we would like to thank the anonymous referee for his comments and suggestions that helped to significantly improve the paper .",
    "also we would like to thank rachel somerville , thorsten naab , andi burkert and joe silk for usefull comments .",
    "abadi , m.  g. , moore , b. , & bower , r.  g.  1999 , , 308 , 947 baldry , i.  k. , balogh , m.  l. , bower , r.  g. , glazebrook , k. , nichol , r.  c. , bamford , s.  p. , & budavari , t.  2006 , , 373 , 469 bell , e.  f. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 608 , 752 benson , a.  j. , lacey , c.  g. , baugh , c.  m. , cole , s. , & frenk , c.  s.  2002 , , 333 , 156 benson , a.  j. , bower , r.  g. , frenk , c.  s. , lacey , c.  g. , baugh , c.  m. , & cole , s.  2003 , , 599 , 38 binney , j.  1977 , , 215 , 483 p. , binney , j.  2004 , , 347 , 1093 birnboim , y. , & dekel , a.  2003 , , 345 , 349 birnboim , y. , dekel , a. , & neistein , e.  2007 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0703435 blanton , m. , cen , r. , ostriker , j.  p. , & strauss , m.  a.  1999 , , 522 , 590 blanton , m. , cen , r. , ostriker , j.  p. , strauss , m.  a. , & tegmark , m.  2000 , , 531 , 1 blanton , m.  r. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 592 , 819 bower , r.  g. , benson , a.  j. , malbon , r. , helly , j.  c. , frenk , c.  s. , baugh , c.  m. , cole , s. , & lacey , c.  g.  2006 , , 370 , 645 bryan , g.  l. , & norman , m.  l.  1998 , apj , 495 , 80 bullock , j.  s. , kolatt , t.  s. , sigad , y. , somerville , r.  s. , kravtsov , a.  v. , klypin , a.  a. , primack , j.  r. , & dekel , a.  2001 , , 321 , 559 butcher , h. , & oemler , a. , jr .",
    "1978 , , 219 , 18 butcher , h. , & oemler , a. , jr .",
    "1984 , , 285 , 426 cattaneo , a. , dekel , a. , devriendt , j. , guiderdoni , b. , & blaizot , j.  2006 , , 370 , 1651 ciotti , l. , & ostriker , j.  p.  2001",
    ", , 551 , 131 ciotti , l. , & ostriker , j.  p.  2007",
    ", arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0703057 cole , s. , lacey , c.  g. , baugh , c.  m. , & frenk , c.  s.  2000 , , 319 , 168 ( c00 ) cooper , m.  c. , et al .   2006 , , 370 , 198 croton , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 365 , 11 de lucia , g. , & blaizot , j.  2007 , , 375 , 2 dekel , a. , & silk , j.   1986 , , 303 , 39 dekel , a. , & birnboim , y.  2006 , , 368 , 2 dolag , k. , bartelmann , m. , perrotta , f. , baccigalupi , c. , moscardini , l. , meneghetti , m. , & tormen , g.  2004 , , 416 , 853 dressler , a.  1980 , , 236 , 351 dressler , a. , & gunn , j.  e.  1982 , , 263 , 533 dressler , a.  1986 , , 301 , 35 farouki , r. , & shapiro , s.  l.  1980 , , 241 , 928 frenk , c.  s. , et al .   1999 , , 525 , 554 giavalisco , m. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 600 , l103 giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.  p.  1983",
    ", , 88 , 881 gnedin , n.  y.  2000 , , 542 , 535 gunn , j.  e. , & gott , j.  r.  i.  1972 , , 176 , 1 haines , c.  p. , la barbera , f. , mercurio , a. , merluzzi , p. , & busarello , g.  2006 , , 647 , l21 hasinger , g. , miyaji , t. , & schmidt , m.  2005 , , 441 , 417 hatton , s. , devriendt , j.  e.  g. , ninin , s. , bouchet , f.  r. , guiderdoni , b. , & vibert , d.  2003 , , 343 , 75 hopkins , a.  m.  2004 , , 615 , 209 juneau , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 619 , l135 kang , x. , jing , y.  p. , & silk , j.  2006 , , 648 , 820 kauffmann , g. , colberg , j.  m. , diaferio , a. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1999 , , 303 , 188 ( k99 ) kauffmann , g. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 341 , 54 kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .",
    "1998 , , 498 , 541 kere , d. , katz , n. , weinberg , d.  h. , & dav , r.  2005 , , 363 , 2 khochfar , s. , & burkert , a.  2001 , , 561 , 517 khochfar , s. , & burkert , a.  2003 , , 597 , l117 khochfar , s. , & burkert , a.  2005 , , 359 , 1379 khochfar , s. , & burkert , a.  2006 , , 445 , 403 khochfar , s. , & silk , j.  2006a , , 370 , 902 khochfar , s. , & silk , j.  2006b , , 648 , l21 lanzoni , b. , guiderdoni , b. , mamon , g.  a. , devriendt , j. , & hatton , s.  2005 , , 361 , 369 lilly , s.  j. , le fevre , o. , hammer , f. , & crampton , d.  1996 , , 460 , l1 machacek , m. , jones , c. , forman , w.  r. , & nulsen , p.  2006",
    ", , 644 , 155 marcillac , d. , rigby , j.  r. , rieke , g.  h. , & kelly , d.  m.  2007 , , 654 , 825 madau , p. , ferguson , h.  c. , dickinson , m.  e. , giavalisco , m. , steidel , c.  c. , & fruchter , a.   1996 , , 283 , 1388 mayer , l. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , governato , f. , & stadel , j.  2002 , , 336 , 119 metzler , c.  a. , & evrard , a.  e.  1994 , , 437 , 564 moran , s.  m. , ellis , r.  s. , treu , t. , salim , s. , rich , r.  m. , smith , g.  p. , & kneib , j .-",
    "2006 , , 641 , l97 mori , m. , & burkert , a.  2000 , , 538 , 559 naab , t. , johansson , p.  h. , ostriker , j.  p. , & efstathiou , g.  2007 , , 658 , 710 naab , t. , & ostriker , j.  p.  2006",
    ", , 366 , 899 nagamine , k. , ostriker , j.  p. , fukugita , m. , & cen , r.  2006 , , 653 , 881 neistein , e. , van den bosch , f.  c. , & dekel , a.  2006 , , 372 , 933 okamoto , t. , & nagashima , m.  2003 , , 587 , 500 quilis , v. , moore , b. , & bower , r.  2000 , science , 288 , 1617 rees , m.  j. , & ostriker , j.  p.  1977",
    ", , 179 , 541 scannapieco , e. , silk , j. , & bouwens , r.  2005 , , 635 , l13 shapiro , p.  r. , iliev , i.  t. , & raga , a.  c.  1999 , , 307 , 203 silk , j.  1977 , , 211 , 638 shen , s. , mo , h.  j. , white , s.  d.  m. , blanton , m.  r. , kauffmann , g. , voges , w. , brinkmann , j. , & csabai , i.  2003 , , 343 , 978 smith , g.  p. , treu , t. , ellis , r.  s. , moran , s.  m. , & dressler , a.  2005 , , 620 , 78 somerville , r.  s. , & primack , j.  r.  1999 , , 310 , 1087 somerville , r.  s. , & kolatt , t.  s.  1999 , , 305 , 1 somerville , r.  s. , lemson , g. , kolatt , t.  s. , & dekel , a.  2000 , , 316 , 479 somerville , r.  s.  2002 , , 572 , l23 spergel , d.  n. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 170 , 377 springel , v. , white , s.  d.  m. , tormen , g. , & kauffmann , g.  2001 , , 328 , 726 ( s01 ) springel , v. , di matteo , t. , & hernquist , l.  2005 , , 620 , l79 sutherland , r.  s. , & dopita , m.  a.  1993 , , 88 , 253 ostriker , j.  p. , bode , p. , & babul , a.  2005 , , 634 , 964 taylor , j.  e. , & babul , a.  2001 , , 559 , 716 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , bender , r. , & mendes de oliveira , c.  2005 , , 621 , 673 trujillo , i. , et al .",
    "2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0504225 van dokkum , p.  g. , franx , m. , fabricant , d. , kelson , d.  d. , & illingworth , g.  d.  1999 , , 520 , l95 van gorkom , j.  h.  2004 , clusters of galaxies : probes of cosmological structure and galaxy evolution , 305 wang , p. , & abel , t.   2007 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0701363 white , s.  d.  m. , & rees , m.  j.  1978 , , 183 , 341 white , s.  d.  m. , & frenk , c.  s.  1991 , , 379 , 52 ( wf91 ) zheng , x.  z. , bell , e.  f. , papovich , c. , wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , rix , h .- w . ,",
    "rieke , g.  h. , & somerville , r.  2007 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0702208"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present results of an attempt to include more detailed gas physics motivated from hydrodynamical simulations within semi - analytic models ( sam ) of galaxy formation , focusing on the role that environmental effects play . </S>",
    "<S> the main difference to previous sams is that we include gravitational heating of the intra - cluster medium ( icm ) by the net surplus of gravitational potential energy released from gas that has been stripped from infalling satellites . </S>",
    "<S> gravitational heating appears to be an efficient heating source able to prevent cooling in environments corresponding to dark matter halos more massive than @xmath0m@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the energy release by gravitational heating can match that by agn - feedback in massive galaxies and can exceed it in the most massive ones . </S>",
    "<S> however , there is a fundamental difference in the way the two processes operate . </S>",
    "<S> gravitational heating becomes important at late times , when the peak activity of agns is already over , and it is very mass dependent . </S>",
    "<S> this mass dependency and time behaviour gives the right trend to recover down - sizing in the star - formation rate of massive galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> in general we find that environmental effects play the largest role in halos more massive than @xmath2 at any given redshift because of the continued growth by mergers in these halos . </S>",
    "<S> we present a number of first order comparisons of our model to well established observations of galaxy properties which can be summarised as follows : the cosmic star formation rate can be reproduced with a decline at @xmath3 that is steeper with respect to our sam without environmental effects . </S>",
    "<S> the steep decline is mainly driven by a suppression of star formation in high density environments . </S>",
    "<S> in addition the star formation episode of our model galaxies is a strong function of mass . </S>",
    "<S> massive galaxies with m@xmath4 m@xmath1 make most of their stars at look back times of roughly 11 gyrs and show very low amounts of residual star formation at late times due to the suppression by environmental effects . </S>",
    "<S> in addition the luminosity function and colour bi - modality of the galaxy population are reproduced well . </S>"
  ]
}