{
  "article_text": [
    "the binary content of a globular cluster is important in determining the frequency and nature of cluster stellar exotica , as well as the dynamical evolution of the cluster .",
    "it has long been recognized that binary formation is inevitable in a self - gravitating system - body calculations published .",
    "they were continued until the first binary formed , at which point the calculations were halted . ] .",
    "indeed , the presence of binaries as a central energy source is vital to avoid complete core - collapse ( goodman & hut 1989 ) .",
    "however , only more recently has it been realised that globular clusters must also have formed with a sizeable binary population ( see hut et al .",
    "1992 for an early review ) . that globular clusters harbour a mixture of dynamically formed and primordial binaries can be used to understand observations of their stellar content , such as the diverse blue straggler population in 47 tucanae ( mapelli et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "knowledge of the likely primordial binary fraction of globular clusters is essential as input to models of globular cluster evolution .",
    "it also provides a constraint on the cluster formation process . considering that the presence of binaries in the cluster core has a pronounced effect on the core properties and cluster evolution ( hut 1996 ) , knowledge of the central binary frequency is also important .",
    "indications are that this is relatively small  of the order of 20% ( e.g. bellazzini et al .",
    "2002 ) or less ( e.g. cool & bolton 2002 )  when compared to the frequencies of binaries observed in the solar neighbourhood ( duquennoy & mayor 1991 ) and open clusters such as m67 ( fan et al",
    ". 1996 ) which are of the order of 50%",
    ".    it would be particularly useful to take measurements of the current binary fraction in globular clusters  whether that be in the core or outer regions  and extrapolate backwards to gain a reliable determination of the primordial binary content .",
    "however , processes involved in the intervening cluster evolution make this difficult .",
    "for example , binaries can be formed and destroyed in a variety of interactions between cluster members ( hurley & shara 2002 ) .",
    "binaries will on average be more massive than single stars and thus are affected differently by mass segregation .",
    "also , the escape rates of single stars and binaries will differ .",
    "finally , the internal evolution of the components of binaries can also lead to binaries destruction .",
    "current simulation techniques have been designed to model these ( and other ) processes ( aarseth 2003 ) and have reached the level of sophistication required to produce realistic cluster models . in this way the link between primordial and current cluster binary populations can be investigated directly ( e.g. hurley et al . 2005 ; ivanova et al .",
    "aarseth ( 1996 ) conducted an @xmath0-body simulation starting with @xmath4 stars and a 5% binary frequency where notably the stars were drawn from a realistic initial mass function ( imf ) , the cluster was subject to the tidal field of the galaxy , and both stellar and binary evolution were modelled .",
    "this model cluster had a half - life of about @xmath5gyr at which point the core binary frequency had risen to 20% primarily owing to mass - segregation . thus binaries were not preferentially depleted . in this case",
    "it was not necessary to include a large initial binary fraction in order to halt core - collapse and yield a significant observed abundance in the central regions .",
    "the earlier work of mcmillan & hut ( 1994 ) reported @xmath0-body simulations of @xmath6 stars or less and binary frequencies in the range of 5 - 20% .",
    "they included the galactic tidal field but only considered point - mass dynamics .",
    "mcmillan & hut ( 1994 ) showed that there is a critical primordial binary frequency of 10 - 15% below which the binaries are destroyed before the cluster dissolves owing to the tidal field .",
    "furthermore , they found that above this critical value there exists a minimum possible binary mass fraction for the cluster  this result could be used with observations of present - day binary frequency to place limits on the primordial frequency .",
    "we note that the mcmillan & hut ( 1994 ) simulations were restricted to equal - mass stars , and the binaries were a factor of two heavier then single stars  this could give misleading results when applied to real clusters , with a broad peak between @xmath7 but also a sharp peak for @xmath8 . ] .",
    "these @xmath0-body simulations were definitely in the open cluster regime .",
    "dynamical processes which destroy ( and equally may create ) cluster binaries are density dependent .",
    "in addition , the central stellar density of a cluster is a function of the number , @xmath0 , of cluster members .",
    "thus , it is not clear that these prior results apply to globular cluster conditions .",
    "more recently ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) have conducted monte carlo simulations of clusters with up to @xmath9 members and core number densities ranging from @xmath10 .",
    "they show that an initial binary frequency of 100% is required to produce a current core binary frequency of 10% for a globular cluster such as 47 tucanae .",
    "depletion of binaries in the cluster core is found to be the result of stellar evolution processes as well as three- and four - body dynamical interactions .",
    "it is our intention in this paper to test these claims by utilising direct @xmath0-body simulations of star clusters with up to @xmath11 members initially .",
    "one aspect that will affect the evolution of the cluster binary population is the orbital parameters of the primordial binaries  in particular the initial ratio of _ hard _ to _ soft _ binaries .",
    "the boundary between these two regimes is determined by the mean kinetic energy of the cluster stars ( with binaries represented by their center - of - mass motion ) where hard binaries have a binding energy in excess of 2/3 of the mean kinetic energy ( hut et al .",
    "we note that a useful estimate for the boundary in terms of the binary orbital separation is given by twice the cluster half - mass radius divided by @xmath0 . in three - body single ",
    "binary star interactions hard binaries tend to harden and provide kinetic heating for the cluster ( heggie 1975 ; hut 1983 ) .",
    "soft binaries are less strongly bound ( and thus on average are wider ) and are efficiently destroyed in three- and four - body encounters .",
    "as noted by hut et al .",
    "( 1992 ) it is for this reason that soft binaries are not generally included in cluster models .",
    "a common misconception is that the omission of soft binaries is to aid the speed of simulation ; however it is binaries near the hard / soft boundary that provide the main threat to efficient simulation ( aarseth 2003 ) .",
    "the omission is more a realisation that soft binaries have little impact on the cluster dynamics or exotic star formation and so the focus is on the more _ meaningful _ binaries , so to speak . neglecting soft binaries has the capacity to alter binary fractions in the halo of a model cluster as binary encounters tend to occur in or near the cluster core .",
    "for this reason we will attempt to account for any omitted soft binary populations when making binary fraction comparisons .",
    "our simulation method and initial conditions are detailed in sections 2 and 3 .",
    "results are given in section 4 followed by discussion in section 5 .",
    "we briefly summarize our results in section 6 .",
    "all simulations utilized in this work were performed using the nbody4 code ( aarseth 1999 ) on grape-6 boards ( makino 2002 ) located at the american museum of natural history .",
    "nbody4 uses the 4th - order hermite integration scheme and an individual timestep algorithm to follow the orbits of cluster members and invokes regularization schemes to deal with the internal evolution of small-@xmath0 subsystems ( see aarseth 2003 for details )",
    ". stellar and binary evolution of the cluster stars are performed in concert with the dynamical integration as described in hurley et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .",
    "the results of four extensive simulations ( detailed below ) form the dataset for this paper .",
    "we will make use of data from two simulations that have previously been reported in the literature  a simulation starting with @xmath12 single stars and @xmath13 binaries ( shara & hurley 2006 ) and a simulation starting with @xmath14 single stars and @xmath14 binaries ( hurley et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the former contained @xmath1 members at birth , if we count each binary as one object , and thus had a primordial binary frequency of 5% .",
    "we will refer to this as the k100 - 5 simulation .",
    "after about nine gyr of evolution the cluster membership was reduced by half and at an age of @xmath15gyr the model cluster had reached the end of the main core - collapse phase ( associated with a minimum in core - radius , after which the size of the core stabilizes , in relative terms ) .",
    "figure  [ f : fig1]a shows the behaviour of the core radius as the k100 - 5 model evolves .",
    "also shown is the 10% lagrangian radius  the radius which encloses the inner 10% of the cluster by mass . from figure",
    "[ f : fig1]a we see that initially the inner regions of the cluster expand owing to stellar evolution mass - loss before two - body effects take over and drive a prolonged period of contraction . when the cluster is about 12 half - mass relaxation times old ( as denoted across the top of fig .",
    "[ f : fig1]a ) the core radius reaches a minimum of @xmath16pc and the main core - collapse phase is halted . the 10% lagrangian radius at this point is @xmath17pc .",
    "the core density of the model begins at @xmath18 and increases to a maximum of @xmath19 just before termination of the model at @xmath20gyr .",
    "the core radius in figure  [ f : fig1 ] is actually the density radius commonly used in @xmath0-body simulations ( casertano & hut 1985 ) .",
    "it is calculated from the density weighted average of the distance of each star from the density centre ( aarseth 2003 ) .",
    "this definition , in combination with the effects of three - body interactions and the movement of binaries across the core boundary , allows for the small - scale fluctuations in core radius observed in figure  [ f : fig1 ] .",
    "such fluctuations could be smoothed out ( see heggie , hut & trenti 2006 , for example ) but we have chosen not to do this .",
    "this @xmath0-body core - radius is distinct from observational determinations of core - radius calculated , for example , from the surface brightness profile ( sbp ) of a cluster . as discussed by wilkinson et al .",
    "( 2003 ) there is no general relation between the two quantities but usually the @xmath0-body value is the lesser of the two .",
    "this is supported by an in - depth analysis of the core - radius evolution of the k100 - 5 simulation that will be presented in an upcoming paper ( hurley , 2007 , in preparation ) .",
    "preliminary results show that the the core - radius obtained from the two - dimensional projected sbp of the k100 - 5 model agrees well with the @xmath0-body core radius for the first @xmath21gyr of evolution but is about twice as large by the time the model reaches @xmath2gyr of age .",
    "thus the binary fraction within the 10% lagrangian radius may often be a better number to compare with central binary fractions quoted for real clusters and we will give both this and the core binary fraction in our results .",
    "the second model had a primordial binary frequency of 50% and was tailored to investigate the evolution and stellar populations of the old open cluster m67 .",
    "it had @xmath22 members at birth and we will refer to this as the k24 - 50 simulation .",
    "it had a half - life of about @xmath5gyr and after @xmath23gyr of evolution only @xmath6 stars and binaries remained .",
    "the core density was about @xmath18 on average , reaching a maximum of @xmath24 at @xmath25myr with a corresponding core radius of @xmath26pc .",
    "figure  [ f : fig1]b shows the evolution of the core and 10% lagrangian radii for the k24 - 50 simulation .    to investigate the evolution of binary fractions across a range of star cluster models we will also make use of two simulations that have yet to be published",
    "these are a simulation that started with @xmath27 single stars and @xmath4 binaries ( k100 - 10 ) and a simulation that started with @xmath28 single stars and @xmath4 binaries ( k50 - 20 ) . in table",
    "[ t : table1 ] we summarize the properties of the four simulations .    for each model",
    "the initial setup is as follows .",
    "masses for the single stars are drawn from the imf of kroupa , tout & gilmore ( 1993 ) between the mass limits of 0.1 and @xmath29 .",
    "each binary mass is chosen from the imf of kroupa , tout & gilmore ( 1991 ) , as this had not been corrected for the effect of binaries , and the component masses are set by choosing a mass - ratio from a uniform distribution .",
    "we assume that all stars are on the zero - age main sequence ( zams ) when the simulation begins and that any residual gas from the star formation process has been removed .",
    "we use a plummer density profile ( aarseth , hnon & wielen 1974 ) and assume the stars and binaries are in virial equilibrium when assigning the initial positions and velocities .",
    "there is no primordial segregation by mass , binary properties , or any other discriminating factor in these models .",
    "each cluster is subject to a standard galactic tidal field  a circular orbit in the solar neighborhood .",
    "stars are removed from the simulation when their distance from the density centre exceeds twice that of the tidal radius of the cluster .",
    "the metallicity of the stars in the two simulations starting with @xmath1 stars ( k100 - 5 and k100 - 10 ) was set to be @xmath30 while both the k24 - 50 and k50 - 20 simulations were assigned solar metallicity ( @xmath31 ) .",
    "the orbital separations of the @xmath13 primordial binaries in the k100 - 5 simulation ( shara & hurley 2006 ) were drawn from the log - normal distribution suggested by eggleton , fitchett & tout ( 1989 ) with a peak at @xmath32au .",
    "this distribution is based on the properties of doubly - bright visual binaries in the bright star catalogue ( hoffleit 1983 ) and is in agreement with the survey data of duquennoy & mayor ( 1991 ) for binaries in the solar neighbourhood  although the latter observations do not rule out a flat distribution .",
    "orbital eccentricities of the primordial binaries were assumed to follow a thermal distribution ( heggie 1975 ) . in the k100 - 5 model the initial separation distribution",
    "was capped at @xmath33au . with a half - mass radius of @xmath34pc for the initial model",
    "the hard / soft binary boundary is at about @xmath32au .",
    "thus the maximum of @xmath33au excludes only the softest binaries from the distribution .",
    "binaries with an initial pericentre distance less than five times the radius of the primary star were rejected in the setup of the model  for binaries closer than this it is assumed that interaction during the formation process and on the hayashi track would lead to collision .",
    "rather than enact such a collision we simply choose another set of binary parameters from the distributions . in this way",
    "the intended primordial binary fraction is preserved .",
    "the resulting period distribution of the k100 - 5 model is shown in figure  [ f : fig2]a .",
    "we see that the distribution is peaked at @xmath35d and does not extend beyond @xmath36d .",
    "the k100 - 10 simulation had the same binary setup as that of the k100 - 5 model .",
    "the k50 - 20 simulation also used the same eggleton , fitchett & tout ( 1989 ) distribution of orbital separations but with a cap at @xmath37au .",
    "primordial binaries in the m67 ( or k24 - 50 ) simulation of hurley et al .",
    "( 2005 ) have orbital separations drawn from a flat distribution of @xmath38 ( abt 1983 ) .",
    "an upper cutoff of @xmath37au was applied so that soft binaries were not included in the model  with a half - mass radius of @xmath39pc the hard / soft binary limit for the starting model was about @xmath40au . for this model",
    "very close primordial orbits were also rejected .",
    "the corresponding period distribution for the primordial binaries in the k24 - 50 simulation is shown in figure  [ f : fig2]b .",
    "we note that a goal of the k24 - 50 simulation was to reproduce the relatively large number of blue stragglers observed in m67 . for this purpose",
    "an eggleton , fitchett & tout ( 1989 ) separation distribution was ruled out as it did not lead to enough blue straggler production from case  a mass transfer in close binaries .",
    "uncorrelated masses of the component stars in binaries were also ruled out for the same reason ( see hurley et al .",
    "2005 for details ) .    during this work we will be making comparisons to the monte carlo models presented by ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) . in their study binary periods were chosen from a uniform distribution in @xmath41 between the limits of @xmath42 and @xmath43d .",
    "thus they assumed a wider distribution of primordial binaries .",
    "if , for example , the eggleton , fitchett & tout ( 1989 ) distribution used in the k100 - 5 simulation was extended to include all periods up to @xmath43d , rather than being curtailed at @xmath33au , the @xmath13 binaries that make up the distribution shown in figure  [ f : fig2]a would represent about 5/6 of the full population .",
    "so effectively there would be @xmath44 soft binaries that have been neglected and the true primordial frequency would be 6% .",
    "one could then assume that these soft binaries were broken - up at the very start of the simulation ",
    "although this may not be true for soft binaries residing in the less - dense outer regions of the cluster .",
    "however , we note that there is no evidence that binary periods in star clusters should extend as far as @xmath43d ( meylan & heggie 1997 ) .    in terms of hard binaries one could argue , for the sake of semantics , that in comparison to a population drawn from a uniform distribution of periods extending from @xmath45d ( without restriction ) our initial distributions are under - sampling the contribution of hard binaries .",
    "a key point here is that short - period binaries were not excluded from the primordial populations of our simulations by some ad - hoc process .",
    "instead the distribution of orbital periods is dictated by using distributions borne from observations in combination with accounting for pre - main sequence ( ms ) evolution  before contracting along the hayashi track the stellar radius of a pre - ms star can be a factor of five or more greater than on the zams ( siess , dufour & forestini 2000 ) and birth periods must allow for this ( kroupa 1995 ) .",
    "pre - ms evolution was not considered by ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) although they did reject systems where one or both stars would initially fill their roche - lobes at pericentre  this was also assumed in our models .",
    "in figure  [ f : fig3 ] we show the evolution of the core binary fraction for the four @xmath0-body simulations introduced above . also shown",
    "is the binary fraction within the 10% lagrangian radius and the overall binary fraction of the model clusters .    except at late times in the k24 - 50 model , when the cluster has lost more than 90% of its original mass and is nearing dissolution , we see that in each case the cluster binary fraction remains close to the primordial value .",
    "focussing on the k100 - 5 simulation , figure  [ f : fig4 ] shows the fractions of single stars and binaries ( compared to their respective initial number ) in the cluster . following on from figure  [",
    "f : fig3]a the fractions are similar at all times as expected .",
    "however , figure  [ f : fig4 ] also shows the fractions of single stars and binaries that have escaped the cluster and we see that from about @xmath5gyr onwards the fractional escape rate of single stars is greater than that of the binaries . at the end of the simulation ( @xmath20gyr )",
    "the difference is 34% .",
    "this is offset somewhat by evolution processes ( stellar and binary ) that destroy binaries ( see the dotted line in figure  [ f : fig4 ] ) .",
    "these processes include binaries becoming unbound due to supernova mass - loss and/or kicks ( only relevant for the first @xmath33myr of evolution ) and mass transfer - induced mergers in close binaries .",
    "the remaining difference is balanced by the destruction of binaries in dynamical encounters and this becomes more important as the cluster evolves .",
    "we note that even though the cluster binary fraction is relatively static as the cluster evolves the characteristics of the binary population change markedly over time with hard binaries favoured at late times .",
    "evident from figure  [ f : fig3 ] is an overall trend for the core binary fraction to increase with time , irrespective of simulation type . for the core binary population of the k100 - 5 model",
    "we see that this rises from an initial 5% to as high as 40% around the time that the core - collapse phase is halted . after this time",
    "the core binary fraction becomes quite noisy owing to the small size of the core ( see figure  [ f : fig1 ] ) and the small numbers of binaries and stars in the core .",
    "however , the value always remains greater than the initial value .",
    "we see also from figure  [ f : fig3]a that the binary frequency within the inner 10% lagrangian radius rises to a maximum of 16% just prior to the end of the core - collapse phase .",
    "it is important to note at this point that we are working with radii derived from spherical data whereas observational determinations of binary fractions are based on two - dimensional projected data . with our models it is possible to test the effect of this discrepancy on our findings .",
    "if we calculate the 10% lagrangian radius for model k100 - 5 from a two - dimensional projection we find that the radius is reduced by about 20 - 40% across the evolution ( the choice of projection axis does not affect this result ) .",
    "this is consistent with the expectation suggested by fleck et al .",
    "a similar relationship is reported by baumgardt , makino & hut ( 2005 ) in that the half - light radius ( calculated from projected data ) is approximately half the size of the half - mass radius ( calculated from spherical data ) .",
    "however , the binary fraction within the projected 10% lagrangian radius of our k100 - 5 model is almost indistinguishable from that of the result shown in figure  [ f : fig3]a ( the dotted curve ) .",
    "we now aim to understand the processes underlying the evolution of the core binary fraction of star clusters , focussing again on the k100 - 5 simulation .",
    "figure  [ f : fig5 ] shows the number of single stars and binaries in the core , relative to their total number in the cluster , as the cluster evolves .",
    "for the first @xmath46gyr of evolution the ratio of binaries in the core to binaries in the cluster is fairly static  roughly 1 in 10 binaries is in the core .",
    "however , the ratio of single stars found in the core is decreasing sharply over the same timeframe and thus single stars are being lost from the core at a greater rate than from the cluster in general ( comparing figs .",
    "[ f : fig4 ] and [ f : fig5 ] ) . from @xmath46gyr",
    "onwards the ratio of binaries in the core also decreases .",
    "this corresponds to a period of increasing core density : prior to @xmath46gyr the core density of stars hovers around the @xmath18 mark but from @xmath47gyr it increases by an order of magnitude .",
    "the binary fraction continues to rise in the core over this period indicating that single stars continue to be lost from the core at a greater rate than binaries .",
    "we note that mass loss from stellar evolution is reduced considerably at this stage compared to earlier in the cluster lifetime when more massive stars were present .",
    "figure  [ f : fig6 ] confirms that the _ number _ of binaries in the core is decreasing with time even though the _ binary fraction _",
    ", @xmath48 , is increasing .",
    "we also see from this figure that at least half of the binaries in the core at any time were not present in the core the last time the population was sampled ( this is done at intervals of @xmath49myr ) .",
    "so the core binary population is by no means static as many binaries are being created / destroyed , or moving in and out of the core , on the @xmath49myr timescale .",
    "it is important to note for comparison that the relaxation time in the core is approximately @xmath50myr initially and decreases to about @xmath37myr at late times . _",
    "individual binaries in cluster cores are both promiscuous and mobile  transient residents . _    in figure  [ f : fig7 ] we examine the fraction of core binaries that were created in exchange interactions .",
    "these are short - lived 3- and 4-body gravitational encounters where a star is exchanged into an existing binary displacing one of the members of that binary ( heggie 1975 ) .",
    "thus it is a process by which primordial binaries can be destroyed and replaced by new _",
    "dynamical _ , or _ exchange _",
    ", binaries .",
    "we see from figure  [ f : fig7]a that these non - primordial binaries come to dominate the core population towards the end of the core - collapse phase in the k100 - 5 simulation .",
    "figure  [ f : fig7]a also shows that the double - degenerate binary content increases steadily in the core with time and comprises about 30% of the core binaries subsequent to the completion of the core - collapse phase . in figure  [ f : fig7]b we see that the exchange binary content in the core of the k100 - 10 model does not reach the heights of the k100 - 5 model .",
    "presumably this is a consequence of the lower core - density of the k100 - 10 model .",
    "the fraction of double - degenerate binaries is similar  any decrease in double - degenerate production via dynamical means in the k100 - 10 model is compensated by the increased number of primordial binaries . the fraction of exchange binaries in the core of the k24 - 50 simulation ( figure  [ f : fig7]d is comparatively low whereas the k50 - 20 simulation ( figure  [ f : fig7]c exhibits a much larger fraction .",
    "clearly there is a positive correlation between core density and the fraction of exchange binaries in the core .",
    "figure  [ f : fig8]a shows the number of binaries created and destroyed in exchange interactions occurring in the core in intervals of @xmath49myr . also shown",
    "is the number of core binaries destroyed by all processes ( exchanges , orbital perturbations , supernovae , mergers ) in each interval .",
    "the key point to note here is that on average exchange interactions are creating as many binaries as they are destroying .",
    "for the entire cluster there were @xmath51 binaries destroyed in exchange interactions during the simulation and @xmath52 binaries created .    figure  [ f : fig8]b looks at the movement of binaries in and out of the core as the cluster evolves . across each @xmath49myr interval",
    "it shows the fraction of core binaries that move out of the core during the interval and the fraction of binaries that have moved into the core during the interval .",
    "we see that the inwards and outwards fluxes are equal .",
    "also shown is the fraction of binaries entering the core that have previously been in the core  most binaries that leave the core eventually revisit it .",
    "we see a pattern where binaries move outwards across the core boundary owing to recoil velocities from gravitational encounters , or as a result of the shrinking core .",
    "the core binary population is then replenished by binaries sinking inwards owing to mass - segregation effects . in the discussion below",
    "we will refer to this pattern as _",
    "binary convection_. we note that binaries on radial orbits with a moderate to high eccentricity will also make an apparent contribution to this process .",
    "an analysis of binary disruption for the k100 - 5 simulation is given in figure  [ f : fig9 ] in terms of cumulative events .",
    "exchange interactions and orbital perturbations from nearby stars are by far the dominant causes of binary disruption and these are shown in the top panel .",
    "we see that perturbation events are more likely at early times in the evolution but , as soft binaries disappear and the binary population becomes skewed towards hard binaries , exchange events eventually overtake perturbations as the major cause of disruption",
    ". however there is an important distinction to make between these two types of event .",
    "exchange interactions are counted as a disruption event in figure  [ f : fig9]a even if the event also leads to the creation of a new binary and as we have seen in figure  [ f : fig8]a this is more than likely .",
    "on the other hand if a binary is broken up owing to an orbital perturbation ( also known as a fly - by ) there is no possibility of a replacement binary being created in the event .",
    "the lower panel of figure  [ f : fig9 ] shows the number of binaries that were ejected from the core and escaped the cluster . there is a sharp correlation between the incidence of escape and the increase in core density after @xmath46gyr .",
    "even so , the total number of binaries lost owing to this process remains an order of magnitude less than either perturbation or exchange disruption .",
    "there is an initial burst of stellar / binary evolution induced mergers in short - period primordial binaries followed by a gradual depletion of binaries owing to this process and collisions in highly eccentric binaries .",
    "the cluster had a total of 287 binaries that experienced either a merger or an internal collision and 67 of these events occurred in the core .",
    "we also see from figure  [ f : fig9]b that supernova events do not make a meaningful contribution to depletion of the core binary population .",
    "figure  [ f : fig10 ] repeats figure  [ f : fig9 ] for the k24 - 50 simulation . in this",
    "simulation mergers and collisions are the most likely cause of core binary loss .",
    "this is linked to the increased primordial binary fraction and decreased core density , compared to the k100 - 5 simulation . for similar reasons exchange disruption is more likely than perturbed disruption over the course of the evolution .",
    "in fact in this simulation even the loss of binaries from the core as a result of escape is greater than that from perturbed break - up .",
    "a key distinction between the k24 - 50 and k100 - 5 simulations is that in the k24 - 50 case the ratio of binary destruction to creation in exchanges is 3:1 whereas it was close to 1:1 for the k100 - 5 simulation .",
    "the effect of a substantial primordial binary population on the evolution of open clusters has been documented in the past ( mcmillan , hut & makino 1990 , for example and see meylan & heggie 1997 for a review ) .",
    "the main results are that in comparison to simulations without primordial binaries the core - collapse phase of evolution is less dramatic and the cluster lifetime is reduced .",
    "little has been done on this subject for globular clusters to date primarily because direct simulations have not been possible .",
    "however , our simulations starting with @xmath1 stars can start to shed some light on the expected behaviour .",
    "we see from table  [ t : table1 ] that increasing the primordial binary frequency from 5% ( k100 - 5 simulation ) to 10% ( k100 - 10 ) does not reduce the cluster half - life significantly .",
    "in contrast the k24 - 50 simulation with 50% binaries has a half - life of @xmath53myr while a comparable simulation of @xmath54 single stars with no primordial binaries has a half - life of @xmath55myr .",
    "as noted in hurley & shara ( 2003 ) the presence of a large number of primordial binaries in an open cluster leads to an enhanced rate of escaping stars via recoil velocity kicks obtained in 3-body interactions . in comparison ,",
    "the k100 - 5 and k100 - 10 clusters have deeper potential wells and also the change in binary fraction between the two models is much less than for the open cluster example .",
    "so a sharp change in the escape rate is not to be expected .",
    "figure  [ f : fig11 ] shows that the core radius evolution of the k100 - 5 and k100 - 10 simulations is similar up to @xmath56gyr ( when the k100 - 10 simulation was stopped ) .",
    "we note however that the core density of the k100 - 10 model at this time is only half that of the k100 - 5 model .",
    "so the presence of additional primordial binaries has reduced the number density of stars in the core .",
    "also in figure  [ f : fig11 ] we compare the core radius evolution of a @xmath1 star simulation with no primordial binaries ( a k100 - 0 model ) . here",
    "we see that the core radius evolution is slightly more irregular but overall the evolution is once again similar up to @xmath56gyr .",
    "after core - collapse has been halted the situation is different as the single star model experiences a fluctuating , and generally increasing , core - radius while the core - radius of the k100 - 5 model remains approximately constant ( see figure  [ f : fig1]a ) . the k100 - 0 model has a greater core density than the k100 - 5 model at the end of the main core - collapse phase .",
    "the fluctuating core - radius of the k100 - 0 model in the post - core - collapse phase is indicative of the core bounce and subsequent oscillations expected for such a model ",
    "these phenomena are more pronounced for models without primordial binaries ( see the related discussion in heggie & hut 2003 and heggie , trenti & hut 2006 ) .    in figure  [",
    "f : fig12 ] we investigate the radial distribution of the k100 - 5 binary population at times of @xmath57 , @xmath58 and @xmath59gyr , i.e. before , during and after the deep core - collapse phase . we see that outside of the half - mass radius the binary fraction is effectively constant with radius and changes little with time .",
    "the binary population in this region is also dominated by primordial binaries ",
    "exchange binaries are unlikely to be found outside of the half - mass radius . within the half - mass radius",
    "the binary fraction rises sharply towards the centre of the cluster and binaries become more centrally concentrated as the cluster evolves .",
    "note that the inner radial bin corresponds to the inner 5% lagrangian radius so the core is not resolved in figure  [ f : fig12 ] .",
    "our @xmath0-body results clearly show that the core binary fraction of an evolved star cluster is expected to be greater than the primordial binary fraction .",
    "we see this behaviour in each of the models presented and at all times in the evolution .",
    "the most striking case is our main model ( k100 - 5 ) which started with @xmath12 single stars and @xmath13 binaries and experienced a factor of eight increase in the core binary fraction after @xmath2gyr of evolution ( coinciding with the end of the main core - collapse phase ) .    at face value",
    "our results appear to be in clear contradiction to the monte - carlo results recently presented by ivanova et al .",
    "their main reference model has a primordial binary fraction @xmath60 and a stellar density of @xmath61 .",
    "processes such as exchange interactions , orbital perturbations , binary evolution and mass - segregation are included and the model is reduced to @xmath62 at @xmath63gyr .",
    "ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) then repeat the simulation with @xmath64 and end up with @xmath65 so , as they note , the relationship between primordial binary fraction and final core binary fraction is not linear . coming at this from the other direction our models show a possible saturation effect as the primordial binary fraction increases . looking back at figures  [ f : fig3]a and  [ f : fig3]b we see that the core binary fraction of the k100 - 5 model at the @xmath63gyr mark is  0.2 ( up from @xmath66 ) while it is  0.3 ( up from @xmath67 ) for the k100 - 10 model .",
    "so the simulation with the lower primordial binary fraction has experienced the greater relative increase in core binary content .",
    "our k24 - 50 model , which started with @xmath64 , has @xmath68 at a similar dynamical age so the relative increase is less again .",
    "these results raise the possibility that decreasing @xmath69 below 0.5 in the monte carlo models may lead to conditions where @xmath70 can increase .",
    "it is interesting to note that the idealized models presented recently by heggie , trenti & hut ( 2006 ) showed saturation effects in the core for initial binary frequencies greater than 10% and also recorded an increase in the core binary fraction with time .",
    "ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) also performed a model to compare with 47 tucanae .",
    "this was similar to their main reference model although slightly more dense and with an increased velocity dispersion .",
    "the result for @xmath60 was @xmath65  this lead to the conclusion that the primordial binary frequencies of globular clusters such as 47 tucanae must have been close to 100% to explain current observations .",
    "however , ivanova et al . ( 2005 ) also ran the same simulation with @xmath71 , 0.5 and 0.25 and reported little or no variation in the final core binary fraction",
    ". it would seem safe to assume that repeating the simulation with @xmath67 may give the same result or even an increase in binary fraction .",
    "this would act to remove any obvious discrepancies between the @xmath0-body and monte carlo results .",
    "we would certainly be interested in seeing the results of a monte carlo simulation conducted with @xmath67 and a similar setup of the primordial binary population as used in this work  much easier than repeating a large @xmath0-body simulation with 100% binaries .",
    "a major distinction between our @xmath0-body models and the monte carlo simulations mentioned above is that the stellar density is at least an order of magnitude greater in the latter .",
    "fortunately , ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) performed a simulation with @xmath72 which facilitates a more direct comparison with our k50 - 20 model which had a similar core density throughout the evolution .",
    "the k50 - 20 model experienced an almost factor of two increase in core binary fraction as it evolved from @xmath73gyr .",
    "the comparable monte carlo model showed a reduction in core binary fraction of more than a factor of two over the same period .",
    "so there is an obvious deviation in behaviour .",
    "of course there is a large difference in the primordial binary fractions ( 0.2 compared to 1.0 ) .",
    "the effect of this will be discussed further below .",
    "however , we note at this stage that the initial hard binary fraction in the monte carlo model was @xmath74 ( ivanova , private communication ) and this rose to 37%  so the hard binary fraction increases and subsequently the models do show agreement at some level .",
    "another consideration is the velocity dispersion which is generally around @xmath75 for our models and was set to @xmath76 for most of the monte carlo models .",
    "however , ivanova et al . ( 2005 ) did perform two models ( d4 and m12 ) similar in all respects except that @xmath77 in one and @xmath78 in the other .",
    "there was no significant difference in the final core binary fractions of these models .",
    "in section  [ s : bindst ] we discussed that in the setup of our models we might be neglecting a fraction of soft binaries from the true primordial population .",
    "this results from imposing a maximum initial orbital separation and at most would cause the binary fraction to be underestimated by a few per cent .",
    "thus we are confident that our choice of initial parameters for the binary populations in our models is not affecting the result that the core binary fraction increases as a cluster evolves .",
    "we also note that differences in the setup of primordial binaries between our simulations and those of ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) make it difficult to directly compare quoted binary frequencies . for example",
    ", by not accounting for pre - ms stellar radii as we do , ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) have a greater relative number of close binaries in their primordial populations .",
    "such an excess would result in a greater number of evolution - induced binary mergers . if we were to adopt the period distribution and methods used by ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) we would need to choose @xmath79 binaries in order to recover the @xmath13 in our k100 - 5 model at birth .",
    "this gives an effective primordial binary frequency of 11% , for the sake of comparison .",
    "the effective primordial binary frequency for the k24 - 50 simulation would be 80% . adopting these values , in the worst case scenario ,",
    "would still _ not _ lead us to conclude that the core binary fraction of an evolved cluster is decreased from the primordial value .    the comparable rates of binary disruption and creation owing to exchanges in our k100 - 5 simulation indicates that 3-body interactions dominated over 4-body interactions .",
    "this is because the most likely outcome of a binary - binary encounter is a binary and two single stars .",
    "so a binary is lost from the overall count .",
    "this is not the case for binary - single encounters where the most likely outcome is a binary and a single star , although the pairing of stars in the binary and/or the orbital parameters may have changed .",
    "by contrast , exchange interactions in the k24 - 50 simulation produced a binary disruption rate much higher than the binary creation rate .",
    "here we had a much higher proportion of primordial binaries and thus binary - binary encounters were more likely .",
    "thus , in terms of exchange interactions , increasing the primordial binary fraction can lead to a greater rate of binary destruction .",
    "this would certainly be expected to be true of models with comparable stellar densities . however , a competing effect comes from the fact that the central density is less for simulations with higher primordial binary fractions .",
    "we certainly see this when comparing our k100 - 5 and k100 - 10 models .",
    "the setup of these models was identical in all respects except for the change in primordial binary frequency from 5% to 10% .",
    "the models have similar half - lives and we showed that the core radius evolution is also similar .",
    "so at any particular time in the evolution they are at a comparable dynamical age .",
    "but there is one clear difference  the model with twice as many primordial binaries has a central stellar density that is a factor of two less .",
    "this translates to a lower incidence of close stellar encounters and as we saw from figure  [ f : fig7 ] a greatly reduced fraction of exchange binaries in the core .",
    "previous simulations , albeit with small-@xmath0 , have indicated that the effects of primordial binaries saturate at some level ( wilkinson et al .",
    "2003 ) so this is not necessarily a trend that we expect will continue as the primordial binary fraction is increased towards unity .",
    "however it is certainly significant for clusters with frequencies of 10% or less .",
    "another point to note is that in a 3-body exchange , not only is a binary not lost , but also a more massive single star is swapped for a less massive one , increasing the likelihood that the single star will be lost from the core via mass - segregation .",
    "so the exchange process has indirectly increased the core binary fraction .",
    "the process of binary convection that became evident from figure  [ f : fig8]b also is related to mass - segregation and acts to keep the core binary fraction healthy .",
    "both single stars and binaries in the core are subject to velocity kicks from gravitational encounters .",
    "these kicks can remove an object from the core and even from the cluster entirely . for binaries",
    "this is less likely to occur primarily because they are on average more massive than single stars .",
    "also , the average stellar mass decreases radially outwards in an evolved cluster .",
    "so if a core binary suddenly finds itself outside of the core it can be expected to be one of the more massive objects in its new local environment and thus to quickly sink back towards the core .",
    "we note that we found the movement of binaries inwards and outwards across the core boundary , as exhibited by figures  [ f : fig6 ] and [ f : fig8 ] , to be quite striking .",
    "our k100 - 5 @xmath0-body simulation creates a realistic model of a moderate - size globular cluster .",
    "it combines stellar and binary evolution with a self - consistent treatment of the cluster dynamics .",
    "it includes primordial binaries and accounts for the tidal field of the galaxy .",
    "thus it provides us with a solid picture of how such a cluster evolves .",
    "single stars escape from the cluster at a greater rate than binaries do  single stars are less massive on average so they are more likely to be tidally stripped after segregating to the outer regions of the cluster and also more likely to be ejected from the cluster in gravitational encounters .",
    "however , binaries are also lost from the cluster population owing to supernova disruption , evolution - induced mergers and dynamical encounters . these effects balance and",
    "the ratio of single stars to binaries is similar at all times in the evolution .",
    "as the cluster evolves binaries sink towards the centre and the binary fraction increases in the central regions .",
    "the core radius decreases as core - collapse proceeds and dynamical encounters become more prevalent . these encounters not only break - up binaries but also create new binaries .",
    "the cluster evolves to a state where primordial binaries dominate the binary population in the outer regions and non - primordial binaries dominate towards the centre .    in the centre of the cluster soft binaries",
    "are broken - up as a result of orbital perturbations from gravitational encounters .",
    "binaries become involved in exchange interactions , primarily three - body , but these tend to create as many binaries as they destroy .",
    "hard binaries are lost when the components merge as a result of close binary evolution or a collision at periastron .",
    "these are ongoing processes as the cluster evolves . at an age of @xmath46gyr",
    "the rate of exchange interactions is greater than that of perturbed break - ups and mergers .",
    "however , perturbed break - ups are the dominant cause of binary loss .",
    "this is compared to the monte carlo model of ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) which found that evolutionary mergers were the dominant event at the same age .",
    "we also find that after @xmath46gyr , as the core density increases , that binaries can be kicked out of the cluster directly from the core .",
    "partly as a result of the combination of these processes the number of binaries in the core decreases as the cluster evolves .",
    "also to blame is the movement of binaries outwards across the core boundary owing to the decreasing size of the core and recoil velocities invoked in gravitational encounters .",
    "however , the movement of single stars outwards across the core boundary is greater and the net effect is an increase in the core binary fraction .",
    "this is also helped by binary convection where binaries that were previously resident in the core are cycled back in .",
    "noting that the typical membership of galactic globular clusters exceeds @xmath80 stars ( gnedin & ostriker 1997 , for example ) we must ask the question  to what extent can we expect this behaviour to extend to globular clusters in general ?",
    "we can start with the ejection rate , @xmath81 , of stars from an isolated cluster calculated by hnon ( 1969 ) which gives @xmath82 ( binney & tremaine 1987 ) .",
    "here @xmath83 is the half - mass relaxation timescale and we can relate this to behaviour near the core of a cluster if we assume that core - mass scales with total mass and that radii do not vary appreciably with cluster mass .",
    "this indicates that the relative rate of outward binary ejection and inward mass - segregation ( which occurs on a relaxation timescale ) is only weakly dependent on the cluster mass .",
    "if we look in detail at the local relaxation timescale this scales as @xmath84 ( davies , piotto & de angeli 2004 , as derived from binney & tremaine 1987 ) where @xmath85 is the velocity dispersion of the cluster stars and @xmath86 is the mass density .",
    "we can take @xmath87 and @xmath88 , using the above assumptions , to show that @xmath89 . here",
    "@xmath90 is the cluster core - mass , @xmath91 is the total cluster mass and @xmath92 is the half - mass radius .",
    "the timescale for a typical binary in the core of a globular cluster to have a close encounter with another star scales as @xmath93 ( davies , piotto & de angeli 2004 ) where @xmath94 is the number density and @xmath95 if the average stellar mass is of the order of @xmath96 , as it is in an evolved cluster core .",
    "this gives us @xmath97 . to escape the core",
    "a binary must acquire a boost in energy of the order of @xmath98 ( where @xmath99 is the gravitational constant ) .",
    "so , assuming that the average energy imparted in an encounter does not vary strongly with mass , we have @xmath100 .",
    "this rather simplified analysis returns hnon s result and shows that as @xmath91 ( or @xmath0 ) increases there will be relatively less binary convection as both the ejection and relaxation timescales increase .",
    "however , the effect on the observed core binary fraction can be expected to be minimal",
    ".    we can not definitively use our results to make predictions regarding globular clusters such as 47 tucanae because the central density in these clusters is at least an order of magnitude higher than that reached by our models .",
    "however , we note that our model with the highest core density showed the greatest increase in core binary fraction . furthermore , we have considered a range of cluster types .",
    "_ it does not appear , from our simulations , that an initial binary fraction anywhere near as high as 100% is required to give a core population of 20% or less at later times .",
    "_ we also note that proper - motion cleaned colour - magnitude diagrams recently presented for ngc@xmath101",
    "( richer et al . 2006 ) and m4 ( richer et al .",
    "2004 ) show a distinct lack of binaries in regions outside of the cluster centre  this can not be reconciled with a large primordial binary population .",
    "we have presented a range of simulations typical of rich open clusters and moderate - size globular clusters . in each case",
    "we find that the fraction of binaries in the core of a cluster does not decrease as the cluster evolves .",
    "in fact the overriding trend is for an increase in core binary fraction from the primordial value .",
    "thus we do not agree with ivanova et al .",
    "( 2005 ) that the binary fraction in the core will be depleted in time .",
    "we also do not agree that models of globular cluster evolution need necessarily include large populations of primordial binaries .",
    "our simulations have shown that the binary population in the core of a cluster is continually being replenished by stars from outside the core , many of which were previously in the core .",
    "this is a process we have termed _",
    "binary convection_. we also find that the binary content of an evolved star cluster is dominated by exchange binaries provided that the stellar density is relatively high .",
    "this is true of our moderate - size globular cluster models and we expect it to be true in more massive clusters . we also show that increasing the primordial binary fraction does not necessarily lead to an increase in the final binary fraction  in fact it gives more scope for binary depletion .",
    "a key and paradoxical result is that a final binary fraction that can be achieved by choosing a higher primordial binary fraction may also be replicated by choosing an initially lower binary fraction .",
    "we find that the overall binary fraction of a cluster does not vary appreciably from the primordial value as a cluster evolves .",
    "this is a result of binary destruction being balanced by a greater rate of escape of single stars compared to binaries .",
    "we also find that the primordial binary frequency of a cluster is well preserved outside of the cluster half - mass radius .",
    "therefore , observations of the current binary fraction in these regions is a good indicator of the primordial binary fraction while determination of the core binary fraction provides an upper limit .",
    "we acknowledge the generous support of the cordelia corporation and that of edward norton which has enabled amnh to purchase grape-6 boards and supporting hardware .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for extremely helpful comments and especially for alerting us to the scaling considerations .",
    "aarseth , s. , hnon , m. , & wielen , r. 1974 , , 37 , 183 aarseth , s. j. 1996 , in proc .",
    "174 , dynamical evolution of star clusters : confrontation of theory and observations . ,",
    "ed . p. hut & j. makiino ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 161 aarseth , s. j. 1999 , , 111 , 1333 aarseth , s. j. 2003 , gravitational n - body simulations : tools and algorithms ( cambridge monographs on mathematical physics ) .",
    "cambridge university press , cambridge abt , h. a. 1983 , , 21 , 343 baumgardt , h. , makino , j. , & hut p. 2005 , apj , 620 , 238 bellazzini , m. , fusi pecci , f. , messineo , m. , monaco , l. , & rood , r. t. 2002 , , 123 , 1509 binney , j. , & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics .",
    "princeton university press , princeton casertano , s. & hut , p. 1985",
    ", , 298 , 80 cool , a. m. , & bolton , a. s. 2002 , in asp conference series 263 , stellar collisions , mergers and their consequences , ed .",
    "shara ( san francisco : asp ) , 163 davies , m.b . ,",
    "piotto , g. , & de angeli , f. 2004 , , 348 , 129 duquennoy , a. , & mayor , m. 1991 , , 248 , 485 eggleton , p.p . ,",
    "fitchett , m. , & tout , c.a .",
    "1989 , , 347 , 998 fan , x. , et al .",
    "1996 , , 112 , 628 fleck , j .- j . , boily , c.m . ,",
    "lanon , a. , & deiters s. 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1392 gnedin , o.y . , & ostriker , j.p .",
    "1997 , , 474 , 223 goodman , j. , & hut , p. 1989",
    ", , 339 , 40 halbwachs , j.l . , mayor , m. , udry , s. , & arenou , f. 2003 , , 397 , 159 heggie , d.c .",
    "1975 , , 173 , 729 heggie , d.c . , & hut , p. 2003",
    ", the gravitational million - body problem . cambridge university press , cambridge heggie , d.c . , trenti , m. , & hut , p. 2006",
    ", , 368 , 677 hnon , m. 1969 , , 2 , 151 hoffleit , d. 1983 , the bright star catalogue ( 4th ed . ; new haven : yale university observatory ) hurley , j. r. , tout , c. a. , aarseth , s. j. , & pols , o.r .",
    "2001 , , 323 , 630 hurley , j. r. , & shara , m.m .",
    "2002 , , 570 , 184 hurley , j. r. , & shara , m.m .",
    "2003 , , 589 , 179 hurley , j. r. , pols , o. r. , aarseth , s. j. , & tout , c. a. 2005 , , 363 , 293 hut , p. 1983",
    ", , 272 , l29 hut , p. , mcmillan , s. , goodman , j. , mateo , m. , phinney , e. s. , pryor , c. , richer , h. b. , verbunt , f. , & weinberg , m. 1992 , , 104 , 981 hut , p. 1996 , in proc .",
    "174 , dynamical evolution of star clusters : confrontation of theory and observations . ,",
    "p. hut & j. makiino ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 121 ivanova , n. , belczynski , k. , fregeau , j.m . ,",
    "& rasio , f.a .",
    "2005 , , 358 , 572 kroupa , p. 1995",
    ", , 277 , 1507 kroupa , p. , tout , c. a. , & gilmore , g. 1991 , , 251 , 293 kroupa , p. , tout , c. a. , & gilmore , g. 1993 , , 262 , 545 makino , j. 2002 , in asp conference series 263 , stellar collisions , mergers and their consequences , ed .",
    "( san francisco : asp ) , 389 mapelli , m. , sigurdsson , s. , colpi , m. , ferraro , f. r. , possenti , a. , rood , r. t. , sills , a. , & beccari , g. 2004 , , 605 , l29 mcmillan , s. , & hut , p. 1994",
    ", , 427 , 793 mcmillan , s. , hut , p. , & makino , j. 1990 , , 362 , 522 meylan , g. & heggie , d.c .",
    "1997 , a&arv , 8 , 1 richer , h. b. , fahlman , g. g. , brewer , j. , davis , s. , kalirai , j. , stetson , p.b . ,",
    "hansen , b. m. s. , rich , r. m. , ibata , r. a. , gibson , b. k. , & shara , m. m. 2004 , , 127 , 2771 richer , h. b. , et al .",
    "2006 , science , 313 , 936 shara , m. m. , & hurley , j. r. 2006 , , 646 , 464 siess , l. , dufour , e. , & forestini , m. 2000 , , 358 , 593 von hoerner , s. 1960 , z. astrophys .",
    ", 50 , 184 wilkinson , m. i. , hurley , j. r. , mackey , a. d. , gilmore , g. f. , & tout , c. a. 2003 , , 343 , 1025    rrlrlcrl 95000 & 5000 & eft30 & 100 & 0.05 & @xmath102 & @xmath103 & k100 - 5 + 90000 & 10000 & eft30 & 100 & 0.10 & @xmath104 & @xmath105 & k100 - 10 + 40000 & 10000 & eft30 & 50 & 0.20 & @xmath106 & @xmath107 & k50 - 20 + 12000 & 12000 & @xmath38 & 50 & 0.50 & @xmath108 & @xmath109 & k24 - 50 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the evolution of binary fractions in star clusters using @xmath0-body models of up to @xmath1 stars . </S>",
    "<S> primordial binary frequencies in these models range from 5% to 50% . </S>",
    "<S> simulations are performed with the nbody4 code and include a full mass spectrum of stars , stellar evolution , binary evolution and the tidal field of the galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that the overall binary fraction of a cluster almost always remains close to the primordial value , except at late times when a cluster is near dissolution . </S>",
    "<S> a critical exception occurs in the central regions where we observe a marked _ increase _ in binary fraction with time  a simulation starting with @xmath1 stars and 5% binaries reached a core binary frequency as high as 40% at the end of the core - collapse phase ( occurring at @xmath2gyr with @xmath3 stars remaining ) . </S>",
    "<S> binaries are destroyed in the core by a variety of processes as a cluster evolves , but the combination of mass - segregation and creation of new binaries in exchange interactions produces the observed increase in relative number . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that binaries are cycled into and out of cluster cores in a manner that is analogous to convection in stars . for models of @xmath1 stars </S>",
    "<S> we show that the evolution of the core - radius up to the end of the initial phase of core - collapse is not affected by the exact value of the primordial binary frequency ( for frequencies of 10% or less ) . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the ramifications of our results for the likely primordial binary content of globular clusters . </S>"
  ]
}