{
  "article_text": [
    "a particular interesting problem concerning exoplanetary science is metallicity . even if the near 200 extrasolar giant planets that have been detected by transit and mainly radial velocity methods are concentrated around in general nearby solar type stars , a clear metallicity correlation has been established .",
    "in fact , stars with planets ( swp ) appear to be more metal rich than stars without planets .",
    "a general metallicity shift of  0.2 dex in [ fe / h ] is characteristic for swp ( santos et al . 2005 ) . in particular",
    "it is interesting to note that stars with hot jupiters ( with orbital periods less than about 5 days ) appear to be more metal rich than the mean of all swp ( sozzetti et al .",
    "2004 ; fischer & valenti 2005 ; butler et al .",
    "these results are concentrated in surveys and analyses of non - metal poor stars and for spectral types f ( young stars ) , g and k ( old stars ) .",
    "two important review articles devoted to the chemical composition of swp , indicating also properties of other elements than iron , appeared with results obtained up to 2003 ( gonzalez 2003 ) and for the period 2003 - 2006 in gonzalez ( 2006 ) .    what is the physical mechanism behind these metallicity relations ?",
    "two main different interpretations have been proposed in the literature , nevertheless , any of them has produced a satisfying explanation .",
    "on the one hand , is a primordial condition in which metal rich swp would have been formed in metal rich clouds . on the other hand",
    ", there is the external accretion mechanism . here the stellar surfaces , containing poor or normal metal abundances enhance their metallicities by the injection of solid metal rich material depleted in h and he .",
    "these two mechanisms will form , metallically speaking , two different types of stars .",
    "the initial or primordial mechanism , produce entire metal rich stars , from their centres up to their atmospherical layers .",
    "this is not the case for the accretion scenario , which can modify the metal content of the external layers only , at least for those stars with shallow convective layers .",
    "the primordial mechanism is only considered in the literature when any argument in favor of the self - enrichment is discarded .",
    "anyway , the primordial mechanism necessitates a highly inhomogeneous metallicity distribution of the interstellar matter , not detected at present . a powerful argument in favor of the primordial case , would consist in finding that the centres of swp by asteroseismological methods , are also metal rich .",
    "the only star studied with this technique was @xmath9 arae ( bazot & vauclair , 2004 ; bazot et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "independent of this , the accretion or self - enrichment mechanism can continue to be explored and this is the purpose of the present work .",
    "we study here the possibilities of bombardment of stars atmospheres by their discs planetesimals during a certain phase of the pre - main sequence ( pms ) evolution .",
    "we hope that this will provide some clues respect to metallic enrichment .    in the next section",
    "we discuss some aspects of the evolution of pms discs .",
    "the numerical model is presented in section 3 .",
    "the results from our simulations are given in section 4 . in section 5 some problems related to the mass of discs are discussed .",
    "section 6 is devoted to the metal enhancements and finally in section 7 we present our conclusions .",
    "several stages , some of them badly known , are involved in discs evolution in the pms .",
    "if discs during the t tauri phase ( before 5 myr ) are formed by a relative homogeneous distribution of gas and dust , during the next post- t tauri phase the situation is very different .",
    "in fact , in post- t tauri stars ( ptts ) disc gas and dust components follow quite different histories .",
    "gas is lost in a canonical period of  10 myr ( see for instance sicilia - aguilar et al .",
    "ptts associations belonging to the older subgroups of the sco - cen ob association appear to retain their disc gas up to ages of  16 myr ( pinzn et al .",
    "2007 ) . in any case , during the first 30 myr , the fine dust content is gradually agglutinated into kilometric sized rocky or iced bodies ( planetesimals ) . eventually , in the outer parts of the discs , conditions are fulfilled for the formation of a core of 10 - 20 @xmath10 capable to form a giant planet , attracting the gas when this is still available .    when gas is almost absent , dust evolution can be more complex because energetic collisions between planetesimals , produce a new generation fine dust forming what is called a debris disc ( dd ) which can be maintained up to very large ages , even gyr . at present , our knowledge of planetary formation in dd is confused .    considering the above discussion",
    ", it is possible to conceive the existence of discs with ages between 10 and 30 myr in which an external planet coexist with a sea of internal planetesimals .",
    "if the total mass of planetesimals is of the same order of the planet , interactions between these two components will provoke an internal migration of the planet .",
    "this because the planet is continously loosing energy and the excess energy is being used to disperse the planetesimals ( murray et al .",
    "1998 ) . since their work",
    ", planetary migration has become an important part in the study of planetary systems .",
    "some recent lectures or reviews on this , are available in the literature . for extra solar systems in artimowicz ( 2006 ) and for the solar system in levison et al .",
    "more particularly , several recent studies appeared using n - body simulations in order to study the conditions of survival ( or formation ) of terrestrial type planets due to migration of a giant planet ( lufkin , richardson & mundy 2006 ; fogg & nelson 2005 ; raymond et al .",
    "2006 ; armitage 2003 ; mandell & sigurdsson 2003 ) . in respect to n - body simulations of planetesimals and a migrating planet directed to the metallicity enhancement problem , the only work to our knowledge is that of quillen & holman ( 2000 ) ( hereafter qh00 ) . in principle",
    "our work here is an extension of qh00 .",
    "in this work , we numerically integrated planar systems composed by a star , a planet and one thousand planetesimals . it was assumed that the star has the same mass as our sun and the planet the same mass as jupiter .",
    "the planet is initially with semi - major axis @xmath11au and eccentricity @xmath0 .",
    "the planet is forced to migrate inward up to @xmath12au , with constant speed in a timescale @xmath1 .",
    "the planetesimals are considered to be massless particles that are initially distributed on random circular orbits with semi - major axis @xmath13au .",
    "it is important to note that this migration is not self - consistent in that the bodies ejected do not cause migration .",
    "the numerical simulations were performed using a code from swift ( levison & duncan , 1994 ) .",
    "the integrator is based on the mvs method developed by the wisdom & holman ( 1991 ) .",
    "the output of the simulations give the temporal evolution of the semi - major axis and eccentricity of the planetesimals .",
    "the integration for each particle stopped when one of the three following conditions happened :    a - _ collision with the star _ : when the planetesimal gets closer than 0.01au from the star ;    b - _ collision with the planet _ : when the planetesimal gets closer than two jupiter s radius from the planet ;    c - _ ejection from the system _ : when the planetesimal reaches more than 50au from the star .",
    "the value of the time scale , @xmath1 , is defined by the process responsible for the planet s migration two main process are usually discussed in the literature .",
    "one is the migration of the planet due to the gravitational interaction with a disc of planetesimals ( murray et al .",
    "the other is the migration of a planet embedded in a gaseous disc ( artymowicz 2005 ) . in the first case the time scale is of the order of @xmath14 yr , while in the second case it is much faster , @xmath15 yr . in our studies we tried to cover the whole spectrum of time scales .",
    "in order to study the influence of the planet s eccentricity on the spreading of the planetesimals we performed integrations for @xmath16 with @xmath17 . in figures 1 to 6 are presented representative snapshots of the temporal evolution of the semi - major axis and eccentricity of the planetesimals , where @xmath5 .",
    "there is a strong connection between the orbital evolution of the planetesimals and mean motion resonances between the planetesimals and the planet . in each plot",
    "are indicated the location of the semi - major axis for the main mean motion resonances .    in figure 1",
    "are presented @xmath18 diagrams for the simulation with @xmath6 .",
    "the diagrams show the state of the planetesimals at t=0 , at t=@xmath19yr , at t=@xmath20yr and at t=@xmath21yr .",
    "all planetesimals start with circular orbits and at some stage are captured in a resonance . then , their eccentricities start to growth until they reach a very high value and be removed from the system by collision or ejection . in this case ( @xmath6 ) the planetesimals are captured in one of the following resonances : 3:2 , 5:3 and 2:1 .",
    "the 2:1 resonances is the one that plays the main role in the orbital evolution of the planetesimals .    in figures",
    "2 to 4 are presented @xmath18 diagrams for the simulations with @xmath7 , 0.3 , and 0.5 , respectively . as the value of the planet s eccentricity increases more mean motion resonances , located further from the planet ,",
    "become important for the dynamics of the planetesimals . while those closer to the planet become less important . in the case of @xmath7",
    "the resonances 5:2 and 3:1 are also important , but the resonance 2:1 is still the one that plays the main role in the orbital evolution of the planetesimals .",
    "for @xmath22 the resonance 4:1 is also important while the resonances 3:2 and 5:3 contribute very little in the orbital evolution of the planetesimals . for @xmath23 , 0.4 and 0.5",
    "other resonances become also important ( 7:2 , 5:1 , 6:1 , ... ) .",
    "then the orbital evolution of the disc of planetesimals is affected by several resonances and is not dominated by a particular one . in these cases",
    "the planetesimals of the outer part of the disc ( a>0.65au ) are spread without being captured in resonance .                            along each numerical simulation",
    "the number of planetesimals goes decreasing with time .",
    "the temporal evolution of the remaining percentage of planetesimals in the system is shown in figure 5 .",
    "each plot of figure 5 corresponds to the simulation with a given @xmath0 , where @xmath24 and @xmath5yr .",
    "the plots show that with the increase of the planet s eccentricity the number of remaining planetesimals in the system decreases faster .            in order to study the influence of the migration speed on the spreading of the planetesimals we performed integrations for different values of timescales , from @xmath2 yr to @xmath5 yr with @xmath25",
    "simulations for @xmath26 yr are computationally too expensive .",
    "we made a few simulations with @xmath26 yr and the results are not much different from those for @xmath5 yr .",
    "in figure 6 we present the statistics of the results in terms of percentage of collisions with the star , with the planet and ejections from the system . for slow migrations ( @xmath4yr and @xmath5yr ) the percentage of collisions with the planet decrease with the increase of the planet s eccentricity . for @xmath6 and @xmath7",
    "most of the planetesimals were captured in the 2:1 resonance and more than 65% of them collided with the star . for very fast migrations ( @xmath2yr and @xmath3yr )",
    "there is no capture in mean motion resonances , independently of the value of @xmath0 .",
    "then , due to the planet s migration the planetesimals suffer close approaches with the planet and more than 80% of them are ejected from the system .",
    "quillen ( 2006 ) developed analytical predictions of capture in resonances .",
    "his results show that raising @xmath0 above a certain limit , @xmath27 , may prevent the resonance capture .",
    "he also predicts that the capture probability is reduced for faster migration .",
    "our results corroborate his predictions .",
    "the capture probability for resonance also depends on the planets mass ( quillen , 2006 ) , which will be changed in the next section",
    ".            0.5 cm    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the problem of the long term preservation of the metallic excess in the surface stellar layers obtained by accretion is a difficult one .",
    "let us first consider the situation concerning the convective layers . as mentioned in this work , the accretion of solid matter devoid of hydrogen refers only to the contamination of the surface convective layers . in this way , the sizes of these layers are of a prime importance .",
    "the present majority of swp belongs to fgk types stars and future results on large searches on a and m type stars will bring more light on this problem . due to",
    "the importance of m dwarfs as being an important part of the stellar content of the galaxy , planet searches are active for these stars .",
    "nevertheless , only few unities of m dwarfs planet hosts have been discovered , for example , gj876 ( a multiple planet host ) , gj 581 and gj 436 ( only with candidate planetary companions ) .",
    "even few , they are producing interesting and instructive results .",
    "recent detailed spectroscopic analyses of these stars by bean , benedict & endl ( 2006 ) and another using photometry ( bonfils et al .",
    "2005 ) , indicates that all these dwarfs are metal deficient . at present",
    "it is not clear if these results are a consequence of a special metallic distribution of the m stars candidates for the planet searches , but independently of this , we can consider here that due to their very large diluting convective zones , no supersolar m dwarfs planets hosts are expected if the accretion mechanism is working . in this way , an eventual future discovery of a supersolar m dwarf planet host will contribute to the validity of the primordial mechanism as mentioned in the introduction section .    concerning the question",
    "if any metallic enhancement produced in the first 20 - 30 myr will be maintained up to solar ages or larger , we do not have a clear answer yet .",
    "in fact , even if the convective zones are relatively constant from @xmath28 up to @xmath29 yr ( even diminishing somewhat near @xmath30 yr as can be seen in fig . 5 of ford et al .",
    "1999 ) other mechanisms as long term diffusion can be acting . as suggested by gonzales ( 2006 ) , one interesting way to investigate the maintenance of the excess metallicity created by accretion , consists in doing planet searches on specific open clusters .",
    "for example , in m67 with an age and metallicity similar to that of the sun . in these kind of researches with open clusters , where ages and metallicities are no more variables , any swp which would be enriched during the pre - main sequence would present smaller metallicities during the sub - giant and giant phases , testing this way the accretion mechanism .    at present , the only cluster surveyed for planet searches is the hyades , due to its favorable conditions as proximity and high metal abundance . even if no planets have been detected among their dwarf stars ( cochran , hatzes & paulson 2002 , paulson , cochran & hatzes 2004 ) , the first planet ( a massive one ) , ever discovered in a cluster , has been recently detected around a genuine member of the hyades ( sato et al .",
    "the host star is the classified k0iii clump giant eps tau ( also massive ) with a measured metallicity of [ fe / h ] = 0.17 @xmath31 0.04 , a value similar to that of the hyades cluster ( [ fe / h ] = 0.14 @xmath31 0.05 perryman et al .",
    "1998 ; [ fe / h ] = 0.13 @xmath31 0.01 paulson , sneden & cochran et al . 2003 ) . is this discovery a confirmation of the primordial mechanism ?",
    "we believe that is could be a premature conclusion because there is always the possibility that this star when was at its pre - main sequence phase , could have been highly metallic enriched by accretion and that this metallicity was after diluted by convection during the successive sub - giant and giant phases .",
    "independent of the presence of planets , gonzales ( 2006 ) suggests that studies searching for trends between [ fe / h ] and spectral types , as those realized by dotter & chaboyer ( 2003 ) on the hyades stars must be extended to other clusters .",
    "we can add that this extension can also be applied to studies searching contaminated stars in a cluster by their position in a h - r diagram as those realized in the hyades by quillen ( 2002 ) .",
    "with the purpose to explore a possible mechanism of stellar self- enrichment by an injection of rocky type planetesimals , we realized n - body simulations in which a forced internal migration of a planet interacts with supposed planetesimals distributed in a plane disc .",
    "several possibilities are considered in respect to the planets eccentricities , migration rates and mass .",
    "contrary to qh00 where they considered specially the effect of 3:1 and 4:1 mean motion resonances between the planetesimals and the planet , we found that the 2:1 mean motion resonance is the main mechanism to drive planetesimals to the surface of the star .",
    "this mechanism is essentially efficient for slow migration rates of ( @xmath32 yr ) and low planet eccentricities .",
    "qh00 restricted themselves to study resonances distant enough from the planet , since planetesimals with orbits that become planet - crossing are more likely to be ejected from the system rather than impact the star .",
    "however , the 2:1 resonance has a protection mechanism that avoid close encounters between the planetesimal and the planet .",
    "then planetesimals locked in the 2:1 resonance are allowed to reach high eccentricities and impact the star .",
    "the case of @xmath6 was also not considered by qh00 because for capture in the 4:1 and 3:1 resonances it is necessary a minimum eccentricity .",
    "nevertheless , our results ( figure 6 ) show that for @xmath6 almost all planetesimals are captured in the 2:1 resonance and impact the star along the planets migration    considering the necessary discs masses in order to provoke a migration , we are able to set the most realistic conditions for an enhance of the metal content of the stars .",
    "a migration of a one jupiter mass planet from 5 au up to 0.01 au requires excessively large disc masses .",
    "the mass requirements are 10 times smaller , and became realistic , for a migrating 0.1 jupiter mass planet .",
    "our simulations with this last kind of planet and for a slow migration rate ( @xmath33 yr ) stopped at pericentric distances between 0.19 and 1.79 au when the last planetesimals are removed from the system . taking into account the mass of the total impacting planetesimals we obtain maximum metal enrichments of the order of [ fe / h]=0.18 dex . produced at ages of the stars between 20 and 30 myr .",
    "these results need however , primitive disc masses three times larger than that of a primitive solar disc nebula .",
    "these calculations open the possibility nevertheless , width larger primitive discs ( but possible to exist ) , to explain the metal abundances of the observed hot jupiters exoplanets located at  0.05 from the stars .",
    "this work was partially supported by capes , cnpq and fapesp .",
    "the suggestions of an anonymous referee helped to improve this paper .",
    "adams , f.c . and laughlin , g. , 2003 , icarus , 163 , 290      artymowicz , p. , 2006",
    "graduate school in astronomy : x special courses at the national observatory of rio de janeiro ; x cce , held 26 - 30 september , 2005 in rio de janeiro , brazil .",
    "aip conference proceedings , vol . 843 . by simone daflon , jailson alcaniz , eduardo telles , and ramiro de la reza ( eds . ) , american institute of physics , melville , 2006 , p.3 - 34"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the photospheres of stars hosting planets have larger metallicity than stars lacking planets . </S>",
    "<S> this could be the result of a metallic star contamination produced by the bombarding of hydrogen deficient solid bodies . in the present work we study the possibility of an earlier metal enrichment of the photospheres by means of impacting planetesimals during the first 20 - 30myr . here </S>",
    "<S> we explore this contamination process by simulating the interactions of an inward migrating planet with a disc of planetesimal interior to its orbit . </S>",
    "<S> the results show the percentage of planetesimals that fall on the star . </S>",
    "<S> we identified the dependence of the planet s eccentricity ( @xmath0 ) and time scale of migration ( @xmath1 ) on the rate of infalling planetesimals . </S>",
    "<S> for very fast migrations ( @xmath2yr and @xmath3yr ) there is no capture in mean motion resonances , independently of the value of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> then , due to the planet s migration the planetesimals suffer close approaches with the planet and more than 80% of them are ejected from the system . for slow migrations ( @xmath4yr and @xmath5yr ) the percentage of collisions with the planet decrease with the increase of the planet s eccentricity . </S>",
    "<S> for @xmath6 and @xmath7 most of the planetesimals were captured in the 2:1 resonance and more than 65% of them collided with the star . whereas migration of a jupiter mass planet to very short pericentric distances requires unrealistic high disc masses , these requirements are much smaller for smaller migrating planets . </S>",
    "<S> our simulations for a slowly migrating 0.1 @xmath8 planet , even demanding a possible primitive disc three times more massive than a primitive solar nebula , produces maximum [ fe / h ] enrichments of the order of 0.18 dex . </S>",
    "<S> these calculations open possibilities to explain hot jupiters exoplanets metallicities .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    metallicity , extrasolar planets , planetary migration </S>"
  ]
}