{
  "article_text": [
    "in scientific literature , citation information is a key source of information about relationships between documents .",
    "citations are used to measure impact of documents and journals @xcite , to identify related papers via co - citation and bibliographic coupling @xcite , and to improve ranking in keyword - based search @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , there are at least two problems with citation data .",
    "first , extracting citations from academic articles requires manual curation or sophisticated natural language processing .",
    "this makes such data costly and time - consuming to obtain .",
    "second , it takes considerable time for a newly published article to gather a sufficient number of citations for meaningful statistical analysis .",
    "we demonstrate that access data of the form `` user x downloaded document y '' can be used as a substitute for citation data .",
    "access data does not suffer from the drawbacks of citation data , since it is available sooner and can easily be extracted from digital library access logs .    in this paper , we focus on using access data to identify related papers . treating access data as a bi - partite graph of users and documents analogous to item - to - item recommendation systems ( see e.g.  @xcite ) , we explore an access - based measure to quantify the degree to which pairs of articles are related .",
    "we evaluate how well this measure predicts future co - citations on the arxiv e - print archive @xcite .",
    "our results show that access - based measures have vastly larger coverage and are more accurate at finding related work than co - citation for recently published papers .",
    "additional and more detailed results can be found in @xcite .",
    "the arxiv collection recorded over 650 million accesses to over 350,000 scientific documents between 1994 and july 2006 . for each access ,",
    "we extracted the time and date , source ip address and document accessed . after filtering proxies and crawlers",
    ", we segmented accesses into 30 minute sessions from each ip , assuming these to define individual users .",
    "this gives , for each session , a set of documents downloaded by the user .",
    "analogous to the co - citation measure of relatedness @xcite , we then transform these sets into counts of how often each pair of documents was co - downloaded .    when dealing with access data , care has to be taken to avoid presentation biases @xcite .",
    "in particular , we found that access data is influenced by publication date .",
    "first , older papers tend to be less accessed .",
    "second , papers published at the same time are often presented on the same web page and tend to be co - accessed more often . for arxiv , this is especially visible during the first month after publication : many users subscribe to announcements listing all new articles .",
    "in contrast , we expect most valuable access data to result from searches of users for a specific topic .",
    "hence we ignored co - downloads of documents appearing together that occurred during the first month after publication .",
    "we compare co - citation and co - download in terms of coverage and recommendation quality .",
    "figure  [ fig : cocitacccov ] shows the maximum number of times each paper in arxiv was co - cited and co - downloaded with any one other paper .",
    "the papers are sorted by this count independently along the horizontal axis .",
    "we see that using co - download , for almost every paper in arxiv we have data and are therefore able to make recommendations .",
    "in contrast , about two thirds of the papers have no known co - citations , and those that do often are co - cited only once or twice .",
    "hence co - citation can not make any recommendations for most papers .",
    "more detail about the number of recommendations that co - download and co - citation can make is given in figure  [ fig : eval3_1 ] .",
    "the graph shows the mean number of recommendations ( i.e.  papers with non - zero co - downloads or co - citations ) as a function of time after publication of a paper . for efficiency ,",
    "we limit ourselves to 100 recommendations per paper .",
    "we see that the number of recommendations from co - downloads quickly reaches the maximum .",
    "in contrast , the average number of recommendations from co - citations grows much more slowly .",
    "thus , building a citation based recommendation system takes considerably more time than using access data .      while figure  [ fig : cocitacccov ] shows that the number of co - downloads is much larger than the number of co - citations , the former might be more noisy . an author s decision to cite",
    "a paper is likely to mean more than a download by an anonymous user , who might never even look at the document . to examine",
    "if repeated measurement compensates for such noise , we now evaluate the quality of recommendations .",
    "we use the number of co - downloads before 2005 as a measure of similarity between two papers .",
    "in particular , for a given paper , we recommend related papers by sorting all other papers by this similarity . as ground truth , we took the publications after 2005 and assumed that papers cited together are related , and all other papers are unrelated .",
    "the citation data came from manual processing of roughly 200,000 arxiv submissions administered in the slac / spires database . to estimate the quality of the recommendations , we take one paper d from a set of references in a 2005 paper , calculate the mean average precision ( map ) @xcite for the recommendations made by co - download , and aggregate the map scores as a function of the time after publication of d. we report average results over 7,500 papers .",
    "we also performed the same experiment using co - citation instead of co - download .",
    "figure  [ fig : eval3_2 ] shows the map of the recommendation lists .",
    "we see that using co - download results in higher map than co - citation for the first two years after publication of a paper . hence , to find related documents to recent papers , co - download is more informative . in this collection ,",
    "two years after publication there are usually sufficiently many citations for co - citation to catch up .    while co - download performance slightly decreases beginning two years after publication , we believe that this is an artifact of the experiment design : the reference lists of papers citing older papers tend to contain other older papers . while co - citation benefits from this , co - download is penalized as it often recommends more recent related papers .",
    "note that the experiment is further biased in favor of the co - citation measure , since ( future ) co - citations are used as ground truth .    finally , the low absolute map values result from us considering only a single set of papers in the same references list as related for each evaluation .",
    "this means that when evaluating , there are often only about 10 other papers considered related out of the entire collection .",
    "we have demonstrated that digital library access records are a valuable resource , containing implicit information about the relatedness of pairs of documents .",
    "we found that co - download is able to outperform citation - based recommendations on recently published papers in the arxiv collection .",
    "furthermore , in contrast to co - citation , recommendations from co - download are available for practically all documents in the collection in a timely fashion and without need for expensive extraction and curation . we conclude that access records can be used effectively in recommender systems for digital libraries , especially when citations are not available ( e.g.  for images , audio , video , documents without citations ) , where citation indexing is difficult , or where citations are rare or unlikely to be resolved .",
    "we thank paul ginsparg and simeon warner ( arxiv.org ) for valuable discussions and for the data that enabled this research .",
    "we also thank travis brooks ( slac / spires ) . this research was supported by a google gift and nsf career award iis-0237381 .",
    "the second author was partly supported by a microsoft research fellowship ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an important goal for digital libraries is to enable researchers to more easily explore related work . </S>",
    "<S> while citation data is often used as an indicator of relatedness , in this paper we demonstrate that digital access records ( e.g.  http - server logs ) can be used as indicators as well . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we show that measures based on co - access provide better coverage than co - citation , that they are available much sooner , and that they are more accurate for recent papers . </S>"
  ]
}