{
  "article_text": [
    "a broad - lined and luminous type ic core - collapse supernova ( sn ) is predicted to accompany every long - duration gamma - ray burst ( grb ) in the standard collapsar model @xcite . although this association had been confirmed in observations of several nearby grbs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a new controversy commenced when no sn emission accompanied grbs 060505 ( @xmath0 , duration @xmath14s ) and 060614 ( @xmath2 , duration @xmath1100s ) down to limits fainter than any known type ic sn and hundreds of times fainter than the archetypal sn1998bw @xcite .",
    "the upper panels of fig.[060505.fig ] illustrate how easily such sne would have been detected in the case of grb060505 .",
    "an important clue to the origin and progenitors of these bursts , is the nature of the host galaxies .",
    "the grb060505 host is a spiral galaxy , atypical for long - duration bursts but not unheard of ( grb980425 : fynbo et al . ,",
    "2000 ; grb990705 : le floch et al . , 2002 ; grb020819 : jakobsson et al . ,",
    "the burst occurred inside a compact star - forming region in one of the spiral arms , and a spatially resolved spectroscopy ( lower panel of fig.[060505.fig ] ) revealed that the properties of the grb site are similar to those found for other long - duration grbs with a high specific star formation rate ( ssfr ) and low metallicity @xcite .",
    "the grb060614 host is significantly fainter ( one of the least luminous grb host ever detected ) with a moderate ssfr .",
    "could the emission from an associated sn be completely obscured by dust along the line - of - sight ?",
    "the levels of galactic extinction are very low in both directions .",
    "host extinction of more than a magnitude is also unlikely in either case since the host galaxy spectra display no reddening as derived from the balmer line ratios .",
    "in addition , the grb060614 afterglow is clearly detected in the uv @xcite .",
    "another option is that the proposed host galaxies are chance encounters along the line - of - sight @xcite , and the real grb redshifts are much higher ( rendering a sn too faint to be observed ) .",
    "however , a few observational facts argue against this scenario . in the case of grb060614 : ( i ) the uv detection places an upper limit of around 1.1 on the redshift ; ( ii ) no absorption components in the optical afterglow spectrum @xcite , as expected for a low redshift , but not for a high-@xmath3 burst with a foreground galaxy ; ( iii ) very deep hst images of the field should have revealed the `` true host '' at @xmath4 , but none was seen @xcite . for grb060505",
    "it is extremely unlikely that the afterglow accidentally superposed right on top of a small star - forming region within a foreground spiral galaxy .",
    "the host galaxies and the grb location within them strongly suggest an association with star formation , and hence a massive stellar origin .",
    "it is important to realize that the lack of a strong sn emission was actually predicted as a variant of the original collapsar model , e.g. collapse of a massive star with an explosion energy so small that most of the @xmath5ni falls back into the black hole ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in another variant of the collapsar model , progenitor stars with relatively low angular momentum could also produce sn - less grbs @xcite .",
    "we should also remember that the duration distributions of short and long grbs overlap .",
    "in fact , the grb060505 duration of 4s is near the @xmath15s duration which @xcite find as the point of roughly equal probability of a given burst lying in either the short or long class .",
    "it has been suggested that the physical mechanism for this burst is the same as for short bursts , i.e. a merger of compact objects @xcite , although the progenitor time delay of only @xmath6myr is on the borderline for allowed values @xcite .",
    "however , such short time delays have been proposed via newly recognized formation channels , which lead to the formation of tighter double compact objects with short lifetimes and therefore possible prompt merger within hosts @xcite .",
    "whether such channels require a low metallicity as found for grb060505 @xcite remains to be explored .      with the added complication that the @xmath1100s long grb060614 is located among the short bursts in the lag - luminosity plot ,",
    "it has been argued that a new grb classification scheme is required @xcite .",
    "we do not think this is the case , as the current grb classification is operationally well defined . rather that new observations are warning us not necessarily to expect a very simple mapping between the duration of the grb and the nature of the progenitor : long bursts ( @xmath72s ) synonymous with massive stars and short bursts ( @xmath82s ) synonymous with compact object mergers .",
    "others want to abandon the long - short paradigm altogether due to these `` oddball '' bursts , and invent a new terminology : type i and ii bursts similar to the sn classification scheme @xcite . in this scheme ,",
    "eight different properties have to be considered for each burst / host .",
    "however , this scheme can be ambiguous ( e.g. grb060505 ) and is not operational , i.e. involves observables that are not available for most bursts ( associated sn ) . using proposed hosts ( i.e. a nearby bright galaxy ) to make a distinction between the two burst populations can also be risky ( e.g. grb060912a : * ? ? ?",
    "in addition , one might envisage a type iii category consisting of the new type of bursts ( massive white dwarf / neutron star merger ) suggested by @xcite .",
    "these could produce long bursts definitely without an accompanying sn and have a strong correlation with star formation .",
    "however , rare members of the class need not be near star - forming regions , and could have any type of host galaxy .",
    "it is clear that the two sn - less long bursts from last summer have raised a few warning flags , i.e. how we think about the long / short dichotomy . at this point in time",
    ", we only recommend that people keep an open mind .",
    "we thank all the co - authors of the @xcite paper .",
    "pj acknowledges support by a marie curie intra - european fellowship within the 6th european community framework program under contract number meif - ct-2006 - 042001 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent observations of two nearby sn - less long - duration gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) , which share no obvious characteristics in their prompt emission , suggest a new phenomenological type of massive stellar death . here </S>",
    "<S> we briefly review the observational properties of these bursts and their proposed hosts , and discuss whether a new grb classification scheme is needed .    ,    gamma rays : bursts , supernovae : general 95.85.kr , 97.60.bw , 98.70.rz </S>"
  ]
}