{
  "article_text": [
    "many experimental results have been obtained from the collisions of heavy nuclei at the relativistic heavy ion collider ( rhic ) . to understand these results , both macroscopic hydrodynamic models @xcite and",
    "microscopic transport models @xcite have been used . assuming that a thermalized quark - gluon plasma is produced very early during the collisions , the ideal hydrodynamic model without viscosity is able to reproduce measured transverse momentum spectra of various hadrons and their large elliptic flows .",
    "these experimental data can also be described by transport models that include a partonic phase in which partons undergo scatterings with cross sections much larger than those given by the perturbative qcd .",
    "although the transport model approaches the ideal hydrodynamic model when the mean free path of a particle is much smaller than both the inter - particle distances and the size of the colliding system , it is not clear if these conditions are satisfied in relativistic heavy ion collisions .",
    "studies have thus been carried out to understand how results from microscopic transport models differ from the macroscopic hydrodynamic models , particularly for the elliptic flow developed in relativistic heavy ion collisions @xcite .",
    "other questions which are also of great interest are the equation of state ( eos ) of and the degree of thermalization in the hot dense matter described by these models .    in the present paper ,",
    "we study the eos and pressure anisotropy of the hot dense matter produced in central relativistic heavy ion collisions in a multi - phase transport ( ampt ) model .",
    "the results indicate that both the eos and pressure anisotropy depend on the hadronization scheme and scattering cross sections used in the model .",
    "furthermore , only partial thermalization is achieved in the produced matter as a result of its fast expansion .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "[ ampt ] , the ampt model is briefly reviewed .",
    "results on the eos in the ampt model are shown in sec .",
    "eos while the pressure anisotropy is studied in sec .",
    "[ pressure ] . finally , a brief summary and discussions are given in sec .",
    "[ summary ] .",
    "the ampt model is a hybrid model zhang:1999bd , lin:2000cx , lin:2001yd , lin:2004en .",
    "it makes use of different models for different stages of relativistic heavy ion collisions .",
    "the initial conditions are taken from the heavy ion jet interaction generator ( hijing ) @xcite . in the default ampt model ,",
    "the partonic matter consists of only mini - jet partons from hijing .",
    "it is different in the string melting scenario in which the hadrons generated by hijing are dissociated according to their valence quark structures and the resulting partonic matter is thus much denser .",
    "the evolution of the partonic matter is simulated with zhang s parton cascade ( zpc ) @xcite . at the moment , only elastic parton scatterings are included in zpc with the cross sections regulated by a screening mass .",
    "after partons stop scattering , they are converted into hadrons . in the default ampt model",
    ", partons are combined first with their parent strings which then fragment according to the lund model as implemented in pythia @xcite . in the ampt model with string melting ,",
    "closest partons are converted into hadrons via the coalescence model @xcite .",
    "the resulting hadronic system evolves according to a relativistic transport ( art ) model @xcite .",
    "the default ampt model can give a good description of particle distributions @xcite while the ampt model with string melting is needed to describe the elliptic flow @xcite and hbt radii @xcite .",
    "other observables have also been studied within the framework of the ampt model , and these include phi meson production @xcite , higher - order flows @xcite , pseudo - rapidity @xcite and system - size @xcite dependence of flows , charmonium production @xcite as well as charm @xcite and strange @xcite hadron flows .",
    "the equation of state of a matter can be described by the relation between its pressure and energy density .",
    "since only particles contribute to the pressure and energy density in the ampt model , the pressure and energy density can be extracted from the energy - momentum tensor @xmath0where @xmath1 is the particle phase - space distribution function .",
    "when the latter is sampled by point particles , the energy - momentum tensor can be calculated by averaging over particles and events in a volume @xmath2 , i.e. , @xmath3 in cartesian coordinates where the @xmath4-axis points along the colliding beam direction , the pressure components are related to the energy - momentum tensor by @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 , and the energy density is given by @xmath8 . in central collisions , because of the cylindrical symmetry around the beam axis , @xmath9 , the transverse pressure can be defined to be @xmath10 . the longitudinal pressure",
    "@xmath11 is the same as @xmath12 . for a system in thermal equilibrium ,",
    "its pressure is isotropic , i.e. , @xmath13 .",
    "otherwise , we define the total pressure as @xmath14 .",
    "the equation of state of the system is then described by @xmath15 as a function of @xmath16 . in the following",
    ", calculations will be carried out for central au+au collisions at @xmath17 gev . in particular",
    ", we consider the central cell of produced matter , specified by the space - time rapidity @xmath18 and the transverse radial distance @xmath19 . only active particles , i.e. , particles that have been formed but not yet frozen out , will be counted and contributions from free streaming particles are not included .",
    "[ poe ] shows the equation of state extracted from the default ampt model as well as the ampt with string melting for three different parton scattering cross sections . in the initial partonic phase ,",
    "the default ampt gives a slightly higher @xmath15 than the string melting ampt because the partonic phase in the default model mainly consists of massless gluons while that in the string melting model is dominated by light quarks with non - zero quark masses .",
    "also , there are fewer partons in the default model than in the string melting model .",
    "furthermore , hadronization happens earlier in the default model when @xmath16 is around a few gev while in the string melting model hadronization starts when @xmath16 is an order of magnitude smaller .",
    "the partonic scattering cross section also affects the equation of state and the transition between the partonic phase and the hadronic phase . when the cross section in the string melting model increases from @xmath20 mb , to @xmath21 mb , and then to @xmath22 mb , the equation of state becomes harder and reaches into regions of lower energy density . in the hadronic stage",
    ", the default model has a harder equation of state compared to that in the string melting model .",
    "the two models thus give very different pressures for the same energy density in the hadronic stage .",
    "fm / c . ]",
    "the equation of state in the default model shows a sharp transition as a result of combining the equation of state of the partonic phase with that of the hadronic phase as shown in fig .",
    "[ poe_df ] . in the default model ,",
    "hadron production is related to the parent strings .",
    "the formation proper time is the average parton freeze - out time plus @xmath23 fm / c . as a result , hadron production is earlier for strings without final partonic interactions compared with those that involve final partonic interactions .",
    "these early hadrons lead to the increase in hadron energy density from about @xmath24 gev/@xmath25 at @xmath26 fm / c when the system is still in the parton phase .",
    "hadrons from strings with final state interactions lead to a second increase from about @xmath27 gev/@xmath25 at @xmath28 fm / c as seen in fig .",
    "[ poe_df ] .",
    "the sudden change in the equation of state is due to the transformation of the string energy , which is not included in the calculations of the energy density and pressure , into hadrons during string fragmentation .",
    "this process completes at about 3 fm / c when the hadronic stage takes over .     from the ampt model with string melting . ]    the equation of state of the partonic phase as well as that of the hadronic phase in the string melting model with a parton scattering cross section of @xmath22 mb are shown in fig .",
    "[ poe_sm ] . unlike the default model in which gluons dominate the partonic stage , only quark degrees of freedom",
    "are included in the string melting model . as light quarks move out of the central cell , the relative abundance of strange quarks in the central cell increases , leading to a decrease of @xmath15 as @xmath16 decreases .",
    "the system stays in the partonic stage until about @xmath29 fm / c when hadrons begin to affect the equation of state .",
    "the hadron energy density at this time is about @xmath30 gev/@xmath31 . as hadrons are formed from coalescing partons , their contribution to the energy increases .",
    "although the energy density decreases as a result of the expansion of the system , the pressure drops even faster during hadronization .",
    "the equation of state of the whole system thus gradually changes from the partonic equation of state to the hadronic equation of state .",
    "hadrons begin to play an important role when the hadron energy density reaches its maximum value of about @xmath32 gev/@xmath31 at about @xmath22 fm / c and they dominate the energy density at about @xmath33 fm / c .",
    "it is seen from fig .",
    "[ poe_df ] and fig .",
    "[ poe_sm ] that the equation of state of the hadronic phase may have two different values for the pressure at a fixed energy density .",
    "this feature reflects the fact that the hadronic phase experiences the formation stage and expansion stage in the collisions , and the two stages have different particle compositions and/or momentum distributions and hence different pressures .",
    "in the above calculations , the energy density and pressure are obtained from the energy - momentum tensor , and they are not necessarily for a matter in thermal equilibrium . in order to check if the matter formed in relativistic heavy ion collisions is thermalized , we show in fig .",
    "[ plopt ] the proper time evolution of the pressure anisotropy parameter @xmath34 defined by the ratio of the longitudinal to the transverse pressures . in the default model both the number of partons and the number of collisions are small during the early stage , and the anisotropy parameter starts to increase quickly only when hadrons come into play at about @xmath27 fm / c .",
    "in contrast , in the string melting model there is a quick increase in @xmath34 and by @xmath35 fm / c its value is already over @xmath36 . with increasing parton cross section ,",
    "the system becomes more equilibrated and @xmath34 becomes also larger .",
    "it is interesting to note that @xmath37 crosses @xmath35 at some time .",
    "however , it does not stay at @xmath35 for any significant period of time . in the string melting model",
    ", this happens after about @xmath21 fm / c where there is a change from the gradual saturation of @xmath34 to a rapid increase , while in the default model , the change happens at about @xmath22 fm / c .",
    "the proper time evolution of the energy density also shows a change at about the same time when the effect of transverse expansion sets in . after this time , particles with large transverse momentum move out of the central cell , leading to an increase in @xmath34 .",
    "therefore , to have @xmath38 temporarily does not indicate full thermalization during the evolution of the system .",
    "furthermore , @xmath34 in the central cell can even go beyond @xmath35 .",
    "if only the initial stage is considered , the anisotropy parameter can only reach a saturation value of about @xmath26 , implying that only partial thermalization is achieved in the central cell .",
    "we note that the present results are consistent with those obtained in ref .",
    "@xcite with large two - body parton cross sections where the momentum anisotropy has been shown for the initial stage of central au+au collisions .",
    "it is also interesting to note that while larger cross section makes initial pressure anisotropy closer to @xmath35 , it also leads to delays both in the transverse expansion and in the rise of resulting pressure anisotropy .",
    "this is what underlies the crossing of the 6 mb and 10 mb curves in fig .",
    ".        for an accurate evaluation of the pressure anisotropy , momentum in the local rest frame needs to be used even for a space - time rapidity bin within @xmath39 .",
    "specifically , the local momentum @xmath40 can be calculated from energy @xmath41 and momentum @xmath42 by@xmath43with the proper time @xmath44 @xcite .",
    "the evolution of the anisotropy parameter evaluated with the energy and momentum in the lab or collider frame is shown in fig .",
    "[ plopt_t ] .",
    "the results depend strongly on the space - time rapidity bin width .",
    "however , if the local energy and momentum are used , i.e. , in the comoving frame , the dependence on the space - time rapidity width disappears as shown in fig .",
    "[ plopt_tau ] .",
    "this indicates that the longitudinal flow is boost invariant around the mid - space - time rapidity .",
    "but for proper time evolution in the comoving frame . ]",
    "we have studied the equation of state in the ampt model and found it to depend on both the hadronization scheme and the parton scattering cross sections . in the default model ,",
    "the equation of state is much softer than that in the string melting model over a wide range of energy density as a result of early hadronization . in the latter case ,",
    "hardness of the equation of state increases with increasing parton cross section . in both scenarios ,",
    "the produced hot dense matter is not in full thermal equilibrium as the pressure isotropy deviates appreciably from unity during most of its evolution as a result of fast expansion .",
    "the non - equilibrium nature of the equation of state in the ampt model thus differs from that commonly used in hydrodynamic models and also that obtained from lattice quantum - chromodynamics simulations @xcite .",
    "there are recent attempts of improving the current description in the ampt model by imposing hadronization at fixed time @xcite .",
    "this certainly can make the equation of state at later time softer . mean field can also modify the equation of state @xcite . also , an important aspect of the ampt model is that the partonic phase includes only elastic scatterings . in a recent parton cascade model that includes",
    "parton number changing processes @xcite , the partonic matter is able to reach pressure isotropy .",
    "parton inelastic scatterings are therefore important in bringing the system closer to ideal hydrodynamic solutions , which require at least pressure isotropy to be reached and maintained @xcite .",
    "furthermore , plasma instabilities may help the isotropization process as well dumitru:2005gp , arnold:2005vb , rebhan:2005re , romatschke:2006nk .",
    "the consequences of including these mechanisms in the ampt model on both the equation of state of produced hot dense matter and other physical observables deserve further investigations .",
    "we acknowledge s. bass , t. renk , and u. heinz for helpful discussions .",
    "thanks the hospitality of the national institute for nuclear theory during the int-03 program where part of the work was done .",
    "the calculations of the work were performed using computer resources provided by the parallel distributed systems facilities of the national energy research scientific computing center .",
    "the work was supported by the u.s .",
    "national science foundation under grant no.s phy-0554930 and phy-0457265 , the welch foundation under grant no .",
    "a-1358 , the nnsf of china under grant nos .",
    "10575071 and 10675082 , moe of china under project ncet-05 - 0392 , shanghai rising - star program under grant no . 06qa14024 , and the srf for rocs , sem of china ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> within the framework of a multi - phase transport model , we study the equation of state and pressure anisotropy of the hot dense matter produced in central relativistic heavy ion collisions . both are found to depend on the hadronization scheme and scattering cross sections used in the model . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , only partial thermalization is achieved in the produced matter as a result of its fast expansion . </S>"
  ]
}