{
  "article_text": [
    "radio transient sources have primarily been studied through follow - up observations after discovery at optical , x - ray , or @xmath16-ray wavelengths , or through serendipitous discovery ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this is principally due to the high cost of observing time to survey large areas of sky to significant depth at radio wavelengths @xcite .",
    "moreover , existing blind surveys have typically been performed at low frequencies , where survey time is shorter but the effect of synchrotron self - absorption may hide certain source classes .",
    "the available parameter space for radio transient surveys is extensive : transients have been detected at , and are predicted for all , radio wavelengths ; timescales of transient and variable behavior range from nanoseconds @xcite to the longest timescales probed @xcite ; and transients may originate from nearly all astrophysical environments including the solar system @xcite , star - forming regions @xcite , the galactic center @xcite , and other galaxies @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , extensive surveys have been carried out , exploring different volumes of the parameter space , and , in some cases , discovering new phenomena .",
    "roughly , one can separate transients surveys into two classes : ( a ) burst searches that probe timescales of less than @xmath17 second , are often performed with low angular resolution instruments , and are most often performed at low frequencies ; and ( b ) imaging surveys conducted with interferometers which typically probe timescales of tens of seconds and longer . examples of burst searches include stare , a 611-mhz all - sky survey @xcite sensitive to timescales of 0.1  s to a few minutes ; a 843-mhz survey with the molonglo observatory synthesis telescope ( most ) sensitive to timescales of 1 @xmath5s to 800 ms @xcite ; and the parkes 1.4-ghz multi - beam pulsar survey .",
    "stare used dipole antennas with a sensitivity threshold of 27 kjy simultaneously over a significant fraction of the sky and found no extra - solar transients on timescales of 0.125  s to a few minutes in 18 months of observations .",
    "the most survey determined an upper limit to the transient rate of 5 events @xmath18 for 10  ms events at a flux density limit of 1  jy .",
    "the parkes multi - beam survey has been used for extensive searches for periodic emission as well as for pulsed emission .",
    "the latter search led to the discovery of rotating radio transients ( rrats ) , which appear to be pulsars with erratic emission @xcite .",
    "imaging surveys for transients have focused on individual fields and on large - scale surveys .",
    "recently , a blind survey of the galactic center at 330 mhz has discovered an unusual radio transient that displays quasi - periodic emission on a timescale of 70 min @xcite .",
    "@xcite used @xmath19  hr of observation of the lockman hole to characterize variability on a timescale of 19  d and 17 mon at 1.4 ghz .",
    "they found no transients above 100 @xmath5jy and conclude that the transient density on these timescales is fewer than 18 per square degree .",
    "similarly , @xcite identified 4 highly variable sources but no transient sources at 5 and 8.4 ghz using vla observations of fields in which gamma - ray bursts are present .",
    "they set an upper limit to the variable source population of 6 deg@xmath20 at sub - mjy sensitivity , comparable to the limit set by @xcite .",
    "recently , drift scan interferometric observations have identified several transients of unknown origin , including a 3-jy transient with a duration of 72 hr and three @xmath21 jy transients of @xmath22  d duration @xcite .",
    "the most extensive imaging search for transients derives from a comparison of the first and nvss 1.4  ghz catalogs @xcite .",
    "the search covered 2400 square degrees at a flux density threshold of 6 mjy .",
    "this search generated a number of transient candidates .",
    "of these , one source was identified as a radio supernova in a nearby galaxy and another was seen only once in the radio and could not be associated with any known optical source .",
    "transient identification in this survey suffers from the methodological problem of the extremely mismatched resolutions ( first : @xmath23 , nvss : @xmath24 ) of the two surveys .",
    "in addition to radio supernovae ( rsne ) , a number of highly variable and transient sources are expected to be detectable in significant numbers at radio wavelengths .",
    "one example is gamma - ray burst ( grb ) afterglows associated with grbs which are beamed in a direction away from earth , and therefore not observable at high - energy wavelengths @xcite .",
    "these so - called `` orphan gamma - ray burst afterglows '' ( ogrbas ) are expected to outnumber grbs by a factor of 10 to 1000 , the specific value depending on the characteristics of the relativistic outflow of the grb and the surrounding medium",
    ". there may be related phenomena such as those associated with x - ray flashes @xcite , supernovae ( sne ) @xcite , and short - duration grbs @xcite .",
    "activity from stars and compact objects in the galaxy may also be detected as transients ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a range of active galactic nucleus ( agn ) phenomena is also anticipated , including intra - day variability and other short - term variability driven by the effect of interstellar scintillation on compact components of extragalactic radio sources ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "intrinsic agn variability is also expected .",
    "sudden increases in the mass accretion rate following the tidal disruption of an orbiting star , for instance , will produce a transient soft x - ray flare and possibly radio emission @xcite .",
    "significant numbers of rsne , ogrbas , and tidal flares are predicted for surveys that achieve a sensitivity @xmath25  mjy and cover an area of @xmath26 square degrees .",
    "these phenomena all produce self - absorbed synchrotron radiation and , therefore , are more likely to be observed at high radio frequencies .",
    "we describe here the results of a search for extragalactic radio transients using 5 and 8.4 ghz observations from the very large array data archives .",
    "the survey includes 944 epochs over 22 years consisting of observations of the same field . at a sensitivity threshold of @xmath27 @xmath5jy ,",
    "the survey has an effective survey area comparable to that of a survey consisting of two epochs of 10 square degrees each , making this thus far the largest - area sub - mjy imaging survey of radio transient phenomena .",
    "between 1983 and 2005 , the vla performed calibration and system check observations of the same blank field with a typical interval of @xmath28  d. each epoch typically was 20 min in duration and consisted of 10  s integrations .",
    "the field is centered at @xmath29 , @xmath30 ( j2000 ) .",
    "the field is out of the plane of the galaxy ( @xmath31 , @xmath32 ) .",
    "626 epochs of observations were obtained at a frequency of 5 ghz between 1983 and 1999 .",
    "599 epochs were obtained at a frequency of 8.4 ghz between 1989 and 2005 .",
    "vla observations of this field ceased in 2005 . between 1989 and 1999 , there was overlap between some of the 5 and 8.4 ghz observations .",
    "281 of the 8.4 ghz epochs were simultaneously observed at 5 ghz , giving a total of 944 independent epochs at either frequency .",
    "data were all obtained in standard continuum mode with 50 mhz of bandwidth in each of two intermediate - frequency bands ( with centers separated by 100 mhz ) and two circular polarizations .",
    "we used a pipeline procedure for flagging , calibrating , and imaging .",
    "phase calibration was made based on brief observations of the compact source j1803 + 784 . since no standard flux density calibrator",
    "was used in these observations , we set the amplitude scale of the observations by assuming the mean flux density for j1803 + 784 as measured in the university of michigan radio astronomy observatory database over the same period ( 2.2 jy and 2.8 jy at 5 and 8.4 ghz , respectively * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the assumption of constant flux density introduces less than 15% uncertainty in the flux - density scale for individual epochs .",
    "images of the target field typically had a root - mean - square ( rms ) error in the flux density of 40 to 50 @xmath5jy .",
    "images from two successive epochs ( 19840613 and 19840620 ) are shown in figure  [ fig : typicalimage ] . throughout the paper",
    ", we use the notation of yyyymmdd to denote epoch date and refer to specific transients as rt yyyymmdd , based on the epoch of detection .",
    "images were obtained in all configurations of the very large array .",
    "for the extended configurations , bandwidth smearing within the primary beam can become significant .",
    "we compensated for this effect by applying a gaussian taper with a full - width at half - maximum ( fwhm ) of 150 @xmath33 to the @xmath34 data before imaging , which reduces sensitivity and angular resolution but provides imaging to large radii without bandwidth distortions .",
    "images were made using natural weighting to achieve maximal sensitivity and were deconvolved using the clean algorithm .",
    "we imaged a region slightly larger than the region containing a circle of radius equal to twice the half - power radius , which is @xmath35 at 5 ghz and @xmath36 at 8.4 ghz .    a deep image of the region at 5 and 8.4 ghz was also constructed through merging of all visibilities and imaging with a @xmath34 taper of 150 @xmath33 using the miriad software package .",
    "the resulting images had resolutions of @xmath37 and @xmath38 , and an rms of 2.6 @xmath5jy and 2.8 @xmath5jy at 5 and 8.4 ghz , respectively .",
    "the location of steady and transient radio sources on the deep image is shown in figure  [ fig : deep ] .",
    "fluxes in the deep image are typically lower than the average of detections since our high detection threshold and the low flux densities of the sources bias the mean .",
    "further details of the deep images will be published separately .",
    "sources were identified using aips task sad ( search and destroy ) , which identifies peaks in the image above a flux - density threshold and fits point sources . for the relatively uncluttered images that we have , sad is efficient and accurate .",
    "we identified sources within twice the half - power radius and corrected their flux densities for primary beam losses .",
    "the detection threshold for each image was chosen such that the probability of a false detection ( pfd ) in the full imaged region was @xmath39 , or a single false source for 1000 identical epochs , assuming gaussian statistics for noise in the image . since the synthesized beam changes with array configuration while the primary beam remains the same , the number of independent pixels in the field of view varied substantially .",
    "detection thresholds were in the range @xmath40 to @xmath41 , dependent on array configuration .",
    "the typical flux density threshold at the center of the image was @xmath42 @xmath5jy . for",
    "the number of epochs observed and the circular area of the region searched for sources , we have an expectation of @xmath17 false source in the entire survey .",
    "inverting the sign of the intensity in each image and searching for sources with the same thresholds and methods revealed one significant source , consistent with our expectations of one or fewer false detections in the entire survey .",
    "wider - field images ( @xmath43 at 5 ghz , @xmath44 at 8.4 ghz ) were made for all epochs in which a transient was detected .",
    "a number of transients that were detected on the western and northern edges of the individual epoch image were determined to be aliased power from two bright radio sources ( @xmath45 mjy ) at radii greater than two primary beam widths ( nvss j1457 + 7817 , j1500 + 7827 ) .",
    "one source above the detection threshold was rejected on the basis of a non - pointlike image and deep negative stripes in the image .    detected sources and their measured properties",
    "are listed in tables  [ tab : steady ] and [ tab : transients ] .",
    "table  [ tab : steady ] identifies persistent sources above or near the detection threshold and not multiple - epoch transients .",
    "six persistent sources at 5 ghz and 2 persistent sources at 8.4 ghz were detected in multiple epochs .",
    "the epochs of detection were distributed over the entire survey . of these persistent sources , three radio sources with flux densities",
    "@xmath46 @xmath5jy were detected hundreds of times .",
    "one radio source ( j150123 + 781806 ) was detected with our pipeline software at 5 ghz in 452 of 626 epochs , and at 8.4 ghz in 159 of 599 epochs ( figure  [ fig : standardlightcurve ] ) ; with a reduced source detection threshold of @xmath47 , we find that this source was present in 602 epochs at 5 ghz and in 445 epochs at 8.4 ghz .",
    "the results for this source indicate the overall quality of the data .",
    "variations in the flux density of this source are caused by the changing sensitivity of the vla in different configurations , variability in the amplitude calibrator j1803 + 784 , and possibly intrinsic variability in the source .",
    "seven sources at 5 ghz and 1 source at 8.4 ghz were detected in individual epochs ( table  [ tab : transients ] ) .",
    "these sources were detected only once and are classified as transients .",
    "we plot the light curves of each transient for the year surrounding their detection ( figure  [ fig : lct ] ) .",
    "we searched for time variability for each transient by splitting the data into four - minute segments and comparing the flux densities .",
    "the reduced @xmath48 for the hypothesis of no variability is less than 1.4 for all the transients , implying no strong evidence for variability .",
    "we also imaged each transient in stokes v and found no evidence for circular polarization above @xmath49 . finally , we differenced images between the intermediate frequency bands and found no evidence for a large spectral index .",
    "the radial distribution of sources is consistent with a real source population rather than imaging defects .",
    "imaging defects would be uniformly distributed throughout the image , without regard for the decline in sensitivity due to the primary beam .",
    "four of the eight transients are contained within the half - power radius .",
    "this number is inconsistent with the expectation of a uniform distribution within the same region , @xmath50 . on the other hand , a source population with a power - law distribution of flux densities @xmath51 in a flux - density limited sample",
    "has an expectation of @xmath52 within the half - power radius , in better agreement with the observed number .",
    "images were also constructed in a search for faint radiation from the transients and for new transients using all data from two - month , one - year , and one - decade time spans .",
    "we found two new transients in the two - month averages ( table  [ tab : transientsmonths ] ) and no transients in the year and decade images .",
    "light curves for these sources are shown in figure  [ fig : lct ] . given the smaller number of epochs , the expected number of false sources in the two - month average data is @xmath25 .",
    "further searches on different time scales or with filters matched to light curve shapes are possible with the same data but are beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "dual frequency observations were made only after 1989 and not at every epoch . of the remaining 5 ghz transients ,",
    "only 1 ( rt 19920826 ) is located within the imaged region of the 8.4 ghz survey .",
    "unfortunately , there were no 8.4 ghz observations for this epoch .",
    "similarly , for rt 19970205 which was detected at 8.4 ghz , there was not a simultaneous 5 ghz observation .      on 25 july 2006 (",
    "ut dates are used throughout this paper ) , we observed the central portion of the radio field with the low - resolution imaging spectrometer ( lris ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on the keck - i 10-m telescope .",
    "eight of the radio transient positions ( see figure 6 ) were observed in two separate pointing centers ( each covered by the lris field - of - view of @xmath53 ) . at each pointing center",
    "we obtained six dithered 10-min exposures .",
    "the instrument is outfitted with a beam splitter , allowing us to observe simultaneously in the @xmath54 and @xmath55 bands .",
    "the data were reduced following standard optical imaging reduction procedures . after fitting a world coordinate system ( tied to the usno b1.0 ) to each reduced frame , we made a mosaic for a given filter using swarp @xcite .",
    "the final astrometric uncertainty relative to the international celestial reference system ( icrs ) is 250 mas in each axis .    on the night of the keck / lris imaging",
    ", we observed the landolt standard star field pg1633 + 099 @xcite in both filters at an airmass of @xmath56 .",
    "the catalog magnitudes were converted to the @xmath54 band from the @xmath57-band magnitude and the @xmath58 color using the prescription in bilir et al .",
    "( 2005 ) . from the observed photometry of four pg1633 + 099 stars ,",
    "the zeropoint conversion from flux in both filters was determined in an @xmath59 aperture .",
    "the flux of @xmath47-detected sources in both the @xmath55 and @xmath54 stacked image of the radio field were determined in the same - sized aperture .",
    "accounting for the average extinction per unit airmass at mauna kea , we determine that the non - detections of some of the counterparts correspond to upper limits of @xmath60 and @xmath61 mag .",
    "these limits assume an unresolved source and a color similar to those of the landolt field stars .",
    "an optical spectrum of the counterpart of rt 19840613 was taken on 2005 dec .",
    "4 with the deimos spectrograph @xcite mounted on the keck - ii telescope , using a 600 line mm@xmath12 grating and the gg400 order - blocking filter .",
    "spectra of the counterparts and nearby companions of rts 19860115 , 19870422 , 19920826 , and 19970528 were taken on 2006 june 26 with lris using the 600/4000 grism , the 400/8500 grating , and the d560 dichroic .",
    "all spectral data were reduced using standard techniques ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "standard ccd processing and spectrum extraction were completed with iraf .",
    "the data were extracted with the optimal algorithm of @xcite .",
    "we obtained the wavelength scale from low - order polynomial fits to calibration - lamp spectra .",
    "small wavelength shifts were applied after cross - correlating night - sky lines extracted with the object to a template sky . using our own idl routines , we fit spectrophotometric standard star spectra to flux calibrate our data and remove telluric lines @xcite .",
    "we give redshifts for the counterparts and nearby companions in table  [ tab : redshift ] .",
    "in the cases of rts 19840613 , 19870422 , 19920826 , and 19970528 , the redshift is for the galaxy that the rt is situated in or closest to .",
    "rt 19860115 has two possible hosts in the keck image ; objects 1 and 2 are located to the northeast and southwest of the rt , respectively .",
    "data were obtained with pairitel @xcite on 16 feb .",
    "images were taken simultaneously in the @xmath62 , @xmath63 , and @xmath64 bands in four different pointings with a total integration time of about 1120  s per pointing .",
    "additionally , to get a deep infrared ( ir ) image in one portion of the radio field , several hours of imaging in june and july 2006 were obtained centered at j2000 position @xmath65 = @xmath66 , @xmath67 = @xmath68 .",
    "the approximate @xmath47 upper limits in the shallow , wide - angle map are @xmath69 mag , @xmath70 mag , and @xmath71 mag ( the limits are significantly worse toward the edges of the mosaic ) . the pointings were stitched together using swarp after finding preliminary wcs solutions in all bands .",
    "the result is a @xmath72 pixel set of mosaic images with @xmath73 resolution that overlaps most of the radio image .",
    "an astrometric solution for the mosaic images was found through a cross - correlation with 43 stars in common with the usno b1.0 catalog .",
    "typical rms uncertainty of the astrometric tie to the icrs is 250 mas .",
    "we have detected a total of 8 transient radio sources in single epochs of this survey ( figure  [ fig : lct ] ) .",
    "additionally , we have detected two transients in two - month averages of the data .",
    "our source identification methods described previously argue that no more than one of these sources is a false detection .",
    "all of these sources are adequately fit as point sources .",
    "none of the transients is detected in epochs other than the detection epoch , or in longer - term averages with the possible exception of rt 19840613 , in which the host galaxy is detected in the full 20-year image .    in figures  [ fig : deepradio ] and  [ fig : keck ] we show images of the transients overlaid on the deep radio image , on multi - color images from the keck imaging , and , where keck data are missing for two objects , on @xmath64-band images from pairitel .",
    "we identify several hosts or potential hosts to the rts using the minnesota palomar plate survey ( maps , http://aps.umn.edu ; * ? ? ?",
    "maps is a catalog of sources found with and characterized by plate - measuring equipment surveying the palomar sky survey i ( poss i ) .",
    "maps coordinates are consistent with the radio reference frame with an accuracy of @xmath74 .",
    "we confirmed this by comparison of the position of two bright reference stars in the maps catalog with positions in the tycho catalog . referring the tycho positions to epoch 1950 ( appropriate for poss ) , we find agreement of @xmath75 for gsc 04562 - 00668 and @xmath3 for gsc 04562 - 00458 .",
    "one transient is of particular interest because it is coincident with a spiral galaxy at a redshift @xmath10 ( a distance of @xmath76 mpc using @xmath77 ) .",
    "the galaxy , identified as maps - p023 - 0189928 , has @xmath78 mag , @xmath79 mag , and a major axis of @xmath80 .",
    "the transient is clearly non - nuclear ; it is offset to the southwest of the optical nucleus by @xmath81 , corresponding to a projected distance of @xmath82 kpc .",
    "the optical nucleus is coincident with the infrared nucleus as identified in the 2mass catalog at an accuracy of @xmath83 .",
    "the probability of a single chance association with an optical source in the poss at a few arcsecond precision is @xmath84 .",
    "we calculate an isotropic radio luminosity of @xmath85 erg s@xmath12 hz@xmath12 , or @xmath86 erg s@xmath12 for a bandwidth of 10 ghz .",
    "the transient is not detected in any other individual epoch , even with reduced detection thresholds .",
    "the transient is also not detected in any two - month average in the year surrounding its detection , nor is it detected in any annual average from the entire data set .",
    "it is also not detected in the year prior to detection , nor in the six years following detection .",
    "the absence of a detection in other light curves at 5 ghz is consistent with a rapid rise and a decline in the flux density with a power law of @xmath87 .    the deep image of the region surrounding the transient shows extended radio continuum emission associated with the spiral galaxy and a companion galaxy ( figure  [ fig:840613deep ] ) .",
    "the location of the transient coincides with a region of peak emission , but it is not possible to conclude whether that emission is the result of the transient or a peak in the galactic emission .",
    "the peak of emission near the position of the transient is @xmath88jy , which corresponds to a star - formation rate of @xmath89 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the association of the transient with the non - nuclear region of a spiral galaxy , together with its luminosity , suggest that the transient may be a rsn .",
    "the transient is very unlikely to be a type ii rsn , as these sources exhibit rise and decay timescales of months to years , implying that a type ii rsn would be detected multiple times in our survey @xcite .",
    "type ia rsn have never been detected at radio wavelengths @xcite .",
    "type ib / c rsn , on the other hand , evolve on timescales of days to months .",
    "the anomalous type ib / c rsn associated with sn  1998bw and grb  980425 doubled its flux density during its rise and halved its flux density following the peak in @xmath90  d @xcite .",
    "the light curve declined as @xmath91 with the exception of a brief period of increase attributed to clumpiness in the circumstellar medium .",
    "the luminosity of rt 19840613 places it among the brightest sne  ib / c , although a factor of a few fainter than sn  1998bw @xcite .",
    "the luminosity of sn 2002ap , also a sn  ib / c , is four orders of magnitude less than that of sn 1998bw @xcite .",
    "the luminosity of rt 19840613 is three orders of magnitude less than the typical radio luminosity of a grb afterglow .",
    "rt 19870422 is located within @xmath92 of the centroid of maps - p023 - 0189613 .",
    "the keck image shows that this rt is clearly associated with a blue galaxy and is significantly offset from the nucleus .",
    "the integrated @xmath55 magnitude of the galaxy is 20.2 , with @xmath93 mag , and the redshift is determined to be @xmath13 ( or a distance of 1050 mpc ) .",
    "galaxy - template matching to the keck spectrum shows it to most likely be an sc galaxy with strong [ ] and [ ] emission , indicating current star formation .",
    "the inferred isotropic radio luminosity is @xmath94 , or @xmath95 for a bandwidth of 10 ghz .",
    "rt 19870422 was detected in a two - month integration , implying a total energy release @xmath96 erg .",
    "we see no evidence for detection in other epochs , implying a source that fades with a timescale of two months or less following its peak . in the deep integration , we see that the galaxy is detected with an irregular morphology ( figure  [ fig:870422deep ] ) . the faint radio emission , however , is offset from the position of rt 19870422 .",
    "rt 19870422 shares many characteristics with rt 19840613 .",
    "the rt position is clearly separated from the peak of the optical emission , ruling out the possibility of an agn event . its longer duration and higher luminosity , however , differentiate it .",
    "the luminosity is nearly an order of magnitude greater than that of sn 1998bw , and two orders of magnitude more luminous than the bright type ii sn 1979c @xcite .",
    "thus , the luminosity falls in between the maximum observed luminosity of a rsn and the typical luminosity of a grb afterglow .",
    "the two - month duration of rt 19870422 is more consistent with known rsne of both type ib / c or type ii , as well as grb afterglows .",
    "rt 19920826 is located @xmath37 to the southeast of a red galaxy identified in the keck image , which is not identified in the maps catalog .",
    "the host is a red object with no clear emission or absorption lines .",
    "rt 19970528 is located @xmath37 to the northwest of maps - p023 - 0189499 , which has @xmath97 mag and @xmath98 mag .",
    "two other galaxies are identified within a radius of @xmath99 .",
    "the nearest one is a red , early - type galaxy at @xmath100 .",
    "galaxy - template matching shows it is most likely an elliptical galaxy , but it is also well fit by an s0 spectrum .",
    "we computed the probability of false association of these galaxies with transients through monte carlo simulations .",
    "we randomly distributed 100,000 radio sources over the field and then measured the distance to the nearest galaxy as identified in the maps catalog .",
    "the probability of a false association at a distance of less than @xmath101 is only 2% .",
    "the probability of a false association at a distance of @xmath4 is @xmath102% .",
    "the probability for any one of the 10 rts being randomly associated with a galaxy at a distance of @xmath101 is @xmath103 , and at a distance of @xmath4 the probability is nearly unity .",
    "the probability of multiple sources located within @xmath101 is @xmath104 .",
    "thus , the association of either rt 19970528 or rt 19920826 or both rts with a galaxy is probable but not certain .",
    "there is no evidence for faint radio , optical , or infrared counterparts for six of our sources : rt 19840502 , 19860115 , 19860122 , 19970205 , 19990504 , 20010331 .",
    "there are no sources apparent in the image obtained by averaging the succeeding two months of data , as well as in the year - long and decade - long averages .",
    "these results require a rapidly decreasing light curve , proportional to @xmath91 or steeper .",
    "rt 19860115 has two possible hosts .",
    "the first possible host , object 1 , is located @xmath105 to the northeast of the rt and is a starburst galaxy at @xmath106 with strong emission lines and a blue continuum .",
    "object 1 is identified as maps - p023 - 0190130 , a galaxy with @xmath107 mag and @xmath108 mag , and is also detected as a faint , extended radio source .",
    "the other possible host , object 2 , is located @xmath80 to the southwest of the rt and is an early - type galaxy at @xmath109 .",
    "galaxy - template matching shows the spectrum is best fit by either an elliptical or s0 galaxy spectrum .",
    "several other objects , likely to be galaxies , are in the field .",
    "the physical separation of rt 19860115 from the two objects is @xmath45100 kpc , which is still within a radius at which the galaxy may contain stars .",
    "nevertheless , given the monte carlo simulations discussed above , we conclude that this transient is likely associated only by chance with these galaxies .    for the remainder of sources",
    ", there are no obvious associations with galaxies or stars .",
    "the absence of optical or infrared counterparts only eliminates host candidates ; the non - simultaneity of radio and optical observations implies that we place no limits on optical transients .",
    "we can compute rates of transients in several different ways .",
    "we are limited in the accuracy of estimating transient rates by our lack of knowledge of the characteristic time scale , @xmath110 , of the transient sources .",
    "this characteristic time falls between the duration of the observations ( @xmath102 min ) and the typical separation between epochs ( 7 days ) .",
    "the two - epoch survey sensitivity is independent of @xmath110 .",
    "the effective area for a two - epoch survey for a given flux - density limit is just the sum of the areas in each epoch in which a source above the flux - density limit is detectable . for a set of @xmath111 images with uniform sensitivity over a solid angle @xmath112 in which @xmath113 transients are detected",
    ", the two - epoch source density is @xmath114 . for a sample with varying image properties",
    ", we can compute the two - epoch source density given the image noise statistics , the synthesized beam size , and the primary beam shape .",
    "the ratio of the primary beam solid angle to the synthesized beam solid angle gives the number of independent pixels in the image .",
    "the source detection threshold per image is then set based on the number of independent pixels and the rms noise .",
    "we combine the 5 ghz and 8.4 ghz survey limits and transient detections together .",
    "the accumulated results as a function of flux - density threshold are listed in table  [ tab : areasearched ] .",
    "we use a non - parametric kaplan - meier method @xcite , for estimating the cumulative source - count distribution and then compute transient rates ( figure  [ fig : snapshotrate ] ) .",
    "seven transients are detected above a flux density of 370 @xmath5jy , giving a two - epoch source density of @xmath115 .",
    "the transient rates are reasonably fit by a distribution with @xmath116 and @xmath117 , which corresponds to a non - evolving , volume - limited sample",
    ". however , the constraints on @xmath16 are not very strong .",
    "a larger @xmath16 appears to be required to achieve agreement between the rate determined from this survey and the nvss - first survey @xcite .",
    "different event rates at 1.4 and 5 ghz due to synchrotron self - absorption or other spectral index effects may also influence this comparison .",
    "additionally , the first - nvss survey may be incomplete due to confusion from the mismatched resolution of these surveys .",
    "we detected no transients in the 17 annual average images .",
    "the typical flux detection threshold at the half - power radius is 90 @xmath5jy .",
    "the total two - epoch area surveyed at this sensitivity is 0.3 deg@xmath118 , implying a @xmath119 upper limit to the two - epoch density for year - long transients at 90 @xmath5jy of @xmath120 . in 96 images composed of two - month averages , we found two transients . at a flux - density threshold of 200 @xmath5jy ,",
    "the effective area surveyed is 1.9 deg@xmath118 , giving a @xmath119 upper limit to the two - month transient rate of @xmath121 .",
    "we can also determine a rate as a function of area and time .",
    "the precision of this rate is limited by our lack of measurement of the characteristic time of the transient events .",
    "the rate for sources brighter than 370 @xmath5jy is then @xmath122 .",
    "if we assume that rts 19840613 and 19870422 belong to a distinct transient class based on their association with blue galaxies , we can estimate a rate for such transients as a function of volume and time .",
    "we could detect this transient to a distance of @xmath123 mpc , which gives a total volume of @xmath42 mpc@xmath124 .",
    "assuming @xmath125 , we find a rate of @xmath126 .",
    "similarly for rt 19870422 , we find a maximum volume of @xmath127 mpc@xmath124 and use @xmath128 to find a rate of @xmath129 . jointly for rt 19840613 and rt 19870422 , the rate is @xmath130 .",
    "these rates are consistent within an order of magnitude of the sn  ib / c rate determined optically , @xmath131 @xcite .",
    "there is some evidence that our vla field contains an overdensity of galaxies at @xmath132 ( table  [ tab : redshift ] ) .",
    "additionally , the cluster abell 2047 is located within @xmath133 of the center of the vla field @xcite .",
    "a2047 is a low - density cluster ( richness class 0 ) with a radius @xmath134 and a distance class of 6 .",
    "the distance class is an estimate of distance based on visual inspection of photographic plates .",
    "the distance class of 6 is consistent with a redshift of 0.25 for the cluster @xcite .",
    "if all the rts are extragalactic , then the rt rates may be overestimated relative to the rate for the field by no more than a factor of a few .",
    "two of the transients are reasonably identified as rsne , possibly type ib / c or ii and similar to known rsne associated with grbs .",
    "we consider now whether the eight transients not clearly identified with nearby galaxies are examples of known or expected classes of radio transients .",
    "these transients are unlikely to be rsne unless they are associated with faint and/or low surface brightness galaxies . as we demonstrate below",
    ", the observed transient parameters do not easily fit into any expected class .",
    "the known and anticipated sources of radio transients are very broad .",
    "since we have no evidence for variability on a timescale of less than 20 min , we exclude from further discussion transient sources that have characteristic timescales of less than 1  s. these include pulsars and related phenomena such as rrats and giant pulses @xcite , as well as flares from extrasolar planets @xcite .",
    "information on the x - ray properties of the transients and transient hosts is very limited .",
    "the rosat catalog of bright sources does not identify any sources in the field of our survey .",
    "there are also no sources in the rxte all sky monitor catalog in the field , indicating an upper limit to the x - ray flux of events between 1997 and 2001 of @xmath26 mcrab @xcite .",
    "no observations of the field have been made with the chandra or xmm newton x - ray observatories .",
    "higher - energy counterparts to these transients have not been clearly detected .",
    "there are no known optically discovered sne in the field of view of our survey , nor have there been any optical variability campaigns in this field .",
    "there are no grbs which are uniquely localized to this field , although there are bursts with large positional uncertainties that could have originated in the field of view of our survey .",
    "we identify 7 batse events that occurred within @xmath135 of our field center between 1991 and 1999 .",
    "uncertainties in the batse positions , however , are @xmath136 , indicating a probability of @xmath137 for even one of these grbs to have occurred within our field of view . of the grbs , one event ( grb 990508 ) occurred 4  d after rt 19990504 .",
    "given the low probability of concurrence and the lack ( in other grbs ) of radio emission before gamma - ray emission , we conclude that this is almost certainly a coincidence .",
    "there is no systematic relationship between the remainder of the events and the radio transients .      in the standard paradigm of grbs and grb afterglows ,",
    "the gamma - ray emission is highly anisotropic while the afterglow emission is less anisotropic or even isotropic .",
    "thus , the observed grbs and their afterglows from earth are a subset of the total number of grbs .",
    "afterglows detected without gamma - ray emission are known as orphan gamma - ray burst afterglows .",
    "the ratio of ogrbas to grbs is the inverse of the beaming fraction , @xmath138 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the phenomenon of a grb afterglow without a corresponding gamma - ray burst has not been conclusively detected .",
    "detailed models of ogrbas predict @xmath1391 per square degree at sensitivity thresholds of 0.1 mjy , which is consistent with our number of transient detections @xcite . whereas the canonical radio afterglow for the forward shock rises on a timescale of days and decays slowly",
    ", the majority of the radio transients found in the present survey occur on timescales less than 1 week .",
    "one possible explanation in the context of grb orphans is that the emission is due to the reverse shock , which is known , in the few cases where follow - up observations occurred soon after the grb , to produce a bright and rapid ( @xmath140  d ) radio signature ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* e.g. , ) .",
    "strong scintillation ( * ? ? ?",
    "* e.g. , ) of a standard , faint afterglow could also be responsible for producing short - term amplification that leads to an apparent fast transient , but then we might see marginal evidence for the forward shock in the epochs following the transient  yet this is not seen in individual sources .    the single long - timescale transient ( rt 20010331 ) could be consistent with having arisen from the long - lived forward shock ( as it transitions from mildly relativistic to nonrelativistic ) .",
    "levinson et al . ( 2002 ) @xcite calculate the expected number of forward - shock dominated ogrbas for radio surveys . taking the canonical interstellar medium density of @xmath141 @xmath142 , it is reasonable to expect that we only find 1 viable forward - shock candidate with the nominal beaming of @xmath143 .",
    "nevertheless , since for the parameters of our survey we probe only to @xmath144 , the non - detection of an apparent host galaxy in deep keck imaging of rt 20010331 would seem to suggest that our basic model assumptions for the radio afterglow are suspect .",
    "thus , the transients that we have detected can be considered consistent with the expectations of ogrbas .",
    "there is , however , a large diversity of high - energy phenomena with poorly explored electromagnetic signatures beyond the classical grb afterglow picture , including x - ray flashes , x - ray rich grbs @xcite , grbs associated with sne  ib / c @xcite , and short - duration grbs @xcite .",
    "the richness of this phenomenology suggests that the radio transients we have discovered could reflect the continuum of stellar collapse events .",
    "agns are highly variable and common . with the appropriate selection technique , agns can be found with a number density of @xmath145 per square degree @xcite .",
    "if our transients are agns , then the absence of deep , static detections indicates they are associated with radio - quiet objects , which constitute the majority of agns .",
    "short - timescale variability of agns is often associated with interstellar scintillation and extreme scattering events , and typically has amplitudes of @xmath146 @xcite .",
    "variations of a factor of a few on timescales of hours have been seen in the most extreme cases such as pks 0405 - 385 and j1819 + 3845 , which is not sufficient to account for the observed transients given the very large amplitude of variation observed @xcite .",
    "intrinsic variations among luminous agns are observed to have a timescale of months to years at radio frequencies @xcite .",
    "variations are rarely larger than a factor of a few in radio - loud objects .",
    "a survey of variable background sources in the direction of m31 found a small number of objects with variability of a factor of a few to 10 on timescales of years @xcite .",
    "an interesting example is the nucleus of the nearby spiral galaxy iii  zw  2 , which has exhibited factor of 20 fluctuations in its radio luminosity on timescales of months to years .",
    "the tev blazar mrk 421 shows 50% variations on a timescale of @xmath26  d @xcite .",
    "sudden increases in the accretion rate , or shocks in the jet , could lead to a dramatic flare at radio wavelengths ; however , these flares are expected to have timescales on the order of months to a year , inconsistent with our observations",
    ".    recently discovered evidence for tidal disruption events in agns observed in the ultraviolet indicate the possibility for large - amplitude agn transients @xcite .",
    "however , the timescale for the observed uv transients are months to a year rather than days . without a mechanism for a short timescale in the radio ,",
    "tidal disruption events are unlikely to account for the observed radio transients .",
    "we can not exclude a galactic origin for these transients . a wide range of stars and stellar systems",
    "are known to flare on timescales of minutes to hours to days .",
    "however , no known stellar types closely fit the properties of these transients .",
    "our field ( @xmath147 , @xmath148 ) is out of the plane of the galaxy , away from the galactic center and bulge , and is not near any known star cluster or star - forming region .",
    "it is likely , therefore , that any stellar origin for these transients would be even more numerous in one of these more favored directions .",
    "the luminosity of the observed transients is @xmath149 .",
    "this is near the upper limit of the known stellar radio luminosity distribution .",
    "rs cvn binaries , fk com class stars , algol - class stars , and t tauri stars have been observed to radiate at this luminosity ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the total number of known rs cvn , fk com stars , and algol stars discovered at x - ray wavelengths is @xmath150 , indicating that we are unlikely to detect any such objects by chance , even if the distance cutoff in our survey is 10  kpc @xcite .",
    "t tauri stars are more common but are unlikely to be found outside regions of active star formation .",
    "m - type dwarfs at distances as large as 1  kpc have been identified as an important contribution to optical transient rates @xcite . due to the typical low radio luminosity ( @xmath151  @xmath152 ) of known dme stars and brown dwarfs , they are likely to be detected at distances of 30  pc or less . in an extreme case ,",
    "the dme star ev lac was observed to undergo a flare of a factor of @xmath153 to a maximum luminosity @xmath154 , with a rise time of minutes and a decay time of hours @xcite .",
    "such a flare would be observed in our survey to a distance of 100  pc .",
    "the local space density of stars with @xmath155 is 0.035 pc@xmath156 , implying only a small chance of a low - mass star or brown dwarf within the volume to which we are sensitive @xcite .",
    "any stellar origin for these transients must come from a faint source , since we have no detection of stellar counterparts in keck , 2mass , or pairitel images .",
    "the 2mass magnitude limit of @xmath157 implies that any l dwarf ( @xmath158 mag ) or earlier - type star must be at a distance @xmath145  pc to remain undetected .",
    "pairitel limits require such stars to be at a distance @xmath159 pc .",
    "the limiting keck magnitude requires late - type m stars to be at a distance @xmath160 pc .",
    "the probability distribution of radio activity in low - mass stars is not well quantified .",
    "few stars have been observed at radio wavelengths for more than a few hours or a few days . despite the lack of long - term monitoring of dme stars",
    ", one can estimate the probability distribution of flares by comparison with the properties of the sun .",
    "the probability of a solar flare at centimeter wavelengths of a given flux density @xmath161 scales as @xmath162 @xcite .",
    "> from observations of a large sample of late - type stars @xcite , we estimate a probability of @xmath163 for a late - type star to exhibit a luminosity @xmath154 .",
    "if the probability of stellar flares scales with the same relation as solar flares , a flare of @xmath164 from a late - type star at a distance of 1  kpc would be visible in our radio survey but missing in the keck image , and it would occur with a probability of @xmath165 . assuming a constant density of stars set to the local value , the total number of m dwarfs out to 1  kpc within our field of view is @xmath166 .",
    "given our @xmath167 observations , the expected number of flares of this magnitude detected is @xmath168 .",
    "this is an upper limit since the statistics for the observed stars are biased by selection for activity at other wavelengths . within an order of magnitude , though , this matches the number of transients that we detect , suggesting that low - mass stars at 1  kpc or greater distance may contribute to , but are unlikely to dominate , the observed radio - transient rate .",
    "very large radio flares might be accompanied by luminous x - ray flares .",
    "if the transients follow the radio / x - ray correlation , then a radio flare of @xmath169 at a distance of 1  kpc would have an x - ray luminosity of @xmath170 , which exceeds the rxte asm detection threshold of @xmath171 .",
    "however , many sources do not closely follow this relationship , including many low - mass stars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the transients share some properties with soft gamma - ray repeaters ( sgrs ) .",
    "sgrs are magnetars that exhibit dramatic flares at gamma - ray and radio wavelengths ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "sgr  180620 produced a flare that reached a luminosity of @xmath172 , had a characteristic timescale of days , and declined as @xmath173 .",
    "such a flare would be detectable in our dataset at a distance of @xmath174 kpc , would appear in only a single epoch , would fade away rapidly so that it is not seen in long - term averages , and would have no lasting optical counterpart .",
    "if all of our transients are milky way sgrs to a distance of @xmath175 kpc , the implied rate is @xmath176 at high galactic latitude . without making any correction for galactic population distribution",
    ", we estimate a total rate of @xmath177 in the disk of the galaxy , which is at least an order of magnitude too high relative to the number of discovered sgrs .",
    "x - ray binaries ( xrbs ) can be seen throughout the galaxy ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) but are rare @xcite . for the extremely overdense galactic center ,",
    "the xrb detection rate in the radio is @xmath178 .",
    "the comparable observed transient rate would imply a similar overdensity at high galactic latitude , which is implausible .",
    "most pulsar variability occurs on time scales much shorter than our observations and is therefore unlikely to account for our observed transients .",
    "there have been some examples , however , of longer timescale variability .",
    "psr b1931 + 24 , for instance , has periods of activity and inactivity with characteristic times of days to tens of days @xcite .",
    "this variability is quasi - periodic , however , indicating that we would detect it and similar pulsars in multiple epochs throughout our survey .",
    "we have already referred to the phenomenon of intra - day variability ( idv ) , which in the most extreme cases leads to variations of a factors of a few on a timescale of hours .",
    "idv of this scale has been demonstrated to originate from interstellar scintillation of compact structure in the source .",
    "identified a factor of 43 fluctuation in the flux density of psr b0655 + 64 at 325  mhz , which they argue originates from strong focusing in the interstellar medium  that is , a caustic .",
    "it is difficult to estimate the frequency with which such a phenomenon can occur , but observational evidence is scarce .",
    "microlensing could also produce a transient amplification of a background source .",
    "a simple calculation estimates that to explain all 10 rts as the result of microlensing requires the product @xmath179 , where @xmath180 is the number of sources that can be lensed and @xmath181 is the lensing opacity . since @xmath181 has been measured to be @xmath182 by macho and ogle experiments , then @xmath183 , which is absurdly large for any known population of galactic or extragalactic radio sources",
    ".    finally , reflected solar flares off objects in the solar system could produce detectable radio flares .",
    "a 1  mjy solar flare reflecting off a 1000  km object at a distance of 1  au from the earth would produce a 0.1  mjy flare at earth .",
    "our observed field is far out of the ecliptic plane , however , and there are few known solar - system objects of this size outside of the ecliptic .",
    "nearer objects could be smaller but would move significantly during the course of the observation .",
    "we have conducted a 944-epoch , 20-yr - long survey for radio transients with archival 5 and 8.4 ghz very large array data .",
    "ten radio transients are apparent in this data set .",
    "eight transients appear in only a single epoch and disappear completely thereafter .",
    "two transients appear in two - month integrations and also never reappear .",
    "we estimate the rate of radio transients below 1  mjy with a large uncertainty due to the wide range of characteristic times possible for these sources .",
    "two of the transients may be peculiar type ib / c and/or type ii radio sne in nearby galaxies .",
    "all of these transients share some characteristics with those expected of orphan gamma - ray burst afterglows , but they can not be conclusively identified as such .",
    "the diversity of high - energy stellar - death phenomena makes it difficult to place specific limits on the nature of grbs based on these results .",
    "the absence of persistent counterparts to these sources indicate that they are unlikely to be agns .",
    "galactic sources appear unlikely to be an explanation , but they certainly can not be ruled out .",
    "in particular , late - type stars could contribute to the number of radio transients if their luminosity distribution can be extrapolated by several orders of magnitude beyond the most luminous observed m - dwarf flare .",
    "deeper multi - wavelength imaging is critical for identifying the hosts of these events .    in the near future",
    ", the allen telescope array @xcite will be efficient at discovering transients of this sort .",
    "the wide field of view of this telescope makes it a powerful instrument for large solid angle radio surveys .",
    "given the apparently short timescale of these phenomena , rapid response to transient discovery at radio and other wavelengths will be critical for determining the nature of these transients .",
    "these observations made use of archival data from the very large array .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation ( nsf ) operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "this research utilized the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) .",
    "it also used the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france , as well as data from the university of michigan radio astronomy observatory , which has been supported by the university of michigan and the nsf .",
    "some of the data presented here were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california , and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "we thank the keck staff for their assistance .",
    "the peters automated infrared imaging telescope ( pairitel ) is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory ( sao ) and was made possible by a grant from the harvard university milton fund , a camera loan from the university of virginia , and the continued support of the sao , m. skrutskie , and uc berkeley . the pairitel project and d.p .",
    "are further supported by nasa / swift guest investigator grant nng06gh50 g . a.v.f .",
    "acknowledges nsf grant ast0607485 and nasa / swift grant nng06gi86 g .",
    "we thank daniel stern , mark dickinson , and hyron spinrad for assistance with some of the keck observations and analysis .                  , e. , ball , s. , becker , k.  m. , clarke , m. , frail , d.  a. , fukuda , t.  a. , hoffman , i.  m. , mellon , r. , momjian , e. , murphy , n.  w. , teng , s.  h. , woodruff , t. , zauderer , b.  a. , & zavala , r.  t. 2001 , , 410 , 338      , e. , mellier , y. , radovich , m. , missonnier , g. , didelon , p. , & morin , b. 2002 , in asp conf .",
    "ser . 281 : astronomical data analysis software and systems xi , ed .",
    "d.  a. bohlender , d.  durand , & t.  h. handley , 228+      , m. , blaylock , g. , bond , i.  h. , bradbury , s.  m. , buckley , j.  h. , carter - lewis , d.  a. , celik , o. , cogan , p. , cui , w. , daniel , m. , duke , c. , falcone , a. , fegan , d.  j. , fegan , s.  j. , finley , j.  p. , fortson , l. , gammell , s. , gibbs , k. , gillanders , g.  g. , grube , j. , gutierrez , k. , hall , j. , hanna , d. , holder , j. , horan , d. , humensky , b. , kenny , g. , kertzman , m. , kieda , d. , kildea , j. , knapp , j. , kosack , k. , krawczynski , h. , krennrich , f. , lang , m. , lebohec , s. , linton , e. , lloyd - evans , j. , maier , g. , mendoza , d. , milovanovic , a. , moriarty , p. , nagai , t.  n. , ong , r.  a. , power - mooney , b. , quinn , j. , quinn , m. , ragan , k. , reynolds , p.  t. , rebillot , p. , rose , h.  j. , schroedter , m. , sembroski , g.  h. , swordy , s.  p. , syson , a. , valcarel , l. , vassiliev , v.  v. , wakely , s.  p. , walker , g. , weekes , t.  c. , white , r. , zweerink , j. , mochejska , b. , smith , b. , aller , m. , aller , h. , tersranta , h. , boltwood , p. , sadun , a. , stanek , k. , adams , e. , foster , j. , hartman , j. , lai , k. , bttcher , m. , reimer , a. , & jung , i. 2005 , , 630 , 130    , j.  s. , starr , d.  l. , blake , c.  h. , skrutskie , m.  f. , & falco , e.  e. 2006 , in asp conf .",
    "ser . 351 : astronomical data analysis software and systems xv , ed . c.  gabriel ,",
    "c.  arviset , d.  ponz , & s.  enrique , 751+                        , d.  r. , welch , w.  j. , dreher , j. , tarter , j. , blitz , l. , davis , m. , fleming , m. , bock , d. , bower , g. , lugten , j. , girmay - keleta , g. , daddario , l.  r. , harp , g.  r. , ackermann , r. , weinreb , s. , engargiola , g. , thornton , d. , & wadefalk , n. 2004 , in ground - based telescopes . edited by oschmann , jacobus m. , jr . proceedings of the spie , volume 5489 , pp .",
    "1021 - 1028 ( 2004 ) . ,",
    "j.  m. oschmann , jr .",
    ", 10211028          , s.  m. , phillips , a.  c. , kibrick , r.  i. , alcott , b. , allen , s.  l. , burrous , j. , cantrall , t. , clarke , d. , coil , a.  l. , cowley , d.  j. , davis , m. , deich , w.  t.  s. , dietsch , k. , gilmore , d.  k. , harper , c.  a. , hilyard , d.  f. , lewis , j.  p. , mcveigh , m. , newman , j. , osborne , j. , schiavon , r. , stover , r.  j. , tucker , d. , wallace , v. , wei , m. , wirth , g. , & wright , c.  a. 2003 , in instrument design and performance for optical / infrared ground - based telescopes .",
    "edited by iye , masanori ; moorwood , alan f. m. proceedings of the spie , volume 4841 , pp .",
    "1657 - 1669 ( 2003 ) . ,",
    "m.  iye & a.  f.  m. moorwood , 16571669                , b.  m. , kouveliotou , c. , gelfand , j.  d. , taylor , g.  b. , eichler , d. , wijers , r.  a.  m.  j. , granot , j. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , lyubarsky , y.  e. , hunstead , r.  w. , campbell - wilson , d. , van der horst , a.  j. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , fender , r.  p. , garrett , m.  a. , newton - mcgee , k.  j. , palmer , d.  m. , gehrels , n. , & woods , p.  m. 2005 , , 434 , 1104        , n. , sarazin , c.  l. , obrien , p.  t. , zhang , b. , barbier , l. , barthelmy , s.  d. , blustin , a. , burrows , d.  n. , cannizzo , j. , cummings , j.  r. , goad , m. , holland , s.  t. , hurkett , c.  p. , kennea , j.  a. , levan , a. , markwardt , c.  b. , mason , k.  o. , meszaros , p. , page , m. , palmer , d.  m. , rol , e. , sakamoto , t. , willingale , r. , angelini , l. , beardmore , a. , boyd , p.  t. , breeveld , a. , campana , s. , chester , m.  m. , chincarini , g. , cominsky , l.  r. , cusumano , g. , de pasquale , m. , fenimore , e.  e. , giommi , p. , gronwall , c. , grupe , d. , hill , j.  e. , hinshaw , d. , hjorth , j. , hullinger , d. , hurley , k.  c. , klose , s. , kobayashi , s. , kouveliotou , c. , krimm , h.  a. , mangano , v. , marshall , f.  e. , mcgowan , k. , moretti , a. , mushotzky , r.  f. , nakazawa , k. , norris , j.  p. , nousek , j.  a. , osborne , j.  p. , page , k. , parsons , a.  m. , patel , s. , perri , m. , poole , t. , romano , p. , roming , p.  w.  a. , rosen , s. , sato , g. , schady , p. , smale , a.  p. , sollerman , j. , starling , r. , still , m. , suzuki , m. , tagliaferri , g. , takahashi , t. , tashiro , m. , tueller , j. , wells , a.  a. , white , n.  e. , & wijers , r.  a.  m.  j. 2005 , , 437 , 851                                                                    , t. , lamb , d.  q. , kawai , n. , yoshida , a. , graziani , c. , fenimore , e.  e. , donaghy , t.  q. , matsuoka , m. , suzuki , m. , ricker , g. , atteia , j .- l . , shirasaki , y. , tamagawa , t. , torii , k. , galassi , m. , doty , j. , vanderspek , r. , crew , g.  b. , villasenor , j. , butler , n. , prigozhin , g. , jernigan , j.  g. , barraud , c. , boer , m. , dezalay , j .- p . ,",
    "olive , j .- f . , hurley , k. , levine , a. , monnelly , g. , martel , f. , morgan , e. , woosley , s.  e. , cline , t. , braga , j. , manchanda , r. , pizzichini , g. , takagishi , k. , & yamauchi , m. 2005 , , 629 , 311    , d. , eisenhardt , p. , gorjian , v. , kochanek , c.  s. , caldwell , n. , eisenstein , d. , brodwin , m. , brown , m.  j.  i. , cool , r. , dey , a. , green , p. , jannuzi , b.  t. , murray , s.  s. , pahre , m.  a. , & willner , s.  p. 2005",
    ", , 631 , 163          , w. , aschenbach , b. , boller , t. , bruninger , h. , briel , u. , burkert , w. , dennerl , k. , englhauser , j. , gruber , r. , haberl , f. , hartner , g. , hasinger , g. , krster , m. , pfeffermann , e. , pietsch , w. , predehl , p. , rosso , c. , schmitt , j.  h.  m.  m. , trmper , j. , & zimmermann , h.  u. 1999 , , 349 , 389            rrrrr + 15 00 11.48 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 12 42.26 @xmath184 00.13 & 26 & 2380 @xmath184 73 & 502 @xmath184 17 + 15 00 44.87 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 18 39.04 @xmath184 00.32 & 4 & 874 @xmath184 36 & 180 @xmath184 7 + 15 01 11.70 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 15 20.23 @xmath184 00.10 & 141 & 504 @xmath184 6 & 307 @xmath184 4 + 15 01 16.19 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 12 45.88 @xmath184 00.10 & 363 & 1146 @xmath184 14 & 741 @xmath184 5 + 15 01 22.67 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 18 05.66 @xmath184 00.10 & 452 & 880 @xmath184 9 & 634 @xmath184 3 + 15 02 51.40 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 18 12.46 @xmath184 00.10 & 23 & 351 @xmath184 19 & 155 @xmath184 3 + 15 03 24.83 @xmath184 0.14 & 78",
    "17 37.62 @xmath184 00.46 & 1 & 318 @xmath184 54 & 166 @xmath184 4 + 15 03 28.07 @xmath184 0.30 & 78 09 21.50 @xmath184 01.04 & 1 & 2045 @xmath184 301 & @xmath185 +   + 15 01 11.13 @xmath184 0.12 & 78 15 22.45 @xmath184 00.32 & 1 & 1081 @xmath184 154 & 291 @xmath184 9 + 15 01 22.58 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 18 05.80 @xmath184 00.10 & 159 & 1099 @xmath184 36 & 794 @xmath184 8 + 15 02 51.38 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 18 13.14 @xmath184 00.18 & 3 & 518 @xmath184 31 & 225 @xmath184 4 + 15 03 23.41 @xmath184 0.41 & 78 17 35.74 @xmath184 00.64 & 1 & 840 @xmath184 157 & 212 @xmath184 8 +    rrrrrrrrr + 19840502 & 15 02 24.61 @xmath184 0.21 & 78 16 10.08 @xmath184 00.46 & 448 @xmath184 74 & @xmath186 & 7 & @xmath187 & 4.5 & x + 19840613 & 15 01 38.07 @xmath184 0.21 & 78 18 40.75 @xmath184 00.39 & 566 @xmath184 81 & @xmath188 & 7 & @xmath189 & 7.5 & g + 19860115 & 15 02 26.40 @xmath184 0.44 & 78 17 32.39 @xmath184 01.59 & 370 @xmath184 67 &",
    "@xmath186 & 7 & @xmath190 & 3.6 & x + 19860122 & 15 00 50.15 @xmath184 0.34 & 78 15 39.37 @xmath184 01.38 & 1586 @xmath184 248 & @xmath191 & 7 & @xmath192 & 6.4 & x + 19920826 & 15 02 59.89 @xmath184 0.35 & 78 16 10.82 @xmath184 02.44 & 642 @xmath184 101 & @xmath193 & 56 & @xmath194 & 6.3 & ?",
    "+ 19970528 & 15 00 23.55 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 13 01.37 @xmath184 00.17 & 1731 @xmath184 232 & @xmath195 & 7 & @xmath196 & 7.9 & ? + 19990504 & 14 59 46.42 @xmath184 0.56 & 78 20 29.03 @xmath184 00.74 & 7042 @xmath184 963 & @xmath197 & 21 & @xmath198 & 9.1 & x +   + 19970205 & 15 01 29.35 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 19 49.20 @xmath184 00.10 & 2234 @xmath184 288 & @xmath199 & 5 & @xmath200 & 8.0 & x +    rrrrrrrrr + 19870422 & 15 00 50.01 @xmath184 0.35 & 78 09 45.49 @xmath184 0.97 & @xmath201 & @xmath202 & 96 & @xmath203 & 3.0 & g +   + 20010331 & 15 03 46.18 @xmath184 0.10 & 78 15 41.68 @xmath184 00.11 & 697 @xmath184 94 & @xmath204 & 59 & 85 @xmath184 85 & 3.4 & x +    lrrrrr 19840613 & p023 - 0189928 & 2.7@xmath205 nw & 16.5 & 1.8 & 0.040 + 19860115 - 1 & p023 - 0190130 & 15@xmath205 ne & 19.2 & 1.3 & 0.130 + 19860115 - 2 &  & 20@xmath205 sw & & & 0.242 + 19870422 & p023 - 0189613 & 1.5@xmath205 se & 20.2 & 2.5 & 0.249 + 19920826 &  & 5@xmath205 nw & & & unknown + 19970528 &",
    "p023 - 0189499 & 5@xmath205 se & 19.6 & 2.4 & 0.245 +    rrrrrrr 70 & 9 & 0.16 & 0 & 0.0 & 9 & 0.16 + 100 & 10 & 0.24 & 0 & 0.0 & 10 & 0.24 + 140 & 12 & 0.34 & 0 & 0.0 & 12 & 0.34 + 200 & 35 & 0.50 & 0 & 0.0 & 35 & 0.50 + 280 & 201 & 1.42 & 442 & 1.45 & 435 & 2.19 + 400 & 464 & 4.57 & 560 & 3.08 & 761 & 6.20 + 560 & 561 & 9.14 & 584 & 4.79 & 873 & 11.68 + 800 & 596 & 14.56 & 591 & 6.64 & 910 & 18.09 + 1120 & 606 & 19.85 & 591 & 8.40 & 924 & 24.31 + 1600 & 607 & 25.51 & 598 & 10.28 & 925 & 30.97 +    rrrrrrr 70 & 24 & 0.10 & 9 & 0.02 & 26 & 0.1 + 100 & 41 & 0.49 & 38 & 0.22 & 54 & 0.56 + 140 & 55 & 0.91 & 61 & 0.67 & 73 & 1.11 + 200 & 75 & 1.51 & 74 & 1.31 & 99 & 1.91 + 280 & 90 & 2.24 & 78 & 1.97 & 115 & 2.84 + 400 & 95 & 3.11 & 78 & 2.69 & 120 & 3.94 + 560 & 95 & 3.93 & 78 & 3.37 & 120 & 4.97 + 800 & 95 & 4.81 & 78 & 4.09 & 120 & 6.07 + 1120 & 95 & 5.64 & 78 & 4.77 & 120 & 7.11 + 1600 & 95 & 6.52 & 78 & 5.48 & 120 & 8.22 +    rrrrrrr 50 & 5 & 0.02 & 10 & 0.02 & 15 & 0.04 + 70 & 13 & 0.09 & 14 & 0.05 & 15 & 0.10 + 100 & 17 & 0.24 & 15 & 0.08 & 20 & 0.26 + 140 & 17 & 0.38 & 15 & 0.14 & 20 & 0.42 + 200 & 17 & 0.53 & 16 & 0.18 & 21 & 0.57 + 280 & 17 & 0.67 & 16 & 0.23 & 21 & 0.73 + 400 & 17 & 0.82 & 16 & 0.27 & 21 & 0.89 + 560 & 17 & 0.96 & 16 & 0.32 & 21 & 1.14 + 800 & 17 & 1.09 & 16 & 0.35 & 21 & 1.19 + 1120 & 17 & 1.15 & 16 & 0.36 & 21 & 1.24 + 1600 & 17 & 1.16 & 16 & 0.36 & 21 & 1.25 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of a 944-epoch survey for transient sources with archival data from the very large array spanning 22 years with a typical epoch separation of 7 days . </S>",
    "<S> observations were obtained at 5 or 8.4  ghz for a single field of view with a full - width at half - maximum of @xmath0 and @xmath1 , respectively , and achieved a typical point - source detection threshold at the beam center of @xmath2jy per epoch . </S>",
    "<S> the angular resolution ranged from @xmath3 to @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> ten transient sources were detected with a significance threshold such that only one false positive would be expected . </S>",
    "<S> of these transients , eight were detected in only a single epoch . </S>",
    "<S> two transients were too faint to be detected in individual epochs but were detected in two - month averages . </S>",
    "<S> none of the ten transients was detected in longer - term averages or associated with persistent emission in the deep image produced from the combination of all epochs . </S>",
    "<S> the cumulative rate for the short timescale radio transients above 370 @xmath5jy at 5 and 8.4 ghz is @xmath6 , where the uncertainty is due to the unknown duration of the transients , @xmath7 . </S>",
    "<S> a two - epoch survey for transients will detect @xmath8 transient per square degrees above a flux density of 370 @xmath5jy . </S>",
    "<S> one transient is located @xmath9 kpc in projection from the nucleus of a spiral galaxy at a redshift @xmath10 . </S>",
    "<S> based on the duration of the transient , its luminosity ( @xmath11 erg s@xmath12 ) , and its location in the galaxy , we suggest that it may be similar to the peculiar type ib / c radio supernova sn 1998bw associated with grb 980428 . </S>",
    "<S> the implied type ib / c rate is consistent to an order of magnitude with rates determined optically . </S>",
    "<S> a second transient is associated with a blue galaxy at @xmath13 and may also be a luminous radio supernova or gamma - ray burst afterglow . </S>",
    "<S> two other transient sources are possibly associated with the outer parts of faint , optically detected galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the remaining six transients have no counterparts in the optical or infrared to limiting magnitudes of @xmath14 and @xmath15 and show no faint persistent radio flux . </S>",
    "<S> for the eight transients without clear associations , known source classes of radio transients including radio supernovae , gamma - ray burst afterglows , active galactic nuclei , and stellar flares do not provide natural fits to the observed parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the hosts and progenitors of these transients are unknown . </S>"
  ]
}