{
  "article_text": [
    "the detection of extra - solar planets in recent years has led to significant advances and challenges in theories regarding planet formation .",
    "in particular , planetary migration @xcite and atmosphere models @xcite have been faced with intense revision in light of the gradually revealed distribution of exoplanetary orbital parameters . the major contribution to revealing",
    "this distribution has resulted from large - scale radial velocity surveys , such as those being conducted by the california & carnegie planet search @xcite and the high accuracy radial velocity planet searcher ( harps ) @xcite teams . moreover , the transit method is experiencing increased success through surveys such as the transatlantic exoplanet survey ( tres ) @xcite , the xo project @xcite , the hungarian automated telescope network ( hatnet ) @xcite , and superwasp @xcite .",
    "the improving detection rate from transit surveys is due in no small part to the increasing understanding of optimal photometric methods for wide - field detectors @xcite and the reduction of correlated ( red ) noise @xcite .",
    "radial velocity measurements of an extra - solar planet provide such information as a lower - limit on the planetary mass along with the orbital period and eccentricity .",
    "however , if we are fortunate enough to view the orbit nearly edge - on , then measurements of the planetary transit provide a wealth of complimentary information which reveals the true mass , the radius , and hence the mean density of the planet @xcite .",
    "the discovery of these transits has thus far been mostly due to the `` brute force '' approach of wide - field searches , such as those mentioned above . in at least four instances",
    "though , the planetary transits were detected for extra - solar planets which were already known via their radial velocity discoveries .",
    "these four planets are hd 209458b @xcite , hd 149026b @xcite , hd 189733b @xcite , and gj 436b @xcite ; the physical characteristics of which span the large diversity seen amongst the short - period ( @xmath1 510 days ) planets known as hot jupiters .",
    "further attempts have been made to detect possible transits of certain radial velocity planets @xcite which , though unsuccessful , have placed useful constraints on orbital parameters . for those with the interest and the resources to participate in follow - up observations , transit ephemerides for the known radial velocity planets are provided by a useful online resource .",
    "various current and future radial velocity surveys are predicted to uncover a large number of exoplanets @xcite .",
    "optimal period analysis and modelling of the data can be used to produce a predicted transit ephemeris .",
    "since the percentage of transiting planets amongst hot jupiters is around 10% based upon the geometric transit probability ( assuming a random distribution of line - of - sight orbital inclinations ) , it is expected that photometric follow - up of the radial velocity planets will lead to a significant amount of transiting planet discoveries .",
    "the error bars on the predicted observing windows will of course increase with the time elapsed since the last data were obtained .",
    "it is therefore important to develop an efficient observing strategy for photometric follow - up at the predicted times .",
    "there is an observed difference between the period distributions of planets discovered by the transit method and the radial velocity method @xcite .",
    "even though the transit method is extremely sensitive to short period planets , the fact that the radial velocity method is also increasingly sensitive to shorter period planets has led to speculation as to how much of the observed difference is real and how much may be attributed to radial velocity selection effects .",
    "it is possible that the observing strategy of many radial velocity surveys may contribute to a bias against detecting the very hot jupiters found by the transit surveys .",
    "this paper presents a summary of how the radial velocity information acquired on an extra - solar planet may be used to construct a photometric follow - up strategy which is optimised towards detecting planetary transits .",
    "section 2 outlines the orbital parameters measurable from radial velocity data and how that leads to a predicted epoch of a planetary transit .",
    "section 3 explains the photometric follow - up strategy , including the transit ephemeris , observing window , and the best telescope / instrument to use for the observations .",
    "section 4 describes a possible correlation of radial velocity observing strategy with the dearth in very hot jupiter discoveries from radial velocity surveys .",
    "section 5 compares the optimal strategy with other proposed methods and dicusses the application of the techniques to various current and future radial velocity surveys for extra - solar planets .",
    "the radial velocity and transit methods provide complimentary information regarding both the orbital parameters of the planet and the physical characteristics of the planet itself .",
    "this section describes how , provided the orbital parameters are determined with sufficient accuracy from fitting the radial velocity data , the times of possible transit can be predicted .      , and the true anomaly , @xmath2.,width=309 ]    the information provided by radial velocity measurements allows one to construct a model of the planetary orbit which only excludes the orbital inclination .",
    "the measured radial velocity of the parent star , @xmath3 , is given by @xmath4 where @xmath5 is the systemic velocity , @xmath6 is semi - amplitude , @xmath7 is the argument of periastron , @xmath8 is the true anomaly , and @xmath9 is the eccentricity .",
    "the argument of periastron is the angle between the plane of the sky and the position at periastron .",
    "the true anomaly is the angle between the position at periastron and the current position in the orbit measured at the focus of the ellipse .",
    "the definitions of @xmath7 and @xmath8 for the planet ( designated @xmath10 and @xmath2 ) are demonstrated in figure 1 , where there is a @xmath11 phase shift relative to @xmath12 .",
    "the semi - amplitude of the radial velocity , @xmath6 , may be expressed as @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the period , @xmath15 is the inclination of the planetary orbit , and @xmath16 is the total combined mass of the planet and parent star respectively .",
    "the orbital period is also related to the semi - major axis of the planetary orbit , @xmath17 , via kepler s third law : @xmath18 careful fitting of the data and spectral typing of the parent star will therefore lead to estimations of @xmath19 along with @xmath14 and @xmath9 .",
    "precision photometry obtained during a planetary transit uncovers further information .",
    "in particular , the radius of the planet is extracted via the flux difference inside and outside of transit : @xmath20 where @xmath21 and @xmath22 are the radii of the planet and parent star respectively .",
    "the complete light curve for the transit including the effect of quadratic limb - darkening can be computed using the formalism shown in @xcite . the inclination of the orbit is readily resolved since the transit duration , @xmath23 , depends upon its magnitude : @xmath24 thus leading to a resolution of the @xmath19 ambiguity .",
    "equation ( 5 ) applies to the case of a circular orbit , but can be generalised to also apply to eccentric orbits @xcite : @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the total combined radii of the planet and parent star .",
    "the dependence of the transit duration on the true anomaly in this case leads to a shorter duration near periastron and a longer duration near apastron .",
    "the complimentary nature of the two detection techniques linked by their common determination of the orbital period has lead to a successful partnership of the two methods . in the context of this paper ,",
    "the most important aspect of the complimentary nature is the usefulness of the constructed orbital model in the prediction of a possible planetary transit .",
    "this will be described in detail in later sections .",
    "geometrically , the probability of a planet passing between the observer and the planet s parent star is naturally quite low .",
    "the probability of an observable planetary transit occurring depends upon the inclination of the planet s orbital plane @xmath15 satisfying @xmath27 . the transit probability , @xmath28 , is then given by @xmath29 where @xmath30 is the eccentric anomaly . for a circular orbit",
    ", this simplifies to @xmath31 from which it is clear that , as far as the probability is concerned , the size of the planet is of little consequence and the dependence lies mostly upon the size of the parent star and the orbital radius .",
    "however , equations ( 4 ) and ( 7 ) show that the transit method clearly favours large planets orbiting their parent stars at small orbital radii .",
    "thus , many of the hot jupiters discovered via radial velocity surveys are expected to also exhibit a photometric transit signature .",
    "figure 2 shows the dependence of the geometric transit probability on semi - major axis and orbital period for a jupiter - radius planet in a circular orbit around a solar - radius star .",
    "the transit probability decreases very rapidly with increasing period and leading to an almost negligible probability beyond a 50 day period orbit .",
    "thus , most of the currently known transiting extra - solar planets have periods less than 5 days since this region of period space has by far the highest probability of producing an observable transit .",
    "figure 2 also shows the equivalent peak radial velocity amplitude that would be produced by a transiting jupiter - mass planet orbiting a solar - mass star as a function of period , assuming a circular orbit . this relation shows a similar dependence on period for the given period range .",
    "according to @xcite , 0.5%1% of sun - like stars in the solar neighbourhood have been found to harbour a jupiter - mass companion in a 0.05 au ( 35 day ) orbit .",
    "assuming that the orbital plane of these short - period planets are randomly oriented , the geometric transit probability is approximately 10% . by performing monte - carlo simulations such as those conducted by @xcite",
    ", one can use this probability to predict the number of observable transits in a given survey field .",
    "if the planets are first discovered by the radial velocity method , then one is mostly able to avoid the false - alarm contaminants , such as those described by @xcite , that plague purely photometric transit surveys .      [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     there are a variety of factors which can possibly contribute to an overall bias of radial velocity surveys against detecting 1 day or even 2 day period planets .",
    "transit surveys are of course very strongly biased towards detecting shorter period planets due to the geometric transit probability being so much higher in this regime .",
    "in fact there is also a slight bias towards detecting planets via the transit method around small ( late - type ) stars since the depth of the transit lightcurve is significantly larger .",
    "this bias has thus far been balanced by the difficulties imposed in achieving sufficient photometric precision of m dwarfs and also that magnitude - limited wide - field transit surveys tend to be dominated by a similar distribution of f ",
    "k stars as those surveyed by radial velocity experiments .",
    "the smaller roche limit for m dwarfs may also be useful in explaining the difference in period distributions of the transit and radial velocity surveys though , as pointed out by @xcite , the current small number statistics of the known transiting planets limits such an investigation .",
    "one of the main contributing factors to the radial velocity bias is undoubtedly the adopted observing strategy of the survey in question .",
    "a typical survey strategy will obtain one data point per target per night .",
    "in addition , it is also typical to use the same observing schedule each night , usually to secure observations when the target is closest to the zenith and hence at minimum airmass . in the case where several observations are obtained for a single target on a single night",
    ", these are often binned together to produce a single high s / n image .",
    "this results in effectively observing the target at approximately the same time every night .    in principle , observing a target once per day does not immediately exclude 1 day period planets from detection . figure 7 shows an example of a case in which a planetary signature with an approximately 1 day period is easily recovered relatively quickly during 30 consecutive nights of observations .",
    "the times of observation for the simulated data were produced by taking an identical time of observation for each night and then passing each time through a gaussian filter with a standard deviation of 4 hours .",
    "this method of randomizing the time of observation results in a large variation of observing times from night to night .",
    "the top - right plot in figure 7 shows the dramatic drop in false - alarm probability on a significant period estimate beyond @xmath32 data points , at which point the estimate has settled upon the correct 1 day period .",
    "the particular aspect of the observing strategy with the most impact is the change in observing time per target per night .",
    "a quantitative estimate of this impact was calculated by performing a monte - carlo simulation which produced several thousand simulated radial velocity datasets containing planetary signatures with periods between 0.9 and 1.1 days .",
    "the datasets assumed 30 consecutive nights and the time of observation each night was passed through a gaussian filter with a standard deviation ranging from 1 to 4 hours .",
    "a weighted lomb - scargle periodogram was calculated for each dataset and the difference in false - alarm probability between the two highest peaks was used as a quality estimate into the ambiguity of the period . through this simulation ,",
    "an assessment of the effect of observing time on the likelihood of planet detection was produced .",
    "figure 8 shows the results of the simulation . as demonstrated by figures 7 and 8 , the chances of being able to reliably determine the period of a short period planet are exceptionally high when times of observations are sufficiently scattered between nights .",
    "however , when the times of observations are quite close , within an hour of each other for example , then the periodogram begins to be plagued with aliases .",
    "thus , increasing the time range over which data is obtained for a particular target greatly reduces the relative strength of contaminating period aliases .",
    "it is often the case that 1 day period aliases are discarded from radial velocity surveys due to their ambiguous nature .",
    "the signature of planets with periods close to 1 day are then particularly vulnerable to the effect shown in figure 8 .",
    "transit surveys also suffer contamination by 1 day period aliases , though this is due to factors such as night - to - night variations and red - noise rather than the sampling intervals .",
    "there is a chance also of missing two day period planets if observations only occur ( either due to weather or other interuptions ) every other day .",
    "the effect is compounded by the fact that most radial velocity surveys only observe a target long enough to ascertain if the target is variable .",
    "this is typically assessed after a handful ( 510 ) of data points have been acquired .",
    "the effect described here certainly does not completely account for the lack of very hot jupiters detected via radial velocity surveys . by providing a quantitative estimate of the effect however , modifying observing strategies",
    "accordingly may improve sensitivity to those planets in the future .",
    "solutions to the problem depend upon the times at which the target is observable and will usually compromise observing time .",
    "an example is to observe the target at a similar airmass either side of the meridian .",
    "the rate at which radial velocity planets are being discovered is increasing , a trend which is expected to continue as next - generation radial velocity surveys are realised . considering the high number of expected hot jupiters from current and future surveys , the techniques presented here will be useful in planning follow - up photometric observations of targets .",
    "provided these follow - up observations of the planet candidates are conducted within a reasonably short time interval , the predicted transit windows will allow swift confirmation of whether or not the planet s orbit is favourably inclined for transits to be visible .",
    "surveys such as that being conducted by the n2k consortium @xcite are already employing such techniques , and has allowed them to make at least one successful transit detection @xcite .",
    "the methods presented here are part of an end - to - end system which allows the entire follow - up observing program to be designed around the information available from the radial velocity measurements and produced in a semi - automated fashion .",
    "the rvsim code mentioned here and described further in @xcite was used , for example , in calculating the predicted transit ephemeris for hd 102195b @xcite .",
    "follow - up observations were conducted during the predicted transit windows using an automatic photoelectric telescope @xcite located at fairborn observatory .",
    "these observations rule out transits of the planetary companion .",
    "the probability of an exoplanet transiting its parent star increases dramatically with decreasing period .",
    "perhaps ironically , the very hot jupiters with the highest geometric transit probability remain elusive to the radial velocity surveys .",
    "this may be helped slightly by designing an observing schedule which uses a large scatter in observing times on consecutive nights , although this only applies to planets whose period are close to a small integer number of days .",
    "once radial velocity surveys begin to uncover these ultra - short period planets , the number of transiting planets detected via the radial velocity method will correspondingly increase .",
    "even so , radial velocity planets with periods close to an integer number of days are difficult to follow - up photometrically because the transit phasing shifts very slowly with respect to the night - day occurrence .",
    "there are several multi - object radial velocity surveys for extra - solar planets which are currently underway , using such facilities as giraffe and flames - uves on the vlt @xcite and a dispersed fixed - delay interferometer instrument , called the keck et @xcite , on the sloan digital sky survey 2.5 m telescope @xcite",
    ". the use of these instruments to survey such fields as the kepler field , as suggested by @xcite , will provide invaluable information for the kepler mission @xcite regarding stars with companions ; whether they be planetary or stellar in nature .",
    "in particular , photometry of suspected long - period planets for which only a handful of transits are observed will benefit greatly from existing radial velocity data which are able to immediately confirm their planetary nature . considering that kepler is expected to discover planets with periods larger than 1 year during the mission lifetime , this is an important factor to consider .",
    "simple calculations based upon the frequency of hot jupiters and the geometric transit probability show that around 0.1% of solar - type stars should have a detectable transit due to an extra - solar planet . in practise",
    "however , the number of transiting planets detected via transit surveys is much reduced , largely due to the issues of false positives and correlated `` red '' noise .",
    "this paper describes strategies for efficient photometric follow - up of radial velocity planets to maximise the number of transit discoveries .",
    "since the target star is known to harbour a planet , the transit detection is unaffected by many of the problems posed by blind transit surveys and is simply limited by the transit probability .",
    "the radial velocity and transit techniques of exoplanet detection are complimentary in the information they provide regarding orbital and physical parameters . for longer period planets",
    ", there is an increasing chance of orbital eccentricity which can significantly alter the predicted time of transit .",
    "though the transit probability decreases in this regime , the expected increase in planet discoveries at longer orbital periods will lead to transiting planets found in eccentric orbits .",
    "the transit window must also be handled with care , in particular taking into account the increase in window size due to the period uncertainty .",
    "the fortran code rvsim is designed to automatically ingest , test for periodocity , and fit models to large amounts radial velocity data from planet surveys .",
    "in addition , a transit ephemeris is computed together which the observing windows , and the required s / n for successful detection is estimated . in this way , an end - to - end process has been constructed which is able to produce a customised observing campaign complete with the telescope and instrument requirements .",
    "we present an example using a 1.0 m telescope , the class of which is relatively available and make an ideal choice for fast follow - up of stars with known radial velocity planets .    the discovery of transiting planets can be increased with improved observing strategies for radial velocity surveys which eliminate any biases against 12 day period planets .",
    "we have demonstrated a possible cause for such a bias and have suggested a programmed observing schedule which increases the standard deviation in the times of observation .",
    "the ultimate goal is to facilitate a radial velocity survey design in such a way that they are more efficient at detecting very hot jupiters which of course have the highest chance to transit their parent star .",
    "although the detection of transiting planets via radial velocity surveys is largely free from the observational biases which plague `` blind '' transit surveys , the true distribution of transiting planets probably wo nt be fully realised until missions such as kepler begin their much anticipated observations .",
    "these surveys are not without their own biases , but the large expected number of transiting planets detected will yield unprecedented insight into the formation and properties of these short - period planets .",
    "the author would like to thank suvrath mahadevan , julian van eyken , scott fleming , and robert wilson for several useful discussions .",
    "the author is also grateful for the constructive suggestions of the referee .",
    "agol , e. , steffan , j. , sari , r. , clarkson , w. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 567 aigrain , s. , favata , f. , gilmore , g. , 2004 , a&a , 414 , 1139 bakos , g.a . , et al . ,",
    "2007a , apj , 656 , 552 bakos , g.a .",
    ", et al . , 2007b , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0705.0126 ) basri , g. , borucki , w.j . ,",
    "koch , d. , 2005 , new astron .",
    ", 49 , 478 bouchy , f. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 444 , l15 brown , t.m . , 2003 , apj , 593 , l125 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , hubeny , i. , 2006 , apj , 650 , 1140 butler , r.p . , et al . , 2006 , apj , 646 , 505 charbonneau , d. , brown , t.m",
    "latham , d.w . , mayor , m. , 2000 , apj , 529 , l45 collier cameron , a. , et al . , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 951 fischer , d.a . , et al . , 2005 , apj , 620 , 481 ford , e.b . , rasio , f.a . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 638 , l45 gaudi , b.s . ,",
    "seager , s. , mallen - ornelas , g. , 2005 , apj , 623 , 472 gaudi , b.s . , winn , j.n . , 2007 , apj , 655 , 550 ge , j. , et al .",
    ", 2006a , apj , 648 , 683 ge , j. , et al .",
    ", 2006b , proc .",
    "spie , 6269 , 75 gillon , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , in press ( arxiv:0705.2219 ) gunn , j.e .",
    ", et al . , 2006 , aj , 131 ,",
    "2332 halbwachs , j.l . , mayor , m. , udry , s. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 1129 hartman , j.d . ,",
    "bakos , g. , stanek , k.z .",
    ", noyes , r.w . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 128 , 1761 hbrard , g. , lecavelier des tangs , a. , 2006 , a&a , 445 , 341 henry , g.w . , 1999 ,",
    "pasp , 111 , 845 henry , g.w . ,",
    "marcy , g.w . ,",
    "butler , r.p . ,",
    "vogt , s.s . , 2000 , apj , 529 ,",
    "l41 lecar , m. , wheeler , j.c . ,",
    "mckee , c.f .",
    ", 1976 , apj , 205 , 556 kane , s.r .",
    ", collier cameron , a. , horne , k. , james , d. , lister , t.a . ,",
    "pollacco , d.l . , street , r.a . , tsapras , y. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 1091 kane , s.r . ,",
    "schneider , d.p .",
    ", ge , j. , 2007 , mnras , 377 , 1610 lineweaver , c.h . , grether , d. , 2003 , apj , 598 , 1350 loeillet , b. , et al . , 2007 , a&a , submitted ( astro - ph/0703725 ) lpez - morales , m. , morrell , n.i . , butler , r.p .",
    ", seager , s. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1506 mandel , k. , agol , e. , 2002 , apj , 580 , l171 marcy , g.w . , butler , r.p . ,",
    "williams , e. , bildsten , l. , graham , j.r . ,",
    "ghez , a.m. , jernigan , g. , 1997 , apj , 481 , 926 mccullough , p.r .",
    ", et al . , 2006 , apj , 648 , 1228 mclaughlin , p.r",
    ". , 1924 , apj , 60 , 22 odonovan , f.t . ,",
    "et al . , 2006 , apj , 651 , l61 ohta , y. , taruya , a. , suto , y. , 2005 , apj , 622 , 1118 pepe , f. , et al . , 2004 , a&a , 423 , 385 pont , f. , zucker , s. , queloz , d. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 231 rice , w.k.m . ,",
    "armitage , p.j .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 630 , 1107 rossiter , r.a . , 1924 , apj , 60 , 15 sato , b. , et al .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 633 , 465 seager , s. , malln - ornelas , g. , 2003 , apj , 585 , 1038 shankland , p.d . , et al . , 2006 , apj , 653 , 700 tamuz , o. , mazeh , t. , zucker , s. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 1466 tingley , b. , sackett , p.d . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 627 , 1011 wittenmyer , r.a . , et al . , 2005 , apj , 632 , 1157"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> of the known transiting extra - solar planets , a few have been detected through photometric follow - up observations of radial velocity planets . </S>",
    "<S> perhaps the best known of these is the transiting exoplanet hd 209458b . for hot jupiters ( periods less than @xmath0 days ) , the a priori information that 10% of these planets will transit their parent star due to the geometric transit probability leads to an estimate of the expected transit yields from radial velocity surveys . </S>",
    "<S> the radial velocity information can be used to construct an effective photometric follow - up strategy which will provide optimal detection of possible transits . </S>",
    "<S> since the planet - harbouring stars are already known in this case , one is only limited by the photometric precision achieveable by the chosen telescope / instrument . </S>",
    "<S> the radial velocity modelling code presented here automatically produces a transit ephemeris for each planet dataset fitted by the program . </S>",
    "<S> since the transit duration is brief compared with the fitted period , we calculate the maximum window for obtaining photometric transit observations after the radial velocity data have been obtained , generalising for eccentric orbits . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss a typically employed survey strategy which may contribute to a possible radial velocity bias against detection of the very hot jupiters which have dominated the transit discoveries . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we describe how these methods can be applied to current and future radial velocity surveys .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : planetary systems  methods : observational </S>"
  ]
}