{
  "article_text": [
    "many empirical quantities cluster around a typical value . the speeds of cars on a highway , the weights of apples in a store , air pressure , sea level , the temperature in new york at noon on midsummer s day .",
    "all of these things vary somewhat , but their distributions place a negligible amount of probability far from the typical value , making the typical value representative of most observations . for instance , it is a useful statement to say that an adult male american is about 180 cm tall because no one deviates very far from this size .",
    "even the largest deviations , which are exceptionally rare , are still only about a factor of two from the mean in either direction and hence the distribution can be well - characterized by quoting just its mean and standard deviation .",
    "not all distributions fit this pattern , however , and while those that do not are often considered problematic or defective for just that reason , they are at the same time some of the most interesting of all scientific observations .",
    "the fact that they can not be characterized as simply as other measurements is often a sign of complex underlying processes that merit further study .    among such distributions ,",
    "the power law has attracted particular attention over the years for its mathematical properties , which sometimes lead to surprising physical consequences , and for its appearance in a diverse range of natural and man - made phenomena .",
    "the populations of cities , the intensities of earthquakes , and the sizes of power outages , for example , are all thought to have power - law distributions .",
    "quantities such as these are not well characterized by their typical or average values .",
    "for instance , according to the 2000 us census , the average population of a city , town , or village in the united states is 8226 .",
    "but this statement is not a useful one for most purposes because a significant fraction of the total population lives in cities ( new york , los angeles , etc . )",
    "whose population is larger by several orders of magnitude .",
    "extensive discussions of this and other properties of power laws can be found in the reviews by mitzenmacher  @xcite , newman  @xcite , and sornette  @xcite , and references therein .",
    "mathematically , a quantity @xmath0 obeys a power law if it is drawn from a probability distribution @xmath1 where @xmath2 is a constant parameter of the distribution known as the exponent or scaling parameter .",
    "the scaling parameter typically lies in the range @xmath3 , although there are occasional exceptions .    in practice ,",
    "few empirical phenomena obey power laws for all values of  @xmath0 .",
    "more often the power law applies only for values greater than some minimum  @xmath4 . in such cases",
    "we say that the tail of the distribution follows a power law .    in this article",
    ", we address a recurring issue in the scientific literature , the question of how to recognize a power law when we see one . in practice ,",
    "we can rarely , if ever , be certain that an observed quantity is drawn from a power - law distribution . the most we can say is that our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that @xmath0 is drawn from a distribution of the form of eq .  . in some cases",
    "we may also be able to rule out some other competing hypotheses . in this paper",
    "we describe in detail a set of statistical techniques that allow one to reach conclusions like these , as well as methods for calculating the parameters of power laws when we find them .",
    "many of the methods we describe have been discussed previously ; our goal here is to bring them together to create a complete procedure for the analysis of power - law data .",
    "a short description summarizing this procedure is given in box  1 .",
    "software implementing it is also available on - line .    practicing what we preach",
    ", we also apply our methods to a large number of data sets describing observations of real - world phenomena that have at one time or another been claimed to follow power laws . in the process , we demonstrate that several of them can not reasonably be considered to follow power laws , while for others the power - law hypothesis appears to be a good one , or at least is not firmly ruled out .",
    "we begin our discussion of the analysis of power - law distributed data with some brief definitions of the basic quantities involved .",
    "power - law distributions come in two basic flavors : continuous distributions governing continuous real numbers and discrete distributions where the quantity of interest can take only a discrete set of values , typically positive integers .",
    "let @xmath0 represent the quantity whose distribution we are interested in .",
    "a continuous power - law distribution is one described by a probability density  @xmath5 such that @xmath6 where @xmath7 is the observed value and @xmath8 is a normalization constant .",
    "clearly this density diverges as @xmath9 so eq .   can not hold for all @xmath10 ; there must be some lower bound to the power - law behavior .",
    "we will denote this bound by @xmath4 .",
    "then , provided @xmath11 , it is straightforward to calculate the normalizing constant and we find that @xmath12    in the discrete case , @xmath0  can take only a discrete set of values . in this paper we consider only the case of integer values with a probability distribution of the form @xmath13 again this distribution diverges at zero , so there must be a lower bound  @xmath14 on the power - law behavior . calculating the normalizing constant",
    ", we then find that @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the generalized or hurwitz zeta function .",
    "table  [ table : distributions ] summarizes the basic functional forms and normalization constants for these and several other distributions that will be useful .    in many cases",
    "it is useful to consider also the complementary cumulative distribution function or cdf of a power - law distributed variable , which we denote @xmath17 and which for both continuous and discrete cases is defined to be @xmath18 .",
    "for instance , in the continuous case @xmath19 in the discrete case @xmath20    because formulas for continuous distributions , such as eq .  , tend to be simpler than those for discrete distributions , it is common to approximate discrete power - law behavior with its continuous counterpart for the sake of mathematical convenience .",
    "but a word of caution is in order : there are several different ways to approximate a discrete power law by a continuous one and though some of them give reasonable results , others do not .",
    "one relatively reliable method is to treat an integer power law as if the values of  @xmath0 were generated from a continuous power law then rounded to the nearest integer .",
    "this approach gives quite accurate results in many applications .",
    "other approximations , however , such as truncating ( rounding down ) , or simply assuming that the probabilities of generation of integer values in the discrete and continuous cases are proportional , give poor results and should be avoided .    where appropriate we will discuss the use of continuous approximations for the discrete power law in the sections that follow , particularly in section  [ sec : fitting ] on the estimation of best - fit values for the scaling parameter from observational data and in appendix  [ appendix : deviates ] on the generation of power - law distributed random numbers .       as an example of these techniques , consider continuous and discrete power laws having @xmath21 and @xmath22 .",
    "table  [ table : deviates ] gives the cumulative density functions for these two distributions , evaluated at integer values of  @xmath0 , along with the corresponding cumulative density functions for three sets of @xmath23 random numbers generated using the methods described here . as the table shows , the agreement between the exact and generated cdfs is good in each case , although there are small differences because of statistical fluctuations . for numbers generated using the continuous approximation to the discrete distribution the errors are somewhat larger than for the exact generators , but still small enough for many practical applications ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> power - law distributions occur in many situations of scientific interest and have significant consequences for our understanding of natural and man - made phenomena . </S>",
    "<S> unfortunately , the detection and characterization of power laws is complicated by the large fluctuations that occur in the tail of the distribution  the part of the distribution representing large but rare events  and by the difficulty of identifying the range over which power - law behavior holds . </S>",
    "<S> commonly used methods for analyzing power - law data , such as least - squares fitting , can produce substantially inaccurate estimates of parameters for power - law distributions , and even in cases where such methods return accurate answers they are still unsatisfactory because they give no indication of whether the data obey a power law at all . </S>",
    "<S> here we present a principled statistical framework for discerning and quantifying power - law behavior in empirical data . </S>",
    "<S> our approach combines maximum - likelihood fitting methods with goodness - of - fit tests based on the kolmogorov - smirnov statistic and likelihood ratios . </S>",
    "<S> we evaluate the effectiveness of the approach with tests on synthetic data and give critical comparisons to previous approaches . </S>",
    "<S> we also apply the proposed methods to twenty - four real - world data sets from a range of different disciplines , each of which has been conjectured to follow a power - law distribution . </S>",
    "<S> in some cases we find these conjectures to be consistent with the data while in others the power law is ruled out .    </S>",
    "<S> power - law distributions ; pareto ; zipf ; maximum likelihood ; heavy - tailed distributions ; likelihood ratio test ; model selection    62 - 07 , 62p99 , 65c05 , 62f99 </S>"
  ]
}