{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last few decades , stellar population synthesis has become one of the most popular and powerful techniques to study the formation and evolution histories of galaxies too distant to be resolved into individual stars . in particular , the measurement of absorption line - strengths combined with stellar population models has been used to investigate the luminosity - weighted age , metallicity and abundance ratios in integrated stellar populations .",
    "extensive work has been carried out on stellar populations in early - type galaxies , mainly using long - slit spectra ( see for example @xcite , davies , sadler & peletier 1993 , fisher , franx & illingworth 1995 , fisher , franx & illingworth 1996 , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) and recently also integral - field spectroscopy ( kuntschner et al . 2006 ,",
    "hereafter paper vi , mcdermid et al .",
    "2006 , hereafter paper viii ) .",
    "the main advantage brought by the integral - field observations is that one can obtain two - dimensional maps and easily identify extended structures . in particular",
    ", the two - dimensional coverage gives the possibility to straightforwardly connect the stellar populations with the kinematical structures and therefore represents a powerful tool towards a comprehensive understanding of the structure of the galaxy .",
    "+ some literature is also available on absorption line - strengths in early - type spiral galaxies , mainly s0 and sa galaxies ; ( see for example jablonka , martin & arimoto 1996 , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and peletier et al .",
    "2007 , hereafter paper xi ) .",
    "in particular , @xcite presents two - dimensional absorption line - strength maps of 24 spiral galaxies , mostly of type sa , observed with the integral - field spectrograph sauron ( bacon et al .",
    "2001 , hereafter paper i ) ; these reveal young populations in sa galaxies , possibly formed in mini - starbursts in structures such as nuclear discs , circular star forming rings and bars .",
    "these mini - starbursts generate a large scatter in index - index diagrams , larger than observed for elliptical galaxies . as a consequence",
    ", there is a large range in luminosity - weighted ages .",
    "different star formation modes -starbursts or quiescent- are also reflected in the wide range observed in the abundance ratios .",
    "all the galaxies of paper xi lie on or below the mg_b _ - @xmath1 relation for ellipticals determined by jrgensen , franx & kjrgaard ( 1996 ) .",
    "the authors argue that , if one considers that relation as valid for old galaxies , then the early - type spirals present a scatter in age , with the biggest scatter for the smallest velocity dispersions .",
    "+ spiral galaxies towards the end of the hubble sequence are , on the other hand , still poorly - studied objects , due to the difficulty of obtaining reliable measurements in these low - surface brightness objects , full of dust and star forming regions , whose spectra can be dramatically contaminated by emission - lines .",
    "in particular , the study of their stellar populations is extremely complicated . an approach based on broad - band colours",
    "is basically invalidated by the huge amount of dust , which is very difficult to take into account , especially when working with data from ground - based telescopes . a spectroscopic approach , relying for example on stellar absorption - strength indices , has instead to deal with the almost ubiquitous presence of gas with consequent emission , which makes it necessary to accurately remove the emission - lines from the spectra before performing any population analysis . only in the last decade",
    "several hst - based imaging surveys have targeted these late - type galaxies . particularly relevant",
    "are the papers by @xcite , carollo & stiavelli 1998 , carollo , stiavelli & mack 1998 , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , where the authors reveal the presence of a variety of structures in the inner regions , such as bulges , nuclear star clusters , stellar discs , small bars , double bars and star forming rings whose formation and evolutionary pattern are not properly understood yet .",
    "@xcite also performed a population analysis on nine late - type spiral galaxies ( types between sa and sc ) on the basis of hst acs and nicmos optical and near - infrared colours .",
    "the high spatial resolution of their space - based data allowed them to mask dust features and measure the properties of the stellar populations from the colours ; this method , together with the high spatial resolution provided by hst , produced results that do not suffer much from the effects of dust ; only a smooth dust distribution would not be detected . from their analysis , they found a large range in the colour properties of bulges in late - type spirals , reflecting a large range in their stellar population properties . from a comparison with population models",
    ", they concluded that in about half of their bulges the bulk of the stellar mass formed at early epochs ( more than 50% of their mass was formed more than 9 gyr ago ) , and that in the other half a non - negligible fraction of the stellar mass ( up to 25% ) was formed recently , in the last @xmath2 3 gyr .",
    "+ until now , only little spectroscopic counterpart for the quoted imaging was available , due to the mentioned observational difficulties .",
    "the published work ( @xcite , zaritsky , kennicutt & huchra 1994 , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) mainly refers to the emission - line properties , to the characteristics of the hii regions or to the nature of the innermost component . in particular , no study has addressed yet in a systematic way the stellar populations of late - type spiral galaxies with a two - dimensional coverage .",
    "existing studies on abundances concern topics such as elemental abundances in hii regions and the distribution of oxygen within discs @xcite , not properties inferred from the integrated stellar absorption spectrum . as for the absorption - lines properties ,",
    "there is ongoing work by macarthur , gonzalez & courteau ( 2007 ) , who analyse long - slit spectra ( gemini - gmos ) of eight spiral galaxies of type between sa and scd on a wide spectral range , measuring many absorption indices out to 1 - 2 disc scale - lengths .",
    "also , @xcite presented line - strengths in the bulges and inner discs of 38 galaxies of morphological type between s0 and sc for which they acquired long - slit spectra on a broad spectral range including balmer lines , mg and fe features .",
    "they concluded that the central regions of bulges span a wide range both in ssp metallicity and age , confirming the results of @xcite .",
    "they also found that luminosity - weighted metallicities and abundance ratios are sensitive to the value of the central velocity dispersion and of the maximum disc rotational velocity , and that red bulges ( defined as those with b@xmath6k @xmath7 4 ) of all types are similar to luminous ellipticals and obey the same scaling relations ; for the blue bulges ( b@xmath6k @xmath8 4 ) they observed instead some differences .",
    "they also addressed the radial variations of the population parameters ; in most cases , they measured negative metallicity gradients with increasing radius , in the bulge - dominated region ; positive gradients in age were found only in barred galaxies .",
    "+ as mentioned , there is still a lack of work on populations in late - type spirals on a full two - dimensional field",
    ": we therefore started a project on a sample of 18 late - type spiral galaxies , with the purpose of investigating the nature of their inner regions , addressing the bulge and disc formation and evolution , the interconnection between stellar and gaseous components and the star formation history .",
    "given the high complexity in the inner regions of these objects , integral - field spectroscopy has to be preferred with respect to long - slit , providing a full picture of the kinematics and populations on a two - dimensional field of view .",
    "we observed our 18 late - type spiral galaxies using sauron , an integral - field spectrograph that was built for a representative census of ellipticals , lenticulars and early - type spiral galaxies , to which in the rest of this paper we will refer as ` the sauron survey ' .",
    "our project can be regarded as an extension of the sauron survey towards later - type objects .",
    "first results based on our data are presented by @xcite and focus on the stellar and gas kinematical maps .",
    "the main findings of that paper are that in many cases the stellar kinematics suggests the presence of a cold inner region , as visible from a central drop in the velocity dispersion , detected in about one third of the sample ; that the ionized gas is almost ubiquitous and often presents more irregularities in its kinematics than the stellar component ; and that the line ratio [ oiii]/h@xmath0 assumes often low values over most of the field , possible indication for wide - spread star formation , in contrast to early - type galaxies . + as a following step in our project , we subtracted the emission - lines from our sauron spectra , measured as explained in @xcite , and on the emission - cleaned spectra derived absorption line - strength indices in the lick / ids system ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) , which allows an easier comparison with existing data and with other classes of objects . here",
    "we present and analyse the absorption line - strength maps .",
    "the data and maps presented in this paper will be made available via the sauron web page http://www.strw.leidenuniv.nl / sauron/. + the paper is structured as follows .",
    "section 2 briefly describes the sample selection , observations and data reduction .",
    "section 3 reviews the analysis methods . in section 4 we present the line - strength maps for all the galaxies in our sample .",
    "in section 5 we investigate the correlations between different indices and between indices and other galactic parameters , such as the morphological type and the central velocity dispersion , mainly focussing on the central values . in section 6",
    "we present our estimates for the ages and metallicities , obtained by comparison of our observed line - strength indices with model predictions ; we also explore the star formation history and give estimates for the time - scale @xmath5 , in an exponentially declining star formation rate scenario .",
    "section 7 summarises the main results . in appendix",
    "a we deal with the radial variations of the indices and the stellar population parameters , presenting azimuthally averaged radial profiles .",
    "appendix b shortly describes the individual galaxies and their peculiarities , giving a brief summary of relevant literature information . for more literature reviews on these objects",
    ", we suggest the reader to check section 6.4 in @xcite .",
    "the galaxies were optically selected ( @xmath9 @xmath8 12.5 , according to the values given in @xcite , hereafter rc3 ) with hst imaging available from wfpc2 and/or nicmos .",
    "their morphological type ranges between sb and sd , following the classification given in ned ( from the rc3 ) .",
    "galaxies in close interaction and seyferts were discarded .",
    "the resulting sample contains 18 nearby galaxies , whose main properties are listed and illustrated respectively in table 1 and fig . 1 in @xcite .",
    "the ngc numbers and some characteristics are reported also in the tables in the present paper .",
    "observations of the 18 sample galaxies were carried out during 6 nights in january 2004 , using the integral - field spectrograph sauron attached to the 4.2-m wht .",
    "the exposure details are listed in table 2 in @xcite .",
    "+ we used the low spatial resolution mode of sauron , giving a field - of view ( fov ) of 33 @xmath10 41 .",
    "the spatial sampling of individual exposures is determined by an array of 094 @xmath10 094 square lenses .",
    "this produces 1431 spectra per pointing over the sauron fov ; another 146 lenses sample a region 19 away from the main field in order to measure simultaneously the sky background .",
    "sauron delivers a spectral resolution of 4.2  fwhm , and its maximum spectral coverage is 4800 - 5380  ; the wavelength interval common to all lenses is the narrow spectral range 4825 - 5275  ( 1.1  per pixel ) .",
    "this wavelength range includes a number of important stellar absorption lines ( e.g. h@xmath0 , fe5015 , mg_b _ ) , and potential emission - lines as well ( h@xmath0 , [ oiii ] , [ ni ] ) . for a more exhaustive description of the instrument , see @xcite",
    ". + data reduction was carried out using the dedicated software xsauron developed at centre de recherche astronomique de lyon ( cral ) .",
    "for details on the data reduction we refer the reader to @xcite and @xcite . for an explanation of the spectrophotometric calibration we recommend the reader to study paper vi , in particular its section 3.1 .",
    "the fully reduced and calibrated spectra were first spatially binned using a voronoi tessellation @xcite in order to reach a minimum signal - to - noise ratio of @xmath2 60 per spectral resolution element per bin .",
    "the kinematics of stars and gas were then extracted from the binned spectra via the pixel - fitting methods extensively described in @xcite , emsellem et al .",
    "( 2004 , hereafter paper iii ) , and sarzi et al .",
    "( 2006 , hereafter paper v ) , that we already applied to calculate the kinematical maps shown in @xcite .",
    "the spectra were fitted using the ssp models from @xcite .",
    "we selected a library of 48 models evenly sampling a wide range in both age and metallicity ( 0.50 @xmath3 age @xmath3 17.78 gyr , @xmath61.68 @xmath3 [ fe / h ] @xmath3 + 0.20 ) .",
    "we used this ssp library and additional gaussian templates reproducing the emission - lines to fit the observed spectra , separating the emission - lines from the underlying absorption line spectrum ( see @xcite for details on the procedure ) .",
    "we notice that for our objects this separation is crucial if we want to measure absorption strengths , since in spiral galaxies the gas is almost ubiquitous and emission in several cases dominates the spectrum , filling in completely the absorption features , as shown for example in the cases of some central aperture spectra in the top row of fig .",
    "[ spec_864 ] ( black lines ) ; in the same figure we overplot the best - fit to the spectra obtained with our method ( red lines ) and the emission - removed spectra ( blue lines ) , illustrating the reliability of the applied gas - cleaning procedure .",
    "the bottom row of fig . [ spec_864 ] presents similar plots for bins located @xmath2 10 from the galaxy s centre , showing that our fits and emission correction are reliable also outside the central region , given the fact that a minimum signal - to - noise of 60 is garanteed by the spatial binning .",
    "the reader can find more examples of this in fig . 1 in @xcite , fig . 3 in @xcite , and fig . 3 in falcn - barroso et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , hereafter paper vii .",
    "+ we also notice that in two cases ( namely , ngc2964 and ngc4102 ) we detected regions of activity ( see @xcite for a description ) , where the spectra are characterised by double - peaked emission - lines due to the presence of multiple velocity components in the gas , because of the presence of a jet .",
    "in those regions our method of fitting the lines with single gaussians fails to reproduce accurately the line profile , but since this is limited to only a few spectra , we did not modify the method . in any case , this does not have any impact on our following analysis , since the double - peaked emission - lines do not contaminate the spectra defining the central aperture ( see section [ correlationsec ] ) on which most of this study is focused on .      on the emission - removed spectra we calculated line - strength indices on the lick / ids system . for details on the actual computation of the line - strengths , we refer to @xcite .",
    "the calibration to the lick / ids system takes into account several effects : the difference in spectral resolution between the lick / ids system and the sauron instrumental setup , the internal velocity broadening of the observed galaxies and small systematic offsets rising from differences in the shape of the continuum , due to the fact that the original lick / ids spectra have not been flux calibrated . in our observing run , we obtained spectra for 21 different stars in common with the lick / ids stellar library @xcite , for a total of 39 repeated observations . fig . [ lickoffsets ] shows the difference between the lick / ids measurements and ours ( for stars with repeated observations , we considered the average of the different values available ) .",
    "we calculated the mean offsets to the lick / ids system and their dispersion using bi - square weighting in order to minimize the influence of the outliers , after removing from the sample two stars of spectral type m6iii and m7iii , whose measured metal indices differ more than 2   from the lick measurements .",
    "the adopted offsets that we applied to all our measurements are : @xmath60.06   ( @xmath11 0.06  ) for h@xmath0 , + 0.32  ( @xmath11 0.15  ) for fe5015 and + 0.15   ( @xmath11 0.05  ) for mg_b_. +    from a visual inspection of our maps of the fe5015 index , we saw that our measurements tend to assume high values in the outer parts , especially in the bottom - right corner , revealing a systematic effect that makes the maps look asymmetric .",
    "the most striking manifestation of the problem is this ` high - iron corner ' , but there could be as well regions where the index is too low .",
    "a detailed inspection of the spectra showed that the cause is a wrong shape of the continuum in the fe5015 spectral region , as proved by the fact that we are unable to fit our twilight spectra using our ssp template library : the fe5015 region is not matched by the templates , and the fe5015 map calculated on the twilight spectra is not flat over the field , showing a range of about 1.6   from minimum to maximum value .",
    "this continuum problem could be due to instrumental instabilities , to the high sensitivity of the grism to the incidence angle of the light , to the imperfect extraction of the spectra , to the misalignment of the spectra with respect to the columns of the ccd ( see @xcite ) .",
    "we can exclude , instead , relations with problems in the gas removal , since the fe5015 measurement is affected also in the twilight frame , where the spectra are gas - free .",
    "in addition to this , continuum problems should not influence the gas - cleaning procedure : in the fitting , a polynomial is included in order to account for differences in the flux calibration between the observed spectra and the model ones .",
    "+ unfortunately , we could not take this effect into account properly at the data reduction stage , and decided to apply a correction to the affected spectra before measuring the fe5015 index .",
    "a problem related to the shape of the continuum was experienced also for the early - type spirals of the sauron survey and affected the h@xmath0 measurements , due to the closeness of the spectral feature to the edge of the spectral range ; despite the fact that the problem is different , we worked out a correction similar to the one that was there applied in the case of h@xmath0 and described in @xcite ( section 3.1.2 ) .",
    "+ for each galaxy , we averaged the spectra within an aperture of 10 radius , obtaining a ` global spectrum ' for that galaxy .",
    "we then fitted this global spectrum using a linear combination of ssp templates , masking the spectral regions possibly affected by emission lines . in this way we obtained for each galaxy a ` global optimal template ' that approximates very well the general spectral features of that galaxy .",
    "then we considered the two - dimensional galaxy s datacube , spatially binned and cleaned from emission as explained in the previous sections ; for each bin , we fitted the cleaned spectrum using the ` global optimal template ' together with an 11-th order multiplicative polynomial , over the whole spectral range .",
    "the fit determined the best - fitting polynomial continuum , from which we then removed the linear component ( which does not change the line indices ) ; we considered the residuals and calculated their rms variation over the wavelength range of fe5015 . for bins covering four or more single - lens spectra and with an rms greater than 0.01",
    ", we used the fitted polynomial as a correction to the spectral shape by dividing it through the emission - cleaned spectrum .",
    "for these bins , we finally measured the fe5015 index on the corrected spectrum .",
    "+ this correction depends critically on the assumption that the optimal template is an accurate representation of the true galaxy spectrum . whilst this is generally true , in the central ,",
    "sometimes bulge - dominated , regions of our galaxies , non - solar abundance ratios can create a fit residual similar in size to the systematic effect we wish to remove . by correcting only bins containing four or more lenses , we avoid these central parts , since the data there are unbinned . correcting large bins is also important because of their larger contribution to the spatial appearance of the maps . + we verified the fe5015 correction using exposures of the twilight sky .",
    "as we mentioned above , in the twilight maps of fe5015 , a spatial gradient was also visible , as is apparent in the galaxy data . in the uncorrected twilight , the field centre gave values of fe5015 close @xmath2 4  , consistent with a typical g2v - g4v sun - like spectrum , showing that the field centre is not significantly affected by the problem .",
    "after applying our correction technique , the gradient was reduced , and the global level remained around 4  . we show this in fig .",
    "[ twilightcorrection ] , where we display the fe5015 map calculated on the twilight frame , before and after applying the correction .",
    "similarly , in fig . [ correctionexample ] we show the fe5015 map for ngc488 before and after correction .",
    "white asterisks mark the centroids of the bins that have been corrected .",
    "the correction clearly removes most of the asymmetry , proving the usefulness of the method applied .",
    "+    figure [ correctedregions ] presents for each galaxy the map of the rms deviations of the fitted continuum after removal of a linear slope .",
    "we plot in black the bins that do not meet the requirements for the correction , for which we have artificially put the rms to 0 ( for plotting purposes only ) ; in these bins the fe5015 index is calculated on the original emission - cleaned spectra .",
    "the maps are oriented with the horizontal and vertical axis aligned , respectively , to the long- and to the short- axis of the sauron field .",
    "the extension of the corrected area is mainly related to the signal - to - noise of the data : galaxies with poor signal - to - noise will require higher binning and the big bins will undergo the correction . +    as for the uncertainties on the measured indices , the most worrying factor is the separation of emission and absorption lines .",
    "simulations presented in appendix a of paper v show that the accuracy in recovering the emission - line fluxes does not depend on the a / n ratio between the line amplitude and the noise level in the stellar continuum , but only on the signal - to - noise level in the stellar continuum itself .",
    "these simulations were meant to investigate the accuracy of emission - line fluxes measurements for ellipticals and lenticulars .",
    "in the case of signal - to - noise = 60 , the typical uncertainties in the line fluxes obtained in appendix a of paper v translates in errors in the equivalent width of the emission line of @xmath2 0.08  , and in similar errors in the absorption line indices .",
    "@xcite presents absorption line - strengths for early - type spirals observed with sauron ; in some of the galaxies studied there , the emission lines are stronger by a factor up to 100 , relative to the absorption lines , than in the ellipticals or lenticulars of paper v with the strongest emission - lines .",
    "therefore , for the objects in paper xi the situation is much closer to what happens in our spirals .",
    "there , the authors report results of similar simulations of the reliability of the gas cleaning , exploring a range in a / n ranging up to 100 .",
    "the results are such that the errors in the absorption line indices do not vary appreciably with increasing a / n .",
    "when coming to the data , one has to consider that the spectra are packed close together , so that the absorption lines are affected by neighbouring spectra ; despite the reduction tries to minimize this contamination , there might be some residual effects , particularly in presence of strong emission lines .",
    "additional errors can derive from template mismatch in the fitting procedure and from the continuum correction described above .",
    "therefore , throughout the rest of the paper we adopt a conservative value of 0.2  for the uncertainties in h@xmath0 and mg_b _ and 0.3   in fe5015 .",
    "the same figures were used in paper xi .",
    "figures [ maps1]-[maps9 ] present the absorption line - strength maps of the 18 galaxies , ordered by increasing ngc number . for each galaxy , in the first row",
    "we show the total intensity obtained by integrating the full sauron spectra in the wavelength direction , the galaxy ngc number ( and the ugc also , when available ) , and the two - dimensional map of the characteristic time - scale of star formation @xmath5 , in gyr ( see section [ continuum ] ) .",
    "overlapped in pink on the intensity map are the contours delimiting the outer limits of the so - called ` bulge ' and ` disc regions ' , defined in section [ correlationsec ] . in the second row we present the two - dimensional maps of h@xmath0 , fe5015 and mg_b _ , where the measured indices have been calibrated to the lick / ids system and are expressed in equivalent widths and measured in  .",
    "the maps of fe5015 have been corrected as explained in section [ correctionsec ] ; the corrected bins are marked with a white dot . in the third row , we present the maps of age ( expressed in units of decimal logarithm and measured in gyr ) , metallicity ( in units of decimal logarithm , with the solar metallicity as zero point ) and abundance ratios obtained with the one - ssp approach ( see section [ singlessp ] ) . overplotted on each map are the isophotal contours . the maps are all plotted with the same spatial scale , and oriented with the horizontal and vertical axis aligned , respectively , to the long- and to the short- axis of the sauron field for presentation purposes ; the orientation is the same as in @xcite and as in figures [ correctionexample ] and [ correctedregions ] in this paper .",
    "the relative directions of north and east are indicated by the arrow above the galaxy s name .",
    "the maximum and minimum of the plotting ranges and the colour table are given in the tab attached to each map . to make the comparison among different objects more immediate",
    ", we adopted the same plotting ranges for all of the galaxies , but in appendix [ individuals ] we will enlighten the spatial structures within the single maps , when noticeable , by inspecting the maps plotted on a ` galaxy - by - galaxy range ' .",
    "in this section we analyse the dependence between the line - strength indices and other galactic parameters ; we mainly focus on central properties . for each galaxy we defined three regions : the central circular aperture of 15 radius ( corresponding to the innermost nine single - lens spectra ) ; a so - called ` bulge region ' , defined as the region within which the light due to the fitted exponential disc falls below 50% of the total light , with the exclusion of the central aperture ; and a so - called ` disc region ' , a 3-thick elliptical annulus external to the ` bulge region ' 13 south of the centre . ] .",
    "we averaged the spectra in these regions before spatial binning , and on the resulting spectrum calculated the line - strength indices , after emission removal : in several cases , even the disc region is affected only partially by the correction ; in addition to this , the bulge and disc region measurements are obtained averaging spectra from spatially separated areas , which helps in minimising the impact of the continuum problem in the fe5015 spectral region . ] .",
    "the actual numbers for the definition of the bulge and disc regions ( semi - major axis of the ellipses , position angles and ellipticities ) were taken from our own photometric analysis and bulge - disc decomposition based on archival nir images ( ganda et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "there we model the galaxies as an exponential disc and a srsic ( 1968 ) bulge ( which often turns out to be very tiny , with effective radius smaller than @xmath2 5 ) and apply a two - dimensional decomposition from which we can estimate the bulge extension ( cfr .",
    "@xcite for the method and ganda et al . , in preparation , for the actual analysis of the profiles ) . for clarity , in the top left map in figures [ maps1]-[maps9 ] we overplot in pink the elliptical contours defining the outer limits of the ` bulge region ' and of the ` disc region ' . in any case",
    ", we want to warn the reader that the ` bulge ' and ` disc ' regions here introduced are mainly a tool for us to investigate radial variations , and do not refer to distinct components , since the so - called ` bulge ' is affected by a huge contamination from the disc , and an accurate decomposition is beyond the scopes of the present paper , and will be addressed in detail in the mentioned paper in preparation . + in table [ tableproperties ] we list the morphological type ( from the rc3 ) and the stellar velocity dispersion , with its associated error , measured on the central aperture spectra , since we will make use of these quantities in the following sections and figures ; the errors on the velocity dispersion are based on the scatter of the velocity dispersion values that we measure for the single - lens spectra within the central aperture , and do not take into account template mismatch .",
    "table [ indicesvalues ] lists the index values calculated , galaxy by galaxy , on the central aperture and on the bulge and disc regions .",
    ".hubble type ( rc3 through ned ) ; numerical morphological type ( from rc3 , indicated as ` t - type ' in some of the following pictures ) ; stellar velocity dispersion ( in km s@xmath12 ) and its associated error , also in km s@xmath12 , measured on the central aperture spectrum , for all galaxies . [ cols=\"^,<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     if we focus on the values obtained for the central apertures , we find a correlation between the best - fitting @xmath5 and the central velocity dispersion , as shown in fig . [ tauvssigma ] where we plot log(@xmath5 ) against log(@xmath1 ) .",
    "we see that higher @xmath1 galaxies , which are larger and more massive , tend to have shorter star formation time - scales , more consistent with an instantaneous burst scenario , while at the low-@xmath1 end the smaller galaxies tend to have larger @xmath5 , indicating a star formation history spread over time .",
    "therefore , the time - scale @xmath5 represents a physically meaningful parameter , parametrizing a smooth transition from ssp - like to constant sfr .",
    "+        figure [ tauvsindices ] shows that rather tight correlations exist also between the central @xmath5 and the central line - strength indices .",
    "these plots tell us that old , metal - rich galaxies ( low h@xmath0 , high fe5015 and mg_b _ values ) have shorter star formation time - scales , while young and more metal poor galaxies ( higher h@xmath0 , lower fe5015 and mg_b _ ) have a star formation history more extended in time : we find again a smooth transition between a ssp - like and constant star formation .",
    "the central aperture values of @xmath5 used in figures [ tauvssigma ] and [ tauvsindices ] are listed in table [ tauvalues ] .",
    "+        we also investigated the constant star formation history scenario , by selecting the corresponding option when using the programs from bruzual & charlot , building a grid with the model indices for the exponentially declining star formation rate and adding those for constant star formation rate , for the various metallicity values selected and for @xmath13 = 1 and age fixed to 10 gyr .",
    "when applying our @xmath14 minimisation procedure , we found that the constant star formation was preferred in the regions where the fit with the exponential star formation only had selected the highest values allowed for the time - scale @xmath5 .",
    "this confirms our interpretation of @xmath5 as a parameter describing a continuous transition from constant sfr to ssp .",
    "+ we then repeated the analysis for different values of the fixed age of the evolved models , spanning the range 1 - 18 gyr and found that the @xmath5 values depend on the fixed age , given the existence of a strong degeneracy between age and @xmath5 , while the metallicities are more robust .",
    "+ the main interpretative difficulty of this method is indeed due to the degeneracies in the parameter space , which are difficult to break with the few observed lick indices that we measure .",
    "nevertheless , by inspecting the contours of @xmath15 in the ( @xmath5-metallicity ) plane , for several choices of the fixed age of the evolved models , we can in some cases exclude certain star formation scenarios in favour of others , even though we can not give a precise , quantitative estimate of the fitted parameters .",
    "for example , in the case of ngc488 , if we look at the two - dimensional @xmath15 space ( metallicity , @xmath5 ) , for a fixed age of the evolved models ) , and look at the contours in the ( @xmath5-metallicity ) plane representing the 3-@xmath1 confidence level , based on the @xmath15 for one degree of freedom , we notice that it lies in a region far from the high-@xmath5 end , and this happens independently on the chosen values of the fixed age .",
    "even if we perform the minimisation by allowing free age , @xmath5 and metallicity , and examine the projection of the @xmath15 contours in the ( @xmath5-age ) plane , we see that for all ages we can exclude large @xmath5 values at a high confidence level .",
    "this must be regarded as an exercise , since we are not interested in fitting simultaneously age and @xmath5 , but it gives us insight on the impact of the degeneracies and of our assumptions on the robustness of our conclusions .",
    "thus , for ngc488 we can safely state that we can exclude a constant star formation scenario in favour of an exponentially declining star formation rate , with a short time - scale @xmath5 ( closer to an instantaneous burst than to a constant sfr ) .",
    "this is illustrated in the first column in fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] .",
    "similar hints for the star formation history of other galaxies will be given , whenever possible , in appendix [ individuals ] , dedicated to the description of the single galaxies individually . for all galaxies ,",
    "the @xmath15 contours for the fit at different fixed ages and with free age are presented in figures [ chi2contours1]-[chi2contours3 ] .",
    "in this paper we presented the first integral - field measurements of line - strength indices and stellar population parameters for a sample of late - type spiral galaxies .",
    "this work is based on data of 18 spirals spanning a range in type between sb and sd , observed with sauron , which provides measurements of the lick indices h@xmath0 , fe5015 and mg_b _ over a field of view covering the nuclear region of our objects .",
    "+ here we summarise the main achievements of the paper :    * we presented the two - dimensional maps of the line - strength indices and analysed the values extracted on a central aperture of 15 radius .",
    "* we looked at the relations with morphological type : we found that late - type spirals do differ from earlier - type galaxies in terms of their populations , having globally higher h@xmath0 values and lower metal indices than ellipticals , lenticulars and early - type spirals .",
    "this suggests younger ages and lower metallicities .",
    "* we investigated the relations between indices and central velocity dispersion : late - type spirals do not obey the index - @xmath1 relations found for early - type galaxies : our galaxies lie above the h@xmath0 - @xmath1 and below the mg_b _ - @xmath1 relations determined for the elliptical galaxies , that correspond to old populations .",
    "* we determined ssp - equivalent ages , metallicities and abundance ratios by comparison of our observed indices with models : ages are mainly young , metallicities low and abundance ratios close to solar ; the range spanned in the parameters is narrower than for early - type spirals .",
    "* we investigated the possibility of recovering the star formation history : we assumed that the galaxies formed 10 gyr ago , and that they experienced an exponentially declining or constant star formation rate since then , and compared our indices with the evolved models of @xcite ; the fit returned an estimate for the @xmath4-folding time - scale for star formation @xmath5 , which parametrizes a smooth transition from a ssp - like star formation history to a constant sfr : small @xmath5 approximate an instantaneous burst and very large @xmath5 reproduce a constant sfr ; for the central apertures of our galaxies , we found a large range in @xmath5 values , from 1 to 15 gyr , covering basically the whole parameter interval that we explored . *",
    "interestingly , we found a trend between the fitted @xmath5 and the central velocity dispersion , in the sense that galaxies with large @xmath1 tend to have small @xmath5 and galaxies with low @xmath1 tend to have large @xmath5 .",
    "our observations and results nicely fit in the scenario summarised by @xcite : there are two modes of star formation ; one takes place in the extended discs of spiral and irregular galaxies , the other in compact gas discs in the nuclear regions of galaxies .",
    "the first has been detected mainly via h@xmath16 surveys and it is strongly dependent on the morphological type : the star formation rate increases by a factor of @xmath2 20 going from sa to sc galaxies .",
    "similar information is derived from observations of the uv continuum and broadband visible colours .",
    "the second mode of star formation can be found in the circumnuclear regions ; the physical conditions in these regions are in many cases distinct from the more extended star forming discs .",
    "the circumnuclear star formation is characterised by the absolute range in sfr , much higher spatial concentration of gas and stars and its burst - like nature @xcite .",
    "circumnuclear star formation is largely decoupled from hubble type .",
    "studies on the dependence of nuclear h@xmath16 emission in star forming nuclei as a function of galaxy type ( @xcite , @xcite , ho , filippenko , & sargent 1997 ) showed that the detection frequency of hii region nuclei is a monotonic function of type , increasing from 0% in elliptical galaxies to 8% in s0 , 22% in sa , 51% in sb , and 80% in sc - i m galaxies . among the galaxies with nuclear star formation ,",
    "the h@xmath16 luminosities show the opposite trend ; the average extinction - corrected luminosity of hii region nuclei in s0 - sbc galaxies is nine times higher than in sc galaxies .",
    "the conclusion of these studies , as summarised by @xcite , is that the bulk of the total nuclear star formation in galaxies is weighted towards the earlier hubble types , even though the frequency of occurrence is higher in the late types . according to @xcite , the central star formation accounts for 10 - 100% of the total sfr of spiral galaxies .",
    "the highest fractions occur in early - type spiral galaxies , which typically have low sfrs in their outer discs @xcite .",
    "+ the work presented in this paper supports this picture : if we put together the information gathered from the sample of e / s0s of paper vi , the sample of sa galaxies of paper xi and our own sample , and look at the behaviour along the hubble sequence , we find that early - type spirals show a larger range in age than both e / s0s and late - type spirals ; this is consistent with a scenario where the star formation in elliptical and lenticular galaxies is not very important , in early - type spirals it is dominated by short bursts and in late - type galaxies it is more quiescent .",
    "this is also supported by our finding that big spirals tend to have an ssp - like star formation history , while for smaller ones the star formation history is better approximated by a constant over time .",
    "+ the following steps in the analysis of the sauron data here presented and discussed will be a full investigation of the spatial information , with a more detailed study of the radial profiles ( here shown in appendix [ gradientssec ] ) and the gradients , and an interpretation of the connection between features in the line - strengths maps and in the morphological appearance .",
    "the interdependencies between the populations and the kinematical structures @xcite will also be examined .",
    "+ the main limitation of our work is the degeneracy in the parameter space in the different approaches we investigated .",
    "our analysis relies on three data - points only ( the line - strength indices within the sauron spectral range ) , which are too few to break the degeneracies and constrain the fitted parameters .",
    "therefore , it is urgent to complement the data presented here with spectra with a broader spectral coverage .",
    "observations at other wavelengths -both shorter and longer- would help building a complete picture : both the uv and the nir spectral regions can provide population indicators much less affected by the model degeneracies found in the optical .",
    "in addition , different sub - populations contribute to the integrated light in different spectral ranges , therefore a multi - wavelength study would be a step forward towards a full understanding of the formation and evolution of our objects .",
    "we kindly acknowledge isabel prez for very useful discussion and comment .",
    "we thank the referee for interesting comments that improved the paper .",
    "the sauron - related projects are made possible through grants 614.13.003 and 781.74.203 from astron / nwo and financial contributions from the institut national des sciences de lunivers , the universit claude bernard lyon  i , the universities of durham , leiden , groningen and oxford , the british council , pparc grant ` extragalactic astronomy & cosmology at durham 19982002 ' , and the netherlands research school for astronomy nova .",
    "kg acknowledges support for the ubbo emmius phd program of the university of groningen .",
    "mc acknowledges support from a pparc advanced fellowship ( pp / d005574/1 ) .",
    "gvdv acknowledges support provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-01202.01-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "this project made use of the hyperleda and ned databases .",
    "afanasiev v.l . ,",
    "silchenko o.k . , 2005 ,",
    "a&a , 429 , 825 allard e.l . ,",
    "knapen j.h . ,",
    "peletier r.f . ,",
    "sarzi m. , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 1087 bacon r. , copin y. , monnet g.,miller b.w . , allington - smith j.r . , bureau m. , carollo c.m . , davies r.l . , emsellem e. , kuntschner h. , peletier r.f . ,",
    "verolme e.k .",
    ", de zeeuw p.t . , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 23 ( paper i ) bender r. , burstein d. , faber s.m . , 1993 , apj , 411 , 153 bernardi m. , sheth r.k . , annis j. , burles s. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 1882 bker t. , laine s. , van der marel r. p. , sarzi m. , rix h .- w . ,",
    "ho l. c. , shields j.c . , 2001 ,",
    "aas , 199 , 705 bker t. , laine s. , van der marel r.p . , sarzi m. , rix h .- w .",
    ", ho l.c . , shields j.c . , 2002 , aj , 123 , 1389 bosma a. , casini c. , heidmann h. , van der hulst j.m . ,",
    "van woerden h. , 1980 , a&a , 89 , 345 bruzual c. , charlot s. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 burstein d. , davies r.l . , dressler a. , faber s.m .",
    ", lynden - bell d. , 1988 , in kron r.g .",
    ", renzini a. , eds , assl vol . 141 . towards understanding galaxies at high",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p.17 buzzoni a. , gariboldi g. , mantegazza l. , 1992 , aj , 103 , 1814 cappellari m. , copin y. , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 345 cappellari m. , emsellem e. , 2004 , pasp , 116 , 138 carollo c.m . ,",
    "danziger i.j .",
    ", buson l. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 553 carollo c.m . , stiavelli m. , de zeeuw p.t . , mack j. , 1997 , aj , 114 , 2366 carollo c.m . , stiavelli m. , 1998 , aj , 115 , 2306 carollo c.m . , stiavelli m. , mack j. , 1998 , aj , 116 , 68 carollo c.m . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 523 , 566 carollo c.m . , stiavelli m. , seigar m. , de zeeuw p.t . , dejonghe h. , 2002 , aj , 123 , 159 carollo c.m . , scarlata c. , stiavelli m. , wyse r.f.g . , mayer l. , 2006 , astro - ph/0610638 chabrier g. , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 763 cid fernandes r. , gonzalez delgado r.m . , schmitt h. , storchi - bergmann t. , martins l.p . , perez e. , heckman t. , leitherer c. , schaerer d. , 2004 , apj , 605 , 105 cid fernandes r. , gonzalez delgado r.m .",
    ", storchi - bergmann t. , martins l.p . , schmitt h. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 270 colless m. , burstein d. , davies r.l . , mcmahan r.k . ,",
    "saglia r.p . ,",
    "wegner g. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 813 condon j.j . ,",
    "condon m.a . , grisler g. , puscell j.j . , 1982 ,",
    "apj , 252 , 102 cornett r.h , oconnell r.w . ,",
    "greason m.r .",
    ", offenberg j.d . ,",
    "angione r.j .",
    ", bohlin r.c . , cheng k.p .",
    ", roberts m.s . , smith a.m. , smith e.p .",
    ", talbert f.d .",
    ", stecher t.p . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 426 , 553 davies r. l. , sadler e. m. , peletier r. f. , 1993 , mnras , 315 , 650 denicol g. , terlevich r. , terlevich e. , forbes d.a .",
    ", terlevich a. , carrasco l. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 1440 de vaucouleurs g. , de vaucouleurs a. , corwin h.g.jr . , buta r.j .",
    ", paturel g. , fouqu p. , 1991",
    ", third reference catalogue of bright galaxies , springer - verlag , new york ( rc3 ) devereux n.a .",
    ", 1989 , apj , 346 , 126 emsellem e. , cappellari m. , peletier r.f . , mcdermid r.m . , bacon r. , bureaus m. , copin y. , davies r.l . , krajnovi d. , kuntscner h. , miller b.w . ,",
    "de zeeuw p.t . , 2004 , mnras , 352 , 721 ( paper iii ) espada d. , bosma a. , verdes - montenegro l. , athanassoula e. , leon s. , sulentic j. , yun m.s . , 2005 , a&a , 442 , 455 faber s.m . ,",
    "friel e.d . , burstein d. , gaskell c.m . , 1985 , apjs , 57 , 711 falcn - barroso j. , peletier r.f . , balcells m. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 741 falcn - barroso j. , bacon r. , bureau m. , davies r.l . ,",
    "de zeeuw p.t .",
    ", emsellem e. , fathi k. , krajnovi d. , kuntschner h. , mcdermid r.m . ,",
    "peletier r.f . ,",
    "sarzi m. , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 529 ( paper vii ) fisher d. , franx m. , illingworth g. , 1995 , apj , 448 , 119 fisher d.,franx m. , illingworth g. , 1996 , apj , 459 , 110 ganda k. , falcn - barroso j. , peletier r.f .",
    ", cappellari m. , emsellem e. , mcdermid r. , de zeeuw p.t , carollo m. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 46 gonzalez delgado r.m . , cid fernandes r. , perez e. , martins l.p .",
    ", storchi - bergmann t. , schmitt h. , heckman t. , leitherer c. , 2004 , apj , 605 , 127 gorgas j. , faber s.m . ,",
    "burstein d. , gonzalez j.j . , courteau s. , prosser c. , 1993 , apjs , 86 , 153 ho l.c .",
    ", filippenko a.v . ,",
    "sargent w.l.w . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 487 , 579 idiart t.p .",
    ", de freitas pacheco j.a . ,",
    "costa r.d.d . , 1996 , aj , 112 , 2541 jablonka p. , martin p. , arimoto n. , 1996 , aj , 112 , 1415 jablonka p. , 2007",
    ", astro - ph/0701169 jrgensen i. , franx m. , kjrgaard p. , 1996",
    ", mnras , 280 , 167 jrgensen i. , 1999 , mnras , 315 , 607 keel w.c . , 1983 , apj , 269 , 466 kennicutt r.c . , 1983 , apj , 272 , 54 kennicutt r.c . , kent s.m . , 1983 , aj , 88 , 1094 kennicutt r.c . , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 189 kormendy j. , kennicutt r.c . , 2004 , ara&a , 42 , 603 kuntschner h. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 184 kuntschner h. , emsellem e. , bacon r. , bureau m. , cappellari m. , davies r.l .",
    ", de zeeuw p.t . , falcn - barroso j. , krajnovi d. , mcdermid r.m .",
    ", peletier r.f . ,",
    "sarzi m. , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 497 ( paper vi ) laine s. , shlosman i. , knapen j.h . , peletier r.f . , apj , 567 , 92 longhetti m. , rampazzo r. , bressan a. , chiosi c. , 1998 , a&as , 315 , 251 macarthur l.a . , gonzalez j. , courteau s. , to appear in proc .",
    "iau symp 241 , stellar populations as building blocks of galaxies , eds .",
    "peletier and a. vazdekis , astro - ph/0701881 matthews l.d . , gallagher j.s . , 2002 ,",
    "apjs , 141 , 492 mcdermid r.m . ,",
    "emsellem e. , shapiro k.l . , bacon r. , bureau m. , cappellari m. , davies r.l .",
    ", de zeeuw t. , falcn - barroso j. , krajnovi d. , kuntschner h. , peletier r.f .",
    ", sarzi m. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 906 ( paper viii ) moorthy b.k . , holtzman j.a . , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 583 natali g. , pedichini f. , righini m. , 1992 , a&a , 256 , 79 noordermeer e. , 2006 , phd thesis , univ",
    "groningen ocvirk p. , pichone c. , lanon a. , thibaut e. , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 46 ocvirk p. , pichone c. , lanon a. , thibaut e. , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 74 panter b. , heavens a.f .",
    ", jimenez r. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 1145 peletier et al .",
    ", 2007 , astro - ph/07042839 ( paper xi ) phookun b. , vogel s.n .",
    ", mundy l.g . , 1993 , apj , 418 , 113 proctor r.n . , sansom a.e .",
    ", 2002 , mnras , 333 , 517 reakes m. , 1979 , mnras , 187 , 525 rossa j. , van der marel r.p . , bker t. , gerssen j. , ho l.c . , rix h .- w . , shields j.c .",
    ", walcher c .- j . , 2006 , aj , 132 , 1074 snchez  blzquez p.,gorgas j. , cardiel n. , gonzlez j.j . , 2006 ,",
    "a&a , 457 , 787 snchez ",
    "blzquez p. , forbes d.a .",
    ", strader j. , brodie j. , proctor r. , 2007 , astro - ph/0702572 sarzi m. , falcn - barroso j. , davies r.l . , bacon r. , bureau m. , cappellari m. , de zeeuw p.t . , emsellem e. , fathi k. , krajnovi d. , kuntschner h. , mcdermid r.m .",
    ", peletier r.f , 2006 , mnras , 366 , 1151 ( paper v ) schulman e. , bregman j.n . ,",
    "brinks e. , roberts m.s . , 1996 ,",
    "aj , 112 , 960 schweizer f. , seitzer p. , 1992",
    ", aj , 104 , 1039 serra p. , trager s.c .",
    ", 2007 , mnras , 374 , 769 srsic j.l . , 1968 , atlas de galaxias australes ( cordoba : obs .",
    "astronom . )",
    "soria r. , wong d.s .",
    ", 2006 , mnras , 372 , 1531 stauffer j.r . , 1982 , apjs , 50 , 517 terlevich r. , davies r.l .",
    ", faber s.m . , burstein d. , 1981 , mnras , 196 , 381 thomas d. , maraston c. , bender r. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 897 thomas d. , maraston c. , bender r. , mendes de oliveira c. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 673 ulvestad j.s .",
    ", ho l.c . , 2002 , apj , 581 , 925 vazdekis a. , casuso e. , peletier r. f. , beckman j.e . , 1996 , apjs , 106 , 307 vazdekis a. , 1999 , apj , 513 , 224 vollmer b. , huchtmeier w. , van driel w. , 2005 , a&a , 439 , 921 walcher c.j . , van der marel r.p . , mclaughlin d. , rix h .- w . , bker t. , hring n. , ho l.c .",
    ", sarzi m. , shields j.c . , 2005 , apj , 618 , 237 worthey g. , faber s.m .",
    ", gonzalez j.j . , burstein d. , 1994 , apjs , 94 , 687 worthey g. , collobert m. , 2003 , apj , 586 , 17 young j.s . , xie s. , kenney j.d.p .",
    ", rice w.l . , 1989 , apis , 70 , 699 zaritsky d. , kennicutt r.c . , huchra j.p . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 420.87",
    "we briefly investigated the radial variations of the line - strength indices and age , metallicity and abundance ratios . from the corresponding maps , we calculated radial profiles of h@xmath0 , fe5015 , mg_b _ and age , z and [ mg / fe ] from the one - ssp approach , by averaging the maps on concentric annuli of 08 width .",
    "we present these profiles in figures [ profiles1]-[profiles3 ] .",
    "these plots show that there is a wide variety of radial behaviours among late - type spirals : the line - strength indices can be roughly constant in radius ( h@xmath0 profile for ngc488 ) , rising outwards ( even very steeply , see for example the h@xmath0 profile for ngc5678 ) , rising inwards ( many fe5015 and mg_b _ profiles ) .",
    "in some cases there are also complicated structures , with ` oscillating ' profiles : see for example the fe5015 profile for ngc864 or ngc2805 and several others",
    ". some of the ` oscillating ' profiles might just reflect the noisy nature of the data for some low - surface brightness objects ( for example : the fe5015 profile for ngc2805 ) , but others are probably related to real variations of the indices within the galaxy . despite all this variety , we conclude that in most cases the h@xmath0 absorption strength increases with radius , while fe5015 and mg_b _ decrease . the fact that the metal lines show most often negative gradients",
    "was already known for early - type galaxies , while in the case of h@xmath0 for elliptical galaxies the gradients are consistent with a flat relation with radius , or present a mild positive outwards radial gradient ( see @xcite and references therein ) . + the stellar population parameters show the same heterogeneous behaviours .",
    "roughly , the age shows most often a complex behaviour with radius , reflecting features recognizable in the maps in figures [ maps1]-[maps9 ] , while the metallicity in many cases is decreasing , in agreement with @xcite , who measure mostly negative metallicity gradients for a sample of s0-sc galaxies ; in the majority of the galaxies , the metallicity profile resembles closely the aspect of the fe5015 profile .",
    "looking at the abundance ratio profiles in more detail , we see that the central values are usually very close to solar ; many of the profiles stay approximately constant with radius , after an initial increase in the bulge - dominated region , which can be very tiny ( for a quantitative description of the bulges in these galaxies , we refer the reader to ganda et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "this is also consistent with the findings of @xcite , that we briefly summarised in section [ indexvsindexsec ] : they suggest that the bulges have positive or null gradients in abundance ratio with increasing radius , while the discs have solar abundance ratios . in early - type galaxies , instead , the radial profiles of abundance ratios are rather flat , as found by kuntschner et al .",
    "( paper in preparation ) for the sauron e / s0 galaxies and by @xcite for a sample of 11 e / s0 galaxies ; the latter authors do find radial abundance ratio gradients , both positive and negative , but rather shallow .",
    "ngc488 is an unbarred sb galaxy and it is the most elliptical - like ( featureless ) object within our sample .",
    "ngc488 has regular stellar and gaseous kinematics , with regular rotation and velocity dispersion smoothly decreasing outwards @xcite .",
    "the line - strength maps present high values for fe5015 and mg_b _ and low values for h@xmath0 over the central regions . as one can notice from the values",
    "reported in table [ indicesvalues ] , this galaxy has the highest fe5015 and mg_b _ in the sample , and the lowest h@xmath0 .",
    "the ages are mainly old and the metallicities high .",
    "this is indeed the most metal - rich galaxy in the sample ( the central metallicity from the one - ssp approach is @xmath2 0.49 , then it decreases outwards ) .",
    "this galaxy is well described by a one - ssp : as shown in fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] ( first column ) on the basis of our continuous star formation analysis , ngc488 is very unlikely to have experienced a constant star formation over time ; the observed indices are instead reproduced by a short starburst , approximating a ssp .",
    "the time - scale of star formation @xmath5 is short over the whole field . from the profile in fig .",
    "[ profiles1 ] we can see that the [ mg / fe ] profile is approximatively constant around the value @xmath2 0.2 : abundance ratios are slightly super - solar , confirming the fact that this galaxy resembles an elliptical more than the later objects in our sample .",
    "other suggestions in this sense come from the position it occupies in the diagrams in figures [ corr_mgfe50 ] , [ corr_index ] , [ 1ssp_fullrange ] , where it lies in the region occupied by the ellipticals.=-2      ngc628 , known also as m74 , is a grand - design sc galaxy .",
    "@xcite concluded that the star formation history of ngc628 varies with galactocentric distance ; natali , pedichini & righini ( 1992 ) suggested that the galaxy could be seen as an inner and an outer disc characterised by different stellar populations ; according to them , the transition between the two regions is located at @xmath2 8 - 10 kpc from the centre .",
    "our observations of ngc628 are disturbed by the presence of a foreground star which falls close to the centre ( @xmath2 13 southern ) .",
    "the stellar kinematics is characterised by slow projected rotation , and velocity dispersion decreasing in the central zones , indicating a cold central region , maybe an inner disc @xcite .",
    "this galaxy is part of the ` control sample ' of non - active objects studied by @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , who analyse the nuclear spectrum , describing it as a mixture of @xmath17-@xmath18 yr - old and older stars . + as can be seen from the profiles reported in fig .",
    "[ profiles1 ] , ngc628 has ages ( one - ssp approach ) below 3 gyr out to @xmath2 15 , and becomes older at larger radius ; the features are roughly in agreement with the above mentioned findings of cid - fernandes and collaborators ; the same trend in age is observed , on the common radial range , also by @xcite , on the basis of gmos data independently analysed .",
    "the metallicity decreases outwards .",
    "the ` bumps ' recognizable in the fe5015 , mg_b _ and ( but less pronounced ) metallicity profiles at @xmath2 13 from the centre are due to the foreground star . from our continuous star formation analysis , as shown in fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] ( second column ) , we can state that this galaxy is not described by a constant star formation scenario.=-2",
    "ngc772 , also called arp78 , is an sb galaxy characterised by a particularly strong spiral arm ; it forms a pair at 33 with the e3 galaxy ngc770 . from the kinematical point of view",
    ", ngc772 is characterised by a clear drop of the stellar velocity dispersion in the central zones , possibly corresponding to an inner disc , as suggested also by the anticorrelation between velocity and the gauss - hermite moment h@xmath19 @xcite . in the line - strength maps we can clearly see an extended central region with high fe5015 and mg_b _ and low h@xmath0",
    "; indeed , from the central aperture values reported in table [ indicesvalues ] we can see that this galaxy is one of those with the highest metal indices , surpassed only by ngc488 . in the h@xmath0 map it is possible to see , surrounding the central depression , regions with higher values corresponding to the spiral arms .",
    "a similar behaviour can be seen in the [ oiii]/h@xmath0 map presented by @xcite , which shows a structure resembling the spiral pattern .",
    "estimating ages and metallicity by comparison with ssp models , we infer that ages are mainly young - intermediate and the central metallicity is among the highest in our sample .",
    "the age and abundance ratio maps display the spiral arms structure as well , like the index maps .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] ( third column ) demonstrates that for this galaxy constant star formation can be ruled out at a high confidence level : high @xmath5 values are never likely . the @xmath5 map shown in fig .",
    "[ maps2 ] ( for age fixed to 10 gyr in the fitting procedure ) presents a spatial structure that partially resembles the h@xmath0 map and the spiral arms pattern .",
    "ngc772 is part of the sample studied in the series of papers by cid fernandes et al .",
    "( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) , who are engaged in a project to examine the stellar populations of low - luminosity active galactic nuclei .",
    "they classify this object as ` young - to ' , i.e. a transition object between a liner and an hii nucleus , with weak [ o i ] @xmath20 emission ; they find that the nuclear spectrum is dominated by @xmath17-@xmath18 yr - old stellar populations , with a contribution up to @xmath2 32% from populations younger than @xmath21 yr and a similar contribution also from older stellar populations ( @xmath22 10@xmath23 yr ) .",
    "their data probe distances up to several hundred parsecs from the nucleus ; they measure in ngc772 significant radial variations of the stellar populations , with absorption line - strengths increasing in the inner 3 indicating a younger population in the very centre , especially referring to the ca ii k line ; the mg i absorption strength presents instead less prominent variations over the spatial range of their data .",
    "our data cover a different spectral range and a different spatial extension , but we also concluded that the populations in the inner parts have intermediate ages , and that the age ( from the one - ssp analysis ) increases in the inner @xmath2 5 ( see fig . [",
    "profiles1]).=-2      this is a barred sc galaxy where a nuclear radio source with the linear size of @xmath2 300 pc has been detected @xcite ; according to @xcite its hi profile is symmetric in velocity but asymmetric in intensity ; they also measure large - scale asymmetries in the two - dimensional kinematics , such as a warp .",
    "the mentioned asymmetries occur in the outer parts , well beyond the extent of the sauron field .",
    "the asymmetries could have been induced by a past encounter with a companion , passing outside the optical disc but within the hi disc ; the companion would have dispersed its stars and dark matter after the merging , consistent with the fact that ngc864 appears to be remarkably isolated .",
    "+ our line - strength maps show a very sharp central dip in both fe5015 and mg_b _ ; in the region surrounding the dip , the fe5015 and mg_b _ values rise .",
    "the h@xmath0 absorption also takes on low values over an extended central region ; as seen also in table [ indicesvalues ] , the indices measured on the central aperture of this galaxy are among the lowest in the sample . from the one - ssp analysis ,",
    "given the structure of the line - strength maps , we derive very low metallicity and old ( @xmath2 11.22 gyr ) ages for the central aperture .",
    "+ the analysis of the @xmath15 contours , in the continuous star formation approach , shows that this galaxy is unlikely to have experienced a constant star formation over time ( see fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] , fourth column ) .",
    "= -2      ngc1042 is an scd galaxy forming a pair with ngc1035 at a separation of 22@xmath24 ( corresponding to 177 kpc ) .",
    "it has a bright , small nucleus and otherwise low surface brightness .",
    "our line - strength maps are quite patchy , due to poor s / n in the data and consequent heavy binning of the spectra .",
    "the mg_b _ index takes on low values in the very centre , and higher ones around it .",
    "h@xmath0 is high in the centre and low outside it , being flat over most of the map ; as can be seen also from the line - strength profiles in fig .",
    "[ profiles1 ] , the line - strength indices stay approximately constant over most of the field , outside a central zone of radius @xmath2 3 .",
    "the age of the stellar populations ( one - ssp analysis ) reaches a minimum in the centre .",
    "the metallicity is everywhere low , and peaks in the centre .",
    "+ the analysis of the @xmath15 contours for the central aperture , in the continuous star formation approach , shows that this galaxy is not well described by an ssp ( see fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] , fifth column ) .",
    "the @xmath5 map for age fixed to 10 gyr ( see fig . [ maps3 ] ) shows a peak in the very centre , corresponding to the peak in the h@xmath0 and to the minimum in the mg_b _",
    "maps.=-2      ngc2805 is an sd galaxy seen nearly face - on and it is the brightest member of a multiple interacting system containing also ngc2814 ( sb ) , ngc2820 ( sc ) at 13@xmath24 and ic2458 ( i0 ) .",
    "hi has been detected ( @xcite , @xcite ) and there are claims that the outer hi layers are warped ( see for example @xcite ) .",
    "the galaxy seems to be also optically disturbed , since the spiral arms appear to be broken up into straight segments .",
    "+ the line - strength maps are rather patchy , displaying though a central peak in all three lines . by comparison of our measured indices with ssp models",
    ", we can state that the ages are young - intermediate over most of the field ; that the metallicity peaks in the centre and that abundance ratios are super - solar . + the analysis of the @xmath15 contours , in the continuous star formation approach , shows that this galaxy is not very well described by an ssp , and that even a constant star formation rate can not be excluded at all ages ( see fig .",
    "[ chi2contours1 ] , sixth column).=-2      ngc2964 , classified as sbc , forms a non - interacting pair with the i0 galaxy ngc2968 at 58 . as discussed by @xcite ,",
    "the sauron data reveal that this barred sbc galaxy hosts an active galactic nucleus .",
    "when we calculate the line - strengths , we find that the mg_b _ index assumes low values in an elongated central region , higher values around it , and low values again towards the edges of the field ; the fe5015 index presents a very similar behaviour ; the h@xmath0 map has instead an opposite appearance , with an extended inner region with low index values and a surrounding area with higher values ; in the very centre a shallow peak might be recognized .",
    "these features are recognizable also in the profiles in fig .",
    "[ profiles2 ] .",
    "we notice also that the central region with low fe5015 and mg_b _ corresponds to the central depression in the emission - line [ oiii]/h@xmath0 map ( see fig . 5 in @xcite ) , possibly indicating ongoing star formation . converting the line - strength maps to age and metallicity via our comparison with the ssp models",
    ", we find young - intermediate ages over most of the field , with a peak in the central region , and low metallicity everywhere , with a minimum in the central region , a positive gradient out to @xmath2 5 , and then a rather constant behaviour out to @xmath2 15 . from the continuous star formation approach",
    ", we can not exclude at all ages the case of constant star formation , but the @xmath5 map for age fixed to 10 gyr ( in the fitting procedure ) presents a large central region with low values , possibly suggesting a @xmath2 5 gyr long starburst.=-2      this scd galaxy is very poorly studied in the literature .",
    "ages of the stellar populations ( one - ssp approach ) are young - intermediate and metallicity low over most of the field . from the continuous star formation approach , we can not exclude at all ages the case of constant star formation ( see fig .",
    "[ chi2contours2 ] , second column).=-2      this sbc galaxy is also poorly known .",
    "both the fe5015 and mg_b _ indices peak in an extended central region and decrease towards the edge of the field ; the h@xmath0 map presents opposite behaviour .",
    "the @xmath5 map ( for age fixed to 10 gyr in the fitting procedure ) displays low values over a large central area , possibly indicating a region where the bulk of star formation happened in a quite short starburst .",
    "= -2      ngc3949 is an sc galaxy belonging to the ursa major cluster .",
    "ngc3949 presents quite regular fe5015 and mg_b _ line - strength maps , peaking in an extended central region and decreasing rather smoothly moving outwards .",
    "the h@xmath0 index is low in the central region and higher in the surroundings ; interestingly , it reaches a minimum in a zone south of the centre where the emission - line ratio [ oiii]/h@xmath0 is particularly depressed ( see relative figure in @xcite ) .",
    "the values measured for the h@xmath0 index are the highest in the sample , as one can see from table [ indicesvalues ] and from fig .",
    "[ profiles2 ] .",
    "ages ( from the one - ssp approach ) are young ( @xmath2 1.0 gyr ) in the central region , somewhat higher around it and decreasing again towards the edge of the field . the metallicity is everywhere low , and decreasing outwards .",
    "+ constant star formation can not be ruled out ; it is likely to characterise the star formation mode over most of the field ( see the @xmath5 map for age fixed to 10 gyr in fig .",
    "[ maps5 ] : @xmath5 assumes high values ) . actually ,",
    "when performing the fit allowing the code to choose among exponentially declining and constant star formation , constant is selected over most of the field.=-2      this sbc galaxy is characterised by very regular kinematics for both the stellar and gaseous components @xcite .",
    "the line - strength maps also have a smooth appearance , with fe5015 and mg_b _ decreasing at larger radius and h@xmath0 increasing .",
    "the h@xmath0 map seems to be asymmetric with respect to the centre , since the western side displays higher values than the eastern one .",
    "the stellar populations are young over the whole field and the metallicity , among the highest in our sample ( the third after ngc488 and 772 ) , decreases moving outwards ; the abundance ratio is approximatively solar . the @xmath5 map for age fixed to 10 gyr in fig . [ maps6 ] shows a large central depression .",
    "the analysis of the @xmath15 contours , in the continuous star formation approach , shows that this galaxy is probably not very well described by an ssp , nor by a constant star formation rate.=-2",
    "ngc4102 is an sb galaxy , classified as a liner in the ned database ; it is known to be a powerful far - infrared galaxy @xcite and also to have a strong nuclear radio source @xcite .",
    "@xcite classified it as one of the most powerful nearby starburst galaxies .",
    "the signs of activity are detectable also in the sauron data : as noted by @xcite , the [ oiii ] maps trace the outflowing gas , with a region of very high gas velocity dispersion corresponding also to high values in the [ oiii]/h@xmath0 line ratio map , as expected for an active object . in that same region , we observe double - peaked line profiles for the [ oiii ] emission - lines , pointing towards the presence of different components in the emitting material . as for the line - strength indices ,",
    "mg_b _ is low in an inner region , increases around it , and decreases again in the outer parts .",
    "the fe5015 map is instead more centrally concentrated .",
    "the map of h@xmath0 absorption looks more complex and not symmetric .",
    "ages ( from our one - ssp analysis ) are young all over the field and metallicity is low .",
    "neither in the line - strength nor in the age and metallicity map is there a clear connection with the mentioned region of activity . on the basis of our continuous star formation analysis ,",
    "this galaxy is probably not very well described by an ssp .",
    "= -2      also known as m99 , ngc4254 is a bright sc galaxy located on the periphery of the virgo cluster , at a projected distance of @xmath25 ( @xmath2 1 mpc ) from the centre of the cluster . its optical appearance is dominated by a peculiar one - arm structure : the arms to the northwest are much less defined than the southern arm .",
    "this kind of spiral structure could be related to an external driving mechanism , but for ngc4254 there are no close companions .",
    "phookun , vogel & mundy ( 1993 ) carried out deep hi observations of ngc4254 , detecting non - disc hi clouds , with velocities not following the disc velocity pattern and an extended low surface density tail northwest of the galaxy ; they interpreted these observational results as infall of a disintegrating gas cloud .",
    "they also noticed that there is an hole in the hi emission at the centre of the galaxy , with a diameter of @xmath2 3 kpc .",
    "vollmer , huchtmeier & van driel ( 2005 ) propose instead a scenario where ngc4254 had a close and rapid encounter with another massive galaxy when entering the virgo cluster : the tidal interaction caused the one - arm structure and the hi distribution and kinematics is due to ram pressure stripping .",
    "recently , @xcite studied the x - ray properties of m99 , noticing that a phenomenon often associated with tidal interactions and active star formation -both documented- is the presence of ultraluminous x - ray sources ( ulxs ) .",
    "the x - ray emission appears approximatively uniformly diffused across the inner @xmath2 5 kpc from the nucleus .",
    "they do find a ulx , amongst the brightest observed , located at @xmath2 8 kpc southeast of the nucleus , close to the position where a large hi cloud seems to join the gas disc . from observations of the radial velocities , they suggest that the cloud is falling onto the galactic disc and try to build a link between this collisional event and the formation of the bright ulx .",
    "our data cover a much smaller spatial extent than the mentioned observations , therefore a comparison is not possible ; within our field , both the fe5015 and mg_b _ maps show a regular structure with a central concentration ; at the northern edge of the field , both fe5015 and mg_b _ seem to increase again ; the h@xmath0 map has opposite behaviour , presenting a central depression .",
    "the ages ( from our one - ssp approach ) are generally young and the metallicity , quite low everywhere , decreases slightly moving outwards and shows the same enhancement at the northern edge of the field that we noticed for the fe5015 and mg_b _ line - strength . the @xmath5 map ( see fig .",
    "[ maps7 ] ) shows a central depression .",
    "the analysis of the @xmath15 contours , in the continuous star formation approach , shows that ngc4254 is probably not very well described by an ssp , nor by a constant star formation rate .",
    "= -2      this scd galaxy forms a pair with the scd galaxy ngc4504 , at a separation of 35@xmath24 ( corresponding to @xmath2 165 kpc ) .",
    "the fe5015 and mg_b _ maps seem to be low in the very centre and higher outside it ; from the profiles in fig .",
    "[ profiles3 ] one can see that outside the inner circle of @xmath2 3 radius , the line - strengths keep an approximately constant value , out to @xmath2 13 .",
    "ages ( one - ssp approach ) are intermediate - young and metallicities very low , with respectively a maximum and a minimum in the centre . constant star formation can not be ruled out .",
    "= -2      ngc4775 is an sd galaxy , for which very little is known from previous studies .",
    "the metal lines ( fe5015 and mg_b _ ) seem to be centrally concentrated , while h@xmath0 is low over an extended central area , and higher in the surrounding region .",
    "the maps are not symmetric with respect to the centre .",
    "the galaxy is young in the nucleus and has older ages in an annular ( extended ) region around the centre ; the metal content is everywhere low , and peaks in the centre .",
    "constant star formation can not be ruled out , and is selected over a large part of the field when allowing to choose among constant and exponentially declining star formation.=-2      ngc5585 is a barred sd galaxy ; together with ngc5204 ( sm ) , ngc5474 ( scd ) , ngc5477 ( sm ) , hoiv ( i m ) and m101 ( scd ) it forms the m101 group .",
    "the fe5015 and mg__b _ _ indices assume values among the lowest in the sample ; h@xmath0 has instead a value among the highest ones ( see table [ indicesvalues ] ) .",
    "the metallicity retrieved from the one - ssp analysis is everywhere very low . in the continuous star formation approach ,",
    "constant star formation can not be ruled out ; indeed , when allowing to choose among exponentially declining and constant star formation , in the @xmath14 minimisation , for age fixed to 10 gyr the constant star formation is selected ( for the central aperture).=-2      ngc5668 is another sd galaxy , which has a high rate of star formation , as indicated by its large far - infrared and h@xmath16 luminosities ( @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "the metal lines ( fe5015 and mg_b _ ) appear to be centrally concentrated , while h@xmath0 has a more complex appearance .",
    "the stellar populations are young and metal poor all over the field ; the age rises out to @xmath2 8 and then decreases ( see fig .",
    "[ maps9 ] for a full view of the spatial structure of the age map and fig .",
    "[ profiles3 ] for the azimuthally averaged profiles ) .",
    "constant star formation can not be ruled out at all ages , and is selected over a large part of the field when allowing to choose among constant and exponentially declining star formation.=-2      this is a barred and very dusty sb galaxy . fe5015 and mg_b _ have a quite regular and centrally concentrated appearance ; h@xmath0 is depressed in the inner region and increases in a annulus - like structure around it . in the very centre h@xmath0",
    "has a local maximum , as shown also in the azimuthally - averaged profile in fig .",
    "[ profiles3 ] .",
    "ages ( one - ssp approach ) are young over most of the field and the metallicity , rather low everywhere , decreases moving outwards .",
    "the @xmath5 map at age fixed to 10 gyr ( see fig . [ maps9 ] ) shows a large central depression .",
    "the analysis of the @xmath15 contours shows that ngc5678 is probably not very well described by an ssp , nor by a constant star formation rate . like ngc628 and 772 ,",
    "this galaxy is part of the sample studied in the cid fernandes et al papers ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) ; following their classification , it is a ` young - to ' galaxy , with weak emission in the [ o i ] @xmath20 line ; according to those authors , the nuclear spectrum is heavily dominated by @xmath17-@xmath18 yr old stellar populations , with negligible contribution from stars younger than @xmath21 yr .",
    "they detect radial variations of the absorption indices , particularly in the ca ii k line , but less clearly evident than in the case of ngc772 .",
    "+ # 1 @font @ @ plus .1pt 40004000  = 1000 ="
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present absorption line - strength maps for a sample of 18 sb - sd galaxies observed using the integral - field spectrograph sauron operating at the william herschel telescope on la palma , as part of a project devoted to the investigation of the kinematics and stellar populations of late - type spirals , a relatively unexplored field . </S>",
    "<S> the sauron spectral range allows the measurement of the lick / ids indices h@xmath0 , fe5015 and mg_b _ , which can be used to estimate the stellar population parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we present here the two - dimensional line - strength maps for each galaxy . from the maps , we learn that late - type spiral galaxies tend to have high h@xmath0 and low fe5015 and mg_b _ values , and that the h@xmath0 index has often a positive gradient over the field , while the metal indices peak in the central region . </S>",
    "<S> + we investigate the relations between the central line - strength indices and their correlations with morphological type and central velocity dispersion , and compare the observed behaviour with that for ellipticals , lenticulars and early - type spirals from the sauron survey . </S>",
    "<S> we find that our galaxies lie below the mg - @xmath1 relation determined for elliptical galaxies and that the indices show a clear trend with morphological type . </S>",
    "<S> + from the line - strength maps we calculate age , metallicity and abundance ratio maps via a comparison with model predictions ; we discuss the results from a one - ssp ( single stellar population ) approach and from a two - ssp approach , considering the galaxy as a superposition of an old ( @xmath2 13 gyr ) and a younger ( age @xmath3 5 gyr ) population . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm that late - type galaxies are generally younger and more metal poor than ellipticals and have abundance ratios closer to solar values . </S>",
    "<S> we also explore a continuous star formation scenario , and try to recover the star formation history using the evolutionary models of bruzual & charlot ( 2003 ) , assuming constant or exponentially declining star formation rate ( sfr ) . in this last case , fixing the galaxy age to 10 gyr , we find a correlation between the @xmath4-folding time - scale @xmath5 of the starburst and the central velocity dispersion , in the sense that more massive galaxies tend to have shorter @xmath5 , suggesting that the star formation happened long ago and has now basically ended , while for smaller objects with larger values of @xmath5 it is still active now .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : bulges - galaxies : evolution - galaxies : formation - galaxies : kinematics and dynamics - galaxies : spiral -galaxy : structure </S>"
  ]
}