{
  "article_text": [
    "the first work on cavitation phenomena dated back to 1894 when reynolds observed such a phenomenon in water flowing through a tube with a local constriction@xcite .",
    "a few years later , very destructive actions of cavitation to some industrial systems , such as steamship propellers , hydroturbine , etc , were found@xcite .",
    "then , it was addressed and discussed under other various backgrounds@xcite , for example , hot spots in explosives from which reaction ensues@xcite , the recent observation of sonoluminescence@xcite , etc .",
    "now , controlled cavitation erosion has been regarded as a powerful tool for modern technologies like steam / wet laser cleaning@xcite , effective salmonella destruction@xcite , and treatment for kidney stones@xcite . among the publications on cavitation in literature ,",
    "most of them resorts to experiments , then theoretical calculations , and only a small portion rely on numerical simulations .",
    "the physical models used can be put into two categories , fluidic ones and solid ones .",
    "the numerical tools for the former are hydrodynamic codes@xcite , and for the latter are molecular dynamics(md)@xcite and finite element method@xcite .",
    "most of the analysis here are based on fluidic models .",
    "the most elegant mathematical description of bubble motion is one - dimensional@xcite .",
    "it has long been observed that a tongue of liquid may be projected into a bubble under gravity and a tongue of metal may be projected into a cavity under shock , which confirm that one primary mechanism of erosion by cavitation is mechanical@xcite .",
    "the observation of such an asymmetric collapse stimulates the question as to what kind of boundary conditions give rise to it .",
    "the first kind of attempt simply considers it to be a geometric flow effect of the boundary .",
    "the second one regards it as the spallation of one surface towards the other by an incident shock , where the upstream face converges towards the stationary downstream one in the jet . in either of the two cases",
    ", the aspherical collapse implies that an impulse is applied , typically by an impact jet , to the surrounding fluid or solid in contact@xcite .    from the numerical simulation side ,",
    "fluidic models on cavitation in metals ignore some important characteristics of solid , such as plastic strain , hardening , and properties relevant to the deformation history . at the same time , the material under investigation is highly distorted during the collapsing of cavities .",
    "this causes severe problems in computational modeling of such a process .",
    "it is well known that the eulerian description is not convenient to tracking interfaces . when the lagrangian formulation is used to describe problems with large displacement and large strain",
    ", the original element mesh becomes distorted so significantly that the mesh has to be re - zoned to restore proper shapes of elements .",
    "the state fields of mass density , velocities and stresses must be mapped from the distorted mesh to the newly generated one .",
    "this mapping procedure is not a straightforward task , and introduces errors . to treat with large distortions problems ,",
    "several mixed methods have been developed recently . among these methods ,",
    "the material - point method ( mpm ) , introduced originally in fluid dynamics by harlow , et al@xcite and extended to solid mechanics by burgess , et al @xcite , overcomes the above - mentioned troubles . at each time step",
    ", calculations consist of two parts : a lagrangian part and a convective one .",
    "firstly , the computational mesh deforms with the body , and is used to determine the strain increment , and the stresses in the sequel . then , the new position of the computational mesh is chosen ( particularly , it may be the previous one ) , and the velocity field is mapped from the particles to the mesh nodes .",
    "nodal velocities are determined using the equivalence of momentum calculated for the particles and for the computational grid .",
    "the method not only takes advantages of both the lagrangian and eulerian algorithms but makes it possible to avoid their drawbacks as well . in this work we use a improved mpm@xcite to investigate the collapse of cavities in shocked metal",
    "the following part of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section 2 describes briefly the numerical scheme .",
    "section 3 shows the physical model and section 4 presents simulation results .",
    "section 5 makes the conclusion .",
    "the material - point method@xcite is a particle method , where the continuum bodies are discretized with @xmath0 material particles .",
    "each material particle carries the information of position @xmath1 , velocity @xmath2 , mass @xmath3 , density @xmath4 , stress tensor @xmath5 , strain tensor @xmath6 and all other internal state variables necessary for the constitutive model , where @xmath7 is the index of particle . at each time step ,",
    "the mass and velocities of the material particles are mapped onto the background computational mesh .",
    "the mapped momentum at node @xmath8 is obtained by @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the element shape function and the nodal mass @xmath11 reads @xmath12 suppose that a computational mesh is constructed of eight - node cells for three - dimensional problems , then the shape function is defined as@xmath13where @xmath14,@xmath15,@xmath16 are the natural coordinates of the material particle in the cell along the x- , y- , and z - directions , respectively , @xmath17,@xmath18,@xmath19 take corresponding nodal values @xmath20 .",
    "the mass of each particle is equal and fixed , so the mass conservation equation , @xmath21 , is automatically satisfied .    for pure mechanical problems the differential equation of balance reads , @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the mass density , @xmath24 the velocity , @xmath25 the stress tensor and @xmath26 the body force .",
    "the momentum equation is solved on a finite element mesh in a lagrangian frame .",
    "the weak form of it can be found , based on the standard procedure , @xmath27 since the continuum bodies is described with the use of a finite set of material particles , the mass density can be written as @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is the dirac delta function with dimension of the inverse of volume .",
    "the substitution of @xmath30 into the weak form of the momentum equation converts the integral to the sums of quantities evaluated at the material particles , namely , @xmath31 where the internal force vector is given by @xmath32 , and the external force vector reads @xmath33 , where the vector @xmath34 is the contacting force between two bodies . in present paper , all colliding bodies are composed of the same material , and @xmath35 is treated with in the same way as the internal force .",
    "the nodal accelerations are calculated by eq .",
    "( [ mpme2 ] ) with an explicit time integrator .",
    "the critical time step satisfying the stability conditions is the ratio of the smallest cell size to the wave speed .",
    "once the motion equations are solved on the cell nodes , the new nodal values of acceleration are used to update the velocity of the material particles . the strain increment for each material particle",
    "is determined using the gradient of nodal basis function evaluated at the position of the material particle .",
    "the corresponding stress increment can be found from the constitutive model .",
    "the internal state variables can also be completely updated .",
    "the computational mesh may be the original one or a newly defined one , choose for convenience , for the next time step .",
    "more details of the algorithm is referred to @xcite .",
    "we consider an associative von mises plasticity model with linear kinematic and isotropic hardening@xcite . introducing a linear isotropic elastic relation ,",
    "the volumetric plastic strain is zero , leading to a deviatoric - volumetric decoupling .",
    "so , it is convenient to split the stress and strain tensors , @xmath25 and @xmath36 , as @xmath37where @xmath38 is the pressure scalar , @xmath39 the deviatoric stress tensor , and @xmath40 the deviatoric strain . the strain @xmath40 is generally decomposed as @xmath41 , where @xmath42 and @xmath43 are the traceless elastic and plastic components , respectively .",
    "the material shows a linear elastic response until the von mises yield criterion , @xmath44is reached , where @xmath45 is the plastic yield stress .",
    "the yield @xmath46 increases linearly with the second invariant of the plastic strain tensor @xmath43 , i.e. , @xmath47where @xmath48 is the initial yield stress and @xmath49 the tangential module .",
    "the deviatoric stress @xmath39 is calculated by @xmath50 where @xmath51 is the yang s module and @xmath52 the poisson s ratio .",
    "denote the initial material density and sound speed by @xmath53 and @xmath54 , respectively .",
    "the shock speed @xmath55 and the particle speed @xmath56 after the shock follows a linear relation , @xmath57 , where @xmath58 is a characteristic coefficient of material .",
    "the pressure @xmath38 follows the mie - grneisen equation of state @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the internal energy , @xmath61 , @xmath62 , @xmath63 , @xmath64 , @xmath65 . in this paper",
    "the used material is aluminum .",
    "the corresponding parameters are @xmath66 kg / m@xmath67 , @xmath68 mpa , @xmath69 , @xmath70 mpa , @xmath71 mpa , @xmath72 km / s , @xmath73 , and @xmath74 when the pressure is below @xmath75 gpa @xcite .    before the numerical experiments",
    ", we validated our code by several benchmark simulations .",
    "the first one involves a cylinder rolling on an inclined rigid plane .",
    "the second involves the collision of two elastic spheres .",
    "the third involves a copper taylor bar impacting to a rigid wall .",
    "the fourth is to simulate the process of the collision between four identical spheres .",
    "all the simulation results agree well with the analytic or experimental ones@xcite .    in our numerical experiments the shock wave to the target material",
    "is loaded via either of two equivalent means , impacting with another body in the vertical direction or by a rigid wall at the bottom .",
    "the horizontal boundaries are treated as rigid walls .",
    "the initial configuration of material particles are set to be symmetric about the central vertical line .",
    "such a configuration corresponds also to a real system composed of many of the simulated ones aligned periodically in the horizontal direction . in this paper",
    "we focus on the two - dimensional simulations .",
    "as the first step , we set a single cavity in the metal material . due to the boundary conditions mentioned above , such a simulation model corresponds also to a very wide system with a row of cavities in it .",
    "we study various cases where the shock wave changes from strong to weak . in the cases with strong shock ,",
    "we concern the jet creation and the distribution of the `` hot spots '' .",
    "when the cavity is close to the free surface , we check whether or not there are material ejected out of the free surface . in the cases with weak shock ,",
    "we study the effects of cavity size , distance from the cavity center to the impacting face , the initial yield stress of the material , etc , to the collapsing procedure .",
    "figure 1 shows a snapshot for a case with very high impacting speed .",
    "the width of the simulated system is 10 @xmath76 .",
    "two metal bodies with symmetric configurations collide .",
    "the speed of each is 1500 m / s .",
    "that is to say , the relative impacting speed is 3000 m / s .",
    "thus , the initial pressure to one body loaded by the shock is about 30 gpa being less than the critical value , 270 gpa .",
    "the global procedure can be described as follows : ( i ) when the shock wave arrives at the upper - stream wall of the cavity , plastic deformation begins to occur .",
    "the shock waves at the two sides of the cavity move forwards to the free surface . the shock speed at the two sides is larger than the deforming speed of the upper - stream wall of the cavity .",
    "( ii ) the upper - stream wall continue its collapse , a configuration with a turned  c \" appears .",
    "the material projected into the cavity makes a jet .",
    "hot spotoccurs at the tip region of the jet .",
    "( see fig.1(a ) . )",
    "( iii ) the speed of jet increases with time .",
    "the tip of the jet catches up , then exceeds the shock waves at its two sides .",
    "( iv ) the jetted material impacts the down - stream wall of the cavity , results in a pair of vortices rolling in opposite directions .",
    "the  hot spots \" appear at the centers of vortices .",
    "( see fig .",
    "1(b ) . )    in the case where the cavity locates near the upper free surface , if the shock wave is strong enough , the material projected into the cavity will become a jet and hit the downstream wall and break it .",
    "this procedure makes another dynamical picture of ejection by shock .",
    "such a behavior has been observed in experiments and has some potential applications .",
    "we show such a dynamical procedure in fig.2 , where the shock wave is loaded by colliding with rigid bottom wall .",
    "the simulated system here is 10 @xmath76 in width .",
    "the initial radius of the cavity is 1.5 @xmath76 .",
    "the distance between the cavity center to the upper free surface is 4.5 @xmath76 .",
    "the impacting speed of the metal body to the rigid wall is 1120 m / s .",
    "the corresponding times in figs .",
    "( a)-(f ) are 1.2 ns , 1.4 ns , 2.0 ns , 2.4 ns , 4.4 ns , and 12.0 ns , respectively .",
    "fig.2(a ) shows a snapshot where the shock wave has passed most part of the cavity .",
    "the upper - stream part of cavity has been substantially deformed and some material have been projected into the cavity . up to the time",
    "@xmath771.6 ns , as shown in fig.2(b ) , the cavity has been nearly filled with the jetted material ; the compressive wave is arriving at the free surface from the two sides and rarefactive waves will be reflected back .",
    "the reflected rarefactive waves decrease the pressure in the influenced region and cavitation occurs around the region of the original cavity and at the two sides of the jet path .",
    "( see figs .",
    "2(c)-2(d ) . )",
    "compared with those at the two sides , material in the middle is in a much higher pressure and has much more pronounced kinetic energy so that it is significantly distorted .",
    "the newly created cavities coalescence and become a larger one with time .",
    "( see fig.2(e ) . )",
    "if the upper wall of the newly created cavity possesses enough kinetic energy , it will be be broken .",
    "( see fig.2(f ) . )",
    "3 shows the corresponding configurations with temperature . in fig.(a )",
    "the temperature of the compressed region around the cavity is higher that in other region .",
    "the `` hot spot '' is at the tip of the metal tongue . in figs .",
    "( b)-(c ) the `` hot spot '' occurs at regime hit by the metal tongue . after the appearance of the new cavity , `` hot spots '' locate at the inner wall of the cavity , especially the upper and bottom walls .",
    "( see figs .",
    "( d)-(f ) . )",
    "if there are metal material ejected from the upper free surface depends on the initial impacting speed @xmath78 and the width of the upper wall of the original cavity @xmath79 .",
    "the critical impacting speed @xmath78 increases parabolically with @xmath79 .",
    "4 shows the simulation results and fitting curve .     and initial yield [ ( c ) and ( d ) ] to the collapsing procedure .",
    "( a ) area of cavity versus time for different initial radius . what shown in the legend are the initial radii , the unit is @xmath80 m ; ( b ) collapsibility versus initial radius of cavity ; ( c ) area of cavity versus time for different initial yield stresses . what shown in the legend are the initial yield stresses , the unit is mpa .",
    "( d ) collapsibility versus initial yield stress . ]    with the decrease of impact speed , the collapse becomes slower .",
    "when the impact speed decreases to about 200 m / s , the dynamical picture has been significantly different : the cavity can not be collapsed completely , and the final configuration around the cavity varies from ( nearly ) symmetric to asymmetric if we change the distances from the cavity center to the impacting surface . in fig .",
    "5 we show an  abnormal \" asymmetric dynamical picture where the cavity collapsed less in the initial shock direction . here",
    "the width of the simulated system is 10 @xmath76 .",
    "the initial radius of the cavity is 1.5 @xmath76 .",
    "the distance between the cavity center to the impact surface of the metal body is 1.9 @xmath76 . to understand the observed behavior , we",
    " recover \" or ",
    "magnify \" the system in such a way : the rigid walls at the two sides and at the bottom of the computational region can be regarded as  mirrors \" . in other words ,",
    "the system is symmetric about the  mirrors \" .",
    "the distance between two successive cavities in the horizontal direction is @xmath81 ; while the distance between the cavity in the computed body and the fictitious one symmetric about the impacting face is @xmath82 .",
    "the cavities reflect rarefactive waves .",
    "therefor , the pressure in between decreases .",
    "since the distance @xmath83 in vertical direction is much less than @xmath84 in horizontal direction , the rarefactive waves in between the two cavities in vertical direction reflected more frequently .",
    "correspondingly , the pressure in this region is much lower than those in the surrounding region .",
    "this results in the less collapsing of the lower part of the cavity .",
    "when the shock waves arrive at the upper free surface , rarefactive waves are reflected back towards the cavity .",
    "this is a second reason for the cavity to collapse less in the vertical direction .",
    "compared with those from the fictitious cavity below the bottom , the reflected rarefactive waves from the upper free surface is much wider .",
    "this explains why the collapsing of the lower part of the cavity is more pronounced .",
    "fig.6 shows the corresponding configurations with temperature .",
    "the hottest region appears in the region below the cavity . in figs . 5 and 6 , figs .",
    "( a)-(f ) correspond to 1.0 ns , 1.62 ns , 2.2 ns , 3.0 ns , 5.4 ns and 16 ns , respectively . from figs .",
    "5(a ) and 6(a ) it is clear that , around this time , although the rarefactive wave decreased the pressure within the influenced region , but the temperature there is higher than those in other parts of the system .",
    "the reason is that the waves there did more plastic work .",
    "since the cavity here corresponds to vacuum , pure fluidic models are not able to capture such a phenomenon .    the temperature in the  hot spot \" increases in the course of collapsing .",
    "if we further decrease the distance between the cavity and the lower impacting face , the lower part of the cavity will be collapsed more pronouncedly .",
    "7(a ) shows the final steady state for a case where the lower boundary of the cavity just locates at the impacting face .",
    "in contrast , if we increase the distance , the collapsed cavity will be more symmetric . fig .",
    "7(b ) shows a case where the collapsing is nearly isotropic .",
    "we studied cases with various sizes of cavity .",
    "it is found , for the investigated cases , that the collapsibility becomes larger when the initial size of the cavity is reduced .",
    "the variation of area of the cavity with time is shown in fig .",
    "8(a ) , where four kinds of radius are used .",
    "they are 2.5 @xmath76 , 2.0 @xmath76 , 1.5 @xmath76 , and 1 @xmath85 , respectively .",
    "if we define the collapsibility as @xmath86 , then it is clear that @xmath87 decreases as the cavity becomes larger , where @xmath88 and @xmath89 are the areas of the cavity in the initial and final states .",
    "( see fig .",
    "in order to study separately the effect of individual material characteristics to the collapsing procedure , we changed the initial yield stress of the material under the condition that all other parameters are fixed .",
    "the corresponding collapsing procedures are shown in fig.8(c ) , where the numbers in the legend indicates the used initial yield stresses .",
    "the unit is mpa .",
    "8(d ) shows that the collapsibility decreases parabolically if the initial yield becomes larger .",
    "the collapse of cavities under shock is investigated by the material - point method .",
    "what mainly concerned in the present paper include behaviors ignored by pure fluidic models and those quick distortion procedures which are generally difficult for the traditional finite - element method @xcite .",
    "we studied the relations between symmetry of collapsing and the strength of shock , other coexisting interfaces , as well as hydrodynamic and thermal - dynamic behaviors . in the case with strong shock ,",
    "the procedure of jet creation in the cavity in studied .",
    "the jetted material hits the downstream wall and results in two vortices rolling in opposite directions .",
    "the  hot spots \" occur in the two centers of vortices .",
    "when the shock is strong enough , the jet material with high kinetic energy hits and breaks the downstream wall .",
    "the critical impact speed for such a phenomenon increases parabolically with the thickness of the downstream wall . in the case with weak shock",
    ", it is found that the cavity can not be collapsed completely and the cavity may collapse in a nearly isotropic way .",
    "the transition of symmetry in the course of collapsing is relevant to the size of the cavity , the distances to the walls , as well as the impacting speed , etc .",
    "the distribution of  hot spots \" in the shocked material changes for different collapsing procedures .",
    "since we use the mie - grneisen equation of state and the effects of strain rate are not taken into account , the behavior is the same if the spatial and temporal scales are magnified in the same way .",
    "the results obtained in the paper will help to understand better the course of ignition of inhomogeneous explosives , fatigue and erosion of metal materials , etc .",
    "99 o. reynolds , 1894 sci . pap . * 2 * , 587 .            y. saito and k. sato , cav03-gs-11 - 004 , fifth international symposium on cavitation ( cav2003 ) osaka , japan ,",
    "november 1 - 4 , 2003 ; michel tanguay and tim colonius , os-2 - 1 - 010 , fifth international symposium on cavitation ( cav2003 ) osaka , japan , november 1 - 4 , 2003 .",
    "d. burgess , d. sulsky , j. u. brackbill , 1992 j. comput .",
    "phys . * 103 * 1 ; d. sulsky , z. chen , h. l. schreyer , 1994 comput . methods in appl .",
    "mech . and eng .",
    "* 118 * 179 ; d. sulsky , s. j. zhou , h. l. schreyer , 1995 comput .",
    ". commun . * 87 * 236 ; d. sulsky , h. l. schreyer , 1996 comput .",
    "methods in appl .",
    "mech . and eng .",
    "* 139 * 409 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the collapse of cavities under shock is a key problem in various fields ranging from erosion of material , ignition of explosive , to sonoluminescence , etc . </S>",
    "<S> we study such processes using the material - point - method developed recently in the field of solid physics . </S>",
    "<S> the main points of the research include the relations between symmetry of collapsing and the strength of shock , other coexisting interfaces , as well as hydrodynamic and thermal - dynamic behaviors ignored by the pure fluid models . in the case with strong shock , we study the procedure of jet creation in the cavity ; in the case with weak shock , we found that the cavity can not be collapsed completely by the shock and the cavity may collapse in a nearly isotropic way . </S>",
    "<S> the history of collapsing significantly influences the distribution of  hot spots \" in the shocked material . </S>",
    "<S> the change in symmetry of collapsing is investigated . </S>",
    "<S> since we use the mie - grneisen equation of state and the effects of strain rate are not taken into account , the behavior is the same if one magnifies the spatial and temporal scales in the same way . </S>"
  ]
}