{
  "article_text": [
    "some extremely simple games lead to puzzles and dilemmas that have a deep social meaning .",
    "the _ prisoner s dilemma _ ( pd ) , a universal metaphor for the tension that exists between social welfare and individual selfishness , is the most famous game of this type .",
    "it stipulates that , in situations where individuals may either cooperate or behave selfishly and thus defect , they will rationally choose the latter .",
    "unfortunately , cooperation would be the preferred outcome when global welfare is considered .",
    "game theory @xcite is the discipline that deals with such situations of conflict where two or more individuals must make decisions that will mutually influence each other .",
    "it takes a view of collective systems in which global social outcomes emerge as a result of the interaction of the individual decisions made by each agent .",
    "another well known simplified model of many common important socio - economic situations is the _ hawk - dove _ ( hd ) game . according to game theory ,",
    "cooperative attitude should vanish in the pd , and should be limited to a given fraction in the hd .",
    "this is also the case when large populations of individuals play the game pairwise in a random manner and anonymously , as prescribed by evolutionary game theory @xcite .",
    "however , in controlled experiments it has been observed that cooperation actually emerges when the game is played by humans and in many other cases @xcite .",
    "a number of mechanisms have been invoked to explain the emergence of cooperative behavior : repeated interaction , reputation , and belonging to a recognizable group have often been mentioned @xcite .",
    "however , the work of nowak and may @xcite showed that simply arranging the players in a spatial structure and allowing them to only interact with neighbors is sufficient to sustain a certain amount of cooperation even when the game is played anonymously and without repetition .",
    "nowak and may s study and much of the following work was based on regular structures such as two - dimensional grids ( see also @xcite for the hd case ) . however , while two - dimensional grids may be realistic for ecological and some biological applications , they are inadequate for modeling human networks of interactions as it has now become clear that many actual networks have a structure that is neither regular nor random but rather of the _ small - world _ type . roughly speaking , small - world networks are graphs in which any node is relatively close to any other node . in this sense , they are similar to random graphs but unlike regular lattices . however ,",
    "in contrast with random graphs , they also have a certain amount of local structure , as measured , for instance , by a quantity called the _ clustering coefficient _ which essentially represents the probability that two neighbors of a given node are themselves connected ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "thus , most real conflicting situations in economy and sociology are not well described neither by a fixed geographical position of the players in a regular lattice nor by a mixing population , and it becomes relevant to study these dilemmas on other , more faithful social structures . some previous work has been done in this direction .",
    "we mention santos and pacheco s work on scale - free networks @xcite and work on watts  strogatz small - world graphs @xcite",
    ". however , these network types , although they have the right global `` statistical '' properties , are only an approximation of the actual topological properties of measured networks of interactions . in the present work we introduce a more socially relevant network and we emphasize the relationships between community structure and cooperation . a recent work close to the present one in spirit",
    "is holme et al .",
    ". however , the authors of @xcite only study the pd on a much smaller social network using a different , noisy , strategy update rule , while we employ the more standard replicator dynamics on a larger social network and also study the hd game .",
    "the remainder of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "we first give a brief background on the pd and hd .",
    "we then describe the main features of social networks and we present an evolutionary game model on a real collaboration network .",
    "we finally present and discuss results of numerical simulations of the model in terms of cooperation , community structure and stability .",
    "we first recall a few elementary notions on the pd and the hd games . these are two - person , symmetric games in which each player has two possible strategies : cooperate ( c ) or defect ( d ) . in strategic form",
    ", these games have the payoff bi - matrix shown in table [ matr ] . in this matrix",
    ", r stands for the _ reward _ the two players receive if they both cooperate , p is the _ punishment _ for bilateral defection , and t is the _ temptation _ , i.e. the payoff that a player receives if it defects , while the other cooperates .",
    "in this latter case , the cooperator gets the _ sucker s _ payoff s. for the pd ,",
    "the payoff values are ordered numerically in the following way : @xmath0 , while in the hd game @xmath1 .",
    "defection is always the best rational individual choice in the pd ",
    "( d , d ) is the unique nash equilibrium and also an evolutionary stable strategy ( ess ) .",
    "mutual cooperation would be preferable but it is a strongly dominated strategy .",
    "thus the dilemma is caused by the `` selfishness '' of the actors .    .payoff",
    "matrix for @xmath2 symmetric games . [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     figures [ noise ] ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) refer to the pd with @xmath3 and three different values of @xmath4 : @xmath5 , and @xmath6 respectively . figure [ noise ] ( d ) refers to the hd with @xmath7 .",
    "the first constant part of the graphs up to abscissa 0 represent the pseudo - equilibrium values reached in each run after @xmath8 steps , just before applying the perturbation . for the pd",
    ", it can be seen that where cooperation is high ( figure [ noise ] ( a ) ) , after a transient period in which there can be a significant loss of cooperation , all runs tend to recover the original levels , albeit at different speeds . when cooperation is at intermediate or lower levels ( figures [ noise ] ( b ) and ( c ) ) , the behavior is more oscillatory but populations tend to recover the original pseudo - equilibrium levels of cooperation .",
    "even populations that had originally a significantly lower cooperation percentage can sometimes reach the cooperation level of the majority of runs after the perturbation . for the hd",
    ", populations easily recover from noisy behavior ( see figure [ noise ] ( d ) ) , as cooperation is more widespread in this game . even for extreme values of @xmath4",
    "the original cooperation level tends to be recovered ( not shown to save space but very similar to figure [ noise ] ( b ) ) .",
    "extending previous work on regular structures and on model scale - free and small - world networks , in this paper we have empirically studied two fundamental social dilemmas on a real acquaintance network . although the graph studied is a single particular instance , it possesses all the features that characterize actual social networks , such as high clustering and communities .",
    "we find that this kind of topology allows cooperation to be reached and maintained , for a large portion of the game parameter space for hd , and even in the more difficult case of the pd .",
    "it was previously known that this is the case for lattice structures and , most notably , for scale - free graphs .",
    "however , these structures are not good representations of social ties and thus our result is encouraging from the social point of view .",
    "importantly , we have also shown that the quasi - equilibria reached by the dynamics are not ephemeral , unstable states ; on the contrary , they are very robust against perturbations represented by strategy flips of groups of agents . when reshuffled by the perturbation , even population configurations in which defection prevails either recover the previous level of cooperation or increase it , which means that this kind of social graphs intrinsically favor cooperation through clustering and tight communities . in the future , we would like to generalize these results to classes of social network models .",
    "p.  holme , a.  trusina , b.  j. kim , and p.  minhagen .",
    "prisoner s dilemma in real - world acquaintance networks : spice and quasi - equilibria induced by the interplay between structure and dynamics .",
    ", 68:030901(r ) , 2003 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we simulate the prisoner s dilemma and hawk - dove games on a real social acquaintance network . using a discrete analogue of replicator dynamics </S>",
    "<S> , we show that surprisingly high levels of cooperation can be achieved , contrary to what happens in unstructured mixing populations . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we empirically show that cooperation in this network is stable with respect to invasion by defectors . </S>"
  ]
}