{
  "article_text": [
    "in the conventional picture of powerful extragalactic radio sources , the fanaroff - riley classification of an object @xcite is determined by the physics of the interaction between the kiloparsec - scale jets and the external medium .",
    "this is thought to take place in two very different ways . in the low - power fri sources",
    "there is a good deal of evidence ( see , e.g. , @xcite ; laing , these proceedings ) that the jets normally decelerate from relativistic to sub - relativistic speeds gradually over scales of 110 kpc .",
    "deceleration requires entrainment of external material in order that momentum should be conserved ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the jets on these scales are often apparently in direct contact with the external medium , so that direct jet - medium interactions are a possible mechanism for the deceleration .",
    "by contrast the jets in the more powerful frii sources remain relativistic , often out to scales of hundreds of kpc or more , until they decelerate abruptly ( i.e. , on scales that are much less than the length scale of the jet ) at a shock or shocks which involve the direct interaction of the jet not with the external medium but with the relativistic plasma that fills the lobes in which the jets are typically embedded , giving rise to the observed hotspots .",
    "( for the purposes of this paper i will ignore the vast range of intermediate cases and peculiar objects that should really be accommodated in a scheme of this kind . )",
    "one important _",
    "similarity _ between the deceleration regions of the two types of source is that both are associated with particle acceleration . in the frii sources",
    "the detection of optical synchrotron emission from hotspots provided early evidence in favor of a beam model with local particle acceleration at the hotspots ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; but cf .",
    "the current probable detection of x - ray synchrotron emission from hotspots ( e.g. , @xcite , and see below ) makes it very hard to evade the conclusion that _ in situ _ particle acceleration at the hotspots is necessary . in the fris",
    "the situation is similar : optical jet detections meant that only models involving special geometries could evade the necessity for _ in situ _ particle acceleration ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and these models are essentially completely ruled out by the x - ray data ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "x - ray jet detections are common @xcite in powerful fri sources , so that it seems likely that particle acceleration is always associated with jet deceleration in fri jets .",
    "since we have no direct evidence for particle acceleration anywhere else in the large - scale structure of either class of radio source , these regions may be the place where the electron energy spectrum observed throughout the rest of the source is determined , and so it is important to understand the physical processes that are going on in the jets of fris and the hotspots of friis , using , if possible , insights gained from each class of source to understand the other .    in this paper",
    "my focus will be on several outstanding problems in our understanding of the compact features of frii sources and what we can learn from them about jet - environment interaction , but i begin by briefly and subjectively reviewing what we can learn about jet - environment interaction and particle acceleration from the fris , the closest of which can be studied in much more detail than is possible for any frii .",
    "as discussed above , the 110 kpc - scale jets of fri sources have to interact with the environment in order to decelerate , although the present observational modelling of this process ( see laing , these proceedings ) does not allow us to extract the microphysics of the jet - environment interaction .",
    "fri jets should therefore be good places to look for evidence for jet - environment interactions .",
    "detailed radio and optical images of fri jets often show a ` knotty ' structure with many compact features  the best - known example is the well - studied radio and optical jet of m87 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the nature of the knots is not obvious .",
    "at least some appear to affect the whole jet ( e.g. , knot a in m87 ) which raises the possibility that they are hydrodynamical features such as internal shocks .",
    "if this were the case , there would be some analogy between these features and the hotspots of frii sources .",
    "however , bright compact features do not seem to be present in the radio emission of all fri jets , and x - ray observations of jets ( backed up in some cases by optical data ) often show smooth diffuse x - ray emission , which implies distributed particle acceleration , since the x - ray loss spatial scale ( defined as the speed of light multiplied by the synchrotron loss timescale for an electron radiating in the x - ray assuming a magnetic field strength of the order of the equipartition value ) is so short that x - ray synchrotron emission always tells us the location of _ current _ particle acceleration .",
    "the closest fri radio galaxy , centaurus a , provides an important testbed for models of jet deceleration and particle acceleration in fri jets .",
    "its distance ( 3.4 mpc ) means that the resolution of _ chandra _ is @xmath0 pc , comparable to the loss spatial scale . this can not be achieved in any more distant fri source .",
    "cen a s detailed x - ray and radio structure ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; see hardcastle et al . , these proceedings , for images ) shows complex , knotty structure in both the radio and x - ray images , with structure on scales that would be unresolved in any other fri jet .",
    "crucially , there is a good deal of small - scale dissimilarity between the x - ray and radio structures : there are bright radio knots that are poor x - ray sources while many of the compact x - ray sources have only faint or absent radio counterparts . in @xcite",
    "we used the dynamical information available from multiple vla images to argue that the x - ray bright knots are stationary while the radio - bright , x - ray - faint knots are moving down the jet at @xmath1 .",
    "this led us to argue that the compact x - ray bright features are localized shocks in the fluid flow , probably as a result of interaction with features from the external medium in the manner proposed by @xcite .",
    "this is the first direct association between the small - scale dynamics of an fri jet and the acceleration of high - energy particles .",
    "it is important to realise , though , that the emission in compact knots in the inner jet of cen a represents only a fraction of the total x - ray emission in the jet ( moreover , a fraction that clearly decreases with distance from the active nucleus ) .",
    "a second , diffuse component of x - ray emission is also present , and both from the luminosity function of knots @xcite and from the spectral differences between knots and diffuse emission ( hardcastle et al . , these proceedings & in prep . )",
    "it seems likely that this has its origin in a different particle acceleration process . in some cases ( e.g. , *",
    "* ) we may be able to associate diffuse particle acceleration with hydrodynamical features affecting the whole jet , but in others we are not .",
    "it seems likely that this diffuse acceleration process is related to the bulk deceleration of the jet flow ( although we do not have evidence for bulk deceleration in cen a ) and it may well be the dominant process in other , more distant jets . both in cen a and in other jets with better - studied optical properties , the overall radio - through - x - ray spectra are inconsistent @xcite with simple continuous - injection models @xcite and the nature of the ` diffuse ' particle acceleration changes as a function of distance along the jet , with a decreasing x - ray / radio ratio and a steepening x - ray spectral index up till the point where the x - rays disappear .",
    "we do not as yet have any clear idea what the microphysics of this ` diffuse ' acceleration process are , but it is essential to understand it to make further progress in this area , and i will argue in the following section that we can no longer ignore it in frii hotspots as well .",
    "6.5 cm -10pt 6.8 cm    i begin this section by making a trivial point about nomenclature that is nevertheless important for what follows in the rest of the paper , particularly  [ knots ] .",
    "this concerns when , and why , we refer to a compact feature as a hotspot rather than a ` jet knot ' .",
    "it is worth noting first of all that the definition of ` hotspot ' itself , as applied to radio maps , is not widely agreed on : for example , two widely cited papers on the detailed structure of frii sources , @xcite and @xcite , propose incompatible definitions .",
    "however , all definitions generally expect the hotspots to be found at the end of the source , since our theoretical expectation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is that these will be the ones associated with the jet termination . in particular , features that are part of a well - collimated jet are generally classed as ` jet knots ' .",
    "this division can be ambiguous  some features near the end of jets but with clearly continuing well - collimated outflow are nevertheless usually referred to as hotspots ( e.g. , hotspot b of 3c390.3 : @xcite , and fig .  [ 390.3 ] ) .",
    "the existence of multiple bright compact features associated with the jet termination ( see  [ multiple ] , below ) is evidence that a definition of hotspots as directly equivalent to ` the location of jet termination ' is inadequate : in many places the jet does not seem to terminate at a single location or in a single step . we know that some features that would generally be classed as jet knots ( e.g. , knot f6 in 3c403 , @xcite ) produce optical and x - ray emission and are thus probably sites of particle acceleration , blurring the distinction between jet knots and hotspots further .",
    "this ambiguity can be and has been used in a self - serving way ( the present writer is as guilty of this as anyone else ) to ` define away ' problems with the picture that is being presented .",
    "a better definition would include some of the actual physics of the jet at the location of the compact feature , but this is hard since in many cases jets are faint or invisible  the ` jet knot ' may be the only indication that a jet is present at all . in what follows i will use the traditional terminology , but the reader should be aware that the term ` jet knot ' is thus used to encompass a number of features with diverse characteristics and probably significantly different physical origins .",
    "is there a class of jet knots in friis that are related to direct environmental interactions with the jet , as we have argued in the case of centaurus a ?",
    "one place to look for such jet knots would be in sources where there is an independent suggestion of a jet / external medium interaction in the shape of ` jet - induced star formation ' .",
    "well - studied candidates for this process include 3c285 @xcite and 3c34 @xcite .",
    "however , there is little evidence in any of these sources that the interaction , if present , affects the jet itself . in 3c285",
    ", for example , the images of @xcite show the jet to contain several knots , but none is spatially coincident with the position of the star - forming object that is believed to be interacting with the jet ( fig .  [ 285 ] ) .",
    "thus not only are the knots in the jet not apparently related to environmental interactions , but the proposed environmental interactions do not apparently produce knots .    one frii source where a jet - environment interaction apparently does affect the jet is 3c321 ( evans et al .",
    ", apj submitted ) . here",
    "an otherwise normal frii source has a jet that is disrupted downstream of a close passage between the jet and a companion galaxy , forming an fri - like jet structure on one side .",
    "the clear compact hotspots on the same side suggest that this is a temporary interaction that has been going on for only @xmath2 years .",
    "immediately adjacent to the companion galaxy is a compact jet knot .",
    "however , this knot is relatively faint and is not a source of any detectable optical or x - ray emission , unlike some other jet knots in friis : nor is the downstream ` fri - like ' jet an x - ray or optical source .",
    "the analogy between this source and the jet - medium interactions seen in fris is thus not particularly strong .",
    "the lack of any strong relationship between jet knots and environmental interactions lends support to a picture in which jet knots in friis have multiple possible origins .",
    "the regularly or quasi - regularly spaced knots seen in many jets ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) seem most likely to be related to internal shocks in the jet or to fluid dynamical instabilities .",
    "can the features conventionally classed as hotspots give us information about jet - environment interactions ?",
    "since , as discussed above , the ` environment ' of the jet at the jet termination point is the lobe or cocoon , it is clear that hotspots can in principle tell us about interactions with the lobe plasma : i discuss this in  [ multiple ] . here , however , we can ask whether hotspots tell us anything about the _ external _ environment .",
    "we expect that the jet should terminate close to a boundary of the lobe or plume that the jet inhabits : the boundary is , of course , the location of the contact discontinuity between the external medium and the relativistic plasma that has previously passed through the jet .",
    "a consequence of this is that we do not expect to see hotspots that are physically in the centre of the lobe . a true hotspot ( as opposed to a jet knot ) seen at a distance from any lobe boundary",
    "is assumed to be there as a result of projection of an interaction between the jet and the front or back boundary of the lobe .",
    "a nice example of the jet / lobe boundary interaction is given by the jet termination in wide - angle tail radio galaxies @xcite : in these sources , which we argue are similar to frii radio galaxies with peculiarly - shaped lobes , compact hotspots are sometimes present and sometimes absent , and it is plausible that they are present only when the geometry of the plume and the current direction of the jet are such that the jet intersects the edge of the plume . here the interaction between the external environment and the ` cocoon ' plasma determines where the contact discontinuity is , and the intersection of the jet and the contact discontinuity , if present , determines where the hotspot is  giving an indirect but important relationship between the hotspot and the external environment .",
    "other examples are provided by the ` bottle - neck ' hotspot structures seen in some frii radio galaxies , particularly at low radio luminosities ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which suggest an interaction between the lobe and a low - density region of the external medium . in general ,",
    "though , while the _ location _ of hotspots can tell us something about the location and nature of the external medium , the detailed properties of hotspots do not .",
    "what then do the detailed properties of hotspots tell us ?",
    "i shall argue in this section that their complex structure and particle acceleration behavior are telling us about the nature of the interaction between the jet and its environment , the cocoon .",
    "the two traditional tools for study of hotspots have been monochromatic high - resolution ( polarimetric ) imaging , usually in the ghz - frequency radio , and broad - band spectral energy distributions usually based on data of comparatively low resolution .",
    "the first of these shows us that hotspots are not structurally simple : the terminations of jets rarely resemble the idealized axisymmetric structures seen in early ( and , regrettably , some current ) analytical and numerical modelling .",
    "this first became clear in the early days of high - resolution radio imaging when multiple hotspots started to be routinely detected in a given lobe ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "observationally we try to distinguish between the most compact , ` primary ' hotspot in a lobe and the more diffuse ` secondary ' hotspot or hotspots , though sometimes this distinction is ambiguous .",
    "@xcite introduced the useful concept of a ` hotspot complex ' which covers a group of hotspots and the high - brightness emission that surrounds them .",
    "models for this complexity fall into two basic classes : those that seek to preserve a single true termination for the jet , such as the still popular dentist s drill model of @xcite or the disconnected - jet variant of @xcite , or those that propose that both the primary and secondary hotspot have a connection to the energy supply , so that the jet termination takes place in stages at the various hotspots , such as the splatter - spot model of @xcite or the jet - deflection model of @xcite .    on the other hand , the radio through optical spectral energy distributions of hotspots ( primary and secondary ) have often been found to be in agreement with relatively simple models of first - order fermi particle acceleration at strong shocks ( e.g. , meisenheimer et al .  1989 ) , although even just based on seds some discrepancies were apparent ( see @xcite , in particular the prescient closing paragraph ) while the optically resolved synchrotron emission seen in some nearby hotspots also points to a distributed acceleration mechanism ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "inclusion of x - ray information in principle would give important information about the location and nature of particle acceleration to the highest observable energies , as in the fri jets .",
    "however , the use of hotspot x - rays has been limited until recently because of uncertainty about the extent to which inverse - compton emission is responsible for the observed x - rays . in @xcite we argued that inverse - compton emission dominates only in the highest - luminosity hotspots , and that synchrotron emission is the only emission process that can produce detectable x - rays in the hotspots with the lowest radio luminosities ( i.e. , in the least powerful sources ) .",
    "low - power frii sources are therefore the best places to search for synchrotron x - rays that trace the locations of high - energy particle acceleration .",
    "our work in this area has been presented by @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and most recently @xcite .",
    "the key results can be summarized as follows :    * x - ray emission associated with compact hotspots is common : the seds are usually consistent with a synchrotron origin for the x - rays and inconsistent with inverse - compton models .",
    "there are often , though not always , significant offsets on @xmath3 kpc scales between the peak of the emission in the x - ray and the peak in the x - ray , which is not expected in a simple synchrotron / shock acceleration model ( e.g. , figs [ 390.3 ] and [ 227 ] : see also erlund et al .",
    ", these proceedings ) .",
    "* x - ray emission is also often seen from diffuse regions around or behind the hotspots , with size scales @xmath4 kpc ( e.g. , fig . [ 390.3 ] ) . if this x - ray emission is also synchrotron  and no other model is at all plausible  then distributed particle acceleration must be taking place on these scales .",
    "this is very plausibly related to the distributed acceleration mechanism required in the fri jets . *",
    "some secondary hotspots are x - ray sources and so inferred to be sites of high - energy particle acceleration ( e.g. , fig .",
    "[ 227 ] ) .",
    "this implies that at least some secondary hotspots have ongoing access to a supply of energy , and are thus _ not _ produced by the simple dentist s drill mechanism .",
    "other hotspots are not detected in the x - ray and are therefore significantly less efficient at accelerating particles to the energies required for x - ray emission .",
    "we find that all x - ray - emitting hotspots are compact , but not all compact hotspots are x - ray sources .",
    "we interpret these complex hotspot behaviors in the context of models in which the hotspots are transient features created by the interaction of the lobe fluid with the jet .",
    "this process has been seen in many detailed simulations of light jets in which the assumption of axisymmetry has been removed ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the jet / lobe interaction causes the jet to move about in the head of the source on scales much less than the source lifetime . in this picture",
    "individual hotspots are telling us more about ` weather ' in the lobe than about source physics : in particular , we can not hope to understand the mechanisms of multiple hotspot formation by looking at any individual source , since the simulation shows that all the traditional processes may be capable of operating at different times .",
    "simulations that trace shocks and particle acceleration also give important clues to the interpretation of the x - ray emission .",
    "@xcite carried out three - dimensional mhd simulations that modeled the transport of relativistic electrons and of particle acceleration at shocks .",
    "they found that the interaction of the jet and the backflowing plasma at the head of the jet produced what they called a ` shock - web complex ' , `` a region of shocks of varying strengths and sizes spread throughout the source '' .",
    "even when there was a simple terminal shock , not all the jet material necessarily passed through it , and the terminal shock was not always the strongest shock in the system . while it is not clear that their simulations are perfectly matched to real radio sources , they are capable of producing simulated synchrotron images that show apparent clear discrete multiple hotspots @xcite and in these cases the particle acceleration is not necessarily well matched to the locations of the hotspots : hotspot locations in their model can have more to do with magnetic field amplification than with particle acceleration .",
    "the notion of a ` shock - web complex ' at the head of the jet could help to explain the diffuse x - ray emission now seen in the radio - bright but non - compact source head regions of a number of objects , as discussed above , while the idea that the particle acceleration region may not always be co - spatial with the observed radio hotspot might help to explain observed offsets .",
    "it seems very likely therefore that hotspots are indeed telling us about jet - environment interactions , but that the environment with which they are interacting is the cocoon , whose properties we can not probe directly .",
    "progress in this area may come from further numerical modelling or possibly from a better understanding of the nature of the cocoon plasma and the distribution of particles and magnetic field within it .",
    "the key results from the work described in this paper can be summarized as follows :    * in fri jets , there is some direct evidence that some jet knots are due to environmental interaction , and we have an idea of the mechanism by which the interaction produces the knots .",
    "however , localized interactions are most likely not responsible for most of the high - energy particle acceleration in these jets . * in most frii jets",
    "there is little evidence that knots know about the environments , but there are counterexamples .",
    "` jet knots ' in frii jets are a heterogeneous class and the terminology should be used cautiously . *",
    "the detailed properties of hotspots in friis are predominantly a result of interaction between the jet and the cocoon plasma , and there is much still to be understood about how this works .",
    "however , simple models of the locations and mechanisms of particle acceleration in these objects are now ruled out by a variety of observations .",
    "i thank my collaborators past and present who have worked with me on hotspot and jet radio x - ray observations , particularly ralph kraft , dan harris , diana worrall , mark birkinshaw , judith croston and dan evans .",
    "i also acknowledge generous financial support from the royal society .",
    "best , p.n . ,",
    "longair , m.s . , &",
    "rttgering , h.j.a .",
    "1997 , , 286 , 785 bicknell , g.v .",
    "1984 , , 286 , 68 biretta , j.a .",
    ", & meisenheimer , k. 1993 , in rser h .- j . , meisenheimer k. , eds , jets in extragalactic radio sources , springer - verlag , heidelberg , p.  159",
    "blandford , r.d . , & knigl , a. 1979 , astrophs .",
    "lett . , 20 , 15 blandford , r.d . , & rees , m.j .",
    "1974 , , 169 , 395 bridle , a.h . ,",
    "hough , d.h . ,",
    "lonsdale , c.j . , burns , j.o . ,",
    "& laing , r.a .",
    "1994 , , 108 , 766 cox , c.i . ,",
    "gull , s.f . , & scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1991 , , 252 , 588 fanaroff , b.l .",
    ", & riley , j.m .",
    "1974 , , 167 , 31p gopal - krishna , subramanian , p. , wiita , p.j . ,",
    "becker , p.a .",
    ", & 2001 , , 377 , 827 hardcastle , m.j . 1999 , , 349 , 381 hardcastle , m.j . , & sakelliou , i. 2004 , , 349 , 560 hardcastle , m.j . , & croston , j.h .",
    "2005 , , 363 , 649 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "alexander , p. , pooley , g.g . , & riley , j.m .",
    "1996 , , 278 , 273 hardcastle , m.j . , birkinshaw , m. , & worrall , d.m .",
    "2001 , , 326 , 1499 hardcastle , m.j . , worrall , d.m . ,",
    "kraft , r.p . ,",
    "forman , w.r . ,",
    "jones , c. , & murray , s.s .",
    "2003 , , 593 , 169 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "harris , d.e . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", & birkinshaw , m. 2004 , , 612 , 729 hardcastle , m.j . , kraft , r.p . , & worrall , d.m .",
    "2006 , , 368 , l15 hardcastle , m.j . , kraft , r.p . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", croston , j.h . ,",
    "evans , d.a . ,",
    "birkinshaw , m. , & murray , s.s .",
    "2007a , , 662 , 166 hardcastle , m.j . , croston , j.h . , & kraft , r.p .",
    "2007b ,  in  press heavens , a.f . , & meisenheimer , k. 1987 , , 225 , 335 kataoka , j. , stawarz ,  .",
    ", aharonian , f. , takahara , f. , ostrowski , m. , & edwards , p.g .",
    "2006 , , 641 , 158 komissarov , s.s .",
    "1994 , , 269 , 394 kraft , r.p . , forman , w.r . , jones , c. , murray , s.s . ,",
    "hardcastle , m.j . , & worrall , d.m .",
    "2002 , , 569 , 54 kraft , r.p . , hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", & murray , s.s .",
    "2005 , , 622 , 149 kraft , r.p . , birkinshaw , m. , hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "evans , d.a . , croston , j.h . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", & murray , s.s .",
    "2007 , , 659 , 1008 laing , r.a .",
    "1982 , in heeschen , d.s .",
    ", wade c.m . , eds , extragalactic radio sources , iau symposium 97 , reidel , dordrecht , p.  161",
    "laing , r.a .",
    ", & bridle , a.h .",
    "2002 , , 336 , 328 leahy , j.p . , black , a.r.s .",
    ", dennett - thorpe , j. , hardcastle , m.j . , komissarov , s. , perley , r.a . ,",
    "riley , j.m .",
    ", & scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1997 , , 291 , 20 leahy , j.p .",
    ", & perley , r.a .",
    "1995 , , 277 , 1097 lonsdale , c.j . , & barthel , p.d .",
    "1986 , , 92 , 12 meisenheimer , k. , rser , h .- j . , hiltner , p.r . , yates , m.g . ,",
    "longair , m.s . , chini , r. , & perley , r.a .",
    "1989 , , 219 , 63 meisenheimer , k. , yates , m.g . , &",
    "rser , h .- j .",
    "1997 , , 325 , 57 norman , m.l .",
    "1996 , in hardee p.e .",
    ", bridle a.h . , zensus j.a .",
    ", eds , energy transport in radio galaxies and quasars , asp conference series vol .  100 , san francisco , p.  319",
    "owen , f.n .",
    ", hardee , p.e . , & cornwell , t.j . 1989 , , 340 , 698 perlman , e.s . , & wilson , a.s .",
    "2005 , , 627 , 140 prieto , m.a . , brunetti , g. , & mack , k.h .",
    "2002 , , 298 , 193 scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1982 , in heeschen , d.s .",
    ", wade c.m . , eds , extragalactic radio sources , iau symposium 97 , reidel , dordrecht , p.  163 tregillis , i.l . , jones , t.w . , & ryu , d. 2001 , , 557 , 475 tregillis , i.l . ,",
    "jones , t.w . , ryu , d. , & park , c. 2002 , newar 46 387 van  breugel w.j.m . , & dey , a. 1993 , , 414 , 563 williams , a.g . ,",
    "& gull , s.f .",
    "1985 , , 313 , 34 worrall , d.m . ,",
    "birkinshaw , m. , & hardcastle , m.j .",
    "2001 , , 326 , l7"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i discuss the nature of ` hotspots ' and ` jet knots ' in the kpc - scale structures of powerful radio galaxies and their relationship to jet - environment interactions . </S>",
    "<S> i describe evidence for interaction between the jets of fri sources and their local environments , and discuss its relationship to particle acceleration , but the main focus of the paper is the hotspots of friis and on new observational evidence on the nature of the particle acceleration associated with them . </S>"
  ]
}