{
  "article_text": [
    "in this review , i will focus on the cosmological constraints provided from the correlations of galaxies on large scales in the universe .",
    "such constraints are complementary to measurements using data from supernovae ( reviewed by bruno leibundgut in this journal ) and the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) .",
    "i do not attempt to give a complete review of the recent cmb observations here as they have been thoroughly reviewed elsewhere@xcite .",
    "i just note that the cmb data alone can not simultaneously constrain all the important parameters of the present  concordance model \" of cosmology@xcite .",
    "this is illustrated in figure [ fig1 ] , which shows the allowed confidence regions when jointly exploring a seven - dimensional parameter space of @xmath4 , @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 using only the wmap data .",
    "degeneracies in these parameters can only be broken by adding external data , as demonstrated in figure [ fig2 ] .",
    "for example , there are degeneracies between the properties of dark energy and the curvature of the universe when only using cmb data . however ,",
    "if one assumes a cosmological constant ( @xmath2 ) for the dark energy , then the wmap data does provide a constraint ( 95% confidence ) of @xmath11 @xcite indicating that the universe is close to spatially flat ( i.e. , @xmath12 with @xmath13 ) .",
    "therefore , i assume flatness for most of this review unless stated otherwise .",
    "the clustering of galaxies , as a function of scale , contains significant cosmological information . as shown in figure [ hutsi ] , the power spectrum of clustering of matter ( @xmath14 , see below ) depends on both the overall density of dark matter ( @xmath15 in figure 3 ) and baryonic matter ( @xmath16 ) .",
    "in particular , the broad shape of @xmath14 changes as the  turnover \" from the large scale , scale - invariant spectrum coming out of inflation is shifted to larger @xmath17 values ( smaller scales ) as the density of the total matter decreases ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "this is caused by the change in the particle horizon scale at the epoch of matter ",
    "radiation equality@xcite , which is proportional to @xmath18 .",
    "figure [ hutsi ] also shows the effect of baryons on the power spectrum .",
    "firstly , baryons decrease the growth rates between the matter  radiation epoch and the drag epoch , leading to a suppression in the overall amplitude of @xmath14 on small scales relative to the large scales@xcite .",
    "secondly , there is an obvious oscillatory signal which increases in amplitude as the baryon density increases . these  baryon acoustic oscillations \" ( bao ) are due to sound waves in the early universe . before recombination , the intense pressure within the initial dark matter density fluctuations drive sound waves out through the primordial plasma at approximately half the speed of light@xcite .",
    "these sound waves propagate through the plasma until recombination with the baryons and photons in equilibrium .    at recombination ,",
    "the photons and baryons de  couple as the free electrons are captured to form neutral hydrogen .",
    "the photons stream through the universe , rarely interacting with matter again ( see section [ isw ] ) and are seen today as the cmb , redshifted from infra - red wavelengths ( one micron ) at recombination to radio wavelengths today by the expansion of the universe .",
    "the effect of these sound waves is also seen in the power spectrum of the cmb radiation as the  acoustic peaks \" and provide information on the density of dark and baryonic matter in the universe ( from their relative heights)@xcite .",
    "as the photons stream away , there is a drop in the pressure and the baryons are stalled with a radius equal to approximately the sound speed times the age of the universe at recombination ( the sound horizon at recombination ) , which is @xmath19 mpc today@xcite . as the universe evolves after recombination , the baryons in the stalled sound wave move back into equilibrium with the dark matter halos that produced the wave in the first place .",
    "however , we still expect evidence for these stalled sound waves to persist today as a preferred scale of clustering in the statistical distribution of galaxies . this is because the overdensities caused by the stalled sound waves help to accelerate galaxy formation leading to a slight excess in the number of galaxy pairs separated by this acoustic scale ( in co  moving coordinates ) .",
    "i have only considered linear scales here . on smaller scales ,",
    "the non  linear effects of structure formation will also change the shape of the power spectrum , while other components in the universe ( e.g. , relativistic neutrinos ) will also leave their mark , see @xcite for more details .",
    "the most popular statistical method for measuring the clustering of matter in the universe is the two  point autocorrelation function ( @xmath20 ) , which quantifies the probability ( @xmath21 ) of finding a pair of galaxies ( separated by distance @xmath22 ) compared to a random distribution of galaxies , i.e. ,    @xmath23    where @xmath24 is the mean space density of galaxies , and @xmath25 and @xmath26 are the search volumes for the two galaxies in question ( with subscripts 1 and 2 ) .",
    "as one can see , when @xmath27 the probability is just that expected from a random distribution of galaxies .",
    "if @xmath28 , then the galaxies are more clustered than random ( higher probability of finding a pair of galaxies separated by @xmath22 ) , while @xmath29 means the galaxies are less clustered than random .",
    "practically , @xmath20 is computed by counting all galaxy pairs , as a function of their separation distance , and then comparing this with a similar counting of pairs of random points distributed over the same volume as the real data .",
    "this can be written as    @xmath30    where @xmath31 is the number of data  data pairs and @xmath32 is the number of random ",
    "random pairs over the same volume as the real data . if @xmath33 , then @xmath27 as expected for a random distribution .",
    "there are more optimal estimators of the correlation function@xcite than shown in eqn [ eqn2 ] , which do a better job in accounting for edge effects and the weighting of the pairs .",
    "the real complexity comes in the construction of the random data - set for comparison with the real data .",
    "this must account for all effects on the real data , including the selection function , which can be challenging@xcite .",
    "in recent years , many authors have preferred to use the power spectrum ( @xmath14 ) of galaxy fluctuations which is related to @xmath20 by    @xmath34    where the power spectrum is just the fourier transform of the correlation function@xcite .",
    "therefore , they both contain the same information and for modern galaxy surveys , with complex masks and selection functions , there is no practical difference between the two methods .    in reality , one measures the separation of galaxies in `` redshift  space '' meaning the observed redshifts of galaxies ( from their spectra ) have been converted into radial ( line  of  sight ) distances and therefore , any intrinsic velocities of the galaxies ( in their cosmological rest  frame ) will be added to the redshift .",
    "this causes the distances to be distorted compared to the `` real  space '' measurements , i.e. , with no `` peculiar velocities '' ( as astronomers call them ) present .",
    "authors often use the symbol @xmath35 , rather than @xmath22 , to signify redshift  space distances , i.e. , @xmath36 is the correlation function in redshift  space . on small scales , in the centres of clusters of galaxies , such velocities can be large ( @xmath37 ) and can cause noticeable `` fingers  of  god '' in the distribution of galaxies pointing back to us , the observers .",
    "this is because we only see the addition of the radial component of the peculiar velocities to the radial redshift direction of the galaxy survey , leaving the angular coordinates of the galaxies unaffected .",
    "this effect can be clearly seen by computing the correlation function as a function of both the tangential , or perpendicular ( @xmath38 ) , distance and radial , or parallel ( @xmath39 ) , distance between galaxies , i.e. , @xmath40 . in this way",
    ", one can integrate the correlation function in the radial direction to  average over \" the peculiar velocities thus gaining an estimate of the real  space correlation function , i.e. ,    @xmath41    where @xmath42 is the upper limit of the integration in the radial direction ( the factor of 2 is there because we assume symmetry in the @xmath43 direction and thus the lower integration limit starts at zero and not @xmath44 ) .",
    "the details of @xmath42 are survey dependent , but it is usually tens of megaparsecs@xcite .",
    "this function is often called the projected correlation function and an example of @xmath40 is given in figure [ zehavi ] .",
    "this figure also exhibits another common distortion of the correlation function because of large scale coherent motions of galaxies around clusters and superclusters of galaxies leading to a compression of the correlation function in the perpendicular direction@xcite .",
    "significant cosmological information can be obtained from measuring the anisotropy in @xmath45 and comparing it to models for these redshift distortions@xcite .",
    "i have focused here on the spatial two  point autocorrelation function , but there are many other correlation functions in operation .",
    "for example , one can compute the angular correlation function using just the positions of the galaxies in the plane of the sky .",
    "this has the disadvantage of diluting the true 3-d clustering signal as one is integrating over the radial distances .",
    "likewise , one can also define the 3point correlation function ( both spatially and angularly ) as the probability of finding a triplet of galaxies as a function of their triangular configuration .",
    "recently there has been significant interest in computing such 3point correlation function for galaxies because of the existence of large redshift surveys , like the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; see section [ obs ] ) , and the availability of the required computational resources@xcite .",
    "such 3point functions can provide important information on the biasing of galaxies and how they populate their dark matter halos ( see section [ biasing ] )",
    "there is a rich history of clustering measurements from galaxy surveys . from the pioneering measurements using the shane  wirtanen counts by jim peebles and collaborators to new digital catalogues like the sloan digital sky survey . in between ,",
    "there have been important surveys like the apm and edsgc angular galaxy catalogues based on digitized photographic schmidt plates , the cfa redshift survey , based on the ugc and zwicky catalogues , the las campanas redshift survey , the durham / ukst survey , the cnoc surveys and , more recently , the 2mass survey and the 2df galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs)@xcite .",
    "i focus here on the sloan digital sky survey@xcite ( sdss ) as it is currently the largest survey of the northern hemisphere in terms of numbers of galaxies and volume of the universe sampled . in 2006 , the sdss published its fifth data release ( dr5 ) which included redshifts for 674,749 galaxies as well as detections of many millions of fainter galaxies in the photometric sample .",
    "the sdss will continue until july 2008 , when a series of new surveys , using the same telescope and similar instrumentation , will begin .    in figure [ percival",
    "] , i show the power spectrum of galaxy clustering from the sdss dr5 data@xcite , which raises two important issues .",
    "first , the @xmath14 on large scales ( small @xmath17 ) is still rising and has not turned over as show in figure 3 .",
    "this clearly disfavors the @xmath46 model in figure [ hutsi ] , which begin to decline on scales of @xmath47 .",
    "the constraints on @xmath6 are even stronger than this , as illustrated in figure [ percival ] , where the data is best fit on large scales wit @xmath48 .",
    "it is therefore important that we push measurements of @xmath14 to larger scales as this will improve the constraints on @xmath6 , especially if the expected decline in @xmath14 is eventually seen .",
    "such measurements however , will becomes increasingly difficult because of systematics issues associated with uncertainties in the galactic reddening corrections and the absolute photometric calibration across the survey ( see figure 18 of @xcite ) .",
    "the full sdss galaxy redshift survey when completed in 2008 should provide an important insight on the large scale behaviour of @xmath14 .",
    "likewise , photometric redshift surveys of galaxies can also be used to probe @xmath14 on the largest possible scales , and recent results@xcite suggest significant large scale power in the power spectrum that could push @xmath6 below 0.2 .",
    "secondly , the shape of the best fit @xmath49 model in figure [ percival ] is noticeably different from the data on scales @xmath50 mpc@xmath51 .",
    "one would expect some differences on small scales because the model does not contain any information on the non  linear effects of gravity , which boost the observed clustering of matter relatively to the linear prediction .",
    "in addition , cosmologists must also deal with the annoyance of  galaxy bias \" , which is the relationship between the distribution of the underlying dark matter ( which can not be seen directly ) and the distribution of galaxies that can be seen in galaxy surveys like the sdss .",
    "naively , one assumes this relationship is a constant , e.g. , @xmath52 , which leads to @xmath53 . as can be seen in figure [ percival ]",
    ", a simple constant offset between the galaxies ( data points ) and the dark matter predictions ( lines ) does not work on all scales as the shapes are different .",
    "therefore , @xmath54 does appear to be scale  dependent and should be written as @xmath55 .",
    "one can now ask if @xmath54 is also a function of other parameters and if so , what does this mean for the use of @xmath56 as a precision cosmological tool .",
    "it has been known for some time that @xmath54 is a function of galaxy luminosity , with more luminous galaxies having higher @xmath54 values . likewise , because of the color ",
    "magnitude relationship , redder ( older ) galaxies tend to be more biased as well , especially for the most luminous red galaxies ( lrgs ) lying at the centres of clusters of galaxies .",
    "luckily , as shown in figure [ bias ] , the change in @xmath54 with colour and luminosity can be modeled@xcite and thus compensated for during any analysis of the @xmath56 , e.g. , the relative bias of galaxies is well fit by    @xmath57    where @xmath58 is the bias of @xmath59 ( @xmath60 ) galaxies and @xmath61 is the absolute magnitude in a redshifted @xmath62 sdss @xmath22-band filter .",
    "this latter term is a correction for the colour@xcite as well as the luminosity ( @xmath63 ) of the galaxy . in this way",
    ", the @xmath56 of any galaxy sample ( as a function of @xmath63 and colour ) can be re - normalized and should agree . a key question is whether eqn .",
    "[ biasform ] is also a function of @xmath17 , i.e. , takes different functional forms at different scales ? on large scales , where most of the cosmological information resides , the present data is insufficient to address this question .",
    "recently , the issue of bias , and how it may depend on scale and galaxy properties , has been encapsulated in the  halo model\"@xcite . here",
    ", the distribution of galaxies and dark matter are modeled as a distribution of distinct clumps , or  halos \" , of dark matter with a halo occupation distribution ( hod ) explaining how the galaxies are located within these halos .",
    "a common parameterization of the hod is @xmath64 the terms @xmath65 and @xmath66 refer to the central galaxy , the single galaxy at the centre of the dark matter halo , and satellite galaxies , which are located elsewhere in the halo .",
    "if a halo only has one galaxy , it is a defined to be the central galaxy .",
    "@xmath67 is the minimum mass below which it is exponentially unlikely to host even one ( central ) galaxy , while @xmath68 denotes the mass required to host at least one satellite galaxy .",
    "finally , @xmath69 is the slope of the power ",
    "law relation for adding more satellites as a function of halo mass .",
    "figure [ hod ] shows three examples of this hod for different values of @xmath67 , @xmath68 and @xmath69 .",
    "interestingly , all three of these hods produce the same mean space density of lrgs as well as the same two  point correlation functions .",
    "only by studying the 3point correlation function can the degeneracy between these hod parameters be broken@xcite .",
    "this decade has seen significant advances in the detection and measurement of the bao in the galaxy distribution ( section [ theory ] ) .",
    "the first claims of the detection of the bao came in 2001@xcite , followed in 2005 by definitive results by several authors@xcite . in figure",
    "[ baofig ] , i show the latest bao measurements@xcite using all available data from the sdss and 2dfgrs . as can be seen , the bao are now clearly detected@xcite in several different samples of galaxies spread over most of the extragalactic sky .",
    "we have now moved from the  detection \" phase of the bao into the  measurement \" phase , and are now using the bao as a  standard ruler \" in the universe , as they represent a fixed metric scale imprinted in the distribution of matter at recombination ( see section [ theory ] ) . quite simply ,",
    "if one can measure the bao at different redshifts , then one can measure the rate of change of distance in the universe and thus the acceleration in the expansion of the universe . in reality , the bao measurements provide a combination of the angular - diameter distance , because of the bao signal in the plane of the sky , and the hubble parameter , from the bao along the line  of  sight .",
    "therefore , the bao measurements constrain a  volume  averaged \" distance ( @xmath70 ) as the galaxy data is usually analysed in thick redshift shells , e.g. ,    @xmath71^{\\frac{1}{3 } }    \\label{distvol}\\ ] ]    where @xmath72 is the angular  diameter distance , as a function of redshift , and @xmath73 is the hubble parameter with redshift . in the future , with larger galaxy",
    "catalogues , it maybe possible to decouple this cosmological information ( @xmath72 and @xmath73 ) and determine the bao signal in both the transverse and line  of  sight directions as in the @xmath45 in figure [ zehavi ] . in this case , one would see a circular `` bao ridge '' , in the correlation function , or  bao rings \" , in the power spectrum@xcite .    using the data in figure [ baofig ] , it is now possible to measure @xmath74 in two different redshift shells@xcite and compute the ratio of distances between these two shells based solely on the bao signal , e.g. , @xmath75 , the ratio of @xmath74 at redshifts 0.2 and 0.35 ( the median redshifts of the two shells shown in figure 8) .",
    "using the sdss and 2dfgrs data , we find @xmath76 , which is higher , by @xmath77 , than the expected distance ratio for a flat @xmath2dominated cdm model ( @xmath2cdm ) with @xmath78 ( which is @xmath79 ) .",
    "systematic uncertainties associated with how the bao signal is modeled and fitted , as well as the damping effects of non - linear structure formation , can change this distance ratio by @xmath80 , so the discrepancy with flat @xmath2cdm could be decreased .    at face value however , this measurement of the bao distance ratio indicates there maybe more acceleration in the local universe ( @xmath81 ) than is presently expected given the combination of the higher redshift cmb and supernova data .",
    "this maybe an indication of intrinsic curvature in the universe , or a dynamical @xmath82 : we will see .",
    "otherwise , if we combine all the data together ( cmb , bao , supernovae ) , then the best fit cosmological parameters are in agreement with previous measurements , e.g. , @xmath83 and @xmath84 ( assuming flatness and a constant @xmath85 ) .",
    "however , this does mask the underlying tension between the bao and supernova distance measurements ( at the @xmath86 level ) .",
    "in the previous section , i focused on 3-d galaxy maps of the universe based on large redshift surveys . however",
    ", 2-d galaxy maps can also provide important information on the large scale structure ( lss ) in the universe , especially when combined with photometric redshift estimates (  photo - z s \" ) based on the colours of galaxies . such photo - z s are now reliable with a mean error on the true redshift of between @xmath87 and @xmath88 for lrgs ( depending on the lrg brightness and redshift ) over the redshift range @xmath89@xcite .",
    "these errors will get better as larger training samples are developed .",
    "one recent use of large 2-d galaxy maps has been the detection and measurement of the late ",
    "time integrated sachs - wolfe ( isw ) effect , which is the change in the energy of cmb photons as they travel to us from the surface of last scattering through time - evolving gravitational potential wells .",
    "briefly , as a cmb photon falls into a large mass overdensity it experiences a gravitational blueshift , i.e. , it gains energy . likewise ,",
    "as the photon leaves the overdensity , it gives up that extra energy as a gravitational redshift .",
    "if the potential well has not changed during the passage of the photon , then the two effects cancel and the photons energy remains unchanged .",
    "however , if the potential well has evolved during the photon passage , then it will leave with either a boost in energy or a loss . therefore , the late ",
    "time isw effect is the integrated effect of all these blue and redshifts along the line  of  sight , and is only considered in the linear regime of the power spectrum of density fluctuations ( on large scales ) .",
    "sciama effect@xcite is the analogous effect in the non  linear regime ( on small scales ) , while bulk motions of masses along the line  of  sight will also add to the effect@xcite .",
    "i ignore these small scale effects herein , but they could become important in the future as the resolution of cmb maps improves .    in a matter  dominated universe ,",
    "potential wells remain constant with respect to co  moving coordinates , so we would not expect to see an isw effect .",
    "however , if the universe becomes dominated by dark energy ( or spatial curvature if we assume @xmath90 ) , then the large scale gravitational potentials will evolve and we expect to see an isw effect .    it is hard to measure the isw effect from the cmb data alone@xcite , as it is a sub  dominant signal on large scales in the cmb angular power spectrum .",
    "alternatively , one can cross  correlate the cmb maps with tracers of the gravitational potential wells and so separate the isw signal from the intrinsic fluctuations in the cmb@xcite . as",
    "dark energy only dominates the energy density of the universe at relatively late epochs ( below @xmath91 ) , then we only need to correlate ",
    "local \" galaxy maps with the cmb to detect this effect ( see below ) .",
    "unfortunately , the isw effect will not provide precision measurements of the cosmological parameters because it is inherently noisy . on large scales ,",
    "the cmb primary fluctuations dominate the signal in addition to the problem of cosmic variance .",
    "predictions of the isw effect suggest that at best one can hope for a @xmath92 detection of the signal , or more realistically , a @xmath93 detection given an all  sky galaxy map with @xmath94 galaxies out to @xmath95@xcite .",
    "however , such predictions are sensitive to the assumed density of dark matter and therefore , higher detection significances could be used to place interesting lower limits of @xmath6 .",
    "regardless of this fundamental limit on the detectability of the isw effect , it does provide complementary information to other cosmological probes and can still be competitive .",
    "for example , future measurements of the isw effect using the cross  correlation of the lsst galaxy data ( www.lsst.org ) and planck cmb data will provide competitive constraints on dynamical dark energy models ( models with a varying @xmath82 ) , compared to the next generation of supernova and bao experiments@xcite .",
    "likewise , the isw provides an opportunity to constrain the sound speed of dark energy@xcite .",
    "this decade has seen significant progress in detecting the late - time isw effect because of the availability of the wmap cmb data and new large  area surveys like the sdss .",
    "the isw effect has now been seen using an array of different galaxy maps ( xray , optical , radio ) and at several different redshifts@xcite .",
    "there is some disagreement about the significance level of several of these isw detections , but overall most authors find a positive correlation between the cmb and lss at the @xmath96 to @xmath97 level .",
    "the reason for these discrepancies is the difficulty in assessing the likelihood of any observed correlation because of cosmic variance .",
    "this can either be assessed using jack  knife ( jk ) error estimates , which are subjective in their choice of the size and number of the jk sub  regions , or monte carlo errors using thousands of fake cmb maps that must be generated using the observed cmb angular power spectrum@xcite .",
    "the latter is computationally expensive and present analyses have been restricted to cross - correlating the observed galaxy maps against @xmath98 fake cmb maps .",
    "the significance of detection is also complicated by the fact that many of the different galaxy maps are themselves correlated and therefore , to add all of the detections together , one needs to account for the cross - correlations between the different lss tracers .",
    "future work on this should bring together all these isw detections , thus providing the best , single dataset for constraining cosmological parameters .",
    "one of the benefits of isw measurements is the fact they can be carried out at any redshift where sufficient tracers of the lss can be obtained .",
    "crudely , any catalogue of extragalactic objects with a surface density of @xmath99@xmath100 per square degree , and covering several thousands of square degrees of sky , can be used to measure the isw effect . in figure",
    "[ tom ] , we show an example of this potential , which is the cross  correlation of sdss photometrically  selected quasars at @xmath101 with the wmap data@xcite . this figure shows a positive correlation at the @xmath102 significance ( compared to no correlation ) consistent with that expected for @xmath103cdm .    at face value",
    ", this result shows evidence for dark energy even at these high redshifts ( @xmath3 ) and is the earliest epoch that such measurements have been achieved@xcite .",
    "the isw effect allows us to probe the behaviour of dark energy at these high redshifts independent of the low redshift density of dark energy .",
    "the same is not true for geometrical tests of the universe , like supernovae and bao , as they are integrated quantities along the line  of  sight and thus measure average values for the density of dark energy out to high redshift .",
    "as our tracers are at @xmath3 , we are measuring the density of dark energy at these epochs , e.g. , assuming a cosmological constant , then figure 9 tells us that @xmath104 . the expected drop in the density of dark energy with redshift",
    "is shown in figure [ tom2 ] which presents several isw measurements as a function of redshift compared to that expected for the standard @xmath105cdm model ( best fit to the wmap3 data ) .",
    "it is reassuring that there is good agreement between the two , thus indicating that more complex equations of state for dark energy are not presently needed .",
    "this figure again reinforces the claim that the isw effect will provide competitive constraints on dynamical dark energy models in the future .",
    "in addition to constraining dynamical dark energy models , several authors have highlighted the power of the isw effect for testing theories of modified gravity .",
    "this is primarily because the isw effect is sensitive to the rate of structure formation in the linear regime , which is related to the strength of gravity on these large scales .",
    "one popular model for modified gravity is the dvali ",
    "gabadadze  porrati ( dgp ) braneworld model@xcite , where our universe is embedded in a higher  dimensional space and on large scales , gravity becomes a 5d force rather than 4d on smaller scales .",
    "this appears as a weakening of the gravitational force and thus would appear as an acceleration in the 4d universe on large scales .",
    "this manifests itself as a different decay rate for the large scale potential wells in the dgp model compared to a dark energy model , even if the two models have the same geometry . in this way , the isw effect is complementary in its ability to probe these different physical models for the universe , while geometrical measurements ( like supernovae and bao ) would give the same result .",
    "measuring the decay rate of the potential wells using high redshift tracers of the lss is the way forward and could be a key test for these modified gravity models@xcite .    finally , as measurements of the isw effect push to higher redshift",
    ", the effects of gravitational lensing , through the magnification bias , and re - ionization@xcite in the universe must be taken into account .",
    "this could be a curse or a blessing as it demonstrates that galaxy ",
    "cmb cross  correlations potentially contain lots of interesting information at high redshift .",
    "the work presented in this review was taken from collaborative research with many colleagues including will percival , ryan scranton , tommaso giannantonio , robert crittenden , and many others in the sdss collaboration .",
    "i thank these authors for allowing me to present their work here .",
    "i thank martin white for his informative bao webpages , which i heavily used in section [ theory ] .",
    "i also thank chris clarkson for helpful conversations about the particle horizon scale at matter  radiation equality , and gert htsi and idit zehavi for reading earlier drafts of this review .",
    "finally , i thank the referees for their comments , which improved this review .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "see hu , w. , dodelson , s.  2002 , ann.rev.astron.astrophys .",
    ", 2002 , 40 , 171 for a review of cmb anisotropies .",
    "for a more popular review of the acoustic peaks in the cmb , see hu , w. , white , m. , scientific american , feb 2004              the sound speed can be derived using equations in eisenstein , d. j. , hu , w.,1998 , apj , 496 , 605 ( assuming @xmath106 ) .",
    "likewise , eisenstein & hu give fitting formula for the sound horizon and location of the baos .",
    "percival , w. , et al . , 2007 ( astroph/0705.3323 )",
    "find that the co  moving sound horizon scale today is @xmath19 mpc assuming standard cosmological parameters .",
    "we note that the baryonic wave does not immediately stop propagating after recombination and there is a compton drag epoch where the wave is slowing down .",
    "this extra expansion is not seen in the cmb , so it does lead to a slight difference in the sound horizon measured in the matter compared to the cmb .",
    "this effect can be accurately computed and accounted for .",
    "gaztaaga , e. , norberg , p. , baugh , c.  m. , croton , d.  j.  2005 , mnras , 364 , 620 ; marin , f. , wechsler , r. , frieman , j. , nichol , r.  2007 , arxiv e - prints , 704 , arxiv:0704.0255 ; nichol , r.  c. , et al .",
    "2006 , mnras , 368 , 1507    shectman , s. a. , landy , s. d. , oemler , a. , tucker , d. l. , lin , h. , kirshner , r. p. , schechter , p. l. 1996 , apj , 470 , 172 ; maddox , s.  j. , efstathiou , g. , sutherland , w.  j.  1996 , mnras , 283 , 1227 ; nichol , r.  c. , collins , c.  a. , lumsden , s.  l.  2000 , arxiv : astro - ph/0008184 ; jarrett , t.  h. , chester , t. , cutri , r. , schneider , s. , skrutskie , m. , huchra , j.  p.   2000 , aj , 119 , 2498 ; huchra , j. p. , davis , m. , latham , tonry , j. , 1983 , apjs 52 , 89 ; colless , m. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 328 , 1039                  eisenstein , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 633 , 560 ; cole , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , mnras , 362 , 505 ; htsi , g.  2006 , astronomy & astrophysics , 449 , 891 ; padmanabhan , n. , et al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 378 , 852 ; blake , c. , collister , a. , bridle , s. , lahav , o.  2007 , mnras , 374 , 1527      see htsi , g.  2006 , astronomy & astrophysics , 449 , 891 and percival , w.  j. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 657 , 51 for the statistical tests of the detection of the bao .",
    "both analyses favor the inclusion of the bao , over a smooth p(k ) , at the @xmath97 significance or greater .",
    "peiris , h. v. , spergel , d. n. , 2000 , apj . , 540 , 605 ; scranton , r. , et al . , 2003 , arxiv : astro - ph/0307335 ; boughn , s. , crittenden , r. , 2004 , nature , 427 ; nolta , m. r. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 608 , 10 ; afshordi , n. , loh , y. s. , strauss , m. a. , 2004 , physrevd .",
    ", 69 , 083524 ; fosalba , p. , gaztanaga , e. , 2004 , mnras , 350 , l37 ; fosalba , p. , gaztanaga , e. , castander , f. , 2003 , apj , 597 , l89 ; myers , a.  d. , shanks , t. , outram , p.  j. , frith , w.  j. , wolfendale , a.  w.  2004 , mnras , 347 , l67 ; padmanabhan , n. , et al . , 2005 , physrevd , 72 , 043525 ; cabre , a. , gaztanaga , e. , manera , m. , fosalba , p. , castander , f. , 2006 , mnras , 372 , l23 ; rassat , a. , land , k. , lahav , o. , abdalla , f.  b.  2006 , arxiv : astro - ph/0610911          for more on the dgp model , see the review by kazuya koyama in this issue on  the cosmological constant and dark energy in braneworlds \" ( arxiv:0706.1557 ) . also , see koyama , k. , maartens , r.  2006 , jcap , 1 , 16 for more detail on structure formation in the dgp scenario .",
    "sadegh movahed , m. , farhang , m. , rahvar , s.  2007 , arxiv : astro - ph/0701339 give tests of the dgp against cosmological data ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this review , i outline the use of galaxy correlations to constrain cosmological parameters . as with the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) , the density of dark and baryonic matter imprints important scales on the fluctuations of matter and thus the clustering of galaxies , e.g. , the particle horizon at matter  radiation equality and the sound horizon at recombination . precision measurements of these scales from the baryon acoustic oscillations ( bao ) and the large scale shape of the power spectrum of galaxy clustering provide constraints on @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> recent measurements from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) and 2df galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs ) strongly suggest that @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> this forms the basic evidence for a flat universe dominated by a cosmological constant ( @xmath2 ) today ( when combined with results from the cmb and supernova surveys ) . </S>",
    "<S> further evidence for this cosmological model is provided by the late  time integrated sachs  </S>",
    "<S> wolfe ( isw ) effect , which has now been detected using a variety of tracers of the large scale structure in the universe out to redshifts of @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> the isw effect also provides an opportunity to discriminate between @xmath2 , dynamical dark energy models and the modification of gravity on large scales . </S>"
  ]
}