{
  "article_text": [
    "simulations of the regions near black holes where jets are launched suggest that the jet on small scales may include an inner relativistic jet , that might be in the form of poynting flux , surrounded by slower material that might start as a wind from the accretion disk @xcite . in these scenarios , the jet structure and launch mechanism",
    "are related to magnetic fields that are wound up by being dragged around the black hole by the disk material . near the disk",
    ", these fields have a significant component away from the black hole which will likely cause the jet to have a wider opening angle near its base than farther out .",
    "the acceleration of the jet material may be happening throughout this region .",
    "understanding this region would be aided greatly if images and movies could be made with adequate resolution .    resolving the inner portions of a jet",
    "is difficult because of the small angular sizes involved .",
    "the largest angular size black holes are the one in the galactic center , which does not show a jet , and those in a few nearby galaxies which have very massive holes . even in these cases ,",
    "the black hole is only a few microarcseconds in angular size as seen from the earth .",
    "this is well beyond the resolution of any current imaging instruments .",
    "but the interesting effects in the collimation and acceleration region might be seen over scales of tens to hundreds of schwarzschild radii , or tenths of a milliarcsecond ( mas ) , in the best cases .",
    "this is a regime that can just be reached with very long baseline interferometry ( vlbi ) at high frequencies .    in order to make useful images and movies of the inner jet",
    ", one must observe a source that has a sufficiently strong jet at high radio frequencies to allow a vlbi instrument to see significant details of the structure .",
    "one must also trade off the resolution of the very highest frequencies with the much better imaging capabilities available at lower frequencies .",
    "elsewhere in this volume , @xcite describe efforts to image jets at 86 ghz and higher frequencies .",
    "for our project , we have chosen to observe at 43 ghz where the imaging capabilities of the very long baseline array ( vlba ; * ? ? ? * ) alone are good",
    ". it would not be practical to observe on a global array as often as required for a rapidly - evolving , nearby source and the atmosphere plus the availability of only 8 vlba antennas at 86 ghz make the imaging capability at that frequency problematic .",
    "the choice of source to use to study the inner jet is rather clear .",
    "m87 , with a @xmath3 black hole @xcite and a distance of only 16 mpc @xcite , has one of the largest angular size black holes available . for the parameters above , the schwarzschild radius of about 60 au subtends 3.7 microarcseconds . of the sources with large angular size black holes , m87 is the only one with a jet that is sufficiently strong at high radio frequencies to allow detailed studies of the dynamics . for the declination of m87 ( @xmath4 ) ,",
    "the typical resolution of the vlba at 43 ghz of @xmath5 mas corresponds to 110 by 54 schwarzschild radii or 0.031 by 0.015 pc .",
    "the observed structure of the m87 jet is very favorable with significant cross - jet resolution and enough strength to see the jet for more than 30 times the resolution along the jet .",
    "the basic structure of m87 at 43 ghz was first published in @xcite .",
    "that structure includes a very wide opening angle in the first few tenths of a mas and a pronounced two sided jet structure .",
    "the wide opening angle suggests that the collimation region is beginning to be resolved .",
    "the radio jet in m87 has been observed with vlbi many times .",
    "typically motions significantly less than the speed of light are seen , including recent results at 15 ghz reported in this volume where features are almost stationary @xcite . but at higher resolutions , the situation is unclear because any fast motions would be seriously undersampled by the previous observations .",
    "we report here on the status of our efforts to delineate properly the motions in m87 on scales from around 60 to several hundred schwarzschild radii using the vlba .",
    "three sets of observations are described here .",
    "the first consists of 5 images at approximately 1 year intervals that were gathered from the vlba archive from projects that observed m87 for other purposes @xcite .",
    "the structure of the m87 jet was generically similar in all 5 images , but association of individual features between epochs was not clear .",
    "the two closest images , separated by about 8 months , showed some features whose appearance and location suggested that they could be the same structures seen at both times .",
    "if so , they were moving at apparent speeds of @xmath0 to @xmath6 .",
    "it would not have been possible to measure such speeds with any but the closest pair of observations because the motions would have been too large to allow association of features from one image to the next .",
    "of course , these speeds should be treated as lower limits because a combination of faster speeds and misassociation of components could give similar rates .",
    "an image , formed from the average of all 5 observations , is shown in figure [ yearly ] .",
    "it shows the basic structure of the source with more sensitivity than is available from any one epoch , but any detailed structure seen in individual epochs is smoothed out .",
    "another result of @xcite is the detection of weak emission opposite the brightest feature from the main jet .",
    "the brightest feature is presumed to be at , or very close , to the `` core ''  the location of the black hole . in this case , the emission on the other side would be from a counterjet .",
    "an alternative explanation is that such emission is actually from the inner jet and that the black hole is located a couple of mas to the east of the brightest feature . but",
    "results by @xcite show that the emission extends beyond the point where the extrapolation of the edges of the main jet , shown by the longer lines in figure [ yearly ] , converge and has a flaring structure .",
    "also there is circular polarization associated with the brightest feature .",
    "these characteristics suggest that the brightest feature really is the core and the features to the east really are associated with a counterjet .",
    "hence , from here on we will call the brightest feature the core and the eastern features the counterjet , even though these words imply a physical structure that is not completely established .",
    "@xcite find apparent motions of the counterjet of about @xmath7 away from the core .",
    "the motions and relative brightness of the jet and counterjet could be explained if the actual jet speed is @xmath8 and the angle to the line of sight is @xmath9 to @xmath10 .",
    "that would be consistent with some earlier results , but is hard to reconcile with the observation of superluminal motions seen in knot hst-1 @xcite and other features further out @xcite , which , by the usual end - on jet model , require small angles to the line - of - sight .",
    "m87 is sufficiently close that fast motions lead to large angular rates .",
    "in fact , for motions of @xmath11 , as has been reported further down the jet @xcite , the angular rate would be about 24 mas yr@xmath12 !",
    "the vlba observations at 43 ghz have a resolution along the jet of about 0.2 mas , so such motions would be 120 beam widths in a year or about a beam width every 3 days .",
    "clearly observations on the order of once per year would be woefully inadequate to measure such speeds with this resolution .",
    "so we began a project to attempt to pin down the rates near the core and to study details of the motions .",
    "the observational goal of the project is to produce a movie of the activity near the core .",
    "but the first task had to be to determine the appropriate frame rate for the movie .    during the first half of 2006",
    ", six observations were made of m87 with the vlba at 43 ghz with intervals ranging from 3 days to about 3 months .",
    "the images are shown in figure [ pilot ] .",
    "the images made 3 days apart look very similar .",
    "apparently there are no superluminal speeds in this region .",
    "closer study of the images led to the conclusion that the speeds of the major features are on the order of 2.2 mas yr@xmath12 at 1.5 mas from the core . that corresponds to about @xmath2 , not much faster than what was observed from the archive data .",
    "that speed corresponds to about one beam width per month .",
    "based on these results , a frame interval of 3 weeks was chosen for the movie as a compromise between attempting to avoid undersampling the motions and keeping the data volume manageable .",
    "the pilot project images continue to show the double - sided jet structure as seen previously .",
    "they also show the presumed counterjet .",
    "there do appear to be changes in the structure of the counterjet , but the nature of those changes is still unclear and an understanding awaits the movie results . so far ,",
    "one of the pilot observations has been reduced to show the polarization structure , but the only believable polarized emission observed is along the downstream side of the core .",
    "an understanding of the polarization structure awaits much more work with the pilot and movie data , and possible stacking of the various epochs .",
    "the movie observations began in january of 2007 and are scheduled to be completed in january 2008 .",
    "the bandwidth ( a bit rate of 256 mbps ) is double that used in the pilot and other previous observations so the sensitivity is improved , allowing the jet to be seen farther from the core .",
    "the image from the first movie frame is shown in figure [ movie01 ] .",
    "the counterjet is still present , and shows an interesting structure that is well resolved north - south . and the main jet structure still has the previously - observed edge - brightened character . in the pilot ,",
    "the northern edge was somewhat brighter than the southern edge , especially in the @xmath13 mas range from the core , although in the final pilot image , a bright feature was appearing on the southern side . in the first movie images , the southern side has become dominant in that range .",
    "it is clear from this and the archive project that the jet edges are not balanced in brightness , but that the dominant edge switches as new features appear .",
    "as of the time of the meeting , only two frames of the movie had been reduced .",
    "they showed motions , but again the nature of what was going on was somewhat confusing and an understanding awaits addition of several more frames .",
    "consistency between observations , or lack thereof , is one of the most powerful indicators of the reliability of features and motions .",
    "an effort is well under way to delineate the motions and dynamics of radio structures on scales of 60 to hundreds of schwarzschild radii in m87 using the vlba at 43 ghz .",
    "archival data at roughly one year intervals showed that structural changes do occur , but the sampling was too coarse to understand the nature of those changes .",
    "a pilot project was conducted in 2006 to determine roughly the rates of any motions on the scales of interest to allow the frame rate for a proper movie to be set .",
    "a frame interval of 3 weeks was selected and a one - year sequence of 18 frames is in progress .",
    "a mini - movie with the first two frames was shown at the meeting .",
    "a full delineation of any motions near the core of m87 , including an understanding of why the speeds measured by the pilot project are apparently inconsistent with the low rates seen by @xcite , awaits more complete results from the movie .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa astrophysics data system .",
    "w. junor was partially supported through nsf ast 98 - 03057 . c. ly acknowledges support through the nrao graduate research program .",
    "p. hardee is supported by nasa / msfc cooperative agreement ncc8 - 256 and nsf award ast-0506666 to the university of alabama .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation , operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "harris , d. , cheung , c. c. , stawarz , l. , biretta , j. a. , perlman , e. s. , sparks , w. , & wilson , a. s. 2007 , in asp conf .",
    "* xxx * , extragalactic jets : theory and observation from radio to gamma ray , eds . t. a. rector and d. s. de young , * xxx * , ( arxiv:0707.3124v1 )        kovalev , y. , kellermann , k. i. , lister , m. l. , and lobanov , a. p. 2007a",
    ", in asp conf .",
    "ser . , * xxx * , extragalactic jets : theory and observation from radio to gamma ray , eds . t. a. rector and d. s. de young , submitted      krichbaum , t. p. , bach , u. , lee , s. , gruwell , m. , & marscher , a. 2007 , in asp conf .",
    ", * xxx * , extragalactic jets : theory and observation from radio to gamma ray , eds . t. a. rector and d. s. de young , * xxx *"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with its high black hole mass , proximity , and bright jet , m87 provides the best prospect for a direct imaging study of the acceleration and collimation region of a jet . </S>",
    "<S> previous vlbi observations have shown an edge brightened structure with a wide opening angle at small scales @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> an effort to measure component speeds in this region using existing vlba data at 43 ghz gave tentative results of @xmath0 to @xmath1 but also indicated that faster sampling is needed @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> here we provide a progress report on a project to make a properly sampled movie of motions in the inner jet using the vlba at 43 ghz . a pilot project during 2006 measured speeds of about @xmath2 and was used to set a frame interval of 3 weeks for the movie . </S>",
    "<S> the movie observations began in january 2007 . </S>",
    "<S> results from the pilot and from the first frame of the movie are presented . </S>",
    "<S> the goal of the project is to provide observations of the structure and dynamics of the jet on scales from under 100 to a few hundred schwarzschild radii that can be compared with expectations from theoretical studies and numerical modeling . </S>"
  ]
}