{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the most striking features of the universe is that the observed distribution of galaxies on large scales shows a web - like filamentary pattern , which is often called the `` cosmic web '' .",
    "recent large n - body simulations of the cold dark matter cosmology demonstrated vividly the geometric richness of the filamentary web that spatially connects the dark matter halos , and which directly relates to the structure seen in the galaxy distribution .",
    "one of the most fundamental tasks in cosmology is thus to establish a physical model for the filamentary cosmic web and to quantitatively explain its global properties .",
    "the existence of the filamentary web was originally predicted by the top - down scenario of the hot dark matter ( hdm ) model @xcite .",
    "if cosmic structures form through top - down fragmentation , then one- and two - dimensional collapse of matter would naturally lead to the formation of sheet - like and filamentary structures on large scales .",
    "therefore , it was regarded first as a mystery why and how the filamentary web came into being also in a cold dark matter ( cdm ) dominated universe .",
    "a breakthrough was made by @xcite who developed a cosmic web theory that can explain the presence of a filamentary web in the cdm cosmogony .",
    "this theory explains that the filamentary web can occur naturally in the cdm dominated universe due to the coherent nature of the primordial tidal field .",
    "the filamentary web is in fact a manifestation of the primordial tidal field sharpened by nonlinear effects .",
    "the cosmic web theory has provided a standard framework within which the formation of cosmic large - scale structure can be qualitatively understood . yet",
    ", it is still quite difficult to describe the cosmic web quantitatively both in theoretical and in observational terms .",
    "theoretically , the inherent anisotropic nature and geometrical complexity of the cosmic web makes it complicated to fully characterize its statistical properties .",
    "observationally , it is hard to trace the filamentary structures from observational data , since there is no well - established way to identify them .    in spite of these difficulties , various methodologies and algorithms have already been suggested to quantify the filamentary structures : higher - order n - point statistics has been used to describe the anisotropic matter distribution in a cosmic web @xcite ; the percolation statistics was used to characterize the filamentary shapes of the large - scale structures @xcite ; the skeleton formalism has been developed to extract the filamentary structures from a three dimensional density field ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) ; the minimal - spanning - three algorithm has been introduced to find the basic structural elements of the cosmic web @xcite .",
    "although the above methods are quite useful for determining the overall filamentary structure of the cosmic web , these approaches are largely phenomenological without accounting for the physical mechanism for the formation of the cosmic web . according to the theory proposed by @xcite , the filamentary web originated from the large - scale coherence of the primordial tidal field and its sharpening by nonlinear effects during structure growth .",
    "part of this nonlinear sharpening effect arises from the gravitationally driven merging of halos and the infall of matter , which preferentially occurs along the most prominent filaments .",
    "this increases the anisotropy in the halo clustering and thus sharpens the filamentary web .    to describe the cosmic web quantitatively in terms of its underlying physical principles",
    "it will be necessary to account for the effects of the tidal field and the anisotropic merging along filaments .",
    "the tidal field causes intrinsic alignments of the principal axes of the dark halos in the cosmic web @xcite , while anisotropic merging induces elongation of the major axes of the halos along prominent filaments @xcite . as a result",
    ", there exist spatial correlations between the halo ellipticities ( ee correlations ) , and cross - correlations between the halo ellipticities and the large - scale density field ( ed cross - correlations ) .",
    "hence , one can view the observed filamentary web as a large - scale manifestation of the ee and ed correlations , which are in turn induced by the effects of the tidal field and the anisotropic merging .",
    "the goal of this paper is to quantify the filamentarity and the typical scales of the cosmic web in terms of the ee and ed correlations .",
    "this is also highly important for assessing to what degree these correlations can systematically bias weak gravitational lensing mass reconstructions and cosmological parameter estimates based on cosmic shear measurements . in fact , the ed cross - correlations have become a hot issue in the weak lensing community , since it has been realized that they could mimic weak lensing signals at a significant level @xcite .",
    "several authors have already studied numerically the ee and ed correlations .",
    "@xcite examined the evolution of cluster alignments by using a large - scale n - body simulation . @xcite",
    "have shown from high - resolution n - body data that the alignments of clusters are strongly related to the existence of the connecting filaments .",
    "@xcite explored the possible correlations between the weak lensing shear and the orientation of foreground galaxies by analyzing n - body simulation . here in our work ,",
    "we measure both the ee and ed correlations at large distances by using the millennium dataset and describe quantitatively their scalings with distance , mass , as well as redshift .",
    "the organization of this paper is as follows . in section  2",
    ", we describe the n - body dataset we use and explain how we measure halo ellipticities from the n - body simulation and its associated galaxy catalogue . in sections  3 and 4 ,",
    "we report numerical detections of the ee correlations and the ed cross - correlations , and examine how the signals depend on distance scale , redshift and halo mass .",
    "we also provide useful fitting formula for them .",
    "finally , in section  5 , we summarize the results and discuss the implications of our work .",
    "our analysis is based on the halo catalog and the semi - analytic galaxy catalog from the recent high - resolution _ millennium simulation _ , which followed @xmath10 dark matter particles in a @xmath11cdm concordance cosmology @xcite .",
    "the size of the periodic simulation box is @xmath12mpc and each dark matter particle in the simulation has a mass of @xmath13 .",
    "the basic cosmological parameters of the simulation were chosen as @xmath14 ( the mass density ) ; @xmath15 ( the vacuum energy density ) ; @xmath16 ( the dimensionless hubble constant ) ; @xmath17 ( the linear power spectrum amplitude ) ; and @xmath18 ( the slope of the primordial power spectrum ) .    as part of the analysis of the millennium run ,",
    "halos of dark matter particles were first identified with the standard friends - of - friends ( fof ) algorithm , and then decomposed into gravitationally bound subhalos using the subfind algorithm @xcite . based on detailed merger trees constructed for the subhalos , the halos",
    "were then populated with luminous galaxy models using semi - analytic simulations of the galaxy formation process @xcite .",
    "we here use the spatial distribution of subhalos and galaxies to characterize the shape of fof halos , in analogy to the procedure applied to observational galaxy surveys ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for each fof halo",
    ", we locate the satellite galaxies belonging to it .",
    "then , we measure their tensor @xmath19 of second order mass moments as @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the luminosity ( or , equivalently the stellar mass ) of the @xmath22-th galaxy and @xmath23 is the position of the @xmath22-th galaxy measured from the center of the mass of the satellite galaxies . we restrict our analysis to fof halos massive enough to contain more than five substructures . by diagonalizing @xmath24 ,",
    "we determine the three principal axes ( major , intermediate , and minor axes ) of @xmath24 .",
    "this allows us to measure the correlations between the three axes of the fof halos as a function of separation .",
    "the results of our measurements are presented in detail in section  3 .    before turning to our results ,",
    "it is worth to discuss how our methodology relates to other , previously applied methods to characterize the shape of halos .",
    "note that we here do not use all dark matter particles of a fof halo to measure @xmath24 .",
    "instead , we only use the satellite galaxies ( or substructures ) as tracers of the shape . in general , measuring the shape of a halo is a somewhat ambiguous issue , where a number of different strategies have been applied in the literature , but no generally accepted standard procedure exists ( see e.g. the discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "part of the ambiguity in measuring halo shape stems from the fact that one can not delineate the outer boundary of a halo in a clear - cut way .",
    "if all particles belonging to a fof halo are used to measure @xmath24 , then the ellipticity of a halo may be overestimated because of the large weight of the most distant points on the major axis , while in contrast , if only those particles within a certain spherical radius are used to measure @xmath24 , then the ellipticity of the halo is likely underestimated .",
    "we use satellite galaxies ( or substructures ) to measure @xmath24 , because this approach mimics observationally accessible procedures .",
    "we expect that this definition should give halo shapes similar to those measured with all dark matter particles , as substructure and galaxy density are tracers of the dark matter distribution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "we will explicitly test this below .",
    "note that we focus on quantifying the filamentary web induced by the anisotropic _ orientations _ of the halo ellipticities ; we are not really interested in the _ magnitude _ of the shape distortion itself .",
    "this means that we are less sensitive to the details of measuring halo shape compared with attempts to quantify the axis ratio of the halo shape .    to examine to",
    "what extent different measuring methods yield different halo ellipticities , we carry out a simple test : using a total of @xmath25 fof halos from the ` milli'-millennium simulation , which is smaller test run of the main millennium simulation with a box size of @xmath26mpc @xcite , we measured the halo shapes with three different methods : ( a ) using galaxies weighted by luminosity ; ( b ) using dark matter substructures weighted by mass ; and ( c ) using all dark matter particles .",
    "then , we calculate the distribution of the angles @xmath27 between the principal axes of the halo shapes determined by these three methods . figure  [ fig : dis ] compares methods a and c ( top ) , and methods b and c ( bottom ) , in both cases plotting the histogram of the angles between the halos major , intermediate , and minor axes ( left , middle , and right panels , respectively ) .",
    "as can be seen , there is a strong peak at @xmath28 , demonstrating that the halo principal axes obtained by the three different methods a , b and c are strongly correlated with one another .",
    "this correlation is particularly robust for the major axis , which defines the primary orientation of the predominantly prolate halos .",
    "[ fig : par ]",
    "we define the ee correlation function , @xmath29 , as @xmath30 where @xmath31 represents the normalized eigenvector of a halo with unit magnitude . in eq.([eqn:1st ] ) the constant @xmath32 is subtracted since the first average term will yield @xmath32 in case that there is no ee correlation .",
    "now that the three eigenvectors of each halo in the millennium catalogs are all determined by the method described in section  2 , one can measure the ee correlations of the major ( @xmath33 ) , intermediate ( @xmath34 ) and minor ( @xmath35 ) principal axes separately as a function of the comoving distance @xmath36 .",
    "basically , for each halo pair at a given redshift , we measure the separation distance @xmath36 between the halo centers and calculate the squares of the dot products of the normalized eigenvectors of two halos .",
    "then , we bin the radial distance @xmath36 and calculate the mean values of @xmath37 averaged over those halo pairs whose separation distances belong to a given bin , subtracting @xmath32 from it .",
    "we perform this procedure at @xmath38 and @xmath39 .      , @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 ( top - left , top - right , bottom - left , and bottom - right panel , respectively ) . [ fig : three ] ]    figure  [ fig : three ] plots the numerical results on the ee correlations measured at @xmath0 , @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 in the top - left , top - right , bottom - left and bottom - right panels , respectively .",
    "in each panel , the solid , dashed and long dashed lines represent @xmath40 , @xmath41 and @xmath42 , respectively .",
    "the dotted line corresponds to the case of no correlation .",
    "as can be seen , the major - axis correlations are strongest and the intermediate - axis correlations are almost zero at all redshifts .    , @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 .",
    "the errors , @xmath43 , represent the standard deviation between @xmath44 realizations that are obtained from the subdivision of the simulation box .",
    "the errors do not include the correlations between radial bins . in each panel",
    "the solid line represents the fitting model ( eq.[eqn : cor ] ) proportional to the linear density correlation function , @xmath7 . in the bottom - right panel",
    ", the dashed line represents another fitting model proportional to @xmath45 .",
    "[ fig : corz ] ]    to see the behaviors of the ee correlations at large distances , we plot @xmath40 and @xmath42 as solid dots with errors @xmath43 in the logarithmic scale in figs  [ fig : corz ] and [ fig : corz3 ] , respectively . in each panel",
    "the solid line represents the fitting model ( see section  3.4 ) . for the estimation of @xmath43 ,",
    "we divide the simulation volume into eight subvolumes each of which has a linear size of @xmath46mpc and measure the ee correlations in each subvolume separately .",
    "the errors , @xmath43 , are calculated as the standard deviation between realizations .",
    "this estimation of errors accounts for both the cosmic variance and the poisson noise .",
    "it is also found that there exist non - negligible correlations between radial bins at distance larger than @xmath47mpc ( see section  3.4 ) .",
    "as can be seen , the ee correlations are strongest at @xmath48 , and exist out to distances of @xmath49mpc .",
    "as @xmath5 decreases , the correlations tend to decrease monotonically at all distance scales , indicating that the directions of the halo major and the minor axes tend to become randomized as @xmath5 decreases .",
    "this result is consistent with the previous results obtained by @xcite .",
    "the numerical results on the ee correlations measured at @xmath0 are listed in table [ tab : ee_z0 ] .",
    "but for the case of the halo minor axes .",
    "[ fig : corz3 ] ]    .numerical results on the ee correlations of the halo major ( @xmath33 ) and the minor axes ( @xmath35 ) in logarithmic scale measured at @xmath0 . [ tab : ee_z0 ] [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this work , by analyzing the halo data and the semi - analytic galaxy catalog from the millennium simulations at @xmath0 , @xmath2 , @xmath1 and @xmath3 , we have measured the ellipticity - ellipticity ( ee ) correlations .",
    "the correlations are close to @xmath50 at a distance of @xmath51 and remain significant at distances out to @xmath52 .",
    "the ee correlations are found to be strongest for the case of the halo major axes , and weakest for the case of the intermediate axes .",
    "we have found that the ee correlations of all three axes decrease as @xmath5 decreases .",
    "this might be due to the growth of secondary filaments at low redshifts and the beginning ` freeze - out ' of structure growth in @xmath11cdm , which plays a role in randomizing the halo ellipticities .",
    "it has been also found that the ee correlation function exhibits a strong dependence on halo mass .",
    "it increases as the mass scale increases , which might be due to the dominant filamentary merging of halos on large scales .",
    "we have also calculated ee cross - correlations between halos belonging to different mass bins .",
    "our results have shown that the ee cross - correlations between neighboring mass bins exist at a statistically significant level as well .",
    "we have modeled the ee correlation function as a linear scaling of the linear density two - point correlation function @xmath7 , which is characterized by one fitting parameter , @xmath53 .",
    "the value of @xmath53 represents the amplitude of the ee correlations , quantifying its scaling with mass and redshift .",
    "the fitting model with the best - fit value of @xmath53 has been shown to agree with the numerical results quite well at all redshifts and all mass bins .",
    "we have also measured the cross - correlations between the halo principal axes and the directions to neighboring halos ( ed ) by using the same numerical data , and found that the ed cross - correlations are much stronger than the ee correlations , at all distances .",
    "remarkably , they are detected even at distances out to @xmath54 at a statistically significant level . just like the ee correlations , the ed cross - correlations are found to decrease as @xmath5 decreases and increase as the halo mass @xmath55 increases , suggesting a dominant role of anisotropic merging and infall of matter in establishing these correlations .",
    "the intermediate and the minor axes of the halos have turned out to be anti - correlated with the directions to the neighboring halos , which is consistent with alignments of the halos shapes with the orientations of the local filament .",
    "the ed cross - correlations are , however , found to be poorly fitted by a linear scaling of @xmath7 .",
    "the ed cross - correlations decrease with distance much less rapidly than @xmath7 . to account for the slow decrease of ed cross - correlations with distance",
    ", we include an additional term proportional to @xmath8 in the fitting model which is then characterized by two fitting parameters @xmath56 and @xmath57 .",
    "thetwo parameters represent the amplitudes of the two terms of the ed cross - correlations proportional to @xmath7 and @xmath8 , respectively .",
    "this fitting formula has been shown to agree with the numerical results quite well at all redshifts and at all mass bins .",
    "nonetheless , it is worth mentioning here that our fitting formula for the ed cross - correlations is not a physical model .",
    "it is purely empirical , obtained through comparison with the numerical results .",
    "it has yet to be understood why the ed cross - correlations scale as described by our fitting formula . at any rate , we believe that our fitting formula may be useful in the future when the ed cross - correlations can be modeled by a fundamental theory .",
    "the ee correlations and the ed cross - correlations that we have measured here provide a useful tool to statistically characterize the anisotropy and the relevant scales of the cosmic web",
    ". it will be interesting to compare the results we obtained here for the @xmath11cdm cosmology with observational data from large galaxy redshift surveys .",
    "the comparison of our numerical results with observational data , however , will require a modelling of the redshift space distortions as well as of two dimensional projection effects , given that in real observations what can be usually measured is the two dimensional projected major axes of the galaxies in redshift space . in future work , we plan to model these two effects on the ee and ed correlations and compare the numerical results with real observational data .    another important application of our results lies in studies of weak gravitational lensing .",
    "the issue of a potential cross - correlation between galaxy ellipticities and the weak gravitational lensing shear ( gi cross - correlations ) was first raised by @xcite .",
    "they claimed that if such gi cross - correlations exist , then they would affect the weak lensing signal as another systematic contaminant whose effect is hard to control .",
    "the gi cross - correlations are expected to occur primarily due to the ed cross - correlations : if the intrinsic ellipticities of the galaxies are cross - correlated with the surrounding large - scale density field , then it will in turn lead to a cross - correlation between the gravitational lensing shear and the galaxy ellipticities .",
    "recent observations indeed have reported detections of the gi correlation signals in low - redshift galaxy surveys @xcite . to assess a possible systematic contamination of weak lensing due to the gi cross - correlations",
    ", it will be important first to examine the relation between the observed gi cross - correlations and the ed cross - correlations of the cosmic web .",
    "this work will require incorporating a model for how the galaxy shapes are aligned relative to the dark matter @xcite .",
    "our future work is in this direction .",
    "the millennium simulation analyzed in this paper was carried out by the virgo supercomputing consortium at the computing center of the max - planck society in garching , germany .",
    "the simulation databases and the web application providing online access to them were constructed as part of the activities of the german astrophysical virtual observatory.g.l .",
    "works for the german astrophysical virtual observatory ( gavo),which is supported by a grant from the german federal ministry of education and research ( bmbf ) under contract 05 ac6vha .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for his / her constructive report which helped us improve significantly the original manuscript .",
    "we also thank s.d.m .",
    "white for stimulating discussion and useful suggestions .",
    "is very grateful to the warm hospitality of the max planck institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) in garching where this work was initiated and performed .",
    "j.l . acknowledges financial support from korea science and engineering foundation ( kosef ) grant funded by the korean government ( most , no .",
    "r01 - 2007 - 000 - 10246 - 0 ) .",
    "99 agustsson i. , brainerd t. g. , 2006 , apj , 644 , l25 allgood b. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1781 altay g. , colberg j. m. , croft r. a. c. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 1422 bardeen j. m. , bond j. r. , kaiser n. , szalay , a. s. , 1986 , apj , 304 , 15 barlow r. j. , 1986 , statistics ( london : john wiley & sons ) bevington p. r. , robinson d. k. , 1996 , data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences ( boston : mcgraw - hill ) bond j. , r. , kofman l. , pogosyan d. , 1996 , nature , 380 , 603 catelan p. , kamionkowski m. , blandford r. d. , 2001 , mnras , 320 , l7 colberg j. m. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 337 crittenden r. g. , natarajan p. , pen u. l , theuns t. , 2001 , apj , 559 , 552 crittenden r. g. , natarajan p. , pen , u. l. , theuns , t. , 2002 , apj , 568 , 20 croft r. a. c. , metzler c. a. , 2000 , apj , 545 , 561 croton d. j. , et al .",
    "2004 , mnras , 352 , 1232 croton d. j. , springel v. , white s. d. m. , de - lucia g. , frenk c. s. , gao l. , jenkins a. , kauffmann g. , navarro j. f. , yoshida n. , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 dodelson s. , modern cosmology ( san diego : academic press ) hartlap j. , simon p. , schneider p. 2007 ,",
    "a&a , 464 , 399 heavens a. , refregier a. , heymans c. 2000 , mnras , 319 , 649 heymans c. , white m. , heavens a. , vale c. , van waerbeke l. , 2000 , mnras , 371 , 750 hirata , c. m. , seljak u. , 2004 , prd , 70 , 063526 hirata c. m. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 353 , 529 hirata c. m. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 1197 hopkins p. f. , bahcall n. a. , bode p. , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 618 , 1 hui l. , zhang z. , 2002 , preprint [ astro - ph/0205512 ] jing y. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , l89 kulkarni g. v. , nichol r. c. , sheth r. k. , seo h. j. , eisenstein d. j. , gray a. 2007 , mnras , 378 , 1196 lee j. , kang x. , jing y. , 2005 , apj , 629 , l5 lee j. pen u. l. , 2000 , apj , 532 , l5 lee j. , pen u. l. , 2001 , apj , 555 , 106 lee j. , pen u. l. , 2002 , apj , 567 , 111 lee j. , pen u. l. , 2007 , apj , 670 , l1 mandelbaum r. , hirata c. m. , ishak m. , seljak u. , brinkmann j. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 611 mei s. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 655 , 144 mo h. j. , mao s. , white s. d. m. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 navarro j. f. , abadi m.g . , steinmetz m. , 2004 , apj , 613 , l41 patiri s. g. , cuesta a. j. prada , f. , betancort - rijo , j. , klypin a. , 2006 , apj , 652 , 75 pen u. l. , lee j. , seljak u. , 2000 , 543 , l107 shandarin s. f. , yess c. , 1998 , apj , 505 , 12 sahni v. , sathyaprakash b. s. , shandarin s. f. , 1997 , apj , 476 , l1 sousbie t. , pichon c. , colombi s. , novikov d. , pogosyan d. , 2007 , mnras , 657 , 30 springel v. et al . , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 726 springel v. , white s.d.m . , hernquist l. , 2004 , iau symposium 220 , eds .",
    "ryder et al .",
    ", san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , p. 421",
    "springel v. et al . , 2005 , nature , 435 , 629 west m. j. , 1989 , apj , 347 , 610 west m. j. , willumsen c. , dekel a. , 1991 , apj , 369 , 287 white s. d. m. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 38 zeldovich y. b. 1970 ,",
    "a & a , 5 , 84"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the formation of dark matter halos tends to occur anisotropically along the filaments of the cosmic web , which induces both ellipticity - ellipticity ( ee ) correlations between the shapes of halos , as well as ellipticity - direction ( ed ) cross - correlations between halo shapes and the directions to neighboring halos . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze the halo catalogue and the semi - analytic galaxy catalogue of the recent millennium run simulation to measure the ee and ed correlations numerically at four different redshifts ( @xmath0 , @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 ) . for the ee correlations , we find that ( i ) the major - axis correlation is strongest while the intermediate - axis correlation is weakest ; ( ii ) the signal is significant at distances out to @xmath4mpc ; ( iii ) the signal decreases as @xmath5 decreases ; ( iv ) and its behavior depends strongly on the halo mass scale , with larger masses showing stronger correlations at large distances . for the ed correlations , we find that ( i ) the correlations are much stronger than the ee correlations , and are significant even out to distances of @xmath6mpc ; ( ii ) the signal also decreases as @xmath5 decreases ; ( iii ) and it increases with halo mass at all distances . we also provide empirical fitting functions for the ee and ed correlations . </S>",
    "<S> the ee correlations are found to scale linearly with the linear density correlation function , @xmath7 . while the ed cross - correlation is found to scale as @xmath8 at large distances beyond @xmath4mpc . </S>",
    "<S> the best - fit values of the fitting parameters for the ee and the ed correlations are all determined through @xmath9-statistics . </S>",
    "<S> our results may be useful for quantifying the filamentary distribution of dark matter halos over a wide range of scales .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    methods : statistical  cosmology : theory  galaxies : clustering  galaxies : halos  large - scale structure of universe </S>"
  ]
}