{
  "article_text": [
    "[ sec : intr ] recently obtained data from the cosmic microwave background ( e.g. , spergel et al .",
    "2007 ) , large scale structure and type ia supernovae would have us believe we inhabit a universe dominated by some hitherto experimentally undetected dark matter requiring an extension to the current standard model of particle physics ( cold dark matter , cdm ) and something called dark energy , which no one can claim to understand , and which drives the acceleration of the expansion of the universe ( e.g. , perlmutter et al .",
    "1999 ; carroll 2004 ; chernin et al . 2007 ) .",
    "however , observations appear to thwart the extrapolation of this @xmath4cdm theory from its cosmological basis to the galaxy scale because they contradict an ever growing list of cdm predictions ( e.g. , moore et al . 1999 ; gentile et al . 2004 ; kuzio de naray et al .",
    "2006 ; bournaud et al .",
    "the latest gainsay of @xmath4cdm showed that not only can the predicted dm halos not be extrapolated down to galaxy scales ( where myriad clauses in the unknown feedback of agns and supernovae provide freedom ) but they conflict with massive clusters , where strong lensing shows the dm to be more concentrated than simulations predict ( broadhurst & barkana 2008 ) .",
    "however , dm concentration - virial mass relations obtained from x - ray observations of relaxed groups and clusters agrees with @xmath4cdm simulations ( buote et al .",
    "2007 ) .    actually , the observed conspiracy between the mass profiles of baryonic matter and dark matter at all radii in spiral galaxies ( e.g. mcgaugh et al . 2007 ; famaey et al .",
    "2007a ) is more supportive of modified newtonian dynamics ( mond , milgrom 1983abc ) , a paradigm postulating that for accelerations below @xmath5 the effective gravitational attraction approaches @xmath6 where @xmath7 is the usual newtonian gravitational field .    without resorting to cdm ,",
    "this simple prescription is known to reproduce galaxy scaling relations such as the tully - fisher ( e.g. , mcgaugh 2005 ) and faber - jackson ( e.g. , sanders 2008 ) , and the fundamental plane . more generally , it naturally explains the observed aforementioned conspiracy between the distribution of baryons and the gravitational field , in both low - surface brightness and high - surface brightness spiral galaxies . for reviews of serious work on mond ,",
    "see sanders & mcgaugh ( 2002 ) , bekenstein ( 2006 ) , and milgrom ( 2008 ) .",
    "recently , mond has been pushed well beyond its original borders with the rotation curves of several tidal dwarf galaxies observed by bournaud et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , requiring new molecular disk dm in newtonian gravity but conforming strictly to the predictions of mond ( gentile et al . 2007 and milgrom 2007a ) . furthermore , taking into account the possibility of varying the velocity dispersion anisotropy , mond was shown to agree remarkably well with the line of sight velocity dispersions of the sdss satellites ( angus et al .",
    "2008 ) , and the eight nearby mw dwarfs ( milgrom 1995 ; angus 2008 , but see the individual papers for caveats ) . moreover , the theory successfullly predicted the local galactic escape speed from the solar neighbourhood ( famaey , bruneton & zhao 2007b ; wu et al .",
    "2007 ) , and the first realistic simulations of galaxy merging were carried out ( nipoti et al . 2007 ; tiret & combes 2007 ) .",
    "fundamental developments in the theory of gravity have also added plausibility to the case for modification of gravity through the work of , e.g. , bekenstein  ( 2004 ) , sanders  ( 2005 ) , zlosnik et al .",
    "( 2006 , 2007a ) , zhao  ( 2007 ) , and skordis  ( 2008 ) , who have all presented lorentz - covariant theories of gravity yielding a mond behaviour in the appropriate limit by means of a dynamical vector field , which might arise from dimensional reduction of a higher - dimensional gravity theory ( bekenstein 2006 ; mavromatos & sakellariadou 2007 ) , or more generally from the fact that quantum gravity could define a preferred rest frame at the microscopic level ( jacobson 2008 ) .",
    "although rather fine - tuned and being somewhat of a long shot at producing a fundamental theory underpinning the mond paradigm ( see e.g. bruneton & esposito - farese 2007 ) , these theories allow for new predictions , especially regarding cosmology .",
    "surprisingly , such a vector field has precisely been shown to generate the instability that may produce large cosmic structures today in a mond universe ( dodelson & liguori 2006 ; skordis et al .",
    "2006 ; halle & zhao 2007 ; zlosnik et al .",
    "however , before trying to build a consistent cosmology ( see milgrom 2008 for possible alternative roots of mond into cosmology ) , the mond paradigm has yet to completely solve the mass discrepancy in x - ray emitting systems .",
    "groups of galaxies were studied by milgrom ( 1998 , 2002 ) by checking the stellar mass to light ratio required for consistency with the line of sight velocity dispersion of the group galaxies w.r.t .",
    "the centre of mass .",
    "this method found mass to light ratios of around a solar unit which bears the hallmark of no mass discrepancy , however , it could not probe the need for dark matter at smaller radii than these presumably largely separated galaxies .",
    "of course , it is most probable that this absence of discrepancy is correct in the context of low mass groups with no detected x - ray emission , but in the case of x - ray bright groups and clusters a better gauge of dynamical mass is found using measurements of the properties of the x - ray gas ( e.g. , gerbal et al .",
    "1992 ; the & white 1998 ; sanders 1994 , 1999 , 2003 , 2007 ; aguirre et al . 2001 ; pointecouteau & silk 2005 ) , or the combination of weak and strong lensing ( e.g. , angus et al .  2007 ;",
    "takahashi & chiba 2007 ; famaey et al .",
    "2007c ; milgrom & sanders 2008 ; ferreras et al . 2008 ) .",
    "the result is that mond can not as yet explain the mass discrepancy in x - ray emitting clusters of galaxies , and especially in their cores , while the gravitational lensing map of the bullet cluster has provided an extremely important constraint on the nature of all the missing mass , i.e. that it must be of a collisionless nature ( clowe et al .",
    "2006 ; bradac et al .",
    "2006 ; angus et al .",
    "2007 ) .",
    "it has been conjectured ( sanders 2003 , hereafter s03 ) that the mass discrepancy in galaxy clusters might be resolved by the addition of a component of massive neutrinos @xmath82ev , very near their maximum experimentally derived limiting mass of 2.2ev .",
    "these were indeed shown to be potentially consistent with the majority of clusters with temperature greater than 4  kev by s03 , and with the bullet cluster ( angus et al .",
    "this hypothesis has the great advantage of naturally reproducing the proportionality of the electron density in the cores of clusters to @xmath9 , as well as global scaling relations ( sanders 2007 , hereafter s07 ) .",
    "however , in a recent survey , pointecouteau & silk ( 2005 , hereafter ps05 ) studied a large sample of hot clusters ( @xmath104kev ) and found that the central density of the dark matter was generally greater than allowed by the tremaine - gunn limit on neutrino density .",
    "this result was not damning , though , since the dynamical mass that could be accounted for by neutrinos under the tremaine - gunn limit was generally more than 90% .",
    "on the other hand , something that has never been addressed in the literature is the application of mond to x - ray emitting groups and cool clusters in the range 0.5@xmath113.0kev .",
    "the closest anyone has come is the study of the large elliptical ngc  720 by buote & canizares ( 1994 , 2002 ) which has t@xmath120.6kev .",
    "they showed that the major axis of the isophotes of the x - ray emission were significantly offset from the major axis of the galaxy requiring dark matter of at least 4 times the mass of the visible matter .",
    "ngc  720 is currently the only elliptical galaxy for which this misalignment can be attributed to dark matter with reasonable confidence .",
    "a program to search for other very isolated , flattened elliptical galaxies that are sufficiently bright in x - rays for this type of study is underway .",
    "here we primarily use the high quality galaxy group data from gastaldello et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , while the data for a2589 and ngc 4125 come from zappacosta et al .",
    "( 2006 ) and humphrey et al .",
    "( 2006 ) respectively .",
    "our data for higher temperature clusters come from the published work of vikhlinin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) . with these 26 systems",
    ", we perform a systematic check of the mass profiles of the mond dark matter required for hydrostatic equilibrium of the x - ray emitting plasma , by subtracting the x - ray gas and the brightest cluster galaxy ( bcg ) .",
    "we explore the correlation between the mass discrepancy in mond and the masses and temperatures of the studied groups and clusters .",
    "we present the data in  2 and derive the mond dynamical and dark masses in  3 . in  4 ,",
    "we substract the maximum contribution of conjectured 2ev neutrinos , by considering that the neutrino density stays constant , which is bound to _ overestimate _ the contribution that neutrinos might make .",
    "even so , we confirm in  5 that the central cores of hot clusters have densities that are too large to be consistent with ordinary 2ev neutrinos ( ps05 ) .",
    "more significantly and in support of the findings of buote & canizares ( 1994 , 2002 ) , we show that all cool groups ( 0.5@xmath113.0kev ) have their mond dynamical mass completely unaffected by these 2ev neutrinos , because groups are too cool to allow them to cluster densely enough even at the outskirts ( @xmath13  kpc ) . in  5.3 ,",
    "we discuss other possible solutions to solve the mond mass discrepancy problem , notably cluster baryonic dm ( cbdm , milgrom 2007b , hereafter m07 ) and light sterile neutrinos in  5.3 ( e.g. , gentile , zhao & famaey 2008 ) .",
    "[ sec : data ]    we use results obtained for relaxed clusters primarily from two recent studies of x - ray clusters . these systems were chosen to be among the most relaxed known in order to ensure that hydrostatic equilibrium holds most accurately .",
    "we use the published results of vikhlinin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) for 8 of the most massive clusters ( @xmath14 ) . for low - mass clusters ( groups ) we use results for 16 groups of galaxies ( 1 - 2  kev ) from the recent work of gastaldello et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and another low - mass cluster ( a2589 ) from zappacosta et al .",
    "( 2006 ) . finally , we include the elliptical galaxy ngc 4125 ( @xmath15  kev ) from humphrey et al .",
    "( 2006 ) to extend our sample of x - ray emitting systems down to the galaxy scale .",
    "the objects in our sample are listed in table 1 .",
    "we refer the reader to the references for details on the contruction of the density , temperature , and newtonian mass profiles .",
    "we note that for the massive systems in the vikhlinin et al .",
    "sample we exclude the central @xmath16  kpc from the analysis .",
    "we do this for consistency with their study , even though some of their systems ( most notably a2029 ) , do not exhibit substantial morphological irregularities in their cores that would lessen the validity of the approximation of hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "[ sec : mc ]    to compute gravitating masses we assume the intracluster medium is represented by a spherical single - phase ideal gas in hydrostatic equilibrium . although the x - ray isophotes of relaxed clusters are approximately circular with modest ellipticity , the underlying mass distribution is inferred to have substantial ellipiticy ( 0.4 - 0.6 ; buote & canizares 1996 ) .",
    "nevertheless , many previous studies have shown that assuming spherical symmetry for relaxed clusters introduces fairly small errors @xmath17 which are acceptable for our purposes ( e.g. , tsai , katz , & bertschinger 1994 ; navarro et al .",
    "1995 ; buote & canizares 1996 ; evrard et al . 1996 ; gavazzi 2005 ) .",
    "we derive the mond dynamical mass for each system following the approach of sanders ( 1999 ) . from the temperature and density profiles of the hot gas , the centripetal gravitational acceleration , @xmath18 ,",
    "can be deduced from the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium independently of the gravitational theory : [ eqn : acc ] g(r)=-kt(r ) m_p r , where w is the mean molecular weight and w@xmath19 and the combination @xmath20 is in units of kev . from this , the newtonian dynamical mass can easily be deduced .",
    "the studies cited in the previous section , from which we obtain our data , use an nfw profile ( navarro , frenk & white 1995 ) to match the dark matter profile .",
    "note that since we model clusters as spherical systems , we can ignore the curl field of mond ( bekenstein & milgrom 1984 ; ciotti , londrillo & nipoti 2006 ; angus , famaey & zhao 2006 ) , and since the external field effect from large scale structure ( e.g. , angus & mcgaugh 2007 ; famaey et al .",
    "2007b ; wu et al .",
    "2007 ) is much smaller than the typical gravitational acceleration in the region of interest , we can simply use the relation of milgrom ( 1983a ) to derive the mond dynamical mass : m_m(r ) = g(r ) , where @xmath21 is newton s gravitational constant . here",
    "the function @xmath22 is chosen to be the simple function shown to have a good fit to the terminal velocity curve of the milky way ( famaey & binney 2005 ) and to rotation curves of external galaxies ( famaey et al .",
    "2007a ; sanders & noordermeer 2007 ) : [ eqn : simple ] ( x)=x/(1+x ) , while taking @xmath23 just reduces to the newtonian dynamical mass .",
    "this means that the mond dynamical mass @xmath24 is related to the newtonian one @xmath25 by [ eqn : mondmass ] m_m ( r ) = , so that in mond , there is a truncation of the dynamical mass @xmath26 at low accelerations .",
    "here we take the mond acceleration constant to be @xmath27 . moreover , from eq .",
    "( [ eqn : mondmass ] ) , one can see that at large radii , when @xmath28 ( as is the case for nfw profiles ) and @xmath29 , then the mondian enclosed dynamical mass begins to drop with radius .",
    "this is of course unphysical , and is caused by mond generically predicting a logarithmic potential at large radii .",
    "this makes studies that do not consider the entire dynamical mass profile at all radii worthless when based on a newtonian nfw profile . in this work",
    ", we circumvent this problem by flattening the enclosed mond mass profile at its maximum value , and numbers in table  1 are quoted at the radius corresponding to this maximum value .",
    "further away , mond predicts that the potential should not conform to an nfw profile but rather to an isothermal sphere .    for the objects in our sample from gastaldello",
    "et al . ( 2007 ) , humphrey et al . ( 2006 ) , and zappacosta et al . ( 2006 ) , we take the newtonian gravitating mass profiles used in those studies and simply extract the mond dynamical mass using eq .",
    "( [ eqn : mondmass ] ) .",
    "those studie produced 20 - 30 monte carlo simulations of newtonian mass profiles for each object , which were used to produce the errors .",
    "for mond profiles , because the @xmath30-function is not precisely known , any errors on the data are dwarved by the intrinsic errors .",
    "therefore , we take the error on the mond mass as half the difference between @xmath24 calculated with the simple @xmath30-function ( eq . [ eqn : simple ] , which gives a relatively low mass ) and @xmath24 with the standard @xmath30-function ( @xmath31 , which gives a relatively high mass ) .",
    "these limits contain the majority of the reasonable mond profiles and so can be naively taken as 1-@xmath32 .    since we do not have error estimates for the density and temperature profiles of the objects in the vikhlinin et al .",
    "sample , we just use the best - fitting values .",
    "however , as the objects are more massive and generally brighter than the lower mass objects , we expect the relative uncertainty on the massive systems to be typically comparable to or less than the lower mass systems . in any case , the systematic errors on the mond masses calculated by using different @xmath30-functions are large enough to account for any small random errors in the newtonian mass .        the empirical scheme for the galaxy mass profile employed by s03 and ps05 , i.e. @xmath35 completely neglects the contribution of galaxies to the cluster mass below 150  kpc where the most massive galaxies reside .",
    "furthermore , for groups this is a poorly motivated scheme and so for them we only include the mass of the bcg .",
    "this is reasonable as the mond dynamical mass of groups saturates at around 100  kpc and we checked the surrounding 100  kpc of the bcg and found no galaxies contributing more than 5% which is easily contained within the errors on @xmath36 .    for the clusters we used both the bcg luminosity and the empirical galaxy density of s03 and ps05 .",
    "the luminosity of the bcg in the k band from the gastaldello et al .",
    "( 2007 ) sample are taken from their paper , while those from vikhlinin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) are taken from lin & mohr ( 2004 ) and the 2mass survey .",
    "all are employed using a hernquist profile .",
    "we subtracted this using @xmath36=1 which is standard for these very old stellar populations and a kroupa imf ( kroupa 2001 ) ; however , if a salpeter imf is used , we can expect @xmath36 to increase by around 50% ( humphrey 2006 ) .",
    "the x - ray studies of groups and clusters ( gastaldello et al . 2007 ;",
    "zappacosta et al .",
    "2006 ) typically find @xmath371 , sometimes @xmath38 as they try to incorporate an nfw halo .",
    "by using @xmath36=1 , we are making a conservative estimate of the amount of missing mass .    subtracting both",
    "the x - ray mass and the galaxies from the total mond dynamical mass leaves the total dark mass ( @xmath39 ) which is simply the mass of dark material necessary to reach agreement with the mond dynamical mass ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> although very successful in explaining the observed conspiracy between the baryonic distribution and the gravitational field in spiral galaxies without resorting to dark matter ( dm ) , the modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) paradigm still requires dm in x - ray bright systems . here , to get a handle on the distribution and importance of this dm , and thus on its possible form , we deconstruct the mass profiles of 26 x - ray emitting systems in mond , with temperatures ranging from 0.5 to 9  kev . </S>",
    "<S> initially we compute the mond dynamical mass as a function of radius , then subtract the known gas mass along with a component of galaxies which includes the cd galaxy with @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> next we test the compatibility of the required dm with ordinary massive neutrinos at the experimental limit of detection ( @xmath1  ev ) , with density given by the tremaine - gunn limit . even by considering that the neutrino density stays constant and maximal within the central 100 or 150  kpc ( which is the absolute upper limit of a possible neutrino contribution there ) , we show that these neutrinos can never account for the required dm within this region . </S>",
    "<S> the natural corollary of this finding is that , whereas clusters ( t@xmath2  3  kev ) might have most of their mass accounted for if ordinary neutrinos have a 2  ev mass , groups ( t@xmath3  2  kev ) can not be explained by a 2  ev neutrino contribution . </S>",
    "<S> this means that , for instance , cluster baryonic dark matter ( cbdm , milgrom 2007 ) or even sterile neutrinos would present a more satisfactory solution to the problem of missing mass in mond x - ray emitting systems .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gravitation - dark matter - galaxies : clusters </S>"
  ]
}