{
  "article_text": [
    "the evolution of active regions has been extensively studied for decades ( e.g. * ? ? ? * and references therein ) . while much progress has been achieved in understanding of how flux is transported from deep in the convection zone to emerge at the solar surface in form of sunspots , a comprehensive picture of the regularities underlying the decay process ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is still missing .",
    "typically , a statistical approach is followed to characterize the decay phase by changes in umbral and penumbral brightness , magnetic flux , or area in an attempt to find either a common ( mean ) decay law ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or by studying the distribution of the decay rates ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    ". however , this strategy does only evaluate the behavior of groups rather than of individual sunspots and does not give detailed insight into the individual processes that might contribute to or trigger the decay process .",
    "the decay phase of a sunspot can be initiated at any time @xcite and proceeds differently for individual sunspots .",
    "@xcite analyzed the decay phase of many sunspots and found a strong correlation between the sunspot photometric decay rate , the total sunspot area and the umbral to total area ratio . by carefully measuring the magnetic flux , @xcite detected no significant increase in the total magnetic flux of the sunspot after the penumbra is formed .",
    "furthermore , @xcite observed that the umbral flux does not decrease during the formation of a penumbra .",
    "these findings suggest that the formation and decay of penumbrae is not immediately related to changes in the sunspot magnetic flux , but rather a phenomenon related to a change in the local flow field in and around the flux concentration .",
    "differences between the flow field around the sunspot and that around the umbral fragments and pores thus might allow to determine critical conditions necessary for both penumbral formation and decay .",
    "the most prominent flow spectroscopically measured in a sunspot is the evershed flow @xcite , which reveals itself in form of shifts and asymmetries of solar spectral lines and which is interpreted as an outward mass flow in the photospheric layers of penumbrae .",
    "the evershed effect is intrinsically coupled to the presence of a penumbra and ceases at the immediate outer penumbral border . @xcite and @xcite detected an evershed flow as soon as the magnetic field lines reached a critical inclination and organized filamentary structures became visible .",
    "the evershed flow itself varies quasi - periodically in time @xcite , which is predominately caused by velocity patches that propagate along penumbral filaments from the middle penumbra to the outer penumbra , the so - called evershed clouds ( ecs ) which were first observed and named by @xcite . in their most recent study , @xcite",
    "identify two classes of ecs , those that vanish directly at the outer penumbral boundary and those that cross the visible border and enter the moat flow .",
    "once detached from the penumbra , these ecs survive @xmath014min before they disappear in close proximity to the spot ( @xmath02 ) .",
    "the outward migration of the ecs could give a natural explanation for the existence of a dividing line within the penumbra separating features that move inwards in the inner penumbra and outwards in the outer penumbra .",
    "this dividing line appears typically in horizontal proper motion maps derived from either local correlation tracking ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or pattern recognition ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite was the first to identify such a ring - like dividing area , featuring near - zero horizontal speed and constant velocity divergence .",
    "the sunspot moat is a zone that surrounds most mature sunspots and some large sunspot pores .",
    "the moat region is characterized by a radially directed outward mass flow .",
    "although the moat is free of stationary magnetic fields , time sequences of magnetograms show moving magnetic features ( mmfs ) , i.e. , small - scale magnetic flux concentrations of mixed polarity , that move along with the moat flow in radial direction away from the sunspot @xcite .",
    "there is increasing evidence that the evershed flow , the moat flow , and mmfs are closely related to each other ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in a case study @xcite find that for a complex active region the existence of the moat flow is coupled to the presence of penumbral filaments .",
    "hence , the moat should neither be found around individual pores or umbral fragments after the penumbra disappeared .",
    "however , observational results differ considerably depending on what type of sunspot and pores have been observed and what techniques have been used ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in this paper",
    ", we study the evolution of line - of - sight ( los ) flows and horizontal proper motions in and around a decaying sunspot . our investigation is based on sequences of high - spatial resolution observations obtained over six days with new post - focus instrumentation at the big bear solar observatory ( bbso ) @xcite .",
    "both the los velocities measured from two - dimensional spectroscopic observations and horizontal proper motions derived with local correlation tracking ( lct ) technique based on speckle reconstructed images are analyzed . in ",
    "[ sec : observation ] we overview the two - dimensional spectroscopic and speckle imaging observations .",
    "the data reduction is described in  [ sec : reduction ] and the results are presented in ",
    "[ sec : results ] .",
    "we discuss the results and offer our conclusions in  [ sec : discussion ] .",
    "the observations were performed with bbso s 65 cm vacuum reflector in conjunction with the high - order adaptive optics ( ao ) system @xcite .",
    "we observed the isolated follower spot of active region noaa10773 during its disk passage on five days in summer 2005 : june7 ( @xmath1 ) , june8 ( @xmath2 ) , june10 ( @xmath3 ) , june11 ( @xmath4 ) , and june12 ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "two - dimensional spectroscopic scans of the photospheric spectral line  630.15 nm were obtained with the visible - light imaging magnetograph ( vim ) system , in which a single fabry - prot etalon is the core element @xcite .",
    "vim has a bandpass of 8 pm .",
    "a 0.3 nm wide prefilter centered on the  630.15 nm line was used before the fabry - prot etalon .",
    "the  line was sampled at 101 equidistant wavelength points with a step size of 1.2pm corresponding to a scanned wavelength interval of 0.12 nm .",
    "the exposure time at each wavelength point was 80ms .",
    "the cadence of each scan was about 18s .",
    "a total of 100 scans can be obtained in 30min , which was the typical time range of an observing run .",
    "the spectroscopic data have a field - of - view ( fov ) of about @xmath6 .",
    "the 1k@xmath71k ccd camera was operated in a @xmath8pixel binning mode .",
    "thus , the image scale was about 0.14pixel@xmath9 . the spatial resolution achieved by the spectroscopic scans",
    "is estimated at about 0.5  with power spectrum analysis .",
    "the spectroscopic observations are supported by quasi - synchronous bursts of short - exposure ( 10ms ) white - light images at 600@xmath105 nm recorded with a fast ccd camera system for image restoration .",
    "every 30s , a total of 200 frames was captured at 15 framess@xmath9 , from which the best 100 frames were automatically selected and combined to create one restored image using a speckle masking algorithm @xcite .",
    "the cadence of the reconstructed white - light images is thus 30s .",
    "a total of 60 reconstructed images were obtained in a 30min observing run .",
    "the fov is about @xmath11 and the image scale is about 007pixel@xmath9 .",
    "the spatial resolution of the reconstructed images is diffraction limited ( @xmath12 0.25 ) by the 65  cm reflector of the bbso if we use @xmath13 as the measure of the diffraction limit .",
    "each observing run typically lasted 30min .",
    "further details of the observations are given by @xcite , who provide a thorough description of the high - resolution observations and a performance evaluation of the ao system .",
    "figure  [ fig3.1 ] shows the sunspot observed on june7 in a speckle reconstructed white - light image ( panel  _ a _ ) and the corresponding continuum intensity image obtained with vim ( panel  _ b _ ) .",
    "panel  _ c _ shows two sample line profiles averaged over a small area of limb - side ( ls ) and center - side ( cs ) penumbra , which are indicated in panel  _ b _ by white boxes .",
    "the two profiles are shifted w.r.t .",
    "each other indicating the evershed flow .",
    "the reconstructed image clearly shows the sunspot fine structure , such as numerous umbral dots , the penumbral dark cores , and the twist and writhe of the penumbral filaments .",
    "we also note that the penumbral grains are brighter on the limb - side of the penumbra .",
    "noaa10773 was also monitored by bbso s 25 cm refractor .",
    "these context observations include vector magnetograms as well as h@xmath14 and k filtergrams .",
    "figure  [ fig3.2 ] shows the whole active region and its evolution over six consecutive days based on white - light information , los magnetograms , and k and h@xmath14 filtergrams .",
    "bbso s los magnetograms are produced by dividing the difference between the right- and left - hand circularly polarized stokes components by their sum under weak field approximation .",
    "they suffer from the problem of zeeman saturation when the field is stronger than typically 3000  g @xcite .",
    "we employ data from other observatories on some days because no synoptic bbso data were available .",
    "for example , the white - light and magnetogram data on june9 , 11 , and 12 are from the michelson doppler imager ( mdi , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on board the solar and heliospheric observatory .",
    "the k and h@xmath14 filtergrams on june11 and 12 are from the mauna loa solar observatory operated by the high altitude observatory .",
    "the active region was in the southern hemisphere ( s15 ) .",
    "the target was a relatively stable , round follower sunspot with positive magnetic polarity located on the left side in the panels of figure  [ fig3.2 ] .",
    "the leading spot on the right side was otherwise smaller in size .",
    "this configuration is an exception , since the leading spot is typically more stable and larger in size .",
    "the bright areas in k and h@xmath14 filtergrams trace the plage regions that are spatially correlated with magnetic fields of the supergranular network .",
    "we apply standard procedures such as dark subtraction and gain table correction to the spectroscopic observations and white - light images .",
    "the speckle reconstructions and the scans are carefully co - aligned with each other .",
    "the white - light images were also co - aligned with the corresponding mdi intensity images in order to acquire accurate locations and orientations of the sunspot on different days . in order to remove the 5-minute oscillation and residual seeing distortions a subsonic filter with a phase velocity threshold of 4kms@xmath9 was applied to the time - series of white - light speckle and spectroscopic data .",
    "the los velocity is determined by a fourier phase method ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which uses the entire 630.15 nm line profile and is very insensitive to noise . the telluric blend at 630.2  nm is not included in the calculation .",
    "the determined shifts are converted to velocities by using the doppler formula . as a frame of reference",
    "we use the average velocity of a small area in the darkest part of the umbra or pore .",
    "the final calibrated dopplergrams follow the convention that redshifts are positive and blueshifts are negative . thus , bright areas in the dopplergrams move away from the observer , while dark areas move towards the observer .",
    "the 630.15 nm has a non - negligible land factor and is thus susceptible to the presence of magnetic fields .",
    "the influence of the magnetic field on the line shape , however , is symmetric with respect to the line core and should not significantly influence the velocity determination .",
    "the ana implementation ( http://ana.lmsal.com/ana/ ) of the lct algorithm @xcite was applied to each of the individual 30-minute observing sequences of speckle reconstructions . a gaussian shape apodization window with a fwhm of 1.4(corresponding to the mean size of the granulation )",
    "was used in the lct technique . since",
    "each sequence consists of 60 reconstructions , this resulted in 59 individual lct proper motion maps .",
    "the individual proper motion maps are averaged to achieve a significant reduction of seeing induced random noise .",
    "furthermore , we use inverse cork maps to visualize sources of divergence in a lct proper motion map ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a total of 22,500 corks ( artificial tracer particles ) were distributed evenly across the average lct proper motion map .",
    "their movement is traced for 10h backwards in time .",
    "the corks concentrate at positions where the proper motion shows strong and persistent divergence .",
    "the resulting cork map traces the location of the dividing line between inward and outward horizontal proper motions in the sunspot penumbra .",
    "it should be mentioned that all the quantities and figures presented in this paper , unless otherwise noted , have been corrected for perspective foreshortening .    to demonstrate the outcome of the described methodology figure [ fig3.3 ] displays the average lct proper motion map superposed on the los dopplergram averaged over the same time period for 2005 june7 .",
    "it clearly shows the evershed effect in the background los dopplergram , and visualizes the inward motion in the inner penumbra and outward motion in the outer penumbra as indicated by the arrows showing the horizontal proper motion .",
    "the outward proper motion exceeds the outer penumbral boundary by 3  to 5 while the los evershed flow ceases more or less abruptly at the visible boundary of the outer penumbra .",
    "moreover , we detect diverging and converging trends in the radial outward proper motions outside the sunspot .",
    "figure  [ fig3.4 ] illustrates the result of the cork analysis based on the reconstructed white - light images for all observing days .",
    "the white contours mark the umbral and penumbral boundaries as derived from intensity thresholds set to 60% and 90% of the quiet sun intensity , respectively .",
    "the yellow dots indicate the corks that are swept to regions where the horizontal proper motion is not divergence free .",
    "figure  [ fig3.4 ] clearly reveals the dividing lines , which separate the inward and outward proper motions in the penumbra .",
    "the dividing lines always reside inside the penumbra .",
    "they tend to be more symmetric when the sunspot penumbra itself has a more symmetric shape ( see panel _",
    "b _ in figure  [ fig3.4 ] ) .",
    "they lose symmetry when the sunspot penumbra becomes less symmetric ( see the other panels in figure  [ fig3.4 ] ) .",
    "interestingly , even after the penumbra completely disappeared , there is still a distinct dividing line around the remaining pore , although , incomplete and disrupted at some locations ( see panel _",
    "f _ in figure  [ fig3.4 ] ) .    the average lct proper motion vectors ( see figure  [ fig3.3 ] ) are decomposed into two components , i.e. , magnitude @xmath15 and azimuthal direction @xmath16 .",
    "they are displayed for each pixel in figure  [ fig3.6 ] . from june7 to june11 , when the sunspot has a penumbra , the @xmath16 component shows a radial inward motion in the inner sunspot ( including the umbra and the inner part of penumbra ) and a radial outward motion in the outer sunspot .",
    "the outward motion extends beyond the visible boundary of the outer penumbra for up to 5 . in other words , a 5wide annular zone showing a radial outward proper motion ( collar flow ) surrounds the penumbra ( or the sunspot ) .",
    "the @xmath15 component shows that there are two ring - like proper motion structures with large @xmath15 values .",
    "one is surrounding the penumbra - umbra interface corresponding to the inward motion of penumbral grains , which has relatively small magnitude ( with average speeds of about 0.4kms@xmath9 and a maximum speed reaching up to 0.8kms@xmath9 ) .",
    "its width is about 3(@xmath02200 km ) .",
    "the other is surrounding the outer penumbra and harbors the high speed portion of the outward motion of penumbral structures and the immediate part of the moat zone . there",
    "the @xmath15 component exhibits a larger magnitude with an average speed of about 0.8kms@xmath9 and a maximum speed reaching up to 1.4kms@xmath9 .",
    "its width is about 5(@xmath03700 km ) .",
    "@xcite were the first to detect a radial , large speed collar flow of granules from the penumbra into the immediate surroundings from the flow field around sunspots and named it `` annulus '' .",
    "the ring - like motion patterns lose their symmetry when the sunspot decays .",
    "both inner and outer ring seem to be shifted towards the limb - side for about 2  or 1500 km . as can be seen in figure  [ fig3.6 ] , the rings at the center - side occur at the penumbra - granulation or penumbra - umbra boundary , while the rings at the limb - side occur outside corresponding borders .",
    "concentrating on the residual pore on june12 , we see from the @xmath16 component that there is still a confined region ( @xmath02  to 3 ) around the pore where we detect a horizontal proper motion towards the pore , which is also indicated by the dividing line seen in figure  [ fig3.4 ] . beyond the dividing line",
    "@xmath16 indicates a motion that is directed away from the pore .",
    "the @xmath15 component shows that both the inward and outward motion in and around the pore are not as strong as those in and around the sunspot .",
    "the los dopplergrams are displayed in figure  [ fig3.7 ] for each day corresponding to the arrangement in figure  [ fig3.4 ] .",
    "the dopplergrams illustrate not only the dominant evershed effect , but also the fine structure in the los velocity of the whole sunspot .",
    "this includes an indication of upflows ( dark blueshifts ) in umbral dots , the presence of penumbral flow channels , and upflows in penumbral grains , which are more prominent on the limb - side of the penumbra with a bright redshifted background .",
    "furthermore , the dopplergrams corroborate the results derived from lct proper motion maps and the cork analysis . in particular , the los flow field around the pore on june12 strongly suggests that the moat flow is still present : on the limb side and center side of the pore we observe a large patch of redshifts and blueshifts , respectively . at the large viewing angle ( @xmath17 ) , where also higher layers of the solar atmosphere are probed , the moat flow component adds significantly to the convective flow pattern in such a way that it increases the los component of the granular upflows on the center side but overcompensates the los component of the granular upflows limbwards of the pore .",
    "it is noticed that the dopplergrams for june 11 and 12 show much stronger los velocities far from the spot or pore than observations nearer disk center ( e.g. , june 7 ) .",
    "the reason for that could be the convection of the supergranulation that contributes more to the los velocity towards the limb .    from figures  [ fig3.2 ] and [ fig3.4 ] , and by watching long - term intensity and magnetogram movies from mdi , our visual impression is that magnetic flux was removed from the sunspot by the following processes : fragmentation of the spot in the north - eastern part and by mmfs .",
    "to the west , the flux transported by those mmfs that have the same polarity as the spot was promptly canceled by the leading negative flux when the mmfs reached the outer edge of the moat region . to the east where the network and plage showed much less opposite polarity flux , substantial amount of flux was transported by mmfs of the same polarity as the sunspot into the surrounding plage region of the same polarity .",
    "fragmentation , flux cancelation , and transport of flux to the network and plage region were likely responsible for the decay of the sunspot .",
    "on june12 , the penumbra completely disappeared and only a pair of pores remained .",
    "in addition , the sunspot had rotated counterclockwise by about 45  during the five days from june7 to june11 .",
    "we also noticed that the relative brightness of both penumbra and umbra increased when the sunspot moved from disk center to the limb .",
    "moreover , this brightness increase is faster in the umbra than in the penumbra",
    ". the decay of the sunspot could be responsible for the overall increase of the sunspot brightness .",
    "another possibility is that the sunspot is relatively brighter from the lower to the upper photosphere , which suggests that the temperature along magnetic flux tube increases faster than that in weak or non - magnetic plasmas .",
    "this behavior of the thermal stratification agrees well with the cool umbral model of @xcite .    to illustrate the decay process of the sunspot more quantitatively we determined the change of the total sunspot area and the magnetic flux with time .",
    "the result is shown in fig .  [ fig3.5 ] .",
    "the light and dark gray vertical bars represent the penumbral and umbral areas , respectively .",
    "their sum corresponds to the total area of the sunspot .",
    "the areas were calculated using the high - resolution data based on the enclosed areas shown by contours in figure  [ fig3.4 ] . the total - to - umbral area ratio ( @xmath18 ) and the percentage of the umbral to total sunspot area for each day were also calculated and annotated accordingly on the top and at the bottom of each bar in figure  [ fig3.5 ] , respectively .",
    "the published results of @xmath19 range from 4.0 to 6.3 , but are mostly distributed between 5.0 and 6.0 ( for a summary see * ? ? ?",
    "the result from this study shows that @xmath19 ranges from 5.19 to 6.31 , which is in agreement with previous measurements .",
    "the percentage of the umbral to total sunspot area increased from 15.85% to 18.98% from june8 to june11 , which indicates that the sunspot penumbra decays faster than the umbra .",
    "the plus signs in figure  [ fig3.5 ] show the evolution of the magnetic flux in the sunspot ( @xmath20 ) calculated from mdi magnetograms .",
    "the projection effect of the area @xmath21 has been corrected and the magnetic fields @xmath22 were partially corrected assuming that the field lines are horizontal in the penumbra and vertical in the umbra . from june  9 to 12 , the sunspot flux decayed with an almost constant decay rate of @xmath23mxs@xmath9 .",
    "a photometric and spectroscopic high - resolution study has been presented showing the flow fields in a decaying , isolated , quasi - round sunspot covering five days in june2005 .",
    "based on horizontal proper motions and los flow fields determined from a lct analysis and spectroscopic observations , respectively , we confirm the existence of inward motions in the inner penumbra and outward motions in the outer penumbra separated by a dividing line located inside the penumbra ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for the first time , we demonstrate that the dividing line survives the decay process during which the sunspot lost its penumbra and fragmented .",
    "most interestingly , we find that the moat flow in the periphery of the umbral core , i.e the residual pore , is still detectable after the penumbra has disappeared .",
    "the outward motion , however , is not in the immediate surroundings of the pore but separated by an annular inward motion , and is much weaker than the one we find around the sunspot .",
    "we argue that the residual pore retained the flow pattern bequeathed from its parent sunspot , since sunspots and pores have historic properties , i.e. , they tend to continue their past physical properties , as evidenced by the fact that large pores can be larger than small sunspots @xcite .",
    "the existence of a moat flow around umbral fragments or individual pores is still debated in the literature ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "generally , it is believed that the large - scale organized outflow pattern of the moat around sunspots is driven by a temperature excess that builds up beneath because normal convective energy transport is inhibited .",
    "furthermore , results from time - distance helioseismology corroborate the existence of large - scale vortex cells and downflows beneath sunspots ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "already @xcite suggested that individual emerging flux bundles are collared by downdraft vortex rings .",
    "motivated by @xcite who put these ideas together illustrated in a sketch ( see their figure  13 ) we explain our observation of a collar flow directed towards the umbra after the penumbra has disappeared as the signature of that downflow vortex cell , which is adjacent to an outer upflow and diverging vortex roll .",
    "the inward proper motions in the inner penumbra can be very well explained in the framework of the moving - tube scenario by @xcite mimicking the uncombed penumbra @xcite . in this model",
    "the filamentary structure of the penumbra originates from the dynamics of ascending flux tubes embedded in a static background field . during the ascending phase a systematic flow develops along the flux tube , the evershed flow .",
    "in particular penumbral grains are interpreted as the upstream footpoints of the flux tubes .",
    "as the flux tubes rise their cross - section with the @xmath24-level migrates inwards giving the visual impression that the penumbral grains move towards the umbra .",
    "many observations have provided support for this model like most recently @xcite . the outward migration detected in the outer penumbra",
    "might be explained by the moving - tube model if the photospheric sea - serpent structure developed from the penumbral flux tubes simulated by @xcite occurs in the real sun .",
    "we speculate that the outward flow which extends beyond the visible boundary of the sunspot penumbra is related to the propagation of ecs ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) but this needs still to be verified .    the observed sunspot was a peculiar follower in the sense that it was larger , more regular and more stable than its leading spot .",
    "@xcite reviewed several aspects related to the decay of leading and following sunspots and summarized the current state of knowledge of the physical mechanisms that are involved in sunspot evolution .",
    "in general , a long period of stability is rarely found in followers , they decay very fast , typically within several days or less after their formation .",
    "following spots usually possess irregular shapes and have incomplete penumbrae .",
    "only 3% of the observed followers develop a round shape and appear in the so - called @xmath14 configuration @xcite .",
    "it is much more likely for the preceding sunspot to develop such a configuration which then can last from days to weeks .",
    "hence , the observations presented in this study provide a rare exception of the aforementioned rules .",
    "we find that during the decay phase the percentage of the umbral to total sunspot area increased from 15.9% to 19.0% indicating that the penumbra decays faster than the umbra .",
    "although the flux decay rate was almost constant ( @xmath23mxs@xmath9 ) , the decay process was not uniform .",
    "we observed that the decay proceeded by the following mechanisms : fragmentation of the sunspot , flux cancelation of mmfs ( of the same polarity as the sunspot ) that encounter the leading opposite polarity network and plages areas , and flux transport by mmfs ( of the same polarity as the sunspot ) to the network and plage regions that have the same polarity of the sunspot .    in order to reconcile the discrepancies found in the large - scale flow patterns surrounding sunspots , umbral fragments , individual pores that never developed a penumbra ( innate pores ) , and individual pores that remained from a decayed sunspot ( residual pores ) not only better statistics",
    "is needed . to fully understand the connection between the flow patterns and the evolution of the magnetic structures high - spatial resolution spectropolarimetric observations as provided by hinode must complete spectroscopic and imaging observations like those presented in this investigation .",
    "we would like to thank john thomas , valantina abramenco , and dale e. gary for comments and discussions on the original manuscript .",
    "we also thank the referee for a number of valuable suggestions that help to improve the paper .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system ( ads ) .",
    "this work was supported by nsf under grant atm 03 - 42560 , atm 03 - 13591 , atm 02 - 36945 , atm 05 - 48952 , and mri ast 00 - 79482 and by nasa under grant nag 5 - 13661 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the evolution of the flows and horizontal proper motions in and around a decaying follower sunspot based on time sequences of two - dimensional spectroscopic observations in the visible and white light imaging data obtained over six days from june  7 to  12 , 2005 . during this time period </S>",
    "<S> the sunspot decayed gradually to a pore . </S>",
    "<S> the spectroscopic observations were obtained with the fabry - prot based visible - light imaging magnetograph ( vim ) in conjunction with the high - order adaptive optics ( ao ) system operated at the 65 cm vacuum reflector of the big bear solar observatory ( bbso ) . </S>",
    "<S> we apply local correlation tracking ( lct ) to the speckle reconstructed time sequences of white - light images around 600 nm to infer horizontal proper motions while the doppler shifts of the scanned  line at 630.15 nm are used to calculate line - of - sight ( los ) velocities with sub - arcsecond resolution . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the dividing line between radial inward and outward proper motions in the inner and outer penumbra , respectively , survives the decay phase . </S>",
    "<S> in particular the moat flow is still detectable after the penumbra disappeared . </S>",
    "<S> based on our observations three major processes removed flux from the sunspot : ( a ) fragmentation of the umbra , ( b ) flux cancelation of moving magnetic features ( mmfs ; of the same polarity as the sunspot ) that encounter the leading opposite polarity network and plages areas , and ( c ) flux transport by mmfs ( of the same polarity as the sunspot ) to the surrounding network and plage regions that have the same polarity as the sunspot . </S>"
  ]
}