{
  "article_text": [
    "when observing a galaxy , we can obtain information about its different evolutionary phases . on the one hand",
    ", we may see emission lines coming from the gas , which characterize the most recent star forming activity of the galaxy and provide the nebular chemical abundances .",
    "these lines are usually used as constraints for chemical evolutionary models . on the other hand",
    ", we can measure brightness , colors , and spectral absorption indices , all of them being stellar population indicators and giving information about the properties averaged along the whole time of evolution , and which are interpreted by means of synthesis models . in this work ,",
    "we analyze a set of data obtained for the central regions of a sample of barred galaxies .",
    "there are gas and stars in these regions and , therefore , we will try to constrain the galaxy history using both types of information .",
    "our observations were taken with the canada - france - hawai telescope in 2001 .",
    "we used the instrument oasis , a microlens matrix imaging spectrometer in the configuration mr1 , to cover the wavelength range from 4700 to 5500  and mr2 , from 6200 to 6850  .",
    "the spatial resolution was 0.42@xmath0 per lenslet and the spectral resolution was @xmath1 2  per pixel . in this paper",
    ", we show preliminary results for 4 barred galaxies : ngc 2718 ( sabab ) , ngc 4385 ( sb0@xmath2 ) , ngc 4900 ( sbc ) , and ngc 5430 ( sbb ) .",
    "the data were reduced with the xoasis package ( version 6.0 ) following the classical steps : inversion of images , elimination of the over - scan , subtraction of dark current , subtraction of the bias , mask extraction , and wavelength calibration . the result was a data - cube with @xmath1 800 spectra for each galaxy .",
    "fat field correction , elimination of cosmic rays , and sky background subtraction were done on these data - cubes .",
    "we also performed the flux calibration within iraf and corrected the spectra for the galactic extinction using seaton s law with the appropriate value of e(b@xmath3v ) for each galaxy ( from ned ) .",
    "finally , the spectra were corrected for the galaxy redshift using ned s velocity and they were binned in order to match the 0.8@xmath0 spatial resolution limitation of the seeing .    before the analysis of the data , we measured the intensity of the emission lines h@xmath4 and h@xmath5 ( taking into account a stellar absorption component when present ) in order to estimate the internal extinction for each pixel .",
    "the lines have been fitted using one or many gaussians , within iraf , at the position of the strongest feature near the theoretical line wavelength values .",
    "the spectra were then corrected using the reddening law of @xcite .",
    "the gas oxygen abundances were estimated from the emission line ratios following the method of @xcite . the absorption spectral indices mg2 , fe5270 , fe5335 , and h@xmath5 were measured to obtain the metallicity and age of the older generation of stars .",
    "(  ) ; 3 ) the index mg2(mag ) ; 4 ) the index @xmath6 (  ) .",
    "each column for a galaxy as labeled .",
    "nort is up and east is left .",
    "one pixel is 110  pc wide in ngc  2718 , 60  pc in ngc  4385 , 27  pc in ngc  4900 , and 82  pc in ngc  5430 . ]",
    "we show our results in fig .",
    "[ 4gal ] . in the first row , we see that oxygen abundances are very uniform within each galaxy , with small differences between galaxies . in the second row , we show the map of ew(@xmath7 ) with positive and negative values , corresponding to absorption and emission lines .",
    "each galaxy shows one ( or several ) region(s ) where @xmath7 in emission is intense ( dark blue regions ) , which correspond to the strongest recent starburst . in ngc  2718",
    ", emission is distributed through an elongated structure . in ngc  4385",
    ", star formation occurs in the whole central region while in ngc  4900 the emission is shifted to the south - east .",
    "ngc  5430 shows hii regions distributed around the center .    maps for the spectral indices @xmath8 and @xmath9 are in the two bottom rows of fig .",
    "mg2 is more dependent on the age of the stars than @xmath6 , which depends strongly on the metallicity z. according to these data , z is more uniform within each galaxy than the stellar age , which presents strong differences between the emission regions and the absorption ones . in ngc 2718 and ngc 4385 , the age maps display a clear gradient between the inner and the outer regions , the last ones being much older that the first ones .",
    "in ngc 4900 and ngc  5430 , the age seems more uniform except where strong emission indicates a much younger population .     and @xmath10 ) .",
    "bottom : age and oxygen abundance , @xmath11 , for the young populations ( from emission lines ) . ]",
    "the emission lines are interpreted using the population synthesis code lavalsb ( @xcite ) to estimate the age of the ionizing young stellar populations within each region .",
    "the absorption spectral indices are interpreted by means of the evolutionary synthesis models at high resolution , as it is the case here , from @xcite . in order to estimate the age and z , we have previously measured the spectra indices over the model spectra , using the same method as for the observed spectra .",
    "then , we have performed a bayesian analysis to select the best age and metallicity .",
    "the results corresponding to ngc  4900 are in fig .",
    "[ ngc4900 ] the top - right panel shows a map of the stellar metallicity , z , which is more or less uniform around @xmath12= z_{\\odot}/3 $ ] , with slight quantitative differences at the north - east where it is higher : @xmath13 > \\simeq 0.6 z_{\\odot}$ ] .",
    "the stellar age ( top - left panel ) is of few 100 myr on average , it reaches 1 gyr as a maximum , with small and not significant variations among regions .    in the bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ ngc4900 ] , the age and oxygen abundance of recent starbursts are shown .",
    "the youngest regions , with an age around 5 - 8 myr , are located at the south - east side and at the north - west corner .",
    "their average oxygen abundance is high , @xmath14 , compared to the surrounding .",
    "the orientation of this structure coincides with the axis of the galaxy bar .",
    "these hii regions may indeed be related to the galaxy bar ; a bar may provoke an inflow of gas from the disk , which results in starburst regions which , in turn , increases the oxygen abundance .",
    "we have also estimated the stellar masses for the different components . on average , we have @xmath15 for each 30 pc@xmath16 in the old component .",
    "the young burst has a mass of @xmath17 in the same area , with the highest value along the galaxy bar .",
    "thus , the mass ratio young / old is near @xmath18 .",
    "we also get some clues about the star formation rates : @xmath19 , if we assume that the old population formation lasted 1  gyr . if the recent bursts are still forming stars , then @xmath20 .",
    "thus , the ratio of past to present star formation rate is around 10  50 .",
    "the center of ngc 4900 host , therefore , many star forming episodes : it suffered a burst in the whole central region 1  gyr ago which may be associated with the bulge population .",
    "another burst occurred @xmath1 100 myr ago , refilling the very central region ; then 13 - 14 myr ago some small knots of formation took place along the bar structure , with a burst 8 myr ago at the north - west and an episode 5 - 6 myr ago in the south - east .",
    "can we interpret these data in terms of an evolutionary sequence ?",
    "we might consider two hypotheses : 1 ) there are only two populations : a bulge with an old stellar population uniform in age and z , and then the bar provoked a abrupt infall of gas which produces the observed young starbursts . in this case",
    "the classical method of using single stellar populations ( ssps ) to estimate a mean metallicity and age , as shown before , is valid .",
    "2 ) if , however , the stars formed in a posterior phase are the consequence of a slow infall of gas ( domnguez - tenreiro et al . ,",
    "this volume ) , which is possible given the differences in ages along the bar , then the situation changes since a continuous star formation history , @xmath21 , has taken place .",
    "when using ssp s , a given function for @xmath21 is usually assumed in those cases ( e.g. @xcite ) , and included it in the equation of deconvolution : @xmath22 , ( where @xmath23 ) .",
    "actually the sed of each ssp , @xmath24 , where z(t ) varies in time .",
    "therefore , the use of this method may not give the whole information or the correct conclusions , since the enrichment history , @xmath25 , due to the assumed star formation history is not taken into account . in order to face this problem",
    ", we suggest the use a set of spectral absorption indices obtained from a chemical evolutionary model ( @xcite ) as templates , to determine consistently the mean age and metallicity of all the regions ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show observations obtained with the integral field spectrometer oasis for the central regions of a sample of barred galaxies . the high spatial resolution of the instrument allows to distinguish various structures within these regions as defined by stellar populations of different ages and metallicities . from these data we obtain important clues about the star formation history . </S>",
    "<S> but we advise that , in order to obtain adequately the evolutionary sequence , a combination of chemical and synthesis models may be necessary . </S>"
  ]
}