{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding how the solar corona is heated to high temperatures is one of the most important problems in solar physics . in principle",
    ", observations of emission from the solar corona should reveal important characteristics of the coronal heating mechanism , such as the time scale and location of the energy release . in practice , however , relating solar observations to physical processes in the corona has proved to be very difficult .",
    "one of the more significant obstacles is the complexity of the solar atmosphere , which makes it difficult to isolate and study individual loops , particularly in the cores of solar active regions .",
    "one circumstance in which the line of sight confusion can be reduced is observations of coronal `` moss . ''",
    "the moss is the bright , reticulated pattern observed in many euv images of solar active regions .",
    "these regions are the footpoints of high temperature active region loops , and are a potentially rich source of information on the conditions in high temperature coronal loops ( see @xcite ) .",
    "a particularly useful property of the moss is that its intensity is proportional to the total pressure in the coronal loop @xcite , which is an important constraint for coronal loop modeling . for steady heating models",
    "the pressure and the loop length completely determine the solution up to a filling factor ( see , @xcite ) .",
    "recently @xcite used this property of the moss in conjunction with a magnetic field extrapolation to infer the volumetric heating rate for each field line in the core of an active region .",
    "this allowed them to simulate both the soft x - ray and euv emission independent of any assumptions about the relationship between the volumetric heating rate and the magnetic field .",
    "one limitation of this approach is that the filling factor is left as a free parameter and is adjusted so that the soft x - ray and euv emission best match the observations .",
    "observations of both the intensity and the electron density in the moss would determine the filling factor and remove this degree of freedom .",
    "a more fundemental question is how relevant steady heating models are to coronal heating .",
    "recent work has shown that high temperature coronal emission ( @xmath0mk ) can be modeled successfully with steady heating ( e.g. , @xcite ) . however , pervasive active region doppler shifts ( e.g. , @xcite ) and the importance of non - equilibrium effects in lower temperature loops ( e.g. , @xcite ) , suggest an important role for dynamical heating in the solar corona .    the purpose of this paper is to address these two issues with new observations from the extreme ultraviolet imaging spectrometer ( eis ) on _ hinode_. eis has an unprecedented combination of high spatial , spectral , and temporal resolution and provides a unique view of the solar corona . here",
    "we use eis density sensitive line ratios to infer the density and pressure of the moss and determine the filling factor of high temperature coronal loops .",
    "we also use eis measurements of several emission lines formed near 1mk to test the consistency of steady heating models with moss observations .",
    "in this section we discuss the application of steady heating models to observations of the moss with eis . to begin we calculate the plasma emissivites as a function of both temperature and density for ions relevant to eis using the chianti atomic physics database ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "we use the ionization fractions of @xcite and the coronal abundances of @xcite .",
    "the plasma emissivities are related to the observed intensity by the usual expression @xmath1 where @xmath2 and @xmath3 are the electron density and temperature and @xmath4 is a coordinate along the field line . note that what we refer to as the emissivity ( @xmath5 ) is actually the emissivity divided by @xmath6 . for many strong emission lines",
    "this quantity is largely independent of the density . in this context , however , including the density dependence explicitly is important since many of the eis emission lines have emissivities that are sensitive to the assumed density .",
    "our calculations cover the range @xmath713 and @xmath88 .    to explore the variation of the observed emission with base pressure we have calculated a family of solutions to the hydrodynamic loop equations using a numerical code written by aad van ballegooijen ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "we consider total loop lengths in the range @xmath9100 mm and maximum temperatures in the range @xmath107.5mk , which are typical of active region cores .",
    "the loops are assumed to be oriented perpendicular to the solar surface and to have constant cross sections . for consistency with our emissivity calculations we use the more recent radiative loss calculations given in @xcite .",
    "each solution to the loop equations gives the density and temperature as a function of position along the loop ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "we interpolate to find the emissivity from the calculated density and temperature in each computational cell .",
    "we then integrate the emissivity at heights below 5 mm to determine the total footpoint intensity using equation  [ eq : ints ] .",
    "the resulting intensities are displayed in figure  [ fig : calc ] and are generally consistent with earlier work which showed that the moss intensities are proportional to the pressure and independent of the loop length ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the linear relationship between the intensity and the pressure breaks down for some of the hotter lines for the lowest pressures we ve considered . for these solutions the peak temperature of formation for the line is closer to the apex temperature and there is some emission from along the loop leg .    for each line we perform a fit of the form @xmath12 to the calculated intensities .",
    "only pressures above @xmath13@xmath14 k are considered in the fits .",
    "the exponent , which is also shown in figure  [ fig : calc ] , is generally close to 1 .",
    "one approximation that has been made in earlier theoretical work that is not strictly valid is that the emissivity is independent of the density .",
    "our calculations account for this and are more accurate .",
    "these model calculations suggest the following recipe for deriving the loop pressure and filling factor from the observations . the 186.88/195.12  ratio can be used to infer the pressure .",
    "the pressure then can be used to determine the expected intensities in each of the lines .",
    "the filling factor is derived from the ratio of the simulated to observed intensity .",
    "to test these model calculations we use observations from eis on _ hinode _ , which was launched 23 september 2006 .",
    "the eis instrument produces high resolution solar spectra in the wavelength ranges of 170210  and 250290 .",
    "the instrument has 1  spatial pixels and 0.0223  spectral pixels .",
    "further details are given in @xcite and @xcite .    despite the fact that _ hinode _",
    "was launched close to the minimum in the solar activity cycle there have been several active regions available for observation . for this work we analyzed _ hinode _ observations of noaa active region 10940 from 2007 february 2 at about 10:42 ut .",
    "these observations show areas of moss that are relatively free from contamination from other emission in the active region . the observing sequence for this period consisted of stepping the 1  slit over a @xmath15 region taking 15s exposures at each position .",
    "these data were processed to remove the contribution of ccd background ( pedestal and dark current ) , electron spikes , and hot pixels , and converted to physical units using standard software .",
    "we then fit the calibrated data assuming gaussian profiles and a constant background .",
    "the resulting rasters for some of the strongest lines are shown in figure  [ fig : rast ] .    to identify the moss in this region",
    "we adopt the very simple strategy of looking for the brightest 186.88  emission .",
    "this line is very sensitive to density .",
    "the line intensity relative to 195.12  rises by about a factor of 6 as the densities rises from @xmath16 , which is typical of active region loops at this temperature , to @xmath17@xmath14 , which is at the high end of what we expect to observe in the moss .",
    "the result of using a simple intensity threshold is shown in figure  [ fig : rast ] .",
    "for each of the 1416 spatial pixels identified as moss we use the 186.88/195.12  ratio to determine the base pressure in the loop from the calculation shown in figure  [ fig : calc ] .",
    "the base pressure is then used to infer the intensities in all of the emission lines , again using the calculations of this type also shown in figure  [ fig : calc ] . as has been found in many previous studies ,",
    "the simulated intensities are much higher than what is observed . to reconcile the observed and simulated intensities we introduce a filling factor for each point derived from the 195.12  intensities . as shown in figure  [ fig : filling ] , the distribution of filling factors is approximately gaussian with a peak at about 16% and standard deviation of about 4% .",
    "the mean filling factor we derive here is generally consistent with previous results that have been about 10% ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we also find that the derived filling factor is nonuniform and inversely proportional to the base pressure .    to compare the model with the observation we have made scatter plots of observed intensity versus simulated intensity ( including the filling factor ) for a number of emission lines .",
    "these plots are shown in figure  [ fig : compare ] and indicate a reasonable agreement between the steady heating model and the observations .",
    "the agreement is particularly good for 188.23 and 203.82 .",
    "the simulated 184.54  intensities are about 20% too high and the simulated 202.04 are about 10% too low .",
    "these discrepancies are not alarming considering the uncertainties in the atomic data .",
    "there are , however , rather signficant discrepancies in the 275.35  intensities .",
    "the simulated intensities are generally about a factor of 4 larger than what is predicted from the steady heating model .",
    "the correlation between the simulated and observed intensities is also poor .",
    "it is possible that considering loop expansion or nonuniform heating may provide a better match at these temperatures , but we have not yet performed these simulations .",
    "it is also possible that there are errors in the atomic data for this line or that the instrumental calibration is not correct at this wavelength .",
    "more extensive analysis , including the observation of other lines formed at similar temperatures , will be required to resolve this issue .",
    "we have presented an initial analysis of active region moss observed with the eis instrument on _ hinode_. we find that the intensities predicted by steady , uniformly heated loop models are too high and a filling factor is required to bring the simulated intensities into agreement with the observations .",
    "the mean filling factor we derive here ( @xmath18% ) is similar to that determined from earlier work with steady heating models .",
    "furthermore , we also find that the filling factor in the moss must be nonuniform and varies inversely with the loop pressure .",
    "the next step is to use the methodology outlined here to simulate all of the active region emission ( including the high temperature loops ) and compare with eis observations .",
    "finally , we emphasize that while we find reasonable agreement between the moss intensities and steady heating , we can not rule out dynamical heating processes , such as nano - flares ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the x - ray emission observed in this region clearly has a dynamic component @xcite and it would be surprising if non - equilibrium effects did not play some role in the heating of this active region .",
    "hinode is a japanese mission developed and launched by isas/ jaxa , with naoj as domestic partner and nasa and stfc ( uk ) as international partners .",
    "it is operated by these agencies in co - operation with esa and nsc ( norway ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of transition region emission in solar active regions represent a powerful tool for determining the properties of hot coronal loops . in this letter we present the analysis of new observations of active region moss taken with the extreme ultraviolet imaging spectrometer ( eis ) on the _ hinode _ mission . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the intensities predicted by steady , uniformly heated loop models are too intense relative to the observations , consistent with previous work . to bring the model into agreement with the observations a filling factor of about 16% </S>",
    "<S> is required . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , our analysis indicates that the filling factor in the moss is nonuniform and varies inversely with the loop pressure . </S>"
  ]
}