{
  "article_text": [
    "star formation is one of the most perplexing processes in the galaxy due to its immense complexity on the very small scales and its apparent simplicity on the very large .",
    "what is difficult to know is to what extent the small scale physics can be ignored when considering the global evolution of galaxies .",
    "observationally , we know there is a simple relationship between the surface density of gas in a disk galaxy and the surface density of star formation @xcite .",
    "this should imply that star formation is a straight forward , universal process depending on average properties of the gas over many kiloparsecs .",
    "the ( perhaps naive ) picture is one of gravity acting to collapse the gas into giant molecular clouds out of which stars form , a process which is hindered by rotational shear , thermal pressure , turbulence , magnetic fields , cosmic ray pressure and energy injected from supernovae @xcite . yet when we start looking at star formation on small , parsec , scales , we find the gas out of which stars form to be a turbulent , multiphase medium , strongly affected by local conditions and not at all indicative of a global law .",
    "so complex is this interstellar medium ( ism ) that simulations which model it have been forced to consider only small sections of the galaxy to achieve the required resolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . until recently ,",
    "simulations which model the entire galaxy have been forced to simplify the structure of the ism to an isothermal or fixed two- or three - phase body for the calculation to be at all feasible ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "not that such assumptions about the structure of the ism are groundless .",
    "analytical calculations performed by @xcite put together the now traditional picture of a three - phase ism , largely filled by hot gas from supernovae explosions .",
    "others have suggested modifications ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) but this basic scenario is still with us .    yet while both of these approaches have been highly informative about the evolution and structure of galaxies they each have disadvantages .",
    "the small box simulations are unable to model global properties such as star formation histories , disk structure and the schmidt law , resulting in their main comparison points being restricted to galaxies where we are able to observe and measure the ism .",
    "global models , on the other hand , have been unable to compute the evolution of the interstellar medium and the effect of this simplification on the disk galaxy s own evolution is unknown .",
    "recently , however , simulations have been developed that are bridging this gap .",
    "while still short of the resolution attained in kiloparsec - sized simulation boxes , these models do achieve the refinement needed to model a complete galaxy disk that includes a multiphase ism .",
    "this paper continues our work began in @xcite ( hereafter tb06 ) which examined a three - dimensional isolated galactic disk using an adaptive - mesh refinement technique . in that paper",
    ", we found that a multiphase medium with a large variety of temperatures and densities , in good agreement with simulations performed in two - dimensions by @xcite and smaller scaled three - dimensional runs by @xcite .",
    "these results supported the small box simulations in implying that the traditional view of the interstellar medium as a three - phase structure in strict pressure equilibrium has some validity but is a significant over - simplification .",
    "what is less clear is how important this is .",
    "the existence of the schmidt law might imply that the details of the ism are not necessary to achieve accurate modeling in global galaxy simulations . and",
    "indeed , the schmidt law and the observed star formation threshold in disk galaxies @xcite has been successfully reproduced both in models with a multiphase ism ( tb06 ) and those with a fixed isothermal ism @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "the observed global structure of the ism is far from an uninterrupted pool of gas .",
    "in addition to its turbulent nature , observation of the ism in the large magellanic clouds show a complex series of hi filaments riddled with holes and shells @xcite .",
    "two of our neighboring spiral galaxies , m31 and m33 show numerous holes 40pc to 1kpc wide @xcite , and our own milky way produces plumes of gas that rise off the disk s surface @xcite .",
    "not only can this not be modeled without global multiphase isms , it seems impossible that this structure can not play an integral part in the disk s evolution .",
    "moreover , the role of stellar feedback remains something of a mystery in both isolated galaxy simulations and in cosmological runs where incorrect modeling is frequently cited as a possible cause of discrepancy with observational data ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "improved modeling of the ism on a global scale could result in a fuller understanding of feedback , ultimately allowing more accurate feedback routines in large cosmological simulations where resolution of the individual galaxies is not yet possible .",
    "in this paper we will compare global models of isolated disk galaxies with three distinct ism types .",
    "the first of these will include radiative cooling down to @xmath0k , the second type will contain radiative cooling and a background photoelectric heating source and our final type will have an isothermal ism at a constant temperature of @xmath1k .",
    "for each of these models , we will test two common prescriptions for star formation and the effects of feedback from type ii supernovae .",
    "the resulting structures are contrasted and the star formation properties of the disks compared with observations .    for these simulations , we use a high - resolution adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) code which includes a full treatment of self - gravity of the gas rather than the fixed potential which is often used and a more sophisticated treatment of star formation and feedback .",
    "our simulations concentrate on hydrodynamical effects , ignoring magnetic fields and cosmic ray pressure .    in section 2",
    ", we describe our computational approach , including details of the code we are using and lay out the initial conditions for the problem .",
    "sections 3 and 4 will focus on the disk structure and the properties of the ism while section 5 will look at comparisons with observations .",
    "the simulations were performed using the hydrodynamics adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) code , _ enzo _ , described in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the amr technique is particularly strong in this work where the resolution of a complex multiphase medium is of paramount importance .",
    "the grid cells form natural boundaries which allows gas with a range of temperatures to coexist and evolve @xcite .",
    "other codes using particle - based techniques frequently have an over - mixing problem , causing unphysical radiative losses unless algorithmic steps are taken @xcite . as a result",
    ", the majority of previous simulations have been unable to properly model a multiphase interstellar medium , making them unable to access its importance in star formation .    for these simulations",
    ", we use a three - dimensional periodic box of side @xmath2h@xmath3mpc . with a root grid of @xmath4 and 8 levels of refinement ; our smallest cell size , and therefore maximum resolution , is approximately 50pc . for our higher resolution",
    "run , this was decreased further to 25pc .    to evolve the gas through time ,",
    "_ enzo _ used a three - dimensional version of the zeus hydrodynamics algorithm @xcite .",
    "radiative gas cooling followed the cooling curve of @xcite down to temperatures of @xmath1k and then rates from @xcite down to @xmath0k .",
    "( the exception to this are for the simulations performed with an isothermal equation of state for the gas , where no cooling is allowed ) .",
    "this bottom temperature threshold is still above what would be found in the dense molecular clouds , but @xcite argued that this crudely compensates for physical processes not modeled , such as magnetic fields , turbulence , and cosmic - ray pressure",
    ". this temperature range does take us to the upper limit of the cold neutral medium @xcite , allowing us to sample a realistic spread of phases in the gas .",
    "in addition to cooling , the gas can also be heated through supernovae feedback ( described below ) and photoelectric heating .",
    "photoelectric heating , that is the photo emission of uv - irradiated dust grains , is thought to be the dominant factor in the formation of the cold and warm neutral mediums @xcite .",
    "if photoelectric heating is turned on , _ enzo _ includes the term @xmath5ergs@xmath3 to the energy equation for the gas in a scheme based on @xcite , but without the dependence on the height above the disk adopted in that work .",
    "the value of @xmath6 is dependent on the incident radiation field and , as such , could be tied with the star formation rate in the gas . however , since we are considering milky way - sized galaxy disks , we follow @xcite and adopt a number consistent with the local interstellar value . since it is likely that this value was higher at earlier times , we also perform a run with a heating source of @xmath7 ergs@xmath8 , a value that balances the cooling rate at densities of @xmath9@xmath10 at our initial temperature of @xmath1k .",
    "however , the increase in heating makes a relatively small difference to the star formation properties of the disk , so this run is not included in our main analysis but added to the discussion only .",
    "note that we do not include photoionization heating , which would require full radiative transfer to model properly .",
    "_ enzo _ will form a star particle in a grid cell if it fulfills the following criteria @xcite : ( i ) the baryon density in the grid cell exceeds a designated threshold density , ( ii ) the mass of gas in the cell exceeds the local jeans mass , ( iii ) there is convergent flow into the cell ( i.e. @xmath11 ) and ( iv ) the cooling time of the gas in the cell is less than its dynamical time ( @xmath12 ) , or the gas is at the minimum temperature allowed of 300k .",
    "we will also consider one set of galaxy disks which are modeled with a purely isothermal interstellar medium . in this case , the above criteria are relaxed to only include the first three rules , since the gas is unable to cool .",
    "if a grid cell meets the required criteria for star formation , gas is removed from the cell and a star particle will be formed with mass calculated by : @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the star formation efficiency ( more properly the efficiency per dynamical time ) , @xmath15 is the size of the time step , @xmath16 is the time for dynamical collapse and @xmath17 is the gas density .",
    "a final , purely computational , criteria is that , even if a grid cell fulfills all the above criterion , a star particle will still not be formed if its mass is less than a given minimum value of ( for this work ) @xmath1m@xmath18 . since",
    "the reason for this clause is purely numerical ( a large number of small stars would greatly slow down the simulation ) an override exists that creates a star below the minimum mass with a probability equal to the ratio between the mass of the would - be star particle and the minimum star mass .",
    "if this occurs , the resulting star mass is that of the minimum star mass or 80% of the mass in the cell , whichever is smaller .",
    "the star particle s formation is then spread out over roughly a dynamical time , to mimic the formation of stars in the giant molecular clouds who follow the same time scale .",
    "the star particles themselves are modeled as a collisionless system using the n - body method .",
    "they gravitationally interact with the gas by mapping their positions onto the grid via a cloud - in - cell technique to produce a discretized density field .",
    "the number of star particles formed varies greatly depending on the values chosen for the threshold density and star formation efficiency described above . for our ` c'-type star formation method where these values are low ( see section  [ sec : runs ] ) , roughly five million particles were used by the end of the simulation . in our ` d'-type algorithm , these values are higher and the number of star particles formed is reduced to around 40,000 .",
    "_ enzo _ can also include stellar feedback from type ii supernovae , often suggested as the main driving force for self - regulated star formation .",
    "when this feedback option is used , as it is in about half our simulations , then @xmath19 of the rest - mass energy of generated stars is added to the gas thermal energy over a time period equal to @xmath16 .",
    "this is equivalent to a supernova of @xmath20 erg for every @xmath21m@xmath18 of stars formed .",
    "the energy is deposited into the gas over one dynamical time or @xmath22myrs , whicheve is longer . during this period",
    "the energy is injected into the cell closest to the particle s current location .    for all simulations ,",
    "we adopt a cosmological model of a @xmath23cdm universe with @xmath24 , @xmath25 and h@xmath26kms@xmath3mpc@xmath3 .",
    "the initial conditions for our disk are the same as the simulations performed in tb06 , with an ideal isothermal gas disk of temperature of @xmath1k and @xmath27 whose density profile is given by @xmath28 sitting in a static dark matter halo .",
    "the major difference between these initial conditions and the ones set out in tb06 is the gas mass in the disk which we choose to be @xmath29m@xmath18 , six times higher than in tb06 , bringing it into line with the estimated total disk mass of the milky way ( we do not begin with any stars ) .",
    "we also change the disk dimensions slightly from tb06 , selecting a scale radius @xmath30kpc and a scale height @xmath31pc .",
    "together with the gas mass , these choices fix the value for @xmath32m@xmath18pc@xmath33 .",
    "dark matter is included as a static halo potential in the form described by @xcite .",
    "the disk is initially borderline stable , with a toomre q parameter ( described in section  [ sec : toomre ] ) of 0.5 at the center of the disk rising to 10 at the edge , but quickly cools to fragment .",
    "this is discussed in more detail in tb06 .",
    ".overview of simulations performed [ cols=\">,^,^,<,^,<,^,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ table : toomre ]    the gravitational collapse of gas into cold knots of matter is the fundamental driving force for star formation in our galaxies ( this is discussed more thoroughly in tb06 and references therein ) .",
    "previous studies , both theoretical and observational , suggest that at a given radius the density of the gas drops below a given critical value and the disk becomes stable , preventing star formation from occurring beyond this point .",
    "toomre @xcite initially defined the location of this radius in terms of a stability parameter , @xmath34 , given by @xmath35 , where @xmath36 is the usual epicyclic frequency , @xmath37 is the thermal sound speed as measured in the disk and @xmath38 is the gas surface density .",
    "toomre s calculations considered axisymmetric perturbations in a single phase two - dimensional disk which was found to became gravitationally unstable ( and therefore able to form stars ) when @xmath39 . @xcite re - calculated this value for a three - dimensional disk to @xmath40 .",
    "observational results have also observed this star formation cut - off , with @xcite measuring the star formation threshold in spiral galaxies to correspond to a @xmath34 value of @xmath41 .",
    "observations did not allow measurement of the actual thermal sound speed of the gas , which was replaced by a velocity dispersion of @xmath42kms@xmath3 .    in our disks , we measured both the radial cut - off point for star formation and the toomre @xmath34 parameter for the disk s gas at that radius .",
    "we also calculated an observed @xmath34 value , where we adopt kennicutt s value of @xmath42kms@xmath3 instead of the thermal sound speed .",
    "it is worth noting , however , that these calculations were not entirely simple .",
    "the greater gas mass and smaller star particle size results in a significant gravitational scatter of stars near the edge of the stellar disk than we had in tb06 , so the exact edge of star formation is hard to judge .",
    "( this is of course true in observational result too , a point we will return to in the next section ) .",
    "we therefore take the radius where 99% of the star particles are enclosed as the stellar cut - off .",
    "the measuring of @xmath34 in a multiphase disk is an even harder task to perform accurately .",
    "firstly , in averaging over an annulus at a given radius , you include a wide range of temperatures and densities which produce an average @xmath34 , not necessary the @xmath34 value at the star formation sites .",
    "secondly , toomre s original calculations assumed linear perturbations which break down at the point of star formation .",
    "ideally , therefore , you want to measure the @xmath34 value where the disk has become gravitationally unstable , but not yet formed stars . in tb06 , such a point existed , but with our heavier disk and smaller star particles the disk begins to form stars earlier on .",
    "we therefore measure @xmath34 at the same time as in tb06 , approximately 50myrs after the start of the simulation and note that while the disk has fragmented , stars have already started to form .    what is surprising is that we do measure only a small range of values for both the cut - off radius and @xmath34 as shown in table  [ table : toomre ] .",
    "in all cases , the star formation ends at a comparable radius to the milky way , which is estimated to be around 15kpc . within the range",
    "we do see some patterns . for the non - feedback cases , the c - type star formation simulations form stars out to a radius several kiloparsecs greater than in the d - type , something we saw visually in figures  [ fig : projmw ] and [ fig : projhd ] .",
    "the reason for this is that the d - type star formation s higher density threshold , confining stars to regions where the gas has collapsed to form the dense knots of matter .",
    "our c - type star formation however , can occur at much lower densities , when the gas has not fully collapsed .",
    "the exception to this is the isothermal gas , where , as previously mentioned , the larger jeans length confines the c - type stars to the same region at the d - type .",
    "the addition of feedback has a different effect on the two star formation types .",
    "for the c - type , it reduces the threshold radius whereas for the d - type , the radius for star formation increases .",
    "this difference is caused by the nature of the resulting outflows from the feedback . as we saw in figure",
    "[ fig : vp_projections ] , feedback from c - type stars produces a smooth , continuous outflow that disrupts the dense gas and prevents stars from forming .",
    "feedback from the d - type stars however , comes in energetic bursts which , as we saw in figure  [ fig : massflux ] , extends the gas outflows to much higher radii .",
    "these outflows of gas can then cool and condense , fragmenting beyond the old instability threshold to push star formation out to higher radii .",
    "a slightly surprising result is that the heated disks have higher threshold radii than the non - heated cases . since the heating has a stabilizing effect on the disk ( as seen in figure  [ fig : sfhistory ] ) we would expect it to quench star formation in the less dense outer disk .",
    "we actually see in figure  [ fig : projmw ] that the instabilities do extend out further in the dc and dd case than the hdc and hdd , but the star forming knots stop at a lower radius .",
    "this appears to be the result of the dissipation of the circular wave that we noted occurred in dc in section  [ sec : images ] .",
    "although , as mentioned , the exact cause of this is unclear .",
    "if we look at what @xmath34 parameter this cut - off corresponds to , we find values around 1 .",
    "given that @xmath34 itself varies over several orders of magnitude , the results are very uniform , with neither ism conditions , feedback or star formation type having a large effect . the only value that appears out of place is for run hdc with @xmath43 .",
    "given the range of @xmath34 over the disk , this value is still in keeping with the other simulations although its higher value may be due to problems accurately measuring the star formation cut - off .    coupled with the lower star formation cut - off , disks without heating in ism  # 1 have lower @xmath34 values than the ism  # 2 and ism  # 3 disks .",
    "feedback and star formation type have little effect on these values , which are all below 1 .",
    "ism  # 2 shows the most sensitivity to stellar conditions , with the c - type star formation in particular being more sensitive to the introduction of feedback than the d - type .",
    "the isothermal ism  # 3 simulations show almost no variation with star formation type",
    ". for comparison , the third column in table  [ table : toomre ] shows the observationally calculated @xmath34 parameter .",
    "the values are reassuringly similar to the first calculation of @xmath34 , although we can see that for ism  # 1 , the @xmath42kms@xmath3 is an overestimate of the thermal sound speed , since it raises the value of @xmath34 , whereas in the other cases it is an underestimate .      ]",
    "kennicutt s observations of disk galaxies show that the surface star formation rate is linked , both on a global and local scale , to the surface gas density via @xmath44 . in figure",
    "[ fig : globalschmidt ] we show kennicutt s observational relation ( solid line ) and the results from our different simulations for the global version of this law ( global schmidt law ) , which shows the average surface star formation rate and the average gas surface density over the whole disk for different ( evenly spaced ) times over the @xmath45gyrs of the simulation .",
    "overall , the majority of the simulations reproduce the @xmath41 gradient well , although all over estimate the star formation rate .",
    "the possible exception to this is the isothermal run with d - type star formation , idd , whose points contain a large amount of scatter and a steep decline at a gas density of @xmath22m@xmath18pc@xmath46 .",
    "the over - estimate in the sfr was discussed in tb06 and is likely due , at least in part , to our inability to include all the physics at the resolution of the giant molecular clouds . without the added destructive effects of ionizing radiation and stellar winds , these clouds lifetimes will be prolonged , allowing an unphysically high proportion of their gas to be converted into stars .",
    "the other possibility is that neither of our star formation mechanisms is very accurate . to a certain extent",
    "this is inevitable since we do not resolve the gmcs , but recent work in this area @xcite suggest that while star formation occurs in the dense molecular clouds , on scales larger than a few parsecs the star formation efficiency is much lower than the 50% suggested by @xcite , possible down to 2% .",
    "this reduced efficiency will be explored in future papers .    as in tb06",
    ", we find the addition of feedback does act to reduce the star formation rate , confirming that we are seeing at least the beginning of self - regulation .",
    "this is most evident in the simulations with c - type star formation : c , cfdbck , hc and hcfdbck , all of which lie close together on the graph .",
    "simulations with d - type star formation also follow the observed gradient well , especially in the non - heated simulations , d and dfdbck .",
    "this is important since , as discussed in tb06 , the c - type star formation has a schmidt - like behavior built into it , implying that we are simply getting out what we put in .",
    "however , this is not true for the d - type algorithm , which has a simple density cutoff and is otherwise proportional to the density .",
    "as hinted at with the pdfs in figure  [ fig : volpdfs ] , the background heating in ism  # 2 has a stronger effect on the hd simulation than on hc , as the higher density regions required for this type of star formation are disrupted by the increase in temperature .",
    "this results in the star formation at low densities in hd to be significantly reduced from d. at these low densities , the results from hd now follow the observations very closely , but at higher densities , the star formation rises above what is expected .",
    "this suggests that the background heating has less effect at the higher densities , where the gas is collapsing despite the extra resistance . introducing feedback reduces this effect , still producing an over - estimate of the star formation , but the results are now consistent with hcfdbck , cfdbck and dfdbck , implying that feedback is the dominant effect here .",
    "the isothermal runs show the poorest agreement with observation here .",
    "the c - type star formation , idc , produces a gradient slightly steeper than 1.5 for gas densities greater than around 6m@xmath18pc@xmath46 but has a large scatter below that .",
    "]    the schmidt law can also be looked at on a local scale where the values are plotted as a function of disk radii rather than time .",
    "figure  [ fig : localschmidt ] shows the results for each of the simulations where each point represents a different radii in the disk .",
    "the solid line has a gradient of 1.5 , in agreement with the observations , but with an arbitrary normalization .    in the top panel where we show the simulations with ism  # 1",
    ", we can see that runs with d - type star formation , d and dfdbck , represent the observed gradient of the correlation between the surface gas density and star formation rate extremely well",
    ". runs with c - type star formation do a reasonable job at high densities , showing a larger degree of scatter than the d - type star formation runs due to clumps being split by energy injection and gravitational interactions and reforming ( something that is not observed in the d - type run due to the higher binding energy of the dense knots ) . at lower densities , the feedback run , cfdbck , does a noticeable poorer job at reproducing the schmidt law , showing a sharp decrease in the star formation rate below gas densities of around 2m@xmath18pc@xmath46 , a feature that is not seen in the d - type runs which are not affected by the introduction of feedback .",
    "this feature is not seen when we introduce background heating in ism  # 2 ( middle panel ) where all simulations follow the observations very well , although there is again noticeably more scatter in the c - type run with feedback than in either the run without feedback or the d - type simulations , hd and hdfdbck .",
    "the isothermal run with d - type star formation follows the same pattern , and indeed there is no difference between d , hd and i d simulations , showing that the d - type star formation is much less influenced by its interstellar environment .",
    "the isothermal run with c - stars , however , does not follow the observations well , producing a gradient that is much steeper than observed thereby underestimating the star formation at low densities and over estimating it at high densities .",
    "overall , the range in gas densities is much less than in other c - type runs , agreeing with the results in section  [ sec : images ] that star formation is confined to a small section of the disk .    in both the global and local schmidt law plots",
    ", the c - type star formation extends to much lower densities than the d - type .",
    "although this is not surprising , since its density threshold is lower , it is interesting to compare this to observations . as mentioned in the previous section , @xcite observed a sharp cut - off in the star formation in disk galaxies below a critical density .",
    "more recent observations done using the uv data in galax @xcite suggest that this star formation cut - off might be a result of the observational technique , rather than the existence of a critical density .",
    "@xcite looked at 46 spiral galaxies in the uv to establish where star formation ended .",
    "previous work had been performed by examining the h@xmath47 emission from galaxies , a technique , this group argues , that makes it very difficult to observe low levels of star formation . with uv spectra , they found evidence of star formation beyond the position of the previously measured cut - off radius suggesting that the critical density value is either lower than originally measured or possibly does not actually exist .",
    "if this is the case , then our c - type star formation is preferable in this result , since it allows star formation to occur at much lower densities in agreement with this new result .",
    "what role does the interstellar medium play in determining the star formation properties of galaxies ?",
    "this question has two important consequences .",
    "the first concerns the nature of galaxy evolution , asking whether the interstellar environment can result in dramatically different structure and star formation properties .",
    "the second consequence applies to our ability to model galaxy formation realistically or whether parsec resolution is needed to achieve accurate results .    in section  [ sec : discstructure ] we visually examined projections of the galaxy disks looking at their density , temperature and pressure distributions and their star formation .",
    "clear differences were seen between our disks , with ism type , star formation algorithm and feedback all playing significant roles .",
    "the growth of perturbations in the disk was dominated by the conditions in the ism . in our first ism type , which contained only cooling",
    ", we saw the disk fragment through the production of a outgoing circular wave which collapsed tangentially to form the network of filaments and dense knots of gas we saw in figure  [ fig : projmw ] .",
    "the addition of background heating in ism  # 2 , suppressed the formation of the weaker filaments but increased the size of the densest knots which extended further out into the disk . in our third ,",
    "isothermal , ism type , the filamentary structure was also suppressed and the size of the dense knots increased still more , confining their formation to the central region of the disk .",
    "these differences made a difference when star formation started to occur . in our c - type ( cosmological )",
    "algorithm , stars formed over a large fraction of the disk s surface , although the largest clusters were confined to the densest knots of gas . in the heated case ,",
    "the heavier filaments formed edges around voids of low density , hot gas that had occurred through gravitational and thermal instability alone .",
    "such voids are reminiscent of porous isms seen in the hi maps of some dwarf galaxies . in ism  # 1",
    ", further fragmentation had prevented this from occurring .",
    "the isothermal disk confined the stars to the central disk region where the large knots formed and the resulting heavier clusters scattered the smaller ones out of the disk .",
    "the extent of this scattering was extreme , and care should be taken if an isothermal model is used with this star formation recipe to avoid unphysical results .",
    "the effect in ism  # 3 of confining the star formation to the central region meant that there was little difference between the c - type algorithm and the d - type star formation algorithm where we restricted the formation of stars to the densest clouds .",
    "this was investigated quantitatively in section  [ sec : toomre ] where we measured the star formation cut - off radius and compared it to the toomre stability criterion @xmath34 at that point . in the ism  # 3 case ,",
    "the cut - off radius was almost identical in both the c- and d - type star formation routines whereas in ism  # 1 and ism  # 2 , the c - type stars extended further into the disk .",
    "the @xmath34 stability criteria itself was found to be around 1 , in good agreement with both analytical and observational results .",
    "this changed again when we included feedback . in",
    "both the ism  # 1 and ism  # 2 cases , feedback destroyed the dense knots of gas , suppressing the star formation as we saw in figure  [ fig : sfhistory ] .",
    "its addition largely wipes out the structural differences between the two ism types and their profiles , both in the projections and the vertical profiles in figures  [ fig : rhoheight ] and [ fig : pheight ] follow similar shapes .",
    "feedback also causes gas to be ejected from the disk s surface in a galactic fountain , something the isothermal disk is incapable of replicating .",
    "the different star formation algorithms have a much larger effect on the feedback than ism type .",
    "the d - type algorithm , confining the star formation to the densest knots , focuses the energy injection from the feedback , causing the outflows to be bursts in different areas of the disk .",
    "the c - type , by contrast , acts equally across the disk and at a more continuous level .",
    "this has two effects on the disk .",
    "the first was seen in figure  [ fig : vp_projections ] where the outflows from the disk s surface are uneven .",
    "the second is seen in the star formation cut - off , where the feedback in the d - type case triggers fragmentation of the gas in the stable regions of the disk , extending the star formation threshold .",
    "section  [ sec : ismphases ] further examines the ism by looking at the evolution of its density and temperature over time .",
    "we see that background heating stabilizes a significant proportion of the gas in the warm phase in figure  [ fig:3phasemw ] , bringing it nearer to the isothermal state as can be seen in the 2d contour plots in figure  [ fig : volcontours ] .",
    "this could explain the success of models using an isothermal ism ; it is a gross simplification of the real system , but if a single phase becomes stabilized in the disk , an isothermal gas can be a good approximation .",
    "the addition of feedback , however , dramatically increases the gas volume in the hot phase causing the heated and non - heated disks to show a wide variety of continuous phases .",
    "both ism  # 1 and ism  # 2 produce disks that are largely isobaric , in keeping with analytical expectations .",
    "the addition of feedback acts as a pressure value to eject gas from the disk , ensuring the disk remains isobaric across its height .",
    "the isothermal disk , by contrast , has strong pressure variability since the fixed temperature means that the pressure has to reflect the density distribution .    in section",
    "[ sec : obs ] we turned to look at the observable properties of our disks , including star formation history , cut - off and the relation between gas surface density and surface star formation rate ( schmidt laws ) .",
    "no one model produces these results significantly better than any other . a result that implies , despite structural differences , that global star formation is not strongly dependent on the interstellar environment .",
    "the disks overall produce the observed properties reasonably well , having a star formation threshold of between 11 - 18kpc in agreement with estimations for the milky way and producing the schmidt observed gradient of 1.5 . the slight exception to this",
    "were the isothermal cases which reproduced the observational result poorly at low densities .",
    "of the two star formation algorithms , each has its own strengths and weaknesses .",
    "the c - type algorithm allows the extension of the schmidt law to much lower densities , where recent observational evidence suggests there is star formation .",
    "however , the small stellar clusters gravitationally interact to be scattered in the disk , making it more difficult to determine the cut - off density for star formation and increasing the scatter in the local schmidt relation .",
    "the d - type algorithm , meanwhile , show a tight correlation in the local schmidt relation but appears to reproduce the gradient of the global relation less well .",
    "however , it is also the least affected by ism type , since it considers only the densest gas structures .",
    "possibly a hybrid of these two schemes would combine their strengths to produce the best results .    ]    as mentioned in section  [ sec : enzo ] , we performed an additional run with a higher background heating source .",
    "this run was identical to run hd , but with the background heating increased by a factor of 30 .",
    "the main difference the additional heating had on the disk was to increase the pressure of the ism .",
    "this occurred because the enhanced heating rate moved the gas in thermal equilibrium to higher temperature at fixed density , pushing the contours shown in figure  [ fig : volcontours ] to the right and up .",
    "this can be seen in figure  [ fig : hd2_volcontours ] .",
    "the effect this has on the star formation , however , was fairly minimal .",
    "there was a slightly increased star formation rate at early times which led to a greater gas depletion near the end of the simulation .",
    "this resulted in the global schmidt law following a relation identical to that seen in the hd run , but at a slightly raised star formation rate .",
    "ultimately , hi images of the whirlpool galaxy and lmc tell us that the ism plays an important role in the galaxy s evolution and it must be born in mind that while we are able to resolve a multiphase structure in our ism , we are no yet at the detail of the small box simulations .",
    "however , the uniformity of our results for the star formation history and schmidt laws suggest that the exact details of the gas may be simplified and still achieve a correct star formation production .",
    "we performed high resolution simulations of global disk galaxies with three different interstellar medium properties : our first model allowed radiative cooling of gas , the second model allowed radiative cooling and included a background heating term while the third model held the gas at a constant temperature . for each of these ism models , we considered two different star formation mechanisms ; a ` c ' type that allowed low density formation of stars at a correspondingly low efficiency and a ` d ' type that only allowed star formation in the densest clumps , but with a high efficiency .",
    "we also investigated the addition of feedback from type ii supernovae for non - isothermal disks .",
    "overall we found :    1 .",
    "the structure of the disk is strongly affected by the ism environment .",
    "background heating suppresses small - scale perturbations and increases the size of the star forming knots .",
    "this additionally helps to regulate star formation and reduce gas depletion in the disk .",
    "the isothermal equation of state increases the jeans length in the disk and leads to the formation of much larger clumps ( probably unphysically large ) which results in extreme gravitational scattering of nearby star particles .",
    "it also confines star formation to the central region , regardless of the critical density specified in the star formation routine .",
    "this leads to gas depletion in the disk center .",
    "2 .   the addition of feedback destroys star - forming clumps and causes gas to be ejected off the disk s surface .",
    "the nature of the outflows is dependent on the star formation algorithm with the low threshold density , c - type routine producing a more continuous flow compared to the d - type strong intermediate bursts .",
    "both cases result in star formation being suppressed in the disk as dense knots of gas are destroyed , but the feedback in the d - type case results in triggered star formation in the outer regions of the disk .",
    "the structure of the ism in both ism  # 1 and ism  # 2 show a continuous range of densities and temperatures that are not well represented by a single phase model .",
    "the addition of heating reduces the range of values found in the non - feedback case , in particular stabilizing the warm phase at the same temperature as the isothermal ism .",
    "however , the introduction of feedback significantly increases the range of densities and temperatures , almost eliminating the signature of background heating .",
    "the pdfs for all disks are well represented by a lognormal curve over several orders of magnitude .",
    "this is largely insensitive to the introduction of stellar feedback or ism environment . at later times",
    "( and for the isothermal run at earlier times ) a power - law fit would also be possible and it is hard to tell , at current resolutions , which of these two fits would work best . 5 .",
    "the star formation in the disks are shown to cut - off at a radius comparable to the milky way when the toomre @xmath34 parameter is around 1 .",
    "exact measurements are difficult to achieve in a multiphase medium .",
    "all simulations reproduce the slope of the observed relation between star formation and gas surface density well on both the global and local scale .",
    "the possible exception is the isothermal run with c - type star formation which shows a steeper drop off in star formation rate on local scales .",
    "there is some evidence that d - type star formation does not produce the gradient as well at c - type on global scales and that its low density cut - off may be higher than recent observations .",
    "overall , we conclude that the interstellar medium is a multiphase environment strongly affected by background heating , feedback and cooling and plays a significant part in the disk s structural evolution .",
    "it appears , however , from these preliminary calculations that its exact structure can be simplified and still achieve the correct star formation properties for disk galaxies .",
    "the exception to this is possibly the isothermal disk which did not produce a realistic multi - phase model , lead to very large clump formation , and can never produce a galactic fountain effect .",
    "+ ejt and glb would like to thank adrianne slyz for helpful comments and suggestions and the referee for helping to improve the presentation of the paper .",
    "ejt acknowledges support from a theoretical astrophysics postdoctoral fellowship from dept . of astronomy / clas , university of florida .",
    "both authors acknowledge the national center for supercomputing applications and the university of florida high - performance computing center for providing computational resources and support and also support from nsf grants ast-05 - 07161 , ast-05 - 47823 , and ast-06 - 06959 that have contributed to the research results reported within this paper .",
    "de avillez , m.  a. , & breitschwerdt , d.  2004 , , 425 , 899 boissier , s. , et al .   2006 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0609071 bryan , g.  l.  & norman , m.  l.  1997 , asp conf .  ser .  123 : computational astrophysics ; 12th kingston meeting on theoretical astrophysics , 363 bryan , g.l . comp .",
    "phys . and eng .",
    "1999 , 1:2 , p. bryan , g.  l. , norman , m.  l.  & abel , t.  2001 , arxiv : astro - ph/0112089 : proceedings of supercomputing 2001 cen , r.  & ostriker , j.  p.  1992",
    ", , 399 , l113 cox , d.  p.  2005",
    ", , 43 , 337 deul , e.  r. , & den hartog , r.  h.  1990 , , 229 , 362 elmegreen , b.  g.  2002 , , 577 , 206 ferguson , a.  m.  n. , irwin , m.  j. , ibata , r.  a. , lewis , g.  f. , & tanvir , n.  r.  2002 , , 124 , 1452 gill , s.  p. , bryan , g.  l. , & tasker , e.  j.  2007 , in prep .",
    "goldreich , p. & lynden - bell , d. 1965 , , 130 , 97 harfst , s. , theis , c. , & hensler , g.  2006 , , 449 , 509 joung , m.  k.  r. , & mac low , m .-",
    "2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0601005 kennicutt , r.  c.  1989 , , 344 , 685 kennicutt , r.  c.  1998 , , 498 , 541 kim , s. , staveley - smith , l. , dopita , m.  a. , freeman , k.  c. , sault , r.  j. , kesteven , m.  j. , & mcconnell , d.  1998 , , 503 , 674 kravtsov , a.  v.  2003 , , 590 , l1 krumholz , m.  r. , & tan , j.  c.  2006 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0606277 lada , c.  j. , & lada , e.  a.  2003 , , 41 , 57 li , y. , mac low , m - m . , & klessen , r.  2005 , , 620 , 19l li , y. , mac low , m .- m . , &",
    "klessen , r.  s.  2005 , , 626 , 823 maclow , m .-",
    "2004 , , 289 , 323 marri , s.  & white , s.  d.  m.  2003 , , 345 , 561 mckee , c.  f. , & ostriker , j.  p.  1977",
    ", , 218 , 148 navarro , j. , frenk , c. , white , s.d.m .",
    "1997 , , norman , m.  l.  & bryan , g.  l.  1999 , assl vol .  240 : numerical astrophysics , 19 norman , c.  a. , & ikeuchi , s.  1989 , , 345 , 372 oshea , b.  w. , bryan , g. , bordner , j. , norman , m.  l. , abel , t. , harkness , r. , & kritsuk , a.   2004 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , astro - ph/0403044 otte , b. , dixon , w.  v. , & sankrit , r.  2003 , , 586 , l53 robertson , b. , yoshida , n. , springel , v. , & hernquist , l.  2004 , , 606 , 32 rhode , k.  l. , salzer , j.  j. , westpfahl , d.  j. , & radice , l.  a.  1999 , , 118 , 323 rosen , a.  & bregman , j.  n.  1995 , , 440 , 634 sarazin , c.  l.  & white , r.  e.  1987 , , 320 , 32 scalo , j. , vazquez - semadeni , e. , chappell , d. , & passot , t.  1998 , , 504 , 835 schmidt , m. 1959 , , 129 , 243 semelin , b.  & combes , f.  2002 , , 388 , 826 slyz , a.  d. , devriendt , j.  e.  g. , bryan , g. , & silk , j.  2005 , , 356 , 737 springel , v.  & hernquist , l.  2003 , , 339 , 289 stone , j.  m.  & norman , m.  l.  1992 , , 80 , 753 tasker , e.  j. , & bryan , g.  l.  2006 , , 641 , 878 tasker , e.  j. , & bryan , g.  l.  2006 , , 642 , l5 toomre , a.  1964 , , 139 , 1217 truelove , j.  k. , klein , r.  i. , mckee , c.  f. , holliman , j.  h. , howell , l.  h. , & greenough , j.  a.  1997 , , 489 , l179 van der hulst , j.  m.   1996 , asp conf .  ser .  106 : the minnesota lectures on extragalactic neutral hydrogen , 106 , 47 vzquez - semadeni , e. , gazol , a. , & scalo , j.  2000 , , 540 , 271 wada , k. , spaans , m. , & kim , s.  2000 , , 540 , 797 wada , k.  & norman , c.  a.  2001 , , 547 , 172 wada , k. , meurer , g. , & norman , c.  a.  2002 , , 577 , 197 wada , k. , & norman , c.  a.  2007 , , 660 , 276 wolfire , m.  g. , hollenbach , d. , mckee , c.  f. , tielens , a.  g.  g.  m. , & bakes , e.  l.  o.   1995 , , 443 , 152 wolfire , m.  g. , mckee , c.  f. , hollenbach , d. , & tielens , a.  g.  g.  m.  2003 , , 587 , 278"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we studied the effect of interstellar gas conditions on global galaxy simulations by considering three different models for the ism . </S>",
    "<S> our first model included only radiative cooling down to @xmath0k , our second model added an additional background heating term due to photoelectric heating , and our third model uses an isothermal equation of state with a temperature of @xmath1k and no explicit heating or cooling . </S>",
    "<S> two common prescriptions for star formation are implemented in each case . </S>",
    "<S> the first is based on cosmological simulations with a low threshold for star formation but also a low efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> the second assumes stars form only in high density regions but with a higher efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> we also explore the effects of including feedback from type ii supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the different ism types produce marked differences in the structure of the disk and temperature phases present in the gas , although inclusion of feedback largely dominates these effects . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , size of the star - forming clumps was increased both by background heating and by enforcing an isothermal ism . </S>",
    "<S> we also looked at the one dimensional profiles and found that a lognormal pdf provides a good fit for all our simulations over several orders of magnitude in density . </S>",
    "<S> overall , despite noticeable structural differences , the star formation properties in the disk are largely insensitive to ism type and agree reasonably well with observations . </S>"
  ]
}