{
  "article_text": [
    "there are two different approaches to study the dynamical evolution of collisional stellar systems ( for example , globular clusters ) : statistical approach and direct integration of the @xmath0-body equations of motion . among the statistical methods ,",
    "the fokker - planck ( henceforth referred as fp ) equation , which is a second order approximation of the collisional boltzmann equation , has been frequently used .",
    "the fp equation is solved by using either monte carlo techniques ( e.g. , the series of eight papers , from spitzer & hart 1971 to spitzer & mathieu 1980 , see also an alternative approach by hnon 1971 , and for recent adaptations giersz 1998 , joshi , rasio , & portegies zwart 2000 , freitag & benz 2001 ) , or the direct numerical solution of the discretized fp equation on a mesh . in this paper",
    "we focus on the latter approach .",
    "one - dimensional ( 1d ) fp models assuming a spherical symmetry and isotropic velocity dispersion have been extensively exploited during the last several decades , and they have successfully elucidated the full dynamical history of star clusters ( cohn 1980 ; drukier et al .",
    "two - dimensional ( 2d ) anisotropic models are a generalization of the 1d model , in which the anisotropy of the velocity dispersion between the radial and the tangential directions is taken into account ; however , the isotropized distribution function continues to be used for determining the diffusion coefficients ( e.g. , takahashi 1995 , 1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "the statistical methods have to make several simplifying approximations and have some limitations .",
    "more realistic simulations can be performed by directly integrating the complete equations of motion of all stars . however",
    ", the @xmath0-body integration still requires a huge amount of computing power .",
    "an improvement in computing facilities , particularly the advent of special purpose hardware such as grape machines ( makino & taiji 1998 ; makino et al .",
    "2003 ; fukushige , makino & kawai 2005 ) , made it possible to perform a high accuracy @xmath0-body simulations with one million body ( makino & funato 2005 ; berczik et al .",
    "2006 ; iwasawa et al .",
    "2006 ; harfst et al .",
    "the comparisons between the results obtained from 1d or 2d fp models and direct @xmath0-body models generally show good agreement ( e.g. , spurzem & aarseth 1996 ) . comparative studies that use the currently available @xmath0-body solver for studying the dynamical evolution of collisional stellar systems",
    "are very important for checking the validity and limitations of the statistical methods .",
    "there have been several previous researches involving comparative studies ( giersz & heggie 1994a , b , 1997 ; giersz & spurzem 1994 ; khalisi , amaro - seoane & spurzem 2005 ; freitag , rasio & baumgardt 2006 ) and the comparisons show that for isolated non - rotating star clusters the results of fp simulations are generally in good agreement with those of @xmath0-body simulations .",
    "however , when a tidal boundary is included , a discrepancy between the @xmath0-body and fp models arises ; this discrepancy becomes sensitive to @xmath0 because the relaxation and crossing time scales are related to different dynamical processes ( takahashi & portegies zwart 1998 , 2000 ; baumgardt 2001 ) .",
    "for example , the treatment of the tidal boundary has to be performed carefully in fp models since the mass evaporation process involves both orbital dynamics and two - body relaxation .",
    "the @xmath0-body model has to imitate the fp technique to remove stars immediately if they acquire an energy higher than the tidal energy ; with these precautions , good agreement can be obtained ( spurzem et al . 2005 ) .",
    "another extension of the 1d fp model was carried out to include the effects of rotation .",
    "the first numerical simulation of fp models for rotating clusters was pioneered by goodman ( 1983 ) , but neither the results nor the code was published .",
    "a more detailed and extended work by einsel & spurzem ( 1999 , henceforth referred as paper i ) , who developed a new 2d fp code named `` fopax '' for this study from scratch , revealed that rotating clusters collapse faster than non - rotating ones .",
    "a post core collapse study of rotating star clusters , improving `` fopax '' by several features , including an energy source due to formation and hardening of three - body binaries , was done later by kim et al .",
    "( 2002 , henceforth referred as paper ii ) .",
    "papers i and ii studied the dynamical evolution of rotating stellar systems using the orbit - averaged 2d fp equations only for equal - mass systems . in both cases and in the study of goodman ( 1983 ) , it was assumed that the distribution function @xmath1 depends only on the energy and @xmath2- component of the angular momentum ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "kim et al . ( 2004 , henceforce referred as paper iii ) extended the method to multi - mass systems , and exhibit interesting results concerning the segregation of mass and angular velocity with heavy stars in the cluster centres .",
    "fiestas , kim , & spurzem ( 2006 ) modelled individual rotating globular clusters using the model , and fiestas & spurzem ( 2007 ) included a star - accreting central black hole with a loss cone .",
    "in general , according to the strong jeans theorem there are three integrals of motion with regard to the orbital motion of stars in axisymmetric potentials ( binney & tremaine 1987 ) .",
    "two of the integrals of motion are known as @xmath4 and @xmath3 .",
    "however , the nature of the third integral of motion is not known clearly .",
    "in addition to the standard approximation required for fp models , the 2d fp models presented here and in the papers i to iii ignore any effect of the third integral . for stellar systems",
    "not too much flattened , it might be possible to construct 3d fp models following the three integral models of lupton & gunn ( 1987 ) , in which the square of total angular momentum ( @xmath5 ) was adopted as an approximate third integral .",
    "however , it would be an extremely difficult task numerically and physically ( owing to the diffusion coefficients ! ) ; even then it would still be approximate since we do not know the third integral analytically ( compare also binney & tremaine ( 1987 ) regarding this issue ) .",
    "hence , a thorough comparison with direct @xmath0-body models appears to be the best method to acquire knowledge on the validity of all approximations made in our 2d fp models .",
    "there have been some preliminary studies of rotating star clusters involving comparisons between @xmath0-body and fp methods ( boily 2000 ; boily & spurzem 2000 ; ardi , mineshige & spurzem 2006 ; ernst et al .",
    "although these authors found good agreements between these two methods , the number of cases studied is rather limited .",
    "this can be understood in two ways .",
    "first , for a smaller value of @xmath0 ( say up to a few @xmath6 ) a large number of statistically independent simulations are needed , and only the ensemble average can be compared with the approximate fp models . on the other hand ,",
    "different physical models , such as isolated or tidally limited models , different degree of central concentrations of stars ( i.e. , different central potential ) , need to be studied . in this paper",
    ", we have carried out a series of numerical @xmath0-body simulations of rotating stellar systems , which are directly comparable with our 2d fp models in papers i and ii . by comparing the results with those obtained from fp models",
    ", we can investigate the validity of the assumptions made in rotating fp models .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in the next section ,",
    "we briefly describe initial @xmath0-body models and compare them with fp models . in section 3",
    ", we present the numerical results obtained from @xmath0-body simulations and their comparisons with those of fp models . the summary and discussions are given in the last section .",
    "the fokker - planck ( fp ) code fopax , which takes into account the effect of rotation , was developed in papers i , ii , and iii in order to study the secular evolution of star clusters having initial rotation . for performing direct @xmath0-body simulations to study the dynamical evolution of rotating stellar systems , we have used the currently available high accuracy , collisional @xmath0-body code nbody6 ( aarseth 1999 ) .",
    "the nbody6 code uses the fourth - order hermite scheme with hierarchical block time steps ( hts ) and the ahmad - cohen neighbor scheme for particle integration .",
    "close encounters between stars and persistent binaries formed by three - body interactions are solved for their internal motion by using two - body regularization methods ( kustaanheimo & stiefel 1965 ) and chain regularization ( mikkola & aarseth 1990 , 1993 , 1996 , 1998 ) .",
    "although nbody6 is capable of dealing with many more astrophysical components such as the existence of primordial binaries and stellar mass - loss due to stellar evolution , we have considered only the treatment of close encounters between stars in the present study since we are mainly interested in the role of the initial angular momentum on cluster dynamics and in comparisons with fp simulations .      in paper ii ,",
    "the initial 2d fp models are generated according to lupton & gunn ( 1987 ) .",
    "our initial @xmath0-body models that follow rotating king models with a central concentration of @xmath7 have the same conditions as those of 2d fp models in paper ii .",
    "we have constructed the initial models for the @xmath0-body simulations from the 2d fp models in paper ii by random number generation .",
    "three different initial rotations ( @xmath8 , and @xmath9 ) are considered in the present work . in table 1 , we list some information on the initial models used for the present simulations .    .initial parameters for the equal - mass models [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab1 ]    we show the evolution of the lagrangian radii of the equal - mass models in fig .",
    "the results from the fp simulation are displayed by the dashed lines .",
    "each line represents the radii where the cluster contains @xmath10 , and @xmath11 of the _ initial _ mass of the cluster .",
    "it is not straightforward to determine the lagrangian radii in a flattened system . in paper",
    "i , the lagrangian radii were evaluated along the specific zenith angle where the effects of flattening on the mass shells are expected to be less important ; the same zenith angle is used in fig .",
    "however , as our models are nearly spherical , we determine the lagrangian radii on the assumption that the system is spherically symmetric for the @xmath0-body models . as seen in fig .",
    "4 , differences between the fp and the @xmath0-body models are very small . analyzing in more depth , we notice that after the core collapse , the inner part of the cluster expands more rapidly in the fp model than in the @xmath0-body model , although the difference is rather small .",
    "the relationship between the central density and the central velocity dispersion is shown in fig .",
    "5 . the upper - left panel ( fig .",
    "5a ) shows the relation between @xmath12 and @xmath13 which is obtained from all the three fp models with different initial rotations .",
    "the other three panels ( figs .",
    "5b , 5c , and 5d ) show the results of the @xmath0-body models .",
    "from papers i and ii , we know that this relationship is not affected considerably by the initial rotation , as shown in fig .",
    "again , we find good agreement between the fp and the @xmath0-body models . the large amount of scatters during the post core collapse phase , as shown in fig .",
    "5 is mainly due to the large fluctuation in the central density .",
    "the power - law behavior of @xmath12 on @xmath13 during the pre - collapse phase is a consequence of the self - similarity of the collapsing core and it is well known that @xmath14 during this stage ( cohn 1980 ) . during the post - collapse phase , we can derive the relationship between @xmath12 and @xmath15 using an energy balance argument and the assumption of self - similar evolution ( see section 3.4 ) .",
    "it follows that @xmath16 with @xmath17 , which is in good agreement with @xmath18 derived from the fp model in paper ii .",
    "the @xmath0-body results appear to follow similar power - law behavior , although the power - law index @xmath19 is difficult to determine because of the large scatter .    from the @xmath0-body calculations ,",
    "we have confirmed the earlier finding of a significant acceleration in cluster evolution due to rotation , which was obtained from the fp calculations in papers i and ii . we also find that both the @xmath0-body and fp models give similar results , although there are small differences with regard to the time of core collapse , and the disruption times .      in axially symmetric systems ,",
    "the natural decomposition of velocity vectors is to use the cylindrical coordinate which has its origin at the center of mass of the cluster .",
    "we investigate the evolution of the velocity dispersions ( @xmath20 , @xmath21 , and @xmath22 ) and show the evolution of these quantities in fig .",
    "6 , where @xmath23 represents the conventional axis of the cylindrical coordinate system .    for initially rotating models",
    ", these three velocity dispersions have different values . in the right panels of fig .",
    "6 , the ratio of @xmath21 to @xmath24 is initially greater than 1 for the rotating models and approaches the isotropic value of 1 , where @xmath24 represents the average 1d velocity dispersion defined by @xmath25 .",
    "the angular momentum in rotating stellar systems is transferred outward through two - body relaxation , and is also lost due to escaping stars .",
    "the stars gaining a large angular momentum migrate to the outer parts of the system , while those losing angular momentum drift toward the central parts .",
    "as the stars with a high angular momentum move outward and finally escape from the cluster , the total angular momentum of the system decreases with time .    in fig .",
    "7 , we display the evolutions of the @xmath2-component of the angular momentum per unit mass ( @xmath3 ) of an entire cluster .",
    "the results from the @xmath0-body models are shown by solid lines , while those from the fp models are shown by dashed lines . to indicate the degree of error in determining @xmath3",
    ", we also show the time evolution of @xmath3 for the non - rotating model .",
    "we first note that there is good agreement between the @xmath0-body and fp results .",
    "the effect of neglecting the third integral in the fp models is minimized when dealing with global cluster properties ( e.g. , total cluster mass and total angular momentum ) , while this effect is severe for local properties ( e.g. , central density ) .",
    "it is clearly shown that @xmath3 monotonically decreases with time .",
    "the loss rate of angular momentum is large in the early phases and decreases as the cluster evolves ( see fig .",
    "the combined effect of gravitation and rotation accelerates the evolution of the cluster .",
    "a substantial loss of the initial angular momentum in an entire cluster prevents rotation from playing an important role in the evolution of a cluster in later phases .",
    "since the cluster is losing mass at a nearly constant rate , the total angular momentum of the cluster decreases more rapidly than @xmath3 .",
    "we can construct the rotation curves by computing the averages of @xmath26 , which is the @xmath27-component of the velocity of stars .",
    "we choose the model with @xmath28 and present the distribution of @xmath26 for all stars at some specific epochs in fig .",
    "the asymmetry of @xmath29 with respect to @xmath30 indicates the global rotation of the stellar system . during the pre - collapse phase ,",
    "@xmath29 becomes more dispersive , particularly around the central region .",
    "a large spread near the center ( r @xmath31 0 ) at @xmath32 and the slight asymmetry of @xmath29 indicate that the cluster is losing angular momentum ; this also indicates that as the core collapse approaches , the stars are falling into the central region of the cluster with a high angular speed ( but low rotation velocity ) .",
    "after @xmath33 , @xmath29 still has a small amount of asymmetry .",
    "the radial profiles of the rotational velocity ( @xmath34 ) for the model with @xmath35 are shown in fig .",
    "we also display the radial profiles of @xmath34 obtained from the fp model by dashed lines .",
    "the profiles at different evolutionary epochs are shown with different symbols : filled squares for the initial model , open circles for the pre - collapse phase , filled circles at the time of core collapse , and open star marks for the post - collapse phase .",
    "the radial profiles in fig .",
    "9 are obtained by averaging @xmath26 for stars having the same value of @xmath36 in cylindrical coordinates .",
    "the radial profiles of @xmath34 at the initial epoch shows good agreement between the @xmath0-body and fp models except for a very central region ( @xmath37 ) .",
    "the amount of rotation decreases with time and the radius where @xmath34 has the peak value progresses outward when the radius is measured in units of current core radius .",
    "this is a consequence of the self - similar evolution during the pre - collapse phase ( papers i & ii ) .",
    "the radial profiles of @xmath34 for the @xmath0-body model during pre - collapse phaes agree well with those for the fp model .",
    "however , at later times , the two methods yield somewhat different rotation curves . for example",
    ", at the time of core collapse , the @xmath0-body model predicts a larger rotation speed for the stars in the central and outer parts as compared to the fp method .",
    "the rotation seems to continue until a very late epoch ( @xmath38 ) in the @xmath0-body model , while there is virtually no rotation left in the fp model .    in fig .",
    "10 , we have shown the distribution of the stellar density in the form of a color map for the fp results and in the form of isodensity contours for the @xmath0-body results .",
    "the four panels represent different epochs for the cluster with largest initial rotation speed ( @xmath35 ) .",
    "we display the cluster shapes in @xmath39 coordinates because we assume that the initial model has the axis of rotation along @xmath2 in cylindrical coordinates . to compare the cluster shapes at different epochs",
    ", we measure the size in units of initial core radius ( @xmath40 ) .",
    "first , we notice that the shapes computed by the @xmath0-body and fp models are almost identical .",
    "as the rotation becomes negligible , the stellar system becomes more spherical .",
    "the effects of rotation on the flattened shape of a cluster are observed during the time of core collapse and the post - collapse phase ( figs .",
    "10c & 10d ) ; the shape of the cluster around the central region is almost spherical .",
    "if the cluster rotates around the host galaxy on a circular orbit , the tidal field experienced by the cluster does not change with time . in a steady tidal field ,",
    "the tidal radius is expressed as follows : @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the total mass of the cluster within the tidal boundary ; @xmath43 , the distance of the cluster from the galactic center ; and @xmath44 , the galactic mass within @xmath45 .",
    "the above equation ensures that the mean density within the tidal radius is a constant . as the cluster loses the stars beyond the tidal boundary",
    ", the tidal radius has been adjusted to maintain a constant mean density .",
    "we depict the evolution of the total mass of the cluster in fig .",
    "11 . during the pre - collapse phase , the evolution of the total mass , which is computed from the @xmath0-body and fp models , are similar but shows small deviation each other .",
    "however , after the core collapse , the two methods result in somewhat different bevaiour .",
    "this descrepancy in post - collapse phase is partly due to the accumulation of small difference during the pre - collapse phase .",
    "the escape rate of the @xmath0-body simulation is lower than that of the fp simulation .",
    "this may be caused due to the decrease in the number of stars in the cluster .",
    "we have assumed the _ instantaneous _ escape of stars whose energy exceeds the tidal energy .",
    "however , in the fp simulations , the time step is determined by the fraction of the relaxation time while the @xmath0-body uses a time step proportional to the _ crossing time scale_. as the cluster loses its mass , the ratio between these two time steps changes . in other words ,",
    "the crossing time scale and the relaxation time scale have the following relationship ( binney & tremaine 1987 ) :    @xmath46    therefore , @xmath47 increases as @xmath0 decreases .",
    "this means that the @xmath0-body simulation removes stars less effectively than the fp simulation for small value of @xmath0 ; this is why we observe a long tail in the @xmath0-body results in fig .",
    "11 . in @xmath0-body simulations , after the core collapse , the number of stars remaining in the cluster is of the order of @xmath48 .",
    "this is not a sufficient number to obtain results comparable with the fp method .",
    "hence , the escape rate for @xmath0-body models is lesser than that for the fp models during the late stages of the evolution and @xmath0-body models survive longer than fp models .",
    "we can also observe this effect in fig .",
    "3 . in this figure",
    ", central density features are observed to be inconsistent between the @xmath0-body and the fp models toward the end of the evolution .",
    "with more stars , this gap would become narrower . since the number of stars in a real globular cluster is considerably larger than that used in the present @xmath0-body simulations , the difference between @xmath0-body and fp models would decrease for a realistic number of stars ( see takahashi & portegies - zwart 1998 ) .",
    "we now investigate the evolution of the core , half - mass , and tidal radii of the star cluster .",
    "the behavior of @xmath49 and @xmath50 in units of initial half - mass radius ( @xmath51 ) is shown in fig .",
    "as the rapidly rotating initial model has a half - mass radius smaller than the slowly rotating model , the initial value of @xmath52 for the most rapidly rotating cluster is larger than that of the other two models , as shown in fig .",
    "13 ( paper ii ) .",
    "the evolutions of @xmath50 and @xmath49 in units of @xmath53 at the same evolutionary stage as those in fig .",
    "12 are shown in fig . 13 .",
    "we find that there are significant differences in @xmath52 between the fp and the @xmath0-body models , while the difference is not so apparent in @xmath54 .",
    "this reflects the difficulties in determining @xmath50 for the @xmath0-body models with a relatively small value of @xmath0 rather than any systematic differences in different approaches .",
    "both @xmath50 and @xmath53 decrease with time , although there is a difference in the decreasing rate that depends on the initial degree of rotation .",
    "after the core collapse , both @xmath50 and @xmath53 increase for some time at almost the same rate due to self - similar expansion .",
    "subsequently , the tidal boundary shrinks rapidly after core bounce .",
    "therefore , the half - mass radius begins to decrease again .",
    "however , the shrinking of @xmath49 does not affect the central region and @xmath50 continues to increase . at the end of the evolution @xmath50 shows a steep increase ; this signals the complete disruption of the cluster .",
    "after the core collapse , @xmath52 and @xmath54 show nearly the same behavior .",
    "the value of @xmath52 is almost constant and the evolution of @xmath54 for different initial models is similar to each other and independent of the rotation parameter @xmath55 .",
    "we already have assumed the self - similar evolution of the inner part of the stellar system in order to explain the relation between @xmath13 and @xmath12 after @xmath33 ( fig .",
    "4 ) . we can express @xmath56 and @xmath57 , where @xmath58 and @xmath59 are the masses within @xmath50 and @xmath53 , respectively .",
    "since the inner parts of the cluster are nearly isothermal , we obtain @xmath60 . with the self - similarity assumption ( @xmath61 ) ,",
    "we can rewrite @xmath12 as @xmath62 . on the other hand , according to goodman ( 1987 ) , the energy balance argument predicts that @xmath63 .",
    "therefore , @xmath64 .",
    "if we use the tidal boundary condition , @xmath65 and @xmath66 , we can obtain the following relation : @xmath67 the variation in @xmath68 during the post - collapse phase is very small ( by a factor of few ) as compared with that in @xmath13 ( by a few orders of magnitude ) , except near the disruption time .",
    "therefore , we can approximately write following relation : @xmath69 if we express @xmath70 , @xmath17 , then .",
    "this value is close to @xmath71 that was achieved in paper ii .",
    "we have performed numerical simulations for the evolution of initially rotating star clusters with equal mass using nbody6 and have compared the results with those computed by the direct integration of the fokker - planck equation .",
    "we have considered clusters with @xmath72 . for critical comparisons between @xmath0-body and fp models",
    ", we constructed the initial @xmath0-body models using the initial 2d distribution function used for fp models .",
    "we observed the acceleration of the core collapse , as reported in papers i & ii .",
    "the degree of acceleration obtained from the present @xmath0-body models is slightly different from that obtained from the fp models ; however , the small difference in the core - collapse time between the @xmath0-body and statistical methods ( fp model , gaseous model , etc . ) has also been observed earlier ( spurzem & aarseth 1996 ) .",
    "the entire evolutionary trend of the central density agrees with that of the fp models .",
    "the @xmath2-component of the specific angular momentum ( @xmath3 ) is observed to monotonically decrease with time for the clusters with initial rotation .",
    "the global evolutionary trend of @xmath3 between the @xmath0-body and the fp models shows excellent agreement .",
    "the loss rate of @xmath3 decreases as the cluster evolves .",
    "therefore , we conclude that during the early stages the existence of initial rotation significantly affects the entire cluster evolution",
    ".    in fp simulations , the cluster evolution will be independent of the third integral to the end of time .",
    "on the other hand , in the @xmath0-body simulations , the third integral effect may appear during the evolution .",
    "in addition , there is a limit on the number of stars and the random fluctuations of the @xmath0-body models in this study and these limits also causes differences with the fp method .",
    "therefore , we need to perform more @xmath0-body simulations with a larger number of stars or with various models by using different random number .",
    "the authors would like to thank the anonymous referee for his / her helpful comment .",
    "hml is supported by krf grant no . 2006 - 341-c00018 .",
    "aarseth s.j . , 1999 ,",
    "pasp , 111 , 1333 ardi e. , mineshige s. , spurzem r. , 2006 , subm . to pasj baumgardt h. , 2001 , mnras , 325 , 1323 binney j.,tremaine s. , 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton univ . press , princeton ,",
    "new jersey , usa boily c. m. , 2000 , in lancon a. , boily c. m. , eds , massive stellar clusters .",
    "211 , asp : san francisco , p. 190",
    "boily c. m. , spurzem r. , 2000 , in noels a. , magain p. , caro d. , jehin e. , parmetier g. , thoul a. a. , eds , the galactic halo : from globular clusters to field stars , proc . of the 35th liege intern .",
    "cohn h. , 1980 , apj , 242 , 765 drukier g. a. , fahlman g. g. , richer h. b. , 1992 , apj , 386 , 106 einsel c. , spurzem r. , 1999 , mnras , 302 , 81 ( paper i ) fiestas j. , kim e. , lee h.m .",
    ", spurzem r. , 2006 , subm . to mnras",
    "ernst a. , glaschke p. , fiestas , j. , just , a. , spurzem r. , 2007 , mnras , 377,465 fiestas j. , spurzem r. , 2007 , mnras , in prep .",
    "freitag m. , benz w. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 711 freitag m. , rasio f.  a. , baumgardt h. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 121 fukushige t. , makino j. , kawai a. , 2005 , pasj , 57 , 1009 giersz m. , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 1239 giersz m. , heggie d. c. , 1994a , mnras , 268 , 257 giersz m. , heggie d. c. , 1994b , mnras , 270 , 298 giersz m. , heggie d. c. , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 709 giersz m. , spurzem r. , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 241 goodman j. , 1983 , phd thesis , princeton university , princeton , new jersey , usa goodman j. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 576 harfst , s. , gualandris , a. , merritt , d. , spurzem , r. , portegies zwart s. , berczik , p. , 2006",
    ", subm . to new astron .",
    "hnon m.  h. , 1971 , ap&ss , 14 , 151 iwasawa m. , funato y. , makino j. , 2005 , astro , arxiv : astro - ph/0511391 joshi k.  j. , rasio f.  a. , portegies zwart s. , 2000 , apj , 540 , 969 khalisi e. , amaro - seoane p. , spurzem r. , 2006 , astro , arxiv : astro - ph/0602570 kim e. , 2003 , phd thesis , seoul national university , seoul , korea kim e. , einsel c. , lee h. m. , spurzem r. , lee m. g. , 2002 , mnras , 334 , 310 ( paper ii ) kim e. , lee h. m. , & spurzem r. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 220 ( paper iii ) kustaanheimo p. , stiefel e. , 1965 , j. reine angew . math . , 218 , 204 lee k. h. , lee h. m. , & sung h. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 646 lee h. m. , ostriker j. p. , 1987 ,",
    "apj , 322 , l123 lee h. m. , goodman j. , 1995 , apj , 443 , 109l lupton r. h. , gunn .",
    "j. e. , 1987 , aj , 93,1106 makino j. , fukushige t. , koga m. , namura k. , 2003 , pasj , 55 , 1163 makino j. , hut p. , eds , 2001,astrophysical supercomputing using particle simulations , proc .",
    "208 , asp conf .",
    ". , san francisco makino j. , funato y. , 2004 , apj , 602 , 93 mikkola s. , aarseth s. j. , 1990 , cemda , 47 , 375 mikkola s. , aarseth s. j. , 1993 , cemda , 57 , 439 mikkola s. , aarseth s.  j. , 1998 , newa , 3 , 309 mikkola s. , aarseth s.  j. , 1996 , cemda , 64 , 197 spitzer l.  j. , hart m.  h. , 1971 , apj , 166 , 483 spitzer l. , jr . , mathieu r.  d. , 1980 , apj , 241 , 618 spurzem r. , aarseth s. j. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 19s spurzem r. , giersz m. , takahashi k. , ernst a. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 948 takahashi k. , 1995 , pasj , 47 , 561 takahashi k. , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 691 takahashi k. , 1997 , pasj , 49 , 547 takahashi k. , portegies zwart s. f. , 1998 , apj , 503 , l49 takahashi k. , portegies zwart s. f. , 2000 , apj , 535 , 759 takahashi k. , lee h. m. , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 617 t yim k. , lee h. m. , 2002 , jkas , 35 , 75y"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have carried out @xmath0-body simulations for rotating star clusters with equal mass and compared the results with fokker - planck models . </S>",
    "<S> these two different approaches are found to produce fairly similar results , although there are some differences with regard to the detailed aspects . </S>",
    "<S> we confirmed the acceleration of the core collapse of a cluster due to an initial non - zero angular momentum and found a similar evolutionary trend in the central density and velocity dispersion in both simulations . </S>",
    "<S> the degree of acceleration depends on the initial angular momentum . </S>",
    "<S> angular momentum is being lost from the cluster due to the evaporation of stars with a large angular momentum on a relaxation time scale .    </S>",
    "<S> celestial mechanics , stellar dynamics  globular clusters : general </S>"
  ]
}