{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery by the experiments aboard the compton gamma - ray observatory ( cgro ) that blazars can radiate a large  sometimes even the major  fraction of their luminosity at  energies marked a milestone in our knowledge on blazars . during the cgro mission about 90 blazars were detected by the different cgro experiments at  energies , the majority by the egret experiment at energies above @xmath0100  mev @xcite .",
    "3c  279 , an optically violently variable ( ovv ) quasar located at a redshift of 0.538 , is one of the most prominent representatives of these sources .",
    "the source shows rapid variability in all wavelength bands , polarized emission in radio and optical , superluminal motion , and a compact radio core with a flat radio spectrum .",
    "these properties put the quasar 3c  279 into the blazar sub - class of agn . according to the unified model of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) ,",
    "blazars are sources which expel jets close to our line - of - sight .",
    "3c  279 was already detected by integral in june 2003 @xcite .",
    "those high - energy observations were supplemented in x - rays by a short ( 5 ksec ) chandra pointing , and by ground based monitoring from radio to optical bands . since the blazar was found in 2003 at the faintest optical brightness ( optical r - band : @xmath017  mag ) of the last 10 years , roughly 5 mag fainter than the maximum , and about 2.5 to 3 mag fainter than average , a simultaneous spectral energy distribution ( sed ) of an exceptional optical low - state",
    "could be compiled @xcite . in order to measure emission changes as function of optical brigthness , we proposed for an integral too observation during an optical high state ( criterion : optical r - band brigther than 14.5  mag ) . in january 2006 , the trigger citerion was met , and the integral observations together with supplementing multifrequency observations were carried out .",
    "this campaign resulted in a well covered sed from radio to hard x - ray energies .    in this paper we present first results of this 2006 multiwavelength campaign on 3c  279 .",
    "because of the page restrictions , we concentrate on presenting the main observational results , focussing on the observed sed and its comparison to the one of 2003 . a more detailed presentation , including a discussion on the scientific implications of the new results , will be given in a later paper ( collmar et al .",
    ", in prep . ;",
    "including also all participating individual webt ( whole earth blazar telescope ) collaborators in the author list ) .",
    "in addition , the results on variability analyses and time correlations of the different wavelength bands will be given elsewhere ( bttcher et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "after the trigger criterion , 3c  279 brigther in the optical r - band than 14.5  mag , was met in early january 2006 , we requested the granted too observations with integral and chandra .",
    "these integral observations were carried out for a total of 511  ks between january 13 and 22 , 2006 in several pointings , and the chandra observations on january 17 , 2006 for 30  ks . centered on these high - energy observations",
    ", we started a multifrequency campaign , by initating simultaneous measurements in radio and mm - bands ( effelsberg and metshovi radio telescopes , iram ( plateau de bure and pico veleta ) , and the smithsonian submillimeter array at mauna kea ) , in near - ir and optical bands by a webt campaign , and additional high - energy coverage ( uv , x - rays ) by swift .",
    "this campaign resulted in a wealth of data , which  although not all have been reduced and analysed yet  yielded a well - covered sed of 3c  279 from radio to hard x - ray energies .",
    "in particular , by the participation of satellite experiments swift , chandra , and integral , all with significant exposure times , the best - ever spectral coverage in uv- , x - ray - , and hard x - ray energies was derived .",
    "the data analysis revealed , that 3c  279 was observed during an intermediate optical state . with an r - band magnitude of about 15  mag ,",
    "the source was @xmath02  mag brighter than during the low - state observations in the 2003 campaign .",
    "the ibis / isgri experiment aboard integral detected the blazar at energies between 20 and 100 kev with a significance of @xmath07.5@xmath1 during the total 511  ks observation .",
    "the isgri image ( fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] ) of the 20 - 60  kev band shows a 6.4@xmath1 detection of 3c  279 .",
    "other virgo region sources are also detected in these observations , like the prominent quasar 3c  273 and the seyfert galaxy ngc  4593 for example .",
    "the blazar was measured by isgri at a surprisingly low flux level of @xmath2 ph @xmath3 s@xmath4 .",
    "spectral analysis between 20 and 100 kev , assuming a power - law shape , yields a weakly determined average spectral shape ( fig .  1 ) of photon index 2.0@xmath50.5 ( 1@xmath1 ) .",
    "due to annealing , no integral spi data are available .",
    "jem - x did not detect 3c  279 .",
    "upper limits were derived for two energy bands ( 5 - 10 and 10 - 20 kev ) based on the mosaic images from these observations .",
    "chandra observed the blazar within the integral observational period and simultaneously to integral . to avoid pile - up in the chandra detectors of the assumed strong x - ray source ,",
    "the letg - acis - s mode was used .",
    "3c  279 is significantly detected by chandra , and a well - determined x - ray spectrum between 0.3 and 7 kev could be measured ( fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] ) . assuming the canonical power - law shape at x - ray energies , a spectral photon index of 1.55@xmath50.02 was derived .",
    "the spectral analysis however , indicates a trend for a spectral bending from a harder to a softer spectrum towards higher energies .",
    "in particular , no soft excess was found , which would have indicated a contribution of the synchrotron component to the soft x - ray emission .",
    "chandra did not observe any variability of 3c  279 during the uninterrupted source pointing of @xmath08  hours .",
    "these high - energy integral and chandra observations were valuably supplemented by a series of swift pointings towards 3c  279 . between january 13 and 20 , 2006 ,",
    "swift observed the blazar regularly , thereby providing important additional information on the source , like an x - ray light curve as measured by the xrt , and the uv fluxes as measured by the uvot .",
    "the swift xrt ( 0.2 - 10 kev ) x - ray light curve , together with the ibis / isgri ( 20 - 60 kev ) hard x - ray light curve is shown in fig .  [ fig:3 ] . while swift observed significant flux variability in x - rays , which can be utilized for correlations studies to other bands , isgri  measuring with less statistical significance",
    " can not detect significant variability , although there is a possible trend for a brigthening towards the end of its observational period .",
    "the swift xrt spectra of individual pointings agree completely in spectral index with the one measured by chandra .",
    "the swift uv measurements provided additional coverage of the sed ( fig .",
    "6 ) .      since the start of integral ao-3 , 3c  279",
    "was regularly observed in the optical  in particular during visibility periods of integral  in order to keep track of its brigthness state .",
    "early january 2006 , the blazar exceeded the trigger level for the satellite observations , which then were initiated . in order to have good ground - based coverage ,",
    "a webt campaign was requested simultaneous to the high - energy observations .",
    "this campaign resulted in broadband ( radio to optical ) ground - based monitoring of the blazar .",
    "subsequently light curves ( for correlation studies ) and average flux measurements ( sed ) in different wavelength bands could be compiled .",
    "the optical monitoring revealed , that in the r - band the blazar brightened early january up to @xmath014.2  mag on january 5 , and then continously faded during the next 3 weeks , being at @xmath014.7  mag at the beginning and @xmath015.2  mag at the end of the integral observations .",
    "this may indicate a continous cooling following an optical flare .",
    "the radio and optical light curves of the camapign are given in figs .",
    "[ fig:4 ] and [ fig:5 ] . in this page - limited proceedings paper , we shall concentrate on the measured sed .",
    "a more detailed analysis of the broadband variability , including inter - band cross correlations and their physical interpretation will be presented in a forthcoming paper .",
    "[ fig:6 ] ( top ) shows the contemporaneous sed of 3c  279 during january 2006 .",
    "the sed , although not strictly simultaneous , is compiled only from data , measured within the integral observational period .",
    "for example , the ibis / isgri spectrum is averaged over the complete integral period , while the chandra spectrum is  of course  from the 8-hour observation on january 17 .",
    "the sed is well covered from radio to hard x - ray energies and shows the typical two - hump shape , which is belived to be synchrotron at the lower- and ic emission at the higher energies .",
    "the synchrotron peak , located probably somewhere at ir energies , is not observed .",
    "the crossover point of the synchrotron and ic emissions is also not observed , because chandra did not find an excess at soft x - rays , which are already located at the rising ic branch .",
    "the sed indicates a deep minimum between the two branches .",
    "the significant exposures of chandra and isgri yielded the yet most accurate spectral shape measurement of the rising ic emission of 3c  279 .",
    "a spectral bending from a harder towards a softer spectrum is indicated .",
    "a modelling of this spectrum by assuming a leptonic emission model is in progress ( collmar et al .",
    ", in prep . ) .    in fig .  [ fig:6 ] ( bottom )",
    ", this january 2006 sed is compared to the optical low - state one as measured in june 2003 @xcite .",
    "the observations in 2006 were selected such ( too ) that the blazar was significantly brigther in the optical than in 2003 . the goal was to observe how the sed changes with a changing optical flux .",
    "the surprising result is , that despite a significant change in near - ir , optical , and uv ( the high - energy part of the synchrotron emission ) , the rest of the sed is unchanged . in particular , the low - energy part ( 0.3 - @xmath0100  kev ) of",
    "the ic emission remains completely unchanged .",
    "this result shows that there is no  at least not simultaneous  correlation between these two bands .",
    "whether the excess synchrotron photons have a counterpart at higher ic energies ( mev , gev energies ) and/or whether energy - dependent time delays occur during the cooling off of a flare , e.g. higher - energy photons are emitted earlier than lower - energy ones , can not be resolved by this sed comparison .",
    "detailed inter - band variability studies ( possible by the wealth of data ) , and annother such measurement during the upcoming glast era , when also the mev / gev part of the ic emission will be observed , will shed light on these possibilities .",
    "collmar , w. , bttcher , m. , burwitz , v. , et al .",
    ", 2004 , proc . of 5th integral workshop _",
    "the integral universe _ ( esa sp-552 ) , eds .",
    "v. schnfelder , g. lichti , c. winkler , p. 555",
    "hartman , r.c . ,",
    "bertsch , d.l . ,",
    "bloom , s.d .",
    ", et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apjs * 123 * , 203"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report first results of a multifrequency campaign from radio to hard x - ray energies of the prominent  blazar 3c  279 , which was organised around an integral too observation in january 2006 , and triggered on its optical state . </S>",
    "<S> the variable blazar was observed at an intermediate optical state , and a well - covered multifrequency spectrum from radio to hard x - ray energies could be derived . </S>",
    "<S> the sed shows the typical two - hump shape , the signature of non - thermal synchrotron and inverse - compton ( ic ) emission from a relativistic jet . by the significant exposure times of integral and chandra , the ic spectrum ( 0.3 - 100 kev ) was most accurately measured , showing  for the first time  a possible bending . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison of this 2006 sed to the one observed in 2003 , also centered on an integral observation , during an optical low - state , reveals the surprising fact that  despite a significant change at the high - energy synchrotron emission ( near - ir / optical / uv )  the rest of the sed remains unchanged . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the low - energy ic emission ( x- and hard x - ray energies ) remains the same as in 2003 , proving that the two emission components do not vary simultaneously , and provides strong constraints on the modelling of the overall emission of 3c  279 .    </S>",
    "<S> [ 2001/04/25 1.1 ( pwd ) ] </S>"
  ]
}