{
  "article_text": [
    "while once pluto and triton were the only objects in the outer solar system known to contain volatile ices on their surfaces , the recent discoveries of frozen methane on the large kuiper belt objects ( kbos ) eris , sedna , and 2005 fy9 have shown that these objects are part of a new class of surface volatile rich bodies in the outer solar system .",
    "in contrast to these bodies with detectable volatiles , spectral observations of small kbos over the past decade have found that most of these objects either contain varying amounts of involatile water ice on their surfaces or have flat spectra with no identifiable features @xcite . to understand the dichotomy between volatile rich and volatile free surfaces in the outer solar system",
    ", @xcite constructed a simple model of atmospheric escape of volatile ices over the age of the solar system .",
    "they found that while most kbos are too small and hot to retain their initial volatile ices to the present day , a small number are large and cold enough to retain these ices on their surfaces .",
    "as anticipated , the model suggests that the largest kbos , eris , pluto , and sedna are all expected to retain surface volatiles , while the vast majority of the other known objects in the kuiper belt are expected to have lost all surface volatiles .",
    "two known intermediate - sized kbos are predicted to be in the transition region where they may have differentially lost some volatile ices ( n@xmath0 ) but retained others ( ch@xmath1 ) .",
    "one of these transition objects , 2005 fy9 , with a diameter of @xmath21450 km @xcite does indeed appear to contain abundant ch@xmath1 but be depleted in n@xmath0 .",
    "the other object that appears to be in the volatile non - volatile transition region is quaoar , with a diameter of 1260@xmath3 km@xcite .",
    "the infrared spectrum of quaoar does not resemble that of 2005 fy9 , however .",
    "quaoar s spectrum is dominated by absorptions due to involatile water ice , which is not detected at all on 2005 fy9 .",
    "in addition , @xcite reported the detection of an absorption feature near 2.2 @xmath4 that they attributed to ammonia hydrate .",
    "they also detected the presence of crystalline water ice which , at the @xmath2 40 k radiative equilibrium temperature of quaoar , is thought to be converted to amorphous water ice on a relatively short ( @xmath5 myr ) timescale by cosmic ray bombardment .",
    "the crystallinity of the water ice and the detection of the 2.2 @xmath4 feature that they attributed to ammonia hydrate led @xcite to suggest that quaoar may have experienced relatively recent cryovolcanic activity .    in this paper",
    ", we present a new infrared spectrum of quaoar with a signal - to - noise in the k - band six times greater than that of @xcite and model the ices present on the surface .",
    "near - infrared spectra of quaoar were obtained on 12 july 2002 , and 23 , 24 and 25 april 2007 using nirspec , the facility medium to high resolution spectrometer on the keck telescope @xcite .",
    "three separate grating settings were used to completely cover the region from 1.4 to 2.4 @xmath4 .",
    "the 1.44 - 1.73 and 1.70 - 2.13 @xmath4 regions were each covered in 6 exposures of 200 seconds each and the 2.0 to 2.4 @xmath4 region was covered in 82 exposures of 300 seconds each .",
    "observations consisted of a series of exposures on two or three nod positions along the 0.57  slit .",
    "all observations were performed at an airmass of better than 1.5 .",
    "data reduction was carried out as described in @xcite .",
    "telluric calibration was achieved by dividing the spectra by nearby g dwarf stars observed at an airmass within 0.1 of that of the target .",
    "figure 1 shows the complete near - infrared spectrum of quaoar .",
    "the absolute value of the infrared albedo is obtained from the @xmath6 albedo of @xmath7 @xcite , the v - r color of @xmath8 , and an estimated v - j color of @xmath9 using typical values found by @xcite .",
    "errors in the overall absolute albedo calibration are of the order of 30% and are dominated by the uncertainty in the optical albedo .",
    "the characteristic broad absorptions due to water ice are apparent at 1.5 and 2.0 @xmath4 .",
    "in addition , the presence of the unique crystalline water ice feature at 1.65 @xmath4 indicates that at least some of the water ice is in crystalline form .",
    "we also detect the absorption feature at 2.2 @xmath4 previously attributed to ammonia hydrate as well as a series of broad absorption features beyond 2.25 @xmath4 .",
    "we first attempt to model the spectrum of quaoar with a mixture of water ice and a dark featureless material . using the bidirectional reflectance models of @xcite we model a spatially segregated mixture of crystalline water ice grains @xcite and a dark red material .",
    "optical path length was parameterized as a grain size in a scattering regolith . in order to investigate the additional absorption features longward of 2.1 @xmath4 not due to water ice",
    ", we performed a least - squares best fit to the 1.4 to 2.1 @xmath4 region where the fractional abundance of the ice , the grain size of the ice , and the color of the dark material were allowed to vary .",
    "figure 1a shows the best - fit model with 10 @xmath4 water ice grain sizes , an ice fraction of 40% linearly mixed with a red continuum with a spectral slope of 10% per @xmath4 and an albedo of 13% at 2 @xmath4",
    ". the spectrum could be equally well fit with a model where water ice was significantly more abundant and the dark material was intimately mixed , rather than linearly mixed , with the ice .",
    "the water ice model provides a good fit to the data from 1.4 to 2.1 @xmath10 m , and , as expected , deviates in the region beyond 2.1 @xmath10 m . in order to explore the spectral shape of the deviation beyond 2.1 @xmath4 , we show , in figure 2a , the ratio of the quaoar spectrum to the water ice model .",
    "in addition to the 2.2 @xmath4 feature seen by @xcite , we see additional distinct but broader absorption features at 2.32 and 2.38 @xmath4 . the locations and depths of these three absorption features as well as the general shape of the ratio spectrum beyond 2.1 @xmath10 m are well fit by absorptions due to methane ice .",
    "a model methane spectrum using the laboratory data of @xcite with 100 @xmath4 grain sizes provides an excellent fit to the 2.0 - 2.4 @xmath10 m ratio spectrum .",
    "in addition , smaller absorptions at 1.8 and 1.72 @xmath4 are also well fit by methane ( figure 1b ) .",
    "we measured the band center of the 2.2 @xmath4 feature to be at 2.205@xmath110.002 which is consistent with that expected from pure methane @xcite .",
    "hydrated ammonia , in contrast , has a single absorption in this region at a wavelength between 2.21 and 2.24 @xmath4 , depending on the degree of hydration @xcite .",
    "while the quaoar absorption feature at 2.205@xmath110.002 is perhaps consistent with the 2.21 @xmath4 wavelength of the absorption feature of the most hydrated ammonia , ammonia can not explain any of the additional major absorptions seen on quaoar , all of which are well explained by the presence of methane .",
    "we thus conclude that the absorption feature initially attributed to ammonia is actually one of a series of absorption features caused by methane .",
    "we can model the overall spectrum of quaoar with a linear mixture of 35% water ice , 5% methane , and 60% dark material .",
    "while most features of the spectrum are well fit by this model , additional absorptions near 2.27 @xmath10 m still can not be explained by methane ( figure 2b ) . on 2005 fy9",
    ", @xcite found that the surface contained not just volatile methane , but a small amount of involatile ethane , hypothesized to derive from irradiation of the solid methane .",
    "the deviation from the methane spectrum on quaoar also appears to be well fit , at least in part , by the presence of ethane .",
    "figure 2b shows a model of 10 @xmath4 ethane grains constructed from the absorption coefficients of @xcite . in particular , the two strongest absorption features at 2.27 and 2.32",
    "@xmath10 m are clearly detected as they are on 2005 fy9 .",
    "an additional small absorption feature at 2.36 @xmath4 remains unidentified but may be due to a higher - order hydrocarbon .",
    "figure 1b shows the complete model fit with a spatial mixture of 35% water ice , 55% dark material , 6% methane and 4% ethane . while the specific values of these parameters have little unique meaning , as many different values could give similar fits , in general we find that methane and ethane are minority species on a water ice dominated surface .",
    "the slight increase in the albedo of our best - fit model in the 1.4 - 1.6 @xmath4 region compared to the spectrum indicates that a single sloped continuum in the infrared is insufficient .",
    "no evidence for other volatile species is detected ; in particular , we did not detect the 2.148 @xmath4 n2 absorption feature nor the 2.352 @xmath4 co absorption feature .",
    "with significantly higher signal - to - noise in the 2.0 - 2.4 @xmath4 region , the 2.2 @xmath4 absorption feature on quaoar previously identified as ammonia hydrate @xcite is clearly seen to be due to methane ice . no compelling evidence is seen for the presence of ammonia .",
    "the presence of crystalline water ice on the surface of quaoar still remains unexplained because it is expected that ice should currently exist in the amorphous form on the @xmath2 40 k surface of quaoar .",
    "however , the presence of the 1.65 @xmath4 absorption feature due to crystalline water ice in the spectrum of every well observed water ice rich kbo ( even down to diameters of only a few hundred kilometers ) @xcite suggests that exotic processes such as cryovolcanism are unlikely to be required .",
    "the presence of crystalline water ice on so many small outer solar system bodies may indicate that our current understanding of the physics of the crystalline / amorphous phase transition may not be complete .",
    "the spectrum of quaoar is consistent with that of a cold geologically dead object slowly losing the last of its volatile ices by escape in a tenuous , perhaps patchy , atmosphere .",
    "ethane is an expected by - product of irradiation of methane ice @xcite .",
    "the presence of ethane on quaoar and on 2005 fy9 supports the suggestion of @xcite that these irradiation products are preferentially seen on bodies with large abundances of pure methane rather than on the bodies where the methane is diluted in nitrogen .",
    "quaoar also appears to be rich in more complex irradiation products .",
    "quaoar is the only water ice rich kbo which has a red color in the visible .",
    "other water ice rich kbos like orcus , charon , and 2003 el61 and its family of collisional fragments are all blue in the visible @xcite .",
    "quaoar s red surface is likely due to the continued irradiation of methane , ethane , and their products on the surface @xcite .",
    "while methane on quaoar is sufficiently volatile that it is likely to seasonally migrate if quaoar has a moderate obliquity , ethane and the other irradiation products are essentially involatile at quaoar s temperature .",
    "quaoar is therefore likely to have an irregular covering of irradiation products , perhaps leading to rotational variability in its visible color and in the abundance of ethane",
    ". continued observations of this object will provide insight into the nature of the volatile non - volatile transition and atmospheric escape in the outer solar system .    _",
    "acknowledgments : _ we thank an anonymous referee for a helpful review . e.l.s . is supported by a nasa graduate student research fellowship .",
    "the data presented herein were obtained at the w.m .",
    "keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w.m .",
    "keck foundation .                                  ,",
    "i.  s. , becklin , e.  e. , bendiksen , o. , brims , g. , canfield , j. , figer , d.  f. , graham , j.  r. , hare , j. , lacayanga , f. , larkin , j.  e. , larson , s.  b. , levenson , n. , magnone , n. , teplitz , h. , & wong , w. 1998 , in presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference , vol .",
    "3354 , proc .",
    "3354 , p. 566 - 578 , infrared astronomical instrumentation , albert m. fowler ; ed . , ed .",
    "a.  m. fowler , 566578"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the near - infrared spectrum of ( 50000 ) quaoar obtained at the keck observatory shows distinct absorption features of crystalline water ice , solid methane and ethane , and possibly other higher order hydrocarbons . </S>",
    "<S> quaoar is only the fifth kuiper belt object on which volatile ices have been detected . </S>",
    "<S> the small amount of methane on an otherwise water ice dominated surface suggests that quaoar is a transition object between the dominant volatile - poor small kuiper belt objects ( kbos ) and the few volatile - rich large kbos such as pluto and eris . </S>"
  ]
}