{
  "article_text": [
    "the cold dark matter model , in which the non - baryonic part of the dark matter is assumed to consist of particles that were non - relativistic already at the time of decoupling , and that interact predominantly through gravity , has been very successful in explaining the formation of large - scale structures in the universe ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * for a review ) . in this scenario ,",
    "both galaxies and galaxy clusters are hosted by cdm haloes , which formed hierarchically through mergers of smaller subunits .    even though n - body simulations generically predict cdm haloes to be triaxial with substantial amounts of substructures left over from the merging process ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , simplified halo models are often adopted in the modelling of light propagation through such objects .",
    "the most common approach is to treat dark matter haloes as spherical objects with smooth density profiles , usually either of the nfw @xcite form , some generalization thereof @xcite , or that of a cored or singular isothermal sphere .",
    "the light emitted from high - redshift objects such as quasars , supernovae , gamma - ray bursts , galaxies and galaxy clusters will typically have to pass through many dark matter haloes before reaching an observer on earth .",
    "several investigations have already indicated that smooth and/or spherical halo models may lead to incorrect results when treating the gravitational lensing effects associated with such foreground mass condensations    more realistic features like triaxiality and substructures can be included in gravitational lens calculations either by employing n - body simulations directly or by using analytical expressions for the halo shapes and subhalo properties . while n - body simulations often represent the safest choice , the approach is computationally demanding and does not always allow one to identify the features of the mass distribution responsible for a specific lensing effect .",
    "methods which bring simple , analytical halo models into contact with the full phenomenology of the n - body simulations are therefore highly desirable .    in this paper , we focus on the projected mass density of cdm haloes as a function of distance from the halo centre .",
    "there are several situations in gravitational lensing when realistic estimates of the surface mass density ( i.e. convergence ) along a given line of sight through a dark halo may be important .",
    "examples include the calculation of image separations in strong lensing by subhaloes located in the external potential of its host halo @xcite , attempts to correct the luminosities of supernovae type ia for the magnification by foreground haloes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and estimates of the distribution of microlensing optical depths for high - redshift machos .",
    "other applications include the assessments of light propagation effects in models with non - zero coupling betweeen dark matter particles and photons .    here",
    ", we use high - resolution , dissipationless n - body simulations of cdm haloes to investigate the errors in surface mass density introduced by treating these objects as spherical with smooth density profiles of the nfw type . simple relations for the surface mass density error as a function of halo redshift and distance to the halo centre are presented , making it easy to investigate the reliablitiy of results obtained with simplified halo models .    on a related note , @xcite recently investigated the error introduced by spherically averaging an elliptical mass distribution .",
    "they found that for axis ratios typical for cosmological dark matter haloes , the variance in the local density can be as large as 50% in the outer parts .",
    "the current paper examines the problem of halo triaxiality from a slightly different point of view .",
    "the n - body simulations used are described in section 2 . in section 3 , we describe the methods for extracting the halo sample . in section 4 , we compare the cdm surface mass densities obtained along random sightlines through the n - body haloes to the corresponding results obtained from smooth and spherical nfw models fitted to the same haloes .",
    "section 5 presents a set of simple relations for the surface mass density errors introduced by this procedure as a function of distance to the halo centre and halo redshift .",
    "section 6 discusses how these relations may be used in the context of optical depth estimates for macho microlensing .",
    "a number of caveats are discussed in section 7 .",
    "section 8 summarizes our findings .",
    "for studying cluster sized haloes , we utilize a suite of _ four _ high - resolution n - body simulations .",
    "the simulations were carried out using the publicly available adaptive mesh refinement code ` mlapm ` @xcite , focusing on the formation and evolution of dark matter galaxy clusters containing of order one million particles , with mass resolution @xmath8 @xmath9 and spatial force resolution @xmath102@xmath11 .",
    "they are so - called `` zoom '' or multimass simulations in which we first created a set of four independent initial conditions at redshift @xmath12 in a standard @xmath13cdm cosmology ( @xmath14 ) .",
    "@xmath15 particles were placed in a box of side length 64@xmath16 giving a mass resolution of @xmath17@xmath9 . for each of these initial conditions we iteratively collapsed eight adjacent particles to a single particle , reducing our simulation to 128@xmath18 particles .",
    "these lower mass resolution initial conditions were then evolved until @xmath19 . at @xmath19 ,",
    "eight clusters from different regions of our simulations were selected : 4 halos from box # 1 , one from box # 2 , one from box # 3 and 2 from box # 4 .",
    "the masses of these haloes are in the range 13@xmath20@xmath9 and triaxiality parameters vary from 0.1 to 0.9 .",
    "then , as described by @xcite , for each cluster the particles within five times the virial radius were tracked back to their lagrangian positions at the initial redshift ( @xmath12 ) .",
    "those particles were then regenerated to their original mass resolution and positions , with the next layer of surrounding large particles regenerated only to one level ( i.e. 8 times the original mass resolution ) , and the remaining particles were left 64 times more massive than the particles resident with the host cluster .",
    "this conservative criterion was selected in order to minimise contamination of the final high - resolution haloes with massive particles .",
    "a more elaborate description of this data set and a detailed investigation of the sense of rotation of the satellites and the properties of the tidally induced debris field of disrupting satellites can be found elsewhere @xcite",
    ".      for studying galaxy sized halos ( @xmath21 ) and for acquiring better statistics on the larger haloes , we ran two additional simulations with smaller box sizes . the same simulation code ` mlapm ` as in the 64 @xmath7mpc simulations was used , but the cosmological constants were slightly different : @xmath22 , @xmath23 and @xmath24 .",
    "these two simulations are standard cosmological simulations where all the particles have the same mass : @xmath25@xmath9 and @xmath26@xmath9 for 10 @xmath7mpc and 40 @xmath7mpc simulations , respectively .",
    "spatial force resolutions were 0.46 @xmath7kpc and 1.8 @xmath7kpc . both simulations were followed until @xmath19 and halos were identified at different redshifts .",
    "the 10 @xmath7mpc simulation was followed from @xmath27 and the 40 @xmath7mpc simulation from @xmath28 .",
    "one may argue that the large scale modes , ignored in these relatively small volume simulations , can cause spurious errors in the results . especially in the smallest simulation volume , the long wavelength perturbations will not be present .",
    "however , the distributions of mass concentrations remain the same when compared to larger volume simulations .",
    "also , in the 10 @xmath7mpc box , we restrict our analysis to intermediate mass halos and their subhalos .",
    "we believe that the simulations are reliable for our purposes and in agreement with simulations covering larger volumes .",
    "finding and truncating dark matter haloes within cosmological simulations is an interesting and challenging task .",
    "many authors have addressed this problem successfully by developing sophisticated algorithms which can locate haloes by a variety of techniques .",
    "our analysis examines the cores as well as the outskirts of the haloes without the luxury of being allowed to overlook the exact properties of the low density regions .",
    "we need to study all parts or the halo density profile in three dimensions , and we need to get rid of the background particles at all radii as well as possible , especially near the virial radius . to achieve this , we use a highly capable halo finder which can determine the parent potentials of individual particles and `` clean '' host haloes from their subhaloes .",
    "we find and truncate our haloes and subhaloes using the ` mlapm ` halo finder ( mhf ) @xcite .",
    "mhf uses the adaptive grids of ` mlapm ` to locate haloes within the simulation . `",
    "mlapm ` s adaptive refinement meshes follow the density distribution _ by construction_.",
    "the grid structure naturally `` surrounds '' the haloes , as the haloes are simply manifestations of over - densities in the mass distribution of the simulation box .",
    "the grids of ` mlapm ` are adaptive , and it constructs a series of embedded grids , the higher refinement grids being subsets of grids on lower refinement levels .",
    "mhf takes this hierarchy of nested isolated grids and constructs a `` grid tree '' . within that tree ,",
    "each branch represents a halo , thus identifying haloes , subhaloes , subsubhaloes and so on .    while a branch of the tree identifies the majority of particles associated with a halo , the surrounding region",
    "is checked for additional particles if the halo is embedded within another halo ( i.e. , it is a subhalo ) . to gather additional particles ,",
    "a larger collection radius is defined , and all the particles within this radius are assigned to the halo . in this paper , the collection radius has been defined as half the distance between the current halo and the next most massive halo .",
    "the gravitationally unbound particles are then removed from the haloes in an iterative fashion .",
    "if a particle is not bound , it is assigned to the subhalo s host or the background as appropriate .",
    "this , however , does not guarantee that each particle is uniquely assigned to a halo .",
    "it is possible for a particle to be shared by two or more halo potentials by these criteria .    using this set of particles ,",
    "the canonical properties of the haloes are calculated .",
    "for example the virial radius is found by stepping out in ( logarithmically spaced ) radial bins until the density reaches @xmath29(z ) , where @xmath30 is the cosmic matter density .",
    "particles outside this radius are removed .",
    "if this density is not reached , then we consider the furthest bound particle from the centre of the halo as the radius .",
    "typically , mhf finds thousands of haloes within a simulation box , but the number of haloes which have sufficient mass resolution for our purposes is unfortunately quite low .",
    "when choosing the halo sample , we have to balance between particle resolution and the number of haloes . after looking at the consistency of the nfw fit and the halo mass profiles , we decided to include the ten most massive haloes from the 10 @xmath7mpc and 40 @xmath7mpc simulations .",
    "this choice translates to a minimum resolution of 36,000 particles in the smallest halo in our sample .",
    "note that our particle counts are given without subhaloes , which normally contribute about @xmath31 % of the host s mass .",
    "nearly all haloes in the sample contain more than 100,000 particles at the maximum redshift , @xmath32 .",
    "the only exception is the 40 @xmath7mpc box , in which the number of particles contained by the tenth most massive halo is only 36,000 .",
    "however , this is compensated by the large particle counts in the multimass simulations , which contain haloes in the same mass range .",
    "the particle counts of the halo sample is shown in table [ npart_table ] .",
    "note that the largest number of particles within a halo is always found at @xmath33 and the smallest number of particles at @xmath34 .",
    "each of the eight 64 @xmath7mpc multimass simulations contains only one high resolution cluster halo region .",
    "when the virial mass accretion histories were examined , we found that the youngest of the eight clusters is composed of three smaller haloes with comparable masses . in this case",
    ", it was impossible for mhf to separate the three interacting haloes from each other , and therefore , we were left with seven well defined haloes per redshift from the multimass simulations .",
    "excluding the `` triple - cluster '' does not introduce any selection bias since this type of specific merger occurs rarely .",
    "the number of redshifts used per simulation box can be seen in fig .",
    "[ halo_masses ] .",
    "the redshift counts are 13 , 15 and 8 for the 10 @xmath7mpc , 40 @xmath7mpc and 64 @xmath7mpc boxes , respectively . in total , the number of haloes in the sample is 130 + 150 + 56 = 336 .",
    "our halo sample is divided into two mass classes with a mass gap at @xmath35 m@xmath36 at @xmath33 ( see fig . [ halo_masses ] ) .",
    "we refer to the more massive class as the _ cluster sized _ haloes and to the lower mass class as the _ galaxy sized _ haloes .",
    "we would need another cosmological simulation with a comoving box size of @xmath10 25 @xmath7mpc to fill the mass gap .",
    "the 40 @xmath7mpc simulation does contain haloes with masses at the range of the gap , but unfortunately the resolutions of these haloes are insufficient for our purposes .    .",
    "summary of the number of haloes and the particle counts in our sample .",
    "first column gives the simulation box size and @xmath37 refers to the number of haloes the sample contains per redshift .",
    "@xmath38 refers to the number of particles within @xmath39 of the least massive halo and @xmath40 to the number of particles within @xmath39 of the most massive halo , in each box . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      we confirm the reliability of our fit procedures , the choice of fit equations and our analytical description of the data by comparing the @xmath41-values to the predictions of the model .",
    "this is done for all four models by measuring the frequency of the following value : @xmath42    the probability density of @xmath43 should follow a standard normal distribution for all redshifts if the model is reliable . as shown by the example in figure [ model_vs_data ] , this is the case when all the 10,000 @xmath44 sightlines for the galaxy sized haloes ( without subhaloes ) are considered at all redshifts .    the fact that the resulting distributions are centered on zero tells us that @xmath45 is reconstructed correctly .",
    "the standard deviations of the distributions are close to unity , which again tells us that @xmath46 is a fair estimate of the behaviour of the data at all impact radii and redshifts .",
    "the test was equally successful for galaxy and cluster sized haloes , with and without subhaloes as the test shown in figure [ model_vs_data ] .",
    "machos ( massive astrophysical compact halo objects ) represent one class of dark matter candidates , which may be detected through gravitational microlensing effects as they pass through the line of sight to distant light sources .",
    "although the macho acronym was originally invented with baryonic objects like faint stars and stellar remnants in mind , several non - baryonic dark matter candidates like axion aggregates @xcite , mirror matter objects , primordial black holes @xcite , quark nuggets , preon stars and scalar dark matter miniclusters @xcite can also manifest themselves in this way . while non - baryonic machos could in principle account for a substantial fraction of the dark matter , microlensing searches based on observations of light sources in the local universe suggest a macho dark matter fraction of @xmath47 % ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "low - redshift microlensing observations are only able to detect the densest , most compact machos at a given mass .",
    "this does not necessarily represent a robust upper limit on the relative importance of machos , and high - redshift observations will be required to settle the issue ( see for a more detailed review ) .    while difficult to directly relate to observational quantities , the microlensing optical depth @xmath48 is often used for estimates of the viability and relevance of different microlensing scenarios . formally , the microlensing optical depth represents the average number of lenses along a random line of sight . under the assumption that the lenses do not overlap along the sightline , it also represents the fraction of sky that is covered by regions in which a point source will be microlensed . in the limit of small @xmath48 the optical depth",
    "can therefore directly be used as an estimate of the microlensing probability . at higher @xmath48 ,",
    "this interpretation does however break down because of overlapping microlenses . here",
    ", the optical depth will be used to discuss the impact of surface mass density variations due to clumpy and non - spherical cdm haloes on macho microlensing calculations . in the following , we assume the spatial distribution of machos to follow that of the cdm , as would be expected if they are non - baryonic .",
    "we caution that these results do not necessarily apply to baryonic machos , since such objects may have a spatial distribution that is substantially different from that of the overall dark matter ( as illustrated by population iii stars ; e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in the extreme case of having all cdm in the form of machos",
    ", the macho optical depth along a sightline passing through a single halo can be approximated by : @xmath49 where @xmath50 is the cdm surface mass density of this particular sightline and @xmath51 is the critical surface mass density for lensing .",
    "the latter is given by : @xmath52 where @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 are the angular - size distances from observer to lens , lens to source and observer to source , respectively .",
    "in the case when only a fraction of the cdm is the form of machos , and the rest is in the form of a smooth component , the optical depth can instead be estimated using : @xmath56 where @xmath57 represents the macho fraction .    in situations where the sightline is dominated by a single halo of ( approximately ) known mass , and the impact parameter of this sightline",
    "can be estimated ( in units of @xmath58 ) , the fitting formulas presented in sect .",
    "5 may be directly applied to assess the mean and variance in the expected macho optical depth derived from a spherical model for the foreground halo .",
    "this situation occurs when estimating the contribution from non - baryonic machos in the dominating halo to the total microlensing optical depth towards a gravitational arcs in a galaxy cluster , or an individual image of a strongly lensed quasar .",
    "as described in section 5 , the error on the optical depth due to triaxiality can in this situation easily amount to factor of @xmath59 ( assuming eq .",
    "[ optdepth_halo ] for the optical depth ) .",
    "note that this will be compounded by the surface mass density error coming from the uncertainty in the mass and concentration parameter of the spherical model for the foreground halo . in situations where many light sources are monitored , and these are projected across a large area of the foreground halo ( as in the cluster - quasar and cluster - cluster microlensing monitoring programmes of @xcite and @xcite , respectively )",
    ", care must be exercised when using the formulae presented in sect .",
    "5 . when averaging over different , but not independent sightlines ,",
    "the effects of triaxiality may be substantially diminished , and the optical depth error derived from these formulae should be considered a conservative upper limit .",
    "in many cases , however , the impact parameter of the dominating halo is not known , and there may be more than one halo giving significant contributions to the optical depth of a given sightline .",
    "this happens when light sources , especially at high redshift , are randomly selected without reference to any foreground object . in this case , the average microlensing optical depth is often computed using : @xmath60 where @xmath61 is the redshift of the light source studied and @xmath62 is the cosmological density of machos relative to critical at zero redshift .",
    "this estimate , often referred to as the approximation , also assumes a constant comoving number density of machos , i.e. that the macho population does not evolve as a function of redshift .",
    "since the matter of the universe is clustered , one does however expect a certain scatter around this average , since some sightlines will contain more matter ( and hence machos ) than others .",
    "find , using a model that takes into account the clustering of machos into spherical cdm haloes and subhaloes , that the distibution of macho optical depths around @xmath63 is reasonably well described by a log - normal function with standard deviation @xmath64 .",
    "as the number of intervening haloes increases when more and more distant light sources are considered , the sightline - to - sightline scatter , and hence @xmath64 , decreases with increasing @xmath61 . in this model , the optical depth scatter is dominated by the different number of haloes along each sightline , combounded by the different masses , concentration parameters and impact parameters for each of these objects .    since non - sphericity introduces additional optical depth scatter on top of that produced by the spherical halos , one may expect halo triaxiality to give an significant contribution to @xmath64 , but when implementing the @xmath65 scatter formulae derived here in the microlensing code , we find the impact of non - sphericitiy to be negligible .",
    "the reason for this is that the amplitude of the scatter stemming from triaxiality is relatively small compared to that coming from other aspects of cdm clustering . as can be seen in figure [ sigma_scatter ]",
    ", the mean surface mass density varies by more than a factor of @xmath66 between the innermost regions of the halo and @xmath58 , whereas triaxiality generates variations of less than a factor of @xmath67 at each impact parameter .",
    "this means that , once random halo impact parameters are considered , the resulting macho optical depth distribution will be dominated by the scatter introduced by the form of the surface mass density profile , while halo triaxiality will be responsible for only a very slight modification of this distribution .",
    "considering the fact that most sightlines towards high - redshift sources pass inside @xmath58 of more than one halo , and that these are likely to have different masses and concentration parameters , the impact of triaxiality on the optical depth distribution quickly becomes negligibly small .",
    "hence , it can safely be ignored in this situation .",
    "this greatly reduces the computational complexity of macho microlensing models for high - redshift sources .",
    "the results presented here do suffer from a number of shortcomings which should be pointed out .",
    "the simulations used are dissipationless . in reality ,",
    "dark matter haloes contain baryons , and the dissipation and feedback associated with these will inevitably affect the overall potential of the system , and thereby the spatial distribution of the cdm . according to current models",
    ", baryonic cooling will increase the central density of the cdm ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and also make the halo more spherical @xcite .",
    "the significance of these effects are , however , still difficult to predict reliably , as the gas dynamical simulations involved still suffer from so - called `` overmerging '' problems .",
    "when calculating the surface mass density profiles , we have moreover considered only the matter present within @xmath58 of each halo , whereas simulations have shown that galaxy sized cdm haloes extend at least out to 23@xmath58 @xcite .",
    "we restricted our analysis to @xmath58 because it becomes increasingly demanding to separate halo particles from the background the further one wants to extend the analysis .",
    "even in the presented case , we need to separate particles out to @xmath68 because the smoothed particles extend their influence inside the virial radius region even though they are positioned outside it .",
    "we tested our method out to 3@xmath58 , but the number counts of the halo particles at those distances are too low to produce reliable results",
    ". our halo sample does not have the resolution needed for extending the analysis further than @xmath58 safely .",
    "the most significant limitation of this paper is the small number of haloes in our analysis .",
    "this is of course due to the limited resolution of the cosmological simulations we had access to .",
    "we would like to repeat our analysis with a more complete statistical sample of haloes , which would hopefully confirm our analytical description with smaller error bars .",
    "we also note that our analytical description of the surface mass density is more reliable in the case in which subhaloes are _",
    "excluded_. this is because subhaloes can introduce significant mass peaks to some radial bins .",
    "these peaks can lead to unwanted effects in the log - normal fitting procedure which is designed to handle relatively smooth and continuous mass distributions within a bin .",
    "large subhalos can also disturb the nfw fits , at last in the low density regions .",
    "thus , the use of the models which include subhaloes is discouraged .",
    "we have compared a sample of cdm n - body haloes to the smooth , spherically symmetric nfw density profile model in three dimensions .",
    "the differences in surface mass density of the haloes and the model are studied , and an analytical description of the differences is constructed .",
    "this description can be used to estimate or reproduce the differences between cdm n - body haloes and , in principle , any analytical halo model .",
    "it can be used in applications in which the line - of - sight surface mass densities of cdm haloes play an important role , such as microlensing .",
    "our halo sample consists of 27 _ independent _ cdm haloes at @xmath67 redshift snapshots between @xmath69 . the haloes are extracted from six cosmological simulations with comoving box sizes of 10 @xmath7mpc , 40 @xmath7mpc and 64 @xmath7mpc .",
    "the haloes are treated both with and without their subhaloes , and the halo sample is divided in two mass classes , separated by a mass gap at @xmath35 m@xmath36 .",
    "the analytical description is given for all four cases .",
    "we find that the surface mass density of the haloes can deviate from the spherical model considerably . at minimum , with zero impact parameter and redshift , the 1-@xmath2 limits around the nfw surface mass density are close to @xmath70 or @xmath71 , depending which haloes are under investigation . at maximum , with impact parameter close to @xmath39 and z = 1.5 , the values can be as high as @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "the geometric mean of the surface mass density is offset from the nfw predicted value by @xmath72 % to @xmath73 % , depending on the case .",
    "we also find that the departure from the nfw profile is log - normally distributed around the model value . in most cases ,",
    "the median of the surface mass density of the haloes is slightly lower than predicted by the nfw profile .",
    "the variation of the surface mass density around the nfw value grows with increasing impact parameter and redshift .    as an application",
    ", we introduce our analytical description to the optical depth calculations of machos . in this case",
    ", we find that the variance in surface mass density due to halo shapes can be overwhelmed by the variance caused by random impact parameters between halos on the same sightline .",
    "jh acknowledges phd studentship grants from the vilho , yrj and kalle visl and the magnus ehrnrooth foundations , and travel grants from the otto a. malmi foundation and the turku university foundation ( valto takala fund ) .",
    "ez acknowledges research grants from the swedish research council , the royal swedish academy of sciences and the academy of finland .",
    "ak acknowledges funding through the emmy noether programme by the dfg ( kn 755/1 ) .",
    "cf acknowledges the academy of finland .",
    "the cosmological simulations were run at the swinburne university of technology and at the csc - scientific computing center in finland .",
    "alcock c. et al . , 2000 , apj , 542 , 281 balogh m. l. , pearce f. r. , bower r. g. , kay s. t. , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 1228 bartelmann m. , weiss a. , 2004 , a&a , 287 , 1 bartelmann m. , 1996 , a&a , 313 , 697 bertschinger e. , gelb j. m. , 1991 , cp 5 , 164 calchi novati s. et al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 443 , 911 chae k .- h . , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 746 chandra d. , goyal a. , 2000 , phys .",
    "d , 62 , 63505 dalal n. , holder g. , hennawi j. f. , 2004 , apj , 609 , 50 davis m. , efstathiou g. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1985 , apj 292 , 371 evans n. w. , hunter c. , 2002 , apj , 575 , 68 frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , davis m. , efstathiou g. , 1988 , apj 327 , 507 gao l. , white s.  d.  m. , jenkins a. , stoehr f. , springel v. , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 819 gnedin o. y. , kravtsov a. v. , klypin a. a. , nagai d. , 2004 , apj 616 , 16 gill s. p. d. , knebe a. , gibson b. k. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 399 golse g. , kneib j .-",
    ", 2002 , a&a , 390 , 821 green a. m. , 2000 , apj , 537 , 708 gunnarsson c. , 2004 , jcap 03 , 2 hansson j. , sandin f. , 2005 , phys . lett .",
    "b , 616 , 1 hennawi j. f. , dalal n. , bode p. , ostriker j. p. , 2007 , apj 654 , 714 hockney r. w. , eastwood j. w. , 1981 , computer simulation using particles , mcgraw - hill , new york , p. 144 holopainen j. , flynn c. , knebe a. , gill s. p. , gibson b. k. , 2006 , mnras 368 , 1209 jing y. p. , suto y. , 2002 , apj , 574 , 538 kazantzidis s. , kravtsov a. v. , zentner a. r. , allgood b. , nagai d. , moore b. , 2004 , apj 611 , l73 klypin a. a. , holtzman j. , 1997 , astro - ph 9712217 knebe a. , green a. , binney j. , 2001 , mnras 325 , 845 knebe a. , wiessner v. , 2006 , pasa 23 , 125 kochanek c. s. , 1996 , apj , 473 , 595 moore b. , ghigna s. , governato f. , lake g. , quinn t. , stadel j. , tozzi p. , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 524 , l19 membrado m. , 1998 , mnras , 296 , 21 mohapatra r. n. , teplitz v. l. , 1999 , phys .",
    "b. , 462 , 302 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1996 , apj , 462 , 563 navarro j. f. et al .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 349 , 1039 oguri m. , keeton c. r. , 2004 , apj , 610 , 663 oguri m. , 2005 , mnras 367 , 1241 prada f. , klypin a. a. , simonneau e. , betancort - rijo j. , patiri s. , gottlber s. , sanchez - conde m. a. 2006 , apj , 645 , 1001 press w. h. , gunn j. e. , 1973 , apj , 185 , 397 profumo s. , sigurdson k. 2007 , phys.rev .",
    "d75 , 023521 primack j. r. , 2003 , nuclear physics b proceedings supplements , 124 , 3 scannapieco e. , kawata d. , brook c. b. , schneider r. , ferrara a. , & gibson b. k. , 2006 , apj , 653 , 285 seljak u. , holz d. e. , 1999 , a&a 351 , l10 springel v. , hernquist l. , 2002 , mnras 333 , 649 suto y. , cen r. , ostriker j. , 1992 , apj 395 , 1 tadros h. , warren s. , hewett p. , 2001",
    ", new astron .",
    ", 42 , 115 tormen g. , 1997 , mnras 290 , 411 totani t. 2003 , apj , 586 , 735 warnick k. , knebe a. , 2006 , mnras 369 , 1253 warnick k. , knebe a. , power c. , 2007a , mnras submitted warnick k. , knebe a. , power c. , 2007b , mnras submitted weinberg d. , hernquist l. , katz n. , 1997 , apj 477 , 8 wyithe j.s.b . , turner e.l . , 2002 , apj 567 , 18 zackrisson e. , & riehm t. , 2007 , a&a , accepted ( arxiv:0709.1571 ) zhao h. s. , 1996 , mnras , 278 , 488 zurek k. m. , hogan c. j. , quinn t. r. , 2006 , astro - ph/0607341"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cold dark matter ( cdm ) scenario generically predicts the existence of triaxial dark matter haloes which contain notable amounts of substructure . </S>",
    "<S> however , analytical halo models with smooth , spherically symmetric density profiles are routinely adopted in the modelling of light propagation effects through such objects . in this paper , we address the biases introduced by this procedure by comparing the surface mass densities of actual n - body haloes against the widely used analytical model suggested by navarro , frenk and white ( 1996 ) ( nfw ) . </S>",
    "<S> we conduct our analysis in the redshift range of 0.0 - 1.5 .    in cluster sized haloes , we find that triaxiality can cause scatter in the surface mass density of the haloes up to @xmath0 and @xmath1 , where the 1-@xmath2 limits are relative to the analytical nfw model given value . </S>",
    "<S> subhaloes can increase this scatter to @xmath3 and @xmath4 . in galaxy sized haloes </S>",
    "<S> , the triaxial scatter can be as high as @xmath5 and @xmath1 , and with subhaloes the values can change to @xmath6 and @xmath4 .    </S>",
    "<S> we present an analytical model for the surface mass density scatter as a function of distance to the halo centre , halo redshift and halo mass . </S>",
    "<S> the analytical description enables one to investigate the reliability of results obtained with simplified halo models . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , it provides the means to add simulated surface density scatter to analytical density profiles . as an example </S>",
    "<S> , we discuss the impact of our results on the calculation of microlensing optical depths for machos in cdm haloes .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    dark matter , methods : n - body simulations , gravitational lensing </S>"
  ]
}