{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known that many of the stars in the solar neighbourhood exist in multiple systems . as the number of planetary surveys increases ,",
    "planets are regularly being found not only in single star systems , but binaries and triples as well .",
    "for example , recently a hot jupiter has been claimed in the triple system hd 188753 ( konacki 2005 ; but see also eggenberger et al .",
    "2007 ) , and @xcite lists 33 binary systems and 2 other hierarchical triples known to harbour exoplanets . as the majority of work on planetary dynamics has been for single star systems , the dynamics of bodies in these multiple stellar systems is of great interest . at first sight , it might not seem likely to expect long term stable planetary systems to exist in binary star systems , let alone triples , but numerical and observational work is starting to show otherwise .    in recent years",
    ", much study has been devoted to the stability of planets and planetesimal discs in binary star systems .",
    "there are several investigations of individual systems ( e.g. work on @xmath0 cephei by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite ) as well as substantial amounts of work on more general limits for stability of smaller bodies in these systems .",
    "notably , @xcite approach this problem by using numerical simulation data to empirical fit critical semimajor axes for test particle stability as functions of binary mass ratio and eccentricity .",
    "these general studies are of great use in the investigation of observed systems and their stability properties , giving an effective and fast method of placing limits on stability in the large parameter space created by observational uncertainties .",
    "the aim of this work is to investigate test particle stability in hierarchical triple star systems , and to see if any similar boundaries can be defined for them . to do this , a new method for numerically integrating planets in such systems",
    "is presented , following the ideas for binary systems presented by @xcite .",
    "although there have been empirical studies of the stability of hierarchical star systems themselves , there do not appear to have been studies of small bodies in such systems .",
    "there is a great deal of literature concerning periodic orbits in the general three and four body problems ( see e.g. @xcite ) , but these are almost entirely devoted to considerations of planetary satellites in single star systems , for example satellite transfer in the sun - earth - moon systems .",
    "also , while periodic orbits prove that stable solutions exist in these problems , they are of little practical use in determining general stability limits .    the problem of planetary orbits in triple systems is more complex than for those in binary systems , as there are many different orbital configurations possible relative to the three stars .",
    "these are considered in section  [ sec : orbits ] , and a method for classifying them is described in order to simplify the discussion in this paper .",
    "the derivation of a method to numerically integrate such planets is then given in section  [ sec : maths ] . in section  [ sec : stats ] is a brief overview of the statistical properties of known triple systems , as a basis for deciding the parameters of the systems used in the numerical simulations .",
    "the results of numerical investigations into stability properties are then presented in section  [ sec : sp ] for one of the possible orbital types .",
    "the triple systems studied here are all hierarchical in nature .",
    "that is , they can all be considered to be a close binary orbited by a distant companion  in effect , an inner binary pair and an outer binary pair . here",
    ", the inner binary stars are labelled as a and b , with a being the more massive , and the distant companion star as c. there are however three possible ways to pair the three stars into the hierarchy described above . @xcite",
    "define the hierarchy by requiring that the instantaneous keplerian orbits of the inner and outer pair are bound , that the outer binary has a longer period than the inner binary and that the ratio of the two periods is the largest of the three possible pairings of the stars .",
    "this definition is adopted here .",
    "although other , non - hierarchical , types of motion are possible for triple stars ( see for example @xcite ) and observed ( see for example the trapezium systems listed in @xcite ) , they are not considered here .",
    "it is an open question whether non - hierarchical systems can sustain long - term stable planets .",
    "next some system of classifying planetary orbits is needed .",
    "the orbital motion of small particles under the influence of two or three masses has been studied to some extent through periodic orbits of the three and four body problems , as mentioned in the introduction . as a result of this many families and classification schemes exist .",
    "@xcite gives a good review , mentioning for example the ( a ) to ( r ) types designated for the copenhagen problem , dependent on the nature and location of the particles motion in both inertial and corotating frames .",
    "many other features have been used to describe orbital families , for example symmetry @xcite or a parameter used to generate the orbital family . however , as mentioned by @xcite , there is no overall method , and the descriptions would not be applicable to non - periodic orbits .",
    "orbital types in binary systems have generally been classified into three main groups , those around a single star ( circumstellar ) , those around both stars ( circumbinary ) and those in the middle ground as it were , coorbiting with one of the stars i.e. librating about the triangular lagrangian points , similar to trojan asteroids in the solar system .",
    "a convenient labelling of these was given by @xcite , who designated planets as either s - orbits ( satellite ) , p - orbits ( planet ) , or l - orbits ( librator ) for circumstellar , circumbinary and coorbital respectively .",
    "these ideas can be extended to hierarchical triple systems fairly simply .",
    "it is clear that there will be three types of circumstellar motion , one for each star , and as such orbits like this can be labelled s(a ) , s(b ) and s(c ) for their primary .",
    "the circumtriple orbit about the centre of mass of all three can be identified as a p orbit and labelled as such in analogy to dvorak s scheme .",
    "finally , planets which orbit the centre of mass of the inner binary are circumbinary but also share characteristics with the satellite orbit , and can be labelled with the combination s(ab)-p .",
    "these orbital types are shown in figure  [ fig : types ] along with the binary cases for comparison , and listed in table  [ tab : types ] .",
    "a superscript 2 has been given to those in binary systems and a 3 for those in triple systems for clarity .",
    "although these are the only types of motion studied here , for completeness the coorbital types are also be included",
    ". this type of motion can occur for both the inner and outer binary , and labels ( ab ) and ( abc ) can be used to designate this . instead of the single l - orbit type",
    "they can be broken up into t and h orbits to indicated tadpole ( about one of the triangular lagrangian points ) or horseshoe ( about both triangular points and the @xmath1 collinear point ) .",
    "these are again illustrated in figure  [ fig : types ] and included in table  [ tab : types ] .",
    "these orbits are defined to be bound relative to their focus and hierarchical in the same sense as the definition given for the stellar system . a particle that orbits outside the extent of the inner binary but has a bound orbit with respect to star a and the binary centre of mass would be an s(ab)-p orbit and not an s(a ) orbit .",
    "this method of labelling clearly and concisely designates the exact nature of a planetary orbit , and extends a system already in use for binary stars .",
    "it can also be easily applied to systems with other levels of hierarchy , for example if star c was replaced with another close binary pair c and d additional classes s(d ) and s(cd)-p would be possible , and the outer p type could be relabelled p(abcd ) .            .",
    "labels for the basic planetary orbital types in multiple star systems as defined in this work and compared to those of @xcite .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]     [ tab : hwfit2 ]    a more detailed investigation of the inner boundary can be carried out in a similar manner to the outer edge , by fixing star c at 1 @xmath2 and in a circular 50 au orbit and varying the inner binaries mass ratio and eccentricity , as discussed earlier .",
    "the radius of the inner pair was kept at 1 au and their total mass as 2 @xmath2 .",
    "the eccentricity of this binary was varied from 0.0 to 0.6 in steps of 0.2 again , and the mass ratio @xmath3 varied from 1.0 to 2.0 in steps of 0.1 .",
    "figure [ fig : sp_crit_in ] shows the results from these simulations , with the locations of the first and last stable radii plotted as functions of the inner binaries eccentricity @xmath4 and mass ratio @xmath5 .",
    "also plotted again is the fit given by @xcite to the critical radius for p type planets in binary systems .",
    "as expected , the outer stability boundary seems unaffected by changes to the inner binary pair .",
    "there are some unstable points between the two stability boundaries , most notably around 3.2 au for the simulations with @xmath6 .",
    "@xcite find unstable islands appearing at the first @xmath7 beyond the critical semimajor axis in this configuration .",
    "however , the location of these unstable radii here is well beyond the first @xmath7 mmr in the stable region .",
    "in addition , running the @xmath8 and @xmath6 case without star c reveals that these locations are now stable .",
    "this would indicate that this is again an effect due to the combination of all three stars .",
    "because of this the inner edges location is simply taken as the same as the first stable radius .",
    "the location of this boundary appears to be a very weak function of mass ratio and an approximately linear function of eccentricity , and also agrees well with the predictions of @xcite . for this boundary ,",
    "they fit a function of the form @xmath9 where the constants are given in the third column of table [ tab : hwfit2 ] .",
    "the terms up to fourth order are included to fit a variation in the position of the critical radius at smaller mass ratios than those considered here . fitting this function to the results here",
    "does not produce well determined coefficients despite a low @xmath10 value of about 29 , as shown in the first column of the table .",
    "in fact , a better solution is obtained by only including the first four terms , as shown in the middle column of the table .",
    "the @xmath10 value for this fit is slightly higher at about 42 .",
    "this second fit is plotted in figure  [ fig : sp_i_fit ] , and seems to describe the data well , although it seems to slightly overestimate the size of the stable region . despite the smaller @xmath10 values here the fitted parameters are less well determined than those for the outer edge .",
    "this is a reflection on the relative size of the test particle grid spacing compared to the size of the inner binaries orbit . here",
    "the boundary is determined to within a tenth of the relative separation of the stars , while for the outer edge it was determined to within a thousandth of the size of the binary s orbit .",
    "the parameter space investigated so far is somewhat limited .",
    "the stars orbital longitudes have been ignored , assumed to be a minor influence on stability , the sets of simulations have always kept one star on a circular orbit , and all objects have been taken as coplanar .",
    "brief investigations of these three extensions to the parameter space can be made .",
    "firstly , the assumption that the initial longitudes of the stellar orbits has little effect on the stability boundaries was tested by running the inner edge simulations with mass ratios @xmath110.33 to 0.40 with a different initial longitude of the inner binary pair .",
    "the results from these simulations were almost identical to those of the initial set , providing some evidence that this assumption is valid .    next , the effect of both stars having non - circular orbits was investigated .",
    "the semimajor axes of the inner and outer binary were kept at 1 and 50 au , and the eccentricities of both varied in steps of 0.2 from 0.0 to 0.6 .",
    "the mass ratio of the outer binary only was varied as before .",
    "the results of these simulations are shown in figure  [ fig : eccentricity ] .",
    "each panel shows the location of the stability radii and unstable points as for all values of @xmath4 and one given value of @xmath12 .",
    "there is almost no change in the position of the outer stability boundary , but as both stellar eccentricities and the mass ratio increase , the inner boundary starts to move outwards .",
    "the stellar eccentricities are still not varying to any significant extent and the additional instability must be due to the combined perturbations of all three stars .",
    "lastly , the effect of inclination was studied .",
    "the semimajor axes were kept as 1 and 50 au , @xmath4 was set to 0 , and the outer mass ratio and eccentricity varied as before .",
    "sets of simulations where then run for inclinations of the outer star of @xmath13 , @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "the test particles were kept coplanar with the inner binary .",
    "this is a rather limited investigation , as any dependence on the longitude of ascending node has been ignored , and only a small range of inclinations included .",
    "however , higher inclinations will be subject to the kozai instability , causing large variations in the stellar orbits , which is expected to rapidly destabilise test particles . in these simulations",
    "the stellar mutual inclination remains fairly constant and their orbits are stable .",
    "figure  [ fig : inclination ] shows the stability boundaries for these simulations , each panel comparing the different inclination results for a different value of @xmath12 .",
    "there is little change in the inner boundary but the outer edge moves somewhat .",
    "interestingly , for the @xmath16 case higher inclinations are more stable .",
    "if the test particles are started instead coplanar with the outer binary the stability is similar , although not identical .",
    "these results are consistent with the conclusions of @xcite , who show that inclination is not a significant effect on the stability of p type planets in binary system .",
    "the main achievement of this paper is the formulation of a symplectic integrator algorithm suitable for hierarchical triple systems .",
    "this extends the algorithm for binary systems presented by @xcite .",
    "the positions of the stars are followed in hierarchical jacobi coordinates , whilst the planets are referenced purely to their primary .",
    "each of the five distinct cases , namely circumtriple orbits , circumbinary orbits and circumstellar orbits around each of the stars in the hierarchical triple , requires a different splitting of the hamiltonian and hence a different formulation of the symplectic integration algorithm . here",
    ", we have given the mathematical details for each of the five cases , and presented a working code that implements the algorithm .",
    "as an application , a survey of the stability zones for circumbinary planets in hierarchical triples is presented . here , the planet orbits an inner binary , with a more distant companion star completing the stellar triple . using a set of numerical simulations",
    ", we found the extent of the stable zone which can support long - lived planetary orbits and provided fits to the inner and outer edges .",
    "the effect of low inclination on this boundary is minimal . a reasonable first approximation to a behaviour of a hierarchical triple",
    "is to regard it as a superposition of the dynamics of the inner binary and a pseudo - binary consisting of the outer star and a point mass approximation to the inner binary .",
    "if it is considered as two decoupled binary systems , then the earlier work of holman & wiegert ( 1999 ) on binaries is applicable to triples , except in the cases of high eccentricities and close or massive stars .",
    "the implication here is that the addition of a stable third star does not distort the original binary stability boundaries .",
    "as mentioned , @xcite have shown that overlapping sub - resonances are the cause of the boundary in the binary case .",
    "it is reasonable to expect that in triples the same process is responsible , and the similarities between the binary and triple results support this theory .",
    "it is also expected that there is a regime in which the resonances from each sub - binary start to overlap as well , further destabilising the test particles .",
    "evidence of this is the deviation from the binary results when the stars are close , massive and very eccentric , when resonances would be both stronger and wider . since the parameter space investigated was chosen to reflect the observed systems it would seem to be a reflection on the characteristics of known triple stars that most lie in the decoupled regime .",
    "the relatively constant nature of the stellar orbits in the simulations is however a consequence of the test particle orbits being destabilised long before the stars are close enough to interact . by extension of all these arguments",
    ", it is expected that the binary criteria can be used to fairly accurately predict the stability zones in any hierarchical stellar system , no matter the number of stars .",
    "the results presented here can be used to estimate the number of known hierarchical triple systems that could harbour s(ab)-p planets .",
    "@xcite lists 54 systems with semimajor axis , eccentricity and masses for both the inner and outer components .",
    "the mutual inclinations of most are not well known , but there are nine systems listed for which this angle can be determined . for five of these it is less than @xmath17 , two are around @xmath18 and two are retrograde .",
    "although a small sample it suggests that there are systems that fall within the low inclination regime investigated here . using the criteria of @xcite and those found here for the position of the inner and outer critical semimajor axis the size of the coplanar stable region for each of these triples can be calculated .",
    "this can be considered an upper limit , since it is likely that very non - coplanar systems and those with significant eccentricities for both binary components will further destabilise planets .",
    "of the 54 systems 13 are completely unstable to circumbinary planets according to the four parameter fits ( compared to 11 using @xcite s criteria ) .",
    "figure [ fig : zone ] shows a plot of the width of the stable region for the remaining systems .",
    "interestingly , the majority seem to have very small stable zones , with 16 smaller than an au . whether this is a feature of triple systems , or an observation bias is not apparent",
    ". it does indicate though that circumbinary planets are unlikely to exist in at least 50 % of observable systems .    .",
    "note that using the criteria of @xcite gives almost identical results . ]",
    "beust , h.  2003 , a&a , 400 , 1129    broucke , r.  a.  2004 , ann . new york acad .",
    "sciences , 1019 , 408    chambers , j.  e. , quintana , e.  v. , duncan , m.  j. , & lissauer , j.  j.  2002 , aj , 123 , 2884    danby , j.  m.  a.  1988 , richmond , va . , u.s.a .  : willmann - bell , 1988 .",
    "2nd ed .",
    "desidera , s. , & barbieri , m.  2007 , a&a , 462 , 345    dvorak , r. , pilat - lohinger , e. , funk , b. , & freistetter , f.  2003 , a&a , 398 , l1    dvorak , r.  1986 , a&a , 167 , 379    dvorak , r.  1984 , celestial mechanics , 34 , 369    eggenberger a. , udry s. , mazeh t. , segal y. , mayor m. , 2007 , a&a , in press    eggleton , p. , & kiseleva , l.  1995 , apj , 455 , 640    haghighipour , n.  2006 , apj , 644 , 543    holman , m.  j. , & wiegert , p.  a.  1999 , aj , 117 , 621    konacki , m.  2005 , nature , 436 , 230    mudryk , l.  r. , & wu , y.  2006 , apj , 639 , 423    murray c.  d. , dermott s.  f. 2000 , solar system dynamics , cambridge university press    pilat - lohinger , e. , funk , b. , & dvorak , r.  2003 , a&a , 400 , 1085    press , w.  h. , teukolsky , s.  a. , vetterling , w.  t. , & flannery , b.  p.  2002",
    ", numerical recipes in c++ : the art of scientific computing , cambridge university press    szebehely , v.  1977 , revista mexicana de astronomia y astrofisica , vol .   3 , 3 , 145    szebehely , v.  1967 , theory of orbits , chapter 9 , new york : academic press    tokovinin , a.  a.  1997 , a&as , 124 , 75    verrier , p.  e.  in prep . , phd thesis    verrier , p.  e. , & evans , n.  w.  2006 , mnras , 368 , 1599    wisdom , j. , & holman , m.  1991 , aj , 102 , 1528",
    "in this appendix are details of the symplectic integration method derived in section  [ sec : maths ] for the orbital types p , s(a ) , s(b ) and s(c ) .",
    "the split hamiltonian in each case is presented , and the evolution under these is readily obtainable using the method given in section  [ sec : maths ] . also presented are details of the testing of the implementation of this symplectic integrator .",
    "note that throughout this appendix @xmath19 is the total system mass and @xmath20 the total inner binary mass , including planets where relevant .    for s(a ) orbits , the hamiltonian is @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the mass of star a and its planets , @xmath23 is the reduced mass of the inner binary , including the planets , @xmath24 is the reduced mass of the outer binary and @xmath25 .    for s(b ) type planets only , the equations are @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the mass of star b and its planets , @xmath23 is the reduced mass of the inner binary , including the planets and @xmath24 is the reduced mass of the outer binary . here",
    "@xmath28 now , and @xmath29 and @xmath30 .    the corresponding hamiltonian for s(c )",
    "type planets is @xmath31 where @xmath23 is the reduced mass of the inner binary stars and @xmath32 is the reduced mass of the outer binary , including the planets . here now @xmath33 , @xmath34 , @xmath35 and @xmath36 is the mass of star c and its planets .      these differing orbital cases are all dealt with separately at present . to test the method and its implementation comparisons of the simulations of systems of various levels of complexity were made with the literature . as the equations given above allow @xmath39 to be set to zero , the conservation of the jacobi constant of test particles in the circular restricted three body problem was calculated and compared to that given by @xcite for their binary systems . the evolution of various triple star system was compared to studies of hierarchical triples in the literature , for example those given in @xcite . simulations of discs of test particles were also compared to those given by @xcite for circumbinary discs .",
    "more complex systems of planets and test particles were also compared to the results of a standard bulirsch - stoer integrator @xcite . in all cases",
    "excellent agreement was found ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a symplectic integrator algorithm suitable for hierarchical triple systems is formulated and tested . </S>",
    "<S> the positions of the stars are followed in hierarchical jacobi coordinates , whilst the planets are referenced purely to their primary . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm is fast , accurate and easily generalised to incorporate collisions . </S>",
    "<S> there are five distinct cases  circumtriple orbits , circumbinary orbits and circumstellar orbits around each of the stars in the hierarchical triple  which require a different formulation of the symplectic integration algorithm .    as an application , </S>",
    "<S> a survey of the stability zones for planets in hierarchical triples is presented , with the case of a single planet orbiting the inner binary considered in detail . </S>",
    "<S> fits to the inner and outer edges of the stability zone are computed . </S>",
    "<S> considering the hierarchical triple as two decoupled binary systems , the earlier work of holman & wiegert on binaries is shown to be applicable to triples , except in the cases of high eccentricities and close or massive stars . </S>",
    "<S> application to triple stars with good data in the multiple star catalogue suggests that more than 50 % are unable to support circumbinary planets , as the stable zone is non - existent or very narrow .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    celestial mechanics  planetary systems  binaries : general  methods : _ n_-body simulations </S>"
  ]
}