{
  "article_text": [
    "a planet  bearing star can be thought of as a very bright , extremely dense remnant of a protoplanetary disk .",
    "after all , a star inherits its defining characteristics  its mass and chemical composition  from the same disk material that forms its planets .",
    "the physical characteristics of planet host stars therefore provide a crucial link between the planets we detect today and the circumstellar environments from which they formed long ago . studying the relationships between the observed occurrence rate and orbital properties of planets as",
    "a function of stellar characteristics informs theories of planet formation , and also helps guide the target selection of future planet searches .",
    "a wealth of recent work has demonstrated that planet occurrence is strongly correlated with chemical composition @xcite ; metal  rich stars are 3 times more likely to host planetary companions compared to stars with solar abundances @xcite .",
    "this finding can be understood in the context of the core accretion model .",
    "increasing the metallicity of a star / disk system increases the surface density of solid material at the disk midplane , which in turn leads to an enhanced growth rate for protoplanetary cores @xcite .",
    "another factor that enhances the surface density of material in the disk midplane is its total mass .",
    "if the mass of circumstellar disks scales with the mass of the central star , then there should be an observed correlation between planet occurrence and stellar mass @xcite . in principle , testing this hypothesis is fairly simple : one need only measure the fraction of stars with planets over a wide range of stellar masses .",
    "however , in practice such a study is not so straight forward given the limited range of stellar masses encompassed by most planet searches .",
    "the difficulty can be seen in figure  [ mass_hist ] , which shows the distribution of stellar masses for the target stars in california and carnegie planet search ( ccps ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which is representative of most doppler  based planet searches .",
    "most of the stars in figure  [ mass_hist ] have masses between 0.7  and 1.3  . in a decidedly non  copernican twist of nature ,",
    "it turns out that stars like our sun are ideal planet search targets .",
    "mass g and k dwarfs are slow rotators , have stable atmospheres , and are relatively bright .",
    "the fall  off toward lower stellar masses is simply because late k and m  type dwarfs are faint , making the acquisition of high  resolution spectra difficult without large telescope apertures @xcite .",
    "the sharp drop at higher stellar masses is due to a separate observational bias .",
    "stars with spectral types earlier than f8 tend to have rotationally broadened spectral features ( @xmath0  ; galland et al . 2005 ) , have fewer spectral lines due to high surface temperatures , and display a large amount of atmospheric `` jitter . ''",
    "stellar jitter is excess velocity scatter due to surface inhomogeneities and pulsation , which can approach 50100  for mid  f stars @xcite .",
    "these features conspire to limit the attainable radial velocity precision for early  type dwarfs to @xmath1  , rendering exceedingly difficult the detection of all but the most massive and short  period planets .",
    "one method to circumvent the observational limitations inherent to high  mass dwarfs is to observe these stars after they have evolved away from the main  sequence .",
    "after stars have expended their core hydrogen fuel sources their radii expand , and their atmospheres cool leading to an increase in the number of metal lines in the star s spectrum .",
    "stars crossing the subgiant branch also shed a large amount of angular momentum through the coupling of stellar winds to rotationally generated magnetic fields .",
    "the cooler atmospheres and slower rotational velocities of evolved stars lead to an increased number of narrow absorption lines in their spectra , making them much better suited for precision doppler surveys .",
    "there are a number of planet searches targeting evolved , intermediate  mass stars . to date",
    ", most surveys have focused on k ",
    "giants @xcite and `` clump giants , '' or asymptotic giant branch stars @xcite .",
    "these programs have detected a total of 9 substellar companions orbiting intermediate  mass giants , demonstrating that planets do form and can be detected around stars more massive than @xmath2  .    over the past 3 years",
    "we have been conducting a doppler survey of evolved stars at lick and keck observatories .",
    "however , instead of targeting clump giants and k giants , we have focused on stars occupying the region of the h ",
    "r diagram between the main  sequence and red giant branch , known as the subgiant branch .",
    "our sample is described by @xcite and is summarized below .",
    "the main part of our sample is comprised of 120 subgiant stars , which were selected from the _ hipparcos _ catalog based on the criteria @xmath3 , @xmath4 , and @xmath5 @xcite and @xmath6 .",
    "however , these stars proved to be unsuitable doppler targets , with a high fraction of close binaries and jitter in excess of 30  .",
    "we focus here only on the more stable subgiants . ] .",
    "our sample of subgiants is illustrated in an h ",
    "r diagram shown in figure [ sample ] . also shown are the search domains of other doppler surveys containing evolved stars , along with the theoretical mass tracks of @xcite , assuming solar abundances ( [ fe / h]=0.0 ) .",
    "subgiants occupy an observational `` sweet spot '' in the h ",
    "r diagram .",
    "they exhibit relatively low levels of jitter , typically around 5  , which is only a factor of 2 higher than g dwarfs @xcite and significantly lower than the 20  of jitter typical for giants @xcite . like k giants , they have shed most of their primordial angular momentum and exhibit slow rotation velocities , with @xmath7  .",
    "also , theoretical mass tracks along the subgiant branch are well separated , allowing for unambiguous mass estimates .",
    "our sample of stars spans a stellar mass range @xmath8 , which nearly doubles the stellar mass domain of the ccps sample .",
    "our planet search around subgiants has two primary goals .",
    "first , we wish to compare the orbital characteristics of planets around intermediate ",
    "mass stars to the large statistical ensemble of planets around lower  mass stars .",
    "second , we wish to measure the fraction of stars with planets for stellar masses @xmath9  . to study the relationship between stellar mass and planet occurrence , we compare the planet fraction from our high ",
    "mass sample to that of the larger sample of fgk stars in the ccps and the low ",
    "mass m dwarfs from the nasa keck m dwarf planet search ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the first detection from our sample of subgiants was announced in @xcite : a short  period , jovian planet orbiting the 1.28  subgiant hd185269 ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with an orbital period @xmath10  d and eccentricity @xmath11 , hd185269b has one of the highest eccentricities among the sample of known `` hot jupiters . ''",
    "the next batch of planets discovered from our sample orbit stars that are notably massive : hd175541 ( 1.69  ) , hd192699 ( 1.65  ) and hd210702 ( 1.85  , johnson et al . 2007a ) . following the theoretical mass tracks of these three massive subgiants back to",
    "the main sequence reveals that they began life as early type dwarfs , with spectral types ranging from a5v to a8v .",
    "we have recently submitted for publication three additional long  period planet candidates orbiting the intermediate ",
    "mass subgiants @xmath12 crb ( = hd142091 ; @xmath13  ) , hd167042 ( 1.65  ) , and hd16175 ( 1.35  ; johnson et al .",
    "2007 , apj submitted ) .",
    "figure [ ae ] shows the distribution of semimajor axes and eccentricities of all known exoplanets orbiting stars with masses @xmath14  .",
    "also shown in the figure are planets orbiting subgiants with masses @xmath15  , including the 5 systems announced from our survey , our two strongest unpublished candidates , and two other planetary systems around massive subgiants : hd82744 @xcite and hd5319 @xcite .",
    "while the eccentricities of planets around evolved a stars are very similar to those of planets around sun  like stars , figure  [ ae ] reveals a remarkable trend in the semimajor axes of planets around high  mass stars .",
    "planets around evolved a stars ( @xmath16  ) reside preferentially in wide orbits at or beyond @xmath17  au @xcite .",
    "this observed semimajor axis distribution of planets around high  mass stars differs significantly from that of planets around lower  mass stars , of which 51% orbit closer than 1  au .",
    "this can not be due to an observational bias , since doppler shift measurements are most senstitive to giant planets in short  period orbits .",
    "while the radii of stars expand as they evolve away from the main sequence , the radii of subgiants are still small compared to the semimajor axis of even a @xmath18  day hot jupiter .",
    "thus , it remains an open question as to whether the lack of close  in planets around a stars is related to the way planets formed in their nascent high  mass disks , or instead due to the effects of stellar mass on planet migration .",
    "our sample of subgiants covers a range of stellar masses complementary to the ccps sample of fgk stars and the sample of low  mass stars in the nasa keck m dwarfs planet search . in @xcite",
    "we showed that an analysis of the planet occurrence rate in three coarsely  spaced mass bins reveals a rising trend with stellar mass ( figure  [ occ_rate ] ) .",
    "for this analysis , we selected target stars and planet candidates with uniform detection characteristics , namely stars with more than 8 observations , and planets with @xmath19  au and  @xmath20  .",
    "the observed correlation between stellar mass and planet occurrence has important implications for planet formation theory , as well as for future planet search efforts .",
    "stellar mass has now been identified as an additional sign post of planeticity , along with stellar metallicity , making a  type stars promising targets for ground  based imaging surveys as well as space  borne astrometry and transit missions .",
    "the study of planets orbiting massive stars is still in its infancy , with only 17 systems currently known , compared to the 180 sun  like and low  mass planet host stars discovered over the past decade @xcite .",
    "firmer conclusions about the occurrence rate and orbital properties of planets around a  type stars will require a much larger sample of detections .",
    "we have recently expanded our doppler survey of subgiants to include 300 additional stars at lick and keck observatories .",
    "our primary goal is to confirm the correlation between stellar mass and planet occurrence seen in figure  [ occ_rate ] .",
    "if the @xmath21% occurrence rate holds , we expect to find 2030 new planets over the next 3 years .",
    "this will represent a significant increase in the number of planets orbiting evolved a stars , and will allow us to perform a more robust analysis of the effects of stellar mass on planetary eccentricities , semimajor axes and multiplicity .",
    "i am very grateful to geoff marcy for his inspiration for this project and his encouragement and advice over the past years .",
    "many thanks to my collaborators debra fischer , jason wright , paul butler , steve vogt , chris mccarthy and katie peek for their helpful converstations , and for their work with the data reduction pipelines , analysis codes and late nights at the telescopes .",
    "thanks to josh winn and nader haghighipour for encouraging me to write up this summary of my work .",
    "i extend my gratitude to the many cat observers who have helped with this project , including peter williams , katie peek , julia kregenow , howard isaacson , karin sandstrom , bernie walp , and shannon patel .",
    "i am an nsf astronomy and astrophysics postdoctoral fellow and acknowledge support from the nsf grant ast-0702821 .",
    "i also gratefully acknowledge the efforts and dedication of the staffs of lick observatory and keck observatory , and the generous allocation of observing time from the ifa , uco lick , nasa and noao tacs .",
    ", y.  j. , sato , b. , zhao , g. , noguchi , k. , wang , h. , kambe , e. , ando , h. , izumiura , h. , chen , y.  q. , okada , n. , toyota , e. , omiya , m. , masuda , s. , takeda , y. , murata , d. , itoh , y. , yoshida , m. , kokubo , e. , & ida , s. 2007 , arxiv e - prints , 709                , b. , ando , h. , kambe , e. , takeda , y. , izumiura , h. , masuda , s. , watanabe , e. , noguchi , k. , wada , s. , okada , n. , koyano , h. , maehara , h. , norimoto , y. , okada , t. , shimizu , y. , uraguchi , f. , yanagisawa , k. , & yoshida , m. 2003 , , 597 , l157"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> compared to planets around sun  like stars , relatively little is known about the occurrence rate and orbital properties of planets around stars more massive than 1.3  . </S>",
    "<S> the apparent deficit of planets around massive stars is due to a strong selection bias against early  </S>",
    "<S> type dwarfs in doppler  based planet searches . </S>",
    "<S> one method to circumvent the difficulties inherent to massive main  sequence stars is to instead observe them after they have evolved onto the subgiant branch . </S>",
    "<S> we show how the cooler atmospheres and slower rotation velocities of subgiants make them ideal proxies for f and a  type stars . </S>",
    "<S> we present the early results from our planet search that reveal a paucity of planets orbiting within 1  au of stars more massive than 1.5  , and evidence of a rising trend in giant planet occurrence with stellar mass . </S>"
  ]
}