{
  "article_text": [
    "planetary system formation must be studied through various indirect means due to the relative faintness of distant planets and the long timescales over which planetary system evolution takes place .",
    "one powerful technique has advanced substantially in the era of the _ spitzer _ space telescope : investigations of dusty debris disks around mature , main sequence stars .",
    "debris disks arise from populations of planetesimals that remain from the era of planet formation ; the analogs in our solar system are the asteroid belt and the kuiper belt .",
    "any system that possesses a debris disk necessarily has progressed toward forming a planetary system to some degree .",
    "the many small bodies that inhabit a debris disk can , on occasion , collide , producing a shower of fragments that grind each other down to dust particles .",
    "these dust grains can be heated by the central star to temperatures @xmath2100  k , where they can be detected at wavelengths of 10100  microns .",
    "data from the iras and iso satellites were used to identify and characterize debris disks ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the multiband imaging photometer for _ spitzer _ ( mips ; @xcite ) offers substantially improved sensitivities at 24  and 70  microns and therefore can be used to advance the study of debris disks and measure the fraction of stars that possess colliding swarms of remnant planetesimals .",
    "a number of these surveys have been carried out using mips . @xcite and @xcite observed hundreds of a  stars and found that the number of a  stars showing thermal infrared excess suggestive of collisionally - produced dust decreases as a function of stellar age , from 50% or more at ages just past the gas dissipation age of 10  myr to 30% at 500  myr .",
    "the excess rates are lower for older and lower mass stars .",
    "@xcite found that the excess rate is around 15% for stars of mass and age similar to our sun",
    "( for a sample of 69  stars ) .",
    "@xcite did not detect any 24  or 70  micron excesses suggestive of debris disks in a sample of 60  field ( old ) m  stars ( with only 13  strongly detected at 70  microns ) .",
    "finally , multiplicity appears to play a significant role in modulating debris disks , as @xcite found that the debris disk rate for a  and f  binaries was higher than that for single stars of similar spectral types .",
    "we present here a survey for excesses around almost 200  f , g , and k  stars , with ages and masses similar to that of our sun .",
    "( some of these data were published in @xcite . )",
    "we characterize the excesses that we find and present a few systems of particular interest . we create a larger sample of fgk  stars by adding 75  stars from a similar survey , and derive excess rates as a function of spectral type and as a function of age .",
    "finally , we discuss the implications of our results for planetary system formation .",
    "the data presented here originate in two separate observing programs .",
    "the majority are from a survey targeting nearby late  f , g , and early  k `` solar type '' stars ( _ spitzer _ gto program  # 41 ) . results for 69  stars from this program were published in @xcite ( hereafter b06 ) , and the present paper completes the analysis of data from that program . for completeness ,",
    "all targets that appeared in b06 are also included in this paper .",
    "the remainder of the data belong to a survey for debris disks among f  stars ( _ spitzer _ gto program  # 30211 ) .",
    "stars in this spectral type range were omitted from previous _ spitzer _ disk surveys , and have particular relevance in determining the nature of the transition from the high a  star debris disk incidence to the more modest incidence for sun - like stars .",
    "furthermore , these 49  f  stars will serve as a useful control sample to the @xcite result that binary a  and  f  stars have a relatively high excess rate .",
    "we combine the data from these two samples here to give continuous coverage , a large sample of stars , and overall view of debris disks from f0  to  k5  stars .",
    "we refer to the combined sample of 193  stars ( pid  41 plus pid  30211 ) as our fgk sample .",
    "relevant information for the combined target list is given in table  [ targetinfo ] .",
    "figures  [ fgk.spectype][fgk.metallicity ] show the distributions of targets as functions of spectral type , distance , age , and metallicity .",
    "our target list was assembled in the following way .",
    "a list of main sequence f0f5  stars was created from the hipparcos database , in order of increasing distance from the earth .",
    "all stars that were known to be members of multiple systems were removed ( by vetting against the ccdm catalog ) .",
    "next , systems that were obviously young ( less than 1  gyr ) were removed , using the measurements of @xcite .",
    "the average age of our sample is around 3  gyr ( compare to the average age of the `` solar type '' fgk sample presented in section  [ fgk ] of around 5  gyr ) .",
    "we used the ipac ibis tool to extract the infrared background and confusion levels from the iras data for each remaining target , compared the predicted target photospheric flux to the confusion per mips beam , and discarded targets with predicted s / n@xmath33 .",
    "finally , we discarded targets requiring 70  micron integration times longer than 1300  second ( 12  cycles of 10  second integrations ) ; targets fainter than this rapidly become very expensive with questionable return .",
    "these selection criteria left 49  targets as our final target list . here",
    "we present the 37  of those targets observed to date ; the remaining stragglers will be published in a future paper .      the `` solar type '' sample selection is described in detail in b06 .",
    "we briefly summarize that description here .",
    "this program consists of two overlapping sets of stars : those that meet strict selection criteria for an unbiased sample , and those that are known to harbor planets . in both cases ,",
    "only stars with spectral type similar to the sun are considered .",
    "stars with spectral type f5 to k5 and luminosity class iv or v were included , with the final list chosen by expected signal to noise ratio for photospheric flux . additionally , a minimum photospheric 70  micron flux was set for each spectral type bin : 20 mjy for f5-f9 stars , 10 mjy for g0-g4 , and 5 mjy for g5-k5 .",
    "there is no explicit selection based on stellar age or metallicity ; however , the 70  micron brightness and s / n thresholds are relaxed in some cases to allow stars with well determined ages into the sample . close , resolved binary systems are excluded .",
    "the total sample presented here is 156  stars ( non - planet stars and planet stars , combined ) .",
    "a companion paper @xcite describes the planet - bearing sample in more detail .",
    "a listing of the observations for these programs is given in table  [ obsinfo ] .",
    "all _ spitzer _ observations reported here were made between january , 2004 , and march , 2007 .",
    "we used mips to observe each system at 24  and 70  ( effective wavelengths 23.68  and 71.42  , respectively ) .",
    "all stars were observed in mips photometry small - field mode .",
    "the 24  observations all used 3  sec dces ( data collection events ) and a single template cycle ( with a few exceptions ; see table  [ obsinfo ] ) .",
    "the 70  observations typically used 10  sec dces and 5  to 10  template cycles .",
    "overall , our data analysis is similar to that previously described in @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "the data reduction is based on the dat software developed by the mips instrument team @xcite . at 24  microns",
    ", image flats are chosen as a function of scan mirror position to correct for dust spots @xcite .",
    "images were mosaicked from individual frames with half - pixel subsampling .",
    "we carried out aperture photometry on reduced images as described in @xcite , using an aperture of six 255 pixels , a sky annulus of 1217  pixels , a calibration factor of 1.047  @xmath4jy / arcsec@xmath5/(dn / s ) , and an aperture correction of  1.15 . at 70  microns we used images processed beyond the standard dat software to correct for time - dependent transients , corrections that can significantly improve the sensitivity of the measurements @xcite . because the accuracy of the 70  micron data is limited by background noise , rather than instrumental effects",
    ", a very small photometric aperture was used to maximize signal - to - noise  just 1.5 pixels in radius , requiring an aperture correction of  1.79 .",
    "an annulus with an inner radius of 4  pixels and an outer radius of 8  pixels was used to measure the sky background around each target .",
    "the flux level is calibrated at 16.5  mjy / arcsec@xmath5/mips_70_unit , with a default color correction of 1.00 ( mips_70_units are based on the ratio of the measured signal to the stimulator flash signal ) . for both the 24  and 70  micron data , neighboring point sources were subtracted from the images before measuring the sky brightness .",
    "the 24  micron centroid positions , which are consistent with the telescope pointing accuracy of @xmath31  @xcite , are used as the target coordinates for both wavelengths .",
    "the only significant update from previous papers is a 4% increase in the overall calibration at 70  microns from 15.8 to 16.5 mjy / arcsec@xmath5/mips_70_unit .",
    "to determine whether any of our target stars have an ir excess , we compare the measured photometry ( f ) to predicted photospheric levels ( p ) .",
    "high quality k  magnitudes are required to extrapolate to 24  microns .",
    "most of our stars have good 2mass photometry @xcite , but stars brighter than m@xmath6 @xmath2 4.5 saturate in 2mass and therefore this survey can not provide accurate photometry .",
    "we obtained photometry for as many of these `` non-2mass '' stars as possible from the literature , and transformed it to the 2mass system according to relations in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the errors for some of this `` heritage photometry '' are difficult to estimate , since infrared photometric systems were still under evolution when some of it was obtained .",
    "we show below that the net errors after transformation are surprisingly small . for 16 additional stars where we could find no k - band photometry , we estimated values from b - i or b - v colors .",
    "we obtained the optical colors from simbad for the members of our sample and carried out linear fits against i - k or v - k .",
    "the rms scatter around the fit was 0.07 for b - i vs.  i - k and 0.09 for b - v vs.  v - k , and we take this scatter to be the error in the estimated k  and  k@xmath7 magnitudes .",
    "there are 12 stars for which we were unable to make even estimates of k and k@xmath7 magnitudes .    for the 181  sources where k@xmath7 data is available",
    ", we use the following approach .",
    "we computed ratios of the measured flux densities at 24  microns and k@xmath7 to determine the mean photospheric color .",
    "there is a weak dependence of this photospheric color on spectral type .",
    "we calculated this correction by assigning a numerical value proportional to spectral type ( 0 for a0 , 10 for f0 , 15 for f5 , etc . ) and multiplying the ratios by 1.048/(1 + 0.048*(type/22 ) ) , determined from a linear fit to the data .",
    "this procedure results in a predicted 24  micron flux ( p24 ) for each of these 181  stars .",
    "we then calculate the excess ratios ( r24=f24/p24 ) for each system ( table  [ photom ] ) .",
    "the distribution of derived excess ratios is shown in figure  [ r24 ] .",
    "the r24 distribution for all stars with k@xmath7 magnitudes ( 2mass or heritage ) is quite regular , with clear peak near unity . for 0.92@xmath8r24@xmath81.08 , the mean and median both have a value of  0.995 , with an rms scatter of  0.032 . for only the stars with heritage photometry ,",
    "the analogous average is 0.997 , the rms scatter is 0.031 , and the median is 0.999 . that is , there is no evidence for any systematic difference in the sources of k photometry and we can treat all stars measured in this way identically .",
    "we can therefore set a 3@xmath9 threshold for identification of an excess .",
    "our approach is the same that we took in @xcite .",
    "we take 1@xmath9 to be the rms scatter value of  0.032 .",
    "our result of zero sources with r24@xmath30.92 is consistent with this value of @xmath9 .",
    "we therefore set the 3@xmath9 excess threshold to be  1.10 .",
    "one star ( hd  222404 ) has r24=1.10 , and we consider this marginal case explicitly in the next paragraph .",
    "the next smallest r24 value above our 3@xmath9 threshold is  1.15 ( close to 5@xmath9 ) , and six stars have even larger r24 values .",
    "the stars with 2mass k@xmath7  magnitudes or heritage  k  magnitudes and excesses at 24@xmath4 m are hd 166 , 3126 , 69830 , and 105912 .",
    "the stars with possible excesses based on estimated k  magnitudes need to be discussed individually because of their larger k  magnitude uncertainties .",
    "hd 10647 has a ratio of 1.21 , based on extrapolation from b - v and hence at a level of @xmath22.5@xmath9 .",
    "it has a very large excess at 70  @xmath4 m , by more than a factor of ten over the photosphere , and @xcite find an excess at 3034  microns , so we consider the excess at 24  @xmath4 m to be confirmed at the longer wavelengths .",
    "hd 101259 has an indicated excess ratio of 1.25 , based on extrapolation from b - v , and hence at nearly 3@xmath9 .",
    "it is not saturated in the 2mass data at j , and if we apply the standard j - k color for its spectral type , we estimate an excess ratio of 1.15 .",
    "it has a modest but significant excess at 70  @xmath4 m , so we accept the reality of the indicated one at 24  @xmath4 m .",
    "hd 191408 has a ratio of 1.23 , based on an estimate from b - i and hence at a level of @xmath23@xmath9 .",
    "it has no significant excess at 70  @xmath4 m , with a 2@xmath9 upper limit to the excess ratio of 1.7 .",
    "we used kurucz model fitting to make an independent prediction of the 24  @xmath4 m flux density , and found an excess ratio of only 1.08 , suggesting that our extrapolation is in error , probably due to a bad photometric point .",
    "furthermore , irs spectra throughout this region are photospheric ( no excess ) @xcite .",
    "it is therefore unlikely that the possible 24  @xmath4 m excess is real .",
    "hd 222404 has an excess ratio of 1.10 based on a k magnitude estimated from b - i , and hence at a level of 1.5@xmath9 .",
    "however , the 2@xmath9 upper limit to the excess ratio at 70  @xmath4 m is only  1.04 , so we reject the possibility of an excess at 24  @xmath4 m .",
    "the remaining stars with estimated k magnitudes all have excess ratios @xmath31.10 . in summary",
    ", we therefore find six stars in the sample of stars with k  magnitudes ( 2mass , heritage , or estimated ) with significant 24  @xmath4 m excesses ( table  [ colortemps ] ) : hd 166 , 3126 , 10647 , 69830 , 101259 , and 105912 .",
    "this `` self calibration '' technique ( using the data to define the outliers ) is generally required in determining intrinsic stellar colors . for extreme outliers ( figure  [ r24 ] ) , there is no question of the veracity of this technique .",
    "furthermore , because the distribution of r24 is well - behaved , with very small scatter , we are confident that it robustly reflects the true distribution of excesses .",
    "we further note that there is no procedure other than self calibration that works .",
    "there is no sample of stars measured at 24  that includes the relevant spectral types and that is certain to have no small excesses .",
    "kurucz model fitting leaves a small residual that must be removed empirically @xcite .",
    "we checked our results using model fitting for a subset of targets and found agreement with the photometry - based extrapolations performed for the entire sample .",
    "finally , we note that the rms scatter in the distribution of r24 is  0.020023 from the k - band photometry , 0.01  from the 24  photometry , and about  0.01 from the color - color relationships . assuming these errors",
    "add quadratically ( they are independent errors ) , the error left for variations in stellar color is  0.019 , a very small number .",
    "this leaves little room for significant excesses for the bulk of the stars .",
    "we conclude that our self calibration technique is robust .",
    "since the majority of the stars in our sample do not have 24  micron excesses , in general we make our 70  micron photospheric predictions based on the 24  micron flux measurements . for stars with no excess emission ,",
    "the expected f24/f70 ratio is  9.10 ( scaling by @xmath10 and using the effective wavelengths specified above ) , so we derive predicted 70  micron fluxes by dividing the observed 24  micron fluxes by this numerical factor . the predicted fluxes ( p70 ) are listed in table  [ photom ] . calculating p70 this way ( and",
    "not from extrapolations from k  magnitudes ) allows us to capitalize on the nearly uniform 24/70  flux ratio rather than extrapolating from k and potentially magnifying any slight misestimates .",
    "it also allows us to determine p70 for the 12  stars that have no k  band measurements and therefore no p24 , so that we can search all 193  stars in our sample for 70  micron excesses .",
    "naturally , for the six stars with 24  micron excess this extrapolation from observed 24  micron fluxes to 70  micron predictions does not work ; for these systems , we extrapolate the predicted 24  micron fluxes to derive predicted 70  micron fluxes , using this same numerical factor of  9.10 . for these six cases , our 70  micron predictions",
    "are confirmed with kurucz model fitting .",
    "the large scatter and large number of ( expected ) excesses at 70  microns makes determining the excess threshold in the circular manner above problematic .",
    "we instead quantify the significance of the ( possible ) 70  micron excess @xmath11 , which is defined as follows :    @xmath12    where f70 and p70 are as defined above and @xmath13 is the error in the measurement .",
    "we use the same criterion as @xcite to identify significant excesses : we require @xmath14 .",
    "this is identical to saying that the significance of the excess must be at least 3@xmath9 .",
    "the distribution of @xmath11 is shown in figure  [ chi70 ] .",
    "the core of this distribution is clearly centered near zero , the expected value for a sample where non - excess is the majority outcome .",
    "nevertheless , the distribution of @xmath11 shown in the top panel of figure  [ chi70 ] is not symmetric in the range @xmath15 : the broad shape of the right `` shoulder '' in the top panel of figure  [ chi70 ] ( @xmath16 ) suggests the presence of a number of low - level excesses ( below our detection threshold ) .    in our large sample ,",
    "we can test the reliability of these determinations by counting the number of stars that fall below our -3@xmath9 excess criteria ( that is , @xmath17 ) .",
    "only one star ( hd  100067 ) has @xmath17 ( figure  [ chi70 ] ) .",
    "this system has a large negative @xmath11 value because the measured aperture photometry is formally negative ( meaning the sky value subtracts more than the enclosed flux in the photometric aperture ) ; in other words , this star was simply not detected at 70  microns ( table  [ photom ] ) .",
    "there are no cases of @xmath18 where the star is detected .",
    "assuming symmetric noise properties , we therefore expect no spurious positive outliers . in summary , we identify any system with @xmath19 as an excess system .",
    "there are 27  such systems out of the 181  stars with k  magnitudes .",
    "we define hd  69830 to have an excess at 70  microns because it has @xmath20 and a significant ( corroborating ) excess at 24  microns ( r24=1.47 ) , bringing the number of systems with 70  micron excesses to 28  out of  181 .",
    "this 28  includes 6  systems that have excesses at both 24  and 70  microns .",
    "finally , 2  of the 12  stars with no k  magnitudes also have 70  micron excesses ( see section  [ individ ] ) , based on f24/f70@xmath39.10 .",
    "this brings the total number of systems with 70  micron excesses to 30  out of  193 ( table  [ photom ] ) . in figure  [ r24_chi70 ]",
    "we show the distribution of our 181  sources with k  magnitudes in r24-@xmath11 space .",
    "we confirm that there are likely no other spurious 24  micron excesses .",
    "furthermore , the random scatter distribution ( fully uncorrelated ) of the non - excess sources confirms that there are no systematic errors introduced by our technique of predicting 24  micron fluxes and extrapolating to predict 70  micron fluxes .",
    "systems with weak excesses at both 24  and 70  microns would not necessarily be identified by the techniques we have described here .",
    "however , we see in figure  [ r24_chi70 ] that there are no systems in the upper right of the enclosed area , where such a system with two weak excesses would reside .",
    "there are 181  stars in our sample with well - constrained k  band magnitudes and therefore reliable 24  micron predicted fluxes .",
    "we can make excess determinations for all 193  stars at 70  microns ( in most cases based on our 24  micron measurements ) .",
    "we add to this catalog three stars that meet the selection criteria for pid  41 but had already been included in other observing programs : @xmath21  eri ( k2v , @xmath22  yr ) ; @xmath23  ceti ( g8v , @xmath24  yr ) ; and @xmath25  eri ( f6v , @xmath22  yr ) ( table  3 from b06 as well as @xcite ) .",
    "the first of these has excesses at both 24  and 70  microns ( backman et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "; the second is photospheric at 24  microns and has an excess at 70  microns @xcite ; and the third has no excess at either 24  or 70  microns @xcite .",
    "these additions bring the total excess rates to the following values : at 24  microns , 7  out of 184  stars have excesses , giving 3.8@xmath26% ; and at 70  microns , 32  out of 196  stars have excesses , giving 16.3@xmath27% . in all cases in this paper ,",
    "we cite binomial errors that include 68% of the probability ( equivalent to the 1@xmath9 range for gaussian errors ) , as defined in @xcite .",
    "all of the systems with 24  micron excesses also have 70  micron excesses .",
    "these excess rates are also presented in table  [ excesssum ] .",
    "of the 196  stars presented here in our fgk sample , 48  are known to harbor extrasolar planets .",
    "the excess rates for the planet sample are higher than the no - planet sample , although formally the two samples excess rates are consistent at the 1@xmath9  level ( table  [ excesssum ] ) .",
    "@xcite discuss further the differences for excess rates and debris disks for stars with and without known planets .",
    "planets have been found around @xmath210% of the stars surveyed in radial velocity programs @xcite , but here planet - bearing stars represent 25% of the total fgk sample , so there is the potential for contamination of our derived excess rate for fgk stars .",
    "however , if we weight the planets and no - planets excess rates ( table  [ excesssum ] ) by 10% and 90% , respectively , we find that the resulting total excess rates are 3.9% ( 24  microns ) and 15.6% ( 70  microns ) , hardly different from the overall excess rates derived above ( 3.8@xmath26% and 16.3@xmath27% , respectively ) . we conclude that any contamination must therefore be insignificant .",
    "we interpret the presence of excess thermal infrared flux as a signature of emission from dust grains .",
    "these dust grains are assumed to be produced relatively recently from collisions of asteroid - like bodies .",
    "( dust grains in these systems have short lifetimes against radiation forces . ) by constraining the properties of this dust , we can learn about the processes of planetary system formation in a large sample of fgk stars .    in general , we would like to fit the observed excesses to a black body to determine the temperature of the excess . for systems with excesses at both 24  and 70  microns this is relatively straightforward : we find the blackbody temperature that best fits the two observed excesses .",
    "these temperatures are given in table  [ colortemps ] .",
    "we scale this blackbody by the appropriate amount to fit the excess measurements .",
    "the ratio of this scaled blackbody s integrated flux to the star s integrated flux is the fractional luminosity ( table  [ colortemps ] , figure  [ fd ] ) .",
    "most stars in our sample that show excesses , however , have excesses only at 70  microns , which leaves dust temperatures relatively unconstrained . in these cases",
    " excess flux at 70  microns , photospheric flux at 24  microns  we set the 24  micron `` excess '' to be equal to three times the error at 24  microns ( which is dominated by the calibration uncertainty ) , and find the blackbody that best fits this `` excess '' and the measured 70  microns excess .",
    "this resulting temperature is the maximum temperature for the excess ( table  [ excesstable ] ) . after solving for this dust temperature ( @xmath28 )",
    ", we can calculate the orbital distance @xmath29 ( in au ) of the dust through equation  3 from @xcite :    @xmath30    where @xmath31 is the stellar luminosity .",
    "( large grains with unit emissivities that radiate as black bodies are assumed . )",
    "we calculate the stellar luminosity of the host star simply through    @xmath32    where @xmath33 is the stellar radius ( from * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the stellar effective temperature @xmath34 is given in table  [ targetinfo ] and again in table  [ excesstable ] .",
    "our calculated dust distances are given in tables  [ colortemps ] and  [ excesstable ] and figure  [ fd ] . for systems with excesses only at 70  microns , the distances we derive are minimum distances , since the dust temperatures we derive are maximum temperatures . in all cases , we assume black body grains",
    ".    finally , from our blackbody fits to the excesses we also derive the fractional luminosities : the ratios of dust luminosity to stellar luminosity .",
    "this quantity is also referred to as @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "the fractional luminosities we derive are given in tables  [ colortemps ] and  [ excesstable ] and figure  [ fd ] .",
    "as above , for systems with excesses only at 70  microns , these derived fractional luminosities are the maximum values that are consistent with the observed data . however , extremely massive cold outer disks , which could imply a larger fractional luminosity than the `` maximum '' values we present here , can not be ruled out .    to place a reasonable lower limit on the fractional luminosity estimates for systems with excesses only at 70  microns , we follow the arguments in b06 and @xcite and assume a `` minimum '' possible disk temperature of 50  k. this assumption excludes the possibility that a very cold ( and potentially massive ) disk could exist , with emission at wavelengths longer than 70  microns .",
    "this 50  k blackbody is scaled to match the measured 70  micron excesses ( this results in no detectable excess emission at 24  microns , consistent with the observations ) .",
    "we calculate the ratio of this disk s luminosity to the stellar luminosity . to derive the minimum fractional luminosities for systems with excesses at 70  microns only .",
    "we present these minimum disk luminosities in table  [ excesstable ] and figure  [ fd ] .",
    "these two estimates of fractional luminosity give the range of values that fit the data . in many cases ,",
    "the range of acceptable values is quite small .",
    "we see that the minimum fractional luminosity is around @xmath37 , as has been found in other surveys as well @xcite .",
    "we describe here a few interesting individual cases , some of which are also shown in figure  [ ldls ] , to demonstrate the range of disk properties evident in our sample .",
    "* hd  693 .",
    "* this system has @xmath38 , just below our excess threshold .",
    "it is likely that there is a real excess in this system that is simply slightly too faint for us to detect formally .",
    "additionally , a massive and/or cold(er ) disk can not be ruled out .",
    "we identify this system as one of particular interest because of its low fractional luminosity : @xmath39 ( assuming that there is a real excess ) , which would make it comparable to some estimates of our solar system s kuiper belt ( figure  [ ldls ] ) . also of note",
    "is its dust distance of 3.2  au , clearly well within the realm of possible planetary systems .",
    "* hd  3126 .",
    "* this star has a very large 70  micron excess ( @xmath40 ) and a modest 24  micron excess ( r24=1.16 ) . with an age of 3.5  gyr and a simbad spectral type of  f2",
    ", there is nothing apparently anomalous about this system that could explain its large excess , i.e. , the star is not young , nor is it evolved .",
    "( @xcite assign a spectral type of f4v . ) in figure  [ ldls ] , we show the narrow range of possible fractional luminosities ( @xmath2@xmath41 ) that are in accord with the observed data .",
    "the fractional luminosity is relatively high .",
    "this system is clearly promising for additional observations to better characterize the dust population .",
    "* hd  10647 .",
    "* this star has a well - known infrared excess that was first detected with iras @xcite .",
    "@xcite determined a fractional luminosity of @xmath42 for this system with _",
    "spitzer_/irs measurements , using a temperature of 70  k. this is fairly consistent with the values we derive ( table  [ colortemps ] ) , and is a relatively large fractional luminosity for the fgk sample we present here .",
    "hd  10647 is also known to harbor ( at least ) one extrasolar planet , orbiting at 2  au @xcite .",
    "we find the dust to be at a distance of at least 21  au ( table  [ colortemps ] ) , although @xcite find an inner disk radius of 11  au using irs spectra and a warmer excess temperature than we find .",
    "this disk has also been detected in scattered light ( stapelfeldt et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "this system is clearly fertile ground for further studies of planetary system formation , since both a giant planet and a large dust disk ( and implied collisions among asteroidal bodies ) are known to exist .    *",
    "hd  19994 .",
    "* there is no good k  magnitude for this system , so we can not determine whether it has a 24  micron excess .",
    "however , f24/f70 is  5.6 , making this system far too bright at 70  microns for the [ 24:70 ]  color to be photospheric ; we determine @xmath43 .",
    "this assumes that f24 is photospheric , which is the conservative assumption that makes our calculated @xmath11 a lower limit . under this assumption ,",
    "the maximum dust temperature is 170  k , the minimum dust distance is 4.1  au , and the maximum fractional luminosity is @xmath44 .",
    "these properties are similar to the other systems with excesses at 70  microns only .",
    "* hd  30495 . * among systems with no 24  micron excesses , hd  30495 has the most significant 70  micron excess ( @xmath45 ) .",
    "these parameters suggest a relatively cool dust disk , as seen in figure  [ ldls ] . as for hd  3126 , a massive",
    ", cold disk can not be ruled out .",
    "* hd  69830 .",
    "* this system was discovered by @xcite to have substantial hot emission , which @xcite attributed to the recent breakup of a large asteroid in that system .",
    "the excess infrared emission , evident from 835  microns ( and , as we show here , marginally evident in photometry is higher than that in @xcite [ 19  mjy ] primarily due to better centering of the photometric aperture on the source .",
    "there is an additional small [ 5% ] increase in the calibration factor that has been applied since @xcite .",
    "] at 70  microns ) , suggests quite high temperatures ( @xmath2400  k ) and a dust distance around 1  au .",
    "this system further became interesting with the subsequent discovery of three neptune mass planets in that system , all orbiting at less than 1  au @xcite .",
    "* hd  82943 . * among systems with excesses at 70  microns only , hd  82943 has the largest fractional luminosity , at more than @xmath41 ( table  [ excesstable ] ) .",
    "@xcite find that all systems with debris disk fractional luminosities greater than @xmath46  are young .",
    "hd  82943 has an age of more than 4  gyr ( table  [ targetinfo ] ) .",
    "our fractional luminosity estimates for the disk around hd  82943 are below this apparent limit , so the age of more than 4  gyr ( table  [ targetinfo ] ) offers no direct contradiction .",
    "nevertheless , this system may be useful in helping to define the exact border of the distribution discussed by @xcite .",
    "( other high fractional luminosity systems given in tables  [ colortemps ] and  [ excesstable ] may also provide useful constraints . )",
    "we note that hd  82943 also has two planets orbiting it interior to 1.5  au ; these planets are locked in a 2:1  mean motion resonance @xcite .",
    "* hd  101259 .",
    "* we find an excess at both 24  and 70  microns for this star .",
    "unusually , the excess in this system is not much brighter , relatively , at 70  microns than at 24  microns ( r24=1.25 and r70=1.61 ) .",
    "however , we note that both p24 and p70 for this system are based on the b - v color , and therefore have a large uncertainty",
    ". taken together , a small and warm excess is likely , but not certain .",
    "follow - up observations will be critical in characterizing this system , and will be of particular interest since systems with warm dust are rare .",
    "the measured excesses of r24=1.25 and r70=1.61 require a fairly warm disk temperature of 271  k , giving a dust distance of around 1  au ( table  [ colortemps ] ) .",
    "( the iras 12  micron flux also appears to be @xmath225% higher than the expected photospheric flux . )",
    "the properties of this disk appear quite similar to hd  69830 ( see figure  [ r24_chi70 ] ) , and further observations ( including irs spectroscopy ) should be made to characterize the dust population . in temperature and distance , the dust in this system closely resembles the zodiacal dust in our solar system , which is produced largely by collisions in the asteroid belt .",
    "the architecture of that planetesimal ( and potential planet ) system may not be that different from our own solar system s .",
    "* hd  207129 .",
    "* there is no good k  magnitude measurement for this star , so we can not predict its 24  or 70  micron fluxes .",
    "nevertheless , this star has been known to have an infrared excess for more than 20  years @xcite , and has been studied with both iso @xcite and in a number of ongoing _",
    "spitzer _ studies",
    ". the f24/f70 ratio of  0.57 that we observe here is far from the photospheric value of  9.10 and clearly indicates a strong 70  micron excess and presence of a debris disk .",
    "we fit published visible and near - infrared data with a kurucz model to predict the 24  and 70  micron fluxes ( figure  [ kurucz ] ) and constrain the dust properties .",
    "we find p24=139  mjy and p70=15  mjy .",
    "this gives excesses at 24  and 70  microns of 25  and 274  mjy , respectively .",
    "the fractional luminosity is around @xmath41 , which is very high for a star like our sun .",
    "the color temperature is 72  k , which , for this g0 star , gives @xmath47 of 15.3  au .",
    "the temperature we derive is hotter than the iso - derived range of 1545  k , but our fractional luminosity agrees well with their values @xcite .",
    "the properties we derive are similar to the other systems with excesses at both bands ( table  [ colortemps ] ) .",
    "this debris disk ring has also been detected directly in scattered light ( krist et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "four stars in our fgk sample do not have published metallicities .",
    "for the 189  stars with known metallicities in table  [ targetinfo ] , the mean metallicity is -0.08@xmath480.22 , with a median of  -0.06 .",
    "the mean metallicity of stars with excesses is -0.11@xmath480.19 ( median is  -0.09 ) .",
    "the mean metallicity of stars with no excesses is -0.08@xmath480.22 ( median is  -0.05 ) .",
    "there is no difference between the metallicity of the population of stars with excesses and the population of stars with no excesses .",
    "this lack of correlation has been discussed previously ( e.g. , b06 , @xcite ) .",
    "many parameters affecting infrared excesses change with spectral type , including the importance of grain loss mechanisms ( winds , poynting - robertson drag , photon pressure ) ; stellar luminosity ; and the locations of key temperatures ( e.g. , the ice line ) in the systems .",
    "significant surveys for debris disks across spectral types a ",
    "m  have now been published , and we use those data to look for systematic trends across spectral types .",
    "it is well known that excess rates decrease with stellar age @xcite .",
    "this dependence must be avoided in testing for changes with spectral type .",
    "we take the oldest ( @xmath49600  myr ) a  stars from the @xcite sample as our representative sample from that spectral type . for our f , g , and k  samples we take the union of the data presented here and the data in @xcite .",
    "the targets and data reduction presented in @xcite are quite similar to the selections and techniques we have employed here , which allows us to merge the two samples relatively seamlessly .",
    "we calculate the excess ratios for these f , g , and k samples and take the m  stars excess rates from @xcite .",
    "this compilation is presented in table  [ excesssum ] and figure  [ spexcess ] .    within the error bars , the excess rates for the a , f , g , and",
    "k  subsamples are essentially indistinguishable . however , there is a suggestion of a trend of decreasing 70  excess rates with later spectral types ( figure  [ spexcess ] ) .",
    "we note , however , that the mean age for the populations increases with later spectral types .",
    "it is possible that we are instead detecting a time - related effect , although the decay timescales identified by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite of hundreds of millions of years should long since have diminished all disks at ages of billions of years .",
    "we discuss this possibility in section  [ ages ] .",
    "@xcite remarked that the excess rates for k  stars appeared to be lower than that for f and g stars , finding zero excesses among 23  stars later than k2 ( and zero excesses among a larger combined sample of 61  k1m6  stars ) .",
    "we include the @xcite data in our analysis here , and find that , formally , the excess rate for k  stars is not significantly different than the excess rates for earlier ( f and g ) stars . as @xcite note , and we confirm , none of the 6  k  stars with excesses in our larger sample are later than k2 .",
    "part of the motivation for assembling the f  stars program ( pid  30211 ) was as a control sample for the binary star program presented in @xcite . in that study ,",
    "69  a3f8 binary star systems were found , overall , to have relatively high excess rates : 9% at 24  microns and 40% at 70  microns .",
    "it is clear from our results here ( see figure  [ spexcess ] ) that the ( single ) f  stars excess rate is equal to or lower than the ( single ) a  stars excess rate .",
    "the binaries excess rates remain significantly high compared to the control sample of a  and f  stars .",
    "figure  [ fd ] shows that , in general , there is no trend of dust distance as a function of stellar effective temperature ( spectral type ) .",
    "this may suggest that the processes that drive planetesimal formation do not depend strongly on a single critical temperature , as would be the case in the `` ice line '' model , where protoplanetary disk surface densities increase across certain temperature boundaries",
    ". however , our method for calculating dust distances may be too crude to see this effect .",
    "we note that all of the ( minimum ) dust distances given in table  [ excesstable ] would fall within the planetary realm of our solar system ( @xmath330  au ) .",
    "we are not observing disks that are far outside of the potential planetary realm of these systems .",
    "we stated above that there is no particular trend for either fractional luminosity or dust distance with spectral type , but there is an important caveat : no disks with large dust distances or relatively small fractional luminosities were identified among the latest stars in our sample .",
    "this dearth may simply allude to the fact that later stars are cooler .",
    "dust at 25  au around a k1 ( 5000  k ) star would have a temperature around 50  k ; this dust would have its peak emission near 70  microns , and cooler ( more distant ) dust would have its peak emission longward .",
    "mips 70  micron observations of such a dust population , or a cooler one , would not readily show the presence of this excess .",
    "the lack of distant disks around k stars may therefore be an observational bias .",
    "similarly , low fractional luminosity disks would be more difficult to detect around k  stars than around earlier stars , so the lack of low fractional luminosity disks for later stars may also be due to observational bias .",
    "these observational biases may be corrected with sufficiently sensitive measurements at @xmath2100  microns ( e.g. , with herschel ) .    to further address the question of whether there is any detectable trend of excess rate as a function of spectral type using existing published data",
    ", we compared the incidence of 70  @xmath4 m excesses across these 5  spectral types ( a , f , g , k , m ) , a total sample size of more than 350  stars . to avoid uncontrolled selection effects , we confined the comparison to stars that would have been detected at 70  microns at a level of at least 2:1 on the photosphere .",
    "we then applied a number of tests .",
    "first , we computed weighted average values of r70 ( observed flux over predicted flux ) as in @xcite .",
    "we find a value of @xmath25 for the a stars , but we discount this large average because of the small size of the sample ( 27  stars ) . the values for the f , g",
    ", k , and m stars are 1.16 , 1.23 , 1.06 , and 1.025 , respectively .",
    "errors are difficult to estimate because the excesses are not normally distributed .",
    "we also computed straight averages of r70 for these same samples . here , we calculate 4 , 2.6 , 1.8 , 1.4 , and 1.1 for the a , f , g , k , and m stars , respectively .",
    "again , the values need to be interpreted with caution because error estimation is difficult . to circumvent the difficulties in determining errors , we binned the excesses into intervals of 0.5  in excess ratio and used the k - s test to determine if the resulting distributions were likely to have been drawn from the identical parent distribution . for each stellar type , we tested the relevant distribution against the distribution for all the stars , excluding the contribution of the spectral type in question .",
    "the result was a set of probabilities of 0.03 , 0.8 , 0.3 , 0.3 , and 0.01 that the types a , f , g , k , and m , respectively , were drawn from the same parent distribution as the other types .",
    "( for this test , a claim of a significant difference requires a probability of 0.05 or less that the samples are from the same distribution .",
    "values of  0.3 imply that the the g  and k  stars are 1@xmath9  different from their respective control samples . ) from this suite of tests , we conclude that the incidence of excesses is different for old a stars and for m stars from that of the rest of our sample .",
    "we further deduce that there is a possibility of a difference appearing in the k  stars from their lower average excess ratio .",
    "the distributions for f and g stars appear to be indistinguishable with our data .",
    "we employ this conclusion in the creation of an fg `` supersample '' ( section  [ supersample ] ) .",
    "the higher excesses indicated for the old a stars could be an age effect , since the sample is by necessity significantly younger than the later types ( which we selected in general to be @xmath50 1 gyr in age ) .",
    "in fact , @xcite and @xcite compare 24@xmath4 m excesses from young a and solar - like stars and find that the incidence is quite similar at a given age .",
    "age effects would presumably cause an apparent decrease of excess incidence with later type among the f , g , and k stars because f stars will evolve off the main sequence quickly enough to bias our sample toward younger objects ( section  [ ages ] ) . in the end",
    ", this discussion may still be suffering from a relatively small number of k  stars sampled .",
    "an ongoing _ spitzer _ program ( pid  30490 ) to survey nearby stars that were not observed in other programs  a sample that includes @xmath2400  k  stars  should help unravel these statistics . nonetheless , given our result ,",
    "it is unlikely that future surveys will find a strong trend among f , g , and k stars of comparable ages  a range of spectral types that spans more than a factor of  50 in stellar luminosity .",
    "this behavior is counter to our expectations and is a challenge to models of debris disk evolution .",
    "the lack of strong dependence on spectral type lets us combine data on various types to study the evolution with stellar age .",
    "figure  [ fgkage ] shows individual r24 and @xmath11 determinations for the stars in our fgk  sample whose ages are known , as a function of system age .",
    "there is no correlation apparent for these individual sources , so we look to binned data in a larger combined sample for evidence of trends .",
    "we once again take the union of the data presented here and that presented in @xcite , but this time we include only spectral types f0k5 from the @xcite sample ( that is , we exclude the latest k  stars ) .",
    "this is because the data we present in this paper covers the range f0k5 , and we want the best match to our combined sample .",
    "there are 10  stars in the f0k5 tpf / sim subsample that have no known ages , and 10  additional stars with ages less than 1  billion years . of these  20",
    ", 2  systems have excesses ( 10% ) . since this excess ratio is not significantly different from that of the overall fgk sample , and",
    "since the pid  30211 f  stars sample is controlled for age but the pid  41 sample is not specifically controlled for age , we make no attempt to correct the larger sample for age .",
    "figure  [ ageexcess ] shows excess rate as a function of age for this combined sample . to zeroth order",
    ", there is no trend as a function of age : a constant excess rate of @xmath220% adequately fits the data , being consistent at 1@xmath9 with the 10  gyr data point and at 1.5@xmath9 with the 8  gyr data point .",
    "furthermore , the 10  gyr bin has only 7  targets in it , and the 8  gyr bin has only 33  targets in it ( still a relatively small number ) .",
    "on the other hand , we note that the data shown in figure  [ ageexcess ] is suggestive of an excess rate that decreases with time through at least 8  gyr . in this scenario",
    ", the 10  gyr bin would be highly anomalous , although we note that this bin is clearly affected by small number statistics ( 2  excesses out of 7  stars ) .",
    "in other words , there may be a real trend and a real evolution of planetary systems and debris disks even on the billion - year timescale . however , this may again be a manifestation of the ( potential ) observational bias shown in figure  [ fd ] , as follows .",
    "the fraction of stars in a given age bin that are k  stars increases for the later age bins . if k  stars truly have fewer excesses ( or fewer detectable excesses , according to observational biases ) than other spectral types , figures  [ ageexcess ] and  [ agesfd ] might indeed be showing a real decrease with increasing age , but caused not by a long - timescale evolution of planetary systems but by the increasing dominance of excess - deficient k  stars at the oldest ages .",
    "the data present in our larger sample can not distinguish between the competing possibilities of k  stars preferentially lacking ( detectable ) disks , or of old stars increasingly lacking disks .",
    "it also remains to be seen whether the high excess rate for the oldest bin in figure  [ ageexcess ] is anything more than a small number statistics anomaly .",
    "the overall high rate of excess incidence in our samples ( 17% ) indicates that the 400  myr decay timescale the drives the evolution of a  star debris disks @xcite can not drive the evolution of debris disks in our @xmath501  gyr sun - like sample . instead , sun - like stars appear to have a relatively constant incidence of 15%20% that is not strongly dependent on age , but may be weakly dependent on age through a very long timescale decrease .      because there is no difference in excess rate between f and g stars",
    ", we can combine our sample of f0g9  stars into a single population of `` sun - like '' stars . to this sample of 169  stars",
    "we add the 56  f  and g  stars from @xcite to create an even larger sample of 225  sun - like stars ( 213  stars at 24  microns ) .",
    "we refer to this merged sample of 213  and 225  stars as the `` sun - like supersample . ''",
    "the excess rates for this supersample are 4.2@xmath0% at 24  microns and 16.4@xmath1% at 70  microns ( table  [ excesssum ] ) . with this large supersample , we can now state the debris disk incidence rate for sun - like stars with quite good confidence ( small error bars ) .",
    "the majority of the debris disk systems that we present here have excesses at 70  microns only , suggesting temperatures @xmath51100  k and therefore an inner edge to the disks .",
    "these dusty debris disks are likely produced by collisions within a swarm of planetesimals akin to the asteroid belt or kuiper belt in our solar system .",
    "we interpret the cool temperatures we derive for the dust in these disks as evidence of inner disk holes where the surface density of dust is much smaller than in the planetesimal ring , and potentially zero .",
    "this architecture is strongly reminiscent of our solar system , where planets sculpt the edges of the planetesimal and dust belts .",
    "it may be that many of the systems we discuss here similarly have planets sculpting their dust distributions . in several cases",
    ", the known planets may indeed be the ones sculpting the inner edges of the disks ( tables  [ colortemps ] and  [ excesstable ] ) .",
    "additionally , lawler et al .",
    "( in prep . ) have found , using irs spectra , that the incidence of detectable levels of warm dust may be higher than the 4.2% we find here , indicating that dust in a region analogous to our solar system s asteroid belt may also be somewhat common .",
    "@xcite show that the properties of disks around planet - bearing stars are unlikely to be similar to the properties of disks around stars without known planets .",
    "briefly , the detection rates between these two populations are similar , but the planet - bearing stars are generally farther away and in more confused regions of the sky .",
    "they conclude that disks around planet - bearing stars are dustier ( i.e. , more massive ) , and probably more common , than disks around stars without known planets .",
    "additionally , @xcite recently showed that the excess rate for binary a - f  stars is 9% and 40% at 24  and 70  , respectively , significantly higher than our results for fgk stars and for sun - like stars .",
    "we see in figure  [ spexcess ] that these excess rates are relatively high , compared to the large sample of single stars we present here . combining these two studies ,",
    "we find strong evidence that the presence of additional massive bodies ( whether stellar or planetary companions ) in stellar systems appears to promote higher excess rates .",
    "this effect may simply be dynamical  more massive bodies means more stirring , more collisions , and more dust  but it is not clear that such a process could remain effective for billions of years .",
    "further work is necessary to explain these results .",
    "figure  [ spexcess ] shows that the transition from the high excess rate around a  stars to the more modest excess rate around sun - like stars is gradual .",
    "this gradual decay is likely an age effect ( consider the mean ages of the samples given in figure  [ spexcess ] ) .",
    "our data show that excess rates for fgk stars decline slowly with stellar age , and it is not clear whether we are detecting a billion - year tail of debris disk evolution , a dependence on spectral type , and/or an observational bias .",
    "young ( @xmath31  gyr ) debris disks decay on 100400  million year timescales @xcite .",
    "the presence of excesses around 16% of sun - like stars at billion year ages indicates that these old debris disks must be driven by a different evolutionary process than debris disks around those younger stars .",
    "one interpretation , using our solar system as an analogy , is that the younger systems are still active in a late heavy bombardment kind of dynamical upheaval .",
    "after a billion years , such large scale processes likely have ceased in all but the most unusual systems .",
    "debris disks are then produced from collisions within remaining planetesimal belts ( e.g. , our asteroid belt ) that have been dynamically excited by the previous eon s dynamical stirring .",
    "however , there is no trend of fractional luminosity with age ( figure  [ agesfd ] ) , although there is a lack of high fractional luminosity disks at old ages .",
    "the presence of a debris disk indicates that planetary system formation progressed at least to the planetesimal stage in a given system .",
    "there is no apparent dependence on spectral type across sun - like stars for fractional luminosity ( i.e. , dust mass ) , dust distance , or even excess rate .",
    "this indicates that the processes that give rise to debris disk  planetesimal formation , dynamical stirring that produces collisions  must equally be insensitive to stellar parameters ( temperature , mass , luminosity ) .",
    "this may argue that planetary system formation is quite robust  able to occur in many different conditions .",
    "while none of the debris disks we observed are very similar to our own solar system , there can be no question that the process of planetary system formation is quite common .",
    "we observed nearly 200  fgk stars at 24  and 70  microns with the _ spitzer _ space telescope to search for debris disks around nearby stars like the sun .",
    "we identify excess emission , including a number of cases where the observed flux is more than 10  times brighter than the photospheric flux . we combine our data with results from several other sources to create a sample of more than 350  afgkm stars .",
    "the incidence of debris disks in a large sample of sun - like stars is 4.2@xmath0% at 24  microns ( 213  stars ) and 16.4@xmath1% at 70  microns ( 225  stars ) .",
    "we find that the excess rates for a , f , g , and k stars are essentially indistinguishable , but with a suggestion of decreasing excess rate toward the later spectral types ; this may be an age effect .",
    "the lack of strong trend among fgk stars of comparable ages is surprising , given the factor of  50 change in stellar luminosity across this spectral range .",
    "we also find that any decline in debris disk activity over the 110  gyr time frame examined is very slow .",
    "this result contrasts with the more rapid decay found previously for stars 0.011  gyr .",
    "this contrast suggests that the behavior at younger ages is dominated by events analogous to our solar system s late heavy bombardment .",
    "how debris disks are maintained for the ensuing billions of years remains an outstanding question .",
    "we thank suggestions from an anonymous referee that helped us clarify our results .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system ( ads abstract server ) ; the simbad databased , operated at cds , strasbourg , france ; and of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "this work is based in part on observations made with the _ spitzer _ space telescope , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology under nasa contract  1407 .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through contract number 1255094 issued by jpl / caltech .",
    "alonso , a. , arribas , s. , & martinez - roger , c. 1994 , a&as , 107 , 365 alonso , a. et al .",
    "1998 , a&as , 131 , 209 aumann , h. h. 1985 , , 97 , 885 aumann , h. h. et al .  1984 , , 278 , 23 backman , d.  e.  & paresce , f.  1993 , in protostars and planets iii , eds .  e.  h.  levy & j.  i.  lunine ( tucson : university of arizona press ) , 1253 barnes , s. 2007 , , in press beichman , c. a. et al .  2005a , , 622 , 1160 beichman , c. a. et al .",
    "2005b , , 626 , 1061 beichman , c. a. et al .",
    "2006a , , 639 , 1166 beichman , c. a. et al .  2006b , , 652 , 1674 bessell , m. s. , castelli , f. , & plez , b. 1998 , a&a , 333 , 231 bouchet , p. , schmider , f. x. , & manfroid , j. 1991 , a&as , 91 , 409 bryden , g.  et al .",
    "2006 , , 636 , 1098 bryden , g. et al .  2007 , , submitted burgasser , a. j. , kirkpatrick , j. d. , reid , i. n. , brown , m. e. , miskey , c. l. , & gizis , j. e. 2003 , , 586 , 512 butler , r. p. et al .",
    "2006 , , 646 , 505 carpenter , j. m. 2001 , aj , 121 , 2851 carney , b. & aaronson , m. 1979 , aj , 84 , 867 cayrel de strobel , g. , soubiran , c. , & ralite , n. 2001 , a&a , 373 , 159 chen , c. h. et al .",
    "2006 , , 166 , 351 decin , g. , dominik , c. , malfait , k. , mayor , m. , & waelkens , c. 2000 , a&a , 357 , 533 decin , g. , dominik , c. , waters , l. b. f. m. , & waelkens , c. 2003 , , 598 , 626 drilling , j.  s.  & landolt , a.  u.  2000 , in allen s astrophysical quantities ( fourth edition ) , ed .",
    "a.  n.  cox ( new york : springer - verlag ) , 381 engelbracht , c. w. et al .  2007a , pasp , in press ( arxiv 0704.2195 ) favata , f. , barbera , m. , micela , g. , & sciortino , s. 1993 , a&a , 277 , 428 fischer , d. a , & valenti , j. 2005 , , 622 , 1102 gautier , t. n. et al .",
    "2007 , , in press glass , i. 1974 , mnssa , 33 , 53 glass , i. 1975 , mnras , 171 , 19 gonzalaz , g. , laws , c. , tyagi , s. , & reddy , b. e. 2001 , , 121 , 432 gordon , k. d. et al .",
    "2005 , pasp , 117 , 503 gordon , k. d. et al .",
    "2007 , pasp , in press ( arxiv 0704.2196 ) gorlova , n. , rieke , g. h. , muzerolle , j. , stauffer , j. r. , siegler , n. young , e. t. , & stansberry , j. a. 2006 , , 649 , 1028 haas , m. & leinert , ch .",
    "1990 , a&a , 230 , 87 habing , h. j. et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 , 545 hatzes , a. p. et al .",
    "2000 , , 544 , l145 haywood , m. 2001 , , 325 , 1365 johnson , h. l. , iriarte , b. , mitchell , r. i. , & wisniewski , w. z. 1966 , comm lpl , 4 , 99 johnson , h. l. et al .  1968 , , 152 , 465 jourdain de muizon , m. et al",
    ".  1999 , a&a , 350 , 875 jura , m. et al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 453 lee , m. h. , butler , r. p. , fischer , d. a. , marcy , g. w. , & vogt , s. s. 2006 , , 641 , 1178 lisse , c. m. , beichman , c. a. , bryden , g. , & wyatt , m. c. 2007 , , 658 , 584 lovis , c. et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 441 , 305 marsakov , v. a. & shevelev , y. g. 1995 , bulletin dinformation du centre de donnees stellaires , 47 , 13 mayor , m. , udry , s. , naef , d. , pepe , f. , queloz , d. , santos , n. c. , & burnet , m. 2004 , a&a , 415 , 391 mcgregor , p. 1994 , pasp , 106 , 508 mor , a. , brahm , p. , derekas , a. , kiss , c. , kiss , l.  l. , apai , d. , grady , c. , & henning , t. 2006 , , 644 , 525 mould , j. & hyland , a. r. 1976 , apj , 208 , 399 nordstrom , b.  et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 419 , 989 perryman , m.  a.  c.  et al .",
    "1997 , 323 , l49 persson , s. e. , aaronson , m. , & frogel , j. a. 1977 , aj , 82 , 729 rieke , g.  h. et al .  2004 , , 154 , 25 rieke , g. h. et al .  2005 , , 620 , 1010 santos , n. c. , israelian , g. , & mayor , m. 2001 , a&a , 373 , 1019 siegler , n. , muzerolle , j. , young , e. t. , rieke , g. h. , mamajek , e. e. , trilling , d. e. , gorlova , n. , & su , k. y. l. 2007 , , 654 , 580 skrutskie , m.  f.  et al",
    "2006 , , 131 , 1163 sousa , s. g. , santos , n. c. , israelian , g. , mayor , m. , & monteiro , m. j. p. f.",
    "g. 2006 , a&a , 458 , 873 spangler , c. , sargent , a. i. , silverstone , m. d. , becklin , e. e. , & zuckerman , b. 2001 , , 555 , 932 stapelfeldt , k.  r. et al .",
    "2006 , baas , 209 , # 13.05 stencel , r. e. & backman , d. e. 1991 , , 75 , 905 su , k. y. l. et al .  2006 , , 653 , 675 teplitz , v.  l. , stern , s.  a. , anderson , j.  d. , rosenbaum , d. , scalise , r.  j. , & wentzler , p. 1999",
    ", , 516 , 425 tokunaga , a.  t.  2000 , in allen s astrophysical quantities ( fourth edition ) , ed .",
    "a.  n.  cox ( new york : springer - verlag ) , 143 trilling , d. e. et al .",
    "2007 , , 658 , 1289 udry , s. , fischer , d. , & queloz , d. 2007 , in protostars and planets v , eds .",
    "b. reipurth et al .",
    "( tucson : university of arizona press ) , 685 valenti , j. & fischer , d. a. 2005 , , 159 , 141 veeder , g. , 1974 , aj , 79 , 1056 vogt , s.  s. , butler , r.  p. , marcy , g.  w. , fischer , d.  a. , henry , g.  w. , laughlin , g. , wright , j.  t. , & johnson , j.  a. 2005 , , 632 , 638 werner , m. w. et al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 1    llrrrrl 63 & f5 & 7.15 & 50.48 & 2.9 & -0.08 & m + 142 & g1iv & 5.70 & 25.64 & 2.88 & 0.04 & ca + 166 & k0v & 6.13 & 13.70 & 5.01 & -0.30 & ca + 693 & f5v & 4.89 & 18.89 & 5.16 & -0.34 & ca + 1237 & g6v & 6.7 & 17.62 & 2.75 & 0.10 & ca + 1539 & f5 & 7.03 & 46.32 & 2.9 & 0.03 & m + 1581 & f9v & 4.20 & 8.59 & 3.02 & -0.10 & ca + 3126 & f2 & 6.92 & 41.51 & 3.5 & -0.22 & m + 3296 & f5 & 6.61 & 47.19 & 2.5 & 0.01 & m + 3302 & f6v & 5.52 & 36.22 & 7.76 & -0.02 & m + 3651 & k0v & 5.80 & 11.11 & 5.89 & 0.26 & hy + 3795 & g3v & 6.14 & 28.56 & 7.24 & -0.73 & ca + 3823 & g1v & 5.88 & 25.47 & 5.50 & -0.35 & ca + 3861 & f5 & 6.53 & 33.34 & 3.4 & 0.03 & m + 4307 & g2v & 6.15 & 31.86 & 7.76 & -0.36 & ca + 4628 & k2v & 5.75 & 7.46 & 8.13 & -0.29 & ca + 7570 & f8v & 4.96 & 15.05 & 4.33 & 0.08 & ca + 8070 & f2 & 6.66 & 48.69 & 2.5 & -0.20 & m + 8574 & f8 & 7.8 & 44.15 & 7.24 & -0.23 & m + 9826 & f8v & 4.09 & 13.47 & 6.31 & -0.03 & ca + 10476 & k1v & 5.20 & 7.47 & 4.57 & -0.20 & ca + 10647 & f9v & 5.52 & 17.35 & 6.3 & -0.11 & m + 10697 & g5iv & 6.29 & 32.56 & 7.41 & 0.10 & ca + 10800 & g2v & 5.89 & 27.13 & 7.37 & 0.03 & m + 13445 & k1v & 6.17 & 10.95 & 5.56 & -0.21 & ca + 13555 & f5v & 5.24 & 30.13 & 2.74 & -0.18 & ca + 14412 & g5v & 6.34 & 12.42 & 3.31 & -0.53 & ca + 14802 & g2v & 5.19 & 21.93 & 6.76 & 0.00 & ca + 15335 & g0v & 5.91 & 30.79 & 7.76 & -0.22 & ca + 15798 & f5v & 4.75 & 25.82 & 3.16 & -0.30 & ca + 16160 & k3v & 5.82 & 7.21 & 5.4 & -0.04 & hy + 17051 & g0v & 5.40 & 17.24 & 2.43 & -0.04 & ca + 17925 & k1v & 6.00 & 10.38 & 0.19 & -0.15 & ca + 19373 & g0v & 4.05 & 10.53 & 5.89 & 0.03 & ca + 19994 & f8v & 5.06 & 22.38 & 3.55 & 0.09 & ca + 20367 & g0 & 6.41 & 27.13 & & -0.01 & m + 20630 & g5ve & 4.83 & 9.16 & 0.29 & -0.01 & ca + 20766 & g2v & 5.54 & 12.12 & 5.20 & -0.20 & ca + 20807 & g1v & 5.24 & 12.08 & 7.88 & -0.20 & ca + 22484 & f8v & 4.28 & 16.84 & 8.32 & 0.00 & ca + 23079 & g0v & 7.1 & 34.6 & 7.89 & -0.12 & m + 23596 & f8 & 7.24 & 51.98 & & 0.04 & m + 26923 & g0iv & 6.33 & 21.19 & & 0.17 & ca + 27442 & k2iva & 4.44 & 18.23 & 6.6 & 0.22 & ca + 28185 & g5 & 7.81 & 39.56 & 3.45 & 0.25 & so + 30495 & g1v & 5.50 & 13.32 & 1.32 & 0.10 & ca + 30652 & f6v & 3.19 & 8.03 & 1.55 & 0.01 & m + 33262 & f7v & 4.72 & 11.65 & 3.52 & -0.23 & ca + 33564 & f6v & 5.10 & 20.98 & 3.48 & -0.11 & m + 33636 & g0 & 7.06 & 28.69 & 3.24 & -0.14 & m + 34411 & g1.5iv - v & 4.70 & 12.65 & 6.76 & -0.08 & ca + 34721 & g0v & 5.96 & 24.93 & 6.17 & -0.25 & ca + 35296 & f8ve & 5.00 & 14.66 & 3.76 & 0.00 & ca + 37394 & k1ve & 6.23 & 12.09 & 0.49 & -0.20 & ca + 39091 & g1v & 5.67 & 18.21 & 5.609 & 0.04 & m + 40979 & f8 & 6.75 & 148.37 & & -0.03 & m + 43162 & g5v & 6.37 & 16.69 & 0.37 & -0.16 & hy + 43834 & g6v & 5.09 & 10.15 & 7.61 & 0.00 & ca + 50554 & f8v & 6.86 & 31.03 & 4.68 & -0.12 & m + 50692 & g0v & 5.76 & 17.27 & 4.47 & -0.11 & m + 52265 & g0 & 6.30 & 28.07 & 6.03 & 0.21 & ca + 52711 & g4v & 5.93 & 19.09 & 4.77 & -0.16 & ca + 55575 & g0v & 5.55 & 16.86 & 4.57 & -0.28 & ca + 57703 & f2 & 6.78 & 44.09 & 2.3 & -0.07 & m + 58855 & f6v & 5.37 & 19.90 & 3.6 & -0.31 & ca + 60912 & f5 & 6.91 & 46.43 & 2.9 & -0.04 & m + 62613 & g8v & 6.56 & 17.04 & 3.09 & -0.20 & hy + 63333 & f5 & 7.11 & 43.07 & 5.5 & -0.39 & ca + 68456 & f5v & 4.76 & 21.39 & 2.43 & -0.36 & ca + 69830 & k0v & 5.95 & 12.58 & 4.68 & -0.03 & ca + 69897 & f6v & 5.10 & 15.67 & 3.55 & -0.26 & ca + 70843 & f5 & 7.04 & 46.53 & 1.6 & -0.01 & m + 71148 & g5v & 6.30 & 21.79 & 4.68 & 0.07 & m + 71640 & f5 & 7.41 & 44.92 & 5.7 & -0.09 & m + 72905 & g1.5v & 5.65 & 13.85 & 0.42 & -0.08 & ca + 75616 & f5 & 6.99 & 35.61 & 4.8 & -0.17 & m + 75732 & g8v & 5.95 & 12.53 & 6.46 & 0.40 & ca + 76151 & g3v & 6.00 & 11.29 & 1.84 & -0.02 & ca + 77967 & f0 & 6.60 & 40.7 & 3.5 & -0.37 & m + 79392 & f2 & 6.760 & 50.53 & 1.8 & -0.24 & m + 80218 & f5 & 6.629 & 39.20 & 6.4 & -0.28 & ca + 82943 & g0 & 6.54 & 27.46 & 4.07 & 0.32 & ca + 83451 & f5 & 7.14 & 48.47 & 3.8 & -0.14 & m + 83525 & f5 & 6.91 & 48.38 & 5.3 & -0.06 & m + 84117 & g0v & 4.94 & 14.88 & 4.24 & -0.14 & m + 84737 & g0.5va & 5.10 & 18.43 & 11.75 & 0.04 & ca + 86147 & f5 & 6.72 & 45.11 & 2.8 & 0.03 & m + 88230 & k2ve & 6.61 & 4.69 & 4.68 & -0.93 & ce + 88984 & f5 & 7.30 & 51.39 & 4.4 & -0.29 & m + 90839 & f8v & 4.83 & 12.82 & 3.39 & -0.18 & ca + 93081 & f5 & 7.11 & 51.36 & 3.5 & -0.23 & m + 94388 & f6v & 5.24 & 31.34 & 3.16 & 0.07 & ca + 95128 & g0v & 5.10 & 13.91 & 6.03 & 0.01 & ca + 99126 & f5 & 6.96 & 47.37 & 5.7 & -0.16 & m + 100067 & f5 & 7.30 & 40.77 & 5.4 & -0.34 & m + 101259 & g6/8v & 6.42 & 64.72 & 10.96 & -0.60 & vf + 101501 & g8ve & 5.32 & 9.54 & 1.12 & 0.03 & ca + 102438 & g5v & 6.48 & 17.77 & & -0.36 & hy + 102870 & f9v & 3.61 & 10.90 & 4.47 & 0.20 & ca + 103773 & f5 & 6.87 & 49.95 & 2.4 & 0.06 & m + 104731 & f6v & 5.15 & 24.20 & 1.83 & -0.21 & ca + 104985 & g9iii & 5.80 & 102.04 & & -0.18 & m + 105912 & f5 & 6.95 & 50.25 & 1.8 & -0.04 & m + 109756 & f5 & 6.98 & 46.55 & 3.4 & -0.22 & m + 110897 & g0v & 6.00 & 17.37 & 9.7 & -0.59 & ca + 111395 & g7v & 6.31 & 17.17 & 1.23 & 0.18 & hy + 111545 & f5 & 6.9 & 48.45 & 1.7 & -0.02 & m + 112164 & g1v & 5.89 & 39.73 & 3.43 & 0.24 & ca + 114613 & g3v & 4.85 & 20.48 & 5.27 & 0.16 & vf + 114710 & f9.5v & 4.26 & 9.15 & 2.29 & 0.06 & ca + 114729 & g3v & 6.69 & 35.00 & 6.76 & -0.26 & fv + 114783 & k0v & 7.57 & 20.43 & 4.37 & -0.11 & hy + 115383 & g0v & 5.22 & 17.95 & 0.40 & 0.04 & ca + 115617 & g5v & 4.74 & 8.53 & 6.31 & -0.03 & ca + 117043 & g6 & 6.50 & 21.34 & & 0.22 & hy + 117176 & g5v & 5.00 & 18.11 & 5.37 & -0.09 & ca + 118972 & k1 & 6.93 & 15.60 & & -0.03 & hy + 120005 & f5 & 6.50 & 44.92 & 2.9 & 0.05 & m + 120136 & f7v & 4.50 & 13.51 & 1.91 & 0.30 & ca + 120690 & g5v & 6.45 & 19.92 & 2.24 & -0.11 & ca + 122862 & g2.5iv & 6.02 & 28.68 & 6.11 & -0.11 & m + 123691 & f2 & 6.80 & 50.89 & 1.5 & -0.09 & m + 126660 & f7v & 4.10 & 14.57 & 2.76 & -0.05 & ca + 127334 & g5v & 6.40 & 23.57 & 6.92 & 0.05 & ca + 128311 & k0 & 7.51 & 16.57 & & 0.08 & hy + 130460 & f5 & 7.23 & 48.31 & 3.5 & -0.03 & m + 130948 & g2v & 5.88 & 17.94 & 0.87 & 0.20 & ca + 133002 & f9v & 5.64 & 43.33 & 2.459 & & + 134083 & f5v & 4.93 & 19.72 & 1.73 & 0.00 & ca + 134987 & g5v & 6.45 & 25.65 & 7.76 & 0.36 & ca + 136064 & f8v & 5.10 & 25.31 & 4.64 & -0.10 & ca + 136118 & f8 & 6.94 & 52.27 & & -0.15 & m + 141128 & f5 & 7.01 & 51.02 & 3 & -0.24 & m + 142373 & f9v & 4.62 & 15.85 & 8.13 & -0.40 & ca + 142860 & f6iv & 3.85 & 11.12 & 2.88 & -0.13 & ca + 143105 & f5 & 6.76 & 46.08 & 3.3 & -0.10 & m + 143761 & g0v & 5.40 & 17.43 & 7.41 & -0.26 & ca + 145675 & k0v & 6.67 & 18.15 & 6.92 & 0.50 & ca + 146233 & g1v & 5.50 & 15.36 & 4.57 & 0.05 & ca + 149661 & k2v & 5.76 & 9.78 & 1.17 & 0.00 & hy + 152391 & g8v & 6.64 & 16.94 & 0.58 & -0.18 & hy + 154088 & g8iv - v & 6.59 & 18.08 & 5.89 & 0.30 & hy + 157214 & g2v & 5.40 & 13.57 & 6.46 & -0.41 & ca + 160691 & g3iv - v & 5.15 & 15.28 & 6.67 & 0.16 & ca + 166620 & k2v & 6.37 & 11.10 & 5.01 & 0.07 & hy + 168151 & f5v & 5.03 & 23.50 & 2.53 & -0.17 & ca + 168443 & g5v & 6.92 & 37.88 & 8.51 & 0.10 & go + 169830 & f8 & 5.91 & 36.32 & 7.24 & 0.13 & ca + 171886 & f5 & 7.18 & 49.65 & 3.7 & -0.33 & m + 173667 & f6v & 4.20 & 19.09 & 3.39 & -0.01 & ca + 176441 & f5 & 7.08 & 44.72 & 3.7 & -0.27 & m + 177830 & k0 & 7.18 & 59.03 & 8.5 & 0.36 & go + 181321 & g5v & 6.49 & 20.86 & 0.5 & & + 181655 & g8v & 6.31 & 25.23 & 4.57 & 0.02 & vf + 185144 & k0v & 4.70 & 5.61 & 3.24 & -0.14 & hy + 186408 & g1.5v & 5.96 & 21.62 & 10.4 & 0.08 & ca + 186427 & g3v & 6.20 & 21.41 & 7.41 & 0.08 & ca + 188376 & g5v : & 4.70 & 23.79 & 4.47 & -0.13 & ca + 189567 & g2v & 6.07 & 17.71 & & -0.30 & ca + 190007 & k4v & 7.48 & 13.11 & 1.5 & & + 190248 & g7iv & 3.56 & 6.11 & & 0.32 & ca + 191408 & k3v & 5.31 & 6.05 & 7.88 & -0.58 & ca + 193664 & g3v & 5.93 & 17.57 & 4.7 & -0.18 & m + 196050 & g3v & 7.6 & 46.93 & & 0.23 & fv + 196378 & f8v & 5.12 & 24.20 & 6.02 & -0.30 & ca + 196761 & g8v & 6.37 & 14.65 & 4.27 & -0.60 & hy + 197692 & f5v & 4.15 & 14.67 & 1.94 & 0.04 & ca + 200433 & f5 & 6.92 & 48.36 & 1.4 & -0.09 & m + 202884 & f5 & 7.27 & 42.05 & 5.2 & -0.29 & m + 203608 & f8v & 4.22 & 9.22 & 10.196 & -0.64 & ca + 206860 & g0v & 6.00 & 18.39 & 5.00 & -0.20 & ca + 207129 & g0v & 5.58 & 15.64 & 5.76 & -0.15 & ca + 209100 & k4.5v & 4.69 & 3.63 & 1.38 & 0.04 & ca + 210277 & g0v & 6.63 & 21.29 & 6.76 & 0.22 & ca + 210302 & f6v & 4.92 & 18.74 & 5.37 & 0.06 & ca + 210918 & g5v & 6.26 & 22.13 & 3.85 & -0.18 & ca + 212330 & g3iv & 5.31 & 20.49 & 7.94 & 0.00 & ca + 212695 & f5 & 6.95 & 51.10 & 2.3 & -0.05 & m + 213240 & g0v & 6.80 & 40.75 & 2.77 & 0.04 & m + 216345 & g8iii & 10.21 & 100 & & & + 216437 & g2.5iv & 6.06 & 26.52 & 7.15 & 0.10 & ca + 216803 & k4v & 6.48 & 7.64 & 0.2 & 0.07 & sa + 217014 & g4v & 5.49 & 17.12 & 7.41 & 0.05 & ca + 217813 & g5 & 6.66 & 24.27 & 0.71 & -0.07 & m + 219134 & k3v & 5.56 & 6.53 & & 0.20 & hy + 219983 & f2 & 6.67 & 47.71 & 4.7 & -0.27 & m + 220182 & k1 & 7.36 & 21.92 & 0.26 & 0.01 & hy + 221420 & g2v & 5.82 & 31.76 & 5.52 & 0.37 & so + 222143 & g5 & 6.58 & 23.12 & & 0.08 & hy + 222368 & f7v & 4.13 & 13.79 & 3.93 & -0.18 & ca + 222404 & k1iv & 3.23 & 13.79 & & -0.05 & ca + 222582 & g3v & 7.70 & 41.95 & 6.63 & 0.02 & go + 225239 & g2v & 6.10 & 36.79 & & -0.50 & ca +    lrrrr 63 & 48 & 355 & 17346304 & 30211 + 142 & 0 & 1090 & 12715008 & 41 + 142 & 48 & 355 & 4082176 & 41 + 166 & 48 & 440 & 4030720 & 41 + 693 & 48 & 440 & 4030976 & 41 + 1237 & 48 & 1300 & 4060672 & 41 + 1539 & 48 & 231 & 17343232 & 30211 + 1581 & 48 & 126 & 4031232 & 41 + 3126 & 48 & 231 & 17337600 & 30211 + 3296 & 48 & 132 & 17340672 & 30211 + 3302 & 48 & 440 & 4031488 & 41 + 3651 & 48 & 231 & 4031744 & 41 + 3795 & 48 & 650 & 4032000 & 41 + 3823 & 48 & 440 & 4032256 & 41 + 3861 & 48 & 107 & 17335552 & 30211 + 4307 & 48 & 650 & 4032512 & 41 + 4628 & 48 & 126 & 4032768 & 41 + 7570 & 48 & 231 & 4033024 & 41 + 8070 & 48 & 231 & 17341696 & 30211 + 8574 & 0 & 1007 & 4005376 & 41 + 8574 & 92 & 2181 & 8775936 & 41 + 9826 & 48 & 231 & 4033280 & 41 + 10476 & 48 & 126 & 4033536 & 41 + 10647 & 136 & 336 & 7865856 & 717 + 10697 & 48 & 881 & 4033792 & 41 + 10800 & 48 & 440 & 4034048 & 41 + 13445 & 48 & 126 & 4034304 & 41 + 13555 & 48 & 440 & 4034560 & 41 + 14412 & 48 & 881 & 4034816 & 41 + 14802 & 48 & 126 & 4035072 & 41 + 15335 & 48 & 650 & 4035328 & 41 + 15798 & 48 & 440 & 4035584 & 41 + 16160 & 48 & 231 & 4035840 & 41 + 17051 & 48 & 355 & 4036096 & 41 + 17925 & 48 & 126 & 4036352 & 41 + 19373 & 48 & 126 & 4036608 & 41 + 19994 & 48 & 440 & 4080640 & 41 + 20367 & 48 & 1300 & 12711936 & 41 + 20630 & 48 & 126 & 4036864 & 41 + 20766 & 48 & 231 & 4037120 & 41 + 20807 & 48 & 440 & 4037376 & 41 + 22484 & 48 & 231 & 4006400 & 41 + 23079 & 48 & 2181 & 4080384 & 41 + 23596 & 48 & 2181 & 12711168 & 41 + 26923 & 48 & 1300 & 4060928 & 41 + 27442 & 48 & 126 & 4081152 & 41 + 28185 & 136 & 2181 & 4005632 & 41 + 30495 & 48 & 231 & 4037632 & 41 + 30652 & 48 & 231 & 4037888 & 41 + 33262 & 48 & 126 & 4038144 & 41 + 33564 & 48 & 231 & 4038400 & 41 + 33636 & 0 & 1300 & 4059136 & 41 + 33636 & 48 & 2181 & 8777728 & 41 + 34411 & 48 & 126 & 4038656 & 41 + 34721 & 48 & 650 & 4038912 & 41 + 35296 & 48 & 231 & 4061184 & 41 + 37394 & 48 & 126 & 4039168 & 41 + 39091 & 48 & 355 & 4039424 & 41 + 40979 & 48 & 2181 & 12711680 & 41 + 43162 & 48 & 1007 & 4039680 & 41 + 43834 & 48 & 126 & 4039936 & 41 + 50554 & 0 & 1300 & 4080128 & 41 + 50554 & 48 & 2181 & 8775680 & 41 + 50692 & 48 & 440 & 4040192 & 41 + 52265 & 0 & 1090 & 12715776 & 41 + 52265 & 48 & 1090 & 4062976 & 41 + 52711 & 48 & 440 & 4040448 & 41 + 55575 & 48 & 355 & 4040704 & 41 + 57703 & 48 & 231 & 17338880 & 30211 + 58855 & 48 & 355 & 4040960 & 41 + 60912 & 48 & 231 & 17342976 & 30211 + 62613 & 48 & 1090 & 4041216 & 41 + 63333 & 48 & 231 & 17338112 & 30211 + 68456 & 48 & 231 & 4041472 & 41 + 69830 & 48 & 355 & 4041728 & 41 + 69897 & 48 & 231 & 4006144 & 41 + 70843 & 48 & 231 & 17344000 & 30211 + 71148 & 48 & 881 & 4041984 & 41 + 71640 & 48 & 355 & 17346560 & 30211 + 72905 & 48 & 355 & 4042240 & 41 + 75616 & 48 & 231 & 17336064 & 30211 + 75732 & 48 & 440 & 4042496 & 41 + 76151 & 48 & 545 & 4042752 & 41 + 77967 & 48 & 126 & 17336832 & 30211 + 79392 & 48 & 231 & 17342720 & 30211 + 80218 & 48 & 107 & 17336576 & 30211 + 82943 & 48 & 1636 & 4063232 & 41 + 83451 & 48 & 231 & 17342464 & 30211 + 83525 & 48 & 231 & 17341952 & 30211 + 84117 & 48 & 126 & 4043008 & 41 + 84737 & 48 & 231 & 4043264 & 41 + 86147 & 48 & 132 & 17340416 & 30211 + 88230 & 48 & 231 & 4043776 & 41 + 88984 & 48 & 355 & 17347840 & 30211 + 90839 & 48 & 231 & 4006656 & 41 + 93081 & 48 & 355 & 17345024 & 30211 + 94388 & 48 & 440 & 4044032 & 41 + 95128 & 48 & 231 & 4044288 & 41 + 99126 & 48 & 231 & 17341440 & 30211 + 100067 & 48 & 355 & 17337088 & 30211 + 101259 & 48 & 1090 & 4044544 & 41 + 101501 & 48 & 231 & 4044800 & 41 + 102438 & 48 & 1090 & 4045056 & 41 + 102870 & 48 & 126 & 4045312 & 41 + 103773 & 48 & 231 & 17340928 & 30211 + 104731 & 48 & 440 & 4045824 & 41 + 104985 & 48 & 440 & 12712192 & 41 + 105912 & 48 & 355 & 17345280 & 30211 + 109756 & 48 & 231 & 17342208 & 30211 + 110897 & 48 & 755 & 4046080 & 41 + 111395 & 48 & 755 & 4046336 & 41 + 111545 & 48 & 355 & 17344768 & 30211 + 112164 & 48 & 440 & 4046592 & 41 + 114613 & 48 & 355 & 4046848 & 41 + 114710 & 48 & 126 & 4047104 & 41 + 114729 & 48 & 1510 & 4084480 & 41 + 114783 & 48 & 2181 & 4055552 & 41 + 115383 & 48 & 231 & 4047360 & 41 + 115617 & 0 & 1321 & 12712960 & 41 + 115617 & 48 & 126 & 4047616 & 41 + 117043 & 48 & 1007 & 4047872 & 41 + 117176 & 0 & 440 & 12716800 & 41 + 117176 & 48 & 126 & 4048128 & 41 + 118972 & 48 & 440 & 4048384 & 41 + 120005 & 48 & 107 & 17339648 & 30211 + 120136 & 48 & 126 & 4048640 & 41 + 120690 & 48 & 1090 & 4048896 & 41 + 122862 & 48 & 545 & 4049152 & 41 + 123691 & 48 & 355 & 17344512 & 30211 + 126660 & 48 & 126 & 4006912 & 41 + 127334 & 48 & 1007 & 4049408 & 41 + 128311 & 0 & 1090 & 4083456 & 41 + 128311 & 48 & 2181 & 8776192 & 41 + 130460 & 48 & 355 & 17347584 & 30211 + 130948 & 48 & 440 & 4049664 & 41 + 133002 & 48 & 440 & 4049920 & 41 + 134083 & 48 & 231 & 4050176 & 41 + 134987 & 48 & 1090 & 4050432 & 41 + 136064 & 48 & 231 & 4050688 & 41 + 136118 & 92 & 2181 & 12712448 & 41 + 141128 & 48 & 355 & 17345792 & 30211 + 142373 & 48 & 126 & 4050944 & 41 + 142860 & 48 & 126 & 4051200 & 41 + 143105 & 48 & 132 & 17340160 & 30211 + 143761 & 48 & 355 & 4051456 & 41 + 145675 & 48 & 1007 & 4051712 & 41 + 146233 & 48 & 231 & 4081664 & 41 + 149661 & 48 & 126 & 4051968 & 41 + 152391 & 48 & 1300 & 4061440 & 41 + 154088 & 48 & 1300 & 4061696 & 41 + 157214 & 48 & 231 & 4007168 & 41 + 160691 & 48 & 126 & 4061952 & 41 + 166620 & 48 & 231 & 4052224 & 41 + 168151 & 48 & 355 & 4052480 & 41 + 168443 & 48 & 126 & 4052736 & 41 + 169830 & 48 & 545 & 4063488 & 41 + 171886 & 48 & 355 & 17346048 & 30211 + 173667 & 48 & 126 & 4052992 & 41 + 176441 & 48 & 355 & 17339392 & 30211 + 177830 & 48 & 2181 & 4053248 & 41 + 181321 & 48 & 1300 & 4062208 & 41 + 181655 & 48 & 755 & 4053504 & 41 + 185144 & 48 & 126 & 4053760 & 41 + 186408 & 48 & 755 & 4054016 & 41 + 186427 & 48 & 755 & 4054016 & 41 + 188376 & 48 & 126 & 4054272 & 41 + 189567 & 48 & 545 & 4054528 & 41 + 190007 & 48 & 1007 & 4082432 & 41 + 190248 & 48 & 126 & 4054784 & 41 + 191408 & 48 & 126 & 4055040 & 41 + 193664 & 48 & 440 & 4055296 & 41 + 196050 & 48 & 2181 & 12711424 & 41 + 196378 & 48 & 231 & 4055808 & 41 + 196761 & 48 & 881 & 4056064 & 41 + 197692 & 48 & 126 & 4056320 & 41 + 200433 & 48 & 231 & 17343744 & 30211 + 202884 & 48 & 355 & 17347328 & 30211 + 203608 & 48 & 126 & 4056576 & 41 + 206860 & 48 & 650 & 4056832 & 41 + 207129 & 48 & 126 & 4057088 & 41 + 209100 & 48 & 126 & 4057344 & 41 + 210277 & 48 & 1950 & 4057600 & 41 + 210302 & 48 & 231 & 4057856 & 41 + 210918 & 48 & 755 & 4058112 & 41 + 212330 & 48 & 231 & 4058368 & 41 + 212695 & 48 & 231 & 17343488 & 30211 + 213240 & 0 & 355 & 4080896 & 41 + 213240 & 48 & 2181 & 8776448 & 41 + 216345 & 48 & 881 & 12712704 & 41 + 216437 & 48 & 545 & 4083968 & 41 + 216803 & 48 & 440 & 4058624 & 41 + 217014 & 48 & 231 & 4058880 & 41 + 217813 & 48 & 1510 & 4062464 & 41 + 219134 & 48 & 231 & 4059392 & 41 + 219983 & 48 & 107 & 17339904 & 30211 + 220182 & 48 & 1007 & 4062720 & 41 + 221420 & 48 & 440 & 4059648 & 41 + 222143 & 48 & 1090 & 4059904 & 41 + 222368 & 48 & 231 & 4060160 & 41 + 222404 & 48 & 231 & 12710912 & 41 + 222582 & 92 & 2181 & 4005888 & 41 + 225239 & 48 & 650 & 4060416 & 41 +    lccccccccc 63 & 7.13 & 6.01 & 29 & 28 & 1.02 & 6 & 3 & 3 & 0.86 + 142 & 5.70 & 4.47 & 122 & 117 & 1.05 & 28 & 6 & 13 & 2.60 + 166 & 6.07 & 4.31 & 158 & 138 & 1.15 & 104 & 4 & 15 & 22.57 + 693 & 4.89 & 3.617 & 255 & 252 & 1.01 & 39 & 4 & 28 & 2.95 + 1237 & 6.59 & 4.86 & 82 & 83 & 1.00 & 11 & 2 & 9 & 0.89 + 1539 & 7.03 & 5.82 & 34 & 33 & 1.01 & -0.1 & 3 & 4 & -1.19 + 1581 & 4.23 & 2.77 & 546 & 558 & 0.98 & 84 & 6 & 60 & 4.06 + 3126 & 6.9 & 5.75 & 41 & 35 & 1.16 & 108 & 3 & 4 & 35.58 + 3296 & 6.72 & 5.59 & 42 & 41 & 1.02 & 24 & 3 & 5 & 6.81 + 3302 & 5.51 & 4.50 & 120 & 112 & 1.07 & 10 & 5 & 13 & -0.63 + 3651 & 5.88 & 4.00 & 191 & 184 & 1.04 & 16 & 6 & 21 & -0.92 + 3795 & 6.14 & 4.33 & 135 & 133 & 1.01 & 19 & 2 & 15 & 1.60 + 3823 & 5.89 & 4.49 & 114 & 115 & 0.99 & 14 & 4 & 13 & 0.22 + 3861 & 6.52 & 5.28 & 54 & 55 & 0.98 & 4 & 3 & 6 & -0.54 + 4307 & 6.15 & 4.62 & 101 & 102 & 0.99 & 10 & 4 & 11 & -0.28 + 4628 & 5.74 & 3.566 & 278 & 275 & 1.01 & 26 & 10 & 31 & -0.44 + 7570 & 4.97 & 3.50 & 255 & 284 & 0.90 & 44 & 7 & 28 & 2.46 + 8070 & 6.65 & 5.61 & 39 & 40 & 0.97 & 2 & 3 & 4 & -0.92 + 8574 & 7.12 & 5.78 & 34 & 35 & 0.98 & 3 & 2 & 4 & -0.44 + 9826 & 4.10 & 2.86 & 527 & 513 & 1.03 & 55 & 5 & 58 & -0.64 + 10476 & 5.24 & 3.24 & 360 & 371 & 0.97 & 53 & 8 & 40 & 1.70 + 10647 & 5.52 & 4.17 & 187 & 154 & 1.21 & 859 & 6 & 17 & 136.40 + 10697 & 6.27 & 4.60 & 100 & 105 & 0.95 & 1 & 5 & 11 &",
    "-2.11 + 10800 & 5.88 & 4.41 & 124 & 125 & 1.00 & 14 & 3 & 14 & -0.01 + 13445 & 6.12 & 4.13 & 163 & 164 & 0.99 & 5 & 7 & 18 & -1.79 + 13555 & 5.23 & 4.12 & 167 & 160 & 1.05 & 19 & 5 & 18 & 0.26 + 14412 & 6.33 & 4.55 & 112 & 110 & 1.02 & 14 & 2 & 12 & 0.97 + 14802 & 5.19 & 3.68 & 259 & 242 & 1.07 & 36 & 6 & 28 & 1.15 + 15335 & 5.89 & 4.48 & 120 & 116 & 1.04 & 8 & 4 & 13 & -1.21 + 15798 & 4.74 & 3.56 & 267 & 267 & 1.00 & 22 & 5 & 29 & -1.49 + 16160 & 5.79 & 3.44 & 311 & 311 & 1.00 & 35 & 6 & 34 & 0.28 + 17051 & 5.40 & 4.14 & 167 & 159 & 1.05 & 22 & 3 & 18 & 1.34 + 17925 & 6.05 & 4.02 & 191 & 182 & 1.05 & 71 & 5 & 21 & 9.14 + 19373 & 4.05 & 2.65 & 626 & 626 & 1.00 & 57 & 7 & 69 & -1.59 + 19994 & 5.07 & & 241 & & & 43 & 4 & 26 & 4.25 + 20367 & 6.40 & 5.04 & 67 & 69 & 0.97 & 9 & 4 & 7 & 0.56 + 20630 & 4.84 & 3.24 & 355 & 366 & 0.97 & 42 & 7 & 39 & 0.43 + 20766 & 5.53 & 3.99 & 189 & 183 & 1.03 & 30 & 4 & 21 & 2.16 + 20807 & 5.24 & 3.77 & 233 & 223 & 1.05 & 46 & 4 & 26 & 5.44 + 22484 & 4.29 & 2.88 & 514 & 504 & 1.02 & 108 & 5 & 56 & 9.58 + 23079 & 7.12 & 5.71 & 37 & 37 & 0.98 & 5 & 1 & 4 & 0.95 + 23596 & 7.25 & 5.87 & 33 & 32 & 1.02 & 4 & 4 & 4 & 0.058 + 26923 & 6.32 & 4.90 & 76 & 78 & 0.97 & 7 & 3 & 8 & -0.57 + 27442 & 4.44 & 1.93 & 1148 & 1248 & 0.92 & 136 & 5 & 126 & 1.82 + 28185 & 7.80 & 6.19 & 23 & 24 & 0.94 & 1 & 5 & 3 & -0.31 + 30495 & 5.49 & 4.00 & 191 & 181 & 1.06 & 116 & 4 & 21 & 26.58 + 30652 & 3.19 & 2.05 & 1060 & 1071 & 0.99 & 118 & 5 & 116 & 0.38 + 33262 & 4.71 & 3.39 & 325 & 315 & 1.03 & 61 & 5 & 36 & 4.83 + 33564 & 5.08 & 3.91 & 185 & 194 & 0.95 & 25 & 5 & 20 & 1.00 + 33636 & 7.00 & 5.57 & 42 & 42 & 0.99 & 35 & 2 & 5 & 13.81 + 34411 & 4.69 & 3.24 & 363 & 363 & 1.00 & 40 & 10 & 40 & 0.05 + 34721 & 5.96 & 4.56 & 109 & 108 & 1.01 & 6 & 3 & 12 & -1.81 + 35296 & 5.00 & 3.67 & 238 & 243 & 0.98 & 31 & 6 & 26 & 0.67 + 37394 & 6.21 & 4.27 & 139 & 143 & 0.97 & 30 & 6 & 15 & 2.42 + 39091 & 5.65 & 4.24 & 139 & 145 & 0.96 & 23 & 3 & 15 & 2.69 + 40979 & 6.74 & 5.45 & 47 & 47 & 1.00 & 14 & 6 & 5 & 1.50 + 43162 & 6.37 & 4.73 & 94 & 93 & 1.01 & 15 & 2 & 10 & 2.19 + 43834 & 5.08 & 3.40 & 309 & 316 & 0.98 & 44 & 11 & 34 & 0.95 + 50554 & 6.84 & 5.47 & 46 & 46 & 1.00 & 42 & 4 & 5 & 9.29 + 50692 & 5.74 & 4.29 & 136 & 138 & 0.99 & 12 & 11 & 15 & -0.28 + 52265 & 6.29 & 4.95 & 74 & 75 & 0.98 & 38 & 5 & 8 & 5.63 + 52711 & 5.93 & 4.54 & 116 & 111 & 1.05 & 14 & 4 & 13 & 0.24 + 55575 & 5.54 & 4.12 & 166 & 162 & 1.02 & 30 & 4 & 18 & 2.91 + 57703 & 6.78 & 5.69 & 38 & 37 & 1.02 & 37 & 3 & 4 & 9.67 + 58855 & 5.35 & 4.18 & 153 & 152 & 1.01 & 14 & 3 & 17 & -0.85 + 60912 & 6.89 & 5.81 & 35 & 34 & 1.03 & 3 & 3 & 4 & -0.15 + 62613 & 6.55 & 4.86 & 83 & 83 & 1.00 & 11 & 3 & 9 & 0.53 + 63333 & 7.09 & 5.79 & 35 & 34 & 1.01 & 0.1 & 3 & 4 & -1.19 + 68456 & 4.74 & 3.62 & 256 & 254 & 1.01 & 31 & 5 & 28 & 0.59 + 69830 & 5.95 & 4.17 & 232 & 158 & 1.47 & 26 & 3 & 17 & 2.82 + 69897 & 5.13 & & 196 & & & 32 & 5 & 22 & 2.18 + 70843 & 7.06 & 5.869 & 32 & 32 & 1.01 & 9 & 7 & 4 & 0.78 + 71148 & 6.32 & 4.83 & 81 & 85 & 0.96 & 4 & 3 & 9 & -2.11 + 71640 & 7.4 & 6.01 & 29 & 28 & 1.02 & -0.7 & 2 & 3 & -1.53 + 72905 & 5.63 & 4.17 & 164 & 154 & 1.06 & 42 & 3 & 18 & 7.71 + 75616 & 6.92 & 5.68 & 39 & 38 & 1.03 & 41 & 2 & 4 & 16.01 + 75732 & 5.96 & 4.02 & 172 & 181 & 0.95 & 21 & 4 & 19 & 0.46 + 76151 & 6.01 & 4.46 & 123 & 119 & 1.03 & 33 & 3 & 14 & 5.51 + 77967 & 6.61 & 5.42 & 48 & 48 & 1.00 & 2 & 4 & 5 & -0.91 + 79392 & 6.75 & 5.76 & 37 & 35 & 1.05 & 3 & 3 & 4 & -0.21 + 80218 & 6.61 & 5.31 & 53 & 54 & 0.98 & 6 & 8 & 6 & 0.04 + 82943 & 6.54 & 5.11 & 66 & 65 & 1.02 & 119 & 5 & 7 & 24.91 + 83451 & 7.12 & 5.76 & 35 & 35 & 1.01 & 1 & 3 & 4 & -0.86 + 83525 & 6.9 & 5.65 & 38 & 39 & 0.99 & 8 & 3 & 4 & 1.42 + 84117 & 4.93 & 3.54 & 246 & 275 & 0.89 & 16 & 11 & 27 & -0.9 + 84737 & 5.08 & 3.61 & 250 & 258 & 0.97 & 34 & 4 & 27 & 1.60 + 86147 & 6.7 & 5.58 & 42 & 41 & 1.00 & -1 & 3 & 5 & -1.78 + 88230 & 6.60 & 3.17 & 428 & 396 & 1.08 & 39 & 4 & 47 & -2.07 + 88984 & 7.3 & 6.06 & 27 & 27 & 1.00 & -0.8 & 7 & 3 & -0.54 + 90839 & 4.82 & 3.52 & 283 & 279 & 1.02 & 34 & 4 & 31 & 0.85 + 93081 & 7.09 & 5.91 & 31 & 31 & 1.00 & 9 & 3 & 3 & 2.02 + 94388 & 5.23 & & 171 & & & 18 & 3 & 19 & 0.26 + 95128 & 5.03 & & 268 & & & 32 & 4 & 29 & 0.67 + 99126 & 6.94 & 5.62 & 39 & 40 & 0.97 & 0.9 & 3 & 4 & -1.24 + 100067 & 7.17 & 5.89 & 30 & 31 & 0.96 & -6 & 2 & 3 & -4.43 + 101259 & 6.40 & 4.48 & 148 & 118 & 1.25 & 21 & 3 & 13 & 3.33 + 101501 & 5.31 & 3.56 & 262 & 276 & 0.95 & 29 & 4 & 29 & 0.10 + 102438 & 6.48 & 4.80 & 85 & 87 & 0.98 & 12 & 4 & 9 & 0.82 + 102870 & 3.59 & 2.29 & 886 & 869 & 1.02 & 117 & 9 & 97 & 2.11 + 103773 & 6.73 & 5.62 & 40 & 40 & 1.00 & 1 & 3 & 4 & -1.14 + 104731 & 5.15 & 4.09 & 171 & 165 & 1.04 & 5 & 7 & 19 & -2.00 + 104985 & 5.78 & & 351 & & & 37 & 4 & 39 & -0.4 + 105912 & 6.95 & 5.91 & 47 & 31 & 1.53 & 32 & 2 & 3 & 11.97 + 109756 & 6.95 & 5.75 & 37 & 35 & 1.04 & 13 & 3 & 4 & 2.47 + 110897 & 5.95 & 4.47 & 115 & 117 & 0.98 & 56 & 4 & 13 & 11.56 + 111395 & 6.29 & 4.65 & 97 & 101 & 0.96 & 14 & 3 & 11 & 0.93 + 111545 & 6.99 & 5.90 & 31 & 31 & 1.00 & 4 & 2 & 3 & 0.29 + 112164 & 5.89 & 4.48 & 114 & 116 & 0.98 & 15 & 18 & 13 & 0.13 + 114613 & 4.85 & 3.23 & 366 & 370 & 0.99 & 55 & 5 & 40 & 2.63 + 114710 & 4.23 & 2.85 & 507 & 517 & 0.98 & 47 & 6 & 56 & -1.57 + 114729 & 6.68 & 5.14 & 62 & 64 & 0.98 & 10 & 3 & 7 & 1.17 + 114783 & 7.56 & 5.48 & 45 & 47 & 0.95 & 6 & 4 & 5 & 0.34 + 115383 & 5.19 & & 216 & & & 19 & 6 & 24 & -0.79 + 115617 & 4.74 & 3.06 & 449 & 433 & 1.04 & 195 & 8 & 49 & 18.31 + 117043 & 6.50 & 4.80 & 84 & 88 & 0.96 & 15 & 3 & 9 & 1.76 + 117176 & 4.97 & 3.20 & 372 & 380 & 0.98 & 72 & 4 & 41 & 7.33 + 118972 & 6.92 & 4.93 & 85 & 78 & 1.08 & 33 & 3 & 9 & 6.96 + 120005 & 6.51 & 5.23 & 57 & 57 & 0.99 & 8 & 3 & 6 & 0.59 + 120136 & 4.50 & 3.31 & 338 & 338 & 1.00 & 34 & 6 & 37 & -0.56 + 120690 & 6.43 & 4.67 & 100 & 99 & 1.01 & 8 & 3 & 11 & -0.94 + 122862 & 6.02 & 4.58 & 105 & 106 & 0.99 & 16 & 3 & 12 & 1.23 + 123691 & 6.8 & 5.86 & 33 & 32 & 1.03 & 7 & 2 & 4 & 1.59 + 126660 & 4.04 & 2.83 & 574 & 526 & 1.09 & 65 & 7 & 63 & 0.32 + 127334 & 6.36 & 4.73 & 88 & 92 & 0.95 & 10 & 2 & 10 & -0.15 + 128311 & 7.48 & 5.14 & 60 & 64 & 0.93 & 21 & 3 & 7 & 4.29 + 130460 & 7.22 & 6.05 & 27 & 27 & 1.02 & 5 & 3 & 3 & 0.58 + 130948 & 5.86 & 4.46 & 117 & 119 & 0.98 & 9 & 3 & 13 & -1.41 + 133002 & 5.63 & 3.92 & 201 & 193 & 1.04 & 23 & 2 & 22 & 0.59 + 134083 & 4.93 & 3.86 & 203 & 203 & 1.00 & 34 & 6 & 22 & 2.02 + 134987 & 6.47 & 4.88 & 76 & 81 & 0.94 & 4 & 8 & 8 & -0.63 + 136064 & 5.15 & & 207 & & & 21 & 5 & 23 & -0.34 + 136118 & 6.93 & 5.60 & 39 & 41 & 0.94 & 3 & 3 & 4 & -0.57 + 141128 & 7 & 5.93 & 30 & 30 & 1.00 & 8 & 3 & 3 & 1.73 + 142373 & 4.60 & 3.06 & 420 & 429 & 0.98 & 41 & 5 & 46 & -0.96 + 142860 & 3.85 & 2.62 & 639 & 639 & 1.00 & 72 & 16 & 70 & 0.08 + 143105 & 6.76 & 5.52 & 44 & 44 & 1.00 & 7 & 3 & 5 & 0.84 + 143761 & 5.39 & 3.86 & 199 & 205 & 0.97 & 31 & 5 & 22 & 1.77 + 145675 & 6.61 & 4.71 & 92 & 95 & 0.96 & 11 & 2 & 10 & 0.03 + 146233 & 5.49 & & 182 & & & 22 & 7 & 20 & 0.29 + 149661 & 5.77 & 3.85 & 211 & 213 & 0.99 & 31 & 6 & 23 & 1.33 + 152391 & 6.65 & 4.84 & 81 & 85 & 0.95 & 14 & 4 & 9 & 1.32 + 154088 & 6.59 & 4.76 & 87 & 91 & 0.96 & 2 & 7 & 10 & -1.25 + 157214 & 5.38 & 3.82 & 216 & 214 & 1.01 & 25 & 4 & 24 & 0.24 + 160691 & 5.12 & 3.52 & 268 & 282 & 0.95 & 31 & 8 & 29 & 0.15 + 166620 & 6.38 & 4.23 & 146 & 149 & 0.98 & 7 & 4 & 16 & -2.51 + 168151 & 4.99 & & 208 & & & 23 & 3 & 23 & 0.07 + 168443 & 6.92 & 5.21 & 55 & 60 & 0.92 & 9 & 29 & 6 & 0.10 + 169830 & 5.90 & 4.69 & 98 & 95 & 1.03 & 10 & 7 & 11 & -0.16 + 171886 & 7.16 & 5.98 & 29 & 29 & 0.99 & 0.8 & 2 & 3 & -1.24 + 173667 & 4.19 & 3.02 & 442 & 439 & 1.01 & 69 & 7 & 49 & 2.93 + 176441 & 7.06 & 5.89 & 33 & 31 & 1.05 & -5 & 3 & 4 & -2.72 + 177830 & 7.18 & 4.81 & 88 & 87 & 1.01 & 6 & 3 & 10 & -1.06 + 181321 & 6.48 & 4.93 & 80 & 78 & 1.03 & 4 & 6 & 9 & -0.85 + 181655 & 6.29 & 4.68 & 92 & 98 & 0.94 & 7 & 3 & 10 & -0.94 + 185144 & 4.67 & 2.74 & 567 & 591 & 0.96 & 71 & 5 & 62 & 1.79 + 186408 & 5.96 & 4.43 & 114 & 110 & 1.03 & 11 & 6 & 14 & -0.61 + 186427 & 6.25 & 4.65 & 95 & 100 & 0.95 & -1 & 5 & 10 & -2.53 + 188376 & 4.70 & 2.95 & 515 & 477 & 1.08 & 51 & 11 & 57 & -0.50 + 189567 & 6.07 & 4.51 & 110 & 113 & 0.98 & 19 & 3 & 12 & 1.90 + 190007 & 7.46 & 4.80 & 88 & 89 & 0.99 & 7 & 4 & 10 & -0.66 + 190248 & 3.55 & 1.91 & 1262 & 1250 & 1.01 & 138 & 5 & 139 & -0.08 + 191408 & 5.32 & 3.23 & 464 & 378 & 1.23 & 49 & 10 & 51 & -0.19 + 193664 & 5.91 & 4.45 & 118 & 120 & 0.98 & 19 & 4 & 13 & 1.48 + 196050 & 7.50 & 6.03 & 26 & 28 & 0.95 & 2 & 3 & 3 & -0.44 + 196378 & 5.11 & & 229 & & & 32 & 3 & 25 & 1.97 + 196761 & 6.36 & 4.60 & 102 & 106 & 0.97 & 8 & 4 & 11 & -0.85 + 197692 & 4.13 & 3.07 & 413 & 422 & 0.98 & 42 & 8 & 45 & -0.50 + 200433 & 6.91 & 5.85 & 33 & 32 & 1.02 & 6 & 3 & 4 & 0.91 + 202884 & 7.27 & 6.03 & 28 & 28 & 1.03 & 8 & 2 & 3 & 2.03 + 203608 & 4.21 & 2.88 & 497 & 502 & 0.99 & 45 & 5 & 55 & -1.88 + 206860 & 5.96 & 4.56 & 111 & 108 & 1.03 & 28 & 2 & 12 & 6.63 + 207129 & 5.57 & & 164 & & & 289 & 11 & 18 & 24.6 + 209100 & 4.69 & 2.14 & 1039 & 1029 & 1.01 & 113 & 6 & 114 & -0.23 + 210277 & 6.54 & 4.80 & 83 & 86 & 0.97 & 8 & 2 & 9 & -0.55 + 210302 & 4.94 & & 215 & & & 11 & 6 & 24 & -2.1 + 210918 & 6.23 & 4.66 & 98 & 99 & 0.99 & 9 & 3 & 11 & -0.65 + 212330 & 5.31 & 3.72 & 241 & 234 & 1.03 & 29 & 4 & 26 & 0.71 + 212695 & 6.94 & 5.82 & 33 & 33 & 0.99 & 38 & 3 & 4 & 11.59 + 213240 & 6.81 & 5.35 & 50 & 52 & 0.96 & 7 & 2 & 5 & 0.55 + 216345 & 8.08 & 7.97 & 5 & 5 & 0.98 & 3 & 4 & 1 & 0.65 + 216437 & 6.04 & 4.52 & 107 & 112 & 0.96 & 7 & 5 & 12 & -0.98 + 216803 & 6.48 & 3.90 & 220 & 204 & 1.08 & 27 & 4 & 24 & 0.94 + 217014 & 5.45 & 3.91 & 189 & 197 & 0.96 & 27 & 4 & 21 & 1.36 + 217813 & 6.65 & 5.15 & 60 & 63 & 0.95 & 4 & 5 & 7 & -0.52 + 219134 & 5.57 & 3.17 & 399 & 399 & 1.00 & 20 & 10 & 44 & -2.51 + 219983 & 6.64 & 5.34 & 51 & 52 & 0.99 & 8 & 3 & 6 & 0.58 + 220182 & 7.36 & 5.47 & 46 & 48 & 0.96 & 5 & 3 & 5 & 0.05 + 221420 & 5.82 & 4.31 & 135 & 136 & 0.99 & 19 & 3 & 15 & 1.24 + 222143 & 6.58 & 5.08 & 67 & 68 & 0.99 & 7 & 2 & 7 & -0.39 + 222368 & 4.13 & 2.9 & 517 & 493 & 1.05 & 60 & 7 & 57 & 0.40 + 222404 & 3.21 & 0.90 & 3551 & 3219 & 1.10 & 355 & 5 & 362 & -1.4 + 222582 & 7.68 & 6.17 & 24 & 24 & 0.96 & 9 & 2 & 3 & 2.73 + 225239 & 6.10 & 4.44 & 126 & 121 & 1.04 & 10 & 4 & 14 & -0.89 +    ccccc a & 30 & 7 ( + 3/-3 ) & 27 & 26 ( + 10/-7 ) + fgk sample & 184 & 3.8 ( + 1.7/-1.2 ) & 196 & 16.3 ( + 2.9/-2.8 ) + fgk sample , planets & 45 & 6.7 ( + 5.8/-2.1 ) & 48 & 20.8 ( + 7.0/-4.6 ) + fgk sample , no planets & 139 & 2.9 ( + 2.2/-0.8 ) & 148 & 14.9 ( + 3.4/-2.5 ) + all f & 110 & 7.3 ( + 3.3/-1.2 ) & 117 & 17.9 ( + 4.1/-3.0 ) + all g & 103 & 1.0 ( + 2.2/-1.0 ) & 108 & 14.8 ( + 4.0/-2.8 ) + all k & 51 & 5.9 ( + 5.2/-1.8 ) & 51 & 13.7 ( + 6.2/-3.5 ) + m & 62 & 0.0 ( + 2.9 ) & 13 & 0.0 ( + 12 ) + sun - like supersample ( fg ) & 213 & 4.2 ( + 2.0/-1.1 ) & 225 & 16.4 ( + 2.8/-2.9 ) +    lccccc 166 & 20 & 89 & 87 & 9.1 & 5.9 + 3126 & 6 & 104 & 66 & 21.8 & 13 + 10647 & 33 & 842 & 62 & 21 & 34 + 69830 & 74 & 9 & 1900 & 0.02 & 560 + & & & 400 & 1.0 & 20 + 101259 & 30 & 8 & 271 & 0.98 & 6.0 + 105912 & 16 & 29 & 110 & 7.7 & 7.9 + 207129 & 24 & 274 & 72 & 15.3 & 12 +    lccccc 1581 & 6100 & 218 & 2.3 & 1.6 & 0.2 + 3296 & 6440 & 89 & 17 & 3.8 & 2.5 + 17925 & 5080 & 103 & 4.8 & 4.4 & 2.2 + 19994 & 6200 & 168 & 4.1 & 3.5 & 0.7 + 20807 & 5950 & 150 & 4.3 & 1.5 & 0.4 + 22484 & 6200 & 142 & 5.8 & 4.3 & 1.2 + 30495 & 5950 & 88 & 12 & 3.0 & 2.0 + 33262 & 6300 & 158 & 5.0 & 1.1 & 0.2 + 33636 & 6030 & 81 & 16 & 3.5 & 2.6 + 50554 & 6200 & 79 & 19 & 3.8 & 2.9 + 52265 & 6030 & 92 & 12 & 4.0 & 2.4 + 57703 & 6890 & 78 & 22 & 5.0 & 3.8 + 72905 & 5900 & 123 & 6.2 & 1.5 & 0.6 + 75616 & 6440 & 77 & 24 & 3.4 & 2.6 + 76151 & 5830 & 120 & 5.9 & 1.0 & 0.4 + 82943 & 6030 & 69 & 22 & 10.0 & 8.8 + 110897 & 6030 & 94 & 12 & 2.3 & 1.4 + 115617 & 5770 & 97 & 8.3 & 3.3 & 1.9 + 117176 & 5770 & 153 & 3.4 & 7.7 & 1.8 + 118972 & 5080 & 101 & 5.0 & 4.6 & 2.4 + 128311 & 5250 & 106 & 5.1 & 2.7 & 1.3 + 206860 & 6030 & 124 & 6.6 & 1.5 & 0.6 + 212695 & 6440 & 75 & 24 & 6.4 & 5.1 +                     values .",
    "the same data are presented in both panels .",
    "the top panel shows a smaller range in @xmath11 in order to show the shape of the core of the distribution .",
    "the lower panel shows data for all 193  systems .",
    "vertical lines in each panel show @xmath52 , our threshold criterion .",
    "the bin sizes in the two panels are not the same ( 0.5  and 1  in top and bottom , respectively ) .",
    "two noteworthy systems are labeled in the lower panel .",
    "the two `` no k '' systems hd  19994 ( @xmath43 ) and hd  207129 ( @xmath53 ) are included in this figure .",
    "hd  100067 has a very low @xmath11 value of  -4.43 , a result of a negative f70 value for this star , which means that this star was not detected .",
    "no stars that were detected have @xmath18 . ]     for the 181  stars with p24 ( table  [ photom ] ) .",
    "the r24 and @xmath11 excess thresholds are shown by vertical and horizontal lines , respectively .",
    "the box in the lower left shows the area enclosed by ( -3@xmath9,3@xmath9 ) in the two dimensions .",
    "targets within this box show the core of our sample , having no excess at either band .",
    "in addition to showing the distribution of our sources in this parameter space , we also confirm here that no obvious systematic effects derive from our technique for deriving p24 and p70 exist .",
    "such a systematic error would be manifest as a correlation between r24 and @xmath11 in the ( core ) non - excess sample ( if the photospheric models were incorrect , for instance ) .",
    "instead , we see that this core distribution is essentially a random scatter distribution ( fully uncorrelated ) , confirming that our technique for predicting the 24  and 70  micron fluxes is appropriate . the regions with excesses at 24  only , 70  only , and at both bands are labeled .",
    "targets with excesses at both bands are labeled ( hd  10647 is off the plot to the top ) .",
    "hd  191408 clearly shows no excess at 70  microns , and we find that its 24  micron excess is spurious ( see text ) .",
    "no other 24  micron excesses are spurious , since all of the rest have clear 70  micron excesses as well ( excepting hd  69830 , though the excess around that star is clear for many other reasons ; see text ) .",
    "we also label the other five systems with the largest @xmath11 values .",
    "@xmath21  eri ( not observed as part of the programs presented here ; see backman et al .",
    "( in prep . ) ) is also plotted and labeled ; it is clear that neither the 24  or 70  micron excesses for this famous debris disk are remarkably large .",
    "the star s proximity ( 3.2  pc ) accounts for its disk s brightness and prominence . ]",
    "error limits , black for 1@xmath9 limits ) .",
    "the approximate characteristics of the asteroid and kuiper belts are shown for comparison . the plausible range of dust properties for hd  693 overlaps with the properties of the dust in our kuiper belt ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the dust properties for hd  3126 are well - constrained due to its detection at both 24  and 70  microns . ]",
    "600 myr ) .",
    "the a  stars values are from @xcite and the binaries values are from @xcite ( a study of debris disks in a3f8  binaries ; different shading is used here to emphasize that the sample is defined differently , i.e. , includes multiplicity as a requirement ) . the f , g , and k samples are the union of the data presented here and in @xcite .",
    "the mean ages for each of the a , f , g , and k  samples are given at the top of the figure ( each value has a large standard deviation of perhaps 23  gyr ; additionally , ages are notoriously hard to derive for main sequence fgk stars ) . while formally these data are consistent with no dependence on spectral type , a decrease in excess as a function of spectral type is weakly suggested .",
    "however , this could easily be an age effect ( see text and figure  [ fgkage ] ) .",
    "the excess rate for ( presumably old ) m  stars is 0% , with upper limits ( binomial errors ) of 2.9% at 24  microns and 12% at 70  microns @xcite ( table  [ excesssum ] ) .",
    "]     determinations as a function of age for all stars in our fgk  sample with good ages ( 164  have good ages and k  band photometry and therefore r24 measurements ; 175  have good ages and @xmath11 measurements ) .",
    "no trend is apparent .",
    "the solid horizontal line in the top panel indicates r24=1.0 , where there is no excess .",
    "( the no excess case in the bottom panel would be @xmath54 , which can not be displayed on this logarithmic scale . )",
    "the horizontal dashed lines indicate our thresholds for excess ( r24=1.10 and @xmath52 ) . ]    ) .",
    "the number of stars in the six bins are as follows , from youngest to oldest : 24 , 57 , 60 , 52 , 33 , 7 .",
    "since the oldest bin has only 7  stars in it ( 2  with excesses ) , the high value may be a small number statistical anomaly . ]     and  [ excesstable ] ( using the maximum fractional luminosity values for the 70  micron excesss only cases ) .",
    "the larger grey symbols show the means in the same age bins as used in figure  [ ageexcess ] .",
    "the horizontal error bars show the bin widths , and the vertical error bars show the 1@xmath9  errors on the means .",
    "there is no obvious trend of fractional luminosity with age , though there is a lack of high fractional luminosity disks older than 6  gyr .",
    "the systems with the three largest fractional luminosities have been omitted : @xmath21  eri ( 0.3  gyr , 29 ) , hd  69830 ( 4.7  gyr , 20 ) , and hd  10647 ( 6.3  gyr , 34 ) ( where the fractional luminosities are given in units of @xmath37 ) . including these three obvious bright outliers does not change the result that no trend is evident , and just produces much larger error bars on the mean values .",
    "our sun has an age of 4.5  gyr , and our solar system s fractional luminosity is @xmath55@xmath56 . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have observed nearly 200  fgk stars at 24  and 70  microns with the _ spitzer _ space telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we identify excess infrared emission , including a number of cases where the observed flux is more than 10  times brighter than the predicted photospheric flux , and interpret these signatures as evidence of debris disks in those systems . </S>",
    "<S> we combine this sample of fgk stars with similar published results to produce a sample of more than 350  main sequence afgkm stars . </S>",
    "<S> the incidence of debris disks is 4.2@xmath0% at 24  microns for a sample of 213  sun - like ( fg ) stars and 16.4@xmath1% at 70  microns for 225  sun - like ( fg ) stars . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the excess rates for a , f , g , and k stars are statistically indistinguishable , but with a suggestion of decreasing excess rate toward the later spectral types ; this may be an age effect . </S>",
    "<S> the lack of strong trend among fgk stars of comparable ages is surprising , given the factor of  50 change in stellar luminosity across this spectral range . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that the incidence of debris disks declines very slowly beyond ages of 1  billion years . </S>"
  ]
}