{
  "article_text": [
    "ultra - high - energy ( uhe ) cosmic rays above @xmath0 ev are thought to be of extra - galactic origin , since charged particles with such high energies can not be confined by the magnetic field of our galaxy .",
    "galactic cosmic ray accelerators , such as supernova remnants , are expected to reach their maximum energy below @xmath0 ev .",
    "the transition between galactic and extra - galactic cosmic rays is therefore believed to happen either at the second knee around @xmath1 ev , where the chemical composition changes significantly as measured by hires , followed by a dip in the spectrum ( berezinsky et al .",
    "2006 ) , or at the ankle around @xmath2 ev where the cosmic ray spectrum becomes flatter .    at these ultra - high energies ,",
    "the chemical composition is a subject of debate .",
    "it has been speculated that these cosmic rays are made of pure protons , up to the highest energies . on the other hand ,",
    "there are also reasons for favoring a cosmic ray spectrum dominated by heavy or intermediate mass nuclei at the highest energies , since according to the hillas criterion ( hillas 1984 ) astrophysical sources are able to accelerate particles up to a maximum energy proportional to their nuclear charge .",
    "recently , a mixed composition scenario has been invoked to fit the uhecr spectrum above @xmath3 ( allard et al .",
    "2005 ) . by studying the details of the development of the resulting air showers , one can in principle infer the species of the primary uhecrs , since at a given energy , showers initiated by heavy nuclei develop higher up in the atmosphere than proton - induced showers .",
    "both agasa and hires data favor a dominance of light hadrons , consistent with being pure protons , in the composition of uhecrs above @xmath2 ev ( hughes et al .",
    "2007 ) , which is consistent with models assuming uhecrs above @xmath1 ev are due to extra - galactic protons .",
    "on the other hand , a recently report of an analysis of the muon component of uhe air showers in the yakutsk data showed a heavy nuclei component in the uhecr spectrum ( glushkov et al . 2007 ) .",
    "one of the aims of pierre auger observatory is to study the composition of uhecrs .",
    "it provides more precise measurements of the depth of the uhecr - initiated shower maximum @xmath4 at extremely high energies ( @xmath5 ev ) , with uncertainties which are about a factor 4 smaller than those of the best measurement from the hires experiment ( unger et al .",
    "the elongation rate data presented by the pierre auger observatory team is satisfactorily represented by a fit containing a break point in the slope at @xmath6 ev ( unger et al .",
    "2007 ) . due to the uncertainties in the hadronic interactions at the highest energies ,",
    "the interpretation of these elongation rate depends on the hadronic physics models used in the analysis , and is therefore rather ambiguous at present .",
    "however , regardless of which interaction models are used , the data appears to require the presence of a substantial fraction of heavy or intermediate - mass nuclei in the range of gzk cutoff energies .",
    "a possible conflict in the chemical composition between the above auger elongation results and recent results by the pierre auger collaboration ( 2007 ) on large scale spatial correlations is an issue which remains to be resolved .",
    "the proposed astrophysical source models of uhecrs include agn jets ( e.g. biermann 1987 ; berezinsky et al .",
    "2006 ) , intergalactic accretion shocks ( e.g. inoue , aharonian & sugiyama , 2005 ) , and gamma - ray bursts ( e.g. waxman 1995 , 2004a ; vietri 1995 ; wick et al . 2004 ; dermer & atoyan 2006 ; murase et al .",
    "recently , we have proposed that extra - galactic hypernovae associated with sub - energetic grbs are also a probable source for uhecrs , whose energetics are sufficient large to account for uhecrs from the second knee and above ( wang et al . 2007 ) .",
    "these uhecr accelerators also accelerate electrons , which produce optical , x - ray or gamma - ray photons through synchrotron and inverse compton emission . since a sufficiently high density of these low - energy photons can potentially lead to photo - disintegration of the cosmic ray heavy nuclei ,",
    "a natural question is under what conditions do these sources allow the survival of uhe heavy nuclei from the acceleration site . in this paper",
    "we explore this problem for grbs and hypernovae sources , since they have the most compact source sizes and might therefore pose the greatest hurdle for uhe heavy nuclei survival .",
    "long - duration grbs are generally believed to result from the core collapse of massive stars , direct evidence for which comes from the spectroscopic identification of bright supernovae in association with these grbs ( see woosley & bloom 2006 for a review ) .",
    "the collapse leads to a black hole ( or magnetar ) plus accretion disk system .",
    "the annihilation of neutrinos or poynting flows arising from the inner hot accretion disk produce a high entropy fireball outflow , which expands and converts its internal energy into the kinetic energy of a small amount of baryon material , while propagating through the star along the rotation axis of the collapsing core .",
    "the outflow gets collimated and finally two highly relativistic jets break out of the stellar envelope . in the grb scenario for uhecrs , both internal shocks ( waxman 1995 ) and external shocks ( vietri 1995 ; wick et al . 2004 ; dermer & atoyan 2006 ) in the jets are suggested to be able to accelerate baryons to ultra - high energies .",
    "internal shocks develop due to internal collisions between the shells in the fireball jet ejecta , while the external shocks occur when the fireball ejecta interacts with the surrounding interstellar medium ( see 2006 and zhang 2007 for recent reviews ) . in the internal shock scenario , viewed as a source of the cosmic ray nuclei ,",
    "the jets themselves must contain heavy nuclei , whereas in external shocks the heavy nuclei could come from the swept - up circumburst material that the jet is running into , presumably the stellar wind or interstellar medium . since the two shocks have quite different dissipation radii and emission properties , the disintegration problem of the uhe comic ray nuclei are different , as discussed in   [ sec : int ] and [ sec : ext ] respectively .",
    "hypernovae are a peculiar type of supernovae with higher ejection velocities of the remnant shell and generally larger explosion energies than typical supernovae ( paczyski 1998 ) .",
    "the prototype of hypernovae is sn1998bw , a type ic supernova associated with an under - energetic grb , grb980425 ( galama et al .",
    "mildly relativistic ejecta components are inferred to be present in all three of the well - identified hypernova / under - energetic grb systems so far , namely sn1998bw",
    "/ grb980425 , sn2003lw / grb031203 and sn2006aj / grb060218 . based on this mildly relativistic ejecta component and the event rates of these objects , we have shown that hypernovae can accelerate particles to @xmath7 ev , and the energetics and occurrence rate is sufficient to account for the flux of uhecrs above the second knee ( @xmath8 ) ev , where @xmath9 is the nuclear charge of the accelerated particles ( wang et al .",
    "the particles are accelerated in the hypernova blast wave formed by the interaction between the hypernova ejecta with the surrounding stellar wind medium . in  [ sec : hn ] we study whether uhe heavy nuclei accelerated in such hypernovae can survive their photon environment .    the goal of this paper is therefore to answer the question , if uhe heavy nuclei are accelerated in grbs or hypernovae , what are the possible origins of these nuclei , and under what conditions would they survive their source environment ; or conversely , under what conditions would one expect these sources to accelerate mainly protons to uhe energies .",
    "it is at present unknown whether heavy or intermediate mass nuclei are present in grb jets . at the base of the outflow",
    "the jets start out as a hot fireball , within a region of size @xmath10 and temperature @xmath11 , where any heavy nuclei will be photo - disintegrated due to the abundance of photons with energies comparable to the nuclear binding energy , @xmath12 .",
    "the fireball is thus initially made up of free nucleons , @xmath13 pairs , trapped blackbody radiation and magnetic fields .",
    "as the fireball expands and cools , the free nucleons in the jet may recombine into @xmath14-particles ( beloborodov 2003 ) , but they will not form heavy nuclei . however , as the jet burrows through the stellar core ( from inside outward , fe , o , c cores in sequence ) , heavy nuclei from the stellar surroundings could be entrained into the jet . according to numerical simulations of jet propagation ( zhang et al .",
    "2003 ) , kelvin - helmholtz instabilities and/or oblique shocks that develop lead to the mixing of surrounding material into the jet , while the jet is advancing with a sub - relativistic velocity . since the temperature of the thermal photons trapped in the jet decreases significantly as jet expands , with @xmath15 , these thermal photons are no longer able to disintegrate the entrained nuclei when the jet has reached the radius of the stellar fe core at @xmath16 . to avoid spallation of the nuclei due to nucleon - nucleon collisions",
    ", the relative velocity between the jet and the surrounding core material should be below a critical value @xmath17 ( in units of the speed of light ) , at which the relative kinetic energy equals the nuclear binding energy @xmath18 .",
    "the calculations show that the jet head moves with a velocity about @xmath19 inside the fe core at @xmath20 and then the velocity increases as @xmath21 ( & rees 2001 ) .",
    "thus , the fe and o nuclei entrained from the surroundings can survive both photo - disintegration and nuclear spallation .",
    "after the jet head breaks out of the star , in its subsequent stages the jet continues to escape through the evacuated funnel cavity through the star , so it accelerates to a relativistic velocity at radii still inside the star .",
    "thereafter , the kelvin - helmholtz instability which causes the mixing of nuclei will be suppressed due to the relativistic relative motion ( zhang et al .",
    "moreover , since the relative velocity between the jet and the surrounding star exceeds the critical velocity @xmath22 , spallation effects will need to be taken into account .",
    "one finds that the time for spallation @xmath23 is much shorter than the dynamic time @xmath24 when the relativistic jet is inside the progenitor star , where @xmath25 is the nucleon density of the jet and @xmath26 is the lorentz factor of jet .",
    "this means that even if nuclei get entrained , they will be spalled into lighter nuclei .",
    "since the break - out time for initial jet after its inception is about @xmath27 , long grbs with rest - frame durations @xmath28 s will have spent most of their life inside the star , while the jet head was moving sub - relativistically , so most of the jet can have become fe - enriched before the internal shocks occur . for longer duration jets , with @xmath29 , only the first @xmath30 portion of the burst may be fe - rich , while the rest of the outburst may consist of pure protons .",
    "the above discussion is relevant to the models that invoke the composition of the grb jet as uhecr nuclei , which are accelerated in internal shocks that are widely assumed to be responsible for the prompt @xmath31-ray emission . for grb external shocks and hypernova remnant blast wave shocks",
    ", the nuclei could be due to the material swept - up by the shock front .",
    "the progenitors of long - duration grbs and hypernovae are thought to be wolf - rayet stars , as the spectral type of the discovered supernovae in these events is typically ic .",
    "these stars are stripped of their hydrogen envelope and sometimes even the helium envelope .",
    "the heavy or intermediate mass uhe nuclei may originate from the stellar wind of the wolf - ryet star . in wc type wolf - rayet stars ,",
    "the c abundance is @xmath32 ( by mass ) and the o abundance is @xmath33 ( crowther et al .",
    "2007 ) . in wo type wolf - rayet stars ,",
    "o and c abundances are even higher , with @xmath34 and @xmath35 ( e.g. kingsburgh et al .",
    "the abundance of heavy elements in stellar wind of these wolf - rayet stars is clearly much higher than the solar value .",
    "the most relevant processes that may prohibit acceleration of heavy nuclei to uhe at the astrophysical sources are the photodisintegration , photopion production and nuclear spallation .",
    "the former two processes are due to interactions of uhe nuclei with surrounding photons and the latter is due to interactions with other nuclei or nucleon . both the photodisintegration and photopion processes are dominated by resonance production of either an excited state of the nuclei or a delta and subsequent de - excitation or decay . in case of photodisintegration this dominant channel is called a giant dipole resonance ( gdr ) in the energy range @xmath36 with a threshold energy of @xmath37 per nucleon . in case of photopion the threshold energy for pion production is @xmath38 .    for an uhe nucleus with lorentz factor @xmath39 propagating through an isotropic photon background with differential number density @xmath40 at energy @xmath41 , the photodisintegration or photopion rate is given by ( stecker 1968 ) @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the photon energy in the rest frame of the nucleus .",
    "the threshold energy @xmath44  mev for photodisintegration and @xmath45 for photopion .",
    "the cross - sections for photodisintegration in the energy range @xmath46  mev with loss of one nucleon can be approximately described by a lorentzian form ( puget , stecker & bredekamp 1976 ; anchordoqui et al .",
    "2007a ) as @xmath47 where @xmath48 and @xmath49 are the width and maximum value of the cross section , @xmath50 is the energy at which the cross section peaks .",
    "fitted numerical values are @xmath51 , @xmath52 , and @xmath53  mev for @xmath54 ( karakula & tkaczyk 1993 ) . above @xmath55  mev and below the pion production threshold energy",
    ", photodisintegration may result in multiple nucleon emission , although with much lower cross - section .",
    "puget , stecker & bredekamp ( 1976 ) suggested a parametrization such that the cross - section @xmath56 integrated in the range @xmath57  mev and in the range @xmath58  mev are equal .",
    "we assume a flat crosss - section in the range @xmath59  mev of @xmath60  @xmath61 and @xmath62  @xmath61 respectively for iron and oxygen nuclei , satisfying above condition .",
    "this more acccurate cross - section affects the photodisintegration rate in case the photon spectrum is very hard as we will see later . for soft photon spectrum equation ( 2 )",
    "is adequate and often a delta function approximation @xmath63 may provide order of magnitude estimate .    the photopion cross - section formula for delta resonance production is well known and is parametrized by mcke et al .",
    "( 2000 ) as @xmath64},\\ ] ] where @xmath65 is the center - of - mass energy , @xmath66  @xmath61 and the peak cross - section is @xmath67  @xmath61 at @xmath68  gev .",
    "the width of the resonance is @xmath69  gev .",
    "the photonuclear cross section is @xmath70 . comparing this cross section to that of photo - disintegration for an iron nucleus with @xmath71 or oxygen nucleus with @xmath72",
    ", we can see that the photopion cross section is smaller than the photodisintegration cross section . as a result ,",
    "the photodisintegration rate is typically higher than the photopion rate .",
    "the rate for spallation process due to collision with other nucleons in the sources may be estimated as @xmath73 where @xmath74 is the cross section for spallation of a nucleus with atomic number @xmath75 , @xmath76 is the number density of nucleus in the sources and @xmath77 is the velocity of the uhe nucleons . as we show below , even for internal shocks which have the highest nucleon density , this spallation effect is less important than photo - disintegration .    below",
    "we will discuss the photodisintegration process in all three possible uhe nuclei sources , i.e. grb internal shocks , grb external shocks and hypernova remnant blast waves , respectively .",
    "due to the variable injection at the base , internal collisions occurr within the unsteady plasma jet which develop into internal shocks .",
    "the prompt gamma - ray burst emission is supposed to result from the non - thermal emission of electrons accelerated in these shocks .",
    "the two main processes through which the heavy nuclei could be disintegrated in internal shocks are photo - disintegration or photopion interaction by the x - ray photons in prompt emission , and spallation due to collisions with other nucleons in the relativistic jet .      the grb prompt photon spectrum is well fitted in the batse range ( 10 kev - 3 mev ) by a combination of two power - laws , @xmath78 , with different values of @xmath77 at low and high energy ( band et al .",
    "the break energy @xmath79 in the observer frame is typically @xmath80 , with @xmath81 at energies below the break and @xmath82 above the break , where @xmath26 is the bulk lorentz factor of the relativistic flow that develops internal shocks and @xmath83 is the break photon energy in the flow rest - frame . at low energy , in the framework of the internal shock model , there could be another spectral break , i.e. , the synchrotron self - absorption break @xmath84 .",
    "thus the photon spectrum , in the comoving frame , is @xmath85 where @xmath86 is the photon number density at the break energy in the comoving frame of the wind .",
    "using this photon spectrum , the inner integral in eq.(1 ) gives @xmath87 .",
    "the energy density of photons in the wind rest - frame in the energy range of batse is @xmath88 , where @xmath89 is the upper energy range of batse .",
    "this energy density is related to the observed photon luminosity of grbs , whose typical value is @xmath90 , by @xmath91 , where @xmath92 is the radius of the emitting region of these photons .",
    "the first integral of eq.(1 ) can be done numerically for the exact cross sections in eq.(2 ) nd ( 3 ) . for the sake of an analytic treatment , we approximate the cross section as being mainly contributed by the resonance peak and find that @xmath93 where @xmath94 .",
    "the observer - frame energy of the nucleus that interacts preferentially with photons with energy @xmath83 and @xmath84 are , respectively @xmath95 where @xmath96 is a typical grb bulk lorentz factor .",
    "now we can obtain the time @xmath97 of an nucleus of energy @xmath98 in the observer frame : for @xmath99 @xmath100 and for @xmath101 , @xmath102 the dynamic time of internal shock is @xmath103 by comparing eq.(8 ) or eq.(9 ) with eq.(10 ) , we can see that the heavy nuclei can survive when either @xmath104 corresponding to @xmath105 , or @xmath106 in the case of @xmath107 .    for comparison ,",
    "the acceleration time of uhe nuclei with nuclear charge @xmath9 in the internal shock is @xmath108 where @xmath109 few , describing the ratio between the acceleration time and larmor time , @xmath110 is the comoving frame magnetic field in internal shocks .",
    "the synchrotron loss time for uhe nuclei is @xmath111 which is a factor of @xmath112 longer than that of protons .    by equating @xmath113 with @xmath114 or @xmath115",
    ", we get the maximum energies of accelerated nuclei for these two cases respectively , @xmath116     we compare these timescales in fig.1 for two different sets of parameters , i.e. @xmath117 , @xmath118 ( top panel ) and @xmath119 , @xmath120 ( bottom panel ) .",
    "we can see that : 1 ) the iron nucleus can be accelerated to energies @xmath121 , since in both cases , @xmath122 for @xmath123 ; 2)when the internal shock radius and/or the bulk lorentz factor are relatively large , the photo - disintegration time of iron nuclei is longer than the dynamic time , as seen in the bottom panel of fig.1 .",
    "note that the photo - disintegration time and the photopion interaction times in these figures are calculated numerically according to eq.(1 ) with exact cross sections .    for smaller internal shock radii ( fig.1 , top panel ) ,",
    "the photo - disintegration effect becomes important if the photon spectrum @xmath124 extends to @xmath125 .",
    "this is consistent with the result in anchordoqui et al .",
    "( 2007b ) . however , if there is a self - absorption break at several kev in the photon spectrum that leads to a drop in the number density of the photons with which the uhe nucleus mainly interacts , the photo - disintegration effect will be suppressed , as can be seen from the blue dashed lines , where a synchrotron self - absorption break at 5 kev in the photon spectrum has been assumed .",
    "this is possible for a small internal shock radius , since a smaller internal shock radius might lead to higher synchrotron self - absorption break @xmath84 .",
    "the value of @xmath84 also depends on the dissipation model as well as the radiation mechanism for prompt emission ( e.g. panaitescu & 2000 ; rees & 2005 ; peer et al . 2005 ; peer & zhang 2006 ) , which is , however , largely uncertain at present . for the simple optically thin internal shock model , @xmath84",
    "is estimated to be @xmath126    for uhe intermediate - mass nuclei , such as o nuclei , the constraints for survival , eqs.(11 ) and ( 12 ) , are much looser .",
    "thus , for small internal dissipation or shock radii , intermediate - mass nuclei are much more likely to survive photo - disintegration .",
    "this can be also seen in fig .",
    "2 , where all the timescales are calculated for o nuclei with @xmath127 and @xmath72 .",
    "an uhe nucleus can also spallate due to collision with other nucleons in internal shocks .",
    "the nucleon density of a relativistic flow with kinetic energy luminosity @xmath128 at internal shock radius @xmath92 is @xmath129 .",
    "so the spallation time is @xmath130 comparing this with the dynamic time , we find that the heavy nucleus can survive if @xmath131 this condition is much easier to satisfy , compared to the more stringent photo - disintegration constraint of eq.(11 ) .",
    "as the relativistic grb jets expand and sweep up the surrounding material , external shocks develop .",
    "the accelerated electrons in the external shock produce the observed afterglow emission .",
    "the external shock has also been suggested to be able to account for uhecrs .",
    "the early deceleration phase , when the jet converts about half of its energy to the swept - up material , is the most effective phase for the external shock to accelerate particles , since the shocked material has the largest lorentz factor at that time .",
    "the early external shock produces the early x - ray afterglow , whose average luminosity observed by _ swift _ is about @xmath132 during the first @xmath133 ( nousek et al .",
    "2006 ) . in this external shock scenario ,",
    "the accelerated uhe nuclei with energy @xmath134 ev preferentially interact with these x - ray photons , if the lorentz factor is typically @xmath135 .",
    "taking the early x - ray afterglow spectrum in the fast - cooling regime ( e.g. 2006 ) with @xmath136 , corresponding to photon spectral index @xmath137 , we can obtain the photo - disintegration rate of a nucleus moving with lorentz factor @xmath39 , i.e. @xmath138 where @xmath139 is the comoving - frame energy density of x - ray afterglow photons and @xmath140 , @xmath141 and @xmath142 being the upper and lower end of _ swift _ xrt energy threshold .",
    "the energy density is related to the luminosity by @xmath143 , where @xmath144 is the radius of the external shock at the end of the free expansion phase of the ejecta .",
    "now we can obtain the photo - disintegration energy loss time of a cosmic ray nucleus of energy @xmath98 propagating in the early afterglow photons @xmath145 comparing this with the dynamic time in the comoving frame of external shocks @xmath146 , we can see that the heavy nucleus can survive when @xmath147 for a constant density medium environment , this gives an upper limit on the number density of the medium @xmath148 while for a stellar wind environment with a density profile @xmath149 , this gives constrains on the mass - loss rate parameter @xmath150 where @xmath151 corresponds to @xmath152 and @xmath153 .",
    "after the initial free expansion phase , the external shock starts to decelerate as more and more material is swept - up .",
    "the shock radius evolves with time as @xmath154 for constant density medium and @xmath155 for wind medium , where @xmath156 is time in units of days . assuming that the magnetic field energy density acquires a fraction @xmath157 of the internal energy , the magnetic field evolves as @xmath158 for a constant density medium and @xmath159 for wind medium .",
    "since the synchrotron loss is typically unimportant for uhe nuclei in external shocks , the maximum energy of particles accelerated in external shocks is obtained by equating @xmath113 with @xmath114 , which gives @xmath160 this shows that the maximum energy of accelerated particles by external shock decreases rather slowly with time , so that even weeks to months after the burst , heavy nuclei can be still accelerated to uhe energies by afterglow shocks , even if the flux may decrease with time .",
    "the optical depth @xmath161 for photo - disintegration of these nuclei evolves with time as @xmath162 where an x - ray afterglow luminosity @xmath163 has been assumed .",
    "the slowly increasing optical depth or decreasing optical depth indicates that the accelerated heavy nuclei by grb external shocks can survive for a relatively long time .",
    "we plot in fig .",
    "3 the evolution of photo - disintegration optical depth and the maximum energy of accelerated particles for iron nucleus ( top panel ) and oxygen nucleus ( bottom panel ) respectively .",
    "the observations of the radio afterglow of the hypernova sn1998bw showed that about @xmath164 of kinetic energy were released in the form of a mildly relativistic ejecta ( kulkarni , et al .",
    "1998 ; chevalier & li 1999 ) .",
    "the interpretation of the x - ray afterglow also favors a mildly - relativistic ejecta component ( waxman 2004b ) . a recently detected strong thermal x - ray emission component in another sub - energetic burst ( grb060218 ) , associated with sn2006aj ,",
    "may also be associated with a mildly - relativistic supernova shock breakout , in which the mildly relativistic supernova ejecta has an energy @xmath165 ( campana et al .",
    "2006 ) . due to the large supernova explosion energy and the much lower than typical grb energy",
    ", attempts have been made to ascribe the prompt gamma - ray emission to the shock from the mildly relativistic ejecta as it breaks out through the hypernova progenitor s outer envelope ( woosley et al .",
    "1999 ; tan et al .",
    "2001 ) , although a generally accepted conclusion has not yet been reached .",
    "we have used the term semi - relativistic hypernovae to denote such supernovae exhibiting a mildly relativistic ejecta component , seen in association with grbs . such high - velocity ejecta are a key ingredient of the hypernova model for uhecrs , since the low - velocity bulk ejecta is not able to accelerate particles to such high energies .",
    "based on the shock breakout scenario , we have suggested that there might be a continuous distribution of ejecta energy in velocity , i.e. @xmath166 with @xmath167 , where @xmath77 is the ejecta velocity in units of speed of light ( wang et al 2007 ) .    as the hypernova ejecta expand , they transfer their energy to the swept - up stellar wind , and external shocks develop , which accelerate wind particles to ultra - high energies . since the ejecta has a velocity distribution profile , the leading edge higher - velocity ejecta decelerate the earliest and then the lower - velocity ejecta decelerate progressively .",
    "the maximum energy of accelerated particles is related to the ejecta velocity @xmath168 by @xmath169 although higher velocity ejecta can accelerate particles to higher energies , the kinetic energy in ejecta of @xmath170 are too low to account for the uhecr flux ( wang et al .",
    "2007 ) , due to the steep distribution of energy @xmath171 .",
    "for ejecta with a velocity @xmath168 , the free expansion phase before deceleration sets in lasts for a time @xmath172 and the radius of the ejecta at this time is @xmath173 there are two photon sources which could cause photo - disintegration of heavy nuclei : one is provided by hypernova thermal photons from radioactive elements of the hypernova ejecta , and another is the synchrotron photons from the hypernova remnant blast wave .",
    "for the first mechanism , we use the luminosity of sn1998bw as a representative . at time",
    "@xmath174 days after the burst , the optical luminosity of sn1998bw drops to the level of about @xmath175 ( sollerman et al .",
    "a nucleus of energy @xmath176 ev interacts with target photons with energy @xmath177 .",
    "a rough estimate of the optical depth of photo - disintegration of heavy nuclei due to hypernova thermal photons is @xmath178 where @xmath179 is the compression ratio of the hypernova external shock and @xmath180 is the characteristic energy of hypernova thermal photons .",
    "we can see that thermal photons are so sparse that they have a negligible effect on the photo - disintegration of uhe nuclei",
    ".    the synchrotron emission from the stellar wind shocked by the hypernova remnant could be brighter than the hypernova emission itself at the late stages of the hypernova , e.g. @xmath181 after the burst in our case , since the hypernova luminosity drops rather quickly after the peak .",
    "we estimate the luminosity from the shocked wind at the time when the @xmath182 ejecta begins to decelerate .",
    "the total number of the swept - up wind particles is @xmath183 , where @xmath184 denotes time in days . assuming that the magnetic field energy density is amplified to a fraction @xmath185 of the shock internal energy , the magnetic field is @xmath186 . assuming a power - law energy distribution for accelerated electrons @xmath187 with @xmath188 , one obtains the characteristic frequency @xmath189 , where @xmath190 is the fraction of the shock energy that goes into electrons .",
    "high energy electrons will cool in the magnetic field and cause a break in the electron energy distribution .",
    "the characteristic synchrotron frequency corresponding to this break is @xmath191 .",
    "the luminosity at the frequency @xmath192 is @xmath193 . for @xmath188 , the luminosity at frequency @xmath194 is @xmath195 for @xmath196 , while for @xmath197 , @xmath198 .",
    "the luminosity at energy @xmath199 , corresponding to the energy of the photons with which the uhe nuclei of energy @xmath98 interact at the resonance peak , is @xmath200 .",
    "so we see that for wind parameters @xmath151 , the synchrotron luminosity does exceed the hypernova luminosity at the time @xmath201 days , which may explain why the optical emission of sn1998bw , detected at @xmath202days after the burst , is still contributed by the hypernova emission ] .",
    "once we know the synchrotron luminosity of a hypernova remnant and the photon spectral index ( @xmath203 ) , we can , using eq.(1 ) , get the optical depth of photo - disintegration of heavy nuclei due to such synchrotron photons , i.e. @xmath204 using @xmath205 , we find that , after a time @xmath206 the nucleus can survive in the hypernova synchrotron photon environment .",
    "note that the free expansion time for ejecta with @xmath207 ( eq.27 ) is longer than this time .",
    "the maximum energy of accelerated particles , eq.(26 ) , depends on the time @xmath208 as @xmath209 the evolution of the optical depth for photo - disintegration and the maximum energy of accelerated nuclei are shown in fig.4 .",
    "the possible presence of heavy nuclei in uhecrs raises interesting questions : what is the origin of these nuclei ? can these nuclei survive in the sources where they get accelerated ? in this paper , we have endeavored to address these questions for two proposed uhecr sources discussed in the literature , namely grbs and hypernovae . for grbs , both internal shocks and external shocks",
    "have been suggested to be able to accelerate particles to uhe energies , and in this paper we have considered the role of both of these in the context of uhecr heavy nuclei .",
    "we have sketched out some possible mechanisms for the presence of heavy nuclei in these scenarios . for grb internal shocks ,",
    "we suggest that the nuclei are entrained from the progenitor stellar core , e.g. the fe core , the o core , etc .",
    ", during the stage when the jets arising from accretion in the innermost collapsing core , are making their way out through the star",
    ". since instabilities favoring entrainment are predominant mainly during the initial stellar crossing phase of the jet , a jet composition with a substantial fraction of heavy nuclei may only be expected in long bursts with observed @xmath31-ray durations @xmath210 s , while longer burst jets would be expected to consist mainly of protons . for the grb",
    "external shock and hypernova source scenarios , the nuclei may be the heavy elements present in the stellar wind of wolf - rayet stars , which are thought to be the progenitors of grbs and hypernovae .",
    "the stellar wind of wolf - rayet stars , especially the wo , wc sub - types stars , is heavily enriched with intermediate mass nuclei , such as o , c , etc .",
    "after they escape from their sources ( see e. g. dermer 2007b ) , uhecr nuclei can be subject to photo - disintegration also in intergalactic space , before arriving at earth . an uhe heavy nucleus with an energy @xmath211",
    "will mainly collide with cosmic infrared background ( cib ) photons . using new constraints on cib data",
    ", it has been found that uhe iron nuclei with energy @xmath212 have a mean free path of @xmath213 and that this mean free path increases as the energy of the nucleus decreases ( hooper et al .",
    "2007 ; stecker & salamon 1999 ) .",
    "lighter nuclei have relatively shorter mean free path ( hooper et al .",
    "thus , uhe nuclei can in principle originate from sources at cosmological distance , such as grbs and hypernovae .",
    "the main question appears to be whether they survive the environment of their original sources . for this reason ,",
    "most of the present paper has been devoted to a quantitative study of the survival of uhe nuclei in the above mentioned sources .",
    "we find that :    \\i ) in grb internal shocks , heavy nuclei can survive in the sources if the internal shock radius and/or the lorentz factor of the relativistic jets are relatively large , as given by eq.(11 ) . thus one might expect acceleration of fe nuclei to be more favored in bursts with smoother , longer variability timescale light - curves . for a smaller internal shock radius , the photodisintegration process due to prompt x - ray photons may become optically thick .",
    "however , if a synchrotron self - absorption break is present above several kev in the photon spectrum , the reduced number density of x - ray photons will lower the photodisintegration optical depth accordingly .",
    "in general , compared to heavy nuclei , the uhe intermediate - mass nuclei find it easier to survive photo - disintegration in internal ( and external ) shocks .",
    "\\ii ) in grb external shocks , due to the much larger dissipation radii compared to internal shocks , uhe nuclei can easily survive in the sources .",
    "we have also calculated the evolution of the photo - disintegration optical depth during the afterglow phase for both an ism external medium and a stellar wind medium .",
    "the results show that uhe nuclei can survive in the afterglow shock for a relatively long time in both cases .",
    "\\iii ) in the hypernova remnant acceleration scenario , uhe nuclei can survive in the sources , except in the early short period of time ( @xmath214 for typical parameters , see eq.(31 ) ) . in this early short period ,",
    "however , only a very small amount of ejecta energy has been converted to uhecrs , so their contribution to the uhecr flux is negligible .",
    "most of the uhecrs originate from the blast wave ejecta with @xmath207 , which decelerate after @xmath215 , typically .",
    "uhe nuclei accelerated during this time are safe from photo - disintegration .",
    "earlier calculations on the photo - disintegration of uhe nuclei in grb internal shocks by anchordoqui et al .",
    "( 2007b ) consider only one specific set of typical parameters for the internal shock radius and the relativistic lorentz factor .",
    "we have improved this by considering the whole parameter space and working out the constraints on the physical conditions under which uhe heavy nuclei can survive in internal shocks . we have also considered the effect of a self - absorption break in the prompt emission on the photo - disintegration problem . besides internal shocks ,",
    "we have explored the photo - disintegration problem of uhe nuclei in grb external shocks and hypernova remnants .    in summary , we have suggested possible scenarios for the injection of heavy nuclei into the acceleration zones of extragalactic sources such as grb and hypernovae .",
    "we found that , if heavy nuclei are accelerated in these sources , they will survive the threat of photo - disintegration under fairly general conditions for the case of grb external shocks , and for hypernovae .",
    "they could survive also in grb internal shocks , if the latter occur at relatively large radii and/or the bulk lorentz factors are large . on the other hand , for small shock radii and/or smaller bulk lorentz factors ,",
    "a pure proton uhecr composition would be favored if the self - absorption break in the photon spectrum is not high .",
    "since the instability - induced entrainment process of heavy nuclei in internal shocks is currently not well - known , we stress that the expected fraction of heavy nuclei injected into the internal shock acceleration process is uncertain .",
    "a significant fraction is plausible , but if the entrainment is inefficient , we would in any case expect a proton - dominated composition in grb internal shock models . in grb external shocks and hypernova shocks , on the other hand , the abundance of heavy nuclei is dependent on the external medium or the stellar outer envelope and wind enrichment fraction .     as we were completing our work ,",
    "the pierre auger collaboration ( 2007 ) reported a plausible correlation between uhecr at energies above @xmath216 ev , assuming that they are protons , and agns within 75 mpc selected from a particular catalog .",
    "although this result is statistically significant at the 2.8@xmath217 level , as the authors themselves stress , it does not rule out a possible origin in sources , e.g. galaxies , which are distributed in a similar manner as these agns .",
    "there is an unresolved tension between the above auger spatial correlation analysis suggesting protons , and previous auger results on maximum shower elongations @xmath218 suggesting a significant heavy element component for uhecr in the same energy range .",
    "the agn hypothesis for the uhecrs has been questioned in the analysis of gorbunov et al .",
    "( 2007 ) . in our present paper",
    ", we have investigated the conditions under which uhecr originating from grb or hypernovae could contain a significant fraction of heavy nuclei , as well as the conditions under which these uhecr would be expected to be mainly protons . if any of the observed uhecr were heavy nuclei , these could reach the earth from distances beyond 100 mpc , and the number of galaxies which can host a grb or hypernova increases significantly with distance . within the proton - inspired 3.2 degree circle containing an agn in the auger correlation analysis , there would be many more galaxies which could host a grb or a hypernova . in the case of heavy nuclei ,",
    "the deflection angles are larger ( e.g. for oxygen with energy @xmath219 ev it is @xmath220 degree , sommers 2007 ) , which would contain even more galaxies . while a study of the angular correlations is beyond the scope of this paper , our results are compatible with and relevant for both the auger elongation studies and spatial correlation studies , providing constraints which can be used in future analyses .",
    "we would like to thank charles dermer for helpful comments and zhuo li for pointing out that the self - absorption break may have an effect on the photo - disintegration .",
    "this work is supported in part by nsf ast 0307376 , nasa nag5 - 13286 , and the national natural science foundation of china under grants 10403002 and 10221001 , and the foundation for the authors of national excellent doctoral dissertations of china ( for x.y.w . ) .",
    "99 allard , d. , parizot , e. , olinto , a. v. , khan , e. and goriely , s. 2005 , a&a , 443 , l29 anchordoqui , l. a. et al .",
    "2007a , prd , 75 , 063001 anchordoqui , l. a. , hooper , d. , sarkar , s. and taylor , a. m. , 2007b , astroparticle physics , in press , astro - ph/0703001 band , d. et al .",
    "1993 , apj , 413 , 281 beloborodov , andrei m. , 2003 , apj , 588 , 932 berezinsky , v. , gazizov , a.z . and",
    "grigorieva , s.i .",
    ", 2006 , phys . rev .",
    "d 47 , 043005 biermann , p. l. , 1987 , apj , 322 , 643          dermer , c. d. 2007b , apj , 664 , 384 galama , t. j. , 1998 , nature , 396 , 670 glushkov , a. v. et al .",
    "2007 , arxiv:0710.5508 [ astro - ph ] gorbunov , d. , et al . , 2007 , arxiv:0711.4060 [ astro - ph ] hillas , a. m. , 1984 , ara&a , 22 , 425 hooper , d. , s. sarkar , and a. m. taylor , 2007 , astroparticle physics , 27 , 199 hughes g. et al . [",
    "hires collaboration ] , 2007 , proc .",
    "30th icrc        , p. 2006 , rep .",
    ", 69 , 2259 murase , k. et al . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 651 , l5 mcke , a. ; engel , ralph ; rachen , j. p. ; protheroe , r. j. ; stanev , todor , 2000 , computer physics communications , 124 , 290 - 314 nousek , j.et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 642 , 389 paczyski , b. 1998 , apj , 494 , l45                  wang x. y. , razzaque s. , p. and dai z. g. , 2007 , phys .",
    "d , 76 , 083009 waxman e. 1995 , phys .",
    "75 , 386 ; waxman e. 2004a , apj , 606 , 988 waxman e. 2004b , apj , 605 , 97 wick s. d. , dermer c. d. and atoyan a.2004 , astrop ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the chemical composition of the ultra - high - energy ( uhe ) cosmic rays serves as an important clue for their origin . </S>",
    "<S> recent measurements of the elongation rates by the pierre auger observatory hint at the possible presence of heavy or intermediate mass nuclei in the uhe cosmic rays . gamma - ray bursts </S>",
    "<S> ( grbs ) and hypernovae have been suggested as possible sources of the uhe cosmic rays . </S>",
    "<S> here we derive the constraints on the physical conditions under which uhe heavy nuclei , if they are accelerated in these sources , can survive in their intense photon fields . </S>",
    "<S> we find that in the grb external shock and in the hypernova scenarios , uhe nuclei can easily survive photo - disintegration . in the grb internal shock scenario , </S>",
    "<S> uhe nuclei can also survive , provided the dissipation radius and/or the bulk lorentz factor of the relativistic outflow are relatively large , or if the low - energy self - absorption break in the photon spectrum of the prompt emission occurs above several kev . in internal shocks and in the other scenarios , </S>",
    "<S> intermediate - mass uhe nuclei have a higher probability of survival against photo - disintegration than uhe heavy nuclei such as fe . </S>"
  ]
}