{
  "article_text": [
    "open clusters ( ocs ) are considered excellent laboratories for studies of stellar evolution .",
    "studies in the research area dealing with ocs showed a rapid growth in 1990 s and this area continues to develop vigorously .",
    "there may be many reasons for this recent growth of oc studies .",
    "many new techniques are greatly beneficial for oc observations , including , for example , the application of wide - field , high quality ccd cameras and , more recently , multi - object spectrographs . in addition",
    ", oc studies play a very important and unique role in determining the structure and evolution of the galactic disk .",
    "ocs have long been used to trace the structure and evolution of the galactic disk . from an observational point of view , there are some important advantages of using ocs as opposed to field stars . in general , in terms of ocs , we deal with groups of stars of nearly the same age , a similar composition and at a similar distance .",
    "we can observe ocs to large distances , and the distances to most of the oc sample have already been derived . in particular , ocs will have relatively stable orbital motion , which can be used as a better tracer of the galactic disk structure .",
    "ocs also have a wide range of ages , so that  combined with their spatial distribution and kinematic information  we can study dynamical evolution effects , and very young ocs are ideal objects for studies of the stellar initial mass function .",
    "furthermore , when combined with abundance data , we can investigate the chemical evolution history of the galactic disk ( ( * ? ?",
    "* carraro et al . 1998 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chen et al . 2003 ) ) .",
    "at present , the total number of detected clusters and associations is around 1700 ( ( * ? ? ? * dias et al .",
    "2002 ) ) , about @xmath2 of which have distance and age information and for about half of which proper motions are available .",
    "less than one - fourth of the sample have both proper motion and radial velocity parameters , and only a small portion ( about @xmath3 ) of ocs have well - determined mean abundance values .",
    "we have compiled an updated oc catalog ( chen et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    ", for which data have been extracted from various sources  mainly from the dias catalog ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* dias et al .",
    "2002 ) ) , kharchenko s data ( ( * ? ? ? * kharchenko et al .",
    "2005a ) , ( * ? ?",
    "* kharchenko et al .",
    "2005b ) ) and the webda database ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* mermilliod & paunzen 2003 ) ) . based on this large sample ,",
    "we can embark on statistical studies of the galactic oc system .",
    "using our updated database for 993 ocs with distance and age data , we plotted the cluster positions on an @xmath4 coordinate system , with the zero point in @xmath5 at the galactic center ( where @xmath6 kpc ) , as shown in fig .",
    "1 . the solid arc in fig.1 represents the solar circle about the galactic center .",
    "one can see from this figure that ",
    "apparently  there are very few ocs at galactocentric distances of less than 5kpc . furthermore , while young clusters ( with age of less than 0.8 gyr ; see ( * ? ? ?",
    "* phelps et al . 1994 ) ) are distributed quite uniformly around the sun , most older ocs are distributed in the outer part of the disk .",
    "these apparent distributions are partially due to the much higher extinction in the direction of the galactic center and the deficiency of older clusters in the inner part of the disk has been also attributed to the preferential destruction of these clusters by giant molecular clouds , which are primarily found in the inner galaxy .    regarding the spatial distribution perpendicular to the galactic plane , most ocs represent the typical thin - disk population , with a small scale height of about 66 pc .",
    "however , the subsample of old ocs , most of which are found in the outer disk , has a much greater scale height of 221 pc .",
    "these scale heights are in excellent agreement with the earlier results of ( * ? ?",
    "? * janes et al .",
    "( 1988 ) ) and ( * ? ? ?",
    "* janes & phelps ( 1994 ) ) .     plane .",
    "the open circles and dots are the older and younger clusters , respectively .",
    "the large semi - circle has a radius of 8.0 kpc , centered on the galactic center.,width=326 ]    in our kinematic sample , we have compiled a total of 369 ocs for which distance and both proper motion and radial velocity data are available . here , in left - hand panel of fig .",
    "2 , we plot their projected velocity onto the disk , whilst the right - hand panel shows the averaged rotation velocity of ocs as a function of the galactocentric distance .",
    "_ right : _ rotation velocity of these ocs as a function of galactocentric distance , width=326 ]    based on our kinematic dataset we can also constrain the galactic differential rotation , as well as the galactic radial motion parameters at the solar neighborhood .",
    "we have compiled a subsample of 117 clusters with heliocentric distances of @xmath7 kpc and ages younger than 0.8 gyr , which can be considered as typical thin - disk objects in the galaxy , and for which the oort theory is applicable .",
    "the kinematical parameters determined from these clusters can be used to represent the kinematic properties of thin - disk objects in the vicinity of the sun .",
    "thus , we deduced the galactic components of ( i ) the mean heliocentric velocity of the oc system , @xmath8 km s@xmath1 , ( ii ) the characteristic velocity dispersions , @xmath9 km s@xmath1 , ( iii ) the oort constants , @xmath10",
    "km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 , and ( iv ) the radial motion parameters , @xmath11 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* zhao et al . 2006 ) ) .",
    "the parameters determined from these clusters have accuracies significantly greater than those obtained from other groups of clusters .",
    "ocs can also be used as a powerful tool to understand whether and how the spatial abundance distribution changes with time , because ocs have formed at all epochs and since their ages , distances , and metallicities can be derived more reliably than the equivalent parameters of the field stars .",
    "we have compiled the full oc sample , containing 144 objects , with metallicity , distance and age parameters . from this sample ,",
    "we obtain a radial metallicity gradient of -0.058 @xmath0 0.006 dex kpc@xmath12 ( chen et al .",
    ", in prep . ) , for galactocentric distances ranging from about 7 kpc to 17 kpc .",
    "by dividing the clusters into young and old subsamples ( see also ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chen et al . 2003 ) ) , we find that the corresponding gradients are significantly different , as shown in the upper panel of fig .",
    "3 . that is",
    ", the gradient is steeper in the past , and shallower for younger clusters . in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "3 , the gradients of the inner and outer subsamples have similar values .     gradient .",
    "triangles and stars represent younger and older ocs , respectively . _",
    "( b ) _ gradients for inner - disk and out disk clusters . (",
    "* chen et al .",
    "2003)),width=326 ]    this abundance gradient result is consistent with those from hii regions ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* deharveng et al . 2000 ) ) or planetary nebula data ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* maciel et al . 2006 ) ) .",
    "in a recent review , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* maciel et al . ( 2006 ) ) combined abundance data from planetary nebula and oc samples to provide observational constraints on disk chemical evolution models .",
    "as shown in fig.10 of their paper , these authors investigated the abundance gradient as a function of time by combining the results derived from oc data by ( * ? ? ? * friel et al .",
    "( 2002 ) ) , and by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chen et al . ( 2003 ) ) .",
    "the theoretical tracks of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chappini et al . ( 2001 ) ) and ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hou et al . ( 2000 ) ) , respectively , are also shown in that figure .",
    "the differences between these two model predictions are rather large . in hou",
    "et al . ( 2000 ) s model , based on an exponentially decreasing infall rate and an `` inside - out '' scenario for the formation of the galactic disk , a rapid increase of the abundance at early times in the inner disk caused a steep gradient .",
    "as the star formation activity migrates to the outer disk , the abundances are enhanced in that region , so that the gradients flatten out . in the model used by chiappini et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , two infall episodes are assumed to form the halo and the disk .",
    "the disk is also formed in an `` inside - out '' formation scenario , in which the time - scale is a linear function of the galactocentric distance . in general ,",
    "some steepening of the gradient is predicted by that model .",
    "it seems that hou et al .",
    "( 2000 ) s model is better supported by the observational data , however .",
    "thus , based on oc data we may constrain the disk chemical evolution such that in the early stage of disk formation it showed a steeper abundance gradient , while later on this gradient became flatten out . anyway , these inferences are not very conclusive , since we still do not have a sufficiently large old and outer disk cluster sample .",
    "the compilation of such a sample is critical for these statements to be made firmer , and we propose to focus on obtaining such a sample as a priority in this field .    as regards the overall gradient along the disk , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* twarog et al . ( 1997 ) ) proposed a step function for the disk abundance .",
    "that is , inside 10 kpc , there is a shallow gradient , while beyond 10 kpc the sample is too small to determine if a gradient exists .",
    "they used a sample of 14 ocs in the outer disk .",
    "however , given that we now have 34 ocs beyond 10 kpc , from our data a continuous linear gradient is favoured instead .",
    "in some previous work on young open clusters , including the orion nebula cluster ( ( * ? ? ? * hillenbrand 1997 ) ) and r136 ( e.g. ( * ? ? ?",
    "* cambell et al.1992 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* brandl et al . 1996 ) ) the authors found evidences for mass segregation .",
    "however , the question is , for such young star clusters , whether these effects are mainly a dynamical result or possibly primordial in nature .",
    "recently , we investigated two very young open clusters , ngc 2244 and 6530 , both with ages younger than 5 myr .",
    "as an example , here we show some results for ngc 6530 ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chen et al . 2007 ) ) .",
    "the observational data were taken from our historical photographic plates at shanghai observatory , with a time baseline of 87 years .",
    "the old photographic plates were taken by the 40-cm refractor at sheshan observing station .    from this photographic data",
    ", we determined the proper motion for 495 stars in a one square degree region centered on the cluster , and estimated their membership probabilities . since these cluster stars are located at the same distance , and",
    "because most of them are main sequence stars , we can use luminosity instead of mass to study the ( mass / luminosity ) segregation effects .",
    "4 shows the cumulative radial number density profile for bright and faint cluster stars , which shows that brighter ( or massive ) stars are more concentrated towards the inner part of the cluster .",
    "this indicates an evident luminosity or mass segregation effect .",
    "a similar result was obtained for our other sample cluster , ngc 2244 ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chen et al . 2007 ) ) .     ( o ) and",
    "@xmath13 ( @xmath14 ) .",
    "result from chen et al .",
    "( 2007),width=326 ]    we conclude that both ocs , ngc 6530 and ngc 2244 , show clear evidence of mass ( luminosity ) segregation .",
    "these two clusters were too young for this to have only been caused by dynamical relaxation processes , and the observed segregation might be due to a combination of both initial conditions and dynamical evolutions .",
    "therefore , our results supporting the `` primordial mass segregation '' scenarios , such as the `` competitive accretion '' model .",
    "( see ( * ? ? ?",
    "* larson 1991 ) , ( * ? ? ? * bonnell et al .",
    "2001a ) , ( * ? ?",
    "* bonnell et al . 2001b ) )",
    "regarding the present status of our oc database , we need a much larger sample with both abundance and three - dimensional spatial motion data in order to study the global disk dynamical and chemical evolution . in particular , for our study of the disk chemical evolution , we need more outer - disk cluster data so that we can determine the abundance gradient evolution decisively . equally important ,",
    "a unified observational data set for different clusters is very much needed . as for a single cluster , in many cases only a few stars",
    "are observed spectroscopically to derive the average abundance or radial velocity values . on the whole ,",
    "a large and homogenous spectroscopic data set for ocs is as yet non - existent .",
    "to improve the situation , there are some important oc projects ongoing or in the planning phase .",
    "these includes , for example , wocs ( the wiyn open cluster study ; ( * ? ? ? * mathieu 2000 ) ) , which aims to obtain comprehensive and definitive astrometric , photometric and spectroscopic databases for tens of fundamental clusters ; socs ( segue open cluster survey ) , which  as part of the as-2 project  plans to obtain radial velocities and metallicities for more than 100 ocs",
    ". the italian bocce project ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bragaglia 2006 ) ) , taking photometric and high - resolution spectroscopic observations of 30 clusters , will embark on a detailed investigation of their ages , distance and abundance properties .",
    "the large sky area multi - object fiber spectroscopic telescope ( lamost ) project ( see http://www.lamost.org/en/ ) is one of the national major scientific projects undertaken by the chinese academy of science .",
    "lamost is a 4-meter aperture quasi - meridian reflecting schmidt telescope , with a large field of view of about 20 square degree , and 4000 fibers .",
    "the telescope will be located at the xinglong observing station of the national astronomical observatories . at present , a small system with an effective 2-meter aperture instrument has already obtained first light .",
    "the full system is scheduled to finish its final assembly in early 2009 .    for the locs ,",
    "the main advantage of using lamost is that it can be most efficient for an oc survey . with its multiple fibers and large field of view",
    ", we can complete spectroscopic survey observation for at least one cluster per observing night .",
    "this type of survey observations will have deep enough magnitude limits to reach most of the old clusters within @xmath15 kpc .",
    "we expect the locs , in about 4-years of observations , to survey a total of around six hundred ocs , each covering one square degree of sky area .",
    "we wish to obtain a homogeneous metallicity and radial velocity sample of stars in each cluster region .",
    "this will lead to reliable membership determinations , which will  in turn ",
    "form a fundamental basis for oc studies .",
    "obtaining many more abundance and kinematic properties of old and distant ocs provides crucial constraints for modelling of the structure and evolution of the galaxy .    from the selected oc targets , we choose 150 ocs with suitable ages and distances as the first - priority sample for locs observations",
    "meanwhile , thirteen fully studied ocs have been chosen as standard objects for a comparison purpose .",
    "we have already prepared the input catalog for stars in the selected cluster sky area , and a preliminary but systematic membership estimation for candidate clusters is ongoing .",
    "+ lc , jlh and jlz are supported by the nsfc ( grant nos .",
    "10773020 , 10573028,10333050 , 10333020,10573022 ) and nkbrsfg 2007cb815403 and 403 .",
    "rdg was partially supported by an `` international joint project '' grant , jointly funded by the royal society in the uk and the chinese national science foundation ( nsfc ) .",
    "this research has made use ofthe webda database , operated at the institute for astronomy of the university of vienna ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we review our work on galactic open clusters in recent years , and introduce our proposed large program for the locs ( lamost open cluster survey ) . </S>",
    "<S> first , based on the most complete open clusters sample with metallicity , age and distance data as well as kinematic information , some preliminary statistical analysis regarding the spatial and metallicity distributions is presented . in particular , </S>",
    "<S> a radial abundance gradient of - 0.058@xmath0 0.006 dex kpc@xmath1 was derived , and by dividing clusters into age groups we show that the disk abundance gradient was steeper in the past . </S>",
    "<S> secondly , proper motions , membership probabilities , and velocity dispersions of stars in the regions of two very young open clusters are derived . </S>",
    "<S> both clusters show clear evidence of mass segregation , which provides support for the `` primordial '' mass segregation scenarios . </S>",
    "<S> based on the great advantages of the forthcoming lamost facility , we have proposed a detailed open cluster survey with lamost ( the locs ) . the aim , feasibility , and the present development of the locs are briefly summarized . </S>"
  ]
}