{
  "article_text": [
    "many functions of a living cell involve sending signals from one protein to another .",
    "signals need to be sent in response to environmental conditions in order to trigger the appropriate functional proteins needed at that time .",
    "for example , the presence of food metabolites in the surroundings triggers signals from membrane receptors to proteins involved in chemotaxis and metabolism required to make the cell move toward and utilize the food ; or a sudden change in the temperature triggers signals to proteins which buffer the cell against the shock .",
    "many signalling pathways found in living cells have been studied and modeled in great detail : the pts sugar uptake @xcite , chemotaxis @xcite , heat shock @xcite , unfolded protein response @xcite , the p53 network @xcite , nf-@xmath4b signalling @xcite and the sos response to dna damage @xcite , just to name a few .",
    "all the computations done by the regulatory system of a cell are used to make sure the right signals get sent at the right times to the right places .    not much is known about the large - scale organization of protein networks in the cell and the connection between their architectural principles and the propagation of signals within them .",
    "this is the subject of investigation in this paper .",
    "the different overall types of reactions we have in the network are :    * transcription , where activated / inhibited polymerase complexes interacts with a promoter and regulates the transcription of downstream open reading frames . *",
    "complex - formation , where a complex is created from either monomers or other complexes ( rna - polymerases and filaments ) .",
    "* activation / inhibition , where a protein ( e.g. enzyme ) is modified by another enzyme by the addition of an organic compound ( e.g. phosphate and methyl ) .",
    "* metabolic / enzymatic , where a protein reacts with one or more small molecule(s ) ( e.g. transport and cleavage ) .",
    "the ecocyc database contains all this information to the level of water , ions , sugars , fatty acids , phosphate groups etc .",
    "whereas we include enzymatic reactions with metabolic output , we prune the network by removing all metabolic nodes .",
    "our approach is to study a simplified dynamics of signal propagation on an organism - wide network of proteins and reactions . by comparing with appropriate randomized versions of the network",
    "we pinpoint features of the design of the real network that influence signal propagation .",
    "we chose to study _ escherichia coli _ because it is the most studied prokaryote and , hence , its network of interactions and reactions is most complete ; several databases exist for the regulatory and metabolic interactions in _ e. coli _ @xcite .",
    "there are many ways to represent the full known molecular network of _",
    "e. coli_. the standard method , used in a number of studies of biological and social networks @xcite , has been to use an undirected graph .",
    "although easily tractable , such a representation does lose a great deal of information about the interactions .    a graph representation which , for the regulatory network of a living organism , adds most of this missing information is one where the network is described by a directed , bipartite graph . such a graph has two types of nodes : protein nodes and reaction nodes ( including reversible and irreversible metabolic and complex - formation reactions , as well as transcription reactions ) . in our representation",
    "a modified , _",
    "e.g. _ phosphorylated , protein is assigned a different node from the original protein .",
    "in addition , complexes of proteins are also assigned their own nodes .",
    "further , the links have direction .",
    "1a shows such a representation of the protein network of _",
    "e. coli_.    even more information is contained in a representation of the network as a list of reactions .",
    "the list adds to the bipartite graph information about which neighbours of a reactant node are reactants and which are products .",
    "this reaction list and the directed bipartite graph are the representations we focus on in this paper . to study the signalling in these networks we introduce two quantities which measure different aspects of signal propagation .",
    "these measures are built on the fact that transmission of a signal across a reaction node depends on the presence of other reactants .",
    "in particular we will assume that transmission of a signal across reaction nodes with more input links puts more constraints on the status of other molecules in the network .",
    "a simple measure for the complications associated with sending a signal along a given pathway is to count the total number of in links or the total number of out links of reaction nodes along the pathway . given a signal pathway from protein a to protein b , we can ask how many other types of proteins are required to be present to allow the signal to propagate all the way .",
    "this we call the `` cost '' of the path .",
    "another quantity is the number of alternate branches , along the path from a to b , that the signal could be broadcast on .",
    "this we call the `` spread '' of that path . quantifying such measures is useful only if there is an appropriate null - model to compare with the real _ e. coli _ network . for this null - model",
    "we choose a randomized version of the real network which has the same number of nodes and links , which preserves bipartiteness as well as all local point properties by keeping the in and out degree of each node fixed .",
    "the directed , bipartite graph representation of _",
    "e. coli _ consists of 2846 protein nodes and 2774 reactions .",
    "the types of reactions are transcription reactions , complex formations , protein modifications and metabolic reactions",
    ". the dataset counts 848 transcription reactions out of the 980 irreversible reactions , with the remaining 1794 reactions being reversible . in fig.1a",
    "we show the giant weak component consisting of 1938 reactions ( of which 812 are transcription reactions , ( cyan squares ) ) and 1897 proteins ( orange circles ) .",
    "with such a network representation , one can identify four different types of degree distributions : the in- and out - degree distributions for protein and reaction nodes , shown in fig 1c , d .",
    "for the four different degree distributions only the out - degree distribution of protein nodes is sufficiently broad to be fitted to a power law with exponent of @xmath5 over two decades ; the other three are narrow , exponential distributions .",
    "the in- and out - degree distributions of the reaction nodes reflect constraints on both space and the number of constituents of each protein ( or complex ) , with the out - degree being slightly higher .",
    "the broadness of the out - degree distribution of protein nodes is wholly due to transcription reactions . without these ,",
    "the out - degree distribution of protein nodes is almost indistinguishable from the in - degree distribution .    another clear feature of the overall design is the tendency of transcription reactions ( cyan , in fig .",
    "1a ) to be in the center of the network . that is , if we simply count distances along undirected paths starting from transcription reaction nodes we get an average length of @xmath6 . in contrast , the average length of paths starting from arbitrary reaction nodes is @xmath7 .",
    "this observation is a rough approximation to what is captured by the betweenness centrality measure@xcite .",
    "the alternating reaction and protein nodes as one moves away from the core of the network in fig .",
    "1a is in part due to the bipartiteness and in part due to the higher interconnectedness of the core of the network , consisting mostly of transcription factors .",
    "the average degree of transcription factors is @xmath8 , while it is @xmath9 for all proteins .",
    "1a illustrates that the _ e. coli _ graph is composed of a large number of relatively small strong components ( a strong component is a subgraph where there is a path between every pair of nodes , see methods section ) .",
    "the largest of these contains 150 nodes .",
    "we will here refer to a graph where every node has access to every other node through a path in the network as being above percolation threshold or super - critical . then , although the full network shown in fig .",
    "1a looks supercritical , the representation in terms of strong components shows that it is substantially below the percolation threshold ( as confirmed by the exponential size distribution of strong components , not shown ) .",
    "1b shows a corresponding condensed graph of the randomized network , in which the degree of each node is conserved .",
    "the existence of a giant strong component with @xmath10 nodes ( out of 3835 in the giant weak component and 5620 in the full network ) confirms that there are enough links in the system to put it substantially above the percolation threshold .",
    "thus , the known _",
    "e. coli _ reaction network indeed shows a highly modular design , even when compared to a random bipartite network that has exactly the same number of nodes , each with the same in- and out - degree .",
    "the simplest aspect of the structure of the network that influences signalling is the number of nodes that are downstream of any given starting node .",
    "note that this is a quantity that can be sensibly studied only with a directed graph representation of the network ; in any connected undirected graph all nodes are downstream of each other .",
    "the possible signals emanating from the starting node are obviously limited to reach only these nodes .",
    "the strong component structures in fig .",
    "1a , b already indicate that the real _ e. coli _ network differs substantially from its randomized counterpart . in the random network most nodes",
    "can reach almost all other nodes , whereas each protein in the real network has a much smaller number of downstream targets .",
    "thus , the real network is relatively optimized for specific signalling ; a percolating structure is not conducive to specific signalling because every node has almost the entire network downstream of it .",
    "this expectation is confirmed in fig .",
    "2a which shows the distribution of the number of downstream targets for the real and randomized _ e. coli _ networks .",
    "the fact that the _ e.coli _ network has a few nodes with a downstream sphere of influence of over 1000 indicates a topology governed partly by a hierarchical subnetwork consisting of about 1/4 of the original network , as also noted by ref . @xcite .",
    "in contrast , the randomized network examined in fig .",
    "2a lacks such a hierarchical organization , rather placing @xmath10 nodes under command of each other in one giant strong component .",
    "both of these downstream spheres of influence are , however , subject to further constraints .",
    "not all reactants in a reaction in fact provide a real possibility to send a signal to each other .",
    "for example , a catalyst can typically not receive a signal from any of the other reaction partners .",
    "we now investigate how such a constraint will affect signalling in the _ e.coli _ network .",
    "2b illustrates the kind of restrictions placed on allowable signalling paths in a reversible reaction @xmath11 .",
    "the graph representation does not have information about these restrictions because all neighbors of a reaction node are equivalent . including this restriction limits the downstream targets from any node as compared to the simpler graph representation .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "2c which shows the distribution of the number of downstream nodes reachable from every node of the network in fig .",
    "1 with the restrictions , as compared to fig .",
    "2a where the restrictions are not applied .",
    "intriguingly , the distribution with the signalling restrictions resembles a scale free distribution , @xmath12 , with a substantially better scaling than the unrestricted signalling .",
    "irrespective of restrictions the real _ e. coli _ network has much less downstream targets than its randomized version , a fact that is important for specific signalling .",
    "signalling is not just about reaching a downstream target .",
    "as a signal propagates it needs other molecules to help it pass the message across consecutive reactions .",
    "consider for example a signal initiated by an increase in the concentration of a given transcription factor .",
    "the promoter it influences may depend on other transcription factors , for example in an or - gate construction .",
    "if that is the case , and the other transcription factor is already abundant , the promoter activity will not be influenced and thus the signal will not be transmitted .",
    "more generally , for each additional reactant along a reaction pathway , signal propagation gets increasingly coupled to the overall state of the molecules in the cell .",
    "the more reactions in the path , and the more reactants in each reaction , the more the conditions that need to be met for propagation of the signal .",
    "a concrete example of a signalling pathway is the arc two component regulatory system illustrated in fig .",
    "3a . a receptor protein ( arcb ) receives an external stimulus ( here , lack of oxygen ) , gets phosphorylated , and then undergoes a series of two reactions where the phosphate group is shifted between residues in arcb , such that finally arcbp can transfer the phosphate group to arca .",
    "subsequently , phosphorylated arca acts as a transcription factor for a large number of genes including the _ suca _ gene emphasized in the figure . in terms of signal propagation , we follow the signal from a phosphorylation reaction : @xmath13 , through the reaction @xmath14 , ending in the reaction @xmath15 .",
    "the external signal propagates under the condition that all reactions can take place .",
    "this means that ( 1 ) arcb is present , ( 2 ) arca is present , and that ( 3 ) the three additional transcription factors ( ihf , fnr , and rnap-@xmath16 ) are present / absent in a combination that allows a change in the concentration of arcap to influence the activity of the _ sucabcd _ operon .",
    "thus , the propagation of the input stimulus to suca puts constraints on the concentration levels of arca , arcb , ihf , fnr and the rnap@xmath16 complex , and can be assigned a cost @xmath17 which counts the number of proteins or protein complexes involved in propagating the signal .",
    "in addition there could be some cost associated to the absence / presence of small molecules or metabolites , for example atp in the first reaction of fig .",
    "we disregard this metabolic part of signalling in the present paper .",
    "we quantify this cost @xmath18 for an arbitrary path from a starting protein to a target protein by simply counting the number of reactants along the entire path ( not counting the protein nodes which are part of the path ) , as described schematically in fig .",
    "if the same reactant is used several times , it is only counted once , as illustrated in fig .",
    "3c . notice that the propagation of a signal does not necessarily mean an increased level of the proteins involved .",
    "the key point is that a change in input state should be transmitted to a changed output state of the end product .",
    "our cost function is a simple measure of the complexity of handling such a signal and it could , in principle , be calculated between any pair of proteins where a path exists in the directed network .",
    "another issue which is important for specific signalling is the possibility of signals branching , or spreading into the network .",
    "thus , a signal propagating from a starting protein to a target protein would pass by some reactions where it could branch out into alternate paths to different targets .",
    "similar to the cost , we quantify this spread @xmath19 for a given path from start to target by counting the number of by - products along the entire path ( fig .",
    "@xmath20 does not count the sequence of products needed to generate our final target , but only counts side - branches along the path .",
    "we stress that we here limit our spread counting to reaction products ( proteins ) along the path , whereas we disregard out links from proteins on the path that feed into reactions . in principle",
    "these neighbor reactions to the path in turn feed into changes of other proteins .",
    "our minimal spread for example disregard out degrees of highly connected transcription factors along the path",
    ". this may sometimes be to restrictive , but reflect the conjecture that specific disturbances typically diminishes across a reaction node . to be more specific on this last point ,",
    "consider the case of a transcription reaction where the product @xmath21 as function of reactant @xmath22 . here",
    "@xmath23 is only sensitive to @xmath22 when this is close to the characteristic binding ( here set to 1 ) .",
    "thus for most values of @xmath22 the output response @xmath24 will be smaller than input changes @xmath25 across a reaction node",
    ". for a related discussion on propagation of disturbances in chemical reactions , see  @xcite .",
    "4b shows the average cost of signals propagating from one protein to another along the shortest path connecting them , as a function of the length @xmath26 of that path .",
    "each data point is the average over all pairs which are at the given distance . except for paths of length two ,",
    "the average cost for signals is significantly smaller for the real _ e. coli _",
    "network than for a randomized version which preserves degrees .",
    "4c shows the average spread of signals propagating from one protein to another along the shortest path connecting them , as a function of the length of that path .",
    "each data point is the average over all pairs which are at the given distance . as shown in fig . 4a",
    "the number of pairs at a given distance is quite high ( @xmath27 ) for the real network and much higher for the random .",
    "the standard error is therefore negligible and not shown in fig.4b , c .",
    "just as with the cost , except for paths of length two , the average spread for signals is always significantly smaller for the real _ e. coli _ network than for a randomized version .",
    "notice that in the spread @xmath20 vs. distance plot the slope , for the random network , is @xmath28 whereas it is @xmath29 for the real _ e.coli _ network . in this connection",
    "keep in mind that a random directed network is critical when the average out degree @xmath30 . considering a random path , a node on this path",
    "should then on average have one more output than the one along the path , corresponding to @xmath31 .",
    "the values of @xmath32 then indicates that the geometry of the random network is super - critical , with an initial signal on average being amplified for each step along the path .",
    "in contrast the real network is sub - critical with signals that tend to disappear with distance even under optimal conditions .",
    "therefore , fig .",
    "1a , b can be regarded as a visual illustration of the sub - criticality of the real network versus the super - criticality of the randomized network .    in sum , the real _ e. coli",
    "_ network reduces both the cost and spread of signals along all shortest paths connecting pairs of proteins .",
    "5 adds even more evidence to this conclusion by showing that a scatter plot of spread vs. cost for all pairs of nodes in the real _ e. coli _ network covers a smaller area than a corresponding plot for a randomized network .",
    "note that this plot contains the full distribution from whence the distance dependent averages in fig.4 were calculated .",
    "6 repeats this analysis for each of the six largest strong components in the network .",
    "these strong components capture distinct functional units being associated , respectively , to ( a ) predominantly fatty acid metabolism , ( b ) the transcription network around @xmath33 factors , ( c ) pts - sugar transport , ( d ) abc transporters , ( e ) the feii and feiii transport system and finally , ( f ) the chemotaxis module . fig .",
    "6 also shows the cost and spread for the constrained reaction paths within each of these subgraphs compared to the expected cost and spread for randomized versions of the subgraph .",
    "overall , we see that cost and spread within each module is fairly similar to the random expectation .",
    "the only network which has a substantially lower cost and spread is that of the abc transporters , the network where signalling is most seriously limited by the constraints .",
    "we have shown that the molecular network of _ e. coli _ is designed in a way which optimizes signalling by minimizing its requirements on the presence of other molecules , as well as focusing signalling on a limited set of distant proteins with relatively small spreading of signals to other proteins along the paths .",
    "this overall design feature is in accordance with the general belief that molecular networks are somewhat modular @xcite .",
    "also this design of the network consisting of relatively separated domains provides much fewer alternate paths when compared to the random expectation .",
    "thus , the network is designed to favor specificity of signalling , rather than provide robustness to deletion in the form of multiple paths .",
    "we take this as a hint that robustness is , presumably , a design feature of the local dynamics in the network .",
    "for example , the well known robustness of chemotactic behavior is associated with changes of reaction rates and protein concentrations @xcite , but not actual deletion of proteins .",
    "we stress that our available network is based on literature study , and therefore is vulnerable to systematic errors in collecting data .",
    "in particular , the overall data set probably covers only a fraction of the real interactions in _ e.coli_. further , certain types of interactions are not available including , in particular , degradation by proteases , rna regulation and small molecule interactions .",
    "thus , the observed sub - critical breakup of the network into separated strong components in fig .",
    "1a may partly be due to limited data sampling .",
    "the complete network of all interactions actually taking place in _",
    "e.coli _ might well be above percolation .",
    "this is especially likely to be true if we also integrate the metabolism with the regulatory network because much of the feedback in regulation goes through small molecules involved in metabolic processes @xcite .    in regard to limitations of our approach to the incomplete _",
    "network , it is important to emphasize that our measures of cost and spread along a given path will be robust to improvement of the _ e. coli _ network .",
    "the reason for this is that any reaction present in the current network is well characterized , i.e. , its set of reactants and products is likely to be complete , and therefore its activity should be fairly independent of presently unknown proteins .",
    "thus , improvement of the _ e. coli _ network will likely involve addition of new reaction pathways and will not , to a first approximation , change the connections of the existing reaction nodes .",
    "therefore , for any existing path in the current network the cost and spread will remain unaffected . adding further links to the network",
    "will increase cost and spread for the random network , and thus tend to increase the observed difference between signalling in the real and the randomized network .",
    "looking at cost and spread within the strong components we found that signalling within these modules was approximately as in their randomized counterparts .",
    "thus , the cost and spread measure indeed indicate a fair degree of robustness within a module , while still showing a systematic absence of alternate path options on large scales . however , examining these modules against deletion of individual nodes we found that , for all the six largest strong components , the robustness of the size of the module was less than for a comparable module with randomized structure . thus , even within modules , percolation robustness of signals is not a strong trait .",
    "it is clear that our definition of cost in terms of simply counting independent inputs is a simplified approach .",
    "thus , one could easily imagine constructing more complicated cost functions , taking into account , in particular , the logic of transcription regulation @xcite and epigenetic switches@xcite .",
    "also the cost may be modified according to universally abundant proteins ( housekeeping genes ) , for example by not counting input from all essential genes . to some extent",
    "our counting already excludes core enzymes such as ribosomes and trnas but , obviously , this list of essential ingredients of cell functionality may be extended .",
    "finally , the real usage of a given pathway may be restricted by the time to process the signal along the path , wherein particular protein production events take a sizable time compared to a cell generation .",
    "a final intriguing point is that the large modules have such widely different design features , as seen from fig .",
    "indeed , some modules c , f are dominated by complex formation reactions , d , e by linear pathways , while a , b are densely interconnected .",
    "thus , whereas signalling within each of the sub - networks is similar to random , in terms of cost and spread , the way these networks deal with the signalling is still widely different . we could not detect motifs common to all of these macromolecular networks  @xcite .    as an overall summary ,",
    "our geometrical considerations capture a modularity of the _ e.coli _ protein networks which favors signaling on fairly short distances : a topology which speaks to fruitful modular approaches to systems biology on the whole - cell scale , as propagation of signals through many intermediate reactions seems to be nearly impossible .",
    "in addition , one expects limitations in signal propagation from simple mass - action kinetics , as shown by [ cite sergei maslov , kim sneppen , iaroslav ispolatov  propagation of fluctuations in interaction networks governed by the law of mass action \" q-bio.mn/0611026 ] . as the macromolecular network in _",
    "e.coli _ indeed has modular features , and signals are difficult to transmit , substantial parts of _ e.coli _ may be consistently understood by summing up separate studies of nearly independent modules .",
    "the basic flat files of the ecocyc database @xcite were downloaded from ` ecocyc.org ` .",
    "ecocyc is a scientific database for the bacterium _ escherichia coli _",
    "k-12 mg1655 .",
    "the ecocyc project performs literature - based curation of the entire genome , and of transcriptional regulation , transport and metabolic pathways .    despite being incomplete in places , when compared to more specialized databases , ecocyc is still the most comprehensive database of reactions in _",
    "escherichia coli_. the files ` proteins.dat ` and ` genes.dat ` contains the list of all proteins and gene names in the ecocyc . from the files ` bindrxns.dat ` and ` promoters.dat `  all protein - promoter interactions where extracted .",
    "the file ` transunits.dat ` contains a list of specific transcriptional units which was used to link proteins to their downstream gene products .",
    "these reactions where labelled according to the name of the actual promoter involved in the process .",
    "there is at least one promoter for each transcription reaction in the database .",
    "the files ` reactions.dat ` contains a general list of all biochemical reactions in the ecocyc , and the file ` enzrxns.dat ` specifies which of these are enzymatic reactions and which enzyme is involved . from these files",
    "all other reactions where extracted where at least one protein is at least a reactant or product .    from the total set of irreversible reactions ( including all transcription reactions ) we removed proteins from the product side which also occur as a reactant in the same reaction .",
    "the reason is that information is not transmitted from reactants to catalysts , therefore we do not want such links in our final network .",
    "the resulting reaction list is represented as two stoichiometric lists ( matrices ) , one for reactants and one for products ( proteins involved in reversible reactions are also partitioned into two sets with one being arbitrarily picked for the `` reactant '' matrix ) of 2774 reactions and 2846 proteins .",
    "we constructed randomized versions of the _ e. coli _ network by repeatedly swapping the targets of randomly selected pairs of links @xcite .",
    "this automatically preserves the in- and out - degree of each node .",
    "further , by restricting the set of pairs of links for which swapping was allowed we could preserve both the bipartiteness and the character of the links . for instance , links to irreversible reactions were only swapped with links to other irreversible reactions , etc . in this way each ( ir)reversible reaction remains ( ir)reversible in the randomized version .",
    "it is possible to uniquely partition the nodes of any directed graph into a set of strong components , see fig.1a , bottom left . within each component",
    ", there is a path from every node of that component to every other node in the component .",
    "we generate the strong components by selecting an arbitrary node and finding the intersection between the set of nodes lying upstream and downstream to the selected node .",
    "this intersection plus the selected node forms one strong component .",
    "this process is repeated until all nodes are placed in a strong component .",
    "if there is no overlap between downstream and upstream sets for a given node , then , by definition , that node is the sole member of its strong component .",
    "the partitioning produced by this method is , for a given graph , unique and independent of the order in which the nodes are chosen .",
    "the condensed graph corresponding to a given directed graph is one where each node represents one strong component of the original graph .",
    "there is a directed link from one node to another if , in the original graph , there is a link from any node of the first strong component to any node of the second .",
    "the condensed graph , by definition , can not have any loops .",
    "notice that this partitioning into strong components is only possible if there is transitivity of paths , i.e. , if there exists a path from node a to b , and from node b to c , then this implies there is a path from a to c. transitivity is essential to construct non - overlapping strong components .",
    "if we restrict the allowed paths as described in fig .",
    "2 then this is no longer true and therefore non - overlapping strong components , as defined , can not be constructed .      when calculating the downstream distribution in fig .",
    "2(a ) & ( c ) we use a standard depth - first - search : we keep track of visited nodes so that if we reach a node again by a longer path then it need not be searched for by alternative paths further downstream",
    ". this method does not take into account the bipartiteness of the graph .",
    "we calculated cost and spread using a modified depth - first search of paths in the graph .",
    "when restrictions of the type discussed in fig . 2",
    "are added the standard method is no longer sufficient ( because of the graph - theoretical non - transitivity of paths in bipartite graphs ) and the only way to enumerate all the shortest distance paths is to actually go over all paths , of all lengths . in general",
    ", this is too computationally expensive and therefore we put an arbitrary upper cutoff on the length of allowed paths .",
    "this restricts us to looking at only those pairs which are within this cutoff distance .",
    "however , in practice , we are able to use a large cutoff of 14 ( which covers over 90% of the pairs in the real network , see fig .",
    "4a ) therefore this does not affect our conclusions .",
    "all authors contributed equivally to the work reported in this paper .",
    "the authors wish to thank the danish national research foundation for funding through the center for models of life at the nbi .",
    "ks and jba wish to thank the lundbeck foundation .",
    "jba wishes to thank the fraenkel foundation .",
    "s krishna and s maslov and k sneppen ( 2007 ) .",
    "_ 3 _ , e41    ( 2002 ) .",
    "_ 298 _ , 12411245 .",
    "aksenov , s.  v. ( 1999 ) . .",
    "157_(1 - 2 ) , 26986 .",
    "alon , u. , m.  g. surette , n.  barkai , and s.  leibler ( 1999 ) . .  _",
    "397_(6715 ) , 16871 .",
    "arnvig , k.  b. , s.  pedersen , and k.  sneppen ( 2000 ) . .  _",
    "84_(13 ) , 30058 .",
    "axelsen , j.  b. and k.  sneppen ( 2004 ) . .",
    "_ 1 _ , 15965 .",
    "bray , d. , r.  b. bourret , and m.  i. simon ( 1993 ) . .  _",
    "4_(5 ) , 46982 .",
    "covert , m.  w. , c.  h. schilling , and b.  palsson ( 2001 ) . .  _",
    "213_(1 ) , 7388 .    dodd , i.  b. , m.  a. micheelsen , k.  sneppen , and g.  thon ( 2007 ) . .",
    "_ 129 _ , 813822 .",
    "maslov , s , sneppen , k , and i. ispolatov ( 2007 ) . .",
    "_ 9 _ 273    edwards , j.  s. and b.  o. palsson ( 2000 ) . .  _",
    "97_(10 ) , 552833 .    farkas , i. , h.  jeong , t.  vicsek , a .-",
    "barabasi , and z.  n. oltvai ( 2003 ) . .",
    "_ 318 _ , 601612 .",
    "freeman , l. ( 1977 ) . .",
    "_ 40 _ , 3541 .",
    "girvan , m. and m.  e. newman ( 2002 ) . .  _",
    "99_(12 ) , 78216 .",
    "harris , s.  e. , b.  k. sawhill , a.  wuensche , and s.  kauffman ( 2002 ) . .",
    "_ 7 _ , 2340 .",
    "hartwell , l.  h. , j.  j. hopfield , s.  leibler , and a.  w. murray ( 1999 ) . .  _",
    "402_(6761 ) , c4752 .",
    "kanehisa , m. , s.  goto , m.  hattori , k.  f. aoki - kinoshita , m.  itoh , s.  kawashima , t.  katayama , m.  araki , and m.  hirakawa ( 2006 ) . .",
    "_ 34 _ , d3547 .",
    "karp , p.  d. , m.  riley , m.  saier , i.  t. paulsen , j.  collado - vides , s.  m. paley , a.  pellegrini - toole , c.  bonavides , and s.  gama - castro ( 2002 ) . .  _",
    "30_(1 ) , 568 .",
    "krishna , s. , a.  m. andersson , s.  semsey , and k.  sneppen ( 2006 ) . .  _",
    "34_(8 ) , 245562 .",
    "krishna , s. , m.  h. jensen , and k.  sneppen ( 2006 ) . .  _",
    "103_(29 ) , 108405 .    ma , h.  w. , j.  buer , and a.  p. zeng ( 2004 ) . .",
    "_ 5 _ , 199 .",
    "maslov , s. and k.  sneppen ( 2002 ) . .  _",
    "296_(5569 ) , 9103 .    salgado , h. , a.  santos - zavaleta , s.  gama - castro , m.  peralta - gil , m.  i. penaloza - spinola , a.  martinez - antonio , p.  d. karp , and j.  collado - vides ( 2006 ) . .  _",
    "7_(1 ) , 5 .",
    "thattai , m. and b.  i. shraiman ( 2003 ) . .",
    "85_(2 ) , 74454 .",
    "tiana , g. , k.  sneppen , and m.  h. jensen ( 2002 ) . .",
    "_ 29 _ , 135140 .",
    "shen - orr , s.s . , milo , r. , mangan , s. and alon , u ( 2002 ) .",
    ".  _ 31 _ , 64  68",
    "( a , left ) the graph is the largest weak component of a bipartite network , consisting of proteins ( orange circles ) and reaction nodes ( promoters ( cyan squares ) , complex formations & modifications ( black squares ) ) .",
    "the two largest hubs , @xmath16 and @xmath34 , and their links , have been removed for ease of visualisation .",
    "( a , bottom left ) illustration of the procedure of condensing a directed graph ( see methods ) .",
    "an arrow indicates that there is a path connecting the two strong components in the original graph ; nodes correspond to strong components of minimum size two .",
    "( a , right ) the resulting condensed graph of the _ e. coli _ network .",
    "( b ) the similarly condensed graph for a randomized version of the _ e. coli _ network .",
    "( c ) the cumulative degree distribution of reaction nodes for the full graph in ( a ) .",
    "( d ) the cumulative degree distribution of protein nodes .",
    "\\(a ) the cumulative distribution of number of downstream targets @xmath35 without restrictions on allowed paths .",
    "green is the randomized network ( null hypothesis ) and blue is the real network , the latter yielding a powerlaw distribution .",
    "( b ) schematic showing the restrictions on allowed paths for graphs constructed from a reaction list .",
    "the graph shown corresponds to a single reversible reaction : @xmath36 . in the graph",
    "there is a path from _",
    "e.g. _ @xmath37 to @xmath38 , but in the real biochemical reaction this path does not exist .",
    "in contrast , paths from @xmath38 to @xmath39 , and @xmath37 to @xmath39 , are allowed .",
    "( c ) distribution of downstream targets with restrictions on the allowed paths .",
    "notice how the distribution is now better resolved on nodes with high influence _",
    "i.e. _ high @xmath35 .",
    "\\(a ) the arc two - component regulatory pathway .",
    "( b ) schematic showing how the `` cost '' and `` spread '' of a signalling path , @xmath40 , is measured . in this case protein",
    "@xmath37 and @xmath41 are necessary , giving a cost @xmath42 . the proteins @xmath43 and @xmath44 are produced as a side effect , hence the spread is @xmath45 .",
    "( c ) schematic illustrating the concept that if a protein is necessary for more than one reaction along the path , we count it only once .",
    "thus , the cost is reduced to @xmath46 , as compared to ( b ) .",
    "\\(a ) number of pairs at a given ( shortest ) distance for the _ e. coli _ network ( solid line ) and its randomized version ( dashed line ) .",
    "( b ) cost of a signalling path as a function of its length for the real ( solid ) and randomized ( dashed ) _",
    "e. coli _ networks .",
    "( c ) spread of a signalling path as a function of its length for the real ( solid ) and randomized ( dashed ) _",
    "e. coli _ networks .",
    "the shaded region illustrates which values lead to the strong components breaking up ( if the network was infinitely large ) .",
    "scatter plot of spread _ vs. _ cost for each pair of nodes lying within a distance of 14 to each other for the real ( solid circles ) and randomized ( open circles ) _ e. coli _ networks .",
    "the six largest strong components of the _ e. coli _ network , along with plots of the average cost , @xmath47 , and average spread , @xmath48 , as functions of signalling distance .",
    "the yellow areas show the range spanned by @xmath47 and @xmath48 for 100 randomized versions of the subgraphs ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in systems biology new ways are required to analyze the large amount of existing data on regulation of cellular processes . </S>",
    "<S> recent work can be roughly classified into either dynamical models of well - described subsystems , or coarse - grained descriptions of the topology of the molecular networks at the scale of the whole organism . in order to bridge these two disparate approaches </S>",
    "<S> one needs to develop simplified descriptions of dynamics and topological measures which address the propagation of signals in molecular networks . </S>",
    "<S> transmission of a signal across a reaction node depends on the presence of other reactants </S>",
    "<S> . it will typically be more demanding to transmit a signal across a reaction node with more input links . sending signals along a path with several subsequent reaction nodes </S>",
    "<S> also increases the constraints on the presence of other proteins in the overall network . therefore counting in and out </S>",
    "<S> links along reactions of a potential pathway can give insight into the signaling properties of a particular molecular network . </S>",
    "<S> here , we consider the directed network of protein regulation in _ </S>",
    "<S> e. coli _ , characterizing its modularity in terms of its potential to transmit signals . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the simplest measure based on identifying sub - networks of strong components , within which each node could send a signal to every other node , indeed partitions the network into functional modules . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the total number of reactants needed to send a signal between two nodes in the network can be considered as the _ cost _ associated to transmitting this signal . </S>",
    "<S> similarly we define _ spread _ as the number of reaction products that could be influenced by transmission of a successful signal . </S>",
    "<S> our considerations open for a new class of network measures that implicitly utilize the constrained repertoire of chemical modifications of any biological molecule . </S>",
    "<S> the counting of cost and spread connects the topology of networks to the specificity of signaling across the network . </S>",
    "<S> thereby , we address the signalling specificity within and between modules , and show that in the regulation of _ e.coli _ there is a systematic reduction of the cost and spread for signals traveling over more than two intermediate reactions .    </S>",
    "<S> cost and capacity of signaling in the _ escherichia coli _ </S>",
    "<S> protein reaction network +    jacob bock axelsen@xmath0 , sandeep krishna@xmath1 and kim sneppen@xmath1 +    @xmath2 centro de astrobiologa + instituto nacional de tcnica aeroespacial + ctra de ajalvir km 4 , 28850 torrejn de ardoz + madrid , spain + @xmath3 center for models of life + niels bohr institute + blegdamsvej 17 , 2100  + copenhagen , denmark + </S>"
  ]
}