{
  "article_text": [
    "since its launch in 1995 , the rossi x - ray timing explorer ( bradt , swank and rothschild , 1993 ) has detected khz qpos in more than 25 accreting systems containing a weakly magnetized neutron star ( see van der klis 2006 for a review ) . in most sources , two khz qpos are usually detected ; the lower of the two is seen as a relatively narrow peak in the fourier power density spectrum ( pds ) with a quality factor ( @xmath1 ) exceeding 200 ( e.g. , barret , et al .",
    "2005a ) , whereas the upper qpo is typically much broader ( @xmath2 ) .",
    "this makes the lower qpo easier to detect , especially on short timescales .",
    "both the lower and upper qpos vary in frequency with time , but the frequency difference remains always close to the spin frequency of the neutron star ( or half its value ) . removing the contribution of the frequency drift to the measured qpo width , barret , olive , miller ( 2005 ) have demonstrated that the lower and upper qpos follow a different path in a quality factor versus frequency diagram . in particular",
    ", they found that the quality factor of the lower khz qpos increases smoothly with frequency , saturates at a maximum value , beyond which a sharp drop is observed ( barret , olive , miller 2005 ) .",
    "the same behaviour has been observed in several different systems ( barret , olive , miller 2006 ) , suggesting that the drop is related to a special location in spacetime , e.g. , the innermost stable circular orbit ( isco ) ( barret , olive , miller , 2006 , 2007 ) .",
    "previous investigations of the khz qpos detected from the recurrent x - ray transient aql x-1 ( zhang et al .",
    "1998 , cui et al .",
    "1998 , reig et al .",
    "2000 , mndez et al .",
    "2001 , reig et al .",
    "2004 ) have reported only a single qpo , making its identification difficult . by comparison with the properties of lower qpos seen in twin qpo sources ( correlation of the frequency and spectral colors , qpo width , rms - frequency dependency , energy spectrum of the qpos )",
    ", it was however proposed that the qpos detected were likely to be lower qpos ( mndez et al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "aql x-1 contains a rapidly rotating neutron star , spinning at 550.25 hz , as inferred from the discovery of an episode of coherent pulsation in its persistent emission ( casella et al .",
    "this frequency is close to the previously detected frequency of x - ray burst oscillations ( zhang et al .",
    "by analogy with other sources spinning at a frequency above 400 hz , one would therefore expect an upper qpo to be detected with a frequency separation close to 275 hz ( see van der klis 2006 for a review ) . despite extensive searches ,",
    "no such qpo has yet been reported .    in this paper",
    ", we analyze in a homogenous way all archival rxte data on aql x-1 , with the goal of studying the quality factor of the qpos and searching for an upper qpo .",
    "the data used here have been presented in zhang et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , cui et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , reig et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , mndez et al . ( 2001 ) and reig et al . (",
    "2004 ) . in the next section",
    ", we present our analysis scheme , which builds upon previous previously described procedures in barret , olive & miller ( 2005 , 2006 , 2007 ) .",
    "we then present our results , which reveal for the first time 1 ) that the quality factor of the lower qpos follows the same pattern seen in other sources ( e.g. 4u  1608522 & 4u  1636536 , barret et al .",
    "2006 ) , and 2 ) aql x-1 displays an upper qpo that is detected close to half the spin frequency of the neutron star ( 275 hz ) , when combining all the data available . starting with this result",
    ", we then discuss on the link between khz qpos and neutron star spin .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ dbarret_tab4 ]    from these data we can draw a few conclusions :    * all simple models fail badly in a statistical sense .",
    "there is clearly unmodeled complexity to these systems . for an example of how such complexity might affect the frequencies in the  spin \" model , see lamb & miller ( 2001 ) .",
    "* of the models considered , the one assuming a constant ratio is overwhelmingly the worst , for any of our data sets .",
    "the next worst in all cases ( but by a much smaller margin ) is the one assuming a constant difference frequency for all systems .",
    "other models are preferred by the data . *",
    "the treatment of data from the accretion - powered millisecond pulsars xte  j1807294 and sax  j1808.43658 has a significant effect on the comparison between the remaining models . with the data as is , the standard  spin \" model does best .",
    "if the frequency differences for just these sources are multiplied by a factor of 1.5 , as advocated by mndez & belloni ( 2007 ) , then the  epicycle \" and  power law \" models do best .",
    "it is not clear how significant this is ; we note , for example , that for any particular model , if the two worst - fit sources are eliminated , the fit becomes much better in all cases .",
    "we conclude that although the separation frequency is clearly a complex quantity , the standard model fits the data at least comparably well to similarly simple models , in addition to emerging from generally plausible input physics .",
    "it is therefore still a viable hypothesis that the spin frequency affects the khz qpos seen from neutron star low - mass x - ray binaries . on the other hand ,",
    "the generally bad fits of all models and the possibly important role of individual sources both raise the unpalatable but real possibility that there are multiple mechanisms that can produce khz qpos in neutron - star lmxbs .",
    "we have shown that the properties of the qpos detected from aql x-1 so far are consistent with those seen from similar systems , in particular the quality factor of the lower qpos and the frequency separation between the lower and upper peaks , which we have measured for the first time to be close to half the spin frequency of the neutron star .",
    "it would be worth following up the lower qpos closer to the saturation frequency ( at 900 hz ) , with adequate sensitivity to estimate the quality factor of the qpos , and determine whether it drops as in other sources .",
    "this may become possible with rxte during the next outburst of this very active transient .",
    "mcm was supported in part by nsf grant ast0708424 .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained from the high energy astrophysics science archive research center ( heasarc ) , provided by nasa s goddard space flight center .",
    "we are grateful to jean - francois olive for useful discussions during the preparation of this paper .",
    "we thank the referee for comments that helped up to improve the presentation of the results reported in this paper ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on a comprehensive analysis of the kilo - hz ( @xmath0 hz ) quasi - periodic oscillations ( khz qpos ) detected from the neutron star x - ray transient aquila x-1 ( aql x-1 ) with the rossi x - ray timing explorer , between 1997 and 2007 . among khz </S>",
    "<S> qpo sources , aql x-1 is peculiar because so far only one khz qpo has been reported , whereas in most sources , two khz qpos are usually detected ( a lower and an upper khz qpo ) . </S>",
    "<S> the identification of the qpos reported so far has therefore been ambiguous , although it has been proposed that they were likely to be the lower qpo . </S>",
    "<S> following up on previous work , we confirm the identification of the qpos previously reported as lower qpos , because of their high quality factors and the quality factor versus frequency dependency , which are similar to those observed in other sources . combining all segments of data containing a lower qpo </S>",
    "<S> , we detect for the first time an upper khz qpo . as in other sources for which the neutron star spin frequency is larger than 400 hz ( 550.25 hz in aql x-1 ) , the frequency difference between the two khz qpos is close to half the spin frequency . based on this result , we re - examine the link between the neutron star spin and the frequency of the khz qpos , to show that a model in which the separation of the lower and upper qpos relates to the neutron star spin frequency is still as good as any comparably simple model .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion - accretion disk , stars : neutron , stars : x - rays </S>"
  ]
}