{
  "article_text": [
    "stellar population synthesis is a powerful technique to study the stellar contents of galaxies and star clusters ( see , e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "it is also an important method to study the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "simple stellar population ( ssp ) models that do not take binary interactions into account are usually used for spectral stellar population studies , as most models are ssssp models ( e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) . however , as pointed by , e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , about 50% of stars are in binaries and they evolve differently from single stars .",
    "we can see this when comparing the isochrone of an ssssp to that of a bsssp ( fig.1 ) .",
    "in fact , bsssps better fit the colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) of star clusters than ssssps @xcite .",
    "this suggests that binary interactions can affect stellar population synthesis studies significantly and it is , therefore , necessary to consider binary interactions .",
    "this is also supported by some observational results , e.g. , the far - uv excess of elliptical galaxies @xcite and blue stragglers in star clusters ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . these phenomena can be naturally explained via stellar populations with binary interactions , without any special assumptions .",
    "a few works have tried to model populations via binary stars and have presented some results on the effects of binary interactions on spectral stellar population synthesis .",
    "for example , @xcite showed that binary interactions can make bsssps bluer than ssssps .",
    "however , there is not a more detailed investigation about how binary interactions affect the lick indices and colours of stellar populations , and on the determination of stellar ages and metallicities .",
    "one of our previous works , @xcite , compared bsssps to ssssps , but various stellar population models are used .",
    "this makes it difficult to understand the effects of the changes of lick indices and colours of populations that result only from binary interactions .",
    "furthermore , it did not show how binary interactions affect the determinations of stellar ages and metallicities . in this case",
    ", we have no clear picture for the differences between the predictions of bsssps and ssssps , and do not well know the differences between luminosity - weighted stellar - population parameters ( age and metallicity ) determined by bsssps and ssssps . because all galaxies contain some binaries , detailed studies of the effects of binary interactions on the lick indices and colours of populations are important , as are the determinations of stellar - population parameters . in this work ,",
    "we perform a detailed study of the effects of binary interactions on spectral stellar population synthesis studies , via the rapid spectral population synthesis ( @xmath0 ) model of @xcite .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in sect .",
    "2 , we briefly introduce the @xmath0 model . in sect .",
    "3 , we study the effects of binary interactions on the isochrones , spectral energy distributions ( seds ) , lick observatory image dissector scanner absorption line indices ( lick indices ) , and colours of stellar populations . in sect .",
    "4 , we investigate the differences between stellar ages and metallicities fitted by ssssps and bsssps . finally , in sect . 5",
    ", we give our discussions and conclusions .",
    "we take the results of the @xmath0 model of @xcite for the work , as there is no other available model .",
    "the @xmath0 model calculated the evolution of binaries and single stars via the rapid stellar evolution code of @xcite ( hereafter hurley code ) and took the spectral libraries of @xcite and @xcite ( basel 3.1 ) for spectral synthesis .",
    "the model calculated the high - resolution ( 0.3 @xmath4 ) seds , lick indices and colours for both bsssps and ssssps with the initial mass functions ( imfs ) of @xcite and @xcite . note that the @xmath0 model used a statistical isochrone database for modeling stellar populations @xcite .",
    "each bsssp contains about 50% stars that are in binaries with orbital periods less than 100 yr ( the typical value of the galaxy ) , and binary interactions such as mass transfer , mass accretion , common - envelope evolution , collisions , supernova kicks , angular momentum loss mechanism , and tidal interactions are considered when evolving binaries via hurley code . thus the @xmath0 model is suitable for studying the effects of binary interactions on stellar population synthesis studies .",
    "however , some parameters such as the ones used for describing the common envelope prescription , mass - loss rates , and supernova kicks are free parameters and the default values in hurley code , i.e. , 0.5 , 1.5 , 1.0 , 0.0 , 0.001 , 3.0 , 190.0 , 0.5 , and 0.5 , are taken in this work for wind velocity factor ( @xmath5 ) , bondi - hoyle wind accretion faction ( @xmath6 ) , wind accretion efficiency factor ( @xmath7 ) , binary enhanced mass loss parameter ( @xmath8 ) , fraction of accreted material retained in supernova eruption ( @xmath9 ) , common - envelope efficiency ( @xmath10 ) , dispersion in the maxwellian distribution for the supernovae kick speed ( @xmath11 ) , reimers coefficient for mass loss ( @xmath12 ) , and binding energy factor ( @xmath13 ) , respectively .",
    "these default values are taken because they have been tested by the developer of hurley code and seem more reliable .",
    "one can refer to the paper of @xcite for more details .",
    "in fact , many of these free parameters remain uncertain , and their uncertainties can possibly have great effect on our results .",
    "when we test the uncertainties caused by various @xmath10 and @xmath13 , we find that the number of blue stragglers can be changed as large as 40% compared to the default case .",
    "however , it is extremely difficult to give detailed uncertainties in spectral stellar population synthesis due to the free parameters , as we lack of constrains on these free parameters ( see @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , when we estimate the synthetic uncertainties in our @xmath0 model , the uncertainties due to variation of free parameters will not be taken into account . because the fitted formulae used by hurley code to evolve stars lead to uncertainties less than about 5% @xcite",
    ", we take 5% as the uncertainties in the evolution of stars in the whole paper .",
    "the correctness of the results of the @xmath0 model depends on how correct the default parameters of hurley code are .",
    "in addition , the uncertainties in final generated spectrum caused by the spectral library and the method used for spectral synthesis are about 3% and 0.81% , respectively .",
    "because a monte carlo technique is used by the @xmath0 model to generate the star sample ( 2000000 binaries or 4000000 single stars in our work and it is twice of that of the model of @xcite ) of stellar populations , the number of stars can result in statistical errors in the lick indices and colours of populations . according to our test ,",
    "1000000 binaries is enough to get reliable lick indices ( see also @xcite ) , but the near - infrared colours such as @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 of old populations are affected by the monte carlo method . however , the errors caused by the monte carlo method are small , about 2% for a sample of 4000000 stars",
    ". note that in this work , an uniform distribution is used to generate the ratio ( @xmath17 , 01 ) of the mass of the secondary to that of the primary ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , and then the mass of the secondary is calculated from that of the primary and @xmath17 .",
    "the separation ( @xmath18 ) of two components of a binary is generated following the assumption that the fraction of binary in an interval of log(@xmath18 ) is constant when @xmath18 is big ( 10@xmath19 @xmath20 5.75 @xmath21 10@xmath22@xmath19 ) and it falls off smoothly when when @xmath18 is small ( @xmath23 10@xmath19 ) @xcite .",
    "the distribution of @xmath18 is written as @xmath24 where @xmath25 and @xmath26 . the eccentricity ( @xmath27 ) of each binary system using a uniform distribution , in the range of 01 , and",
    "@xmath27 affects the results slightly @xcite .",
    "in addition , @xmath0 model uses some methods different from those used in the work of @xcite to calculate the seds , lick indices , and colours of populations .",
    "besides @xmath0 used a statistical isochrone database , it calculated the lick indices directly from seds while the work of @xcite used some fitting formulae to compute the same indices .",
    "the @xmath0 model calculated the colours of populations from seds , but the work of @xcite computed colours by interpolating the photometry library of basel 2.2 @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath0 model used the more advanced version 3.1 @xcite of basel library rather than version 2.2 to give the colours of the populations .",
    "the basel 3.1 library overcomes the weakness of the basel 2.2 library at low metallicity , because it has been colour - calibrated independently at all levels of metallicity .",
    "this makes the predictions of our model are more reliable .",
    "another important point is that the model of zhang et al . did not present the near - infrared colours of stellar populations , but",
    "such colours are very important for disentangling the well - known age  metallicity degeneracy .",
    "the direct effect of binary interactions on stellar population synthesis is to change the isochrones of stellar populations , e.g. , the distribution of stars in the surface gravity [ log(@xmath28 ) ] versus effective temperature ( @xmath29 ) grid , hereafter @xmath30-grid .",
    "we investigate the differences between the isochrones of bsssps and ssssps .",
    "stellar populations with the imf of @xcite are taken as our standard models for this work .",
    "the salpeter imf is actually not the best one for stellar population studies , although it is widely used .",
    "the reason is that the imf is not valid for low masses .",
    "however , this imf is reliable for stellar population synthesis , because low - mass stars contribute much less to the light of populations compared to high - mass stars .",
    "some further studies will be given by taking some more reliable imfs , e.g. , @xcite . because the isochrone database used by this work divides the @xmath30-grid into 1089701 sub - grids , with 0.01 and 40k the intervals of log(@xmath28 ) and @xmath29 , it is possible to compare the isochrones of bsssps and ssssps .",
    "the differences between the isochrones of two kinds of populations are calculated by subtracting the fraction of stars of bsssp from that of its corresponding ssssp , sub - grid by sub - grid .",
    "the ssssp and its corresponding bsssp have the same star sample , metallicity and age , and all their integrated specialties ( seds , colours and lick indices ) are calculated via the same method .",
    "therefore , the differences between the isochrones of a bsssp and its corresponding ssssp only result from binary interactions . for convenience , we call the difference a `` discrepancy isochrone '' . here",
    "we show the discrepancy isochrones for a few stellar populations in figs . 2 and 3 , for metal - poor ( @xmath31 = 0.004 ) and solar - metallicity ( @xmath31 = 0.02 ) populations , respectively .",
    "because it is found that the discrepancy isochrones of metal - rich ( @xmath31 = 0.03 ) populations are similar to those of solar - metallicity populations , we do not show the results for metal - rich populations .",
    "note that the results for populations with metallicities poorer than 0.004 are also given by our work , but we do not show them as the example for metal - poor populations as the @xmath0 model did not give the seds and lick indices for populations with metallicities poorer than 0.004 .",
    "this is actually limited by the spectral library used by the @xmath0 model , which only supplies spectra for stars more metal rich than 0.002 .",
    "as we see , some special stars , e.g. , blue stragglers , are generated by binary interactions ( see also fig .",
    "we also show that the differences between isochrones of old bsssps and ssssps are smaller than those of young populations , because the isochrones of old populations are dominated by low - mass stars , in which binary interactions are much weaker .",
    "the widely used integrated features of stellar populations are seds , lick indices and colours .",
    "they are usually used for stellar population studies and are important .",
    "we investigate the effects of binary interactions on them in this section .      to investigate how binary interactions affect the seds of stellar populations , we compare the seds of a bsssp and an ssssp that have the same age and metallicity .",
    "the difference between seds are simply called discrepancy seds .",
    "the absolute discrepancy sed for a pair of bsssp and ssssp is derived by subtracting the flux of the ssssp from that of the bsssp , as a function of wavelength .",
    "the discrepancy seds are mainly caused by blue stragglers and hot sub - dwarfs , as such stars are very hot and luminous .",
    "the changes of surface abundances of stars caused by binary interactions can also contribute to discrepancy seds .",
    "the absolute discrepancy seds for metal - poor ( @xmath31 = 0.004 ) , and solar - metallicity ( @xmath31 = 0.02 ) stellar populations are shown in figs . 4 , and 5 , respectively .",
    "the absolute discrepancy seds such as those shown in the two figures can be easily used to add binary interactions into ssssp models , but fractional discrepancy seds are more useful for understanding the effects of binary interactions . we show the fractional discrepancy seds of a few solar - metallicity populations in fig .",
    "as we see , binary interactions make stellar populations less luminous , but the flux in shortwave bands are changed by binary interactions weakly compared to that in longwave bands .",
    "this mainly results from special stars generated by binary interactions , which contribute differently to flux in different bands .",
    "the differences between the seds of a bsssp and its corresponding ssssp decrease with increasing age or decreasing metallicity .",
    "in addition , it suggests that binary interactions can affect most lick indices and colours of populations , because the flux changes caused by binary interactions are not 0 , in the bands where widely used lick indices and magnitudes are defined . in this case , bsssp and ssssp models usually give different results for stellar population studies . furthermore , because the effects of binary interactions on the sed flux of populations are about 11% on average , they are detectable for observations with spectral signal to noise ratio ( snr ) grater than 10 . in other words ,",
    "the effects can be detected by most observations , as most reliable observations have snrs greater than 10 .",
    "lick indices are the most widely used indices in stellar population studies , because they can disentangle the well - known stellar age ",
    "metallicity degeneracy ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "if binary interactions are taken into account , some results different from those determined via ssssp models will be obtained , which was suggested by the study of the differences between the seds of bsssps and ssssps .",
    "here we test how binary interactions change the lick indices of stellar populations when comparing to those of ssssps . in fig .",
    "7 , we show the differences between four widely used indices of bsssps and those of ssssps .",
    "the indices are calculated from seds on the lick system ( @xcite ) directly .",
    "as we see , fig .",
    "7 shows that binary interactions make the h@xmath1 index of a population larger by about 0.15 @xmath32 , while making mgb index smaller by about 0.06 @xmath32 and fe indices smaller by more than about 0.1 @xmath32 , compared to ssssps .",
    "therefore , the changes in lick indices are usually larger than typical observational uncertainties ( about 0.07 @xmath32 for h@xmath1 index and 0.04 @xmath32 for metal - line indices according to the data of @xcite ) . for fixed metallicity ,",
    "the effects of binary interactions on both age- and metallicity - sensitive indices become stronger with increasing age when stellar age is less than about 1.5 @xmath33 2gyr , and then the effects become weaker with increasing age .",
    "the reason is that binary interactions change the isochrones of populations most strongly near 1.5 @xmath33 2gyr as the first mass transfer between two components of binaries peak and a lot of blue stragglers are generated near 1.5 @xmath33 2gyr according to the star sample of bsssps , and the light of old populations is dominated by low - mass binaries .",
    "the interactions between two components of low - mass binaries are usually weaker than for high - mass binaries .",
    "the effects of binary interactions on the isochrones are tested quantitatively using the numbers of stars with log(@xmath28 ) @xmath34 4.0 and log(@xmath29 ) @xmath35 3.75 , because these stars are very luminous and contribute a lot to the light of their populations .",
    "our result shows that binary interactions change the number distribution of stars in the above log(@xmath28 ) and log(@xmath36 ) ranges most significantly when stellar age is from 1.5 to 2 .",
    "in addition , from fig . 7 , we find that for a fixed age , binary interactions affect the h@xmath1 and fe5270 indices of metal - poor populations more strongly than those of metal - rich populations , while they affect the mgb and fe5335 indices of metal - poor populations more weakly . as a whole , using ssssps and bsssps , various ages and metallicities",
    "will be measured for the same stellar population , via popular lick - index methods such as the h@xmath1 & [ mgfe ] method , which determines the ages and metallicities of populations by comparing the observational and theoretical h@xmath1 and [ mgfe ] indices @xcite .",
    "note that the evolution of the differences between the lick indices of ssssps and bsssps were not shown before .      because colours are useful for estimating the ages and metallicities of distant galaxies ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) , we investigate the effects of binary interactions on them .",
    "we use a method similar to that used for studying the lick indices of stellar populations .",
    "our detailed results are shown in fig .",
    "8 .    in the figure ,",
    "the differences between two @xmath37 colours , @xmath38 and @xmath39 , a @xmath40 colour on the photometric system used by sloan digital sky survey ( hereafter sdss system ) , @xmath41 , and a composite colour , @xmath16 , of bsssps and those of ssssps are shown , respectively .",
    "note that the @xmath16 colour consists of a johnson system magnitude , @xmath42 , and an sdss system magnitude , @xmath43 . as we see , for a fixed age and metallicity , binary interactions make the colours of most stellar populations bluer than those predicted by ssssps .",
    "this mainly results from blue stragglers generated by binary interactions , because such stars are very luminous and blue .",
    "it suggests that we will get different stellar metallicities and ages for galaxies via bsssp and ssssp models , using a photometric method . when comparing to the typical colour uncertainties ( 0.12 , 0.06 , 0.13 , 0.10 , and 0.01 mag for @xmath44 , @xmath45 , @xmath42 , @xmath46 , and @xmath43 magnitudes , respectively ) , the changes [ e.g. , about -0.04 , -0.15 , and -0.08 mag for @xmath38 , @xmath39 , and @xmath41 , respectively ] of colours caused by binary interactions are similar to , but somewhat less than , typical observational errors .",
    "note that the photometric uncertainties are estimated using the data of some publications , sdss , and two micron all sky survey ( 2mass ) .",
    "the uncertainties actually depend on surveys .",
    "the observational uncertainties of @xmath46 and @xmath42 magnitudes may be smaller when taking the data of other surveys instead of those of sdss and 2mass .",
    "in addition , similar to lick indices , the differences between the colours of two kinds of stellar populations peak near 2gyr .",
    "two stellar - population parameters , i.e. , stellar age and metallicity , are crucial in the investigations of the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "we investigate the effects of binary interactions on the estimates of the two parameters .",
    "we try to fit the stellar - population parameters of bsssps with various ages and metallicities using ssssps , via both lick - index and photometric methods .",
    "because observations show that about 50% of stars in the galaxy are in binaries , bsssps should be more similar to the real stellar populations of galaxies and star clusters . therefore , the stellar - population parameters fitted via ssssps ( hereafter ss - fitted results , represented by @xmath47 and @xmath48 ) should be different from the results obtained via bsssps ( bs - fitted results , @xmath49 and @xmath50 ) .",
    "the detailed differences are shown in this section .      in a widely used method , i.e. , lick - index method",
    ", we fit the stellar ages and metallicities of populations by two indices , i.e. , h@xmath1 and [ mgfe ] = @xmath51 , after @xcite .",
    "thus the results are slightly affected by @xmath52-enhancement and stellar population models ( e.g. , our @xmath0 model ) without any @xmath52-enhancement compared to the sun can be used to measure stellar - population parameters .",
    "the differences between bs- and ss - fitted stellar - populations parameters of populations with four metallicities ( 0.004 , 0.01 , 0.02 , and 0.03 ) and 150 ages ( from 0.1 to 15gyr ) are tested . in the test",
    ", we try to fit the stellar ages and metallicities of testing bsssps via an h@xmath1 versus [ mgfe ] grid of ssssps . because ssssps predict different lick indices for populations compared to bsssps , when we use ssssps to fit the ages and metallicities of our testing bsssps , the results obtained are different from the real parameters of bsssps , i.e. , bs - fitted parameters . from an h@xmath1 versus [ mgfe ] grid of ssssps ( fig .",
    "9 ) , we can see this clearly .    in detail ,",
    "the ss - fitted stellar ages are less than the bs - fitted ones , by 0 @xmath33 5gyr .",
    "the maximal difference is larger than the typical uncertainty ( @xmath34 2gyr ) in stellar population studies ( see fig .",
    "the older the populations , the bigger the difference between ages fitted via bsssps and ssssps , although the differences between the lick indices of old bsssps and ssssps are smaller ( see section 3 ) .",
    "the reason is that the differences among the lick indices of populations with different ages are much less for old populations than for young populations ( see fig . 9 for comparison ) .",
    "therefore , the ss - fitted ages of galaxies can be much less than bs - fitted ages , because most galaxies , especially early - type ones , have old ( 7@xmath338gyr ) populations and their metallicities are not big ( peak near 0.002 ) @xcite .",
    "however , ss - fitted metallicities of populations are similar to bs - fitted values , compared to the typical uncertainties ( @xmath33 0.002 ) . therefore ,",
    "if some stars are binaries , smaller ages will be measured via comparing the observational h@xmath1 and [ mgfe ] indices of galaxies with those of theoretical ssssps .",
    "this is more significant for metal - poor stellar populations . in our testing populations , on average ,",
    "the ss - fitted metallicities are 0.0010 poorer than bs - fitted values , while ssssp fitted ages are younger than bs - fitted values , by 0.3gyr for all and 1.8gyr for old ( @xmath53 7gyr ) testing populations . in this work ,",
    "the ss - fitted stellar ages and metallicities of testing bsssps are obtained by finding the best - fit populations in a grid of theoretical populations with intervals of stellar age and metallicity of 0.1gyr and 0.0001 , respectively .",
    "a least square method is used in the fit .",
    "in addition , it is found that the bs - fitted ages of populations can be calculated from the ss - fitted ages and metallicities ( with rms of 1.45gyr ) via the equation @xmath54 where @xmath49 , @xmath48 and @xmath47 are the bs - fitted age , ss - fitted metallicity and age , respectively . the relation between bs - fitted ages and ss - fitted stellar - population parameters",
    "can be seen in fig . 10 .",
    "we find that ss - fitted ages are usually less than the bs - fitted ages of populations , and the poorer the metallicity , the larger the differences between the bs- and ss - fitted ages .",
    "note that eq .",
    "( 2 ) is not very accurate for metal - poor ( @xmath31 = 0.004 ) and old ( age @xmath35 11gyr ) populations .",
    "the reason is that the h@xmath1 index increases with age for metal - poor and old populations , while it decreases with age for other populations .      in the photometric method ,",
    "we fit stellar - population parameters respectively via two pairs of colours , i.e. , [ @xmath55 , @xmath15 ] and [ @xmath41 , @xmath16 ] . the two pairs are shown to have the ability to constrain the ages and metallicities of populations and can be used to study the stellar populations of some distant galaxies ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the test shows that ss - fitted metallicities are poorer than the bs - fitted metallicities of populations .",
    "when taking [ @xmath55 , @xmath15 ] for this work , on average , ss - fitted metallicities are 0.003 smaller than bs - fitted values .",
    "it is 0.0035 when taking the pair [ @xmath41 , @xmath16 ] .",
    "the distribution of a few testing bsssps in the @xmath55 versus @xmath15 grid of ssssps is shown in fig . 11 .",
    "in particular , it is found that the ss - fitted ages are correlated with the bs - fitted ages of populations , which is independent of metallicity . the relation ( with a rms of 0.72gyr ) between ss- and bs - fitted ages of populations",
    "can be written as @xmath58 where @xmath49 and @xmath47 are bs- and ss - fitted ages , respectively .",
    "it shows that the bs- and ss - fitted ages are similar .",
    "the equation is clearly different from eq .",
    "( 2 ) , because colours are usually less sensitive to metallicity compared with metal - line lick indices . the relation between bs- and ss - fitted ages of populations is shown in fig .",
    "the figure shows the approximate relation between the bs- and ss - fitted ages of populations , which is nearly independent of metallicity .",
    "the equation is possibly useful to estimate the absolute ages of distant galaxies and star clusters .",
    "note that the relation is presented for populations younger than 14gyr , because the age of the universe is shown to be smaller than about 14gyr @xcite .",
    "when we use @xmath41 and @xmath16 colours to estimate the stellar - population parameters of populations , we find that ss - fitted metallicities are about 0.0035 smaller than the bs - fitted values .",
    "the bs- and ss - fitted ages of populations can be approximately transformed by @xmath59 where @xmath49 and @xmath47 are the bs- and ss - fitted ages , respectively .",
    "the rms of the fitted relation is 1.00gyr .",
    "the equation is similar to eq .",
    "( 3 ) but with larger scatter .",
    "this results from the various metallicity and age sensitivities of the colours used .",
    "one can see fig . 13 for more details about the relation .    as a whole , from both the results obtained by lick - index and photometric methods , we are shown that bs - fitted stellar - population parameters increase with ss - fitted ones . therefore ,",
    "using bsssp models instead of ssssp models , similar results for relative studies of stellar - population parameters of galaxies will be obtained . however , if one wants to get the absolute stellar - population parameters of galaxies and star clusters , the effects of binary interactions should be taken into account , especially for metal - poor populations .",
    "it can be conveniently done by taking the average metallicity deviations and the relations between the bs - fitted ages and ss - fitted results of populations , which were shown above .",
    "some stellar populations with salpeter imf @xcite were taken as standard models for the work , but even if some populations with other imfs were taken instead , we can obtain similar results .",
    "we have a test using populations with the chabrier imf @xcite .",
    "the result shows that ss - fitted metallicities are 0.0011 less on average than bs - fitted results , when taking h@xmath1 and [ mgfe ] for measuring stellar - population parameters .",
    "the bs - fitted ages and ss - fitted stellar - population parameters have a relation of @xmath60 , where @xmath48 is the ss - fitted metallicity , while @xmath49 and @xmath47 the bs- and ss - fitted ages , respectively .",
    "when we used @xmath55 and @xmath15 to estimate the stellar - population parameters of populations , ss - fitted metallicities were shown to be 0.0031 smaller than bs - fitted values , and bs - fitted ages can be calculated from ss - fitted results via @xmath61 .",
    "a similar relation for the results fitted by @xmath41 and @xmath16 is @xmath62 , with a deviation of 0.0039 in metallicity . as a whole , the relations between bs- and ss - fitted results obtained via populations with salpeter and chabrier imfs are similar , compared to the typical uncertainties of stellar - population parameter studies .",
    "the comparisons of the results obtained via two imfs can be seen in figs .",
    "11 and 12 .",
    "we investigated the effects of binary interactions on the isochrones , seds , lick indices and colours of simple stellar populations , and then on the determination of light - weighted stellar ages and metallicities .",
    "the results showed that binary interactions can affect stellar population synthesis studies significantly . in detail ,",
    "binary interactions make stellar populations less luminous and bluer , while making the h@xmath1 index larger and metal line indices smaller compared to ssssps .",
    "the colour changes ( 2@xmath335% ) caused by binary interactions are smaller than the systematic errors ( about 6% ) of the @xmath0 model while similar to observational errors ( 4@xmath337% ) .",
    "note that the systematic error of 6% did not take the uncertainties due to the free parameters of the star model into account ( see sect .",
    "2 ) . the changes ( 3@xmath336% ) of lick indices caused by binary interactions are somewhat smaller than the systematic errors ( about 6% ) of stellar population synthesis model but larger than observational errors ( 1@xmath334% ) . therefore ,",
    "if we measure luminosity - weighted stellar - population parameters ( metallicity and age ) via bsssps instead of ssssps , higher ( 0.0010 on average ) metallicities and significantly larger ages will be obtained via a lick - index method , and significantly higher ( about 0.0030 ) metallicities and similar ages will be obtained via a photometric method . because simple stellar population models are usually used for studying the populations of early - type galaxies or globular clusters , which possibly have old ( @xmath35 7gyr ) and relative metal - poor populations , the changes ( @xmath33 1.8gyr in age and 0.0030 in metallicity ) caused by binary interactions in stellar ages and metallicities are larger than the typical uncertainties .",
    "in particular , we found that the relative results of stellar population studies obtained by ssssps and bsssps are similar .",
    "the bs - fitted stellar - population parameters can be calculated from the ss - fitted ones , via equations presented by the paper .",
    "the relations between bs - fitted ages and ss - fitted stellar - population parameters are useful for some special investigations .",
    "for example , when studying the age of the universe via the stellar ages of some distant globular clusters , we can estimate the absolute age of star clusters using ss - fitted results .",
    "although the results shown in this paper can help us to give some estimates for the absolute stellar ages and metallicities of galaxies , it is far from getting accurate values because of the large uncertainties in stellar population models ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "in addition , different stellar population models usually give different absolute results for stellar population studies .",
    "note that the results obtained by the lick - index method are affected slightly by @xmath52-enhancement , according to the work of @xcite , but this is not the case for the results obtained by photometric methods .    in this work",
    ", all bsssps contains about 50% binaries with orbital periods less than 100 yr ( the typical value of the galaxy ) .",
    "if the binary ( with orbital periods less than 100 yr ) fraction of galaxies are different from 50% , the results shown in the paper will change .",
    "the higher the fraction of binaries , the larger the difference between ss- and bs - fitted stellar - population parameters .",
    "thus the results obtained by in this paper may not be proper for investigating galaxies or star clusters with binary fractions obviously different from 50% .",
    "furthermore , when building bsssps , we assumed that the masses of the two components of a binary are correlated @xcite , according to previous works .",
    "we did not try to take other distributions for secondary mass and binary period in this work , because it is limited by our present computing ability .",
    "we will give further studies in the future .",
    "the differences between the lick indices and colours of bsssps and ssssps do not evolve smoothly with age .",
    "this possibly relates to the method used to calculate the integrated features of stellar populations .",
    "in fact , the monte carlo method usually leads to some scatter ( about 2% ) in the integrated features of populations . the analytic fits and",
    "the binary algorithm used by hurley code can also lead to some scatter ( about 5% ) .",
    "we investigated the effects of binary interactions via only some simple stellar populations , but the real populations of galaxies and star clusters are usually not so simple . in other words ,",
    "the populations of galaxies and star clusters seem to be composite stellar populations including populations with various ages and metallicities ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "it seems that the effects of binary interactions and population - mixing are degenerate .",
    "this is a complicated subject , which requires further study .",
    "we greatly acknowledge the anonymous referee for two constructive referee s reports , profs .",
    "licai deng , tinggui wan , xu kong , and xuefei chen for useful discussions , and dr .",
    "richard simon pokorny for greatly improving the english .",
    "this work is supported by the chinese national science foundation ( grant nos 10433030 , 10521001 , 2007cb815406 ) and the youth foundation of knowledge innovation project of the chinese academy of sciences ( 07acx51001 ) .                                                                      ,",
    "s.  k. , yoon , s .- j . , kaviraj , s. , deharveng , j .-",
    "rich , r.  m. , salim , s. , boselli , a. , lee , y .- w . ,",
    "ree , c.  h. , sohn , y .- j . , rey , s .- c .",
    ", lee , j .- w . , rhee , j. , bianchi , l. , byun , y .-",
    ", donas , j. , friedman , p.  g. , heckman , t.  m. , jelinsky , p. , madore , b.  f. , malina , r. , martin , d.  c. , milliard , b. , morrissey , p. , neff , s. , schiminovich , d. , siegmund , o. , small , t. , szalay , a.  s. , jee , m.  j. , kim , s .- w . ,",
    "barlow , t. , forster , k. , welsh , b. , & wyder , t.  k. 2005 , apj , 619 , l111"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> single - star stellar population ( ssssp ) models are usually used for spectral stellar population studies . however , more than 50% of stars are in binaries and evolve differently from single stars . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the effects of binary interactions should be considered when modeling the stellar populations of galaxies and star clusters . via a rapid spectral stellar population synthesis ( @xmath0 ) model , we give detailed studies of the effects of binary interactions on the lick indices and colours of stellar populations , and on the determination of the stellar ages and metallicities of populations .    </S>",
    "<S> our results show that binary interactions make stellar populations less luminous , bluer , with larger age - sensitive lick index ( h@xmath1 ) and smaller metallicity - sensitive indices ( e.g. , mgb , fe5270 and fe5335 ) compared to ssssps . </S>",
    "<S> it also shows that when ssssp models are used to determine the ages and metallicities of stellar populations , smaller ages or metallicities will be obtained , when using two line indices ( h@xmath1 and [ mgfe ] ) and two colours ( e.g. , @xmath2 and @xmath3 ) , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> some relations for linking the stellar - population parameters obtained by ssssps to those obtained by binary - star stellar populations ( bsssps ) are presented in the work . </S>",
    "<S> this can help us to get some absolute values for stellar - population parameters and is useful for absolute studies . </S>",
    "<S> however , it is found that the relative luminosity - weighted stellar ages and metallicities obtained via ssssps and bsssps are similar . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that ssssps can be used for most spectral stellar population studies , except in some special cases . </S>"
  ]
}