{
  "article_text": [
    "massive stars ( @xmath0@xmath18  m@xmath2 , @xmath3@xmath110@xmath4  l@xmath2 ) play a fundamental role in many areas of astrophysics .",
    "they are the principal source of uv radiation and heavy elements in galaxies , and are responsible for injecting huge amounts of kinetic energy into the ism through powerful molecular outflows , strong stellar winds and supernova explosions .",
    "the momentum imparted through these processes provides an important source of mixing and turbulence within the ism .",
    "they are also thought to play a key role in regulating star formation , either by disrupting molecular clouds before stars have been able to form , or constructively through the expansion of their hii regions ( e.g. , collect and collapse ) or the propagation of strong shocks into their surroundings ( e.g. , radiatively driven implosion ) .",
    "massive stars have an enormous influence not only on the physical structure and chemistry of their local environment , but also on the structure and evolution of their host galaxies .    despite the importance of massive stars",
    "the processes involved in their formation and the early stages of their evolution are still poorly understood .",
    "massive stars reach the main sequence while still deeply embedded within their natal molecular clouds , and therefore their entire pre - main sequence formation and evolution is hidden behind high levels of extinction .",
    "they are extremely rare and as a consequence are generally located farther away than regions of low - mass star formation .",
    "the large distances are compounded by the fact that massive stars are through to form exclusively in clusters and limited spatial resolution makes it difficult to identify and attribute derived quantities to individual sources .",
    "furthermore , the evolution of massive stars is extremely rapid , which means that key stages in their early evolution are short lived . due to these observational difficulties , until relatively recently , the only catalogue of massive young stellar objects ( mysos ) had been limited to 30 or so serendipitously detected sources ( @xcite ) most of which are nearby .",
    "as massive stars reach the main sequence while still deeply embedded , the obvious place to begin to search for mysos is at infrared wavelengths where the majority of the bolometric luminosity ( @xmath110@xmath4 l@xmath2 ; @xcite ) is emitted after reprocessing by dust .",
    "nuclear fusion has almost certainly begun due to the very short kelvin - helmholtz contraction time scale compared to their free - fall time scale ( @xcite ) .",
    "accretion is likely to be taking place as the majority of mysos are associated with massive outflows ( @xcite ) , generally thought to be powered by accretion .",
    "although fusion is taking place , the ongoing accretion is thought to impede the formation of an hii region either by : 1 ) significantly increasing the star s radius , leading to a lower effective stellar temperature and characteristic accretion disk temperature ( @xcite ) , or 2 ) the hii region being quenched by high infall rates ( @xcite ) .",
    "mysos are also known to possess ionised stellar winds that are weak thermal radio sources ( @xmath51  mjy at 1 kpc ; @xcite ) .",
    "mysos can be roughly parametrised as mid - infrared bright , and thus slightly later than the hot core phase , and radio quiet , and thus earlier than the uchii region phase , with luminosities consistent with young o and early b - type stars .    to date",
    "there have been several attempts to search for mysos using colour - selection criteria and the iras point source catalogue ( e.g. , @xcite ) . however , due to confusion in the large iras beam ( @xmath53 - 5  at 100 @xmath6 m ) these samples tended to avoid dense clustered environments and the galactic mid - plane where the majority of mysos are expected to be located since the scale height of massive stars is @xmath530(@xcite ) .",
    "although these iras selected samples have identified many genuine mysos , they tend to be biased towards bright , isolated sources that are probably not representative of the general population of mysos . there is a need for an unbiased sample of mysos that is large enough to have a sufficient number of sources in each luminosity bin to allow the processes involved in massive star formation to be investigated in a statistically robust way .    the midcourse space experiment ( msx ; @xcite ) surveyed the whole galactic plane ( @xmath7@xmath85@xmath9 ) in four mid - infrared bands centred at 8 , 12 , 14 and 21  @xmath6 m  at a resolution of 18  in all bands .",
    "although the sensitivity of msx is similar to that of iras , its beam size is @xmath550 times smaller than that of the iras 12 and 25  @xmath6 m  bands and thus avoids most of the confusion problem found with iras .",
    "the msx survey therefore offers us the opportunity , for the first time , to identify a truly representative sample of mysos located throughout the galaxy .",
    "more recently the spitzer satellite has surveyed a large region of the inner galaxy ( glimpse ; @xcite ) with unprecedented spatial resolution and sensitivity , offering a great improvement on msx data .",
    "however , most mysos are found to be highly saturated and would be missed in any glimpse colour - selected sample .    in order to select potential mysos we compared the colours of known mysos with sources identified in the msx and 2mass point source catalogues ( @xcite and",
    "@xcite respectively ) and developed colour selection criteria ( @xcite ) .",
    "a lower limit of 2.7  jy was placed on the 21  @xmath6 m  flux .",
    "the detection of a source in 2mass was not necessary as mysos can be totally obscured in the near - infrared ; these data were just used to exclude sources that are too blue .",
    "the msx images of all colour selected sources were visually inspected to eliminate sources that are not point - like ( see below ) .",
    "sources toward the galactic centre ( @xmath10@xmath9 ) were excluded due to confusion and difficulties in calculating kinematic distances . in total",
    "we identified approximately 2000 myso candidates .",
    "the shape of the spectral energy distribution from an optically thick cloud is insensitive to the type of heating source .",
    "this is a problem with a colour - selected sample such as ours , as it results in contamination of our sample by several other types of embedded , or dust enshrouded objects that have similar near- and mid - infrared colours to mysos ( e.g. , ultra compact ( uc ) hii regions , evolved stars and planetary nebulae ( pne ) ) .",
    "the core of the rms survey is a multi - wavelength programme of follow - up observations designed to distinguish between genuine mysos and these other types of embedded or dusty objects ( @xcite ) and to compile a database of complementary multi - wavelength data with which to study their properties .",
    "the main source of contamination of our sample is likely to be by uchii regions .",
    "these can easily be identified through the free - free emission emitted by their ionised nebular gas .",
    "radio continuum observations are thus an essential part of our follow - up programme .",
    "we have completed a programme of 5  ghz observations using the atca ( @xcite ) and the vla ( urquhart et al . in prep . ) of all mysos candidates .",
    "these observations have a spatial resolution of 1   and a sensitivity of 1  mjy ( 3@xmath11 ) , sufficient to detect a b0.5 or earlier type star on the far side of the galaxy ( @xcite ) .",
    "about 25% of rms sources have detectable radio emission , the majority of which are classified as uchii regions , due to their morphologies and tight correlation around the galactic mid - plane .",
    "mid - infrared imaging has been used to identify genuine point sources from more extended emission . given the typical size of mysos at 10  @xmath6 m  is 0.005  pc ( @xcite ) and a spatial resolution of 1  we would not expect to be able to resolve a myso at distances @xmath1 1  kpc .",
    "however , uchii regions with a typical size of @xmath50.1  pc would be resolved at a distance of 15  kpc ( @xmath51.4 ) as would most pne .",
    "therefore , mid - infrared imaging can prove extremely useful in identifying , and removing extended mid - infrared objects .",
    "moreover , mid - infrared imaging is complementary to the radio continuum observations and can be used to obtain accurate astrometry and avoid excluding mysos that are located in close proximity to uchii regions . for the majority of our sources",
    "the glimpse data have been used for this purpose , however , the @xmath5700 sources located outside the glimpse region have been observed using ukirt , gemini and the eso 3.6  m telescope at la silla ( @xcite ) .    to obtain kinematic distances",
    "we have made molecular line observations towards every source using @xmath12co ( @xmath13=21 ) and ( @xmath13=10 ) transitions and mopra , onsala and purple mountain observatory telescopes , and the jcmt ( @xcite ; urquhart et al .",
    "submitted to a&a ) .",
    "we have complemented these observations with archival data extracted from the galactic ring survey ( grs ; see @xcite for details ) . in cases",
    "where multiple co components are detected towards an rms source we have used a combination of nearby methanol and water masers , or cs ( @xmath13=21 ) observations to identify the component associated with the myso candidate .",
    "we have calculated kinematic distances using the source v@xmath14  and the rotation curve of @xcite ; these are crucial for calculating luminosities and thus distinguishing between nearby low- and intermediate - mass ysos from genuine mysos .",
    "the majority ( @xmath580% ) of our sample is located within the solar circle and therefore the rotation curve produces two possible kinematic distances , referred to as the ` near ' and ` far ' distances ; this is known as the kinematic distance ambiguity .",
    "we have used the hi self - absorption technique ( @xcite ) and hi data from the international galactic plane survey ( igps ; for details see http://www.ras.ucalgary.ca/igps/ ) to resolve these distance ambiguities ( e.g. , @xcite )",
    ".    while the observations just discussed are useful in eliminating the vast majority of uchii regions , pne and low- and intermediate - mass ysos , they are not so effective at eliminating evolved stars .",
    "we have eliminated most of these using near infrared images in combination with other available data since they tend to appear as isolated point sources at all wavelengths , and are not generally associated with strong co emission ( @xmath15co ( @xmath13=10 and @xmath13=21 ) typically less than 1  k ; @xcite ) .",
    "in contrast , near - ir images of mysos often show associated shocked emission from outflows , reflection nebulosity , extinction lanes , as well as clusters of lower mass ysos .",
    "the combination of near- and mid - infrared imaging , radio continuum and molecular line observations allows us to eliminate most of the contaminating sources . however , there are a few weak uchii regions , or chance alignments of evolved stars with molecular material , that are not identified .",
    "to weed out any remaining contaminating sources , and to confirm the identifications of our final sample of mysos , we are obtaining near - infrared spectroscopy from which a definitive classification can be made ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "we have obtained spectra towards approximately 350 rms sources so far .",
    "classification and distribution of rms sources identified so far using data obtained from our multi - wavelength observations.,scaledwidth=59.0% ]",
    "as the observational data have become available they have been used to classify the sources in our sample .",
    "so far we have classified all but a few of the @xmath52000 sources and have identified @xmath5450 ysos and a further @xmath5500 uchii regions ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : classification ] for a detailed breakdown ) . along with the ysos and uchii regions",
    "so far identified , a further @xmath5200 sources have been identified as either ysos and/or uchii regions .",
    "we are waiting on additional data before making a final classification .",
    "potentially , taking into account these sources the final number of ysos and uchii regions identified so far will be significantly larger .",
    "left panel : histogram of the luminosities for sources identified as either ysos or uchii regions and for which good iras data was available .",
    "these luminosities have been calculated following @xcite .",
    "right panel : distribution of source luminosities as a function of heliocentric distance.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ] left panel : histogram of the luminosities for sources identified as either ysos or uchii regions and for which good iras data was available .",
    "these luminosities have been calculated following @xcite .",
    "right panel : distribution of source luminosities as a function of heliocentric distance.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ]    in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : luminosity ] we present a histogram of the luminosities of sources that have been classified as either ysos or uchii regions and for which good quality iras data are available ( @xmath525% ) , and for which any distance ambiguities have been resolved . in the right panel of fig .  [",
    "fig : luminosity ] we plot the distribution of luminosities as a function of heliocentric distance .",
    "these plots reveal that a number of the sources identified as ysos are actually nearby low- and intermediate - mass ysos . however , the vast majority have luminosities consistent with late o and early b - type stars .",
    "galactic distribution of rms sources identified as either uchii regions or ysos .",
    "the location of the spiral arms taken from model by @xcite and updated by @xcite are over - plotted in grey .",
    "the positions of the galactic centre and sun are shown by black filled and unfilled circles respectively .",
    "the roman numerals in the corners refer to the galactic quadrants and the two thick black lines which originate from the location of the sun enclose the region excluded from our survey .",
    "the two dashed circles indicate the solar circle and tangent points.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=99.0% ] +    we have determined kinematic distances for all ysos and uchii regions , for which an unambiguous v@xmath14  could be attributed , using the rotation curve of @xcite . using these distances and source positions in fig .",
    "[ fig : gal_rms_distribution ] we plot the distribution of ysos and uchii regions on a face - on view of the galactic plane . on this plot",
    "we have indicated the positions of the galactic centre , the sun , the solar circle and the spiral arms ( see figure caption for details ) .",
    "massive stars are thought to be primarily associated with the spiral arms , and thus could potentially be used as a probe of galactic structure .",
    "comparing the distribution of our sources and the position of the spiral arms ( from the model by @xcite and updated by @xcite ) we find them to be reasonably well correlated with each other , especially taking into account the errors in the kinematic distances ( typically @xmath161  kpc ) .",
    "the correlation is particularly apparent towards the inner galactic arms ( i.e. , 1st and 4th quadrants ) , but quite poor for sources in the outer galaxy .",
    "the rms survey aims to produce a large , unbiased sample of massive young stellar objects ( mysos ) located throughout the galaxy .",
    "we have colour - selected approximately 2000 myso candidates from the msx and 2mass point source catalogues that have colours similar to known mysos .",
    "we have almost completed a multi - wavelength programme of follow - up observations to distinguish between genuine mysos and types of embedded or dust enshrouded objects that have similar mid - infrared colours that contaminate our sample .",
    "so far using these observations we have unambiguously classified @xmath590% of our sample , approximately half of which are identified as either ysos and uchii regions .",
    "the luminosities of a sub - sample of these sources , for which good iras data are available , confirms that we are detecting a significant number of genuine mysos .",
    "when complete , we estimate our database will contain a well selected sample of @xmath5500 bona fide mysos and a further 500600 uchii regions , along with complementary multi - wavelength observations .    now",
    "the classification is almost complete we have begun a number of observational programmes to exploit our sample and to address many open questions concerned with massive star formation .",
    "these include : high resolution observations of potentially triggered regions to investigate different triggering mechanisms ; chemical surveys using millimetre lines and ir absorption features to investigate the chemistry and possible chemical evolution of mysos ; investigation of molecular outflows associated with mysos ; and high resolution spectroscopy of accretion disks .",
    "all of these programmes are being conducted on sub - samples selected as a function of luminosity , distance and location .",
    "the whole sample and all of the observational results of our multi - wavelength campaign are available at www.ast.leeds.ac.uk/rms",
    ".    we would like to thank the directors and staff of the various telescopes mentioned in this article for their help and support during our observations .",
    "jsu is supported by a postdoctoral grant from the science and technology facilities council ( stfc ) .",
    "churchwell , e. , wolfire , m.  g. , & wood , d.  o.  s.  1990 , , 354 , 247 clarke , a.  j. , lumsden , s.  l. , oudmaijer , r.  d. , busfield , a.  l. , hoare , m.  g. , moore , t.  j.  t. , sheret , t.  l. , & urquhart , j.  s.  2006 , , 457 , 183 cordes , j.  m.  2004 , milky way surveys : the structure and evolution of our galaxy , 317 , 211                      molinari , s. , brand , j. , cesaroni , r. , & palla , f.  1996 , , 308 , 573 mottram , j.  c. , hoare , m.  g. , lumsden , s.  l. , oudmaijer , r.  d. , urquhart , j.  s. , sheret , t.  l. , clarke , a.  j. , & allsopp , j.  2007 , arxiv e - prints , 709 , arxiv:0709.2040 , a&a in press .",
    "urquhart , j.  s. , busfield , a.  l. , hoare , m.  g. , lumsden , s.  l. , clarke , a.  j. , moore , t.  j.  t. , mottram , j.  c. , & oudmaijer , r.  d.  2007 , , 461 , 11 urquhart , j.  s. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 474 , 891 walmsley , m.  1995 , revista mexicana de astronomia y astrofisica conference series , 1 , 137 walsh , a.  j. , hyland , a.  r. , robinson , g. , & burton , m.  g.  1997 , , 291 , 261"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> here we describe the red msx source ( rms ) survey which is the largest , systematic , galaxy - wide search for massive young stellar objects ( mysos ) yet undertaken . </S>",
    "<S> mid - ir bright point sources from the msx satellite survey have been followed - up with ground - based radio , millimetre , and infrared observations to identify the contaminating sources and characterise the mysos and uchii regions . with the initial classification </S>",
    "<S> now complete the distribution of sources in the galaxy will be discussed , as well as some programmes being developed to exploit our sample . </S>"
  ]
}