{
  "article_text": [
    "the python language @xcite is increasingly popular in the scientific and , more specifically , in the astronomical community . for instance",
    ", it has been already adopted by very large communities such as the space telescope science institute ( stsci ) or by the alma project .",
    "it is also very strong among the various tools used and developed in the frame of the virtual observatory endeavour ( see http://www.ivoa.net/ for instance ) .    in combination with a small number of specific libraries , we explain briefly here how it can provide a very powerful interactive data language which can be run on a number of operating system platforms , such as linux , mac os x or windows .",
    "the set of python libraries we shall describe herafter does not present an interest limited to data reduction since it can also be perfectly used for any kind of post - processing like , for instance , the one of output from numerical simulations .    for the spectropolarimetric data reduction we performed here , we used a combination of tools from the libraries pyfits , numarray ( now numpy / scipy ) and matplotlib .",
    "using data collected by g. molodij and f. paletou in may 2000 at the thmis solar telescope @xcite , we demonstrate the capabilities of such tools by extracting the so - called 2nd spectrum of the sri spectral line at 460.7 nm close to the solar limb , as an illustrative example ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    by reprocessing such data with our python - based tools",
    ", we could easily reproduce the results published elsewhere @xcite .",
    "image of the fractional linear polarization @xmath0 in the spectral domain around 460.7 nm.,width=529 ]",
    "in order to deal with fits format files , the stsci developed  and maintains  the pyfits library .",
    "it is very easy to install and to use since it is very well documented .",
    "it allows for both the reading of such files , entirely or by slices , and for the generation of new fits files ; working with headers is also very easy .",
    "however its use implies that another library such as numarray or numpy ( see below ) for handling multi - dimensional arrays is already available .",
    "indeed , for our purpose vector calculations with multi - dimensional arrays have been performed with the numarray library . with the latter",
    "comes along also a number of high - level numerical tools allowing for linear algebra , statistical analysis , fast fourier transforms , convolutions or interpolations for instance .",
    "however , since numarray will _ not _ be supported anymore after 2007 , we wish to warn the reader to use instead , from now on , the numpy package for such scientific calculations ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "an on - line cookbook and very useful documentation can be found at http://www.scipy.org/.    finally , for graphical output and figures saving , we used the matplotlib library for 2d plots .",
    "the default gui is very convenient , allowing for a posteriori interactive work on the image , such as area selection and zooming . unlike other software , it is also very easy with matplotlib to export images into the most useful formats .",
    "the quality of the output is perfectly suitable for publication ( see e.g. , the figures in * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the freeware set we adopted was installed and used by us without any difficulties together with several linux distributions as well as mac os x.",
    "the raw data consisted in a time - sequence of 200 frames taken with the slit parallel to the solar limb at @xmath1 while modulating in time through a sequence of 4 independent polarization states in order to perform full - stokes measurements .",
    "demodulation involving inverse or pseudo - inverse matrix calculation was very easily coded with the linear algebra package of numpy .",
    "our older routines ( written in idl ) for aligning spectral lines were also very quickly re - coded using convolution with a finite width kernel for bisector search , and cubic spline or fourier interpolations for shifting the profiles line by line .",
    "the adequate functions are in the fftpack and signal packages of scipy",
    ".     can also be noticed.,width=453 ]    in fig . 1",
    ", we plot the ( @xmath2 ) image corresponding to the fractional linear polarization @xmath0 obtained by recombining the two polarized beams of the mtr@thmis @xcite taken at 460.7 nm .",
    "the strong peak in the sri spectral line corresponds to @xmath3 .",
    "2 makes this reading easier since it is the mean profile obtained by averaging the polarized signal over the rows of the previous image .",
    "it is in agreement with previous values obtained at very high polarimetric sensitivity with the zimpol i polarimeter attached to the nso / kitt peak macmath - pierce facility @xcite .    as with other data language",
    ", these packages permit to build one s own collection of specific functions and , therefore makes it possible for any user to constitute its own library .",
    "the use of these public and private resources can be made both from scripts and/or interactively , using a command line .",
    "one of the advantages of using python is flexibility .",
    "several other high - level plotting libraries exist such as dislin , or vtk for 3d graphics , for instance . and",
    "should one be unsatisfied of some of the functions of matplotlib , it would be very easy to use instead a number of functions from such other libraries .",
    "the python language and the numerous scientific and graphic libraries which are being developed for , already provide very valuable and powerful tools for data analysis in astrophysics .",
    "it is well supported by increasingly larger communities so , shifting to such freeware tools appear to us as both reasonable and economical ( not to say legal too ... ) options yet .",
    "our experience with the reduction of thmis spectropolarimetric data since 1999 made rather fast , on the timescale of a few weeks only , the conversion of our former software written in idl to the above - mentioned python - based resources .",
    "we could reprocess without any difficulties whatsoever old data which lead to published results , and we now reduce our new data with those numerical tools . and",
    "finally , we definitely adopt a proselytizing attitude in favour of them .",
    "lger , l. , chevallier , l. & paletou , f. 2007 , , 470 , 1 oliphant , t.e .",
    "2006 , guide to numpy ( over - the - web : trelgol publishing ) paletou , f. , & molodij , g. 2001 , in asp conf .",
    "236 , advanced solar polarimetry , ed . m. sigwarth , ( san francisco : asp ) , 9 stenflo , j.o . ,",
    "bianda , m. , keller , c.u . , & solanki , s. 1997 , , 322 , 985 trujillo bueno , j. , collados , m. , paletou , f. , & molodij , g. 2001 , in asp conf .",
    "236 , advanced solar polarimetry , ed . m. sigwarth , ( san francisco : asp ) , 141 van rossum , g. 1990 , http://www.python.org/"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most of the solar physicists use very expensive software for data reduction and visualization . </S>",
    "<S> we present hereafter a reliable freeware solution based on the python language . </S>",
    "<S> this is made possible by the association of the latter with a small set of additional libraries developed in the scientific community . </S>",
    "<S> it provides then a very powerful and economical alternative to other interactive data languages . </S>",
    "<S> although it can also be used for any kind of post - processing of data , we demonstrate the capabities of such a set of freeware tools using thmis observations of the second solar spectrum . </S>"
  ]
}