{
  "article_text": [
    "the snrs consisting of two partially overlapping nonthermal shells represent a significant fraction of the known shell - like snrs .",
    "several explanations were put forward to explain the unusual morphology of these objects : _ i _ ) superposition of two separate snrs ; _ ii _ ) collision of two separate snrs ( e.g. uyaniker et al . 2002 ) ; _ iii _ ) breakout phenomenon in a region with a density discontinuity ( e.g. velzquez et al . 2001 ) .",
    "we propose an alternative explanation based on the idea that the two - shell snrs can be products of an off - centered supernova ( sn ) explosion in a preexisting bubble created by the wind of a moving massive star .",
    "massive stars ( the progenitors of most of sne ) are the sources of strong stellar wind , which creates extended ( tens of parsecs ) bubbles in the interstellar medium . in the absence of stellar proper motion ,",
    "the wind bubbles blown - up in the homogeneous medium are spherically - symmetric with the star at the center of symmetry . however , after correction for galactic rotation , all stars have a proper motion . most of the massive stars have a peculiar velocity of a few km / s ; some of them have much larger velocities",
    ". the stellar proper motion could result in a considerable offset of the sn explosion site from the center of the wind - driven bubble , while the initially spherical shape of the bubble could be significantly distorted if the star reaches the edge of the bubble and the stellar wind starts to interact directly with the ambient interstellar medium ( weaver et al . 1977 ; see fig .  1 for schematic illustration of this effect ) .",
    "it is likely that just this situation takes place in the case of the progenitor star of the sn  1987a .",
    "wang et al . ( 1993 ) suggested that the large - scale structure to the southeast of sn  1987a ( the dark bay in their fig .",
    "2 ) is the wind - driven bubble created by the moving sn progenitor star during the main - sequence ( ms ) stage , while the napoleon s hat nebula originates due to the interaction of the post - ms winds with the ambient interstellar medium ( see , however , sugerman et al .",
    "2005 ) .    after the massive star exploded as a sn",
    ", the sn blast wave takes on the shape of the preexisting cavity ( e.g. r@xmath0yczka et al .",
    "1993 ; brighenti & dercole 1994 ; gvaramadze & vikhlinin 2003 ) and the resulting snr becomes considerably non - spherically - symmetric .",
    "2 shows the @xmath1 image ( smith 1997 ) of rcw  86  a shell - like snr with a peculiar protrusion to the southwest .",
    "we believe ( gvaramadze & vikhlinin 2003 ) that rcw  86 is an older version of the sn  1987a and that the southwest protrusion is the remainder of a bow shock - like structure created in the interstellar medium by the post - ms winds . given the youth of the snr , we expect that the stellar remnant should still be within the protrusion .",
    "motivated by these arguments we searched for a stellar remnant using the _ chandra _ archival data and discovered a neutron star candidate just in the `` proper place '' ( gvaramadze & vikhlinin 2003 ) .",
    "we propose that a two - shell snr is a natural consequence of an off - centered cavity sn explosion of a moving massive star , which ended its evolution near the edge of the ms wind - driven bubble .",
    "this proposal implies that one of the shells is the former ms bubble reenergized by the sn blast wave . the second shell , however",
    ", could originate in two somewhat different ways , depending on the initial mass of the sn progenitor star .",
    "it could be a shell swept - up by the sn blast wave expanding through the unperturbed ambient interstellar medium if the massive star ends its evolution as a red supergiant ( rsg ) , i.e. if the star evolves through the sequence : ms - rsg - sn . or it could be the remainder of a preexisting shell ( adjacent to the ms bubble ) swept - up by the fast progenitor s wind during the late evolutionary phases if after the rsg phase the star evolves through the wolf - rayet ( wr ) phase ( i.e. ms - rsg - wr - sn ) . in both cases the resulting ( two - shell ) snr should be associated only with one ( young ) ns ( cf .",
    "gvaramadze 2006 ) .",
    "we note several distinctions characterizing the second case : ( a ) the birth - place of the stellar remnant could be significantly offset from the center of the preexisting wr shell due to the proper motion of the sn progenitor star , ( b ) the sn explosion site could be marked by a nebula of thermal x - ray emission ( see sect.4.2 ) , and ( c ) the preexisting wr shell causes the rapid evolution of the sn blast wave from the adiabatic phase to the radiative one .",
    "the polarized intensity image of the cygnus loop by uyaniker et al .",
    "( 2002 ) shows a prominent shell - like structure encompassing the `` break - out '' region in the south of this snr ( see fig .",
    "the geometric center of the shell nearly coincides with a neutron star candidate discovered in x - rays by miyata et al .",
    "( 2001 ; indicated in fig .  3 by a cross ) .",
    "uyaniker et al .",
    "( 2002 ) believe that the cygnus loop is actually two individual snrs interacting with each other .",
    "an alternative possibility is that the cygnus loop is the result of sn explosion near the south edge of a cavity blown up by the sn progenitor during the ms stage and that the sn precursor was a rsg star ( gvaramadze 2003 ) .",
    "this implies that the north ( well - known ) shell of the cygnus loop corresponds to the former ms bubble reenergized by the sn blast wave , while the newly - discovered ( south ) shell is created by the interaction of the sn blast wave with the unperturbed interstellar medium .",
    "accordingly , we expect that only one stellar remnant should be associated with both shells .",
    "the snr 3c  400.2 consists of two circular radio shells with the centrally - filled thermal x - ray emission peaked on the region where the radio shells overlap each other ( fig .",
    "4 ; dubner et al .",
    "1994 ; yoshita et al .",
    "2001 ) and therefore belongs to the class of mixed - morpology snrs ( i.e. shell - like in the radio and centrally - filled in the x - ray ; rho & petre 1998 ) .",
    "the origin of mixed - morphology snrs is usually treated in the framework of white & long s ( 1991 ) model of evaporation of embedded interstellar cloudlets .",
    "an alternative explanation of the origin of the centrally - filled thermal x - ray emission is that it is due to the evaporation of dense circumstellar clumps ( produced by the interaction of the fast wr wind with the preceding slow rsg one ; gvaramadze 2001 , 2002 ) .",
    "we therefore suggest that the sn precursor was a wr star and that the northwest shell of 3c  400.2 is the former wr shell .",
    "this suggestion can be supported by the fact that the northwest shell has a bilateral appearance with the bilateral axis parallel to the galactic plane ( see gvaramadze 2004 ) .",
    "if our suggestion is correct , then one can expect that the stellar remnant associated with 3c  400.2 should be within the northwest shell ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the proper motion of massive stars could cause them to explode far from the geometric centers of their wind - driven bubbles and thereby could affect the symmetry of the resulting diffuse supernova remnants ( snrs ) . </S>",
    "<S> we use this fact to explain the origin of snrs consisting of two partially overlapping shells ( e.g. cygnus loop , 3c  400.2 , etc . ) . </S>"
  ]
}