{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the main aims of optical observations of low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) has always been to find a signature of the donor star , and thereby constrain the masses of both components .",
    "unfortunately , the optical emission of most lmxbs that accrete at high rates is completely dominated by the reprocessing of the x - rays in the outer accretion disk .",
    "this is the reason why , in spite of optical counterparts being known for persistent lmxbs for years ( sometimes even over 20 years ) , no strong constraints on their system parameters existed until recently .",
    "the discovery of narrow high - excitation emission lines in the bright lmxb scox-1 opened new opportunities for system parameter constraints in active x - ray binaries @xcite .",
    "phase - resolved blue spectroscopy showed that these narrow lines moved in anti - phase with the compact object , strongly suggesting that they arise from the irradiated surface of the donor star .",
    "this lead to the first estimate of the semi - amplitude of the radial velocity of the secondary , @xmath0 , and mass function ( @xmath1(@xmath2)=@xmath3@xmath4/4@xmath5@xmath6 ) of scox-1 .",
    "these lines were most prominent in the bowen region ( the region from 4630 to 4660  ) , that mainly consists of a blend of niii and ciii lines .",
    "the niii lines are the result of a uv fluorescence process , while the ciii lines are due to photo - ionization and subsequent recombination @xcite . in this paper",
    "we review the results of a survey we performed to apply this new technique to other persistent lmxbs or transients during outburst in order to find a donor star signature .",
    "after the detection of the narrow emission lines in the bowen region in scox-1 ( see fig.[scox1]/left ) , a systematic survey was performed targetting active lmxbs with known optical counterparts brighter than @xmath7@xmath820 .",
    "thus far , phase resolved spectroscopy has been performed for 7 persistent and 2 transient lmxbs , using either the wht , aat , ntt or vlt telescope . in all cases a signature of the donor star was detected , leading to a first estimate of their mass functions .",
    "we have listed the observed sources plus the mass constraints of their compact objects in table[limits ] .",
    ".overview of all lmxbs that we have studied thus far . indicated",
    "are the compact object mass limits , derived from the narrow bowen features , for each source .",
    "the transient sources in our sample are indicated with an asterisk ( * ) .",
    "[ limits ] [ cols=\"<,^ , < \" , ]     for most systems the narrow emission lines are too faint to be detectable in the individual spectra .",
    "fortunately , thanks to the technique of doppler tomography it is possible to use the information contained in all phase resolved spectra at once to reconstruct the emission distribution of the bowen emission lines in velocity space . in all cases",
    "this produced a compact spot consistent with the phasing and the velocity of the companion star ( for an example see fig.[scox1]/right ) .",
    "apart from the problems that are inherent to all other methods to estimate the system parameters of lmxbs ( such as not knowing the inclination or the radial velocity semi - amplitude of the primary , @xmath9 , for most sources ) , the bowen technique has another disadvantage .",
    "the velocity determined from the narrow components is only a lower - limit to the true @xmath0 velocity , since these lines arise on the irradiated side of the donor star which ( for most of the systems ) does not correspond to the center of mass of the secondary ( note that this is also a problem for absorption lines if heating is significant ) .",
    "this displacement can be accounted for by the so - called @xmath10-correction , which depends on the inclination of the system , the opening - angle of the accretion disk , the mass ratio ( see @xcite ) .",
    "thus far , the survey has shown that all observed systems show narrow emission lines in the bowen region that can be attributed to the irradiated surface of the companion . in fig.[spectra ] we show bowen region of the average doppler corrected spectra in the rest frame of the companion , and in all spectra narrow niii and/or ciii lines are visible .",
    "this suggests that this technique can be universally applied , and is an excellent tool to constrain the system parameters of lmxbs .",
    "not only does it appear to work for persistent sources , but gx339@xmath114 and aqlx-1 have shown that it can also work for transients during outburst .",
    "this technique can therefore also be used to constrain the system parameters for transients that are too faint in optical when they return to quiescence .",
    "the observation of gx339@xmath114 is a spectacular demonstration of the power of the bowen fluorescence technique . despite being one of the earliest proposed black hole candidates even its orbital period was uncertain due to the bright accretion disk that still dominates the optical flux when the system is in quiescence .",
    "this made it not possible to directly measure the system parameters of this system thus far .",
    "after applying the bowen technique to gx339@xmath114 a mass function of 5.8@xmath12 was found , finally confirming the black hole nature of its compact object @xcite .",
    "another interesting case is the neutron star transient aqlx-1 . in quiescence",
    "the counterpart is 2 magnitudes fainter than a nearby star , severely hampering quiescent studies . during a 2004 outburst we had the opportunity to take several high resolution blue spectra , and",
    "the narrow emission components were clearly present in the individual spectra .",
    "the resulting radial velocity curve lead to a lower limit on the mass function of @xmath13@xmath141.23@xmath150.12@xmath12 . combining this with estimates for the rotational broadening of these lines suggests that the mass of the compact object is @xmath141.6@xmath12 ( at 95% ) , strongly implying a massive neutron star in aqlx-1 @xcite    not only does this technique work for galactic lmxbs , but it has also been successfully applied to the extra - galactic system lmcx-2 @xcite . from the heii @xmath164686 emission line it was possible to determine a spectroscopic period of 0.32@xmath150.02 day , that was interpreted as the orbital period .",
    "however , the spectra do show a longer term variation that is most likely due to a precessing accretion disk . despite these difficulties , plus the fact that the bowen emission is much weaker compared to the galactic systems , it was possible to detect the narrow lines using doppler tomography .    as already pointed out ,",
    "a main problem in determining the system parameters from dynamical studies of lmxbs is the lack of knowledge of @xmath9 and the inclination .",
    "however , for several systems these parameters are known , making them excellent system to derive strong constraints on the component masses . for 4u1254@xmath1169 the inclination",
    "is well constrained due to the presence of dips , while @xmath9 is known for the neutron star lmxb 4u1636@xmath1153 . however , the most promising system is the eclipsing pulsar x1822@xmath11371 , for which both the inclination and @xmath9 are known . by accurately modelling the narrow components for this system it should be possible to strongly constrain both the donor and neutron star mass ( muoz - darias et  al .",
    "2008 in prep . )",
    "we have given a short overview of the novel technique of bowen fluorescence that has proven itself to work for the 9 systems thus far observed ( see table[limits ] ) , and for most of the systems we have been able to derive the first constraints on their system parameters ever .",
    "there are still a handful of persistent lmxbs left that are bright enough for this technique , and there are plans to also observe these systems .",
    "recently 4u1957@xmath1711 has been observed with magellan , and in the near future exo0748@xmath11676 , serx-1 and 4u1556@xmath11605 will be observed with the vlt .",
    "furthermore , this technique might also be an excellent tool to determine the system parameters of future bright transients",
    ".    the next step will be to improve the determined @xmath0 velocities for the most promising candidates by measuring the distribution of the emission across the roche - lobe using high resolution spectroscopy .",
    "this will allow us to more accurately measure the radial velocities of the narrow lines , determine their rotational broadening , and hopefully model the shape of the lines as a function of orbital period in order to get a better constraint on the @xmath10-correction .",
    "furthermore , we have started using the fact that the bowen lines are efficiently reprocessed on the donor star to constrain the inclination and the @xmath10-correction using echo - tomography with a narrow band filter centered around the bowen blend ( for more information see muoz - darias et  al . in this volume ) .",
    "these next steps will hopefully provide stronger constraints on the masses of lmxbs , and in particular give accurate neutron star masses .",
    "barnes , a.d . , casares , j. , cornelisse , r. , charles , p.a . , steeghs , d. , hynes , r.i . , obrien , k. 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1182 casares j. , steeghs d. , hynes r.i , charles p.a . , obrien k. 2003 , apj , 590 , 1041 casares , j. , cornelisse , r. , steeghs , d. , charles , p.a . ,",
    "hynes , r.i .",
    ", obrien , k.o . , & strohmayer , t.e .",
    "2006 , mnras , 373 , 1235 cornelisse , r. , casares , j. , steeghs , d . ,",
    "barnes , a.d . , charles , p.a .",
    ", hynes , r.i .",
    ", obrien , k. 2007a , mnras , 375 , 1463 cornelisse , r. , steeghs , d. , casares , j. , charles , p.a . ,",
    "barnes , a.d . , hynes , r.i . , obrien , k. 2007b , mnras , 380 , 1219 cornelisse , r. , steeghs , d. , casares , j. , charles , p.a . ,",
    "shih , i.c . , hynes , r.i .",
    ", obrien , k. 2007c , mnras , 381 , 194 hynes r.i . , steeghs d. , casares j. , charles p.a .",
    ", obrien k. , 2003 , apj , 583 , l95 mcclintock , j.e . ,",
    "canizares , c.r . , & tarter , c.b .",
    "1975 , apj , 198 , 641 muoz - darias , t. , casares , j. , & martinez - pais , i.g .",
    "2005 , apj , 635 , 502 steeghs d. , casares j. 2002 , apj , 568 , 273"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we give a review of the bowen fluorescence survey , showing that narrow emission lines ( mainly niii and ciii lines between 4630 and 4660  ) appear to be universally present in the bowen blend of optically bright low mass x - ray binaries . </S>",
    "<S> these narrow lines are attributed to reprocessing in the companion star giving the first estimates of @xmath0 , and thereby providing the first constraints on their system parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we will give an overview of the constraints on the masses of the compact objects and briefly highlight the most important results of the survey . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , we will point out the most promising systems for future follow - up studies and indicate how we think their estimates of the component masses can be improved . </S>"
  ]
}