{
  "article_text": [
    "weak lensing has been widely identified as the most promising route to measuring the evolution of the equation of state of the universe , and hence to understanding the nature of dark energy .",
    "a large number of huge lensing surveys are planned : panstarrs , lsst , the dark enery survey on the ctio 4-m , kids on vst , hypersuprimecam for subaru ; and the dune and snap satellites .    for weak lensing ,",
    "resolution is paramount , because the galaxies used to measure the effect are @xmath0 in size , and must be at least partially resolved .",
    "antarctica offers unique possibilities for wide - field , high - resolution imaging , so even modest sized telescopes may offer world - beating performance .",
    "this paper is a preliminary investigation into the possibilities for measuring weak lensing with pilot - the pathfinder for an international large optical telescope , a 2-m class optical / infrared telescope proposed for dome c on the antarctic plateau with first light at the end of 2012 .",
    "we assume a 2.4 m f/10 telescope , with a @xmath1 ccd camera , with image scale @xmath2/pixel .",
    "figure 1 below shows the size of galaxies detected in the hubble deep field , as a function of ab magnitude . for @xmath3 , most galaxies are between @xmath4 and @xmath5 , with weak dependence on magnitude .",
    "this means temperate - site observations , with image quality @xmath6 or more , struggle to determine ellipticities for these galaxies .",
    "the integration time required to measure ellipticity is a dramatic function of image quality , because ( a ) the intrinsic ellipticity of the galaxy is diluted by the psf , and it must be observed to higher s / n to compensate , and ( b ) the observations are sky - limited , and the overall sky noise increases with the observed image size .",
    "suppose we are trying to measure the ellipticity of a galaxy of intrinsic fwhm @xmath7 , with observed dimensions ( including seeing , telescope optics , pixellation ) @xmath8 .",
    "assuming gaussian statistics , the time required to measure the ellipticity of a galaxy to a given s / n scales as + @xmath9 + for a given intrinsic galaxy shape and size , @xmath10 then varies as the _ sixth power _ of the observed image size .",
    "figure 2 shows this effect of image size and seeing on the required integration time for fixed aperture , object brightness and background level .",
    "galaxies smaller than the seeing are very difficult to measure because the apparent ellipticity is so small ; large galaxies are difficult because the sky noise is large .",
    "the optimal size for target galaxies is 1 - 3 times the seeing , which means dome c is ideally suited for this work . for typical galaxies ,",
    "the required integration times at dome c are one to two orders of magnitudes less than for a similar telescope at mauna kea .",
    "of course , if we match the pixel scale to the median seeing , then worse seeing means we can image more sky at once for given detector area .",
    "figure 3 shows the overall lensing survey speed as a function of image quality and galaxy size , for a telescope of fixed aperture and detector size , but with pixel scale matched to the seeing .",
    "the gain in overall survey speed between dome c and the best temperate sites is still an order of magnitude .",
    "the estimated pilot wide field image quality , including median seeing , has been presented in saunders _",
    "_ 2008 . for @xmath11-band ,",
    "the value is @xmath12 .",
    "this includes the effect of a fast tip - tilt secondary , which corrects for residual low - level turbulence above the telescope .",
    "if we could correct for high level turbulence , we could improve the image quality much further .",
    "the angle over which the high level turbulence is correlated is much smaller than the field , so we have two requirements : a density of guide stars high enough to sample this turbulence , and some way of making differential tip - tilt corrections across the field .",
    "the latter could be achieved via a deformable mirror , but it could also make use of orthogonal transfer ccds ( tonry , burke and schecter 1997 ) , which allow charge shuffling in both directions , in @xmath13 pixel sub - arrays .    the median fried length @xmath14 for pilot at @xmath11-band is about 65 cm , so @xmath15 .",
    "this is exactly the regime where tip - tilt correction provides the largest gains ( hardy 1998 , jenkins 2000 ) .",
    "the image quality that can be expected in this regime has been comprehensively explored by jenkins ( 1998 ) and also by kaiser , tonry and luppino ( 2000 , henceforth ktl ) .",
    "ktl conclude that at mauna kea , the density of suitable guide stars is too low to map the required tip - tilt corrections over wide fields . however , at dome c we have three large gains over mauna kea : ( a ) we can have a 2.5 times larger collecting area while preserving @xmath16=4 , ( b ) the greenwood timescale is 3 times longer , and ( c ) the isoplanatic angle is 2.5 times larger ( agabi _ et al .",
    "_ 2006 , lawrence _ et al .",
    "so we can use fainter guide stars , and we can also tolerate larger separations between them . in overall terms of ( guide stars)/(isoplanatic angle)@xmath17 , we are 20 times better off than mauna kea .",
    "this is enough to completely map the deflection field even at high latitudes , leaving negligible residual isoplanatic error ( ktl figure 15 ) .",
    "the tip - tilt correction gives a @xmath18 improvement in the encircled energy diameter .",
    "it also gives a significant diffraction - limited core containing 28% of the energy , with a strehl ratio of @xmath19 ( ktl , jenkins 1998 ) .",
    "so we can expect diffraction - limited cores , with fwhm @xmath20 , across the whole field .",
    "the limiting factor in practice will be the pixel size ( @xmath21 ) , and the limited ability of otccds to do sub - pixel shuffling .",
    "the gain in encircled energy can be fully utilised , to give us a @xmath22 .",
    "this is perfectly matched both to our target galaxies , and to the pixel scale for the telescope ( which is determined also by nir considerations ) .",
    "it is better than the proposed dune satellite ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "for surveying ellipticities of typical faint galaxies , pilot is an order of magnitude more efficient , for given telescope and detector areas , than telescopes at temperate sites . in practice",
    ", this means that we can reach surface densities not realistic elsewhere .",
    "it s very hard to reach densities higher than 10 - 20 galaxies@xmath24 even with 8-m class telescopes , compared with 50 - 100 from space ( e.g. kasliwal _ et al . _ ) . for pilot",
    ", we should reach s / n = 10 for @xmath25 , @xmath26 fwhm galaxies in @xmath27 , giving us @xmath28 galaxies@xmath24 .",
    "a high space density is crucial for measuring the peak of the lensing power spectrum at @xmath29 ( @xmath30 scales ) , which is where the greatest sensitivity to cosmological model occurs ( figure 4a ) .",
    "the higher resolution also means that the median depth of the lensed galaxies is greater , which increases ( a ) the sensitivity to lensing , ( b ) the volume surveyed , and ( c ) the lever - arm to measuring the evolution of the power spectrum .     weak lensing survey .",
    "( b ) cosmological constraints for surveys of different sizes .",
    "the survey proposed for pilot is @xmath31 .",
    "both plots traken from the proposal to the esa cosmic vision program.,width=472 ]    because the effects looked for are so subtle , a fundamental limitation with ground - based imaging surveys is the constancy of the psf across the field , and with time , elevation , colour , etc .",
    "pilot has two large advantages over temperate telescopes : ( a ) the lensing signal is less diluted by resolution , so the sensitivity to systematic error is less by a factor of several , and ( b ) the pilot optics deliver superb imaging , because of the slow f - ratio ( f/10 ) and modest field of - view ( @xmath32 ) , and because we have a ritchey - chrtian design .",
    "the optical design is diffraction - limited at @xmath11-band across the entire field ( saunders _ et al .",
    "_ 2008 ) .",
    "there is also excellent overlap with the dark energy survey , which will obtain photometry in @xmath33 bands , potentially giving photometric redshifts for the entire survey , and also the south pole telescope , allowing independent and robust determination of cluster masses , as a separate probe of the evolution of the power spectrum .",
    "compared with the dune satellite , a pilot lensing survey looks remarkably good .",
    "the overall survey speeds , taking into account the image quality , sky background , aperture and field of view , are about the same .",
    "pilot can only access @xmath34 of the high latitude sky .",
    "pilot will not be capable of getting the deep y , j , h - band data proposed for dune , but will be capable of obtaining deep @xmath35 and also @xmath36 data if suitable data is not available elsewhere .    if 50% of dark and grey time is allocated to a lensing survey , pilot could survey all accessible high latitude sky ( about @xmath37 ) to @xmath38 in 4 years . on the ( untested ) assumption that adequate photometric redshifts can be obtained , then the overall signal - to - noise for cosmological parameter estimation is similar to the dune weak lensing survey ( figure 4b ) , but the survey would be completed by the time dune is launched .",
    "99 agabi , a. , aristidi , e. , azouit , m. , fossat , e. , martin , f. , sadibekova , t. , vernin , j. & ziad , a. 2006 , pasp , 118 , 344 curtis",
    "_ et al . _ , 2000 , snap proposal to doe and nsf hardy , j.w .",
    "adaptive optics for astronomical telecopes , oxford university press , isbn 0 - 19 - 509019 - 5 jenkins , c.r .",
    "1998 , mnras 294 , 69 kasliwal , m.m . , massey , r. , ellis , r.s . , miyazaki , s. , rhodes , j. 2007 , astro - ph 0710.3588v1 kaiser , n .",
    ", tonry , j.l . , luppino , g.a .",
    "2000 , pasp , 112 , 768 lawrence , j. s. , ashley , m. c. b. , travouillon , t. & tokovinin , a. 2004 , nat , 431 , 278 saunders , w. , gillingham , p.r . ,",
    "mcgrath , a.j . ,",
    "storey , j.w.v . ,",
    "lawrence , j.s .",
    "2008 , these proceedings tonry , j.l . ,",
    "burke , b.e . and schecter , p.l .",
    "1997 , pasp , 109 , 1154"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cosmic shear offers a remarkbly clean way to measure the equation of state of the universe and its evolution . </S>",
    "<S> resolution over a wide field is paramount , and antarctica offers unique possibilities in this respect . </S>",
    "<S> there is an order of magnitude gain in speed over temperate sites , or a factor three in surface density . </S>",
    "<S> this means that pilot outperforms much larger telescopes elsewhere , and can compete with the proposed dune space mission . </S>"
  ]
}