{
  "article_text": [
    "as they evolve towards the wolf - rayet ( wr ) phase , massive stars must shed most of their outer layers .",
    "models predict that massive stars will become supergiants ( sgs ) and evolve redwards at approximately constant @xmath4 , but observations reveal a complex zoo of transitional objects , comprising blue sgs , red sgs , yellow hypergiants ( yhgs ) , luminous blue variables ( lbvs ) and obfpe / wnvl stars , whose identification with any particular evolutionary phase is difficult . understanding this evolution is , however , crucial because the mass loss during this phase completely determines the contribution that the star will make to the chemistry of the ism and even the sort of post - supernova remnant it will leave .",
    "unfortunately , massive stars are scarce and , as this phase is very short on evolutionary terms , examples of massive stars in transition are rare . for most of them , distances are unknown and so luminosities are known at best to order - of - magnitude accuracy , resulting in huge uncertainties in other parameters ( @xmath5 , @xmath6 ) .",
    "the difficulty to place these objects in the evolutionary sequence is obvious .",
    "the open cluster westerlund  1 ( wd  1 ) offers an unprecedented opportunity to improve this situation .",
    "it contains a large population of evolved stars which have formed at the same time , are at the same distance and have the same chemical composition . with an age of 45  myr ,",
    "wd  1 contains a rich population of stars in transitional states that can be used to constrain evolutionary models .",
    "the parameters of wd  1 are still poorly determined , though significant progress has been made in recent years .",
    "two estimates of its mass have been recently made .",
    "@xcite have used the radial velocity dispersion of the ten stars brightest in the infrared ( @xmath7 ) to estimate a mass of @xmath8 .",
    "this estimate suffers from a large uncertainty due to the low number of stars used and the spectral peculiarities of some .",
    "* brandner et al . ( 2008 ) ) have used star counts in the infrared to set a lower limit on the cluster mass @xmath9 .",
    "again , there are important uncertainties coming into this estimation .",
    "large discrepancies have been found in the determinations of distance and ( hence ) masses based on infrared pre - main - sequence tracks and optical post - main - sequence tracks . in any case , the integrated initial mass function appears consistent with salpeter s and then the observed population of massive stars would imply a mass @xmath10 , consistent with both determination .",
    "an important source of uncertainty in both measurements is the role of binarity , which affects both radial velocities and transformation of magnitudes into masses .",
    "recent results suggest that the fraction of binaries with similar mass components is very high amongst cluster members .",
    "most wolf - rayet stars show indirect indications of binarity , presence of dust in wc stars @xcite and hard x - ray emission in wn stars @xcite .",
    "some of them also show photometric variability and at least one is an eclipsing binary @xcite .",
    "the identification of a large number of x - ray sources detected by _ chandra _ with a population of evolved late - o stars @xcite suggests that the high binary fraction extends to lower masses .",
    "the distance to the cluster is not very well constrained either .",
    "photometry is affected by the very strong reddening ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "analysis of the @xmath12 colours suggests that the reddening deviates from the standard law @xcite .",
    "a recent determination , making use of atomic hydrogen in the direction to the cluster , gives @xmath13 @xcite , compatible with , though slightly shorter than , estimates based on the stellar population ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ( e.g. , crowther et al . 2006 ) ) .",
    "the age of the cluster can be constrained from the observed population .",
    "the ratio of wr stars to red and yellow hypergiants favours an age of 4.5 or 5.0  myr , with the progenitors of the wolf - rayet stars having initial masses in the 40@xmath14 range @xcite .",
    "such age is fully compatible with the observed population of blue supergiants ( see below ) , which should be descended from stars with initial masses of @xmath15 .",
    "this again would imply masses of @xmath16 for the stars at the top of the main sequence , in good agreement with the o78v spectral type , again appropriate for the age .",
    "observations of stars in wd  1 were carried out on the nights of 2003 june 12th and 13th using the spectro - imager fors2 on unit  1 of the vlt ( antu ) using three different modes : longslit , multi - object spectroscopy with masks ( mxu ) and multi - object spectroscopy with movable slitlets ( mos ) .",
    "we used grisms g1200r and g1028z to obtain intermediate resolution spectroscopy . with this setup",
    ", we obtained almost continuous coverage over the 58009500  range at intermediate resolution .    within the central @xmath17 field of view , we selected our targets from the list of likely members of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* clark et al .",
    "( 2005 ) ) .",
    "for the external regions , targets were selected at random amongst relatively bright stars . in total , we took three mxu and one mos mask with both g1200r and g1028z grisms , and two further mxu masks with only the g1200r ( these were aimed at relatively faint objects , which were expected to be ob stars near the ms and so not to have strong features in the range covered by g1028z ) .",
    "this resulted in @xmath3 stars observed with g1200r and @xmath18 stars observed with g1028z .",
    "more than 90% of the spectra turned out to correspond to ob stars , and hence cluster members .",
    "we have used these observations to derive spectral types for cluster members . the use of @xmath19-band spectra to classify ob stars has been explored by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* caron et al . ( 2003 ) ) and is further discussed in appendix a of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* clark et al .",
    "( 2005 ) ) .",
    "we have studied further spectral type and luminosity indicators in the @xmath20 and @xmath19 bands and derived spectral types from a combination of features .",
    "features that contribute to our analysis are : the shape and strength of emission ( p - cygni profiles ) in h@xmath21 , the strength of the cii  6578,6582  doublet ( in absorption ) , the presence and strength of the cii  7231 , 7236  doublet ( in emission , a wind feature ) , the strength of the oi  7774   triplet and the strength of the nii  6482  line . in the @xmath19 band ,",
    "apart from the shape and strength of the paschen lines ( see ( * ? ? ?",
    "* clark et al .",
    "2005 ) ) , a main indicator is the presence of the ciii  8502  line , which appears , blended into pa  16 , for stars b0 and earlier ( see fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) .",
    "the stellar content revealed by these observations is as follows .",
    "there is an a supergiant showing spectral variability ( w243 ; ( * ? ? ?",
    "* clark & negueruela 2004 ) ) and six other a / f hypergiants of very high luminosity , with @xmath22 to @xmath23 @xcite .",
    "we call these objects hypergiants because of their very high intrinsic magnitudes , without making any direct inference of their evolutionary status",
    ".    the same can be said of at least three late - b luminous stars : w42a ( b8ia@xmath24 ) , w33 ( b5ia@xmath24 ) and w7 ( b5ia@xmath24 ) .",
    "in addition , there are @xmath25 supergiants that can be unambiguously classified as ia , covering the b0ia  b4ia range . the earliest very luminous star that we find is w74 , with spectral type o9.5 and a luminosity class that could be ia or iab .",
    "even though the exact luminosity class of o - type supergiants is more difficult to determine using red spectra , we do not find evidence for any other luminous o - type supergiant , though there are @xmath26 and ( taking into account the incompleteness of our dataset ) likely @xmath3 stars which we generically classify as o9i , meaning late - o stars well above the main sequence .    .",
    "we have made a rough attempt at calculating the intrinsic luminosities of all the supergiants , by using their @xmath27 and @xmath19 magnitudes and assuming that the relation between @xmath28 and @xmath29 is standard .",
    "we use the intrinsic @xmath30 colours of @xcite and bolometric corrections from @xcite and @xcite .",
    "even though there is a large scatter , we find no clear trend",
    ". stars of all spectral types seem to have similar bolometric magnitudes , a result consistent with the idea of redwards evolution at constant bolometric luminosity .",
    "note that we have not compared the bolometric magnitudes of the red supergiants , as their spectral types are uncertain , and the bolometric corrections of such bright red stars are unknown .    this result does not imply that there are no stars looping back towards the blue in wd  1 . obviously , the wr stars must have come back to the blue before reaching their present stage .",
    "there are three emission - line stars in the cluster which can be classified as very late wn stars or extreme b supergiants ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) .",
    "these objects might be evolving into wolf - rayet stars .",
    "detailed analysis of their spectra , in order to derive chemical abundances , will be necessary before their evolutionary status may be ascertained .",
    "similar analyses should be conducted for the a and f hypergiants and w243 .",
    "the next steps in our work involve an investigation of the binary fraction in the cluster and detailed analysis of the spectra with state - of - the art models in order to obtain a better constraint on their evolutionary status ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with a dynamical mass @xmath0 and a lower limit @xmath1 from star counts , westerlund 1 is the most massive young open cluster known in the galaxy and thus the perfect laboratory to study massive star evolution . </S>",
    "<S> we have developed a comprehensive spectral classification scheme for supergiants based on features in the 60009000  range , which allows us to identify @xmath2 very luminous supergiants in westerlund 1 and @xmath3 other less evolved massive stars , which join the large population of wolf - rayet stars already known . </S>",
    "<S> though detailed studies of these stars are still pending , preliminary rough estimates suggest that the stars we see are evolving to the red part of the hr diagram at approximately constant luminosity . </S>"
  ]
}