{
  "article_text": [
    "the study of transition and noble metal clusters has focused considerable attention along the last years due to the different properties detected respect to their corresponding bulk - phases .",
    "additionally , these cluster properties have demonstrated to be strongly dependent on the cluster size . on the other hand , noble metal clusters , and silver clusters in particular , present important applications from the scientific and technological point of view in interesting researching fields such as catalysis  @xcite , and optics  @xcite .",
    "the structural and electronic properties of silver clusters  @xcite have been widely studied , however unlike the optical properties  @xcite .",
    "the optical absorption spectra of silver clusters have been studied for more than two decades ago .",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite found that ag@xmath1 ( n@xmath240 ) clusters show a simple dominant peak in the low energy region , exceptions were attributed to the coexistence of low energy isomers .",
    "these results were confirmed theoretically for small - sized silver clusters ( n=5 - 8 )  @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , idrobo _ et al . _",
    "@xcite have recently carried out calculations of the absorption spectra of ag@xmath0 for different structural isomers , however no full agreement with experiments was found .    on the other hand , experimental optical spectroscopy , aided by recent advances in the corresponding theoretical tools ,",
    "has proved to be a powerful means for obtaining information about the geometrical and electronic structure of molecules and small clusters .",
    "since the structure of a cluster is generally not directly accessible experimentally , its characterization must be done with a combination of experiment and theory . in previous works",
    "we have shown how a comparison of the measured optical spectrum with theoretical calculations for different isomeric forms of a given cluster can provide a useful diagnosis of the geometrical structure of the cluster  @xcite .",
    "however , conventional optical absorption spectroscopy experiments for studying transition and noble metal clusters are difficult due to several technical issues , such as the extremely low density of the produced clusters , and theoretical spectroscopy is a perfect framework to complement most of experimental analysis .    in this paper",
    ", we present calculations of the optical absorption spectra of the three most stable isomeric forms of the ag@xmath0 cluster up to 8 ev by using an extremely accurate technique for treating the electronic excitations : the time - dependent density functional theory ( tddft )  @xcite under the formalism developed by casida _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite .",
    "our motivations for this work have been the following : ( a ) first , to show a comparison between the present first - principles tddft results and the available experimental measurements , in order to improve the description of previous theoretical studies by reducing the numerical uncertainty ; ( b ) since significant differences have been found among the spectra of the different isomers of ag@xmath0 ( see fig .",
    "[ p1 ] ) , to propose the comparison of experimental and tddft absorption spectra as a powerful tool to elucidate between the different isomeric forms of small clusters ; and ( c ) finally , to predict ag@xmath0 photoabsorption spectrum for energies higher than 5.5 ev , a range of energies which has not been considered in previous experimental or theoretical studies for this system ( our calculations extend the range of excitation energies up to 8 ev ) .",
    "used for the calculation of the photoabsorption spectra .",
    "the ground - state structure is labelled as g - s , and the two closest in energy isomers as iso1 and iso2 , respectively .",
    "[ p1],width=245 ]",
    "prior to the calculation of the photoabsorption spectra , the lowest energy geometrical structure of each isomer was determined by using the density functional theory  @xcite .",
    "the ion - electron interaction is modelled by replacing the ionic cores ( 1s@xmath32s@xmath3p@xmath43s@xmath3p@xmath4d@xmath54s@xmath3p@xmath6d@xmath55s@xmath7 krypton  like core ) by pseudopotentials within the relativistic scheme of hartwigsen and coworkers  @xcite , previously validated for several metal elements in pure and organometallic clusters  @xcite .",
    "this pseudopotential is built in such a way that is separable by construction , is highly accurate , and has an analytical form that can be specified by a small number of parameters . for exchange and correlation effects",
    "we have used the generalized gradient approximation ( gga )  @xcite .    as initial geometries for the structural optimization of the ag@xmath0 isomers",
    "were considered the three most stable structures previously obtained by fernndez _",
    "et al . _",
    "starting from those geometries we performed structural relaxations by making use of the broyden algorithm  @xcite with a convergence criterion of @xmath8  ev /   in the net forces on every atom .",
    "the structural relaxations , performed with the abinit package  @xcite , did not produce significant variations with respect to the original structures . in order to test the influence of using a well - tailed exchange - correlation potential in the structural properties we have additionally checked the simple gga by comparison with a functional with improved asymptotic behavior : the van leeuwen  baerends ( lb94 ) gga functional  @xcite , which led to practically identical optimized structures . the geometries obtained , which are then used in the calculations of the photoabsorption spectra ,",
    "are shown in fig .",
    "[ p1 ] .",
    "once the ground - state structures of the different isomers were established , we performed the calculation of the excitation spectra . for this purpose",
    ", we have used the tddft formalism  @xcite , implemented in the real space code octopus  @xcite .",
    "the theoretical foundations underlying the tddft calculations , as well as the computational scheme , have been presented elsewhere  @xcite , and here we only summarize the main points .",
    "the photoabsorption spectrum is calculated by using the formalism developed by casida  @xcite .",
    "application of this technique to obtain the oscillator strengths requires a previous calculation of the ground state electronic structure , that is , the occupied electronic states , and also the unoccupied states .",
    "the whole set of occupied states , joint to twenty extra unoccupied states for each spin channel , were necessary to reach convergence of the excitation spectra for an energy range up to 8 ev .",
    "after that , each excitation peak is broadened by a lorentzian profile to give the photoabsorption cross section @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the energy , @xmath11 are the discrete excitation energies obtained by the casida method , and the value of the parameter @xmath12 determines the full width at half maximum .    we have performed the calculations of the photoabsorption spectra with the gga , using the perdew - burke - ernzerhof parameterization  @xcite of electronic correlation .",
    "the corresponding occupied and unoccupied single ",
    "particle states are used in the casida method with the adiabatic lda exchange  correlation kernel .",
    "although not entirely consistent , this is a common practice because the use of a better kernel does not significantly affect the results as long as the single  particle orbitals have been calculated with a suitable static @xmath13 potential  @xcite .",
    "this computational framework has been used successfully in the calculation of the optical spectra of atoms and clusters  @xcite . in the case of free atoms ,",
    "the energies for one - particle low - energy excitations agree with experiment to within 5 - 10 per cent  @xcite . for clusters of s ",
    "p metals , the errors in the position of the absorption peaks are usually in the 0.1 - 0.2 ev range  @xcite , and the results are also very reasonable for carbon and bn clusters  @xcite , and transition metal , organometallic , and molecular and van der waals clusters  @xcite , even in the high - energy range .",
    "this formalism , used in combination with both adiabatic local density ( alda ) and gga approximations for the xc effects , has provided successful results , establishing this technique for the calculation of excitations in this kind of nanoscale systems as an effective tool in the characterization of a great number of cluster properties and behaviors , such as the elucidation of ground - state structures , the characterization of dimeric growths in molecular clusters , and the theoretical justification of collective electronic behaviors  @xcite .",
    "( upper pannel ) , and three experimental spectra of ag@xmath0 measured in a ne matrix at 6 k  @xcite , and ar matrices at 10  @xcite and 28 k  @xcite ( lower pannels ) .",
    "the computed spectrum has been broadened using lorentzian profiles with a width of 0.05 ev .",
    "[ p3 ] ]    fig .",
    "[ p1 ] shows the calculated equilibrium structures of the three lowest - energy isomers of the ag@xmath0 system , starting from the geometries obtained by fernndez _",
    "et al . _",
    "the results do not reveal significant variations respect the original structures ; where , during the relaxation process , all the atoms in the clusters are free to move .",
    "the obtained g - s configuration is based in a seven - atom pentagonal bypiramid , as predicted in previous references  @xcite .",
    "the ordering of the most stable isomers presented here do not fully agree with these previous studies , but is in complete agreement with the accurate structural analysis given by fernndez _",
    "( for a more detailed description about the structures see ref .",
    "however , this factor can be due to the small differences in the total energy detected between the different , almost energy - degenerated , isomers shown in the recent literature ( in the range of mev ) . in the present study the gap in the total energy between the g - s structure and the two most stable isomers is 0.08 and 0.15 ev for iso1 and iso2 structures , respectively .",
    "nevertheless , and according to the previous theoretical studies , the ground - state of this kind of systems has demonstrated to be highly sensitive to the common dft numerical implementations .",
    "figure  [ p2 ] shows the photoabsorption cross sections for the three most stable isomers of ag@xmath0 up to 8 ev as obtained by tddft under the casida formalism .",
    "the finite width of the absorption peaks in an experiment  linked to the accessible resolution  is mostly determined by the temperature . in our calculations , on the other hand , the width of the peaks is an artifact and may be reduced or enlarged by modifying the @xmath12 parameter .",
    "we have broadened the peaks in the way shown in the figure ( with @xmath12=0.05 ev ) , so as to simulate the approximate resolution yielded by most of the experiments of photoabsorption and photodissociative spectroscopy  @xcite .",
    "all three spectra are rich in features in the whole energy region up to 8  ev from the begining of the absorption .",
    "three regions can be clearly distinguished in all the spectra ( separated by dashed lines superposed to each profile in the picture ) .",
    "a region of no absorption at all covers the energy range up to 2 ev ( common to all isomers ) , a region of strong absorption is observed at energies between 2 and 6 ev , and another region of weaker absorption at energies larger than 6 ev , with an absorption strength dependent on the isomer in particular . to our knowledge , no experimental or theoretical study has been carried out for ag@xmath0 in a range of excitation energies up to 8 ev . in the region between 2 and 6 ev , where the absorption strength is more pronounced ,",
    "the spectra are dominated by a sharped profile",
    "whose position rather varies between the different clusters , and formed by pronounced peaks at 3.6 , 4.2 and 4.6 ev . for the iso1 and iso2 isomers an additional peak at 5.2 ev",
    "is found , not present for the g - s structure .",
    "although this wide absorption region is always located between 2 and 6 ev , and despite of other previous tddft theoretical photoabsorption studies in metallic clusters  @xcite , it can not be interpreted as a collective plasmon since it is possible to differenciate each single - particle excitation forming the profile .",
    "it is noticeable that the most pronounced peaks forming this strong absorption region between 2 and 6 ev are given for the iso2 isomer , due to the degeneracy of intermediate electronic states arising from its high symmetry .",
    "in fact , the spectra of the other two isomers , where the electronic degeneracy of the intermediate occupied states is much lower , do not present such distinct absorption peaks . on the other hand , in the high excitation energy region ( 6 - 8 ev )",
    "all the isomers show a first zone of moderate absorption up to 7 ev , which is not dependent on the particular geometry , and a final part where the strength of the absorption increases . as in previous papers  @xcite",
    ", we propose that at this energy range the high excitation energies can be interpreted for this system in terms of the contributions between transitions involving strongly hybridated @xmath14 electronic orbitals .",
    "it is noticeable that this effect is less important for the iso2 structure , where , according to its high symmetry and kohn  sham levels diagram , the @xmath15 hybridation is rather pronounced .    the low energy response of these isomers up to 5.5 ev can be compared with the experimental results of the refs .",
    "@xcite ,  @xcite , and  @xcite for the measured spectra of medium - size silver clusters trapped in noble gas matrices at several temperatures .",
    "figure  [ p3 ] shows the experimental absorption cross sections of ag@xmath0 in a ne matrix at 6 k , and ar matrices at 10 and 28 k ( lower pannels ) , and the tddft spectrum for the obtained ag@xmath0 g - s structure ( upper pannel ) .",
    "the estimated uncertainties of the relative cross sections in this kind of experiments use to be around 10% ( the uncertainties in the absolute cross sections are even larger ) .",
    "the experimental absorption cross sections show a clear three peaks structure , where the relative strength of the peaks depend strongly on the temperature and the matrix surrounding the trapped cluster , but not their excitation energies .",
    "the peaks arise at 3.2 , 3.7 and 4.4 ev , with a region of no absorption up to 5.5 ev .",
    "the tddft spectrum , for the g - s isomer , shows a similar three peaks profile located at 3.6 , 4.2 and 4.6 ev . as we can appreciate in fig .",
    "[ p3 ] , there exist a very good agreement between the calculated and the experimental peak positions if we just allow for a constant shift of around 0.2 - 0.4 ev .",
    "this shift to the red of the experimental spectra can be justified by the additional effect of the nobel gas matrices to the photoabsorption response , which has been quantified by fedrigo _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite , and sieber _ et al . _",
    "@xcite in 0.2 - 0.25 ev .",
    "however , most of authors coincide in that value of the shift may not be appropriate because additional contributions could arise , such as compression effects of the cluster by the matrix , or matrix - induced polarization of the cluster charge density  @xcite . on the other hand , previous authors suggest that the deviation in the experimental photoabsorption spectra of the small silver clusters showing several isolated peaks , instead of only one pronounced excitation detected in large - sized clusters  @xcite , is due to the presence of several isomers in the experimental beams  @xcite .",
    "however , the present study reveal theoretical spectra for three different ag@xmath0 isomers where such isolated peaks are found . from these results , we can conclude that the presence of these distinct peaks in experimental spectra is not only due to the existence of several isomeric forms in the experimental samples since it seems to be an intrinsic optical property of this kind of aggregates .",
    "other discrepancy sources in the spectrum may be due to additional factors : ( i ) the error introduced in the calculation by the necessarily approximated exchange and correlation potential , ( ii ) the expectable influence of the silver clusters coupling to the surrounding noble metal matrices , and ( iii ) the possible presence in the experimental sample of a mixture of various isomers , coinciding with other authors .",
    "the calculated spectrum for this isomer provides the best matching with experiment , and this confirms the assignment of the ground state structure as predicted even by the total energies .",
    "we then conclude that the calculated spectrum of the most stable isomer obtained provides a very accurate description of the experimental cross section and permits to conjecture with a high confidence that the isomer present most abundantly in the ag@xmath0 cluster beams has that structure .",
    "this is reasonable , since this is indeed the calculated lowest energy isomer .",
    "we have performed calculations of the optical absorption cross sections of three structural isomers of ag@xmath0 . for that purpose",
    "we have first employed dft to optimize the geometries of those isomers . for each of those structures",
    "tddft has been used to calculate the photoabsorption spectrum . in the calculations",
    ", we used the generalized gradient approximation for the exchange and correlation potential , relativistic norm - conserving pseudopotentials , and the casida formalism to calculate the excitation spectrum . this approach yields spectra for the different isomers that are significantly different .",
    "the spectrum corresponding to the most stable structure obtained matches well the experimental results , and we conclude that this is the isomer predominantly present in the laboratory cluster beams ; confirmation comes from the fact that this is the isomer with the lowest calculated energy . the efficiency of dft and tddft for the calculation of both ground state and spectroscopic features of molecules and clusters permits to use these theoretical methods , as we have shown here , as a complement to the experimental analysis , which in many occasions lacks some important information , such as the precise geometrical atomic arrangement of the probed systems .",
    "the center for atomic - scale materials design is funded by the lundbeck foundation .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge additional support from the danish research agency through grant 26 - 04 - 0047 and the danish center for scientific computing through grant hdw-0107 - 07 .",
    "j.  i.  m and e.  m.  f. wish also to acknowledge the interesting scientific discussions with professors j.  a.  alonso and l.  c.  balbs .",
    "e.  m.  fernndez , m.  b.  torres and l.  c.  balbs , in _ recent advances in the theory of chemical and physical systems _ ; j.  p.  julien _ et al .",
    "_ ( eds . )",
    "_ progress in theoretical chemical and physics _ , 15 .",
    "springer , netherlands p. 407",
    "( 2006 ) .",
    "s.  fedrigo , w.  harbich and j.  butter , _ phys .",
    "b _ * 47 * , 10706 ( 1993 ) ; s.  fedrigo , w.  harbich , j.  belyaev and j.  butter , _ chem .",
    "_ * 211 * , 166 ( 1993 ) ; w.  harbich , _ philos . mag .",
    "b _ * 79 * , 1307 ( 1999 )",
    ".                                  x.  gonze , j.  m.  beuken , r.  caracas , f.  detraux , m.  fuchs , g.  m.  rignanese , l.  sindic , m.  verstraete , g.  zerah , f.  jollet , m.  torrent , a.  roy , m.  mikami , ph .",
    "ghosez , j.  y.  raty and d.  c.  allan , _ comput .",
    "sci . _ * 25 * , 478 - 492 ( 2002 ) ; the abinit code is a common project of universit catholique de louvain , corning incorporated , and other contributors ( url _ http://www.abinit.org_ ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the optical absorption spectrum of the three most stable isomers of the ag@xmath0 system was calculated using the time - dependent density functional theory , with the generalized gradient approximation for the exchange and correlation potential , and a relativistic pseudopotential parametrization for the modelling of the ion  </S>",
    "<S> electron interaction . </S>",
    "<S> the computational scheme is based on a real space code , where the photoabsorption spectrum is calculated by using the formalism developed by casida . </S>",
    "<S> the significantly different spectra of the three isomers permit the identification of the ground - state configuration predominantly present in the laboratory beams in base to a comparison between the calculated photoabsorption spectrum of the most stable configuration of ag@xmath0 and the measured spectra of medium - size silver clusters trapped in noble gas ar and ne matrices at different temperatures . </S>",
    "<S> this assignment is confirmed by the fact that this isomer has the lowest calculated energy . </S>"
  ]
}