{
  "article_text": [
    "with the launch of nasa s stereo mission in october 2006 , a new dimension of solar coronal observations has been opened . for the first time , objects above the solar surface can be perceived in three dimensions by analysing the stereo image pairs observed with the secchi instruments onboard the stereo spacecraft and without making a - priori assumptions about their shape .",
    "the two stereo spacecraft orbit the sun at approximately 1 au near the ecliptic plane with a slowly increasing angle of about 45 degrees / year between stereo a and stereo b. each spacecraft is equipped with , among other instruments , an euv telescope ( secchi / euvi ) . for the objectives of the mission and",
    "more details about the euvi telescopes see @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the major building blocks of the solar corona are loops of magnetic flux which are outlined by emissions at , e.g. , euv wavelengths . in principle , the magnetic field in the lower corona can be derived from surface magnetograms by way of extrapolations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    ". however , missing boundary values and measurement errors may introduce considerable uncertainties in the extrapolation results so that there is an obvious need for an alternative three - dimensional determination of the coronal magnetic field geometry . among other goals of the mission ,",
    "this requirement has been one of the drivers for stereo .",
    "attempts for a three - dimensional reconstruction of the coronal magnetic field from euv observations have started long before stereo data was available and date back more than a decade @xcite . here ,",
    "we for the first time use two simultaneously observed euvi images observed by the two stereo probes and rigourously reconstruct loop shapes without any further assumption about their temporal or spatial behaviour from which earlier reconstructions employing consecutive images from a single spacecraft suffered @xcite .",
    "we compare the reconstruction results with field lines derived from linear force - free magnetic field models with variable @xmath0 , the ratio of field - aligned current density to field strength @xcite .",
    ".stereo spacecraft coordinates at the time of the observations .",
    "spacecraft longitude and latitude are given in the heliocentric earth ecliptic ( hee ) coordinate system . [ cols=\"<,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     the loop reconstruction is also prone to errors , however .",
    "these may occur whenever a projected loop section in the images are directed tangentially to an epipolar line @xcite . for the viewing geometry of our observations , epipolar lines are nearly horizontal in the images and",
    "the critical part for closed , e - w orientated loops therefore lies more or less near their apex .",
    "also the open loop structures 16 - 19 in image b and 17 - 20 in image a ( see figure  [ fig : loopab ] ) suffer from this problem as they are orientated almost entirely horizontally in the images .",
    "we have therefore not attempted to reconstruct them even though a correspondence could well be identified .    in figure  [ fig:3dloop5a3b_e ]",
    "we display the reconstruction of loop ( 5,3 ) ( yellow curve ) which shows by far the largest deviation to its best fit linear force - free field line ( red curve ) . for most other loops ,",
    "this discrepancy is much less although the agreement is rarely perfect .",
    "for some points along the loop ( 5,3 ) , we also show error bars which represent the geometrical reconstruction error when the uncertainty for the loop projection in the images is assumed to be 1.5 pixels . in this case",
    ", the height of the loop top turns out to be @xmath1 1.5 times above that of the corresponding field line .",
    "this field line ( the first entry in table  [ tab : loopparam ] ) again shows a relatively small value @xmath2 .",
    "since this @xmath0 value gave the best fit of linear force - free field lines to the loop projection in the images , we conclude that the linear force - free assumption is often not adequate ( cf .",
    "we demonstrated that euv data from the new stereo spacecraft allows for the first time to make a reliable stereoscopic reconstruction of the spatial distribution of hot , magnetically confined coronal plasma and , by inference , provide a full three dimensional view of the arrangement of coronal field lines .",
    "we found that linear force - free field models are helpful to establish correspondences between the loops observed in the stereo image pairs .",
    "the field lines from these linear force - free models need not be physical but only serve as a first order approximation to the final loops .",
    "realistic magnetic field models of the corona will have to be judged by their capability to yield field lines in agreement with the stereoscopically reconstructed loops .",
    "our scheme to determine correspondences will become even more valuable when the stereo base angle grows and loop structures become more difficult to be identified in the image pairs .",
    "the reconstructions will also allow more precise analyses of emissions from loops .",
    "the observed brightness of euv loops is , e.g. , strongly modified by the inverse cosine of the angle between the line of sight and the loop s local tangent .",
    "this may , besides other effects , contribute to the enhanced euv brightness of the lower loop segments commonly observed on the solar disk : these loop segments close to the loop s foot points are more aligned with the radial direction and they make a small angle with the view direction .",
    "this may cause them to appear brighter than the loop top which is viewed at more or less right angles .",
    "other applications have been proposed @xcite .",
    "e.g. , the amount of twist of a reconstructed loop indicates how close the flux tube is to a kink instability .",
    "@xcite found a threshold of about @xmath3 in numerical simulations for the twist @xmath4 . here",
    "@xmath5 is the length of the flux tube , @xmath6 the toroidal field along its axis and @xmath7 the poloidal field at a radius @xmath8 from the flux tube centre . in some cases it may be possible to resolve the number of turns @xmath9 which a field line makes about the flux tube centre from stereoscopic reconstruction and thus to determine the twist from @xmath10",
    "likewise , the twist is also related to @xmath0 and @xmath5 by @xmath11 . for the active region",
    "observed here , table  [ tab : loopparam ] gives values of @xmath12 well below the kink instability threshold .",
    "another perspective for stereoscopic loop reconstruction is the analysis of loop oscillations from a series of image pairs .",
    "the reconstructed loops will allow us to determine the transverse polarisation of these oscillations @xcite . since the coronal magnetic field has a complicated geometry without symmetries , the frequency of these oscillations will significantly depend on this polarisation .",
    "note that these phenomena are invisible in the magnetic surface data and therefore can not be retrieved from field extrapolations , which in addition require a stationary magnetic field .",
    "the authors thank the mdi / soho and the secchi / stereo consortia for the supply of their data .",
    "stereo is a project of nasa , soho a joint esa / nasa project .",
    "the secchi data used here were produced by an international consortium of the naval research laboratory ( usa ) , lockheed martin solar and astrophysics lab ( usa ) , nasa goddard space flight center ( usa ) , rutherford appleton laboratory ( uk ) , university of birmingham ( uk ) , max - planck - institut for solar system research ( germany ) , centre spatiale de lige ( belgium ) , institut doptique thorique et applique ( france ) , institut dastrophysique spatiale ( france ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first reconstruction of the three - dimensional shape of magnetic loops in an active region from two different vantage points based on simultaneously recorded images . </S>",
    "<S> the images were taken by the two euvi telescopes of the secchi instrument onboard the recently launched stereo spacecraft when the heliocentric separation of the two space probes was 12 degrees . </S>",
    "<S> we demostrate that these data allow to obtain a reliable three - dimensional reconstruction of sufficiently bright loops . </S>",
    "<S> the result is compared with field lines derived from a coronal magnetic field model extrapolated from a photospheric magnetogram recorded nearly simultaneously by soho / mdi . </S>",
    "<S> we attribute discrepancies between reconstructed loops and extrapolated field lines to the inadequacy of the linear force - free field model used for the extrapolation . </S>"
  ]
}