{
  "article_text": [
    "the dynamics of low - power ( fr - i : @xcite ) , twin - jet radio galaxies are thought to be controlled by interactions between the initially highly relativistic jets and the surrounding hot - gas medium , which act to decelerate the jets significantly on scales of typically a few kpc ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "on scales of hundreds of kpc , low - power radio galaxies exhibit a wide range of morphologies , from narrowly collimated plumes to large , rounded lobes ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . in order to understand how such structures are produced , and to investigate the evolution of fr - i sources on large scales ,",
    "it is necessary to have good constraints on the hot - gas environments that confine their radio lobes .",
    "_ rosat _ observations first established that the brightest and most well - studied fr - i radio galaxies usually reside in group - scale environments ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with _",
    "chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ it is possible to study radio - galaxy environments and jet / environment interactions in more detail ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; however , while there have been many studies of the apparent impact of fr - i sources in clusters , to date there have been few detailed _ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ studies of the environmental properties of nearby , well - studied fr - i radio galaxies .",
    "the role of environmental properties such as group / cluster richness , gas density and temperature distribution in determining large - scale radio structure therefore remains uncertain .",
    "another key uncertainty both in modelling radio - galaxy dynamics and in establishing their energetic impact is the lack of constraints on particle content in fr - i radio jets and lobes . in the case of powerful ( fr - ii ) radio galaxies , two lines of evidence",
    "suggest that synchrotron minimum - energy estimates are roughly valid in the lobes : ( 1 ) for cases where external pressure measurements are available , they are in reasonable agreement with the internal minimum pressure ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; ( 2 ) measurements of inverse - compton emission from the lobes of fr - ii radio galaxies suggest that their electron energy densities are close to the value for equipartition with the magnetic field in the absence of an energetically important proton population ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , in low - power ( fr - i ) radio galaxies , it has been known for several decades that a relativistic electron population in equipartition with the magnetic field can not provide sufficient pressure to balance that of the external medium ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in @xcite",
    ", we showed for two fr - is that the additional pressure can not be due solely to relativistic - electron dominance , as this would result in detectable x - ray inverse - compton emission , which is not seen , while the presence of sufficient thermal gas at the temperature of the environment was also ruled out by the presence of deficits in x - ray surface brightness at the positions of radio lobes .",
    "this is also the case for the sample of cluster - centre fr - i radio sources recently studied by @xcite .",
    "relativistic protons intrinsic to the jets would require extremely large ratios of proton to electron energy in order to provide the missing pressure  such high ratios are implausible as they would lead to overpressured jets on kpc scales .",
    "the most plausible origin of the required additional pressure is either material that has been entrained and heated , or magnetic dominance of the lobes ; however , these scenarios are both difficult to test .    despite these uncertainties about radio - source energetics ,",
    "our understanding of the impact of radio galaxies on their environments has improved dramatically over the past few years .",
    "direct evidence for heating by fr - i radio galaxies has been found in a number of individual systems ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and statistical studies have shown that radio - source heating may have a significant impact in the outer regions of galaxy groups @xcite .",
    "progress in hydrodynamical modelling has shown that a range of heating mechanisms may be capable of heating the central regions of clusters to prevent cooling flows ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and semi - analytical galaxy formation models that take into account radio - source heating appear to be able to reproduce the properties of the nearby galaxy population more accurately than has previously been possible @xcite .",
    "the growing acceptance that agn , and particularly low - power ( fr - i ) radio galaxies , play an essential role in galaxy and structure evolution means that it is crucial to understand which types of radio structures form under what environmental conditions , and how the environmental impact of these different structures varies .    in this paper , we present new _ xmm - newton _ observations of a sample of low - power ( fr - i ) radio galaxies , which range in morphology from tailed or plumed sources to those with lobes or bridges .",
    "we then combine this sample with previous observations and archive data to investigate the environmental properties of the nearby fr - i radio - galaxy population , to constrain their particle content and dynamics , and to study their environmental impact .    throughout the paper we use a cosmology in which @xmath0 km s@xmath1 mpc@xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 .",
    "spectral indices @xmath4 are defined in the sense @xmath5 .",
    "errors quoted on parameters derived from model fitting correspond to the @xmath6 ( 68 per cent ) confidence range for one parameter of interest , except where otherwise stated .",
    "we carried out _ xmm - newton _ observations of a sample of five low - power ( fr - i ) radio galaxies , 3c296 , 3c,76.1 , ngc1044 , 3c31 and ngc315 to follow up our earlier studies of 3c66b , 3c449 and ngc6251 @xcite . in this section",
    "we describe the data analysis for the five new observations , plus one archive observation of ngc4261 [ the agn emission detected in this observation has been described by @xcite and the extended emission was discussed briefly in @xcite ] . in section  [ disc ]",
    "we combine these results with our previous analysis of 3c66b , 3c449 , and ngc6251 ( @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "table  [ obs ] lists the observational details for the nine _ xmm - newton _",
    "observations discussed in the present paper . for three of the radio galaxies , 3c296 , ngc315 and ngc6251 we also made use of previously published _",
    "radial surface brightness profiles to improve our constraints on the inner gas distributions .",
    "details of these profiles are given in section  [ res ] .",
    "all of the radio galaxies in our sample apart from ngc1044 are well - studied in the radio , with maps in the literature at multiple frequencies .",
    "table  [ radiomaps ] lists the radio maps used in the figures and analysis that follows .",
    "as existing low - frequency vla observations of ngc1044 did not fully sample its large - scale structure , we observed it with the vla at 20 cm to supplement existing archival data . in combination with these archival data ,",
    "the new observations were used to produce a good - quality map of of the large - scale radio structure for comparison with x - ray images .",
    "the vla observations were carried out on 2004 march 19 in c configuration and 2004 july 17 in d configuration .",
    "the new data , together with an short archival observation in the c configuration ( ah276 ) were externally calibrated in the standard manner using aips .",
    "each dataset was then imaged , cleaned and self - calibrated individually .",
    "the two c - configuration datasets were combined and imaged after first self - calibrating the archive dataset using a model from the new observations .",
    "the d - configuration data were then self - calibrated using the combined c - configuration model .",
    "finally , the c- and d - configuration data were combined with appropriate weights and used to produce the images shown below .",
    "the data for the five new observations and one archival dataset not previously analysed were reprocessed using the _ xmm - newton _ sas version 6.0.0 , and the latest calibration files from the _ xmm - newton _ website .",
    "the pn data were filtered to include only single and double events ( pattern @xmath7 ) , and flag==0 , and the mos data were filted according to the standard flag and pattern masks ( pattern @xmath8 and # xmmea_em , excluding bad columns and rows ) .",
    "several of the datasets were badly affected by background flares , and so gti filtering was applied in order to ensure that accurate measurements could be made in low surface - brightness regions .",
    "filtering was carried out by applying a @xmath9 per cent clip to a lightcurve in the energy range where the effective area for x - rays is negligible ( 10  12 kev for mos , 12  14 kev for pn ) . in one case ,",
    "ngc315 , initial analysis revealed significant contamination from soft proton flares , and so for this source a second stage of filtering was applied using the full energy range of 0.3  10 kev and an off - source region , so as to remove any additional soft flares , again by applying a @xmath9 per cent cut .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > , > , > , > , > , > , > \" , ]      the importance of jet / environment interactions for group and cluster gas has been highlighted by the large number of x - ray cavity systems now known , ranging from elliptical galaxies to the richest clusters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "of the nine systems studied here with _ xmm - newton _ , 6 have significant detections of cavities associated with the radio lobes [ 3c296 , ngc1044 , ngc4261 , 3c66b @xcite , 3c449 @xcite and ngc6251 @xcite ] . in several cases where a cavity is not identifiable in the x - ray data , the emission is nevertheless elongated perpendicular to the direction of the radio axis ( 3c76.1 , ngc315 ) , which suggests a link between the structure of the x - ray emitting gas and the radio source .",
    "while the images presented in the previous sections clearly indicate an important relationship between the radio and x - ray properties of these systems , the extent to which the environmental properties control the large - scale radio morphology remains difficult to establish observationally .",
    "we looked for correlations between the radio luminosity , radio - source projected physical size , axial ratio , internal pressure , and the environmental properties as determined from our x - ray observations ( x - ray luminosity , gas temperature , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , external pressure , ratio of external to internal pressure , and pressure gradient at the radius of the lobes ) .",
    "table  [ spearman ] lists the results of spearman rank tests for each pair of parameters .",
    "the strongest correlations are plotted in fig .",
    "[ correlations ] .",
    "we found that radio luminosity is uncorrelated with any of the group gas properties ; however , some correlations were found between external pressure ( measured at the midpoint of the source ) and the projected radio - source size , axial ratio and external pressure . in particular , correlations that are significant at the @xmath12 per cent confidence level or higher were found between radio source size ( in kpc ) and both external pressure and pressure gradient ( null hypothesis probabilities of 1.2 per cent and 7 per cent , respectively ) , and between axial ratio and both external pressure and pressure gradient ( null hypothesis probabilities of 5.6 per cent and 9.1 per cent , respectively ) .",
    "although these results are not highly significant ( and are somewhat dominated by the two largest sources , ngc315 and ngc6251 : see fig .  [ correlations ] ) , they suggest a link between radio - source evolution and group gas properties .",
    "however , the correlation of radio - source size with external pressure and pressure gradient may simply result from a selection effect : we might expect the largest sources to probe further out into the group atmospheres , where the pressure is lower and the gradient likely to be steeper . to test this explanation",
    ", we determined the external pressures at a fixed physical radius of 300 kpc ( comparable to the projected distances probed by the lobes of ngc315 and ngc6251 ) , which we consider to be an effective pressure normalization for the outer regions of each group . if the correlation between current source size and axial ratio with external pressure acting on the lobe is due solely to the fact that the larger sources can reach lower pressure regions of the groups , then we would expect no systematic difference in the pressure normalization at a fixed physical radius as a function of source size or axial ratio .",
    "indeed , this is what we find , and so we conclude that the correlations with external pressure and its gradient are most likely to be a selection effect . the lack of correlations between radio source structure and @xmath10 and @xmath11 support this explanation . as radio source size and axial ratio",
    "are themselves strongly correlated ( larger sources tend to have small axial ratios ) , it is plausible that the correlations with axial ratio have the same explanation ; however , the size - axial ratio relationship itself is likely to be telling us something about fri evolution , and so the different external pressures and pressure gradients experienced by the smaller , and typically fatter sources ( high pressures and flatter pressure gradients ) compared to the larger , and typically thinner sources ( low pressures and steeper pressure gradients ) , may be a determining factor in evolving a large fri source .",
    "we also find significant correlations between both radio - source size and axial ratio and the pressure ratio , @xmath13 , with null hypothesis probabilities of 2.9 per cent and 10 per cent , respectively .",
    "we will discuss the relationship between pressure ratio ( which we consider to be a measure of the size of the energetic contribution required from non - radiating particles  see below ) and radio - source structure in more detail in section  [ particles ] .",
    "the lack of correlations between x - ray luminosity / temperature and any of the radio properties of these systems indicates that radio - source structure is independent of group environment properties .",
    "our sample covers the full range of typical fri radio morphologies , slightly more than an order of magnitude in radio luminosity , and as discussed in the previous section , nearly two orders of magnitude in x - ray luminosity .",
    "we can therefore conclude that , while all of the fri radio sources in our sample have been found to inhabit group - scale environments , the evolution of their radio structure appears to be unrelated to the richness of the group environment , as parametrized by the x - ray luminosity and temperature .",
    "the only environmental properties that may be relevant to the source evolution are the group pressure and pressure distribution .      to investigate the relationship between radio structure and environment",
    "further , we divide the radio sources based on their large - scale morphology into the two classes of `` plumed '' and `` bridged '' sources , as defined by leahy et al .",
    "( 1998 ) . by this definition ,",
    "`` plumed '' fris are those in which the majority of lobe material is beyond the end of the collimated jet , whereas in `` bridged '' fris , the majority of lobe material is between the end of the collimated jet and the nucleus . fig .",
    "[ morph ] shows radio maps of a typical member of each class .",
    "based on this definition , we classified ncg1044 , 3c31 , ngc315 , ngc6251 , and 3c449 as `` plumed '' sources , and 3c296 , 3c76.1 , 3c66b and ngc4261 as `` bridged '' sources .",
    "we first tested whether the jet power is the controlling parameter in determining whether a source shows a bridged or plumed morphology by comparing the 178-mhz radio luminosities of the two subsamples .",
    "we found no difference in the radio luminosity distributions of the two classes , and so we conclude that environment must play at least some role in determining the large - scale radio structure .",
    "we note that for this sample the size distributions of the two classes are significantly different ( fig .",
    "[ hists ] ) , with plumed sources being typically larger than bridged sources .",
    "results of kolmogorov - smirnov ( ks ) tests comparing the x - ray - measured group properties are shown in table  [ ks ] .",
    "we find no significant differences between the intrinsic group properties of the two subsamples , but do find a significant difference between the pressure ratios ( @xmath13 ) for the two subsamples , as discussed in section  [ particles ] .",
    "we conclude that the current x - ray data do not conclusively demonstrate any close relationship between environmental conditions and radio - source structure .",
    "it appears that both plumed and bridged sources can be produced in a range of environments , although the difference in typical sizes ( and axial ratios ) of the two classes , together with the results discussed in the previous section , suggests that the two classes may represent an evolutionary sequence in which the environment plays some role in turning bridge structures into plumes .",
    "an evolutionary model of this sort would require a transition from one morphology to the other .",
    "a combination of buoyancy effects and collapse due to the end of over - pressuring could produce such a transition ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; however , while sources exist in which one side is bridged and the other plumed ( e.g. 3c66b ) , objects in a state of transition between bridged and plumed structures do not appear to be common in the fr - i population , which suggests that the timescale for the transition would need to be short ,      fig .  [ pressures ] shows external pressure profiles for the eight sources observed with _ xmm - newton _",
    ", determined from the most probable pressure at each radius based on the mcmc probability distribution as discussed in the previous section , with internal , equipartition pressures overplotted .",
    "the plotted uncertainty range takes into account uncertainties in both the temperature and the surface brightness model .",
    "internal equipartition pressures were determined for each radio source , and for different components of the source where appropriate , using the code of @xcite .",
    "the electron energy spectrum was normalized using flux densities measured from the 1.4-ghz maps of table  [ radiomaps ] with 178-mhz flux densities from the 3crr catalogue @xcite included where available .",
    "we assumed @xmath14 , @xmath15 , an energy injection index of @xmath16 ( corresponding to radio spectral index @xmath17 ) with a break in the spectrum in the region of @xmath18 as appropriate to fit the radio data points .",
    "the equipartition pressures assume no contribution from protons .      in agreement with previous studies using earlier x - ray observatories ( e.g. * ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and using _ xmm - newton _ ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we found that the measured external pressures from the hot gas environments were in many cases significantly higher than the minimum internal pressures for the radio lobes ( if it is assumed that the sources are in the plane of the sky ; relaxation of this assumption does not affect our conclusions , as discussed below ) .",
    "[ phists ] ( top ) shows histograms of the pressure ratios ( @xmath13 ) for the 16 lobes in the sample ( only one lobe is within the _ xmm - newton _ field - of - view for ngc315 and ngc6251 ) showing that the lobes range from being apparently underpressured by a factor of @xmath19 to approximate pressure balance .",
    "this is the first time that such a study has been carried out for a sample that includes a wide range of observed fr - i radio morphologies , and so a primary aim of our work was to investigate whether the amount of `` missing '' pressure is related to the properties of the radio - source and/or its environmental interaction . if we consider two extreme cases , 3c296 , which is apparently slightly overpressured , and 3c449 , which is apparently underpressured by a factor of 10 , it is clear that 3c296 is a typical bridged source , whereas 3c449 is plumed .",
    "this morphological difference , together with the correlations between radio - source structure and pressure ratio noted in the previous section , suggests a model in which jet / environment interactions affect the particle and/or energy content of the radio lobes ; for example , the dominant factor in determining the ratio of radiating to non - radiating particles may be the efficiency of the entrainment process .",
    "we would expect that the entrainment rate for plumed sources is higher , as a larger fraction of the jet surface is in direct contact with the external medium , whereas a jet that is embedded in a lobe is not in direct contact with the group gas ( except perhaps very close to the nucleus ) , and so its entrainment rate might be expected to be lower .",
    "if the amount of entrained material is sufficient to affect significantly the internal energy density of the radio lobes ( which is likely to require heating of the entrained matter ) , then we might expect to see a larger apparent imbalance in the plumed sources .",
    "the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ phists ] shows histograms of the pressure ratios for the two categories , which demonstrate that there is indeed a signficant difference in the two populations in the expected sense : the bridged sources are typically closer to pressure balance at equipartition than the plumed sources . using a ks test",
    ", we can exclude the hypothesis that the two subsamples are drawn from the same parent population at a confidence level of @xmath20 per cent .",
    "as shown in table  [ ks ] this does not appear to be solely due to differences in the internal pressures for the two subsamples .",
    "we note that the most extreme pressure ratio in the `` bridged '' category is the eastern lobe of 3c66b , which has a ratio of 11.5 .",
    "the classification of this source as bridged is not unambiguous , because the eastern jet does not enter the lobe for some distance from the nucleus ( see , e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "all of the other bridged lobes have ratios @xmath21 , and so the distinction between the two populations is considerably more significant if the eastern lobe of 3c66b is excluded ( a single parent population can be excluded at the 99.8 per cent confidence level ) .",
    "this comparison therefore supports the hypothesis that entrainment of the jet s surroundings on scales of tens to hundreds of kpc is responsible for the apparent pressure imbalance of fr - i radio galaxies .",
    "unfortunately there is no obvious observational proxy for jet deceleration or entrainment that can be used to test this hypothesis further with the current data .",
    "however , comparisons with the models of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and in prep . )",
    "show that plumed sources such as 3c31 have an entrainment rate that increases with distance from the nucleus , whereas bridged sources such as 3c296 may not .",
    "clearly the entrainment characteristics of jets that are directly in contact with the external medium will be different from those of jets that propagate inside lobe material .",
    "the strong correlations between pressure ratio and axial ratio discussed in the previous section also provide support for this model .",
    "the pressure comparisons discussed here use projected distances , and hence the true pressure ratios are likely to be somewhat different . for a radio source at a small angle to the line of sight ,",
    "the source volume will have been underestimated , leading to an overestimate of @xmath22 . at the same time , the external pressure acting at the midpoint and outer edge of the lobe ( @xmath23 ) will be overestimated , because the radio source will extend further out into the atmosphere which is decreasing in pressure with radius . hence the extent to which the pressure ratio is affected depends on the particular system . in @xcite , we argued that for 3c449 an angle of @xmath24 to the line of sight would be required to obtain pressure balance , whereas the two - sided nature of its jets imply @xmath25 @xcite . for @xmath26 , the pressure ratio decreases by only 3 per cent from that obtained for the assumption that the source is in the plane of the sky ( from 12.0 to 11.6 for the northern plume ) .",
    "it is clear that projection alone can not be reponsible for the large apparent pressure imbalance in this plumed source .",
    "the source likely to be most affected by projection effects is ngc6251 , which has a one - sided jet on large scales .",
    "@xcite argue that @xmath27 , based on parsec - scale limits .",
    "we find that an angle of @xmath28 is required for the pressure ratio at the midpoint of the western plume of ngc6251 to be consistent with the median value for the bridged sources ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "such a small angle can not be ruled out , but given the large projected size of this source , it is implausible ( an angle of @xmath30 over the entire length of the source leads to a physical size @xmath31 mpc  see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "an angle of @xmath32 , consistent with the pc - scale constraints , would give a more modest reduction in pressure ratio , resulting in @xmath33 .",
    "in addition , estimates for the line - of - sight angles for other plumed sources ( 3c31 and ngc315 ) from kinematic modelling of the radio data are not extreme @xcite .",
    "we conclude that the difference between the apparent pressure imbalances of bridged and plumed sources is not solely the result of projection effects .",
    "if the model we propose here to explain the apparent pressure deficit is correct for this sample of fr - is , then an obvious question is whether it is consistent with the pressure offsets observed in cluster centre radio sources ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which typically do not possess well - collimated jets on large scales .",
    "given the amorphous structures of many cluster centre sources , suggestive of strong environmental influence , it seems plausible that there is considerable mixing of cluster gas with radio - lobe plasma ( and heating , as required in order for the cavities to be detected ) before the bubbles rise in the cluster atmosphere .",
    "in addition , @xcite argue , based on a comparison of the leptonic content of the small - scale jet and the energetics of the cluster bubbles , that even in bubbles with large apparent pressure offsets such as those of the perseus cluster , the jet is initially leptonic , so that the pressure offset on large scales is more likely to be due to entrainment rather than a relativistic proton population , consistent with the picture we present here . hence , while the categorization of group - scale sources into bridged and plumed morphologies with different energetics may not be directly applicable to cluster centre sources , these results may nevertheless provide some insight into the solution of the pressure balance problem for these systems as well .",
    "an alternative model could be proposed in which the strength of the interaction dictates the level of entrainment .",
    "for example , sources that are overpressured may be less easily disrupted , so that entrainment levels are low , while sources close to pressure balance are more susceptible to turbulence and higher entrainment rates .",
    "it is unclear how such a picture would work in detail ; however , our data do not allow us to rule out such a model .      as discussed in section  [ xraydio ] , it is clear that the group gas surrounding fr - i radio galaxies is strongly affected by their presence .",
    "earlier _ xmm - newton _ studies of the group environments of fr - is found direct evidence for localized heating of the group gas , and indirect evidence for more generalized heating @xcite .",
    "in @xcite we reported an apparent systematic difference in the radio properties of galaxy groups with and without central radio sources , in the sense that radio - loud groups appear to be systematically hotter for a given luminosity .",
    "a recent study comparing reflex / noras clusters with nvss has found similar results @xcite , while a _ chandra _ study of a subset of the @xcite sample by @xcite has shown that the gas properties in the innermost regions of the group do not appear to be significantly affected by the presence of a radio source , so that any heating processes must be most significant on larger scales , comparable to the size of the radio lobes .    in fig .",
    "[ lt ] we show the x - ray luminosity - temperature relation for the current sample of 9 radio galaxy group environments ( filled circles ) .",
    "the @xmath34 and @xmath35 symbols indicate the radio - quiet and radio - loud samples of @xcite , respectively , and the solid line indicates the best - fitting relation for the radio - quiet groups .",
    "the points for the _ xmm - newton _ radio - galaxy sample all lie to the high - temperature side of the radio - quiet relation , thus confirming the earlier result : groups containing extended radio sources scatter to higher temperatures for a given x - ray luminosity . in @xcite , we argued , based on a lack of difference in the x - ray - to - optical luminosity ratios for the two subsamples , that this effect must be due to a temperature increase , rather than the luminosity decrease expected .",
    "the origin of this effect therefore remains unclear .",
    "it would be expected that any energy injected into the environment would alter both its luminosity and temperature , with proportionate increases in both if the gas remains in hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "this is consistent with the position of the fri groups on the @xmath36@xmath37 diagram .",
    "it has been argued that the slope of the @xmath36@xmath37 relation is set mainly by the effects of radiative cooling @xcite ; the offset associated with radio - loud agn activity that we observe here may therefore have the primary effect of increasing the scatter in the @xmath36@xmath37 relation , rather than altering its slope .",
    "we checked whether it was possible that the presence of extended non - thermal emission in the radio - galaxy environments could be biasing our temperature estimates by fitting a combined _ mekal _ plus power - law model to the groups with the largest temperature excesses , ngc1044 and ngc4261 , with the temperature fixed at that predicted by the radio - quiet @xmath38 relation . in both cases acceptable fits with power - law indices between 1.6 and 2 were obtained . in the case of ngc4261",
    "the fit statistic was considerably worse for this model ( @xmath39 for 626 d.o.f . ) , whereas for ngc1044 the fit statistic was very similar to that of the _ mekal_-only model ( @xmath40 for 129 d.o.f . ) .",
    "the x - ray luminosities of the non - thermal components were @xmath41 erg s@xmath1 in both cases , comparable to the total luminosity of the group .",
    "we can not , therefore , rule out the presence of extended non - thermal x - ray emission in all of the groups in the sample from spectral data alone . to explain the entire `` temperature excess '' in this way would , however , require a large fraction of the measured x - ray luminosity to originate in extended non - thermal emission .",
    "column 14 of table  [ properties ] lists the energy required to raise the temperature of all the group gas within the spherical region enclosing the radio galaxy by @xmath42 , the difference between the observed gas temperature in that region and the temperature predicted for a group of the same luminosity using the radio - quiet @xmath38 relation of @xcite . to try to understand whether the radio source is capable of producing these effects , we estimated the total energy available from the current episode of radio activity as 4@xmath43 ( this includes the energy stored in the lobes , which can not yet have had an effect on the environment ) , using the total lobe volume and the pressure at the lobe midpoint .",
    "[ lt ] ( right ) compares the required and available energies for each source .",
    "as shown in table  [ ks ] , there is no significant difference in the ratios of required to available energy for the bridged and plumed sources . in five of the eight sources with temperature excesses",
    "the radio source appears to be sufficiently powerful to heat the gas by the required amount , but in three cases ( 3c31 , ngc4261 and ngc315 ) the available energy is significantly less than that required .",
    "it has been argued previously ( e.g. nipoti & binney 2006 ) that if agn radio oubursts are an intermittent process , then it is most probable that we will observe outbursts whose energy injection rate is lower than the average for the system .",
    "however , if the higher than expected temperatures in these systems are the result of radio - source energy injection , then they would be expected to disappear on timescales comparable to the sound crossing time , so it is not clear that previous outbursts from these agn can be responsible for the effect we observe . another possibility , which is difficult to rule out , is that radio - loud agn prefer to inhabit hotter than average group environments .",
    "we have carried out the first _ xmm - newton _ study of a sample of low - power ( fr - i ) radio galaxies and their environments .",
    "we find the following results :    * the radio galaxies inhabit group - scale hot - gas environments with luminosities ranging from @xmath44 erg s@xmath1 to @xmath45 erg s@xmath1 , consistent with earlier studies of fr - i environments . *",
    "the radio properties of the fr - is , including radio luminosity , source size and axial ratio , are uncorrelated with the richness of the group environments , as parametrized by either x - ray luminosity or temperature . *",
    "marginally significant correlations were found between source size and external pressure and pressure gradient , and between axial ratio and both external pressure and pressure gradient , with long , narrow sources associated with lower pressures and steeper gradients ; however , this could simply be a selection effect , as longer sources ( which tend to be narrower ) are able to probe the outer regions of groups , where the pressure gradient is steeper . * in agreement with earlier work , we find that fr - i radio galaxies are acted on by external pressures that are significantly higher than their internal , equipartition pressures , with apparent pressure imbalances ranging from a factor of @xmath46 times underpressured to rough pressure balance .",
    "* we report for the first time that the apparent pressure imbalance is linked to radio - source morphology : `` plumed '' fr - i sources typically have large pressure deficits , whereas `` bridged '' fr - is are closer to pressure balance .",
    "we interpret this result as evidence that `` plumed '' sources have a higher ratio of non - radiating to radiating particles than `` bridged '' sources , which is likely to be caused by the higher entrainment rate expected for `` plumed '' sources .",
    "* we find that the temperatures of the fr - i group environments are typically significantly higher than predicted for their luminosity , which supports our earlier claim for a temperature excess in radio - loud groups . in 5/8 sources",
    ", the current radio source may be sufficiently powerful to have produced this excess via heating ; however , in three cases the current source is too weak .",
    "we conclude that radio - source heating remains the most plausible explanation for this result ; however , we can not rule out an alternative explanation in which hotter groups are more favourable for the generation of an fr - i radio source .",
    "we thank etienne pointecouteau , monique arnaud and gabriel pratt for developing the background subtraction method used in this paper , for providing filter - wheel closed background datasets , and for useful discussions about _ xmm - newton _ background subtraction .",
    "we also thank the referee for helpful comments .",
    "mjh thanks the royal society for a research fellowship .",
    "this work is partly based on observations obtained with _ xmm - newton _ , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a detailed study of the environments of a sample of nine low - power ( fanaroff & riley type i ) radio galaxies , based on new and archival _ xmm - newton _ observations . </S>",
    "<S> we report new detections of group - scale environments around three radio galaxies , 3c296 , ngc1044 and 3c76.1 . as with previous studies , we find that fr - i radio galaxies inhabit group environments ranging over nearly two orders of magnitude in bolometric x - ray luminosity ; however , we find no evidence for a tight relationship between large - scale x - ray environment and radio - source properties such as size , radio luminosity , and axial ratio . </S>",
    "<S> this leads us to conclude that radio - source evolution can not be determined entirely by the global properties of the hot gas . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm earlier work showing that equipartition internal pressures are typically lower than the external pressures acting on the radio lobes , so that additional non - radiating particles must be present or the lobes must be magnetically dominated . </S>",
    "<S> we present the first direct observational evidence that entrainment may provide this missing pressure , in the form of a relationship between radio - source structure and apparent pressure imbalance . </S>",
    "<S> finally , our study provides further support for the presence of an apparent temperature excess in radio - loud groups compared to the group population as a whole . for five of eight temperature excesses </S>",
    "<S> , the energy required to inflate the radio lobes is comparable to the energy required to produce this excess by heating of the group gas ; however , in three cases the current radio source appears too weak to produce the temperature excess . </S>",
    "<S> it remains unclear whether the temperature excess can be directly associated with the current phase of agn activity , or whether it is instead either a signature of previous agn activity or simply an indicator of the particular set of group properties most conducive to the growth of an fr - i radio galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  x - rays : galaxies : clusters </S>"
  ]
}