{
  "article_text": [
    "the energetic display of a supernova marks the transition from a bound star to the recycling of material into the gas pool of a galaxy or beyond .",
    "the progenitor star at explosion could still have an active nuclear furnace operating or could be a degenerate end product of stellar evolution .",
    "the corresponding results also take different forms : a compact `` stellar '' remnant , a neutron star or a black hole as the result of a collapse of the stellar core , or no compact remnant , when the star is incinerated by a nuclear explosion . in all cases ,",
    "the expelled material will interact with its environment and produce a supernova remnant .",
    "one of the main topic of interest is how the different physical processes lead to the observed displays .",
    "as further exposed in the following , some of the uncertainties in our understanding of the supernova physics limits their use in cosmological applications .",
    "supernovae shaped today s universe in many different ways .",
    "they are the main mechanism to create heavy elements , especially the ones only created in explosive nucleosynthesis .",
    "they are also responsible for the return of these newly created elements into the baryonic cycle of dust , gas and stars",
    ". the energy input into the interstellar material can be so significant that star formation can be triggered or suppressed .",
    "for smaller galaxies , supernovae most likely shape their appearances .",
    "cosmic ray acceleration is most probably done in the shock of supernova remnants and the collapse of massive stellar cores are the main source of neutrinos beyond the big bang .",
    "supernovae appear in very different displays .",
    "in fact , a clear definition of a supernova does not exist .",
    "there is a classification scheme , which dates back to walter baade , fritz zwicky and robert minkowski @xcite . for a modern version with detailed definitions",
    "see @xcite . a supernova in the following",
    "will be the event when a star ejects most of its material in a violent explosion and ceases to exist as a stellar entity .",
    "note that this is a physical description , while the observations we obtain are often not able to definitely ascertain that the above condition is fulfilled .",
    "nevertheless , a supernova by definition can not be recurrent .",
    "it marks the end of the existence of a star as an individual object .",
    "one should note that this definition includes @xmath0ray bursts together with the more traditional supernova classes .",
    "due to their luminosity supernovae have been a favourite for cosmological applications .",
    "they are also markers of star formation and could be amongst the earliest objects we may be able to observe in the early universe .",
    "this article first presents a brief history of supernovae .",
    "it will then comment on the current classification scheme and its use to understand the explosion physics and the radiation hydrodynamics , which takes place in these explosions .",
    "supernovae as cosmological distance indicators will be examined first before we will move on to a discussion of the hubble constant and the expansion history of the universe as derived from supernovae .",
    "the latter is currently concentrated on type ia supernovae ( sne  ia hereafter ) , which have been the most successful in measuring distances half way across the universe .",
    "the literature on supernovae and their cosmological applications has literally exploded in the past decade .",
    "there are the classic papers , which will be mentioned in this review , but also many associated interpretations .",
    "overviews have been presented in recent monographs on supernovae and gamma - ray bursts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "supernova physics is reviewed in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "several reviews of the supernova cosmology have been published as well @xcite .",
    "the appearance of new stars , `` stellae novae '' from their latin designation , has always intrigued astronomers as documented in the ancient chinese and korean records ( see @xcite and @xcite for reviews of the historic supernovae in the milky way observed over the last two millennia ) .",
    "the first to suggest that there are two classes of novae was @xcite , who proposed an upper class about 10 magnitudes brighter than the lower class of novae .",
    "the latter would correspond to the well known galactic novae .",
    "he based his proposal mostly on the observation of the ( super)nova s  andromeda observed in 1885 ( designated sn  1885a in modern nomenclature ) , which appeared that much brighter than a sample of about two dozen regular novae in the andromeda galaxy .",
    "lundmark later seemingly was the first to suggest the name super - nova @xcite .",
    "it was walter baade who made the connection between the historical supernovae and the observed emission nebulae at their positions , thus identifying the remnants of the explosions .",
    "the most prominent object is of course the crab nebular ( messier 1 ) , the leftover from the supernova in 1054 @xcite . with extensive observations of bright",
    "supernovae @xcite introduced two subclasses .",
    "@xcite refined the classification scheme for supernovae further .",
    "however , for several decades only two main classes were maintained until in the early 1980s it became clear that at least one further subclass needed to be added .",
    "the classification scheme has now expanded again with the introduction of several subclasses to further distinguish between different observed displays .",
    "some proposals mix spectroscopic definitions with the light curve appearance , while others even introduced theoretical arguments into the classification .",
    "the reason for a classification scheme should remain simple and it should not be mixed with theoretical ideas . while different behaviour clearly indicates different physics , the classification as used in the past was primarily to quickly plan observing strategies and give an indication what type of event was observed .",
    "this still is often the case for the projects , which make use of sne  ia for cosmology , as the spectroscopy time needs to be used as efficiently as possible .",
    "the modern classification of supernovae is based on the spectroscopy at maximum light ( e.g. @xcite - see also fig .  [ class ] ) .",
    "the distinction is done through the presence ( or absence ) of hydrogen lines in the optical spectra near maximum brightness leading to the classes of type ii supernovae ( or type i supernovae ) .",
    "the hydrogen - deficient supernovae are further subdivided into groups which display prominent absorption near 6150attributed to a transition in singly ionised silicon ( si  ii in astronomical notation ) for the type ia supernovae and others which show sodium and oxygen absorption lines , designated type ib / c supernovae ( fig .",
    "[ class ] ) .",
    "the separation of these two subclasses happened during the early 1980s , when it became clear that there was a subset of type  i supernovae that showed very red colours , a spectral evolution , which appeared accelerated , and showed lines of intermediate elements at late phases @xcite .",
    "the presence / absence of helium lines is used as a separation into the type ib / type ic supernovae , respectively .",
    "the exact physical interpretation of this separation remains relatively weak .",
    "an evolutionary sequence for the separation of these core - collapse supernovae has been proposed , in which the appearance is determined by the amount of hydrogen envelope remaining on the star at the time of explosion .",
    "regular stars with a thick hydrogen layer would explode as sne  ii , while the ones which lost this hydrogen layer , e.g. due to a strong stellar wind or interaction with a binary companion , would become sne  ib .",
    "should the helium layer be eroded as well , then a sn  ic is observed .",
    "moreover , there is one cross - over class of type iib supernovae , with the prominent example of sn  1993j .",
    "these events typically start out as hydrogen - displaying supernovae ( hence sn  ii ) before the hydrogen lines disappear and the objects start to resemble type ib / c supernovae .",
    "they represent the major link showing that the sne  ib / c are core - collapse supernovae .",
    "figure  [ class ] also lists some prominent examples for each sn class .        a physical picture for this classification scheme has emerged .",
    "the type ia supernovae are coming from thermonuclear explosions of stars , which have shed hydrogen and helium during their progenitor evolution .",
    "hence no traces of these elements are observed in these explosions .",
    "all other supernovae most likely come from the core collapse in massive stars or in some cases more exotic phenomena , like pair instability ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the signature for these events are their oxygen and calcium rich spectra at late phases .",
    "it is notable that gravity is the ultimate reason for both types of explosions . in the cores of massive stars the hydrostatic equilibrium",
    "is maintained by burning to higher and higher elements at increasing temperatures . by the time the core has burnt its fuel to iron no further exothermic reactions are possible and the stellar core collapses under the weight of the outer layers of the star . the collapse is only stopped when the material reaches nuclear densities where electrons and protons merge and create neutrons . at this stage",
    "the proto - neutron star provides a hard surface .",
    "the neutrinos created in this process emerge mostly without interacting , but even a tiny amount of energy deposited by the neutrinos in the envelope can turn the implosion into an explosion .",
    "the exact mechanism has not been fully explored , but at least small stars ( 8  10 m@xmath1 ) can now be made to explode moderately by the modellers @xcite .",
    "hypernovae have been added to the list of supernovae and they represent the high energy end ( at least in their kinematics ) with the large expansion velocities observed in these objects .",
    "the connection of gamma  ray burst with supernovae has now been generally accepted with the observations of sn  2003dh / grb030329 @xcite .",
    "it should be noted that already sn  1998bw / grb980425 showed all the signatures of a supernova @xcite .",
    "hypernovae are characterised by the absence of hydrogen and helium and very high expansion velocities observed in their spectra @xcite . in some cases",
    "no gamma - ray burst is observed , like for sn  2002ap .",
    "the amount of nickel synthesised in these explosions is substantial ( up to about 0.5 @xmath2 ; * ? ? ?",
    "the kinetic energies inferred from the line widths are also substantially larger than the ones of regular sne  ii . in many aspects",
    "they appear to be similar to the sne  ib / c with high kinetic energy .    in the case of the thermonuclear supernovae",
    "the electron - degenerate white dwarf has to cope with an increasing amount of material piled onto it by a companion star , and hence increases the pressure and temperature in the core .",
    "again , it is the gravitational force which sets off the explosion , in this case the explosive carbon and oxygen burning , which disrupts the star .",
    "a comparison of the binding energy of a neutron star or the binding energy of a solar mass of iron give a clear indication of how much energy is released in these explosions .",
    "some objects can not be clearly classified into one or the other class .",
    "prime examples are sn  2002ic and sn  2006gy , which both have been interpreted as possibly a thermonuclear explosion or a core - collapse . while sn  2002ic has all the traits of a thermonuclear supernova it also displayed a strong hydrogen balmer h@xmath3 emission line @xcite .",
    "this latter fact has led to an investigation whether sn  2002ic could not be a core - collapse supernova @xcite .",
    "sn  2006gy is a very energetic supernova clearly showing strong h@xmath3 emission , but a very slow light curve .",
    "one interpretation argues for possibly the first observation of a pair - instability supernova @xcite , while another study finds that this could be a thermonuclear supernova within a dense circumstellar shell @xcite .",
    "such cases show the difficulty to uniquely map the classification scheme into the physical interpretation of the events .",
    "the richness in appearance of the core - collapse supernovae is due to their varied progenitor histories .",
    "spectra observed near maximum light show h@xmath3 in these events , but with a wide variety ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the typical light curves of sne  ii display a long plateau of about 100 days after the maximum . the most prominent and best observed case after sn  1987a is sn  1999em @xcite .",
    "sn  1987a taught us a lot about core collapse supernovae ( for reviews see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . while sn  1987a displayed a strong p  cygni line of h@xmath3 , it is almost not visible in sn  1993j .",
    "the latter lost this line in its evolution completely and only after about one year did h@xmath3 reemerge in the nebular spectrum @xcite .",
    "the case of sn  1988z is different again . in this case , the hydrogen is excited in circumstellar material shocked by the supernova ejecta .",
    "the emission is dominated by the shock energy and not recombination or radioactive decay as in most other supernovae .",
    "this special case of supernovae interacting early on with their dense circumstellar environment is discussed in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "they typically have very slow light curves and spectra that show emission lines but very little absorption .",
    "the best studied cases so far are sn  1986j @xcite , sn  1988z @xcite , sn  1995n @xcite and sn  1998s @xcite .",
    "all of these objects are strong radio emitters ( reviews on the radio emission are available from @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "the radio observations in particular allow to trace the mass - loss history of the progenitor star with interesting conclusions on their final evolution .",
    "these objects often can be observed for many years .",
    "the poster child for a shock interacting with circumstellar material is of course sn  1987a , which recently transitioned from a teenager into a maturing supernova remnant @xcite .",
    "extreme examples of this class of supernovae demonstrate their diversity .",
    "examples are the grbs ( reviews in @xcite and @xcite ) , the recent , very energetic sn  2006gy @xcite , the very faint objects like sn  1987a and the type ib / c events , which are presumably stripped of their envelopes either by massive stellar winds or mass loss to a companion star .",
    "all these different appearances are a signature of the variety the evolution of massive stars leading to different configurations at the time of explosion .",
    "several proposals have been made how core - collapse supernovae could be used as distance indicators .",
    "they will be discussed in  [ sec : cosmo_ii ] .",
    "although thermonuclear supernovae have simpler underlying physics than the core - collapse supernovae , there still remain formidable hurdles to fully understand them @xcite .",
    "the observational material that has been assembled in the last decade is considerable and many nearby supernovae are now observed with exquisite detail .",
    "the last few years have seen dramatic progress in recognising peculiar events and also determining specific characteristics .",
    "the situation a few years ago is described in @xcite . since then the peculiar sn  2000cx @xcite and sn  2002cx @xcite have been observed .",
    "a truly particular case has been discovered in sn  2002ic @xcite , which displayed a strong , broad - lined h@xmath3 emission after about 90 days past the maximum .",
    "this supernova displayed the signatures of a bright sn  ia with what looked like residual h@xmath3 emission from the host galaxy .",
    "the spectral sequence later showed that the hydrogen emission is intrinsic to the supernova and indicates that this explosion occurred inside a dense hydrogen cocoon .",
    "such events throw a dark shadow over the light curve _ vs. _ luminosity relations that have been used in the past to normalise the peak luminosity @xcite necessary to derive accurate cosmological distances .",
    "the differences for individual objects highlight the fact that not all sne  ia are identical and provide us with a tool to further investigate the true nature of these explosions .",
    "the main observables of supernovae remain the optical and near - infrared light curves and spectral evolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "spectro - polarimetry in the optical has matured significantly over the past decade and several sne  ia have significantly polarised light and also remarkable evolutions @xcite .",
    "very few observations at wavelengths outside the optical and near - infrared window have been obtained .",
    "only two events have so far been observed in the thermal infrared , sn  2003hv and sn  2005df @xcite .",
    "the detection of emission lines of nickel and cobalt over 100 days after explosion indicates a surprisingly large amount of stable nickel in the ejecta . also , prominent lines of argon ( [ ar  ii ] @xmath4 m ) with a double - horned profile are detected .",
    "the observations hint at a stratified composition of the ejecta , which can not be explained well with the current models .",
    "so far not a single sn  ia has been detected at radio wavelengths @xcite and only one x - ray detection of a peculiar event has been reported ( sn  2005ke , @xcite ) .",
    "many optical and near - infrared light curves have become available .",
    "large collections of light curves are available from the caln / tololo and the carnegie projects ( http://csp1.lco.cl/@xmath5cspuser1/pub/csp.html : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the _ cfa _ group ( http://www.cfa.harvard.edu/supernova/ : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the berkeley group @xcite and the more recent european supernova consortium ( http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/@xmath5rtn/ : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "most of the very early photometric observations have been provided by these projects ( sn  2001el : @xcite ; sn  2002bo : @xcite ; sn  2003du : @xcite ; sn  2004eo : @xcite ; sn  2005cf : @xcite ) and the available data have more than doubled in the past five years @xcite . the rise time appears to be roughly 18 days , with some uncertainty whether there is a correlation with the light curve decline rate as well ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "overall , the following picture has emerged for sn  ia explosions .",
    "the emission of sne  ia is powered by the stored energy in radio - active decays from @xmath6ni through @xmath6co to @xmath6fe ( @xcite ; see @xcite for an observational proof of this mechanism for sne  ia ) .",
    "this release is moderated by the optical depth in the ejecta @xcite . using arnett s rule @xcite",
    "one can derive the nickel mass from the observed luminosity at peak light @xcite .",
    "not all type ia sne produce the same amount of @xmath6ni in the explosions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "some objects are clearly subluminous , a signature that very little radioactive nickel is produced ( most recent examples are sn  2002cx , sn  2003gq , sn  2005p and sn  2005hk ; @xcite ) .",
    "it has been speculated that they are deflagration explosions rather than delayed detonations .",
    "the derivation of the nickel mass based on arnett s rule has been tested from explosion models , hydrodynamics and radiation transport calculations and has been shown to be reliable @xcite .",
    "the interpretation of the light curves has seen a revival in the past few years with attempts to explain the behaviour of the infrared light curves , in which a second maximum is observed ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the most convincing explanation is due to a temperature sensitivity of the emissivity between singly and doubly ionised iron - peak elements @xcite .",
    "depending on the temperature decrease in the ejecta , the energy is released rapidly in the near - infrared and the secondary maximum is more or less pronounced . a similar argument for a temperature dependence in the sn",
    "ia spectra had been made by @xcite a decade earlier based on line ratios of ca  ii and si  ii .",
    "further dependencies on the amount of nickel synthesised in the explosion , the mixing within the ejecta and the progenitor metallicity exist @xcite . at the same time , these model calculations also predict a very narrow distribution of the near - ir peak luminosity ( based on chandrasekhar - mass models and a unique density structure of the ejecta ) , as it is observed @xcite .",
    "there are now hopes that the light curve width @xmath7 luminosity relation of sne  ia might be understood through a detailed exploration of the parameter space provided by current explosion models@xcite .    at late times",
    ", the photometry and spectroscopy has been followed for several objects .",
    "especially the addition of the infrared has provided new insights @xcite .",
    "sne  ia have ir light curves , which after the peak phase are nearly flat for several hundred days until the ir catastrophe sets in and the ejecta cool enough so that the energy is radiated in fine - structure lines in the thermal infrared rather than in the optical or the near - infrared @xcite . as a consequence",
    "the ir contribution to the bolometric flux increases dramatically 300 days after the explosion .",
    "derivations based simply on the @xmath8 light curve ( as sometimes employed in the past ) are hence unreliable at these late phases .",
    "also , the emerging flux is less than what is predicted assuming arnett s rule to determine the nickel mass from the peak luminosity .",
    "this is a clear sign of @xmath0ray leakage from the ejecta and a signature of low - mass progenitor stars .",
    "the late decline rate of the light curves has been used by @xcite to crudely determine ejecta masses from the bolometric light curves .",
    "the deviation of the decline rate from the expected decay rate of @xmath6co is a signature of the losses due to the decreasing column density in the ejecta . using a very simple model of the conversion of the @xmath0ray energy into the optical / ir wavelengths the derived ejecta masses all are well below the canonical chandrasekhar - mass of the explosion models @xcite .",
    "the reason for this discrepancy remains unclear , but could be due to asymmetries , i.e. dependencies on the viewing angle or a model that does not capture the relevant physics .",
    "another signature of variations in the explosions are spectro - polarimetric measurements which show that certain elements in the supernova ejecta are not distributed spherically @xcite .",
    "a synopsis of the current situation is given by @xcite .",
    "it appears that there is only a small asymmetry in the overall shape of the ejecta as the continuum polarisation appears generally low and in most cases below the detection limits .",
    "however , some stronger lines show a marked evolution in their polarisation indicating that the material is not evenly distributed throughout the ejecta and also giving clues on the possibly uneven burning process",
    ". there even appears to be a correlation between the degree of clumpiness and the luminosity of the supernovae with smaller polarisations observed for more luminous supernovae @xcite .",
    "the spectroscopic evolution has also obtained a lot of attention in the past decade .",
    "apart from some objects , which display truly different spectra ( in particular the cases of sne  1999aa @xcite , 1999ac @xcite , 2000cx @xcite , 2002cx @xcite , 2002ic @xcite , and 2005hk @xcite should be mentioned here ) , the general spectral evolution is characterised by different velocities at which the line absorptions are observed .",
    "detailed analyses of the velocity shifts go back to @xcite and it is now established that most sne  ia show high - velocity components in their spectra @xcite .",
    "observational trends appear to emerge in the way the velocities within the supernova ejecta evolve @xcite , but the interpretation of these correlations are not clear yet .",
    "it is noteworthy that the distant objects appear to follow the general spectral evolution of their nearby counterparts and there is no obvious sign of differences in the spectral appearance of sne  ia @xcite .",
    "the interpretation of the spectra has now also been expanded to reconstruct the element distribution in the ejecta through the spectral evolution @xcite , which gives a direct input to the explosion models .",
    "also , spectral calculations based on non - spherical ejecta are leading to new explanations for the luminosity and expansion velocity variations in sne  ia @xcite .",
    "the ideas on the explosion models have evolved only little in the past few years .",
    "the favourite mechanisms are the delayed detonation , in which an early deflagration ( burning slower than the local sound speed ) turns into a detonation ( burning front moves supersonically ) in the out layers @xcite , and pure deflagrations ( see @xcite for a review of these models ) .",
    "deflagrations in general are regarded as not providing enough energy for the brilliant displays of sne  ia , however , in a few cases would a simple deflagration provide sufficient energy for a sn  ia @xcite .",
    "there has been a lot of activity in extending the calculations into full three - dimensional simulations to explore the effects of asymmetries @xcite .",
    "the simulations are now also incorporating off - centre ignitions and other aspects , which could lead to non - uniform explosions @xcite .    despite these advances",
    ", it remains to be understood , why sne  ia can be calibrated with rather simple methods to provide accurate cosmological distances .",
    "cosmology with supernovae has developed over the second half of the last century .",
    "various methods were devised to use supernovae to determine cosmological parameters ranging from simple standard candle paradigms to physical explanations of the supernova explosions and subsequent derivation of distances .",
    "the simplest use has been the determination of luminosity distances , i.e. the comparison of the observed flux to the total emitted radiation .",
    "a more elaborate method is the comparison of the angular diameter , through the measurement of the radial velocity of the expanding atmosphere , and the observed brightness .",
    "a critical assumption here is the sphericity of the explosion and the corresponding connection of the ejecta velocity and the luminosity , which has to be achieved through detailed emission models of the supernova explosion .",
    "the classical parameters of observational cosmology , which govern the expansion of the universe in friedmann - robertson - walker models , the hubble constant h@xmath9 and the deceleration parameter q@xmath9 , can be determined with accurate ( luminosity ) distances @xcite .",
    "there is a rich literature on the hubble constant and type ia supernovae ( see @xcite for reviews ) .",
    "the deceleration parameter has been replaced by more modern formulations specifically including the cosmological constant or some variants thereof @xcite and is generally referred to as dark energy. detailed theoretical descriptions are given in other articles of this issue .",
    "following early work by @xcite , originally done for cepheid stars , the expanding photosphere method ( epm ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has been applied to several supernovae .",
    "the most comprehensive data sample has been assembled by @xcite .",
    "a critical test has become the distance to sn  1999em , which was determined through epm @xcite and which also has a cepheid distance available @xcite .",
    "the discrepancy in the distance determinations towards sn  1999em can be attributed to the fact that the correction factor for the dilution of the black body flux in epm are strongly model dependent and need to be calculated for each supernova individually @xcite .",
    "recently , mario hamuy has realised that the expansion velocity and the luminosity during the plateau phase correlate and that type ii sne may be calibrated to become quite good distance indicators @xcite .",
    "the distance accuracy achieved this way can be better than 20% .",
    "these determinations are based on the physical understanding of the plateau phase of sne  ii and are linked to physics of the supernova atmosphere .",
    "this means that they are independent of the _ distance ladder _ , which is the basis for the sne  ia ( see  [ sec : cosmo_ia ] ) .",
    "typical values for the hubble constant from sne  ii are in the range of 65 to 75 km  s@xmath10  mpc@xmath10 @xcite .    a first attempt to derive the hubble diagram with distant ( up to z@xmath50.3 ) sne  ii using data assembled by the _ cfht _",
    "sn legacy survey has also been made recently @xcite .",
    "potentially , this method can independently check on the cosmic expansion history .",
    "the best way to show that objects provide good relative luminosity distances is to plot them in a hubble diagram .",
    "originally , this diagram was using recession velocity _ vs. _ apparent magnitude @xcite .",
    "the underlying assumptions are that the hubble law holds , i.e. the local expansion is linear , and that the objects are all of the same luminosity , i.e. standard candles , so that the apparent brightness directly reflects distance . early versions of this hubble diagram of sne  ia showed that the peak magnitudes tracked the hubble line fairly well @xcite , but considerable scatter was still present .",
    "there are essentially three quantities that can be derived from such a hubble diagram in the nearby universe : the slope of the expansion line , the scatter around the expansion line and the value of the local hubble constant from the intercept at zero redshift ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the slope gives an indication of the local expansion field and for a linear expansion in an isotropic universe has a fixed value .",
    "the scatter around the expansion line provides a measure of the accuracy of the relative , in contrast to an absolute , distance determination , individual deviations from the smooth cosmological expansion and the measurement errors .",
    "the intercept of the line , finally , together with an estimate of the absolute ( normalised ) luminosity provides absolute distances and hence the hubble constant .",
    "recent hubble diagrams of sne  ia have been published by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "it should be noted that sne  ia may be nearly standard candles in the near - infrared @xcite .",
    "the first significant ir sample shows very small scatter without prior correction for light curve shape .",
    "modern versions of this diagram have exchanged the recession velocity with the redshift , often corrected to the cmb rest frame and the distance modulus instead of the simple observed apparent peak brightness .",
    "it has become clear that sne  ia are not simple standard candles ( see  [ sec : typeia ] , an extensive discussion is given in @xcite ) .",
    "hence , the distance has to be determined for each event individually , e.g. through the maximum luminosity _ vs. _ light curve width relation discussed in  [ sec : typeia ] .",
    "another option is to normalise the peak luminosities and to plot a corrected apparent peak brightness , a method employed by the supernova cosmology project ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this approach is masking the importance of the light curve correction and also the importance of the absorption corrections .",
    "the scatter of the normalised sne  ia around the linear expansion line is less than 0.2 magnitudes or 10% in distance ( @xcite ; fig .",
    "[ fig : hub_near ] ) .",
    "independent of our ignorance of the exact explosion mechanism or the radiation transport in the explosions this proves that sne  ia can reliably be used as a ( relative ) distance indicator in the local universe and makes them empirically calibrated .",
    "this situation is very much comparable to the cepheid stars , where the period - luminosity relation is based on empirical data from objects in the magellanic clouds .",
    "3000  km  s@xmath10 ( extrapolated to lower velocities as a dashed line ) , the green line for the sample restricted to 3000  km  s@xmath10@xmath11v@xmath118000  km  s@xmath10 and the blue line for events with v@xmath128000  km  s@xmath10.,width=317 ]    fig .",
    "[ fig : hub_near ] displays the most recent , homogeneously treated sample of nearby sne  ia from @xcite .",
    "the upper panel displays the regular hubble diagram with distance _",
    "vs. _ recession velocity corrected to the rest frame of the cosmic microwave background , while the lower panel shows the data with the expansion field removed .",
    "this allows to appreciate the accuracy of the relative distances derived by the supernovae and also provides a better demonstration of the various cosmological models .",
    "this will become even clearer for the full hubble diagram discussed below ( fig .",
    "[ fig : hub ] ) .",
    "the distance modulus ( @xmath13 combines the observed magnitude with the observed flux @xmath14 through @xmath15 and the absolute luminosity @xmath16 of an object at the distance of 10pc @xmath17 and is determined for each supernova individually .",
    "the distance modulus describes the observed flux ratio of two objects at different distances according to the usual 1/d@xmath18 law , which defines the cosmological luminosity distance and the observed flux with distance and emitted energy through @xmath19    for a linear cosmic expansion following hubble s law @xmath20 one expects that the distance moduli and the recession velocities are connected through @xmath21 where the velocity is measured in km  s@xmath10 , the distance in mpc and the hubble constant h@xmath9 has units of km  s@xmath10  mpc@xmath10 .",
    "it is obvious in fig .",
    "[ fig : hub_near ] that below a recession velocity of about 3000  km  s@xmath10 the supernovae do not trace the smooth hubble expansion , but the hubble flow is heavily disturbed by motions due to the local matter distribution , often referred to as peculiar velocities. these supernovae are regularly excluded from the cosmological studies .",
    "the slope above 3000  km  s@xmath10 is slightly larger , i.e. @xmath22 , than the expected value for the linear expansion in the local universe , which could be an indication of evolution .",
    "we demonstrate in fig .  [",
    "fig : hub_near ] the effect of a possible change in the universal expansion rate at some distance from us .",
    "the lower panel shows the fits to data with @xmath23  km  s@xmath10 , a fit to the data in the range @xmath24  km  s@xmath10 and the data with @xmath25  km  s@xmath10 , where we force the fit for a linear expansion .",
    "the upper value was taken to be close to the reported outer edge of a possible hubble bubble @xcite where the expansion inside is faster than outside and hence the true hubble constant would be lower than what is determined locally .",
    "indeed , there appears to be a shift by about 0.07 magnitudes ( about 4% change in h@xmath9 ) for the objects outside 8000  km  s@xmath10 .",
    "another interpretation traces this change to an evolution in the intrinsic colours of sne  ia @xcite .    by fitting the intercept of the expansion line a combination of the hubble constant and the absolute luminosity",
    "is determined .",
    "hence , for the derivation of the hubble constant the ( normalised ) luminosity of the sne  ia has to be known .",
    "the most direct way to achieve this is through the distance ladder and in particular the calibration of nearby sne  ia by cepheids ( for the most recent results see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the main discrepancy for the published values of the hubble constant from sne  ia is coming from the different interpretations of the cepheids and application of the light curve shape correction .",
    "ironically , the sne  ia provide the best distance indicator beyond the cepheid range and have replaced many rungs in the distance ladder making the magellanic clouds the last rung before cosmological distances .",
    "we do not quote a value for the hubble constant here .",
    "the interested reader is referred to the papers mentioned above .    a different way to establish the hubble constant with sne",
    "ia is through models .",
    "originally tried by @xcite and @xcite this has been further attempted by @xcite and most recently by @xcite . in this case",
    "the absolute luminosity is derived from the amount of nickel produced in the explosion models and the derived luminosity , e.g. through arnett s rule or direct radiation hydrodynamics calculations . due to the range of observed sn  ia properties",
    "it is not possible to derive a value for the hubble constant itself , but at least an interesting lower limit of @xmath26  km  s@xmath10  ( 3@xmath27 ) could be derived by matching the faintest observed sne with the largest imaginable nickel mass ( @xmath51  m@xmath28 ) for the models .",
    "overall , a slight inconsistency between the predications of the current models and the observations could be found . by adopting a hubble constant of @xmath570  km  s@xmath10  mpc@xmath10",
    "one can derive a predicted range of nickel masses in the explosions ( @xmath29 ; @xcite ) .",
    "exploring the cosmic expansion rate over the history of the universe tells us about the changing contributions of the different matter / energy components of the universe ( see the article by linder ) .",
    "the supernovae provide an important information by mapping out the expansion history over a significant lookback time ( out to a redshift of z@xmath51.5 , corresponding to a lookback time of about 2/3 of the age of the universe , or over 9  billion years for the concordance model and @xmath30  km  s@xmath10  mpc@xmath10 ) .",
    "it should be stressed that for the expansion history only relative distances are need to be measured .",
    "the sn  ia hubble diagram of nearby objects ( fig .",
    "[ fig : hub_near ] ) gives ample empirical confidence that this can be achieved reliably .",
    "the published distances of high - z supernovae are typically based on an _ adopted _ hubble constant .",
    "several theoretical papers in the recent past have made the mistake to include the hubble constant as a free parameter in their fits . while this is okay to check that the marginalisation actually works correctly , claims that a specific value for the hubble constant has been found are incorrect .",
    "the original papers all state very clearly what hubble constant has been adopted for the study and people who use those data should be aware of this assumption .",
    "the proposal to use supernovae to measure the cosmic deceleration goes back to olin @xcite and was elaborated further by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "one prediction made by these early visionaries was that time dilation would affect the observed light curves .",
    "this could finally be shown convincingly with the first distant sn  ia , sn 1995k , by @xcite and was further confirmed on a large sample by @xcite . in the meantime this test has been performed following the detailed spectral evolution @xcite .",
    "the predictions of a universal expansion have been confirmed in all cases ruling out alternative theories of `` tired light . ''",
    "proposals to use sne  ia to measure the expansion history of the universe go back into the late 1980s .",
    "the main goal at the time was to determine the mean matter density @xmath31 to check the cosmological models .",
    "the first observational attempts were frustrated by lack of grasp, i.e. the difficulty to cover large enough area on the sky to sufficient depths frequently enough .",
    "a search with the danish 1.5 m telescope on la silla monitoring several fields once per month yielded only two distant sne after two years .",
    "the follow - up spectroscopy was difficult to organise in a time before observatories were fully connected to the internet and the information had to be transmitted through fax and telex , a particular problem for finding charts .",
    "the spectroscopic capabilities of the available 4 m telescopes were marginal for the faintness of the objects @xcite .",
    "a large project to search for distant sne  ia was initiated in the early 1990s in berkeley @xcite and yielded first results on seven objects ( several without spectroscopy and insufficient colour coverage @xcite ) . as a result",
    "the inferred cosmology was not correct @xcite .",
    "the following years saw the emergence of vastly improved search techniques , the advent of 8 m and 10 m telescopes  greatly improving the quality of the spectroscopic confirmations , refined analysis methods taking many contaminating effects into account and the delivery of a surprise . with the proof of concept from the early searches the new projects , the supernova cosmology project @xcite and the high - z supernova search team @xcite , started to provide astonishing evidence that the distant sne  ia appeared fainter than predicted in a massless , empty universe .",
    "early criticism of these results concentrated on difficulties with photometric accuracy of the faint sources , the treatment of the dust absorption in the host galaxy of the supernova , possible secular evolution of the supernovae over time , uncertainties in the normalisation of the peak luminosity of the sne  ia and the , at the time still fairly small , sample size of distant objects , which could lead to sample biases or malmquist effects ( see @xcite for a summary of these early problems ) .",
    "exotic possibilities , like unusual dust properties @xcite were proposed or difficulties with the normalisation pointed out @xcite .",
    "many of these difficulties have been addressed in the meantime . also , the importance of the nearby sn  ia sample should not be underestimated .",
    "the reason that @xcite could find a signal for accelerated expansion with only 10 distant sne  ia was largely due to the fact that an extensive , controlled , local sample of sne  ia was at hand .    in the past few years the canada - france - hawaii telescope _",
    "cfht _ supernova legacy survey ( snls ; http://www.cfht.hawaii.edu/snls/ ) and the essence project ( http://www.ctio.noao.edu/wproject/ ) have been collecting data of distant supernovae to measure the value of a constant equation of state parameter @xmath32 to 7% and 10% accuracy , respectively .",
    "the snls monitors four fields with the megacam instrument at the _ cfht _ continuously , while essence uses the mosaicii camera with the ctio 4 m telescope during three months each year .",
    "the ultimate goals of these five - year projects are @xmath12700 sne  ia for snls and @xmath12200 sne  ia for essence .",
    "all supernovae must have a positive spectral classification to be included .",
    "the snls has published cosmological results of their first year of observations based on 71 distant sne  ia @xcite .",
    "the selection of the candidates and the spectroscopy of this project are described in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "other important results based on this extensive data set are a determination of the sn  ia rise time @xcite , as well as the supernova rates and their connection to star formation in the host galaxy @xcite .",
    "further , this project obtained observations of a peculiar sn  ia possibly emerging from a super - chandrasekhar - mass progenitor @xcite and made a first measurement of distances at @xmath33 of sne  ii @xcite .",
    "the essence project is presented in @xcite and the cosmological results based on the first three years including 60 sne  ia are discussed in @xcite . all corresponding spectroscopy has been published @xcite . a first detailed description of photometry of a subset of the essence events observed with the hubble space telescope ( _ hst _ ) pointed out some potential selection effects in the sample @xcite .",
    "an evaluation of exotic proposals for dark energy when compared to the available sn  ia data was made in @xcite .",
    "a separate project including many essence members is the higher - z sn search with _",
    "the targets for this study have been sne with z@xmath121 @xcite .",
    "these high - z supernovae have shown that the universe indeed was decelerating at z@xmath121 and the acceleration phase has started only during the second half of the universal history @xcite .",
    "the most recent data sample allowed @xcite to map out the change of the hubble parameter over redshifts for the first time ever directly showing that the universal expansion rate has changed over time .",
    "this project also yielded important results on the evolution of the sn  ia rate as a function of redshift @xcite .",
    "however , the inference of long lead time before a sn  ia explosion has been disputed @xcite .",
    "other ongoing projects are the continuation of the supernova cosmology project ( http://panisse.lbl.gov/acsclustersearch/ ) to find supernovae in distant clusters with z@xmath121 .",
    "the goal is to observe sne  ia in elliptical galaxies as the problem with the extinction in the host galaxy is strongly reduced .",
    "a first exploration of this method had been done by @xcite .",
    "the claim has been made that sne  ia in elliptical galaxies provide a cleaner sample .",
    "possible problems with this approach is the lack of a good comparison sample of local supernovae .",
    "data for a first object have recently been published exploring new ground - based observational methods , in particular adaptive optics imaging @xcite .",
    "the extension of the sloan digital sky survey for a three - year supernova search is ongoing ( http://sdssdp47.fnal.gov/sdsssn/sdsssn.html ) .",
    "the goal is to find 200 sne  ia at 0.1@xmath11z@xmath110.3 .",
    "this project appears to be quite successful with many spectroscopically confirmed sne  ia .",
    "an impressive mosaic is available from the above web page and has been published in national geographic magazine .",
    "the local supernova searches have been described in  [ sec : typeia ] .",
    "one should add here the sn factory ( http://snfactory.lbl.gov/ ) , which is specifically set up to provide a large sample of nearby sne  ia for the comparison with the high - z sample .",
    "so far only few events from this project has been published @xcite , all of peculiar nature .    the cosmological signal imprinted on the supernova data",
    "is modulated by several unwanted technical and astrophysical effects . at the basis",
    "is accurate photometry @xcite .",
    "while this sounds like a trivial statement , it has become difficult to free the measurement from all the effects of earth s atmosphere to the percent level required for the sn light curves .",
    "improvements in the instrumental characterisations are made continuously @xcite , but one of the limiting effects are the implementation of the various filter pass bands at the telescope , which has to be known accurately to be able to combine observations from different telescopes @xcite . for nearby supernovae this led to the introduction of an empirical correction ( often referred to as s - correction ) of data sets from different telescopes @xcite . as a consequence recent projects concentrate on single instruments ( _ cfht_/megacam for the snls and ctio blanco telescope / mosaicii for essence ) for the photometry to avoid this problem .",
    "nevertheless , it still remains difficult to combine snls and essence data for a joint analysis as done in @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and various other publications .",
    "since the supernovae have to be corrected for foreground extinction the colour needs to be measured as accurately as possible . any uncertainty in this respect",
    "is multiplied by the absorption correction .",
    "the uncertainty of the colour measurement also has a direct influence on the k - correction @xcite .",
    "the observed photometry has to be translated into the supernova rest frame and hence any redshift of the spectrum needs to be taken into account ( see @xcite for a detailed description of this problem and a current implementation ) .",
    "the k - corrections are time - dependent and need to be calculated for the correct phase as well as the correct intrinsic colour .",
    "this intimately connects the k - corrections with the absorption correction and modern versions of light - curve fitting programmes for distant supernovae merge this evaluation .",
    "the light curve fitting methods and calibration are critical to the supernovae cosmology and it should be emphasised that depending on which methods are used , the derived distances can change  sometimes in a systematic way . @xcite",
    "have performed a detailed analysis of the snls / salt fitter @xcite and mlcs2k2 @xcite and confirmed that consistent cosmological results are derived by the two methods on the same data sets , but small differences remain .",
    "detailed spectroscopy certainly would help , but the signal achieved with the current telescopes is still limited and in many cases the supernova spectrum is contaminated by host galaxy light .",
    "methods to separate the sn spectrum from the galaxy are either to try a deconvolution @xcite or subtract a scaled galaxy spectrum @xcite .",
    "the spectroscopy is also essential to distinguish sne  ia from luminous sne  ib / c as the two classes stem from distinct explosion mechanisms and confusion could lead to wrong conclusions , when the objects are not separated correctly @xcite .",
    "astrophysical effects , which can influence the cosmological interpretation of supernova data include absorption in the milky way and in the host galaxy , gravitational lensing , evolution of the supernovae as a function of age of the universe , e.g. due to different metallicity , selection biases due to limiting sampling of the intrinsic supernova distribution and effects from a local underdensity , which would mean that the local expansion rate is lower than the global one ( hubble bubble ) .",
    "several of these are well under control .",
    "gravitational lensing does not appear to be a major issue for the redshifts considered so far .",
    "the highest redshift supernovae may be affected by lensing individually , but the overall effect should be minimal @xcite .",
    "the absorption due to dust in our own milky way is also fairly easily corrected .",
    "the effect is somewhat alleviated by the redshift and the diminished influence of dust absorption at redder wavelengths .",
    "evolution of the supernova peak luminosity could mimic a cosmological effect , but the available data do not indicate any significant changes between the local and distant sn  ia samples . within the achievable accuracy",
    "the distant supernovae appear the same spectroscopically @xcite and also their light curve behaviour appears rather similar to the local sample @xcite .",
    "the effect of the metallicity of the progenitor star is predicted to be insignificant @xcite .",
    "our deductions on cosmology and dark energy could be severely hampered by the limited accuracy with which we know the local expansion field ( see  [ sec : cosmo_ia ] , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , selection biases which skew the observed distribution from the intrinsic one @xcite , and our lack of a good understanding of the dust properties in the host galaxies @xcite .    as already shown in ",
    "[ sec : cosmo_ia ] the local expansion field is not smooth and local flows are distorting our ability to set the zero - point for the expansion rate .",
    "this leads to a systematic uncertainty , which needs to be overcome , if more accurate determination of cosmological parameters will be attempted .",
    "the effect is of the order of about 6 to 8% overall @xcite .",
    "larger nearby supernova samples are required to evaluate the reality of a hubble bubble .",
    "another possibility is to improve our knowledge of the density distribution in the local universe ( as attempted over a decade ago , e.g. @xcite ) for a better understanding of the local disruption of the smooth universal expansion . with very large samples of nearby supernovae",
    "one could attempt to map this density field as well , but that will likely require several thousand supernovae .",
    "the problem can of course also be inverted and the sne  ia be used to determine the local velocity field compared to the cmb .",
    "this has been done with early samples by @xcite and more recently by @xcite who find a quadrupole in the velocity distribution .",
    "ideally one would like to use distance limited supernova samples . with a hypothetical standard candle , which has a narrow luminosity function , one would hope that a flux limited sample would also be volume limited .",
    "there are several reasons why the available distant supernova samples are not volume limited .",
    "first , the sne  ia are not standard candles and their luminosity function is spanning almost a factor of 10 from the brightest to the faintest events .",
    "even though the most extreme cases are not included the most distant supernovae are also the most luminous ones @xcite .",
    "second , supernova searches all use a certain frequency , with which the search fields are monitored .",
    "this means that a supernova is discovered during its rise and depending on the distance and the weather conditions objects will be lost @xcite . finally ,",
    "dust absorption in the host galaxy will dim some events , hence make them too faint to be discovered and remove them from the sample .",
    "a priori this would seem not such a problem , but it turns out that for more distant objects this becomes progressively more important and together with the limited sampling frequency creates a systematic bias .",
    "@xcite have simulated this effect in detail for the essence data set and found a considerable bias ( nearly 0.3 magnitudes in distance modulus at z=0.6 ) , if the default absorption prior was used .",
    "they introduced separate , redshift dependent priors for the essene data to correct for the fact that more sne  ia go undetected at higher redshift and larger host galaxy absorption .",
    "the classical malmquist bias is here mixed together with the assumption on the intrinsic colours of the supernovae and the absorption in their host galaxies .",
    "the unknown reddening law in external galaxies is a further uncertainty , which systematically limits our ability to determine cosmological parameters .",
    "light scattering depends on the physical size of the dust particles .",
    "so far the local absorption law has been assumed for all supernovae , but it has been shown that for many heavily extincted sne  ia a different reddening law seems to apply @xcite .",
    "the curious fact is that with the regular colour dependence a colour excess , i.e. an apparent redder colour due to the interstellar dust scattering , is rather large for bluer bands .",
    "the canonical value for the solar neighbourhood is about 3.1 for the visual _ v _ band . for",
    "many sne  ia this value appears to be reduced to somewhere between 2 and 3 .",
    "this has also the curious effect that the absorption correction for some supernovae is reduced and the scatter in the distances reduced .",
    "however , once the reddening law is a free parameter it can be assumed that it will be vary for different sight lines through distant galaxies .",
    "this will introduce a random scatter , which will be very difficult to overcome .",
    "for the essence supernovae , these combined colour effects constitute the largest uncertainty ( about 10% overall ; @xcite ) .",
    "these last uncertainties will not easily be remedied by larger samples .",
    "they present fundamental shortcomings of our understanding of some of the critical items in supernova cosmology .",
    "they are not directly related to the supernova physics itself , but are an expression of the fact that the universe is filled with clumped matter , dark and baryonic , which distorts our position as a fair observer of the universe and affects the light we observe of these distant objects .",
    "overcoming these systematic difficulties will be key to further improve the accuracy with which we can determine the cosmological parameters .    ) , the blue line for an einstein - de sitter model ( @xmath34 ) . the concordance model ( @xmath35 ) is shown as the green line fitting the data best .",
    "the bottom panel shows all distances relative to the empty universe model .",
    "the data for the individual supernovae is plotted as shaded point , while the binned data are shown in black .",
    ", width=317 ]    figure  [ fig : hub ] displays the latest data set , which is a combination of the largest nearby sn  ia sample from @xcite , the essence data @xcite and the published snls @xcite .",
    "the data are remarkably consistent with the concordance model of @xmath36 and @xmath37 .",
    "the sne  ia are further used to determine the integral of the equation of state parameter @xmath32 over the observed redshift range ( z@xmath111.7 ) .",
    "all experiments find a consistent value of @xmath38 within the uncertainties .",
    "currently these are of about 13% statistical and 13% systematic for essence @xcite and 9% statistical and 5% systematic for snls @xcite .",
    "these values are unfortunately not directly comparable as different assumptions went into the calculations of the errors .",
    "nevertheless , all results so far are consistent ( within 1 @xmath27 ) with a cosmological constant .",
    "an important ingredient in this derivation is the matter density , which in most recent studies has been taken from the baryonic acoustic oscillation measurements of @xcite or @xcite .",
    "the accuracy of the derivation of @xmath32 strongly depends on how well the matter density @xmath31 can be constrained .",
    "sometimes a flat geometry of the universe is also assumed .",
    "attempts have been made to derive constraints on a possible time dependence of @xmath32 using the supernova data .",
    "one should caution these enterprises as they are based on data , which are most likely not accurate enough to warrant such analyses .",
    "most published attempts demonstrate this fairly clearly as the parameters become essentially unconstrained @xcite .",
    "several theoretical papers have further ignored the systematic uncertainties in the data and may have derived spurious results .",
    "one other interesting application of the hubble diagram of sne  ia is the attempt to constrain any change of newton s gravitational constant g. the current limits exclude changes larger than @xmath39  year@xmath10 @xcite .",
    "sne  ia are amongst the most promising candidates to further improve our view of the cosmos .",
    "they appear prominently in the recent studies on how dark energy could be further constrained @xcite .",
    "together with other probes of the deep universe the sne  ia should help us to characterise dark energy and possibly discover its nature .",
    "several projects have been proposed .",
    "the next surveys require new instrumentation , in particular wide - field cameras and dedicated telescopes .",
    "the snls has already shown the way forward with its allocation of several hundred nights on a single telescope .",
    "the next step is the dark energy survey ( http://www.darkenergysurvey.org/ ) planned with the ctio blanco 4 m telescope .",
    "for this project a new camera is being built for this telescope .",
    "the goal is to observe 2000 sne  ia with 0.3@xmath11z@xmath110.8 .",
    "future survey telescopes like the large synoptic survey telescope ( _ lsst _ ; http://www.lsst.org ) or the panoramic survey telescope & rapid response system ( _ pan - starrs _ ; http://pan-starrs.ifa.hawaii.edu/public ) will find thousands of supernovae .",
    "it will become impractical to obtain spectroscopy for all these objects for the classification and statistical approaches using the observed light curve shapes and the colours are being developed ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "however , it still needs to be demonstrated that such large samples will allow us to improve the cosmological parameters .",
    "an important extension of the current supernova work is towards higher redshifts .",
    "the sample of known sne  ia at z@xmath121 is very small still @xcite and these events help significantly to constrain the cosmological models and also to check for systematic effects in the supernovae .",
    "all these very distant sne  ia have been found by _",
    "hst _ and its large area advanced camera for surveys _",
    "acs_. this is one reason why future space projects aim at wide field imaging .",
    "the synergy with weak lensing studies are obvious and strong science drivers for these missions have been developed .",
    "the best know proposal is the supernova acceleration probe ( snap ; http://snap.lnbl.gov ) , which has stimulated many interesting studies of what could be achieved by such a data set .",
    "currently the snap satellite could reach sne  ia out to z@xmath401.5 .",
    "three missions have been selected for a study as a joint dark energy mission ( jdem ) between nasa and the us department of energy .",
    "they are the advanced dark energy physics telescope ( adept ) , the dark energy space telescope ( destiny ; http://destiny.asu.edu ) and snap .",
    "all of them employ the supernova hubble diagram in addition to weak lensing surveys to further characterise dark energy .    to overcome the difficulties with the optical colours it has been suggested to construct a supernova hubble diagram in the near infrared . at these wavelengths the sne  ia are showing very small scatter in their peak luminosity and promise to approach the standard candle concept better than at the blue wavelengths employed so far @xcite .",
    "the difficulty so far has been that due to the redshift the rest frame near - infrared wavelengths are pushed to wavelengths were not enough sensitivity is available . with the future _ jwst _ and its infrared capabilities it will be possible to compile a hubble diagram of distant sne  ia in the near infrared .",
    "this will present a critical test of the current results and may significantly improve the distance accuracy as several limiting effects , like light curve shape and reddening corrections can be avoided . a first attempt of a hubble diagram in the _ i _",
    "pass band has been made by @xcite .",
    "an independent test of the cosmology will come from an extended hubble diagram of type ii supernovae .",
    "these distances are based on completely different physical assumptions .",
    "work in this direction has started @xcite .",
    "further improvements will come from a better understanding of the explosions themselves .",
    "the question whether the distant sne  ia are identical to the ones observed locally has not been fully addressed .",
    "the currently available observational resources do not allow us to obtain data of the required quality to compare , e.g. , the spectral evolution of the distant supernovae . with a secured model for the explosion , it will become easier to explore possible systematic differences of supernovae coming from younger progenitor systems than older ones .",
    "there have been discussions of differences between supernovae coming from presumably different parent populations , e.g. sne  ia in spiral galaxies and elliptical galaxies , which might be from slightly different progenitor systems , but it is too early to draw conclusions .",
    "the key to solving this question lies with observations of local sne  ia .",
    "these objects can be observed with sufficient detail that we can explore the different explosion models and possible progenitor channels , which lead to the explosions .",
    "supernovae have been one of the main reasons , why we now consider a dark energy component for the universe .",
    "these explosive events have proved to be ideally suited for cosmological distance measurements .",
    "their variability , often regarded as detrimental by placing severe observational constraints , has turned into an advantage .",
    "the brightness evolution allows us to identify these cosmic light houses , and , with sufficient knowledge of their intrinsic properties , we can correct for various astrophysical effects , which could compromise the cosmological deductions .",
    "understanding the physics of the explosions remains a prime task .",
    "core - collapse supernovae have a relatively simple radiation transport and can be used to derive fairly accurate distances in the local universe .",
    "core - collapse supernovae are fascinating events , which also tell us about the stellar evolution of massive stars , how they shape their environments through winds and how companions can change their surface evolution , while the stellar core evolves towards the collapse . since at least some @xmath0ray bursts also show signatures of supernovae , it is important to understand this supernova class better . through a modified expanding photosphere method",
    "they will continue to provide further constraints on the hubble constant .",
    "the physical nature of this measurement is very attractive as it bypasses the usual distance ladder . by expanding to higher redshifts an independent confirmation of",
    "the accelerated expansion will become possible .",
    "this method is observationally and theoretically expensive requiring multi - band photometry and spectroscopy at several epochs and tailored simulations of the spectra to match the observations .",
    "nevertheless , the effort should be continued as it appears at the moment to be the only distance measurement to individual events to complement the thermonuclear supernovae .",
    "thermonuclear supernovae have spectacularly changed our view of the universe .",
    "empirically calibrated they have proved to be excellent distance indicators .",
    "the fact that many questions regarding the exact explosion mechanism and the as yet uncertain progenitor systems remain has not hindered their use for cosmology .",
    "there is significant progress in both areas . at the moment",
    "a consensus on these questions , however , still remains to be found .",
    "the past decade has seen sne  ia take centre stage for the derivation of cosmological parameters .",
    "while they have been a favourite for the determination of the hubble constant for several decades , the difficult calibration of their absolute luminosity at maximum has hampered their ability to determine an accurate value free of systematics . with the exquisite capability of sne  ia to deliver relative distances the problem of the hubble constant rests with an accurate calibration through other distance indicators , e.g. cepheid stars .    a beautiful confirmation of general relativity as the basis for the cosmological model is the demonstration of time dilation in the light curves and the spectral evolution of sne  ia .",
    "sne  ia discovered the accelerated cosmic expansion and hence provided support for an additional energy component of the universe .",
    "they now supply strong evidence for a cosmological constant .",
    "the most recent supernova surveys , based on over one hundred events , have not shown any significant deviations from an integrated equation of state parameter @xmath32=@xmath41 .",
    "one should , however , caution against any attempts to over - interpret the current data .",
    "exploring a time - variable @xmath32 should be done with the current limitations of the data in mind .",
    "the accuracy required to significantly constrain @xmath42 is probably beyond what is currently available .",
    "several systematic effects are still of concern for this determination .",
    "the statistical uncertainties have reached the level of these systematics and simply increasing the sample size beyond what will be become available through snls and essence ( several hundred sne  ia beyond z@xmath120.3 ) will not improve on the result any longer .",
    "detailed understanding of the various astrophysical effects , which have to be treated to extract the cosmological signal , has now become imperative .",
    "the physical nature of the light curve shape _ vs. _ peak luminosity relation , the intrinsic colour variations among sne  ia , the influence of dust absorption in the host galaxies , evolutionary trends in sne  ia as a function of redshift and the selection biases of the searches need to be examined carefully .",
    "the limitations in accurately determining the local expansion rate are now also becoming a significant weakness .",
    "the latter is an obvious demonstration of the importance of the local sne  ia .",
    "they provide the zero - point against which the distant supernovae are compared for the cosmology .",
    "it is hence clear that an improved local sample of sne  ia will provide several avenues for future improvements on the determination of the dark energy parameters .",
    "in addition , supernovae projects extending to higher redshifts and into the infrared hold great promise to overcome the systematic problems encountered at the moment .",
    "supernovae are one of the prime candidates to describe the characteristics of dark energy . with the lack of a clear theoretical contender for this unknown component , observations exploring the effects of dark energy are decisive and",
    "hopefully will lead us eventually to understand the properties of dark energy .    *",
    "acknowledgements * i am grateful for continuous discussions with colleagues of the high - z supernova search team , the higher - z team and the essence team as well as with team members of the supernova cosmology project and the supernova legacy survey . this research was supported by the dfg cluster of excellence origin and structure of the universe ( www.universe-cluster.de ) and the dfg transregio tr33 the dark universe.    99 albrecht , a. , et al . , 2006 , _ nsf - nasa - doe report of the dark energy task force _ , available at http://www.nsf.gov/mps/ast/detf.jsp ( also as astro - ph/0609591 ) aldering , g. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 650 , 510 aguirre , a. n. , 1999a , apj , 512 , l19 aguirre , a. n. , 1999b , apj , 525 , 583 amanullah , r. , mrtsell , e. , goobar , a. , 2003 , a&a , 397 , 819 arnett , w. d. , 1982 , apj , 253 , 782 arnett , w. d. , branch , d. , wheeler , j. c. , 1985 , nature , 314 , 337 arnett , w. d. , bahcall , j. n. , kirshner , r. p. , woosley , s. e. , 1989 , ara&a , 27 , 629 astier , p. , et al . ,",
    "a&a , 447 , 31 baade , w. , 1926 , an , 228 , 359 baade , w. , zwicky , f. , 1934 , publ .",
    ", 20 , 254 baade , w. , 1942 , apj , 46 , 188 barris , b. j. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 602 , 571 barris , b. j. , tonry j. l. , 2004 , apj , 602 , 571 baron , e. , et al . , 2004 , apj , 616 , l91 benetti , s. , et al . , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 261 benetti , s. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 623 , 1011 benetti , s. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 653 , l129 bertschinger , e. , et al . , 1990 ,",
    "apj , 364 , 370 blakeslee , j. p. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 527 , l73 blinnikov , s. i. , et al . , 2006 , a&a , 453 , 229 blondin , s. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "a&a , 431 , 757 blondin , s. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , aj , 131 , 1648 blondin , s. , et al . , 2007 , in preparation branch , d. , 1992 , apj , 392 , 35 branch , d. , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 17 branch , d. , tammann , g. a. , 1992 , ara&a , 30 , 359 branch , d. , drucker , w. , jeffery , d. , 1988 , apj , 330 , l117 candia , p. , et al . , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 277 cappellaro , e. , et al . , 1997 , a&a , 328 , 203 carroll , s. m. , press , w. h. , turner , e. l. , 1992 , ara&a 30 , 499 chevalier , r. a. , fransson , c. , 2003 , in _ supernovae and gamma  ray bursts _ , ed . k. weiler , heidelberg : springer , 171 chornock , r. , et al . , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 722 chornock , r. , filippenko , a. v. , 2007 , apj , in press ( astro - ph/0609405 ) clark , d. j. , stephenson , f. 1977 , _ the historical supernovae _ , new york : pergamon press clayton , d. d. , 1074 , apj , 188 , 155 clocchiatti , a. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 642 , 1 coil , a. l. , et al . , 2000 , apj , 544 , l111 cole , s. , et al . , 2005 , mnras , 362 , 505 colgate , s. a. , mckee , c. , 1969 , apj , 157 , 623 colgate , s. a. , 1979 , apj , 232 , 404 conley , a. , et al .",
    ", 2006a , aj , 132 , 1707 conley , a. , et al . , 2006b , apj , 644 , 1 conley , a. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 664 , l13 contardo , g. , leibundgut , b. , vacca , w. d. , 2000 , a&a , 359 , 876 cooray , a. , caldwell , r. r. , 2006 , phys .",
    "d , 73 , 103002 dahln , t. , et al .",
    ", 2004 , apj , 613 , 189 davis , t. m. , schmidt , b. p. , kim , a. g. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 205 davis , t. m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 666 , 716 dessart , l , hillier , d. j. , 2005 , a&a , 439 , 671 dessart , l , hillier , d. j. , 2006 , a&a , 447 , 691 drell , p. s. , loredo , t. j. , wasserman , i. , 2000 , apj , 530 , 593 eastman , r. g. , schmidt , b. p. , kirshner , r. p. , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 466 , 911 eisenstein , d. j. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 633 , 560 elias , j. , matthews , k. , neugebauer , g. , persson , s. e. , 1985 , apj , 296 , 379 elias - rosa , n. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1880 elmhamdi , a. , et al . , 2003 , mnras , 338 , 939 farrah , d. , et al . , 2002 , mnras , 336 , l17 fassia , a. , et al . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 318 , 1093 filippenko , a. v. , 1997 , ara&a , 35 , 309 filippenko , a. v. , sargent , w. l. w. , 1986 , nature , 316 , 407 filippenko , a. v. , et al . , 1992a , apj , 384 , l15 filippenko , a. v. , et al .",
    ", 1992b , aj , 104 , 1543 filippenko , a. v. , matheson , t. , barth , a. j. , 1994 , aj , 108 , 2220 fisher , a. , et al . , 1999 , mnras , 304 , 67 foley , r. j. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 6226 , l11 frster , f. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 1893 fransson , c. , houck , j. , kozma , c. , 1996 , in _ supernovae and supernova remnants , iau coll .",
    "145 _ , eds .",
    "r. mccray and z. wang , cambridge : cambridge university press , 211 fransson , c. , et al .",
    ", 2002 , apj , 572 , 350 fransson , c. , et al . , 2007 , eso messenger , 127 , 44 freedman , w. l. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 553 , 47 galama , t. j. , et al . , 1998 , nature , 395 , 670 gamezo , v. n. , et al .",
    ", 2003 , science , 299 , 77 gamezo , v. n. , khokhlov , a. m. , oran , e. s. , 2004 , phys .",
    "lett . , 92 , 211102 gamezo , v. n. , khokhlov , a. m. , oran , e. s. , 2005 , apj , 623 , 337 garavini , g. , et al .",
    ", 2004 , aj , 128 , 387 garavini , g. , et al . , 2005 , aj , 130 , 2278 garavini , g. , et al . ,",
    "2007a , a&a , 471 , 527 garavini , g. , et al .",
    ", 2007b , a&a , 470 , 411 garca - berro , e. , isern , j. , kubyshin , y. a. , 2007 , a&ar , 14 , 113 garnavich , p. m. , et al .",
    ", 1998a , apj , 493 , l53 garnavich , p. m. , et al . , 1998b , apj , 509 , 74 gaztaaga , e. , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "phys . rev .",
    "d , 65 , 023506 gerardy , c. l. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 661 , 995 goldhaber , g. , et al .",
    ", 1997 , in _ thermonuclear supernovae _ ,",
    "p. ruiz - lapuente , r. canal , j. isern , dordrecht : kluwer , 777 goldhaber , g. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 558 , 359 gunnarsson , c. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 640 , 417 guy , j. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "a&a , 443 , 781 guy , j. , et al . , 2007 , a&a , 466 , 11 hamuy , m. 2001 , phd thesis , tucson : university of arizona hamuy , m. , 2003 , apj , 582 , 905 hamuy , m. , pinto , p. a. , 2002 , apj , 566 , l63 hamuy , m. , et al . , 1993 , pasp , 105 , 787 hamuy , m. , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "aj , 109 , 1 hamuy , m. , et al . , 2001 , apj , 558 , 615 hamuy , m. , et al .",
    "2002 , aj , 124 , 417 hamuy , m. , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "nature , 424 , 651 hamuy , m. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , pasp , 118 , 2 hansen , l. , et al . , 1989 , a&a , 211 , l9 hatano , k. , et al . ,",
    "2000 , apj , 543 , l49 haugblle , t. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 661 , 650 heger , a. , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 591 , 288 hillebrandt , w. , niemeyer , j. c. , 2000 , ara&a , 38 , 191 hillebrandt , w. , leibundgut , b. , 2003 , _ from twilight to highlight : the physics of supernovae _ , heidelberg : springer hjorth , j. , et al . , 2003 , nature , 423 , 847 hflich , p. , mller , e. , khokhlov , a. , 1993 , a&a , 268 , 570 hflich , p. , kumar , p. , wheeler , j. c. , mattila , s. , 2004 , _ cosmic explosions in three dimensions : asymmetries in supernovae and gamma - ray bursts , _ cambridge : cambridge university press holz , d. e. , wald , r. m. , 1998 , phys .",
    "d , 58 , 063501 homeier , n. l. , 2005 , apj , 620 , 12 hook , i. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "aj , 130 , 2788 howell , d. a. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 634 , 1190 howell , d. a. , et al . , 2006 , nature , 443 , 308 hsiao , e. y. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 663 , 1187 hubble , e. , 1936 , _ the realm of the nebulae _",
    ", new haven : yale university press hui , l. , greene , p. b. , 2006 , phys .",
    "d , 73 , 123526 immler , s. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 648 , l119 jha , s. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apjs , 125 , 73 jha , s. , et al .",
    ", 2006a , aj , 131 , 527 jha , s. , et al .",
    ", 2006b , aj , 132 , 189 jha , s. , riess , a. g. , kirshner , r. p. , 2007 ,",
    "apj , 659 , 122 jnsson , j. , et al . , 2006 , apj , 639 , 991 jnsson , j. , et al . , 2007 , jcap , 6 , 2 kasen , d. , 2006 , apj , 649 , 939 kasen , d. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 593 , 788 kasen , d. , et al . , 2006 , apj , 651 , 366 kasen , d. , woosley , s. e. , 2007 , apj , 656 , 661 khokhlov , a. m. , 1991 , a&a , 245 , 114 kim , a. , goobar , a. , perlmutter , s. , 1996 , pasp , 108 , 190 kirshner , r. p. , kwan , j. , 1974 , apj , 193 , 967 kitaura , f. s. , janka , h. t. , hillebrandt , w. , 2006 , a&a , 450 , 345 knop , r. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 598 , 102 kotak , r. , et al .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 354 , l13 kotak , r. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 436 , 1021 kowal , c. t. , 1968 , aj , 73 , 1021 krisciunas , k. , phillips , m.m . , suntzeff , n.b . ,",
    "2004a , apj , 602 , l81 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2000 , apj , 539 , 658 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2001 , aj , 122 , 1616 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "aj , 125 , 166 krisciunas , k. , et al .",
    ", 2004b , aj , 127 , 1664 krisciunas , k. , et al .",
    ", 2004c , aj , 128 , 3034 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "aj , 130 , 2453 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2006 , aj , 131 , 1639 krisciunas , k. , et al . , 2007 , aj , 133 , 58 kuchner , m. j. , et al . , 1994 , apj , 426 , l89 kuznetsova , n. v. , connolly , b. m. , 1007 , apj , 659 , 530 leibundgut , b. , in _ circumstellar media in late stages of stellar evolution _ , eds .",
    "r. clegg , i. stevens , p. meikle , cambridge : cambridge university press , 100 leibundgut , b. , 2000 , a&ar , 10 , 179 leibundgut , b. , 2001 , ara&a , 39 , 67 leibundgut , b. , 2004 , in _ hunting the cosmological parameters with precision cosmology _ , eds .",
    "d. barbosa , a. mourao , dordrecht : kluwer , ap&ss , 290 , 29 leibundgut , b. , 2005 , in _ frontiers of cosmology _",
    ", a. blanchard , m. signore , eds . , ( dordrecht : springer ) , 195 leibundgut , b. , pinto , p.a . , 1992 , apj , 401 , 49 leibundgut , b. , suntzeff , n. b. , 2003 , in _ supernovae and gamma  ray bursts _ , ed . k. weiler , heidelberg : springer , 77 leibundgut , b. , et al .",
    ", 1991 , apj , 372 , 531 leibundgut , b. , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 466 , l21 leonard , d. c. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "pasp , 114 , 35 leonard , d. c. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 594 , 247 leonard , d. c. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 632 , 450 li , w. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "pasp , 113 , 1178 li , w. , et al . , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 453 lidman , c. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 430 , 843 lorn - aguilar , p. , et al .",
    ", 2003 , class .",
    "20 , 3885 lundmark , k. e. , 1925 , mnras , 85 , 865 lundmark , k. e. , 1932 , lund observatory circ",
    ". 8 marcaide , j. m. , weiler , k. , 2005 , _ cosmic explosions : on the 10th anniversary of sn  1993j _ , iau coll .",
    "192 , heidelberg : springer matheson , t. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 599 , 394 matheson , t. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "aj , 129 , 2352 mayall , n. u. , oort , j. h. , 1942 , pasp , 54 , 95 mazzali , p. , et al . , 2002 , apj , 572 , l61 mazzali , p. , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 599 , l95 mazzali , p. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 623 , l37 mccray , r. , 1993 , ara&a , 31 , 175 mccray , r. , 2005 , in _ cosmic explosions _ , j.m .  marcaide and k. weiler , eds .",
    ", heidelberg : springer , 77 meikle , w. p. s. , 2000 , mnras , 314 , 782 melbourne , j. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , aj , 133 , 2709 miknaitis , g. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 666 , 674 minkowski , r. , 1941 , pasp , 53 , 224 minkowski , r. , 1964 , ara&a , 2 , 247 murdin , p. , murdin , l. , 1978 , _ supernovae _ , cambridge : cambridge university press neill , j. d. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "aj , 132 , 1126 niemeyer , j. c. , truran , j. w. , 2000 , _ type ia supernovae , theory and cosmology _ , cambridge : cambridge university press nobili , s. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 437 , 789 nrgaard - nielsen , h .- u . ,",
    "et al . , 1989 , nature , 339 , 523 nugent , p. , kim , a. , perlmutter , s. , 2002 , pasp , 114 , 803 nugent , p. , et al .",
    ", 1995 , apj , 455 , l147 nugent , p. , et al . , 2006 , apj , 645 , 841 ofek , e. o. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 659 , l13 panagia , n. , sramek , r. a. , weiler , k. w. , 1986 , apj , 300 , l55 panagia , n. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 646 , 369 pastorello , a. , et al .",
    ", 2007a , mnras 376 , 1201 pastorello , a. , et al .",
    ", 2007b , mnras , 377 , 1531 patat , f. , et al . , 2001 , apj , 555 , 900 peacock , j. a. , 1999 , _ cosmological physics _ , cambridge : cambridge university press peacock , j. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "_ report by the esa - eso working group on fundamental cosmology _ ,",
    "garching : esa ( also available as astro - ph/0610906 ) peebles , p. j. e. , 1993 , _ principles of physical cosmology _ , princeton : princeton university press perlmutter , s. , schmidt , b. p. , in _ supernovae and gamma - ray bursts _ , ed .",
    "k. weiler , ( heidelberg : springer ) , 195 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    ", 1991 , in _ supernovae _ , ed .",
    "s. e. woosley , new york : springer , 727 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    ", 1995 , apj , 440 , l41 perlmutter , s. , et al . , 1997 , apj , 483 , 565 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , nature , 391 , 51 ( see also nature , 392 , 311 ) perlmutter , s. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 517 , 565 phillips , m. m. , 1993 , apj , 413 , l105 phillips , m.m . , et al . , 1999 , aj , 118 , 1766 phillips , m. m. , et al . , 2006 , aj , 131 , 2615 phillips , m. m. , et al . , 2007 , pasp , 119 , 360 pignata , g. , et al . , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 178 pinto , p. a. , eastman , r. g. , 2000 , apj , 530 , 757 prieto , j. l. , rest , a. , suntzeff , n. b. , 2006 , apj , 647 , 501 reineke , m. , hillebrandt , w. , niemeyer , j. c. 2002 , a&a , 391 , 1167 riess , a. g. , 2000 , pasp , 112 , 1284 riess , a. g. , press , w. m. , kirshner , r. p. , 1995 ,",
    "apj , 445 , l91 riess , a. g. , press , w. m. , kirshner , r. p. , 1996a",
    ", apj , 473 , 88 riess , a. g. , press , w. m. , kirshner , r. p. , 1996b",
    ", apj , 473 , 588 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 1997 , aj , 114 , 722 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , aj , 116 , 1009 riess , a. g. , et al . ,",
    "1999a , aj , 117 , 707 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 1999b , aj , 118 , 2675 riess , a. g. , et al . , 2000 , apj , 536 , 62 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 2004a , apj , 600 , l163 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 2004b , apj , 607 , 665 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 659 , 98 rpke , f. , hillebrandt , w. , 2004 , a&a , 430 , l1 rpke , f. , hillebrandt , w. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 635 rpke , f. , niemeyer , j. c. , 2007 , a&a , 464 , 683 rpke , f. , et al . , 2006 , a&a , 453 , 203 rpke , f. , woosley , s. e. , hillebrandt , w. , 2007 , apj , 660 , 1344 saha , a. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 522 , 802 sainton , g. , 2004 , phd thesis , universit lyon  i sandage , a. , 1961 , apj , 133 , 355 sandage , a. , 1988 , ara&a , 26 , 561 sandage , a. , et al . , 2006 , apj , 653 , 843 schmidt , b. p. , et al . , 1994 , apj , 432 , 42 schmidt , b. p. , et al . ,",
    "1998 , apj , 507 , 46 sim , s. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 154 sim , s. , et al . , 2007 , mnras , 378 , 2 smith , n. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 666 , 1116 sollerman , j. , et al . , 2002 , a&a , 386 , 944 sollerman , j. , et al . , 2004 , a&a , 429 , 559 spyromilio , j. , et al . , 2004 , a&a , 426",
    ", 547 stanek , k. z. , et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 591 , l13 stanishev , v. , et al . , 2007 , a&a , 469 , 645 stehle , m. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "mnras , 360 , 1231 stritzinger , m. , leibundgut , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 423 stritzinger , m. , sollerman , j. , 2007 , a&a , 470 , l1 stritzinger , m. , et al . , 2002 , aj , 124 , 2100 stritzinger , m. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "a&a , 450 , 241 strolger , l. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 613 , 200 stubbs , c. w. , tonry , j. l. , 2006 , apj , 646 , 1436 sullivan , m. , et al . , 2003 , mnras , 340 , 1057 sullivan , m. , et al .",
    ", 2006a , aj , 131 , 960 sullivan , m. , et al . , 2006b , apj , 648 , 868 tammann , a. g. , 1978 , in",
    "_ astronomical uses of the space telescope _ , eds . f. macchetto , f. pacini , m. tarenghi , garching : eso , 329 tammann , a. g. , leibundgut , b. , 1990 , a&a , 236 , 9 taubenberger , s. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "mnras , 371 , 1459 thomas , r. d. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 654 , l53 tonry , j. l. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 594 , 1 turatto , m. , et al . , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 128 turatto , m. , 2003 , in _ supernovae and gamma  ray bursts _ , ed .",
    "k. weiler , heidelberg : springer , 21 turatto , m. , benetti , s. , zampieri , l. , shea , w. , 2005 , _",
    "16042004 : supernovae as cosmological lighthouses _ , san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific uomoto , a. , kirshner , r. p. , 1985",
    ", a&a , 149 , l7 vacca , w. d. , leibundgut , b. , 1996 , apj , 471 , l37 wambsganss , j. , et al . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 475 , l81 wang , l. , et al . , 2003a , apj , 590 , 944 wang , l. , et al . ,",
    "2003b , apj , 591 , 1110 wang , l. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 641 , 50 wang , l. , baade , d. , patat , f. , 2007 , science , 315 , 212 weiler , k. w. , 2003 , _ supernovae and gamma  ray bursts _ , heidelberg : springer weiler , k. w. , sramek , r. a. , 1988 , ara&a , 26 , 295 weiler , k. w. , et al . , 2002 , ara&a , 40 , 387 weinberg , s. , 1972 . _ gravitation and cosmology : principles and applications of the general theory of relativity _ ,",
    "new york : wiley wheeler , j. c. , levreault , r. , 1985 , apj , 294 , l17 williams , b. f. , et al .",
    ", 2003 , aj , 126 , 2608 wilson , o. c. , 1939 , apj , 90 , 634 woosley , s. e. , bloom , j. s. , 2007 , ara&a , 44 , 507 wood - vasey , w. m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apj , 666 , 694 zehavi , i. , et al . , 1998 , apj , 503 , 483 zwicky , f. , 1965 , _ stellar structure _ , eds .",
    "aller and d.b .",
    "mclaughlin , ( chicago : university of chicago press ) , 367"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the extreme luminosity and their fairly unique temporal behaviour have made supernovae a superb tool to measure distances in the universe . </S>",
    "<S> as complex astrophysical events they provide interesting insights into explosion physics , explosive nucleosynthesis , hydrodynamics of the explosion and radiation transport . </S>",
    "<S> they are an end product of stellar evolution and provide clues to the stellar composition . since they can be observed at large distances they have become critical probes to further explore astrophysical effects , like dust properties in external galaxies and the star formation history of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> some of the astrophysics interferes with the cosmological applications of supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> the local velocity field , distorted by the gravitational attraction of the local large scale structure , and the reddening law appear at the moment the major limitations in the accuracy with which cosmological parameters can be determined . </S>",
    "<S> these absorption effects can introduce a secondary bias into the observations of the distant supernovae , which needs to be carefully evaluated . </S>",
    "<S> supernovae have been used for the measurement of the hubble constant , i.e. the current expansion rate of the universe , and the accelerated cosmic expansion directly inferred from the apparent faintness of the distant supernovae .    </S>",
    "<S> * supernovae and cosmology *    * bruno leibundgut + european southern observatory + karl - schwarzschild - strasse 2 , d-85748 garching + germany + email : bleibundgut@eso.org * </S>"
  ]
}