{
  "article_text": [
    "the quest to unravel the nature of the dark matter , estimated to contribute around 23% to the energy density of the universe ( e.g. @xcite ) , remains one of the most important tasks of modern cosmology . while the cold dark matter ( cdm ) scenario  in which the dark matter particles are assumed to be non - relativistic at the epoch of decoupling and to interact predominantly through gravity  has been very successful in explaining the formation of large - scale structures in the universe ( see e.g. @xcite for a review )",
    ", its predictions on scales of individual galaxies have not yet been confirmed in any convincing way .",
    "in particular , cdm predicts a large number of subhalos , typically accounting for @xmath3 5 - 10% of the total mass of a galaxy - sized cdm halo .",
    "however , these subhalos do not appear to correspond to luminous structures , as the milky way would then be surrounded by a factor of 10100 more satellite galaxies than observed , provided that each subhalo hosts a luminous dwarf galaxy ( @xcite ) .",
    "one way out of this dilemma is to assume that most of these subhalos correspond to so - called dark galaxies ( @xcite ) , i.e. objects which either do not contain baryons or in which the baryons formed very few stars .",
    "while a number of very faint missing - satellite candidates have recently been detected ( @xcite ) , it is still far from clear that these exist in sufficient numbers to account for the subhalos predicted by cdm ( e.g. @xcite ) .    since several other cdm predictions of dark halo properties",
    "have recently been called into question ( see e.g. and references therein ) , it is of paramount importance to investigate whether these cdm subhalo predictions really hold true .",
    "while dark matter can not be seen directly in current telescopes , its presence can be inferred from the gravitational lensing effects that spatially clustered dark matter will have on background light sources .",
    "if a sufficiently dense and massive dark object happens to be located along the line of sight to some distant astronomical object  in most cases a quasar  the light may reach the observer along several different paths , thereby producing multiple images in the sky of a single light source .",
    "one tell - tale signature of dark matter subhalos in the @xmath4@xmath5 mass range could be gravitational millilensing ( sometimes also referred to as mesolensing ) , i.e. image splitting at a characteristic separation of milliarcseconds ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "based on a null detection of millilensing in a sample of 300 quasars observed with the vlbi , wilkinson et al .",
    "( @xcite ) demonstrated that the vast majority of quasars do _ not _ show any signs of millilensing in the angular range 1.5  50 milliarcseconds , and were able to impose upper limits of @xmath6 on the cosmological density of dark point - mass objects in the @xmath4@xmath7 mass range .",
    "unfortunately , this constraint is still insufficient to rule out the subhalos predicted by cdm , since their lensing optical depth is expected to be at least one order of magnitude lower .",
    "to put the cdm subhalo predictions to the test , yonehara et al .",
    "( @xcite ) suggested that one should target quasars which are already known to be gravitationally lensed by galaxies on arcsecond scales , as one can then be sure that there is a massive halo well - aligned with the line of sight . in this case",
    "there should be a significant probability ( optical depth @xmath8 0.01  0.1 ) of detecting image splitting by subhalos at scales of milliarcseconds ( millilensing ) .",
    "indeed , millilensing has long been suspected to be the cause of the flux ratio anomalies seen in such systems ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "subhalo millilensing has also been advocated as an explanation for strange bending angles of radio jets in these multiply - imaged quasars ( @xcite ) and for image positions which smooth halo models seem unable to account for ( @xcite ) . in cases",
    "where the quasar images are sufficiently resolved , the technique proposed by yonehara et al .",
    "would not only allow the _ detection _ of subhalos , but will also impose interesting constraints on their internal density profiles ( @xcite ) .",
    "the proposed observations to detect image splitting ( e.g. @xcite ) assume that the image separations of subhalo lenses are similar to those produced by a singular isothermal sphere ( sis ) .",
    "unfortunately this assumption is difficult to justify because theoretical arguments , simulations , and observations do not favour this form of density profile for dark matter halos in the relevant mass range .",
    "we have studied the feasibility of strong - lensing detection of dark subhalos by deriving the image separations expected for ( more realistic ) density profiles favoured by current simulations ( @xcite ) .    in fig .",
    "[ sepfig ] we have plotted the calculated image separation for four density profiles that exceeded one microarcsecond .",
    "these are sis , nfw ( @xcite ) , m99 ( @xcite ) , and n04 ( @xcite ) .",
    "these profiles are all based on simulations for relatively isolated halos .",
    "when such objects are accreted by more massive halos and become subhalos , substantial mass loss occurs , preferentially from the outer regions of the satellites . to account for this ,",
    "the models are truncated or gradually stripped . for details , see @xcite .",
    "it is clear from fig .",
    "[ sepfig ] that detection of subhalos is likely considerably more difficult than suggested by previous studies .",
    "we stress however that these simulations do not necessarily represent the final word on this issue .",
    "if the subhalos have central density slopes steeper than @xmath9 ( e.g. of m99 type ; with @xmath10 ) , these would give rise to image separations that could be resolved even with current telescopes .",
    "@xcite proposed to search already known multiply - imaged quasars ( macrolensed objects ) for substructures .",
    "if the true density profile of subhalos is shallow and leads to small image separations , and hence small optical depths , perhaps the number of the known suitable lensed agn is insufficient even for a single detection .",
    "we are going to investigate if the detection probability would increase by targeting agn with larger impact parameters , by trying to estimate the average detectable area of agn jets using data from the published surveys and compare that with the predicted optical depth of the subhalo objects . at lower frequencies the sources are larger in area but the resolution is worse . another goal is to find the optimum frequency for millilensing search with the vsop-2",
    ".    to increase the detection probability , _ all images _ that are produced by vsop-2 should be looked at with this effect in mind .",
    "this could be done either after the data has become public or in a key science program that would produce quick look images using a pipeline immediately after the data has been correlated .",
    "ez acknowledges research grants from the swedish research council , the royal swedish academy of sciences and the academy of finland .",
    "tr acknowledges support from the heac centre funded by the swedish research council .",
    "kw acknowledges support from the jenny and antti wihuri foundation .",
    "biggs , a.  d. , browne , i.  w.  a. , jackson , n.  j. , york , t. , norbury , m.  a. , mckean , j.  p. , & phillips , p.  m.  2004 , , 350 , 949 inoue , k.  t. , & chiba , m.  2005 , , 634 , 77 kochanek , c.  s. , & dalal , n.  2004 , , 610 , 69 mao , s. , & schneider , p.  1998",
    ", , 295 , 587 metcalf , r.  b.  2002 , , 580 , 696 moore , b. , ghigna , s. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , & tozzi , p.  1999",
    ", , 524 , l19 navarro , j.  f. , frenk , c.  s. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1996 , , 462 , 563 navarro , j.  f. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 349 , 1039 primack , j.  r.  2003 , nuclear physics b proceedings supplements , 124 , 3 simon , j.  d. , blitz , l. , cole , a.  a. , weinberg , m.  d. , & cohen , m.  2006 , , 640 , 270 simon , j.  d. , & geha , m.  2007 , , 670 , 313 spergel , d.  n. , et al .   2006 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0603449 verde , l. , oh , s.  p. , & jimenez , r.  2002 , , 336 , 541 wambsganss , j. , & paczynski , b.  1992 , , 397 , l1 wilkinson , p.  n. , et al .  2001 , physical review letters , 86 , 584 yonehara , a. , umemura , m. , & susa , h.  2003 , , 55 , 1059 zackrisson , e. , bergvall , n. , marquart , t. , stlin , g.  2006 , , 452 , 857 zackrisson , e. , riehm , t. , mller , o. , wiik , k. , nurmi , p.  2008 , submitted to apj zucker , d.  b. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 650 , l41"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> according to the cold dark matter scenario , a large number of dark subhalos should be located within the halo of each milky - way sized galaxy . one promising possibility for detecting such subhalos </S>",
    "<S> is to try to observe their gravitational lensing effects on background sources . </S>",
    "<S> dark matter subhalos in the @xmath0  </S>",
    "<S> @xmath1 m@xmath2 mass range should cause strong gravitational lensing on the ( sub)milliarcsecond scales , which can be observed only using space vlbi . </S>",
    "<S> we study the feasibility of a strong - lensing detection of dark subhalos by deriving the image separations expected for density profiles favoured by current simulations and comparing it to the angular resolution of both existing and upcoming observational facilities . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the detection of subhalos is likely much more difficult than suggested in previous studies , due to the smaller image separations predicted for subhalo density profiles more realistic than the singular isothermal sphere models often adopted . </S>"
  ]
}