{
  "article_text": [
    "the taurus molecular cloud has long been a valued target for studies of star formation and the interstellar medium .",
    "its proximity ( 140 pc ) and displacement from the galactic plane ( b@xmath1 - 19@xmath2 ) afford high spatial resolution views of a star forming region with little or no confusion from background stars and gas .",
    "however , the large angular extent of the taurus cloud ( @xmath3100 deg@xmath0 ) on the sky has limited most previous investigations to small , targeted areas or full coverage with coarse angular resolution . given the complexity of the ism and the star formation process , such limited views may miss fine , structural features within the cloud or fail to recognize large scale patterns in the gas .",
    "yet such structure provides critical clues to the prevailing physical processes that govern the formation of stars .    the sheer volume of the data that have been obtained and the number of analyses that have been carried out preclude giving a complete listing of the references to taurus , so we will have to be selective rather than comprehensive , recognizing that we may have omitted many valuable contributions . the most complete inventory of the molecular gas content within the taurus cloud is provided by @xcite , who observed  j=1 - 0 emission from 750 deg@xmath0 of the taurus - auriga - perseus regions .",
    "they estimate the molecular mass resident within the taurus - auriga cloud to be 3.5@xmath410@xmath5 .",
    "however , the 30  angular resolution of this survey precludes an examination of the small scale structure of the cloud . targeted studies with higher angular resolution of  and  emission from individual sub - clouds of taurus",
    "reveal some of the relationships between the molecular gas , magnetic fields , and star formation but offer little insight to the coupling of these structures to larger scales and features @xcite .",
    "other studies have utilized other molecular tracers and even higher angular resolution to probe gas having different characteristics in some limited small regions of taurus .",
    "some examples include @xcite employing ccs , @xcite and @xcite using c@xmath6o , @xcite using h@xmath7co@xmath8 , and @xcite employing n@xmath9h@xmath8 .",
    "many individual cores have been observed in nh@xmath10 , a tracer in which they appear well - defined , as indicated by the compilation of @xcite .",
    "the leiden / dwingeloo 21 cm study @xcite traced the atomic hydrogen towards taurus , but with an angular resolution of 35 .",
    "one investigation @xcite used the arecibo radio telescope having an angular resolution of 4 , but included only @xmath11300 positions to probe the self ",
    "absorption seen in the 21 cm hi line .",
    "this cold atomic hydrogen appears to be associated with molecular gas @xcite , but the limited sampling of shuter et al .",
    "does not reveal much about its morphology .",
    "the far  infrared emission from taurus has been studied by @xcite , who also compared it to moderate resolution maps of  j = 1@xmath110 emission .",
    "the dust column density distribution has been examined from 2mass extinction by @xcite and does bear a quite close resemblance to the integrated intensity of , and thus to the column density of gas .    with the deployment of heterodyne focal plane arrays at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths mounted on large or moderate - sized telescopes ,",
    "it is possible to construct high spatial dynamic range , spectroscopic images of molecular line emission from interstellar clouds @xcite . in this contribution",
    ", we present the data from the spectroscopic imaging campaign of  and  j=1 - 0 emission obtained with the fcrao 14 m telescope and the 32 element sequoia focal plane array .",
    "the combined dataset of  and  allows us to make a much more accurate inventory of gas column density and mass for the taurus molecular cloud than hitherto attempted . at high gas column densities , because of its greater optical depth ,  is insensitive to variations in underlying column density .",
    "however , because of its higher abundance , it is effective in tracing much of the lower column density regions in the molecular cloud .",
    "the  transition , with its lower optical depth , allows us to probe deeper into the envelopes and trace the underlying structure of the molecular gas . using both  and  we can derive the structure and column density of the molecular gas in different regimes of column density .",
    "the data from this survey constitute the most detailed view constructed to date of a molecular cloud and provides critical information for detailed studies of gas dynamics within the molecular interstellar medium . in this paper , we summarize the instrumentation , and data collection and analysis methods , and present global characteristics of noise and line emission from this survey . detailed scientific motivation and results can be found in @xcite .",
    "all observations presented in this paper were taken with the 14  meter diameter millimeter - wavelength telescope and the 32 pixel focal plane array sequoia @xcite of the five college radio astronomy observatory .",
    "the fwhm beam sizes of the telescope at the observed frequencies are 45  ( 115.271202 ghz ) and 47  ( 110.201353 ghz ) .",
    "the main beam efficiencies at these frequencies are 0.45 and 0.50 respectively as determined from measurements of jupiter .",
    "previous measurements of the extended error beam of the telescope and radome structure by measuring the disks of the sun and moon indicate that there can be @xmath12% net contribution from extended emission outside the main beam from a region @xmath13 in diameter .",
    "the shape of this error beam is approximately circular , but the amount of contribution of emission at any given point from this error beam pattern depends on details of the distribution of the emission from the source . all data presented here are in t@xmath14 ( k ) , uncorrected for telescope beam efficiencies .",
    "the backends were comprised of a system of 64 autocorrelation spectrometers each configured with 25 mhz bandwidth and 1024 spectral channels .",
    "no smoothing was applied to the autocorrelation function so the spectral resolution was 29.5 khz per channel corresponding to 0.076  ( ) and 0.080 ( ) at the observed frequencies .",
    "the total coverage in velocity is 65  ( ) and 68  ( ) respectively .",
    "the spectrometers were centered at a v@xmath15 of 6 .",
    "the taurus molecular cloud was observed over two observing seasons starting in november 2003 and ending in may 2005 .",
    "the  and  lines were observed simultaneously enabling excellent positional registration and calibration .",
    "system temperatures ranged from 350 - 500 k for the  line and 150 - 300 k for the  line .",
    "the fiducial center position of the map was @xmath16(2000 ) = @xmath17 , @xmath18(2000 ) = @xmath19 .",
    "the @xmath20 deg@xmath0 selected region of the cloud was divided into 356 submaps , each @xmath21 in size .",
    "each submap was observed using the on - the - fly ( otf ) mapping technique in which the telescope is continuously scanned back and forth along the right ascension axis while rapidly reading the spectrometers .",
    "the telescope was scanned at a rate such that 2 samples of data were collected while traversing the fwhm beam width at 115 ghz ( 45 ) .",
    "an additional ramping offset of 1  at the beginning and end of each scan was used to ensure stable motion of the antenna .",
    "otf scans were spaced by 34  in declination .",
    "since the sequoia dewar is fixed with respect to the azimuth - elevation coordinate system , the scanning rate and declination offset between scan rows assured that the target field was densely sampled by the array . a given position on the sky",
    "was observed by most of the pixels in the array .",
    "such redundant measurements increase the effective integration time at that position and also dilute the effects that arise from the small variations of noise and gain between the pixels of the array .    with a focal plane array and ramping offsets , there are data points that lie outside of the target 30@xmath430  area .",
    "upon convolution into a regularly spaced grid ( see  [ data_process ] ) , these peripheral points contribute to the integration times of points located within but near the edge of the target area . to increase our mapping efficiency the submaps were spaced by 33 , which enabled the peripheral spectra from contiguous submaps to be coadded with sufficient integration time to achieve the desired sensitivity .",
    "the target t@xmath14 sensitivities , @xmath22 , for each convolved ( see  2.3 )  and  spectrum were 0.65 k and 0.25 k respectively as gauged by the root - mean square of antenna temperature values within signal - free backend channels .",
    "the sensitivity of a submap was evaluated by the median rms value of @xmath22 , from the set of constituent spectra .",
    "submaps with rms values in excess of 0.75 k were re - observed until the median value of @xmath22 of the co - added set of data was less than this maximum allowed value .",
    "position - switched spectral data requires a clean off position , which is free of line emission over the entire footprint of the sequoia array .",
    "we used 5 different off positions spread around the taurus molecular cloud . the right ascension and declinations of the off positions used in j2000 co - ordinates are ( @xmath23 , @xmath24 ) , ( @xmath25 , @xmath26 ) , ( @xmath27 , @xmath28 ) , ( @xmath29 , @xmath30 ) , and ( @xmath31 , @xmath32 ) .",
    "for any given submap observed , we typically chose the closest off position .",
    "the first two positions were known to be free of co emission from previous studies .",
    "the other positions were derived from constructing small maps in  and  at each position ( a guess at an initial off was derived from the iras 100@xmath33 m map ) .",
    "these maps were typically 10@xmath34 10@xmath35 in size , and it was verified that  was not detectable to @xmath36 k level in the map .",
    "in addition to the otf maps , for each day of observing , pointing and focus measurements were made using a sio maser source , iktau ( @xmath37 , @xmath38 ) every few hours .",
    "the pointing accuracy of the fcrao 14  m telescope is typically better than 5 . after each pointing observation ,",
    "a single 80 second long position - switched observation in  and  was performed at the fiducial center position to keep track of the relative calibration accuracy of the whole survey ( see  [ ps - uncertainty ] ) .",
    "for the observing campaign , a dynamic website with a relational database backend was created . from this website",
    ", the observing team could monitor the status of observations made to date , plan new observations , generate observing scripts , immediately reduce the otf map after it was completed using a simple data reduction pipeline , view the integrated intensities of the spectra at the fiducial center position , and produce summary statistics of the map .",
    "the website also listed the sensitivities obtained in each submap , and produced prioritized list of submaps left to observe .      on -",
    "the - fly mapping generates a set of data that is densely but irregularly sampled on the sky . to construct",
    "regularly sampled spectroscopic data cubes and to coadd spatially redundant measurements , the data were convolved into an output grid using a kernel that accounts for the edge taper of the 14 m antenna to minimize noise aliasing , and retains the full angular resolution of the telescope .",
    "in addition to this spatial weighting , a spectrum was further weighted by the factor @xmath39 , where @xmath22 is the measured rms noise .",
    "the spatial pixel separation in the regridded maps is @xmath40 .",
    "following this initial processing of submaps into data cubes , a systematic trend was present in the spectral baselines owing to gain drifts in the receiver .",
    "each otf scan begins with the measurement of off position , followed by two raster scanned rows of on position observations , finally ending in an off position observation .",
    "the final spectra were computed using both off position observations weighting them equally .",
    "spectra taken close in time to either of the off positions typically show a concave curvature in the baseline . while spectra taken approximately midway between the two offs typically show a convex curvature in baseline .",
    "these curvatures were small with respect to the noise of any single spectrum but were evident when averaging spectra with comparable time displacements from the off measurement or when integrating individual spectra over velocity intervals comparable to the half period of the baseline curvature .    to rectify these baseline curvatures , we subtracted a baseline polynomial that depended on the spectral and sky coordinates of spectra within a given submap .",
    "we found that a second order polynomial along the spectral axis was sufficient and variations along the spatial axes could be adequately described by a first order polynomial .",
    "accordingly , for each submap , we fit the parameterized baseline polynomial , @xmath41 where @xmath42 are the central coordinates of the submap , and @xmath43 and @xmath44 parameterize the variation of the baseline curvature over the spatial axes . in the fitting procedure ,",
    "we exclude the window @xmath45  that contains the spectral line emission from the taurus molecular cloud .",
    "this procedure has the advantage that only 12 parameters are required to specify the baselines for an entire submap , rather than the three per spectrum that would be needed for a standard baseline subtraction .",
    "all of the parameters are recorded so that the unbaselined data could be recovered if necessary .",
    "the fitting of a smooth baseline function to an entire submap also avoids the inadvertent removal of a broad , low - level , localized emission line component that could be produced by outflows and other energetic processes .",
    "the maximum amplitudes of the baseline curvature were typically greater in the  data , where the most severe cases were still limited to levels less than 25 mk ( @xmath46 ) . to demonstrate the need and effect of this baselining procedure",
    ", we show in figure  [ baseline]a  spectra averaged over 10@xmath410  boxes from a submap representative of the worse cases of baseline curvature .",
    "we emphasize that the curvature is not readily evident in a single spectrum .",
    "the thick solid lines show the fitted parameterized baselines averaged over the same boxes .",
    "the spatial variation in curvature is most significant along the scanning ( @xmath47 ) direction , as noted above , with a slow drift in the @xmath48 direction as the on - off elevation difference varies during the 2-hour submap observation .",
    "figure  [ baseline]b shows the same average spectra after removal of the fitted baselines , with thick lines at zero intensity for reference .",
    "the 356 regridded submaps , each of which have a size of @xmath49 , were further consolidated into a set of larger data cubes .",
    "there are 88 such consolidated cubes , forming a grid of @xmath50 data cubes , dubbed hard  edge cubes ( as they do not have overlapping regions between two contiguous cubes ) .",
    "each hard - edge cube is assembled from a set of input regridded @xmath21 cubes , after removing the spectral and spatially derived baselines described above from each cube , and subsequently averaging the data together , weighting them by @xmath39 , where @xmath22 is the rms in the derived baseline . in angular offsets , the full extent of the combined hard ",
    "edge cubes are ( 5.75 , @xmath51 ) in ra offsets and ( @xmath52 , 5.75 ) in dec offsets from the fiducial center of the map .",
    "thus for the full @xmath53 region spaced at 20 , there are 3,167,100 spectra in each isotopologue in the combined set of hard  edge cubes .",
    "most of the hard ",
    "edge cubes have a spatial size of 1 square degree , except for the cubes that lie on the four edges of the region covered , which measure 1.25 square degrees .",
    "the hard  edge cubes at the four corners of the taurus map have a size of 1.5625 square degrees ( @xmath54 ) .",
    "in order to track the relative calibration of the survey that was taken over the course of two observing seasons , we made position - switched ( ps ) measurements on the central ( 0,0 ) position every few hours .",
    "since sequoia does not rotate with the sky , only the ( 0,0 ) position was uniformly repeated .",
    "these ( 0,0 ) spectra were baseline subtracted and integrated over the velocity intervals 2 - 10  and 3 - 9  for  and  respectively to produce an integrated line intensity .",
    "both the line profile shape and integrated intensity offer a cross check on the pointing and focus state of the telescope system .",
    "the set of these measurements also provide a quantitative measure of the calibration uncertainty of the data .",
    "figure  [ pscalib ] shows the full set of measurements taken over the course of the survey .",
    "the mean and standard deviation , weighted by the statistical error for each spectrum , of the integrated intensity for both isotopologues are @xmath55  and @xmath56 . after subtracting the statistical uncertainties in quadrature , the estimated calibration uncertainties for  and  are @xmath57 and @xmath58  respectively , corresponding to a relative calibration uncertainty of 7% for  and 9.3% for .",
    "submaps that followed or preceded position switched measurements that significantly deviated from these mean values were reobserved .",
    "quantitative measures of cloud structure rely on the sensitivity of the data , its uniformity across the target field , and the underlying noise characteristics of the data . for individual submaps , on - the - fly mapping with a focal plane array produces near uniform sensitivity over most of the field . toward the edges of the submap , the noise necessarily increases as there is less integration time accumulated at these positions .",
    "however , our placement of submaps ensured that there are sufficient overlaps of contiguous fields so that these spectra accumulated additional integration time .",
    "indeed , upon the construction of the 1 deg@xmath0 cubes , the sensitivity of these `` edge '' spectra is comparable or better than the spectra from the central parts of any submap .    for a given spectrum , the statistical error of the antenna temperature at any channel , @xmath22 ,",
    "is conventionally estimated from the standard deviation of antenna temperatures within intervals in which no signal is present .",
    "this measure includes noise contributions from the instrument and atmosphere . for the taurus survey ,",
    "we have calculated @xmath22 for all the co - added convolved and resampled  and  spectra excluding values within the velocity range of the taurus cloud ( -5 @xmath59 ) .",
    "the cumulative distributions of @xmath60 and @xmath61 ) are shown in figure  [ hist_rms ] .",
    "the steepness of these distributions provides an approximate measure of noise uniformity .",
    "the first , second , and third quartile values are 0.53 k , 0.58 k , and 0.63 k for  and 0.23 k , 0.26 k , and 0.28 k for .",
    "the antenna temperature distribution of all voxels within the data cube offers another measure of the noise properties . in figure  [ taurus_voxel ] , this distribution is shown for the composite  and  data cubes of the survey .",
    "for both data cubes , statistical noise contributes to the peak component centered on t@xmath14=0.0 k. signal from the taurus cloud is responsible for the excess positive emission . in the ideal case",
    "in which all spectra have gaussian distributed fluctuations with constant rms value , @xmath22 , the dispersion of the voxel distribution about t@xmath14=0 k would be equivalent to @xmath22 .",
    "more realistically , the noise is not uniform and not necessarily gaussian .",
    "for example , the use of a common reference position for many source spectra introduces correlated noise . with otf mapping using a focal plane array , where a given position on the sky is sampled by many pixels in the array ,",
    "this effect is present but not as severe as discrete mapping methods that share reference positions @xcite .",
    "as shown in figure  [ hist_rms ] , the noise of this survey is not uniform . to assess departures from the gaussian character of the distribution of noise in the  and  data ,",
    "we have generated equivalently sized data cubes filled with gaussian noise values that follow the same distribution of @xmath22 values shown in figure  [ hist_rms ] .",
    "the respective distributions of these purely gaussian noise spectra , shown as the dotted lines in figure  [ taurus_voxel ] , provide an excellent match to the zero - centered noise components .",
    "we conclude that the noise measured in the  and  data cubes can not be readily distinguished from pure gaussian noise .",
    "it is dominated by statistical fluctuations from the receiver and the sky rather than by systematic contributions .",
    "two dimensional images are generated from the spectroscopic data cubes by reducing the information of each spectrum to a single scalar value .",
    "these reductions include maps of maximum value , the integration of spectra over a set of velocity intervals ( zero moment ) , and higher moments such as the centroid velocity or line width . to convey a fraction of the information resident within these data cubes , we show some of these reductions in images of the taurus cloud .",
    "zero moment images derived from the  and  data cubes over the  range @xmath62 to @xmath63  in 1  intervals are presented in figure  [ tint ] .",
    "the two images show quite distinct distributions between the two isotopologues .",
    "the  j=1 - 0 integrated emission is mostly diffuse , even towards the three known primary sub clouds of taurus ( heiles cloud 2 , barnard 18 , l1495 ) . in the most faint regions , there are weak `` streaks '' or striations of  emission that are typically aligned with the local magnetic field direction @xcite . the  j=1 - 0 emission",
    "is mostly distributed within high contrast filaments . however , even within the diffuse regions , the weak  emission exhibits a striated pattern .",
    "these differences between the  and  distributions can be readily attributed to the higher opacity of the  emission that likely limits its probed volume to the low column density envelope of the cloud .",
    "images of peak  and  intensity are shown in figure  [ tmax ] .",
    "for the optically thick  line , the peak intensity is a valuable measure of the excitation temperature . in figures",
    "[ taurus_00]-[taurus_12 ] , we show the distribution of  and  j=1 - 0 emission averaged over 1  velocity intervals centered at  0.5 , 1.5 , 2.5 ... 12.5 . as noted by many previous studies @xcite , more of the emission is found at the higher spatial frequencies when integrating over small velocity intervals .",
    "the structure that is measured arises from variations in the velocity field rather than those of density or column density @xcite .",
    "these narrow velocity integrated images reveal stunning textural patterns and individual features that occur over a broad range of scales .",
    "there are regions of faint , low surface brightness emission , most notably evident in the  data .",
    "often , this emission component exhibits low amplitude striations that are similar to the wind swept structures observed within terrestrial cirrus clouds . owing to lower optical depth , the  emission shows more high contrast emission originating from higher column density regions located deeper within the cloud .",
    "the feature located within the southwest corner with  @xmath1 10  in figure  16 may not be associated with the taurus cloud .",
    "to convey the coarse velocity field of the cloud and to further emphasize the quality of the data , we have constructed average  and  j=1 - 0 spectra from each 1 , 1.25 , or 1.56 deg@xmath0 cube .",
    "these are shown in figure  [ taurus - spectra ] overlayed upon images of integrated intensity .",
    "each spectrum is an average of 32,400 , 40,500 , or 50,625 individual spectra with typical rms values of 0.014 k for  and 0.006 k for  ( t@xmath14 ) .",
    "these rms values are greater than one would expect averaging this number of spectra each with the respective median values shown in figure  [ hist_rms ] .",
    "this discrepancy arises from spatially correlated noise imposed on spectra sharing a common reference measurement in the otf data collection scheme .",
    "the average spectra demonstrate excellent baseline fidelity with no evidence for any systematic noise contribution .",
    "the average spectra do reveal several significant properties of the taurus velocity field .",
    "the previously established large scale velocity gradient across the taurus molecular cloud is apparent in the systemic shift of the spectra from blueshifted velocities on the eastern side to redshifted velocities on the western portion of the cloud .",
    "in addition , many of the average spectra exhibit asymmetries and multiple velocity components that attest to the complex structure along the line of sight .",
    "the  and  data cubes of taurus provide panoramic views of the structure of a 10@xmath5  molecular cloud .",
    "the resident information is sufficiently vast to require statistical descriptions of the data that may offer insight to the prevailing conditions or state of the cloud .",
    "the cumulative probability density function is defined to be @xmath64 where @xmath65 + with @xmath66 the 2 dimensional distribution of some measured parameter , @xmath67 a moving threshold of that parameter , and @xmath68 the maximum value of the measured parameter in the whole map . the weighted cumulative pdf biases",
    "each bin of @xmath66 by the total signal , @xmath69 , of all contributing pixels , @xmath70    figures  [ hist_wttint ] and [ hist_wttmax ] show the cumulative pdf and weighted cumulative pdf for integrated intensity ( denoted as w ( ) and w ( ) respectively ) , and peak temperature distributions ( denoted as t@xmath71 ( ) and t@xmath71 ( ) respectively ) .",
    "the weighting function used is the corresponding integrated intensity .",
    "the unweighted cumulative pdf shows the cumulative fraction of projected area as a function of integrated intensity ( figure  [ hist_wttint ] ) and peak temperature ( figure  [ hist_wttmax ] ) .",
    "the weighted cumulative pdf shows the cumulative fraction of integrated intensity as a function of integrated intensity ( figure  [ hist_wttint ] ) and peak temperature ( figure  [ hist_wttmax ] ) .",
    "the median values for the weighted pdfs of integrated intensity are 6.9 and 1.9  for  and  respectively .",
    "similarly , for peak temperature , the weighted median values are 4.1 k and 1.9 k. these figures demonstrate that much of the  and  signal originates from lines of sight within the low surface brightness regime of the taurus cloud .",
    "for example , the weighted cumulative pdfs demonstrate that half of the  flux of a cloud is emitted within the low surface brightness portion of the taurus molecular cloud having  integrated intensity less than 6.9  and peak temperature @xmath72  k. in terms of projected area , only @xmath73% of the cloud s area has integrated intensity @xmath74  or peak temperature @xmath75  k in .",
    "the fcrao survey of the taurus molecular cloud is a powerful set of data to investigate interstellar gas dynamics and the star formation process with high spatial resolution and spatial dynamic range .",
    "it offers a valuable complement to observations at other wavelengths that probe the dust component and the population of young stellar objects . in this paper",
    ", we summarized the instrumentation , data collection and processing procedures used in the survey .",
    "we also characterized the noise and signal distributions of the survey .",
    "the overall structure of the cloud , its column density distribution and mass , and relationship with the magnetic field are discussed in @xcite .",
    "this work was supported by nsf grant ast 05 - 40852 to the five college radio astronomy observatory , nsf grant ast-0407019 to cornell university , and by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology .",
    "we thank yvonne tang and marko krco for for assistance with observations .",
    "abergel , a. , boulanger , f. , fukui , y. , & mizuno , a. 1995 , , 111 , 483 brunt , c.m . &",
    "mac low , m. 2004 , apj , 604 , 196 burton , w.b . & hartmann , d. 1994 , in unveiling large  scale structures behind the milky way , asp conf .",
    "serives , vol .",
    "67 , c. balkowski & r.c .",
    "kraan - kortweg eds .",
    "( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 31 erickson , n.r .. grosslein , r.m . ,",
    "erickson , r.b . , & weinreb , s. 1999 , ieee trans .",
    "microwave theory tech .",
    ", 47(12 ) , 2212 goldsmith , p.f . &",
    "li , d. 2005 , , 622 , 938 goldsmith , p. f. , heyer , m. h. , narayanan , g. , snell , r. l. , li , d. , & brunt , c. , 2008 , to be submitted to apj heyer , m.h . , vrba , f. , snell , r.l . , schloerb , f.p . , strom , s.e . , goldsmith , p.f . , & strom , k.m",
    ". 1987 , apj , 321 , 855 heyer , m.h . , brunt , c. , snell , r.l . ,",
    "howe , j.e . ,",
    "schloerb , f.p . ,",
    "carpenter , j.m .",
    "1998 , apjs , 115 , 241 heyer , m.  h.  2000 , imaging at radio through submillimeter wavelengths , 217 , 213 heyer , m.h . , gong , h. , ostriker , e. , & brunt 2008 , submitted to apj jackson , j. m. , rathborne , j. m. , shah , r. y. , simon , r. , bania , t. m. , clemens , d. p. , chambers , e. t. , johnson , a. m. , dormody , m. , lavoie , r. , heyer , m. h. 2006 , apjs , 163 , 145 jijina , j. , myers , p.c . , & adams , f.c .",
    "1999 , , 125 , 161 langer , w.d . , velusamy , t. , kuiper , t.b.h . , levin , s. , olsen , e. , & migenes , v. 1995 , , 453 , 293 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d.  2000 , , 537 , 720 li , d. & goldsmith , p.f .",
    "2003 , , 585 , 823 mizuno , a. , onishi , t. , yonekura , y. , nagahama , t. , ogawa , h. , & fukui , y. 1995 , apj , 445 , l161 onishi , t. , mizuno , a. , kawamura , a. , ogawa , h. , fukui , y. 1996 , apj , 465 , 815 onishi , t. , mizuno , a. , kawamura , a. , ogawa , h. , & fukui , y. 1998 , , 502 , 296 onishi , t. , mizuno , a. , kawamura , a. , tachihara , k. , & fukui , y. 2002 , , 575 , 950 padoan , p. , cambrsy , l. , & langer , w.d .",
    "1992 , , 580 , l57 schloerb , f.p .",
    "& snell , r.l .",
    "1984 , apj , 283 , 129 shuter , w.l.h . ,",
    "dickman , r.l . , & klatt , c. 1987 , , 322 , l103 tatematsu , k. , umemoto , t. , kandori , r. , & sekimoto , y. 2004 , , 606 , 333 ungerechts , h. & thaddeus , p. 1987 , apj , 322 , 706"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the fcrao survey of the taurus molecular cloud observed the  and  j=1 - 0 emission from 98 deg@xmath0 of this important , nearby star forming region . </S>",
    "<S> this set of data with 45  resolution comprises the highest spatial dynamic range image of an individual molecular cloud constructed to date , and provides valuable insights to the molecular gas distribution , kinematics , and the star formation process . in this contribution </S>",
    "<S> , we describe the observations , calibration , data processing , and characteristics of the noise and line emission of the survey . </S>",
    "<S> the angular distribution of  and  emission over 1  velocity intervals and the full velocity extent of the cloud are presented . </S>",
    "<S> these reveal a complex , dynamic medium of cold , molecular gas . </S>"
  ]
}