{
  "article_text": [
    "automated feature recognition and tracking has long been a goal for scientists . with the advent of higher sensitivity satellite - based telescopes and the resulting increase in readout rates ,",
    "it is imperative to be able to do some preliminary data analysis in real time . without this ability , the large data rates achievable make it extremely difficult to implement onboard trigger programmes ( e.g. a flare trigger ) which allow the telescope pointing to be redirected to an area of interest almost immediately .",
    "furthermore , having a means of establishing solar phenomena in real time allows instrument users to select datasets of particular interest much more readily than in the past .",
    "thus , many schemes have been set up to push this form of real - time data analysis forward , including the heliophysics knowledge base programme , which will enable real - time detections of oscillatory phenomena occurring on the sun .",
    "current satellites , in particular the _ transition region and coronal explorer _ , , have enabled the analysis of many oscillatory signatures originating within the outer solar atmosphere .",
    "aschwanden  et  al .",
    "@xcite , schrijver  et  al .",
    "@xcite , wang &  solanki  @xcite , de  pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite and marsh  &  walsh  @xcite , just to name a few typical examples ( a recent review is in e.g. banerjee  et  al .",
    "2007 ) , all report oscillatory phenomena occurring within coronal loop structures .",
    "previously , however , the majority of work on oscillating coronal loops has been focused on the temporal domain ( e.g. , nakariakov  et  al .  1999 ) .",
    "however , it was suggested by erdlyi  &  verth  @xcite and verth  et  al .",
    "@xcite that the imaging capacities of current and future high - resolution instruments should allow us to investigate oscillatory phenomena in the spatial domain ( e.g. along the observed waveguide ) . inspired by these suggestions , in this work we investigate the spatial evolution of a coronal loop structure , independent of its position during a flare - induced kink oscillation . from this",
    "we can understand the behaviour of the loop , in the spatial domain , and analyse any phenomena which are flare induced , yet confined to the volume occupied by the loop . in   [ observations ] we describe the observations , while in   [ analy ] we discuss the methodologies used during the analysis of the data which allow us to accurately track the spatial evolution of coronal loops .",
    "a discussion of our results in the context of confined loop oscillations is given in ",
    "[ results ] , and our concluding remarks are in   [ conc ] .",
    "the data presented here are part of an observing sequence obtained on 1998 july 14 , using the imaging satellite . the optical setup of allowed a @xmath0  area surrounding active region noaa  8270 to be investigated with a spatial sampling of @xmath1  per pixel .",
    "the 171  filter was selected for these observations , which has an inherent passband width of 6.4 , allowing plasma in the temperature range 0.22.0  mk to be studied .",
    "the cadence of the instrument was not constant during the observing sequence , with the time between successive exposures varying between 66 and 82  s.    our dataset consists of 88 successive images providing nearly two hours of continuous , uninterrupted data . during the observing sequence , a large m4.6 flare occurred in the immediate vicinity of the active region under investigation .",
    "the data was retrieved directly from the lockheed martin solar and astrophysics labs database and was subjected to standard processing algorithms : the routine was implemented to remove cosmic - ray streaks , reduce readout noise and prepare the data in a user - friendly format .",
    "de - rotation of the images was also deemed necessary , since the observing sequence lasts approximately two hours , equating to a relatively large solar rotation ( @xmath2 at disk centre ) . from this point , it was possible to use additional programmes to aid in the analysis of the data as described in detail below .",
    "we implement a form of laplacian image sharpening . using the same 3-by-3 convolution kernel implemented by gonzalez & woods  @xcite , we are able to enhance the fine - scale structure found in the images .",
    "figure  [ tracefull ] shows the result of applying the convolution kernel to a full image .",
    "note the amount of fine detail found in this filtered image ( top - right panel of fig  [ tracefull ] ) .",
    "the next step is to add this fine - scale information back into the original image in order to sharpen the image .",
    "note , in the bottom panel of figure  [ tracefull ] , the emphasis of fine structures when compared to the original , unfiltered image .",
    "figure  [ tracefull ] demonstrates that these processes are readily applicable to full - size fields of view due to the fast processing ability of modern day computers . for the purposes of the data under investigation here ,",
    "all images were subjected to laplacian image sharpening routines .",
    "after successful completion of image sharpening , edge detection algorithms can be implemented .",
    "the sharpened images have increased fine - scale information and as such provide the necessary platform for establishing feature edges which may have been previously unresolvable .",
    "immediately after the flare event , one particular coronal loop is seen to oscillate .",
    "this kink - mode oscillation has been investigated many times ( see aschwanden  et  al .",
    "1999 for the initial investigation ) in the temporal domain .",
    "however , following erdlyi  &  verth  @xcite , we propose here to investigate the behaviour of the loop in the spatial domain . in order to track the spatial behaviour of the loop ,",
    "an automated routine was devised to minimise errors introduced through human interaction with the data .",
    "the first step involves intensity thresholding , whereby features in the field - of - view are contoured depending on their emissive flux .",
    "threshold limits for contouring are entirely arbitrary and as such may vary from dataset to dataset as well as for which features are desirable to contour . however , for the data presented here , a lower intensity threshold of the background median value plus 5  sigma is used .",
    "this value allowed us to contour coronal loop structures , yet leave out background quiet sun as shown in figure  [ contoured ] . to emphasize feature edges and remove shallow intensity gradients , a binary format for feature mapping",
    "all pixels which lie above the lower intensity threshold defined above are assigned a value of ` 1 ' .",
    "those pixels which lie below the threshold were assigned a value of ` 0 ' , as seen in figure  [ binary ] .",
    "this binary format provides an absolute intensity cut - off thus providing a definite feature edge which can be tracked , both spatially and temporally . placing the images into binary format was deemed necessary due to the poor spatial resolution of the spacecraft , whereby neighbouring bright features are hard to distinguish unless a form of thresholding is used .",
    "future instruments , which provide higher spatial resolution , should eradicate the need for binary formatting .",
    "the binary image is padded using a zeroed array from which feature edge tracking can commence .",
    "tracking of this feature edge is performed using a wavelet modulous maxima ( wmm ) technique ( muzy  et  al .",
    "1993 , mcateer  et  al .",
    "2007 ) . from the padded binary array created above",
    ", a horizontal pixel is chosen .",
    "figure  [ puffed_yline ] shows the selection of horizontal pixel 125 , as indicated by the vertical dashed line , as well as the corresponding intensity plot along this vertical line .",
    "a wavelet transform is produced for this intensity plot , demonstrated in figure  [ puffed_yline ] , utilizing a mexican hat wavelet .",
    "a mexican hat wavelet , which is a double derivative of the traditional morlet wavelet , is very useful for detecting sharp intensity gradients which are present due to the binary format implemented above .",
    "an absolute wavelet power spectrum is plotted as a function of vertical pixel element in figure  [ fractal_x125 ] .",
    "additionally , maximum wavelet power features are traced down to the x - axis of the power spectrum and reveal the locations of maximum intensity gradients .",
    "figure  [ fractal_x125 ] re - plots the intensity in the vertical direction at horizontal pixel 125 and it can be seen that where the maximum wavelet power meets the x - axis also corresponds to the edges of the coronal loop under investigation .    from figure  [ contoured ] , it is clear that better contrast is achieved at the northern edge of the loop where its brightness overlies fainter , less intense , quiet sun .",
    "by contrast , the southern edge of the loop in figure  [ contoured ] is difficult to separate from other loop structures , due to the densely packed nature of such features closer to active regions . since in this instance",
    "it is desirable to track the upper edge of the coronal loop , we disregard the first maximum wavelet power location and record the position where the second maximum wavelet power location intersects with the x - axis .",
    "this pin points the exact location of the northerly edge of the coronal loop in question .",
    "this process is repeated over the entire e / w direction , and for all frames in the observing sequence , with the subsequent position of the northern edge of the coronal loop recorded . from the resulting loop edge positions , it is possible to analyse both temporal , and spatial , variations .",
    "our main goal is to investigate the spatial behaviour of the oscillating coronal loop . however , to verify that the presented loop - tracking routine is functioning properly , derived results in the temporal domain are compared to previous findings . to compensate for the timing irregularity outlined in   [ observations ] , all data were interpolated onto a constant - cadence time series with linear interpolation performed between data points .",
    "this provides the necessary platform for temporal studies to commence . maintaining consistency with the previous example",
    ", a plot indicating the variation with time of the location of the northern edge of the coronal loop , for horizontal pixel  125 , is displayed in figure  [ tracetime ] .",
    "it is clear that a periodicity of approximately 270  s exists , consistent with the findings of aschwanden  et  al .",
    "this result implies that the loop detection and tracking algorithms , developed here , are functioning accurately .    from figure  [ tracetime ]",
    ", it appears that the oscillating coronal loop passes through an equilibrium position at times of 0 , 280 and 502  s , with the overall shape of the loop similar at the corresponding frames .",
    "if indeed the shape of the loop is identical at times of 0 , 280 and 502  s , then a subtraction of any two of these loop shapes should provide a resulting image equal to zero .",
    "however , upon subtraction of the loop shape at 0  s from that at 280  s , a spatial periodicity is revealed .",
    "running this resulting loop shape through a one - dimensional spatial wavelet transform establishes an oscillatory period along the northern loop edge of 10  pixels ( fig  [ subtracted_flare2 ] ) . a number of strict criteria implemented on the data , including the test against spurious detections of power that may be due to poisson noise , the comparison of the input lightcurve with a large number ( 1500 ) of randomized time - series with an identical distribution of counts ( see oshea  et  al .",
    "2001 for a detailed explanation ) and the exclusion of oscillations which last , in duration , less than @xmath3 cycles , allowed us to insure that oscillatory signatures correspond to real periodicities .",
    "these criteria have been described in detail in previous papers ( see jess  et  al .",
    "2007 , banerjee  et  al .  2001 , mcateer  et  al .",
    "2004 , ireland  et  al .  1999 ,",
    "mathioudakis  et  al .",
    "2003 ) . furthermore , according to the ritz theorem of variational principles ( ritz  1908 ) , spatial amplitude dependence is much more sensitive to structural changes of the magnetic loop ( _ e.g. _ stratification , magnetic field divergence , twist etc . )",
    "than the traditionally studied period ratios of fft - identified modes of oscillations .",
    "thus , analysing spatial variations , rather than the more traditional temporal variations , will provide a useful platform in which to maximize the limited resolution of current satellite imagers .",
    "for the plate scale equal to @xmath1 per pixel , the detected 10  pixel periodicity corresponds to an absolute spatial distance , or wavelength , of approximately 3500  km per complete oscillation ( more than three complete cycles detected ) .    to investigate if this periodicity is visible at the following equilibrium position ( 502  s ) , we subtract the loop shape at 0  s from that at 502  s , and pass through our one - dimensional spatial wavelet transform .",
    "the resulting evidence , shown in figure  [ subtracted_flare ] , indicates that the 10  pixel spatial periodicity is indeed still present , albeit with a reduction in oscillatory power .",
    "we interpret the reduction in oscillatory power as the physical signature of damping of the loop - top oscillations . on further inspection of figures  [ subtracted_flare2 ]  and  [ subtracted_flare ]",
    ", we see that the oscillatory power , in normalised digital number ( dn ) , has dropped from 29 to 16 over the 222  s interval .",
    "this equates to a 45% decrease in oscillatory power and is consistent with other aspects of coronal - loop oscillations , which are seen to be heavily damped ( aschwanden  et  al .",
    "2003 , ruderman  2005 , terradas  et  al .",
    "2006 , dymova  &  ruderman  2007 ) .    to investigate a possible phase relationship ( athay  &  white  1978 , oshea  et  al .",
    "2007 ) , we create a cross - wavelet power spectrum between the two detected loop - top oscillations , and inspect the resulting spatial - phase diagram ( fig  [ phase ] ) .",
    "this figure reveals a clear phase shift , over many complete wavelengths , of @xmath4 to @xmath5 . due to the long kink - oscillation period ( @xmath6  270  s ) , and the relatively poor , and irregular , cadence of the instrument",
    ", we are only able to evaluate kink - equilibrium spatial periodicities at two times during the presented dataset . at these two times , the coronal loop undergoing the kink oscillation has returned to it s equilibrium state - i.e. matching the shape and position of the loop prior to the flare - induced kink oscillation . between these two equilibrium states , the loop in question has undergone one complete kink - oscillation cycle .",
    "however , since we can not evaluate more than two kink - equilibrium spatial periodicities , we are unable to determine the direction of wave propagation .",
    "three or more kink - equilibrium positions would allow for a comparison of phase differences , thus providing an indication to the direction of wave propagation .",
    "thus , a phase shift of @xmath4 to @xmath5 may equally be represented as @xmath7 to @xmath8 , where @xmath9 is an integer number arising from the low sampling rate of the instrument . as described by athay  &  white  @xcite and oshea  et  al .",
    "@xcite , the errors associated with the phase shift can only be constrained and determined unambiguously by careful measurements over the full range of observed wavelengths . to reduce the errors involved with phase difference analysis we evaluate the phase shift over a number of different wavelengths . through examination of the fourier and global spectra associated with the detected 3500  km spatial oscillation ,",
    "in addition to the boundaries of the 99% confidence - level contours , we find that the fwhm of the presented oscillation is 5  pixels , or @xmath6  1800  km .",
    "this corresponds to 42  wavelength resolution elements , when using a 0.016 spacing between discrete scales , in the evaluation of the cross - wavelet power spectrum ( torrence  &  compo  1998 ) .",
    "performing phase difference analysis on each of the 42  wavelength elements , spanning a wavelength coverage of 26004400  km , we are able to verify the existence of a @xmath4 to @xmath5 phase shift .",
    "more importantly , we can reduce the error associated with the calculated phase differences through examination of the multiple wavelength elements .",
    "the bottom panel of figure  [ phase ] includes the maximum deviation , from the average spatial - phase diagram , induced by the analyses of 42  wavelength resolution elements .",
    "it can be seen from figure  [ phase ] that the phase error bars do not detract from the generalized shape of the spatial - phase diagram , thus validating the existence of a @xmath4 to @xmath5 phase shift .    in order to validate our results ,",
    "we have undertaken a number of further rigorous tests .",
    "we have implemented the same loop - edge detection and tracking processes on additional coronal loops away from the region under investigation , yet within the same field of view . since these loops are not connected with the flare event , and therefore not seen to oscillate , no spatial periodicities along the loop would be expected when two loop outlines are subtracted from one and other .",
    "subtracting the control loop outline at 0  s from that at 280  s after the flare , to remain consistent with the work above , and running through a one - dimensional spatial wavelet transform reveals no periodicities .",
    "furthermore , we tested for spatial periodicities , on the loop seen to oscillate , both prior to , and long after , the flare event .",
    "these tests found no oscillatory phenomena in either instance , indicating that the spatial periodicities detected are flare induced .",
    "to further test the abilities of the presented algorithm , we carry out an identical form of analysis on an additional case of an oscillating coronal loop observed by on 2001 april 15 .",
    "we chose a loop arcade which is seen to oscillate after being buffeted by a neighbouring x14.4 flare originating from noaa  9415 . implementing our algorithm on this dataset we are able to corraborate the kink periodicity and associated decay time described by verwichte  et  al .",
    "however , in this instance no coronal - loop spatial periodicities could be found .",
    "the presented algorithm is therefore applicable to all datasets and is a reliable tool for detecting kink oscillations .    additionally , to verify that the detected oscillation is not an artifact of the loop - tracking algorithm ,",
    "we have designed a numerical simulation to test the reliability of our oscillatory signal .",
    "a synthetic wave train is generated which is identical in both amplitude and wavelength to the detected oscillations , and propagates with an alfvn speed of 1000  km / s ( nakariakov  & verwichte  2005 ) .",
    "a resultant wave , formed from the numerical integration with time , is created based on real exposure times extracted from the image files . as would be expected ,",
    "if the exposure time is an exact integer multiple of the oscillatory period , the resultant wave form equals zero at all spatial locations ( fig  [ zero_sim ] ) .",
    "this is due to , @xmath10 where @xmath9 is an integer number and @xmath11 is time .",
    "by contrast , if the exposure time is set to a value _ not equal _ to an integer multiple of the period , then the propagating wave can be detected .",
    "figure  [ true_sim ] shows the resultant wave , formed using the exact exposure time taken from the images .",
    "it is clear , from figure  [ true_sim ] , that even though multiple oscillatory cycles pass through the same pixel on the detector , an oscillatory periodicity can still be detected .    throughout the analysis of the presented results , we interpret the translation of the coronal loop , both in the temporal _ and _ spatial domains , to be the result of the physical movement of this feature .",
    "other aspects may accompany , and subsequently aid , in the movement of the loop .",
    "things such as a change in temperature , or a change in inclination angle , may result in line - of - sight intensity changes . since the bandpass used allows a wide range of coronal temperatures to be investigated , and since the movement of the loop edge is restricted to @xmath12 , we feel confident that the main source of translation is caused by the physical movement of the loop itself .",
    "a new method for the detection , and subsequent tracking , of coronal loop structures is presented .",
    "this method also provides the ability to simultaneously search for longitudinal and transverse oscillations in real - time .",
    "it is possible to detect the periodic loop displacement caused by the influence of transverse waves , and in addition the intensity fluctuations , due to density restrictions and rarefactions , synonymous with longitudinal oscillations can also be easily identified through concurrent time - series analysis . through the subtraction of loop outlines , we are essentially removing general features and shapes which remain constant from frame to frame , yet magnifying features which evolve or change spatial position . utilizing our method for automated coronal loop analysis",
    ", we have detected spatial periodicities , on the scale of 3500  km per cycle , occurring on a coronal loop immediately after being buffeted by a neighbouring m4.6 flare .",
    "we detect the damping of these loop - top oscillations , with a 45% reduction in oscillatory power over a 222  s interval .",
    "in addition , we find a wrapped spatial phase shift of @xmath4 to @xmath5 , related to the time interval of 222  s between successive kink - oscillation equilibrium positions , for the travelling loop - top oscillations .",
    "we propose the above methodology will be useful in the future , especially with both temporal and spatial resolutions of space - borne solar telescopes constantly improving . from coronal imagers available on the upcoming _ solar dynamics observatory _ and _ solar orbiter _ , as well as the recently launched _",
    "hinode _ satellite , there will be a wealth of high - resolution images containing abundances of coronal loop oscillations .",
    "there are a number of currently available methods to detect and analysis such oscillatory phenomena .",
    "such techniques may be data specific , and therefore not applicable to a wide range of varying coronal observations .",
    "however , our technique is designed to be readily applicable to all coronal datasets , and is a great asset when spatial resolutions are of the highest order due to the wtmm techniques outlined here .",
    "we suggest that the currently presented method provide further excellent capabilities for the detection of both temporal _ and _ spatial coronal loop oscillations .",
    "dbj is supported by a northern ireland department for employment and learning studentship .",
    "dbj additionally thanks nasa goddard space flight center for a cast studentship  in particular doug rabin and roger thomas deserve special thanks for their endless help , support and scientific input .",
    "re acknowledges m. kray for patient encouragement and is also grateful to nsf , hungary ( otka , ref .",
    "fpk is grateful to awe aldermaston for the award of a william penney fellowship .",
    "wavelet software was provided by c. torrence and g.p .",
    "aschwanden , m. j. , fletcher , l. , schrijver , c. j. , & alexander , d. , 1999 , apj , 520 , 880894 aschwanden , m. j. , nightingale , r. w. , andries , j. , goossens , m. , & van doorsselaere , t. , 2003 , apj , 598 , 13751386 athay , r. g. , & white , o. r. , 1978 , apj , 226 , 1135 athay , r. g. , & white , o. r. , 1979 , apj , 229 , 1147 banerjee , d. , erdlyi , r. , oliver , r. & oshea , e. , 2007 , solar phys . , in press banerjee , d. , oshea , e. , doyle , j. g. , & goossens , m. , 2001 , a&a , 371 , 1137 de pontieu , b. , erdlyi , r. & de moortel , i. , 2005 , apj , 624 , l61 dymova , m. v. , & ruderman , m. s. , 2007 , a&a , 463 , 759 erdlyi , r. & verth , g. , 2007 , a&a , 642 , 743 gonzalez , r. , & woods , r. , 1992 , digital image processing , addison wesley , 414428 ireland , j. , walsh , r. w. , harrison , r. a. , & priest , e. r. , 1999 , a&a , 347 , 355 jess , d. b. , andic , a. , mathioudakis , m. , bloomfield , d. s. , & keenan , f. p. , 2007 ,",
    "a&a , 473 , 943 mcateer , r. t. j. , gallagher , p. t. , bloomfield , d.s . , williams , d. r. , mathioudakis , m. , & keenan , f.p . , 2004 , apj , 602 , 436445 mcateer , r. t. j. , young , c. a. , ireland , j. , & gallagher , p. t. , 2007 , apj , 662 , 691700 mcewan , m. p. , & de moortel , i. , 2006 , a&a , 448 , 763770 marsh , m. s. , & walsh , r. w. , 2006 , apj , 643 , 540548 mathioudakis , m. , seiradakis , j. h. , williams , d. r. , avgoloupis , s. , bloomfield , d. s. , & mcateer , r. t. j. , 2003 , a&a , 403 , 11011104 muzy , j. f. , bacry , e. , & arneodo , a. , 1993 , phys .",
    "e-47 , 875884 nakariakov , v. m. , ofman , l. , deluca , e. e. , roberts , b. , davila , j. m. , 1999 , science , 285 , 862864 nakariakov , v. m. , & verwichte , e. , 2005 , lrsp , 3 oshea , e. , 2001 , a&a , 368 , 1095 oshea , e. , banerjee , d. , & doyle , j. g. , 2006 , a&a , 452 , 10591068 oshea , e. , banerjee , d. , & doyle , j. g. , 2007 , a&a , 463 , 713725 ritz , w. , 1908 , j. reine angew .",
    ", 135 , 161 ruderman , m. s. , 2005 , proc .",
    "_ dynamic sun : challenges for theory and observations _ , esasp-600 , 96 schrijver , c. j. , aschwanden , m. j. , & title , a. m. , 2002 , sol .",
    ", 206 , 6998 sheeley , n. r. , wang , y. m. , hawley , s. h. , brueckner , g. e. , dere , k. p. , et .",
    "al . , 1997 , apj , 484 , 472478 terradas , j. , oliver , r. , & ballester , j. l. , 2006 , apj , 650 , 9194 torrence , c. , & compo , g. p. , 1998",
    "soc . , 79 , 61 verth , g. , van doorsselaere , t. , erdlyi , r. & goossens , m. 2007 , a&a , in press verwichte , e. , nakariakov , v. m. , ofman , l. , & deluca , e.e . , 2004 ,",
    "phys . , 223 , 7794 .",
    "wang , t. j. , & solanki , s. k. , 2004 , a&a , 421 , 3336"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a new method for automated coronal loop tracking , in both spatial and temporal domains , is presented . applying this technique to data , </S>",
    "<S> obtained using the 171  filter on 1998 july 14 , we detect a coronal loop undergoing a 270  s kink - mode oscillation , as previously found by aschwanden  et  al .  </S>",
    "<S> . however , we also detect flare - induced , and previously unnoticed , _ spatial periodicities _ on a scale of 3500  km , which occur along the coronal - loop edge . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , we establish a reduction in oscillatory power for these spatial periodicities of 45% over a 222  s interval . </S>",
    "<S> we relate the reduction in detected oscillatory power to the physical damping of these loop - top oscillations . </S>"
  ]
}