{
  "article_text": [
    "ultraluminous x - ray sources ( ulxs ) are defined as the most x - ray luminous , typically @xmath3  ergs  s@xmath4 , non - nuclear point - like objects in nearby galaxies .",
    "what environments and what types of stellar systems give rise to the ulx phenomenon is a subject of considerable topical interest .    the study of ulxs as a class has matured beyond mere number counts .",
    "the general approach is to search for statistically - significant correlations between ulxs and properties of their galactic environments . in this way , one hopes to eventually understand what physical processes are responsible for their formation , what influence they have on their environment , and how they have evolved over cosmic time .",
    "studies of ulxs as a class have reached some robust conclusions ; ulxs are associated with active star formation , at least on galaxy - wide scales ( swartz et al .  2004 ; gilfanov et al .  2004 ; liu et al .  2006 ; winter et al .  2006 ) being more common and more luminous in starburst and interacting / merging galaxies ( e.g. , zezas et al .",
    "2002 , gao et al .",
    "2003 ) than in normal galaxies and occurring more frequently in the past ( lehmer et al .",
    "2006 ) consistent with the observed rise in star formation density with redshift .",
    "ulxs are less luminous in early - type galaxies , potentially revealing a secondary population of unusually bright low - mass x - ray binaries or perhaps fortuitous beaming of a fraction of this population towards the observer ( irwin 2004 ; swartz et al .  2004 ;",
    "liu et al .  2006",
    "; see also king 2004 ) .",
    "there are circumstantial reasons to suspect that there may be differences between the rate of ulxs in nearby dwarf and giant galaxies .",
    "dwarf galaxies typically lack organized structure like bars and density waves that drive star formation yet their star formation rate ( sfr ) per unit area can be comparable to those of spiral galaxies ( hunter & gallagher 1986 ) .",
    "dwarf galaxies have evolved more slowly , retaining a higher gas fraction than giants in the current epoch ( geha et al .",
    "2006 ) and resulting in a lower metallicity ( lee et al .",
    "2006 and references therein ) .",
    "environmental factors , such as ram - pressure stripping , can strongly affect star formation in dwarfs whereas star formation in giant field galaxies is determined more by their merger history ( haines et al .",
    "if ulxs ( or the luminous subset of ulxs ) are preferentially associated with star formation , then there may be differences in the rates of ulxs in dwarfs compared to giants because of the different internal and environmental influences on star formation activity in galaxies of different mass .",
    "the ulx population in the local volume ( @xmath5  mpc ) is investigated in the following .",
    "  2 describes the sample of galaxies included in the study and defines three subsamples with differing selection criteria and hence different sample biases .",
    "the results of the search for ulxs in these subsamples are presented in   3 where it is shown that the specific ulx frequency ( number per unit galaxy mass ) increases towards lower galaxy mass down to a limit of @xmath03@xmath610@xmath7  m@xmath2  below which no ulxs have yet been detected .",
    "the significance of this result is discussed in   4 .",
    "by definition , ulxs are the most luminous non - nuclear sources in galaxies .",
    "nevertheless , their 0.5@xmath88.0  kev flux , @xmath9  erg  @xmath10  s@xmath4 ( for a @xmath11  ergs  s@xmath4  source ; the traditional definition of a ulx ) , quickly falls below detection sensitivities of most x - ray observatories for sources beyond @xmath12  mpc when observed for typical exposure times .",
    "similarly , properties of dwarf galaxies are best known for nearby objects . in this case , the galaxies of interest are the least intrinsically luminous and have the smallest physical size . for these reasons , a study of ulxs in dwarf galaxies",
    "is currently restricted to nearby objects within roughly the local volume .",
    "the recent compilation of galaxy properties by karachentsev et al .",
    "( 2004 , hereafter k04 ) is purported to be about 70 - 80% complete out to a distance @xmath13  mpc .",
    "the catalog includes galaxies brighter than @xmath14  mag and angular sizes larger than @xmath15@xmath00.4 .",
    "this catalog of neighboring galaxies will be referred to as the cng in this paper and various samples of galaxies and their properties will be taken from the values reported in k04 .    in all samples , only galaxies in the cng with tabulated masses",
    "are considered .",
    "this is a subset of 313 of the 451 galaxies in the cng . for this subset , @xmath16 .",
    "k04 define dwarf galaxies as those with @xmath17  mag which corresponds to a mass @xmath18  m@xmath2 .",
    "galaxy mass is computed by k04 from hi rotational velocity measurements ( inclination - corrected hi line widths ) .",
    "consequently , 93 of the 138 galaxies omitted in the subset are gas - poor early - type galaxies with revised hubble type @xmath19 .",
    "this leaves 5 giant and 10 dwarf early - tpe galaxies in the subset of 313 galaxies .",
    "the cng sample of galaxies is shown as the uppermost histogram of figure  2 .",
    "the histogram for the subset of galaxies with tabulated masses is similar . as pointed out by k04 ,",
    "about 85% of galaxies in the local volume are dwarf galaxies although these galaxies contribute only 4% of the luminosity density . from the cng subset ,",
    "three subsamples are considered with different selection criteria and hence different potential biases :      this subsample contains all galaxies within the uppsala galaxy catalog of ( northern hemisphere ) galaxies above the completeness limit of the ugc , @xmath20  mag ( nilson 1973 ) , with far - infrared ( fir ) flux above the completeness limit of the _ infrared astronomy satellite _ ( iras ) point source and faint source catalogs , @xmath21  jy ( beichman et al .",
    "1988 ) , and within 15 mpc of the milky way .",
    "there are 49 galaxies that meet these criteria among the 313 cng subset .",
    "this subsample is biased toward the intrinsically optically - luminous galaxies with high gas ( dust ) content and hence relatively high current star - formation rates .",
    "figure  1 shows that the subsample is , indeed , comprised of relatively luminous and hence massive galaxies but that there are a few nearby low - luminosity ( low - mass ) objects included as well .",
    "this subsample contains all galaxies within 4.0  mpc ( a value based on expected count rates for ulxs , typical exposure times , and distances as tabulated by k04 ) located within 3  of the centers of _ rosat all sky survey _ ( rass ) fields .",
    "these fields are 6.4@xmath66.4  regions observed in scanning mode by the _",
    "rosat_/pspc with typical exposures of @xmath0400  s in typical galaxy - size regions of the sky .",
    "the rass covers nearly the entire sky but the search algorithm used to query the data archive uses circular search regions resulting in sampling only 70% of the field s total area ( using a 3  search radius ) .",
    "there are 107 galaxies in the cng subset within 4.0  mpc and 72 or 67% in the subsample .",
    "this subsample contains the least bias of any of the subsamples .",
    "as shown in figure  1 , the distribution of blue luminosities for galaxies in this subsample most closely matches the cng distribution .",
    "this subsample contains all galaxies in the cng subset that have been imaged in the field of view of either _ rosat _  ( pspc or hri ) , _ chandra _ , or _ xmm - newton",
    "_   pointed observations of sufficient exposure to detect ulxs and that have had their ulx populations identified through the literature .",
    "this includes many cng subset galaxies that were targets of pointed observations and , in the case of _ rosat_/pspc with its 1  radius fov , several dwarf galaxies that were observed serendipitously .",
    "there are 155 galaxies in this subsample including 69 serendipitously - observed galaxies ( those with large offsets from the observation s targeted aimpoint ) .",
    "this subsample should be considered an x - ray selected subsample since the majority of the galaxies were targets of pointed x - ray observations .",
    "it , like the optical / fir subsample ( see figure  1 ) , is biased towards the larger galaxies which are the preferential targets of x - ray astronomy in general but it does contain a substantial number of dwarf galaxies .",
    "both the literature and available x - ray imaging data ( limited to _ rosat _ , _",
    "chandra _ , and _ xmm - newton _ ) were searched for candidate ulxs in this study . in most cases , whenever a thorough analysis of existing data was previously reported through the refereed literature , we did not perform an independent study . in all cases , however , we did confirm that ulx candidates were within the angular area of the purported host galaxy and not coincident with its nucleus . for this , an initial search was made for candidate ulxs within a circle of _ radius _ @xmath22 , i.e. , extending to twice the optical semi - major axis of the galaxy .",
    "this allows for potential astrometric misalignments between reported x - ray source positions and galaxy locations as tabulated in the cng and also for the large positional uncertainties that can occur in _ rosat _  and _ xmm - newton _  data for weak sources because of their large point spread functions ( psfs ) .",
    "if candidate ulxs were identifed , then the spatial coincidence was reconfirmed using an elliptical approximation of the @xmath15  isophote [ with parameters taken from the third reference catalog of bright galaxies ( de  vaucouleurs et al .",
    "1991 ) ] , a check of the host galaxy position against the _ nasa / ipac extragalactic database _ ( ned ) position ( and references therein ) and an evaluation of the x - ray source positional uncertainty .",
    "sources coincident with host galaxy nuclei were rejected .",
    "this resulted in the exclusion of 10 nuclear sources ; all are the well - known active galactic nuclei of massive galaxies .",
    "optical data ( sdss , dss ) were then visually inspected for potential foreground stars and background active galaxy counterparts which typically appear as bright and extended optical emitters , respectively .",
    "no such interlopers were identified using this test .",
    "a check was also made to ensure the entire @xmath15  isophote was imaged in the x - ray observation .",
    "the several large galaxies not fully covered by _",
    "chandra _ s fov have been fully sampled by either _",
    "rosat _  or _",
    "xmm - newton _  observations ; thus no ulx candidates were overlooked .",
    "the source - detection algorithm developed by tennant ( 2006 ) was applied to x - ray images whenever an analysis of the x - ray point source population for a galaxy was not published or was of limited utility . all the checks for spatial coincidence with a host galaxy as outlined above were performed .",
    "x - ray fluxes were estimated from observed count rates within a 3@xmath23 source radius ( see tennant 2006 ) using the _ portable interactive multi - mission simulator _ ( pimms ; mukai 1993 ) and assuming an absorbed power law source spectrum .",
    "the absorption was taken as the galactic hydrogen column density along the line of sight to the host galaxy as tabulated from the hi map of dickey & lockman ( 1990 ) .",
    "the power - law index was assumed to be the average , @xmath24 , obtained previously from single - component spectral model fits to a large number of ulx candidates by swartz et al .",
    "x - ray luminosities were then estimated from the pimms fluxes and the distances tabulated by k04 .",
    "the choice of a single , fixed shape , model spectrum is appropriate in the context of this study because only a small number of source photons ( @xmath25100 ) were typically detected from candidate ulxs in those cases where thorough analysis was not previously reported .",
    "special mention must be made of the selection criterion of the rass subsample (   [ ss : rass ] ) and the subsequent analysis results . as mentioned above , the distance limit criterion was chosen based on the expected count rate for ulxs ( using pimms ) and exposure times typical of the rass and @xmath010  counts needed for detection ( for each galaxy in this subsample , the actual exposure time at the location of the galaxy was determined from the exposure maps accompanying the rass x - ray event lists ) .",
    "our source - finding analysis of the rass data did not detect 10 of 18 ulx candidates previously described in the literature ( from pointed observations ) and expected to be visible in the rass according to this simple perscription .",
    "all non - detections are members of giant galaxies : six are buried within the strong diffuse emission of the starburst galaxy m82 , two are overlapping sources in rass ( though distinct in _ chandra _  data ) in ngc  4945 , one is a heavily - absorbed source in circinus , and one is a weak source in ngc  7793 that must have faded compared to pointed _ rosat _  observations reported in read & pietsch ( 1999 ) .",
    "thus , we attribute the non - detections to a combination of source confusion ( aggravated by a rapidly - increasing off - axis psf width ; see hasinger et al .",
    "1994 ) , high source column density ( that decreases the detectable flux within the soft _ rosat _  passband from the pimms estimate assuming only a galactic column density ) and intrinsic source variability .",
    "for these sources , we included the flux values obtained from the literature .",
    "a total of 5 dwarf galaxies ( @xmath18  m@xmath2  corresponding to @xmath26  mag ) were found to host a ulx in the present study . for comparison",
    ", there are a total of 35 , 19 , and 57 ulx candidates in the three ( overlapping ) subsamples described , respectively , in ",
    "  2.12.3 . within these subsamples",
    "there are 10 , 58 , and 91 dwarf galaxies , respectively .",
    "one new ulx candidate was discovered in a dwarf galaxy .",
    "this object was detected in the rass image of e059 - 01 ( pgc  21199 ) , an ib(s)m dwarf of mass 1.7@xmath610@xmath27  m@xmath2 .",
    "histograms displaying the number of ulx candidates per unit mass , which we will refer to as the specific ulx frequency , against host galaxy mass were constructed for each subsample .",
    "the specific ulx frequency for the @xmath28 mass bin , @xmath29 , is defined as @xmath30 where @xmath31 is the number of ulx candidates detected in the @xmath32 galaxy , @xmath33 is that galaxy s mass in units of @xmath34  m@xmath2 , and the sum extends over all @xmath35 galaxies within the mass interval comprising the @xmath28 mass bin .",
    "figure  2 displays the @xmath29 histograms for all three subsamples ( upper panels ) the corresponding @xmath36 histograms ( middle panels ) , and the number of galaxies , @xmath37 , contained in each mass bin ( lower panels ) .",
    "the @xmath29 statistical errors are @xmath38 .",
    "there are no ulx candidates detected in galaxies with mass less than @xmath39  m@xmath2 .",
    "there is also very little total mass , @xmath40 , in low - mass bins in the subsamples ( middle panels , figure  2 ) .",
    "we can estimate the number of ulxs expected in these lower - mass bins : a simple linear function was fit to @xmath41 _ vs. _ @xmath42 over the mass bins with substantial total mass , @xmath43 , in each subsample .",
    "there are 4 such bins , spanning roughly 3 decades in host galaxy mass , in each subsample . from this ,",
    "the number of ulxs predicted , @xmath44 ( where @xmath45 denotes predicted ) , in the @xmath28 lower - mass bin is estimated by extrapolating this function and weighting by the relative mass : @xmath46 where @xmath47 is the fitting function evaluated at the @xmath28 mass bin .",
    "values for @xmath44 are given in the upper panels of figure  2 along with the best - fitting function , @xmath47 .",
    "@xmath48 in all cases because @xmath49 for these lower - mass bins .",
    "that is , there is simply too little mass in low - mass dwarf galaxies to expect to find ulxs .",
    "the fitting function used here was chosen to maximize the number of ulxs predicted in lower - mass bins and hence provide a conservative expectation value .",
    "there is no _ a priori _ reason to expect the specific frequency of ulxs to increase with decreasing host galaxy mass ( a more intuitive expectation is that @xmath41 is independent of mass but it is clear from figure  2 that @xmath41 equals a constant is a poor representation of the data ) .",
    "we do , however , expect the number of ulx candidates to increase for galaxies with high current star formation rates ( grimm et al .",
    "2003 ; swartz et al .  2004 ; colbert et al .",
    "in fact , from a sample of starburst galaxies , grimm et al .",
    "( 2003 ) find the number of x - ray sources above a luminosity , @xmath50 , depends linearly on the current star formation rate , @xmath51 , as : @xmath52 where @xmath51 is measured in units of m@xmath2  yr@xmath4 and @xmath53 is the x - ray luminosity in units of 10@xmath54  ergs  s@xmath4 .",
    "thus , we expect 1.1 ulxs per unit sfr .",
    "the sfr for galaxies with a sizeable dust opacity can be estimated from its fir luminosity : @xmath55  m@xmath2  yr@xmath4 ( e.g. , kennicutt 1998 ) .",
    "here , @xmath56 is the fir luminosity estimated from the iras 60@xmath57 m and 100@xmath57 m flux densities , @xmath58  ergs  s@xmath4 .",
    "we have computed the star formation rate for the galaxies in the optical and fir flux - limited subsample (   2.1 ; many of the cng galaxies are not included in the iras catalogs so we can not make this computation for the other subsamples ) and constructed histograms of the distribution of ulxs with host galaxy mass as before but with @xmath33 replaced with @xmath59 in the sums , @xmath60 , over the @xmath35 galaxies contained in the @xmath28 mass bin .",
    "figure  3 shows this distribution . the ulx frequency normalized to unit sfr is roughly a constant for the bins with substantial total mass .",
    "the best fit constant value is 2.3@xmath610.7 which is about @xmath62 above the value predicted by grimm et al .",
    "a fit to a linear function is not a significant improvement according to an @xmath63-test .",
    "hence , the number of ulxs per unit sfr is similar for dwarf and giant galaxies in this subsample .",
    "however , the sfr per unit mass is higher by about a factor of 3 for the dwarf galaxies compared to the giants which is consistent with the trend in specific ulx frequency deduced above .",
    "there are three catagories of x - ray sources that may occur more or less frequently in dwarf compared to giant galaxies and thus have the potential to introduce biases in the present study : contaminating background sources , transient ulxs , and nuclear sources . assuming the spatial distribution of background sources is uniform across the sky , the relative contributions of background sources to the number of ulx candidates in each mass bin is proportional to the sum of the areas within the optical extents of the galaxies included in the bin .",
    "this is strictly true only for galaxies at a fixed distance because the number of background sources per unit area of sky increases with decreasing source flux and the search for ulxs extends to lower fluxes for more distant galaxies .",
    "however , the mean distance to dwarf galaxies in any of the subsamples ( and to the cng subset with masses defined ) is less than that to giant galaxies which implies that potential contamination by background sources per unit area is higher for the higher - mass bins considered .",
    "furthermore , the total sky area covered by galaxies in each mass bin increases towards higher - mass bins so , again , the potential contamination is higher for the higher - mass bins .",
    "thus , any bias introduced by background sources applies in the opposite sense to the trend determined here , namely , that the specific frequency of ulxs increases with decreasing galaxy mass .",
    "the probability of detecting transient sources increases with the rate of observations sampling a particular target galaxy .",
    "the present study does not differentiate between transient and non - transient ulx candidates but it can be surmised that the giant galaxies in the local volume are more apt to have been observed multiple times over the course of the decades spanned by the _",
    "rosat _ , _ chandra _ , and _ xmm - newton _",
    "missions than are the dwarf galaxies .",
    "thus , any bias introduced by ulx transience would favor an increase in the number of ulx candidates discovered in giant over dwarf galaxies .",
    "the nuclear regions of sample galaxies where not _ a priori _ excluded from our search for ulx candidates .",
    "however , x - ray luminous active galactic nuclei may hide nearby ulxs in their bright glow , effectively imposing an exclusion region in the area of highest galactic surface mass density .",
    "as the brightest agn are associated with the most massive galaxies , ulxs hidden by agn brilliance could lead to an underestimate of the ulx population in the higher - mass bins .",
    "this is further exacerbated by the fact that the radial distribution of ulxs in general peaks toward the centers of galaxies ( swartz et al .",
    "2004 ; liu et al .",
    "a total of 18 galaxies in the present study are listed as quasars or agn in the catalog of veron - cetty & veron ( 2006 ) .",
    "of these , 11 host x - ray bright nuclear sources ( all are giant galaxies ) .",
    "fortunately , all have been observed with _",
    "chandra _  so that a careful evaluation of the nuclear regions of these galaxies at high angular resolution could be made .",
    "no evidence was found for hidden ulxs ; thus , no bias is apparent in the present results due to nuclear sources .",
    "ultraluminous x - ray sources occur in dwarf galaxies in the local volume ; at least down to galaxy masses of @xmath03@xmath610@xmath7  m@xmath2 .",
    "in fact , for the galaxies studied here , the specific frequency of ulxs in low - mass galaxies is higher than in massive giants .",
    "this trend in the population of ulxs is unanticipated .",
    "still , ulxs in dwarf galaxies are rare , of order 1 ulx occurs per @xmath34  m@xmath2  in the galaxies studied here , which means only one in 100 10@xmath64  m@xmath2  dwarf galaxy is expected to host a ulx .",
    "five ulx candidates were identified in 118 dwarf galaxies ( @xmath18  m@xmath2  corresponding to @xmath26  mag ) in the present study . assuming the sample of galaxies was randomly selected",
    ", the gehrels statistic ( gehrels 1986 ) gives a 90% confidence that the true mean exceeds 2.4 .",
    "thus it is unlikely that our result is purely a statistical fluctuation .",
    "we detected no ulxs in galaxies with mass @xmath6510@xmath1  m@xmath2  but , if the trend continues to lower masses , then we expect @xmath660.22 ulxs to have been detected in galaxies in our sample with mass @xmath010@xmath67  m@xmath2which is consistent with finding 0 .",
    "it is worthwhile to consider what physical differences exist between dwarf and giant galaxies that could give rise to the observed trend .",
    "past studies have concluded that a strong correlation exists between star formation rate ( sfr ) and the number and luminosity density of ulxs ( swartz et al .",
    "2004 ; liu et al .  2006",
    "; though see ptak & colbert 2004 ) .",
    "for the one subsample purposefully chosen here to include fir - luminous galaxies , the specific current sfr in dwarfs is larger by a factor of 3 than in giants .",
    "thus , an increase in the specific ulx frequency in dwarf galaxies relative to giants would be expected at least for this subsample .",
    "there are also , potentially , differences in the stellar evolution and star formation processes in nearby dwarf galaxies compared to the giants that may favor the formation of ulxs .",
    "dwarf galaxies tend to evolve more slowly than giants hence their metallicity at the current epoch is systematically lower than that of giants ( lee et al .",
    "massive stars of low metallicity loose less mass through winds than do high-@xmath68 stars and leave higher - mass compact objects following core collapse ( heger et al .  2003 ) .",
    "higher mass black hole remnants , in turn , can radiate at higher luminosities without violating the eddington limit .",
    "low-@xmath68 donor stars may transfer more mass in roche lobe overflow , and/or over a longer period of time , than do high-@xmath68 donors with high wind mass loss rates .",
    "this would allow higher luminosity and longer - lived ulxs to arise in low - z systems .",
    "dwarf galaxies form massive star clusters at a rate higher than expected for their size .",
    "billet et al .",
    "( 2002 ) explain this as due to a lack of shear in dwarf galaxies that tends to fragment large molecular clouds and prevent formation of large stellar clusters in spiral galaxies",
    ". there may be a connection between an excess of massive compact clusters and an excess of ulxs in dwarf galaxies .",
    "both objects may be the end products of rapid collapse of molecular clouds with the ulxs formed from the most massive stars created in the collapse .",
    "gravitational coalescence of intermediate - mass protostars to form massive stars is observed in galactic protoclusters ( peretto et al .",
    "the cold initial conditions ( low turbulent energy relative to gravitational energy ) needed for protostar merger are the same conditions envisioned by billet et al .",
    "( 2002 ) to explain the formation of massive clusters in dwarf galaxies .",
    "these conditions may result from rapid compression by external processes caused by galactic - scale interactions ( e.g. , keto et al .",
    "2005 )   processes that are more effective in dwarfs because of their smaller size .",
    "interestingly , billet et al .  ( 2002 ) conclude that the smallest galaxies can not sample the high end of the cloud mass spectrum and that they will fall short of producing massive compact clusters .",
    "perhaps a similar cutoff occurs in the production of ulxs and they are lacking in very low - mass galaxies .",
    "we have determined that ulxs occur in dwarf galaxies and that their specific frequency increases with decreasing host galaxy mass .",
    "this suggests that there may be special ( though not unique ) environmental conditions in dwarf galaxies that preferentially lead to the formation of ulxs .",
    "this result should be addressed by theoretical models proposed to explain the ulx phenomenon .",
    "this work was supported , in part , by chandra award go6 - 7081a issued by the chandra x - ray observatory center which is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory for and on behalf of nasa under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "beichman , c. a. , neugebauer , g. , habing , h. j. , clegg , p. e. , chester , t. j. 1988 , nasa rp-1190 ( washington , dc : gpo ) billet , o. h. , hunter , d. a. , & elmegreen , b. g. 2002 , aj , 123 , 1454 colbert , e. j. m. , heckman , t. m. , ptak , a. f. , strickland , d. k. , & weaver , k. a. 2004 , apj , 602 , 231 de vaucouleurs g. , de vaucouleurs a. , corwin jr . h. g. , buta r. j. , paturel g. , & fouque p. 1991",
    ", third reference catalogue of bright galaxies ( newyork : springer - verlag ) dickey , j. m. , & lockman , f. j. 1990 , ara&a , 28 , 215 gao , y. , wang , q. d. , appleton , p. n. , & lucas , r. a. 2003 , apj , 596 , l171 geha , m. , blanton , m. r. , masjedi , m. , & west , a. a. 2006 , apj , 653 , 240 gehrels , n. 1986 , apj , 303 , 336 gilfanov , m. , grimm , h. -j . , & sunyaev , r. 2004 , mnras , 347 , l57 grimm , h. -j . ,",
    "gilfanov , m. , & sunyaev , r. 2003 , mnras , 339 , 793 haines , c. p. , gargiulo , a. , la  barbera , f. , mercurio , a. , merluzzi , p. , & busarello , g. 2007 , mnras , in press ( arxiv:0707.1262v1 ) hasinger , g. et al .",
    "1994 , legacy 4 , 40 ( cal / ros/93 - 015 ) heger , a. , fryer , c. l. , woosley , s. e. , langer , n. , & hartmann , d. h. 2003 , apj , 591 , 288 hunter , d. a. , & gallagher , j. s. 1986 , pasp , 98 , 5 irwin , j. a. , bregman , j. n. , & athey , a. e. 2004 , apj , 601 , l143 karachentsev , i. d. , karachentseva , v. e. , huchtneier , w. k. , & makarov , d. l. 2004 , aj , 127 , 2031 kennicutt , r. c. , jr .",
    "1998 , ara&a , 36 , 189 keto , e. , ho , l. c. , & lo , k. -y .",
    "2005 , apj , 635 , 1062 king , a. r. 2004 , mnras , 347 , l18 lee , h. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 647 , 970 lehmer , b. d. , et al .",
    "2006 , aj , 131 , 2394 liu , j. -f . ,",
    "bregman , j. n. , & irwin , j. 2006 , apj , 642 , 171 mukai , k. 1993 , legacy , 3 , 21 nilson , p. 1973",
    ", uppsala general catalogue of galaxies ( uppsala : astronomiska observatorium ) peretto , n. , hennebelle , p. , & andr ,",
    "p. 2007 , a&a , 464 , 983 ptak , a. & colbert , e. 2004 , apj , 606 , 291 read , a. m. & pietsch , w. 1999 , a&a , 341 , 8 .",
    "swartz , d. a. , ghosh , k. k. , tennant , a. f. , & wu , k. 2004 , apjs , 154 , 519 tennant , a. f. 2006 , aj , 132 , 1372 winter , l. m. , mushotzky , r. f. , & reynolds , c. s. 2006 , apj , 649 , 730 zezas , a. , & fabbiano , g. 2002 , apj , 577 , 726"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a thorough search for ultraluminous x - ray source candidates within the local volume is made . </S>",
    "<S> the search spatially matches potential ulxs detected in x - ray images or cataloged in the literature with galaxies tabulated in the _ catalog of neighboring galaxies _ compiled by karachentsev et al .  </S>",
    "<S> ( 2004 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the specific ulx frequency ( occurrence rate per unit galaxy mass ) is found to be a decreasing function of host galaxy mass for host masses above @xmath010@xmath1  m@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> there is too little mass in galaxies below this point to determine if this trend continues to lower galaxy mass . </S>",
    "<S> no ulxs have yet been detected in lower - mass galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> systematic differences between dwarf and giant galaxies that may explain an abundance of ulxs in dwarf galaxies and what they may imply about the nature of ulxs are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}