{
  "article_text": [
    "significant progress has been made in recent years in understanding the theory of the launching of jets from accretion disk / black hole systems @xcite .",
    "simulations are able to produce jets starting with an accretion disk without ordered magnetic fields .",
    "the fields are stretched by the differential rotation of the disk , and loops rise above , but remain attached to the disk , and ultimately the black hole .",
    "a structure forms along the rotation axis that can have a relativistic poynting jet in the center surrounded by a magnetic field twisted into a helical shape by the disk rotation and filled by material from a disk wind or corona .",
    "the jet is not fully accelerated and collimated until several hundred schwarzschild radii ( r@xmath0 ) . within this scale",
    ", it might be possible to see evidence for the acceleration and collimation process and to constrain the theory .",
    "there are very few objects in which structures in a jet of under a few hundred r@xmath0 can be observed , even with high frequency vlbi . a favorable combination of high mass black hole , proximity to the earth , and bright jet",
    "is required .",
    "galactic objects are close , but too low mass except for the galactic center .",
    "the black hole at the galactic center has a high angular size black hole , but no observed jets .",
    "the best source for such a study is m87 .",
    "m87 has a super - massive black hole with a mass of about @xmath1 @xcite and , as the dominant galaxy of the virgo cluster , has a distance of only 16 mpc @xcite . for these parameters , the schwarzschild radius of about 60 au subtends 3.7 microarcseconds .",
    "m87 has a bright jet that can be studied at the highest frequencies , and hence , highest resolutions available to very long baseline interferometry ( vlbi ) .",
    "other galaxies that are as close or closer either have lower mass black holes or do nt have adequately bright jets to allow detailed observations .",
    "the basic structure on sub - parsec scales of m87 was first published by @xcite based on 43 ghz global vlbi observations .",
    "that structure includes a very wide opening angle in the first few tenths of a milli - arcsecond ( mas ) and a pronounced limb - brightened jet structure .",
    "the wide opening angle suggests that the collimation region is beginning to be resolved .",
    "the jet has been observed with vlbi many times since .",
    "typically motions significantly less than the speed of light are seen , including recent results at 15 ghz where features are almost stationary @xcite . at lower resolution ,",
    "farther from the core , superluminal motions of @xmath2 to @xmath3 have been seen , for example at the hst1 knot @xcite .",
    "but at higher resolutions , the situation is unclear because any fast motions would be seriously under - sampled by the previous observations .",
    "we report here on the status of our efforts to delineate properly the motions in m87 on scales from around 60 to several hundred r@xmath0 in projection using observations with the very long baseline array ( vlba : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) at 43 ghz every 3 weeks for a year .",
    "higher resolution could have been obtained using 86 ghz , or a global array , but the imaging difficulties and practical scheduling constraints made any such project far more difficult . for the declination of m87 ( @xmath4 ) ,",
    "the typical resolution of the vlba at 43 ghz of @xmath5 mas ( elongated north - south ) corresponds to 110 by 54 r@xmath0 or 0.031 by 0.015 pc . note that distance along the jet is foreshortened if the jet is near the line - of - sight as suggested by the observation of superluminal motions .",
    "for example , for the @xmath6 needed to see @xmath3 motions , the angle to the line - of - sight is likely to be near @xmath7 , giving a foreshortening by a factor of about 6 .",
    "our study of the inner jet of m87 began with a study of archival data from 5 vlba observations at 43 ghz spaced at intervals of roughly a year .",
    "the data were originally taken for various reasons , usually to use m87 as a phase reference source for observations of a nearby weak source .",
    "these data were reprocessed and examined for indications of structural evolution @xcite . while the general character of the structure was consistent from epoch to epoch , it only seemed possible to identify corresponding components in more than one image by using the two most closely spaced observations .",
    "if those components really were related , apparent speeds of @xmath8 to @xmath9 were seen . but",
    "any higher speeds would have made it impossible to identify components at more than one epoch and , given the superluminal speeds seen in other sources and elsewhere in m87 , such a case could certainly not be excluded .",
    "the images from the archival data also revealed emission on the opposite side of the `` core '' , or brightest feature , at 3 epochs .",
    "that feature was also seen in the 15 ghz observations of @xcite who see it extending to about 3 mas from the core .",
    "it is an open question as to whether that feature is the counterjet , or the inner jet with the radio core offset from the actual black hole location .",
    "the facts that it is seen out to 3 mas , or about 800 r@xmath0 in projection and seems to get wider with distance from the core , make the offset black hole possibility seem unlikely , as does the observation of circular polarization at the core position @xcite . if it is the far side jet of a symmetric system , and a speed and brightness ratio can be determined , it can give strong evidence for the true speed and orientation to the line - of - sight of the jet , a possibility explored in @xcite .",
    "the archival data raised a serious question about possible under - sampling of any motions so a project to make a fully sampled vlba movie at 43 ghz was begun .",
    "the first step of that project was to determine the proper sampling rate . that was done using 6 observations at spacings of between 3 and 97 days during 2006 .",
    "based on the results of those observations , an interval of 3 weeks was chosen for the movie and a year - long series of 18 observations was proposed .",
    "the movie observations began on 2007 january 27 and were still in progress at the time of this meeting .",
    "images from the first 11 observations were available for the meeting .",
    "they are shown figure  [ montage ] .",
    "the appearance of the source is generically similar at all epochs .",
    "the source is always a distinctly edge brightened jet with emission filling in the central region .",
    "the feature on the counterjet side of the brightest emission is clearly seen at all epochs . in some of the epochs",
    ", there appears to be a central spine .",
    "the jet has structure , but that structure has more of a lumpy but continuous nature and is not easily described as a series of `` components '' . some features do seem to appear in multiple images , but no very clearly defined features persist for many epochs . to improve the sensitivity to weak stuctures and to bring out the persistent aspects of the structure ,",
    "a weighted average image was made from the first 9 epochs and is shown in figure  [ stack ] .",
    "note that any detailed , changing structure is washed out in the average .",
    "when the images are presented as a montage as in figure  [ montage ] , any motions are not immediately apparent .",
    "but when assembled as a movie and played reasonably fast , it is clear that there is overall fast , outward motion .",
    "it is something like watching a smoke plume that is moving in bulk , but that also has rapid evolution of its internal structure .",
    "it is impossible to display such a movie here , but one can be found at ` http://www.aoc.nrao.edu/~cwalker/m87 ` . that website will be updated as more",
    "epochs become available .",
    "the movie of m87 shows fast motions . to quantify the speed in the absence of persistent components , the difference in positions of apparently related features in adjacent epochs were measured .",
    "such differences consistently came out to be about 0.5 mas indicating a speed of about 9 mas yr@xmath10 or about @xmath11 .",
    "that is much faster than motions seen in other vlbi observations of the inner regions of this source , but those observations could not have measured such speeds because of undersampling .",
    "in fact , even the current observations are undersampled because the motion is about 2.5 times the beam width per epoch .",
    "once this situation was clear , the pilot project was revisited , but any such fast motions were still not clear in those images .",
    "it seems a significant sequence is required for them to be obvious . as a result of this speed determination , a proposal was made to extend the sequence with 10 additional observations at 5 day intervals .",
    "those observations are in progress as this is being written .",
    "the m87 43 ghz movie project is a work in progress .",
    "but it has already shown that the inner jet , on scales near 100 r@xmath0 , has mildly relativistic motions , contrary to the conclusions of previous observations .",
    "it has an edge brightened structure with a possible central spine and with a counterjet side feature with motions whose character is not yet clear .",
    "as the observations and processing are completed , attempts will be made to delineate the velocity field and to constrain models of jet formation .",
    "m87 presents a prime target for vsop2 .",
    "ground observations with the vlba at 43 ghz , and with a global array at 86 ghz @xcite are starting to resolve the wide - opening - angle base of the jet .",
    "another factor of four in resolution over our vlba results will allow significant details to be seen in this important region and will help guide the theoretical understanding of the structure and dynamics of the jet launch region .",
    "but the observations must be made frequently enough that they are not under - sampled .",
    "the data presented here show motions of about 0.025 mas per day , which , with a vsop2 beam of 0.05 mas , should be sampled daily  much more frequently than now envisioned . to obtain sufficient information on the dynamics , this observing pace must be maintained for at least a month .",
    "this will be a major strain on observing resources , but this is probably the best opportunity for vsop2 to have an impact on the understanding of the physics in the launch region of an astrophysical jet .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa astrophysics data system .",
    "w. junor was partially supported through nsf ast 98 - 03057 . c. ly acknowledges support through the nrao graduate research program .",
    "p. hardee is supported by nasa / msfc cooperative agreement ncc8 - 256 and nsf award ast-0506666 to the university of alabama .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation , operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "krichbaum , t. p. , lee , s. s. , lobanov , a. p. , marscher , a. p. , & gruwell , m. a. 2008 , in asp conf .",
    "386 , extragalactic jets : theory and observation from radio to gamma ray , eds . t. a. rector and d. s. de young , in press ( arxiv:0708.3915v1 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> m87 provides the best opportunity to study the base of a jet where it is collimated and accelerated . </S>",
    "<S> the size of that region scales with the mass of the black hole , and m87 has the best combination of high mass , proximity to the earth , and presence of a bright jet . </S>",
    "<S> vlbi observations of m87 can probe regions under 100 gravitational radii where theoretical studies suggest that the jet formation and acceleration occurs . a one - year sequence of 43 ghz observations every 3 weeks on the vlba is being used to study the structure and dynamics in this region . </S>",
    "<S> initial results from that effort are reported here , including the observation of rapid motions - sufficiently rapid that more frequent observations are planned for early 2008 . </S>",
    "<S> the contribution ends with a discussion of prospects for future vlbi observations of m87 with vsop2 . for vsop2 </S>",
    "<S> , a strong recommendation is made that a series of daily observations at 43 ghz be planned . </S>"
  ]
}