{
  "article_text": [
    "from the earliest photon signal from a sn during the shock breakout , the uv light from supernovae contains many clues about the explosion and the environment , with application to both nearby and high - redshift sne .",
    "the contribution of uv light to the bolometric luminosity can be significant , particularly at the earliest epochs when the high temperature yields a large uv flux . because line blanketing in the uv is dominated by iron peak elements , the uv brightness is sensitive to the ionization level ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) and differences in metallicity @xcite .",
    "the large uv extinction observed in most extinction curves also allows uv observations to better constrain the reddening to individual objects @xcite .",
    "the first observation of uv light from a sn was performed by the orbiting astronomical observatory in 1972 , revealing the uv faintness of a type i sn @xcite .",
    "the international ultraviolet explorer ( iue ) built up a larger sample with uv spectroscopic observations of 25 sne @xcite , with excellent light curves for sne iil 1979c @xcite and 1980k , the ib 1983n , ia 1992a @xcite , as well as the ii - pec 1987a @xcite .",
    "the spectacular event of sn  1987a was also observed in the uv by the astron station @xcite .",
    "the hubble space telescope ( hst ) has added excellent uv spectroscopic and photometric data for another @xmath030 sne ( see @xcite for a review of iue and hst uv observations up to that time ) . the galaxy evolution explorer ( gal - yam et al . , in preparation ) , and the optical monitor on the xmm - newton mission ( cf .",
    "immler et al .",
    "2005 ) have added a few more observations each .",
    "rest - frame uv observations of higher redshift sne observed in the optical from the ground are also now being regularly obtained @xcite .",
    "the latest uv observatory is _ swift _ uvot @xcite .",
    "the _ swift _ observatory s quick response capability and short term scheduling , necessitated by the unpredictable and variable behavior of individual gamma ray bursts ( grb ) , also allows newly discovered sne to be observed quickly and with well sampled light curves @xcite .",
    "data are available in a matter of hours , and observing times and filter combinations can be changed on a day to day basis depending on what is seen in recent observations . thus far , _ swift _ has focused on nearby sne ( @xmath1 ) for which high quality data can be obtained with only a small impact on spacecraft operations and _ swift _ s primary mission to detect and observe grbs .",
    "sn observations are performed under _ swift _",
    "s target of opportunity ( too ) program .",
    "a dedicated website has been set up that gives the status of swift sn observations , images and regularly updated light curves for the benefit of the community .    in this paper",
    "we present some of the overall uv properties of sne seen in our sample .",
    "in particular , we contrast the uv light curve shapes and colors of the different types , which is best done with a sample observed with the same instrumental setup . understanding",
    "the brightness ( relative to the optical ) and temporal behavior should assist future observatories to understand the sampling and depth necessary to characterize a uv light curve .",
    "_ swift _ uvot has observed 48 sne between march 2005 @xcite and august 2007 .",
    "uvot typically observes sne with three uv and three optical broadband filters .",
    "the central wavelengths and widths are given in table 1 @xcite .",
    "@xcite display the transmission of these filters with respect to sne spectra .",
    "however , like iue , they are limited to the brightest epochs of the the nearest sne . here",
    "we focus on results from the photometry ; spectroscopic results will be presented elsewhere ( bufano et al . in prep ) .",
    "cccccc    uvw2 & 1928 & 657 & @xmath2 + uvm2 & 2246 & 498 & @xmath3 + uvw1 & 2600 & 693 & @xmath4 + @xmath5 & 3465 & 785 & @xmath6 + @xmath7 & 4392 & 975 & @xmath8 + @xmath9 & 5468 & 769 & @xmath10 +    images were obtained from the _ swift _ archive , and for those whose most recent processing occurred prior to 2007 , the raw images and event lists were reprocessed , primarily to utilize an improved plate scale for the uvw2 images and corrections to exposure times in the headers .",
    "exposures were aspect corrected then coadded by epoch , usually corresponding to unique observation numbers . due to the rapid evolution of sn  2006aj / grb060218 during the first day",
    "the exposures in the first observation number were used individually and subsequent observations coadded as usual .",
    "we performed aperture photometry using a 3  source aperture to improve the signal to noise and minimize galaxy contamination compared to larger apertures ( cf .",
    "a background region was chosen by eye to be similar to the galaxy background near the sn . over or undersubtraction of the underlying galaxy",
    "leads to the magnitudes being under or overestimated when the sn fades close the the galaxy level , so here we focus on the brightest epochs and less contaminated events where the galaxy contribution is less significant .",
    "counts within a 5  aperture around the sn were used to compute the coincidence loss correction factor ( to be consistent with the calibration ) , and an average point spread function ( psf ) for each filter was used to compute the aperture correction factor from our 3  aperture to the 5  for which the zeropoints are calibrated @xcite .",
    "the light curves of those with at least 3 uv detections well above the estimated galaxy background ( 26 out of the 48 sne observed during this period ) are displayed on a continuous timeline in fig .  1 , with individual light curves displayed in figs . 2 and 3 .",
    "1 illustrates the dynamic range and frequency of swift sn observations .",
    "the bright limit , above which coincidence losses are hard to correct , is approximately 12th magnitude in the uv . in practice",
    "this saturation limit from a bright sn or a sn on a bright galaxy background has affected the optical light curves of some of these sne but not the uv light curves .",
    "the faint limit can be as deep as about 21 mag but observations are typically terminated once the galaxy light dominates within the aperture .",
    "the temporal behavior of the uv light varies with sn type . fig .",
    "2 shows uvot lightcurves for the individual sne ia .",
    "sne ia rise to a maximum in the uv peaking just before the optical .",
    "similar to the optical , the uv brightness decays first steeply and then shallower due to radioactive decay of nickel and cobalt .",
    "the uvm2 photometry is much fainter than the other bands , so the points have larger errors , but the light curves seem to be broader ( decaying shallower ) than the other uv filters . in table 2 we report the typical decay rate in mags/100 days as in @xcite , with @xmath11 representing the early decay and @xmath12 the later shallow decay .",
    "the uv lightcurves of sne ia are fairly uniform , and the uvw1 curves match well with the hst / iue spectrophotometry of sn  1992a in the comparable f275w band @xcite .",
    "more details on the lightcurves and generation of uv lightcurve templates for sne ia will be presented in milne et al .",
    "( in preparation ) .    from a sample of light curves one can begin to discern what is normal and what is peculiar behavior .",
    "two sne ia that stand out are sne 2005hk and 2005ke .",
    "sn  2005hk was already fading in the uv when _ swift _ observations began , nearly 10 days before the optical maximum .",
    "sn  2005ke followed the typical ia decay until about 15 days after maximum light when the uv brightness remained nearly constant for @xmath020 days before fading again . in conjunction with a marginal x - ray detection",
    ", this plateau in the uv light curves has been attributed to interaction with the circumstellar material @xcite , though other causes such as reduced line blanketing have been suggested @xcite .",
    "contamination could be ruled out for sn  2005ke because the first observation showed the sn fainter than the plateau level and subsequent observations showed it had faded again .",
    "for other sne contamination is harder to rule out , but sne 2007ax @xcite and 2006mr show hints of extended emission above the background .",
    "sn  2006e also stands out with its relatively flat light curves , but that is because the peak and early decay were missed and the slow decay merely represents the shallower late time decay also seen in other sne ia .    for sne",
    "ib / c , the sample of well observed sne is much smaller , with 3 light curves in our sample , but they appear to be as diverse in the uv as they are in the optical ( see fig .  3 ) .",
    "other sne ib / c were also observed but for only a single epoch or were not well detected ( see @xcite for additional sne ib / c observed during _ swift _ s first two years ) .",
    "it is hard to define a generic uv behavior , so instead we briefly describe each well sampled sn .",
    "sn  2006aj , a ic sn , was discovered following _ swift _ bat trigger on grb060218 @xcite .",
    "the uv initially rose rapidly reaching a bright peak about half a day after the trigger .",
    "this first peak has been attributed to the shock breakout from a dense stellar wind @xcite or self - absorbed synchrotron radiation @xcite .",
    "this faded rapidly in the uv , plateauing briefly from 4@xmath1310 days after the trigger as the radioactive decay powered a supernova light curve , and then faded again . in uvw2 and uvm2",
    "this sn peaked 4 magnitudes fainter than the earlier peak .",
    "the optical curves are consistent with a sn ic of intermediate luminosity between normal sne ic and previous grb - associated , overluminous sne ic ( cf .",
    "@xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "sn  2006jc was a peculiarly bright and blue sn ib @xcite , and the uvot grism spectra show an indication of mgii emission @xcite .",
    "discovered near maximum light , the uv and optical light curves all fade steeply and then shallower and then steeper again .",
    "the uvot light curves will be studied in more detail in modjaz et al .",
    "( in preparation ) .",
    "sn  2007y , a peculiar ib / c with spectral similarities to sn  2005bf @xcite , behaved more like a ia in shape and color with the uv brightness rising with the optical , peaking a little sooner and fading slightly quicker .",
    "sne iip start off very bright and blue .",
    "brightening to a maximum just a few days after explosion , the uv magnitudes then fade rather linearly , with the uvm2 filter decaying slightly faster than the others .",
    "individual light curves of the sne iip are displayed in fig .",
    "this rapid drop in the uv brightness is driven by the cooling photosphere and the resulting line blanketing of heavy elements ( cf .",
    "@xcite compare the uvot photometry of sne ii 2005cs and 2006bp with model spectra and demonstrate the usefulness of uv photometry in constraining the extinction and the temporal change in temperature and ionization .",
    "the optical brightness remains constant , resulting in a steady reddening with time . while this reddening is common to all the sne iip observed by uvot , the decay slopes vary by nearly a factor of 2 ( as shown in table 2 ) , possibly reflecting the different cooling rates of the sn photospheres .    in order to better contrast the sn types , fig .",
    "4 shows the uvot light curves of a well observed example of each type . for easy comparison ,",
    "the time and magnitude axis are the same across the plots and the magnitudes are unshifted to show the relative colors .",
    "the explosion dates for sne 2007af and 2007y assume a rise time of 18 days to the maximum light in the v band for sne ia / b / c @xcite , while sn  2006bp uses the explosion date determined by @xcite",
    ". the main sn subtypes missing from our sample are sne iil , iin , and iib .",
    "fortuitously , examples of these classes , along with the peculiar sn ii 1987a were well observed with iue and hst , making these sets complementary .",
    "ccccc    uvw2 & 9@xmath1310 & 3 & 18 & 23@xmath1337 + uvm2 & 7@xmath139 & 3 & 14 & 23@xmath1341 + uvw1 & 11@xmath1313 & 2 & 18 & 20@xmath1332",
    "in addition to physical properties like temperature and extinction , uv and uv - optical colors are also useful in differentiating sn types .",
    "the use of optical colors to distinguish sne of different types has been explored by multiple authors @xcite .",
    "these techniques are of primary importance for large and deep surveys and searches for which the sn candidates are either too faint or too numerous for spectroscopic classification of all candidates .",
    "the upcoming pan - starrs could discover on the order of 10,000 sne / year and the large synoptic survey telescope 250,000 sne / year .",
    "thus photometric measures of the sne will be critical to classifying sne , as well as determining photometric redshifts .",
    "rest frame uv observations can greatly improve the accuracy of such determinations .",
    "6 compares the color - color location of two sne ia ( sne 2007af and 2005ke , well observed examples of a normal and sub - luminous ia respectively ) and two sne iip ( the well observed sne 2005cs and 2006bp ) in the 5 colors ( using neighboring filter combinations ) available from the uvot observations .",
    "extinction vectors , corresponding to a color excess e(b - v)=0.1 and the milky way extinction law @xcite evaluated at the central wavelengths , are plotted in each color - color plot , though the effect of extinction can vary with different source spectra and choices of extinction laws .",
    "as the uvot @xmath14 and @xmath9 magnitudes are similar to the johnson @xmath15 , the bottom right panel is comparable to fig .  3 in @xcite .",
    "in those colors there is still a lot of overlap between sne ia and ii .",
    "as one adds progressively bluer filters , sne ia and ii are better separated , showing the advantage of rest - frame uv observations . in the upper left panel , sne ia",
    "are actually bluer than sne ii in the uvw2-uvm2 color , but this is likely due to the red tail of the uvw2 filter allowing more optical photons through and making the uvm2 look fainter by comparison . as discussed more below , the uv and uv - optical colors of sne ii evolve dramatically , making their colors more similar to sne ia .    this clear difference between the uv - bright sne ii and the uv - faint sne ia",
    "was noticed after a few iue observations of sne ia and ii ( @xcite , see also @xcite ) .",
    "this `` uv deficit '' is caused by the very red ia spectrum between @xmath16 and 4000    ( cf.@xcite ) , and was exploited by @xcite to identify sne ia in the hubble deep field .",
    "the left panel of fig .",
    "6 uses filters on either side and in the middle of that red spectral slope to give two colors , uvm2-uvw1 and uvw1-b , which best show the contrast between sne ia and ii .",
    "the sne ii are clearly separated into the top left portion of the plot , while the sne ia are in the bottom right .",
    "the uvw1-b color is sufficient by itself to make the distinction , with uvw1@xmath13b@xmath171 corresponding to young sne ii .",
    "the right panel of fig .",
    "6 adds the colors of our three sne ib / c , spanning the range of colors seen in sne ia and ii , complicating their differentiation .",
    "the similarities of sn  2006jc with sne iin @xcite explains the blue uv - optical colors .",
    "more typical sne ib / c have lower effective temperatures and the subsequent uv line blanketing make their colors more similar to sne ia .",
    "the contamination of sne ib / c from cosmological samples of sne ia , as discussed in @xcite , is reduced because the sne ib / c are less common and usually much fainter than sne ia .    while red uv - optical colors differentiate well between young sne ii and ia , they are not conclusive , as sne ii become redder with time . in fig .",
    "7 we display the uvw1-b color evolution of these same sne . to determine the explosion date we have assumed a rise time of 18 days to the maximum light in the v band for sne ia @xcite and for the sne ii we use the explosion times determined by @xcite . at early times",
    ", there is a 3 magnitude difference between the uvw1-b color of sne ia and ii .",
    "however , this large difference does not persist as the sn ii temperature ( and correspondingly the uv flux ) drops with time creating a redder spectrum whose colors become similar to sne ia ( whose red colors evolve rather slowly ) by day 20 .",
    "@xcite noticed this rapid reddening in sn  1987a and cautioned against using the uv alone to distinguish sne i from ii .",
    "even a rough determination of the sn epoch , through either the light curve behavior or even the cadence of the sn search observations can help make the distinction .",
    "reddening is a further degeneracy which can also be broken by monitoring the color evolution , as reddening would cause a shift in the colors at a given epoch but not mask the differing slopes of the color evolution .    understanding the uv color differences within and across types is especially important for classifying high redshift sne .",
    "some uv information is being incorporated into such photoyping ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) but in the past has been limited due to the limited epochs at which uv information is available .",
    "the addition of this uv photometry should help improve the understanding of the diversity and temporal change of the uv flux to allow sne to be better identified at larger redshifts .",
    "other high redshift applications are discussed below .",
    "in addition to sn observations by uv satellites , deep optical observations will observe the rest - frame uv light from higher redshift sne .",
    "fig .  8 displays the rest frame uv light sampled by the uvot uv filters as it corresponds to observed wavelengths as a function of redshift , highlighting regions where the uv filters correspond",
    "well with commonly used optical and infrared filters . to highlight the regions where the overlap between the filters is greatest ,",
    "the bands are centered on the central wavelength and extend one quarter of the full width half max of the filter transmission in both directions @xcite .",
    "this graphically depicts useful regions of overlap .",
    "for example , the photons corresponding with the rest - frame uvw1 begins to be redshifted into the optical u band ( e.g. sdss - ii sn survey ; @xcite ; and lsst ) for objects at a redshift of @xmath18 and the g band ( e.g. snls ; @xcite ) at @xmath19 , where the u-g colors also correspond well with our uvw2@xmath13uvw1 colors .",
    "while chasing the optical light to high redshifts will require observing into the infrared , the use of rest frame uv light can be done with optical and near - ir observations possible with current and planned large ground based telescopes .",
    "@xcite discuss many uses for rest - frame uv observations of these high redshift sne in the context of snap , and this local sample should allow a comparison looking for evolutionary effects . since snap is planned to have logarithmically spaced filters beginning at 4000  , they will cover the restframe uv observed by the uvot filters for redshifts beyond z@xmath20 . more generally , any deep sn search optimized for finding and following high redshift sne in the optical will likely also detect the rest - frame uv light of sne ( preferentially sne ii due to their brighter uv luminosities ) at the high end of their target redshift and beyond .",
    "measuring sn rates at higher redshifts is only one of many uses of these high redshift detections .",
    "making full use of this data will require a better understanding of the uv light best obtained for nearby sne for which multi - wavelength photometry and spectroscopy over a larger portion of the light curve is possible .",
    "rest - frame uv observations of a local sample of sne have the further advantage of being a comparison sample with which to understand the high redshift sne , look for evolutionary differences ( see e.g. @xcite ) , and further constrain photometric redshifts , extinction , and luminosity distances .",
    "we have presented here the largest collection of uv light curves obtained by any single instrument , which have allowed the study of individual objects as well as comparisons within and across sn types .",
    "in addition to these apparent magnitudes , we are also working to calibrate the absolute magnitudes to many of these objects ( brown et al . in preparation ) .",
    "the absolute magnitudes can be used to study the utility of rest frame uv observations for cosmological measurements and for determining high redshift sn rates .",
    "we are also combining this data with optical and near - infrared observations to construct bolometric lightcurves that encompass more of the spectrum for individual objects and refining bolometric corrections used in constructing bolometric curves from optical data alone ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) . the light curve shapes and colors of our large sample should also help in the classification of sne , particularly at higher redshifts when spectra are unobtainable and fewer rest - frame optical bands are observable .",
    "future uv observatories , including a refurbished hst , tauvex @xcite , wso - uv @xcite and others , as well as optical observatories observing the high redshift universe , can also benefit from these light curves to better understand and plan effective uv sn observations .",
    "brown , p. j. , et al . 2005 , apj , 635 , 1192 brown , p. j. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 659 , 1488 brown , p. j. , roming , p. w. a. , vanden berk , d. e. , holland , s. t. , immler , s. , & milne , p. a. , 2007 , in aip conf .",
    "937 , supernova 1987a : 20 years after : supernovae and gamma - ray bursters , ed .",
    "s. immler & k. weiler , 386 - 390 ( arxiv:0802.3465 )                            holland , s. t. , immler , s. , brown , p. j. , roming , p. w. a. , vanden berk , d. , & milne , p. a. , 2007 , in aip conf .",
    "937 , supernova 1987a : 20 years after : supernovae and gamma - ray bursters , ed . s. immler & k. weiler , 391                  lentz , e. j. , baron , e. , branch , d. , haushildt , p. h. , & nugent , p. e. 2000 , apj , 530 , 966 li , w. , jha , s. , filippenko , a. v. , bloom , j. s. , pooley , d. , foley , r. j. , & perley , d. a. 2006 , pasp , 118 , 37      milne , p. a. , brown , p. j. , holland , s. t. , roming , p. w. a. , & immler , s. , 2007 , in aip conf .",
    "937 , supernova 1987a : 20 years after : supernovae and gamma - ray bursters , ed",
    ". s. immler & k. weiler , 303"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present ultravioliet ( uv ) observations of supernovae ( sne ) obtained with the ultraviolet / optical telescope ( uvot ) on board the _ swift _ spacecraft . </S>",
    "<S> this is the largest sample of uv light curves from any single instrument and covers all major sn types and most subtypes . </S>",
    "<S> the uv light curves of sne ia are fairly homogenous while sne ib / c and iip show more variety in their light curve shapes . </S>",
    "<S> the uv - optical colors clearly differentiate sne ia and iip , particularly at early times . </S>",
    "<S> the color evolution of sne iip , however , makes their colors similar to sne ia at about 20 days after explosion . </S>",
    "<S> sne ib / c are shown to have varied uv - optical colors . </S>",
    "<S> the use of uv colors to help type sne will be important for high redshift sne discovered in optical observations . </S>",
    "<S> these data can be added to ground based optical and near infrared data to create bolometric light curves of individual objects and as checks on generic bolometric corrections used in the absence of uv data . this sample </S>",
    "<S> can also be compared with rest - frame uv observations of high redshift sne observed at optical wavelengths . </S>"
  ]
}