{
  "article_text": [
    "the dense central regions of globular clusters constitute rich environments for the study of dynamical processes in stellar systems .",
    "it is well established on theoretical grounds that close binary stars play a significant role in the dynamical evolution of gcs @xcite .",
    "for example , the presence of the binary stars can delay or halt the evolution of a cluster toward high stellar density , which is known as core collapse. the gravitational encounters between passing binaries and single stars may produce tightly bound systems forming a variety of exotic objects .",
    "these include active and quiescent low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) with a neutron star primary , millisecond pulsars ( msps ) , cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) and blue stragglers ( bss ) .",
    "cataclysmic variables are interacting binaries containing a main - sequence or slightly evolved secondary star losing mass via roche lobe overflow onto a white dwarf primary .",
    "the binaries with the magnetic field of the white dwarf strong enough ( @xmath3  g ) to channel the mass - flow along the field lines directly onto the surface of the white dwarf are called am  her - type or polar cvs . in the non - magnetic systems ( @xmath4  g ) , an accretion disc forms around the primary . in the mildly magnetic systems , @xmath5  g , termed intermediate polars or dq  her - type systems",
    ", the accretion disc is truncated by the white dwarf s magnetic field at a distance from the white dwarf .",
    "it is believed that the accretion disc thermal instability is the cause of repetitive outbursts observed in some cvs called dwarf novae ( dne ) .",
    "the electronic edition of the catalog and atlas of cataclysmic variables @xcite contains 480 certain dne among 1117 reliable cvs .",
    "there are 86 and 50 certain polars and intermediate polars in the database , respectively .",
    "thus , one can say that almost half of all known field cvs exhibit outbursts , whereas at least 1/8 is of a magnetic nature",
    ". however , one should also stress that the sample of known field cvs suffers from strong , heterogeneous and rather unquantifiable selection effects ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the issue of presence and formation of cvs in globular clusters has been extensively studied on theoretical grounds . according to @xcite",
    ", we should not expect dynamically formed cvs in clusters due to unstable mass transfer in such systems .",
    "later , @xcite predicted the existence of more than 100 cvs in both 47  tuc and @xmath0 centauri and several thousand in the galactic globular cluster system .",
    "recently , @xcite investigated cv formation channels in gcs in detail . using numerical simulations they estimate the total number of cvs in the core of 47  tuc at the level of @xmath6 binaries .",
    "the number of known cvs in gcs is small . over the last few years observations collected with the orbiting x - ray telescopes yielded merely several tens of candidate cvs for chandra ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and xmm - newton ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "at present , there are just a few spectroscopically confirmed cvs in gcs : the dwarf nova v101 in m5 @xcite , cv1 - 4 in ngc 6379 @xcite , a cv in ngc 6624 @xcite , and the objects v1 , v2 and ako9 in 47  tucanae @xcite .",
    "dwarf nova outbursts were observed only in 12 objects ( see table  1 ) . among the latter , two dne , namely cv1 in the globular cluster m55 and cv2 in m22 , were discovered in the extensive photometric survey by the case collaboration @xcite .",
    "cvs constitute a heterogeneous class of stars studied with an assortment of tools , from x - ray and uv satellites , qso / blue excess photometric and emission line surveys and by variability surveys , but these methods suffer from severe and varying selection effects .",
    "the magnitude of these effects has never been reliably estimated , as illustrated by the astronomer s failure to either prove or reject the hibernation hypothesis , postulating over factor 100 increase of the space density of cvs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "for these reasons the results of our search of dwarf nova outbursts in the globular clusters should not be compared to studies of other cv sub - types and/or by other methods .",
    "additionally , certain subtypes of dne were identified only after a half century of efforts at many observatories .",
    "thus , despite the lack of evidence to show an abundance of possibly numerous but rarely detected subtypes , this scenario can not be ruled out . among others ,",
    "this does apply to wz  sge stars having outbursts separated by decades of years .",
    "it must be stressed that a restricted survey still suffices to claim that the properties of the field and cluster dne differ , provided certain conditions are met .",
    "namely , it must be proven that ( i ) the survey is sensitive to detection of a popular group of dne , ( ii ) their relative counts in two samples differ markedly .",
    "thus it is our aim to demonstrate that our survey is sensitive to ss  cyg / u  gem - type stars and that their count observed by us in the globular clusters is below expectations .",
    "while our survey is restricted in the above sense , it must be stressed that it is based on the most extensive photometric survey of the globular clusters yet available .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]     in table  4 we list outburst properties of prototype dne , scaled according to cluster distances .",
    "our simulations have confirmed that if globular clusters were populated by numerous dwarf novae resembling u  gem or ss  cyg they would be easily detected in our survey .",
    "detection efficiency of general dne in our simulations mostly depends on the duty cycle and observation coverage .",
    "the duty cycle is not particularly discriminating as many , perhaps most dne have duty cycles comparable to these of u  gem or ss  cyg . on the contrary , the outburst absolute magnitude is correlated with the orbital period @xcite .",
    "thus our survey is slightly biased towards detection of brighter , u  gem - type , dne above the period gap , and against su  uma - type below it . for the most likely periods ( distribution modes ) of these types ( respectively 3.8 and 1.5 hours )",
    "the average difference of absolute magnitudes in outburst amounts to roughly one magnitude . the corresponding loss in detection efficiency of su  uma - type stars would correspond to a shift by one panel to the right in fig .  25 , amounting to no more than 25% loss of observable outbursts",
    "paradoxically su  uma by itself would be discovered as easily as u  gem , because of a similar absolute brightness and ( super)outburst duty cycle . about a third of su",
    "uma - type stars , i.e. , wz sge stars , undergo extreme superoutbursts with large amplitude and recurrence times longer than a year .",
    "we would miss most of these superoutbursts because of their small duty cycle .",
    "however , as observed by @xcite , statistics of field cvs suffers from unknown and possibly large selection effects , rendering detailed quantitative comparison uncertain .",
    "we have checked the literature to count the number of erupting cvs in the solar neighbourhood . out of 11 cvs located within the sphere of a radius of 100  pc from the sun , seven stars ( ay  lyr , ex  hya , u  gem , v436  cen , vy  aqr , vw  hyi , wz  sge ) undergo outbursts ( the four remaining cvs are am  her , gp  com , ix  vel , v2051  oph ) . within a 200  pc sphere",
    "we have counted 22 erupting cataclysmic variables ( di  uma , gw  lib , ht  cas , oy  car , ss  aur , ss  cyg , sw  uma , sx  lmi , t  leo , v893  sco , ww  cet , wx  hyi , yz  cnc , z  cam , z  cha , plus seven variables mentioned above ) out of 45 objects ( the remaining stars are ae  aqr , ah  eri , bk  lyn , bl  hyi , by  cam , ef  eri , fo  aqr , hu  aqr , kr  aur , mr  ser , rw  sex , st  lmi , tt  ari , v347  pav , v834  cen , v3885  sgr , vv  pup , wx  ari , yy  dra ) .",
    "these numbers show that about half of the known cvs exhibit outbursts . however one should remember that distances for a significant number of known field cvs are uncertain or have never been measured . based on data from the electronic edition of the catalogue of cataclysmic binaries , low - mass x - ray binaries and related objects (",
    "* rkcat edition 7.9 , jan 1 , 2008 ) we find median recurrence times of 101 and 49 days for erupting cvs with distances up to 100  pc and 200  pc from the sun , respectively .",
    "one can roughly calculate the number of known cvs per unit stellar mass in the solar vicinity .",
    "if we take the value of local mass density of 0.035 @xmath7 , we find that the 100  pc sphere contains @xmath8 , and the 200  pc sphere about @xmath9 .",
    "this gives approximately @xmath10 known erupting cvs per @xmath11 in the first case and @xmath12 cvs per @xmath11 in the second one . for comparison , the estimated mass of the globular cluster m22 is @xmath13 @xcite , 47  tuc is of @xmath14 @xcite , and @xmath0  cen of @xmath15 @xcite .",
    "this translates into @xmath16 , @xmath17 and 0 known dne per unit solar mass respectively in the three clusters .",
    "all these densities for the clusters are significantly smaller than those estimated for the solar neighbourhood .    while it seems reasonable to conclude that , compared to the solar vicinity , gcs are deficient in u  gem - like variables , i.e. , dwarf novae with recurrence times up to a few hundreds of days , the actual cause remains obscured .",
    "either the relative number of dne is small or their outburst properties are different .",
    "rare outbursts in gc cvs would correspond to small average transfer rates and dim quiescent accretion discs compared to those in cvs in our vicinity ( @xcite , his fig .",
    "3.9 and eq . 3.3 ) .",
    "_ hst _ observations of low optical fluxes from 22 cv candidates would be consistent with such a hypothesis @xcite .",
    "an alternative explanation postulates that most cvs in gcs are magnetic and avoid outbursts as normal intermediate polars do . in these stars",
    "the magnetic field of the white dwarf truncates the inner accretion disc thus preventing or diminishing its outbursts . according to this proposal , in clusters",
    "close encounters or even stellar mergers result in a faster rotation of stellar cores and thus they facilitate growth of the magnetic field by stellar dynamo mechanism @xcite .",
    "the detection of relatively strong heii emission of cv1 , cv2 and cv3 in ngc 6397 would be consistent with their magnetic nature @xcite .",
    "@xcite showed that cv4 in ngc 6397 resembles intermediate polars .",
    "observations of outbursts of cv2 and cv3 by @xcite and @xcite do not invalidate the magnetic hypothesis as similar outbursts were observed in confirmed intermediate polars ( e.g. gk per , ex hya ) .",
    "further credit to the magnetic hypothesis was lent by the detection of intermediate polar - like 218  s oscillations in x - ray source x9 in 47  tuc @xcite .",
    "another x - ray source in the same cluster , x10 , exhibits a 4.7  hour period and an x - ray spectrum consistent with those seen in polars .",
    "@xcite proposed that rare outbursts in some cvs result from the combination of low mass transfer rates ( @xmath18 @xmath11/year ) and moderately strong white dwarf magnetic moments ( @xmath19 g @xmath20 ) .",
    "conversely , the mass transfer rates in gc cvs obtained in numerical simulations by @xcite exceed those proposed by @xcite by two orders of magnitude . according to @xcite ,",
    "a field strength of @xmath21 g suffices to prevent dn outbursts in all cvs with the white dwarf mass less than 1.1 @xmath11 .    in an alternative scenario ,",
    "frequent stellar encounters affect stability of binary orbits , thus affecting their ability to sustain an accretion rate suitable for formation of an accretion disc .",
    "recently , @xcite simulated a 100,000 star cluster with 5000 primordial binaries .",
    "they found that cluster cvs were affected by encounters with other cluster members .",
    "this tends to shorten their life and hence decrease the expected number of active cvs , at any given time , by a factor of 3 , compared to field cvs .",
    "extensive observations of the known cv candidates in clusters are urgently needed to determine their average accretion rates and dominant mode of variability .",
    "in particular , it would be important to verify whether these objects are magnetic .",
    "magnetic fields in such stars are reliably detected by zeeman split of the lines , strong and/or variable polarisation and by presence of the cyclotron harmonics ( humps ) in their continuum spectra .",
    "we report the results of our extensive photometric survey by the case collaboration of 16 galactic gcs with the aim of detecting dn outbursts .",
    "our early discovery of two dne , namely cv1 in the globular cluster m55 and cv2 in m22 were reported in @xcite and in @xcite , respectively , where we find that the former object is likely to be a u  gem - type dn , while the latter one is an su  uma dn , and their x - ray counterparts were detected by the xmm - newton satellite .",
    "their positions in the color - magnitude diagrams of the clusters and their x - ray fluxes are consistent with their cluster membership .    in the present paper",
    "we report that a similar search of dne in the remaining 14 gcs yielded no new dne .",
    "our search was sufficiently sensitive to easily detected outbursts of all three well - known dne in our fields : v101 in the globular cluster m5 , cv1 in the core of m22 , and the dn v4 in the foreground of the globular cluster m30 .",
    "we investigated further the nature of the enigmatic erupting source nv408 , located @xmath22 from the centre of @xmath0  centauri , but found no evidence confirming its cv nature .",
    "it is remarkable that we detected no outbursts nor any detectable variability near positions of 27 known cv candidates . to verify the efficiency of our survey we performed simulations by inserting into real frames artificial stars with light curves mimicking those of ss  cygni and u  geminorum - type dne .",
    "the results for m22 , m30 , and ngc 2808 demonstrated we were able to recover between 16 - 100% of artificial dne , depending on their duty cycle and observation coverage . for larger duty cycle",
    "ss  cyg - type stars our coverage was sufficient to obtain very close to 100% recovery rate . however , some u  gem type stars with a smaller duty cycle had no outbursts on our nights and hence for extremely poor sampling up to 70% of them were missed .",
    "any effects of stellar crowding were diminished by the application of the image subtraction technique for relatively sparse cores of some clusters , like m22 , m55 or @xmath0  centauri . for clusters with very dense ( and usually partly saturated ) cores",
    ", the number of recovered stars decreases toward the centre , as was demonstrated in additional simulations for the central part of ngc 2808 .",
    "the results of our extensive survey provide new evidence confirming early suggestions , based on more fragmentary data , that ordinary dne are indeed very rare in gcs .",
    "on one hand , up to 150 candidate cvs were proposed in gcs , mostly from x - ray surveys . on the other hand our survey combined with earlier results yielded only 12 confirmed dne in total in the substantial fraction of all galactic globular clusters .",
    "such a fraction of dne among cvs appears extremely low by comparison to the field cvs , of which half are dne .",
    "thus our observations acutely question why outbursts of dwarf novae are rare in gcs .",
    "we quote some recent evidence that most cluster cvs could be magnetic and thus exhibit little or no outbursts .",
    "however , any conclusions must await a thorough study of all cluster cv candidates .",
    "we acknowledge with thanks the variable star observations from the aavso international database contributed by observers worldwide and used in this research . some of the data presented in this paper were obtained from the multimission archive at the space telescope science institute ( mast ) , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "the observations are associated with the programme # 9442 .",
    "pp was supported by polish mnii grant number n203 019 31/2874 and the copernicus foundation for polish astronomy .",
    "pp and jk acknowledge support from the domestic grant for young scientists and from the grant master of the foundation for polish science , respectively .",
    "the case project is supported by the nsf grant ast 05 - 07325 and by polish mnii grant 1p03d 001 28 .",
    "it is also a pleasure to thank michael shara and sophia khan for remarks on the draft version of this paper .",
    "we are grateful to the referee for very quick and detailed report on the paper ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a search for dwarf novae ( dne ) in globular clusters ( gcs ) . </S>",
    "<S> it is based on the largest available homogeneous sample of observations , in terms of the time span , number of observations and number of clusters . </S>",
    "<S> it includes 16 galactic gcs and yielded two new certain dne : m55-cv1 and m22-cv2 . </S>",
    "<S> all previously known systems located in our fields were recovered , too . </S>",
    "<S> we surveyed m4 , m5 , m10 , m12 , m22 , m30 , m55 , ngc 288 , ngc 362 , ngc 2808 , ngc 3201 , ngc 4372 , ngc 6362 , ngc 6752 , @xmath0  centauri ( ngc 5139 ) and 47 tucanae ( ngc 104 ) . the discovery of two dne , namely m55-cv1 and m22-cv2 , was already reported by @xcite and @xcite , respectively . in the remaining 14 gcs we found no certain new dne . </S>",
    "<S> our result raises the total number of known dne in the galactic globular clusters to 12 dne , distributed among 7 clusters . </S>",
    "<S> our survey recovered all three already known erupting cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) located in our fields , namely m5-v101 , m22-cv1 , and v4 in the foreground of m30 . to assess the efficiency of the survey , we analyzed images with inserted artificial stars mimicking outbursts of the prototype dwarf novae ss  cygni and u  geminorum . </S>",
    "<S> depending on the conditions , we recovered between 16 - 100% of these artificial stars . </S>",
    "<S> the efficiency seems to be predominantly affected by duty cycle / time sampling and much less by distance / magnitude . except for saturated </S>",
    "<S> tiny collapsed cores of m30 , ngc  362 and ngc  6752 ( and also the dense core of ngc  2808 ) crowding effects in the @xmath1 band were avoided by our image subtraction technique augmented with auxiliary unsaturated @xmath2-band images . </S>",
    "<S> our results clearly demonstrate that in gcs common types of dne are very rare indeed . </S>",
    "<S> however , great care must be taken before these conclusions can be extended to the cv population in gcs .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : dwarf novae - novae , cataclysmic variables  globular clusters : individual : m4 , m5 , m10 , m12 , m22 , m30 , m55 , ngc 288 , ngc 362 , ngc 2808 , ngc 3201 , ngc 4372 , ngc 6362 , ngc 6752 , omega centauri ( ngc 5139 ) , 47 tucanae ( ngc 104 ) </S>"
  ]
}