{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of solar oscillations in the 1960s ( leighton  1960 ) and the identification of individual wave modes enabled accurate information on the properties of the solar interior to be established .",
    "these discoveries thereafter developed into the prominent research area of helioseismology ( pomerantz  et  al .  1985 ;",
    "duvall  & harvey  1984 ; scherrer  et  al .  1982 ) .",
    "the discovery of oscillations in coronal structures raised the prospect of using these oscillations as a diagnostic tool to establish coronal loop parameters .",
    "the field of coronal seismology subsequently emerged ( roberts  2000 ; aschwanden  et  al .",
    "2004 ; nakariakov  et  al .  2004",
    "; ofman  2007 ) .",
    "the identification of waves with wavelengths shorter than the size of typical coronal structures imposes great demands on current spectrocscopic and imaging instruments",
    ". the contribution of high frequency waves to the heating of coronal structures may be significant ( porter et al . 1994 ) .",
    "however , current space - borne instruments lack the necessary spatial , spectral and temporal resolution required to probe such small - scale structures .",
    "extensive analyses of photospheric oscillations has shown evidence for high - frequency , reconnection - driven acoustic wave trains ( jess  et  al .",
    "high - cadence observations of the upper solar atmosphere are much more scarce , primarily due to telemetry restrictions imposed by space - borne experiments .",
    "one such study was carried out by williams  et  al .",
    "@xcite who detected a 6  s intensity oscillation associated with an active region coronal loop .",
    "this oscillation was subsequently interpreted as a fast - mode , impulsively generated , magneto - acoustic wave ( williams  et  al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "the transition region , with a very dynamic nature over an inherently small depth , provides a regime to fully explore the potential coupling of underlying wave trains to those found in the corona ( doschek  2006 ) .",
    "recent work by gmry  et  al .",
    "@xcite discusses the detection of transition region velocity oscillations with periodicities in the range 250450  s and proposes this as evidence of downward propagating waves .",
    "doyle  et  al .",
    "@xcite found transition region intensity oscillations with periods ranging from 200500  s , while hansteen  et  al .",
    "@xcite report both intensity and velocity oscillations in the transition region with periods ranging from 100300  s. additionally , de  pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite find , through use of numerical models , that oscillations generated in the photosphere can propagate into the corona providing they are guided along an inclined magnetic flux tube .",
    "although there have been many detections of transition - region oscillations , space - borne instrumentation lacks the temporal resolution required to probe waves with frequencies above 33  mhz in this part of the solar atmosphere .",
    "the reason for this may be the lack of instruments available which are sensitive enough to obtain good count statistics , while maintaining short exposure times necessary for high - cadence observations . in order to probe physical processes occurring in the transition region on time scales less than 1  min , it is imperative to acquire data at the highest possible cadence using a sensitive camera system .    here",
    "we report velocity oscillations detected in the transition region using an extreme ultraviolet normal incidence spectrograph ( eunis ) sounding rocket instrument developed at nasa s goddard space flight center . in ",
    "2 we provide a brief outline of the observations , while in   3 we discuss the methodologies used during the analysis of the data and the search for reliable oscillatory signatures .",
    "a discussion of our results in the context of velocity oscillations is in   4 , and finally ,",
    "our concluding remarks are given in   5 .",
    "eunis was launched from white sands missile range , new mexico , at 1810  ut on 2006 april  12 .",
    "it achieved a maximum altitude of 313  km and obtained solar spectra and images between 1812 and 1818  ut .",
    "eunis observed noaa ar  10871 ( s07e28 ) and ar  10870 ( s08w02 ) , the quiet area between them , and a southern - hemisphere coronal bright point within the quiet area .",
    "for the present study , we are concerned with 75 solar exposures taken during a `` stare '' ( fixed pointing ) mode near the start of the flight , with constant 1.024  s durations .",
    "each of the data frames consist of imaged euv spectra along a slit 660@xmath1 long , together with spectroheliograms ( called lobe images ) formed by 200@xmath1 wide areas beyond the two slit ends which are used for spatial registration .",
    "for this analysis , we will focus on the long - wave [ lw ] channel , where the spectral coverage ranges from 300  to 370 , with an associated cadence of  @xmath5  s. further observations in scanning ( spectroheliogram ) mode are not discussed here .",
    "additional details regarding the eunis instrument can be found in brosius  et  al .",
    "processing the eunis images was performed by subtracting an average dark frame obtained in flight , debiasing each detector row with a linear fit to the unilluminated ends , correcting for non - linear detector response , and applying a flat - field image obtained in the laboratory after the flight .",
    "radiometric calibration , carried out post - flight at rutherford appleton laboratory , and corrections for atmospheric extinction , are also included .",
    "brosius  et  al .",
    "@xcite discuss validation of the eunis relative and absolute radiometric calibration .",
    "comparison of eunis he  ii 303.8  lobe images with a full sun he  ii image obtained at 1812 ut with s reveals that the eunis  lw slit was tilted about 1.5@xmath6 counterclockwise from the solar e - w axis , and that this angle remained stable in time .",
    "the eunis  lw field of view was initially centered at ( x  =  -193@xmath1 , y  =  -83@xmath1 ) , but its pointing drifted at a steady rate of about 0.04@xmath1  s@xmath7 in both the x- and y - directions , which corresponds to a net drift in each dimension of about 6@xmath1 during the 167  s spent in this mode . due to the drift in the solar x - direction being along the slit axis",
    ", we were able to remove this spatial shift through co - alignment techniques .",
    "implementing fourier cross - correlation routines as well as squared mean absolute deviations , we were able to provide sub - pixel co - alignment accuracy .",
    "however , it must be noted that sub - pixel image shifting was not implemented due to the substantial interpolation errors which may accompany this technique .",
    "drift of the eunis  lw field of view in the solar y - direction was not compensated for since the overall drift is greater than the @xmath8 slit - width .",
    "after co - alignment of the eunis lw spectra , we averaged over three spatial pixels for a net spatial pixel size of @xmath9 .",
    "line fits were then made using gaussian profiles on linear backgrounds , resulting in values of the centroid position , integrated intensity , and fwhm , together with their corresponding uncertainties , at each spatial location along the slit and for each eunis exposure .",
    "figure 1 shows the pointing of the eunis lw slit near the beginning of `` stare '' sequence , along with the simultaneous he ii slit image and corresponding line intensity as a function of position along the slit .",
    "active region noaa 10871 , which is the subject of this paper , is located towards the left - hand side of figure 1 .",
    "the eunis spectral resolution for this first flight was @xmath10  m  fwhm in the lw channel ; still , the centroids of strong lines , such as with he ii reported here , can be determined with a statistical uncertainty of @xmath11  km / s or better ( brosius et al .",
    "2007 ) .    since eunis",
    "does not provide an absolute wavelength scale , velocities reported here are relative to average values measured across individual solar features .",
    "for example , figure  [ wave_drift ] shows the slit - averaged he ii central wavelength as a function of time from the start of the eunis stare sequence , and reveals a systematic shift toward shorter wavelength .",
    "the wavelength drift is modest , less than 1  pixel over the whole flight , but real .",
    "its characteristics are identical in all observed lw lines , and does not depend on the solar feature being observed .",
    "these facts , coupled with the shape of the drift with time , suggest it is due to thermal changes within the payload resulting in a tilt of the grating within its dispersion plane . to remove this effect ,",
    "a least - squares linear fit is performed , after which the resulting trend is removed from the data leaving pure deviations relative to the average value measured across the solar feature .",
    "portions of the he ii slit image were analysed based on their relative magnitudes .",
    "figure  1 shows the isolation of three distinct and intense features corresponding to a coronal bright point and two enhancements in ar  noaa  10871 .",
    "relative he  ii velocities as a function of time are generated for each of the three features shown in figure 1 .",
    "since the spatial averaging of three pixels has already been performed to improve the signal - to - noise ratio , no additional averaging was required .",
    "thus , spatially resolved velocities are determined for each solar feature , allowing for more precise diagnostics . before temporal analysis of the dataset",
    "can be implemented , timing corrections must be considered . during the stare mode investigated here ,",
    "all exposure durations were exactly the same , namely 1.024  s. however , time - intervals between a small number of exposures varied somewhat . to compensate for this timing irregularity",
    ", all line - fit parameters were interpolated onto a constant - cadence time series with linear interpolation performed between data points . during this interpolation procedure",
    "approximately 15% of all data points required a timing correction .",
    "this provides the necessary platform for temporal studies to commence .",
    "all spatially - resolved he  ii velocity measurements were passed into fast fourier transform ( fft ) and wavelet analysis routines .",
    "while a fft searches for periodic signatures by decomposing the input signal into infinite length sinusoidal wavetrains using a basic exponential function , wavelet analysis utilizes a time localised oscillatory function continuous in both frequency and time ( bloomfield  et  al .",
    "2004 ) and is therefore highly suited in the search for transient oscillations .",
    "the wavelet chosen for this study is known as a morlet wavelet and is the modulation of a sinusoid by a gaussian envelope ( torrence &  compo  1998 ) .",
    "strict criteria were implemented during wavelet analysis to insure that oscillatory signatures correspond to real periodicities .",
    "the first is a test against spurious detections of power that may be due to poisson noise , where the input time series is assumed to be normally distributed ( consistent with photon noise ) and following a @xmath12 distribution with two degrees of freedom .",
    "a 99% confidence level is calculated by multiplying the power in the background spectrum by the values of @xmath12 corresponding to the 99th percentile of the distribution ( torrence &  compo  1998 , mathioudakis  et  al .",
    "2003 ) .",
    "the second criterion applied is a comparison of the input time series with a large number ( 1500 ) of randomized time - series with an identical distribution of counts .",
    "the probability , @xmath13 , of detecting non - periodic power is calculated for the peak power at each timestep by comparing the value of power found in the input time series with the number of times that the power transform of the randomized series produces a peak of equal or greater power .",
    "a percentage confidence is attributed to the peak power at every time step in the wavelet transform by @xmath14 , such that a high value of @xmath13 implies that there is no periodic signal in the data , while a low value suggests that the detected periodicity is real ( see banerjee  et  al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "our final wavelet criterion is the exclusion of oscillations which last , in duration , less than @xmath15 cycles .",
    "this is consistent with the decorrelation time defined by torrence  & compo  @xcite .",
    "one can distinguish between a spike in the data and a harmonious periodic component at the equivalent fourier frequency by comparing the width of a peak in the wavelet power spectrum with the decorrelation time . from this , the oscillation lifetime at the period of each power maximum is defined as the interval of time from when the power supersedes 95% significance to when it subsequently dips below 95% significance ( mcateer  et  al .",
    "the lifetime was then divided by the period to give a lifetime in terms of complete cycles ( ireland  et  al .",
    "any oscillations which last for less than this minimum duration were discarded as they may have simply been a spike in the time series .",
    "wavelet power , for a variety of oscillatory periods which lay above the 95% significance level , was saved as the output of this analysis .",
    "in figure  [ wavelet1 ] , it is clear to see a strong 26  s oscillatory signal , coupled with an amplitude of @xmath210  km / s , lasting in excess of four complete cycles . through examination of the fwhm of corresponding fourier and global spectra , in addition to the boundaries of the 99% confidence - level contours , we can associate an error of @xmath2  4  s to the detected periodic signal .",
    "this oscillatory frequency is much higher than previously detected and originates from the most westerly part of the active region ( feature  2 ) .",
    "similar analysis of the intensity variation of feature  2 reveals no intensity oscillations at this location . through closer examination of the  304  image",
    ", the location of strong oscillatory power originates from a particularly bright part of ar  noaa  10871 . due to the eunis instrument providing spatially - resolved spectra , pixels of the eunis slit corresponding to this bright feature ( eight in total )",
    "were analysed in full .",
    "each pixel , corresponding to a spatial scale of 2.8@xmath1 ( as outlined in   [ analy ] ) , provides high oscillatory power at a 26  s periodicity .",
    "furthermore , no phase difference between neighboring pixels was found indicating that this oscillatory phenomena is of substantial physical size ( in excess of 20@xmath1 ) .",
    "the fact that the signal remains coherent during pointing drifts perpendicular to the slit - direction indicates a size of at least 6@xmath1 in that dimension as well .",
    "additional transition region lines were also studied , consisting of the mg  vi  349.2  ( @xmath16  k ) , ne  iv  358.7   ( @xmath17",
    "k ) and ne  v  359.4  ( @xmath18  k ) emission lines .",
    "all of these emission lines corroborate the detection of the 26  s velocity oscillation in feature  2 .",
    "however , due to these lines being much weaker when compared to he  ii , the resulting reduction in signal - to - noise means that the confidence levels associated with these detections are reduced .",
    "nevertheless , a strong 26  s oscillatory signal over four complete cycles , with confidence levels exceeding 85% in each instance , is observed in transition region emission lines formed at temperatures up to @xmath19  k.    due to the full - disk nature of and images , these can be accurately co - aligned by forcing the solar limbs to agree ( lpez fuentes  et  al .",
    "2006 ) . through multiple coalignments",
    "an uncertainty between and images converges to approximately 0.5 of an pixel , or 1@xmath1 .",
    "this is an intermediary step which allows subsequent co - alignment of images to magnetograms . upon inspection of a co - aligned  195  image ,",
    "it is clear that the oscillatory phenomena is generated in the immediate vicinity of a coronal loop structure ( fig .",
    "[ mdi_eit_trace ] ) .",
    "this , coupled with the strong underlying photospheric magnetic - field ( top panel of fig .",
    "[ mdi_eit_trace ] ) , suggest that this could be an observational signature of a propagating mhd wave .",
    "highly magnetic structures , such as coronal loops , can act as superior wave guides ( edwin  & roberts  1983 ) , which allow the efficient propagation of mhd waves . to search for upward propagating waves , we perform the same rigorous analysis on co - spatial coronal emission lines . for this , we choose the strong mg  ix  368.1  ( @xmath20  k ) , fe  xiv  334.2  ( @xmath21",
    "k ) , and fe  xvi  335.4/360.8  ( @xmath22  k ) emission lines . due to structures at one level in the solar atmosphere not always overlying the structures to which they are connected to at other levels in the atmosphere , we included additional eunis pixels during our search for coronal oscillations . due to the eunis slit being one - dimensional , we are unable to investigate any oscillatory behavior at locations north and south of the eunis pointing . however , we analyse pixels lying to the east and west of the detected he ii oscillations .",
    "we incorporate an extra four pixels in each direction into our investigation totalling an additional 22.4@xmath1 . after searching for simultaneous oscillations in these lines ,",
    "no velocity perturbations could be found in the corona .",
    "additionally , no periodic signatures in coronal emission intensities could be found implying that our detected transition - region oscillations are not propagating out into the corona . to check the validity , and reliability , of our",
    "detected he  ii velocity oscillation , we examine the results of analysing two additional features mentioned in   [ analy ] .",
    "one feature corresponds to the central portion of ar  noaa  10871 ( feature  1 ) , while the second coincides with the coronal bright point found to the west of the active region ( feature  3 ) .",
    "examining these two features in detail reveals no signatures of he  ii velocity oscillations .",
    "it is interesting to note that feature  1 overlies a region of opposite magnetic polarity to that of feature  2 ( fig .",
    "[ mdi_eit_trace ] ) .",
    "additionally , the magnetogram shows that the magnetic field is stronger for feature  2 than for feature  1 . in accordance with the theory of edwin  & roberts  @xcite ,",
    "this may imply that the magnetic structuring around feature  2 may act as a better waveguide than the magnetic field found surrounding feature  1 .",
    "additionally , the velocity fluctuations of the he  ii line are consistent with the relative doppler velocities reported by brosius  et  al .",
    "@xcite .",
    "such a scenario leaves open the issue of what causes these transition region velocity oscillations .",
    "de  pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite state there is a general correspondence between p - modes and upper transition region oscillations , in duration , periods , and locations of oscillatory power .",
    "priest  @xcite explains that the superposition of p - mode oscillations usually results in wavetrains containing 4 or 5 cycles , after being emitted from the photosphere .",
    "this is corroborated by de  pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite who find transition region oscillations typically consisting of wavetrains 37 cycles long .",
    "the cycle lifetimes stated by de  pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite and priest  @xcite match closely our findings , however , these pressure driven modes can not explain the velocity oscillations presented in this work .",
    "traditionally , transition region velocity oscillations , surrounding an active region , have been interpreted as the signature of resonant transmission of chromospheric umbral oscillations ( thomas  et  al .",
    "previously detected transition region velocity oscillations have associated periods of 129173  s ( gurman  et  al .",
    "1982 ) and directly corroborate the work of thomas  et  al .",
    "@xcite .",
    "since there are no low - temperature lines in the euv bandpasses of eunis , it provides no direct information about chromospheric plasmas .",
    "therefore , we are unable to provide a quantitative comparison to the work of gurman  et  al .",
    "@xcite , who detect transition region and chromospheric velocity oscillation interplay in highly magnetic structures .",
    "nevertheless , the fact that we detect pure velocity oscillations , with no intensity variation , implies that we are dealing with an almost purely adiabatic plasma ( rendtel  et  al .",
    "models of coupled resonators ( ugda  et  al .",
    "1983 , 1987 ; settele  et  al .",
    "1999 ) , which explain the resonant transmission of mhd waves through active - region atmospheres , require regions of strong wave reflection , e.g. from the steep temperature gradient found within the transition region .",
    "consequently , according to rendtel  et  al .",
    "@xcite , velocity oscillations may be observed in the euv lines of active regions as a result of resonant transmission .",
    "if intensity oscillations were found to accompany transition region velocity waves , this would hint at a non - adiabatic system consisting of isothermal waves ( staude  et  al .",
    "such a distinction is important , as it indicates that the solar transition region plasma for feature  2 is adiabatic in nature , and experiences strong , non - stationary behaviour over the duration of the eunis stare mode .",
    "therefore , through comparison of our results to those of gurman  et  al .",
    "@xcite , rendtel  et  al .",
    "@xcite and thomas  et  al .",
    "@xcite , we can infer that our detected transition region velocity oscillations are similar in both amplitude and location to those found interacting with chromospheric plasma ( brynildsen  et  al .",
    "we find the oscillations propagating in a concentrated magnetic field region with much higher frequencies than reported to date .    of particular importance",
    "is the ability to place the observed he  ii oscillation onto a dispersion diagram ( edwin  &  roberts  1983 ) . from this diagram , it is possible to infer the exact mode of propagation in relation to fast- or slow - body waves .",
    "several kinds of wave modes have been directly observed with the and spacecraft , as well as with ground - based telescopes ( aschwanden  et  al  1999 , wang  et  al .",
    "it is of particular interest that these wave modes , through use of mhd seismology techniques , can be deduced from simple plasma parameters such as electron density and magnetic - field strength ( nakariakov  et  al .  1999 ,",
    "nakariakov  & ofman  2001 ) .",
    "one particular mode , the sausage mode , has been typically used to interpret short periodicities of less than one minute .",
    "the sausage mode is based on an assumption whereby the period of this mode is determined by the ratio of the cross - sectional radius to the alfvn speed inside the waveguide ( meerson et al .",
    "the global sausage mode ( gsm ) is a fast - mhd mode which can efficiently modulate the plasma density and magnetic field strength .",
    "it is also one of the principal modes that can be excited in active regions providing the magnetic waveguide is sufficiently thick and dense . in order to assess whether the gsm can be supported in the transition region of ar  noaa  10871 , we require information on the plasma temperature , electron density and magnetic field strength .    for this assessment",
    ", we choose a plasma temperature of @xmath0  k ( the formation temperature of he  ii ) , an internal - waveguide electron density of @xmath23  @xmath24 , an external - waveguide electron density of @xmath25  @xmath24 and a magnetic field strength of 25  g. these values are consistent with previously measured transition region values ( parnell  et  al .  2002 , prez  et  al .",
    "the gsm exists if the dimensionless wave number , @xmath26 , is greater than the cut - off value , @xmath27 where @xmath28 is the waveguide radius and @xmath29  =  2.4 is the first zero of the bessel function @xmath30 , as detailed in edwin  & roberts  @xcite . @xmath31 and @xmath32 are the internal and external alfvn speeds , while @xmath33 and @xmath34  =  @xmath35/@xmath36 are the internal sound and tube speeds , respectively .",
    "these values can be derived directly from our input parameters described above , and following the criteria outlined in nakariakov  et  al .",
    "@xcite , we can determine if this mode can explain the oscillations presented here .",
    "we derive the associated cut - off value , @xmath37 , to be 1.12 . in order to see whether the observed wave train is a fast- or slow - body wave , we relate the detected periodicity , @xmath38 , to the internal alfvn speed ,",
    "whereby a fast - body wave will be present if : @xmath39    substituting known values into equation  2 , we find that the minimum diameter of the waveguide required to channel fast - body waves is @xmath40  1800  km",
    ". we can use co - spatial coronal observations to provide an estimate of the diameter of the transition - region waveguide . by measuring the co - spatial width of coronal loops seen in the  195  images ,",
    "we establish an average loop width of 7  pixels , corresponding to a diameter of @xmath40  2500  km .",
    "this measured width is consistent with previous statistical loop measurements ( aschwanden  et  al .",
    "2000 , aschwanden  &  nightingale  2005 ) and is greater than the minimum diameter required to channel fast - body waves . accompanying our derived @xmath37 value , we deem that a fast - mhd wave ( _ i.e. _ , the global sausage mode ) could explain the origins of the detected he  ii velocity oscillation ( fig  [ omegak ] ) .",
    "in addition to he  ii , the warmer transition region lines for which periodic velocity oscillations were detected are also consistent with the global sausage mode . increasing the line - formation temperature from @xmath41 to @xmath42",
    "k leads to an increase in the sound and tube speeds , whereas the internal and external alfvn speeds remain unchanged . as a result ,",
    "the cut - off value is increased , thus maintaining the validity of the gsm as the most favorable mode of propagation .",
    "however , it must be noted that the cutoff value , @xmath37 , is extremely sensitive to the assumed values of magnetic field strength and electron density , through their relationship with the alfvn speed , @xmath43 .",
    "furthermore , the magnetic field strength is almost always an inferred measure ( parnell  et  al .",
    "2002 ) and exerts a stronger variation on the alfvn speed due to a linear dependence between them .",
    "therefore , caution must be exercised when evaluating the mode of propagation . in this instance",
    ", the gsm appears to be the most favorable mode of propagation , although for a definitive answer , values of magnetic field strength and electron density must first be determined accurately .",
    "we have presented direct evidence of high - frequency waves propagating in an active region , at transition region heights .",
    "we have shown the location of 26  s oscillatory signatures , with significance levels greater than 95% due to the rigorous wavelet criteria enforced in   [ analy ] .",
    "the velocity oscillations detected here originate from a large ( @xmath44 20@xmath1 ) , bright he  ii structure crossing the eunis slit on the westerly edge of ar  noaa  10871 .",
    "the highest temperature at which we observe this oscillation is @xmath19  k , but we find no evidence for upward propagation of this wave train into the corona , and infer , qualitatively , that the detected oscillations could be caused by the resonant transmission interplay between the chromosphere and transition region .",
    "we deduce that the observed velocity oscillations exhibit signatures of a fast - mhd wave - in particular , that of the fast - body global sausage wave mode .",
    "the work of de pontieu  et  al .",
    "@xcite emphasizes the coupling of transition region oscillations to those in the underlying photosphere .",
    "a natural extension of this work is to investigate if such a correspondence also exists in the high frequency domain ( see jess  et  al .",
    "2007a for high - frequency photospheric analysis ) .",
    "dbj is supported by a northern ireland department for employment and learning studentship .",
    "dbj additionally thanks nasa goddard space flight center for a cast studentship  in particular doug rabin , roger thomas and jeff brosius deserve special thanks for their endless help , support and scientific input .",
    "fpk is grateful to awe aldermaston for the award of a william penney fellowship .",
    "the eunis program is supported by the nasa heliophysics division through its low cost access to space program in solar and heliospheric physics .",
    "we thank the entire eunis team for the concerted effort that led to a successful flight .",
    "wavelet software was provided by c. torrence and g.p .",
    "aschwanden , m. j. , fletcher , l. , schrijver , c. j. , & alexander , d. , 1999 , apj , 520 , 880 aschwanden , m. j. , nightingale , r. w. , & alexander , david , 2000 , apj , 541 , 1059 aschwanden , m. j. , nakariakov , v. m. , & melnikov , v. f. , 2004 , apj , 600 , 458 aschwanden , m. j. , & nightingale , r. w. , 2005 , apj , 633 , 499 banerjee , d. , oshea , e. , doyle , j. g. , & goossens , m. , 2001 , a&a , 371 , 1137 bloomfield , d. s. , mcateer , r. t. j. , mathioudakis , m. , williams , d. r. , & keenan , f. p. , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 604 , 936 brosius , j. w. , rabin , d. m. , & thomas , r. j. , 2007 , apjl , 656 , 41 brosius , j. w. , rabin , d. m. , thomas , r. j. , & landi , e. , 2008 , apj , 677 , in press brynildsen , n. , kjeldseth - moe , o. , maltbys , p. , & wilhelm , k. , 1999 , apjl , 517 , 159 de pontieu , b. , erdlyi , r. , & de wijn , a. g. , 2003 , apjl , 595 , 63 de pontieu , b. , erdlyi , r. , & de moortel , i. , 2005 , apjl , 624 , 61 doschek , g. a. , 2006 , apj , 649 , 515 doyle , j. g. , van den oord , g. h. j. , oshea , e. , & banerjee , d. , 1998 , sol .",
    "phys . , 181 , 51 duvall , t. l. , & harvey , j. w. , 1984 , nature , 310 , 19 edwin , p. m. , & roberts , b. , 1983 , sol .",
    "phys . , 88 , 179 gmry , p. , rybk , j. , kuera , a. , curdt , w. , & whl , h. , 2006 , a&a , 448 , 1169 gurman , j. b. , leibacher , j. w. , shine , r. a. , woodgate , b. e. , & henze , w. , 1982 , apj , 253 , 939 hansteen , v. h. , betta , r. , & carlsson , m. , 2000 , a&a , 360 , 742 ireland , j. , walsh , r. w. , harrison , r. a. , & priest , e. r. , 1999 , a&a , 347 , 355 jess , d. b. , andic , a. , mathioudakis , m. , bloomfield , d. s. , & keenan , f. p. , 2007a",
    ", a&a , 473 , 943 jess , d. b. , mcateer , r. t. j. , mathioudakis , m. , keenan , f. p. , andic , a. , & bloomfield , d. s. , 2007b , a&a , 476 , 971 leighton , r. b. , 1960 , iaus , 12 , 321 lpez fuentes , m. c. , klimchuk , j. a. , & dmoulin , p. , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 639 , 459 mcateer , r. t. j. , gallagher , p. t. , bloomfield , d.s . , williams , d. r. , mathioudakis , m. , & keenan , f.p . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 602 , 436445 mathioudakis , m. , seiradakis , j. h. , williams , d. r. , avgoloupis , s. , bloomfield , d. s. , & mcateer , r. t. j. , 2003 , a&a , 403 , 11011104 meerson , b. i. , sasorov , p. v. , & stepanov , a. v. , 1978 , sol .",
    ", 58 , 165 nakariakov , v. m. , ofman , l. , deluca , e. e. , roberts , b. , & davila , j. m. , 1999 , science , 285 , 862 nakariakov , v. m. , & ofman , l. , 2001 , a&a , 372 , l53 nakariakov , v.m .",
    ", melnikov , v.f . , & reznikova , v.e .",
    ", 2003 , a&a , 412 , l7 nakariakov , v. m. , arber , t. d. , ault , c. e. , katsiyannis , a. c. , williams , d. r. , & keenan , f. p. , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 349 , 705 ofman , l. , 2007 , apj , 655 , 1134 parnell , c. e. , bewsher , d. , & harrison , r. a. , 2002 , sol .",
    ", 206 , 249 porter l.,j . ,",
    "klimchuk j.a . ,",
    "sturrock p.a . , 1994 , apj , 435 , 482 prez , m. e. , doyle , j. g. , oshea , e. , & keenan , f. p. , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 351 , 1139 pomerantz , m. a. , fossat , e. , gelly , b. , grec , c. , harvey , j. w. , & duvall , t. l. , 1985 , antarctic j. u.s . , 20 , 221 priest , e. r. , 1982 , in solar magnetohydrodynamics ( dordrecht : reidel ) rendtel , j. , staude , j. , & curdt , w. , 2003 , a&a , 410 , 315 roberts , b. , 2000 , sol .",
    "phys . , 193 , 139 scherrer , p. h. , wilcox , j. m. , christensen - dalsgaard , j. , & gough , d. , 1982 , nature , 297 , 312 settele , a. , zhugzhda , y. d. , & staude , j. , 1999 , astron .",
    "nachr . , 320 , 147 staude , j. , ugda , y. d. , & locns , v. , 1985 , sol .",
    "phys . , 95 , 37 thomas , j. h. , lites , b. w. , gurman , j. b. , & ladd , e. f. , 1987 , apj , 312 , 457 torrence , c. , & compo , g. p. , 1998 , bull .",
    ", 79 , 61 wang , t. j. , solanki , s. k. , curdt , w. , innes , d. e. , & dammasch , i. e. , 2002 , apj , 574 , l101 williams , d. r. , phillips , k. j. h. , rudawy , p. , mathioudakis , m. , et  al",
    ". , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 428436 williams , d. r. , mathioudakis , m. , gallagher , p. t. , phillips , k. j. h. , et  al . , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 747752 ugda , y. d. , locns , v. , & staude , j. , 1983 , sol .",
    "82 , 369 ugda , y. d. , locns , v. , & staude , j. , 1987 , astron .",
    ", 308 , 257"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spectroscopic measurements of ar noaa 10871 , obtained with the extreme ultraviolet normal incidence spectrograph ( eunis ) sounding rocket instrument on 2006 april 12 , reveal velocity oscillations in the he  ii 303.8  emission line formed at @xmath0  k. the oscillations appear to arise in a bright active - region loop arcade about 25@xmath1  wide which crosses the eunis slit . </S>",
    "<S> the period of these transition region oscillations is 26  @xmath2  4  s , coupled with a velocity amplitude of @xmath3 km / s , detected over 4 complete cycles . </S>",
    "<S> similar oscillations are observed in lines formed at temperatures up to @xmath4  k , but we find no evidence for the coupling of these velocity oscillations with corresponding phenomena in the corona . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret the detected oscillations as originating from an almost purely adiabatic plasma , and infer that they are generated by the resonant transmission of mhd waves through the lower active - region atmospheres . through use of seismological techniques </S>",
    "<S> , we establish that the observed velocity oscillations display wave properties most characteristic of fast - body global sausage modes . </S>"
  ]
}