{
  "article_text": [
    "social network analysis has been a hot topic in the field of data mining . in the co - authorship network ,",
    "a node is an author and a edge indicates a publishing collaboration between them .",
    "researchers are interested in these special networks from which they discover power law in the degree distribution , that is , only a small proportion of nodes have high degrees while the rest has low degree .",
    "social networks also present positive assortative values while in nonsocial networks , such as internet , biology network , the values are always negative , indicating that in social networks , higher degree nodes trend to connect with higher degree nodes while in nonsocial ones , it is largely possible that higher degree ones are linked with lower degree ones .",
    "moreover , researchers reveal community structures where the vertices within communities have higher density of edges while vertices between communities have lower density of edges . in the co - authorship network ,",
    "a community reflects a group of scholars with similar interest .",
    "apparently , from these static characteristics , people have gained much understanding of social networks . however , we are not satisfied with these achievements , but will furthermore explore those dynamic features of social networks .",
    "for example , how can we track community evolution effectively ? does other dynamic features exist to distinguish social networks from nonsocial ones ?",
    "how can we establish a more reasonable model of social network ?    with the interest to dynamic features of social networks , we firstly perform experiments in which after a long time duration has been divided into several snapshots , we find that about 80 percent of nodes appear in one or two snapshots .",
    "the experiment indicates that most of nodes is so unstable that we can not rely on them too much .",
    "we also discover that node with higher degree will appear in more snapshots . on its basis",
    ", we propose a core - based algorithm called commtracker to track community evolution effectively . with it ,",
    "we not only find out a community evolution trace but also discover split or mergence points in the trace . by the algorithm",
    ", we find two unique phenomena of social networks .",
    "one is that a larger community leads to a longer life and the other is that a community with a longer life trend to have lower member stability .",
    "correspondingly , we propose two representative coefficients : growth and metabolism , by which we are able to tell social networks from nonsocial ones . at",
    "last , we propose a more reasonable model which focuses on node change .",
    "the model successfully displays two important phenomena discovered above .",
    "we validate our conclusions in 11 datasets including 6 social networks : 3 co - authorship networks in cond - mat , math and nonlinear fields , a call network , an email networks and a movie actor network as well as 5 nonsocial ones involving 3 software networks ( tomcat 4 , tomcat 5 , ant ) , an internet network , a vocabulary network .",
    "the rest of the paper is organized as follows : section 2 reviews the related work .",
    "section 3 gives definitions .",
    "section 4 introduces some basic dynamic features of our dataset .",
    "section 5 presents the core - based algorithm of tracking community evolution .",
    "section 6 introduces two unique phenomena discovered in the social networks .",
    "section 7 shows our model and section 8 concludes .",
    "a lot of work has been dedicated to exploring the characteristics of social networks .",
    "barabasi and albert show an uneven distribution of degree through ba models@xcite .",
    "newman has successfully discovered distinct characteristics between social networks and nonsocial ones@xcite .",
    "various methods have been utilized to detect community structures . among them , there are newman s betweenness algorithm @xcite@xcite , nan du s clique - based algorithm@xcite and cpm@xcite that focuses on finding overlapping communities .",
    "clustering is another technique to group similar nodes into large communities , including l. donetti and m.miguels method@xcite which exploits spectral properties of the graph as well as laplacian matrix and j.  hopcroft s `` natural community '' approach@xcite .",
    "some social network models have been proposed @xcite@xcite@xcite .",
    "with respect to core node detection , roger guimera and luis a.nunes amaral propose a methodology that classifies nodes into universal roles according to their pattern of intra- and inter - module connections @xcite .",
    "b.  wu offers a method to detect core nodes with a threshold @xcite .",
    "shaojie qiao and qihong liu dedicate themselves to mining core members of a crime community@xcite .    as to dynamic graph mining , tanya y.berger-wolf and jared saia study community evolution based on node overlapping @xcite ; john hopcroft and omar khan propose a method which utilizes  nature community \" to track evolution@xcite .",
    "however , both methods have to set some parameters , which is too difficult to be adaptive to various situations . in contrast ,",
    "keogh et al . suggests the notion of parameter free data mining@xcite .",
    "jimeng sun s graphscope is a parameter - free mining method of large time - evolving graphs@xcite , using information theoretic principles .",
    "our method in the paper shares the same spirit .    as forerunners , a.l.barabasi and h.jeong study static characteristic variations on the network of scientific collaboration@xcite .",
    "gergely palla and a .-",
    "barabasi provide a method which effectively utilizes edge overlapping to build evolving relationship@xcite . with the approach",
    ", they discover valuable phenomena of social community evolution .",
    "the table below lists almost all the symbols used in the paper . +    [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     one important reason contributing to such distinctions is that in social networks , a community represents a group of persons with close connection and in nonsocial ones a community is just a cluster of objects . as we know",
    ", in social networks , if a community want to obtain a long life , it must undertake suitable member changes , that is , when some old core members retire , new ones take over responsibility in time so that the development of the community is well supported . otherwise , if a community refuses to absorb new members , when the old core members exit from the community , it is possible that new core ones have not been cultivated , leading to quick disintegration .",
    "in contrast , the members of nonsocial networks are objects , not persons .",
    "for example , in software network , a community is a class cluster with similar functions .",
    "if a class cluster is designed well , it must experience little change and be used for a long time .",
    "nowadays , many social network models have been established . however , when we get some snapshots generated from these social networks , most of them fail to display the characteristic behaviors we have proposed above . in our view , a main defect is that a node will permanently exist in the network once it is added into the network .",
    "however , from the experiments shown in section 4 , a lot of nodes enter into the network and then quickly exist from it . hence , how to revise existing models to make them more reasonable is a problem to be solved .",
    "our model is based on the one proposed in emily s model@xcite , which takes into account social network aspects completely , such as meeting rate between pairs of individuals , decay of friendships , etc .",
    "moreover , emily s model indeed presents many static features of social networks .",
    "therefore , we decide to adopt it as our model basis . our model can be simulated directly using the following algorithm .",
    "let @xmath0 where @xmath1 is the network initial scale .",
    "let @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the degree of the @xmath4 vertex . and",
    "let @xmath5 .",
    "we choose @xmath6 pairs of vertices uniformly at random from the network to meet .",
    "if a pair meet who do not have a pre - existing connection , and if neither of them already has the maximum @xmath7 connections then a new connection is established between them .",
    "we choose @xmath8 vertices at random , with probability proportional to @xmath9 . for each vertex",
    "chosen we randomly choose one pair of its neighbors to meet , and establish a new connection between them if they do not have a pre - existing connection and if neither of them already has the maximum number @xmath7 of connections .",
    "we choose @xmath10 vertices with probability proportional to @xmath3 . for each vertex chosen",
    "we choose one of its neighbors uniformly at random and delete the connection to that neighbor .",
    "we choose one vertex , if its degree @xmath11 , the average degree , we delete it with the probability @xmath12 ; otherwise , we delete it with the probability @xmath13 .",
    "the process does nt stop until @xmath14 vertices have been deleted .",
    "we add @xmath15 new vertices . for each new one",
    ", it establishes a link with a vertex @xmath16 randomly and then it also connects to the vertex with highest degree from the neighbor vertices of @xmath16 .",
    "note that the first 3 steps have already existed in the emily s algorithm while the last 2 steps are added by ourselves .",
    "the 4th step is responsible for deleting some existing vertices according to their degrees .",
    "the last step focuses on adding new vertices . in this step ,",
    "we eliminate the limit of maximum connection in order to allow some vertices to get high degree . in reality ,",
    "a community consists of vertices with distinct degrees while in the emily s social network model , a community trends to be a clique due to the limit of maximum connection .",
    "as pointed out in @xcite , the network is initialized by starting with no edges , and running the first two steps without the other three ones until all or most vertices have degree @xmath7 ( we set the limitation as 85% ) .",
    "then all five steps are used for the remainder of the simulation .",
    "six experiments have been performed with different parameters @xmath12 , @xmath13 , @xmath15 and @xmath14 shown in fig.[model ] . in all stimulation , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 , @xmath20 , @xmath21 .",
    "when all the five steps are running , we get a snapshot every five repetitions .",
    "we consider 17 snapshots together .",
    "in the paper , we firstly perform some basic experiments to explore those dynamic characteristics of social networks and it is discovered that a large percentage of nodes are so instable that we can not rest on them too much and that nodes with higher degree will appear more frequently during the evolution of a social network . under the experimental results ,",
    "we propose a novel core - based algorithm to track community evolution , which has the following features:(1 ) it is effective ; ( 1 ) it is parameter - free ; ( 2 ) it is suitable to discover split and mergence points . with the algorithm , we uncover two representative dynamic features of social networks and define two coefficients : growth and metabolism by which we also achieve the goal of telling social networks from nonsocial ones . in the end , we propose a revised social network model which can display two typical characteristics .",
    "the experiments are based on 6 social networks ( co - authorship network , call network , movie actor network and email network)and 5 nonsocial networks ( internet , vocabulary network and software network ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> researchers have devoted themselves to exploring static features of social networks and further discovered many representative characteristics , such as power law in the degree distribution and assortative value used to differentiate social networks from nonsocial ones . </S>",
    "<S> however , people are not satisfied with these achievements and more and more attention has been paid on how to uncover those dynamic characteristics of social networks , especially how to track community evolution effectively . with these interests , </S>",
    "<S> in the paper we firstly display some basic but dynamic features of social networks . then on its basis </S>",
    "<S> , we propose a novel core - based algorithm of tracking community evolution , commtracker , which depends on core nodes to establish the evolving relationships among communities at different snapshots . with the algorithm </S>",
    "<S> , we discover two unique phenomena in social networks and further propose two representative coefficients : growth and metabolism by which we are also able to distinguish social networks from nonsocial ones from the dynamic aspect . at last , </S>",
    "<S> we have developed a social network model which has the capabilities of exhibiting two necessary features above . </S>"
  ]
}