{
  "article_text": [
    "according to a standard scenario of hierarchical structure formation in the universe , galaxy clusters are formed through successive merging of galaxies , galaxy groups , and clusters .",
    "about a half of observed clusters have irregular x - ray morphology ( e.g. , @xcite references therein ) , and a part of such irregularities thought to be caused by such merging events .",
    "abell 399/401 is well - known as merging clusters on an early stage of the merging . @xcite and @xcite found that the intracluster medium ( icm ) at the linked region of the two clusters is compressed based on the asca and xmm - newton observations , respectively .",
    "recently , @xcite reported the detection of fe k emission lines near the center of the linked region based on the suzaku xis observation , and the metallicity in that regions is estimated to be 0.2 times the solar metallicity , which seems relatively high compared with theoretical predictions based on numerical simulations ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the estimation of physical properties of icm in x - ray observations is usually based on the assumptions that icm is in the ionization equilibrium state and that electrons and ions share the same thermal temperature .",
    "such assumptions can be justified around central regions of galaxy clusters by the fact that icm density is high enough to quickly achieve ionization equilibrium and thermal equilibration between electrons and ions . as for the ionization equilibrium ,",
    "the timescale required to reach collisional ionization equilibrium for an ionizing plasma , is estimated as @xmath1 ( see e.g. , @xcite ) , where @xmath2 is the number density of electrons .",
    "therefore , for @xmath3 in the linked region ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , @xmath4 is comparable to or longer than the merger timescale , so that the ionization equilibrium is no longer a reasonable assumption .",
    "actually , in the warm - hot intergalactic medium ( whim ) , where the density is much lower , the deviation from the ionization equilibrium have been pointed out by @xcite .",
    "in addition , the thermal equilibration in merging clusters has been studied by @xcite based on n - body / sph simulations , and the two - temperature structure of icm , i.e. the difference in temperature between electrons and ions , is reported especially at low - density regions .",
    "the two - temperature structure of whim has been also suggested by @xcite .",
    "therefore , there exists sufficient reasons to suspect that these assumptions are not valid in the linked region of abell 399/401 . in this paper",
    ", we investigate an ionization state and temperature structure of icm in the linked region by relaxing the assumptions of ionization equilibrium and thermal equipartition between electrons and ions , and verify to what extent such a non - equilibrium state affect the interpretations of the observational data .",
    "we carry out n - body / sph simulations of two merging galaxy clusters , in which a non - equilibrium ionization state and two - temperature structure of icm are both taken into account .",
    "radiative cooling and electron heat conduction are both ignored in these simulations .",
    "the time evolution of two - temperature structure is followed with the same way as @xcite .",
    "we assume that the electrons and ions always reach maxwellian distributions with temperatures , @xmath5 and @xmath6 , respectively , and the two temperatures are equalized through coulomb scattering on a timescale of @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the number density of ions , and @xmath9 is the coulomb logarithm . by introducing the dimensionless temperatures of electrons and ions , @xmath10 and @xmath11 , respectively , normalized by the mean temperature of electrons and ions , @xmath12 , the evolution of two - temperature structure",
    "is described by @xmath13 where @xmath14 and @xmath15 are the specific thermal energy and the shock heating rate per unit mass , respectively .",
    "the first term of the r.h.s . denotes the thermal relaxation rate between ions and electrons .",
    "note that recent studies on supernova remnants showed that @xmath16 around the shock for relatively small mach numbers ( @xcite ) ; electrons may be heated by some plasma waves .",
    "however , for a cluster merger , the mach number of the shock is ` very ' small ( @xmath17 ) . in this case",
    ", waves may not be generated and electrons may not be heated . in this letter , we ignore the effect of electron heating by plasma waves .",
    "the time evolution of ionization fractions of ions is computed by solving @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the index of a particular ionization stage considered , @xmath20 the atomic number , @xmath21 the ionization fraction of an ion @xmath19 , @xmath22 the ionization rate of an ion @xmath19 with the ejection of @xmath23 electrons , and @xmath24 is the recombination rate of an ion @xmath19 .",
    "ionization processes include collisional , auger , charge - transfer , and photo - ionizations , and recombination processes are composed of radiative and dielectronic recombinations .",
    "ionization and recombination rates are calculated by utilizing the spex ver 1.10 software package .",
    "actual calculations are carried out in essentially the same way as @xcite , except that the reaction rates are computed using the electron temperature , @xmath5 , rather than the mean temperature , @xmath25 , in order to incorporate the effect of two - temperature structure .",
    "we solve the time evolution of each ionization fraction of h , he , c , n , o , ne , mg , si , s , and fe , but we focus only on iron .",
    "to reproduce the situation of abell 399/401 , the initial condition of the two clusters is set up as follows .",
    "we consider a head - on merger ( @xcite ) , and assume that their collision axis is perpendicular to the line of sight .",
    "each cluster has the same shape for simplicity since the differences of the two clusters in shape and size are slight ( @xcite ) .",
    "we adopt the king profile for the initial dark matter distribution , in which the radial velocity dispersion , @xmath26 , satisfies @xmath27 , where @xmath28 is the boltzmann constant and @xmath29 is the virial temperature ( the virial radius is @xmath30  mpc and the cluster mass is @xmath31 ) . for the initial icm distribution",
    ", we first assume the temperature profile , @xmath32 , with @xmath33 , and the density profile is obtained by assuming hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the above parameters are chosen so that x - ray surface brightness satisfies the @xmath34-model best - fit @xcite , and that the spectroscopic - like temperature , @xmath35 @xcite , reproduces the observed temperature at the unperturbed regions by @xcite .",
    "the number of particles of each galaxy cluster is set to a half million each for dark matter and icm .",
    "the initial relative velocity of the two clusters is set to @xmath36 to reproduce the observed temperature of the linked region in terms of @xmath35 , and the initial separation is @xmath37  mpc . as for the metallicity ,",
    "a spatially uniform metallicity of 0.2 times the solar abundance is assumed .",
    "it should be noticed that the metallicity , @xmath20 , is very insensitive to the resulting ionization state of ions as long as @xmath38 .",
    "we also assume @xmath39 and an ionization equilibrium state at the start of the simulation .",
    "( 135mm,75mm)figure1.eps    in the rest of this paper , we present the results of a snapshot of the simulation in which the separation between the centers of the two clusters is @xmath40  mpc so that their configuration is consistent with that of abell 399/401 .",
    "figure 1a1e show physical properties on a cross section along the collision axis of the two clusters .",
    "the white - solid square with 1.5  mpc on a side shows the region roughly corresponding to the observed area by @xcite . in this region , the local icm density , @xmath41 ( figure 1a ) , and @xmath42 are in good agreement with the observations ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "we find that the shock heating rate is typically a few percent of the adiabatic heating rate inside the linked region .",
    "this means that both the electrons and ions are mainly heated by the adiabatic compression in almost the same rate with no significant shocks there .",
    "accordingly , as can be seen in figure 1c , the electron temperature is only a few percent lower than the mean temperature in this region . on the other hand , at the edge of the linked region ( the white - dashed rectangles ) ,",
    "there exist significant shock layers with mach number of 1.52 . in these layers",
    ", we can see that the electron temperature is typically 1020  % lower than the mean temperature , and even lower toward outer regions .",
    "figure 1d and 1e show the ionization fraction of fexxv and the ratio of the fraction relative to that in the ionization equilibrium state , respectively . here , the ionization equilibrium state is calculated assuming that @xmath43 . in the center of the linked region ,",
    "the fexxv fraction is typically 3060  % , the largest among other ionization states , and is 1020  % larger than that in the equilibrium state . in the shock layers at the edge of the linked region ,",
    "the fexxv fraction is nearly 80 % and 3040 % larger than that in the ionization equilibrium state .",
    "the excess of the fexxv fraction can be understood as follows . in the linked region",
    ", the electron temperature is increasing from @xmath40  kev to @xmath44  kev according to the adiabatic compression and/or the shock heating , so that the fexxv fraction is decreasing in time because an fexxv fraction peaks at @xmath40  kev and decreases as the temperature increases in the ionization equilibrium state .",
    "however , the ionization of fexxv to higher ionization states is not quick enough to catch up with the ionization equilibrium state , leaving the fexxv fraction larger than that in the equilibrium state .",
    "deviations from the ionization equilibrium state can be seen also for fexxiv .",
    "its fraction is @xmath453  % , and @xmath4620  % larger than that in the equilibrium state . due to the excess of fexxiv and fexxv fractions ,",
    "the fractions of fexxvi and fexxvii are @xmath47  % and @xmath4820  % smaller than those in the equilibrium state , respectively .    as a result of the deviation from the ionization equilibrium , the intensities of iron line emissions",
    "are altered to some extent .",
    "we calculate x - ray spectrum from the simulation using the spex package , and find that k@xmath0 lines of fexxiv and fexxv in a rest - frame energy band of 6.66.7 kev is larger than those in the ionization equilibrium state , primarily because of the excess of fexxv fraction",
    ". on the other hand , since the fexxvi fraction is smaller than that in the equilibrium state , k@xmath0 lines of fexxvi in 6.97.0 kev band in rest frame are dimmer .",
    "it should be noted that the iron line emission detected in @xcite corresponds to the k@xmath0 lines of fexxiv and fexxv in the 6.66.7 kev energy band .",
    "figure  1f depicts the ratio of the intensity in 6.66.7 kev band projected along the line of sight relative to that in the ionization equilibrium state , and it can be seen that the intensity changes are significant ( typically @xmath48 % ) at the shock layers , while the intensity is only a few percent enhanced around the area of the suzaku observation by @xcite , despite the excess of the fexxv fraction by 1020 % ( figure 1e ) .",
    "this is because the deviation from the ionization equilibrium is significant only at the center of the linked region , and its effect is diluted in integrating along the line of sight .",
    "this suggests that the iron line emission detected by @xcite is not severely affected by the deviation from the ionization equilibrium . here",
    ", let us define the ratio of the x - ray intensity between the two energy bands as @xmath49 figure  2 shows the map of the ratio @xmath50 , where @xmath51 is the intensity ratio defined above but in the ionization equilibrium state , and clearly indicates that the intensity ratio departs from the one in the ionization equilibrium state within the shock layers . note that this intensity ratio is independent of the local abundance of iron , but primarily depends on its ionization state .",
    "therefore , such excess of the intensity ratio , @xmath52 , can be used as a stringent observational tracer of the non - equilibrium ionization state .",
    "the ionization state of iron and two - temperature structure in the linked region of abell 399/401 is investigated by using n - body + sph simulations by relaxing the assumptions of ionization equilibrium and thermal equilibration between electrons and ions .",
    "it is found that , around the center of the linked region , the fexxv fraction is 1020  % larger than that in the ionization equilibrium state , and the electron temperature is only a few percent smaller than the mean temperature of electrons and ions , because the icm is mainly adiabatically heated inside the linked region . on the other hand , we find that there exist shock layers at the edge of the linked region , and that the fexxv fraction is larger than that in the ionization equilibrium state by 3040 % , and the electron temperature is typically 1020  % lower than the mean temperature around these layers .",
    "our simulation indicates that the intensity of fe  k@xmath0 emission lines is affected by such deviation from the ionization equilibrium state of iron in the linked region .",
    "while the deviation from the ionization equilibrium state is remarkable around the center and the edge of the linked region , we find that the emission line intensity is strongly affected preferentially at the edge of the linked region .    the area of the suzaku xis observation by @xcite , in which fairly high metallicity is reported ,",
    "is located at the central portion of the linked region .",
    "our results imply that x - ray emission in this area is not strongly affected by the effects of a non - equilibrium ionization state and two - temperature structure .",
    "therefore , the fact that high metallicity is detected in this area can not be ascribed to the non - equilibrium ionization state of the icm , and must be explained by other physical processes .",
    "it is interesting to discuss the detectability of the non - equilibrium ionization state and the two - temperature structure of icm in abell 399/401 . according to our simulations ,",
    "it is expected that shock layers with a mach number of 1.52 are located at the edge of the linked region , and that the ratio between k@xmath0 emission lines of fexxiv  xxv and fexxvi are significantly different from that in the ionization equilibrium state .",
    "observationally , such an intensity ratio of iron emission lines could be important clues for the detection of the deviation from the ionization equilibrium in these layers . in principle",
    ", the indication of the two - temperature structure can be also obtained by the difference between electron and ion temperatures inferred from x - ray thermal continuum and thermal width of emission lines , respectively .",
    "of course , the detections of the non - equilibrium ionization state and the two - temperature structure are not very feasible with the current observational facilities , but could be achieved by the x - ray spectroscopy with a high energy resolution using x - ray calorimeters in near future .",
    "finally , we should discuss several caveats on the assumptions adopted in this work .",
    "the slope of the density profile , i.e. @xmath34 , is a sensitive parameter to the non - equilibrium ionization state and two - temperature structure .",
    "if we adopt @xmath53 , the resultant departure from the ionization equilibrium is suppressed because the icm density at the outskirts is relatively denser and the equilibration timescales become shorter .",
    "in addition , we assume that the encounter is taking place on the plane of the sky . if it is not the case , the effect of the non - equilibrium ionization state on the observed x - ray intensity at the shock layers would be blurred to some extent in integrating along the line of sight , depending on the viewing angle .",
    "the authors would like to thank an anonymous referee for useful comments and suggestions .",
    "this work is carried out with computational facilities at center for computational sciences in university of tsukuba , and supported in part by grant - in - aid for specially promoted research ( 16002003 ) from mext of japan , and by grant - in - aid for scientific research ( s ) ( 20224002 ) and for young scientists ( start - up ) ( 19840008 ) from jsps .",
    "99 akahori ,  t. , & masai ,  k. 2005 , pasj , 57 , 419 fujita ,  y. , koyama ,  k. , tsuru ,  t. , & matsumoto ,  h. , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 191 fujita ,  y. , tawa ,  n. , hayashida ,  k. , takizawa ,  m. , matsumoto ,  h. , okabe ,  n. , & reiprich ,  t.  h. 2008 , pasj , 60 , s343 ghavamian ,  p. , laming ,  j.  m. , & rakowski ,  c.  e. 2007 , apjl , 654 , l69 haardt ,  f. , & madau ,  n.  y. 2001 , astro - ph/0106018 markevitch ,  m. , forman ,  w.  r. , sarazin ,  c.  l. , & vikhlinin ,  a. 1998 , apj , 503 , 77 masai ,  k. 1984 , ap&ss , 98 , 367 mazzotta ,  p. , rasia ,  e. , moscardini ,  l. , & tormen ,  g. 2004 , mnras , 354 , 10 oegerle ,  w.  r. , & hill ,  j.  m. 1994 , aj , 107 , 857 sakelliou ,  i. , & ponman ,  t.  j. 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1439 takizawa ,  m. 1999 , apj , 520 , 514 tornatore ,  l. , borgani ,  s. , dolag ,  k. , & matteucci ,  f. 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1050 yoshida ,  n. , furlanetto ,  s.  r. , & hernquist ,  l. 2005 , apj , 618 , l91 yoshikawa ,  k. , & sasaki ,  s. 2006 , pasj , 58 , 641"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate a non - equilibrium ionization state and two - temperature structure of the intracluster medium in the linked region of abell 399/401 , using a series of n - body + sph simulations , and find that there exist significant shock layers at the edge of the linked region , and that the ionization state of iron departs from the ionization equilibrium state at the shock layers and around the center of the linked region . as for the two - temperature structure , </S>",
    "<S> an obvious difference of temperature between electrons and ions is found in the edge of the linked regions . </S>",
    "<S> k@xmath0 line emissions of fexxiv and fexxv are not severely affected by the deviation from the ionization equilibrium state around the center of the linked region , suggesting that the detection of relatively high metallicity in this area can not be ascribed to the non - equilibrium ionization state of the intracluster medium . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> the k@xmath0 emissions are significantly deviated from the equilibrium values at the shock layers , and the intensity ratio of k@xmath0 lines between fexxiv  xxv and fexxvi is found to be significantly altered from that in the ionization equilibrium state . </S>"
  ]
}