{
  "article_text": [
    "in this paper we study the behavior of a population of agents playing some simple two - person , one - shot non - cooperative game .",
    "game theory  @xcite deals with social interactions where two or more individuals take decisions that will mutually influence each other .",
    "it is thus a view of collective systems in which global social outcomes emerge as a result of the interaction of the individual decisions made by each agent .",
    "some extremely simple games lead to puzzles and dilemmas that have a deep social meaning .",
    "the most widely known among these games is the prisoner s dilemma ( pd ) , a universal metaphor for the tension that exists between social welfare and individual selfishness .",
    "it stipulates that , in situations where individuals may either cooperate or defect , they will rationally choose the latter .",
    "however , cooperation would be the preferred outcome when global welfare is considered .",
    "other simple games that give rise to social dilemmas are the hawk - dove and the stag - hunt ( sh ) games .    in practice , however , cooperation and coordination on common objectives is often seen in human and animal societies  @xcite .",
    "coordinated behavior , such as having both players cooperating in the sh , is a bit less problematic as this outcome , being a nash equilibrium , is not ruled out by theory . for the pd , in which cooperation is theoretically doomed between rational agents , several mechanisms have been invoked to explain the emergence of cooperative behavior . among them , repeated interaction , reputation , and belonging to a recognizable group have often been mentioned @xcite .",
    "yet , the work of nowak and may  @xcite showed that the simple fact that players are arranged according to a spatial structure and only interact with neighbors is sufficient to sustain a certain amount of cooperation even when the game is played anonymously and without repetition .",
    "nowak and may s study and much of the following work were based on regular structures such as two - dimensional grids ( see  @xcite for a recent review ) .",
    "nevertheless , many actual social networks usually have a topological structure that is neither regular nor random but rather of the _ small - world _ type .",
    "roughly speaking , small - world networks are graphs in which any node is relatively close to any other node . in this sense , they are similar to random graphs but unlike regular lattices . however , in contrast with random graphs , they also have a certain amount of local structure , as measured , for instance , by a quantity called the _ clustering coefficient _ which essentially represents the probability that two neighbors of a given node are themselves connected ( an excellent review of the subject appears in  @xcite ) .",
    "some work has been done in recent years in the direction of using those more realistic kind of networks , including actual social networks .",
    "in particular we mention santos and pacheco s work on scale - free networks  @xcite , work on watts  strogatz small - world graphs  @xcite , and on model and real social networks  @xcite .",
    "a recent contribution focuses on repeated games and learning  @xcite and szab and fth have published an excellent and very complete review of work done up to 2006  @xcite .",
    "these investigations have convincingly shown that a realistic structure of the society , with interactions mainly limited to neighbors in the network , is well sufficient in allowing cooperative and coordinated behavior to emerge without making any particular assumption about the rationality of the actors or their computational and forecasting capabilities .",
    "most of the above mentioned studies have assumed a fixed population size and structure , which amounts to dealing with a closed system and ignoring any fluctuations in the system s size and internal interactions . however , real social networks , such as friendship or collaboration networks , are not in an equilibrium state , but are open systems that continually evolve with new agents joining or leaving the network , and relationships ( i.e.  links in network terms ) being made or dismissed by agents already in the network  @xcite .",
    "thus , the motivation of the present work is to re - introduce these coupled dynamics into our model and to investigate under which conditions , if any , cooperative and coordinated behavior may emerge and be stable . in this paper",
    ", we shall deal with networked populations in which the number of players remains constant but the interaction structure ,  i.e. who interacts with whom , does not stay fixed ; on the contrary , it changes in time and its variation is dictated by the very games that are being played by the agents .",
    "a related goal of the present work is to study the topological structures of the emergent networks and their relationships with the strategic choices of the agents .",
    "+ some previous work has been done on evolutionary games on dynamic networks  @xcite .",
    "skyrms and pemantle  @xcite was recently brought to our attention by a reviewer .",
    "it is one of the first important attempts to study the kind of networks that form under a given game and , as such , is closely related to the work we describe here .",
    "the main ideas are similar to ours : agents start interacting at random according to some game s payoff matrix and , as they evolve their game strategy according to their observed payoffs , they also have a chance of breaking ties and forming new ones , thus giving rise to a social network . the main differences with the present work",
    "is that the number of agents used is low , of the order of @xmath0 instead of the @xmath1 used here .",
    "this allows us to study the topological and statistical nature of the evolving networks in a way that is not possible with a few agents , while skyrms and pemantle s work is more quantitative in the study of the effects of the stochastic dynamics on the strategy and network evolution process .",
    "the work of zimmermann and eguluz  @xcite is based on similar considerations too .",
    "there is a rather large population which has initially a random structure .",
    "agents in the population play the one - shot two - person prisoner s dilemma game against each other and change their strategy by copying the strategy of the more successful agent in their neighborhood .",
    "they also have the possibility of dismissing interactions between defectors and of rewiring them randomly in the population . the main differences with the present work are the following . instead of just considering symmetrical undirected links",
    ", we have a concept of two directed , weighted links between pairs of agents . in our model there is a finite probability of breaking any link , not only links between defectors , although defector - defector and cooperator - defector links are much more likely to be dismissed than cooperator - cooperator links .",
    "when a link is broken it is rewired randomly in  @xcite while we use a link redirection process which favors neighbors with respect to more relationally distant agents . in",
    "@xcite only the prisoner s dilemma is studied and using a reduced parameter space .",
    "we study both the prisoner s dilemma and the stag hunt games covering a much larger parameter space . concerning timing of events , we use an asynchronous update policy for the agents strategies , while update is synchronous in  @xcite . finally , instead of a best - takes - over discrete rule",
    ", we use a smoother strategy update rule which changes an agent s strategy with a probability proportional to the payoffs difference .",
    "santos et al .",
    "@xcite is a more recent paper also dealing with similar issues .",
    "however , they use a different algorithm for severing an undirected link between two agents which , again , does not include the concept of a link weight .",
    "furthermore , the stag hunt game is only mentioned in passing , and their strategy update rule is different . in particular , they do not analyze in detail the statistical structure of the emerging networks , as we do here .",
    "other differences with the above mentioned related works will be described in the discussion and analysis of results .",
    "finally , our own previous work  @xcite also deals with the co - evolution of strategy and structure in an initially random network .",
    "however , it is very different from the one presented here since we used a semi - rational threshold decision rule for a family of games similar , but not identical to the prisoner s dilemma in  @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the idea of a bidirectional weighted link between agents was absent , and link rewiring was random .",
    "this article is structured as follows . in sect .",
    "[ social_dilemmas ] , we give a brief description of the games used in our study . this part is intended to make the article self - contained . in sect .",
    "[ model ] , we present a detailed description of our model of co - evolving dynamical networks . in sect .",
    "[ simul ] , we present and discuss the simulation results and their significance for the social networks . finally , in sect .",
    "[ conclusions ] , we give our conclusions and discuss possible extensions and future work .",
    "the two representative games studied here are the prisoner s dilemma ( pd ) and the stag - hunt ( sh ) of which we briefly summarize the significance and the main results .",
    "more detailed accounts can be found elsewhere , for instance in @xcite . in their simplest form , they are two - person , two - strategies , symmetric games with the following payoff bi - matrix :    [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the sh case is very similar , which is a relatively surprising result .",
    "in fact , when cooperation finally takes over in regions of the configuration space where defection would have been an almost equally , likely final state , players are highly clustered and there are many highly connected individuals , while in less conflicting situations the clusters are less dense and the degree distribution shows a faster decay of the tail . on the other hand , when defection is the final quasi - stable state , the population graphs looses a large part of its structure .",
    "thus , the same topological mechanisms seem to be responsible for the emergence of cooperation in the pd and in the sh . the only previous study that investigates the structure of the resulting networks in a dynamical setting is , to our knowledge , reference  @xcite , where only the pd is studied .",
    "it is difficult to meaningfully compare our results with theirs as the model of zimmermann et al .",
    "differs from ours in many ways .",
    "they use a deterministic hard - limit rule for strategy update which is less smooth than our stochastic local replicator dynamics .",
    "moreover , they study the pd in a reduced configuration space , only links between defectors can be broken , and links are rewired at random .",
    "they concentrate on the study of the stability of the cooperating steady - states against perturbations , but do not describe the topological structures of the pseudo - equilibrium states in detail .",
    "nevertheless , it is worthy of note that the degree distribution functions for cooperators and defectors follow qualitatively the same trend , i.e.  cooperators networks have distributions with fatter tails to the right than defector networks .",
    "using two well known games that represent conflicting decision situations commonly found in animal and human societies , we have studied by computer simulation the role of the dynamically networked society s structure in the establishment of global cooperative and coordinated behaviors , which are desirable outcomes for the society s welfare . starting from randomly connected players which only interact locally in a restricted neighborhood , and allowing agents to probabilistically and bilaterally dismiss unprofitable relations and create new ones , the stochastic dynamics lead to pseudo - equilibria of either cooperating or defecting agents .",
    "with respect to standard replicator dynamics results for mixing populations , we find that there is a sizable configuration space region in which cooperation may emerge and be stable for the pd , whereas the classical result predicts total defection . for the sh , where both all - cooperate and all - defect steady - states are theoretically possible , we show that the basin of attraction for cooperation is enhanced . thus , the possibility of dismissing a relationship and creating a new one does indeed increase the potential for cooperation and coordination in our artificial society .",
    "the self - organizing mechanism consists in both games in forming dense clusters of cooperators which are more difficult to dissolve by exploiting defectors .",
    "while the beneficial effect of relational or geographical static population structures on cooperation was already known from previous studies , here we have shown that more realistic dynamic social networks may also allow cooperation to thrive .",
    "future work will deal with the stability of the cooperating states against stronger perturbations than merely the implicit noise of the stochastic dynamics .",
    "we also intend to study more fully the structure of the emerging clusters and their relationships , and we plan to extend the model to other important paradigmatic games such as hawks - doves and coordination games .",
    "e. pestelacci and m. tomassini are grateful to the swiss national science foundation for financial support under contract number 200021 - 111816/1 .",
    "we thank the anonymous reviewers for useful remarks and suggestions .",
    "l.  luthi , m.  giacobini , and m.  tomassini .",
    "a minimal information prisoner s dilemma on evolving networks . in l.  m. rocha , editor , _ artificial life x _ , pages 438444 , cambridge , massachusetts , 2006 . the mit press .",
    "m.  a. nowak and k.  sigmund .",
    "games on grids . in u.",
    "dieckmann , r.  law , and j.  a.  j. metz , editors , _ the geometry of ecological interactions : simplifying spatial complexity _ , pages 135150",
    ". cambridge university press , cambridge , uk , 2000 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> situations of conflict giving rise to social dilemmas are widespread in society and game theory is one major way in which they can be investigated . starting from the observation that individuals in society interact through networks of acquaintances , we model the co - evolution of the agents strategies and of the social network itself using two prototypical games , the prisoner s dilemma and the stag hunt . allowing agents to dismiss ties and establish new ones </S>",
    "<S> , we find that cooperation and coordination can be achieved through the self - organization of the social network , a result that is non - trivial , especially in the prisoner s dilemma case . </S>",
    "<S> the evolution and stability of cooperation implies the condensation of agents exploiting particular game strategies into strong and stable clusters which are more densely connected , even in the more difficult case of the prisoner s dilemma . </S>"
  ]
}