{
  "article_text": [
    "the origin of the galaxy morphology - density relation is still one of the most important unsolved problems in astrophysics .",
    "not only are spiral galaxies less common within dense cluster environments , but those which are present tend to be deficient in hi , and this deficiency itself correlates with projected local galaxy density ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the mechanisms responsible for the changes in the morphology and gas content of galaxies are unclear , with gas stripping , tidal shocks , and galaxy interactions and mergers all contenders .",
    "traditionally , clusters of galaxies have represented the environment of choice for attempts to unravel the nature of the relevant processes .",
    "recent results , however , strongly suggest that the origin of the environmental modification of galaxies which underpin the morphology - density relation lies , not in the cores of galaxy clusters , but in smaller groups and cluster outskirts . for example , spectroscopic studies of the effects of the cluster environment on galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) show that the suppression of star formation takes place in cluster outskirts rather than in the core , and is modulated by local galaxy density .",
    "moreover , x - ray bright groups show a morphology - density relation _",
    "stronger _ than that of clusters @xcite , a result adding to the accumulating evidence that cluster galaxies have often been ` pre - processed ' in groups prior to their assembly into larger systems ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) . in addition , it is becoming clear that processes once thought to be exclusive to the cluster environment , such as ram pressure stripping @xcite and strangulation @xcite , may play a role also in much smaller systems . in order to elucidate the origin of the morphology - density relation , it is therefore necessary to study the processes acting on galaxies within groups .",
    "the compact groups in the catalogue of @xcite offer particularly interesting opportunities in this regard .",
    "many of these groups are spiral - rich , but their galaxy population is , on average , deficient in hi by a factor of @xmath0 compared to loose groups @xcite .",
    "furthermore , some of these groups have exceptionally compact galaxy configurations , and so may represent pre - virialisation systems close to maximum collapse , in which galaxies are suffering strong environmental modification but have yet to be converted into early - types . while recent work has identified tidal interactions and mergers as playing an important role in the morphological transformation of spirals in some compact groups @xcite , it is still unclear what is causing the observed hi  deficiencies and to what extent this is related to the processes modifying the stellar component of the group members .",
    "@xcite presented a detailed study of the hi content of a sample of 72 hickson compact groups ( hcgs ) , with integrated hi masses from single dish measurements , and detailed very large array ( vla ) mapping of a subsample .",
    "defining hi  deficiency @xmath1 as @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the observed hi mass of the group galaxies and @xmath4 is that predicted for isolated galaxies of similar morphology and optical luminosity @xcite , this work confirmed the deficiency in hcgs , and allowed a search for correlations between deficiency and other group properties .",
    "one of the strongest relationships found was that with detectable intergalactic x - ray emission ; almost half of the groups with significant hi deficiency showed diffuse intragroup x - ray emission in the _ rosat _ survey of ( * ? ? ? * hereafter p96 ) . more recently",
    ", similar results have been reported also for groups outside hickson s catalogue @xcite .",
    "the increased prevalence of x - ray detected systems among hi deficient ( compact ) groups may suggest a picture whereby hi is stripped from spiral galaxies within virialising groups , and then destroyed due to heating by a surrounding hot intragroup medium ( igm ) .",
    "however , for most of the compact groups in the @xcite sample , _ rosat _ data were either not available or of insufficient quality to permit any detailed study of the relationship between the hot and cold gas . with only very shallow _",
    "rosat _ all - sky survey data at their disposal for a number of these systems , @xcite could not establish the amount and properties of any hot igm in these groups .    in order to explore the processes destroying hi in these systems",
    ", we have therefore embarked on a programme to obtain high quality x - ray and radio data for the most hi  deficient compact groups , adding in existing archival x - ray data wherever relevant . since ram pressure stripping",
    "can only operate where a significant igm is present , while tidal stripping of gas requires only that galaxies be interacting , a key discriminator for the mechanism of hi removal from galaxies is whether or not there is a correlation between hi  deficiency and the properties of a hot igm , and in particular whether a hot igm is present in the highly hi  deficient systems . clarifying these issues",
    "represents the goal of the present study , in an attempt to shed light on the role played by galaxy  igm interactions in destroying hi and establishing the morphology - density relation in these compact groups .",
    "the focus of this paper thus rests mainly on the x - ray properties of any hot intergalactic gas within the groups , while a forthcoming companion paper ( verdes - montenegro et al . , in prep . )",
    "will discuss in more detail the hi and radio continuum emission in the groups , the detailed relationship between x - ray and hi morphology , and the multi - wavelength properties of the individual group galaxies .    in sections  [ sec , sample ] and",
    "[ sec , data ] we outline the sample selection and x - ray data analysis , respectively .",
    "section  [ sec , results ] presents the results for the x - ray properties of the hot gas and galaxies within each group , and compares the derived igm properties to the observed hi  deficiencies . in section  [ sec , model ] we construct an analytical model of a representative late - type galaxy orbiting within the derived gravitational potential of each x - ray bright group , allowing us to evaluate the importance of ram pressure and viscous stripping for hi removal .",
    "the results are discussed in section  [ sec , discus ] and summarized along with the main conclusions in section  [ sec , conclus ] .",
    "a hubble constant of 73  km  s@xmath5  mpc@xmath5 is assumed throughout .",
    "unless otherwise stated , all errors are quoted at the 68  per  cent confidence level .",
    "our broad aim is to establish the relationship between the hot and cold gas in hi  deficient groups , and explore the processes of gas removal operating within them .",
    "our sample is therefore based on that studied by @xcite , from which we selected all hcgs which are highly deficient in hi ( @xmath6 ) based on very large array ( vla ) hi data , contain four or more group galaxies , and lie at a distance @xmath7  mpc .",
    "this yielded an initial sample of 11 groups , which will be discussed in its entirety in verdes - montenegro et  al .",
    "( in prep . ) .",
    "vla hi mapping has been completed for all 11 systems , along with follow - up green bank telescope ( gbt ) observations for the groups discussed in this paper . compared to the vla , the single - dish gbt is more sensitive to extended , smoothly distributed emission that may otherwise be filtered out by the vla interferometer . including the gbt data",
    "thus provides a more complete census of the hi content in the groups . for hcg48 ,",
    "included in the initial sample , the additional gas detected by gbt indicates that this group is not hi  deficient after all .",
    "consequently , this group was omitted from the sample for the purpose of the present study .    of the remaining systems ,",
    "the eight included in this paper are those for which _ chandra _ or _ xmm - newton _ x - ray data are currently available .",
    "four of these eight groups are exceptionally compact , with major galaxies ( as catalogued by @xcite ) contained within a circle of radius @xmath0  arcmin , and thus requiring _ chandra _ data to resolve their x - ray structure in the crucial region .",
    "we note that these groups are not generally mature , x - ray bright systems dominated by early - type galaxies .",
    "such groups may contain little hi , but the hi content of their galaxies as predicted from the @xcite results mentioned above is also small ( zero for ellipticals and modest for lenticulars ) .",
    "such groups are therefore not usually hi _",
    "deficient _ according to our definition in equation  ( [ eq , hi_def ] ) .",
    "our chosen systems have hi content far below that expected for their galaxy contents , and are therefore those in which the processes which destroy hi should be in active , or very recent , operation .",
    "the observation log for the x - ray data considered in this paper is presented in table  [ tab , x ] , detailing the pointing coordinates for each observation ( for archival observations not necessarily identical to the optical group centre ) , group distance @xmath8 , the observing instrument , date , and mode , along with cleaned exposure times @xmath9 for each camera , and the galactic absorbing column density @xmath10 from @xcite as adopted in the x - ray spectral analysis .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,<,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      it is important to stress that the calculations presented here are only intended to provide a rough picture of the impact of galaxy  igm interactions in our sample , and we do not claim that these results are anything but indicative .",
    "caveats include the fact that the adopted galaxy model parameters provide a plausible , but not necessarily unique , representation of the spirals in our sample .",
    "it is also a possibility , albeit one we can not easily evaluate , that some group members may be individually less hi deficient than the ` group - averaged ' value of @xmath1 , and so could have hi deficiencies consistent with removal by icm interactions alone , even if our model results suggest otherwise for the group members as a whole .    as regards the model calculations , an important limitation is the fact that the model is completely static . in practice ,",
    "the gas distributions both in the groups and their galaxies will be evolving , which could be particularly relevant for orbit ( ii ) where orbital time - scales are several gyr .",
    "also , the estimate of viscous stripping mass loss does not take into account that this process itself will reduce the size of the gas disc and hence the mass loss rate according to equation  ( [ eq , vs ] ) .",
    "furthermore , this stripping process may saturate @xcite which would reduce the mass loss , the presence of magnetic fields could also suppress hydrodynamical instabilities , and the presence of a hot halo could perhaps to some extent shield the cold gas disc from such instabilities .",
    "the latter could be of particular relevance for orbit ( ii ) , in which @xmath11 is high but where a comparatively smaller fraction of halo gas is lost due to ram pressure .",
    "these considerations suggest that the estimated contribution by viscous stripping to the hi mass loss should be regarded as an upper limit .    with their compact galaxy configurations and low velocity dispersions , our groups could also represent environments in which galactic dark matter haloes are subject to significant tidal truncation .",
    "hence , another issue is to what extent our results are affected by the adopted assumptions on dark matter in the galaxy model . for the adopted disc and bulge parameters , our freedom to modify the assumed dm distribution",
    "is mainly constrained by the requirement that the maximum disc rotational velocity @xmath12 of the model should not exceed the allowed @xmath13  km@xmath5 .",
    "a full exploration of model parameter space is beyond the scope of this work , and we refer to @xcite for a more thorough investigation of these issues . nevertheless , to provide a rough picture of the impact of dm for our results",
    ", we repeated the stripping calculations of section  [ sec , massloss ] with three different modifications , subject to the above @xmath12 criterion :    * assuming no dm [ or larger dm halo scalelengths @xmath14 and @xmath15 in equation  ( [ eq , dm ] ) ] .",
    "this must be regarded as an extreme assumption , which should facilitate stripping . * increasing the dm mass by a factor of two ( for which the @xmath12 criterion then requires at least one of the dm scalelengths @xmath14 and @xmath15 to increase by a similar factor ) .",
    "this should suppress stripping .",
    "* assuming a higher dm concentration ( i.e.  lower @xmath15 or @xmath14 ) by a factor of three ( suppresses stripping ) , which in turn requires a lower total dm mass by a factor of five ( facilitates stripping ) .",
    "these choices comply with the typical tidal truncation of dm halos inferred for galaxies in massive clusters @xcite .",
    "we find that , in all three cases , the amount of hi lost by the model galaxy is at most modified by 1015  per  cent , regardless of the group and orbit considered .",
    "this perhaps somewhat surprising result has its origin in the fact that the vast majority of cold gas in the model is located at low galactocentric distances , where the restoring gravitational acceleration  which determines the stripping region in accordance with equation  ( [ eq , strip ] )  is dominated by the baryonic disc components and not the dark matter halo .",
    "the variations in the stripped gas mass for the hot halo can be larger , up to 45  per  cent for hcg40 , but they can generally easily be accommodated by the variations associated with the different orbital assumptions . we therefore conclude that our results are reasonably robust to changes in the assumed amount and distribution of dark matter in the galaxy model .",
    "the groups in our sample are all hi  deficient even when accounting for any intergalactic hi not clearly associated with individual galaxies .",
    "removal of hi from the group members is by itself insufficient to explain this situation , as the removed gas must also be prevented from staying neutral . thus , unless hi is somehow destroyed _ in situ _ within the galaxies , it must go through a two - stage process whereby it is first removed from the galaxies and then ionized by a possibly unrelated mechanism . here",
    "we discuss these different possibilities in light of our x - ray and modelling results .",
    "the hi could potentially have been destroyed within the galaxies themselves , either by evaporation though thermal conduction from the igm , or through consumption by star formation , provided there is no continuous replenishment of cold material .",
    "a third possible mechanism involves heating and possibly ejection from the galaxies by starburst winds . while the first possibility , direct heating by the igm , seems implausible in light of the absence of a positive correlation between @xmath1 and @xmath16 ( cf .",
    "our discussion of fig .",
    "[ fig , hi_def]c ) , the two other scenarios deserve some further attention . hi consumption by star formation could help establish observed deficiencies , but a prerequisite is that the consumed gas is not simply replenished at a similar rate , for example through the cooling out of hot , coronal material on to the disc .",
    "our model results for the x - ray bright groups ( table  [ tab , corona ] ) suggest that such a strangulation scenario could at least be greatly facilitated by the removal of coronal gas due to ram pressure , but a more detailed exploration of model parameter space would be required to assess the general validity of this conclusion .    in this context",
    ", it is instructive to compare the results from our simple analytical model to the simulation results of @xcite .",
    "these authors investigate the efficiency of ram pressure stripping and strangulation for a galaxy in a small galaxy group on the basis of a cosmological smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) simulation .",
    "they do not specifically consider a ` compact ' group , but this has the advantage that their target galaxy is not subject to noticeable gas loss from tidal interactions ( d.  kawata , priv .",
    "comm . ) , so in this sense a comparison to our model calculations is justified .",
    "their target galaxy has initial properties broadly similar to those of our galaxy model in terms of stellar , gaseous , and total mass .",
    "it is followed for one passage through the group as it enters a group of virial mass @xmath17  m@xmath18 from an initial position roughly corresponding to twice the virial radius .",
    "the galaxy orbit thus shows some similarities to our orbit ( ii ) , but , with a pericentre at @xmath19  kpc , does not take the galaxy through the very core of the igm distribution .",
    "@xcite find that the resulting ram pressure induces strangulation to a significant degree .",
    "star formation and thus hi consumption becomes mildly enhanced during infall , and the hot halo gas is almost completely removed during the group passage .",
    "the combination of these processes has effectively consumed the hi and quenched star formation by the time the galaxy re - emerges at the virial radius .",
    "our model conclusion that ram pressure stripping may strongly affect any coronal gas in the x - ray bright groups is thus in encouraging agreement with these simulation results , and it is even possible that our model underestimates the importance of ram pressure in this context .",
    "this is made more relevant still if ram pressure  or other galaxy interactions with the group environment  indirectly accelerate strangulation by enhancing the disc star formation rate and hence the consumption of hi .",
    "this possibility draws observational support from the strong star formation activity seen in the ram - pressure affected group spiral ngc2276 @xcite , as well as from recent hydro - simulations @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite noted on the basis of star formation rates derived from _ iras _ far - infrared luminosities that there is no indication of enhanced star formation among the hcg galaxies compared to the level seen in isolated galaxies .",
    "in fact , current star formation rates in these groups generally seem too low to explain the missing hi by consumption through star formation . for the spirals in our sample , a mean star formation rate of @xmath20  m@xmath18  yr@xmath5",
    "can be derived for the _ iras_-detected galaxies .",
    "however , many of our galaxies remain undetected in one or more _ iras _ bands and so have only upper limits to @xmath21 ( if including these upper limits in the mean , the result is @xmath22  m@xmath18  yr@xmath5 ) . at these rates ,",
    "the time - scale for star formation to exhaust an initial hi supply of @xmath23  m@xmath18 to current levels is at least 5  gyr , even if neglecting the return of unprocessed material to the ism _ and _ any cosmological accretion of gas by the galaxy .",
    "thus , while our model calculations and the results of @xcite suggest that hot halo gas can be removed fairly efficiently in several of our groups , potentially inhibiting or at least suppressing any replenishment of disc hi from a hot halo , strangulation does not seem to have played an important role in establishing current hi levels within our sample . at the observed star formation rates ,",
    "the remaining hi can continue to fuel star formation for many gyr without drastically reducing the hi supply .",
    "of course , star formation rates could have been much higher in the past , which could also indirectly have contributed to exhausting the gas supply through the ejection of gas from the disc by starburst winds .",
    "however , unless @xmath21 in these galaxies has generally declined to current levels only fairly recently or has been affected by the group environment over cosmological time - scales , the implication seems to be that destruction of neutral hydrogen within the galaxies themselves can not explain the hi  deficiencies .",
    "the presence of intergalactic hi in some of our groups also shows that this scenario can not provide an exhaustive explanation .",
    "we are therefore compelled to also consider the alternative , externally  driven removal and destruction of hi .",
    "focussing first on the removal of hi , both galaxy  igm and galaxy  galaxy interactions could be envisaged to play a role .",
    "our results demonstrate that although earlier studies indicated a link between significant hi  deficiency in hickson groups and the presence of hot intragroup gas @xcite , there is clearly no one - to - one correspondence between the two .",
    "the lack of a detectable intragroup medium inferred here for half of the eight most hi deficient compact groups specifically appears to rule out igm dynamical interactions as generally dominant for hi removal within these environments .",
    "ram pressure and viscous stripping could nevertheless still have played a role for hi removal in our x - ray detected systems .",
    "our modelling results indicate , however , that the efficiency of these processes is generally insufficient to fully account for the hi missing from the individual group members , especially if our simplistic treatment of viscous stripping overestimates the predicted hi loss , as hypothesized in section  [ sec , caveats ] .",
    "overall , the simulations of @xcite seem to support these conclusions . in these",
    ", ram pressure affects the amount of cold gas in the disc to an even lesser degree than in our model , although this could perhaps be attributed to the fact that our groups are at least twice as massive , and perhaps also to the maximizing orbital assumptions adopted in our model .",
    "viscous stripping does not appear to be important in the simulations , but as noted by @xcite , such processes are not necessarily well treated by sph schemes , so a direct comparison to our results may not be meaningful .",
    "the limited impact of galaxy  igm interactions inferred for our groups commands an alternative explanation for the hi removal .",
    "tidal stripping constitutes an obvious candidate in these dense , low-@xmath24 environments , particularly in light of the fact that the four x - ray undetected groups within our sample exhibit the lowest velocity dispersions and so could be expected to represent environments where tidal interactions should be most important .",
    "however , even if for now ignoring the problem of subsequently heating the removed hi , it is not immediately clear that tidal interactions would necessarily result in increased hi _",
    "deficiency _ , as they would also affect the stellar component in the galaxies .",
    "if stars and gas are removed in roughly equal proportion , and if the removed stars become part of any undetected intracluster light ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) while the hi remains detectable , this could potentially even result in an hi excess .",
    "recalling that hi  deficiency is defined here on the basis of the observed @xmath25-band galaxy luminosity , increasing @xmath1 through tidal stripping therefore requires either the preferential removal of cold gas compared to stars ( and its subsequent heating ) , or that @xmath26 is simultaneously boosted relative to the hi mass for the non - stripped components .",
    "the latter possibility gains support from the observation that specific star formation rates generally tend to be higher in galaxies with close neighbours @xcite , with enhanced nuclear star formation plausibly arising as a consequence of tidally induced gas inflow .",
    "it is perhaps curious then , as mentioned above , that there is no evidence for enhanced star formation in hickson groups compared to the level in isolated galaxies .",
    "this runs contrary to expectations for interacting galaxies , and would seem to argue against @xmath26 being significantly boosted in the hcg members relative to their remaining stellar or hi mass . the other possibility mentioned above , that hi is more easily tidally stripped than the stellar component , is perhaps more promising . in many of our groups , such as hcg100 ( cf .",
    "section  [ sec , h100 ] ) , significant amounts of intergalactic hi is detected with the gbt , whereas the stellar components are not noticeably affected .",
    "a possible explanation is that a relatively larger fraction of hi compared to stars initially resided at large galactocentric radii , where tidal removal would be most efficient .",
    "the fact that the hi disc in typical spirals and late - type dwarfs is often more extended than its optical counterpart , with the radial distribution of hi declining less steeply with radius than that of the @xmath25-band light @xcite , seems to support such an explanation .",
    "tidal stripping clearly _ is _ taking place in some of our groups , notably in the x - ray undetected groups hcg100 and hcg44 .",
    "in the latter , both optical ( fig .  [ fig , mosaic ] ) and hi data ( borthakur et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "show strong evidence for the sbc galaxy hcg44d being tidally stripped .",
    "this may indicate that tidal stripping is the primary mechanism by which hi is removed from the galaxies in these two groups .",
    "although it is tempting to extend this conclusion to all the x - ray undetected groups in our sample , and perhaps even beyond , the inconspicuous star formation rates in hickson groups in general , and the tentative lack of enhanced nuclear x - ray activity in the highly hi  deficient systems in particular ( section  [ sec , gals ] ) , may not argue in favour of such an explanation .      as emphasized in the beginning of this section , hi  deficiencies can only be explained if the hydrogen , once removed from the group members , is also transformed from its neutral phase .",
    "irrespective of the processes accomplishing its removal , a mechanism must therefore also be invoked for ionizing the hi during or following its transfer to intergalactic space . in our x - ray bright groups ,",
    "a candidate process is readily available , since any removed hi is expected to evaporate due to heating by the ambient igm at a rate @xmath27 , almost independently of realistic values of the igm density @xcite .",
    "a detailed comparison of the x - ray and hi properties of these groups should help test this explanation and will be presented elsewhere ( verdes - montenegro et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "in the x - ray undetected groups , where any igm is expected to be relatively cool ( cf .",
    "[ fig , hi_def]c ) if at all present , the picture is less clear - cut .",
    "even if these groups do contain an igm , the lower predicted igm temperatures in this subsample imply average igm heating time - scales an order of magnitude above those in the x - ray bright systems , casting doubt on whether this mechanism would be sufficient .",
    "if gas is predominantly removed by tidal interactions in the x - ray undetected groups , it is instead conceivable that some of the hi has been heated by tidal shocks , although the presence of intergalactic hi in some of the groups would imply heating time - scales well in excess of those associated with the hi removal itself .",
    "another possibility is that the column density of any removed hi becomes too low for the gas to be self - shielding against ionization by cosmic uv radiation .",
    "if so , much of the undetected hydrogen in these groups could potentially be in the form of a tenuous , photo - ionized intergalactic plasma .",
    "a quantitative investigation of these possibilities is the subject of future work , but at present a clear picture of the fate of the removed hi in the x - ray undetected groups remains elusive .",
    "based on a sample of eight hickson compact groups selected for their high hi  deficiencies , we have used _",
    "chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ data to assess the properties of any hot intragroup medium ( igm ) and constrain the role of galaxy  igm interactions in removing hi from the galaxies in these groups .",
    "the x - ray analysis reveals a detectable igm in four of the eight groups .",
    "we have tentatively identified the detected diffuse emission in hcg40 , a spiral - dominated group , as associated with an intragroup medium , but the combination of a low signal - to - noise ratio and an exceptionally compact galaxy configuration precludes a highly robust conclusion for this particular system .",
    "the remaining three groups are all fairly x - ray luminous , showing substantial amounts of intergalactic hot gas with a somewhat disturbed morphology in all cases .",
    "the remarkable x - ray diversity seen across the sample immediately suggests that the presence of a significant igm is not a dominant factor in establishing observed hi  deficiencies , despite earlier results indicating such a connection @xcite .",
    "it is particularly notable that some of the most hi  deficient groups show no detectable hot igm , including hcg30 which only contains a few per  cent of the expected hi mass for its galaxy content .",
    "a comparison of hi  deficiency with either hot igm mass or characteristic ` mean ' ram pressure confirms the lack of a clear correlation even for the x - ray bright systems , although statistics are naturally too limited to enable firm conclusions on this basis alone .",
    "the hi  deficiency does not seem to depend on igm temperature either , suggesting that heat conduction from the igm does not play an important role in destroying galactic hi ( although once removed , this gas is likely to evaporate on fairly short time - scales in the x - ray bright groups ) .    from fitting analytical models to the derived mass profiles of the x - ray detected groups , we have constructed plausible models of the gravitational potential and associated radial galaxy orbits for each of these groups .",
    "combined with the inferred igm distributions and a numerical model of a late - type galaxy with properties broadly matching those of our observed spirals , this has enabled estimates of the importance of ram pressure stripping and viscous stripping in removing hi from the late - type galaxies in each group .",
    "the results indicate that , even under maximizing assumptions about the galaxy orbit , ram pressure stripping will remove only small amounts of cold gas from the group members , peaking at 1025  per  cent in the x - ray bright hcg97 .",
    "we find that viscous stripping is generally more efficient , with the combination of the two processes capable of removing more than half of the cold ism in hcg97 and potentially fully accounting for the missing hi mass in both hcg37 and hcg97 .",
    "however , the efficiency of viscous stripping is likely overestimated with our simple analytical approach , and yet these processes are insufficient in terms of explaining the hi deficiency of the x - ray detected hcg15 and hcg40 .",
    "the model results also indicate that ram pressure can efficiently remove a large fraction of any hot galactic halo gas that may otherwise act as a supply of fresh material for star formation in the disc",
    ". however , even if the gas supply to the disc can be completely cut off , gas consumption at the typical star formation rates in the groups would proceed far too slowly to explain the observed shortfall of hi by itself .",
    "much higher star formation rates in the recent past are required for this process to have had any significant impact .",
    "this may suggest that the observed hi  deficiencies are not caused by _ in situ _ destruction of hi within the galaxies themselves .",
    "it remains a possibility that even modest star formation activity could have heated some of the hi and lifted it above the disc midplane where it would be more susceptible to removal by ram pressure , similar to the situation proposed for ngc2276 @xcite .",
    "the absence of observational signatures of this process , e.g. , in the form of a hot gas tail extending from any of the group members , may suggest that such a mechanism is not generally very important within our sample though .    by the process of elimination",
    ", it seems plausible that tidal interactions have played a key role for hi removal in the groups , particularly in those systems containing no detectable igm . in order to explain the hi _ deficiencies _ , this scenario would likely require preferential removal of hi over stars , as perhaps facilitated by the more extended distribution of cold gas relative to stars in typical late - type galaxies . while it is perhaps not surprising that tidal interactions are affecting the gas content of galaxies in these compact groups , the tidal stripping explanation still faces some outstanding issues . among these",
    "is the expectation that such interactions would generate enhanced star formation or nuclear activity , but there is no indication that the x - ray faint or highly hi  deficient systems in our sample show evidence for increased such activity ( although the frequency of nuclear activity in galaxies in compact groups in general may be rather high ; @xcite ) . if interpreting the x - ray bright or highly hi deficient systems within our sample as dynamically more evolved , we thus find no clear evidence that the frequency or strength of nuclear x - ray activity in the group members depends on the dynamical status of the group .",
    "it also remains unclear whether tidal interactions themselves can destroy the hi during or following its removal from galactic discs and so fully explain the hi  deficiency in any of our groups .    in closing",
    ", our results suggest that galaxy  igm interactions can have played a role for the removal and destruction of hi in some of our groups , but a complete understanding of the origin of the observed hi  deficiencies and the processes causing it is still lacking . strangulation or thermal evaporation do not emerge as important contenders , and typical indirect signatures of tidal interactions , such as enhanced star formation or nuclear x - ray activity , are not more pronounced within the more hi  deficient half of our sample .",
    "the latter seems in line with previous results @xcite which indicate that star formation rates in hickson compact groups are not globally enhanced relative to the field .",
    "we note here that this result could potentially be misleading , however , perhaps masking an evolutionary trend in which galaxies initially experience enhanced star formation which is then followed by an environment  driven suppression",
    ". a detailed correlation of hi and x - ray morphology in the groups , coupled with a broad comparison of individual galaxy properties such as specific star formation rates , may therefore shed further light on the fate of the missing hi in these compact systems .",
    "this is the subject of future work .",
    "we thank the referee for useful comments which helped to clarify the presentation of our results . this work made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) and the two micron",
    "all sky survey ( 2mass ) database .",
    "support for this work was provided by the national aeronautics and space administration through chandra postdoctoral fellowship award number pf7 - 80050 and chandra award number go5 - 6127x and go6 - 7128x issued by the chandra x - ray observatory center , which is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory for and on behalf of the national aeronautics and space administration under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "lvm is partially supported by dgi grant aya 2005 - 07516-c02 - 01 and junta de andaluca ( spain ) .",
    "abadi m.  g. , moore b. , bower r.  g. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 947 arnaud m. , et al . , 2002 , a&a , 390 , 27 broeils a.  h. , rhee m .- h . , 1997 , a&a , 324 , 877 bullock j.  s. , kolatt t.  s. , sigad y. , somerville r.  s. , kravtsov a.  v. , klypin a.  a. , primack j.  r. , dekel a. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 559 cortese l. , gavazzi g. , boselli a. , franzetti p. , kennicutt r.c .",
    ", oneil k. , sakai s. , 2006 , a&a , 453 , 847 coziol r. , plauchu - frayn i. , 2007 , aj , 133 , 2630 dickey j.m . , lockman f.j . , 1990 , ara&a , 28 , 215 dos santos s. , mamon g.  a. , 1999 , a&a , 352 , 1 fukazawa y. , kawano n. , ohta a. , mizusawa h.  2002 , pasj , 54 , 527 gallagher s.  c. , johnson k.  e. , hornschemeier a.  e. , charlton j.  c. , hibbard j.  e. , 2008 , apj , 673 , 730 giovanelli r. , haynes m.p . , 1985 , apj , 292 , 404 gonzalez a.  h. , zaritsky d. , zabludoff a.  i. , 2007 , apj , 666 , 14 grevesse n. , sauval a.j . , 1998 , space sci .",
    ", 85 , 161 gunn j.e .",
    ", gott j.r .",
    "iii , 1972 , apj , 176 , 1 haynes m.p .",
    ", giovanelli r. , 1984 , aj , 89 , 758 helsdon s.f .",
    ", ponman t.j . , 2003 , mnras , 339 , l29 hester j.  a. , 2006 , apj , 647 , 910 hickson p. , 1982",
    ", apj , 255 , 382 jchym p. , palou j. , kppen j. , combes f. , 2007 , a&a , 472 , 5 kawata d. , mulchaey j.s . ,",
    "apjl , 672 , l103 kronberger t. , kapferer w. , ferrari c. , unterguggenberger s. , schindler s. , 2008 , a&a , in press ( arxiv:0801.3759 ) lewis i. , et al . , 2002 , mnras , 334 , 673 li c. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. , jing y.  p. , white s.  d.  m. , 2008 , mnras in press ( arxiv:0711.3792 ) machacek m.  e. , nulsen p. , stirbat l. , jones c. , forman w.  r. , 2005 , apj , 630 , 280 limousin m. , kneib j.p .",
    ", bardeau s. , natarajan p. , czoske o. , smail i. , ebeling , h. , smith g.p . , 2007 , a&a , 461 , 881 mahdavi a. , finoguenov a. , bhringer h. , geller m.j .",
    ", henry j.p . , 2005 , apj , 622 , 187 mannucci f. , della valle m. , panagia n. , cappellaro e. , cresci g. , maiolino r. , petrosian a. , turatto m. , 2005 , a&a , 433 , 807 martinez m.  a. , del olmo a. , perea j. , coziol r. , 2007 , in saviane i. , ivanov v.d . , borissova j. , eds , groups of galaxies in the nearby universe , springer - verlag , berlin , p.  163 mori m. , burkert a. , 2000 , apj , 538 , 559 mulchaey j.s . , davis d.s . , mushotzky r.f . , burstein d. , 2003 , apjs , 145 , 39 navarro j.  f. , frenk c.  s. , white , s.  d.  m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 nulsen p.e.j . , 1982 , mnras , 198 , 1007 osmond j.  p.  f. , ponman t.  j. , 2004 , mnras , 350 , 1511 osullivan e. , ponman t.  j. , collins r.  s. , 2003 , mnras , 340 , 1375 ponman t.j . ,",
    "bourner p.d.j . , ebeling h. , bhringer h. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 690 ( p96 ) quilis v. , moore b. , bower r. , 2000 , science , 288 , 1617 rasmussen j. , ponman t.  j. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1554 rasmussen j. , ponman t.j . , mulchaey j.s . , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 453 rasmussen j. , stevens i.r .",
    ", ponman t.j . , 2004 , mnras ,",
    "354 , 259 read a.m. , ponman t.j .",
    ", 2001 , mnras , 328 , 127 read a.m. , ponman t.j . , 2003 ,",
    "a&a , 409 , 395 roediger e. , brggen m. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1399 sengupta c. , balasubramanyam r. , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 360 solanes j.m . , manrique a. , garca - gmez c. , gonzlez - casado g. , giovanelli r. , haynes m.p .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 548 , 97 spitzer l. , 1962 , physics of fully ionized gases , interscience , new york , ny sun m. , vikhlinin a. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 718 sutherland r.s . ,",
    "dopita m.a .",
    ", 1993 , apjs , 88 , 253 swaters r.  a. , van albada t.  s. , van der hulst j.  m. , sancisi r. , 2002 , a&a , 390 , 829 toft s. , rasmussen j. , sommer - larsen j. , pedersen k. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 799 trinchieri g. , sulentic j. , breitschwerdt d. , pietsch w. , 2003 , a&a , 401 , 173 verdes - montenegro l. , yun m.s . , perea j. , del olmo a. , ho p.t.p . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 497 , 89 verdes - montenegro l. , yun m.s . , williams b.a . , huchtmeier w.k . , del olmo a. , perea j. , 2001 , a&a , 377 , 812 vikhlinin a. , markevitch m. , murray s.  s. , jones c. , forman w. , van speybroeck l. , 2005 , apj , 628 , 655 wang q.  d. , owen f. , ledlow m. , 2004 , apj , 611 , 821 williams b.a . ,",
    ", 1987 , apjs , 63 , 265 yang x. , mo h.  j. , van den bosch f.  c. , pasquali a. , li c. , barden m. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 153"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> galaxies in compact groups tend to be deficient in neutral hydrogen compared to isolated galaxies of similar optical properties . in order to investigate the role played by a hot intragroup medium ( igm ) for the removal and destruction of hi in these systems , </S>",
    "<S> we have performed a _ </S>",
    "<S> chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ study of eight of the most hi  deficient hickson compact groups . </S>",
    "<S> diffuse x - ray emission associated with an igm is detected in four of the groups , suggesting that galaxy  igm interactions are not the dominant mechanism driving cold gas out of the group members . </S>",
    "<S> no clear evidence is seen for any of the members being currently stripped of any hot gas , nor for galaxies to show enhanced nuclear x - ray activity in the x - ray bright or most hi  deficient groups . combining the inferred igm distributions with analytical models of representative disc galaxies orbiting within each group , we estimate the hi mass loss due to ram pressure and viscous stripping . while these processes are generally insufficient to explain observed hi  deficiencies , they could still be important for hi removal in the x - ray bright groups , potentially removing more than half of the ism in the x - ray bright hcg97 . </S>",
    "<S> ram pressure may also have facilitated strangulation through the removal of galactic coronal gas . in x - ray undetected groups , tidal interactions could be playing a prominent role , but it remains an open question whether they can fully account for the observed hi  deficiencies .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution  galaxies : interactions  galaxies : ism  x - rays : galaxies  x - rays : galaxies : clusters </S>"
  ]
}