{
  "article_text": [
    "type ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) have proven to be effective standardizable candles and their high peak luminosity has made them excellent cosmological probes . an empirically determined relation between light - curve properties and peak absolute magnitude @xcite has yielded improved estimates of the global hubble constant @xcite .",
    "although the earliest attempts to measure the matter density of the universe preceded these light - curve shape methods @xcite , and the initial efforts by the supernova cosmology project ( scp ) led to incorrect conclusions about the cosmic matter density @xcite , early work by both the scp and the high - z supernova search team @xcite found evidence for low matter density @xcite .",
    "subsequent publications by @xcite and @xcite came to the surprising conclusion that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate , driven by a mysterious dark energy ; see @xcite , @xcite , or @xcite for reviews .",
    "this surprising result has been confirmed by more - recent supernova observations @xcite and by complementary measurements of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) anisotropies ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) and large - scale structure ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "focus has now shifted from demonstrating the existence of dark energy to constraining its properties @xcite and sharpening the tools available for its study ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ".    analyses of their spectra and light curves have led to the consensus that sne  ia are well characterized by a thermonuclear disruption of a carbon - oxygen white dwarf ( wd ) .",
    "the transition from a dynamically stable wd to an explosion capable of outshining an entire galaxy is precipitated by the wd mass approaching the chandrasekhar mass limit through matter accretion from a close binary companion .",
    "the nature of this accretion process is still uncertain , though two scenarios have become the focus of sn ia progenitor modeling .",
    "the first is the single - degenerate ( sd ) model in which a wd accretes matter from a non - degenerate companion @xcite , while the second is the double - degenerate ( dd ) model involving the merger to two wds @xcite .",
    "though promising , our understanding of these models remains incomplete with questions persisting about the nature of the binary companion ( main sequence , asymptotic giant branch , etc . ) and accretion flow in the sd scenario , the apparent likelihood that a wd merger will result in an accretion - induced collapse rather than a sn  ia , and the potential for multiple stellar - population - dependent channels leading to sn  ia explosions .",
    "differentiating among dark - energy models requires mapping the expansion history of the universe with high precision and a small systematic error . applying sne  ia to this problem",
    "is complicated by the uncertain nature of the explosion physics and progenitor stars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "even with the most basic assumption , that a sn  ia results from the thermonuclear disruption of a near - chandrasekhar mass carbon - oxygen wd , there remain potential dangers in blindly applying sne  ia to the dark - energy problem . theoretical models @xcite suggest that population age and metallicity may have an effect on the wd composition and influence the sn  ia peak luminosity .",
    "since the average age and metal content of stars have evolved over cosmic time , the ensemble character of sn  ia explosions may be a function of lookback time .",
    "but the local universe contains a range of stellar ages and metallicities , so an empirical calibration of these effects may be possible .",
    "@xcite were the first to note a correlation between sn  ia decline rate and host - galaxy morphology .",
    "the results showed that intrinsically faint events occur in early - type ( e / s0 ) galaxies , while luminous events are often hosted by late - type galaxies .",
    "this correlation with morphology has since been confirmed in larger sn  ia samples ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but the cause of the trend remains unknown .",
    "the existence of a correlation is important because it demonstrates that the sn  ia environment imprints itself on some aspect of the progenitor . on average ,",
    "spiral and elliptical galaxies differ in population age , star - formation rate ( sfr ) , and metal content , with significant overlap in these properties across the morphological types .",
    "@xcite measured the metallicity of a small sample of star - forming hosts to test if age or metal content was the factor influencing sn  ia luminosity , but the results were ambiguous .",
    "@xcite expanded the number of observed hosts to test the impact of stellar environment on the photometric properties of nearby sne  ia .",
    "potential dependencies of sn decline rate on host - galaxy absolute magnitude and star - formation history were investigated in a sample of galaxies with a broad range of properties and across the full hubble sequence .",
    "metallicity was measured from emission lines , limiting this aspect of the study to star - forming hosts .",
    "no significant correlation between metallicity and decline rate was detected , though a tenuous correlation was found between the metal content and hubble residuals .",
    "furthermore , only galaxies without significant star formation were found to host faint , fast - declining sne  ia .",
    "the division by star - formation history was more stark than by morphology alone , suggesting that the observed luminosity spread in sne  ia results from the influence of population age on the wd progenitors .",
    "the luminosity / star - formation relation has also been seen in a high - redshift sample of sne  ia studied by the supernova legacy survey ( snls ) @xcite .",
    "the specific sn  ia rate is strongly dependent on the amount of current star formation @xcite .",
    "actively star - forming galaxies host approximately 10 times as many sne  ia per unit mass than do their low star - forming counterparts .",
    "@xcite find that the sn  ia rate is well described by a combination of two distinct populations of sne  ia : a  prompt \" ( shorter delay time ) sn  ia component dependent upon the recent star formation in the galaxy and an  delayed \" or `` tardy '' ( longer delay time ) component dependent on the number of low - mass stars . assuming the light - curve shape correction methods are perfect , then this will not have an effect on the recent cosmological results . however ,",
    "if the corrected photometric properties of these two sn populations differ ( e.g. , a variation due to age or metallicity ) , then it could have implications for derived cosmological parameters because the short delay time sne are expected to dominate at high redshift whereas the long delay time events are expected to dominate at low redshift .    here",
    "we present our study on the luminosity - weighted ages and metal abundances of early - type host galaxies .",
    "early - type galaxies , unlike star - forming spirals , have been shown to host both faint and bright sne  ia , thereby allowing us to sample the full diversity of sne  ia .",
    "consequently , we focus our study on absorption - line spectra of host galaxies and utilize single age , single metallicity stellar population models to characterize the stellar populations @xcite .",
    "the impact of both age and metallicity on sn peak magnitude is studied and the sample age and metallicity distributions will be compared to absorption - line spectra of field galaxies obtained from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) .",
    "furthermore , we will infer from our data a measurement of the relative sn  ia rate as a function of galaxy age .",
    "finally , we will search for second - order dependencies at the level of the sn  ia intrinsic scatter by comparing host - galaxy ages and metallicities to the sn residuals from the hubble diagram .",
    "we detail our observational techniques and data - reduction pipeline in  2 of this paper . in  3 we report the methods for performing emission - line corrections , and for obtaining age and metallicity estimates of our host sample .",
    "our results are presented in  4 , and the summary and conclusions are in  5 .",
    "the objective of this study was to obtain absorption - line spectra of sn  ia host galaxies with the intent of estimating their ages and metallicities through a comparison with the simple stellar population ( ssp ) models of alexandre vazdekis @xcite .",
    "to this end , we obtained spectra of a sample of sn ia host galaxies with the 1.5  m tillinghast telescope located at the f. l. whipple observatory .",
    "we employed the fast spectrograph @xcite fitted with the 300 line mm@xmath3 reflection grating and a @xmath4 slit .",
    "the setup gave a resolution of @xmath5     full width at half maximum intensity ( fwhm ) .",
    "the spectra were obtained over the course of 6 nights during april and july of 2005 .",
    "our set was compiled from the host galaxies of sne  ia from the samples of @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "suitable targets were those classified as having early type ( s0e ) , as well as spiral galaxies containing strong absorption lines in their spectra ( and minimal emission lines ) as determined by @xcite .",
    "in addition to the host galaxies , we also obtained spectra for a set of comparison elliptical galaxies having age and metallicities estimates determined by @xcite .",
    "the slit was aligned along the galaxy s major axis with position angles ( pas ) determined via the digital sky survey ( dss ) plates . in a few cases",
    "the pa was altered to prevent a nearby star from falling on the slit .",
    "exposure times were varied depending on the galaxy brightness , with a target signal - to - noise ratio ( s / n ) of 1020 . for each target",
    "we obtained three spectra that we subsequently combined to improve the s / n and remove cosmic rays .",
    "bias , dark , and dome - flat exposures were taken at the beginning and the end of each night , and a comparison spectrum of a he - ne - ar lamp was acquired before each target for wavelength calibration .",
    "finally , flux standard star spectra were taken each night with the slit oriented along the parallactic angle @xcite .",
    "our full sample of galaxies can be seen in table 1 .",
    "columns ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) give the host - galaxy name and hosted sn , respectively . column",
    "( 3 ) provides the peak magnitudes of the hosted sn  ia , determined from the sn light - curve data and employing mlcs2k2 @xcite .",
    "column ( 4 ) gives the morphological classification of each galaxy , while column ( 5 ) reports the pa for the each observation .",
    "column ( 6 ) shows the width of the extracted aperture encompassing all the light out to approximately the effective radius , @xmath6 .",
    "finally , column ( 7 ) gives the source of the sn light - curve : ( 1 ) the cfa sample @xcite , ( 2 ) the katzman automatic imaging telescope ( kait ) @xcite , and ( 3 ) sn 2005bl @xcite .",
    "the majority of data reduction for this study was performed using standard techniques within iraf .",
    "the data were bias and dark - subtracted , and flat - fielded to remove the pixel - to - pixel variations in the ccd ; also , the bad rows and columns of the ccd were interpolated across using the routine fixpix .",
    "following preprocessing , the task was to combine the set of three spectral images that we had for each target .",
    "the first step was the removal of cosmic rays . in the interest of preserving every image in a set , thereby increasing our statistics , we removed each cosmic ray individually using the imedit routine in iraf .",
    "cosmic rays that fell on the galaxy nucleus itself were left alone until after the aperture extraction .",
    "one - dimensional aperture extraction was performed using the apall routine with extraction radii equal to the effective radius ( @xmath6 ) of each galaxy .",
    "the effective radii were determined through an idl code written to integrate over the average profile of 400 centrally located columns along the spatial axis of each image .",
    "each spectrum was then individually checked for cosmic rays landing on one of our relevant absorption - line indices or the surrounding continua . in the event that an interfering cosmic ray was found , steps were taken to either remove it interactively within splot , or to remove the image altogether if the cosmic ray was too disruptive .",
    "the average of each set of images was generated using im - combine , and the resultant spectra were wavelength and flux calibrated .",
    "finally , the spectra were corrected for galactic extinction using the iraf routine deredden @xcite .",
    "a well known and much reviled puzzle in the study of stellar populations is the observed similarity between the effects of age and metallicity on the integrated light of stellar populations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "astronomers attempt to unravel this age / metallicity degeneracy through the development of stellar population models .",
    "the simplified goal of stellar population synthesis modeling is to find a combination of stars for which the integrated spectrum of the stars matches the observed spectrum of the population under study .",
    "early empirical techniques such as quadratic programming devised by @xcite have given way to evolutionary population synthesis models which have been improving since the 1970s @xcite .",
    "whereas empirical models are constructed from a combination of stellar spectra or the spectra of stellar clusters , evolutionary synthesis models utilize theoretical stellar evolutionary isochrones as the primary constituent . a single isochrone on the hertzsprung - russell ( hr ) diagram gives the locus of luminosities and temperatures at a single moment in time for stars of all masses .",
    "together with an assumed initial mass function ( imf ) , an isochrone can be built to accurately model a single - age stellar population .",
    "the final model is obtained by converting isochrone parameters to observed spectra and finally integrating along the isochrone .",
    "the populations that are modeled using the above techniques are known as simple stellar populations , or ssps .",
    "ssps are , by definition , a population of stars created during a single burst event ( i.e. , all the stars have the same age ) and possessing a single global metallicity . however , early - type galaxies are often comprised of multiple - component stellar populations .",
    "galaxy ages derived through a comparison with these single - component ssps are luminosity weighted , and are typically sensitive to the youngest component in a real early - type galaxy .",
    "consequently , it is appropriate to view the ages derived in studies such as ours as lower - limit estimates @xcite .",
    "the determination of age and metallicity via galactic spectra is fairly simple , in principle .",
    "we can exploit predictions made by population synthesis models to relate physical properties , such as age and metallicity , to observables , such as the absorption - line strengths for the strongest atomic and molecular absorption features in the optical range .",
    "measuring the relative strengths of these absorption features , we can estimate the age and metallicity of the stellar population that created the spectrum .      for the age and metallicity estimates of our galaxies ,",
    "we employ the single age , single metallicity stellar population models described by @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "the models make use of the empirical stellar spectral library miles @xcite .",
    "miles is a marked improvement over previous libraries ; it has 985 stars , a spectral resolution of 2.3   ( fwhm ) , and a wavelength range of 35257500  .",
    "one advantage of empirical libraries over theoretical stellar libraries is that they are based on actual stellar spectra and are not dependent on the potential inaccuracies and underlying assumptions inherent in any theoretical model .",
    "however , in order for an empirical stellar library to sufficiently cover the parameter space in temperature , gravity , abundance , and [ @xmath7/fe ] , the stellar observations must be of the highest quality .",
    "consequently , empirical stellar libraries have traditionally been restricted to the nearest stars , thereby introducing a bias of atmospheric parameters toward those which are seen in the solar neighborhood .",
    "the miles library acquired atmospheric parameters from the literature and calibrated the set through a subset of reference field stars from @xcite ; for full details see @xcite . in this way",
    ", miles has optimized its stellar atmosphere coverage and improved upon previous libraries . nevertheless ,",
    "because early - type galaxies are generally @xmath7 enhanced and metal rich , the potential bias toward solar abundance ratios should be kept in mind .",
    "the stellar population synthesis models derived from miles consist of single age , single metallicity spectral energy distributions ( seds ) that adopt a standard salpeter imf @xcite .",
    "the seds possess a fwhm resolution of 2.3    and a spectral range similar to our data at 35407410   .",
    "there are 276 models with ages ranging from 0.10 to 17.78 gyr and metallicities ranging from [ m / h ] = @xmath8 to 0.20 .    in the past ,",
    "the most widely used method of estimating stellar population age and metallicity has been through a comparison of absorption - line indices with those of the lick / ids system @xcite .",
    "since the stars of the lick / ids stellar library are not flux calibrated , data must be converted to the instrumental response curve of the original data set @xcite . with the advent of improved , flux - calibrated stellar libraries , it became possible to generate complete seds of a single stellar population @xcite , thereby eliminating the need for such a correction .",
    "furthermore , in order to use the lick population models , it is necessary to transform the observational data to match the resolution of the lick spectrograph ( @xmath910    fwhm ) . for our analysis ,",
    "the model seds are at a higher resolution than the data ; consequently , the models were required to be broadened to the resolution of our data rather than the other way around .",
    "thus , the first step in the analysis was to characterize the wavelength - dependent resolution of our spectra .",
    "this was accomplished by measuring the line widths of emission lines in the he - ne - ar lamp across our full spectral range .",
    "a polynomial fit to the resulting scatter plot provided a wavelength - dependent resolution function for the fast spectrograph .",
    "we derived a wavelength - dependent broadening term with a square equal to the difference between the square of the host - galaxy resolution and that of the resolution of the vazdekis models , given as 2.3   .",
    "the next broadening term we considered was from the velocity dispersion of the host galaxies . to determine the velocity dispersion for each galaxy",
    ", we obtained spectra of velocity standard stars hd12623 and hd52071 ; these were taken within a few months of our observing runs on the tillinghast telescope using the fast spectrograph . in total",
    ", we obtained 6 spectra of hd12623 and 14 spectra of hd52071 .",
    "cross - correlation analysis was then performed between these templates and the host - galaxy spectra using the iraf routine fxcor .",
    "a velocity dispersion and redshift estimate were obtained using each template - galaxy combination , with the final result for a given host being the average of the measurements made with each of the twenty templates .",
    "our two broadening terms were summed in quadrature , yielding the final width of our gaussian kernel used in the convolution with the host galaxy .",
    "each host galaxy had a unique final broadening term and the vazdekis model seds were broadened independently according to this term . in this way , we created separate age / metallicity grids for each host galaxy .",
    "the velocity dispersions and heliocentric velocities resulting from this analysis are shown in table  [ tbl-2 ] .",
    "these heliocentric velocities were converted to cmb rest frame for the subsequent analysis using the ned velocity calculator .",
    "the age dependent absorption index chosen for this study was h@xmath10 .",
    "h@xmath10 is known to be metallicity insensitive and older stellar populations are known to have relatively strong h@xmath10 absorption , eliminating the need for high s / n @xcite .",
    "although our sample was comprised mostly of older stellar populations , there was a chance for h@xmath10 emission contamination .",
    "consequently , our data were emission - line corrected with the procedure discussed in the next section .",
    "we chose two age - insensitive fe absorption lines for our abundance analysis , fe@xmath115270 and fe@xmath114383 . plotting both of these iron lines against h@xmath10 produces a strongly orthogonal grid well suited for untangling the age - metallicity degeneracy .",
    "our chosen lick / ids indices are summarized in table  [ tbl-3 ] .",
    "the presence of h@xmath10 emission superimposed on h@xmath10 absorption poses a significant problem for our index measurements .",
    "the contamination of even weak h@xmath10 emission lines in our galaxy spectra could significantly decrease the strengths of our measured h@xmath10 absorption indices , thus systematically biasing our age distribution toward greater ages .",
    "consequently , an emission correction was performed on our host - galaxy spectra .",
    "the basic procedure is outlined by @xcite .",
    "the method is based on two main assertions .",
    "first , although the underlying absorption - line spectrum at h@xmath10 is highly sensitive to age , the sensitivity to both age and metallicity is negligible at h@xmath7 .",
    "second , the observed hn / fe index @xmath12h@xmath13/fe@xmath114045 + h@xmath14/fe@xmath114325 + h8/fe@xmath113859@xmath15 . ] represents an effective indicator of the true underlying absorption - line spectrum , implying that two galaxies with similar hn / fe indices will likewise possess similar h@xmath7 absorption strengths .",
    "conservatively , we assumed that each galaxy in our sample was contaminated with balmer emission from h  ii regions not included in the vazdekis models .",
    "therefore , we predicted the underlying h@xmath7 absorption spectrum for a given contaminated galaxy spectrum by matching that galaxy s hn / fe index with a vazdekis model galaxy displaying a similar hn / fe index .",
    "the matching vazdekis model sed was then treated as our model absorption spectrum .",
    "next , we smoothed this spectrum to the appropriate resolution and velocity dispersion , normalized it to zero , and subtracted it from the host - galaxy spectrum .",
    "this left the h@xmath7 emission free of any contaminating absorption .",
    "the emission - line flux was measured and converted into h@xmath10 emission flux assuming a case b balmer decrement @xcite .",
    "we used a flux - calibrated spectrum of the orion nebula taken with the same instrumental setup to model the emission spectrum intended to be subtracted off the contaminated galaxy .",
    "the orion spectrum was smoothed to the appropriate velocity dispersion and scaled so that the h@xmath10 flux matched the calculated value .",
    "the continuum was removed from the modified orion spectrum , and the result was subtracted from the contaminated host - galaxy spectrum .",
    "in order to measure the h@xmath10 , fe@xmath115270 , and fe@xmath114383 indices , we employed the fortran77 code lector provided by alexandre vazdekis .",
    "the code measures the indices of a one - dimensional input spectrum and calculates an error estimate based on photon statistics @xcite . with the line strengths we generated our index - index diagrams , in which each vertex represents a combination of line - index measurements for a single model of given age and metallicity .",
    "a qualitative comparison between several models and a representative host galaxy are given in figure [ example_specs ] , showing a comparison of the spectrum for host galaxy ngc 4786 ( @xmath16 ) to model seds with similar metallicity ( @xmath16 ) but with varying population age .",
    "quantitative age and metallicity estimates are found through a comparison with these model seds by way of an interpolation of the index - index diagnostic grids .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows the fe@xmath115270h@xmath10 and fe@xmath114383h@xmath10 grids . in each case",
    "the non - emission - corrected host - galaxy indices are plotted in the upper frames and the emission - corrected indices are plotted in the lower frames .",
    "although for each galaxy metallicity and age interpolation we broadened the models according to its corresponding velocity dispersion , for the sake of presentation we show the whole sample plotted on a model grid broadened to a velocity dispersion of @xmath17 = 200 km s@xmath3 .",
    "index measurements .",
    "the series shows how the models change with age at a fixed metallicity and gives an alternate illustration of the technique used to realize our galaxy age / metallicity estimates . in this case , the age - sensitive index , h@xmath10 , for ngc 4786 most closely matches that measured for the sed at solar metallicity and a single population age of 7.08 gyr .",
    "[ example_specs ] ]    computing ages and metallicities for our galaxy samples required the interpolation , and on occasion extrapolation , of an irregular grid .",
    "this was accomplished using bivariant polynomial transformations of the following form @xcite : @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the order of the polynomial and _ p@xmath20 _ and _ q@xmath20 _ are the coefficients that are solved for a set of nearest - neighbor points ( _ indx_,_indy _ ) indexed by _",
    "i_. we performed a second - degree approximation , thus requiring us to compute at least 12 coefficients by solving two systems of 6 linear equations .",
    "an idl code was written which allowed us to interactively select the nearest 612 grid points ( the number was dependent on the quality of the grid around the host galaxy s grid position ) and the coefficients were computed by solving the above system of equations using the method of least squares .    the upper and lower limits for age and metallicity were determined directly from the absorption - line index limits outputted by lector .",
    "the extent of the index limits can be seen from the error bars in figure [ fig1 ] .",
    "the upper and lower limits were treated as unique points for which age and metallicity estimates were made . in the case of large index errors , the grid points chosen by our code were different from those used to determine the age / metallicity of the galaxy .",
    "an assumption was made that the upper and lower h@xmath10 index limits corresponded to the lower and upper limits , respectively , of our galaxy age estimate .",
    "similarly , the upper and lower limit of the fe@xmath115270 index corresponded to the upper and lower limits of the galaxy metallicity estimate .",
    "the final uncertainty was recorded as the magnitude of the difference between the age and metallicity of the limits and those of the galaxy .",
    "furthermore , due to the irregular nature of the grid , a symmetric error in an index measurement translated into an asymmetric error in age and metallicity .",
    "the results from our analyses are shown in table [ tbl-4 ] .",
    "column ( 1 ) gives the galaxy name .",
    "columns ( 2)(7 ) give the ages , metallicities , and corresponding errors determined via the fe@xmath115270h@xmath10 diagram , while columns ( 8)(13 ) give the same results ascertained via the fe@xmath114383h@xmath10 diagram .",
    ", is plotted against the metallicity - sensitive line indices ew , fe@xmath115270 and fe@xmath114383 , before ( top ) and after ( bottom ) emission correction .",
    "the underlying grid reflect the vazdekis model seds broadened to a velocity dispersion , @xmath17 = 200.0 km s@xmath3 .",
    "dashed lines ( near vertical ) are models of common metallicity , and dotted lines ( near horizontal ) are those of common age .",
    "the bold dashed line identifies models of solar metallicity , and the bold dotted line marks models of age 7.08 gyr.[fig1 ] ]      aspiring to test the uniqueness of sn  ia early - type host galaxies relative to random early - type galaxies , we compared the global properties of our sn  ia sample of elliptical host galaxies to those of a general sample of elliptical field galaxies from sdss .",
    "the following steps were taken to generate a comparative sample of field galaxies .",
    "the sdss catalog archive server was queried for galaxy spectra within the redshift range 0 @xmath21 that had a velocity dispersion measured by sdss .",
    "the positions of these galaxies were then cross - referenced against galaxies in the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , and only those galaxies characterized as e / s0 by ned were accepted .",
    "the galaxy spectra of these elliptical field galaxies were then obtained from the sdss data archive server .",
    "the spectra were emission - line corrected using a synthetic orion spectrum created via the iraf artificial data generation package , artdata . furthermore , rather than broadening the models to the specific velocity dispersion of each galaxy , we broadened the set of models to velocity dispersions in 30 km s@xmath3 intervals from 100 km s@xmath3 to 340 km s@xmath3 .",
    "the set of models used in the analysis for a given sdss galaxy spectrum was the set broadened for a velocity dispersion that most closely matched that of the galaxy .",
    "finally , to speed up the calculation , the grid points to perform the diagnostic interpolations were automatically chosen for the sdss sample by an algorithm designed to mimic the grid - point selection criteria used for the interactive point selection in the host - galaxy analysis .",
    "the quality of our data is assessed via three checks , the results of which are shown in figure [ fig2 ] .",
    "first , we compare the respective age and metallicity estimates obtained from our two index - index diagnostics .",
    "figure [ fig2]a shows the fe@xmath114383 age estimate plotted against the age estimate of fe@xmath115270 .",
    "given that both ages were determined using the same age - sensitive index , namely h@xmath10 , we would expect these data to be consistent with unity .",
    "as the top - left panel shows , we find moderate scatter about unity by virtue of our error estimates .",
    "nevertheless , the data are consistent with unity , with a @xmath22@xmath23 of 0.88 for the fit .",
    "figure [ fig2]b shows the metallicity comparison between our two index - index diagnostics . in this case",
    "we see more significant dispersion ; however , the data are still consistent with unity given the calculated uncertainty .",
    "consequently , as a matter of preference , the galaxy ages and metallicities used in the following analysis will be those determined from the h@xmath10fe@xmath115270 diagnostic .",
    ", respectively .",
    "in both cases we find minor variations that are nonetheless consistent with unity .",
    "panels ( b ) and ( d ) present a comparison showing reasonable agreement between our results and those of @xcite.[fig2 ] ]    our second quality check is a comparison of our age and metallicity estimates to those of control galaxies studied by @xcite ( hereafter t00 ) .",
    "our data are plotted against the data of t00 in figure [ fig2]c and [ fig2]d .",
    "t00 made age and metallicity measurements through a central @xmath6/2 aperture and we are reporting the  preferred \" non - solar abundance ratio ( nsar ) model results ( model 4 ) .",
    "the age - sensitive line index used was h@xmath10 , while the two metallicity - sensitive indices were @xmath12fe@xmath15fe@xmath15 @xmath24 ( @xmath25)(fe@xmath115270 + fe@xmath115335 ) . ] and mg  b. figure [ fig2]c shows the age comparison for the two studies with the dotted line shows a model one - to - one relation .",
    "the plot shows fairly good agreement between the two studies .",
    "the @xmath22@xmath23 of the one - to - one fit is 8.55 , though it is improved if we throw out ngc 5813 at ( 8.69 , 24.30 ) , reducing @xmath22@xmath23 to 2.72 .",
    "the agreement is less encouraging for the metallicity comparison in figure [ fig2]d . ignoring the few outlier points , the t00 galaxies seem to be systematically more metal rich than those measured in our study .",
    "this is likely due to the fact that we did not account for nsar in our analysis .",
    "studies have shown that the abundance ratios in early - type galaxies are often non - solar .",
    "in particular , the mg / fe abundance ratio has been shown to be larger in more luminous early - type galaxies @xcite .",
    "given that both mg and fe lines strongly factored into the metallicity measurements of t00 , we should not expect to see a straight 1:1 comparative ratio .",
    "nevertheless , throwing out the points with the two greatest dispersions ( ngc 5813 and ngc 4489 ) , we seem to be measuring the relative metallicities consistently with t00 , thereby enabling us to find potential trends between age / metallicity and sn  ia properties .",
    "we also compare our results to those published in @xcite . in their study , they seek to set constraints on the epochs of early - type galaxy formation through an analysis of 124 early - type galaxies in both high and low - density regions .",
    "we have 15 galaxies in common with their study and compare our h@xmath10 index , age , and metallicity measurements to those from their analysis .",
    "similar to the comparison with t00 , we see general agreement between our respective results .",
    "however , the agreement is far from one to one , with broad scatter greater than that seen in our t00 comparison . once again , this not entirely unexpected given our lower s / n and the fact that we did not accounted for potential @xmath7 enhancement in our galaxies .",
    "moreover , they were sampling a significantly smaller fraction of the galactic light with an aperture radius of @xmath6/10 .",
    "overall , our comparisons with both t00 and @xcite show reasonable agreement and confirm the ability of our analysis to measure acceptable relative population ages and metallicities for our sn  ia host - galaxy sample .",
    "finally , we compare the @xmath26 colors for the host galaxy and sdss data to the galaxy age ; see figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "the expected average @xmath26 color for a sample of elliptical galaxies is 4.0 @xcite , and we can see that both our host galaxies and the sdss galaxies meet this expectation .",
    "the figure also shows that both of the samples fall within the range predicted by the evolutionary synthesis models of @xcite .",
    "the center line is the predicted trend of @xmath26 color with age for a population of solar metallicity , the top line is the prediction for a metallicity of [ m / h ] @xmath27 , and the bottom line is the prediction for a metallicity of [ m / h ] @xmath28 .",
    "color vs. age .",
    "we see that both of the samples fall within the range predicted by the evolutionary synthesis models of @xcite .",
    "the center line is the predicted trend of @xmath26 color with age for a population of solar metallicity , the top line is the prediction for a metallicity of [ m / h ] @xmath27 , and the bottom line is the prediction for a metallicity of [ m / h ] @xmath28.[fig3 ] ]      the host - galaxy age and metallicity vs. sn  ia peak @xmath29-band magnitude are plotted in figure [ fig4 ] .",
    "the peak magnitudes were derived from measurements of the light - curve shape parameter , @xmath30 , fitted using mlcs2k2 by the authors of @xcite(peak ) = @xmath31 + 0.182@xmath30@xmath32 + 5 log ( h@xmath33 / 65 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 ) mag . ] . in figure [ fig4]a , the data show that the youngest populations tend to host the brightest sne  ia , but with a wide spread . however , the eye has a tendency to gravitate toward large error bars , thereby placing an unwanted amount of attention to those points .",
    "consequently , we have replotted the data in figures [ fig4]b and [ fig4]d with point sizes that are inversely proportional to their uncertainty . in this way",
    ", the data with the smallest uncertainty in age will be represented by the largest points .",
    "when points with the largest uncertainty are de - emphasized , the trend between age and luminosity is very clear , but it is nevertheless difficult to distinguish whether the effect is a smooth transition with age or the result of two distinct populations .     = 72 km@xmath3 s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 ) vs. ( a ) luminosity - weighted host - galaxy age and ( c ) metallicity .",
    "panels ( b ) and ( d ) show the same data with the point size reflecting the average error along the abscissa .",
    "point size is inversely proportional to the average error along the abscissa , with the exception of our young hosts in ( b ) where an upper limit is imposed on the point size .",
    "the data in panel ( b ) show a clear trend between sn ia peak magnitude and host - galaxy age . the behavior could be evidence of either a smooth transition of sn magnitude with age or of two distinct populations of sne  ia .",
    "panel ( d ) shows a less convincing correlation likely arising from the degeneracy between age and metallicity .",
    "[ fig4 ] ]    @xcite found that only luminous sne  ia occur in strongly star - forming hosts while e / s0 galaxies show a wide range of sn  ia luminosities .",
    "this is confirmed in figure [ magsfr ] , where we have plotted sn  ia peak magnitude vs. host - galaxy specific star formation , i.e. , the sfr per stellar mass .",
    "the sfrs were calculated from the h@xmath7 emission flux using the relation of @xcite , with the distance to each galaxy coming from the sn  ia luminosities .",
    "solid circles represent the host galaxies from the current sample of early - type galaxies , while open circles are from the sample studied by g05 .",
    "we eliminated galaxies from g05 if they were in our current sample since the h@xmath7 flux from g05 was uncorrected for underlying absorption .",
    "the points with arrows represent star formation upper limits in which h@xmath7 emission was buried within the noise .",
    "this trend , combined with figure [ fig4]b , suggests that the age of the dominant population in e / s0 galaxies determines the resulting sn  ia peak luminosity . a correlation between sn  ia peak luminosity and sfr",
    "has also been seen in the high - redshift snls data @xcite , but their type of search is biased against very low - luminosity events .",
    "our `` young '' e / s0 galaxies correspond to their `` passive '' hosts , and the extension to very old populations ( with low specific sfr ) confirms that population age is the major factor that determines the sn  ia peak luminosity .    .",
    "closed circles are the current sample of early - type hosts while open circles represent the high - sfr hosts of g05 .",
    "the points marked by arrows indicate upper limits . on average ,",
    "our specific sfr distribution is lower than that seen in the sample of high-@xmath34  passive \" hosts of @xcite .",
    "however , aside from the expected decrease of sfr over cosmological time , it should be noted that our data only sample half of the galactic light given our extraction radius ( @xmath6 ) , and the sfrs for the  passive \" galaxies of @xcite were randomly assigned a rate of @xmath00.005 m@xmath35 yr@xmath3.[magsfr ] ]    the plots of host metallicity vs. sn  ia peak luminosity ( figures [ fig4]c and [ fig4]d ) also show a mild correlation .",
    "this may be due to the `` age / metallicity degeneracy '' shown in figure [ fig5 ] .",
    "there we present measured galaxy age vs. metallicity for both the hosts and sdss field galaxies , showing that the galaxies are not evenly distributed in the diagram but instead concentrated to the lower - left half .",
    "this is simply due to the evolution of the universe which started metal poor , meaning that there were few galaxies that are both old and metal rich and occupy the upper - right of the diagram .",
    "thus , any correlation between age and a supernova property will result in some correlation with metallicity as well . here",
    ", the relationship between host age and sn  ia luminosity is so clear that we claim it represents a physical connection .",
    "we attribute mild effect in the metallicity relation to the lack of galaxies in the lower - right quadrant of figure [ fig4]d , which comes from age correlation combined with the fact that there are no old galaxies having high metal abundance in our sample .    ]",
    "the distributions of age and metallicity for the two samples are also shown in figure [ fig5 ] , with the cumulative fraction plots shown in figure [ fig6 ] .",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov test reveals that there is a 63% chance that the host age distribution is drawn from the sdss field galaxy age distribution , and a 44% chance that the host metallicity distribution is drawn from the field galaxy metallicity distribution .",
    "the results suggest that , given the size of the sn ia sample , the abundance and age of early - type galaxies that host sne  ia are similar on average to normal early - type field galaxies . assuming this ,",
    "the probability of a sn  ia going off in a given early - type galaxy does not strongly depend on the age or metallicity of the galaxy .     and 44@xmath36 probability that the sdss age and metallicity distributions , respectively , represent acceptable parent populations from which the host metallicities were drawn.[fig6 ] ]      the relation correcting sn  ia peak luminosity by the light - curve shape reduces the scatter in the low-@xmath34 hubble diagram to @xmath0 0.18 mag @xcite .",
    "if this residual scatter is purely random , then the evolution of age and metallicity in the universe will not induce a bias in cosmological measurements with sne  ia .",
    "however , recent studies such as timmes , brown , & truran ( 2003 ; hereafter tbt03 ) and @xcite have predicted that sn calibration methods should be affected by a cosmic evolution in metallicity .    in order to investigate this possible effect for sne  ia hosted by early - type galaxies ,",
    "we plot our measurements of age and metallicity against post - corrected sn  ia magnitude residual from the best fit to the hubble diagram .",
    "the hubble residual ( hr ) is defined as @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the distance modulus determined from the host - galaxy redshift to decrease uncertainty due to peculiar velocities . ] , and @xmath39 is the distance modulus determined via the mlcs2k2-corrected sn magnitude .",
    "hr is defined in the conventional manner such that overluminous sne  ia have a negative hubble residual . the primary component to the uncertainty in hr comes from @xmath40 .",
    "the distance errors estimated from mlcs2k2 were found to be smaller than the scatter about the hubble diagram .",
    "the authors of @xcite attributed this to an intrinsic scatter in sn ia magnitudes and accordingly imposed a constant additive correction to these distances . given that we are probing for systematic changes in this intrinsic scatter with age and metallicity ,",
    "we have not applied this correction to @xmath40 .",
    "the top - left panel of figure [ fig7 ] shows the hubble residual vs. host - galaxy metallicity along with a least - squares fit to the data ( solid line ) .",
    "the data and the linear fit show a correlation between host metallicity and deviation from the hubble diagram such that supernovae in metal - rich galaxies are fainter than average and metal - poor galaxies host brighter than average events .",
    "the dashed line is a representation of the tbt03 relation ( m@xmath41vs@xmath42 metallicity ) showing that , at least qualitatively , the observed trend is consistent with that by expected by tbt03 .     with negligible significance .",
    "[ fig7 ] ]    to map the tbt03 prediction onto the plot , we converted the @xmath43ni yields from tbt03 into v - band peak magnitude via the models of @xcite as was done in gallagher et al .",
    "( 2005 ) . to avoid an over - dependence on models",
    ", we also converted ni masses to peak magnitudes through an empirically determined relation using ni mass estimated by @xcite and corresponding v - band luminosities given in @xcite .",
    "mapping tbt03 onto figure [ fig7 ] using this conversion yields a qualitatively similar trend to both our data and the tbt03-hflich model .",
    "the top - right panel shows the results of the significance analysis for our linear fit .",
    "for each point ( [ m / h]@xmath44,hr@xmath44 ) , the hubble residual was replaced by a randomly selected hr from a gaussian distribution centered on the actual hr with a standard deviation equal to @xmath30hr .",
    "the same was done for each metallicity using the corresponding [ m / h]@xmath44 and @xmath30[m / h]@xmath44 .",
    "we performed 100,000 iterations , measured the best - fit slope ( @xmath10 ) to the new data each time , and generated the @xmath10 distribution for the test .",
    "the results are seen in the top - right panel and show that a no - correlation result ( @xmath10 = 0 ) is ruled out at the 98% confidence level . a similar correlation between dust / extinction and hubble residual is not seen for our sample , thereby removing the possibility of this correlation being a secondary dust effect .",
    "assuming that the least - squares fit to the top - left panel of figure [ fig7 ] adequately represents the trend of hr with metallicity , we would predict a 0.26 mag increase in intrinsic sn  ia magnitude per unit decline in progenitor ( galaxy ) metallicity .",
    "we have looked at several studies , two theoretical and one observational , that seek to characterize cosmic chemical evolution .",
    "the theoretical studies by @xcite and @xcite predict an approximate 0.05 dex and 0.25 dex drop in metallicity per unit redshift , respectively .",
    "the observational study conducted by @xcite find a preliminary result of 0.15 dex/@xmath34 . taking the average of these three studies ( 0.15 dex/@xmath34 ) for the true decline in metallicity with redshift would translate into a 0.039 mag decrease in intrinsic sn ia magnitude per unit redshift .",
    "assuming an ideal sn ia data set out to @xmath45 , a @xmath22@xmath32 minimization of three parameters ( @xmath46@xmath47 , @xmath48 , and h@xmath33 ) applied to a set of model sne  ia subject to this 4% systematic error would induce an approximate 9% systematic error on the measurement of the equation - of - state parameter @xmath2 .",
    "@xcite showed that the scatter of sn magnitudes about the hubble diagram is lower in e / s0 galaxies ( @xmath0 0.13 mag ) than for sample as a whole ( @xmath0 0.18 mag ) .",
    "our sample of e / s0 hosts show a scatter of approximately 0.14 mag . by applying a correction to sn magnitudes consistent with our least - squares fit , we reduce the scatter about the hubble diagram to approximately 0.11 mag , illustrating the potential for such a correction to significantly improve sn  ia distance measurements .",
    "the bottom - left panel of figure [ fig7 ] shows the age of the parent galaxy vs. the hubble residual of the sn ia . the plot does not reveal a significant trend of hr with host - galaxy age .",
    "indeed , the probability of a zero - correlation result is only ruled out at the 56% confidence level , suggesting that sn ia magnitudes corrected for light - curve shape are likewise being corrected for any age bias .",
    "it should be noted that two galaxies ( cgcg 016 - 058 and mcg+07 - 41 - 001 ) were removed from the age plot because their positions on their respective diagnostic grids required a difficult extrapolation that rendered their age estimates extremely uncertain .      since the late 1970s",
    ", observations have shown that sne ia are more prevalent in star - forming late - type galaxies than in early - type galaxies @xcite . this fact has been confirmed again and again with new studies showing that the sn  ia rate per unit mass is significantly higher in blue / late - type galaxies than in red / early - type galaxies @xcite .",
    "the current explanation for these observations is that there are  prompt \" and  delayed \" ( `` tardy '' ) sn  ia explosions .",
    "the prompt component is dependent on the rate of recent star formation , and the delayed component is dependent on the total number of low - mass stars .",
    "the combination of these two components is believed to form the overall observed sn ia rate @xcite .",
    "@xcite investigated the parameters shaping the overall sn  ia rate by observing the relative presence of sne  ia in high-@xmath34 host galaxies of differing mass and sfr .",
    "our direct age measurement means that we can do a similar analysis at low redshifts by estimating the relative sn  ia rate as a function of host - galaxy age .",
    "figures [ fig8 ] and [ fig9 ] summarize the details of our analysis on the relative sn  ia rate in elliptical host galaxies of various ages .",
    "-band luminosity .",
    "the left panel shows numbers of host galaxies , or sne , per age bin along with the expected number of stars per age bin derived using the sdss elliptical field galaxies .",
    "the right panel gives the expected relative sn ia rate per age bin , showing a consistency with the  dual - component \" model .",
    "[ fig8 ] ]    ]    the panel on the left of figure [ fig8 ] contains two unique histograms . the dotted - line histogram represents the number of host galaxies , or equivalently the number of sne  ia , per age bin ( identical to the distribution in figure [ fig5 ] with decreased bin size ) .",
    "the solid - line histogram is the expected number of stars per age bin .",
    "each of the distributions has been normalized such that the bin encompassing 8 gyr contains exactly one element .",
    "the number of stars is derived from the @xmath49-band sdss galaxy distribution , the @xmath49 band being a relatively accurate tracer of stellar mass . @xmath49-band",
    "apparent magnitudes for the sdss sample were compiled from ned and the distances to the galaxies in the sample were calculated from the sdss redshift measurements , where care was taken to exclude those galaxies with @xmath50 km s@xmath3 .",
    "the @xmath49-band absolute magnitudes , @xmath51 , were derived from the distances and apparent magnitudes .",
    "finally , the number of stars per galaxy was approximated by the expression @xmath52}.\\ ] ] the variable @xmath53 is the corresponding absolute magnitude of the sun in the @xmath49 band = 3.28 . ] .",
    "the number of stars per age bin was then calculated by summing the stars in each galaxy in each age bin .",
    "the relative sn  ia rate per unit stellar mass is defined as the ratio of the number of sne per age bin to the expected number of stars per age bin .",
    "the panel on the right of figure [ fig8 ] shows the expected sn  ia rate per unit stellar mass as a function of age . the plot predicts a rate that is high for young galaxies , falls for intermediate - age galaxies , and increases and moderates for older populations .",
    "this result is consistent with the `` dual - component model , '' given that the sn rate at low age could arise from a short delay time population of sne  ia predicted to occur in galaxies with high sfr , and the rise in sn rate at late age could likely result from the predicted rise in sn rate with stellar mass @xcite .",
    "however , we take the less general route and suggest the possibility that the rate at low population age is proportional to the rate of wd production following an initial burst of star formation . this function can be seen in figure [ fig9 ] .",
    "similarly , the late - time sn rate can be traced by the cumulative number of wds present in the galaxy ( figure [ fig9 ] ) .",
    "this value is determined for an age , @xmath54 , by integrating the wd production rate from time @xmath55 to @xmath56 .",
    "these components of the sn  ia rate are related to those of @xcite , and yet they specifically target the population of stars believed to be the progenitors of sn  ia explosions .",
    "an important caveat to this analysis is that we are only sampling the dominant stellar population within a given host galaxy .",
    "it has been shown that a significant portion ( 1530% ) of elliptical and lenticular ( s0 ) galaxies show evidence of recent star formation @xcite , which has the potential to compromise our conclusion that sne  ia exploding in old stellar populations possess longer delay times .",
    "we have analyzed a sample of early - type galaxies that have hosted sne  ia . comparing the data with stellar population synthesis models , we have measured the global age and metallicity of the sn  ia elliptical host galaxies and a general sample of elliptical galaxies from the sdss .",
    "our results indicate that there is likely a significant correlation between age or metallicity and sn  ia absolute magnitude . given the mounting evidence of a sn ia rate dependence on specific sfr",
    ", we find it most likely that the sn  ia peak magnitudes are correlated with age , and the observed trend with metallicity is merely an artifact brought about by the evolutionary entanglement of age and metallicity .",
    "we find the global distributions of age and metallicity to be similar to those of our sdss elliptical galaxy sample , suggesting that the presence , or absence , of a sn  ia in an elliptical galaxy is not dependent on either age or metallicity .",
    "moreover , we detect a trend between early - type host - galaxy metallicity and the residuals from the hubble diagram at the 98% confidence level .",
    "this trend is consistent with the predictions of tbt03 and with a trend observed for late - type galaxies by @xcite ; it suggests that metal - rich galaxies produce underluminous sne  ia , even after correcting for their light - curve shapes .",
    "furthermore , we conclude that the failure to apply a metallicity correction to sn  ia magnitudes could potentially introduce a 9% error into current and future measurements of @xmath48 .",
    "finally , we find the predicted sn  ia rate as a function of age for our sample of early - type galaxies , and determine it to be moderately consistent with the `` dual - component model '' of @xcite . also , we describe our preferred model governing the sn  ia rate in which the  prompt \" component is proportional to the wd production rate and the  delayed \" component scales with the cumulative wd population .    partial funding for this work came through nasa ltsa grant nag5 - 9364 .",
    "supernova research at harvard university is supported by nsf grant ast06 - 06772 .",
    "a.v.f.s supernova group at the university of california , berkeley is supported by nsf grant ast0607485 , as well as by the tabasgo foundation .",
    "kait was made possible by generous donations from sun microsystems , inc .",
    ", the hewlett - packard company , autoscope corporation , lick observatory , the nsf , the university of california , and the sylvia and jim katzman foundation .",
    "we thank sumner starrfield and the arizona state university for granting us access to their computer network that proved invaluable for the completion of this work .",
    "astier , p. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 447 , 31 barris , b. j. , et al . 2004 , , 602 , 571 bennett , c. l. , et al . 2003 , , 148 , 1 blakeslee , j. p. , vazdekis , a. , & ajhar , e. a. 2001 , , 320 , 193 bressan , a. , chiosi , c. , & tantalo , r. 1996 , , 311 , 425 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s. 2003 , , 344 , 1000 buzzoni , a. 1995 , , 98 , 69 caldwell , n. , rose , j. a. , & concannon , k. d. 2003 , , 125 , 2891 cardelli , j. a. , clayton , g. c. , & mathis , j. s. 1989 , 345 , 245c cardiel , n. 2003 , , 409 , 511 cardiel , n. , gorgas , j. , cenarro , j. , & gonzalez , j. j. 1998 , , 127 , 597 cen , r. , & ostriker , j. p. 1999",
    ", , 519 , l109 cen , r. , ostriker , j. p. , prochaska , j. x. , & wolfe , a. m. , 2003 , , 594 , 741 cenarro , a. j. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 326 , 959 cennaro , a. j. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 374 , 664 conley , a. , et al .",
    "2008 , , in press delgado , r. m. g. , cervio , m. , martins , l. p. , leitherer , c. , & hauschildt , p. h. 2005 , , 357 , 945 della valle , m. , & livio , m. 1994 , , 423 , l31 eisenstein , d. j. , seo , h , sirko , e. , & spergel , d. n. 2007 , , 664 , 675 fabricant , d. , cheimets , p. , caldwell , n. , & geary , j. 1998 , , 110 , 79 faber , s. m. 1972 , , 20 , 361filippenko , a. v. 1982 , , 94 , 715 filippenko , a. v. 2005a , in the fate of the most massive stars , ed .",
    "r. humphreys & k. stanek ( san francisco : asp ) , 33 filippenko , a. v. 2005b , in white dwarfs : cosmological and galactic probes , ed .",
    "e. m. sion , s. vennes , & h. l. shipman ( dordrecht : springer ) , 97 filippenko , a. v. , li , w. , treffers , r. r. , & modjaz , m. 2001 , in small - telescope astronomy on global scales , ed .",
    "chen , c. lemme , & b. paczyski ( san francisco : asp ) , 121 fioc , m. , & rocca - volmerange , b. 1997 , , 326 , 950 freedman , w. l. , et al . 2001 , , 553 , 47 frieman , j. a. , et al . 2007 , arxiv:0708.2749 frieman , j. a. , turner , m. , & huterer , d. 2008 , preprint ( arxiv:0803.0982 ) gallagher , j. s. , garnavich , p. m. , modjaz , m. , kirshner , r. p. , & challis , p. 2005a",
    ", iau circ . , 8514 , 3 gallagher , j. s. , garnavich , p. m. , berlind , p. , challis , p. , jha , s. , & kirshner , r. p. 2005",
    ", , 634 , 210 ganeshalingam , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , in prep .",
    "garnavich , p. m. , et al .",
    "1998a , , 493 , 53 garnavich , p. m. , et al . 1998b , , 509 , 74 goldhaber , g. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 558 , 359 gunn , j. e. , stryker , l. l. , & tinsley , b. m. 1981 , , 249 , 48 guy , j. 2007 , , 466 , 11 hamuy , m. , phillips , m. m. , suntzeff , n. b. , schommer , r. a. , maza , j. , & avilles , r. 1996 , , 112 , 2391 hamuy , m. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1479 hicken , m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 669 , l17 hflich , p. , wheeler , j. c. , & thielemann , f. k. 1998 , , 495 , 617 hflich , p. , gerardy , c. l. , fesen , r. a. , & sakai , s. 2002 , , 568 , 791 howell , a. d. , et al . 2006 , , 443 , 308 iben , i. , & tutukov a. v. 1984 , , 54 , 335 jarret , t. h. , chester , t. , cutri , r. , schneider , s. e. , & huchra , j. p. 2003",
    ", , 125 , 525jha , s. 2002 , phd thesis , harvard university jha , s. , riess , a. g. , & kirshner , r. p. 2007",
    ", , 659 , 122 jha , s. , et al . 1999 , , 125 , 73 jones , t. m. 1997 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of north carolina , chapel hill kaviraj , s. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 173 , 619 kennicutt , r. c. 1998 , , 36 , 189 kewley , l. , & kobulnicky , h. a. , 2007 , in island universes , astrophysics and space science proceedings ( new york : springer ) , 435 kirshner , r. p. 2002",
    ", the extravagant universe : exploding stars , dark energy , and the accelerating cosmos ( princeton : princeton univ . press ) knop , r. a. , 2003 , , 598 , 102 krisciunas , k. , et al . 2007 , , 133 , 58 leaman , j. , li , w. , & filippenko , a. v. 2008 , in prep mannucci , f. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 433 , 807 maraston , c. 1998 , , 300 , 872 miknaitis , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 666 , 674 nomoto , k. 1982 , , 253 , 798 norgaard - neilsen , h. u. , et al .",
    "1989 , , 339 , 523 oconnell , r. w. 1976 , , 206 , 370 oemler , a. , & tinsley , b. m. 1979 , , 84 , 985 osterbrock , d. e. , 1989 , astrophysics of gaseous nebulae and active galactic nuclei ( mill valley , ca : univ .",
    "sci . ) peacock , j. a. , 2001 , , 410 , 169 peletier , r. f. , 1989 , phd thesis , university groningen perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    "1997 , , 483 , 565 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 391 , 51p perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    "1999 , , 517 , 565 phillips , m. m. 1993 , , 413 , l105 phillips , m. m. , lira , p. , suntzeff , n. b. , schommer , r. a. , hamuy , m. , & maza , j. 1999 , , 118 , 1766 podsiadlowski , p. , et al .",
    "2006 , submitted ( arxiv:0608324 ) renzini , a. 2006 , , 44 , 141 - 192 riess , a. g. , press , w. h. , & kirshner , r. p. 1996",
    ", , 473 , 88 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 116 , 1009 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 607 , 665 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 627 , 579 riess , a. g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 659 , 98 salpeter , e. e. 1955 , , 121 , 161 sanchez - blazquez , p. , et al .",
    "2006 , 371 , 703s sandage , a. , tammann , g. a. , saha , a. , reindl , b. , macchetto , f. d. , & panagia , n. 2006 , , 653 , 843 schmidt , b. p. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 507 , 46 scannapieco , e. , & bildsten , l. 2005 , , 629 , l85soubiran , c. , katz , d. , & cayrel , r. 1998 , , 133 , 221 stritzinger , m. , mazalli , p. a. , sollerman , j. , & benetti , s. 2006 , , 460 , 793 sullivan , m. , et al . 2006 , , 648 , 868 taubenberger , s. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 385 , 75 - 96 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , bender , r. , & mendes de oliveira , c. 2005 , , 621 , 673 timmes , f. x. , brown , e. f. , & truran , j. w. 2003 , , 590 , l83 ( tbt03 ) tinsley , b. m. , 1980 , , 5 , 287 tinsley , b. m. , & gunn , j. e. 1976 , , 203 , 52 tonry , j. l. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 594 , 1 trager , s. c. , faber , s. m. , worthey , g. , & gonzales , j. j. 2000 , , 119 , 1645 umeda , h. , nomoto , k. , kobayashi , c. , hachisu , i. , & kato , m. 1999 , , 522 , l43 van den bergh , s. 1990 , , 102 , 1318 vazdekis , a. 1999 , , 513 , 224 vazdekis , a. , & arimoto n. 1999 , , 525 , 144 vazdekis , a. , peletier , r. f. , beckman , j. e. , & casuso , e. 1997 , , 111 , 203 vazdekis , a. , et al .",
    "1996 , , 107 , 306 vazdekis , a. , cenarro , a. j. , gargas , j. , cardiel , n. , & peletier , r. f. 2003 , , 340 , 1317 vazdekis , a. , et al .",
    "2008 , in prep .",
    "vzquez , g. a. , & leitherer , c. 2005 , , 621 , 695 webbink , r. f. 1984 , , 277 , 355 whelan , j. , & iben , i. j. 1973 , , 186 , 1007 wolberg , g. 1994 , digital image warping , ieee computer society press wood - vasey , w. m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 666 , 694 wood - vasey , w. m. , et al .",
    "2008 , submitted ( arxiv:0711.2068 ) worthey , g. 1994 , , 95 , 107 worthey , g. , faber , s. m. , & gonzalez , j. j. 1992 , , 398 , 69 worthey , g. , & ottaviani , d. l. 1997 , , 111 , 377 yi , s. k. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 619 , l111    lcccccc ngc 4374 & 1991bg & -17.88 & e1 & 90 & 9.63 & 1 + ngc 4526 & 1994d & -18.98 & s0 & 110 & 10.78 & 1 + ngc 4493 & 1994 m & -19.09 & e & 40 & 4.03 & 1 + cgcg 016 - 058 & 1994 t & -18.67 & sa & -30 & 3.01 & 1 + ngc 2962 & 1995d & -19.42 & s0 + & 0 & 6.90 & 1 + ngc 5061 & 1996x & -19.21 & sa & 90 & 4.17 & 1 + ngc 5005 & 1996ai & -19.58 & sbc & -30 & 12.66 & 1 + ngc 5308 & 1996bk & -18.33 & s0- & 60 & 10.78 & 1 + ngc 5490 & 1997cn & -17.87 & e & 0 & 5.17 & 1 + ngc 5440 & 1998d & & sa & 40 & 6.19 & + ugc 11149 & 1998dx & -19.14 & sab & -40 & 6.75 & 1 + ngc 7131 & 1998co & & s0 & -35 & 4.45 & 1 + ngc 6411 & 1999da & -17.81 & e & 70 & 8.19 & 1 + ngc 2841 & 1999by & -17.95 & sab & 50 & 5.88 & 1 + ngc 6038 & 1999cc & -19.00 & sc & 105 & 8.19 & 1 + ngc 2986 & 1999gh & -18.43 & e2;hii & 10 & 6.90 & 1 + ugc 11198 & 2000 dm & -18.94 & sab & 45 & 7.06 & 2 + cgcg 189 - 024 & 2002 g & -19.347 & e & 10 & 4.16 & 2 + ugc 04322 & 2002he & -19.01 & e & 40 & 5.32 & 2 + cgcg 141 - 044 & 2001bf & -19.514 & & 100 & 5.04 & 2 + anon & 2002aw & -19.35 & sb ( f ) & 80 & 13.94 & 2 + ngc 4786 & 2002cf & -17.82 & e+pec & -20 & 6.47 & 2 + ngc 6702 & 2002cs & & e & 55 & 6.31 & + mcg+07 - 41 - 001 & 2002do & -18.48 & e1 & 0 & 20.85 & 2 + ngc 7761 & 2002ef & -19.30 & s0 & 90 & 4.61 & 2 + ngc 6986 & 2002el & -19.11 & sb0- & 5 & 5.89 & 2 + mcg-01 - 25 - 009 & 2003d & -18.31 & e1 & 10 & 5.18 & 2 + ic 0522 & 2003y & & s0 & -20 & 7.34 & + ugc 03787 & 2003ch & & e - s0 & 0 & 4.47 & + ngc 4059 & 2005bl & -17.62 & e & 40 & 4.61 & 3 + ngc 3608 & & & e2 & 80 & 6.19 & + ngc 4472 & & & e2/s0 & -20 & 12.80 & + ngc 4478 & & & e2 & 40 & 6.17 & + ngc 4489 & & & e & 110 & 4.61 & + ngc 4552 & & & e;hii & -30 & 6.31 & + ngc 4649 & & & e2 & 90 & 13.09 & + ngc 5638 & & & e1 & -20 & 8.04 & + ngc 5813 & & & e1 - 2 & -20 & 6.17 & + ngc 5846 & & & e0 - 1 & 50 & 11.35 & + ngc 6127 & & & e & 90 & 5.32 & + ngc 6703 & & & sa0- & 90 & 5.17 & +    lccc anon & 7932.43 & 19.66 & 136.91 + cgcg 016 - 058 & 10411.31 & 17.79 & 147.99 + cgcg 141 - 044 & 4665.13 & 23.01 & 109.73 + cgcg 189 - 024 & 10113.14 & 21.01 & 188.70 + ic 0522 & 5092.26 & 19.05 & 170.76 + mcg+07 - 41 - 001 & 4584.86 & 68.68 & 344.72 + mcg-01 - 25 - 009 & 6623.73 & 21.58 & 251.97 + ngc 2841 & 633.49 & 25.43 & 244.72 + ngc 2962 & 1967.99 & 19.01 & 186.61 + ngc 2986 & 2310.81 & 33.56 & 283.67 + ngc 3608 & 1237.80 & 21.24 & 209.54 + ngc 4059 & 7195.99 & 33.21 & 210.88 + ngc 4374 & 1020.48 & 30.57 & 316.56",
    "+ ngc 4472 & 957.20 & 30.95 & 309.86 + ngc 4478 & 1352.18 & 17.67 & 183.09 + ngc 4489 & 948.10 & 11.75 & 106.89 + ngc 4493 & 6957.26 & 20.98 & 214.39 + ngc 4526 & 604.65 & 24.90 & 235.75 + ngc 4552 & 316.64 & 27.18 & 282.82 + ngc 4649 & 1087.03 & 37.32 & 344.45 + ngc 4786 & 4611.97 & 33.49 & 288.86 + ngc 5005 & 932.64 & 23.29 & 207.73 + ngc 5061 & 2059.50 & 22.15 & 218.96 + ngc 5308 & 2014.72 & 22.08 & 241.36 + ngc 5440 & 3697.03 & 27.35 & 238.53 + ngc 5490 & 4965.75 & 37.73 & 338.21 + ngc 5638 & 1640.05 & 20.15 & 172.96 + ngc 5813 & 1948.27 & 28.57 & 248.58 + ngc 5846 & 1692.00 & 27.71 & 238.42 + ngc 6038 & 9399.72 & 32.83 & 183.91 + ngc 6127 &",
    "4715.52 & 29.99 & 264.50 + ngc 6411 & 3726.29 & 23.52 & 186.15 + ngc 6702 & 4721.40 & 32.71 & 209.44 + ngc 6703 & 2384.69 & 20.62 & 199.69 + ngc 6986 & 8534.95 & 25.52 & 267.16 + ngc 7131 & 5409.40 & 36.77 & 185.25 + ngc 7761 & 7192.42 & 19.90 & 211.39 + ugc 11149 & 16137.64 & 92.35 & 146.10 + ugc 11198 & 4518.02 & 19.91 & 145.28 + ugc 03787 & 8612.81 & 57.54 & 140.66 + ugc 04322 & 7376.56 & 23.98 & 248.08 +    lccc h@xmath10 & 4847.8754876.625 & 4827.8754847.875 , 4876.6254891.625 & h , ( mg ) , ( cr ) , c + fe5270 & 5245.6505285.650 & 5233.1505248.150 , 5285.6505318.150 & fe , c , ( mg ) , ca + fe4383 & 4369.1254420.375 & 4359.1254370.375 , 4442.8754455.375 & fe , c , ( si ) +    lcccccccccccc anon & 0.081 & 0.523 & 0.323 & 1.338 & 0.194 & 0.644 & 0.158 & 0.405 & 0.350 & 1.338 & 0.150 & 0.644 + cgcg",
    "016 - 058 & -0.374 & 0.278 & 0.266 & 23.454 & 13.895 & 17.898 & -0.532 & 0.271 & 0.246 & 26.083 & 15.953 & 22.769 + cgcg 141 - 044 & 0.472 & 0.244 & 0.318 & 1.273 & 0.101 & 0.101 & 0.121 & 0.118 & 0.129 & 1.256 & 0.078 & 0.061 + cgcg 189 - 024 & 0.187 & 0.295 & 0.270 & 2.611 & 0.700 & 0.694 & 0.031 & 0.183 & 0.190 & 2.891 & 0.829 & 2.027 + ic 0522 & -0.072 & 0.112 & 0.110 & 8.200 & 1.858 & 2.849 & 0.157 & 0.089 & 0.082 & 6.583 & 2.828 & 3.035 + mcg+07 - 41 - 001 & -0.185 & 0.058 & 0.072 & 32.651 & 5.932 & 6.483 & -0.432 & 0.043 & 0.132 & 36.121 & 2.281 & 1.886 + mcg-01 - 25 - 009 & -0.174 & 0.116 & 0.107 & 15.698 & 5.170 & 6.809 & 0.041 & 0.100 & 0.081 & 11.856 & 3.307 & 4.690 + ngc 2841 & 0.037 & 0.069 & 0.067 & 12.558 & 1.739 & 2.606 & 0.036 & 0.048 & 0.050 & 12.578 & 1.837 & 3.073 + ngc 2962 & 0.261 & 0.093 & 0.092 & 5.180 & 1.993 & 2.185 & 0.385 & 0.066 & 0.106 & 4.210 & 1.572 & 1.818 + ngc 2986 & 0.052 & 0.086 & 0.076 & 9.652 & 2.003 & 2.108 & 0.014 & 0.058 & 0.059 & 9.667 & 1.988 & 1.998 + ngc 3608 & -0.013 & 0.067 & 0.069 & 11.591 & 2.072 & 2.745 & 0.011 & 0.050 & 0.052 & 10.448 & 1.235 & 3.472 + ngc 4059 & -0.350 & 0.158 & 0.151 & 7.567 & 1.664 & 3.247 & 0.090 & 0.108 & 0.109 & 5.514 & 2.517 & 2.934 + ngc 4374 & 0.102 & 0.055 & 0.052 & 8.667 & 1.195 & 1.389 & 0.081 & 0.045 & 0.048 & 8.851 & 1.369 &",
    "1.700 + ngc 4472 & 0.179 & 0.044 & 0.045 & 8.752 & 1.273 & 1.466 & 0.154 & 0.041 & 0.038 & 9.360 & 1.325 & 1.346 + ngc 4478 & -0.088 & 0.079 & 0.077 & 9.027 & 1.641 & 1.964 & -0.031 & 0.051 & 0.057 & 8.838 & 1.882 & 1.812 + ngc 4489 & 0.428 & 0.186 & 0.200 & 2.539 & 0.719 & 0.753 & 0.167 & 0.099 & 0.104 & 3.350 & 0.808 & 2.099 + ngc 4493 & 0.014 & 0.221 & 0.224 & 7.165 & 3.964 & 5.585 & -0.077 & 0.161 & 0.160 & 7.561 & 4.088 & 6.693 + ngc 4526 & 0.400 & 0.061 & 0.062 & 1.669 & 0.215 & 0.197 & 0.488 & 0.036 & 0.031 & 1.122 & 0.279 & 0.312 + ngc 4552 & -0.040 & 0.024 & 0.063 & 13.481 & 1.762 & 2.532 & 0.056 & 0.047 & 0.041 & 11.834 & 1.136 & 2.511 + ngc 4649 & -0.076 & 0.051 & 0.055 & 21.565 & 2.507 & 2.533 & 0.089 & 0.047 & 0.048 & 16.931 & 2.295 & 2.219 + ngc 4786 & 0.000 & 0.099 & 0.097 & 7.100 & 1.684 & 1.740 & 0.092 & 0.077 & 0.067 & 6.215 & 2.690 & 2.219 + ngc 5005 & & & & & & & & & & & & + ngc 5061 & 0.359 & 0.035 & 0.056 & 1.923 & 0.185 & 0.054 & 0.427 & 0.026 & 0.026 & 1.429 & 0.271 &",
    "0.202 + ngc 5308 & -0.177 & 0.063 & 0.063 & 11.087 & 1.923 & 1.809 & 0.025 & 0.054 & 0.053 & 9.578 & 1.758 & 1.934 + ngc 5440 & 0.057 & 0.107 & 0.102 & 7.415 & 1.957 & 2.536 & 0.248 & 0.076 & 0.080 & 5.453 & 2.151 & 2.645 + ngc 5490 & 0.012 & 0.124 & 0.120 & 9.840 & 2.867 & 3.296 & 0.155 & 0.099 & 0.097 & 8.113 & 3.096 & 3.338 + ngc 5638 & -0.105 & 0.079 & 0.081 & 13.743 & 3.146 & 3.677 & 0.175 & 0.054 & 0.060 & 9.903 & 2.322 & 2.165 + ngc 5813 & 0.027 & 0.086 & 0.074 & 8.692 & 1.891 & 1.996 & 0.369 & 0.068 & 0.050 & 4.921 & 0.737 & 2.135 + ngc 5846 & -0.147 & 0.099 & 0.047 & 14.421 & 2.525 & 4.724 & -0.038 & 0.045 & 0.053 & 13.536 & 2.046 & 3.490 + ngc 6038 & -0.302 & 0.194 & 0.191 & 12.286 & 5.161 & 10.610 & -0.482 & 0.186 & 0.167 & 13.933 & 6.198 & 8.528 + ngc 6127 & -0.178 & 0.121 & 0.066 & 14.917 & 3.711 & 6.099 & -0.122 & 0.097 & 0.050 & 13.975 & 3.287 & 5.596 + ngc 6411 & -0.108 & 0.092 & 0.091 & 14.833 & 3.788 & 5.096 & -0.442 & 0.067 & 0.067 & 19.433 & 4.681 & 5.155 + ngc 6702 & 0.442 & 0.121 & 0.126 & 1.965 & 0.379 & 0.530 & 0.157 & 0.082 & 0.068 & 2.845 & 0.478 &",
    "0.548 + ngc 6703 & 0.078 & 0.069 & 0.063 & 8.186 & 1.451 & 1.695 & 0.213 & 0.052 & 0.052 & 6.829 & 1.805 & 1.727 + ngc 6986 & 0.602 & 0.264 & 0.320 & 1.289 & 0.111 & 0.067 & 0.744 & 0.225 & 0.122 & 1.020 & 2.512 & 0.179 + ngc 7131 & -0.281 & 0.134 & 0.130 & 23.653 & 7.315 & 8.609 & -0.327 & 0.112 & 0.107 & 24.228 & 7.778 & 9.103 + ngc 7761 & 0.164 & 0.186 & 0.192 & 2.907 & 0.613 & 0.803 & 0.268 & 0.128 & 0.085 & 2.670 & 0.652 & 0.864 + ugc 11149 & & & & & & & -0.480 & 0.251 & 0.245 & 9.768 & 5.339 & 12.562 + ugc 11198 & -0.238 & 0.108 & 0.112 & 18.449 & 6.004 & 5.519 & -0.204 & 0.085 & 0.083 & 17.861 & 5.797 & 5.749 + ugc 03787 & 0.446 & 0.291 & 0.419 & 1.284 & 0.076 & 0.082 & 0.422 & 0.186 & 1.729 & 1.172 & 0.235 & 0.190 + ugc 04322 & -0.155 & 0.155 & 0.137 & 11.844 & 3.818 & 6.540 & -0.116 & 0.108 & 0.102 & 11.527 & 3.927 & 6.212 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have obtained optical spectra of 29 early - type ( e / s0 ) galaxies that hosted type ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) . </S>",
    "<S> we have measured absorption - line strengths and compared them to a grid of models to extract the relations between the supernova properties and the luminosity - weighted age / composition of the host galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> such a direct measurement is a marked improvement over existing analyses which tend to rely on general correlations between the properties of stellar populations and morphology . </S>",
    "<S> our galaxy sample ranges over a factor of ten in iron abundance and shows both old and young dominant population ages . </S>",
    "<S> the same analysis was applied to a large number of early - type field galaxies selected from the sdss spectroscopic survey . </S>",
    "<S> we find no difference in the age and abundance distributions between the field galaxies and the sn  ia host galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we do find a strong correlation suggesting that sne  ia in galaxies whose populations have a characteristic age greater than 5 gyr are @xmath0 1 mag fainter at @xmath1 than those found in galaxies with younger populations . </S>",
    "<S> however , the data can not discriminate between a smooth relation connecting age and supernova luminosity or two populations of sn  ia progenitors .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that sn  ia distance residuals in the hubble diagram are correlated with host - galaxy metal abundance , consistent with the predictions of @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> the data show that high iron abundance galaxies host less - luminous supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> we thus conclude that the time since progenitor formation primarily determines the radioactive ni production while progenitor metal abundance has a weaker influence on peak luminosity , but one not fully corrected by light - curve shape and color fitters . </S>",
    "<S> this result , particularly the secondary dependence on metallicity , has significant implications for the determination of the equation - of - state parameter , @xmath2 , and could impact planning for future dark - energy missions such as jdem .    assuming no selection effects in discovering sne  ia in local early - type galaxies </S>",
    "<S> , we find a higher specific sn  ia rate in e / s0 galaxies with ages below 3  gyr than in older hosts . </S>",
    "<S> the higher rate and brighter luminosities seen in the youngest e / s0 hosts may be a result of recent star formation and represents a tail of the  prompt \" sn  ia progenitors . </S>"
  ]
}