{
  "article_text": [
    "huge superclusters which may contain several tens of rich ( abell ) clusters are the largest coherent systems in the universe with characteristic dimensions of up to 100  @xmath4mpc .",
    "is the hubble constant in units of 100  km  s@xmath5  mpc@xmath5 . ]",
    "as they are very large , and dynamical evolution takes place at a slower rate for larger scales , superclusters have retained memory of the initial conditions of their formation , and of the early evolution of structure @xcite .    while we might be able to explain the structure and properties of most ( average ) superclusters , explaining rich superclusters is still a challenge . to start with ,",
    "even their existence is not well explained by the main contemporary structure modeling tool , numerical simulations .",
    "there is a number of rich superclusters in our close cosmological neighbourhood  we shall list them in a moment  but the comparison of the luminosity functions of observed and simulated ( millennium ) superclusters shows that the fraction of really rich superclusters in simulations is much lower than in observed smaples @xcite .",
    "the extreme cases of observed objects usually provide the most stringent tests for theories ; this motivates the need for a detailed understanding of the richest superclusters .",
    "the richest relatively close superclusters are the shapley supercluster ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) and the horologium  reticulum supercluster @xcite .",
    "the two superclusters studied in this paper , the sloan great wall and the sculptor supercluster , belong also to this category of very rich superclusters .",
    "the formation of rich superclusters had to begin earlier than smaller structures ; they are sites of early star and galaxy formation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the first places where systems of galaxies form ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus future deep surveys like the alhambra deep survey @xcite are likely to detect ( core ) regions of rich superclusters at very high redshifts .",
    "the supercluster environment affects the properties of groups and clusters located there @xcite .",
    "rich superclusters contain high density cores which are absent in poor superclusters ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper iii ) .",
    "the fraction of x - ray clusters in rich superclusters is larger than in poor superclusters ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter e01 ) , and the core regions of the richest superclusters may contain merging x - ray clusters @xcite .",
    "the richest superclusters are more filamentary , less compact and more asymmetrical than poor superclusters ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper ii ) .",
    "moreover , as we noted above , the fraction of very rich superclusters in observed catalogues is larger than models predict @xcite .    in the present paper",
    "we continue the study of superclusters selected on the basis of the 2df galaxy redshift survey .",
    "our paper is devoted to a detailed study of the two richest superclusters in the 2df galaxy redshift survey .",
    "we chose them from the catalogue of superclusters of the 2dfgrs by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper i ) .",
    "these are : the supercluster scl126 in the northern sky , and the supercluster scl9 ( the sculptor supercluster ) in the southern sky ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : silvestre ] ) .",
    "the supercluster scl126 is the most prominent supercluster defined by abell clusters in the northern 2dfgrs ( scl126 in the catalog of superclusters by e01 , n152",
    "in paper i ) in the direction of the virgo constellation .",
    "this supercluster has also been called the sloan great wall @xcite .",
    "the presence of this supercluster affects the measurements of the correlation function @xcite , and of the genus and minkowski functionals of the sdss and 2df redshift surveys @xcite .",
    "the `` meatball '' shift in the measurements of the topology in the sdss data is partly due to this supercluster @xcite .",
    "the sculptor supercluster , the most prominent supercluster in the southern strip of the 2dfgrs , is among the three richest superclusters in e01 ; it contains 25 abell clusters , six of these are also x - ray clusters .",
    "@xcite found evidence about the presence of warm - hot diffuse gas there , which is associated with the inter - cluster galaxy distribution in this supercluster .    in a recent paper ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter ri ) we studied the morphology of rich superclusters ( their shape and internal structure ) , using minkowski functionals and shapefinders .",
    "our calculations in ri showed that the morphology of the richest superclusters from the 2dfgrs is different from each other : the supercluster scl126 resembles a very rich filament ( wall ) with a high density core region , while the supercluster scl9 can be described as a collection of spiders ( a multi - spider ) , consisting of a large number of cores connected by relatively thin filaments .",
    "the main aim of the present paper is to understand whether the differences in the overall morphology of these two rich superclusters under study are also reflected by their fine structure as determined by the distribution of galaxies of different luminosity , color and spectral type in core region and in outskirts of superclusters .    the first study to show that in a supercluster early and late type galaxies trace the structure of the supercluster in a different manner was performed by @xcite who demonstrated that in the perseus supercluster , elliptical galaxies are mainly located along the central body of the supercluster , while spiral galaxies are distributed in the outer regions of the supercluster .",
    "the presence of a large - scale segregation of galaxies of different type in nearby superclusters was shown also by @xcite . in paper iii",
    "we showed that rich superclusters have a larger fraction of red , non - star - forming galaxies than poor superclusters .",
    "recently , galaxy populations have been studied in core regions of some very rich superclusters ( @xcite  in the shapley supercluster , @xcite  in the pisces - cetus supercluster ) .",
    "these studies showed that rich clusters in the core regions of superclusters contain a large fraction of passive galaxies , while actively star forming galaxies are located between the clusters",
    ".    thus studies of rich superclusters which contain a large variety of environments and possibly a variety of evolutionary phases give us a possibility to study the properties of cosmic structures and the properties of galaxies therein in a consistent way , helping us to understand the role of environment in galaxy evolution .",
    "one method to quantify the structure of superclusters is to use the minkowski functionals .",
    "this type of study has been called morphometry by @xcite .",
    "minkowski functionals , genus and shapefinders , defined on the basis of minkowski functionals have been used earlier to study the 3d topology of the large scale structure from 2df and sdss surveys @xcite and to characterize the morphology of superclusters @xcite from observations and simulations .",
    "these studies concern only the `` outer '' shapes of superclusters and do not treat their substructure .",
    "we expanded this approach in paper ri by using the minkowski functionals and shapefinders to analyze the full density distribution in superclusters , at all density levels .",
    "the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 ( the euler characteristic ) gives us the number of isolated clumps ( or voids ) in the region @xcite , meaning that we can use it to study the clumpiness of the galaxy distribution inside superclusters  the fine structure of superclusters .",
    "we calculate the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 for galaxies of different populations in superclusters for a range of threshold densities , starting with the lowest density used to determine superclusters , up to the peak density in the supercluster core .",
    "this analysis shows how the fourth minkowski functional can be used in studies of the fine structure of superclusters as delineated by different galaxy populations .",
    "this study is of an exploratory nature since this is the first time when this method are used for studies of the fine structure of galaxy populations of individual superclusters . employing minkowski functionals",
    ", we can see in detail how the morphology of superclusters is traced by galaxies of different type .    in our analysis",
    "we use also the shapefinders calculated on the basis of the minkowski functionals .",
    "in addition , we compare the galaxy content of groups of different richness in core regions and in outskirts of superclusters .",
    "the paper is composed as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe the galaxy data , the supercluster catalogue and the data on the richest superclusters . in sect .",
    "3 we compare the overall galaxy content of the superclusters . in sect .",
    "4 we describe the use of the fourth minkowski functional ( the euler characteristic ) to study the fine structure of the superclusters as delineated by different galaxy populations . in sect .",
    "5 we study the galaxy content in the core regions and in the outskirts of the superclusters , and compare galaxy populations in groups of various richness . in the last sections ( 6 and 7 ) we discuss our results and give the conclusions . in the appendix",
    "we give a definition of the minkowski functionals and shapefinders , and describe different kernels used to calculate the density fields of superclusters .",
    "we used the 2dfgrs final release @xcite , and the catalogue of superclusters of galaxies from the 2df survey ( paper i ) , applying a redshift limit @xmath6 . when calculating ( comoving ) distances we used a flat cosmological model with the standard parameters , the matter density @xmath7 , and the dark energy density @xmath8 ( both in units of the critical cosmological density ) .",
    "galaxies were included in the 2df grs , if their corrected apparent magnitude @xmath9 lied in the interval from @xmath10 to @xmath11 .",
    "we used weighted luminosities to calculate the luminosity density field on a grid of the cell size of 1  @xmath4mpc smoothed with an epanechnikov kernel of the radius 8  @xmath4mpc ; this density field was used to find superclusters of galaxies .",
    "we defined superclusters as connected non - percolating systems with densities above a certain threshold density ; the actual threshold density used was 4.6 in units of the mean luminosity density . a detailed description of the supercluster finding algorithm can be found in paper i.    in our analysis we also used the data about groups of galaxies from the 2dfgrs ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter t06 ) .",
    "groups in this catalogue were determined using the friend - of - friend ( fof ) algorithm in which galaxies are linked together into a system if they have at least one neighbor at a distance less than the linking length . for details about the group finding algorithm and the analysis of the selection effects see t06 .",
    "the catalogues of groups and isolated galaxies can be found at ` http://www.aai.ee/\\simmaret/2dfgr.html ` , the catalogues of observed and model superclusters  at ` http://www.aai.ee/\\simmaret/2dfscl.html ` .",
    "we present additional information about the morphology of the richest superclusters at ` http://www.aai.ee/\\simmaret/richscl.html ` and ` http://www.aai.ee/\\simmaret/rich2.html ` .    for the present analysis we select the richest superclusters from the catalogue of the 2df superclusters .",
    "the data on these superclusters are given in table  [ tab:1 ] . in this table",
    "we give the central coordinates , redshifts and distances of the superclusters , the numbers of galaxies , groups and abell and x - ray clusters in the superclusters , the mean values of the luminosity density within superclusters and their total luminosities ( from paper ii ) . in our morphological analysis",
    "we use volume - limited samples of galaxies from these superclusters .",
    "the luminosity limits for each supercluster sample are also given in table  [ tab:1 ] .",
    "we plot the sky distribution of galaxies , and abell and x - ray clusters in fig .",
    "[ fig : radecx ] ; the location of these superclusters in space can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : silvestre ] .    [ cols=\"<,>,>,>,>,>,>,>,>,>,>,>,^,^ \" , ]      +   +     +   +      fig .",
    "[ fig : scl126d1d2gr ] ( upper row ) shows the luminosities of galaxies in groups of different richness in the supercluster scl126 .",
    "this figure shows that the brightest galaxies reside in rich groups ( @xmath12 ) , both in the core region and in the outskirts of the supercluster .",
    "luminosities of galaxies in poor groups are fainter , and galaxies which do not belong to groups are the faintest , although in the core region of the supercluster there are also some rather bright galaxies among them .    according to the spectral parameter @xmath13 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : scl126d1d2gr ] , middle row ) , rich groups in the core region of the supercluster scl126 are populated mainly with early type , quiescent galaxies ( type 1 galaxies , @xmath14 ) .",
    "the fraction of late type galaxies in them is very small .",
    "the fraction of late type galaxies increases , as we move to poor groups . in the core region of the supercluster",
    "the fraction of late type galaxies is largest among those galaxies which do not belong to groups .    in the outskirts region , @xmath15 ,",
    "rich groups are still mainly populated with early type galaxies , but the fraction of late type galaxies in them is larger ( @xmath16 ) than in rich groups in the core region , where @xmath17 . the fraction of late type galaxies in poor groups is larger ; the fraction of these galaxies is the largest among those galaxies which do not belong to any group . in the supercluster outskirts ,",
    "the fraction of late type galaxies among those galaxies which do not belong to groups , is larger than among this population in the supercluster core .",
    "table  [ tab : s1269d1d2 ] shows that according to the kolmogorov - smirnov test , the differences between the distributions of the spectral parameter @xmath13 for galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts have very high statistical significance .",
    "the differences in the galaxy content of groups , and of those galaxies which do not belong to groups from the core region @xmath18 and in the outskirts @xmath15 are smaller , and their statistical significance is marginal .",
    "the distribution of the color index @xmath19 for galaxies in the supercluster scl126 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : scl126d1d2gr ] , lower row ) shows that members of rich groups from the core region of the supercluster are mainly red galaxies , @xmath20 .",
    "the fraction of blue galaxies is larger in poor groups , and this fraction is the largest among those galaxies which do not belong to groups . in the outskirts region , even in rich groups there is a larger fraction of galaxies having @xmath21 , in comparison with the core region .",
    "mostly , blue galaxies can be found among those galaxies which do not belong to groups .",
    "the differences between the galaxy content of poor groups from the core region and the outskirts are smaller .    the statistical significances of these differences are given in table  [ tab : s1269d1d2 ] .",
    "this table shows that according to the kolmogorov - smirnov test , the differences between the distributions of the color index @xmath19 for galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts have very high statistical significance . among other populations ,",
    "the statistical significance of differences is marginal .    in other words , galaxies of different type in the supercluster scl126",
    "are segregated : red galaxies are preferentially located in rich groups , and blue galaxies in poor groups and among those galaxies not in any group .",
    "this is in a good accordance with the results about the fine structure obtained with the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 where we saw that red galaxies in the supercluster scl126 are more clumpy , while blue , galaxies formed a less clumpy populations around them .      the distribution of galaxies from different populations in the supercluster scl9 is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : scl9d1d2gr ] and table  [ tab : s1269d1d2 ] .",
    "we see , in accordance with the data about scl126 , that galaxies in rich groups are , in average , brighter than galaxies in poor groups ; galaxies which do not belong to groups are fainter than group galaxies .",
    "the largest difference between the distribution of galaxies by luminosity in the superclusters scl126 and scl9 is that in the supercluster scl9 the luminosities of the brightest galaxies in rich and poor groups are of the same order .    in the supercluster scl9",
    "the fraction of early type , red galaxies is again the largest in rich groups and the smallest among those galaxies which do not belong to groups .",
    "however , in this supercluster rich groups contain also a large fraction of late type , blue galaxies , especially in the outskirts of the supercluster .",
    "the fraction of blue galaxies in poor groups of the core region is also relatively large .",
    "thus , in contrast to the supercluster scl126 , in the supercluster scl9 early and late type , and red and blue galaxies reside together in groups of different richness .",
    "this is the same structure that was shown by the fourth minkowski functional - blue galaxies form numerous small clumps .",
    "table  [ tab : s1269d1d2 ] shows that according to the kolmogorov - smirnov test , the differences between the distributions of the spectral parameter @xmath13 for galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts in the supercluster scl9 are statistically significant .",
    "the differences between the distributions of the color index @xmath19 for galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts have a lower statistical significance .",
    "the differences between the distributions of luminosities for galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts have a marginal statistical significance only .",
    "the table  [ tab : s1269d1d2 ] shows that the overall galaxy content of supercluster cores and outskirts is different . in the core regions ,",
    "the fraction of galaxies located in rich groups is about 0.45 , while the fraction of galaxies in rich groups in the outskirt region is about 0.20 .",
    "the fraction of those galaxies which do not belong to any group in the core region is smaller than in the outskirt region .",
    "the core regions contain about 1.5 times more of early type , red galaxies than the outskirts .",
    "the statistical significance of these differences is high .",
    "what we see here is an evidence for a large scale morphology - density relation in superclusters ",
    "high density cores of superclusters contain relatively more early type , red galaxies than the lower density outer regions .",
    "interestingly , the galaxy content of groups in the superclusters scl126 and scl9 is not similar . in the supercluster",
    "scl126 galaxies of different type are segregated : red galaxies are preferentially located in rich groups , and blue galaxies in poor groups and among those galaxies not in any group . in the supercluster scl9",
    "early and late type , and red and blue galaxies reside together in groups of different richness .",
    "this is in a good accordance with the results about the fine structure of superclusters delineated by galaxies from different populations obtained using the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 .    in both superclusters , those galaxies classified as late type but having red colors , and blue galaxies with early type spectra are mostly located in poor groups or they do not belong to any group ; only about 10% of them are located in rich groups .",
    "another important difference between these superclusters is that in the supercluster scl126 the brightest galaxies reside in rich groups while in the supercluster scl9 the luminosity of the brightest galaxies in rich and poor groups is the same .    in summary ,",
    "the high - density cores of the superclusters contain relatively more early - type , quiescent , red galaxies than the lower - density regions , where there are more blue , star - forming galaxies . in the core regions",
    "the fraction of galaxies in rich groups is larger than this fraction in the outskirts .",
    "this shows that both the local ( group / cluster ) and the global ( supercluster ) environments are important in influencing types , colors and star formation rates of galaxies .    earlier studies ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* among others ) have shown the difference between the galaxy populations in clusters and in the field .",
    "our results show that this difference exists also between the core regions and the outer regions of rich superclusters ( see also paper iii ) .",
    "both rich superclusters , scl126 and scl9 , are not fully covered by the survey volume of the 2dfgrs . however , in the case of the supercluster scl126 only its small , outer part remains outside the survey ( see references in sect .",
    "all rich clusters in this supercluster are included .",
    "thus , most probably , including the full supercluster may add a relatively small number of mainly blue galaxies to this supercluster ; this would not change our results about the galaxy content and fine structure in the supercluster core region and about rich groups in the outskirts of the supercluster .    with the supercluster scl9 ,",
    "the situation is more complicated .",
    "the part which remains outside contains about half of the abell clusters in this supercluster ( sect .",
    "2 ) . therefore , including them would increase the maximum values of the fourth minkowski functional , @xmath0 , since this characteristic counts the number of isolated clumps in an object under study . thus ,",
    "the differences between the values of @xmath0 for superclusters scl126 and scl9 would even increase . even in the present analysis we saw that the values of @xmath0 for blue galaxies for scl9 are larger than those values for scl126 . thus , even if in the remaining part of the supercluster blue galaxies were distributed homogeneously such as not to increase the present values of @xmath0 ( not a very probable case ! ) the differences between the @xmath0 values for galaxies of different type would not disappear .    similarly",
    ", the differences in the galaxy content of groups from the core region and the outskirts would not disappear unless the distribution and clumpiness of galaxies in the ( excluded ) part of the supercluster scl9 were completely different from what we see in its 2dfgrs part .",
    "probably we should not expect to see large variations in the galaxy content of different parts of one supercluster .",
    "moreover , in paper iii we showed that the scatter in galaxy populations of superclusters is small .    for a more detailed study",
    "we plan to analyse a larger number of rich superclusters .",
    "for that , we started to generate supercluster catalogues using the sdss data .",
    "in particular , the region of the supercluster scl126 is covered by both surveys , therefore giving us a good chance to compare the properties of this supercluster , enclosed by both data sets .",
    "the richest relatively nearby supercluster is the shapley supercluster ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) @xcite .",
    "the main core of this supercluster contains at least two abell clusters and two x - ray groups .",
    "@xcite studied the galaxy populations in the core region of this supercluster using data about galaxies with fainter absolute magnitude limit than used in our study , thus we can compare their results with ours qualitatively only .",
    "they demonstrated that the colors of galaxies in the core region of the shapley supercluster depend on their environment , with redder galaxies being located in clusters .",
    "they also found a large amount of faint blue galaxies between the clusters .",
    "we found the same trends with colors , especially in the core region of the supercluster scl126 .",
    "haines et al .",
    "found also that in the core of the shapley supercluster there where the fraction of blue galaxies is the lowest , the x - ray emission is the strongest .",
    "as seen above , we also find that in rich groups , which have x - ray sources , the fraction of blue galaxies is very small ( the core region of scl126 ) .    porter and raychaudhury studied recently another rich supercluster partly covered by the 2df surevy  the pisces - cetus supercluster ( scl10 in e01 ) @xcite .",
    "they used data about abell clusters , galaxy groups ( by * ? ? ? * ) and galaxies in this supercluster .",
    "porter and raychaudhury used the spectral parameter @xmath13 to determine the star formation rates for galaxies in groups in this supercluster .",
    "they concluded that galaxies in rich clusters have lower star formation rates than galaxies in poor groups in agreement with our results .",
    "porter and raychaudhury also demonstrated that in the filament between the clusters in this supercluster the fraction of star forming galaxies is higher at larger distance from clusters than close to clusters .",
    "@xcite studied the environment of galaxies of different colors in the supercluster a901/902 .",
    "they divided galaxies into red ( quiescent ) and blue ( star - forming ) populations , using @xmath22 colors of galaxies brighter than @xmath23 .",
    "@xcite obtained strong evidence that the highest density regions in clusters are populated mostly with red , quiescent galaxies , while blue , star - forming galaxies dominate in outer / lower density regions of clusters .",
    "our samples do not contain very faint galaxies ; for brighter galaxies , we find qualitatively the same trends in our superclusters .",
    "@xcite showed that in the supercluster a901/902 there exists a population of dusty red galaxies which show red colors and also signatures of star formation . in this supercluster",
    "these galaxies are located at intermediate densities .",
    "this agrees well with our finding about galaxies with mixed classification ( galaxies with red colors and spectra typical to late type galaxies ) : these galaxies populate mostly intermediate density regions of superclusters , being members of poor groups or they do not belong to any group .    @xcite find that the fraction of early spectral type galaxies is significantly higher in clusters with a high x - ray flux .",
    "several of the x - ray clusters studied by hilton et al .",
    "belong to the core region of scl126 ( a1650 , a1651 , a1663 and a1750 ) , where we also found a high fraction of early type galaxies .",
    "one of the clusters under study by hilton et al . is located in the supercluster scl 9 ( a2811 ) .",
    "@xcite compared the populations of star - forming and quiescent galaxies in groups from the 2dfgrs and sdss surveys using the strength of the @xmath24 emission line as star formation indicator .",
    "the spectral parameter @xmath13 is correlated with the equivalent width of the @xmath24 emission line : approximately , early type galaxies correspond to quiescent galaxies and late type galaxies to star - forming galaxies .",
    "@xcite found that the relative numbers of star - forming galaxies in groups with high velocity dispersion is lower than in groups with low velocity dispersion .",
    "we found that rich groups contain a smaller fraction of late type galaxies than poor groups , qualitatively in accordance with balogh et al .",
    "@xcite showed that the dynamical status of groups and clusters of galaxies depends on their large - scale environment . here",
    "we show that also the richness of a group and its galaxy content depend on the large - scale environment .",
    "the first of these effects was described as an environmental enhancement of group richness in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "thus , our present data reveals the dependency of the properties of galaxies in superclusters on both the local density , in groups , ( as shown also by the 2df team , e.q .",
    "@xcite and references therein ) and on the global density ( see also paper iii ) in the supercluster environment . moreover , we showed that the fine stucture of superclusters as determined by galaxies from different populations , differs .",
    "the differences in the distribution of galaxies from different populations in individual superclusters are related to a different overall morphology of these superclusters .",
    "we showed that there exist several differences between the morphology of galaxy populations of individual rich superclusters , which can not be explained by selection effects only .",
    "the supercluster scl126 has a very high density core with several abell and x- ray clusters in a region with dimensions less than 10 @xmath4mpc .",
    "such very high densities of galaxies have been observed so far only in very few superclusters . among them",
    "are the shapley supercluster @xcite , the aquarius supercluster @xcite , and the corona borealis supercluster @xcite .",
    "a very small number of such a high density cores of superclusters is consistent with the results of n - body simulations which show that such high density regions ( the cores of superclusters that may have started the collapse very early ) are rare @xcite .",
    "the fraction of early type , red galaxies in the core region of the supercluster scl126 is very high ( higher than in scl9 ) , both in groups and among those galaxies which do not belong to groups .",
    "this , together with the presence of a high density core and overall more homogeneous structure than in the supercluster scl9 may be an indication that the supercluster scl126 has formed earlier ( is more evolved dynamically by the present epoch ) than the supercluster scl9 .    however , in another part of the core region of the supercluster scl126 the x - ray cluster a1750 shows signs of merging , both according to x - ray and optical data @xcite .",
    "@xcite studied this cluster using observational data from rosat and asca , and also the velocities of galaxies in this cluster .",
    "their analysis suggests that we observe an ongoing merger in this binary cluster .",
    "additional evidence about complex merger events in this cluster was provided by @xcite , who used xmm - newton data to study in detail the surface brightness , temperature and entropy distribution in this cluster .",
    "their data indicate that two components of this binary cluster have just started to interact .",
    "in addition , their data suggest that there occured another merging event in one of the clusters , perhaps in the past 1 - 2 gy .",
    "they relate these merging events also to the large scale environment of this cluster ( it is a member of a very rich supercluster , scl126 ) . in summary",
    ", these studies suggest that the region around the rich cluster a1750 in the supercluster scl126 may be dynamically younger than the main core region .",
    "this all shows that the formation and evolution history of superclusters is a complex subject .",
    "we can try to model it , but the best way is to follow their real evolution in time , looking for superclusters in deep surveys .",
    "an especially promising project is the alhambra deep survey by @xcite that will provide us with data about ( possible ) galaxy systems at very high redshifts which can be searched for and analysed using morphological methods .",
    "comparing superclusters at different redshifts will clarify many questions about their evolution .    in order to have a larger sample of local supercluster templates , we plan to continue our studies of rich superclusters .",
    "we mentioned above that we plan to use for that data from the sloan digital sky survey to extend the sample of relatively nearby superclusters .",
    "in paper ri we showed that the richest superclusters in the millenium simulation do not describe the large morphological variety of the observed superclusters .",
    "moreover , minkowski functionals show that the fine structure as delineated by bright and faint galaxies in millenium simulations do not follow the fine structure delineated by galaxies of different luminosities in observed superclusters .",
    "this suggest that the model does not yet explain all the features of observed superclusters .",
    "earlier studies of the minkowski functional of the whole sdss survey region ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) also conclude that n - body simulations with very large volume and more power at large scales are needed to model structures like the supercluster scl126 more accurately than present simulations .",
    "similar conclusions were reached by @xcite . also the galaxy formation and its environmental dependence",
    "is not yet well understood .",
    "our present results indicate that the properties of galaxies and their evolution history have been affected by both local and global densities in superclusters .",
    "the details of these processes have to be modelled in future simulations .",
    "we have presented a morphological study of the two richest superclusters from the 2df galaxy redshift survey .",
    "we studied the internal structure and galaxy populations of these superclusters .",
    "our main conclusions are the following .    *",
    "the values of the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 , which contain information about both the local and global morphology , show the fine structure of superclusters as determined by galaxies from different populations .",
    "the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 and the morphological signature @xmath1-@xmath2 show a crossover from low - density morphology ( outskirts of supercluster ) to high- density morphology ( core of supercluster ) at a mass fraction @xmath3 . * in the supercluster scl126 , the functional @xmath0 shows that the number of clumps in the distribution of red galaxies is larger than the number of clumps determined by blue galaxies , especially in the outer regions of the supercluster , where the maximum values of @xmath0 are , correspondingly , 8 for red galaxies and 5 for blue galaxies .",
    "thus in the outskirts of the supercluster , blue galaxies form a more homogeneous population than red galaxies . in the core region , the clumpiness of galaxy populations is of the same order .",
    "* in the supercluster scl9 , the values of @xmath0 are large for both early type and red galaxies , and late type and blue galaxies . in the outskirts of the supercluster",
    "the differences between the clumpiness of galaxy populations are small ( the values of @xmath0 are the same , 78 for both early and late type galaxies ) , while in the core region of this supercluster the clumpiness of the late type , blue galaxy population is larger ( the maximum value of @xmath0 is 17 ) than the clumpiness of the early type , red galaxy population , where the maximum @xmath25 . *",
    "our superclusters contain galaxies with mixed classifications : these galaxies show spectra typical to late type galaxies and red colors , or they are early type galaxies with blue colors .",
    "these galaxies are mostly located at intermediate densities in the outskirts of our superclusters , being members of poor groups or do not belonging to any group . due to these galaxies , at intermediate mass fractions the curves of the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 for early type galaxies and for red galaxies , as well as for late type galaxies and blue galaxies , differ in some details . *",
    "groups in high - density cores of superclusters are richer than in lower - density ( outer ) regions of superclusters . in high - density cores , groups contain relatively more early - type , red galaxies than the groups in lower - density regions in superclusters , where there are more late type , blue galaxies .",
    "therefore , both the richness of a group and its galaxy content depend on the large scale environment where it resides . * in cores of superclusters , the fractions of early type , red galaxies is larger than these fractions in outskirts . in the supercluster",
    "scl126 the morphological segregation of red and blue galaxies is stronger than in the supercluster scl9 . in scl126 ,",
    "the most luminous galaxies in rich groups have larger luminosities than most luminous galaxies in poor groups , while in scl9 the luminosity of the brightest galaxies in rich and poor groups is comparable . * the differences in overall morphology , fine structure and galaxy content of the supercluster suggest that there are differences in their evolutional history which affect their present - day properties .",
    "our study shows the importance of the role of superclusters as a high density environment that affects the evolution and the present - day properties of their member galaxies and the groups / clusters of galaxies that constitute the supercluster .",
    "the forthcoming planck satellite observations will determine the anisotropy of the cosmic background radiation with unprecedented accuracy and angular resolution .",
    "as a by - product , planck measurements will provide an all - sky survey of massive clusters via the sunyaev - zeldovich ( sz ) effect . for the planck project ,",
    "detailed information of supercluster properties is important , helping to correlate the sz - signals with the imprints of local superclusters . as a continuation of the present work",
    ", we are preparing supercluster catalogues for the planck community .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for careful reading of the manuscript and for many useful comments which helped to improve the paper .",
    "we are pleased to thank the 2dfgrs team for the publicly available data releases .",
    "the present study was supported by the estonian science foundation grants no .",
    "6104 and 7146 , and by the estonian ministry for education and science research project to 0060058s98 .",
    "this work has also been supported by the university of valencia through a visiting professorship for enn saar and by the spanish mec project aya2006 - 14056 ( including feder ) .",
    "thanks astrophysikalisches institut potsdam ( using dfg - grant 436 est 17/4/06 ) , and the aspen center for physics for hospitality , where part of this study was performed .",
    "ph and pn were supported by planck science in metshovi , academy of finland . in this paper",
    "we have used r , a language for data analysis and graphics @xcite .",
    "as said in the main text , all the distributions ( probability densities ) shown in this paper have been obtained using the r environment @xcite , ` http://www.r-project.org ` ( the stats package ) .",
    "we do not show the customary error limits in our figures ; we explain here why .",
    "[ fig : r2bmagerr ] shows the differential luminosity function histogram with poisson error limits .",
    "this figure shows , first , that poisson errors are small , and , secondly , that these errors are not very useful since they are defined mainly by the bin widths  the histograms for the different bin widths clearly do not coincide within the formal error limits , and , therefore , they can not represent the true density distribution . as known for long in statistics ( see , e.g. , a good pedagogical presentation by",
    "* ) , the most important part in probability density estimation is the right choice of the bin ( kernel ) width , and the density command in the stats package does that , minimizing the mise ( mean integral standard error ) of the estimate .",
    "also , it is long known that kernel estimates @xmath26 where the data are @xmath27 $ ] , and @xmath28 are suitable kernels of a width @xmath29 , are preferred to binning .",
    "both these estimates depend on the bin ( kernel ) widths that can be found by optimizing the mise ; but histograms depend , additionally , on the placing of the bins .",
    "also , the minimum mise in case of binning is larger than for kernel estimates .",
    "the mise is defined as @xmath30 ^ 2dx .",
    "\\label{eq : mise}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] the two terms in the last equality depend in a different way on the kernel width ( bandwidth ) .",
    "when we increase this width , the variance decreases , but the bias increases  this is what happens when we take wider bins for fig .",
    "[ fig : r2bmagerr ] .",
    "the stats package chooses the optimal bandwidth as that which minimizes the mise . we could also try to minimise the local mean standard error mse(@xmath31 ) , but this asks for adaptive density estimation ( using bandwiths that depend on @xmath31 ) , and the procedure is much more complex .    for a kernel estimate , when binning is replaced by convolution with a suitable kernel ,",
    "the minimum mise is of the order of @xmath32 , where @xmath33 is the size of the sample , and the optimal kernel width is of the order of @xmath34 , where @xmath35 is the estimate of the rms deviation of the data ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the expression of the order to can be mostly read as equal to , as the proportionality coefficients are usually close to unity .",
    "this kernel width means that there are about @xmath36 points per kernel  we get our accustomed poissonian error , but only for the optimal kernel width .",
    "however , this is only a rough estimate , as the local error , the mean standard error mse@xmath37 depends on the true density , being larger in the regions where this density has minima or maxima , and is difficult to estimate .",
    "thus the stats package does not provide the mse , and we do not show error bars in our figures .",
    "you can compare histograms and kernel densities in fig  [ fig : testfig ] .",
    "here we generated a random sample of 1000 values for a weighted sum of two normal distributions , calculated its histogram , and applied the r procedure to obtain the optimized kernel density .",
    "the optimal kernel width is 0.36 , three times smaller than the bin width ; however , the kernel density follows well the smooth true density , and recovers the details much better than the histogram does .",
    "as the total number of galaxies in our superclusters is large , the differences between the estimated and true densities are small",
    ". these differences can be easily estimated .",
    "let us take scl9 as an example ( scl126 has more galaxies , and the errors are slightly smaller ) .",
    "the total number of galaxies in scl9 is 1176 , so the mise for the distributions involving the whole supercluster is @xmath38 , and about 0.006 for separate populations ( the corresponding rms errors are 0.06 and 0.08 ) .",
    "the local errors ( mse ) are , in average , a few times smaller ( by the ratio of the total range of a random variable to @xmath35 ) . our use of a constant width kernel does not allow us to better estimate the local errors , but we can always strictly compare densities , using the full data  the integral distributions ( e.g. , the kolmogorov - smirnov test ) .",
    "when studying the morphology of superclusters of galaxies , a necessary step is to convert the spatial positions of galaxies into spatial densities .",
    "the standard approach is to use kernel densities ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : @xmath39 where the sum is over all galaxies , @xmath40 are the coordinates of the @xmath41-th galaxy , and @xmath42 is its mass ( or luminosity , if we are estimating luminosity densities ; for number densities we set @xmath43 ) .",
    "the function @xmath44 is the kernel of the width @xmath29 , and a suitable choice of the kernel determines the quality of the density estimate . if the kernel widths depend either on the coordinate @xmath45 or on the position of the @xmath41-th galaxy , the densities are adaptive .",
    "kernels have to be normalized and symmetrical : @xmath46    for the usual case , when densities are calculated for a spatial grid , good kernels are generated by box splines @xmath47 ( usually used in @xmath48-body mass assignment ) .",
    "box splines have compact support ( they are local ) , and they are interpolating on a grid : @xmath49 for any @xmath31 , and a small number of indices that give non - zero values for @xmath50 . in this paper",
    "we restrict us to the popular @xmath51 splines : @xmath52\\ ] ] ( this function is different from zero only in the interval @xmath53 $ ] ) .",
    "we define the ( one - dimensional ) @xmath51 box spline kernel of width @xmath54 as @xmath55 this kernel preserves the interpolation property ( mass conservation ) for all kernel widths that are integer multiples of the grid step , @xmath54 .",
    "the 3-d @xmath56 box spline kernel we use is given by the direct product of three one - dimensional kernels : @xmath57 where @xmath58 .",
    "although it is a direct product , it is isotropic to a good degree ( to a few per cent in the outer regions ) .    as seen before ,",
    "the best ( optimal ) kernel width is usually determined by minimizing the mise ; in our case this is about 68@xmath29mpc@xmath5 .",
    "we have defined ( see ri ) superclusters as density enhancements of a common scale of 8@xmath29mpc@xmath5 , so we will use this value .",
    "consider an excursion set @xmath59 of a field @xmath60 ( the set of all points where density is larger than a given limit , @xmath61 ) ) .",
    "then , the first minkowski functional ( the volume functional ) is the volume of this region ( the excursion set ) : @xmath62 the second mf is proportional to the surface area of the boundary @xmath63 of the excursion set : @xmath64 ( but not the area itself , notice the constant ) .",
    "the third mf is proportional to the integrated mean curvature of the boundary : @xmath65 where @xmath66 and @xmath67 are the principal radii of curvature of the boundary .",
    "the fourth minkowski functional is proportional to the integrated gaussian curvature ( the euler characteristic ) of the boundary : @xmath68 at high ( low ) densities",
    "this functional gives us the number of isolated clumps ( voids ) in the sample @xcite .",
    "as the argument labeling the isodensity surfaces , we chose the ( excluded ) mass fraction @xmath69  the ratio of the mass in regions with density _ lower _ than the density at the surface , to the total mass of the supercluster .",
    "when this ratio runs from 0 to 1 , the iso - surfaces move from the outer limiting boundary into the center of the supercluster , i.e. the fraction @xmath70 corresponds to the whole supercluster , and @xmath71 to its highest density peak .",
    "we use directly only the fourth minkowski functional in this paper ; the other functionals are used to calculate the shapefinders @xcite .",
    "the shapefinders are defined as a set of combinations of minkowski functionals : @xmath72 ( thickness ) , @xmath73 ( width ) , and @xmath74 ( length ) .",
    "the shapefinders have dimensions of length and are normalized to give @xmath75 for a sphere of radius @xmath76 . for a convex surface , the shapefinders @xmath77 follow the inequalities @xmath78 .",
    "oblate ellipsoids ( pancakes ) are characterized by @xmath79 , while prolate ellipsoids ( filaments ) are described by @xmath80 .",
    "@xcite also defined two dimensionless shapefinders @xmath1 ( planarity ) and @xmath2 ( filamentarity ) : @xmath81 and @xmath82 .    in the @xmath83-plane filaments",
    "are located near the @xmath2-axis , pancakes near the @xmath1-axis , and ribbons along the diagonal , connecting the spheres at the origin with the ideal ribbon at @xmath84 .",
    "different algorithms are used to calculate the minkowski functionals ; here we use a simple grid - based algorithm , based on integral geometry ( crofton s intersection formula ) , proposed by schmalzing and buchert ( @xcite ) .    to start with",
    ", we find the density thresholds for given filling fractions @xmath85 by sorting the grid densities .",
    "this is a common step for all grid - based algorithms .",
    "vertexes with higher densities than the threshold form the excursion set .",
    "this set is characterized by its basic sets of different dimensions  points ( vertexes ) , edges formed by two neighbouring points , squares ( faces ) formed by four edges , and cubes formed by six faces .",
    "the algorithm counts the numbers of elements of all basic sets , and finds the values of the minkowski functionals as @xmath86 where @xmath87 is the grid step , @xmath88 is the number of vertexes , @xmath89 is the number of edges , @xmath90 is the number of squares ( faces ) , and @xmath91 is the number of basic cubes in the excursion set .",
    "in paper ri we generated a series of empirical models which served us as morphological templates to understand the behaviour of shapefinders .",
    "these models showed that the morphological signature of rich superclusters corresponds to a multibranched filament ; the simplest model for that was a long filament with short filaments across it .",
    "in ri we did not study the fine structure of superclusters as expressed by their clumpiness . in these models",
    "the locations of points which mimic positions of galaxies were generated randomly .",
    "thus our empirical models in that paper do not recover completely the inner structure of superclusters .    for this appendix , we generated a series of empirical models to understand better the substructure of superclusters .",
    "these models will also help us to determine how well our methods distinguish different types of substructure .    in these models",
    ", the overall distribution of points ( which mimic individual galaxies ) resembles a thin filament with a size @xmath92 ( in grid units ) , as in ri .",
    "we place inside this filament a series of clusters , located randomly .",
    "their richness , number and size varies so that the total number of objects is always 1000 or 500 ( approximately the number of galaxies in superclusters under study , and in individual galaxy populations ) .",
    "we used the richness values 5 , 10 and 20 ; the number of clusters is , correspondingly , 100 , 50 and 25 .",
    "the size of clusters was 1 , 5 , and 10 in grid units .",
    "small clusters mimic real groups and clusters , large clusters  overdensity regions .",
    "clusters are located randomly and may overlap , forming additional overdensity regions , as , for example , in cores of superclusters , where also galaxy populations are mixed .",
    "the models used in this figure are as follows . in the first set the number of clusters is 25",
    ", each cluster has 20 galaxies in it .",
    "the sizes of clusters are 1 and 5 . in the third model in this set , these clusters are combined together . in the latter model clusters",
    "have the same centre coordinates .",
    "thus the model cl125525 ( the combined models cl125 and cl525 ) mimics the distribution where groups are surrounded by lower density galaxies ( e.g. , ellipticals by spirals ) .    in the second set",
    "the number of clusters is 50 , with 10 member galaxies , and in the combined model , cluster centres again coincide ( the models cl150 , cl550 , and cl150550 ) . in the third set ( cl125150 and cl525150 ) we added to the models with 25 clusters ( sizes 1 and 5 ) the model cl150 , to have a smaller number of rich groups and a large number of poor groups , but in this case the centres of groups do not coincide .",
    "these models mimic the situation where different populations of galaxies are located in clumps of different richness and size , but in separate systems ( partly , since clumps may overlap randomly ) .",
    "we plot here also the curves for a simple filament for comparison .",
    "we do not show in this figure models with 100 small clusters and those with cluster size 10 ; in all these models the values of @xmath0 were smaller than in real superclusters . in the case of large clusters",
    "the value of @xmath2 becomes too large .",
    "[ fig : clus1 ] shows that , first , the morphological signature is recovered correctly by our empirical models .",
    "second , the @xmath93 curves for different models are different , showing that they discriminate well different substructure .      these models show that the supercluster scl126 is better modelled by a small number of richer / bigger clumps , and the supercluster scl9  by a large number of smaller clumps .",
    "clusters overlap , thus the maximum values of @xmath0 are smaller than the original numbers of clusters in the models .",
    "the case when any population of galaxies is located randomly within the supercluster volume does not correspond to the real distribution of galaxies .",
    "of course , our very simple models in which clusters of one galaxy population are surrounded by low density `` clouds '' of galaxies from another population do not recover well the details of clumpiness of different galaxy populations of observed superclusters . in real superclusters ,",
    "populations of galaxies are more strongly mixed ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a morphological study of the two richest superclusters from the 2df galaxy redshift survey ( scl126 , the sloan great wall , and scl9 , the sculptor supercluster ) . </S>",
    "<S> we use minkowski functionals , shapefinders , and galaxy group information to study the substructure of these superclusters as formed by different populations of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the properties of grouped and isolated galaxies in the core region and in the outskirts of superclusters .    </S>",
    "<S> the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 and the morphological signature @xmath1- @xmath2 show a crossover from low - density morphology ( outskirts of supercluster ) to high - density morphology ( core of supercluster ) at mass fraction @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> the galaxy content and the morphology of the galaxy populations in supercluster cores and outskirts is different . </S>",
    "<S> the core regions contain a larger fraction of early type , red galaxies , and richer groups than the outskirts of superclusters . in the core and outskirt regions the fine structure of the two prominent superclusters as delineated by galaxies from different populations also differs . </S>",
    "<S> the values of the fourth minkowski functional @xmath0 show that in the supercluster scl126 the population of early type , red galaxies is more clumpy than the population of late type , blue galaxies , especially in the outskirts of the supercluster . in the contrary , in the supercluster scl9 </S>",
    "<S> , the clumpiness of the spatial distribution of galaxies of different type and color is quite similar in the outskirts of the supercluster , while in the core region the clumpiness of the late type , blue galaxy population is larger than the clumpiness of the early type , red galaxy population .    </S>",
    "<S> our results suggest that both local ( group / cluster ) and global ( supercluster ) environments are important in forming galaxy morphologies and colors ( and determining the star formation activity ) .    </S>",
    "<S> the differences between the superclusters indicate that these superclusters have different evolutional histories . </S>"
  ]
}