{
  "article_text": [
    "the extreme ultraviolet imaging spectrometer ( eis ; * ? ? ? * ) on _ hinode _  obtains images and spectra of many transition region and coronal lines in the wavelength ranges @xmath3    and @xmath4   . the eis wide slits are an interesting compromise between narrow slit spectra where the time to raster across a particular structure is often longer than the lifetime of the structure and filter images which give no direct measurement of flow velocities .",
    "the 40  wide slit provides overlapping spectra from the observed 40 wide region of the sun .",
    "images in different lines overlap if the lines are separated by less than the 40 pixel width of the slit image times the wavelength plate scale , 0.0223  / pixel .",
    "figure  [ slots ] , shows a 40  wide slit spectrum of a small active region for the wavelength region @xmath5   .",
    "isolated lines produce well - defined 40  wide images .    within the eis spectrum",
    "there are several relatively strong isolated lines that can be used to study the dynamics of the outer atmosphere .",
    "@xcite report on rapid temporal variations in quiet sun he  ii  256    and fe  xii  195    wide slit emission features observed with a cadence of",
    "30  s. they also mention the detection of many he  ii  blue shifts in quiet sun narrow slit rasters observed after the wide slit sequence .    in this paper",
    "we show how the detection of he  ii  blue shifts and large - scale temporal variations , can be made simultaneously with wide slit observations .",
    "the key is that the emission beyond the edge of the 40  main line image is either line broadening / doppler shifts from the main line or emission in a neighbouring line .",
    "figure  [ slots ] demonstrates both effects .",
    "fe  xv  and fe  xiv  ( labelled ) are both well separated lines and the images are basically straight along both edges . on the edge that cuts the active region , the emission from both lines bulges slightly because the bright active region lines are broader .",
    "a closer inspection of the emission shows that both lines have the same structure along the edge . on the other hand , the strong unmarked line on",
    "the left is mainly fe  xiv  270.5   , but there is clearly a blend producing extensions on the left hand side .",
    "positions of the projections coincide with bright mg  vii  and si  vii  because the blend is the lower coronal line mg  vi  270.4   .        when the sun s structure is known from images in isolated lines",
    ", it is possible to work out from the spectrum whether neighbouring lines are expected to produce emission . if there is no spectral line that can cause the emission , it is very likely due to doppler shifts / broadening in the image line . thus the eis 40  wide slit can be used to obtain both images of the dynamics over a wide range of temperatures , and doppler shifts from structures on the edge of the images .    inside the image ,",
    "doppler broadened lines appear as horizontal streaks which are difficult to distinguish from a jet - like structure .",
    "comparison with filter images is very important in order to positively identify shifts inside the image .",
    "simultaneous images obtained by other instruments on _ hinode _  can , in principle , be used to help identify shifts but there will always be some uncertainty because the filters to not detect exactly the same plasma .    in this letter",
    "we show examples of doppler shift events seen in the quiet sun with the eis 40  wide slit .",
    "comparisons are made with x - ray images obtained by the x - ray telescope ( xrt ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in order to show the relationship to hot loop structures . further work will report on detailed analyses with data from the solar optical telescope ( sot ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on _ hinode _  and the solar ultraviolet measurements of emitted radiation ( sumer ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) spectrograph on soho .",
    "observations are shown of regions of quiet sun near disk center on 10 april 2007 and 7 november 2007 , and near a small active region on the 15 november 2007 . during the april observations , eis observed with the 40  slit and a cadence of 30  s at a single position . during",
    "the november runs eis alternated between two slit positions separated by 40  with an exposure time of 30  s and cadence of 90  s. in april , windows centered on the lines given in table  [ tab_lines ] were recorded . to keep within the telemetry rate , jpeg lossy compression ( q=98 )",
    "was used . in november",
    "only the ones marked with an asterisk in table  [ tab_lines ] were recorded and lossless compression was used . for all observations",
    "the window height was 512  and for most lines the window width was 56 wavelength pixels .",
    "the windows around the eis core lines he  ii , fe  xii  and fe  xv  were 64 pixels wide to ensure at least 8 pixels either side of the image .",
    ".spectral lines in the center of each window during the 10 april 2007 observations .",
    "the ones in bold are illustrated in figure  [ slotprofs ] .",
    "those with an asterisk are separated from other strong lines and produce spectrally pure images .",
    "they were observed in november 2007 . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the 80 pixel spectral regions around nine of the strongest isolated lines are shown in figure  [ slotprofs ] .",
    "the cleanest line is fe  xiv  274.20   .",
    "the two lines , he  ii  256.32    and si  vii  275.35    are clean on their blue side .",
    "other lines , fe  xv  284.25    and fe  xiii  203.86  are clean for more than @xmath6    or 400 km  s@xmath2  to one or both sides .",
    "these lines are suitable for obtaining doppler shifts at the edge of the 40  images .",
    "the si  x  272.01    appears unblended in figure  [ slotprofs ] , but it is known to be blended with several transition region lines @xcite , so is only useful as a check on what one sees in other lines .        in order to assess this method of measuring velocities , we constructed pseudo wide slit images from rasters of 2slit observations .",
    "line profiles with significant extensions two pixels from the line center , could be identified as doppler shifts at the window edge .",
    "this corresponds to 52 km  s@xmath2  at he  ii  256    and 48  km  s@xmath2  at fe  xv  284   .",
    "the eis images suffer from misalignment due to spacecraft jitter and internal drift due to eis temperature changes .",
    "the former changes the field - of - view , and the latter the shift of the image on the ccd .",
    "the instrument movement due to spacecraft jitter in the sun - x ( spectral ) and sun - y directions was corrected by first coaligning all images in a particular spectral window to the average for that window .",
    "this was done to assess the best window for obtaining the instrumental shifts .",
    "the he  ii , si  vii  and mg  vii  coalignment parameters were similar and appeared to successfully remove the instrument movement . therefore these were applied to all images in the same sequence .",
    "the maximum shift is 1.5 pixels in the sun - y direction and less than 1 pixel in the sun - x direction . to investigate emission just beyond the window edge ,",
    "the movement of the window edge rather than the solar features were taken into account . over a typical",
    "one hour observing period the window edge drifted less than 1 pixel on the detector .",
    "it is important to note therefore that images used for computing the doppler shifts beyond the edge have a slightly different co - alignment than those that show the structural changes .    in this paper , the eis wide slit images are presented such that the sun - y co - ordinate increases towards the top and the sun - x co - ordinate increases to the right of the images . the wavelength scale then decreases to the right , so that blue shifts are seen beyond the right edge of the images .",
    "simultaneous xrt images were obtained in april with the al - mesh filter and a cadence of 20  s and in november with the c - poly filter and a cadence of 30  s. the data were corrected using the standard solarsoft xrt software .",
    "co - alignment of the eis and xrt images was achieved by cross - correlating common fe  xv  and x - ray features .",
    "explosive events are characterized by doppler broadened line wings in transition region lines .",
    "they have been well studied with hrts @xcite and sumer @xcite ultraviolet spectra . in the quiet sun ,",
    "most strong events are seen in lines formed in the transition region with formation temperature @xmath7  k @xcite . in active regions strong explosive events",
    "have also been reported in lower corona lines such as ne  viii  with formation temperature around @xmath8  k @xcite .",
    "there are several transition region and lower corona lines in the eis wavelength range @xcite .",
    "the three lines he  ii  256.32   , mg  vii  278.39   , and si  vii  275.35    all give sharp wide slit images .",
    "he  ii  is ideal for detecting explosive events at the image edge because it is formed around @xmath0  k and there are no lines on its blue side that will overlap with the doppler shifted emission .",
    "the red side of the he  ii  line is blended and overlaps with images produced by the strong coronal lines si  x  256.37   , fe  xiii  256.42   , fe  xii  256.41   , and fe  xii  256.94   , so he  ii  blue shifts are more easily detectable .",
    "the best line for shifts in the lower corona is si  vii  275.35   .",
    "it is clean on the blue side and for 14 pixels to the red where there is a second weaker si  vii .",
    "the mg  vii  278.39    shows blending with coronal lines in figure  [ slotprofs ] and is known to be blended with si  vii @xcite , so may not always be easy to interpret in wide slit images .",
    "figure  [ heiishifts ] demonstrates the method used to enhance blue shifts in he  ii  at the edge of the image . here",
    "images from a region of quiet sun in fe  xii(a ) and he  ii  ( b - d ) are shown .",
    "there is no structure in the fe  xii  but the he  ii",
    "( b ) shows the outline of supergranular cells . to bring out the brightening on the west edge ( blue wing ) the logarithm of intensity",
    "is shown in ( c ) and finally in ( d ) the image divided by the average he  ii  image for the one hour period of observation . at this time",
    "there were three explosive events around sun - x = -70 , -45 , and -20 .",
    "it is not possible to determine the doppler velocity precisely because these are not real line profiles .",
    "we estimate that they are of the order of a couple of pixels or 60  km  s@xmath2 .",
    "another advantage of dividing by the average for the observing period is that brightenings in the image would also show up and warn that edge brightenings may be due to a neighbouring line brightening in a structure inside the image .",
    "this is not the case for the three events identified .",
    "the advantage of the wide slit is that it shows the structure surrounding these doppler shift events .",
    "we have therefore combined the he  ii , fe  xii  and fe  xv  wide slit images with the doppler shift information in a short movie , showing one hour of quiet sun observations .",
    "one frame from the movie is shown in figure  [ fmovsnap ] . during the observing sequence",
    "two wide slit positions , separated by 40  were alternated , giving an 80  image every 1.5  min .",
    "the closest xrt c - poly image is placed alongside with he  iicontours overlaid .",
    "it is striking how often bright he  ii  is found near the edge ( footpoints ) of x - ray structures .",
    "one good example is the structure , marked a , on figure  [ fmovsnap ] , where some of the strongest he  ii  shifts were seen . in general",
    "the fe  xii  and x - ray emissions correlate well .",
    "time series of emission beyond the image edge of he  ii  and just inside he  ii  and fe  xii  images are shown in figure  [ timeshifts ] alongside the x - ray emission from the position of the images edge . any he  ii  emission seen off the main image is produced by doppler shifts from a region inside the image , so this directly compares he  ii  shifts with the he  ii  intensity and hotter plasma ( fe  xii  and x - ray ) emission .",
    "the he  ii  is reminiscent of explosive event distributions , where there are preferred event sites along network lanes spaced @xmath9  apart , with events lasting 2 - 3  min , sometimes seen in bursts of up to 30  min @xcite .",
    "he  ii  shifts seem to occur more frequently near sites of enhanced fe  xii  and x - ray emission .",
    "this observation , illustrated in figs .",
    "[ xspot ] and [ trshifts ] , is very unusual because the edge of the wide slit caught the brightening of an intense x - ray spot .",
    "figure  [ xspot]a - c , shows the time sequence of x - ray images . the x - ray brightening lasts less than 7  min .",
    "simultaneously , there is a horizontal streak in all transition region and lower coronal line images with a length corresponding to a line width of 220  km  s@xmath2  beyond the window edge ( figure  [ trshifts ] ) .",
    "there is no signature in the eis coronal lines fe  xv  and fe  xii .",
    "the hot spot seems to be coming from the top of a cool loop seen faintly in the si  vii  and mg  vii  images .",
    "the images in the hotter lines , fe  xv  and fe  xii  and the blends in he  ii , suggest that one end of the cool coronal loop is rooted in a bright point and the other in the quiet sun .",
    "the event lasted 1.5  min in si  vii  and mg  vii  and continued for another 3.5  min in the cooler he  ii  line . at first glance the structure has the classic configuration of a reconnection jet above a coronal loop ( cf * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "shifts in coronal lines with formation temperature about @xmath1  k are also occasionally seen from x - ray structures .",
    "one example of a hot fe  xv  and fe  xiv  blue shift of about 120  km  s@xmath2 is shown in figure  [ nov15event ] .",
    "the outflow comes from an almost horizontal x - ray structure connecting a small x - ray brightening to a larger , more persistent x - ray region .",
    "it could be flow along a hot loop connecting the two x - ray regions .",
    "the shifts last about 25  min , during which time the brightening was seen to flare up and fade .",
    "the shift is also seen in fe  xii  over a shorter period of time and with lower velocity .",
    "there is a wealth of information in the eis 40  wide slit images .",
    "the primary use of wide slit images is to see rapid time variations of structures in specific spectral lines @xcite , typically with a cadence 20 times ( the slit width ) faster than rastering with the 2  slit . after passing through the slit",
    ", the light is dispersed producing rows of overlapping spectral images .",
    "if a doppler shift occurs in the center of the image , this is indistinguishable from a horizontal structure .",
    "it is therefore beneficial to have simultaneous filtergrams to show the underlying structures .    here",
    "we show how the wide slit can be used to detect doppler shifts at the edge of the image .",
    "we have highlighted three types of doppler shift event seen in eis wide slit spectra : explosive events in he  ii  at the image edge ; a fast jet related to an x - ray spot brightening ; and fe  xv  flow connecting an x - ray spot brightening to a larger x - ray region .",
    "the latter observations were done in sit - and - stare at two positions spaced 40  apart in order to pick up first the blue and then the red wings of the lines . at present",
    "our understanding of the line profile at the edge of the slit is not sufficiently well understood to determine accurate line shifts but flows producing emission more than two pixels away from the average line profile at the edge are clearly detectable .",
    "this suggests new ways of investigating , for example , explosive event dynamics because one can see the loop motion and heating beyond the position of the explosive event .",
    "it could also be useful when investigating doppler shift fluctuations from hot loops because narrow slit observations in sit - and - stare are not able to distinguish real intensity fluctuations at a point from movement of loops into and out of the slit field - of - view ( cf * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the aim of this short paper is to show the possibilities for future studies , not to present event details and their scientific implications .",
    "discussions on the events themselves , including detailed analyses from sot on _ hinode _ and sumer on soho will be given in more extensive papers .",
    "we would like to thank khalid al - janabi for his help with the eis studies .",
    "also many thanks to the referee for their constructive comments .",
    "_ hinode _  is a japanese mission developed and launched by isas / jaxa , collaborating with naoj , as domestic partner , and nasa ( usa ) and stfc ( uk ) as international partners .",
    "scientific operation of the _ hinode _  mission is conducted by the _ hinode _",
    "science team organized at isas / jaxa .",
    "support for the postlaunch operation is provided by jaxa and naoj , stfc , nasa , esa ( european space agency ) , and nsc ( norway ) .",
    "we are grateful to all teams for their efforts in the design , building , and operation of the _ hinode _  and soho missions ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the extreme ultraviolet imaging spectrometer ( eis ) on board _ hinode _  is the first solar telescope to obtain wide slit spectral images that can be used for detecting doppler flows in transition region and coronal lines on the sun and to relate them to their surrounding small scale dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> we select eis lines covering the temperature range @xmath0  k to @xmath1  k that give spectrally pure images of the sun with the 40  slit . in these images </S>",
    "<S> doppler shifts are seen as horizontal brightenings . inside the image </S>",
    "<S> it is difficult to distinguish shifts from horizontal structures but emission beyond the image edge can be unambiguously identified as a line shift in several lines separated from others on their blue or red side by more than the width of the spectrometer slit ( 40 pixels ) . in the blue wing of he  ii </S>",
    "<S> , we find a large number of events with properties ( size and lifetime ) similar to the well - studied explosive events seen in the ultraviolet spectral range . </S>",
    "<S> comparison with x - ray telescope ( xrt ) images shows many doppler shift events at the footpoints of small x - ray loops . </S>",
    "<S> the most spectacular event observed showed a strong blue shift in transition region and lower corona lines from a small x - ray spot that lasted less than 7  min . </S>",
    "<S> the emission appears to be near a cool coronal loop connecting an x - ray bright point to an adjacent region of quiet sun . </S>",
    "<S> the width of the emission implies a line - of - sight velocity of 220  km  s@xmath2 . in addition </S>",
    "<S> , we show an example of an fe  xv  shift with a velocity about 120  km  s@xmath2 , coming from what looks like a narrow loop leg connecting a small x - ray brightening to a larger region of x - ray emission . </S>"
  ]
}