{
  "article_text": [
    "the earth is permanently exposed to a vast flux of particles from outer space .",
    "most of these particles are fully ionized atomic nuclei , covering a large range in energy from the mev regime to energies above @xmath1  ev . in 1962",
    "the first event with an energy exceeding @xmath1  ev was recorded @xcite .",
    "such cosmic rays are the highest - energy particles in the universe , carrying the ( macroscopic ) energy of about 50  j concentrated on a single nucleus . since their first discovery more than 40 years ago their origin has been an open question .",
    "`` how do cosmic accelerators work and what are they accelerating ? '' is one of eleven science questions for the new century asked by the national research council of the national academies of the united states @xcite , underlining the importance of this topic to astroparticle physics .",
    "the properties of cosmic rays at highest energies are investigated with various experiments @xcite@xcite@xcite@xcite .",
    "the flux of cosmic rays with energies exceeding @xmath1  ev is below 1 particle per square kilometer and century .",
    "thus , a reasonable measurement of these particles requires huge detectors operated stably over long periods of time . at present , this can be realized only with ground based experiments , registering the secondary particles generated by high - energy cosmic rays in the atmosphere .",
    "when a high - energy cosmic ray enters the earth s atmosphere it induces a cascade of secondary particles , an extensive air shower . by far the most abundant particles in air showers are photons , electrons , and positrons , comprising the electromagnetic shower component . on their way through the atmosphere the ( relativistic ) charged particles emit radiation and excite nitrogen molecules to emit fluorescence light .",
    "a small fraction of the secondary particles eventually reaches the observation level . over time , several methods to measure extensive air showers have been established .",
    "they can be divided into two groups : experiments measuring secondary particles ( electrons , muons , and hadrons ) reaching ground level and detectors observing the emitted or fluorescence photons .",
    "the latter allow for a three - dimensional reconstruction of the shower profile in the atmosphere .",
    "a critical issue for all experiments is to establish an absolute energy scale for the measured showers . for experiments registering secondary particles at ground level",
    "this usually involves the usage of simulations of the shower development in the atmosphere , thus , introducing systematic uncertainties due to our limited knowledge of the hadronic interactions at such high energies .",
    "on the other hand , fluorescence measurements of air showers provide a calorimetric measurement of the energy deposited in the air , being ( nearly ) independent of air shower simulations .",
    "the deposited energy is assumed to be proportional to the energy of the primary , shower inducing , particle . at present , this is the most direct and model independent method to determine the energy of an air shower .",
    "the main systematic uncertainty of this method arises from the insufficient knowledge of the fluorescence light yield of electrons in air .",
    "however , this is a quantity which can be measured in laboratory experiments , injecting electrons into air targets .",
    "responsible for the fluorescence emission of the nitrogen molecules is mainly the electromagnetic shower component .",
    "the critical energy of electrons in air is about 84  mev , thus , the bulk of particles has energies easily accessible at accelerators , or , at lower energies , even through radioactive @xmath2-decays .",
    "this is the main focus of the present article .",
    "it gives an overview on the actual status of the knowledge of the fluorescence light yield of electrons in air , important for air shower detection .",
    "it summarizes the results of the 5th fluorescence workshop , which was held in el escorial , spain from september 16th to 20th , 2007 . after a short overview on the principle of the detection of air showers using fluorescence light ( ) ,",
    "experiments applying this technique to register cosmic - ray induced air showers are described ( ) . the main physical processes involved in the production of fluorescence light in air are reviewed in .",
    "contemporary experimental tools and theoretical treatments are discussed in .",
    "latest data are compiled in , paying special attention to the dependence of the fluorescence light yield on atmospheric parameters , such as pressure , temperature , and humidity . in the following section ( )",
    "the influence of the results obtained on the light yield in air showers developing in realistic atmospheres is discussed .",
    "an outlook describing the next steps in determining the fluorescence yield in air concludes the article ( ) .",
    "the most important pioneering measurements of the fluorescence light yield are summarized in an accompanying article @xcite .",
    "a high - energy cosmic ray entering the atmosphere induces a cascade of secondary particles .",
    "one way to determine the energy of the primary particle is to measure the energy deposited in an absorber ( i.e.  the atmosphere ) , this is called a calorimetric energy measurement ( e.g.@xcite ) .",
    "if the shower is absorbed completely , the energy of the primary particle is identical to the energy deposited .",
    "however , in an air shower some energy is escaping a calorimetric measurement : a fraction of secondary particles reaches ground level and some energy is carried away by  invisible \" particles such as neutrinos .",
    "luckily , corrections for this effect are small and rather model independent , as will be discussed below .",
    "the calorimetric measurement by means of fluorescence light detection uses the fact that secondary particles in showers ( mostly electrons and positrons ) deposit energy in the atmosphere by ionization or excitation of air molecules .",
    "the excited nitrogen molecules subsequently relax to their ground state partially by the emission of fluorescence photons .",
    "the light is emitted isotropically , which implies that showers can be viewed from the side , thus , telescopes can observe large fiducial volumes of air .",
    "most of the fluorescence light is emitted in the near uv region with wavelengths between about 300 and 400  nm .",
    "simulation studies show that most of the energy deposited into the atmosphere arises from electrons ( and positrons ) with energies below 1  gev with a maximum at about 30  mev @xcite .",
    "it is commonly assumed that the number of emitted fluorescence photons is proportional to the energy deposited in the atmosphere .",
    "the number of fluorescence photons @xmath3 which are generated in a layer of atmosphere with thickness @xmath4 registered by a fluorescence detector can be expressed as @xmath5 @xmath6 denotes the efficiency of the fluorescence detector and @xmath7 the transmission of the atmosphere .",
    "the latter includes all transmission losses due to optical absorption , rayleigh scattering , and mie scattering from the point of emission to the detector .",
    "the number of emitted fluorescence photons @xmath8 emitted per wavelength interval @xmath9 and matter traversed @xmath10 is obtained as @xmath11    the energy spectrum of the electrons ( and positrons ) at an atmospheric depth @xmath12 is given by @xmath13 and @xmath14 describes the energy deposited in a layer of atmosphere with thickness @xmath4 .",
    "the fluorescence light yield @xmath15 describes the number of emitted photons per deposited energy ( photons per mev ) . for a calorimetric measurement we are interested in the deposited energy , thus",
    ", this definition relates the searched quantity directly to the observed amount of light . in the literature @xmath15",
    "is frequently given in units of photons per meter ( or photons per unit length ) .",
    "this definition has the disadvantage that the number of photons emitted per unit length changes with varying air density .",
    "it is non - trivial to convert the two quantities into each other . throughout this article",
    "we use the definition of photons per deposited energy , unless noted otherwise .    the fluorescence light yield @xmath15 at a wavelength @xmath16 depends on the atmospheric pressure @xmath17 , the temperature @xmath18 , the humidity @xmath19 , and , in principle , as well on the energy of the electrons @xmath20 . if the light yield is assumed to be energy independent , it can be taken out of the integral yielding @xmath21 the total energy deposited in an atmospheric layer with thickness @xmath4 is written as @xmath22 with the relation @xmath23 is obtained .",
    "it shows that the number of fluorescence photons detected is proportional to the energy deposited in the atmosphere .",
    "it remains to be shown that the fluorescence yield is indeed independent of the electron energy , see below .    to calculate the energy of the primary particle from the observed fluorescence light",
    "still some corrections are necessary .",
    "the observed light contains also a contamination of light , either direct light ( mostly emitted in forward direction ) or scattered light .",
    "this effect has to be corrected for on an event - to - event basis @xcite .",
    "it has to be taken into account that the cascade is not absorbed completely in the atmosphere and secondary particles reach ground level ( longitudinal leakage of the calorimeter ) .",
    "furthermore , particles which are not detected ( neutrinos , high - energy muons ) carry away energy . this ",
    "invisible \" energy depends slightly on the mass of the primary particle and the hadronic interaction model used to describe the shower development in the atmosphere .",
    "investigations of the auger collaboration indicate that the correction factor varies between 1.07 and 1.17 only , assuming primary protons or iron nuclei and applying different hadronic interaction models @xcite .    for illustration ,",
    "we discuss here the systematic uncertainties of the absolute energy scale of the pierre auger observatory ( as evaluated before the 5th fluorescence workshop ) @xcite .",
    "the fluorescence telescopes are end - to - end calibrated using a large homogeneous light source which leaves an uncertainty of 9.5% .",
    "uncertainties in the shower reconstruction contribute with 10% and the correction of the invisible energy adds another 4% to the error budget . the atmospheric profile above the observatory is regularly monitored @xcite .",
    "however , an uncertainty of about 4% for the energy scale of an individual event remains .",
    "in addition , uncertainties related to the fluorescence yield have to be taken into account .",
    "the dominant contribution is due to the absolute light yield ( 14% ) .",
    "the dependence on atmospheric parameters contributes with 7% .",
    "this results in a total systematic uncertainty of 22% .",
    "values for other experiments are similar and confirm that the biggest uncertainty for the absolute energy scale is the insufficient knowledge of the fluorescence yield @xmath24 . to review",
    "the latest progress on the determination of this value is the objective of the present article .      in the following ,",
    "the principle set - ups of air shower detectors applying the fluorescence technique are briefly sketched .",
    "illustratively , a fluorescence detector for such an experiment has to be able to observe a 100  w light bulb  ev shower corresponds to a light bulb of about 100  w. ] moving at the speed of light through the atmosphere watched from a distance of 30  km . to realize this , large - aperture telescopes are used to focus the light on cameras equipped with fast photomultiplier tubes , sensitive in the near uv region .",
    "first ideas to use the earth s atmosphere as vast scintillation detector were discussed in the early 1960s @xcite . the early history of experiments applying the fluorescence technique is summarized elsewhere @xcite .      the pilot experiment to study",
    "the feasibility of detecting air showers with the fluorescence technique was the  cornell wide angle system \" proposed and built by k.  greisen and colleagues in the 1960s @xcite .",
    "it consisted of three detector stations set up in the vicinity of the cornell university campus .",
    "each station comprised five photomultiplier tubes in a hexahedron arrangement , with a tube pointing north , south , east , west , and upward , respectively .",
    "the four radial tubes were tilted upwards by 30 .",
    "the system was operational for about 1000 hours .",
    "light flashes were recorded , but they could not be attributed to air showers beyond doubt .    in 1967 ,",
    "a full scale fluorescence experiment was constructed by greisen s group .",
    "it comprised 500 photomultiplier tubes , each corresponding to a pixel with a solid angle of 0.01 sr .",
    "the photomultipliers were divided into ten modules , each of them was equipped with a 0.1 m@xmath25 fresnel lens .",
    "the experiment was operated for several years but was not sensitive enough to detect high - energy cosmic rays .",
    "similar activities were conducted by the tokyo group leading to the ins - tokyo experiment . in 1969",
    "they recorded first clear fluorescence light signals from an extensive air shower with an energy exceeding @xmath26  ev @xcite .      in 1976",
    "physicists from the university of utah detected fluorescence light from cosmic - ray air showers .",
    "three prototype modules were used at the site of the volcano ranch air shower array near albuquerque , new mexico .",
    "each module comprised a 1.8  m diameter mirror for light collection with a camera consisting of 14 photomultiplier tubes at the focal plane .",
    "fluorescence light was recorded in coincidence with an air shower array .",
    "these prototypes led eventually to the development of the fly s eye detector .",
    "the fly s eye observatory @xcite consisted of two stations , separated by 3.3  km .",
    "the first one ( fly s eye  1 ) comprised 67 front aluminized spherical section mirrors , with a diameter of 157  cm .",
    "winston light collectors and photomultipliers were hexagonally packed in groups of either 12 or 14 light sensing units , or  eyes \" mounted in the focal plane of each mirror .",
    "the photomultipliers ( emi 9861b ) had a fairly uniform quantum efficiency over the spectral range from 310 to 440  nm .",
    "a motorized shutter system kept the  eyes \" both light tight and weather proof during the day and permitted exposure to the sky at night .",
    "each mirror unit was housed in a single , motorized corrugated steel pipe about 2.13  m long and 2.44  m in diameter .",
    "the units were turned down with mirror and open end facing the ground during the day and turned up at night to a predetermined position so that each  eye \" observed an angular region of the sky . in total , 880  eyes \" were observing the complete upper hemisphere .",
    "the projection of each hexagonal  eye \" onto the celestial sphere resembles the compound  eye \" of an insect , hence , the name fly s eye . the second telescope ( fly s eye  ii ) was a smaller array of identical units , with 120  eyes \" in total , observing roughly one azimuthal quadrant of the night sky with elevation angles ranging between 2and 38above the horizon",
    "whenever the first telescope recorded an event , it sent an infrared flash of light towards the second telescope , which recorded pulse integrals and arrival times .",
    "the shower track geometry was reconstructed either from hit patterns and timing information by a single fly s eye detector or by stereoscopic viewing and relative timing by both fly s eyes .",
    "the experiment has been operated between 1981 and 1993 .",
    "for the first time the fluorescence technique has been applied successfully to explore the properties of ultra high - energy cosmic rays on a large scale .      the high resolution",
    "fly s eye experiment ( hires ) was located in utah , usa ( 40@xmath27 n , 112@xmath27 w ) @xcite .",
    "it was the successor of the fly s eye experiment .",
    "hires consisted of two detector sites ( hires i & ii ) separated by 12.6  km , providing almost 360azimuthal coverage , each .",
    "both telescopes were formed by an array of detector units .",
    "the mirrors consisted of four segments and formed a 5.1  m@xmath25 spherical mirror . at its focal plane an array of @xmath28 photomultiplier tubes was situated , viewing a solid angle of @xmath29 .",
    "hires  i consisted of 22 detectors , arranged in a single ring , overlooking between 3and 17 in elevation .",
    "this detector used an integrating adc read - out system , which recorded the photomultiplier tubes pulse height and time information .",
    "hires  ii comprised 42 detectors , set up in two rings , looking between 3and 31 in elevation .",
    "it was equipped with a 10  mhz flash adc system , recording pulse height and timing information from its phototubes .",
    "the experiment has been operated between 1997 and 2007 .",
    "the telescope array is an air shower experiment in the west desert of utah ( usa ) , 140 miles south of salt lake city ( 39.3n , 112.9w ) @xcite .",
    "it comprises 576 scintillator stations and three fluorescence detector sites on a triangle with about 35  km separation .",
    "each fluorescence detector station is equipped with 12 to 14 telescopes , viewing @xmath30 in elevation and @xmath31 in azimuth @xcite .",
    "the telescopes have a segmented spherical mirror with a diameter of 3.3  m and a focal length of 3.0  m. each telescope has a camera comprising 256 photomultiplier tubes ( hamamatsu r9508 ) , corresponding to a pixel size of about 1each .",
    "the sensitive area of a camera is @xmath32 , which corresponds to a field of view of 15 in elevation and 18 in azimuth .",
    "the photomultipliers are read out by a fadc system .",
    "the experiment has been taking data since 2007 .",
    "the observatory combines the observation of fluorescence light with imaging telescopes and the measurement of particles reaching ground level in a ",
    "hybrid approach \" @xcite .",
    "the southern site ( near malarge , argentina , 35.2s , 69.5w , 1400  m above sea level ) of the worlds largest air shower detector consists of 1600 water detectors set up in an area covering 3000  km@xmath25 .",
    "four telescope systems overlook the surface array .",
    "a single telescope system comprises six telescopes , overlooking separate volumes of air .",
    "each telescope is situated in a bay , protected by a remotely operated shutter .",
    "light enters the bay through an uv transmitting filter and a ring of corrector lenses .",
    "a circular diaphragm ( 2.2  m diameter ) , positioned at the center of curvature of a spherical mirror , defines the aperture of the schmidt optical system .",
    "a @xmath33 spherical mirror focuses the light onto a camera with an array of @xmath34 hexagonal pixels .",
    "each pixel is a photomultiplier tube , complemented by light collectors .",
    "each camera pixel has a field of view of approximately 1.5 in diameter .",
    "a camera overlooks a total field of view of 30azimuth @xmath35 28.6elevation .",
    "the photomultiplier signals are read out by fadc systems .",
    "the observatory has been completed in 2008 and has been taking data stably with a growing number of detector stations since 2004 .    presently ( 2008 ) , the pierre auger collaboration is extending the observatory to lower energies . for this objective",
    "additional high - elevation telescopes ( heat , high elevation auger telescopes ) are being built , covering an angular range from 30to 60 in elevation @xcite .",
    "these telescopes will be operated with an additional infill array of surface detectors combined with underground muon counters ( amiga , auger muons and infill for the ground array )  @xcite and antennae to detect radio emission from air showers @xcite . to complete and extend the investigations begun in the south",
    ", the pierre auger collaboration presently prepares an observatory in the northern hemisphere in colorado , usa @xcite .",
    "the set - up will , similarly to the southern site , comprise water detectors and fluorescence telescope systems .",
    "the all - sky survey high resolution air - shower telescope ( ashra ) is a proposed detector system to simultaneously measure and fluorescence light on the entire sky with 1 arc min resolution @xcite .",
    "it is planned to install two stations at a distance of about 30 to 40  km on an island in hawaii .",
    "a station comprises 12 wide - angle telescopes .",
    "each telescope has a field of view of @xmath36 , read out by cmos sensor arrays .",
    "jem - euso is a proposed super - wide field uv telescope to detect ultra high - energy cosmic rays with energies above 10@xmath37  ev @xcite .",
    "it will be attached to the international space station ( iss ) and will observe fluorescence photons emitted by air showers from an orbit of about 430  km altitude .",
    "the three dimensional development of the shower is reconstructed from a series of images of the shower .",
    "the spatial resolution is about @xmath38  km@xmath25 . a double fresnel lens module with 2.5  m diameter is the baseline optics for the jem - euso telescope .",
    "the focal surface is equipped with about 6000 multi - anode photomultipliers .",
    "the launch is planned for 2012 .",
    "electrons passing through the atmosphere deposit energy due to inelastic collisions with air molecules . a small fraction of them give rise to the production of the fluorescence light observed in the spectral range of interest ( @xmath39  nm ) .",
    "this air - fluorescence light is produced by nitrogen molecules .    in this section",
    "the main features of the excitation and de - excitation of n@xmath40 molecules will be reviewed ( ) .",
    "fluorescence quenching including the humidity effect will also be discussed ( ) . finally , the definition of the various parameters associated with the fluorescence yield as used in the literature will be presented ( ) .",
    "a scheme of the molecular levels of n@xmath40 and n@xmath41 is shown in . as is well known from elementary molecular physics , each electronic state is split in vibrational levels @xmath42 .",
    "in addition , each vibrational level is split in rotational sub - levels following a complicated structure .",
    "electron collision excites molecular nitrogen in the ground state to upper levels .",
    "down going arrows in represent the de - excitation processes giving rise to fluorescence radiation .",
    "although transitions take place between individual rotational levels of the upper and lower states , the corresponding rotational structure of the molecular spectrum is not resolved in our experiments . under moderate spectral resolution ,",
    "transitions between vibrational levels give rise to molecular bands @xmath43 with a spectral width and shape determined by the rotational structure .",
    "the set of bands connecting a given pair of electronic states is named a band system .    in our spectral range ,",
    "nitrogen fluorescence comes basically from the second positive system",
    "c@xmath44 @xmath45 b@xmath46 of n@xmath40 and the first negative system b@xmath47 @xmath45 x@xmath48 of n@xmath41 ( see ) which in the air - fluorescence community are usually denoted as 2p and 1n systems , respectively . notice that while the 2p system is generated after the n@xmath40 x@xmath49 @xmath45 c@xmath44 excitation , 1n fluorescence takes place as a consequence of the x@xmath49 @xmath45 ( n@xmath41)b@xmath47 molecular ionization , leaving the nitrogen ion in a specific excited state .",
    "the wavelengths of the molecular bands of nitrogen are well known ( see for instance @xcite ) .",
    "apart from the 1n and 2p systems the weak bands of the n@xmath40 gaydon - herman system ( gh ) have been observed in the air - fluorescence spectrum @xcite@xcite .",
    ".transitions and corresponding wavelengths of the air - fluorescence spectrum @xcite .   [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     a detailed calculation of the fluorescence emission including atmospheric effects with constant collisional cross sections @xmath50 has been compared in keilhauer et al .",
    "@xcite with parametrizations of the altitude dependence .",
    "nagano et al .",
    "provided parameters @xmath51 and @xmath52 for all 10 wavelengths they measured between 300 and 400  nm , see , describing the fluorescence light emission per unit path length as  @xcite @xmath53 kakimoto et al",
    ".  reported only one set of parameters @xmath54 and @xmath55 , see tab .",
    "12 in @xcite , in order to describe the entire wavelength range with . comparing only the altitude dependence in the us standard atmosphere  @xcite , assuming an equal absolute number of fluorescence photons at ground , shows a quite good agreement , see .",
    "a further analysis of the altitude dependence has been performed for the atmospheric conditions at the site of the pierre auger observatory @xcite .",
    "four seasonal atmospheric models have been developed .",
    "the fluorescence light induced by a 0.85  mev electron , applying the well - known dependences , has been compared to that expected in the us standard atmosphere , see fig .  5 in  @xcite .",
    "the differences for the argentine seasons compared with the us standard atmosphere are well below @xmath565%  @xcite .     to the one with @xmath57",
    "= 0 : dashed line 313.6  nm ; full line 337.1  nm ; dotted line 353.7  nm ; dashed - dotted line 391.4  nm  @xcite.,scaledwidth=47.0% ]    introducing also the effect of temperature - dependent collisional cross sections , see , the reduction of the fluorescence yield is significant .",
    "the red curves in are the fluorescence yield accounting for both temperature effects with data from airfly .",
    "the relative differences of the yield with both effects compared to the fluorescence yield just with the @xmath58-dependence can be seen in .",
    "the overall reduction for the wavelength range between 300 and 400  nm is dominated by the reduction of the 337  nm band up to 18  km  a.s.l .",
    ", so that these two curves would lie on top of each other . for higher altitudes ,",
    "the contributions of other bands become more important and the overall reduction increases compared to that of the 337  nm band .    applying this dependence to the calculation of the light emission profiles of extensive air showers , the expected shower light profile of an fe - induced cascade with 10@xmath59  ev",
    "is reduced by 2.7% up to 7.5% depending on inclination of the shower and the atmospheric model  @xcite .",
    "the values given here refer to argentine seasonal atmospheric models as used for the pierre auger observatory  @xcite .     in the us standard atmosphere only with pressure and @xmath58-dependence together with the fluorescence yield as expected in argentine atmospheres accounting for all newly known dependences .",
    "the temperature - dependent collisional cross sections are taken from airfly  @xcite@xcite and the collisional cross sections due to water vapor are measured by waldenmaier et al .",
    "@xcite@xcite.,scaledwidth=47.0% ]     in argentine atmospheres with the latest results of pressure , temperature , and humidity dependences to that in the us standard atmosphere only with pressure and @xmath58-dependence.,scaledwidth=47.0% ]    these seasonal atmospheric models have been used to study further the altitude dependence of the fluorescence yield . in order to include the humidity dependence ,",
    "seasonal average profiles of the relative humidity at the site of the pierre auger observatory have been obtained by meteorological radio soundings during night - time  @xcite . as a result of the newly measured temperature and humidity dependences , and , combined with the well - known dependences on temperature and pressure , also and , the fluorescence yield @xmath60 changes significantly in the earth s atmosphere .",
    "displays @xmath60 in the us standard atmosphere only with pressure and @xmath58-dependence together with the fluorescence yield as expected in argentine atmospheres accounting for all newly known dependences .",
    "the relative difference of the fluorescence yield with the latest results to that in the us standard atmosphere with the well - known dependences is of the order of 10% , as can be seen in .",
    "ev with vertical incidence  @xcite . for the profiles in argentine atmospheres ,",
    "all newly measured altitude dependences are taken into account .",
    "for the us standard atmosphere only the pressure and @xmath58-dependence have been considered.,scaledwidth=47.0% ]        to estimate the importance of the newly measured altitude dependences on reconstructing shower profiles , average iron - induced air showers with @xmath61  ev have been simulated with corsika  @xcite in @xcite .",
    "the fluorescence light profile for the case of vertical incidence can be seen in and the corresponding difference in .",
    "the expected light of the air shower is reduced by 11.1% during summer , 8.9% during autumn , 7.3% during spring , and 6.8% during winter  @xcite .",
    "for the same shower with 60@xmath27 inclination , the expected light is reduced by 8.4% during winter , 8.1% during spring and autumn , and 8.0% during summer .",
    "the same calculations have been performed for proton - induced air showers .",
    "the reduction of the expected light is increased by about 0.5% compared to the numbers of the iron - induced cascade @xcite .",
    "hence , accounting for the newly measured altitude dependences in the reconstruction of the primary energy of the shower , the primary energy will be increased by this amount as compared with the former model calculations .",
    "the 5th fluorescence workshop has brought together experimental and theoretical expertise from around the world to discuss the status of the determination of the fluorescence light yield of electrons , important for air shower observations .",
    "it can be realized with pleasure that over the last years significant progress has been achieved in both , experimental and theoretical work .",
    "convergence has been achieved in several aspects between the different groups .",
    "most important for air shower observations is the fluorescence light yield of nitrogen , since the contributions of direct excitation of oxygen and argon seem to be negligible .",
    "hence , investigations focus on the fluorescence light emission of nitrogen .",
    "the position of the molecular bands in the fluorescence light spectrum is well known .",
    "accurate measurements of the relative intensities at typical laboratory conditions have been presented .",
    "also high precision values of the characteristic pressures have been reported , although full agreement is still missing .",
    "high - precision @xmath62 values allow accurate predictions on the relative fluorescence intensity at any atmospheric condition of interest for air shower reconstruction .",
    "the proportionality between fluorescence intensity and deposited energy seems to be proved from both experimental and theoretical sides .",
    "recent investigations reveal that the dependence of the light yield on temperature and humidity can not be neglected . in realistic atmospheres effects up to @xmath63",
    "can be expected .",
    "further measurements are necessary to clarify the situation .",
    "a precise determination of the absolute light yield is extremely difficult and still needs more experimental data . for a comparison of the values obtained by different groups",
    ", it would be useful if the same concept is used .",
    "the participants agreed to specify the fluorescence light yield in photons per energy deposition ( photons / mev ) .",
    "this quantity is most useful to convert the observed light yield into a calorimetric measurement of the energy of an air shower .",
    "the usage of this unit is strongly encouraged .",
    "the open questions are presently addressed by several groups .",
    "the workshop participants expressed their hope to achieve convergence on the open issues soon ( @xmath64 years ) .",
    "the authors acknowledge the support of the spanish ministry of science and education mec ( fpa2006 - 12184-c02 - 01 ) , comunidad de madrid ( ref . :",
    "910600 ) and consolider program , and of the german research foundation ( dfg ) ( ke 1151/1 - 1 and ke 1151/1 - 2 ) .",
    "further support has been granted by the radboud universiteit nijmegen as well as by the universitt karlsruhe ( th ) and the forschungszentrum karlsruhe gmbh which are currently merging their activities in the karlsruhe institute of technology ( kit ) .",
    "the authors would like to thank c.  escobar , c.  field , m.  fraga , k.  martens , m.  nagano , j.  ridky , j.  rosado , and a.  ulrich for valuable comments on the manuscript .",
    "99 j.  linsley , phys .",
    "( 1963 ) 146 .",
    "national research council , connecting quarks with the cosmos - eleven science questions for the new century . national academy press , washington , d.c .",
    "m.  nagano , a.  watson , rev .",
    "72 ( 2000 ) 689 .",
    "d.  bergman , j.  belz , j. phys .",
    "g : nucl . part .",
    "( 2007 ) r359 .",
    "kampert , arxiv:0801.1986 ( 2008 ) .",
    "hrandel , arxiv:0803.3040 ( 2008 ) .",
    "f.  arqueros , j.r .",
    "hrandel , b. keilhauer , c.w .",
    "fabjan , f.  gianotti , rev .",
    "phys . 75 ( 2003 ) 1243",
    ". m.  risse , d.  heck , astropart .",
    "( 2004 ) 661 .",
    "f.  nerling , astropart .",
    "24 ( 2006 ) 421 .",
    "t.  pierog , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , pune , india , 7 ( 2005 ) 103 .",
    "bellido , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , pune , india , 7 ( 2005 ) 13 .",
    "b.  keilhauer , astropart .",
    "( 2004 ) 249 .",
    "k. suga , in proc .",
    "5th interamerican seminar on cosmic rays , i. escobar ( eds . ) 2 ( 1962 ) xlix . and a.e .",
    "chudakov , comment to this contribution .",
    "g. tanahashi , aip conf .",
    "433 , f. krizmanic ( eds . ) , american institute of physics , new york ( 1977 ) 54 .",
    "bunner , cosmic ray detection by atmospheric fluorescence , phd thesis , cornell university , 1967 .",
    "t. hara , acta physica academiae hungaricae 29 suppl . 3 ( 1970 ) 369 .",
    "baltrusaitis , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 240 ( 1985 ) 410 , and 264 ( 1988 ) 87 . t.  abu - zayyad , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 450 ( 2000 ) 253 .",
    "m.  fukushima , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press . s. ogio , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . ,",
    "merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press .",
    "j.  abraham ( pierre auger coll . ) , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 523 ( 2004 ) 50 .",
    "h.  klages  for the pierre auger coll . , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press .",
    "a.  etchegoyen  for the pierre auger coll . , in : proc .",
    "30th int . cosmic ray conf . ,",
    "merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press .",
    "a. van den berg  for the pierre auger coll .",
    ", in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press .",
    "d.  nitz  for the pierre auger coll . , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , merida , mexico ( 2007 ) in press ( arxiv:0706.3940 ) .",
    "y.  aita , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . ,",
    "tsukuba , japan , 2 ( 2003 ) 1061 .",
    "y.  takizawa , nucl .",
    "b ( proc . suppl . ) 166 ( 2007 ) 72 .",
    "m.  ave ( airfly coll . ) , astropart .",
    "( 2007 ) 41 .",
    "r.w.b .  pearse and a.g .",
    "gaydon , the identification of molecular spectra , london : chapman and hall , new york : john wiley & sons , 1976 , 4th ed .",
    "eckstrom , j. chem .",
    "82 ( 1985 ) 1792 .",
    "m.  ave ( airfly coll . ) , f.  blanco , f.  arqueros , phys .",
    "lett a 345 ( 2005 ) 355 .",
    "f.  arqueros , astropart .",
    "26 ( 2006 ) 231 .",
    "gilmore , j. chem .",
    "data 21 ( 1992 ) 1005 .",
    "laux , c.h .",
    "kruger , j. quant .",
    "transfer 48 ( 1992 ) 9 .",
    "o.  stern , m.  volmer , physik .",
    "zeitschr . 20",
    "( 1919 ) 183 .",
    "a.  morozov , a.  morozov , eur .",
    "j. d 46 ( 2008 ) 51 .",
    "yardley , introduction to molecular energy transfer , academic , new york , ( 1980 ) .",
    "fraga , d.l .",
    "holtermann , j. chem .",
    "77 ( 1982 ) 5327 .",
    "bailey , j. chem .",
    ", faraday trans .",
    "93 ( 1997 ) 2915",
    ". m.  ave ( airfly coll . ) , f.  kakimoto , nucl . instr . and meth . a372 ( 1996 ) 527 .",
    "m.  nagano , astropart .",
    "( 2003 ) 293 .",
    "m.  nagano , astropart .",
    "( 2004 ) 235 .",
    "belz ( flash coll . ) , astropart .",
    "25 ( 2006 ) 129 .",
    "r.  abbasi , astropart .",
    "29 ( 2008 ) 77 .",
    "t.  waldenmaier , p.  hntemeyer ( flash coll . ) , p.  colin ( macfly coll . ) , astropart .",
    "( 2007 ) 317 .",
    "m.  ave ( airfly coll . ) , g.  lefeuvre , nucl .",
    "inst . and meth . a 578 ( 2007 ) 78 .",
    "f.  arqueros , a.  morozov , eur .",
    "j. d33 ( 2005 ) 207 . j.  rosado , j.  belz ( flash coll . ) , j.  belz ( flash coll . ) , astropart .",
    "25 ( 2006 ) 5763 .",
    "p.  colin ( macfly coll . ) , submitted to astropart .",
    "( arxiv : astro - ph/0703230v1 ) . n.  sakaki , m.  ave ( airfly coll . ) , w.r .",
    "nelson , h. hiragama and d.w.o .",
    "rogers , the egs4 code system , slac-265 , stanford linear accelerator center ( 1985 ) .",
    "s. agostinelli , , geant4 : a simulation toolkit , nucl .",
    "instr . & meth . a 506 ( 2003 ) 250 .",
    "@xmath65http://lappweb.in2p3.fr / iwfm05/@xmath66 .",
    "pancheshnyi , chem .",
    "( 2000 ) 349 .",
    "pancheshnyi , chem .",
    "294 ( 1998 ) 523 .",
    "p.  privitera for the airfly coll . , in : proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . ,",
    "merida , mexico , ( 2007 ) in press .",
    "grn , e.  schopper , z. naturforschg .",
    "9a , ( 1954 ) 55 .",
    "lillicrap , collision quenching effects in nitrogen and helium excited by a 30-kev electron beam , nasa - tm - x-2842 , ( 1973 ) .",
    "b.  keilhauer , n.  sakaki , t.  waldenmaier , arxiv:0709.1494 ( 2007 ) .",
    "bennett jr . , j.  flint , phys .",
    "a18 ( 1978 ) 2527 .",
    "a.  morozov , appl .",
    "86 ( 2005 ) 011502 .",
    "nicolls , proc .",
    "74 ( 1959 ) 87 .",
    "national aeronautics and space adminstration ( nasa ) , u.s .",
    "standard atmosphere 1976 , nasa - tm - x-74335 , ( 1976 ) .",
    "b.  keilhauer , astropart .",
    "25 ( 2006 ) 259 .",
    "j.  knapp , d.  heck , extensive air shower simulation with corsika : a user s guide , report kfk 5196b , kernforschungszentrum karlsruhe , ( 1993 ) ; for an up - to - date version see @xmath65http://www - ik.fzk.de / corsika@xmath66 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> high - energy cosmic rays with energies exceeding @xmath0  ev are frequently observed by measurements of the fluorescence light induced by air showers . a major contribution to the systematic uncertainties of the absolute energy scale of such experiments </S>",
    "<S> is the insufficient knowledge of the fluorescence light yield of electrons in air . </S>",
    "<S> the aim of the 5th fluorescence workshop was to bring together experimental and theoretical expertise to discuss the latest progress on the investigations of the fluorescence light yield . </S>",
    "<S> the results of the workshop will be reviewed as well as the present status of knowledge in this field . </S>",
    "<S> emphasis is given to the fluorescence light yield important for air shower observations and its dependence on atmospheric parameters , like pressure , temperature , and humidity . </S>",
    "<S> the effects of the latest results on the light observed from air showers will be discussed .    ,    ,    fluorescence yield , air showers    32.50.+d , 33.50.dq , 87.64.kv , 96.50.sd </S>"
  ]
}