{
  "article_text": [
    "gravitational lensing can be used as a powerful astrophysical tool for probing the density profiles of galaxies , and is one of the few ways in which dark matter can be detected ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "in addition , it often magnifies source objects by one to two orders of magnitude .",
    "this allows us to use the intervening gravitational lens as a kind of natural telescope , magnifying the source so that we can observe more detail than we would have been able to without the lens .",
    "this extra magnification provided by lensing has been very beneficial to studies of star formation and galaxy morphology at high redshift .",
    "regions of the galaxy size and luminosity distribution that are inaccessible in unlensed observations are made ( more ) visible by lensing ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the properties of the lens galaxies ( typically elliptical galaxies ) can also be inferred from their lensing effect ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "of course , gravitational lensing distorts the image of the source , as well as magnifying it .",
    "thus , techniques have been developed that aim to infer the mass profile of the lens galaxy and the surface brightness profile of the source , given observed images ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the aim of this paper is to carry out this process with the recently discovered gravitationally lensed quasar / host galaxy system rxs j1131 - 1231 .",
    "this system consists of a quadruply imaged quasar at redshift @xmath0 lensed by a galaxy at @xmath2 . at the time of its discovery , it was the closest known lensed quasar , with some evidence for an extended optical einstein ring - the image of the quasar host galaxy .",
    "initial simple modelling suggested that the quasar source was magnified by a factor of @xmath1 50 .",
    "thus , subsequent observations with the acs aboard the hubble space telescope allow the recovery of the morphology of the quasar s host galaxy down to a resolution of about 0.01 arc seconds - at least in principle , for the parts of the source nearest the caustic .",
    "indeed , c06 presented a wide array of results based on hst observations ( at 555 nm and 814 nm with acs , and 1600 nm with nicmos ) , including a detailed reconstruction of the extended source .    the source reconstruction method used by c06",
    "is based on lensing the image back to a pixellated grid in the source plane , setting the source surface brightnesses to equal the image surface brightness , and using a decision rule ( in this case , the median ) to decide on the value of a source pixel whenever two or more image pixels disagree about the value of the same source pixel .",
    "if the point spread function ( psf ) is small or the image has been deconvolved ( in c06 , the deconvolution step was neglected for the purposes of the extended source reconstruction ) and the lens model is correct , this method can expect to be quite accurate .",
    "however , in principle , the uncertainty in the lens model parameters and the deconvolution step should always be taken into account . in this paper , we focus our attention on the 555 nm acs image ( the drizzled images , as reduced by c06 , were provided to us ) , and the process by which we reconstruct the original , unlensed source from it .",
    "any differences between our reconstruction and the c06 one can be attributed to the following advantages of our approach : psf deconvolution , averaging over the lens parameter uncertainties , simultaneous fitting of all parameters , and the prior information that bayesian methods are capable of taking into account : in the case of our model , that is the knowledge that the majority of pixels in an astrophysical sources should be dark @xcite .",
    "the 555 nm image is also of particular interest because its rest wavelength ( 335 nm ) probes regions of recent star formation in a galaxy with an agn .    in the case of the einstein ring 0047 - 2808 @xcite ,",
    "our method was able to resolve structure down to scales of @xmath1 0.01 arcsec , a factor of five smaller than that obtainable in an unlensed observation with the hubble space telescope and about double the resolution obtained by @xcite using adaptive pixellation and least squares _ applied to exactly the same data_. this was possible because we used a prior distribution over possible sources that is more realistic as a model of our knowledge of an unknown astrophysical source , that is , we took into account the fact that it should be a positive structure against a dark background , a fact many methods ( such as least squares and some popular regularisation formulas ) implicitly ignore @xcite .",
    "these differences between methods are likely to be most significant when data are sparse or noisy , and all methods tend to agree as the data quality increases and we approach the regime where the observed image uniquely determines the correct reconstruction .",
    "the conceptual basis of the bayesian reconstruction method was presented in @xcite .",
    "the idea is to fit a complex model to some data , but rather than simply optimising the parameters of the model to achieve the best fit , we try to explore the whole volume of the parameter space that remains viable after taking into account the data .",
    "the effect of data is usually to reduce the volume of the plausible regions of the parameter space considerably .",
    "the exploration of the parameter space can be achieved by using markov chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) algorithms , which are designed to produce a set of models sampled from the posterior distribution . in the case of modelling the background source and lens mass distribution of a gravitational lensing system , this allows us to obtain a sample of model sources and lenses that , when lensed and blurred by a psf , match the observational data .",
    "the diversity of the models gives the uncertainties in any quantity of interest .",
    "the reader is referred to @xcite for an introduction to bayesian inference and mcmc .",
    "the first step of a bayesian analysis is to assign a likelihood function , or the probability density we would assign to the observed data if we knew the values of all of the parameters . to assign this , we need a noise frame , a measure of how uncertain we are about the noise level in each pixel .",
    "this is typically done by assuming that the observational error at pixel @xmath3 is from a normal distribution with mean 0 and known standard deviation @xmath4 .",
    "we extended this to include two `` extra noise parameters '' @xmath5 and @xmath6 , such that the standard deviation for the error in the @xmath3th pixel is @xmath7 , where @xmath8 is the predicted flux in the @xmath3th pixel .",
    "@xmath5 and @xmath6 then become extra model parameters to be estimated from the data .",
    "the inclusion of @xmath5 and @xmath6 implies that the extra noise level sigma varies with the predicted brightness of the pixel , with a square root dependence expected from poisson photon counting .",
    "we chose the @xmath9 values to be zero for most of the image , but infinite for the brightest regions of the quasar images , effectively masking out those parts of the image ; this mask can be seen in figure  [ data ] .",
    "a model psf was obtained using the tinytim software @xcite . as noted by c06",
    ", the tinytim simulations did not successfully perform the geometric distortion correction , and the output psf had slightly non - orthogonal diffraction spikes , whereas the spikes in the image are perpendicular . to correct this ,",
    "the psf was `` straightened out '' by evaluating it with respect to non - orthogonal axes ; the resulting psf is shown in figure  [ tinytim ] .",
    "whilst this process is imperfect , the extra noise sigma protects against serious consequences resulting from slight inaccuracies in this process .",
    "while our choice of @xmath9 was designed to block out the brightest parts of the quasar images , since they are so bright , light from the quasar images still extends out past the masked regions and overlaps with interesting einstein ring structures .",
    "thus , when modelling the image , we still required a flux component due to the quasar images .",
    "the four quasar images were modelled as being proportional to the corrected tinytim profiles with unknown fluxes and central positions .",
    "the surface brightness profile of the lens galaxy was modelled as the sum of two elliptical gaussian - like profiles ( sersic profiles , one for the core and one for the extended emission ) proportional to @xmath10 , where @xmath11 with unknown peak surface brightness , ellipticity @xmath12 , length scale @xmath13 , and angle of orientation .",
    "the central position was also considered initially unknown , but for mcmc purposes the starting point was to have both profiles centred near the observed centre of the lens galaxy core .",
    "the slopes @xmath14 were restricted to the range @xmath15 $ ] and assigned a uniform prior distribution , along with all of the other free parameters .",
    "although elliptical galaxies are well modelled by a sersic profile with @xmath16 , we are modelling this galaxy by _ two _ such profiles .",
    "this was done because the wings of the lens galaxy light profile ( where it overlaps the einstein ring ) are of great significance for our source reconstruction , and we do not want the core of the lens galaxy to be relevant to the wings .    note that there are parts of the image where flux is present from three sources : the lensed einstein ring , the wings of the psf from the quasar images , and the foreground lens galaxy .",
    "the fact these all overlap suggests that the optimal approach ( in all senses apart from cpu time ) involves simultaneously fitting all of these components . throughout this paper ,",
    "any modelling has included all of the lens galaxy profile parameters as free parameters , where computational restrictions required that we fix the lens parameters .",
    "] , as well as the source , lens model parameters and positions and brightnesses of the four tinytim psf profiles , to model the contribution from the quasar images that remains even after masking out their central regions .",
    "the particular lens model we assumed for this system was a pseudo - isothermal elliptical potential ( piep ) @xcite , primarily for computational speed but also because it is fairly general and realistic , at least for single galaxy lenses that are not too elliptical .",
    "this model has five parameters : strength @xmath17 , ellipticity @xmath18 ( actually the axis ratio : @xmath19 implies a circularly symmetric lens ) , orientation angle @xmath20 , and two parameters @xmath21 for the central position ( measured relative to the central pixel of the images in figure  [ data ] ) .",
    "although any bayesian modelling can only explore a particular slice through the full hypothesis space we might have in our minds , using a simplified analytical model is often sufficient to illuminate the general properties of the true lens mass distribution .",
    "also , it is typically the case that inferences about the source of an einstein ring are insensitive to the specific parameterisation for the lens model ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as long as the model is able to fit the observed image at all .",
    "all einstein rings can be expected to reside in an environment where the external shear due to neighbouring galaxies is nonzero ( kochanek , private communication ) , and thus , external shear was also included in the lens model .",
    "there are two parameters for the external shear : @xmath22 , its magnitude , and its orientation angle @xmath23 . @xcite",
    "have observed the flux ratios of the quasar images ( via integral field spectroscopy ) and found that most of these ratios are consistent with a model of this type ( elliptical potential plus external shear ) .",
    "a similar model was used by c06 ( they used a singular isothermal ellipse+@xmath22 ) , where they find that it is the simplest parameterised model that can reproduce the observations . in principle , we could adopt ever less restrictive parameterisations for the lens , to hunt for substructures in its density profile . however , such an approach is extraordinarily computationally expensive ( unless simplifying assumptions about the source are also made ) and is beyond the scope of this paper . in terms of all of these parameters ,",
    "the deflection angle formula , relating a point @xmath24 in the image plane to a corresponding point @xmath25 in the source plane , is @xmath26 where the deflection angles @xmath14 are given by the gradient of the potential @xmath27 and @xmath28 are the ray coordinates in the rotated coordinate system whose origin is @xmath29 and is aligned with the external shear ( i.e. rotated by an angle @xmath23 ) , and @xmath30 are the ray coordinates in the rotated and translated coordinate system centred at @xmath21 and oriented at an angle @xmath20 .",
    "the physical interpretation of each of these parameters suggests a plausible prior range for their values . to represent this knowledge we used the following prior distributions ( table  [ lenspriors ] ) .",
    "since these are broad distributions , and the data are good , the influence of these choices is negligible ; they are included for completeness .    [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      +    a preliminary investigation of the time delays predicted by our lens model suggests that it does not exactly reproduce the time delays measured by @xcite .",
    "since this system exhibits significant microlensing @xcite , the time delay measurements are uncertain , but it is possible that the piep+@xmath22 lens model will be ruled out by further observations",
    ". this would not be catastrophic for the present study , for several reasons .",
    "firstly , source reconstructions tend to be insensitive to slight misspecification of the lens model ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "secondly , all parameterisations are false .",
    "we already know from prior information that the lens is not _ really _ a piep+@xmath22 model .",
    "all modelling can only consider a single `` slice '' through a full hypothesis space , and the conclusions reached on that slice may or may not be representative of the full space .",
    "they often are , but there are never any guarantees .",
    "in this paper , we have presented a detailed gravitational lens reconstruction of the optical extended source in the einstein ring rxs j1131 - 1231 .",
    "the source is a medium sized galaxy ( @xmath1 8 kpc in visible extent ) with several compact bright emission regions .",
    "the substructures we found are in general agreement with those found by c06 in terms of their position , but we have shown that they are brighter and more compact than was previously determined .",
    "in addition , our reconstruction provides a clearer view of the substructures , including near the central regions of the source .",
    "the quasar resides in a bright emission region with an extent of about @xmath1 0.15 arcseconds or 1 kpc .",
    "it should be noted that the wavelength of the observations in the rest frame is 335 nm , so this reconstruction traces regions of recent star formation in the source galaxy .",
    "we have also directly compared point images vs extended images with regard to how well each is able to constrain the lens model .",
    "we found that there is a significant gain to be made in taking into account all of the information from the extended images .",
    "it has been suggested that this is not true in general @xcite , although it really depends on the resolution and number of extended images , which in this case is high .",
    "certainly , in using both , there is nothing to lose but cpu cycles .",
    "this system has the potential to become one of the most well - constrained gravitational lenses , with multiple images of the extended ring , quasar image positions and flux ratios in multiple bands , and time delay measurements available @xcite .",
    "hence , it should be possible to carry out a detailed kiloarametric study of its mass profile to shed some light on the dark matter halo of the lens galaxy .",
    "this paper was based on a single image of this system , the 555 nm acs image .",
    "other hst images at different wavelengths ( 814 nm , 1.6@xmath31 m ) are available ( c06 ) and can further constrain the lens model .",
    "simultaneous multi - wavelength reconstructions are now becoming routine ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "however , all of the structures in these images are in the same locations , and so a multi - wavelength reconstruction would not produce significantly different conclusions to those reached here .",
    "c06 note that in the near infrared image , the compact bright images are less pronounced compared to the diffuse background , which is what would be expected if the substructures are regions dense in hot young stars .",
    "this study has relied on a number of common assumptions that future research will seek to relax . extending lens reconstruction techniques to incorporate kiloparametric models of the source and",
    "the lens simultaneously is an ambitious task , but some steps are already being taken in that direction @xcite .",
    "flexible lens modelling plus information from time delay measurements and other sources would be extremely valuable for studies of galaxy dark matter haloes . also , explicit modelling of dust absorption by the lens galaxy is proving to be an important ingredient in the inversion of einstein rings and",
    "would be an essential part of future work on this system .",
    "bjb thanks olivia ross for encouragement , and dennis stello for allowing me to use his fast computer .",
    "this research is supported under the australian research council s discovery funding scheme ( project number dp0665574 ) and is part of the commonwealth cosmology initiative ( cci ) .",
    "the authors would like to thank jean - francois claeskens and dominique sluse for providing the acs data .",
    "the constructive comments of the anonymous referee helped us to improve the paper significantly ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a source and lens reconstruction for the optical einstein ring gravitational lens system rxs j1131 - 1231 . </S>",
    "<S> we resolve detail in the source , which is the host galaxy of a @xmath0 quasar , down to a resolution of 0.045 arc seconds ( this is the size of the smallest conclusively resolved structures , rather than the pixel scale ) , using a bayesian technique with a realistic model for the prior information . </S>",
    "<S> the source reconstruction reveals a substantial amount of complex structure in the host galaxy , which is @xmath1 8 kpc in extent and contains several bright compact substructures , with the quasar source residing in one of these bright substructures . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , we recover the mass distribution of the lensing galaxy , assuming a simply - parameterised model , using information from both the quasar images and the extended images . </S>",
    "<S> this allows a direct comparison of the amount of information about the lens that is provided by the quasar images in comparison to the extended images . in this system </S>",
    "<S> , we find that the extended images provide significantly more information about the lens than the quasar images alone , especially if we do not include prior constraints on the central position of the lens .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gravitational lensing  methods : statistical  galaxies : structure </S>"
  ]
}