{
  "article_text": [
    "precise measurements of hyperfine splittings of the ground and excited states are necessary to explore the complete dynamics of the electron cloud - nucleus interaction in the atom . new experimental approaches such as femtosecond frequency combs and small linewidth lasers together with laser cooling and trapping reach now increased accuracy for high precision studies of hyperfine structure in excited levels @xcite .",
    "this new wave of experiments has renewed the interest of theorists in predicting accurate electron - nucleus interactions .",
    "these calculations of hyperfine splittings in excited states , where electron correlations are less complicated , are more sensitive to nuclear structure details @xcite .    measurements of hyperfine splittings are also of interest to the atomic parity non - conservation ( pnc ) community .",
    "experiments of atomic pnc rely heavily on calculations of operator expectation values to extract from the experimental data information on the weak interaction .",
    "the accuracy of the calculations is gauged against expectations values of atomic properties such as energy levels , ionization energy , electric dipole operators of the electronic levels , fine and hyperfine splittings .",
    "the hyperfine splitting measurements , in particular , represent ideal benchmarks for the _ ab initio _ calculations of the electronic wave function at distances close to the nucleus @xcite .",
    "currently , the pnc _ ab initio _ calculations of theoretical groups using many body perturbation theory ( mbpt ) have reached a precision better than 1% @xcite .",
    "we present in this paper the details of the measurement of the hyperfine splitting of the 6s@xmath0 excited level in @xmath2rb and @xmath3rb @xcite .",
    "we perform the experiment in a glass cell with rubidium vapor with natural isotopic abundances under a controlled environment .",
    "we observe in our experimental data deviations from the assumed point interaction between the valence electron and the nucleus _",
    "i.e. _ a hyperfine anomaly , and find that a change in the distribution of the nuclear magnetization between isotopes explains the observation .",
    "the organization of the paper is as follows : section ii gives the theoretical background , section iii contains the methodology and experimental setup as well as the studies of possible systematic errors and results .",
    "section iv shows the comparison with theory and section v contains the conclusions .",
    "pauli suggested in 1924 that the `` hyperfine '' splittings observed in very precise spectroscopic studies of fine structure in atoms were due to the interaction between the atomic electrons and the magnetic moment of the nucleus @xcite .",
    "three years later back and goudsmit succeeded in analyzing the very small splittings of bismuth using the assumption of pauli and the coupling of angular momenta @xcite .",
    "theoretical predictions of the splittings were moderately successful in explaining the size of the experimental findings , mainly due to the complexity of the relativistic many - electron system .",
    "however , in the last twenty years there has been an exceptional output of very accurate theoretical results coming from mbpt culminating in the extraction of weak interaction couplings from the atomic pnc measurement in cs @xcite .",
    "there are currently proposals to perform a complementary pnc measurement in francium where calculations of atomic properties are reaching the precision of those in cesium @xcite .",
    "although a complete treatment requires a full relativistic theory , estimations of the interplay between the nuclear moments and the electromagnetic fields created by the electron following classical electrodynamics agree with the experimental results and provide physical insight of the phenomenon ( see for example refs.@xcite ) .",
    "we follow this approach in the discussion below .",
    "the interested reader should consult ref .",
    "@xcite for a relativistic derivation .",
    "two types of nucleus - electron interactions suffice to account for the hyperfine splitting in most atoms .",
    "the largest of the contributions comes from the nuclear magnetic dipole coupling to the magnetic field created by the electrons at the nucleus .",
    "the second one arises from the interaction between the nuclear electric quadrupole and the gradient of the electric field generated by the electrons at the nucleus .",
    "the latter vanishes for spherically symmetric charge distributions which correspond to electronic angular momentum @xmath5 equal to @xmath6 or @xmath7 .",
    "the hyperfine energy shift @xmath8 for these levels is @xcite : @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the total angular momentum , @xmath11 is the nuclear spin and @xmath1 is the magnetic dipole interaction constant .",
    "the derivation of @xmath1 for a hydrogen - like atom by fermi and segr assumes a point nuclear magnetic dipole @xcite @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the electronic wave function evaluated at the nucleus , @xmath14 is the bohr magneton , @xmath15 is the nuclear magneton and @xmath16 is the nuclear gyromagnetic factor .",
    "the nuclear magnetic dipole acquires an extra potential energy under an external dc magnetic field . for small values of the field",
    "( @xmath17 @xmath10 is a good quantum number and the energy of the system is given by @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the total g - factor , @xmath20 is the magnetic quantum number , @xmath21 is the magnetic field and e@xmath22 is the value of the energy at zero magnetic field . in this regime of small splittings compared to e@xmath22 , @xmath19 is given by : @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the electronic @xmath25-factor .",
    "hyperfine interactions represent a formidable many body problem .",
    "a thorough study must approach the problem from a relativistic standpoint which further complicates the interactions in a multi - electron atom . in recent years",
    "relativistic mbpt has shown itself to be a powerful and systematic way of extracting , from the high quality wave functions that it generates , precise atomic properties such as hyperfine splittings @xcite .",
    "the full method is outlined in ref.@xcite and references therein .",
    "briefly , the method , applied to alkali atoms , consists of evaluating a no - pair relativistic hamiltonian with coulomb interactions with a frozen core dirac - hartree - fock wave function of a one valence electron atom .",
    "the hamiltonian includes projection operators to positive energy states of the dirac hamiltonian .",
    "their presence gives normalizable , bound state solutions .",
    "the wave function contains single and double excitations to all orders ; these correspond to wave functions useful for calculating energy levels and transition matrix elements . in order to calculate accurate hyperfine constants",
    "a set of triple excitations has to be added .",
    "the evaluation of the wave function yields coupled equations that are solved iteratively for the excitation coefficients which are then used to obtain atomic properties .",
    "the calculations of the hyperfine constants are corrected for the finite size of the nuclear magnetic moment up to zeroth order only due to their small size in the lighter alkalies ( na , k , rb ) . in cesium and francium",
    "the correction becomes more important and is included to all orders .",
    "the calculation ignores isotopic changes of the magnetization distribution and it is modeled as a uniformly magnetized sphere for all the atoms .",
    "the magnetization radius used is equal to the charge radius and the neutron skin contribution is ignored .",
    "the atomic electron sees the nucleus , most of the time , as a structureless entity with a single relevant parameter , its charge @xmath26 .",
    "we should expect the electronic wave functions of different isotopes , to a very good approximation , to be the same .",
    "it follows then , using eq .",
    "[ magnetic dipole constant equation ] that @xmath27 where the superindex denotes the atomic number of the isotope .    however , high precision experiments show differences or anomalies from this description . it is necessary to consider the nucleus as an extended , structured object with specific finite magnetization and electric charge distributions for each isotope",
    "we can express the anomaly by writing the magnetic dipole constant of an extended nucleus @xmath28 as a small correction to @xmath29 @xcite      where @xmath31 represents the relativistic correction .",
    "the last two terms in parenthesis modify the hyperfine interaction to account for an extended nucleus .",
    "the breit - crawford - rosenthal - schawlow ( bcrs ) correction @xcite , the largest of the two , modifies the electronic wave function inside the nucleus as a function of the specific details of the nuclear charge distribution .",
    "the second one , the bohr - weisskopf ( bw ) correction @xcite , describes the influence on the hyperfine interaction of finite space distribution of the nuclear magnetization .",
    "direct extraction of hyperfine anomalies from the experimental data requires theoretical knowledge of both hyperfine structure constants and magnetic moments .",
    "however , the anomalies can still be observed from the measurements of the magnetic dipole constants in different isotopes and the values of the @xmath25-factors @xcite .",
    "deviations from eq .",
    "[ pointinteractionequality ] are expressed in terms of the hyperfine anomaly difference @xmath32 :              the interaction between an electron and an atomic nucleus is precisely described by the coulomb potential when both of them are far away from each other , no matter whether the nucleus is a point or an extended source . for interactions that require the nucleus and",
    "the electron to be at close distances , such as the hyperfine interaction , an @xmath36 potential is no longer adequate .",
    "the correction to the electronic wave function due to the modified nuclear potential is known as the breit - crawford - rosenthal - schawlow correction .",
    "calculations of @xmath37 take into consideration how the charge is distributed over the nucleus .",
    "rosenthal and breit considered for their calculation the charge to be on the surface of the nucleus @xcite .",
    "schawlow and crawford also calculated the change of the wave function except they considered the charge to be uniformly distributed in the nucleus @xcite .",
    "rosenberg and stroke proposed later on a third model to improve the agreement between theory and experiment : a diffuse nuclear charge distribution @xcite .",
    "the neutron and proton shells in rubidium determine the deformation as well as the spatial distribution of the nuclear charge .",
    "the neutron shell for @xmath3rb is closed at magic number @xmath38 making it impervious to the addition and substraction of nuclear matter @xcite .",
    "the substraction of two neutrons to form @xmath2rb does not affect significantly the electric charge distribution , and the electric potential , compared to the one from @xmath3rb , remains the same ( see fig .",
    "[ charge distribution figure ] ) .        where @xmath41 is a constant of order unity , @xmath42 , @xmath43 and @xmath44 are the bohr radius and electromagnetic coupling constant , respectively , r@xmath45 is the nuclear radius , and @xmath46 is related to the electronic angular momentum through the equation @xmath47 .",
    "table [ table bcrs correction ] shows the value of the correction for a uniformly distributed charge as well as the nuclear radius of each isotope employed in the calculation .                                                                      c.  thibault , f.  touchard , s.  bttgenbach , r.  klapisch , m.  de  saint  simon , h.  t. duong , p.  jacquinot , p.  juncar , s.  liberman , p.  pillet , j.  pinard , j.  l. vialle , a.  pesnelle , and g.  huber , phys .",
    "c 23 , 2720 ( 1981 ) .",
    "h.  t. duong , c.  ekstrm , m.  gustafsson , t.  t. inamura , and p.  juncar , p.  lievens , i.  lindgren , s.  matsuki , t.  murayama , r.  neugart , t.  nilsson , t.  nomura , m.  pellarin , s.  penselin , j.  persson , j.  pinard , i.  ragnarsson , o.  redi , h.  h. stroke , and j.  l. vialle , the isolde  collaboration , nuc .",
    "instr . and meth . a 325 , 465 ( 1993 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a measurement of the hyperfine splitting of the 6s@xmath0 excited level of rubidium using two photon absorption spectroscopy in a glass cell . </S>",
    "<S> the values we obtain for the magnetic dipole constant @xmath1 are 239.18(03 ) mhz and 807.66(08 ) mhz for @xmath2rb and @xmath3rb , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> the combination of the magnetic moments of the two isotopes and our measurements show a hyperfine anomaly in this atomic excited state . </S>",
    "<S> the observed hyperfine anomaly difference has a value of @xmath4 due to the finite distribution of nuclear magnetization , the bohr - weisskopf effect .    </S>",
    "<S> = 10000 </S>"
  ]
}