{
  "article_text": [
    "the majority of the thin disk forms out of gas quiescently cooling and collapsing inside the host dark matter halo following the last major merger @xcite .",
    "while the inner parts of the stellar thin disk are entangled with the pre - merger material , the outer parts evolve in relative solitude , modulo interactions with substructure components present within the host halo .",
    "the outer parts of galactic disks therefore provide us with a direct view of disk assembly in progress .    since @xcite it has been known that the surface brightness profiles of disk galaxies may not always follow a simple single - exponential law . in a recent work using data from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss )",
    ", @xcite showed that @xmath0 of nearby disk galaxies have downward - bending surface brightness breaks , traditionally termed `` truncations '' .",
    "disk breaks have also been observed in the distant universe out to a redshift of z@xmath11 @xcite , further implying that they are a generic feature of disk formation .",
    "several theories for the formation of downward - bending breaks have been suggested .",
    "the most common interpretations include angular momentum - limited collapse @xcite , star formation threshold either due to a critical gas density @xcite or a lack of a cool equilibrium ism phase @xcite .",
    "alternatively , breaks have also been attributed to angular momentum redistribution @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite ( hereafter r08 ) investigated the formation of outer disk breaks via @xmath2-body + smooth particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) simulations of an isolated galaxy forming through dissipational collapse . in the simulation , a break in the stellar mass density profile is seeded by a drop in the star formation rate , which is associated with a rapid drop in the gas surface density .",
    "however , the stellar profile extends by several kpc beyond the outermost star forming radius  the outer exponential is populated almost exclusively by stars that migrated there through resonant interactions with spiral arms .",
    "large migrations , which preserve the circularity of stellar orbits , are possible when stars are scattered by the corotation resonance of transient spirals @xcite .",
    "the disk breaks simulated in r08 are therefore a consequence of the interplay between a drop in the star formation rate and secular evolution driven primarily by recurring transient spirals .",
    "figure  [ fig : dens_plots ] shows the stellar surface density ( top panels ) and the associated mean age profiles ( bottom panels ) at three different times in the simulation .",
    "the break in the stellar surface density is associated with an inflection in the mean age profile , which is a direct result of substantial radial redistribution of stellar material .",
    "the outer disk thus offers an opportunity to gain insight into the radial migration process , which may significantly affect the entire disk .",
    "radial migration irreversibly alters the properties of the underlying disk stellar populations .",
    "disentangling the signatures of radial migration in the inner regions of disks , which have been heavily influenced by a myriad of other processes , is nontrivial .",
    "it is therefore imperative to attempt to learn about radial migration from the outer disks .",
    "a first clue that the evolution presented in r08 may be common is found in several of the galaxies presented in @xcite , where the drop in gas surface density corresponds to a break in the surface brightness profile and a minimum in the color profile ( see , for example , the profiles for ngc  3726 , ngc  4242 , and ngc  5371 ) . using multi - band photometry and stellar population synthesis models , @xcite presented radial stellar population trends for a sample of nearby galaxies . from their figure 20",
    ", it is apparent that age minima are common in the radial age profiles for the galaxies in their sample , though it is unclear whether those minima correspond to breaks in the stellar surface brightness .",
    "the minima do , in general , appear around 2  -  2.5 disk scale - lengths , which is also roughly the mean break scale radius observed in @xcite .",
    "this suggests that the age minima are indeed associated with profile breaks .",
    "a positive age gradient has also been observed beyond the break of m33 via cmd modeling of resolved stellar populations , but this result is also inconclusive because no age information exists for the inner disk regions @xcite . in ngc  7793 , the ghosts team has observed a flattening of the radial star - count profile beyond the break with increasing age of stellar population , which implies an increasing mean stellar age ( de jong & radburn - smith , _ private communication _ ) . however , as with the age profile of m33 , there is currently no information about the age gradient interior to the break of ngc  7793 .    in the case of the edge - on galaxy ngc  4244",
    ", observations of resolved stars reveal that the break in the stellar profile occurs in the same place for stars of all ages @xcite .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : edgeon ] , models presented in r08 naturally give rise to this phenomenon . in the absence of migration ,",
    "the observed stellar populations of ngc  4244 imply that either the star formation threshold has been in the same place for @xmath110 gyr , which seems unlikely given that disks are believed to form inside - out @xcite .",
    "alternatively , the break could have formed on timescales @xmath3  myr in order to produce the observed feature ( either by dynamics or sudden gas expulsion ) , which seems highly unlikely given that typical dynamical times in those parts of galactic disks are considerably longer .",
    "efficient radial migration coupled with a star formation threshold therefore provides a very plausible disk break formation mechanism for this particular galaxy .",
    "@xcite presented a detailed study of color gradients in a sample of disk galaxies from the goods - south field .",
    "their sample includes galaxies in the redshift range @xmath4 .",
    "they find that regardless of redshift , the galaxies with observed downward - bending breaks reveal a minimum in colors roughly analogous to rest - frame @xmath5 .",
    "importantly , the color profiles for the anti - truncated disks in their sample show no such feature , arguing against the possibility of a systematic observational error being responsible for the signature .",
    "it is possible that the positive color gradient beyond the break is caused by a change in the metallicity gradient .",
    "this seems unlikely given that the local sample of @xcite shows no pronounced inflections in the metallicity , while age minima are certainly present . according to the authors ,",
    "the most plausible explanation for the reversal of the color gradient in @xcite is that the age of the underlying stellar population increases beyond the break , in line with the theoretical predictions of r08 .    in summary ,",
    "these various observational results strongly imply that radial migration is indeed an important effect at all stages of spiral disk evolution .",
    "we have argued that outer disk breaks are a phenomenon that is not only common in observed systems , but that its mechanism of formation may provide important insights into disk evolution as a whole .",
    "substantial observational evidence taken in the context of recent theoretical models suggests that at least a fraction of outer parts of late - type galactic disks form due to substantial radial migration of fully - formed stellar material .",
    "such evolution affects these extreme outer regions of galaxies , and profoundly impacts the properties of stellar populations in the entire disk .              , r.  s. , seth , a.  c. , radburn - smith , d.  j. , bell , e.  f. , brown , t.  m. , bullock , j.  s. , courteau , s. , dalcanton , j.  j. , ferguson , h.  c. , goudfrooij , p. , holfeltz , s. , holwerda , b.  w. , purcell , c. , sick , j. , & zucker , d.  b. 2007 , _ apjl _ , 667 , l49"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the outer disks of galaxies present a unique laboratory for studying the process of disk formation . a considerable fraction of observed disks exhibit a break in their surface brightness profiles . </S>",
    "<S> the ubiquity of these features points to a crucial aspect of disk formation which must be explained . </S>",
    "<S> recent theoretical work suggests that such breaks are related to significant amounts of radial migration . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the current observational evidence which supports this picture . </S>"
  ]
}