{
  "article_text": [
    "numerous observational and theoretical studies of galaxy clusters and groups show that the astrophysical processes relevant for determining their properties are still poorly understood .",
    "hydrodynamical simulations of cluster formation which only include radiative cooling processes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suffer from excessive overcooling within the densest cluster regions , where gas cooling times are short .",
    "this translates into a very large fraction of cold gas and consequently a large amount of stars that would form out of it , reaching at least @xmath0 of the baryonic cluster content . while the associated removal of low - entropy gas from cluster centers breaks the self - similarity of the cluster scaling relations in a way that resembles observations @xcite , this ` cooling - only ' scenario is generally discounted because observed clusters do not show such strong cooling flows and enormously bright central galaxies .",
    "instead , it is widely believed that some non - gravitational energy input must strongly affect the physics of the intracluster medium ( icm ) .",
    "there has been considerable effort ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) to include feedback mechanisms associated with star formation in hydrodynamical simulations in order to reduce excessive overcooling in cluster cores .",
    "however , so far simulation models have failed to simultaneously reproduce the masses and colors of central galaxies , the observed temperature and metallicity profiles , as well as the observed x ",
    "ray luminosity - temperature ( @xmath1 ) relation . in particular , the x",
    " ray luminosities have been found to be substantially larger than the observed values @xcite on the group scale .",
    "furthermore the observed baryon fractions in clusters and groups are typically smaller than in simulations , which for ` standard ' physics invariably predict a value close to the universal cosmic baryon fraction ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "several attempts have been made to tackle these problems with so - called ` preheating ' schemes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , that are meant to mimic more energetic astrophysical processes than the relatively inefficient supernovae feedback .",
    "however , the preheating scenarios are physically not well motivated and rely on an ad - hoc choice of the amount and epoch of energy injection into the icm .    on the other hand",
    ", it is becoming increasingly clear that active galactic nuclei ( agn ) play an important role for understanding the properties of clusters and groups ( see * ? ? ? * for a recent review ) .",
    "also analytic work ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggests that including self - consistent feedback from agn in simulations might resolve the discrepancies by providing a heating mechanism that offsets cooling , lowers star formation rates and removes gas from the centers of poor clusters and groups , thereby reducing their x  ray luminosities to values compatible with the observed @xmath1 relation .    in this work",
    "we investigate whether agn feedback can indeed solve these problems by performing hydrodynamical simulations of galaxy clusters and groups that employ a state - of - the - art model @xcite for bh growth and associated feedback processes .",
    "we have selected a large sample of cluster- and group - sized halos from the millennium simulation @xcite and resimulated them at higher resolution , including a gaseous component and accounting for hydrodynamics , radiative cooling , heating by a uv background , star formation and supernovae feedback . for each halo ,",
    "two kinds of resimulations were performed .",
    "one containing the physics just described and an additional one including a model for bh growth and associated feedback processes as in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "this allows us to compare the very same clusters simulated with and without agn heating in order to clearly pin down the imprints of agn activity on galaxy cluster and group properties , and to which extent this resolves discrepancies with x  ray observations .",
    "in total we have selected @xmath2 millennium run dark matter ( dm ) halos at @xmath3 , and resimulated them at much higher mass and force resolution .",
    "the selection was only based on mass and otherwise random , aiming to approximately uniformly cover a large mass range from @xmath4 to @xmath5 .",
    "new initial conditions were created by populating the lagrangian region of each halo in the original initial conditions with more particles and adding additional small - scale power , as appropriate . at the same time , the resolution has been progressively reduced in regions that are sufficiently distant from the forming halo .",
    "gas has been introduced into the high - resolution region by splitting each parent particle into a gas and a dm particle .",
    "we have adopted the same flat @xmath6cdm cosmology as in the parent millennium simulation , namely @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "@xmath12 has been chosen so as to reproduce the cosmic baryon fraction inferred from current cosmological constraints @xcite .    in our high - resolution resimulations of halos with virial masses below @xmath13 ,",
    "the dm particle mass is @xmath14 , the gas particle mass is @xmath15 and the gravitational softening is @xmath16 comoving ( plummer - equivalent ) for redshift @xmath17 , which is then replaced with a physical softening of @xmath18 for @xmath19 . for four of these halos",
    "we have additionally performed very high resolution simulations with mass resolution improved by a factor @xmath20 .",
    "the change in halo properties resulting from this resolution increase is negligibly small , especially compared to the impact of the agn heating , indicating that results are approximately converged and our comparison is not affected by resolution issues . for the four most massive clusters we used a somewhat lower resolution with a dm particle mass of @xmath21 and a gas particle mass of @xmath22 .",
    "this makes these simulations computationally affordable , while assuring reasonable convergence .",
    "the simulations were run with the gadget-3 code ( based on * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which employs an entropy - conserving formulation of smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) .",
    "radiative cooling and heating was calculated for an optically thin plasma of hydrogen and helium , and for a time - varying but spatially uniform uv background .",
    "we did not include metal - cooling as we wanted to study the impact of agn feedback independently from the problems involved in following the metal - enrichment of the icm .",
    "one should keep in mind , however , that metal - cooling might have some effect on halo properties on the group scale .",
    "star formation and supernovae feedback were modeled with a subresolution multi - phase model for the interstellar medium as in @xcite .      here",
    "we summarize the main features of our model for incorporating bh growth and feedback in simulations ; full details are given in @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite . in short ,",
    "we assume that low - mass seed bhs are produced sufficiently frequently that any halo above a certain threshold mass contains one such bh at its center . in the simulations , an on - the - fly friends - of - friends group finder puts seed bhs with a mass of @xmath23 into halos when they exceed a mass of @xmath24 and do not contain any bh yet .",
    "the bhs are represented by collisionless sink particles and are allowed to grow by mergers with other bhs and by accretion of gas at the bondi - hoyle - lyttleton rate , but with the eddington limit additionally imposed .",
    "two bhs are merged when they fall within their local sph smoothing lengths and have small relative velocities .    motivated by growing theoretical and observational evidence that agn feedback is composed of two modes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , we use two distinct feedback models depending on the bh accretion rate ( bhar ) itself ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for large accretion rates above @xmath25 of the eddington rate , the bulk of agn heating",
    "is assumed to be in the form of radiatively efficient quasar activity with only a small fraction of the luminosity being thermally coupled to the icm .",
    "we adopt this thermal heating efficiency to be @xmath26 of the rest mass - energy of the accreted gas , which reproduces the observed relation between bh mass and bulge stellar velocity dispersion @xcite . for bhars below @xmath25 of the eddington rate",
    ", we assume that feedback is in a so - called `` radio - mode '' , where agn jets inflate hot , buoyantly rising bubbles in the surrounding icm .",
    "the duty cycle of bubble injection , energy content of the bubbles as well as their initial size are determined from the bhar .",
    "we assume the mechanical feedback efficiency provided by the bubbles to be @xmath27 of the accreted rest mass - energy , which is in good agreement with observations of x  ray luminous elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "it was shown in @xcite that this model leads to a self - regulated bh growth and brings bh and stellar mass densities into broad agreement with observational constraints .",
    "we obtain realistic x  ray luminosities and spectroscopic temperatures for each simulated halo by sorting the gas particles inside @xmath28 , the radius that encloses a mean density 500 times the critical density today , into temperature bins and summing up the emission measure for each bin . using the xspec package @xcite",
    ", we then simulate a spectrum of the x - ray emission in that region as a sum of mekal emission models @xcite , one for each temperature bin , assuming a constant metallicity of 0.3 times the solar value and using _ chandra _",
    "s response function . in order not to be limited by photon noise",
    "we adopted a large exposure time of @xmath29 .",
    "the combined spectrum of the emission inside @xmath28 is then fit by a single temperature mekal model with temperature , metallicity and normalization of the spectrum as free parameters .",
    "the resulting emission model then yields an estimate of the bolometric luminosity @xmath30 , while the spectroscopic temperature @xmath31 is taken directly from the fitted model .",
    "note , however , that we use the gas particles inside the three - dimensional radius @xmath28 to calculate @xmath30 , while we use the gas particles inside the projected radius @xmath28 to obtain @xmath31 .",
    "also note that we exclude very cold high - density gas particles with @xmath32 and densities above 500 times the mean baryon density as well as multiphase particles to avoid spurious contributions from the multiphase model for the star - forming gas .",
    "we focus in this work on how agn feedback affects the @xmath1 relation and the gas mass fractions in clusters .",
    "additional cluster properties and simulations where the feedback energy in the `` radio mode '' is not injected thermally but in the form of cosmic rays @xcite will be discussed in a forthcoming companion paper .      in figure  [",
    "fig : gas_fractions ] , we show the ratio of gas mass to total mass inside the radius @xmath28 as a function of halo x  ray temperature . for each simulated halo , arrows connect the results obtained without and with agn heating . for comparison ,",
    "we show constraints on halo gas fractions obtained from x  ray observations @xcite .",
    "also shown are gas fractions we computed from the gas density and temperature profile parameters given in @xcite .",
    "the most obvious effect of the agn feedback is the significantly reduced gas fraction at the low temperature end of our sample , i.e. in poor clusters and groups .",
    "there the agn heating drives a substantial fraction of the gas to radii outside of @xmath28 .",
    "this lowers halo gas fractions in spite of the reduced fraction of gas that is converted into stars in the runs with agn",
    ". the potential wells of massive clusters are , on the other hand , too deep for agn heating to efficiently remove gas from them .",
    "thus the effect of the suppressed star formation becomes more important or even dominant towards more massive systems . while the gas fraction in the very inner regions of massive clusters is somewhat reduced by the agn",
    ", we find it unchanged or slightly increased within @xmath28 .",
    "given that agn heating removes gas from the centers of poor clusters and groups , it is no surprise that it also suppresses their x  ray luminosities and affects the @xmath1 relation . in figure",
    "[ fig : l_x - t_relation ] , we plot the x  ray luminosities @xmath30 against the spectroscopic temperatures @xmath31 , for all halos of our sample .",
    "the arrows indicate the change due to the agn feedback for each halo .",
    "data from a number of observational x  ray studies is shown for comparison @xcite .    without the agn feedback ,",
    "we obtain substantially larger x  ray luminosities for poor clusters than observed , while for massive clusters there is reasonable agreement .",
    "this finding is in line with previous numerical studies ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and is a manifestation of the long - standing problem to explain the scaling relations of galaxy clusters in hydrodynamical simulations .",
    "however , when we employ the model for bh growth and feedback the discrepancies between simulated and observed @xmath33 relation are resolved . in particular ,",
    "the @xmath33 relation on the group scale is steepened significantly , as agn heating removes a larger fraction of gas from smaller halos and thereby reduces their x  ray luminosity . for massive clusters , the effect of the feedback is less important .",
    "overall , the @xmath33 relation obtained from the simulations with agn feedback is consistent with observations at all mass scales , from massive clusters to small groups .",
    "note that while the @xmath33 relation of massive clusters is in a reasonable agreement with observations even without the agn feedback , this is only because an unrealistically large amount of cold gas , which is eventually converted into stars , is produced so that the stellar fractions within the virial radius reach of order of @xmath34 , in clear conflict with observations . on the other hand ,",
    "agn - heated massive clusters not only lie closer to the observed @xmath33 relation but also have much lower stellar fractions which are reduced by at least one third .",
    "especially their central galaxy is prevented from becoming too bright , due to the suppression of strong cooling flows .",
    "also , the mass fraction of stars bound to cluster galaxies agrees very well with observations in our simulations with agn .",
    "there is also a significant component of intra - cluster stars of up to 50% which lies at the upper end of the observational estimates ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* for an overview ) .",
    "we have performed very high - resolution numerical simulations of a mass - selected sample of galaxy clusters and groups . in order to investigate whether agn feedback makes simulations and x  ray observations of cluster and groups compatible ,",
    "we have carried out two kinds of simulations for each halo , namely ( 1 ) hydrodynamical simulations with a treatment of radiative cooling , star formation , supernovae feedback , and heating by a uv background , and ( 2 ) simulations that additionally employ a model for black hole growth and associated feedback processes .",
    "our main findings are :    * agn feedback significantly lowers the gas mass fractions in poor clusters and groups , even though fewer baryons are turned into stars at the same time .",
    "this is because the agn heating drives gas from halo centers to their outskirts . in massive clusters , on the other hand",
    ", it mainly lowers the central gas density and substantially reduces the amount of stars formed .",
    "overall , both the gas and stellar fractions of the whole sample of our simulated groups and clusters are in a much better agreement with observations when agn are included than in simulations without agn .",
    "* agn feedback significantly reduces the x  ray luminosities of poor clusters and groups , while the x  ray temperature within @xmath35 stays roughly the same or is even slightly reduced .",
    "this results in a steepening of the @xmath1 relation on the group scale . *",
    "the @xmath1 relation obtained from simulations with agn feedback is in excellent agreement with observations at all mass scales .",
    "we find it extremely encouraging that this simple model for bh growth and feedback is capable of bringing the analyzed properties of galaxy clusters and groups into much better agreement with observations .",
    "this not only resolves a long - standing problem in their hydrodynamical modeling , but also opens up new exciting possibilities for using numerical simulations to investigate the properties of clusters and groups , and their co - evolution with central supermassive bhs .",
    "also , it considerably brightens the prospects to use simulations of cluster formation to accurately calibrate and correct systematic effects in future x - ray and sunyaev - zeldovich cluster surveys .",
    "this is essential for the exploitation of the full potential of clusters as cosmological probes to accurately constrain the expansion history of the universe .",
    "we thank simon white , martin haehnelt , klaus dolag and gabriel pratt for constructive discussions .",
    "d.s . acknowledges postdoctoral fellowship from the stfc .",
    "part of the simulations were run on the cambridge hpc cluster darwin ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recently , rapid observational and theoretical progress has established that black holes ( bhs ) play a decisive role in the formation and evolution of individual galaxies as well as galaxy groups and clusters . in particular , there is compelling evidence that bhs vigorously interact with their surroundings in the central regions of galaxy clusters , indicating that any realistic model of cluster formation needs to account for these processes . </S>",
    "<S> this is also suggested by the failure of previous generations of hydrodynamical simulations without bh physics to simultaneously account for the paucity of strong cooling flows in clusters , the slope and amplitude of the observed cluster scaling relations , and the high - luminosity cut - off of central cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> here we use high - resolution cosmological simulations of a large cluster and group sample to study how bhs affect their host systems . </S>",
    "<S> we focus on two specific properties , the halo gas fraction and the x  ray luminosity - temperature scaling relation , both of which are notoriously difficult to reproduce in self - consistent hydrodynamical simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we show that bh feedback can solve both of these issues , bringing them in excellent agreement with observations , without alluding to the ` cooling only ' solution that produces unphysically bright central galaxies . by comparing a large sample of simulated agn - heated clusters with observations , </S>",
    "<S> our new simulation technique should make it possible to reliably calibrate observational biases in cluster surveys , thereby enabling various high - precision cosmological studies of the dark matter and dark energy content of the universe . </S>"
  ]
}