{
  "article_text": [
    "gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) have remained as an outstanding problem in astrophysics since their discovery in 1967 @xcite .",
    "major advances in their understanding came through observational breakthroughs following batse , which provided an extensive all - sky catalog @xcite and the identification of counterparts at lower energies at high redshift @xcite through beppo sax @xcite and swift @xcite .",
    "isotropic equivalent energies range from @xmath0  erg  s@xmath1 to @xmath2  erg  s@xmath1 , coming from sources at redshifts as high as @xmath3 that are randomly distributed over the sky @xcite .",
    "grbs are commonly divided into short ( sgrbs , less than 2 seconds in duration , typically at redshift @xmath4 and frequently in host galaxies with low star formation rates ( sfrs ) ) and long ( lgrbs , longer than 2 seconds , residing at @xmath5 in star forming galaxies ) events .",
    "an additional distinction is that those of the short variety tend to have harder spectra , hence the short - hard / long - soft denomination @xcite .",
    "recently there appears to be a substantial and , in some respects , puzzling overlap between the two populations , and it has been suggested that a third group or even a new classification is necessary @xcite .",
    "the energy release , short duration , and variability time scales associated with grbs favor accretion onto compact objects , or magnetically powered events from such objects , as their ultimate source .",
    "many models have been suggested over the years , a number of which were discarded once the global energy budget was fixed through the resolution of the distance scale to the sources . among the early proposals still considered are compact binary mergers @xcite , magnetars @xcite and the collapse of massive stellar cores @xcite , see @xcite for reviews",
    ".    in general , accretion onto a central object can proceed and release gravitational binding energy efficiently if the gas can cool or otherwise lose its internal energy e.g. , through advection , and thus move down in the potential well @xcite . at the usual astrophysical scales",
    ", this occurs through photons , and produces phenomena ranging from active galactic nuclei ( agn ) to low mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) .",
    "if the accretion rate is too high though , the fluid may become so optically thick to the photons that they become trapped and are unable to cool the gas . at even higher accretion rates ,",
    "a different mechanism enters the picture , namely , neutrino cooling .",
    "this regime is termed  hypercritical \" , since it is far above the usual eddington limit for photons , and is relevant , for example , in post - supernova cores and the associated fall back , as was probably the case in sn1987a @xcite .",
    "it is this phenomenon that is now thought possible of generically powering grbs .",
    "the question at the forefront of attention has been how to achieve these conditions in an astrophysical setting .",
    "there has been mounting evidence in the past few years linking lgrbs at low redshift with type ic sne , with spatial and temporal coincidences for a number of events @xcite .",
    "@xcite linked for the first time a lgrb with a sn ( grb980425 with sn1998bw ) . after 27 days the optical spectrum of grb980425 resembled that of a h - deficient type ic sn . to date",
    "there have been at least 6 other lgrb / sn connections : xrf020903 @xcite ; grb021211 with sn2002lt @xcite ; grb030329 with sn2003dh ( whose optical spectrum afterglow was strikingly similar to that of sn1998bw @xcite ) ; grb031203 with sn2003lw @xcite ; grb050525a with sn2005nc @xcite ; and grb060218 with sn2006aj @xcite .",
    "in addition , lgrbs in general are associated with low metallicity star - forming regions in their host galaxies @xcite suggesting a link to massive stars @xcite .",
    "the observational association with sne has given support to the idea that lgrbs are produced in the collapse of massive stellar cores .",
    "@xcite developed this in great detail in the collapsar scenario , assuming a black hole ( bh ) is formed at the center and evaluating the potential to produce a grb . the infalling stellar material that is not ejected in the usual sn forms a massive , dense and hot accretion disk which releases the necessary energy to power the burst",
    "they distinguished between type i and type ii collapsars : the former entails the direct collapse of the iron core to a bh , while in the latter initially a proto - neutron star lies at the center of the star , and later collapses to a bh once it has accreted a sufficient amount of mass .",
    "a grb may be produced even if there is no bh at the center in a magnetically dominated explosion during the proto - neutron star phase of the collapse @xcite .",
    "here , we will focus on type i collapsars .",
    "the absence of h lines in the observed grb / sn spectra implies that the progenitor has somehow lost its envelope , perhaps through interaction with a binary companion and/or strong winds , and is thus essentially a wolf - rayet ( wr ) star @xcite .    in the standard version of the collapsar ,",
    "the grb / sn link is a quite natural consequence , and observed associations have thus provided a strong motivation in this sense to study it further .",
    "typical lgrbs have @xmath6 , which is too far for a sn counterpart to be detected , and indeed , the cases in which there is such a correspondence all lie at fairly low redshift .",
    "two recent events however , grb060505 and grb 060614 @xcite , have pointed perhaps to a different situation in which the grb is _ not _ accompanied by a sn .",
    "their low redshift allowed deep searches which convincingly ruled out the presence of an underlying type ic stellar explosion of the kind seen in sn1998bw and sn2003dh , and particularly , the host of grb060505 is a star - forming galaxy , similar to that of typical lgrbs @xcite .",
    "we explore here how the initial angular momentum distribution in the star , and possibly the vigor of angular momentum transport within the centrifugally supported accretion disk , may furnish a key ingredient to understand this behavior .",
    "an important point is that despite considerable effort ( see @xcite ) , the stellar rotation rate in pre - sn cores is not fully determined .",
    "it can sensitively depend on evolutionary details , such as mass loss on the main sequence and the stellar magnetic field , which both lead to important spin down in later stages @xcite .",
    "binary interactions may also affect the rotation rate through tidal interactions @xcite .",
    "we note that @xcite , and @xcite , have identified a channel for massive stars in which mass and angular momentum losses are greatly reduced by complete mixing in the main sequence and the consequent absence of a giant phase .",
    "what we do know is that the specific angular momentum , @xmath7 , needed to form a disk around the bh is at least the value of the innermost stable circular orbit @xmath8 ( @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the schwarzschild radius ) times the velocity of the particles ( which are very close to the speed of light ) .",
    "so , a first estimate for the critical j would be @xmath11  @xmath12  s@xmath1 for a one solar mass bh ( the true critical value is @xmath13 , see sextion  3.1 ) .",
    "most studies of collapsars and neutrino - dominated accretion flows @xcite have considered angular momentum distributions that are well above this limit and essentially guarantee the formation of a centrifugally supported accretion disk ( in stellar core collapse calculations as well as disk evolution studies ) . in practice , there is also something akin to a maximum value of angular momentum for the collapsar model to work , since for very rapid rotation the accretion disk forms at large radii and the binding energy can not be effectively dissipated as neutrinos @xcite .",
    "clearly in the limit of slow rotation the accretion disk will form very near the bh , and so general relativity ( gr ) will play an important role in its evolution .",
    "our general objective is to explore the morphology , energy release , and observable signatures of hypercritical accretion flows from massive stellar core collapse for a range of angular momentum values covering the transition from centrifugally supported disks to near radial inflow ( lying below those usually considered in collapsar calculations ) in order to better understand the possible production of lgrbs as well as their putative progenitors .",
    "we improve upon previous studies @xcite in significant ways by considering more detailed thermodynamics in the equation of state , an improved treatment of neutrinos , and through realistic initial conditions taken from evolutionary calculations of @xcite .",
    "we first describe the input physics and numerical setup in section  [ sec : input ] , followed by our results in section  [ sec : results ] .",
    "prospects for grb production and the link between sn and grbs are given in section  [ sec : conc ] .",
    "we use a detailed equation of state @xcite where the total pressure , @xmath14 , contains contributions from an ideal gas of @xmath15 particles and free nucleons in nuclear statistical equilibrium ( nse ) , @xmath16 , blackbody radiation , @xmath17 ( the optical depth to photons in the gas is such that they are fully trapped ) , neutrinos , @xmath18 , and relativistic electron / positron pairs of arbitrary degeneracy , @xmath19 @xcite .",
    "we allow for neutronization and a correspondingly variable electron fraction @xmath20 by requiring charge neutrality and equilibrium in weak interactions , depending on whether the fluid is optically thick or thin to its own neutrino emission @xcite .",
    "the physical conditions in the accretion flow within the collapsing stellar core are such that the temperature and density is @xmath21  k , and @xmath22  g  @xmath23 respectively . thus the reaction rates that will dominate the neutrino emissivities , @xmath24 ,",
    "are @xmath25 capture onto free nucleons ( @xmath26 ) and @xmath25 annihilation ( @xmath27 ) , for which we use the tables of @xcite and the fitting functions of @xcite , respectively.nucleon bremsstrahlung was also computed and found to be insignificant compared to capture and annihilation . ] finally , photodisintegration and synthesis of @xmath15 particles can also cool or heat the gas , and is correspondingly accounted for ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "if the fluid is optically thin , the total cooling is simply the sum of the emissivities described above . at a finite optical depth , we may split it into scattering and absorption components as @xmath28 , where the absorption term is due to the inverse reaction of @xmath25 capture onto protons or neutrons , @xmath29 , and @xmath30 annihilation , @xmath31 @xcite : @xmath32 with @xmath33 @xmath34 being the pressure scale height in the disk and @xmath35 the stefan@xmath36boltzmann constant .    the contribution from scattering off free nucleons",
    "is @xmath37 where @xmath38 and @xmath39 are the neutron and proton fractions , @xmath40 , @xmath41/24 $ ] , @xmath42 , @xmath43 , @xmath44  @xmath12 , and @xmath45 @xcite and the rest of the symbols have their usual meanings .    to compute the internal energy , cooling rate , and pressure due to neutrinos we used a two - stream approximation @xcite : @xmath46 @xmath47 and @xmath48 the total neutrino luminosity ( in erg  s@xmath1 )",
    "is then calculated through @xmath49          our initial data were taken from the one - dimensional pre - sn calculations of @xcite .",
    "specifically we considered model 16ti , a rapidly rotating ( @xmath50  km  s@xmath1 at the equator ) , 16@xmath51 wr star of low metallicity ( 1% solar ) , low mass loss ( 2@xmath51 loss at the end of the evolution ) , with an iron core surrounded by silicon and oxygen , neon and carbon shells .",
    "the density , temperature , and radial velocity distributions as functions of the spherical radius , @xmath52 , were mapped onto a two - dimensional configuration assuming spherical symmetry .",
    "we further suppose that the low angular momentum iron core ( with mass @xmath53 ) will promptly collapse to a bh ( possibly producing a type  i collapsar , see section  [ sec : intro ] ) and thus condense all of this matter onto the origin in a point mass at the start of the simulation , when the surrounding envelope begins its infall .",
    "the calculations are performed with a two - dimensional smooth particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) code @xcite in cylindrical coordinates @xmath54 with azimuthal symmetry @xcite and a reflecting boundary along the polar axis ( no reflection about the @xmath55 plane is assumed ) .",
    "the inner and outer boundaries were set at spherical radii @xmath56  cm and @xmath57  cm , respectively , with free outflow conditions imposed during the simulation .",
    "any material crossing the inner boundary is assumed to be accreted by the bh , whose mass is correspondingly updated .",
    "matter lost through the outer boundary is not followed .",
    "we solved the continuity , momentum , and energy equations , including the terms arising from the full viscous stress tensor @xmath58 @xcite , and took the @xmath15 prescription @xcite for the coefficient of viscosity , @xmath59 , where @xmath60 is the local sound speed and @xmath61 is the pressure scale height ( @xmath62 is the local keplerian orbital angular frequency ) . doing the calculation in two dimensions allows for good spatial resolution , a considerable simulated interval and a solid discussion of angular momentum and viscosity effects .",
    "the initial profile is reproduced with a monte carlo accept / reject procedure , typically with @xmath63 sph particles in the computational domain .",
    "the spatial resolution is intrinsically adaptive in this numerical scheme and varies greatly , increasing at small radii ( or equivalently , high densities ) with a typical smoothing length of few @xmath64  m in the inner disks formed .",
    "the gravitational potential of the bh is computed with the pseudo - newtonian expression of @xcite : @xmath65 which approximates gr effects in the inner regions for a nonrotating ( schwarzschild ) bh . in particular",
    ", it reproduces the position of the innermost stable circular orbit at @xmath66 , as well as the marginally bound orbit at @xmath67 .",
    "the mass in the collapsing envelope is comparable to that of the bh , so one should consider self - gravity .",
    "we assume that the mass distribution remains roughly spherical , so a mass element at spherical radius @xmath68 is affected only by the matter distribution at radii @xmath69 as if it were concentrated at the center of the star .",
    "this , while strictly valid only for configurations with spherical symmetry , is nevertheless a good approximation for the present set of calculations , since deviations in the mass distribution indeed remain small .",
    "figure  [ ic ] shows the initial density , temperature , and radial velocity profiles in the pre - sn star as functions of spherical radius , taken from @xcite .",
    "consider a nonrotating bh surrounded by rotating material distributed in spherical symmetry with vanishing pressure . for a distribution of specific angular momentum increasing monotonically with respect to the polar angle",
    ", flowlines in the polar regions will be qualitatively different than those near the equator , and can be divided into three types : ( 1 ) those with very little angular momentum , moving nearly radially into the bh ; ( 2 ) those with high angular momentum which can find a point where centrifugal support balances the gravitational field ( the circularization radius ) ; and ( 3 ) those that would accrete onto the central mass but cross the equatorial plane , @xmath55 , before doing so . recall that in gr capture orbits exist even for nonvanishing angular momentum , and the critical value defining this class of solutions is @xmath70 . here",
    "we will consider @xmath71 as high angular momentum , and @xmath72 as low .",
    "this general situation has been considered before in the context of lmxbs by @xcite , and for accretion modes in collapsars by @xcite ( an analytical derivation of low angular momentum flow lines in gr has been carried out by @xcite ) .",
    "encountering the centrifugal barrier or a flowline from the opposite hemisphere can lead to a shock ( and thus hydrodynamical effects ) in which the kinetic energy is efficiently converted into thermal energy .",
    "if the material does not have enough angular momentum to remain in orbit , it will fall onto the bh due to gr effects , _ even in the absence of any angular momentum transport mechanism _ through a fast , nearly _",
    "inviscid _ disk . for high angular momentum , a disk ( with scale height @xmath34 and typical radius @xmath73 ) forms in the equatorial plane , and",
    "if cooling occurs some of this energy will be lost from the system through photons or neutrinos , depending on the physical conditions . for efficient cooling",
    "the disk will be nearly isothermal and geometrically thin , with @xmath74 . in the opposite adiabatic regime",
    "it can be quite thick , and @xmath75 .",
    "energy dissipation will in general circularize motions at a radius given by the local value of angular momentum , and if any of this is subsequently removed ( through any mechanism ) , or it is already below the critical value , the material inside the disk may move radially and possibly be accreted by the bh .",
    "the size and geometry of the newly formed disk thus reflects : ( 1 ) the angular momentum distribution , fixing the point where the centrifugal barrier is encountered ; ( 2 ) the mass accretion rate , giving the total gravitational energy which can be converted into thermal energy ; ( 3 ) the cooling rate , determining the disk geometry ; ( 4 ) the value of the @xmath15 parameter , responsible for angular momentum transport .    in general , previous collapsar studies or neutrino - dominated accretion flow studies",
    "have considered cases where @xmath76 @xcite .",
    "only recently has the low angular momentum regime in the collapsar context been addressed @xcite , showing the presence of the small _ dwarf _ disk as described above . for @xmath77 , a thick disk forms , supplying the bulk of the neutrino luminosity from a shocked toroidal region around the bh .",
    "more recently , @xcite considered the minimum angular momentum required for disk formation , taking into account that the accretion of mass by the central object raises the angular momentum threshold as the stellar core collapses .",
    "we explored the dynamical evolution for different values of the @xmath15 viscosity parameter ( see table  1 ) , and more importantly , different values of angular momentum , which were always separated into radial , @xmath52 , and polar angle , @xmath78 ( measured form the rotation axis ) , variations as @xmath79 .",
    "for the radial component , @xmath80 , we considered constant values with radius ( see table  1 ) .",
    "we will consider more realistic distributions of @xmath80 in future work ( d. lopez - camara et al .",
    "2008 , in preparation ) . in all cases the initial distribution for @xmath81 corresponded to rigid body rotation on shells , @xmath82 .",
    ".model parameters [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     second , the morphology of the flow may be influenced by the available energy sinks ( e.g. , advection , neutrino losses ) allowed in a calculation .",
    "dissipation in the disk through viscosity adds to the internal energy reservoir .",
    "if it is allowed to escape with moderate efficiency the vertical scale height will be limited .",
    "otherwise the disk will tend to expand in response , or possibly drive winds from its surface .",
    "in the original collapsar calculation of @xcite , strong winds driven from the surface of the disk at small radii were reported for one calculation , with @xmath83 .",
    "calculations with a smaller dissipation rate did not exhibit this feature .",
    "for now , our computations do not span such a long time interval , but the essential morphological features ( expanding outer accretion shock , hot torus , and dense inner disk ) are well established by 0.4  s. we intend to further explore these issues in a second set of simulations with varying angular momentum distributions .",
    "any potential outflows emanating from the inner regions could have a significant impact on the observable signature of the stellar collapse , and so this deserves careful consideration .      the mass accretion rate @xmath84 was computed at the inner boundary @xmath85  km and is shown in figure  [ mdot1 ] for three runs with the same value of @xmath83 , and different angular momentum @xmath86 .",
    "the corresponding neutrino luminosity is plotted in the top panel of figure  [ lum1 ] . the initial delay of about 0.1 seconds represents the infall time from the outer boundary of the iron core .",
    "thereafter the accretion rate and the luminosity rise rapidly , reaching approximately 0.6 solar masses per second and @xmath87  erg  s@xmath1 respectively .",
    "the inner disk is responsible for most of the energy release , and its formation and steady configuration for the next 0.1 - 0.2 seconds produce a nearly constant accretion rate and luminosity .",
    "the efficiency @xmath88 during this period is approximately 0.01 and 0.001 , for high and low angular momentum , respectively , reflecting the increased importance of advection when the flow is quasi - radial .",
    "note that despite the absence of a centrifugal barrier and a dense disk , the configuration with low angular momentum is capable of significant energy release ( @xmath89  erg  s@xmath1 ) .",
    "the launching of the accretion shock after a few tenths of a second leads to a drop in both the accretion rate and the luminosity , while maintaining a nearly constant efficiency . for @xmath90",
    "the outwardly propagating shock eventually perturbs the mass flux to the inner disk before reaching the outer boundary used in the calculation .",
    "the higher mass accretion rate at low angular momentum ( below the critical value ) is due to gr effects but does not initially translate into a higher luminosity because the material falls nearly radially into the bh and is unable to radiate efficiently .    ) for a fixed @xmath15 with different angular momentum values : @xmath91 ( red solid line ) , @xmath92 ( green dashed line ) , and @xmath93 ( blue dotted line).,scaledwidth=60.0% ]     for a fixed value of @xmath83 and different angular momentum values : @xmath91 ( red solid line ) , @xmath92 ( green dashed line ) , and @xmath93 ( blue dotted line ) .",
    "lower panel : neutrino luminosity @xmath94 for a fixed angular momentum @xmath95 and varying @xmath96 ( red solid line ) , @xmath97 ( green dashed line ) , and @xmath83 ( blue dotted line ) .",
    ", scaledwidth=100.0% ]    neutrino luminosities for a fixed value of angular momentum ( @xmath98 ) and varying efficiency of viscous transport are shown in the bottom panel of figure  [ lum1 ] .",
    "a moderate to null viscosity is in this early stage the most efficient at producing neutrinos in spite of the lower dissipation rate since very efficient angular momentum transport drains the inner disk much too rapidly .",
    "previous studies @xcite have shown that at very high accretion rates , greater than approximately one solar mass per second , the neutrino luminosity saturates and the accretion efficiency decreases , inhibiting the driving of winds from the disk @xcite . for the cases computed here ,",
    "regardless of the actual value of angular momentum considered , the flow never becomes strongly opaque to its own neutrino emission in the sense that the emitted energy is able to escape , thus avoiding this limitation .",
    "resolving this issue in more detail requires exploring a wider range of progenitors and longer timescales than those considered here and is beyond the scope of the present paper .",
    "as with all numerical work , the choices made in carrying out the simulations reflect intentions and biases , and the current investigation lacks in several aspects . for example , being a two - dimensional calculation , self - gravity has been considered only in an approximate manner , and stability issues that relate to this or are intrinsically three - dimensional ( such as spiral arms ) are ignored .",
    "magnetic fields have not been included and are in all likelihood important in several aspects , two of which deserve special mention .",
    "the first is simply that magnetic fields are thought to be at the origin of the magneto rotational instability ( mri ) @xcite responsible for angular momentum transport and dissipation , which we have considered through the @xmath15 parameter .",
    "the mri likely operates in collapsars , although the details of how it does so are likely to be different than what we can infer about it from theory and observation of accretion disks in cvs and x - ray binaries in a more leisurely state of affairs .",
    "the second point is related to the importance of magnetic pressure in possible outflows emanating from a disk .",
    "detailed gr mhd calculations @xcite show that a flow starting from an equilibrium torus develops the mri and produces an inner dense disk , a funnel wall , and a corona around the central bh .",
    "gas pressure dominates largely in the first , so our hydrodynamical solution to the inner disk is likely to be a realistic approximation , while magnetic pressure is relatively more important in the other two , and being polar structures they are important for the driving of outflows and energy release in the context of grbs @xcite . for very rapidly rotating bhs ,",
    "@xcite have shown that the magnetic field can actually have a dynamical effect on the mass accretion rate , suppressing it in the inner regions ( in their case the kerr parameter was @xmath99 ) , although a full evaluation of this deserves further study .",
    "gr , approximated in this work simply by use of the paczyski  wiita potential , is likely to play a role as well .",
    "the location of the horizon and last stable orbit are functions of the rotation of the bh , lying at @xmath100 and @xmath101 for @xmath102 respectively , and this is important since most of the energy is released at small radii . for our purposes , however , they are not likely to be crucial since the relevant radii shift appreciably only for very rapidly rotating holes ( with @xmath103 above 0.7 or so ) , and the progenitor stars do not easily reach such high values ( model 16ti has @xmath104 ) .",
    "a secondary aspect of gr is related to the efficiency for @xmath105 annihilation and the corresponding energy release .",
    "some energy is directly lost to the bh because of the strong gravitational field , while focusing increases the annihilation efficiency .",
    "recently @xcite have carefully computed the energy deposition rates and efficiencies for annihilation in the kerr metric for various bh spin rates and flow geometries .",
    "they find that the power output is affected by approximately up to a factor of 2 , depending on whether the disk is geometrically thin or thick ( or even for spherical configurations of the neutrinosphere ) .",
    "thus the general energy scale is affected , but not crucially so .    on the other hand ,",
    "our effort has been directed here at improving the thermodynamical treatment and that of neutrinos , as well as in considering realistic initial conditions derived from stellar evolution calculations .",
    "the choice of inner boundary means that the dense , inner disk producing most of the luminosity is well resolved and treated appropriately . a final point that deserves",
    "improvement is clearly the distribution of angular momentum , since having a constant value at all radii is not realistic .",
    "we have chosen it for now to gauge the effect of other changes when compared to previous work , and provide a guide in further investigation , which will fully explore situations in which the radial part is a characteristic function of radius ( d. lopez - camara et al .",
    "2008 , in preparation ) .",
    "the fact that we have placed the inner numerical boundary fairly close to the bh ( at @xmath106  km ) allows us to directly and more realistically compute the energy release ( obviously at the cost of a shorter simulation in time ) .",
    "this is similar to what was done by @xcite and so we can directly compare the two sets of results .",
    "the two most important differences between the two studies are in the use of a better equation of state and neutrino treatment here , and in the use of initial models taken from stellar evolution calculations .",
    "the neutrino luminosities are higher in the present study , partly because of the more realistic physics employed , but also because of the initial conditions , which directly result in higher accretion rates and densities .",
    "since the cooling rate from captures scales with the density , this fact alone will raise the luminosity .",
    "the rates are quite sensitive to the temperature , but the rise in the postshock material is mostly due to the infall kinetic energy per unit mass and is fixed by the potential well of the central bh .",
    "it is clear as well , from the results presented for simplified cases in the adiabatic and isothermal limits , and from the computation of the kelvin ",
    "helmholtz timescale , that correctly accounting for the energy sinks is a crucial ingredient if one wishes to estimate the global energy release and flow properties .",
    "finally , the emergent neutrino spectrum is a function of the angular momentum of the infalling gas , through the selection of the dominant cooling mechanism .",
    "this is admittedly a difficult issue to resolve observationally , but may impact upon the energy deposition rate .",
    "the two most important variables that determine the global morphology are the rotation rate , quantified here through the distribution of specific angular momentum , and the strength of angular momentum transport , parameterized through the prescription of shakura & sunyaev .",
    "it is interesting to note that for high angular momentum ( larger than the threshold for disk formation ) , viscous dissipation is responsible for the production of large - scale flows , namely by producing an outward moving shock after a certain delay ( a few tenths of a second ) .",
    "the effect is to perturb the flow into the inner disk and decrease the luminosity .",
    "the impact on the flow at large radii remains to be explored in greater datail due to the limitation of our outer boundary .",
    "the compression for low angular momentum cases releases a large amount of energy , not more than 1 order of magnitude smaller than for the case with a disk , and we believe this to be an important issue : slowly rotating models are in principle capable of releasing an amount of energy that could produce grbs , although admittedly perhaps only at the faint end of the luminosity distribution . for a 1% efficiency of conversion into pairs through @xmath107 annihilation at @xmath108  erg  s@xmath1",
    ", the models shown here can produce annihilation luminosities of about @xmath109  erg  s@xmath1 , depending on the value of @xmath86 . performing realistic runs for longer times",
    "is a priority , but clearly over long timescales , having slow rotation is not necessarily a handicap regarding the energy release .",
    "the simple reason is that , as known for a long time , and first quantified in this scenario by @xcite , it is most efficient in terms of energy extraction to have the material release its energy as close as possible to the bh , or equivalentely , as deep as possible in the potential well , but not too close so that it is still shocked by the presence of a centrifugal barrier .",
    "magnetic mechanisms may also power fully or partially a potential burst , and we note here only that the internal energies are high enough , as in the most common hypercritical accretion scenarios , to do so if a fraction of this is transferred to a magnetic field ( at a level of 10% of equipartition ) .",
    "the obvious implication in terms of the type of progenitor one can consider for grbs is that single stars at the threshold for disk formation through centrifugal support are capable of giving a grb .",
    "having a substantial amount of rotation will obviously guarantee an accretion disk , but perhaps not all cases require such special conditions ( as for example , torquing of the pre - sn star by a binary companion ) .",
    "the isotropic equivalent energy of grb060505 is @xmath110\\simeq 49.5 $ ] , clearly within the range obtainable with the models presented here even at low rotation rates .",
    "centrifugally supported collapsar disks are expected to produce strong winds @xcite , driven quite generically by a combination of viscous , neutrino , and magnetic effects ( the first two of which we have explicitly included here ) .",
    "@xcite in particular , computed the expected nucleosynthesis of @xmath111ni in these outflows , using the steady state disk models of @xcite as an initial condition and considering various mass accretion and dissipation rates .",
    "the essential feature of these models is the computation of the change in entropy per baryon , @xmath112 in the outflow , starting from the midplane of the accretion disk and reaching a large distance at which the velocity approaches an asymptotic value @xmath113 . from our hydrodynamical determination of the disk structure using an improved equation of state and thermodynamics",
    ", we computed the equivalent entropies in the disk and applied the formalism of @xcite to compute the total change in @xmath112 ( assuming the wind reaches similar velocities , unresolved in our simulations spanning 0.5  s ) .",
    "the mass fraction converted to @xmath111ni , @xmath114 , then depends sensitively on @xmath112 and the ratio @xmath115 , where @xmath116 is the mass outflow rate and @xmath117 is the terminal wind velocity .",
    "once the outflow is launched we can obtain an estimate of @xmath116 directly from the momentum field in the simulation , and @xmath118 is taken as @xmath119 .",
    "we find that for @xmath120 , and independently of the strength of angular momentum transport , substantial ni synthesis occurs ( x@xmath121 ) in an outflow with @xmath122  m@xmath123  s@xmath1 .",
    "this would imply a total ejection of @xmath124 in @xmath111ni in a grb lasting 10  seconds , in the right range to account for the outflows seen , e.g. , in sn2003dh .",
    "the relatively narrow range in @xmath86 spanned in our calculations does not allow for a good extrapolation to higher rotation rates , but clearly the amount of mass involved is significant , and would likely grow substantially at higher @xmath86 where more masive and more radially extended disks are expected ( @xcite estimate several @xmath125 for the massive , centrifugally supported disks taken from @xcite ) . a configuration in which no significant outflows occur because the rotation rate is too low ( @xmath126 ) would not be expected in this scenario to produce any significant ejection of radioactive elements capable of producing a sn - like signature .",
    "it could , as shown here , still release enough energy through neutrinos or magnetic mechanisms to power a classical grb .",
    "the result , if it were to occur at low redshift , could possibly be an event resembling grb060505 .",
    "we thank s.e .",
    "woosley and a. heger for making their pre - sn models available .",
    "this work was supported in part by conacyt ( 45845e , wl ) , papiit - unam ( in113007 , wl ) , nasa ( swift nx07ae98 g , er - r ) and doe scidac ( de - fc02 - 01er41176 , er - r ) .",
    "c . acknowledges support through a conacyt graduate scholarship .",
    "thanks the department of astronomy and astrophysics at the university of california , santa cruz for hospitality .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for his comments and suggestions in improving the paper .",
    "balbus , s. a. & hawley , j. f. 1998 rev .",
    "phys . , 70 , . 1 beloborodov , a. m. 2003 , , 588 , 931 beloborodov , a. m. , & illarionov , a. f. 2001 , , 323 , 167 birkl , r. , aloy , m. a. & janka , h. t. , 2007 , a&a , 463 , 51 blinnikov , s. i. , dunina - barkovskaya , n. v. , & nadyozhin , d. k. 1996 , , 106 , 171 bloom , j. s. , kulkarni , s. r. , & djorgovski , s. g. 2002 , , 123 , 1111 campana , s. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 442 , 1008 cantiello , m. ; yoon , s .- c . ;",
    "langer , n. ; livio , m. 465 , l29 chevalier , r.a .",
    "1989 , , 346 , 847 della valle , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 406 , l33 della valle , m. , et al . 2006a , , 642 , l103 della valle , m. , et al .",
    "2006b , nature , 444 , 1050 dessart , l. , burrows , a. , livne , e. , ott , c. d. 2008 , , 673 , l43 detmers , r. g. ; langer , n. ; podsiadlowski , ph . ; izzard , r. g. 2008 a&a , 484 , 831 dezalay , j. p. , et al . 1996 , , 471 , l27 de villiers , j .-",
    "p . , hawley , j. f. & krolik , j. h. 2005 , , 599 , 1238 di matteo , t. , perna , t. , & narayan , r. 2002 , , 579 , 706 eichler , d. , livio , m. , piran , t. , schramm , d.n .",
    "1989 , nature , 340 , 126 fishman , g. j. , meegan , c. a. 1995 , ara&a , 33 , 415 fynbo , j. p. u. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 444 , 1047 fruchter , a. s. et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 441 , 463 galama , t. j. , et al .",
    "1998 , nature , 395 , 670 gal yam , a. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 444 , 1053 gehrels , n. , cannizzo , j.k . , norris , j.p .",
    "2007 , new j. phys . ,",
    "9 , 37 gehrels , n. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 444 , 1044 gorosabel , et al .",
    "2005 , , 444 , 711 heger , a. , woosley , s.e . , spruit , h.c .",
    "2005 , , 626 , 350 heger , a. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 528 , 368 houck , j.c . ,",
    "chevalier , r.a . , 1991 , , 376 , 234 itoh , n. , et al .",
    "1996 , apjs , 102 , 411 itoh et al .",
    "( 1996 ) izzard , r.g . , ramirez - ruiz , e. , tout , c. a. 2004 mnras , 348 , 1215    janiuk , a. , & proga , d. 2008 , , 675 , 519 janiuk , a. , yuan , y. , perna , r. , & di matteo , t. 2007 , , 664 , 1011 kaneko , y. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 654 , 385 klebesadel , r.w . ,",
    "strong , i.b . , olsson , r.a .",
    "1973 , , 182 , l85 krolik , j. h. , hawley , j. f. & hirose , s. 2005 , , 622 , 1008 lattimer , j. m. , & schramm , d. n. 1974 , , 192 , l145 lattimer , j. m. , & schramm , d. n. 1976 , , 210 , 549 langanke , k. , & marttnez - pinedo lattimer , g. 2001 , at .",
    "data nucl data tables , 79 , 1 lee , w. h. , & ramirez - ruiz , e. 2002 , , 577 , 893 lee , w. h. , & ramirez - ruiz , e. 2006 , , 641 , 961 lee , w. h. , & ramirez - ruiz , e. 2007 , new j. phys . , 9 , 17 lee , w. h. , ramirez - ruiz , e. & page , d. 2004 , , 608 , l5 lee , w. h. , ramirez - ruiz , & e. , page , d. 2005 , , 632 , 421 macfadyen , a. i. , & woosley , s. e. 1999 , , 524 , 262 mckinney , j. c. & narayan , r. 2007 , , 375 , 513 malesani , d. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 609 , l5 meegan , c. a. , et al .",
    "1992 , nature , 355 , 143 mendoza , s. , tejeda , e. , & nagel , e.  2009 , mnras , 393 , 579 mszros , p. 2002",
    ", ara&a , 40 , 137 mszros , p. , & rees , m. j. 1997 , , 482 , l29 metzger , m. r. , et al .",
    "1997 , nature , 387 , 878 monaghan , j.j .",
    "1992 , , 30 , 543 nakar , e. , 2007 , phys .",
    ", 442 , 166 narayan , r. , paczyski , b. , piran , t. 1992 , , 395 , l83 narayan , r. , piran , t. , & kumar , p. 2001",
    ", , 557 , 949 paczyski , b. 1986 , , 308 , l43 paczyski , b. 1991 , acta astron . , 41 , 257 paczyski , b. , & wiita , p. j. 1980 , , 88 , 23 piran , t. 2004 , rev .",
    "phys , 76 , 1143 popham , r. , & narayan , r. 1995 , , 442 , 337 popham , r. , woosley , s. e. , & fryer , c. 1999 , , 518 , 356 prochaska , j. x. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 611 , 200 proga , d. , & begelman m. c. 2003 , , 582 , 69 proga , d. , macfadyen , a. i. , armitage , p. j. , & begelman , m. c. 2003 , , 599 , l5 pruet , j. , thompson , t. a. , hoffman , r. d. 2004 , , 606 , 1006 ramirez - ruiz , e. , granot , j. , kouveliotou , c. , woosley , s.e . ,",
    "patel , s.k .",
    ", mazzali , p.a .",
    "2005 , , 625 , l91 salpeter , e. e. 1964 , , 140 , 796 shakura , n. i. , & sunyaev , r. a. 1973 , , 24 , 337 shapiro s. l. , & teukolsky , s. a. 1983 ,  black holes , white dwarfs , and neutron stars : the physics of compact stars ( new york : wiley - interscience ) .",
    "soderberg , a. m. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 627 , 877 sollerman , j. , et al .",
    "2005 , new astronomy , 11 , 103 - 115 spruit , h.c .",
    "2002 , a&a , 381 , 923 stanek , k. z. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 591 , l17 thompson , c. 1994 , mnras , 270 , 480 usov , v. v. 1992 , nature , 357 , 472 van paradijs , j. , kouveliotou , c. , wijers , r.a.m.j . 2000 , ara&a , 38 , 379 woosley , s. e. 1993 , , 405 , 273 woosley , s.e . , bloom , j.s .",
    "2006 , ara&a , 44 , 507 woosley s. e. , & heger a. 2006 , , 637 , 914 yoon , s.c . ,",
    "langer , n. , 2005 , a&a , 443 , 643 zeldovich , y.  b.  1964 , soviet physics doklady , 9 , 195"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we consider accretion onto newborn black holes ( bhs ) following the collapse of rotating massive stellar cores , at the threshold where a centrifugally supported disk gives way to nearly radial inflow for low angular momentum . </S>",
    "<S> for realistic initial conditions taken from pre - supernova ( pre - sn ) evolution calculations , the densities and temperatures involved require the use of a detailed equation of state and neutrino cooling processes , as well as a qualitative consideration of the effects of general relativity . through two - dimensional dynamical calculations </S>",
    "<S> we show how the energy release is affected by the rotation rate and the strength of angular momentum transport , giving rise to qualitatively different solutions in limits of high and low angular momentum , each being capable of powering a gamma - ray burst ( grb ) . </S>",
    "<S> we explore the likelihood of producing fe - group elements in the two regimes and suggest that while large and massive centrifugally supported disks are capable of driving strong outflows with a possible sn - like signature , quasi - radial flows lack such a feature and may produce a grb without such an accompanying feature , as seen in grb060505 . </S>"
  ]
}