{
  "article_text": [
    "hypervelocity stars ( hvss ) are stars with extremely high peculiar velocities relative to the velocity distribution of their parent population . in recent years several hvss have been observed in the galactic halo , some of them unbound to the galaxy ( with velocities beyond the escape velocity;@xcite ) . from these",
    "a galactic population of @xmath2 such hvss was inferred @xcite , up to the @xmath3 kpc distance limit of the survey .",
    "many similar bound hvss ( with velocities lower than the escape velocity ) have been observed at larger numbers .",
    "most of the observed hvss are b - type stars ( @xcite ; future observations of hvss of other stellar types are discussed in @xcite ) . given the color selection of the targeted survey for these stars @xcite , such stars could be either main sequence ( ms ; or blue straggler ) b stars or hot blue horizontal branch ( bhb ) stars .",
    "currently only three of the stars in the survey have specific unambiguous identification and were found to be ms stars @xcite .",
    "extreme velocities as found for these stars most likely suggest a dynamical origin from an interaction with or close to the massive black hole ( mbh ) in the galactic center ( gc ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in the following we discuss only hvss ejected from the gcnote that recent observations possibly suggest a different origin for two of hvss observed serendipitously ( @xcite , but see @xcite ) .",
    "throughout this paper we assume that most ( if not all ) of the ms stars in the hvss survey sample have a gc origin .",
    "we note however that the methods we describe here to constrain the galactic potential could similarly be used , in principle , for the analysis of high velocity stars ejected from the galactic disk . ] and observed in the galactic halo , @xmath4 kpc from the gc , which would require ejection velocities from the gc of @xmath5 km s@xmath6 .",
    "such hvss could serve as probes of the gc environment , stellar population and dynamics ( see e.g. @xcite ) and serve as an independent evidence for the existence of a mbh in the galactic center @xcite .",
    "most of the b - type stars observed through the hvss survey have lower velocities and are either bound hvss @xcite or are just halo stars .",
    "the survey shows an asymmetry in the kinematics of the stars , where more stars have positive radial velocities in galactocentric coordinates ( i.e. outgoing stars ) than negative ones ( ingoing or returning stars ) . as we show",
    "this asymmetry is dependent on both the absolute velocity and the distance of the stars from the gc , and could be used in a novel method to probe and constrain the galactic potential , identify the stellar type of the stars in the survey and estimate the number of hvss .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "we first briefly describe the hvss survey (  [ sec : vel - dist ] ) , and then suggest a novel method to probe the galactic potential using such surveys (  [ sec : hvs - potential ] ) . in ",
    "[ sec : hvs - lifetime ] we use a similar analysis to infer the statistics of the stellar type of stars in the hvss survey and estimate a lower limit to the number of hvss in the galaxy .",
    "hvss of almost any stellar type could theoretically be observed , since the currently suggested scenarios for the origin of hvss give rise to only limited number of constraints on their stellar characteristics ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "however , given their relatively small numbers in the galaxy , it is practically impossible to find hvss close by .",
    "for this reason , following the discovery of the first hvss in the galactic halo @xcite , @xcite have issued a survey of hvss extending to large distances .",
    "they have searched for hvss among color selected b - type halo stars of limited magnitude ( a more recent survey also searches for a type stars ; @xcite ; not included in our analysis ) .",
    "such stars are luminous enough to be observed at large distances in the galactic halo where the relative frequency of hvss is much higher , and are less likely to be contaminated by the disk and halo stellar population",
    ". these stars could be either ms b stars ( or blue stragglers ) with masses of @xmath7and short lifetimes ( @xmath8 yrs ) or hot blue horizontal branch ( bhb ) stars also with short lifetimes ( few@xmath9 yrs on the horizontal branch ) , but long progenitor lifetime .",
    "the absolute magnitudes of observed stars and hence their inferred distances depend on their stellar type",
    ". any analysis of the distribution of hvss should take both possibilities into account .",
    "2 in @xcite shows a definite asymmetry in the distribution of ingoing and outgoing hvss , where the velocities of ingoing stars do not extend beyond @xmath10 km s@xmath6 .",
    "given that the escape velocity at these distances is much higher , one would expect to see bound hvss returning at velocities up to the escape velocity , in striking contrast with observations . in order to study this behavior",
    ", we turn to the velocity - distance distribution of these stars . in fig .",
    "[ f : ms - hvss ] we show the radial velocity - distance distribution ( relative to the gc ) for all of the observed b - type stars in the @xcite survey , assuming they are either ms stars ( and are therefore more luminous and more distant ; fig . [ f : ms - hvss]a ) , or hot bhb stars ( and therefore closer ; fig .",
    "[ f : ms - hvss]b ) .",
    "many studies have been done to constrain the galactic potential at large distances through observations ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "some of these studies use the velocity dispersion of observed objects to constrain the galactic potential ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , however these suffer from uncertainties regarding the velocity anisotropy and the behavior of the stellar halo density at very large distances , and require some apriori assumptions regarding these parameters , which may lead to large uncertainties ( see , for example , discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in additions",
    "many objects are needed in order to obtain the velocity dispersion at a given distance from the gc .",
    "other studies explore the local escape velocity from the galaxy through observations of high velocity stars @xcite",
    ". however , such analysis contains degeneracies and depends on the unknown structure of the tail of the velocity distribution of the high velocity stars .",
    "consequently specific assumptions must be taken for the velocity distribution , which could be strongly affected by the small number statistics of the observed highest velocity stars in the distribution tail .",
    "moreover , the assumptions used for the stellar velocities depend on their being extended up to the escape velocity from the galaxy .",
    "although large surveys may help solve this problem , very high velocity stars are quite rare in the galaxy , and would be difficult to find especially in surveys limited to relatively close environment of the solar neighborhood .",
    "@xcite and @xcite suggested to use the kinematics of hvss in order to probe the galactic potential using the position and velocity vectors of hvss at large galactocentric distances . under the assumption that hvss were ejected from the gc they suggest to measure the slight departure from purely radial orbits of these hvss , due to the ( possible ) triaxiality of the galactic potential .",
    "these methods require the accurate distance and 3d velocity of hvss , and focus on the triaxiality of the galactic potential , which is important in the context of hierarchical , cold dark matter ( cdm ) models of structure formation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , although we note this should be interesting also in respect to modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) theories @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite have studied the propagation of hvss in the galactic potential and showed that it could depend strongly on the galactic potential at the central regions of the galaxy ( @xmath11pc ) .",
    "they also showed the dependence of the hvss radial distributions on the stellar type , and their observational implications .    in the following we suggest a method which is more general in nature and more useful in constraining and distinguishing between different galactic mass distributions which are required by the different galactic potential models at large distances ( although it could also be relevant to probing the triaxiality of the galactic potential ) .",
    "this can also be used in order to discriminate between different cdm galactic potential models and/or between galactic potentials in mond theories .",
    "this method makes use of the asymmetry in velocity distributions of ingoing and outgoing hvss ( see also related discussion in @xcite ) .",
    "we begin with a naive description of the method , assuming one could observe even the oldest bound hvss ( i.e. those that could not leave the galaxy , and could have gone through the galaxy a few times ) .",
    "we then continue with a more realistic treatment which takes into account the finite lifetime of stars observable in the halo , given the limited observational capabilities .",
    "let us assume that hvss have been continuously ejected from the gc with some distribution of velocities , which would produce both bound and unbound hvss .",
    "unbound stars eventually leave the galaxy .",
    "bound stars reach tha apo - apse point of their orbit and then return back to the gc with negative radial velocity ( in galactocentric coordinates ) .",
    "the galactocentric distance - velocity distribution of ingoing stars would then have a cut - off , which would correspond to the escape velocity of these stars at a given distance from the gc .",
    "such a cut off is distance dependent and thus more distant hvss would have lower absolute velocities . at the same time",
    "we should see that the distribution of outgoing hvss extends to much higher absolute velocities , since this population includes the unbound stars , on their way out of the galaxy .",
    "consequently , a clear asymmetry should be observed between the distribution of ingoing and outgoing stars .",
    "this asymmetry or cut - off in the distance - velocity distribution would map the escape velocity of stars from the galaxy at any given distance where hvss are observed , and serve as a direct probe of the galactic potential .",
    "note , however , that very different galactic potential may have escape velocities which are quite similar at a wide range of distances from the gc @xcite . in such cases observations of more distant hvss ( i.e. wider distance range ) may be required to distinguish between such potentials . since such stars would be fainter , this would be more difficult observationally .",
    "the use of ingoing and outgoing halo hvss has three advantages over methods used to probe the local escape velocity from the galaxy .",
    "first , there is a clear natural separation between bound and unbound stars , and the latter can not contaminate the sample of ingoing high velocity bound stars which are used to calculate the escape velocity .",
    "second , there is no required assumption regarding the structure of the velocity distribution and its tail .",
    "third , the hvss are observed over a large distance range , and could thus map the galactic potential in this full range , and not only at the local scale as have been done with high velocity stars in surveys such as the rave survey @xcite .      in reality",
    ", observable stars in the hvss targeted survey may not have an unlimited propagation time , as was our naive assumption .",
    "this may result either because of their short lifetimes ( after which they evolve to a different stellar type , which can not be observed at such distances with current instruments ) or due to their possible origin from a burst like event , which ejected hvss only over a limited short time , and not as a continuous process occurring over the lifetime of the galaxy ( see @xcite)in such a case , for example , the highest velocity bound hvss may never be observed as ingoing hvss , since a longer propagation time is required for them to reach the apo - apse point of their orbit and become ingoing hvss . ] .",
    "nevertheless , the general method prescribed above could still be applicable , with some modifications .",
    "in fact , as we the limited propagation time of hvss may prove to be more advantageous in some respects ) .",
    "assuming some finite propagation time for hvss , we would still expect an asymmetry in the ingoing and outgoing hvss distance - velocity distributions .",
    "however , in this case the cutoff in the ingoing hvss distribution would be at much lower velocities than the escape velocity .",
    "this cutoff corresponds to the maximal return velocity of hvss which could still be observed coming back during their short propagation time .",
    "assuming a maximal propagation time for the hvss ( its lifetime ) , this cutoff could thus be used as a probe of the galactic potential in the same way as the naive method outlined above .",
    "moreover , the short propagation time of stars can be advantageous for our purposes .",
    "stars of different stellar types have different maximal lifetimes and would produce different distance - velocity cutoffs .",
    "consequently these different populations can supply us with several independent probes of the galactic potential , that , combined together , would further assist in constraining the galactic potential .",
    "a higher velocity at a given distance implies a longer travel time ( as the travel time depends on the potential out to the apo - apse of the orbit ) , ingoing hvss provide information not only on the escape velocity at the point where they are observed today , but even further away .",
    "furthermore , up to the distance - velocity cutoff the distribution of outgoing and ingoing stars ( with lower velocities than the cutoff velocity at their position ) could be compared@xmath12this , however , is true only under the assumption of a continuous and constant ejection rate , which is not the case for burst ejection of hvss by an inspiralling imbh @xcite ] , in terms of the number of stars ; the two dimensional distance-(absolute ) velocity distribution and the stellar types ( if known ) or color - color distributions of the samples of outgoing and ingoing stars .",
    "any difference between these distributions is due to the further propagation in the galactic potential of the ingoing hvss to the apocenter of their orbit and back .",
    "different galactic potential models give different return times , that are also highly sensitive to the velocity of the hvss .",
    "consequently , the statistical correlation between the ingoing and outgoing distance - velocity distributions could serve as a quantitatively sensitive method for discriminating between models for the galactic potential than just the population of the highest velocity ingoing hvss .",
    "currently , only three hvss in the hvss survey have an unambiguous stellar type identification , and the analysis suggested here for probing the galactic potential can not be used directly .",
    "the clear cut - off in the ingoing stars distribution would not be observed , as it would be smeared by the existence of hot bhb stars contaminating the sample .",
    "nevertheless we still expect a statistical asymmetry between the number of ingoing vs. outgoing stars in the sample , which should be observable beyond the theoretical cut - off . as an illustrative example",
    "we show the critical asymmetry lines for propagation of ms b stars hvss up to a maximal lifetime of @xmath13 . in fig .",
    "[ f : ms - hvss]a we show the critical asymmetry lines for such time limited propagation in different models for the galactic potential .",
    "the different models we use include five dark matter ( cdm ) potentials and one mond potential . beside the @xcite model ( hereafter pac ) all models are described in detail in @xcite , where the same reference names are used ( kzs , bsc , rave1 - 3 and mond ) .",
    "the pac , kzs , bsc and the mond models are almost indistinguishable in this range of distances , where as the rave 1 - 2 ( indistinguishable in this range ) and rave 3 models show very different behavior ( see appendix for a short discussion on the differences between these galactic potential models ) .",
    "we look for asymmetry by counting the numbers of outgoing vs. ingoing stars in the sample , for the different potentials , i.e. counting the number of stars above and below the positive and negative velocity lines of the critical asymmetry curves shown in fig . [",
    "f : ms - hvss]a .",
    "we look for the best fit model , which should show the largest asymmetry .",
    "we find a total of @xmath14 outgoing stars vs. @xmath15 ingoing stars for the pac , kzs , bsc and mond models ( the probability for getting such an asymmetric distribution from an apriori symmetric distribution is @xmath16 ) and @xmath17 outgoing stars vs. @xmath18 ingoing stars for the rave 3 ( rave 1 - 2 ) models ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "although all models show asymmetric distributions , the stars counted for the rave models contain the contribution from the pac / kzs / bsc / mond models . when subtracting this contribution we find that the rave models do not show any additional asymmetry [ @xmath20 outgoing vs. @xmath21 ingoing stars ; @xmath22 .",
    "therefore the hvss sample favors the pac , kzs , bsc and mond models over the rave models .",
    "as we have shown even the contaminated sample of hvss could already constrain galactic potential models .",
    "future identification of the stellar types of the stars in the survey which could purify it could give even stronger constraints on these and other galactic potential models .",
    "in the appendix we give a simple example for the use of such future data , using mock simulated data of ejected hvss we also note that stars with longer ms lifetimes could probe larger distance range during their propagation and still return during their ms lifetimes to be observed as ingoing hvs .",
    "such stars could therefore serve as observable probes of the galactic potential at even larger distances not accessible in any other ways ( and could possibly discriminate between cdm and mond models that differ only at these distance ranges ) .",
    "this would require the identification of later - type hvss among halo stars ( e.g. @xcite , not analyzed here ) .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "in the following we use a simple example of mock simulated data of hvss to show the way in which galactic potentials could be constrained by future hvss data . using monte - carlo simulations of hvss propagating in various galactic potential models we produce distance - velocity plots of their expected distributions .",
    "this mock data is then compared with the critical asymmetry lines corresponding to the different models .    in this example",
    "we assume the hvss were ejected from the galactic center following binary disruption by the mbh .",
    "we make use of the same methods described by @xcite and @xcite to simulate the hvss ejection velocities , assuming the progenitor binaries of the hvss were @xmath23 binaries . for each ejected star",
    "we choose a random ejection time during its lifespan , and a random ejection time during the last @xmath13 yrs ( the lifespan of @xmath24 stars ; no such star could survive to current day if it were ejected earlier ) .",
    "we reject those stars which would end their lifespan on the main sequence before current day , i.e. they would not have been observable today .",
    "each of the potentially observable hvss is then propagated in a given galactic potential until the current day .",
    "for simplicity we show the results for the propagation of hvss in two galactic potential models , which differ in only one parameter .",
    "we use the pac model which is parametrized by eight paramters ( see details in @xcite ) , to produce two potentials . the first ( pac )",
    "is the galactic potential as originally parametrized in @xcite , and the second ( pac-2 ) differs only in the halo core radius , @xmath25which is taken to be @xmath26 instead of @xmath27 in the original pac model .",
    "the number of simulated stars was chosen such that the total number of hvss with velocity greater than @xmath28 observable in the galactic halo would be @xmath29 , i.e the total number of such hvss estimated to exist in the galaxy based on current surveys .",
    "the distance - velocity distribution of ingoing simulated hvss is shown in fig .",
    "[ f : mock - hvss ] , together with the critical asymmetry lines for the two models .",
    "as can be seen in the figure , hvss propagating in the pac-2 model obtain distance - velocity position beyond the critical asymmetry line of the pac model , i.e. the pac model would be directly excluded , independently of the detailed distribution of the hvss .",
    "hvss propagating in the pac model could never get beyond the critical asymmetry line of the pac-2 model and therefore can never totally exclude this model .",
    "nevertheless , the probability for not observing even a single hvs beyond the pac critical asymmetry line , assuming that the hvss did propagate in the pac-2 model is @xmath30 ( one would expect to see 5 such stars in the sample of 25 ingoing hvss , given the pac-2 model data , but none is observed ) , i.e. rejecting the pac-2 model at high confidence ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in recent years several hypervelocity stars ( hvss ) have been observed in the halo of our galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> such hvss have possibly been ejected from the galactic center and then propagated in the galactic potential up to their current position . the recent survey for candidate hvss </S>",
    "<S> show an asymmetry in the kinematics of candidate hvss ( position and velocity vectors ) , where more outgoing stars than ingoing stars ( i.e. positive galactocentric velocities vs. negative ones ) are observed . </S>",
    "<S> we show that such kinematic asymmetry , which is likely due to the finite lifetime of the stars and galactic potential structure , could be used in a novel method to probe and constrain the galactic potential , identify the stellar type of the stars in the survey and estimate the number of hvss . </S>",
    "<S> kinematics - independent identification of the stellar types of the stars in such surveys ( e.g. spectroscopic identification ) could further improve these results . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the observed asymmetry between ingoing and outgoing stars favors specific galactic potential models . </S>",
    "<S> it also implies a lower limit of @xmath0 main sequence hvss in the survey sample ( @xmath1 in the galaxy ) , assuming that all of the main sequence stars in the survey originate from the galactic center . </S>",
    "<S> the other stars in the survey are likely to be hot blue horizontal branch stars born in the halo rather than stars ejected from the galactic center . </S>"
  ]
}