{
  "article_text": [
    "over the past 50 years many large radio surveys have taken place , allowing us to build up an understanding of the evolution of the radio source population ( see for example , rowan - robinson et al .",
    "various deep surveys have taken place , but many have been at frequencies of 1.4  ghz and higher ( for obvious angular resolution reasons ) and have reached down to @xmath5jy levels ( e.g. hopkins et al . 1998 ; huynh et al .",
    "2005 ) . probably , the most important result from these surveys is the confirmation of the upturn in the euclidean - normalised differential source counts below @xmath6  mjy ( windhorst et .",
    "al . 1985 ) which is believed to be due to a population of sources that are not agn ( condon 1989 ) .",
    "the `` normal '' population of radio sources ( with flux densities larger than a few mjy ) can be explained by radio loud agn which are hosted in elliptical galaxies . towards @xmath5jy flux levels the radio sources counts",
    "are increasingly dominated by other populations , such as radio - quiet agn , starbursts and late - type galaxies ( with their radio emission due to massive star formation and associated supernovae ) .    at lower radio frequencies ( below 1.4  ghz )",
    "the population of radio sources is less explored , mostly due to the relatively bright flux limits achieved at these frequencies .",
    "the westerbork synthesis radio telescope ( wsrt ) has been used for this purpose reaching a detection limit of @xmath7  mjy at 610  mhz , however this is not sufficiently deep to probe the upturn in source counts ( valentijn 1980 ) . the giant metrewave radio telescope ( gmrt ) located near pune , india , however , has the necessary capabilities ( low frequency with good sensitivity ) and there have been a few deep surveys using the gmrt at 610  mhz .",
    "examples include moss et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , garn et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , bondi et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and garn et al .",
    "( 2008 ) .",
    "the 150  mhz sky is still less explored .",
    "although the gmrt is capable of observations at this frequency , there have been relatively few results presented in the literature . at 150  mhz",
    "the gmrt has a spatial resolution approaching @xmath8 and a theoretical _ rms _ noise of around @xmath9  mjy .",
    "this compares favourably with the cambridge 7c survey ( hales et al . 2007 ) , which had a resolution of @xmath10 arcsec@xmath11 , and a typical _ rms _ noise of around @xmath12  mjy .",
    "of course , the 7c survey covers a much larger area than is covered in this survey , and the final 7c catalogue contains 43683 sources over an area of 1.7  steradians .",
    "the 7c survey region does not overlap with the field presented here .",
    "a comparison of the point source sensitivities for a range of low frequency surveys is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ surveys ] .",
    "the point labelled `` gmrt '' is the survey presented here .",
    "other surveys included the various cambridge surveys ( 6c , 7c , 8c ) at 38  mhz ( rees 1990 ) and 151  mhz ( hales et al . 2007 ) , the xmm - lss survey at 74  mhz and 325  mhz ( cohen et al . 2003 ) , the vla low - frequency sky survey ( vlss ) at 74  mhz ( cohen et al . 2007 ) , the westerbork northern sky survey ( wenss ) at 325  mhz ( rengelink et al .",
    "1997 ) , molonglo reference catalogue ( mrc ) at 408  mhz ( large et al .",
    "1981 ) , the sydney university molonglo sky survey ( sumss ) at 843  mhz ( mauch et al . 2003 ) and the nvss and first both at 1.4ghz ( condon et al .",
    "1998 , white et al . 1997 ) .",
    "we also show examples of what can be achieved in deeper smaller area surveys ; the `` gmrt 610  mhz '' refer to surveys such as garn et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and moss et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , which can achieve point source detections down to around 0.3  mjy , and `` deep 1.4  ghz '' refers to surveys such as huynh et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , with point source detections down to @xmath13  mjy .",
    "we also show lines corresponding to sources with spectral indices of @xmath14 and @xmath15 , for a flux @xmath16 ( which we shall adopt throughout this paper ) .",
    "we can see from fig .",
    "[ surveys ] that the point source sensitivity of this gmrt survey is well matched to the nvss . by comparing the sources detected at 150  mhz with other surveys ( such as the nvss at 1.4  ghz or the vlss at 74  mhz ) it is possible to identify sources with extreme spectral indices , which are termed ultra - steep spectrum ( uss ) sources . in turn , these uss sources are candidates for being high - redshift radio galaxies ( hzrgs ) .",
    "radio sources can be detected out to high redshift ( @xmath17 ) .",
    "empirically , it appears that the majority of high redshift radio sources tend to exhibit steeper radio spectra ( see for example , de breuck et al .",
    "2000 ; miley & de breuck 2008 ) . the origin for this correlation is unclear .",
    "part of it may be due to a malmquist bias , but it now seems likely that the higher gas densities in the galaxy environments at high redshift ( constricting the development of radio bubbles from such agn ) plays a role ( see miley & de breuck 2008 for a discussion of this )",
    ". having identified candidate hzrgs via their radio spectrum it is then necessary to identify the galaxies in the optical / ir and subsequent determine the redshift .",
    "hzrgs seem to have a relatively small scatter in a plot of @xmath18-band magnitude versus @xmath19 , and they seem to be among the most luminous galaxies at high redshift ( de breuck et al .",
    "apart from hzrgs there are a number of other sources that exhibit steep spectral indices .",
    "these include , but are not limited to , fossil radio galaxies , cluster halos or pulsars ( parma et al .",
    "2007 , manchester et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the primary science driver behind these observations was to detect the magnetospheric radio emission from the exoplanet orbiting @xmath0 eridani .",
    "no detection was made , however , tight constraints on the possible radio emission were determined and these results are summarised in george & stevens ( 2007 ) .",
    "the wide field , good sensitivity and reasonable spatial resolution of the gmrt 150  mhz observations does give an excellent view of the radio sky .",
    "from these observations , we show that deep imaging with the gmrt at 150  mhz enables us to identify candidate high redshift radio sources .",
    "some relevant gmrt results at 150  mhz have been published by ishwara - chandra & marathe ( 2007 ) , although it is clear that this is still an under - exploited capability .",
    "the observations and data analysis are described in section  2 .",
    "we discuss the generation of the catalogue in section  3 and present an analysis of the radio source counts at 150  mhz in section  4 .",
    "we then investigate the nature of the sources , including spectral indices and identify the candidate high redshift objects in section  5 .",
    "we conclude in section  6 .",
    "( solid line ) and @xmath15 ( dashed line ) , normalised to the sensitivity of the gmrt 150  mhz observations presented here .",
    "see text for a more detailed description of this diagram . ]",
    "the radio observations discussed here were conducted with the gmrt , during cycle 11 on 10 august 2006 and lasted for a duration of 4.13h .",
    "the pointing centre was @xmath0 eridani ( ra : @xmath20 dec : @xmath21 ) .",
    "the central frequency of the observation was 157.0  mhz and a bandwidth of 8  mhz was used ( split into 128 channels ) . for flux density calibration 3c48",
    "was observed and for phase calibration purposes 0114211 was used . the time on source in a single scan was 30 minutes before moving to the phase calibrator for 5 minutes .",
    "all reduction was performed with the astronomical image processing system ( aips ) .",
    "the visibilities from each baseline and channel were carefully inspected and edited to remove interference , cross - talk between antennas , instrumental glitches and the poor - quality data recorded at the beginning of each pointing was removed .",
    "the flux density scale was set by an aips implementation of the baars et al .",
    "( 1977 ) scale .",
    "wide - field mapping with a @xmath22 diameter ( close to the full width of the beam ) was performed over 121 facets , with the phase of the data shifted to the tangent point at the centre of each facet .",
    "this ensures that no point on any image is far from the tangential pointing position , thus we minimise the smearing of sources far from the phase tracking centre ( due to the breaking of the coplanar array assumption by using a two - dimensional fft to approximate the celestial sphere ) . imaging and deconvolution",
    "was performed using the aips task _ imagr_. the final 121 image facets used for analysis were total intensity maps , with a final restoring beam ( the resolution ) of @xmath23 .",
    "the central _ rms _ ( @xmath24 ) noise level achieved was 3.12  mjy , though areas of higher _ rms _ noise surround the sources ( with a typical noise of around 5  mjy , rising for the very brightest sources ) and near the edges of the field . for a given flux level",
    ", we found a large number of spurious sources in the outer regions and have focused in on the central regions of the observation .",
    "this noise level can be compared with the theoretical thermal noise limit for the gmrt at 150  mhz , given by @xmath25    where @xmath26 is the telescope system temperature ( 615k ) , @xmath27 is the antenna gain ( 0.33 k  jy@xmath28 ) , @xmath29 is the number of working antennas ( typically 27 during our observation ) , @xmath30 is the number of sidebands , @xmath31 is total time on source and @xmath32  mhz is the effective bandwidth for each sideband after channel collapsing ] .",
    "the theoretical noise limit of the gmrt is then @xmath33  mjy / beam .",
    "our observations are a moderate factor above the theoretical limit .",
    "the reason for the limitation is probably due to radio frequency interference during the observations ( particularly low level rfi ) , though limitations from the dynamic range also make a contribution .",
    "the maps of the individual facets were combined into a final mosaic using the aips task _ flatn _ , with no correction made for the degradation of the primary beam sensitivity at this stage ( any flux density corrections are considered later ) .",
    "the final image is shown in fig .",
    "[ fovimage ] .",
    "we will discuss the source detection criteria in the following section .",
    "as we are dealing with low - frequency observations , atmospheric refraction is likely to be an issue . in order to test the positional accuracy of our sources we compared the positions of the 20 brightest objects with their 1.4  ghz counterparts in the nvss . on average",
    "there was an offset of @xmath34 between our extracted source positions and the location of sources in the nvss .",
    "we attribute this offset to refraction in the earth s ionosphere .",
    "this corresponds to an offset of @xmath35 in ra and @xmath36 in dec and the listed positions in the source catalogue ( table  [ sources ] ) are corrected for this offset .",
    "the next stage is to construct a source catalogue for these observations . because this observation was a single pointing , rather than a well constructed survey involving a series of pointings to obtain a fairly uniform sensitivity over a wide area , we have chosen to consider only the central region of the observation .",
    "sources were only included within a 1.07@xmath37 radius from the pointing centre ( out to the point that the primary beam correction dropped to 20 per cent of its central value ) and allows us to avoid higher noise outer regions of the dataset .",
    "rms _ noise map of the survey area was constructed for use within the source detection procedure .",
    "sources are extracted using the aips task _ sad_. _ sad _ attempts to find all sources in an image whose peak brightness is greater than a given level and then by fitting gaussian models to the image by least squares method . during the detection process",
    "the _ rms _ is found by simply looking up the coordinate of the component in the _ rms _ noise map . in this region",
    "a conservative peak brightness detection limit of 6@xmath24 ( corresponding to a flux limit of 18.6  mjy ) was used to minimise the number of noise spikes spuriously detected as sources . in the regions around the brightest sources the detection was performed separately using higher thresholds and visual inspection .    within this region",
    "a total of 113 sources were found above the 6@xmath24 threshold . any extended sources for which the gaussian model used by _",
    "sad _ inadequately described the data ( i.e. sources with angular sizes greater than @xmath38 or showing some form of substructure upon visual inspection ) , were inspected using the aips task _ tvstat_. there were 9 sources that this procedure was used for , at least 2 of these sources appear to be clear double - lobed sources . in fig .",
    "[ source_gallery ] we present a small selection of these extended sources .",
    "when analysing low signal - to - noise ratio detections , noise spikes can easily cause gaussian fitting routines ( such as _ sad _ ) to poorly fit the width of a source , giving inaccurate measures of the flux density . to investigate this effect , we plot the ratio between the flux density , @xmath39 , and the peak brightness , @xmath40 , as a function of the peak brightness for all the radio sources in the catalogue . under the assumption that the measurement of any source that has a flux density less than the peak brightness is due to the effect of noise , we use the distribution of the ratio to define a criterion for a source to be considered resolved .",
    "this distribution is then mirrored above the @xmath41 value and can be seen in fig .",
    "[ totaltopeak ] .",
    "any source within this envelope is considered as unresolved and its peak brightness is taken as the best measure of its true flux density .",
    "the lower envelope contains 98@xmath42 of the sources with @xmath43 .",
    "the upper envelope is characterised by the equation    @xmath44    using the above envelope a total of 20 sources ( 18@xmath42 ) are considered to be adequately resolved and we take their flux density as a measure of their true flux .     as a function of the peak brightness ( @xmath40 ) for the 113 gmrt sources .",
    "the solid lines indicate the upper and lower envelopes of the flux ratio distribution used to define an unresolved source . ]",
    "we must first consider the effect of bandwidth smearing on our data .",
    "this is seen as a radial blurring of the source .",
    "the flux density of a source is conserved but the peak brightness is reduced and this effect is the result of many channels of finite bandwidth being used in the interferometric inversion , that assumes monochromatic radiation . to minimise this effect we chose to avoid channel collapsing over a large number of channels . the total bandwidth over all the channels was 8  mhz and so , to avoid this effect , we collapsed our 128 channels ( each of 62.5  khz ) to 11 channels ( each of 687  khz ) .",
    "this allows us to improve the noise while avoiding the effect of bandwidth smearing .",
    "another important effect is time - delay smearing , due to the rotation of source in the sky during the integration used and this is avoided by taking short integrations . for our observations we used an integration time of 8s .    fig .",
    "[ variationofs_frac ] shows the ratio of measured peak brightness to measured flux density of all the observed sources .",
    "if either of the above mentioned smearing effects were important it would be manifested in this plot by a clear relationship with radial distance from the pointing centre ( i.e. the phase tracking centre ) .",
    "we can confirm that neither case presents a significant effect on the quality of our data by running a pearson s correlation test on the sources .",
    "the correlation test gives a value of @xmath45 suggesting that there is no significant correlation .",
    "we do not consider these effects further .     across the image for the 113 gmrt sources .",
    "if significant bandwidth or time smearing was present then a reduction of @xmath46 with distance from the pointing centre of the observations would be seen , this is not the case . ]    sources that are far from the pointing centre of the observations could have their flux smeared out due to the assumption of a coplanar array .",
    "the effect was minimised by our imaging strategy of splitting the data into many smaller facets .",
    "importantly , any interferometric observation is modulated by the primary beam pattern of the array elements .",
    "the flux densities of all objects were corrected for the gmrt 150  mhz primary beam response using an eighth - order polynomial provided by kantharia & pramesh rao ( 2001 ) .",
    "these procedures have produced a final catalogue of 113 sources .",
    "the full source catalogue is given in table  [ sources ] and is presented in order of increasing ra . in this table",
    "the columns are : ( 1 ) gmrt source name ; ( 2 ) ra ( j2000 ) ; ( 3 ) dec ( j2000 ) ; ( 4 ) peak brightness , @xmath40 in mjy  beam@xmath28 ; ( 5 ) flux density , @xmath39 in mjy , for resolved sources ; ( 6 ) 1@xmath24 error on @xmath40 for point sources or @xmath39 for resolved sources ; ( 7 ) angular size ( diameter ) in arcsec ( determined from the deconvolution of the clean beam by _ sad _ , apart from 9 targets which were extracted with _ tvstat _ tool and in these cases we give the size as the line of greatest extent ) for all sources including those not resolved .",
    "the sources with parameters determined by _ tvstat _ rather than _ sad _ have an asterisk after the value ; ( 8) the peak nvss ( 1.4  ghz ) flux ( if the gmrt source has a counterpart ) ( 9 ) the peak vlss ( 74  mhz ) flux .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ uss ]",
    "we have presented the results of a deep 150  mhz low frequency radio map covering an area with a diameter of @xmath47 in the region around @xmath0 eridani , and described the production of a catalogue of 113 sources .",
    "the radio spectral index analysis of the sources in the field made use of the nvss ( 1.4  ghz ) and vlss ( 74  mhz ) .",
    "between this 150  mhz dataset and the nvss we have made reliable identifications with the nvss of 81 objects .",
    "we have calculated the 150  mhz source flux distribution and find it to be broadly comparable to that at other wavelengths .",
    "we have made use of these observations , in conjunction with the nvss and vlss to identify a number of uss sources .",
    "these observations have shown that gmrt 150  mhz observations would can be effectively used to search for uss sources .",
    "of course lofar , when fully on - line , will be considerably more effective at finding such sources than the gmrt .",
    "these gmrt 150  mhz observations are clearly capable of detecting uss sources , and we are in the process of following up some of the hzrg candidates .",
    "it is also clear that a well designed 150  mhz survey , in conjunction with observations at higher frequencies , could be powerful in detecting high redshift objects .",
    "sjg is supported by a stfc studentship .",
    "we thank the gmrt staff who have made these observations possible .",
    "the gmrt is run by the national centre for radio astrophysics of the tata institute of fundamental research .",
    "in particular , we would like to thank ishwara chandra c. h. for his input during the observations and data reduction .",
    "we thank timothy garn , dave green , derek moss and alastair sanderson for helpful discussions .",
    "we also wish to thank the referee , whose comments have improved this manuscript . the diagrams and statistics",
    "were generated using the r package .",
    "ishwara - chandra c.h .",
    ", marathe r. , 2007 , in `` at the edge of the universe .",
    "latest results from the deepest astronomical surveys '' , eds afonso , a. , ferguson h.c . , mobasher b. , norris r. , asp conference series , vol .",
    "380 , p. 237"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present results of a 150  mhz survey of a field centered on @xmath0 eridani , undertaken with the giant metrewave radio telescope ( gmrt ) . </S>",
    "<S> the survey covers an area with a diameter of @xmath1 , has a spatial resolution of @xmath2 and a noise level of @xmath3  mjy at the pointing centre . </S>",
    "<S> these observations provide a deeper and higher resolution view of the 150  mhz radio sky than the 7c survey ( although the 7c survey covers a much larger area ) .    </S>",
    "<S> a total of 113 sources were detected , most are point - like , but 20 are extended . </S>",
    "<S> we present an analysis of these sources , in conjunction with the nvss ( at 1.4  ghz ) and vlss ( at 74  mhz ) . </S>",
    "<S> this process allowed us to identify 5 ultra steep spectrum ( uss ) radio sources that are candidate high redshift radio galaxies ( hzrgs ) . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we have derived the @xmath4 distribution for these observations and compare our results with other low frequency radio surveys .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    surveys - galaxies : active - galaxies : starburst - radio continuum : general </S>"
  ]
}