{
  "article_text": [
    "the number of known quasars has grown exponentially since their discovery by maarten schmidt in 1963 ( fig .  [",
    "fig : fig1 ] ) . there have been relatively frequent compilations of heterogeneous catalogs over the years and the 100 , 1000 , and 10000 quasar marks were reached in 1967 , 1977 , and 1998 , respectively ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "early quasar discoveries were often based on heterogeneous samples and/or previously existing photometric surveys , so the exact lineage of the growth of homogeneous samples is more difficult to trace . however , the number of spectroscopically - confirmed , optically - selected quasars in a single homogeneous survey had certainly reached 100 by 1977 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the 1000 quasar mark was broken during the large bright quasar survey ( lbqs ) in 1991 @xcite . the 2df quasar redshift survey ( 2qz ; @xcite ) first cataloged 10,000 quasars by 2001 @xcite , soon followed by the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; @xcite ) quasar survey @xcite .    while the number of known quasars continues to grow at a rapid pace ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the 100,000 object mark was broken years ahead of the extrapolated trend ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : fig1 ] ) by this groups s _ photometric _ sample in 2004 ( @xcite ; hereafter paper i ) .",
    "quasar catalogs used for meaningful statistical analyses are almost always spectroscopic .",
    "this is in contrast to galaxies , for which a wealth of major statistical studies utilized purely photometric catalogs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "historically , this has been due to an inability to obtain @xmath12 or greater star - quasar separation efficiency to match the typical star - galaxy separation readily obtainable from morphology .",
    "for instance , standard uv - excess ( uvx ) quasar selection ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is @xmath13% efficient and the sdss s official quasar targeting efficiency is @xmath14% ( at best ) for bright ( @xmath15 ) uvx sources @xcite .",
    "the @xmath1695% efficiency @xcite of our catalog thus heralded the era of statistically useful photometric star - quasar separation , opening up a new avenue for quasar studies .",
    "although this was a photometric rather than spectroscopic quasar catalog ( as is usually the case for quasar catalogs ) , its 95% efficiency @xcite must be contrasted with the @xmath13% efficiency of standard uv - excess ( uvx ) quasar selection ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the sdss s official quasar targeting efficiency @xmath14% ( at best ) for bright ( @xmath15 ) uvx sources @xcite . indeed , even spectroscopic surveys can have non - negligible error rates .",
    "faint objects with low signal - to - noise ratios can be misidentified and redshifts can be in error  especially when only a single strong line is seen in the wavelength range observed .",
    "[ heralds the era of photometric star - quasar separation in the same way that morphology can be used for star - galaxy separation ]    using the most recent sdss data release @xcite , this paper marks the next milestone by presenting a homogeneous photometric catalog of nearly one _ million _ quasars .",
    "unfortunately , with our current approach , this trend will likely moderate in the near future , as this sample covers 8417 deg@xmath1 to @xmath0 and there are only 41253 deg@xmath1 in our sky . on the other hand , large - scale synoptic surveys such as the large synoptic survey telescope ( lsst ; @xcite )",
    ", the panoramic survey telescope and rapid response system ( pan - starrs ; @xcite ) , and the dark energy survey ( des ; @xcite ) will , in the next decade , enable another order of magnitude gain by taking advantage of fainter photometric limits and quasar variability .",
    "in the meantime , an alternative path allows us to anticipate an explosion in the number of obscured ( so - called type 2 ) quasars @xcite , which are expected to outnumber the type 1 quasars cataloged herein by up to a factor of 4-to-1 ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) , and whose numbers will increase as the _ spitzer space telescope",
    "_ maps ever larger areas of sky during its warm mission .",
    "the need for robust photometric classification is rapidly becoming apparent and will be an absolute necessity by the time lsst and pan - starrs are fully underway .",
    "even with multi - object spectrographs observing thousands of objects per square degree at a time , the small fields and relatively long exposure times mean that it will simply never be possible to obtain spectra of all of objects identified .",
    "in addition , new science goals nearly always demand increased sample size . indeed , this has been aptly demonstrated by previous work on the far smaller versions of this catalog .",
    "much of the new science that used our catalogs detected subtle cosmological effects that were previously impossible without a large quasar catalog , but also highlighted the need for more extensive samples with which to study elusive aspects of cosmology and the quasar population .",
    "for example , @xcite explored quasar clustering using the paper  i catalog  the first such study of quasar evolution in a photometric catalog  and found results consistent with spectroscopic surveys .",
    "this study was expanded in @xcite , providing a luminosity baseline large enough to uniquely constrain topical models of quasar activity , but still with too few objects with which to constrain any luminosity dependence to quasar clustering .",
    "@xcite used the catalog to enhance their study of binary quasars , and detected the first definitive evidence for excess quasar clustering on small scales .",
    "in @xcite we further examined small - scale quasar clustering , providing a homogeneous catalog of binary quasar candidates .",
    "myers et al .",
    "( 2008 ; in prep ) present spectroscopic observations of pairs of photometric quasar candidates and are able to place only weak constraints on any redshift dependence to small - scale quasar clustering at @xmath17 , providing yet more impetus to produce a larger catalog over a wider redshift range . these papers on the clustering of our photometric quasars provided critical input to the clustering analysis done by @xcite .",
    "cross - correlating with the cosmic microwave background , @xcite and giannantonio et al .",
    "( 2008 , submitted ) used the large number of photometric quasars to constrain dark energy using the integrated sachs - wolfe ( isw ) effect @xcite , the first detection of the isw effect using optically - selected quasars .",
    "these measurements represent one of the most robust measurements of dark energy at high redshift and are found to be consistent with predictions for flat @xmath18cdm models ( see giannantonio et al .",
    "finally , after many years of contradictory results in the field , @xcite used photometric quasars to categorically measure cosmic magnification bias , detecting the effect of gravitational lensing by foreground galaxies on quasar source counts at @xmath19 .",
    "this paper is laid out as follows .",
    "section  2 briefly describes the data .",
    "section  3 reviews the bayesian selection algorithm , discusses the changes from @xcite , and describes the construction of the training and test data sets . the catalog itself ( in tables  1 , 2 , and 3 ) is presented in   4 .",
    "various catalog properties and diagnostics of the efficiency and completeness are described as is our prescription for limiting the catalog to particularly robust sub - samples .",
    "we also discuss matching of the catalog to non - optical object catalogs and the determination of photometric redshifts .",
    "finally , a rough analysis of the number counts and luminosity function are given in ",
    "the photometric imaging data that this catalog is based upon are from sdss data release 6 ( dr6 ; @xcite ) . we specifically used the sql interface to the catalog archive server ( cas ) to extract point sources ( type=6 ) with @xmath20-band magnitudes between 14.5 and ( de - reddened ) 21.3 ( psfmag@xmath2114.5 & & psfmag@xmath22extinction@xmath2321.3 ) .",
    "( note that the bright limit uses magnitudes uncorrected for galactic extinction since the purpose of this limit is to reject objects that may be saturated in the imaging . ) throughout this paper we utilize ber - calibrated point - spread - function ( psf ) magnitudes , which are now available in the sdss database prior to ber - calibration were also included in our sample for the sake of completeness . ] .",
    "the ber - calibrated magnitudes @xcite represent the most robust photometric measurements as they are calibrated across sdss `` stripes '' to a single uniform photometric system for the entire sdss area .",
    "the sdss photometric system is described in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the sdss photometric measurements are expressed in asinh magnitudes @xcite .",
    "all magnitudes reported herein have been corrected for galactic extinction using the @xcite dust maps .",
    "we specifically queried the * photoobjall * table , requiring mode=1 in order to limit the sample to `` primary '' detections ( see @xcite for the details of sdss database flags ) .",
    "the dr6 primary imaging data covers an area of 8417 deg@xmath1 . as the sdss databases are designed to be maximally inclusive",
    ", one must carefully cull the object lists for false positive detections .",
    "we thus exclude objects using criteria similar to those described on the sdss web site ; see also table  2 of @xcite for similar criteria . as we include a cut on certain bad objects in sdss run numbers 2189 and 2190 , the total effective area covered by this catalog",
    "should be reduced by @xmath24 deg@xmath1 .",
    "further details regarding the sdss data set and the first six data releases ( drx ) can be found in the series of sdss technical papers ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "familiarity with those papers will assist in optimal use of the catalog presented herein .",
    "details of the camera and telescope systems are given by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "photometric processing details are discussed by @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite . given that we match the catalog to objects with spectroscopy , details of the tiling @xcite and ( point source ) target selection algorithms @xcite may also be of interest .",
    "paper i describes the details of our bayesian classification algorithm .",
    "herein we make a few changes to the procedure , but , overall , the concepts are the same , so we present only a brief review of the most relevant aspects . our goal is simply to take an unknown data set and assign one of two distinct classes to each object based on the colors of that object : quasar or star ( or more specifically non - quasar ) . to accomplish this ,",
    "we first build _ training sets _ of quasars and stars that serve as classification templates . then , for each object in the _ test set _ of unknown objects that we wish to classify , we compute the probability of each object being a quasar or star .",
    "the probability of belonging to a certain class given parameter(s ) , @xmath25 , is the likelihood of @xmath25 under the probability density function ( pdf ) which describes that class , i.e. , @xmath26 , where @xmath27 is the class of object . rather than describing the pdf with a histogram of discrete bins",
    "whose centers are pre - ordained , we instead use a _ kernel density estimate _",
    "( kde ; @xcite ) of the pdf .",
    "kde defines each bin by its center point and the extent of the bin by a continuous _ kernel function_. in our case that kernel function will be either gaussian or epanechnikov ( truncated gaussian ) .    as we are not completely ignorant with regard to the most likely classification ( e.g. , the vast majority of objects in our initial test set are stars ) , we take a bayesian ( 1763 ) approach and factor in our prior belief regarding the class of each object ( at least in the ensemble average ) , denoted @xmath28 .",
    "thus the posterior probability , @xmath29 , of an object belonging to class 1 , @xmath30 , will be @xmath31 where @xmath32 indicates class 2 . a class is then assigned to each object according to whether @xmath29 is greater or less than 0.5 .",
    "we refer to the resulting overall classifier as a nonparametric bayes classifier ( nbc ) ; it is sometimes also called kernel discriminant analysis ( kda ) or kernel density classification .",
    "the parameters , @xmath25 , that we use for classification are simply the four primary sdss colors ( @xmath33 , @xmath34 , @xmath35 , @xmath36 ) .",
    "thus we are attempting classification in 4-d color space as compared with the more traditional 2-d color - space selection or even the 3-d algorithms used by the formal sdss quasar targeting algorithm @xcite .",
    "we define _ training sets _ of stars and quasars as discussed below and will use their 4-d sdss colors as the basis of our classification .",
    "all objects in the training set are weighted equally in the classification .",
    "photometric errors are not currently considered explicitly , but they are implicitly accounted for by the distributions of the training sets .      for the quasar training set , we start with the 77,429 hand - vetted sdss - dr5 quasars with spectra as cataloged by @xcite , which is based upon the sdss dr5 data @xcite",
    ". these quasars span a redshift range of @xmath37 . initially , no additional cuts based on luminosity , morphology , selection method , photometric errors , etc .",
    "are applied .",
    "however , after the initial classification , we realized that , at the faintest limits of our photometric catalog there is some level of galaxy contamination ( see   [ sec : stargal ] ) , so for the final training set we chose to exclude all of the known quasars that are extended .",
    "this decision reduces our completeness to @xmath38 quasars ( see   [ sec : completeness ] ) , but improves the overall efficiency of the algorithm .    as one of the goals of this paper",
    "is to extend the catalog in paper i to higher redshifts , we supplement the dr5 quasar catalog with three other data sets .",
    "this is perhaps less necessary than it might have been for paper i as the initial training set is now more than a factor of four larger and has correspondingly more high - redshift quasars . nevertheless , high - redshift quasars are rare and the sdss algorithm is known to be incomplete in certain redshift regions @xcite , thus we include three additional sources of high - redshift quasars .",
    "we first supplement the sdss - dr5 quasar catalog with quasars discovered during the first observing season ( 2006 ) of the aaomega - ukidss - sdss ( aus ) qso survey .",
    "this program is targeting @xmath39 quasars with the aaomega spectrograph on the anglo - australian telescope in order to fill a crucial gap in the redshift ( and magnitude ) coverage of quasars .",
    "this data set adds another 304 spectroscopically confirmed quasars ( of which 121 have @xmath40 ) . in addition , 131 confirmed non - quasars are added to the stars training set . while the numbers are small in comparison with the sdss - dr5 sample , these objects span an important range of parameter space .",
    "next , we include all of the @xmath41 quasars discovered by the sdss to date ; see @xcite ; this addition expands the upper redshift limit of our training set from @xmath42 to @xmath43 .",
    "note that the @xmath44 region is underrepresented by the main sdss quasar survey and subsequent work , but these objects have sufficiently similar colors to @xmath45 and @xmath46 quasars and sufficiently different colors from most stars that they should still be identified as photometric quasar candidates ( albeit with contamination from l / t dwarfs ) .",
    "finally , we included 920 objects that were selected as highly likely quasar candidates from cross - comparison of sdss and _ spitzer _ data .",
    "these are objects that meet the 2-d mid - ir color ( `` wedge '' ) selection criteria of both @xcite and @xcite in addition to our own 3-d bayesian criteria using mid - ir colors from _ spitzer_-irac ( richards et al .",
    "2008 , in prep . ) .",
    "they are also unresolved point sources in the sdss imaging , have red mid - ir colors ( whereas stars are blue in the mid - ir ) , are limited to @xmath47 ( while sdss goes to @xmath0 ) , and are brighter than @xmath48 .",
    "although these objects are photometrically selected , they are relatively bright point sources selected as quasars by four separate methods and are expected to unambiguously be type 1 quasars .",
    "inclusion of such objects provides a crucial vector for multi - dimensional photometric selection of quasars at redshifts where traditional optical methods have difficulty ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the final quasar training set includes 75,382 confirmed quasars .",
    "note that our quasar training set is largely limited to @xmath49 at redshifts less than 3 and @xmath47 at redshifts higher than 3 , yet we attempt to classify quasars to @xmath50 .",
    "typically , it is inadvisable to extrapolate the results of a classification algorithm beyond the parameter space represented by the training set .",
    "however , there is no strong evidence for significant color changes in quasars ( apparent or absolute ) save brighter quasars tending to be slightly bluer ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , modulo larger photometric errors for fainter objects , the parameter space of our training set should remain representative of all @xmath51 quasars that we attempt to classify .",
    "for the stars training set , we have roughly two classes of objects to consider .",
    "first are those stars with colors that are quite different from quasars .",
    "second are objects that are more easily confused with quasars .    to account for the general population of stars",
    ", we extracted a random sample of @xmath52% of all reliable point sources in the sdss dr6 imaging area with @xmath53 , totaling 441,335 objects ; see   [ sec : data ] .",
    "as discussed in paper i , unlike for quasars , we do not have a fully representative spectroscopic sample of stars to use as our training set .",
    "thus , this sample of `` stars '' is really a point source sample and will include quasars as a contaminant .",
    "as a result , we first clean the stars training set of objects that are most likely to be quasars by running the stars training set through the classification algorithm . for this step",
    ", we took a star prior of 0.8 ( roughly consistent with the fraction of stars in the initial training set ) and removed any objects initially classified as quasars by our algorithm . in this step",
    "we also removed objects that are known radio or x - ray sources ( since point - like radio / x - ray sources are likely to be quasars ) and with existing quasar spectral classification .",
    "this process removes @xmath54 objects from the stellar training set .",
    "spectroscopically confirmed stars are retained .",
    "however , in this process , we will have removed not only the most likely quasars from the stars training set , but also we have removed some of those stars with colors most similar to quasars",
    ". the end result of this on our final classification will be to increase the contamination of the quasar catalog by such stars . as a result , in addition to the above `` cleaned '' 1% random - sampling of point sources , we include all point sources in dr5 that were _ targeted _ as quasars but were spectroscopically confirmed to be stars .",
    "there are 20,735 stars in this sample .",
    "these stars are essentially exactly those that are removed by accident in the step above and should result in a much cleaner quasar sample ( albeit with somewhat lower quasar completeness in the redshift ranges where stars colors mimic quasars ) .",
    "in addition , past experience has shown that hii regions in galaxies can sometimes have colors that can be confused with quasars ( either intrinsically or due to deblending problems ) . to help remove such sources , we inspected the images of all ( a few hundred ) pairs with @xmath55 image separation , previously classified as quasars by an initial pass of our algorithm ( see , e.g. , the discussion in @xcite ) .",
    "the 317 galactic hii regions that were thus detected are included in the stars training set .",
    "the final stars training set , including the 1% sparse - sampling of point sources ( cleaned of likely quasars ) and the hii regions , comes to a total of 429,908 objects .",
    "note that , unlike for quasars , the colors of stars _ do _ change appreciably with apparent magnitude  largely as a result of changing metallicity .",
    "as the fainter stars tend to be somewhat bluer , one expects a higher degree of stellar contamination with fainter catalog magnitudes .",
    "this effect will be even more important to account for in any future attempts at a deeper quasar catalog ( even considering deeper photometry with reduced photometric errors ) .",
    "see figure  3 in @xcite for an illustration of how stellar colors change as a function of magnitude in sdss color space .",
    "the test set is simply the same data set as used for the initial stars training set , but without the random sampling to 1% . as described in ",
    "[ sec : data ] we limit the sample to point sources that are considered to be reliable and have @xmath56 .",
    "the test set for paper i was selected in the @xmath57-band as it was meant to be a uv - excess catalog . here",
    "we switch to @xmath20 , consistent with the sdss spectroscopic quasar sample , in order to minimize the effects of the ly-@xmath58 forest at high redshift .",
    "the full test set includes 44,449,609 objects to be classified .",
    "once the training and test sets are defined we compute the likelihood of each object @xmath25 in the test set with respect to each training set ( or equivalently , the density at @xmath25 under the stars and under the quasars ) , using the nonparametric ( i.e. , distribution - free ) _ kernel density estimator _",
    "@xcite : @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the number of training set data points , @xmath61 is called the kernel function and satisfies @xmath62 , @xmath63 is a scaling factor called the bandwidth , and @xmath64 is the `` distance '' between a point in the test set to a point in the training set ( in our case , these distances are 4-d euclidean color differences , @xmath65 ) .",
    "initial classification uses an epanechnikov ( truncated gaussian ) kernel , which improves the classification speed ( as a result of a lack of infinitely long tails ) without any loss of robustness in terms of binary classification .",
    "formally this process is an @xmath66 one .",
    "thus the tractability of our approach relies on the use of space - partitioning trees ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the fact that we require only binary classification . as a result",
    "it is not necessary to explicitly compute the density under each of the training sets , rather we are satisfied with knowing only the upper and lower bounds on the density for each class .",
    "the code stops when the bounds no longer overlap . nevertheless , the algorithm is exact , i.e. , it computes the classification labels as if the kernel density estimates had been computed exactly .",
    "full details of the algorithm are given by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "one improvement over the algorithm used in paper i is the implementation of code to aid in the ( fast ) determination of the optimal bandwidth for classification . finding the optimal kde bandwidth is similar to the choice of bin size when constructing a histogram .",
    "bins that are too large cause information to be lost .",
    "bins that are too small result in unphysically large small number statistical fluctuations .",
    "an initial broad search of possible bandwidths is first attempted .",
    "then a narrower search around the most optimal bandwidth is executed .",
    "the criteria used for best bandwidth was the completeness of the quasar training set under self - classification .",
    "efficiency or the product of efficiency and completeness are also viable choices .",
    "the final bandwidths were 0.11 mag for stars and 0.12 mag for quasars , which resulted in an accuracy ( completeness ) of 92.6% for the quasar training set .",
    "the algorithm used for paper i used a flat prior ( i.e. , a prior that was not a function of magnitude , spatial location , etc . ) .",
    "however , the probability of a given point source being a star is a function of various parameters that are measured by the sdss photometric pipeline and are included in the database .",
    "for example , the probability of an object being a star decreases with fainter magnitudes ( since the galaxy has a finite size ) and with increasing galactic latitude ( since the stellar density is higher in the plane of the galaxy ) .",
    "thus we have included the ability in the new algorithm for assigning a parameter - dependent prior .",
    "however , in the end , we have not implemented this capability , essentially because the complicated priors we analyzed only provided very modest improvements to the classification .",
    "for example , the stellar prior is already 0.95 ; making the prior a function of galactic latitude only spreads the prior out over a small range of values and has relatively little effect .    that said , we recognize the value of added information in the catalog beyond the initial binary classification .",
    "we therefore include other pieces of classification information that can be used to cull interlopers from the catalog and/or to select particular regions of parameter space for further consideration .",
    "our initial classification used a stellar prior of 0.95 ( i.e. , @xmath1695% of objects in the test set are expected to be stars ) .",
    "these objects are flagged in the catalog with @xmath67 ( see   [ sec : catalog ] ) .",
    "we have also classified all of the objects in the test set after restricting the quasar training set to three narrower redshift ranges ( moving the quasars outside of these ranges to the `` stars '' training set ) .",
    "we classified objects as low - redshift ( @xmath68 ) , mid - redshift ( @xmath69 ) and high - redshift ( @xmath70 ) .",
    "the rationale for this process is that the distribution of quasar colors changes considerably with redshift , sometimes being more consistent with the stellar locus than others .",
    "thus , sub - classification by redshift can improve the robustness of the sample .",
    "the priors for these sub - samples were set to a somewhat more conservative value of 0.98 rather than 0.95 .",
    "the bandwidth optimizing algorithm was also rerun on for these sub - classifications and the paired ( star , quasar ) bandwidth values were @xmath71 for low-@xmath64 , mid-@xmath64 , and high-@xmath64 as compared to ( 0.11 , 0.12 ) for the full sample .",
    "small changes ( of order the range quoted here ) in these values would have relatively little impact on our results .",
    "the redshift - dependent selected entries in the catalog are flagged as @xmath72 , @xmath73 , and @xmath74 , respectively .",
    "in addition , for backwards compatibility with the catalog from paper i ( and our unpublished dr3 and dr4 catalogs ) , we have also provided a flag that indicates whether each object would be selected by that algorithm as well .",
    "see paper i for more details on this selection .",
    "these entries in the catalog are flagged as @xmath75 .    in the end , we catalog all 1,172,157 objects that were classified as quasar by one or more of the above five methods ( all redshifts , @xmath76 ; low - redshift , mid - redshift , high - redshift @xmath77 ; uvx , @xmath78 ) .",
    "this number is 2.6% of the objects in the test set  roughly consistent with the stellar priors of 9598% and amounting to nearly 140 quasar candidates per square degree .",
    "paper i had had a density of only @xmath79 quasar candidates per square degree over 2099 deg@xmath1 .",
    "most of this increase comes from the deeper @xmath20-band cut ( 21.3 instead of 21.0 ) and the move from @xmath57 to @xmath20 itself as our @xmath20-band limit of 21.3 corresponds roughly to @xmath80 .",
    "the remainder comes from the additional redshift coverage and from contamination ( which we will explore how to minimize in   [ sec : cull ] ) .",
    "finally , as in paper i , in addition to non - parametric classification , we also provide the parametric quasar and star densities ( likelihoods ) .",
    "as discussed above , these values are intractable to determine for the entire test of more than 44 million objects .",
    "however , for the smaller sample of objects classified as quasars using any of the above five criteria , it is possible to determine the exact values in addition to the binary classification . in paper",
    "i , we showed how this information can be used to clean the quasar candidate list of the most obvious sources of contamination ; see also ",
    "[ sec : cull ] .",
    "after applying our algorithm to the test set as described above , we are left with 1,172,157 quasar candidates that define this catalog .",
    "the next sections describe the efficiency and completeness of the catalog in addition to prescriptions for making more robust subsets of the whole catalog .",
    "table  1 lists the most robust quasar candidates , while table  2 provides a description of each column in the machine readable table .",
    "table  3 is a listing of objects that were culled ( see   [ sec : cull ] ) from the table 1 as known or likely contaminants , but are included as a separate table for the sake of completeness .",
    "table  3 has the same format as table  1 .",
    "each object in the catalog was cross - matched to the dr5 quasar catalog @xcite , the 2qz quasar catalog @xcite , the sdss-2df lrg and qso survey ( 2slaq ) early data release quasar catalog ( croom et al . in prep . ) , and the sdss - dr6 spectroscopic database @xcite .",
    "the matching was done in the above order .",
    "once a match was found , no further matches were allowed for that object as this hierarchy represents the most effective path to robust identifications .",
    "objects from the dr6 spectroscopic database were required to have a high confidence zstatus flags .    in all 88,879",
    "spectroscopically confirmed quasars , 4962 stars , and 891 `` other '' objects ( e.g. , normal and narrow emission line galaxies ) were identified . as such , our _ photometric _ quasar catalog is also one of the largest single catalogs of _ spectroscopically confirmed _ quasars to date even though we only include known quasars from three sources .",
    "however , it is clearly spatially ( and otherwise ) biased to locations ( and reasons ) where follow - up spectroscopic surveys have been carried out .",
    "while @xmath81 of these have not been vetted by eye as is done for the sdss spectroscopic quasar catalogs @xcite , we have only included those objects which pass relatively robust flag checking diagnostics .",
    "comparison with the heterogeneous catalog of @xcite which generally includes automatically identified quasars from the sdss database rather than the more carefully vetted sample from @xcite , suggests that most of these objects should be robust .",
    "of the 36,948 quasars in @xcite that were taken directly from the sdss database , 85 were not included in @xcite and 43 had redshifts corrected by @xcite . among the redshift errors is sdss  j205644.53@xmath82005904.2 , which is listed by @xcite as a @xmath83 quasar ( though the sdss database has a warning flag ) , but is cataloged by @xcite as a @xmath84 iron - dominated , low - ionization , broad absorption - line quasar . on the other hand , there are , in fact , objects in our catalog classified as non - quasars that are actually quasars .",
    "for example , most of the objects with @xmath85 and marked in the catalog as `` dr6_galaxy '' are indeed quasars for which the spectroscopic classification templates failed for some reason ; such objects are recovered during the careful review process used to construct the published spectroscopic sample of sdss quasars @xcite .",
    "however , we maintain their galaxy classifications here since complete double - checking of the sdss s automated identifications is better left for the careful construction of the next installment in the sdss s spectroscopic quasar catalog series .",
    "for paper i , after running the `` nbc - kde '' algorithm we made an additional cut on the stellar density to remove the most likely contaminants . for this version of the catalog , we have chosen instead to tabulate all of the objects that passed the nbc criterion and flag the sample of the most likely contaminants after the fact .",
    "the table includes a parameter `` good '' , which is meant to be indicative of how likely we feel that the object is truly a quasar .",
    "this column is an integer value that spans the range [ -6,6 ] .",
    "more positive values indicate greater confidence in the quasar classification , and we generally recommend using objects with @xmath86 for statistical analysis ( with the possible exception of mid- and high-@xmath64 candidates , see below ) . as such , objects with @xmath87 and/or",
    "that are known contaminants have been removed from table  1 and are included separately in table  3 .    the value of good starts at 0 for each object .",
    "it is incremented by 2 if the object is a spectroscopically confirmed quasar .",
    "it is decremented by 2 if it is a known non - quasar .",
    "the following conditions cause the good flag to be incremented by one ( see table  2 for an explanation of the parameters ) :    * @xmath88 * @xmath89 ( i.e. , radio - detected ) * @xmath90 ( i.e. , x - ray - detected ) * @xmath91 ( i.e. , consistent photo - z and class ) * @xmath92 ( i.e. , consistent photo - z and class )    note that there is no criteria for consistent photo-@xmath64 and class for high-@xmath64 candidates as the contaminants generally have `` correct '' photo-@xmath64 s .",
    "the following conditions cause the good flag to be decremented by one :    @xmath93 ( high proper motion )    @xmath94 ( likely moving source )    @xmath95 ( @xmath20-band reddening more than 0.3 mag )    @xmath96 ( uvx - selected object that otherwise appears high-@xmath64 )    @xmath97 ( quasar likelihood too low )    @xmath98 ( likely mid-@xmath64 interlopers )    @xmath99 ( drop - out objects with insufficient s / n )    @xmath100 ( bright mid-@xmath64 interlopers )    @xmath101 ( bright high-@xmath64 interlopers )    @xmath102 ( galactic latitude [ not given in tables ] too low )    note that we have also capped the photometric redshift probability ( see   [ sec : photoz ] ) at 0.499 for objects that are likely to be extended , yet have redshifts inconsistent with an extended morphology ( specifically , @xmath103 ) and that are high-@xmath64 candidates but are not @xmath104-band dropouts ( @xmath105 ) or @xmath57-band dropouts ( @xmath106 ) .",
    "these modified values come into play for some of the above criteria .    in the end",
    "there are 80404 , 136232 , 292800 , 505646 , 129246 , 19632 , 8197 with good flags of @xmath107 , 2 , 1 , 0 , @xmath108 , @xmath108 , and @xmath109 , respectively .",
    "the maximum and minimum values are 6 and @xmath110 , respectively .",
    "known quasars and non - quasars are not set to the extreme values so that their relative quasar likelihood in the absence of spectroscopic confirmation can be used to assess the relative likelihood of unknown objects .",
    "figure  [ fig : ihistlg ] shows the magnitude distributions of the catalog .",
    "known interlopers are included ; in part , to show their effect on the distribution at the bright end .",
    "the @xmath20-band distribution is thus given with ( solid black ) and without ( dashed black ) cuts on the good parameter .",
    "the @xmath50 limit is not sharp as objects with @xmath50 either before or after ber - calibration were included .",
    "the colored histograms indicate the magnitude distributions in the other bands as this is important for assessing the color completeness of the catalog at the faint end .",
    "note , however , that sdss s use of asinh magnitudes @xcite means that there is no hard magnitude limit and that all objects detected to our chosen @xmath20-band limit will have meaningful measurements in the other four bands .",
    "the spatial distribution of the catalog is given by figure  [ fig : radec ] .",
    "as one generally expects more quasars at higher galactic latitude as a result of lower dust @xcite and fewer galactic stars blocking the light from distant sources , we show the distribution of sources as a function of galactic latitude in figure  [ fig : gallat ] . at low galactic latitudes , stars masquerading as quasars in our catalog show a spike in the distribution due to the increase in stellar density towards the galactic plane , thus in   [ sec : cull ]",
    "we decremented the good flag for the lowest galactic latitude objects in our sample .",
    "while these quasars have their photometry corrected for galactic extinction according to the @xcite prescription , one obviously can not correct undetected objects for extinction . as the limit of our sample",
    "is @xmath50 and the 95% completeness limits of sdss is @xmath0 , our catalog will fail to include quasars ( for example ) with i - band extinction , @xmath111 , larger than @xmath112 at @xmath113 [ equivalently , @xmath114 .",
    "the distribution of @xmath115 values in our sample is shown in figure  [ fig : ebmv ] .",
    "@xcite showed that the selection efficiency of the dr1 catalog was improved by making a more rigorous cut of @xmath116 ( @xmath117 ) .",
    "the two cuts are shown in figure  [ fig : ebmv ] and account for roughly 1% and 20% of the sample , respectively .",
    "the colors of the quasars and stars in the training sets are given by figure  [ fig : ccplottrain ] , while figure  [ fig : ccplottest ] shows the color distribution of test set objects that were classified as quasars ( i.e. , the objects in this catalog ) . by comparing the location of likely interlopers ( magenta ) in figure  [ fig : ccplottest ] and with the relative location of stars / quasars in the training sets from figure  [ fig : ccplottrain ] , it is possible to identify the most likely contaminants in the catalog .    in paper",
    "i , we explicitly culled objects with star probability in excess of @xmath118 .",
    "for this sample , no such cut is applied ( with the exception of the initial selection of uvx candidates using the same algorithm as in paper i ) .",
    "however , it may be useful for additional culling to know the distribution of star and quasar probabilities .",
    "thus we show them in figure  [ fig : qsall ] for the entire sample , and broken down by the redshift - selected subsamples .",
    "examination of this figure can help determine optimal cuts for statistical sub - samples .",
    "for example , a very robust sub - sample could be made by making a cut requiring a high value for qso density , but figure  [ fig : qsall ] shows that that comes with the trade - off of cutting most mid- and high-@xmath64 quasars in addition to some of the uvx sources .",
    "it is difficult to quantify the completeness of the catalog since it extends to deeper magnitudes and higher redshifts than most existing spectroscopic quasar catalogs . yet , we can do some simple tests to get an idea of the completeness .",
    "we first compare to the sdss - dr5 quasar catalog . while this sample is the basis of our quasar training set , it is instructive to explore the completeness of this sample to see if there are any redshift regions where the selection algorithm is particularly incomplete . of the 77,429 quasars in the sdss - dr5 catalog , 73,924 of these are point sources with @xmath50",
    " thus meeting our initial selection requirements .",
    "our algorithm recovers 69,031 of these for an overall completeness of 93.4% .",
    "note that the true completeness to @xmath119 quasars will be lower as a result of our point source requirement .",
    "figure  [ fig : zcomp2 ] shows the completeness distribution as a function of redshift .",
    "the grey histogram and right - hand axis gives the redshift distribution of the input sample .",
    "note the relatively incomplete regions near @xmath120 and @xmath121 in both the input and output samples .",
    "these occur where quasars and stars have very similar colors in sdss color space and quasars are difficult to separate cleanly . for these regions ,",
    "the completeness is not well constrained given that the quasar training set was initially incomplete in these regions .",
    "it is not clear whether the photometric catalog completeness is likely to be higher or lower ; however , the construction of the training sets is such that the completeness is hoped to be higher than for the main sdss quasar sample .",
    "an additional region with a slightly lower completeness is found near @xmath122 , where white dwarfs are a source of contamination .",
    "it must be emphasized that our catalog is limited to optically - selected type 1 quasars .",
    "this is primarily a limitation due to the nature of the sdss data rather than to our actual technique .",
    "other methods / datasets , including radio , infrared , and x - ray can and do find quasars ( and less luminous agns ) that will not be found by our method / data , particularly type 2 quasars ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the completeness numbers herein do not consider such objects even though the size of the obscured population is substantial ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "another source of incompleteness is due to extra - galactic reddening ( whether by the agn s dusty torus , the host galaxy , or another galaxy along the line of sight ) .",
    "@xcite estimate that the fraction of quasars reddened out of the optically - selected sdss sample ( but still detected as broad - line quasars ) is @xmath1615% , whereas some radio and near - ir selected samples ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) argue for up to @xmath123% incompleteness of optically - selected samples ( albeit with small number statistics ) .",
    "recent work by @xcite estimate the fraction as 30% based on a a @xmath124-band selected sample .",
    "thus , we expect that our @xmath20-band selected sample will be incomplete at a comparable level due to dust extinction that occurs outside of the milky way .    a more detailed analysis of the effects of dust extinction is beyond the scope of this paper ; however , for guidance we refer the reader to @xcite . while that paper discusses specifically the effects of dust from intervening galaxies , the conclusions regarding completeness at a given @xmath115 are generic . in short ,",
    "the majority of quasars are expected to be recovered at @xmath125 , but we expect neglible completeness above @xmath126",
    ". further empirical assessment of the completeness of our catalog will come from current and future spectroscopic samples that were selected with complementary selection methods .",
    "for example , the catalog includes the noao deep wide - field survey ( ndwfs ; @xcite ) area , which includes extensive spectroscopic coverage from the agn and galaxy evolution survey ( ages ; e.g. , @xcite ) survey that will be suitable for such analysis once the ages data are published .    as a simple check on our completeness versus non - optical quasar selection , we cross - match the multiwavelength - selected spectroscopic sample @xcite from the cosmos @xcite field with our photometric sample .",
    "we find 45 matches to within 1@xmath127 ; most of these are indeed type 1 ( broad - line ) quasars . in all , the @xcite sample includes 47 type 1 objects with @xmath128 , which , in principle , should have been recovered by our algorithm ( allowing for a slightly brighter magnitude limit to mitigate any differences in the magnitudes used ) .",
    "we recover 33 of those 47 ( 70% ) .",
    "six of the missing objects have @xmath6 , which we preferentially select against due to the point source nature of our catalog .",
    "three have @xmath7 , where optical selection is notoriously inefficient . that leaves 3 objects at @xmath129 and 2 objects at @xmath11 that we might have otherwise expected to find .",
    "we find that three of these are rejected due to our strict photometric flags cuts as described above , while the remaining two are likely lost because of dust reddening .",
    "however , our catalog also includes 51 previously unconfirmed objects in the cosmos field that were not cataloged by @xcite ; of these we consider 14 to be particularly robust candidates ( @xmath130 ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : cosmos ] shows the distribution of these sources in comparison with the coverage of @xcite",
    ". some of these objects may be among those to which the @xcite investigation is incomplete ( @xmath4% at @xmath131 and @xmath132% of the x - ray targets , whether due to tiling collisions or low s / n spectra ) . even considering this incompleteness , many of those 14 candidates should have been recovered .",
    "three have no match within @xmath133 in the cosmos x - ray catalog @xcite and may be broad absorption line quasars ( balqsos ) given that balqsos are known to be x - ray weak @xcite and are generally not strong radio sources @xcite , and thus are the most likely type 1 quasars to be missed by @xcite .",
    "these missing objects serve to illustrate the importance of combining multiple selection methods when attempting a truly complete agn census . matching the full set of 51 objects to",
    "the catalog of @xcite reveals 22 objects with x - ray matches to within @xmath134 , which suggests that no less than 43% of the 51 previously unconfirmed / uncataloged candidates are indeed quasars .    as our primary science motivations for this work",
    "thusfar have largely been statistical analysis of clustering , our emphasis has been on creating clean samples of photometric quasars as opposed to a complete sample .",
    "thus , we have not considered the completeness of the sample in more detail here . as such",
    "we caution that , some investigations , such as a full bolometric quasar luminosity function , will require more detailed understanding of the completeness of this sample both with respect to dust reddened sources and completely optically obscured ( type 2 ) sources .",
    "a naive test of the efficiency of the algorithm is simply to determine the fraction of known quasars amongst the total sample of known objects .",
    "this value is @xmath135% . considering only sources with @xmath136 ,",
    "the expected efficiency based on known objects is 95.6% .",
    "we can also compute the efficiency as a function of magnitude .",
    "this is shown in figure  [ fig : ifrac ] for both the full sample and for @xmath136 candidates .",
    "the efficiency measured in this manner is exceeds 95% for @xmath137 objects that are flagged as `` good '' . at bright magnitudes",
    "the efficiency drops off due to interlopers such as white dwarfs and faint low - metallicity f - stars ( e.g. , compare fig .  3 and 4 in @xcite ) in addition to mid- and high-@xmath64 interlopers .",
    "the latter can be seen in figure  [ fig : ccplottest ] at @xmath138 and @xmath139 ( also see fig .  [",
    "fig : dr6z2z4lf ] ) .",
    "overall this population is small , but is relatively larger for @xmath140 where the number of real quasars is also small .",
    "restricting the sample to @xmath136 removes some but not all of the contamination .",
    "however , there are relatively few bright objects in the catalog , so this contamination has little affect on the catalog as a whole . at the faint end ,",
    "the efficiency is also lower , here largely due to increasing photometric errors .",
    "convolving our estimate of the efficiency as a function of magnitude with the magnitude distribution shown in figure  [ fig : ihistlg ] results in an expected number of bona fide quasars in the catalog between 850,000 and 990,000 .",
    "furthermore , as shown by @xcite , it is possible to use the auto - correlation of the photometric quasar sample to estimate its efficiency since , angular scales that are large by clustering standards correspond to relatively small physical scales at galactic distances and stars will have a residual clustering signal . as",
    "this method is independent of any biases in previous spectroscopic identifications , it is expected to be more robust than our crude estimates above .",
    "table  4 shows the efficiencies that result for this clustering analysis ( at a size scale of 5 degrees ) for the whole catalog and various sub - samples .",
    "the overall efficiency of the catalog is only expected to be @xmath141% .",
    "however , it is nearly 97% for certain sub - classes of objects .",
    "users of the catalog should pay particular attention to this table and the flags that are represented when attempting to do any sort of statistical analysis that is sensitive to interlopers .",
    "one caveat with regard to the above efficiency estimates has to do with sdss star - galaxy separation .",
    "the clustering - based efficiency estimates from table  4 technically should not be viewed as the _ quasar efficiency _ but rather tells us the rate of _ stellar contamination_. as galaxies cluster more like quasars than stars , we must be aware that the clustering results will not uncover non - agn galaxy interlopers .    in detail ,",
    "the primary method used by the sdss pipeline to differentiate between unresolved and resolved sources ( i.e. , stars and galaxies ) is to examine the difference between psf magnitudes and so - called model magnitudes ( de  vaucouleurs or exponential ) . for extended sources , like galaxies , psf magnitudes over - resolve the source and yield fluxes that are smaller ( magnitudes that are larger ) than for magnitudes which model the distribution of light better .",
    "thus it is possible to use the difference between the psf and model magnitudes to determine the morphology of sdss sources .",
    "specifically , objects are considered to be extended if @xmath142 , where the magnitudes are summed over all bands in which the object is detected @xcite .",
    "however , at fainter magnitudes large photometric errors can make this star - galaxy classification algorithm less effective .",
    "in general the limiting behavior is to classify all faint objects as being stellar .",
    "thus , our catalog of `` point sources '' will have some degree of contamination from galaxies and this contamination will be a function of magnitude . while it is not possible to make explicit corrections for this contamination ,",
    "is it possible to estimate the level of its effect as a function of magnitude .",
    "we specifically make use of the bayesian star - galaxy classification algorithm developed by @xcite , which assigns a bayesian galaxy probability to each object rather than a binary classification .",
    "figure  [ fig : stargal ] shows the fraction of sdss - classified point sources as a function of magnitude that have less than a 10% chance of being galaxies according to the @xcite method .",
    "values below unity are indicative of the fraction of galaxies that the sdss has erroneously classified as point sources . at @xmath143 ,",
    "the fraction of contamination is only @xmath165% , but at the limit of our survey it may be as high as 15% .",
    "thus considerable caution is needed to prevent significant amount of contamination from galaxies ; indeed , much of the contamination at the faint end may arise from galaxies .",
    "this issue is particularly important when using the catalog for clustering studies as quasars and galaxies have similar clustering properties .",
    "it is possible to estimate redshifts of astrophysical sources using only broad - band photometry by identifying the signature of distinct spectral features on the colors of objects . for galaxies ,",
    "such `` photometric '' redshifts have a long history ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "similarly robust photometric redshift for quasars can be derived for high - redshift quasars where the strong lyman-@xmath58 forest decrement produces a relatively sharp change in color .",
    "however , robust photometric redshifts for low-@xmath64 quasars using the smaller broad - band color changes induced by emission lines had to wait until the use of many filters ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and sensitive photometric calibration over large - area surveys ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for each object in the catalog , we report photometric redshifts that were determined via the method described in @xcite .",
    "this algorithm minimizes the difference between the measured colors of each object and the median colors of quasars as a function of redshift .",
    "we used the colors of all of the unresolved point source quasars in the dr5 quasar catalog of @xcite as our color - redshift template . for each object",
    "we catalog the most likely photometric redshift ( to the nearest 0.01 ) , a redshift range , and the probability that the redshift is within that range ; see @xcite for more details .",
    "the left panel of figure  [ fig : zz ] shows the spectroscopic versus photometric redshifts of the 88,879 confirmed quasars in the catalog , revealing those redshifts where the algorithm has the largest error rate ( either due to degeneracy between distinct redshifts or smearing of nearby redshifts ) .",
    "however , one can see from the highly zero - peaked distribution in the right panel that , overall , the quasar photo-@xmath64 algorithm performs quite well , with 73761 ( 83% ) of the redshifts being correct to within @xmath144 .",
    "we compare the distribution of photometric and spectroscopic redshifts in figure  [ fig : zhist ] , which shows that the photo - z s match the spectroscopic redshifts reasonably well in the ensemble average on smoothing scales slightly larger than the photo - z bins , which is important for statistical analysis .",
    "figure  [ fig : zhist ] also quantifies the fractional accuracy ( to @xmath145 ; grey squares ) in each photo-@xmath64 bin which was seen more qualitatively in figure  [ fig : zz ] . in general , the photo-@xmath64 accuracy is best where the most training data exist ( @xmath146 ) , which helps explain the 83% overall photo-@xmath64 accuracy of the catalog .",
    "it is lower for @xmath147 in part due to host galaxy contamination , at @xmath148 where relatively little training data exists , and in some high-@xmath64 bins where the errors are larger , but are generally not catastrophic .",
    "the redshift dependence of this accuracy should be taken into account for any statistical use of the catalog .",
    "the photo-@xmath64 code also gives a probability of an object being in a given redshift range ( where the size of that range can vary considerably ) .",
    "that is , we give not only the most likely redshift but also the probability that the redshift is between some minimum and maximum value , which is crucial for dealing with catastrophic failures .",
    "figure  [ fig : zzprob ] plots the estimated probability of the photometric redshift being in the given range versus the actual fraction of those objects with accurate photometric redshifts  demonstrating that these probabilities are accurate in the ensemble average .",
    "the inset shows a breakdown as a function of photometric redshift .",
    "judicious use of the predicted redshifts , the range given , and the probability of the object having a redshift in that range allows these photometric redshift estimates to be very useful for a number of science applications .",
    "one can get a better idea of where the catastrophic photometric redshift failures occur by looking at the distribution of true redshifts within a given photometric redshift bin as shown in figure  [ fig : zphothistqlf ] .",
    "the photometric redshift bins were chosen to match those of the @xcite quasar luminosity function as it is necessary to correct for such photometric redshift errors before determining the quasar luminosity function from our sample (   [ sec : qlf ] ) .",
    "the bins edges are at ( 0.3 , 0.68 , 1.06 , 1.44 , 1.82 , 2.2 , 2.5 , 3.0 , 3.5 , 4.0 , 4.5 , 5.0 ) .",
    "we find that objects with photometric redshifts of @xmath149 , @xmath150 and @xmath151 are particularly robust ( but note that this robustness is independent of the robustness of the initial quasar classification , which may be worse [ e.g. , at @xmath151 ] ) .",
    "three additional sources of information that we have used in determining the legitimacy of quasar candidates are their radio and x - ray flux densities and their proper motions . while not all radio and x - ray sources are quasars , the likelihood of a given object that otherwise appears to be a quasar goes up considerably if the source is also detected in the radio or x - ray . on the other hand , objects with large proper motions ( and small errors ) can not be distant quasars . compilation of this multi - wavelength and proper motion information is done within the sdss database and is described by @xcite , so we describe them only briefly here .",
    "objects in the sdss database are matched ( with a @xmath153 radius ) to the first ( becker , white , & helfand 1995 ) vla 20 cm catalog and resulting radio fluxes are included in the catalog .",
    "column 22 of table  1 indicates the peak 20 cm flux densities ( in mjy ) for those quasars with first matches .",
    "entries of `` @xmath108 '' indicate no radio detection ( or no coverage of that position ) . in all we catalog",
    "18,377 radio detections . as this is considerably lower than one expects from the fraction of radio - loud quasars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it is clear that deeper radio surveys are needed .",
    "the first survey would need to be about 10 times deeper to detect all of the radio - loud quasars in our catalog .",
    "we have also included the results of the cross - correlation of sdss sources with the x - ray sources listed in the bright and faint source catalogs of the rosat all - sky survey ( rass ; 1999 , 2000 ) .",
    "positional accuracies for rass x - ray sources vary with count rate , but typically have an uncertainty of @xmath4@xmath154 . among the sdss",
    "quasar candidates presented here , there are 11,965 objects whose optical positions fall within @xmath155 of a rass x - ray source ; for these sources column  23 of table  1 gives the broadband ( 0.12.4  kev ) count rate ( counts sec@xmath156 ) corrected for vignetting .",
    "entries of `` @xmath108 '' indicate no rass x - ray detection .",
    "note that the large rosat error circle means that @xmath157% of these x - ray matches will be spurious ; that fraction reduces to @xmath158% for a @xmath154 matching radius .",
    "a total of 1413 objects have both radio and x - ray matches",
    ".    objects with large proper motions can be rejected as quasars candidates .",
    "thus we include usno - b+sdss proper motion information in this catalog as it is tabulated in the sdss database ; see @xcite . as in paper",
    "i , some constraints are applied in this matching to ensure that the proper motion measurements are as reliable as possible .",
    "specifically , there must only be one match between sdss and usno - b , the number of epochs of observations must be 6 or more ( 1 sdss and 5 usno ) , the distance to the next nearest object with @xmath159 must be larger than 7 arcseconds and the rms proper motion residuals must be less than 1000 milli - arcseconds per year in both ra and dec . in all 142,271 objects",
    "meet these criteria ( and have non - zero @xmath160 entries in the catalog ) .",
    "however , since quasars will have measured `` proper motions '' comparable to the typical errors in the proper motions , we must impose a limit on the proper motion to identify objects that are most likely to be stars .",
    "as in paper i , we adopted a conservative limit of 20 mas year@xmath156 as the threshold for moving objects .",
    "such a cut rejects only 0.2% of the known quasars , while identifying 6.2% of known stars , yielding 3,631 moving objects objects in the catalog that are unlikely to be quasars .",
    "figure  [ fig : pmhist ] shows the distribution of proper motions in the catalog . as the proper motion catalog from @xcite has a faint limit of @xmath161 , it is useful to attempt identification of potentially moving objects to fainter limits .",
    "we accomplish this by identifying any objects ( as @xmath162 in the catalog ) whose row or column velocities ( on the ccd , as measure by the sdss photometric pipeline ) exceed 3 times the errors in those quantities .",
    "this criteria identifies another 21,321 potentially moving objects that are statistically unlikely to be quasars .",
    "while the efficiency and completeness of a photometrically - selected quasar sample are perhaps not ideal for determining the number counts distribution and luminosity function , here we examine what we can learn about them from our sample .    crudely taking our @xmath136 quasar candidates as 100% efficient and complete , we compare in figure  [ fig : nmi ] our catalog to the number counts of sdss - dr3 quasars from @xcite and 2qz/6qz quasars from @xcite . as no corrections for incompleteness or inefficiency in the photometric sample",
    "have been applied , this comparison is merely qualitative .",
    "however , the general agreement at both low- and high-@xmath64 is reassuring and the excess at bright magnitudes is completely consistent with our estimate of the ( low ) efficiency of the brightest objects in our sample and it should be possible to identify parameters to reduce this contamination .    similarly ,",
    "computation of the luminosity function from this catalog requires considerable care in terms of correcting for completeness and efficiency .",
    "such analysis is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "however , we can perform some relative comparisons of the qlf slopes with redshift that are independent of the overall normalization .    in particular , @xcite had confirmed previous indications of flattening of the slope of the qlf at high ( @xmath10 ) redshift ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "however , two lines of evidence have recently called that flattening into question .",
    "@xcite in their analysis found no such flattening and attributed the @xcite flattening to completeness correction effects .",
    "@xcite , on the other hand , have not called the @xmath10 result into question , but did show that the @xmath163 slope is steeper and more consistent with @xmath164 results , which may implicitly imply that the flattening of the @xmath10 qlf is erroneous .    here",
    "we address this issue by comparing the @xmath11 qlf to the @xmath165 qlf that we derive from the catalog herein .",
    "no attempt has been made to correct for the overall efficiency and completeness of the catalog as we are merely attempting to compare the slopes .",
    "we have , however , corrected for the magnitude dependence of the efficiency .",
    "figure  [ fig : dr6z2z4lf ] shows the results of this comparison . including all photometric quasar candidates with @xmath166",
    "having @xmath167 , we find a slope similar to that of @xcite .",
    "restricting the sample with a more conservative @xmath168 limitation yields a steeper slope , but still flatter than for @xmath11 . adopting an even more restricted sample with @xmath169 has no effect on the slope .",
    "the @xmath11 slope is independent of our choice of @xmath170 ( for @xmath171 ) . while this sample can not be considered completely independent of the @xcite sample ( as it was used as the training set for our algorithm ) , we find a statistically significant flattening that can not be due to the completeness corrections used by @xcite .",
    "indeed , one does nt necessarily expect the slopes to be similar as , at high redshift quasar activity is expected to follow the growth of dark matter halos , while at @xmath17223 feedback mechanisms become dominant ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "using a novel bayesian algorithm we identify 1,172,157 quasars candidates from a sample of over 40 million sdss point sources .",
    "the overall efficiency of the catalog is @xmath1680% and the catalog is expected to contain a minimum of 850,000 bona - fide quasars . a uvx subsample , in excess of 500,000 objects has an expected efficiency of over 97% .",
    "additional information ( redshift - dependent selection and radio , x - ray , and proper motion catalog matching ) is provided in the catalog so that users can select sub - samples that are optimal for any particular follow - up investigation .",
    "photometric redshifts are estimated for the full sample and are expected to be accurate to @xmath144 roughly 80% of the time , with outliers being statistically well defined .",
    "cross - comparison with spectroscopically confirmed type 1 quasars in the cosmos field suggests that the sample is at least 70% complete and may recover additional objects missed by x - ray and radio selection methods .",
    "careful analysis of the catalog could be used to create the deepest yet optical quasar luminosity function ; simple arguments herein confirm the flattening of the qlf slope at @xmath165 as compared with @xmath11 .",
    "a final installment of this catalog will come after the seventh sdss data release in the fall of 2008 and should bring the total number of quasars over the one million mark .",
    "gtr acknowledges support from an alfred p. sloan research fellowship , a gordon and betty moore fellowship in data intensive sciences , and nasa grant nnx06ae52 g .",
    "dps acknowledges support from nsf grant 06 - 07634 .",
    "adm acknowledges support from nasa adp grant nnx08aj28 g .",
    "we thank jeff munn and joe hennawi for their help with moving objects , ryan scranton for assistance with bayesian star - galaxy classification and michael weinstein for photo-@xmath64 code development .",
    "we also thank michael strauss and eljko ivezi for constructive feedback .",
    "we further thank the members of the sdss collaboration for making this work possible and the members of the aat - ukidss - sdss ( aus ) collaboration , particularly scott croom , for their efforts that allowed us to expand our quasar training set .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , cambridge university , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .                                                                                    ,",
    "n. , et  al .",
    "2002 , in survey and other telescope technologies and discoveries . edited by tyson , j. anthony ; wolff , sidney .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4836 , pp .",
    "154 - 164 ( 2002 ) . ,",
    "j.  a. tyson & s.  wolff , vol .",
    "4836 of _ presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference _ , 154164                                                                                      , j.  a. 2002 , in survey and other telescope technologies and discoveries . edited by tyson , j. anthony ; wolff , sidney .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4836 , pp .",
    "10 - 20 ( 2002 ) . ,",
    "j.  a. tyson & s.  wolff , vol .",
    "4836 of _ presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference _ ,",
    "1020                  lllrlllllllll 1  & 000000.70 + 160540.6 & 0.0029420 & 16.0946121 & 587727223561060668 & 2.685 & 2.180 & 2.890 & 0.402 & 22.734 & 22.068 & 21.706 & 21.296 + 2  & 000000.98 + 144518.1 & 0.0041090 & 14.7550374 & 587727221950382615 & 2.115 & 1.660 & 2.220 & 0.546 & 21.128 & 20.951 & 21.004 & 20.788 + 3  & 000001.10 + 011037.1 & 0.0045944 & 1.1769856 & 587731187814498541 & 0.825 & 0.670 & 1.040 & 0.602 & 20.911 & 20.863 & 20.919 & 21.185 + 4  & 000001.38 - 010852.2 & 0.0057816 & -1.1478427 & 588015507658768592 & 2.225 & 2.130 & 2.650 & 0.299 & 21.584 & 21.180 & 20.787 & 20.702 + 6  & 000001.88 - 094652.0 & 0.0078461 & -9.7811385 & 587727179523227759 & 0.975 & 0.770 & 1.420 & 0.921 & 19.563 & 19.396 & 19.232 & 19.312 +    lcl 1 & i7 & unique catalog number + 2 & a18 & name : sdss j@xmath173 ( j2000.0 ) + 3 & f12.7 & right ascension in decimal degrees ( j2000.0 ) + 4 & f11.7 & declination in decimal degrees ( j2000.0 ) + 5 & a19 & sdss object i d + 6 & f7.3 & zphot ; photometric redshift ( see @xcite ) + 7 & f6.3 & lower limit of photometric redshift range + 8 & f6.3 & upper limit of photometric redshift range + 9 & f6.3 & zphotprob ; photometric redshift range probability + 10 & f7.3 & @xmath104 psf bercalibrated asinh magnitude ( corrected for galactic extinction ) + 11 & f6.3 & @xmath57 psf bercalibrated asinh magnitude ( corrected for galactic extinction ) + 12 & f6.3 & @xmath174 psf bercalibrated asinh magnitude ( corrected for galactic extinction ) + 13 & f6.3 & @xmath20 psf bercalibrated asinh magnitude ( corrected for galactic extinction ) + 14 & f6.3 & @xmath64 psf bercalibrated asinh magnitude ( corrected for galactic extinction ) + 15 & f6.3 & error in psf @xmath104 asinh magnitude + 16 & f5.3 & error in psf @xmath57 asinh magnitude + 17 & f5.3 & error in psf @xmath174 asinh magnitude + 18 & f5.3 & error in psf @xmath20 asinh magnitude + 19 & f5.3 & error in psf @xmath64 asinh magnitude + 20 & f7.3 & @xmath115 ( mag ) ; @xmath175 + 21 & f7.3 & c ; concentration ( = psfmag_i@xmath82modelmag_i ) for star / galaxy separation + 22 & f8.2 & radio ; 20 cm flux density ( mjy ) ( @xmath108 for not detected or not covered ) + 23 & f7.4 & xray ; rass full - band count rate ( @xmath176 for not detected or not covered ) + 24 & f7.2 & pm ; proper motion ( mas year@xmath156 ) + 25 & i2 & moved ; an addition flag to indicate possible moving objects ( = 1 if moving ) + 26 & i1 & qsots ; selection flag ; full redshift range , 95% star prior + 27 & i1 & lowzts ; selection flag ; low redshift range ( @xmath68 ) , 98% star prior + 28 & i1 & midzts ; selection flag ; mid redshift range ( @xmath69 ) , 98% star prior + 29 & i1 & highzts ; selection flag ; high redshift range ( @xmath70 ) , 98% star prior + 30 & i1 & uvxts ; selection flag ; uv - excess , 88% star prior ( see paper i ) + 31 & e9.3 & qsodens ; log kde quasar density + 32 & e8.3 & stardens ; log kde star density + 33 & i1 & good ; quality flag ( 6=most robust ; @xmath826=least robust ) + 34 & a16 & previous catalog object classification + 35 & f5.3 & previous catalog object redshift +    lllrlllllllll 5  & 000001.81 + 141150.5 & 0.0075587 & 14.1973842 & 587730773351858843 & 3.495 & 3.180 & 4.320 & 0.885 & 25.335 & 21.597 & 20.502 & 20.503 + 10  & 000002.27 - 085640.9 & 0.0094825 & -8.9447047 & 587727180596969488 & 3.515 & 3.220 & 4.470 & 0.814 & 25.037 & 21.031 & 20.103 & 19.876 + 12  & 000003.67 - 095452.9 & 0.0153217 & -9.9146988 & 587727179523228066 & 3.135 & 2.910 & 3.360 & 0.206 & 24.054 & 21.485 & 21.211 & 20.984 + 13  & 000003.73 - 003705.5 & 0.0155724 & -0.6182073 & 587731185667080833 & 4.615 & 4.190 & 4.830 & 0.317 & 24.677 & 23.928 & 22.203 & 20.931 + 24  & 000006.00 - 085014.3 & 0.0250328 & -8.8373328 & 587727227837612402 & 2.875 & 2.680 & 3.010 & 0.141 & 22.910 & 21.657 & 21.451 &",
    "21.146 +    lll all & @xmath177 & @xmath178 + uvx & & @xmath179 + low-@xmath64 & & @xmath180 + uvx @xmath181 low-@xmath64 & & @xmath182 + uvx @xmath183 low-@xmath64 & & @xmath184 + mid-@xmath64 & & @xmath185 + high-@xmath64 & & @xmath186 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a catalog of 1,172,157 quasar candidates selected from the photometric imaging data of the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) . </S>",
    "<S> the objects are all point sources to a limiting magnitude of @xmath0 from 8417 deg@xmath1 of imaging from sdss data release 6 ( dr6 ) . </S>",
    "<S> this sample extends our previous catalog by using the latest sdss public release data and probing both uv - excess and high - redshift quasars . </S>",
    "<S> while the addition of high - redshift candidates reduces the overall efficiency ( quasars : quasar candidates ) of the catalog to @xmath2 , it is expected to contain no fewer than 850,000 bona fide quasars  @xmath3 times the number of our previous sample , and @xmath4 times the size of the largest spectroscopic quasar catalog . </S>",
    "<S> cross - matching between our photometric catalog and spectroscopic quasar catalogs from both the sdss and 2df surveys , yields 88,879 _ spectroscopically _ confirmed quasars . for judicious selection of the most robust uv - excess sources ( @xmath5 objects in all ) , </S>",
    "<S> the efficiency is nearly 97%  more than sufficient for detailed statistical analyses . </S>",
    "<S> the catalog s completeness to type 1 ( broad - line ) quasars is expected to be no worse than 70% , with most missing objects occurring at @xmath6 and @xmath7 . </S>",
    "<S> in addition to classification information , we provide photometric redshift estimates ( typically good to @xmath8 [ @xmath9 ) and cross - matching with radio , x - ray , and proper motion catalogs . finally , we consider the catalog s utility for determining the optical luminosity function of quasars and are able to confirm the flattening of the bright - end slope of the quasar luminosity function at @xmath10 as compared to @xmath11 . </S>"
  ]
}