{
  "article_text": [
    "mass loss has a major effect on the evolution of stars of all initial masses , however its effect is most prominent for the more massive stars due to their large luminosities  in close proximity to the eddington limit .",
    "mass loss is relevant both in terms of evolutionary pathways as well as the properties of the pre - supernova ( sn ) circumstellar environments . in this contribution , we first discuss mass - loss predictions that are relevant for predicting the forward evolution of massive stars .",
    "there are actually two aspects that need to be accounted for : ( i ) the loss of _ mass _ as winds `` peel off '' the star s outer layers ( conti 1976 ) , but as massive stars start their evolution as rapid rotators , also ( ii ) the associated loss of _ angular momentum _ ( e.g. langer 1998 ) .    towards the end of the main sequence massive stars",
    "encounter the so - called bi - stability jump , for which we discuss the implications of the loss of angular momentum . for the final stages ,",
    "the evolution of angular momentum is particularly relevant for our understanding of the long gamma - ray burst ( grb ) phenomenon , as the popular collapsar model ( macfadyen & woosley 1999 ) requires the core of the progenitor star to be rapidly rotating before collapse ( but see also lee & ramirez - ruiz 2006 ) .",
    "a key parameter in the story is that of metallicity , due to the @xmath1-dependence of radiation - driven winds during both the main sequence and evolved luminous blue variable ( lbv ) and wolf - rayet ( wr ) phases of massive star evolution .    in the canonical scenario of massive stars ,",
    "lbvs represent a transitional phase between the main sequence and the wr phase , however we also discuss the possibility for a new evolutionary paradigm in which the variable winds of lbvs might betray themselves as the _ direct _ progenitors of sne .",
    "the evolution of a massive star , with @xmath2 @xmath3 30  is largely determined by the strength of their winds , which depends on the luminosity ( @xmath4 ) , mass ( @xmath2 ) , and metallicity @xmath1 .",
    "the fe - group elements are particularly efficient scatterers of photons at specific line frequencies responsible for the amount of mass loss , whilst the cno elements set the wind terminal velocity ( vink et al .",
    "there are currently two basic methods in use for predicting the mass - loss rates from massive stars , which have been reviewed in detail by vink ( 2006 ) . in short ,",
    "the first method concerns the modified - cak ( castor et al . 1975 ) method ( kudritzki & puls 2000 ) , the second one involves the monte carlo approach ( abbott & lucy 1985 , vink et al .",
    "both methods have their pros and cons . in the first approach ,",
    "the wind hydrodynamics are more or less self - consistently solved for ( albeit using depth - dependent force multiplier parameters ) , however multi - line scattering is not accounted for . this aspect is included in the second approach , where the line acceleration is calculated for all radii , although most monte carlo predictions do not properly account for the wind hydrodynamics ( but see vink et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "vink et al . (",
    "1999,2000 ) predicted the mass - loss rates of ob supergiants as a function of the stellar parameters ( @xmath4,@xmath2 , and ) including multiple scatterings on line and continuum opacity with a monte carlo approach and their mass - loss rates were computed as a function of the wind _ terminal velocity _  a parameter accurately ( within 10 % ) retrievable from ultraviolet pcygni line profiles .",
    "this is in stark contrast to empirical _ mass - loss rates _ which are highly uncertain ( by factors up to 3 - 10 ) due to uncertainties in wind ionization and wind inhomogeneities ( see hamann et al . 2008 for a recent overview on the issue of wind clumping ) . the vink et al .",
    "mass - loss rates are found to scale as :    @xmath5    showing that @xmath6 depends rather steeply on the stellar luminosity ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "the reason for this is that brighter stars have denser winds and monte carlo predictions yield an increasingly larger mass - loss rate than modified - cak predictions .",
    "the vink et al .",
    "mass - loss recipes are widely used in models for massive star evolution ( e.g. meynet & maeder 2003 , limongi & chieffi 2006 , eldridge & vink 2006 , brott et al . in prep . ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : vink99 ] depicts how the predicted mass - loss rates vary as a function of @xmath8 and thus how a massive star may find its wind change during its coarse of evolution .",
    "the predictions are expressed in terms of the wind momentum efficiency , or wind performance number , @xmath9 .",
    "the figure shows a declining wind efficiency with @xmath8 . at high temperatures ( @xmath10 40  000 k ) the wind momentum is large due to the fact that the radiative flux and the opacity have a good `` match '' with respect to their wavelength distribution",
    "however , when @xmath8 drops , the stellar flux moves away from its maximum towards lower ( optical ) wavelengths , which results in an ever - growing mismatch between the flux and the ultraviolet line opacity . at @xmath10 25  000",
    "k , a sudden mass - loss discontinuity is noted .",
    "this is due to an increased fe opacity when fe iv recombines , and the more abundant fe iii lines provide most of the line force in the inner wind ( vink et al .",
    "this `` bi - stability jump '' ( pauldrach & puls 1990 ) may recently have been confirmed in radio data that appear to confirm the presence of a local maximum ( benaglia et al .",
    "2007 , markova & puls 2008 ) , however it should also be noted that the predicted values below the temperature of the jump appear to be much larger than those found from empirical modelling by up to a factor of 10 ( vink et al .",
    "2000 , trundle & lennon 2005 , crowther et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "the bi - stability jump where winds change from a low @xmath6 , fast wind , to a high @xmath6 , slow wind may comprise an important ingredient for stellar evolution calculations when stars evolve off their main - sequence positions towards the lower @xmath8 part of the hertzsprung - russell diagram ( hrd ) .",
    "this is not only relevant for their _ mass _ loss , but also for the associated loss of _ angular momentum_.    sin@xmath11 of galactic b supergiants as a function of spectral type , starting with o3 to o9 and then switching to b0 ( at 10 ) and to a0 ( at 20 ) .",
    "it can be noted that @xmath12sin@xmath11 drops from @xmath10100 km s@xmath13  to @xmath1050 km s@xmath13  at around spectral type b0 , which is close to the spectral type of the bi - stability jump b1 ( lamers et al . 1995 ) .",
    "the figure has been adapted from markova & puls ( 2008 ) . ]",
    "massive stars rotate rapidly at birth ( with @xmath14 @xmath15200 - 300 km s@xmath13 ) and remain relatively rapid rotators throughout their main - sequence lifetimes .",
    "obviously , @xmath14 decreases due to the angular momentum loss via stellar winds , which implies that the effects are largest at the highest initial masses and luminosities , and metallicities .",
    "furthermore , when the objects evolve off the main sequence , they swell up to become ( super)giants , and @xmath14 is anticipated to drop due to the increase in stellar radius ( e.g. hunter et al .",
    "2008 ) . however , is this the entire story or is the bi - stability jump also of relevance ?",
    "figure  [ fig : mp ] shows a recent figure from markova & puls ( 2008 ) showing how the rotational velocity of galactic ob supergiants depends on spectral type . it can be noted that @xmath12sin@xmath11 drops from @xmath10100 km s@xmath13  to @xmath1050 km s@xmath13   close to spectral type b1  the position of the bi - stability jump ( lamers et al .",
    "1995 , crowther et al .",
    "2006 ) . as we are interested in checking whether the predicted jump in mass loss by a factor of five at the bi - stability jump ( vink et al .",
    "1999 , 2000 ) might potentially explain the steep drop in rotation due to the loss of angular momentum evolutionary tracks were computed with this in mind ( brott et al . in prep . ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : brott ] shows both the vink et al .",
    "( 2000 ) mass - loss rates ( dotted line ) and the predicted rotational velocity ( solid line ) of a galactic 40  star which had a initial rotational velocity of 265 km s@xmath13  on the zero - age main - sequence ( zams ) . in order for the angular momentum removal to be maximal ,",
    "a rather large overshooting parameter of 0.335 of a pressure scale - height was employed , as this provides a long time interval on the ms for the mass loss to be most efficient .    on the zams .",
    "a rather large overshootig parameter of 0.335 of a pressure scale - height was employed .",
    "the mixing efficiency of fc=0.0228 represents an efficiency factor with which the diffusion coefficients of the different rotational mixing processes are multiplied ( see hunter et al . 2008 , brott et al .",
    ", in prep . for further details .",
    ") note that the second mass - loss increase below 15000 k is due to a swith from the vink et al .",
    "( 2000 ) recipe to a calibration by nieuwenhuizen & de jager ( 1990 )  consistent with the position of the second bistability jump predicted by vink et al . and",
    "observed by lamers et al .",
    "( 1995 ) around spectral type a0 . ]    as an aside , we note that the drop in rotational velocities at a specific temperature is reminiscent of a situation encountered for horizontal branch stars ( e.g. behr et al . 2000 ) .",
    "vink ( 2007a ) recently reviewed whether the steep jump at 10000 k could be due to the onset of radiation - driven winds as a result of the higher metal content for objects warmer than the jump temperature .",
    "above we considered the effects of the bi - stability jump for main - sequence stars evolving from hot to cool temperatures .",
    "however , even more dramatic effects might occur for objects that have already lost a large fraction of their initial mass , finding themselves in close proximity to the eddington limit .",
    "these luminous blue variables change their effective temperatures on a variety of timescales ( humphreys & davidson 1994 , vink 2008 ) .",
    "the micro variations are not noticably different from small - amplitude variations in other ba supergiants . at the other extreme , we find the super - outburst of objects such as eta car , sometimes referred to as sn - impostors , when observed in other galaxies ( van dyk et al .",
    "2000 , maund et al .",
    "we note that only two of these super - outbursts have been identified in the milky way ( the eruptions of eta car in the 19th and p cyg in the 17th century ) .",
    "the mass - loss rates involved in these giant eruptions are of order 0.1 @xmath16 and are too large to be explained by line acceleration",
    ". however , continuum - driven winds may well be able to provide the necessary driving ( smith & owocki 2006 ) .",
    "most typifying for the class are the s  dor variations , where objects vary on timescales of years to decades .",
    "when lbvs such as ag car  one of the prototypes  change their radii on their s  dor timescales , they show large mass - loss variations ( stahl et al .",
    "such variable wind behaviour has qualitatively been reproduced by radiation - driven wind models of vink & de koter ( 2002 ) .",
    "we anticipate that this type of wind behaviour may result in a circumstellar medium consisting of concentric shells with varying densities , which may have ramifications for the end - points of massive stars .",
    "kotak & vink ( 2006 ) suggested that the quasi - periodic modulations seen in the radio lightcurves of some supernovae ( sne ) , such as 2001ig ( ryder et al .",
    "2004 ) and 2003bg ( soderberg et al . 2006 ) may indicate that lbvs could be the _",
    "direct _ progenitors of some sne .    at first",
    "this seems to contradict stellar evolution calculations , which do not predict lbvs to explode , and such a scenario was until recently considered `` wildly speculative '' ( smith & owocki 2006 ) .",
    "however , the intruiging supernova 2006jc showed a giant eruption just 2 years prior to explosion ( pastorello et al .",
    "2007 , foley et al . 2007 ) which may add some confidence to the kotak & vink suggestion that lbvs might explode .",
    "there have been a number of other studies suggestting that lbvs may explode .",
    "gal yam et al .",
    "( 2007 ) reported the detection of a most luminous progenitor of sn 2005gl .",
    "although the properties of the potential progenitor star are consistent with that of an lbv , a hypergiant can not be classified as an lbv until it has shown s  dor or eta - car - type variability ( humphreys & davidson 1994 , vink 2008 ) .",
    "another interesting hint that lbvs may explode arises from the similarities in lbv nebula morphologies and the circumstellar medium of sn 1987a ( smith 2007 ) .",
    "finally , one the most luminous supernova ever recorded , sn 2006gy ( e.g. ofek et al . 2007 ) may also have been an eta carinae type lbv ( smith et al .",
    "2007 ) .    as current state - of - the - art stellar evolution calculations",
    "do not predict lbvs to explode , this represents a major unresolved problem in the physics of massive stars . in the generally upheld picture for the evolution of the most massive stars ,",
    "lbvs are considered `` transitional '' objects in a phase before entering the he - burning wr stage , by the end of which the wr star is expected to explode as a type ib / c supernova .",
    "the reason for the common ( conti 1976 ) scenario :    @xmath17 is that lbvs are he ( and n ) rich compared to o stars , yet h - rich ( thus he - poor ) compared to wr stars .",
    "the situation is even more complex as there is also a group of high - luminosity late - type wr stars which are h - rich and seem closely related to the classical lbvs in quiescence . in particular , we note that the r127 was a late - type wn star ( of / wn9 ) , before it went into outburst .",
    "nonetheless , the picture of a relatively short - lived , some @xmath18 yrs , core h - burning lbv phase prior to a more extensive spell of a few times @xmath19 yrs core he - burning wr phase seemed well established  until recently .    whilst the quasi - sinusoidal modulations in the radio lightcurves of transitional sne may possibly also be explained by alternative scenarios , it might be relevant that the _ same _ underlying mechanism , i.e. wind bi - stability , might account for wind - velocity variations seen spectroscopically in the sn sn 2005gj ( trundle et al .",
    "2008 ) . here",
    ", the variable winds are inferred from double p  cygni components ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : trundle ] ) which appear almost identical to those seen in the h@xmath0 profiles of the well - known sdor variables agcar and hd160529 .",
    "it should also be noted that the timescales and the spectroscopically measured wind velocities of sn 2005gj , with @xmath20 @xmath15100 - 200 km s@xmath13 , are consistent with those of lbvs , whilst they are yet again not consistent with those of the much slower rsg winds ( @xmath1010 km s@xmath13 ) , or the much faster wr winds ( @xmath151000 - 5000 km s@xmath13 ) .",
    "profile of sn 2005gj ( top ) in comparison to the lbvs ag  car and hd160529 .",
    "the figure has been taken from trundle et al .",
    "( 2008 ) . ]",
    "metallicity is a key parameter in the physics of stars and star - forming galaxies , largely via metallicity - dependent stellar winds .",
    "we compare the predictions of o star mass - loss rates ( vink et al .",
    "2001 ) with recent empirical mass - loss rates from mokiem et al .",
    "( 2007 ) using the so - called wind momentum - luminosity relationship ( kudritzki & puls 2000 ) for galactic , large magallanic cloud , and small magallanic cloud o stars in the @xmath1 range from solar to only 20% solar .",
    "we note that for all three galaxies , the empirical rates are somewhat larger ( by a factor @xmath102 ) than predicted by vink et al .",
    "( see fig.[f : wlr_comp ] ) . as the empirical rates are most likely affected by wind clumping ( e.g. bouret et al .",
    "2003 , martins et al .",
    "2005 , hamann et al .",
    "2008 ) , the empirical rates are likely maximal .",
    "therefore , when we assume a modest clumping factor corresponding to an empirical @xmath6 reduction of a factor @xmath102 , the empirical rates show very good agreement with theory .",
    "the wind clumping factor however remains an unsolved problem in stellar astrophysics and if the true wind clumping is larger than assumed , with empirical @xmath6 overestimates of @xmath1010 as some studies suggest ( e.g. fullerton et al .",
    "2006 ) , the current mass - loss predictions might also be too large .",
    "this is certainly an important topic for future investigation .",
    "-dependent mass - loss predictions for wolf - rayet stars ( vink & de koter 2005 ) .",
    "albeit the overwhelming presence of carbon for all @xmath1 , the new wr mass - loss rate does _ not _ show @xmath1-independent behaviour as assumed previously ( dotted line ) .",
    "the new computations show that wr mass loss depends strongly on iron ( @xmath1 )  a _ key _",
    "result for predicting a high occurrence of long - duration grbs at low @xmath1 . ]",
    "massive stars lose mass at even higher rates during the more evolved lbv and wr phases . during the latter phase , the outer layers become strongly chemically enriched , which may potentially modify mass loss through winds .",
    "vink & de koter ( 2005 ) investigated the mass loss versus @xmath1 dependence for late - type wr stars using a monte carlo approach ( see fig.[f : mdotz2 ] ) . despite the overwhelming presence of carbon at all @xmath1",
    ", @xmath6 does _ not _ show a @xmath1-independent behaviour ( as was generally assumed previously ) , but wr mass loss depends strongly on the iron ( fe ) opacity , just like for o stars ( vink et al .",
    "1999 , grfener & hamann 2008 ) .",
    "furthermore , although the  versus @xmath1 dependence is consistent with a power - law decline in the observable universe down to log @xmath21 , it flattens off for extremely low @xmath1 models .",
    "the reason is that carbon , nitrogen , oxygen , hydrogen and helium take over the driving from fe which dominates the higher @xmath1 domain .",
    "the strong @xmath1-dependence of wr winds where the wr @xmath6 drops by orders of magnitude , might represent a key result for the high incidence of long - duration grbs at low metallicity .",
    "the favoured progenitors of long grbs are thought to be rapidly rotating wr stars .",
    "however , most galactic wr stars are slow rotators , as stellar winds probably remove the necessary stellar angular momentum , potentially posing a challenge to the collapsar model for grbs .",
    "observational data however indicate that grbs occur predominately in low metallicity ( @xmath1 ) galaxies ( e.g. le floch et al .",
    "2003 , prochaska et al . 2004 , vreeswijk et al .",
    "2004 , modjaz et al .",
    "2008 ) , which may resolve the problem : lower @xmath1 leads to less mass loss , which may inhibit angular momentum removal , allowing wr stars to remain rotating rapidly until collapse ( yoon & langer 2005 , woosley & heger 2006 ) . as a test of this scenario , vink ( 2007b ) performed a linear spectropolarimetry survey of wr stars in the low @xmath1 environment of the lmc and found an incidence of line polarisation effects in lmc wr stars as low as that of the galactic sample of harries et al .",
    "this suggests that the threshold metallicity where significant differences in wr rotational properties occur is below that of the lmc ( at @xmath1 @xmath10 0.4 @xmath22 ) , possibly constraining grb progenitor channels to this upper metallicity .",
    "we presented theoretical mass - loss rates and their implications for the peeling off and angular momentum loss of massive stars during the various evolutionary stages from the main sequence , to the lbv , and wr phases .",
    "the role of the bi - stability jump at an effective temperature of @xmath1025000 k was discussed in the context of the observed drop in rotational velocities in this part of the hertzsprung - russell diagram as well as for the variable winds of lbvs , suggesting these objects could be in a _",
    "direct _ pre - sn state of massive star evolution .",
    "we would like to thank all our collegues and friends in the field of massive stars and in particular to alex de koter and rubina kotak .",
    "special thanks also to ines brott and norbert langer for computing the evolution of the rotation rate with time and temperature ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the role of mass loss for the evolution of the most massive stars , highlighting the role of the predicted _ bi - stability _ jump that might be relevant for the evolution of rotational velocities during or just after the main sequence . </S>",
    "<S> this mechanism is also proposed as an explanation for the mass - loss variations seen in the winds from luminous blue variables ( lbvs ) . </S>",
    "<S> these might be relevant for the quasi - sinusoidal modulations seen in a number of recent transitional supernovae ( sne ) , as well as for the double - throughed absorption profile recently discovered in the h@xmath0 line of sn 2005gj . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we discuss the role of metallicity via the @xmath1-dependent character of their winds , during both the initial and final ( wolf - rayet ) phases of evolution , with implications for the angular momentum evolution of the progenitor stars of long gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) . </S>"
  ]
}