{
  "article_text": [
    "ever since the first studies of @xcite , it has been widely accepted that evolution is required to explain the radio source counts . strong cosmological evolution of the high luminosity radio source population has been established out to at least @xmath10 ( e.g. @xcite ) , with the space  densities of the most powerful radio sources increasing by a factor @xmath11 relative to their densities at @xmath12 . however , the evolution of the low ",
    "luminosity radio galaxy population remained more uncertain .",
    "@xcite found that the low luminosity population of radio sources with @xmath13 w hz@xmath5sr@xmath5 exhibits no evolution out to @xmath14 .",
    "in contrast , @xcite found significant cosmic evolution out to @xmath2 , which they modelled using a pure luminosity evolution model as @xmath15 , with @xmath16 .",
    "more recently , similar results were obtained by @xcite , who analyzed radio galaxies in the ` 2df  sdss luminous red galaxy and quasar ' ( 2slaq ) survey ( @xcite ) .",
    "they found that the number density of radio sources below @xmath17 w hz@xmath5 grows by a factor of @xmath18 between @xmath19 and @xmath8 .",
    "these results confirm that the cosmic evolution of low power radio sources is considerably weaker than that of their higher radio power counterparts .",
    "however , because of the relatively small sizes of samples , none of these studies was able to accurately constrain the luminosity dependence of the evolution .    over the same period ,",
    "our physical understanding of radio galaxies has developed steadily .",
    "@xcite showed that radio galaxies exhibit a dichotomy in radio morphology .",
    "low radio luminosity sources are usually ` edge  darkened ' , with radio jets that quickly decelerate and flare as they advance through the interstellar medium ( fanaroff  riley class i sources , or fris ) . in contrast , most higher luminosity sources have jets that remain relativistic over kpc and up to mpc scales , ending in bright hotspots ( ` edge  brightened ' sources , or friis ) . the dividing line between fris and friis occurs around a monochromatic power of log@xmath20(p@xmath21)@xmath22 w hz@xmath5 , although @xcite showed that it occurs at higher radio luminosity in more optically  luminous galaxies .",
    "this division is close to the break in the radio luminosity function , and has led to the hypothesis these two populations of radio galaxies correspond to the different populations of cosmologically  evolving sources , friis being strongly evolving and fris much less so ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "a more important division in the radio source population , however , appears to relate to the radiative properties of the agn .",
    "powerful friis and a small subset of the more powerful fris ( e.g. see @xcite ) show strong emission lines and either a visible or hidden quasar  like nucleus ( @xcite ) , indicative of radiatively efficient accretion .",
    "in contrast , most fris and a sub  population of weak  emission  lined low luminosity friis show no evidence for a powerfully radiating nucleus ( see @xcite and references therein ) suggesting radiatively inefficient accretion .",
    "this implies that a fundamental difference exists between high and low power radio sources that is distinct from the radio morpological dichotomy .",
    "instead , it is likely to be related to different origins or mechanisms of gas fuelling .",
    "understanding this low luminosity radio source population , and its cosmic evolution , is not only important for understanding the physical origin of the radio activity , but also for understanding galaxy evolution .",
    "there is growing evidence that low ",
    "luminosity radio  loud agn play a critical role in regulating the masses and star formation rates of galaxies . semi  analytic models of galaxy formation ( for example see @xcite and @xcite ) successfully reproduce many of the the observed properties of galaxies . however , these models over  predict the abundance of galaxies at the bright end of the luminosity function .",
    "this problem arises because many massive galaxies are predicted to sit at the centre of hot hydrostatic haloes , in which cooling flows are expected to develop . if the gas cools and forms stars , central group and cluster galaxies are too massive by the present day and have much bluer colours than observed .",
    "@xcite first suggested that radio galaxies could in principle regulate these cooling flows , preventing significant accretion of gas and limiting the mass of galaxies .",
    "this concept of agn feedback has now been successfully incorporated into the semi  analytic models of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "observational support for a scenario in which radio agn play an important role in regulating the growth of massive galaxies has slowly been accumulating .",
    "both luminous frii and low power fri sources can in principle inject a significant amount of energy into the surrounding gas , as their radio lobes expand and interact with the surrounding medium ( @xmath23 ergs@xmath5 for the jets of a borderline fri / frii object , see @xcite ) . this has been directly observed in clusters of galaxies , where the expanding radio lobes create buoyant bubbles and drill cavities in the hot intracluster medium ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . in nearby systems , which can be studied in detail ,",
    "the energy supplied by the radio source is well  matched to that required to balance the cooling ( e.g. @xcite ) .    with the availability of large redshifts surveys like the 2degree  field galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs , @xcite ) and the sloan digital sky survey",
    "( sdss , @xcite ) it has become possible to obtain the sky and redshift coverage needed to define sufficiently large samples of nearby radio sources to study population statistics and global energetics .",
    "@xcite constructed a sample of 2215 radio  loud agn brighter than 5 mjy with redshifts @xmath24 using the sdss data release 2 ( dr2 ) in combination with the national radio astronomy observatory very large array sky survey ( nvss , @xcite ) and the faint images of the radio sky at twenty centimeters ( first , @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite found that the fraction of radio  loud agn , @xmath25 , is a strong function of black hole and stellar mass , with dependencies @xmath26 and @xmath27 .",
    "twenty  five percent of the very most massive galaxies host radio sources more powerful than @xmath28 w hz@xmath5 . by combining these results with estimates of the energetic output of these sources",
    ", @xcite showed that the time ",
    "averaged mechanical energy output of radio sources in elliptical galaxies is comparable to the radiative cooling losses from the hot halo gas , for ellipticals of all masses .",
    "radio sources can therefore provide sufficient energy to suppress cooling flows and regulate the growth of massive galaxies in the nearby universe .",
    "the role of powerful ( radiatively  efficient ) frii objects could not be addressed by best et  al . due to the scarcity of such systems in the low redshift catalogue .",
    "another open question is how the heating  cooling balance in massive galaxies evolves with redshift . in order to address these issues , we require a large radio galaxy sample at higher redshifts . in this paper",
    "we extend the work of best et  al . by constructing a comparable catalogue of radio  loud agn over the redshift range @xmath29 .",
    "the catalogue contains a large number of luminous radio sources . by comparing with a sample of local radio sources selected from sdss dr4",
    ", we aim to study not only of the evolution of the radio galaxies , but also the evolution of the duty cycle of radio agn activity in galaxies as a function of their stellar mass .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "we will describe the surveys and samples used in this work , as well as the matching procedure . in section 3",
    "we will present results on the evolution of the radio luminosity function , radio  loud agn fractions and the bivariate radio luminosity  stellar mass function , and the stellar mass and colour distributions of radio agn host galaxies .",
    "finally , we will summarize our results in section 4 and discuss the implications of our work .",
    "the sloan digital sky survey ( @xcite ; @xcite ) is a five  band photometric and spectroscopic survey that has mapped almost a quarter of the whole sky , providing precise photometry for more than 200 million objects and accurate redshifts for about a million galaxies and quasars .",
    "imaging data in the _ ugriz _ bands ( @xcite ) has been obtained with a large format ccd camera ( @xcite ) mounted on a dedicated telescope located at apache point observatory in new mexico .",
    "astrometric coordinates are accurate to @xmath30 arcsec per coordinate . throughout this work ,",
    "unless otherwise stated , all magnitudes are model magnitudes , derived from the best  fit de vaucouleurs or exponential profile in the _ r _ band .",
    "the amplitude is then scaled to fit measurements in other filters .",
    "this provides the best estimate of galaxy colours since the same aperture is used in all passbands . a correction for foreground galactic extinction",
    "is applied to all the magnitudes following @xcite .",
    "the megaz  lrg ( @xcite ) is a photometric redshift catalogue based on imaging data from the fourth data release ( dr4 ) of the sdss .",
    "it consists of @xmath11.2 million luminous red galaxies ( lrgs ) with limiting magnitude @xmath31 over the redshift range @xmath29 .",
    "megaz adopts various colour and magnitude cuts to isolate red galazies at @xmath29 .",
    "the cuts are very similar to those adopted by the ` 2df  sdss lrg and quasar ' project ( 2slaq , @xcite ) .",
    "the specific colour cuts are :    @xmath32    @xmath33    @xmath34    @xmath35    essentially , @xmath36 isolates early  type galaxies ( lrgs ) , while @xmath37 selects galaxies with redshifts @xmath38 .",
    "accurate photometric redshifts are available for the entire lrg sample .",
    "these are derived using a neural network photometric redshift estimator ( annz , @xcite ) .",
    "the neural net was trained using a sample of @xmath39 lrgs with spectroscopic redshifts from 2slaq .",
    "the r.m.s .",
    "average photometric redshift error for all the galaxies in the sample is @xmath40 .",
    "the nrao vla sky survey ( nvss ; @xcite ) is a radio continuum survey at 1.4 ghz , covering the whole sky at declinations @xmath41 .",
    "the survey provides total intensity and polarization measurements down to a limiting point source flux density of @xmath42 mjy .",
    "the rms noise and confusion limit in the total intensity maps is @xmath43 mjy beam@xmath5 , except near very strong sources .",
    "the survey was carried out using the vla in compact d and dnc configurations , which provides an angular resolution of around 45 arcsec .",
    "a catalogue of @xmath44 million point sources was derived by fitting elliptical gaussians to the discrete peaks in the images .",
    "the catalogue lists peak flux densities and best  fit sizes for all sources with fluxes @xmath45 mjy beam@xmath5 .",
    "the completeness of the nvss survey is around 50% at @xmath42 mjy , but rises sharply to more than 99% at 3.5 mjy .",
    "the vla faint images of the radio sky at twenty centimeters ( first ; @xcite ) is a survey that covers 10000 deg@xmath46 of the north galactic cap , using the vla in its b configuration at 1.4 ghz .",
    "this delivers a resolution of @xmath15 arcsec and a typical noise of @xmath47 mjy , except in the vicinity of bright sources ( @xmath48 mjy ) where sidelobes can lead to an increased noise level .",
    "the sky coverage overlaps most of the sdss survey in the northern galactic cap . as with the nvss ,",
    "a source catalogue including peak and integrated flux densities and sizes was derived from fitting a two  dimensional gaussian to each source generated from the co  added images .",
    "astrometric accuracy in this source catalogue is better than 1 arcsec for the faintest sources detected at the nominal threshold of 1 mjy .",
    "the nvss and first surveys are highly complementary in many respects .",
    "nvss has sufficient surface brightness sensitivity to provide accurate flux measurements of extended radio sources with lobes and jets . on the other hand ,",
    "the superior angular resolution of first is necessary to identify the central core component of the radio sources and associate it with the host galaxy detected in optical surveys .",
    "@xcite developed an automated hybrid cross  matching method to identify radio galaxies in the sdss dr2 .",
    "the method made use of both nvss and first , thereby exploiting the advantages of each survey and avoiding the errors that arise by using them separately .",
    "a collapsing algorithm was used to identify multiple  component first and nvss sources . the final catalogue consisted of 2712 radio galaxies brighter than 5 mjy ( 2215 radio  loud agn and 447 star forming galaxies )",
    "the reliability and completeness of the catalogue was estimated to be 98.9% and 95% , respectively .",
    "this paper presents an extension of the @xcite method by combining nvss and first with the high redshift megaz  lrg catalogue .",
    "we largely follow the procedure described in @xcite , but a few small modifications were implemented in order to accommodate the characteristics of the new sample . the changes were tested and progressively refined using a set of 10 monte ",
    "carlo simulations of a 720 deg@xmath46 patch of the survey area .",
    "the numbers quoted in the description below pertain to this small test area .    1 .",
    "@xcite considered radio sources above a limit of 5 mjy .",
    "the major reason for this choice was to reduce any loss of sensitivity to multi  component nvss sources .",
    "the megaz radio sources are more distant and their angular sizes are thus smaller , so there are fewer multi  component sources ( see section 2.5 ) . in order to probe fainter radio galaxies out to higher redshifts",
    ", we adopted a flux limit of 3.5 mjy .",
    "this limit corresponds to approximately 7 times the noise level in the nvss maps .",
    "figure 1 shows the distribution of positional offsets between the sdss lrg and the nearest nvss match , for galaxies not classified as multi  component nvss sources . there is a clear excess of galaxies",
    "compared to random matches for separations less @xmath110 - 15 arcsec .",
    "the excess remains significant out to @xmath170 arcsec .",
    "a significant part of the effect at larger angular separations is because galaxies are intrinsically clustered ( see discussion in @xcite and also section 2.5 ) .",
    "however , some part may consist of true associations between lrgs and extended nvss sources .",
    "the subsequent first cross  matching helps us pinpoint such cases .",
    "@xcite carried out this cross  matching for all sdss galaxies with a single  component nvss match within 30 arcsec . in this work",
    ", this limit is increased to 60 arcsec .",
    "this identifies an extra 37 ( 2.8% ) genuine radio galaxies at a cost of 0.8 false matches , i.e. a decrease in reliability of only @xmath10.01% .",
    "because the nvss radio sources reach a fainter limit than those studied by @xcite , we find more objects ( @xmath18% ) with no first match . these might either be extended sources missed by the low surface brightness sensitivity of first , or because the radio source has faded between observations .",
    "a careful inspection of first images ( along with nvss and sdss cutouts ) around the positions of these objects revealed that in many cases there were bright spots near or slightly below the survey flux limit , that were clearly associated with a megaz optical galaxy .",
    "a method to use this information to increase the number of matches was developed and tested .",
    "the details are explained in the following subsection .",
    "70 arcsec.,width=317 ]      the high resolution of the first survey is essential to allow reliable cross  matching with dense optical samples .",
    "the nvss sources without first counterparts are the largest source of incompleteness in the final sample ( see @xcite ) .",
    "however , blindly accepting all lrg candidates out to a separation of 20 arcsec from the nvss source introduces an average of 42.2 false detections in our random samples , reducing the reliability of the catalogue to 79% within our test area ( see figure 2 , where the distribution of nvss  megaz offsets are plotted for real and random data ) .",
    "we turned to the analysis of the first radio maps around the candidate positions , in order to retain as many of these sources as possible without introducing significant contamination .",
    "figure 3 shows first cutouts of typical objects with no catalogued first source , but with a nearby nvss  megaz association .",
    "in many cases one or more bright  spots \" matching the nvss source and megaz galaxy can be seen , while in some cases two well  defined symmetric radio lobes centered around the optical galaxy are evident .",
    "15 arcsec are mostly the result of galaxy clustering.,width=317 ]    we took advantage of this additional information in deciding whether candidates should be accepted as true first matches . for galaxies within 10 arcsec of the nvss source we accepted all matches , following @xcite . in the test area ,",
    "this provided 96 associations of which 9.9 are expected to be false ( i.e. 10.3% contamination ) . for galaxies with offsets between 10 and 15 arcsec , we accepted matches according to the following procedure :    1 .",
    "the first image was segmented using an initial threshold of @xmath49 , where @xmath50 is the _ local _ rms noise in the map .",
    "this provided a number of seed spots whose centroids were refined using the intensity ",
    "weighted moments in both directions .",
    "a brightness profile was derived for each spot and both the half light radius and the flux inside this radius were determined .",
    "any bright spot with a mean flux density greater than 0.4 mjy and within 5 arcsec of the optical counterpart was considered to be a valid match .",
    "these sources were accepted unless there were more than 4 bright spots inside a circle of 30 arcsec , in which case the match was rejected because it is then impossible to associate the source with a single megaz galaxy .",
    "visual inspection of sdss images confirmed this .    to test this spot matching technique we repeated the same procedure for matches without first components in the random samples .",
    "this constitutes a robust check , since we are in effect looking at random locations in the sky , so we can assess how probable it is to find a spot pattern by chance . in the sky test area ,",
    "our procedure identified 13 additional first for sources with nvss ",
    "megaz offsets between 10 and 15 arcsec , at the cost of introducing only 2.4 false detections .",
    "this increases the overall completeness of the sample , for little cost in reliability .",
    "our tests indicate that it is not possible to extract more matches beyond a @xmath115 arcsec offset with reasonable confidence .",
    "+      table 1 lists the number of accepted radio matches for different classes of radio sources found in the sky test area .",
    "we provide results for both the real and the random samples , as well as reliability estimates .",
    "note that even though our sample is much deeper and more than five times larger than the one of @xcite , we have been able to compile a catalogue with comparable reliability ( @xmath198.3% ) .    because the true number of radio sources is unknown ,",
    "the completeness is more difficult to estimate than reliability .",
    "nevertheless , a reasonable estimate of the completeneness can be obtained by considering the megaz - lrgs that have an nvss source within a distance of 15 arcsec .",
    "these can be assumed to be a mixture of true matches , random alignments from sources at different redshifts , and a contribution from sources that are associated with other galaxies which just happen , through clustering , to be close to the target galaxy . by using the monte - carlo simulations in the sky test area to estimate the latter two contributions",
    ", we can estimate the number of true matches and hence the completeness .    in the sky test area",
    "there are 1765 megaz - lrgs with an nvss source within a distance of 15 arcsec . in comparison",
    ", there are an average of 225 sources within the same distance to the galaxies in the random catalogues . determining the contribution from clustered galaxies galaxies is more complicated .",
    "we attempted this in two ways .",
    "first , we selected all nvss - sdds candidates with a single first component within 15 arsec , but which were rejected by the matching algorithm .",
    "we then searched for other optical megaz galaxies in a 3 arcsec region around these first radio positions ( a standard search radius for first matching , e.g. @xcite ) . from a total of 359 lrgs , 40 ( 11.1% )",
    "had a nearby lrg with an associated first source .",
    "the corresponding fraction in the random sample was 0% .",
    "this means 11.1% of the 1765 sources ( @xmath1200 ) within 15 arcsec are due to clustering .    to check this result , we estimated the excess number of lrg - lrg pairs over random by integrating the angular correlation function @xmath51 given by @xcite for the 2slaq catalog out to 15 arcsec . this yielded value of 1.66 , i.e. @xmath52 extra sources due to clustering .",
    "these two values are in rough agreement ; the fact that the first method gives a slightly larger number could be explained by the fact that radio galaxies are more massive than the underlying lrg population , so we would expect them to be more strongly clustered . for our final completeness estimate , we will assume that 180 sources are due to clustering .",
    "the expected number of true matches is then estimated as @xmath53 .",
    "our matching procedure detects 1309 objects , of which 21.7 are predicted to be false detections .",
    "the completeness can therefore be estimated as @xmath54 or @xmath55 .",
    "this value is comparable to that obtained by @xcite , for a much lower redshift sample .",
    "we note that this completeness estimate applies only to the megaz - lrg sample and does not take into account missing radio - loud qsos or radio galaxies that do not meet the megaz - lrg colour cuts .",
    "20% of all galaxies with @xmath56 are too blue to fall within the megaz - lrg colour coundaries . since radio agn are biased towards the higher mass galaxies , the corresponding percentage should be smaller for this population . ]",
    "table 2 lists the final number of radio galaxies found in the megaz ",
    "lrg sample and included in the catalogue .",
    "our catalogue is by far the largest sample of radio galaxies of its kind . out of a total of 14553 sources , the majority ( 78.6% )",
    "have single counterparts in both first and nvss . a significant fraction ( 11.5% )",
    "are resolved by first into multiple components . only 253 ( 1.7% )",
    "sources have multiple nvss counterparts , to be compared with the 6.2% found by @xcite .",
    "this is again expected , because the radio galaxies lie at larger distances .",
    "we note that as for @xcite , a fraction of the candidate sources ( 1093 objects , or 7.5% of the sample ) with multiple nvss or first components were flagged as being too unreliable to classify by automated means .",
    "these were classified visually by simultaneous examination of sdss , nvss and first images .",
    "of these , 221 were accepted as genuine sources . finally , to ensure that the same nvss source was not associated with two different megaz  lrg galaxies ,",
    "the complete catalogue was checked .",
    "such duplications arose for 560 candidates and all cases were visually examined .",
    "altogether , 564 positive matches ( 3.9% ) result from the visual classification process .",
    "finally , we note that it is important to distinguish between stars and galaxies when compiling the radio galaxy catalogue , because late m ",
    "type stars have colours that are very similar to those of faint lrgs .",
    "@xcite used the same neural network technique used to derive photometric redshifts , to perform star / galaxy separation .",
    "the neural net was given 15 different photometric parameters and trained using the 2slaq spectroscopic sample .",
    "the megaz catalogue provides a parameter , @xmath57 , which is the probability that a particular object is a galaxy rather than a star . in the subsequent analysis",
    ", we only consider objects with @xmath58 ( 99.93% of all the matched radio galaxies , 96.78% of all optical galaxies ) .      in the following sections",
    ", we will compare the results obtained for the megaz ",
    "lrg catalogue of radio agn to those obtained for galaxies selected from the main spectroscopic galaxy sample , which have redshifts in the range @xmath59 , with a mean redshift of @xmath60 .",
    "this is an extension to the fourth data release of the original dr2 radio  matched catalogue of @xcite .",
    ".numbers of different classes of accepted megaz ",
    "lrg radio galaxies , as well as the corresponding numbers found in the random samples .",
    "the numbers are for a 720 deg@xmath46 patch of the total survey area .",
    "values in parentheses indicate the number of sources accepted using the spot  matching technique ( see text ) . [ cols=\"<,<,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]      we are now in a position to investigate the relation between radio  loud agn and their host galaxies . over the redshift range covered by the megaz",
    " lrg sample ( @xmath29 ) , radio sources have 1.4 ghz powers well above @xmath61 w hz@xmath5 ( the faintest radio galaxies in our sample are @xmath62 w hz@xmath5 ) .",
    "it is well known that radio emission above this luminosity is rarely associated with star - formation , but rather an agn ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "in addition , luminous red galaxies are photometrically defined so that the majority of star  forming galaxies are excluded , so we can safely assume that our sample is dominated by an agn population .",
    "figure 6 shows the fraction of megaz lrgs with radio luminosities above different threshholds , as a function of their stellar mass .",
    "the fraction of lrgs with radio agn more luminous than @xmath63 w hz@xmath5 rises from @xmath10.04% for galaxies with stellar masses around @xmath64 , to @xmath125% for the most massive lrgs with @xmath65 .",
    "results for radio power cuts of @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 , @xmath66 w hz@xmath5 and @xmath9 w hz@xmath5 are also included in the plot and a similar mass dependence is found . the dotted lines connecting light symbols on the plot",
    "show the corresponding dependence of the radio loud fraction on stellar mass for the low ",
    "redshift sdss dr4 sample .",
    "we find that there is an increase at higher redshifts in the fraction of of radio  loud agn hosted by galaxies of all stellar masses .",
    "the increase is larger at higher radio luminosities and for galaxies with lower stellar masses .",
    "this is shown in more detail in the bottom three panels of figure 6 , where we plot the relative ratio @xmath67 between the high redshift and low redshift data ( @xmath68 ) as a function of mass and for our three radio luminosity thresholds .",
    "once again it is important to recall that the dr4 sample includes all galaxies regardless of colour , whereas the megaz sample is restricted to red galaxies .",
    "@xcite showed that the probability for a galaxy to host a radio  loud agn was not influenced by its stellar population . in the top right panel of figure 6",
    "we compare the radio  loud agn fraction versus mass relation for the full dr4 sample to the results obtained if the sample is restricted to galaxies with @xmath69 colours greater than 0.8 .",
    "as can be seen , the results are almost identical .",
    "the effect of the colour cut is much smaller than the evolutionary trends we find between the low redshift and megaz lrg sample .        to check whether the increase in the fraction of radio  loud agn with mass is not simply the result of the fact that more massive galaxies harbour more massive black holes and hence produce more radio emission ,",
    "we have also calculated the fraction of radio  loud agn that are above a given limit in radio luminosity per unit stellar mass . for our sample , this is equivalent to choosing only those sources that produce radio emission above a fixed fraction of the eddington limit . for reasonable values of the chosen limit ( e.g. @xmath70 ) ,",
    "the strong mass dependences persists , although the slope of the relation is somewhat shallower .",
    "photometric redshift codes have improved vastly over the years and the resulting redshift estimates are useful for a broad range of studies .",
    "even though the neural network photometric redshift estimator used in the megaz catalogue has been throughfully calibrated using spectroscopic redshifts , it is important to test the senstivity of our results to photo  z errors .",
    "such errors could translate into systematic offsets in our estimates of stellar mass .",
    "in addition , the errors in the sloan @xmath71 magnitudes increase with redshift , so one might worry that this would translate into apparent ( as opposed to real ) evolution of the radio loud fraction with redshift .    in order to test for such effects",
    ", we artificially redshifted our sdss dr4 sample from their observed redshifts near @xmath60 out to the mean redshift of the megaz ",
    "lrg sample , @xmath8 . to do this",
    ", we applied the _ kcorrect _ algorithm in conjunction with the @xmath72corrections described above .",
    "we then added an error to the redshift using the distribution of @xmath73 of 2slaq galaxies . in practice , for each megaz lrg , we extracted the 100 closest neighbors in @xmath74 magnitude space in the 2slaq catalogue and we draw the redshift error , @xmath73 , at random from this set of galaxies .",
    "magnitude errors were assigned to each dr4 object in the same way .",
    "we then ran our code for estimating stellar mass on this `` artificially redshifted '' data set , first applying just the redshift error , and second , incorporating errors on both the photometry and the redshifts .",
    "the whole procedure was repeated 25 times .",
    "the solid line in figure 7 shows the difference between the mean fraction of radio  loud agn measured in the 25 artifically redshifted samples and the `` true '' value for the dr4 galaxies as a function of stellar mass .",
    "the difference @xmath67 is expressed in fractional terms , i.e. @xmath75 . the shaded contours respesent the 1@xmath76 scatter among the 25 samples .",
    "it can be seen that small systematic shifts in the derived radio loud fractions do occur at the two ends of the stellar mass distributions .",
    "they also occur in our estimates of the fraction of the most luminous radio galaxies . on the whole , these effects are small ( @xmath77% ) .",
    "note also that @xmath66 w hz@xmath5 sources are much rarer in the dr4 catalogue than in the megaz sample , so the bottom right panel overestimates the size of the true effect at this radio luminosity and is likely to apply only to very much higher luminosity cuts at @xmath8 .",
    "the first determination of the bivariate radio  optical luminosity function was carried out by @xcite for a sample of 145 galaxies of type e and s0 , and there were subsequent studies by @xcite and @xcite.this ( integrated ) function measures the probability that a galaxy in a given optical absolute magnitude range hosts an agn with radio power above a certain value .",
    "@xcite calculated the bivariate radio luminosity ",
    "stellar mass function of radio sources in the sdss dr2 , and parameterized the behaviour using a broken power with characteristic luminosity @xmath78w hz@xmath5 .",
    "a single fitting function was found to hold for for all masses below @xmath79 .",
    "our megaz radio galaxy sample is over 100 times larger than the one of @xcite and picks up close to the break luminosity found by @xcite .",
    "following @xcite , we will use stellar mass instead of optical luminosity .",
    "we can thus interpret our calculation as the fraction of radio  loud agn of a given mass emitting above a certain certain radio power .",
    "figure 8 shows the bivariate functions at high and low redshift in mass bins from @xmath80 to @xmath81 .",
    "the most striking result shown in this plot is that for galaxies of all stellar masses , the high redshift fractions lie only slightly above the low redshift ones at faint radio luminosities , but there has been much stronger evolution at higher radio luminosities .",
    "this is shown in more detail in the right hand panel of figure 8 , where we plot the ratio of the radio  loud agn fraction derived for the megaz lrgs to that derived for the dr4 galaxies , as a function of radio power .",
    "we show results for the four mass bins for which there is reasonable overlap between the two surveys ( there many fewer galaxies with @xmath82 in the dr4 sample , because the volume covered is much smaller ) .",
    "it is striking that for all the mass bins , the ratio remains approximately constant up to a radio luminosity of @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 and then turns up sharply .",
    "as discussed in section 1 , @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 corresponds to the approximate dividing line between low excitation and high excitation sources , and also delineates the boundary between strongly  evolving and less strongly  evolving radio sources found in previous studies .",
    "the main new result shown in this plot is that the strongest evolution in the radio source population apperently occurs _ in the lowest mass galaxies_.        another way of showing the same thing is to plot the integrated radio emission per unit stellar mass for galaxies of different stellar masses in the dr4 and megaz samples .",
    "@xcite used the volume  weighted distribution of [ oiii ] 5007 line luminosity per unit black hole mass to study the average rate at which black holes are accreting and growing .",
    "they find that low mass black holes are currently growing at substantially higher rates than high mass black holes .",
    "@xcite extended this analysis by computing the integrated radio luminosity per unit black hole mass , demonstrating that radio and emission line luminosities are produced in black holes of quite different masses ( see figure 11 in @xcite ) .    in the present work",
    ", we do not have direct estimates of black hole mass , so we carry out the computation as a function of stellar mass . in figure 9",
    "we plot the volume  weighted radio luminosity per unit stellar mass , as a function of @xmath83 , for our high and low redshift samples .",
    "the plot is constructed by taking at each mass bin , the ratio of the integrated ( and weighted ) radio luminosity , to the integrated ( and weighted ) stellar mass in that bin . as can be seen ,",
    "radio activity has been boosted at all masses at high redshift , but the boost factor is considerably higher for low mass galaxies .",
    "it has long been known that powerful high redshift radio galaxies are hosted by very massive galaxies with predominantly old stellar populations .",
    "this conclusion arises from the fact that there is a well defined relation between the k  band magnitude of radio galaxies and redshift ( the famous k  z relation ) that agrees with the predicions of a passively evolving model galaxy of high mass ( @xmath84 ) , and that there is relatively little scatter about this relation for the most luminous radio sources ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "so far we have phrased our analysis of the relationship between radio agn and their host galaxies in terms of the _ probability _ for a galaxy of a given mass to host such an agn .",
    "we have shown that this _ probability _ evolves most strongly in low mass galaxies .",
    "note , however , that the fraction of radio loud agn is a strongly increasing function of galaxy mass both at @xmath8 and at @xmath85 .",
    "this means that radio galaxies in massive elliptical hosts always dominate _ by number_.        this is shown in more detail in figure 10 where we plot the median stellar masses of both the megaz and the sdss dr4 radio agn as a function radio luminosity .",
    "as can be seen , radio agn are hosted by galaxies with median masses of @xmath86 in both surveys .",
    "there is a weak increase in the median mass at higher radio luminosities .    in figure 11 , we plot the colour distributions of the megaz radio agn .",
    "one must of course bear in mind that the megaz sample is selected so as to occupy a restricted range in colour space , but we can nevertheless check whether there are any colour differences between different types of radio agn .",
    "we split the sample into 3 different redshift bins and show results for low luminosity ( @xmath87 w hz@xmath5 ) and high luminosity ( @xmath88 w hz@xmath5 ) radio sources .",
    "as was found previously by @xcite , there is a tendency for the more powerful radio galaxies to have slightly bluer colours at fixed redshift , but the effect is very weak .    in summary , we conclude that the majority of both low luminosity and high luminosity radio agn are hosted by massive ( 3 @xmath89 ) galaxies with red colours .",
    "this is in good agreement with past work on this subject .",
    "( p@xmath21)@xmath90 w hz@xmath5 , and a low luminosity population with log@xmath20(p@xmath21)@xmath91 w hz@xmath5.,width=317 ]",
    "the main results of the present work can be summarized as follows : + a catalogue of 14453 radio  loud agn with 1.4 ghz fluxes above 3.5 mjy in the redshift range @xmath0 , has been constructed from the cross  correlation of nvss and first radio source catalogues with the megaz  lrg catalogue of luminous red galaxies .",
    "the vast majority of the radio agn are single component sources in both nvss and first .",
    "however , there is a signifiant fraction of objects without high s / n first detections , which are required for accurate identification of the optical counterpart .",
    "we thus introduced a method for analyzing the first radio maps around the candidate positions of these sources .",
    "this allowed us to dig deeper into the first survey and use lower s / n detections to pinpoint the location of the host galaxy .",
    "we have presented a new determination of the luminosity function of radio  loud agn at @xmath2 that is in excellent agreement with other results in the literature , but with notably smaller error bars . by comparing our radio luminosity function at @xmath2 to",
    "that derived for a large sample of nearby radio agn from the sdss dr4 , we find compelling evidence for strong cosmic evolution of radio sources .",
    "the comoving number density of radio agn with luminosities less than @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 increases by a factor of @xmath6 between @xmath85 and @xmath8 . at higher lumiosities , this factor increases sharply , reaching values @xmath92 at a radio luminosity of @xmath9 w hz@xmath5 . neither a pure luminosity evolution nor a pure density evolution scenario provides a good description of the data .",
    "we then turn to an analysis of how the relation between radio agn and their host galaxies evolves with redshift .",
    "the fraction of galaxies with radio luminosities above a given threshhold is a steeply increasing function of stellar mass at both @xmath3 and at @xmath2 .",
    "the fraction of radio loud agn increases with redshift and this increase is largest at the highest radio luminosities and also for lower mass galaxies .",
    "we have also calculated the bivariate radio luminosity ",
    "mass function at @xmath93 and @xmath2 .",
    "its shape does not appear to depend on mass at either redshift , but there is strong evolution in the shape at the _ bright  end _ of the function .",
    "the fraction of galaxies brighter than @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 declines with significantly shallower slope at higher redshifts . within the range @xmath94 w hz@xmath5",
    ", simple power law fits to the dr4 bivariate function in figure 8 ( @xmath95 ) , produce slopes @xmath96 of @xmath97 , @xmath98 and @xmath99 for the first , second and third mass bins . in megaz",
    ", we obtain @xmath100 , @xmath101 and @xmath102 for the same luminosity range and mass bins .    in short ,",
    "two main conclusions have emerged from our analysis :    * there is a characteristic luminosity of @xmath103 w hz@xmath5 below which the radio source population appears to evolve only very weakly with redshift . above this characteristic luminosity ,",
    "there is strong evolution , with the most powerful radio sources undergoing the largest increase in co  moving number density .",
    "these results are in broad agreement with past studies . * the strongest evolution in the fraction of galaxies that host radio  loud agn takes place in the lower mass galaxies in our sample .",
    "the most plausible explanation of these trends is that there are two classes of radio galaxy , likely associated with the high excitation / low excitation",
    " dichotomy \" ) that have different fuelling / triggering mechanisms and hence evolve in different ways .",
    "this has also been argued by @xcite , whose analysis of a sample 1% of the size of ours in the xmm - lss region provided hints of similar evolutionary properties . as discussed before ,",
    "it has been hypothesized that the class of low luminosity agn is likely associated with massive ( @xmath104 ) dark matter halos with quasistatic hot gas atmospheres .",
    "the abundance of such halos is predicted to remain approximately constant out to redshifts @xmath105 ( @xcite ) and this is broadly consistent with the very weak evolution we see in this population .",
    "these  hot  halo \" triggered sources at @xmath106 would then produce radio emission that roughly compensates the radiative losses of the hot gas .",
    "the reason for the remarkably strong evolution in the comoving abundance of high  luminosity radio agn is somewhat more difficult to understand . as shown in figure 8 , this evolution is most dramatic in galaxies at the low stellar mass end of our sample .",
    "it is thus tempting to link this population with the strongly accreting ( and evolving ) population of luminous quasars , whose space densities also increase by factors of more than 10 over the redshift range studied in this paper .",
    "recent work has shown that quasars are hosted in dark matter halos of masses @xmath107 , independent of redshift or the optical luminosity of the system ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "only @xmath92% of optical quasars are radio  loud , however , and this raises the question as to whether there is simply a short radio  loud phase during the lifetime of every optical quasar , or whether optically luminous agn and powerful radio galaxies are triggered under different physical conditions . if , as in quasars , these sources are not regulated by cooling from a surrounding hot gaseous halo , but by other mechanisms like interactions / mergers , then we would not expect to find them in an equilibrum state like in low excitation agns .",
    "one way to shed further light on these matters is to compare the clustering properties of quasars to those of the luminous radio galaxies in our sample .",
    "if their clustering properties are identical , this would favour the hypothesis that all quasars experience a radio  loud phase .",
    "recently , @xcite found that nearby radio - loud agn were more strongly clustered than matched samples of radio - quiet agn with the same black hole masses and extinction corrected [ oiii ] line luminosities . it will be interesting to see if the same conclusion holds at higher redshifts and for more powerful systems .",
    "this will be the subject of a future paper .",
    "we would like to thank the max planck society for the financial support provided through its max planck research school on astrophysics phd program .",
    "we also thank t. heckman , c. li , v. wild , and n. drory for valuable support and suggestions .",
    "the research uses the sdss archive , funded by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national aeronautics and space administration , the national science foundation , the us department of energy , the japanese monbukagakusho and the max planck society .",
    "the research project uses the nvss and first radio surveys , carried out using the national radio astronomy observatory very large array .",
    "nrao is operated by associated universities inc .",
    ", under cooperative agreement with the national science foundation",
    ".    99 auriemma c. g. , perola g. , ekers r. , fanti r. , lari c. , jaffe w. , ulrich m. , 1977 , a&a , 57 , 41 barthel p. d. , 1989 , apj , 336 , 606 becker r. h. , white r. l. , helfand d. j. , 1995 , apj , 450 , 559 best p. n. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. m. , ivezi  . , 2005a , mnras , 362 , 9 best , p. n. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. m. , brinchmann j. , charlot s. , ivezi  . , white s. d. m. , 2005b , mnras , 362 , 25 best p. n. , kaiser c. r. , heckman t. m. , kauffmann g. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , l67 bicknell g. v. , 1995 , apj supp . , 101",
    ", 29 blanton m. r. , roweis s. , 2007 , aj , 133 , 734 bhringer h. et al .",
    ", 1993 , mnras , 264 , l25 bower r. g. , benson a. j. , malbon r. , helly j. c. , frenk c. s. , baugh c. m. , cole s. , lacey c. g. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 645 brown m. j. i. , webster r. l. , boyle b. j. , 2001 , aj , 121 , 2381 brown m. j. i. et al . , 2007 , apj , 654 , 858 bruzual g. , charlot s. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 budavri t. , dobos l. , szalay a. s. , greene g. , gray j. , rots a. h. , 2007 , asp conf .",
    "series , 376 , 559 cannon r. d. et al .",
    ", 2006 , mnras , 372 , 425 clewley l. , jarvis m. j. , 2004 , mnras , 352 , 909 cole s. , lacy c. g. , baugh c. m. frenk c. s. , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 colless m. m. et al . , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 1039 collister a. a. , lahav o. , 2004 , pasp , 116 , 345 collister a. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 365 , 68 condon j. j. , cotton w. d. , greisen e. w. , yin q. f. , perley r. a. , taylor g. b. , broderick j. j. , 1998 , aj , 115 , 1693 condon j. j. , cotton w. d. , broderick j. j. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 675 cool r. j. et al . , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 682 , 919 croom s. m. et al . , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 415 croton d. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 dunlop j. s. , peacock j. a. , 1990 , mnras , 19 , 42 fabian a. c. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 344 , l43 fanaroff b. l. , riley j. m. , 1974 , mnras , 167 , 31 fukugita m. , ichikawa t. , gunn j.e . , doi m. , shimasaku k. , schneider d.p . , 1996 , aj , 111 , 1748 gebhardt k. et al . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 539 , l13 gunn et al . , 1998 , aj , 116 , 3040 hardcastle m. j. , evans d. a. , croston j. h. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 1849 heckman t. m. , kauffmann g. , brinchmann j. , charlot s. , tremonti c. , white s. d. m. , 2004 , apj , 613 , 109 heywood i. , blundell k. m. , rawlings s. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 1093 jackson c. a. , wall j. v. , 1999 , mnras , 304 , 160 jarvis m. j. et al . , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 1585 kauffmann g. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 33 kauffmann g. , heckman t. m. , best p. n. , 2008 , mnras , 384 , 953 ledlow m. j. , owen f. n. , 1996 , aj , 112 , 1 li c. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 21 lilly s. j. , longair m. s. , 1985 , mnras , 211 , 833 longair m. s. , 1966 , mnras , 133 , 421 magorrian j. et al . , 1998 ,",
    "aj , 115 , 2285 mcnamara b. r. et al . , 2000 , apj , 534 , l135 mo h. j. , white s. d. m. , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 112 obric m. et al .",
    ", 2006 , mnras , 370 , 1677 ross n. p. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 573 sadler e. m. , jenkins c. r. , kotanyi c. g. , 1989 , mnras , 240 , 591 sadler e. m. et al , 2002 , mnras , 329 , 227 sadler e. m. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 211 schlegel d. j. , finkbeiner d. p. , davis m. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 525 schmidt m. , 1968 , apj , 151 , 393 shen y. et al . , 2007 , aj , 133 , 2222 smith e. p. , heckman t. m. , 1989 , apj , 341 , 658 stoughton c. et al . , 2002 , aj , 123 , 485 tabor g. , binney j. , 1993 , mnras , 263 , 323 tasse c. et al . , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , in press wake d. a. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 537 white s. d. m. , frenck c. s. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 52 york d.g .",
    "et al . , 2000 ,",
    "aj , 120 , 1579"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a catalogue of 14453 radio  loud agn with 1.4 ghz fluxes above 3.5 mjy in the redshift range @xmath0 , has been constructed from the cross  correlation of the nvss and first radio surveys with the megaz  </S>",
    "<S> lrg catalogue of luminous red galaxies derived from sloan digital sky survey imaging data . </S>",
    "<S> the nvss provides accurate flux measurements for extended sources , while the angular resolution of first allows the host galaxy to be identified accurately . </S>",
    "<S> new techniques were developed for extending the cross  </S>",
    "<S> correlation algorithm to first detections that are below the nominal 1 mjy s / n limit of the catalogued sources . </S>",
    "<S> the matching criteria were tested and refined using monte  </S>",
    "<S> carlo simulations , leading to an estimated reliability of @xmath198.3% and completeness level ( for lrgs ) of about 95% for our new catalogue .    </S>",
    "<S> we present a new determination of the luminosity function of radio agn at @xmath2 and compare this to the luminosity function of nearby ( @xmath3 ) radio sources from the sdss main survey . the comoving number density of radio agn with luminosities less than @xmath4 w hz@xmath5 increases by a factor @xmath6 between @xmath7 and @xmath8 . at higher lumiosities , this factor increases sharply , reaching values of more than 10 at radio luminosities larger than @xmath9 w hz@xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> we then study how the relation between radio agn and their host galaxies evolves with redshift . </S>",
    "<S> our main conclusion is that the fraction of radio  loud agn increases towards higher redshift in all massive galaxies , but the evolution is particularly strong for the lower mass galaxies in our sample . </S>",
    "<S> these trends may be understood if there are two classes of radio galaxies ( likely associated with the  radio \" and  quasar mode \" dichotomy ) that have different fuelling / triggering mechanisms and hence evolve in different ways .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution  galaxies : active  radio continuum : galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}