{
  "article_text": [
    "materials with granular structure are widely used in modern electronics and radio engineering .",
    "these materials can be fabricated either by the traditional screen printing method known for a long time or by using new technologies , such as the direct forming of electronic devices by printers and opal crystals creation by concretion of spherical microparticles from water dredges .",
    "modern technologies enable one to fabricate much more pure and reproducible samples compared to the old ones . as a rule , by using these methods materials with granular or polycrystalline internal structure are obtained . in general , it is not always clear a priori how granularity affects various electrophysical characteristics of a material @xcite",
    ". therefore , electronic and optical properties of granular semiconductors attract a lot of attention now .",
    "films made of cds@xmath0and cdse are  known for their high photoconductivity and photosensitivity .",
    "photoresistors based on these materials are widely used in applications as photodetectors and optical couplers @xcite .",
    "the investigations of photoconductive cdse and cds systems have a long history , see e.g. refs .",
    "it was realized long time ago that a model with the single type of recombination centers can not account for various electronic properties of cdse and cds crystals , such as superlinearity of photoresistance , infrared and thermal quenching @xcite .",
    "instead a model based on two types of states in the forbidden gap was proposed @xcite ( see also ref .",
    "@xcite , where even two more kinds of centers were introduced ) .",
    "it was demonstrated @xcite that photosensitivity of cdse monocrystals can be as high as @xmath1 .",
    "granular structure of thin films made of cdse or cds makes the physics of these systems even more complicated bufa , bube , petritz , micheletti , orton , carbone due to possible formation of space charged regions inside individual crystallites and at boundaries .    in the recent paper @xcite some of us studied the influence of heat - treatment conditions for cds@xmath2se@xmath3 granular films , obtained by the screen printing method , on their photoresistance .",
    "it was found that there is some optimal time for sample s heat - treatment ( at fixed temperature of heat - treatment ) , for which the photoresistance is minimized . the light - to - dark current ratio for these films can be as large as 10@xmath4 .",
    "this fact , together with the simple and low - cost method of film s fabrication , make them quite attractive for technological applications .",
    "the characteristic feature of optimally - prepared films is that neighboring grains , from which they are build , fit each other on large contact areas . at the same time , long time of heat - treatment results in the recrystallization of grains and disappearance of spaces between them , so that the film s connectivity is significantly improved compared to optimally - prepared films . from these studies , it has remained unclear whether the leading mechanism of charge transfer under the illumination is associated with intergrain boundaries or it is identical with that for monocrystals of the same chemical composition .",
    "it is also not evident why almost total disappearance of gaps between grains is accompanied by the increase of photoresistance , while it is expectable that gaps prevent grain - to - grain charge transfer .",
    "the main goal of the present paper is to understand if the leading mechanism of charge transfer in these films is different from the one in crystals .",
    "for simplicity , we here restrict ourselves to cds@xmath5se@xmath6 films only .",
    "in addition to the visual analysis of sem images of film s microstructure , we perform afm studies of intergrain boundaries .",
    "we also measure temperature dependences of photoresistance and compare the character of these quite nontrivial dependences with the ones for monocrystals , which are known from literature . additionally , we perform measurements in vacuum , as well as in the atmosphere of helium , which suppresses oxygen and water absorption / chemisorption at grain boundaries , and compare the obtained results with the ones for the atmosphere of air .",
    "these measurements indicate that surfaces indeed play some role in the charge transfer under the illumination , since absorbed oxygen and water increase photoresistance .",
    "we finally make a conclusion that the leading mechanism of charge transfer in the systems studied is most probably the same as in monocrystals , while the existence of the optimal heat - treatment time is due to the competition between the oxidation of grain boundaries during their heat - treatment , which suppresses charge transfer , and improvement of film s connectivity , which facilitates this process .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section ii deals with the sample characterization . in section iii",
    ", we describe our experimental setup . in section iv",
    ", we present the results for the measurements of photoresistance and discuss them .",
    "we conclude in section v.",
    "we used cds and cdse powders as initial components for the paste , from which samples are then fabricated .",
    "the initial powders of cds  and cdse were milled together .",
    "the prepared cds - cdse powder and the coupler were mixed in a special barrel in order to obtain the paste .",
    "propylene glycol was used as a coupler . through a stencil ,",
    "this paste was deposited on the pyroceramics substrate and then seasoned at room temperature for 0.5 hour .",
    "after that , samples were dried for 1 hour at the temperature of 373 k in order to remove the coupler .",
    "this raw material , represented by a film of 15 - 20 mkm thickness , was heat - treated in the stove with a quasi - free air access through the untight cup of the crucible .",
    "the time of heat - treatment for different samples varied from 5 to 90 minutes , and the temperature - from 773 k to 873 k. finally , samples were washed out in a bidistilled water and dried at room temperature . by using this method ,",
    "we have prepared more than 50 samples , which were differing from each other by chemical composition , as well as by heat - treatment parameters , i.e. , heat - treatment time and temperature .",
    "the similar technology of sample fabrication was used by some of us in ref .",
    "@xcite .        during the heat - treatment process",
    ", small particles of the powder corresponding to different chemical compositions , cds or cdse , merge into grains , each grain containing large number of initial particles .",
    "as we found , these grains consist of a solid cds - cdse solution . in order to prove the fact that the solid solution is indeed formed , we performed x - ray analysis of fabricated films .",
    "the typical measured xrd patterns for samples are presented in fig .",
    "positions of narrow peaks on xrd patterns do correspond to the solid solution .",
    "the shift in the positions of these peaks depends on the ratio of initial components ( cds and cdse ) .",
    "note that a trace quantity of oxide cdso@xmath7 was also detected in our samples .",
    "+    the microstructure of obtained samples was studied by sem .",
    "we found that the microstructure is highly sensitive to the heat - treatment conditions .",
    "the analysis of sem images showed us that heat - treatment increases grains sizes due to their merging .",
    "this process is naturally accompanied by the growth of contact areas between neighboring grains and thus to the better fitting between them : grains become more compactly packed . if the heat - treatment time is long enough , samples begin to recrystallize and intergrain boundaries disappear .",
    "typical sem images for cds@xmath5se@xmath6 films , which were heat - treated at the temperature @xmath8 @xmath9 , are presented in fig .",
    "2(a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) correspond to films which were heat - treated for 5 , 30 , and 60 minutes , respectively .",
    "we found that the average grain size was around 3 - 12 @xmath10 in all these cases with the tendency of this size to increase upon the prolongation of the heat - treatment time , as clearly seen from fig .",
    "2 . by its structure , the film in fig .",
    "2(a ) resembles a sand : relatively large spaces exist between neighboring grains , these grains being connected to each other only by rather small areas on their surfaces due to the rounded shape of grains . at the same time , spacings between grains on fig .",
    "2(c ) seem to disappear , many of them now reduce to grooves . fig .",
    "2(b ) corresponds to the intermediate heat - treatment time , which leads to a compact packing of grains ; nevertheless narrow , long and deep gaps between them still exist .",
    "images of higher resolution , compared to the ones , presented here , support these conclusions .        in order to demonstrate the tendency of the growth of the average grain size with the increase of annealing time , we have taken 24 samples ,",
    "which were heat - treated at the same temperature of @xmath8 @xmath9 , but during different times .",
    "then , we extracted the average grain size for each sample by parforming the visual analysis of sem images of these samples , each image containing around 40 - 50 grains .",
    "the size of each grain was taken as an average between its dimensions in the directions , where the grain has smallest and largest dimensions .",
    "our results are presented in fig .",
    "3 , where each dot corresponds to the particular sample , while the solid curve gives the interpolation for the average grain size .",
    "it is clearly seen from fig .",
    "3 that the increase of annealing time indeed leads to the growth of grains .",
    "this growth is however quite nonlinear with respect to the heat - treatment time .",
    "initially , heat - treatment leads to the rapid increase of the average grain size and than this size tends to stabilize .",
    "+    we also used a semicontact afm with a thin cantilevers of whisker type in order to study in a more detail the structure and geometry of boundaries between grains .",
    "the typical radius of curvature for the whisker was 10 nm and the typical height was 1 @xmath10 .",
    "4 ( a ) and ( b ) show the afm images for the structure and profiles of typical grain boundaries in samples , which were previously studied by sem and which were fabricated during the 30 and 60 minutes of heat - treatment , respectively , at the same temperature of 823 k. the micro - relief of samples , obtained by 5 minutes of heat - treatment , can not be investigated using this experimental approach , since the surface landscape is very nonuniform in this case , which prevents the use of a whisker .",
    "it is seen from fig .",
    "3 that our expectations , obtained from the visual analysis of sem images , are basically correct : samples , which were sintered during an intermediate time , contain narrow gaps , which do not disappear completely during the fabrication process .",
    "these gaps become more and more narrow when moving away from the film surface towards its interior regions .",
    "spacings between grains in films , which were heat - treated for a long time , tend to disappear and they shrink into grooves on the film surface , see fig .",
    "4(b ) , which shows such a groove separating two regions of the grain with different growth orientations .",
    "the experimental setup allowed us to study film s specific resistance by spreading resistance method . for measurements of the resistance , we used indium contacts , which were prepared by the transfer of melted indium from teflon plate under the pressure applied .",
    "the obtained contacts have a square shape with one millimeter on side .",
    "the distance between contacts is also one millimeter .",
    "samples were placed in an isolated chamber that allows to study the influence of various gaseous atmospheres ( at pressures close to the atmospheric pressure ) and of vacuum .",
    "it was also possible to use streams of gases for the same purposes .",
    "an incandescent lamp served as a source of light . by changing the distance between the lamp and the film , we tuned the intensity of light , which illuminated the samples .",
    "the film s resistance was measured under the illumination up to 10@xmath11 lux and at the temperature varying from room temperature to 420 k.    the samples were placed on the stage , which was heated resistively .",
    "thermocouple was positioned inside the stage close to its surface , on which the sample was situated . during the measurements",
    ", the temperature was changing smoothly and nearly linear in time , with the rate of 1 - 1.5 k / min . in order to control the accuracy of our measurements of temperature",
    ", we have used an additional thermocouple , which was placed on the top of the sample .",
    "the difference between the temperatures was within 0.1 k.",
    "as it was shown in ref .",
    "@xcite , the lowest photoresistance at room temperature was achieved for films , which were heat - treated during an intermediate time , nearly 30 minutes , at heat - treatment temperature @xmath8 @xmath9 . by photoresistance we mean sample s resistance under the illumination . in this paper , we focus on temperature dependences of photoresistance @xmath12 for samples characterized by different heat - treatment parameters . we expect that these dependences can shed a light on the leading mechanism of charge transfer . in total , for @xmath12 measurements we used more than 30 samples .",
    "the results were reproducible : for instance , for the photoresistance maximum , the difference between different trials was within 5 % .",
    "5 gives typical temperature dependences for the fixed illumination of 100 lux .",
    "it is clearly seen from this figure that the shape of all these curves is rather peculiar : they consist of two segments demonstrating opposite tendencies . at low temperatures",
    ", resistance grows with the increase of temperature , while at high temperatures it decreases .",
    "the first type of behavior is quite unusual for conventional semiconductors and insulators ( and common for metals ) , where charge transfer occurs by the simple thermal activation of carriers through the forbidden gap .",
    "however , similar temperature dependences of photoresistance were found in cdse monocrystals @xcite with the `` anomalous '' part of @xmath12 curve being localized in nearly the same range of temperatures .",
    "the non - monotonic behavior of @xmath12 in cdse monocrystals is explained by the presence of centers in the forbidden gap belonging to two different classes @xcite .",
    "these centers differ from each other by the fact that centers of the first class have comparable capture cross sections both for the free electrons and holes , while , for the centers of the second class , capture cross section for holes is much larger .",
    "the latter centers thus sensitize the photoconductor . by tuning light intensity or temperature ,",
    "one moves steady - state fermi levels and changes the number of centers contributing to the recombination .",
    "this gives rise to the superlinearity , as well as to non - monotonic dependence of photoresistance on temperature .",
    "since quite peculiar temperature dependence of photoresistance found in our granular films is similar to that in monocrystals @xcite , it is reasonable to suggest that the leading mechanism of charge transfer under an illumination is unique both in our samples and in monocrystals , while the influence of internal boundaries is a less important factor .",
    "this factor , however , is not negligible because it can provide an additional decrease of photoresistance up to one order of magnitude in a certain range of temperatures by varying annealing conditions , as seen from fig . 5 ( compare , for instance , curves 1 and 3 near the temperature of 100 c ) .",
    "we now discuss in a more detail how annealing conditions affects the photoresistance . during the heat - treatment , the average grain size increases , which results in the increase of contact areas between neighboring grains and thus to the improvement of sample s connectivity .",
    "the process of grains growth is very fast in the beginning ( see fig .",
    "3 ) and therefore the photoresistance of the sample heat - treated during 30 min .",
    "( curve 2 in fig .",
    "5 ) is much lower than that of a sample , heat - treated during 5 min .",
    "( curve 1 in fig . 5 ) .",
    "however , heat - treatment also leads to the intensive oxidation of grains surfaces , while the oxidation decreases photoconductivity . besides ,",
    "merging of grains leads to the fact that oxidized boundaries are now inside individual grains .",
    "further increase of heat - treatment time does not result in so intensive growth of grains sizes , as seen from fig .",
    "the oxidation nevertheless still occurs .",
    "moreover , oxygen can diffuse from the bulk towards boundaries .",
    "thus , oxidation starts to lead to the increase of photoresistance with the prolongation of the heat - treatment time ( curves 2 and 3 in fig .",
    "5 ) . in other words ,",
    "an optimal heat - treatment time depends on two competing mechanisms .",
    "notice that the existence of annealing temperatures , which maximize photosensitivity , was reported in ref .",
    "@xcite for cdse thin films obtained by a chemical bath deposition technique .",
    "next , we discuss the position of photoresistance maximum along the temperature axis in fig .",
    "it is seen from this figure that the temperature corresponding to the photoresistance maximum is dependent on the heat - treatment parameters , i.e. , on microstructure .",
    "increase of heat - treatment time first leads to the increase of temperature at which this maximum is achieved ( curves 1 and 2 ) .",
    "such a behavior implies that the contribution of the sensitizing centers is increased at this stage , so that their effect is evident at curve 2 up to higher temperatures .",
    "this can be due to improvement of crystallinity , as well as of intergrain boundaries , where various defects , which can act as centers of the first class , should be presented with higher concentration .",
    "however , further prolongation of heat - treatment time results in the opposite shift of the corresponding temperature ( curves 2 and 3 ) . this can be explained by oxidation , which favors the appearance of additional centers of the first class .",
    "it is worth noticing that the optimal heat - treatment time , which minimizes the photoresistance , is strongly dependent on the temperature at which the photoresistance is tested . while this optimal time",
    "was found to be approximately 30 minutes for room temperature , it shifts towards 1 hour when temperature is rising up to 160 c.        an important electrophysical characteristic of photoconductive materials is a dark resistance as a function of temperature . in fig .",
    "6 , we plot the dependence of resistance without illumination on temperature for the same three samples , addressed in fig .",
    "we see that the logarithm of resistance depends linearly on inverse temperature , in accordance with the arrhenius law . from the slopes of these dependences",
    "we can extract activation energies .",
    "we have found that these energies are nearly the same for all the three samples and are equal to @xmath13 ev with the error @xmath140.1 ev .",
    "the dark resistance of optimally - prepared films is the highest one , while the resistance of the sample , heat - treated during 60 min . , is the lowest one",
    "this can be understood by noting that the latter case corresponds to the very well connectivity of the sample due to merging of individual grains . at the same time",
    ", heat - treatment also leads to oxidation of grain boundaries , which suppresses charge transfer over intergrain barriers .",
    "the competition between the two mechanisms , in the case of absence of illumination , leads to the domination of the oxidation effect for the case of optimally - prepared films in contrast to the resistance under the illumination .",
    "the value of the activation energy is in agreement with the width of the forbidden gap of cds@xmath5se@xmath6 and the measured photocurrent spectra , one of which is presented in fig .",
    "7 ( for the sample , heat - treated during 5 minutes at @xmath15 k ) .",
    "measurements were performed using a scanning spectrometer at room temperature .",
    "spectral range was from 400 to 900 nm .",
    "the spectra were decomposed into separate lines ( gauss or lorentz functions ) with the confidence probability of 95 % .",
    "the smallest discrepancy value was used as a criterion of decomposition .",
    "all the measured spectra contain three components , which correspond to energies 2.0 ev ( curve 1 ) , 1.7 ev ( curve 2 ) , and 1.6 ev ( curve 3 ) .",
    "the first one is due to direct transitions in the forbidden gap , while the two others are linked to the transitions with participation of centers in this gap .",
    "curve 4 in fig .",
    "7 gives the sum of the three contributions , and dots correspond to experimental data .",
    "k.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    note that we have also studied the response of the sample to the rectangular illumination impulse with the amplitude of nearly 200 lux with the width of the order of 10@xmath16 s. we have found that the typical photoresponse time was of the order of 10@xmath17 s.      in order to better understand the role of oxygen and water , which are absorbed / chemiapsorbed at the surfaces , we performed experimental investigations of photoresistance in helium atmosphere , in vacuum , and also in the stream of helium , after keeping samples in these environment for 1 hour .",
    "these conditions diminish oxygen and water absorption at intergrain boundaries , as well as at the film s surface .",
    "of course , an oxide layer can not be removed by this method , since this layer essentially appears during the heat - treatment with a quasi - free air access .",
    "5 presents the typical results for @xmath12  dependence at constant illumination of 1500 lux in the atmosphere of air , helium , and in the vacuum for the samples heat - treated for 30 minutes at temperature 823 k. firstly , shape of all these curves is not dependent on the atmosphere , which evidences that non - monotonic @xmath12  dependence can not be due to oxidation / deoxidation processes during sample s heating / cooling : this is consistent with the supposition that the dominant mechanism of charge transfer is the same as in monocrystals .",
    "secondly , it is seen from fig .",
    "5 that the lowest photoresistance is achieved in the vacuum , i.e. , when oxygen and water absorption is suppressed , while the highest photoresistance shows up in the air atmosphere .",
    "the influence of absorbtion is not very strong at low temperatures , i.e. , at the `` anomalous '' parts of @xmath12 curves , since there absolute values of photoresistance for different curves vary only within 30 % . however , at higher temperatures ,",
    "when approaching the thermoactivation part of @xmath12 curves , an atmosphere starts to play an important role .",
    "for instance , the resistance of the sample in vacuum ( curve 3 ) is approximately two times lower than that in the air ( curve 1 ) at @xmath18  @xmath19 .",
    "the resistance of the sample in helium atmosphere ( curve 2 ) is lower than that in the air ( curve 1 ) , but also higher than the resistance in vacuum ( curve 3 ) .",
    "this can be attributed to the weaker desorption of air and water in helium environment compared to the vacuum .",
    "we finally notice that different studies of cds and cdse films performed in the past provided different results for the temperature dependence of photoresistance . for instance , in ref .",
    "@xcite , where photoresistance of cds@xmath2se@xmath3 polycrystalline films was investigated , an `` anomalous '' part of @xmath12 curve was not found , the whole dependence being of `` thermoactivation '' nature . ref .",
    "@xcite deals with cdsse(cu ) in silicone resine binder layers , which also demonstrates simple monotonic behavior . at the same time , non - monotonic @xmath12 dependences , similar to the ones presented here , were reported in ref .",
    "@xcite for cds@xmath2se@xmath3 sintered layers and in ref .",
    "@xcite for cdse thin films prepared by thermal vacuum evaporation .",
    "highly photosensitive granular cds@xmath5se@xmath6 films were fabricated by the screen printing method .",
    "x - ray analysis has shown that grains consist of a solid cds - cdse solution .",
    "we measured temperature dependences of photoresistance and found that they have a peculiar non - monotonic shape , which is practically identical with that for cdse monocrystals , known from literature .",
    "namely , photoresistance first increases with the increase of temperature and then it starts to decrease .",
    "we therefore conclude that , in these granular films , the leading mechanism of charge transfer under the illumination is the same as in monocrystals , i.e. , based on the presence of two kinds of centers in the forbidden gap .",
    "influence of intergrain boundaries is however not negligible .",
    "this follows from the fact that photoresistance also depends on the film s microstructure , which can be changed by tuning the time and temperature of heat - treatment during the process of sample s fabrication .",
    "the longer heat - treatment time , the larger grains and the more compactly they are packed . the lowest photoresistance at room temperatures was found for films , heat - treated for an intermediate time , in which gaps between grains still exist .",
    "this `` optimal '' heat - treatment time , however , strongly depends on the temperature , at which photoresistance is probed , namely , it decreases with the increase of temperature . for a certain range of temperatures",
    ", one can suppress photoresistance as much as up to one order in magnitude by only varying film s internal microstructure .",
    "an explanation for the optimal heat - treatment time was suggested in terms of the competition between the two mechanisms : longer heat - treatment improves film s connectivity , but also results in additional oxidation .",
    "the optimal heat - treatment time thus depends on the interplay between these two factors .    to better understand the effect of grain boundaries",
    ", we performed additional measurements of photoresistance in vacuum and also in helium atmosphere , which have shown that oxygen and water absorbtion / chemisorption at grain boundaries increases photoresistance .",
    "the authors are grateful to l. n. survilo for the help in the preparation of samples and to d. strateychuk for making films images .",
    "w. v. p. acknowledges the support from the `` dynasty foundation '' for young scientists .",
    "a. v. agaponova , i. a. ryzhikov , a. s. meshkov , s. b. evgenev , d. m. strateichuk , e. f. ostretsov , l. n. survilo , yu . v. trofimov , and v. i. shtanov , j. of commun .",
    "technol . and electr .",
    "* 54 * , 588 ( 2009 ) [ radiotekhnika i elektronika * 54 * , 617 ( 2009 ) ] ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study experimentally the photoresistance of cds - cdse sintered granular films obtained by the screen printing method . </S>",
    "<S> we mostly focus on the dependences of photoresistance on film s microstructure , which varies with changing heat - treatment conditions . </S>",
    "<S> the minimum photoresistance is found for samples with compact packing of individual grains , which nevertheless are separated by gaps . </S>",
    "<S> such a microstructure is typical for films heat - treated during an optimal time of 30 min at the temperature of 823 k. in order to understand whether the dominant mechanism of charge transfer is identical with the one in monocrystals , we perform temperature measurements of photoresistance . </S>",
    "<S> corresponding curves have the same nonmonotonic shape as in cdse monocrystals . </S>",
    "<S> namely , photoresistance first increases with the growth of temperature , and then starts to decrease . </S>",
    "<S> thus we conclude that the basic mechanism is also the same , as in monocrystals , and it is based on two types of centers in the forbidden gap . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the optimal heat - treatment time depends on two competing mechanisms : improvement of film s connectivity and its oxidation . </S>",
    "<S> photoresistance is also measured in vacuum and in helium atmosphere , which suppress oxygen and water absorption / chemisorption at intergrain boundaries . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that this suppression decreases photoresistance , especially at high temperatures . </S>"
  ]
}