{
  "article_text": [
    "the fast rise , slow decay of subpulses in grb is a common feature . there could be many ways to explain it ( e.g. impulsive energy infusion followed by slower cooling or light echoing ) .",
    "it is therefore desirable to discriminate among the different models with quantitative tests and predictions whenever possible .    in a previous paper ( eichler and manis 2007 , hereafter em07 )",
    ", it was suggested that fast rise , slow decay subpulses constitute a qualitative manifestation of baryons being accelerated by radiation pressure .",
    "more generally , the basic idea can apply to any flow in which a light , fast fluid imparts energy to a clumpy , denser component of the flow by overtaking the clumps from the rear , but for convenience in this discussion we refer to the fast light component as photons that scatter off the clumps .",
    "it was proposed that the fast rise of a subpulse is the stage where a cloud of baryons scatters photons into a progressively narrowing beaming cone of width @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the bulk lorentz factor of the accelerating cloud .",
    "this narrowing of the @xmath3 cone causes brightening as long as @xmath4 remains below @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the viewing angle offset between the observer s line of sight and the velocity vector of the scattering cloud .",
    "once the scattering cloud accelerates to a lorentz factor exceeding @xmath5 , the viewer is no longer inside the beaming cone and apparent luminosity begins to decline .",
    "if the cloud accelerates with roughly constant radiative force , as is reasonable to suppose over timescales that are short compared to the hydrodynamic expansion time , then the decline in luminosity is considerably slower than the rise time , because the acceleration time increases so dramatically as the velocity approaches c. it was shown in em07 that the spectral peak frequency as seen by the observer remains roughly constant during the rising phase and , well into the declining phase , softens as @xmath7 , as reported by ryde ( 2004 ) .",
    "the spectral softening of the pulse has been carefully studied by norris and coworkers , who have noted that the asymmetry of the subpulse increases with decreasing frequency and that the width of the subpulse scales roughly as the frequency to the power -0.4 ( fenimore et al 1995 ) in the batse energy range .",
    "this represents additional information , as the result of ryde is in principle consistent with symmetric pulses .    in this letter",
    ", we derive the light curves as a function of both time and frequency .",
    "we show that the asymmetry of the subpulse decreases with frequency and that the hypothesis of em07 is quantitatively consistent with the formulation of fenimore et al ( 1995 ) .    the basic assumption in our hypothesis - that a scattering screen can _ enhance _ the detected signal - presupposes that the unscattered radiation is beamed and directed slightly away from the observer s line of sight , so that the scattering of photons into the line of sight creates a `` flash - in - the - pan '' type brightening .",
    "this assumption is non - trivial , but has been suggested as being an explanation for the amati relation ( 2002 ) in earlier papers ( eichler and levinson 2004 , 2006 ; levinson and eichler 2005 ) . in this series of papers , it was suggested that a significant fraction of all grb are actually brighter and harder in spectrum than they appear to be , and that they appear dimmer and softer because we , the observers , are viewing the burst from a slightly offset angle relative to the direction of the fireball .",
    "the interpretation of the subpulses given here and in em07 is thus in accord with this picture .",
    "the equations describing matter that is being accelerated by highly collimated radiation pressure were presented in em07 . here",
    "we apply the solutions described in em07 to calculate the profile of a subpulse as a function of photon energy .",
    "we assume that the differential primary photon spectrum @xmath8 has the form @xmath9exp(@xmath10 ) , where @xmath11 is the photon energy in the frame of the central engine .",
    "this form is consistent with a comptonized thermal component .",
    "it does not , however , exclude a power law photon spectrum produced further downstream by internal shocks . after scattering off a baryon clump that moves with velocity @xmath12 , the photon energy as seen by an observer at angle",
    "@xmath6 is    @xmath13=e_o(1-\\beta)/(1-\\beta cos\\theta).\\ ] ]    together with the solution for the accelerating trajectory @xmath14 given in em07 , the source / observer frame invariance of the number of photons @xmath15 scattered within energy interval de and time interval dt , and solid angle @xmath16 , equation ( 1 ) determines the light curve n(e , t ) as a function of observed photon energy e and observer time t.    in figure 1 the subpulse light curves are plotted for three different frequencies .",
    "it is clear that the pulse width is larger and the rise - fall asymmetry is more pronounced at lower frequencies , as reported by fenimore et al .",
    "( 1995 ) and references therein . in figure 2 the width is plotted as a function of photon energy . at high energies , which correspond to the batse measurements used by these authors ,",
    "the width is seen to scale approximately as the photon energy to the power @xmath17 , as reported by fenimore et al .",
    ", above @xmath18 kev . similar calculations with varying values for the low energy power law index , @xmath19 , of the primary spectrum show that this dependence is weakly dependent on @xmath19 and on viewing angle .",
    "for a viewing offset angle of 10 degrees , the width depends on @xmath20 , with @xmath21 when @xmath22",
    "with the sensitivity @xmath23 at @xmath24 . for viewing offset of 15 degrees , the value of @xmath25 is increased by about 0.033 so that a given range of @xmath25 is occupied by a somewhat lower ( i.e. more negative ) range of @xmath19 than for smaller viewing offsets . for an extended beam ,",
    "some contribution from larger offsets is inevitable , but a synthesis of light curves from extended beams is deferred for future work .",
    "it can be seen from figure 2 that the value of @xmath25 increases with @xmath26 , and the range of @xmath26 that corresponds to batse sensitivity depends on cosmological redshift , larger z implies larger intrinsic values of @xmath26 , hence steeper e dependence of the pulse width , over a given range of observed photon energies . finally , the primary source spectrum , which we argue is not a direct observable , is somewhat uncertain .",
    "altogether , the range of @xmath27 is consistent with the ranges @xmath28 , @xmath29 , @xmath30 , and @xmath31 .",
    "it is predicted that the dependence of width on e weakens ( i.e. @xmath25 decreases ) at lower photon energies , and this should be testable with detectors that are more sensitive at lower energies , such as the gamma ray burst monitor .",
    "as the acceleration time is inversely proportional to the radiation flux on the scatterer , it is clear , all other things being equal , that the rise time of the pulse and spectral lag are inversely proportional to source luminosity , as observed ( e.g. gehrels et al . , 2006 ) .",
    "of course , scatter in other variables , such as the distance from the source of illumination , optical depth of the scatterer etc .",
    ", creates scatter in the constant of proportionality .",
    "if the scattering is isotropic ( or backwardly biased due to high optical depth ) in the scattering frame , it follows from equation ( 1 ) that the scattered radiation , averaged over angle , is a factor of 2 ( or more ) softer than the primary emission . as explained in em07 , the other half of the energy goes into the acceleration of the scatterer . on the other hand , at most viewing angles @xmath6 , the scattered radiation is harder than scattered radiation after the scatterer has reached terminal lorentz factor @xmath32 if @xmath33 . as the scattered radiation during the acceleration phase of the scatterer is likely to be the most time dependent , it may be possible to separate out this component from the other two . the extent to which the scattering affects the spectrum depends , of course , on the fraction of primary radiation that is scattered . equating the scattered photon energy with the baryon afterglow energy , and applying the results of eichler and jontof - hutter ( 2005 ) , which estimated the afterglow efficiency",
    ", we may tentatively estimate that about 30 percent of the primary emission is scattered , about half of that 30 percent going into baryons and the other half ending up in a scattered subpulse component .",
    "clearly there is variation in the scattered fraction as well as uncertainty in theoretical inferences of the baryon energy from afterglow calorimetry , so this estimate should be considered rough and preliminary .    the time - integrated spectrum at a _ given _ viewing angle can be different from the average , because the scattered radiation is not isotropic but , rather , beamed in an ever narrowing cone as the scatterer accelerates .",
    "consider a primary emission spectrum that is a delta function @xmath34 . at a given @xmath35 and a given observed photon energy @xmath36 ,",
    "a monochromatic primary spectrum @xmath37 is , after scattering , monochromatic at photon energy @xmath38 $ ] given by equation ( 1 ) , so the contribution to the emitted power at energy e comes only at @xmath39 the time integrated energy @xmath40 of the scattered radiation at observed photon energy e and viewing angle @xmath6 is @xmath41 = @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the power of the scattered radiation as observed at photon energy e in the frame of the primary source , is to make it a positive quantity .",
    "] t is the elapsed time in the frame of the source ( and in any case the variable of integration ) , @xmath44 is has front - back symmetry in the frame of the scatterer .",
    "a high , time varying optical depth would be more complicated . ]",
    "@xmath45 ( em07 ) . making the simplifying assumption that the scattered radiation is isotropic in the frame of the scatterer ,",
    "i.e. that @xmath46 , using the transformation for emitted power @xmath47 ( equation 4.97a in rybicki and lightman , 1979 ) and evaluating @xmath48 in units of @xmath11 from equation ( 1 ) , it follows that @xmath49^{1/2}/e_o[1-\\mu]^{3/2}.\\ ] ] in the limit that @xmath50 is sufficiently below unity that @xmath51 does not depend significantly on e , @xmath52 is proportional to @xmath53 , i.e. @xmath54 . that this is softer than the average over all viewing angles - for which @xmath55 - can be understood as the result of most of the emission at large t going into a narrower cone than the one the observer is on , so that the observer sees only the soft fringes of this dominant component .",
    "also note that this result assumes that the scatterer s acceleration proceeds indefinitely .",
    "if the scatterer reaches a terminal velocity @xmath56 , then the observer would not see any of the primary radiation originally at @xmath11 scattered to an energy below @xmath57 .    while the scattered radiation is not the only observable component ,",
    "the hypothesis that it comprises a significant fraction of the total fluence of many grb is broadly consistent with the tendency of the low energy spectral index to not exceed 0 .",
    "the question of how much radiation is scattered , before and after the scatterers have reached terminal velocity , remains somewhat open at the quantitative level , but the gbm data may provide the opportunity to address these questions quantitatively as well as qualitatively .",
    "we have presented evidence that subpulses in @xmath0-ray bursts are photons that are scattered into our line of sight by scatterers with lower lorentz factors than the frame in which the prescattered photons had zero net momentum .",
    "because scattering can never increase the intensity of a beam of photons , the hypothesis presupposes that the observed intensity is lower in the observer s direction than in the direction of the beam , and that the scattering by the slower baryons broadens the beam enough that it engulfs the observer s line of sight .",
    "it is this widening of the beam that allows the observer to see enhanced flux .",
    "this fits the picture already put forth to explain the amati relation .",
    "as most grb with known redshifts have spectral peaks and energies that are both below those of the hardest , brightest grb , it would follow , according to our interpretation , that a large fraction of , perhaps most , grb are observed from an offset viewing angle .",
    "the question then arises as to why there are so many offset observers relative to those that are within the @xmath58 beaming cone of the primary radiation . in an earlier paper ( eichler and levinson 2004 ) , it was proposed that the complex shape of the primary beam - e.g. an annular shape - would allow a comparable number of viewers just off ( i.e. within several times @xmath58 ) of the periphery of the primary beam to the number of viewers within this periphery .",
    "it was shown that a thick annulus , in which the separation between the inner and outer radii is comparable to half the outer radius , gives a distribution of offsets that is consistent with the observed distribution of spectral peaks .",
    "there may be several reasons for grb jets to have an annular or otherwise complex morphology : it could be that baryons are entrained in the flow from ( or are fed neutrons by ) the confining walls ( levinson and eichler 2003 ) and that much of the liberated energy is due to dissipation associated with this entrainment . or",
    ", it could be that dissipation from shocks associated with wall impact could preferentially liberate energy from near the confining walls ( begelman , private communication ) .",
    "here we suggest another simple mechanism that would give the scattered @xmath0-radiation some measure of annular bias , depending on the fraction scattered : consider the region of flow where the @xmath0-rays make their last scattering off baryons within the flow .",
    "if , as seems more likely than not , the baryons are clumpy , it is likely that the clumps are optically thick , while the interclump medium is optically thin . in this case the photons are most likely to make their last scattering off the surface of a clump .",
    "if the clumps are moving more slowly than the primary fireball , then the photons are most likely to overtake them from the rear , and , because the clumps are optically thick , the photon is likely to emerge from its last scattering from the rear end of the clump .",
    "it is then obscured from a viewer who lies along the velocity vector of the clump , just as sunlight scattering off the moon is obscured to a viewer on the dark side of the moon .",
    "the viewers best positioned to see the back side illumination are those who see photons that are emitted backward in the frame of the cloud - i.e. those that are offset by more than @xmath3 from the velocity vector of the clump .",
    "this , we suggest , could be a reason so many grb are observed from an offset angle of more than @xmath3 .",
    "some subpulses have such fast rises that they can be interpreted as the @xmath3 shadow of an optically thick cloud narrowing from above to below the offset angle of the observer , @xmath6 , as the cloud accelerates ( em07 ) .",
    "the very sudden rise is then attributed to the observer emerging from the shadow of the clump .    to summarize",
    ", we suggest that spectral lags from long bursts are the result of high @xmath4 radiation ( where @xmath4 is the lorentz factor of the frame in which the radiation is isotropic ) impacting slower baryons from behind , and scattering off them while accelerating them . as in ( em07 ) , the quantitative agreement with the data is excellent .",
    "the inverse correlation between lag and luminosity ( e.g. gehrels et al 2006 ) follows from that between acceleration time and luminosity .",
    "the assumptions needed to make the general scheme work are minimal .",
    "fluid in the frame of the clump .",
    "however , in the simplest internal shock model , where the average electron energy , magnetic field , and blue shift all scale with @xmath4 , the spectral peak varies as a high power of @xmath4 . ] in any case , the minimal conclusion to be drawn from the quantitative success of this model in explaining spectral lags of long grb is that baryons are still undergoing considerable acceleration by the time the fireball as a whole is becoming optically thin .",
    "were energy systematically removed from baryons beyond the photosphere ( e.g. because they collided with other scatterers in their shadow ) , one would expect negative spectral lags .",
    "it is predicted that the time integrated spectra of the subpulses should be slightly softer than the primary emission , and harder than the emission that is scattered at terminal lorentz factor .",
    "the glast / fermi gbm monitor offers the potential opportunity for unraveling these three components .    for short hard bursts ( shb ) ,",
    "the subpulses are about a factor of 10 to 30 shorter than for long ones and the spectral lags are much smaller .",
    "this difference can perhaps be attributed to the difference in timescale over which the baryons are undergoing acceleration .",
    "for example shb are likely to be observable somewhat closer to the central engine , being unobscured by the envelope of a massive host star , and at a wider angle ( eichler , guetta , and manis 2008 ) .",
    "if this is indeed the case , then we may be able to see baryonic clumps at an earlier stage of their acceleration , when the acceleration time is considerably shorter .",
    "there are many unknowns in this hypothesis - e.g. the optical depth of the baryons , their point of injection and their covering factor - on which the qualitative nature of the subpulses may depend , and future work will focus on the question of whether reasonable ranges for these parameters can explain the wide diversity of grb light curves and spectra .",
    "this work was supported by the joan and robert arnow chair of theoretical astrophysics , the us - israel binational science foundation and the israeli science foundation s center of excellence program .",
    "99 amati , l. , et al .",
    ", 2002 , a & a , 390 , 81 eichler , d. & jontof - hutter , d. 2005 , apj , 635 , 1182 eichler , d. & levinson , a. , 2004 , apj .",
    "614 , l13 eichler , d. & levinson , a. , 2006 , apj , 649 , l5 eichler , d. & manis , h. , 2007 , apj , 669 , l65 eichler , d. guetta , d. & manis , h. , 2008 , apj ( submitted ) fenimore , e. e. , in t zand , j. j. m. , norris , j. p. , bonnell , j. t. & nemiroff , r. j. , 1995 , apj , 448 , l101 gehrels , n. et al .",
    "2006 , nature 444 , 1044 levinson , a. & eichler , d. , 2003 , apj , 594 , l19 levinson , a. & eichler , d. , 2005 , apj , 629 , l13 ryde , f. , 2004 , apj , 611 , l41"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a quantitative theory of spectral lags for @xmath0-ray bursts ( grbs ) is given . </S>",
    "<S> the underlying hypothesis is that grb subpulses are photons that are scattered into our line of sight by local concentrations of baryons that are accelerated by radiation pressure . for primary spectra that are power laws with exponential cutoffs , the width of the pulse and its fast rise , slow decay asymmetry is found to increase with decreasing photon energy , and the width near the exponential cutoff scales approximately as @xmath1 , with @xmath2 , as observed . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral lag time is naturally inversely proportional to luminosity , all else being equal , also as observed . </S>"
  ]
}