{
  "article_text": [
    "though once a subject of active discussion , the sense of rotation of spiral arms in galaxies has generally been considered as resolved for half a century . in a thorough discussion @xcite",
    "showed that all galaxies in his sample had _ trailing _ arms , in agreement with the early position of slipher and hubble , and in contrast to the _ leading _ arm camp of lindblad .",
    "afterwards the only systematic study of the subject with large samples of spirals is work done in the early 1980 s by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the crucial question for them was not whether spirals are trailing or leading , but rather whether _ all _ spirals are trailing , or whether some leading arm cases could be found . in the end",
    ", they came up with a sample of 4 leading arm galaxy candidates from a sample of close to 200 .",
    "however , one of them ( ngc  5395 ) was later shown not to be leading @xcite , another ( ngc  4490 ) is a highly dubious case regarding its orientation and existence of arms , and even the remaining two ( ngc  3786 and ngc  5426 ) are not clear - cut cases regarding their tilt , which determines the sense of rotation . more recently ,",
    "ngc  4622 has attracted attention @xcite .",
    "the authors conclude that regardless of its orientation , it has to have leading arms since two pairs of detected arms have the opposite sense with each other , in addition to single arms .",
    "another example of a similar `` counter - winding '' spiral structure in eso  297 - 27 was recently published by @xcite .",
    "if leading arms are convincingly detected , it naturally places constraints on any theory of the origin and structure of spirals in galaxies . in the favoured density wave models ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) leading arms are allowed in principle : the density waves themselves can be trailing or leading , though trailing waves are expected to be more robust @xcite .",
    "however , many theoretical studies suggest that retrograde encounters with companion galaxies should generate a robust single leading arm @xcite .",
    "it is very interesting that indeed every case of a suspected leading arm galaxy has a companion or a suspected companion .",
    "this then raises an interesting problem : since encounter directions are random , it is not easy to understand why there are so very few observed candidates of leading arms ( single or otherwise ) in the multitude of observed interacting galaxies",
    ". @xcite find that if the disk mass is similar to , or larger than the surrounding halo mass , the formation of a leading arm is suppressed in the interaction .",
    "the question to answer thus becomes whether i ) the spiral galaxy dark matter ( dm ) halos really are so small ; ii ) whether leading arms are extremely short - lived ( the modelling cited argues against this ) ; or iii ) are leading arms perhaps hidden from typical searches thus far ?    with the link to interactions and tidal disturbances and a way to probe the dm halo , leading arms are cousins of other intriguing and rare effects in disk galaxies , such as counter - rotating disks and ( polar ) rings @xcite . to understand spiral galaxy evolution , and to answer the questions above , more modelling and more and",
    "new kinds of observations are needed . in this letter",
    "we present a strong candidate for the most clear - cut leading arm case to date , detected using a mode of observation not attempted before in the case of leading arms : a galaxy with an obvious classical 2-arm spiral pattern as seen in adaptive optics ( ao ) imaging in the near - infrared ( nir ) .",
    ", a gas - rich spiral with an ir luminosity of @xmath0 @xcite , was observed with the naos - conica ( naco ) ao instrument on the vlt ut4 as part of our program to find dust obscured core - collapse supernovae in the inner regions of lirgs and to study star - formation and its triggering in lirgs @xcite .",
    "the @xmath1-band data set used here was taken on 14 sep 2004 with the s27 camera , giving a pixel size of 0.027 arcsec , and using the visual wave - front sensor .",
    "these observations and data reduction are described in more detail in @xcite , where we presented the discovery of the highly obscured core - collapse ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) supernova 2004ip detected within the nuclear regions of this galaxy . the final combined @xmath1-band image ( fig .",
    "[ bigima ] , left ) has an on - source integration time of 1230 seconds .",
    "two spiral arms are seen to open clock - wise around a single nucleus .",
    "we also extracted hst / acs images from the archive ( pi : evans ) which show the chaotic optical appearance of iras 18293 - 3413 , though the arms can be traced in the @xmath2-band image aided by the nir view .",
    "spectroscopic observations were obtained with the iris2 instrument at the anglo - australian telescope on the nights of 27 and 28 sep 2007 , using a 1 arcsec wide slit , at a resolution r@xmath3 . the position angle ( pa = 128 deg ) is close to the major axis of the galaxy and was such that the suspected companion galaxy to the nw also fell on the slit .",
    "three sets of data were taken of the target , in the @xmath4 , @xmath5 , and @xmath1-bands , in 300 sec nodded exposures .",
    "total integration time was 2700 sec in the @xmath1-band , and 3600 sec in the @xmath4 and @xmath5 bands .",
    "an a0v - type standard star was observed in each band , as well as arc and flat lamps .",
    "the aat data were reduced with iraf and idl .",
    "all science frames were flatfielded by a normalized smoothed on - off flat , cosmic - ray corrected , and then subtracted pairwise from each other .",
    "xe - arcs were used to fit the wavelength solution and also correct for the 2d shape distortion of the frames .",
    "a final background subtraction along columns was done to remove some sky - line residuals remaining after the pairwise subtraction .",
    "frames were then shifted , co - added , and traced to produce a clean , integrated , straightened 2d spectrum in each band .",
    "the standard star data were reduced in exactly the same way , except that the prominent hydrogen absorption features were fitted and removed .",
    "the 1d extracted standard star spectrum was then divided into the target , and the result multiplied by a smooth blackbody model of the star , thereby removing telluric features from the target spectrum while also performing a relative flux calibration .",
    "to determine the sense of rotation of the galaxy we first analyzed the spectra and derived rotation curves using five of the brightest emission lines in the whole @xmath6 region .",
    "as an example fig .",
    "[ kspectrum ] shows the extracted spectrum in @xmath1-band over a central 4 arcsec wide aperture .",
    "single component gaussians were fitted line by line in the 2d spectra around the regions of interest , providing the wavelengths of the peaks .",
    "the resulting heliocentric radial velocities as a function of spatial position over the slit are plotted in fig .",
    "[ rot - emission ] .",
    "the radial velocities calculated from all the lines are very consistent .",
    "the rotation of iras  18293 - 3413 on the sky is such that the nw side facing the companion is approaching us .",
    "we also examined the @xmath7co j=@xmath8 absorption feature at 2.2935 @xmath9 m in order to measure the velocity of the stellar population in addition to the warm emitting gas producing the emission lines . for this purpose we fitted stellar templates of giant and supergiant stars ( winge , riffel & storchi - bergmann , in prep . ) to the relevant @xmath1-band region ( per 5 binned pixel rows ) by redshifting the templates and convolving them with a range of internal velocity dispersions .",
    "the exact choice of the stellar template had no relevance for the resulting radial velocity , and only a small effect on the fitted velocity dispersion .",
    "the red overlay in fig .",
    "[ kspectrum ] shows the best - fit k7 iii type template ( hd63425b ) .",
    "the resulting velocity curve is overplotted with black circles over the emission line derived curves in fig .",
    "[ rot - emission ] .",
    "it is seen that the stellar rotation follows closely that of the warm gas .",
    "the spectra also yield a redshift , for the first time , of the smaller elliptical galaxy to the nw , based on the @xmath1-band co - feature and fe ii emission in @xmath4-band : we derived @xmath10 km  s@xmath11 , while the main galaxy systemic velocity is @xmath12 km  s@xmath11 .      as thoroughly discussed in the literature ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a key issue in determining the sense of rotation of a moderately inclined spiral galaxy is the difficulty in deciding its orientation in space ( i.e.  which side is nearer ) .",
    "two methods discussed in the literature are appropriate here : detection of dust lanes obscuring some of the brighter and smoother central regions of a galaxy often reveal the side of the disk nearer to the observer ; and essentially for the same reason the surface brightness profile along the minor axis of the nearer side of the disk falls more abruptly than the profile along the far side .",
    "first , looking at the images in fig .  [ bigima ] , the significantly more drastic dust obscuration in the acs @xmath13 and @xmath2 band images on the sw side of the system , and extending to s and se , as well as the more pronounced dust filaments against the brighter regions on the same sw side , give a visual impression of that being the near side of the galaxy .",
    "more quantitatively , fig .",
    "[ profile ] shows the surface brightness profiles along the minor axis of the galaxy in all three images .",
    "since the exact pa depends somewhat on the isophote used , the plotted curves are averages from cuts ranging from 20 to 30 degrees .",
    "while the chaotic appearance and numerous star - forming regions make the profiles ragged it nevertheless is clear that the brightness on average falls more rapidly on the sw side in all bands , suggesting this is the side nearer to us .",
    "figure  [ rot - emission ] illustrates that the side of the galaxy closest to the companion galaxy is the approaching side .",
    "if we now accept , based on imaging and surface brightness profiles , that the sw side of iras  18293 - 3413 is the one nearer to us , we have to conclude that the galaxy is turning clockwise in the image , i.e.  in the same direction that the spiral arms open .",
    "it is a leading arm spiral .",
    "is there any ambiguity in the result leading to the classification of a leading arm spiral ?",
    "since spectroscopy can be interpreted in only one way , the tilt of the galaxy opens the only possibility of misinterpretation .",
    "it could be that while the sw side of the disk with the obscuring dust is the near one , the _ stellar _ disk and arm structure as seen in the nir has the opposite tilt . though possible in principle , this is extremely unlikely : it would require that the rotational velocities and angles of the de - coupled stellar and gas disks are _ exactly _ fine - tuned to produce the identical line - of - sight rotation curves measured ( fig .",
    "[ rot - emission ] ) .",
    "de - coupling in itself is not far - fetched at all as evidenced by counter - rotating disks . on the other hand , and more seriously , perhaps the significant amount of extinction on the sw side of the galaxy ( fig .  [ profile ] )",
    "is not related to the main galaxy and its orientation at all , but is rather foreground material e.g.  stripped off of a companion galaxy . given the chaotic nature of lirgs and the assumed interaction here , this is quite plausible  indeed it may not be trivial to apply ` normal ' tilt - determining criteria to lirgs . if this were the case , the tilt of the galaxy would be more difficult to judge , and would have to be based essentially only on nir imaging .",
    "however , since our slit in the spectral observations does overlap the dust structure on the se and nw sides of the galaxy we would expect some signal of de - coupled and/or complex velocity fields ( compare e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we see no such structures .",
    "moreover , the visual impression of the @xmath2-band image does suggest the intertwining of the dust structures and the stellar light clearly associated with the spiral arms especially on the e and se sides of the galaxy .",
    "nevertheless , with the present data we can not resolve this ambiguity , and rather stress that we have detected _ a very strong candidate _ for a leading arm spiral .",
    "future integral field unit spectroscopy , or long - slit observations at other orientations could put the issue to rest .    based on our knowledge of peculiarities in spiral galaxies ,",
    "the origin of the leading arms is likely due to an encounter with another galaxy .",
    "the smaller elliptical ( it is well fit by a de vaucouleur profile ) companion is the obvious candidate , which makes iras  18293 - 3413 a mixed interacting / merging pair ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , rather than a typical lirg case of a pair of gas - rich spirals ( unless the companion is the remaining bulge of a long - gone larger spiral ) .",
    "the radial velocity offset of @xmath14 km s@xmath11 is surprisingly large , and typical only right at first _",
    "close _ passages of merging galaxies @xcite .",
    "however , given the disturbed morphology of the main galaxy , an on - going lirg - scale star formation burst , and that there are no other 2mass galaxies seen within @xmath15 ( @xmath16 kpc distance at @xmath17 ) , it is very unlikely that the companion would be unrelated .",
    "of course we do not know the transverse motion of the companion , but with the measured rotation of the main galaxy , the positive radial velocity offset of the companion is retrograde with respect to the rotation of the spiral disk .",
    "this fits well the general picture that it is retrograde encounters that might trigger leading arms ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the leading arm simulations of @xcite concerning ngc  4622 favour a small companion of 1:100 mass - ratio passing close to a disk galaxy centre , while @xcite show how a more distant and massive retrograde companion produces a leading arm .",
    "our system clearly resembles more the small perturber case . we can estimate the galaxy masses from their nir light and velocity dispersion .",
    "we measure @xmath18 for the companion , while the main galaxy has @xmath19 .",
    "assuming both have the same mass - to - light ratio , their mass - ratio would thus be close to 1:30 .",
    "the companion does however have a fairly significant mass of @xmath20 based on the @xmath1-band mass - to - light ratio of @xcite .",
    "the co - bands are detected in the companion , though with low signal - to - noise ratio ( fig .",
    "[ kspectrum ] ) . by directly fitting a gaussian to the feature , and correcting for instrumental effects , we arrive at @xmath21 km / s . using an effective radius of @xmath22 kpc determined by surface brightness profile fitting with galfit @xcite",
    ", we calculate a dynamical mass estimate ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) of @xmath20 , while an equivalent mass estimate for the main galaxy results in @xmath23 ( adopting 50 deg inclination , observed @xmath24 km / s , @xmath25kpc , @xmath26 ) .",
    "the ratio is 1:16 , though given the uncertainties of the @xmath27 determination of the companion the result is consistent with the 1:30 ratio from nir light .",
    "perhaps the most far - reaching aspect of leading arms is their connection to cosmology via dm halos  these halos are generally thought to dominate the dynamics of galaxies , but their nature and structure are still largely unknown ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite found that leading arms form only when the surrounding dm halos dominate the disk mass .",
    "the non - existence of leading arms could thus be seen as support for maximum - disk and small dm halo models , while more evidence , such as our result , for leading arms would support massive dm halos .",
    "there are not many candidate leading arm spirals in the literature .",
    "of the handful , the case of iras  18293 - 3413 is unique : the interpretation is significantly less ambiguous than any of the @xcite candidates , and ours is less complex compared to the better known case of ngc  4622 and the recent eso  297 - 27",
    ". the latter two are `` counter - winding spirals '' with sets of arms opening in opposing directions , while our case appears to be a classical 2-arm spiral ( in the nir ) .",
    "notably , this is the type of a leading spiral that has not been theoretically studied in the literature to the degree that single leading arms have . in particular , whether a 1:30 mass - ratio companion in a high - velocity encounter described above actually can produce a pair of leading arms , and what the arms would imply about the dm halo properties , obviously needs to be followed up by modelling .",
    "typical to many lirgs , but in contrast to the previous leading - arm candidates , iras  18293 - 3413 has a large dust and gas mass and is very strongly star - forming , and its appearance in the optical is chaotic . we argue that this last aspect may in fact prove significant : there appear to be no published systematic studies of spiral arm characterisation _ and _ rotation determinations _ in the infrared_. once larger interacting ir - galaxy samples are followed - up with high spatial resolution imaging in the nir together with high - quality spectroscopy , we speculate that more leading arms may well be found .",
    "these cases must be searched for , and if more are identified , they should be studied and modelled dynamically .",
    "this will be crucial to fully understand the dynamics and evolution of disk galaxies .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge useful discussions with noah brosch , karl - johann donner , peter johansson and mauri valtonen .",
    "sm and jk acknowledge financial support from the academy of finland ( projects : 8120503 and 8121122 ) .",
    "athanassoula , e. , 1978 , a&a , 69 , 395 binney , j. & tremaine , s. , 1987 _ galactic dynamics _ , princeton university press , princeton nj brosch , n. , et al . , 2007 , , 382 , 1809 buta , r. , crocker , d. & byrd , g.g . , 1992 , , 103 , 1526 buta , r.j . , byrd , g.g .",
    "& freeman , t. , 2003 , , 125 , 634 byrd , g.g .",
    ", freeman , t. & howard , s. , 1993 , aj , 105 , 447 byrd , g.g . ,",
    "freeman , t. , howard , s. & buta , r.j . , 2008 , , 135 , 408 de vaucouleurs , g. , 1958 , , 127 , 487 grouchy , r.d . , buta , r. , salo , h. , laurikainen , e. , & speltincx , t. , 2008 , aj , 136 , 980 johansson , p.h .",
    ", naab , t. & burkert , a. , 2008 , apj submitted , arxiv:0802.0210 mattila , s. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 659 , l9 murphy , jr .",
    ", t.w . , soifer , b.t . ,",
    "matthews , k. , armus , l. & kiger , j.r .",
    ", 2001 , , 121 , 97 olling , r.p . & merrifield , m.r .",
    ", 2000 , mnras , 311 , 361 ostriker , j.p . , peebles , p.j.e . &",
    "yahil , a. , 1974 , apj , 193 , l1 pasha , i.i .",
    "& smirnov , m.a . , 1982 ,",
    "astrophys . and",
    "space sci .",
    ", 86 , 215 pasha , i.i . , 1985 , sov.astron.lett . , 11 , 1 peng , c.y .",
    ", ho l.c . , impey c.d . , &",
    ".- w . , 2002 ,",
    "aj , 124 , 266 prez - torres , m.a . , et al .",
    "2007 , , 671 , l12 sanders , d.b . ,",
    "mazzarella , j.m . , kim , d .- c . , surace , j.a . , & soifer , b.t .",
    "2003 , , 126 , 1607 sharp , n.a . &",
    "keel , w.c .",
    ", 1985 , , 90 , 469 sofue , y. & rubin , v. , 2001 , araa , 39 , 137 thomasson , m. , donner , k.j . ,",
    "sundelius , b. , byrd , g.g . , huang , t .- y . , &",
    "valtonen , m. , 1989 , a&a , 211 , 25 thronson jr , h.a . & greenhouse m.a . , 1988 , ,",
    "327 , 671 toomre , a. , 1981 , in structure and evolution of normal galaxies , ed .",
    "s.m.fall & d.lynden-bell , cambridge university press , cambridge , p. 111",
    "tremaine , s. & yu , q. 2000 , , 319 , 1 vergani , d. , pizzella , a. , corsini , e.m . ,",
    "van driel , w. , buson , l.m .",
    ", dettmar , r .- j . , bertola , f. , 2007 , a&a , 463 , 883 visnen , p. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 384 , 886"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> leading spiral arms are a rare phenomenon . </S>",
    "<S> we present here one of the very few convincing candidates of spiral arms opening counter - intuitively in the same direction as the galaxy disk is rotating . </S>",
    "<S> this detection in a luminous ir galaxy ( lirg ) iras  18293 - 3134 is based on near infrared ( nir ) adaptive optics imaging with the very large telescope and long - slit nir spectroscopy with the anglo - australian telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the orientation of the galaxy based on imaging and derive rotation curves from both emission and absorption features in the spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> the galaxy is strongly star - forming and has a minor companion in a high - velocity encounter . </S>",
    "<S> the fact that the arms of iras  18293 - 3134 are not easily traceable from optical images suggests that larger samples of high - quality nir imaging of interacting systems and lirgs might uncover further cases of leading arms , placing constraints on spiral arm theories and retrograde encounters , and especially on the relationship between disk masses and dark matter halo masses . </S>"
  ]
}