{
  "article_text": [
    "encrypted in the oscillatory behavior of the solar atmosphere lies crucial information for understanding its dynamical and physical properties .",
    "the stratification caused by gravity , together with the presence of magnetic fields , leads to a variety of magneto - gravity - acoustic modes @xcite . by analyzing the local properties of oscillations and wave propagation we can infer information about the stratification and dynamics of different atmospheric structures .",
    "wave propagation is an efficient means of carrying energy between different layers of the atmosphere and of dissipating it efficiently through the formation and breaking of shocks @xcite .",
    "although acoustic ( slow - mode ) heating is not important for the upper atmosphere ( athay & white , 1979 ; white & athay , 1979 ) , the role that wave propagation plays in the heating problem is still one of the most challenging open debates amongst solar physics researchers .",
    "the first measurements of oscillations in the quiet sun @xcite came nearly a decade before the first detection of sunspot oscillations were reported @xcite . since then , many works have tried to put the pieces of the puzzle together ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for a comprehensive review of the literature of wave propagation in sunspots ) .",
    "oscillations above sunspots show a 5-minute periodicity in the photosphere .",
    "however , at chromospheric levels and higher up , this picture changes into a 3-minute saw - tooth pattern ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "several hypotheses have attempted to explain the origin of the chromospheric 3-min oscillations .",
    "zhugzhda , locans & staude ( 1985 ) proposed a model with a resonant chromospheric cavity that would explain the presence of multiple peaks in the chromospheric power spectrum together with the 3 minute period .",
    "on the other hand , gurman & leichbacher ( 1984 ) suggested an origin based on the non - linear interaction of photospheric modes .",
    "centeno , collados and trujillo bueno ( 2006a ) showed that the chromospheric 3-minute signal in the umbrae of sunspots is a result of linear wave propagation of the photospheric perturbations in the 6 mhz range , thus ruling out the non - linear origin for these oscillations .",
    "observations above facular and network areas report 5-minute oscillations at chromospheric heights ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and higher up .",
    "for this to happen , the atmospheric cut - off frequency must be reduced , allowing the `` evanescent '' photospheric 5-minute oscillations propagate into the chromosphere .",
    "de pontieu et al .",
    "( 2003 , 2004 ) suggested that the inclination of magnetic fields plays an important role in this p - mode leakage with enough energy to give rise to the dynamic jets that are observed in active region fibrils .",
    "with this idea in mind , jefferies et al .",
    "( 2006 ) suggested that inclined flux tubes might explain the observed properties of waves at chromospheric heights .",
    "the effective cut - off frequency is lowered by the cosine of the inclination angle with respect to the local vertical .",
    "thus , if the magnetic field is sufficiently inclined , the flux tubes will channel the photospheric 5-minute perturbations all the way up into the chromosphere and corona .",
    "an alternate possibility takes into account a departure from adiabaticity due to radiative losses , which results in a reduced cut - off frequency @xcite that allows the 5-minute modes to propagate .",
    "simultaneous time - series observations of various spectral lines that sample different regions of the solar atmosphere is one of the most useful techniques for studying wave propagation . for the analysis that follows we measure simultaneously the full stokes vector of the photospheric si i line and of the chromospheric he i multiplet on different magnetic targets .",
    "the analysis of the photospheric and chromospheric los velocity oscillations and the relation between them give us information about the behavior of the atmosphere : the propagation of photospheric disturbances , the amplification of the oscillations as they travel towards higher layers of the atmosphere , the cut - off frequency below which the oscillation modes do not propagate , the development of shocks and so on . we carry out a comparative study among 4 magnetic structures with different magnetic fluxes : a rather big sunspot ( analyzed in centeno et al .",
    "2006a , hereafter paper i ) , a smaller one , a pore that has developed no penumbra and a facular region .",
    "the physical properties of the atmosphere in each case determines how the propagation of the photospheric perturbations takes place and viceversa .",
    "the outline of the paper is as follows : after a brief description of the observations and the inversion procedures in section 2 , section 3 continues to describe the properties of the oscillations measured at photospheric and chromospheric heights .",
    "section 4 analyzes the relations between them , which are determined by the propagation properties of the atmosphere in each case .",
    "the comparison with a simple model of linear vertical wave propagation in a magnetized atmosphere with radiative losses will yield to a qualitative understanding of the origin of the chromospheric oscillations in the analyzed magnetic structures .",
    "a brief discussion of the results is presented in section 5 .",
    ") . of the three pores showed in the second image , we chose the central one to carry out the analysis presented in this paper.,title=\"fig:\",width=188 ] ) .",
    "of the three pores showed in the second image , we chose the central one to carry out the analysis presented in this paper.,title=\"fig:\",width=188 ] ) .",
    "of the three pores showed in the second image , we chose the central one to carry out the analysis presented in this paper.,title=\"fig:\",width=188 ]    the observations were carried out at the german vacuum tower telescope ( vtt ) of the observatorio del teide between september 2000 and june 2002 , using the tenerife infrared polarimeter ( tip , * ? ? ?",
    "this instrument allowed us to measure simultaneously the four stokes profiles for all the spatial positions along the spectrograph slit at each scanning step .",
    "the slit ( 05 wide and 40  long ) was placed over the targets and was kept fixed during the entire observing run ( approx .",
    "1 hour for each target ) .",
    "the image stability throughout the time series was achieved by using a correlation tracker device ( schmidt & kentischer 1995 ; ballesteros et al . 1996 ) which compensated , to first order , for the solar rotation as well as for the image motion induced by the earth s high frequency atmospheric variability , thus minimizing the image jitter . despite of being observed at very different moments ,",
    "the quality is similar throughout the four datasets , and the instrument components and configuration were identical in all cases .",
    "the spatial resolution varies roughly between @xmath0 and @xmath1 ( the worst data - set being the one that corresponds to the smalls sunspot ) .",
    "details on the 4 data - sets analyzed in this paper are given in table [ tab : data ] .",
    "[ fig : slitjaws ] shows the slit - jaw images for the small sunspot , the pore and the facula .",
    "the size of the structure refers to the umbra in the case of the sunspots and to the enhanced bright region as seen in the ca k slit - jaw in the case of the facula .",
    "the data - set corresponding to the big sunspot was one of those used throughout paper i. we chose the more regular and homogeneous of the two sunspots and we only included it here for a sake of completeness , to compare it with the results from the other 3 magnetic structures .",
    "flat - field and dark current measurements were performed at the beginning and the end of all observing runs , and , in order to compensate for the telescope instrumental polarization , we also took a series of polarimetric calibration images .",
    "the calibration optics ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) allows us to obtain the mueller matrix of the light path between the instrumental calibration subsystem and the polarimeter .",
    "this process leaves a section of the telescope without being calibrated , so further corrections of the residual cross - talk among stokes parameters were done : the i to q , u , and v cross - talk were removed by forcing the continuum polarization to zero , and the circular and linear polarization mutual cross - talks were estimated by means of statistical techniques @xcite .",
    ".details of the four data - sets obtained with tip .",
    "positions x and y represent terrestrial e - w and n - s directions and are measured from sun center . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in the sunspot - like structures , as the magnetic flux decreases , the typical cooling time also decreases while the temperature grows .",
    "although quantitatively these numbers are difficult to justify due to the simplicity of the model , they do make sense in a qualitative way .",
    "it is no doubt expected that the smaller the structure , the larger the temperature inside it , since its magnetic field becomes more and more incapable of inhibiting the convection process underneath the photosphere . on the other hand , the radiative cooling time is related to the inhomogeneity , taking smaller values the less homogeneous the structure ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the difference in heights remains essentially the same for the three sunspots , while it turns out to be larger in the case of the facula .",
    "sunspot - like features are evacuated structures ( due to the balance between magnetic and gas pressure ) , allowing the coronal euv irradiance to travel further down into the chromosphere and trigger the formation of the he i 10830   triplet at lower layers ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .                   except for the filtering bands . from top to bottom",
    ", the velocity signals have been filtered in 1 mhz bands around 5.5 and 6.5 mhz , respectively .",
    "the photospheric signal was shifted in time and amplified in order to match the chromospheric one.,title=\"fig:\",width=340 ]   except for the filtering bands . from top to bottom , the velocity signals have been filtered in 1 mhz bands around 5.5 and 6.5 mhz , respectively .",
    "the photospheric signal was shifted in time and amplified in order to match the chromospheric one.,title=\"fig:\",width=340 ]     except for the filtering bands . from top to bottom , the velocity signals have been filtered in 1 mhz bands around 2.5 , 3.5 and 4.5 mhz , respectively .",
    "the photospheric signal was shifted in time and amplified in order to match the chromospheric one.,title=\"fig:\",width=340 ]   except for the filtering bands . from top to bottom , the velocity signals have been filtered in 1 mhz bands around 2.5 , 3.5 and 4.5 mhz , respectively .",
    "the photospheric signal was shifted in time and amplified in order to match the chromospheric one.,title=\"fig:\",width=340 ]   except for the filtering bands . from top to bottom , the velocity signals have been filtered in 1 mhz bands around 2.5 , 3.5 and 4.5 mhz , respectively .",
    "the photospheric signal was shifted in time and amplified in order to match the chromospheric one.,title=\"fig:\",width=340 ]    the solid lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : theor - time - delay ] show the expected time delays ( in the four magnetic structures ) , as a function of frequency , between the oscillations measured at the photosphere and the chromosphere as derived from the theoretical model .",
    "the time delay , @xmath2 , depends on the difference in heights , @xmath3 and the group velocity of the wave packet , @xmath4 :    @xmath5    where    @xmath6    using the best fitting values for @xmath3 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 , we computed the theoretical time delay from the wave propagation model described above .",
    "if propagation is mainly linear within the 2 - 7 mhz band ( as suggested by the good fits of the model to the data ) and it takes place along the magnetic field lines , then we should expect to see a correlation of the photospheric and chromospheric oscillation patterns above the cutoff - frequency",
    ". it should be possible to determine the time delay from the observations by simply comparing these modulation patterns at both heights .",
    "the time shift that yields the maximum correlation will correspond to the measured delay .    however , the theoretical time delays depicted in fig . [ fig : theor - time - delay ] show a very strong dependence on the frequency of the oscillating mode , so we have to take this fact into account when doing the comparison . following the approach taken in paper i , we first filter both the photospheric and the chromospheric velocity maps in narrow frequency ranges ( narrow enough that the expected time delay does not vary significantly within the bandwidth ) .",
    "then , we compare the photospheric and chromospheric filtered signals finding that we have to apply a certain time shift between them in order to make their external modulation schemes match .",
    "this shift corresponds to the time that a perturbation ( within the filtering frequency range ) originated in at photospheric levels takes to reach the chromosphere .    in the case of the sunspot - like structures",
    ", we filtered the velocity maps in several one - mhz bands close to 6 mhz ( where the main contribution to the chromospheric power lies ) .",
    "we then compared each pair of filtered maps finding a time shift between them that depended on the frequency range in which the maps were filtered .",
    "the four panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : time - delay ] show the photospheric ( solid ) and chromospheric ( dashed ) velocities , for one position inside the umbra of the small sunspot , filtered in @xmath9 mhz frequency bands around 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 mhz . in each case , the photospheric signal has been amplified and delayed to make it match the chromospheric one .",
    "this procedure was repeated for several pixels in the umbra .",
    "there are coherent patches of a few arcseconds along the slit in which the velocity signals are very similar , so we chose 3 or 4 positions far apart , and measured the delay for each of them finding consistent time shifts and amplification values at the different spatial locations .",
    "the uncertainty for the time delay is of the order of 1 - 2 time steps ( @xmath10 10 - 15s ) .",
    "the measured delays extracted from this method are represented by the asterisks over plotted to the top left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : theor - time - delay ] .",
    "analogous analyses were carried out for the pore ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : pore - time - delay ] ) and for the big sunspot ( in paper i ) .",
    "the pore is only 4 arcsecs wide and oscillations are quite coherent throughout the whole structure .",
    "also , there is not a strong modulation of the velocity oscillation pattern , so , in certain frequency bands , it is not clear what time shift gives the larger correlation between photosphere and chromosphere .",
    "this is why we only show the results for two frequency bands in fig .",
    "[ fig : pore - time - delay ] .    in the case of the facular region we filtered the velocity maps in three ranges around 3 mhz ( where both photospheric and chromospheric power spectra have their main contributions ) .",
    "the remaining analysis is parallel to the former case .",
    "the three panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : facula - time - delay ] show the chromospheric ( _ solid _ ) and photospheric ( _ dashed _ ) velocity signals filtered around 2.5 , 3.5 and 4.5 mhz , respectively . again",
    ", the photospheric signal has been amplified and shifted in time to make it match the chromospheric one .    in all the cases , the amplification factors turn out to be consistent with the values of the amplification spectrum in fig .",
    "[ fig : phase ] , and the measured time delays ( represented by asterisks superposed to the theoretical time delays in fig .",
    "[ fig : theor - time - delay ] ) obtained from the shifts are consistent with the expected values obtained from the model .",
    "even though the theoretical curves predict a very strong variation of the time delay within the 1 mhz filtering bands , the measured delays agree surprisingly well with what is expected by the model .",
    "in this paper we have investigated the wave propagation in the atmospheres of four solar magnetic structures with decreasing flux ( two different - sized sunspots , a pore and a facular region ) .",
    "simultaneous and co - spatial measurements of the los velocity at the photosphere and the chromosphere of these structures allow us to infer information about the properties of wave propagation from one atmospheric layer to another .",
    "a simple model of linear vertical wave propagation in a magnetized stratified medium with radiative losses is enough to explain the observed phase difference and amplification spectra and the measured time delays .",
    "the inversion of the full stokes vector in the four structures reveals vertical ( i.e. radial ) magnetic fields in all cases .",
    "the comparison of the photospheric and chromospheric velocity maps , filtered in narrow frequency ranges , shows a pixel to pixel correlation along the slit of the external modulation of the wave pattern ( after accounting for a global time shift and a global amplification of the photospheric signal ) .",
    "these two facts are enough to justify the election of a model of linear wave propagation along vertical magnetic field lines .    in the case of sunspot - like",
    "structures the atmospheric cut - off lies around @xmath104 mhz , so the modes with frequencies below this one will not be able to reach the high chromosphere . many authors have argued before about the possibility of the non - linear interaction among 5-min modes being the source of the chromospheric 3-min oscillations ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "but if this were the case , the photospheric and chromospheric filtered velocity maps would show no resemblance with each other . as a matter of fact , a clear correlation exists , indicating that most of the 6 mhz power observed at chromospheric heights in sunspot - like structures comes directly from the same frequency range in the photosphere via upward linear wave propagation .",
    "this ratifies and extends the conclusions of paper i ( which focuses on the umbrae of big sunspots ) to smaller sunspots and pores . as the size of the structure decreases , so does the typical radiative cooling time , while the temperature , on the other hand , grows .",
    "as argued before , both these behaviors are in agreement with what is expected from a qualitative point of view .    in the case of facular regions , the cut - off frequency stands around 2 mhz .",
    "this is accounted for in the model by introducing a shorter cooling time and a higher temperature .",
    "this allows the 5-min power to propagate through the atmosphere and reach the high chromosphere .",
    "again , a clear correlation between photospheric and chromospheric filtered velocity maps can be found , indicating that the propagation is mainly linear and vertical within the 25 mhz range .",
    "it is interesting to point out that , in this particular case , there is no need to invoke a large inclination of magnetic flux tubes to explain the p - mode leakage into the chromosphere @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the comparison of the photospheric and chromospheric velocity maps shows a good co - spatial correlation ( after applying a convenient time shift ) indicating that the propagation is essentially vertical .",
    "if we assume that the wave propagation takes place along the field lines and we take into account a height difference of 1000 - 1500 km , a magnetic field inclination of @xmath11 would result in a spatial displacement of 3 - 5 pixels between the photospheric and the chromospheric oscillations ( rather than happening on the same vertical ) . in the best case scenario ,",
    "this displacement would be parallel to the slit ; however , in the worst case , it would happen along the direction perpendicular to the slit , leading to a correlation between the photosphere and the chromosphere that is marginally compatible with the spatial resolution of our data .",
    "on the other hand , the measured stokes profiles set an upper limit of @xmath12 on the inclination of the photospheric facular magnetic fields .",
    "both these arguments point towards a magnetic field structure that is incompatible with the inclinations needed to lower the cut - off frequency enough to allow p - mode leakage",
    ".    the numerical simulations of khomenko et al .",
    "( 2008 ) have confirmed this conclusion since they show how , in a more realistic atmosphere , it is possible to explain the propagation of 5-minute modes into the chromosphere through vertical thin flux tubes , using radiative losses as the main ingredient to lower the cut - off frequency .    as the photospheric perturbations propagate upwards , their amplitude increases due to the rapid decrease in density and they eventually develop asymmetries that steepen more or less depending on the magnetic structure ( the lower the magnetic flux , the smaller the amplification and the steepness of the developing shock ) . in all the cases ,",
    "the time delay between photospheric and chromospheric oscillations is around several minutes in the frequency range near where the chromospheric power peaks .",
    "this research was partially funded by the spanish ministerio de educacin y ciencia through project aya2007 - 63881 . the national center for atmospheric research ( ncar )",
    "is sponsored by the national science foundation      athay , g.r . , white , o.r . , 1979 , apjs , 39 , 333 .",
    "avrett , e.h . ,",
    "fontenla , j.m . ,",
    "loeser , r. , 1994 , iaus , 154 , 35 ballesteros , e. , collados , m. , bonet , j. a. , lorenzo , f. , viera , t. , reyes , m. & rodriguez hidalgo , i. , 1996 , a&as , 115 , 353 . bard , s. , carlsson , m. , 2008 , apj , 682 , 1376 .",
    "beckers , j.m .",
    ", tallant , p.e .",
    ", 1969 , sol .",
    "bogdan , t.j . , judge , p.g . , 2006 , phil . trans",
    "r. soc . london a , 364 , 313 .",
    "brynildsen , n.,maltby , p. , fredvik , t. , & kjeldseth - moe , o. , 2004 , in soho 13 : waves , oscillations , and small - scale transient events in the solar atmosphere , ed .",
    "h. lacoste ( esa sp-547 ; noordwijk : esa ) , 45 brynildsen , n. , maltby , p. , & kjeldseth - moe , o. 2003 , a&a , 398 , l15 bnte , m. , bogdan , t.j . , 1994 ,",
    "a&a , 283 642 centeno , r. , collados , m. , trujillo bueno , j. 2006a , apj , 640 , 1153 .",
    "centeno , r. , collados , m. , trujillo bueno , j. , 2006b , proceedings of the solar polarization workshop 4 , asp conference series , vol . 358 .",
    "edited by r. casini and b. w. lites , p.465 centeno , r. , trujillo bueno , j. , uitenbroek , h. , collados , m. , 2008 , apj , 677 , 742 .",
    "centeno , r. , trujillo bueno , j. , uitenbroek , h. , collados , m. , to appear in the proceedings of the solar polarization workshop 5 .",
    "collados , m. 1999 , in asp conf .",
    "184 , third advances in solar physics euroconference : magnetic fields and oscillations , ed .",
    "b. schmieder , a. hofmann , & j. staude ( san francisco : asp ) , 3 collados , m. , 2003 , in `` polarimetry in astronomy '' , edited by silvano fineschi , proceedings of the spie , vol . 4843 , pp .",
    "55 - 65 collados , m. , trujillo bueno , j. , bellot rubio , l.r .",
    ", socas - navarro , h. , 2001 , intas workshop on mhd waves in astrophysical plasmas , universitat de les illes balears , pp .",
    "151 - 154 , eds .",
    "ballester and b. roberts .",
    "de pontieu , b. , erdelyi , r. , de moortel , i. , 2005 , apj , 624 , 61 . de pontieu , b. , erdelyi , r. , de wijn , a.g .",
    ", 2003 , apj , 595 , l63 de pontieu , b. , erdelyi , r. , james , s.p , 2004 , nature , 430 , 536 fleck , b. & schmitz , f.  1993 , a&a , 273 , 671 gurman , j.b . ,",
    "leichbacher , j.w . , 1984 , apj , 283 , 859 .",
    "jefferies , s.m . , mcintosh , s.w . ,",
    "armstrong , j.d . ,",
    "bogdan , t. , thomas , j. , cacciani , a. & fleck , b. apj , 648 , l151 khomenko , e. , centeno , r. , collados , m. , trujillo bueno , j. , 2008 , apj , in press .",
    "khomenko , e. , collados , m. , 2006 , apj , 653 , 755 .",
    "kneer , f. , trujillo bueno , j. , 1987 , a&a , 183 , 91 .",
    "krijger , j.m . ,",
    "rutten , r.j . ,",
    "lites , b.w . ,",
    "straus , t. , shine , r.a .",
    ", tarbell , t.d .",
    ", 2001 , a&a , 379 , 1052 .",
    "lagg , a. , 2007 , advances in space research 39 , 1734 .",
    "leighton , r.b .",
    ", noyes , r.w . ,",
    "simon , g.w . , 1962 , apj , 135 , 474 .",
    "lites , b.w . , 1986 , apj , 301 , 1005 .",
    "lites , b.w.,1986 , apj , 301 , 992 .",
    "lites , b.  w.  1992 , in sunspots : theory and observations , ed .",
    "j.  h.  thomas & n.  o.  weiss , nato asi ser .",
    "c 375 , kluwer , dordrecht , 261 lites , b.w . , rutten , r.j . ,",
    "kalkofen , w. , 1993 , apj , 414 , 354 martnez pillet , v. , collados , m. , snchez almeida , j. et al . , 1999 ,",
    "high resolution solar physics : theory , observations and techniques , asp conference series 183 , ( eds . ) t.r .",
    "rimmele , k.s .",
    "balasubramaniam , and r. radick , 264 .",
    "mihalas , d. , wiebel - mihalas , b. , 1984 , `` foundations of radiation hydrodynamics '' , oxford university press , oxford .",
    "roberts , b. , 2006 , royal society of london transactions series a , 364 , issue , 1839 , 447 .",
    "ruiz cobo , b. , del toro iniesta , j.c . , 1994 ,",
    "a&a , 283 , 129 .",
    "snchez - andrade nuo , b. , centeno , r. , puschmann , k.g . , trujillo bueno , j. , blanco rodrguez , j. , kneer , f. , 2007 , a&a letters , in press .",
    "sasso , c. , lagg , a. , solanki , s.k .",
    ", 2005 , esasp , 596e , 64 .",
    "schmidt , w. & kentischer , t. , 1995 , a&as , 113 , 363 schmidt , w. , knlker , m. , westendorp plaza , c. , 1994 , a&a , 287 , 229 .",
    "socas - navarro , h. , trujillo bueno , j. , & ruiz cobo , b. 2000 , science , 288 , 1396 souffrin , p. , 1972",
    ", a&a , 17 , 458 .",
    "spiegel , e.a .",
    ", 1957 , apj , 126 , 202 .",
    "thomas , j.h .",
    ", 1983 , anrfm , 15 , 321 .",
    "trujillo bueno , j. , asensio ramos , a. , 2007 , apj , 655 .",
    "white , o.r .",
    ", athay , g.r . , 1979 , apjs , 39 , 347 .",
    "zhugzhda , y.d .",
    ", locans , v. , staude , j. , 1985 , a&a , 143 , 201 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> velocity oscillations `` measured '' simultaneously at the photosphere and the chromosphere -from time series of spectropolarimetric data in the 10830   region- of different solar magnetic features allow us to study the properties of wave propagation as a function of the magnetic flux of the structure ( i.e. two different - sized sunspots , a tiny pore and a facular region ) . </S>",
    "<S> while photospheric oscillations have similar characteristics everywhere , oscillations measured at chromospheric heights show different amplitudes , frequencies and stages of shock development depending on the observed magnetic feature . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis of the power and the phase spectra , together with simple theoretical modeling , lead to a series of results concerning wave propagation within the range of heights of this study . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , while the atmospheric cut - off frequency and the propagation properties of the different oscillating modes depend on the magnetic feature , in all the cases the power that reaches the high chromosphere above the atmospheric cut - off comes directly from the photosphere by means of linear vertical wave propagation rather than from non - linear interaction of modes . </S>"
  ]
}