{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation mechanism of the brightest cluster galaxies ( bcgs ) is an important problem of modern astronomy ( e.g. lin & mohr 2004 ; von der linden et al .",
    "2007 ; hansen et al . 2007 ; garijo , athanassoula , & garcia - gmez 1997 ; tutukov , dryumov , & dryumova 2007 ) . the definition of a bcg is based on the brightness contrast between it and the other cluster members .",
    "some of bcgs are cd galaxies which have characteristic faint and extended halo .",
    "the physical properties of these unique objects are reviewed by tonry ( 1987 ) , kormendy & djorgovski ( 1989 ) and schombert ( 1992 ) .    according to one of the proposed scenarios , bcgs",
    "are formed in the cluster cooling flows , when the gas density grows enough to cool and condense , forming stars in the cluster core ( silk 1976 ; cowie & binney 1977 ; fabian 1994 ) . in this scenario",
    "there should be color gradients which are absent ( andreon et al . 1992 ) .",
    "another proposed possibility for formation of cds involves tidal stripping by cluster galaxies which pass near the cluster center .",
    "the stripped material falls to the center of the potential well and may form the halo of the giant galaxy there ( gallagher & ostriker 1972 ; richstone 1975 , 1976 ) .",
    "this theory can not explain , however , the difference between central dominant galaxies in clusters with and without a prominent halo .",
    "garijo , athanassoula , & garcia - gmez ( 1997 ) mention in addition that the velocity dispersion of stars in cd halos is by three times smaller than the velocity dispersion of galaxies in the cluster , and so this theory has a difficulty in explaining why the tidally stripped material is slowed down as it builds up a cd halo .",
    "the third hypotheses on formation of cds is by rapid merging of galaxies during cluster collapse ( e.g. , merritt 1983 , 1984,1985 : dubinski 1998 ) .",
    "however , as merrit argues , the truncation of galaxy halos during cluster collapse should make time scales for dynamical friction longer than a hubble time and thus `` turn off '' subsequent evolution in the cluster",
    ".    note , that cd galaxies formed by the mentioned scenarios should be located exactly in the center of corresponding cluster and must have the mean radial velocity of the cluster galaxies .",
    "meanwhile , some cds are located at appreciably high distance from the geometrical center of the cluster and have peculiar velocities in relation to the mean cluster velocities of the order of 50 - 400 km s@xmath0 mentioned by many ( e.g. oegerle & hill 2001 , and references therein ) .",
    "this fact poses problems for the mentioned mechanisms of formation of bcgs .",
    "the most popular hypothesis is the galactic _ cannibalism _ ( hausman & ostriker 1978 ; ostriker & trimain 1975 ; white 1976 ) .",
    "baier & schmidt ( 1992 ) showed that merging processes play an important role in the formation of cds . according to this hypothesis ,",
    "massive cluster galaxies gradually sink to the bottom of the potential well of a cluster and merge with each other ( searle , sargent & bagnuolo 1973 ; dressler 1980 ; barnes 1989 ) .",
    "cannibalism may also be responsible for the further growth of giant galaxies formed by cooling flows or cluster collaps .    in this paper",
    "i consider correlations between different parameters of bcgs and of the clusters in which they reside . assuming the cannibalism scenario for formation of bcgs i present evidences on their evolution . in the study the emphasis",
    "is given to the formation of cd galaxies in clusters of bautz - morgan ( bm ) class i ( bautz & morgan 1970 ) , since the performed analysis is simply applicable namely to clusters with a single very bright monster .",
    "it is assumed that cd galaxies become brighter by a continuous proccess of accretion of satellite galaxies .",
    "for study the possible mechanism of formation of bcgs i used the abell , corwin & ollowin ( aco ) ( 1989 ) clusters of bm class i which contain a single very bright galaxy .",
    "the performed inspection of images of these clusters showed that clusters a447 , a1508 , a1775 , a2025 mentioned as of bm type i in aco , do not contain a single very bright galaxy .",
    "therefore , they were excluded from the compiled list .",
    "also , i found that radial velocities of bright galaxies in a1631 and a1654 differ significantly from that of the corresponding clusters .",
    "so these clusters are not of bm type i. the compiled list consists of 53 bcgs of which 34 are classified in struble & rood ( 1987 ) as cd , and 19 as b , f , etc .",
    "i determined absolute stellar magnitudes of bcgs using the k@xmath1 apparent magnitudes from 2mass ( jarrett et al .",
    "2000 ) which are more appropriate for the study the bcgs , since k magnitude encompasses the light of the predominantly red population in early - type galaxies .",
    "note that 2mass magnitudes have problems ( e.g. bell et al .",
    "2003 ) in detecting low surface brightness light , such as halos of cd galaxies ( e.g. schombert 1988 ) .",
    "in addition , lauer et al . ( 2007 ) demonstrated that 2mass photometry is likely to underestimate the total light from bcgs . at the same time , lauer et al .",
    "( 2007 ) showed that 2mass photometry is free from possible errors which may be caused by the sky background substraction and crowding .",
    "the most important inconsistency may be produced by the extrapolation scheme to generate `` total magnitudes '' ( jarret et al .",
    "meanwhile , lin & mohr ( 2004 ) used a correction scheme to extrapolate isophotal magnitudes to `` total '' magnitudes and showed that both schemes are consistent . summing up we may assume that mentioned problems of 2mass magnitudes may not introduce systematic errors in our study .",
    "note , that the 2mass magnitudes have been widely used in galactic studies ( e.g. , temi , brighenti , & mathews 2008 ; courteau et al .",
    "2007 ; masters , springob , & huchra , 2007 , etc . ) .",
    "the @xmath2 absolute magnitudes were deduced using the known redshifts of clusters ( andernach et al .",
    "2005 ) in which corresponding bcgs recide .",
    "if the redshift of the cluster was unknown the absolute magnitude was determined using the redshift of the galaxy itself given in the ned ( nasa extragalactic database ) . for distance determinations",
    "@xmath3 km @xmath4 mpc@xmath0 was adopted . a correction for the galactic extinction",
    "was introduced according to schlegel , finkbeiner & davis ( 1998 ) given in ned , and the k - correction according to kochanek et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .",
    "the list of the used bcgs are presented in table 1 in the consecutive columns of which the following data are given : column 1 - the abell cluster designation ; column 2 the morphological type of the bcg given in struble & rood ( 1987 ) ; column 3 - the redshift of the cluster ( by * is marked the redshift of the galaxy from ned ) , column 4 - the absolute magnitude @xmath2 of the galaxy , column 5 - the abell number count @xmath5 is the number of galaxies more luminous than @xmath6 mag , where @xmath7 is the apparent photored magnitude of the third most luminous cluster member , located within one abell radius @xmath8 of the cluster center .",
    "@xmath5 values are taken from struble & rood ( 1987 ) who adopted for @xmath8 the apparent cluster radius estimated by leir & van den berg ( 1977 ) or otherwise estimated by abell ( 1980 ) and converted to leir & van den berg system . ] ; column 6 - the estimated number @xmath9 of merged galaxies ( determined for the volume limited sample ) ( see below ) ; column 7 - the velocity dispersion @xmath10 ( andernach et al .",
    "2005 ; struble & rood 1999 ) .",
    "8 pt    .the list of cds in abell clusters of bm type i. [ cols=\"<,<,^,^ , < , <",
    ", < \" , ]      fossil groups fit well with the scenario of evolution of cd galaxies by cannibalism .",
    "vikhlinin et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and mulchaey & zabludoff ( 1999 ) expressed an idea that fossil groups could be formed by complete merging of galaxies within once normal clusters . in fig .",
    "6 we present distributions @xmath11 for the complete sample of cds in clusters of bm class i , and for the brightest galaxies in fossil groups for the same distance limit .",
    "we used the list of the fossils compiled by santos , mendes de oliveira & sodre ( 2007 ) .",
    "shows that almost all fossil groups are among faint cds .",
    "it means that the initial number of galaxies in the primordial fossil clusters was small . as generally in poor clusters , after merging of some number of galaxies there will be almost no more galaxies left for merging with the bright galaxy , and the cluster will become a fossil group .",
    "i present evidences that cds in clusters of galaxies of bm class i are formed by the mechanism of cannibalism .",
    "the process of cannibalism in a cluster is a permanent one . in rich clusters",
    "more galaxies may merge in time to the central monster , and the brightness of the latter may grow to very high value . the process of cannibalism in rich clusters is a relatively long lasting one for small rate of merging ( high velocity dispersion ) and large number of galaxies in the cluster . the cds formed in rich clusters determine the upper envelope of the cd brightness distribution by redshift ( fig .",
    "1 ) . the cds formed in poor clusters may be not very bright for small stock of galaxies .",
    "the process of cannibalism in poor clusters terminates faster , first for the high rate of merging ( small velocity dispersion ) , and second , for the small number of galaxies for merging .",
    "nearby , older cds have  eaten  more cluster members in comparison to cds in distant , younger clusters with about the same richness .",
    "old cds in nearby poor clusters already reached their possible high brightness .",
    "the older is the cd the brighter it is .",
    "this determines the peculiar lower envelope of the cd brightness distribution ( fig .",
    "1 ) . in the frames of this scenario fossil groups are those poor clusters in which the process of cannibalism already finished due to the small stock of galaxies in the system , and the brightness of the central monster practically reached its possible high value .",
    "i am grateful to the anonymous referee whose critical comments forced me to make additional analysis and largely rewright the paper .",
    "i thank o.lopes-cruz for useful discussion and h.andernach for presenting an updated compilation of abell cluster redshifts and velocity dispersions .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "lauer , t. r. , faber , s. m. , richstone , d. , gebhardt , k. , tremaine , s. , postman , m. , dressler , a. , aller , m. c. , filippenko , a. v. , green , r. , ho , l. c. , kormendy , j. , maggorian , j. , & pinlney , j. , 2007 , 662 , 808"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cannibalism mechanism of formation of cd galaxies in clusters of bautz - morgan class i is analyzed . </S>",
    "<S> dependences between absolute magnitude of cd galaxies , and of the clusters in which they reside ( richness , redshifts ) are considered . </S>",
    "<S> evidences are presented in favor of formation of cd galaxies by cannibalism and their evolution . </S>"
  ]
}