{
  "article_text": [
    "the planetary fourier spectrometer ( pfs ) onboard the _ mars express _ spacecraft has detected @xmath1 10 parts per billion by volume ( ppbv ) of methane in the atmosphere of mars ( formisano et al . , 2004 ) .",
    "comparable abundances have been reported by mumma et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , by krasnopolsky et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , and very recently by villanueva et al .",
    "( 2008 ) from ground - based observations . because the photochemical mean lifetime of the atmospheric methane is about 300600 years ( krasnopolsky et al . , 2004 ; formisano et al . ,",
    "2004 ) , its release from a subsurface reservoir or an active primary source of methane have been invoked in the recent literature .",
    "it has thus been suggested that the methane observed on mars could be of biogenic origin and would originate from organisms living in the near subsurface ( formisano et al . , 2004 ; krasnopolsky et al . , 2004 ; krasnopolsky , 2006 ) or that the olivine hydratation in the martian regolith or crust could be a major methane source ( oze and sharma , 2005 ) .",
    "alternatively , it has been proposed that the methane observed on mars could be produced from photolysis of water in the presence of co ( bar - nun and dimitrov , 2006 ) .    the atmospheric methane of mars",
    "could also be tied to the possible presence of methane clathrate hydrates that decompose in the near - subsurface ( prieto - ballesteros et al . , 2006 ; chastain and chevrier , 2007 ) . in this case ,",
    "clathrate hydrates do nt bring any constraint on the origin of the martian methane .",
    "indeed , their ability to retain methane over long timescales make them a secondary reservoir which can be filled either by ancient or by current methane sources ( prieto - ballesteros et al .",
    ", 2006 ; chastain and chevrier , 2007 ) . in this context",
    ", the stability of methane clathrate hydrates under martian conditions has been explored by chastain and chevrier ( 2007 ) ( hereafter cc07 ) with the use of the program csmhyd developed by sloan ( 1998 ) . from these calculations",
    ", cc07 determined the plausible composition of methane clathrate hydrates that could be located in the martian crust or in the polar caps .",
    "they also discussed the possible sources that may be at the origin of these clathrate hydrates .",
    "however , these authors only considered the formation of binary co@xmath2-ch@xmath0 clathrate hydrates from the martian atmosphere , due to the limited list of available molecules in the csmhyd program . with a fractional abundance of 95%",
    ", carbon dioxyde is the main atmospheric compound , but other molecules such as nitrogen and argon , whose abundances reach @xmath1 2.7 and 1.6 % respectively ( moroz , 1998 ) , have been neglected in the composition and stability calculations of clathrate hydrates by cc07 . as shown by thomas et al .",
    "( 2007 , 2008 ) in the case of titan , minor compounds can strongly affect the composition of clathrate hydrates formed from the atmospheric gas phase and also their temperature dependence .",
    "moreover , because the csmhyd code is not suitable below @xmath1 171 k for co@xmath2-ch@xmath0 gas mixtures relevant to the atmospheric composition of mars , cc07 did not calculate the composition of clathrate hydrates possibly formed in the polar caps where the _ in situ _ temperature can decrease down to @xmath1 130 k ( kieffer et al . , 2001 ) .",
    "in the present work , we reinvestigate the assumptions of cc07 and determine more accurately the composition of clathrate hydrates that may form in the near subsurface of mars as a function of temperature and gas phase composition , by using a statistical thermodynamic model based on experimental data and on the original work of van der waals and platteeuw ( 1959 ) .",
    "compared to the work of cc07 , our model allows us to calculate the composition of clathrate hydrates formed from a more plausible composition of the martian atmosphere by considering its main compounds , i.e. carbon dioxyde , nitrogen and argon , together with methane . besides , because there is no low temperature restriction in our model , we are able to determine the composition of clathrate hydrates formed at temperatures corresponding to the extreme ones measured in the polar caps .",
    "to calculate the relative abundance of ch@xmath0 incorporated in clathrate hydrates on mars , we used the same approach as in our previous studies devoted to the trapping of noble gases by clathrate hydrates on titan ( thomas et al .",
    ", 2007 , 2008 ) .",
    "this approach is based on the statistical model developed by van der waals and platteuw ( 1959 ) and it is similar to the one proposed by sloan ( 1998 ) in the csmhyd program .",
    "however , it differs from this latter approach by the use of experimentally determined dissociation curves in our code instead of calculated dissociation pressures ( thomas et al . ,",
    "this allows us to determine the relative abundances in clathrate hydrates down to very low temperatures whereas the csmhyd program is for example limited to @xmath1 171 k for the clathrate hydrates considered here .    in order to validate the calculations performed in the present study ,",
    "we have compared the results issued from our approach to those obtained using the csmhyd program when considering gas phases containing ch@xmath0 and co@xmath2 in different initial abundances . as an illustration , we present on figure [ fig1 ] the relative abundances of methane in mixed co@xmath2/ch@xmath0 clathrate hydrates as calculated with our code by considering several initial abundances of ch@xmath0 in the gas phase ( 0.01% , 0.1% , 1% , 10% , 20% , 50% or 90% ( the relative abundance of co@xmath2 in each case is determined such as @xmath3 ) .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] clearly shows that ch@xmath0 abundances in clathrate hydrates obtained from our program ( full line ) using the kihara parameters and cage geometries given by sloan ( 1998 ) fit very well those obtained with the csmhyd program ( crosses ) down to 171 k , that is in the range for which this program converges .",
    "this comparison demonstrates the validity of our approach and illustrates its advantage for characterizing clathrate hydrates at temperatures outside the range accessible to the csmhyd program .",
    "the calculations of the relative abundances of a guest species trapped in clathrate hydrates depend both on the structural characteristics of the clathrate hydrate under consideration and on the accuracy of the corresponding interactions between the trapped molecule and the water cage ( thomas et al . , 2008 ) . as a consequence ,",
    "the accuracy of the present calculations strongly depends on the choice of the parameters of the kihara potential .    in our previous study ( thomas et al . , 2008 )",
    ", we have shown that an appropriate set of parameters for clathrate hydrate studies on titan has been given by parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) , in which potential and structural parameters have been self - consistently determined on experimentally measured clathrate hydrate properties .    to check the accuracy of these parameters in the present application on mars ,",
    "we have compared the relative abundances obtained with the kihara parameters given by sloan ( 1998 ) ( same as in the csmhyd program ) to those calculated using the kihara parameters given by parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) ( table [ kihara ] ) .",
    "surprisingly , calculations performed with the parameters from parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) lead to results at the opposite of those obtained with the parameters given by sloan ( 1998 )",
    ". indeed , the parameters from parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) lead to a better trapping when the clathrate hydrates form at low temperatures than when they form at high temperatures .",
    "this appears very puzzling given that parameters from parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) and from sloan ( 1998 ) are very similar , except for the value of the parameter @xmath4 for co@xmath2 ( the radius of the impenetrable core ) , which is almost twice larger in the sloan s set of parameters than in parrish and prausnitz s parameters .",
    "additional tests performed by varying the @xmath4 values in our calculations showed that the relative abundances are in fact very sensitive to this @xmath4 parameter , as already stated by papadimitriou et al .",
    "because more recent sets of kihara parameters ( jager , 2001 ; kang et al . , 2001 ) give a @xmath4 value for co@xmath2 close to that given by sloan , the value @xmath5 given by parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) appears rather suspicious .",
    "we have thus run again our calculations by using the kihara set of parameters from parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) , in which we have replaced the suspicious @xmath5 value by the one given by sloan ( 1998 ) .",
    "the corresponding results are given in fig.[fig1 ] which shows that this combined set of parameters ( dashed lines ) give results which are very similar to those obtained with the whole set of sloan s parameters for the kihara potential .",
    "however , because kihara parameters are only given for a reduced set of species in sloan ( 1998 ) , we finally choose to use here the parameters given by parrish and prausnitz ( 1972 ) , but with the @xmath6 value given by sloan ( 1998 ) .",
    "the statistical approach presented in the previous section has been used to reinvestigate the work of cc07 and to determine more accurately the composition of clathrate hydrates formed in the near subsurface of mars as a function of temperature and gas phase composition . in particular",
    ", we consider a more plausible composition of the gas phase by taking into account carbon dioxyde , nitrogen and argon , namely the most abundant volatiles of the martian atmosphere , 2.7% of n@xmath2 and 1.6% of ar ( moroz , 1998 ) .",
    "] , together with methane in our calculations . besides , we determine the composition of clathrate hydrates formed at temperatures corresponding to the extreme ones measured in the polar caps ( 130 k ; kieffer et al . , 2001 ) , whereas the work of cc07 was restricted to higher temperatures due to the limitations of the csmhyd program .",
    "six different initial abundances of methane in the gas phase have been considered in the present study , namely 0.01% , 0.1% , 1% , 10% , 50% and 90% .",
    "the largest values are typical of methane - rich conditions in which ch@xmath0 is supplied from below by microbial or geological processes or from above from ancient atmospheres . in contrast , the lowest values are more typical of recent atmospheric compositions . in each case , we assume that the ratios co@xmath7n@xmath2 , co@xmath7ar , n@xmath7ar are equal to those measured in the present martian atmosphere , and @xmath8 .    the evolution with temperature of the relative abundances @xmath9 ( @xmath10ch@xmath0 , co@xmath2 , n@xmath2 , ar ) calculated in multiple guest clathrate hydrates corresponding to the various initial abundances of ch@xmath0 considered here is given in fig .  [ pp ] .",
    "this figure shows that the trapping behavior is the same for each situation , that is the relative abundances of ar , n@xmath2 and ch@xmath0 slightly increase in clathrate hydrates when the formation temperature increases , whereas that of co@xmath2 slightly decreases , irrespective of the initial gas phase abundances . moreover , ar and n@xmath2 are always poorly trapped in clathrate hydrates whereas the incorporation of ch@xmath0 and co@xmath2 strongly depends on the initial composition of the gas phase .",
    "indeed , methane is poorly trapped when its initial abundance in the gas phase is lower than a few percent ( see figs .",
    "[ pp].a to  [ pp].d ) and , in such a situation , co@xmath2 fills almost entirely the clathrate hydrates with a relative abundance @xmath11 .",
    "in contrast , when the initial gas phase abundance is enriched in methane , there is a competition between the trapping of co@xmath2 and that of ch@xmath0 which thus have similar abundances in the corresponding clathrate hydrate ( figs .",
    "[ pp].e to  [ pp].f ) .",
    "another way for characterizing the trapping in clathrate hydrates is to calculate the abundance ratio for the different gases , which is defined as the ratio between the relative abundance @xmath9 of a given gas in the multiple guest clathrate hydrate and its initial gas phase abundance @xmath12 ( thomas et al .",
    ", 2007 , 2008 ) .",
    "the abundances ratios calculated for ch@xmath0 , co@xmath2 , ar and n@xmath2 in the different situations considered here are given in table [ results ] together with the corresponding relative abundances in the initial gas phase ( @xmath12 ) and in clathrate hydrates ( @xmath9 ) .",
    "note that we have calculated these abundance ratios at the particular point on the dissociation curves corresponding to the present average atmospheric pressure on mars , i.e. @xmath13 mbar .",
    "for this particular point , table [ results ] shows that the abundance ratio of ch@xmath0 increases with @xmath14 , as a consequence of the larger trapping of methane in the corresponding multiple guest clathrate hydrates ( as indicated by the increase of the relative abundance @xmath15 ) .",
    "however , this ratio remains lower than 1 in all situations , indicating that the trapping efficiency of ch@xmath0 in the multiple guest clathrate hydrates considered here is quite low . on the contrary ,",
    "the abundance ratio of co@xmath2 is always larger than 1 , showing the high efficiency of the trapping of co@xmath2 in clathrate hydrates . indeed , even when the gas phase contains less than 10 % of co@xmath2 , the corresponding multiple guest clathrate hydrate contains about 50 % of co@xmath2 , as indicated by the values of @xmath16 in table [ results ] . as a consequence of this preferential trapping of co@xmath2 with respect to the other species of the gas phase",
    ", the abundance ratio of co@xmath2 given in table [ results ] increases when the initial gas phase abundance @xmath17 decreases .",
    "in other words , although the trapping of ch@xmath0 is more and more efficient when the initial gas phase is enriched in ch@xmath0 , it remains much less efficient than the trapping of co@xmath2 .",
    "note that table [ results ] also shows that ar is slightly better trapped than n@xmath2 .",
    "however , the abundances of these two gases are almost negligible in the multiple guest clathrate hydrates considered in the present study .",
    "here , we have revisited the work of cc07 devoted to the trapping of ch@xmath0 in clathrate hydrates that may exist in the near subsurface of mars .",
    "our conclusions are similar to those of cc07 , although they are based on a more appropriate set of kihara parameters to describe the interactions between water molecules and guest species . in presence of co@xmath2",
    ", a methane - rich clathrate hydrate can be thermodynamically stable only if the gas phase is itself strongly enriched in methane . hence , ch@xmath0-rich clathrate hydrates can not be formed from the present martian atmosphere , which has been found to be very poor in methane ( mumma et al .",
    ", 2003 ; formisano et al . , 2004 ;",
    "krasnopolsky et al . , 2004 ; geminale at al . , 2008 ) . as a consequence ,",
    "if they do exist , ch@xmath0-rich clathrate hydrates on mars should have been formed in contact with an early martian atmosphere , much richer in ch@xmath0 than the present one .",
    "for example , planetary impacts by comets and meteorites in the past could have enriched the martian atmosphere in ch@xmath0 ( kress and mckay , 2004 ) .",
    "also , the detection of gray crystalline hematite deposits on mars could be a proof of an early methane - rich martian atmosphere ( tang et al . , 2005 ) . as mentioned in the introduction of the present paper , another possible origin of ch@xmath0-rich clathrate hydrate",
    "could be a subsurface source . indeed , if an internal source of biological ( krasnopolsky et al . , 2004 ) or geological origin (",
    "oze and sharma , 2005 ) has existed ( or still exists ) in the martian subsurface , the present calculations show that stable subsurface ch@xmath0-rich clathrate hydrates could form in contact with the produced methane outgassing towards the surface .",
    "this work was supported in part by the french centre national detudes spatiales .",
    "papadimitriou , n.  i. , tsimpanogiannis , i.  n. , yiotis , a.  g. , steriotis , t.  a. , stubos , a.  k. , 2007 .  on the use of the kihara potential for hydrate equilibrium calculations .",
    "in : kuhs , w. ( ed . ) , physics and chemistry of ice .",
    "proceedings of the 11th international conference on the physics and chemistry of ice 311 , 475 - 482 .",
    "parrish , w.  r. , prausnitz , j.  m. , 1972 .",
    "dissociation pressures of gas hydrates formed by gas mixtures.industrial and engineering chemistry : process design and development , 11 ( 1 ) , 26 - 35 .",
    "erratum : parrish , w.  r. , prausnitz , j.  m. , 1972 .",
    "industrial and engineering chemistry : process design and development 11 ( 3 ) , 462 .",
    "prieto - ballesteros , o. , kargel , j.  s. , farn , a.  g. , fernndez - remolar , d.  c. , dohm j.  n. , amils , r.  2006 .",
    "interglacial clathrate destabilization on mars : possible contributing source of its atmospheric methane .",
    "geology 34 , 149 - 152 .",
    "villanueva , g.  l. , mumma , m.  j. , novak , r.  e. , hewagama , t. , bonev , b.  p. , disanti , m.  a.  detection and mapping of methane on mars .",
    "european planetary science congress , mnster , germany , 21 - 26 september 2008 , abstract epsc2008-a-00284 .",
    ".two different sets of parameters for the kihara potential .",
    "@xmath19 is the lennard - jones diameter , @xmath20 is the depth of the potential well , and @xmath4 is the radius of the impenetrable core .",
    "these parameters derive from ( a ) parrish & prausnitz ( 1972 ) , ( b ) sloan ( 1998 ) . [",
    "cols=\"^,<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent observations have evidenced traces of methane ( ch@xmath0 ) heterogeneously distributed in the martian atmosphere . however , because the lifetime of ch@xmath0 in the atmosphere of mars is estimated to be around 300600 years on the basis of photochemistry , its release from a subsurface reservoir or an active primary source of methane have been invoked in the recent literature . among the existing scenarios , </S>",
    "<S> it has been proposed that clathrate hydrates located in the near subsurface of mars could be at the origin of the small quantities of the detected ch@xmath0 . here </S>",
    "<S> , we accurately determine the composition of these clathrate hydrates , as a function of temperature and gas phase composition , by using a hybrid statistical thermodynamic model based on experimental data . </S>",
    "<S> compared to other recent works , our model allows us to calculate the composition of clathrate hydrates formed from a more plausible composition of the martian atmosphere by considering its main compounds , i.e. carbon dioxyde , nitrogen and argon , together with methane . besides , because there is no low temperature restriction in our model , we are able to determine the composition of clathrate hydrates formed at temperatures corresponding to the extreme ones measured in the polar caps . </S>",
    "<S> our results show that methane enriched clathrate hydrates could be stable in the subsurface of mars only if a primitive ch@xmath0-rich atmosphere has existed or if a subsurface source of ch@xmath0 has been ( or is still ) present .    ,    ,    ,    mars ; clathrate hydrates ; atmosphere ; methane </S>"
  ]
}