{
  "article_text": [
    "the pamela apparatus is designed to study charged particles in the cosmic radiation .",
    "it is hosted by a russian earth - observation satellite , the resurs - dk1 , that was launched into space by a soyuz rocket on the 15@xmath0 june 2006 from the baikonur cosmodrome ( kazakhstan ) .",
    "the satellite orbit is elliptical and semi - polar , with an inclination of 70.0@xmath1 and an altitude varying between 350 km and 600 km .",
    "the mission will last nominally for three years .",
    "the main scientific goal of the experiment is the precise measurement of the cosmic - ray antiproton and positron energy spectra .",
    "the satellite orbit and the mechanical design of the apparatus allow the identification of these particles in an unprecedented energy range ( between 50mev and 270gev for positrons and between 80mev and 190gev for antiprotons ) and with high statistics ( @xmath2 10@xmath3 antiprotons and @xmath2 10@xmath4 positrons per year ) .",
    "additionally pamela is searching for antimatter in the cosmic radiation , with a sensitivity for the anti - he / he ratio of the order of @xmath2 10@xmath5 .",
    "pamela is also aimed to extensively study the abundances and composition of light cosmic rays ( up to oxygen ) over almost three decades of energy . in order to clarify the role of the different mechanisms that act in the propagation and transport of galactic cosmic rays",
    "it is fundamental to have more precise and extended data on the relative abundances of the constituents of galactic cosmic rays and especially on the ratio of secondary to primary particles , such as the boron / carbon ratio .",
    "this paper will illustrate the light - charge identification capabilities of the pamela time - of - flight ( tof ) system , as evaluated during a beam test performed at the gsi laboratory - germany - in february 2006 .",
    "the tof system is a key detector for the pamela instrument , providing trigger for acquisition , measuring the particle flight time ( necessary to reject the albedo background component ) and determining the absolute value of the particle charge .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : after an overview of the pamela instrument ( section [ the_pamela_instrument ] ) , the gsi beam test ( set - up of the detector , available beams , operational details ) is described in section [ btest ] .",
    "section [ tof_time_resolution ] is dedicated to the determination of the tof time resolution from the beam data , obtained with two different methods , and finally section [ charge_resolution_for_light_nuclei ] reports the charge resolution of pamela tof system for several elements , ranging from proton to carbon .",
    "the pamela apparatus , shown in figure [ fig : instrument ] , is composed by several sub - detectors : tof system , anticoincidence system , magnetic spectrometer with microstrip silicon tracking system , w / si electromagnetic imaging calorimeter , shower - tail - catcher scintillator ( s4 ) and neutron detector .",
    "a detailed description of the pamela instrument and an overview of the mission can be found in @xcite .",
    "the instrument has maximum diameter of 102 cm and height of 120 cm ; its mass is 470 kg , the maximum power consumption is 355w . the magnetic spectrometer determines the charge sign and momentum of the incoming particle through the trajectory reconstruction in the magnetic field ; downward - going particles are identified with the time - of - flight measurement operated by tof . the final identification ( i.e. antiprotons against electrons etc . )",
    "is provided by the combination of the calorimeter and neutron detector information for kinetic energies above  1 gev and by the velocity measurement ( obtained from the trajectory and time - of - flight ) at lower energies . in what follows a synthetic description of the tof system",
    "will be given ; further details on the tof detectors and electronics can be found in references @xcite and @xcite respectively .",
    "the tof system is composed of 6 layers of segmented plastic scintillators , arranged in three double planes ( s1 , s2 , s3 in figure [ fig : instrument ] ) .",
    "the distance between s1 and s2 is around 30 cm , while the s1-s3 distance is around 77 cm .",
    "each layer is divided into several identical paddles ( strips ) , whose number and dimensions vary from layer to layer , for a total of 24 paddles . for each double plane ,",
    "the paddles of the upper layer are orthogonal to those of the lower layer , therefore allowing to get a bidimensional geometrical measurement of the impact point of charged particles .",
    "the plastic scintillator material , bc-404 , manufactured by bicron company , is characterized by a rise time of 700ps and decay time of 1.8ns . both ends of each scintillator paddle are glued to an adiabatic uv - transmitting plexiglas light guide .",
    "the gluing is obtained with an optical cement , mod .",
    "bc-600 manufactured by bicron .",
    "each paddle is read - out at each of its two ends by a photomultiplier tube ( pmt ) mod .",
    "r5900 by hamamatsu photonics .",
    "the r5900 is a 10-stage metal package head - on pmt , with rise time of 1.5ns , achieving an amplification of about @xmath6  at 900v .",
    "it has a square section of @xmath7mm@xmath8  and was chosen for its mechanical robustness , limited size and small weight ( 25.5 g ) . since the core of the pamela apparatus is a permanent magnet , the pmts have been shielded from the residual magnetic field of the spectrometer with a 1 mm thick @xmath9-metal screen @xcite .",
    "the anode pulse of each pmt is converted both in charge ( adc ) and time ( tdc ) .",
    "the adc measurements can be used to determine the z of the incoming particle .",
    "the combined tdc information of the whole tof is used to generate the main pamela trigger and to measure the flight time of the incoming particle .",
    "the geometry of the tof planes has been chosen to match the geometric acceptance of the spectrometer .",
    "the standard trigger configuration requires the coincidence of at least one tdc signal from each of the three tof double planes .",
    "during its construction phase , pamela was tested three times with beams of protons and electrons at the cern sps accelerator , to study the performance of the subdetectors with relativistic particles . because of the tight schedule of pamela integration , however , it was not possible to perform a beam test of the flight model with light nuclei before its delivery to russia in march 2005 .",
    "for this reason such a light - nuclei test was performed by using prototypes of the pamela tof and tracking system in a dedicated mechanical arrangement , on february 2006 at the gsi ( gesellschaft f@xmath10r schwerionenforschung , darmstadt , germany ) beam accelerator .",
    "figure [ gsi ] shows the arrangement of the instrument under test : in this set - up each tof plane is formed by just one paddle ( indicated as s1 , s2 , s3 in the picture ) , while the prototype of tracking system is composed by 5 si detector modules ( p1 to p5 ) .",
    "the main aim of the test was the determination of the time resolution of the tof system and of the charge resolution both for the tof and for the tracking system for light nuclei .",
    "in particular , the behaviour of these detectors was studied , to determine the amount of variation from linearity of the corresponding read - out electronics with energy releases due to @xmath11 particles .",
    "the test results on tof performance will be presented in the next sections ; results for tracking system will not be discussed here as they will be published elsewhere.data were taken during four full days .",
    "pamela was the secondary beam user for part of this time ( during nights ) ; when main user , it was possible to choose the best available value for beam intensity ( around 1000 particles / spill , with a 4s spill duration and a 3s interval between subsequent spills ) ; otherwise , the intensity was much higher ( up to @xmath12 particles / spill ) thus resulting in high trigger rate but also in a large fraction of multi - particle events in the detectors . for some runs , polyethylene or aluminium targets were employed to produce secondaries ; besides , during night hours the presence of biological test - tubes of the main beam user , upstream the pamela prototype , acted as a target .",
    "the instrument was normally placed along the beam line , one meter beyond the target position .",
    "for some acquisitions the instrument was moved to a different position , at the same distance but along a 45@xmath1 radial line from the target with respect to the beam line , to record only secondaries scattered at this high angle ; these particles were mostly low - energy protons and he nuclei .",
    "table [ tablegsi ] summarizes the different configurations used for the test .",
    "three primary beams were available : @xmath13c with kinetic energy of 1200mev / n , @xmath13c with 200mev / n , @xmath14cr with 500mev / n .",
    "the tof paddles used at gsi are identical to the ones of the corresponding flight - model layer ; the dimensions of the paddles selected for the gsi test are : ( @xmath15)@xmath16 for s1 , ( @xmath17)@xmath16 for s2 and ( @xmath18)@xmath16 for s3 .",
    "the three paddles were arranged with their main ( longitudinal ) dimension along the vertical axis .",
    "the s1-s3 distance at gsi was around 80 cm @xcite , while the s1-s2 distance was around 67 cm , greater than in the flight model .",
    "for this beam test the high voltages of the pmts have been chosen in such a way to obtain a gain of @xmath19 which , according to our calibrations , correspond to hv values varying from 780 v to 820 v.    as in the flight model , each paddle is read - out by two pmts , thus giving a total of six adc and six tdc signals .",
    "the trigger configuration requires the coincidence of at least one tdc signal from s1 and s2 paddles .",
    "the read - out electronics employed in this test is the same as for the flight model @xcite . concerning the prototype of tracking system used for the test , each detector module and its corresponding read - out electronics are identical to the ones employed in the flight model @xcite @xcite . to simplify the whole structure five silicon detector modules have been assembled in a simple aluminum frame in such a way to keep them aligned .",
    "the double - sided silicon sensors ( @xmath20)cm@xmath8 provide two independent impact coordinates on each plane .",
    "the high - resistivity n - type si bulk is segmented with 1024 read - out microstrips for each side : p+ strips on the junction side ( implantation pitch 25.5@xmath9 m , read - out pitch 51@xmath9 m ) and n+ strips on the ohmic side ( implantation and read - out pitch 66.5@xmath9 m ) . junction - side ( x - view ) strips are orthogonal to ohmic - side ( y - view ) ones .",
    ".[tablegsi ] beams available at the gsi test [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "this paper has shown the charge identification capabilities of pamela time - of - flight system , as evaluated during a beam test .",
    "the test was performed at the gsi laboratory in darmstadt ( germany ) , in february 2006 , with a technological copy of the pamela tof and tracking system .",
    "monochromatic beams of carbon and chromium were used for the test , which lasted 4 days in a 24 hours / day cycle . by means of polyethylene and aluminum targets , and positioning the instrument at different angles with respect to the beam axis , it was possible to study the charge resolution of the tof for all light nuclei from hydrogen to carbon , and across a wide energy interval .",
    "results show that the pamela time - of - flight reaches very good performance in the identification of light - nuclei , thanks to the design and quality of the scintillating paddles .",
    "furthermore , beam test data were used to estimate the time resolution of the tof , which resulted in agreement with laboratory tests .",
    "we acknowledge the staff working at gsi , and especially dr .",
    "dieter schardt , for the excellent professionalism and friendly collaboration they offered us during our work in the laboratory .",
    "we would like also to thank the followings technicians of the infn structure of naples for their valuable contribution to the realization of the apparatus : p. parascandolo , g. passeggio , g. pontoriere , e. vanzanella .    00",
    "p. picozza et al . , astropart .",
    "phys , 2007 , 27 , p. 296 .",
    "g. barbarino et al .",
    ", nim a , 2008 , 584 , p. 319 . g. osteria et al . , nim a , 2004 , 518 , p. 161 .",
    "g. barbarino et al . ,",
    "nuclear physics b , 2003 , 125 , p. 298 .",
    "s. straulino et al .",
    ", nim a , 2004 , 530 , p. 168",
    ". s. ricciarini et al . , nim a , 2007 , 582 , p. 892 . w. braunschweig et al . , nim 134 , 1976 , p. 261 . m. ambrosio et al . , nim a , 2002 , 486 , p. 663 . d. alvisi et al .",
    ", nim a , 1999 , 437 , issues 2 - 3 , p. 212 .",
    "r. carbone et al .",
    ", nim a , 2008 , 588 , issues 1 - 2 , p. 235 . g. osteria et al . , nim a , 2004 , 535 , p. 152 . g. a. de nolfo et al . , the astrophysical journal , 2004 , 611 , p. 892"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> pamela is a space telescope orbiting around the earth since june 2006 . </S>",
    "<S> the scientific objectives addressed by the mission are the measurement of the antiprotons and positrons spectra in cosmic rays , the hunt for anti - nuclei as well as the determination of light nuclei fluxes from hydrogen to oxygen in a wide energy range and with very high statistics . in this paper the charge discrimination capabilities of the pamela time - of - flight system for light nuclei , determined during a beam test calibration , will be presented .    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    scintillation detectors , cosmic rays , abundances , satellite - borne experiment 29.40.mc , 96.50.s- , 96.50.sb , 95.40.+s </S>"
  ]
}