{
  "article_text": [
    "the association of solar activity with the cosmic - ray intensity has been studied for various observed effects including forbush decreases @xcite , i.e.  a rapid decrease in the observed galactic cosmic - ray intensity , and ground level enhancements , which are connected to large solar flares .",
    "they can be related to magnetic disturbances in the heliosphere that create transient cosmic - ray intensity variations @xcite . from the observation of such events with different experiments",
    ", an energy dependent description can be obtained .",
    "the heliospheric influence is mostly pronounced for primary particles with low rigidity and has been studied mainly using data of the worldwide neutron monitor network @xcite . with its unique median primary energy of 40  gev for protons ,",
    "the karlsruhe muon telescope fills the energy gap between neutron monitors ( from @xmath1  gev , depending on solar activity state , to @xmath2  gev ) and other muon telescopes ( @xmath3  gv rigidity ) . in the following ,",
    "we report on the detection of forbush decreases and the investigation of ground level enhancements with the karlsruhe muon telescope .",
    "the flux of single muons from the zenith region has been recorded continuously since 1993 with the karlsruhe muon telescope located at forschungszentrum karlsruhe , germany ( 49.094@xmath4n , 8.431@xmath4e , 120  m a.s.l ) .",
    "the set - up is sketched in , details are given by @xcite .",
    "two double layers of scintillation counters are arranged on top of each other , separated by a 16  cm lead absorber , forming a `` tower '' .",
    "each scintillation counter comprises a scintillator ( ne  102 ) with the dimensions @xmath5  m , read out by a photomultiplier via an adiabatic light guide .",
    "a double layer is formed by two scintillation counters arranged parallel to each other and two counters oriented perpendicular to them , forming a @xmath6 detector matrix .",
    "the lead absorber selects muons with energies larger than 0.8  gev .",
    "two such towers with a separation of 1.8  m are operated with a veto trigger logic selecting vertical particles and rejecting showers in which more than one particle hits the detector , thus suppressing the hadronic background to about 0.8% of the events @xcite .",
    "the muon detector is operated in a climatized room at a stable temperature .",
    "the towers of the instrument can be used to calibrate up to 32 liquid ionization chambers for the kascade hadron calorimeter , their data are not included in the present analysis .",
    "this analysis includes 80017  h of data between october 1993 and november 2006 .    from simulations with corsika @xcite and geant 3.21 @xcite ,",
    "properties of the primary particles were investigated .",
    "the simulations include the physics processes in the atmosphere and the propagation through the building surrounding the detector , as well as the trigger conditions of the muon telescope .",
    "it turns out that the muons originate mostly from cosmic - ray protons , of which 95% have zenith angles smaller than @xmath7 .",
    "the differential energy spectrum of primary protons triggering the telescope was derived for parameterized primary spectra in different solar activity states @xcite , taking into account modulation parameters according to @xcite .",
    "the differential trigger rate obtained , in other words the detector response function folded with the primary particle spectrum , is presented in .",
    "the maximum occurs at primary energies of about 15  gev .",
    "the expected counting rate difference between the two activity states is 2.5% .",
    "the median energy @xmath8 of a detector is defined such that one half of the detected events originate from primary particles below ( or above ) @xmath8 .",
    "the median energy of the karlsruhe muon telescope for both simulated spectra is 40  gev .",
    "muons loose energy and decay on the way from their production site in the atmosphere to the detector , yielding a dependence of the detected rate on the height of the production layer and the amount of material traversed above the detector .",
    "corrections were applied to the recorded muon rate using the atmospheric pressure measured at the forschungszentrum karlsruhe .",
    "in addition , balloon ascends at noon and midnight conducted by the german weather service ( dwd ) in stuttgart provide the heights of specific pressure layers including the 150  g/@xmath9 layer ( @xmath10  km ) which is close to the typical production layer of muons triggering the telescope at 130  g/@xmath9 , as determined from simulations .    for each year",
    ", the muon rate was iteratively corrected for a pressure of 1013  hpa and a nominal height of the 150  g/@xmath9 layer of 13.6  km , yielding correction parameters of @xmath11/hpa and @xmath12/km .",
    "this correction eliminates rate variations from the data - set , which are caused by changing atmospheric conditions . for a consistency check",
    ", a rough estimate of the muon lifetime can be deduced from these values , assuming that all muons are produced with the same energy at the same atmospheric depth .",
    "the obtained lifetime of @xmath13s is consistent with the literature value .",
    "[ cols=\">,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     due to their relatively short duration , ground level enhancements ( gles ) are difficult to detect with the karlsruhe muon telescope . therefore , the data were scanned for correlations with all events marked in the gle database , as provided by the bartol group @xcite and listed in .",
    "the muon flux was recorded for events marked with an `` a '' . during events marked with `` i ''",
    "the muon telescope was not active .",
    "the hourly rates for gles 56 to 67 as registered by the karlsruhe muon telescope and the jungfraujoch neutron monitor are depicted in .",
    "jungfraujoch data are scaled by a factor 100 and the muon counting rates are smoothed over a period of three hours .    for gle 57 , no significant excess was observed in the muon counting rate .",
    "however , about seven hours before the ground level enhancement a small peak is visible in the registered muon flux . for gle 58 , no significant muon excess has been observed .",
    "gle 59 , the `` bastille day event '' on july 14 , 2000 has been registered by many detectors , including neutron monitors and space crafts @xcite . in particular , the event could be measured for primary cosmic rays with gev energies @xcite .",
    "it has been detected by the grand muon detector ( 10 gev most probable energy ) @xcite , by the l3+c detector at cern ( @xmath14  gev primary energy ) @xcite , and also by the karlsruhe muon telescope .",
    "an excess in the muon counting rate can be recognized a few hours before the event .",
    "the significance of this structure is under investigation .",
    "if real , it is a possible hint for energy dependent propagation effects or the strongly anisotropic nature of this event .    on easter day 2001",
    "( april 15 ) an event occured ( gle 60 ) which has been observed and discussed by several groups @xcite .",
    "a muon count excess can be recognized at the time of gle 60 , while no signal is observed from gle 61 .",
    "it should also be noted that the jungfraujoch neutron monitor detects gle 60 with a large signal . on the other hand ,",
    "the muon flux is only slightly increased at the time of the event .",
    "some of the greatest bursts in the 23rd solar cycle occurred on 28/29 october and 2 november 2003 ( gle @xmath15 ) .",
    "they are extensively discussed in the literature , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unfortunately , the muon telescope was not active during gles 65 and 67 .",
    "at the time of gle 66 , no significant signal is seen in the muon count rate . however , about one day before gles 65 and 66 a peak can be recognized in the registered muon flux . it is not clear if these increases are statistically significant , since there are gaps in the observing time .",
    "thus , it is not obvious if the detected rate variations are correlated with the ground level enhancements .",
    "unsmoothed hourly count rates of the karlsruhe muon telescope compared to the jungfraujoch neutron monitor data during the forbush decrease in january 2005 are depicted in . for comparison",
    "the reader may refer to for the smoothed counting rate of the same event . in the interval shown , two ground level enhancements ( gle 68 and 69 )",
    "have been observed , the corresponding times are marked in the figure .",
    "gle 69 occoured on january 20 , 2005 and was the second largest gle in fifty years @xcite .",
    "measurements of the aragats multidirectional muon monitor indicate that protons were accelerated at the sun up to energies of 20  gev in this gle @xcite .",
    "protons accelerated during the main phase have a softer energy spectrum than during the initial phase of the event .",
    "it is assumed that protons were accelerated in a process or processes directly related to a solar flare @xcite .",
    "the right - hand panel of shows the region around gle 69 .",
    "no indication for a significant increase in the muon rate associated with gle 69 can be seen in the figure .",
    "the aragats data indicate that the time interval of solar proton flux with very high energies was only very short , this could explain why nothing is seen in the karlsruhe muon telescope data .",
    "in addition , the solar cosmic - ray flux during the initial phase was very anisotropic , another potential reason for the non - observation in the muon rate .",
    "the karlsruhe muon telescope provides information about effects of solar activity on the cosmic - ray flux observed at earth since 1993 .",
    "the recorded muon flux corresponds to 15  gev peak energy ( 40  gev median energy ) for primary protons .",
    "several strong forbush decreases , i.e.  a rapid decrease in the observed galactic cosmic - ray intensity , could be measured with the muon telescope , indicating that these effects can be seen at energies exceeding the typical energies of neutron monitors .",
    "comparing the observed amplitudes to the jungfraujoch neutron monitor data , the spectral index of the events has been estimated .",
    "no dependence of the spectral index on the sunspot number has been found .",
    "however , there are significant differences in the timely development of the rates observed at 4.5  gv and 15  gev for different states of solar activity . for forbush decreases during solar maximum",
    ", the rates of the muon telescope and the neutron monitor behave quite differently , while they are well correlated for periods of low solar activity .",
    "it has been investigated whether ground level enhancements , which are connected to large solar flares , observed between 1997 and 2005 can be detected in the registered muon flux .",
    "for the strong ground level enhancements 59 and 60 a clear signal can be seen in the muon count rate at the times of the events .",
    "this provides direct evidence for particles being accelerated to energies as high as 15  gev during solar flares .",
    "indirect evidence has been obtained previously by observations of lines in the gamma ray spectrum measured during solar flares @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , no signal has been detected for the gles 58 , 61 , 66 , 68 , and 69 .",
    "if the underlying physics processes of all ground level enhancements are the same , this means that the energy spectra of gles 59 and 60 differ from the spectra of the other gles .",
    "another possibility is that the angular distribution of the emitted particles is different for different gles , i.e. in cases with highly anisotropic emission no signal was detected in the muon counting rate .",
    "we are grateful to mrs .",
    "heike bolz for her enthusiastic efforts in continuously operating the karlsruhe muon telescope and to jrgen wochele for his help during the construction of the detector .",
    "we thank the team operating the jungfraujoch neutron monitor for making their data publicly available .",
    "we acknowledge the help of the deutscher wetter - dienst ( dwd ) and the institut fr meteorologie und klimaforschung of forschungszentrum karlsruhe providing atmospheric data .",
    "we thank jan kuijpers for critically reading the manuscript and the anonymous referees for useful advice .",
    "tylka , c.m.s .",
    "cohen , w.f .",
    "dietrich , et al . ,",
    "shock geometry , seed populations , and the origin of variable elemental composition at high energies in large gradual solar particle events , astrophysical journal 625 , 474 - 495 , 2005 .",
    "i.g.usoskin , g. a. kovaltsov , k. mursula , et al . , long - term cosmic ray modulation by heliospheric parameters : non - linear relations , proceedings 28th international cosmic ray conference , tsukuba 3803 - 3806 , 2003 .",
    "vashenyuk , y.v .",
    "balabin , b.b .",
    "gvozdevsky , et al . , relativistic solar cosmic rays in january 20 , 2005 event on the ground based observations , proc .",
    "cosmic ray conf . , pune 1 , 209 - 212 , 2005 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> since 1993 , a muon telescope located at forschungszentrum karlsruhe ( karlsruhe muon telescope ) has been recording the flux of single muons mostly originating from primary cosmic - ray protons with dominant energies in the @xmath0  gev range . </S>",
    "<S> the data are used to investigate the influence of solar effects on the flux of cosmic - rays measured at earth . </S>",
    "<S> non - periodic events like forbush decreases and ground level enhancements are detected in the registered muon flux . </S>",
    "<S> a selection of recent events will be presented and compared to data from the jungfraujoch neutron monitor . </S>",
    "<S> the data of the karlsruhe muon telescope help to extend the knowledge about forbush decreases and ground level enhancements to energies beyond the neutron monitor regime .            </S>",
    "<S> cosmic rays , muon telescope , heliosphere , forbush decrease , solar energetic event , ground level enhancement 94.20.wq , 96.50.s-,96.50.xy,96.60.q-,98.70.sa    = 0.5 cm </S>"
  ]
}