{
  "article_text": [
    "advances in near - infrared detector technology have made possible the identification of large samples of massive , red galaxies at redshifts when the universe was less than half its current age ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these objects , according to estimates based on their k - band fluxes , have stellar masses comparable to the most massive galaxies in place today @xcite .",
    "extremely red objects ( eros ) are among these galaxies .",
    "their extremely red optical - near infrared colours , indicate either a star - forming galaxy with heavy obscuration or an aged stellar population with little recent star formation @xcite . in the latter case ,",
    "the implied age of the stellar population is uncomfortably close to the age of the universe at the redshift of observation @xcite .    at face value",
    "either ero scenario might appear difficult to reconcile with a universe in which structure in the dark matter grows in a bottom - up sequence , with smaller haloes merging to make more massive haloes .",
    "if the universe is assumed to be populated by low mass dark matter haloes at high redshift , and , as is traditionally argued , these haloes are ineffective at making galaxies due to feedback from supernova explosions , how can the stars in eros have formed by the high redshifts suggested by observations ? where are the deep potential wells in which enough cold gas has accumulated for luminous , dusty starbursts to take place ? in practice , two effects act to make it possible for the stars in massive objects to form at high redshift in a cold dark matter model .",
    "first , the range of halo masses collapsing at a given redshift is actually very broad in the cdm model , due to the shape of the power spectrum of density fluctuations ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "second , the progenitors of massive haloes form at an earlier epoch than similar mass progenitors which end up in less extreme mass haloes . this in turn means that these progenitors can start to form stars earlier ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "earlier generations of hierarchical galaxy formation models did indeed fail to match the observed abundance of eros , by around an order of magnitude @xcite and predicted an ero redshift distribution that was too shallow @xcite .",
    "this initial failure led to attempts to resurrect the monolithic collapse scenario for massive galaxy formation , in which all the stars in a galaxy form at the same epoch @xcite .",
    "pure luminosity evolution ( ple ) models , simple parametric functions which are meant to describe the brightness of a stellar population as a function of time , can be adjusted to give reasonable matches to the number counts and redshift distributions of eros ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , such an approach soon falls apart when applied to more than one type of galaxy .",
    "@xcite demonstrated that ple models that give mass - to - light ratios consistent with the red sequence of galaxies found in clusters have the drawback that they overpredict the number counts of magnitude - limited samples at faint magnitudes .",
    "recently there has been much development in the modelling of the formation of massive galaxies .",
    "this activity was primarily directed at solving the problem of matching the bright end of the local galaxy luminosity function , but also has implications for the abundance of massive galaxies at high redshift . typically , hierarchical models , based on the current best fitting values of the cosmological parameters ,",
    "produce too many massive galaxies at the present day unless some physical process is invoked to restrict gas cooling in massive haloes ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* for a review of plausible mechanisms ) .",
    "the most promising candidates are the heating of gas in quasi - hydrostatically cooling haloes in which `` radio mode '' agn feedback is considered to be effective @xcite , the ejection of gas from intermediate mass haloes in a wind , which could be driven by supernovae ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or `` quasar mode '' feedback which follows accretion of cold gas driven by a galaxy merger or the collapse of an unstable disk @xcite .",
    "recent models ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) incoporate both the radio and quasar modes of feedback and their corresponding impact on star formation in the host galaxy .",
    "several authors have gone back to the problem of the abundance of massive galaxies following the recent improvements in the theoretical models .",
    "there are several conditions to bear in mind when assessing the merits of a model which claims to reproduce a given dataset , such as the number counts of eros : ( i ) does the model attempt to follow the full galaxy population or just some component of it , such as spheroids ?",
    "( ii ) does the model follow the galaxy population to the present day ? can the same model , which successfully matches observations at high redshift , also reproduce local data ?",
    "( iii ) how is the comparison with observations carried out ?",
    "is it direct , relying on photometric selection of galaxies or is it indirect , using quantities which are not directly observed , such as stellar mass , to compare galaxies ?",
    "@xcite compared calculations made with eulerian and lagrangian gas - dynamics codes and found that , with their choice of  sub - grid \" physics to describe baryonic processes , they did not have a problem in reproducing the number of massive galaxies seen at high redshift . however , producing the observed number of galaxies with red colours proved to be more challenging .",
    "@xcite found they could obtain the correct number of eros if they assumed all eros to be heavily extincted starbursts ( applying by hand an extinction equivalent to @xmath2 to each galaxy ) , and without any galaxies which displayed the colours of old , passively evolving stellar populations .",
    "observationally , passive galaxies and dusty starbursts contribute roughly equally to the counts of eros ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "models in which radio mode agn feedback suppresses gas cooling in massive haloes seem to have taken significant steps towards solving the massive red galaxy problem .",
    "@xcite studied the abundance of massive galaxies in the semi - analytical model of @xcite .",
    "this model actually overpredicts the number counts of galaxies faintwards of @xmath3 and predicts more extended redshift distributions than are observed , which means that the model has _ too much _ star formation at high redshift .",
    "@xcite , on the other hand , claim to reproduce the number of eros with @xmath4 , but not the number defined by redder cuts . the @xcite model , however , overpredicts the number of bright galaxies in the k - band luminosity function today .",
    "another problem is that this model predicts a lower median redshift for k - selected galaxies than is observed .",
    "alternative models have been proposed in which feedback in massive haloes occurs during the quasar mode of mass accretion onto black holes , i.e. the qso phase of an agn .",
    "the qso episode is assumed to be triggered by a galaxy interaction or merger , or the dynamical instability of a galactic disk . as a result",
    "cold gas moves towards the centre of the galaxy , and some fraction is added to a supermassive black hole via an accretion disk .",
    "the qso activity peaks at high redshift , when the merger rate is higher and when larger reservoirs of cold gas are in place . at the onset of the qso phase ,",
    "the remaining gas in the galaxy is blasted out and the star formation terminates @xcite .",
    "this quasar mode feedback is distinct from the radio mode mentioned above which acts predominantly at later times or in haloes which are massive enough for quasi - static hot atmospheres to form . in the radio mode , the black hole is fuelled by the accretion of gas in a cooling flow .",
    "quasar mode feedback has been implemented into several semi - analytical models .",
    "@xcite argued that qso feedback eventually truncates star formation , causing the stellar population of the galaxy to age , resulting in eros .",
    "however , these authors were only able to track galactic spheroids in their model . @xcite consider a semi - analytical code with a new cooling model which is able to match the counts but not the redshifts of sub - mm galaxies using a standard stellar initial mass function .",
    "however , their preferred model overpredicts the local abundance of bright galaxies by at least an order of magnitude .",
    "perhaps the most successful model of this type to date is that of @xcite which is able to reproduce the counts and redshift distribution of eros , along with the rest - frame b - band luminosity function over the interval @xmath5 .",
    "with qso feedback models , the problem of overcooling in massive haloes at low redshifts remains , unless the gas expelled in the qso feedback episode is prevented from being recaptured . as mentioned above",
    ", recent models have incorporated both radio and quasar modes of feedback @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we examine the predictions for eros from two published semi - analytical models , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the models invoke different mechanisms to suppress star formation in massive galaxies . in @xcite",
    ", a wind ejects gas from low and intermediate mass haloes , with the mass ejection rate tied to the star formation rate . due to the ejection of gas ,",
    "the baryon fraction in massive haloes is therefore lower than the universal baryon fraction , reducing the cooling rate .",
    "the @xcite model invokes radio - mode agn feedback to suppress gas cooling in massive haloes .",
    "the parameters in both models are set by the requirement that they reproduce a subset of local galaxy observations .",
    "@xcite investigated the predictions of these models for the abundance of luminous red galaxies @xcite . here",
    ", we extend this comparison to much higher redshifts by looking at the predictions for eros .",
    "this is the first in a series of three papers . in this paper",
    "we look at the number counts , redshift distributions and other basic properties of eros in the models ; in the second paper we study the clustering of eros and their descendants and in the third paper we compare the implications of different selections for red galaxies .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section  [ sec :",
    "model ] , we summarize the two galaxy formation models used to study the eros population .",
    "the predictions for the abundance and redshift distribution of eros are given in section  3 .",
    "the nature of eros in the model is discussed in section  4 and their basic properties are presented in section  5 .",
    "our conclusions are presented in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "the bands used here correspond to the r band from subaru , centred at @xmath6 @xmath7 , and the k band from ukirt , with a central wavelength of @xmath8 @xmath7 .",
    "all magnitudes used in this paper are on the vega system , unless otherwise specified .",
    "the cosmological parameters of the models are given in section  [ sec : model ] .",
    "we predict the abundance and properties of eros in a @xmath0cdm universe using the galform semi - analytical galaxy formation code developed by @xcite , and extended by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "semi - analytical models use simple , physically motivated recipes and rules to follow the fate of baryons in a universe in which structures grow hierarchically through gravitational instability ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for an introduction to hierarchical galaxy formation models ) .    in this paper",
    "we focus our attention on two published models , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the parameters of these models were fixed with reference to a subset of the available observations of galaxies , mostly at low redshift . in this paper",
    "we extract predictions for the number and nature of ero galaxies without adjusting the values of any of the model parameters .",
    "although none of the datasets used to set the model parameters explicitly referred to eros , one of our priorities in adjusting parameter values is to obtain as good a match as possible to the bright end of the local field galaxy luminosity function .",
    "observationally , the bright end of the luminosity function tends to be dominated by galaxies with red colours and passively evolving stellar populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "hence by reproducing the observed luminosity function , the models have approximately the right number of bright red galaxies today . by testing the predictions for eros , we are therefore probing the evolution of the bright red galaxy population in the models to @xmath9 .",
    "in addition to reproducing local galaxy data , the models have some notable successes at high redshift .",
    "the @xcite model matches the inferred evolution of the stellar mass function to @xmath10 .",
    "the @xcite model matches the number and redshift distribution of galaxies detected by their emission at sub - millimetre wavelengths ( see also the predictions presented by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the luminosity function of lyman break galaxies and the abundance and clustering of lyman - alpha emitters @xcite .",
    "we now recap some of the key features of the models for the study presented in this paper and draw attention to places where the two models differ . a similar comparison of the two models can be found in almeida et  al .",
    "( 2007 , 2008 ) . for a comprehensive inventory of the ingredients of the models ,",
    "we refer the reader to the original papers ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* for a recap of the ingredients of @xcite ) .",
    "* _ cosmology .",
    "_ @xcite use the canonical ( @xmath0cdm ) parameters : matter density , @xmath11 , cosmological constant , @xmath12 , baryon density , @xmath13 , a normalization of density fluctuations given by @xmath14 and a hubble constant @xmath15 in units of 100 km s@xmath16 mpc@xmath16 . @xcite",
    "adopt the cosmological parameters of the millennium simulation @xcite , which are in better agreement with recent constraints from measurements of the cosmic microwave background radiation and large scale galaxy clustering ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21 . * _ dark matter halo merger trees .",
    "_ the @xcite model employs merger trees generated using the monte carlo algorithm introduced by @xcite .",
    "the @xcite model uses halo merger histories extracted from the millennium simulation @xcite .",
    "these two approaches have been shown to yield similar results for galaxies brighter than a limiting faint magnitude which is determined by the mass resolution of the n - body trees @xcite . in the case of the millennium",
    "merger trees , this limit is several magnitudes fainter than @xmath22 and so will have little consequence for the study of eros , which are much brighter .",
    "we compute number counts in the @xcite model by growing merger histories for representative grids of halo masses laid down at a range of output redshifts , rather than outputting the branches of one set of trees grown from @xmath23 . in this way",
    ", we avoid any biases in the progenitor distribution which may develop over large lookback times .",
    "recently , a more accurate monte carlo prescription for generating merger histories has been developed and it would be instructive to re - run the @xcite model with these modified trees @xcite . * _ feedback processes . _",
    "both models regulate star formation by the injection of energy from supernova explosions into the cold gas reservoir . in @xcite , there are two consequences of this energy injection which are parameterized in different ways and which also differ in the fate of the reheated gas . in the `` standard '' mode of supernova feedback , cold gas is heated and ejected from the galactic disk . in @xcite ,",
    "this gas is not allowed to recool until a new halo has formed ( as signalled by a doubling of the halo mass ) , whereupon this reheated gas is incorporated into the hot gas atmosphere of the new halo . in the `` superwind '' mode of feedback ,",
    "reheated gas is expelled completely from the halo , and in this particular implementation is never allowed to recool .",
    "these two modes of supernova feedback can operate side - by - side in a given halo , with relative strengths determined by the parameter values chosen ( see * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite give a more detailed discussion of these modes of feedback .",
    "the superwind suppresses the formation of bright galaxies in massive haloes .",
    "it achieves this by ejecting gas from the progenitors of the massive halo , so that the hot gas reservoir is depleted , and the massive halo effectively has a baryon fraction that is lower than the universal value .",
    "one concern is that the parameters in the feedback recipes are chosen without reference to the total amount of energy available from supernova explosions .",
    "once a reasonable match to the bright end of the luminosity function has been obtained , the implied efficiency with which the energy released by supernovae must couple to heating the intergalactic medium is uncomfortably high .",
    "@xcite also invoke `` standard '' supernovae feedback , though with very different parameters values than those used in @xcite .",
    "this is due in part to a modification in the handling of the gas reheated by supernova feedback . rather than being placed in limbo until a new halo forms",
    ", the reheated gas is incorporated into the hot halo after some number of halo dynamical times .",
    "hence gas can recool more rapidly in @xcite , which explains why the standard supernova feedback parameters are set to values which correspond to stronger feedback than in @xcite in @xcite , there is no superwind feedback .",
    "the formation of bright galaxies is suppressed by staunching the cooling flow in massive haloes using `` radio - mode '' agn feedback .",
    "this is achieved by the injection of energy into the quasistatic hot halo , which is generated by the accretion of matter onto a central supermassive black hole ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a description of the model of black hole growth ) .",
    "* _ star formation . _ : in the models , stars can form quiescently in galactic disks or in bursts .",
    "the two models adopt different redshift dependencies for the time - scale for quiescent star formation . @xcite",
    "adopt a fixed time - scale whereas in @xcite , the time - scale depends on the dynamical time . in both models , mergers can trigger starbursts , though the conditions for a burst to occur are different . @xcite",
    "include only bursts triggered by galaxy mergers , whereas @xcite also consider bursts which result from disks becoming dynamically unstable to the formation of a bar . *",
    "_ stellar initial mass function ( imf ) . _",
    "both models adopt the @xcite imf for quiescent star formation .",
    "@xcite also use this imf in starbursts , whereas @xcite invoke a top - heavy imf .",
    "this choice , though controversial , is the key to the success of @xcite in reproducing sub - mm galaxies number counts and also the metallicity of the intracluster medium @xcite .",
    "the yield of metals and the fraction of gas recycled in star formation are determined by the choice of imf .    finally in this section , we discuss one element which the models have in common , the treatment of dust extinction , which is important for our purposes as it has an impact on galaxy colours .",
    "both models employ an extension of the dust extinction calculation introduced by @xcite .",
    "galform makes a self - consistent calculation of the dust optical depth of a galaxy , computing the gas mass and metallicity based on a chemical evolution model and making a prediction for the scale length of the disk and bulge components .",
    "the size calculation is also explained by @xcite ( see almeida et  al .",
    "2007 for a test of this calculation for spheroids ) . in brief , for the disk component",
    ", the model assumes the conservation of angular momentum of the gas .",
    "the size of spheroids is calculated following a merger by considering the conservation of energy and the application of the virial theorem .",
    "the size of the disk and bulge components also takes into account the gravity of the baryons and the dark matter .",
    "the stars are assumed to be mixed in with the dust , with the possibility that the two components may have different scale heights .",
    "the dust is assumed to have the properties consistent with the extinction law observed in the milky way .",
    "an inclination angle is assigned at random to the galactic disk .",
    "the dust extinction is then computed using the results of radiative transfer calculations carried out by ferrara et  al .",
    "this model is a significant improvement over calculations using foreground screens , in which a slab of dust is assumed to be along the line of sight to the stars and an empirical estimate is made of the optical depth .",
    "the extension we apply to the dust extinction model of @xcite is to assume that some fraction of the dust is in the form of dense molecular clouds where the stars form ( see baugh et  al .",
    "this modifies the extinction of starlight , particularly at very short wavelengths .",
    "emission in the ultra - violet is dominated by hot , massive stars which have short lifetimes .",
    "the massive stars spend a significant fraction of their lifetime inside a molecular cloud , depending upon the time - scale adopted for the star to escape from the cloud , which is a parameter of the dust model @xcite .",
    "this hybrid scheme with diffuse and molecular cloud dust components mimics the more rigorous calculation of dust extinction carried out by the spectro - photometric code grasil @xcite .",
    "here we compare the abundance and redshift distribution of eros and k - selected samples predicted by the two models with observations .",
    "we begin by considering how well the models reproduce the number counts of k - selected galaxies (  3.1 ) , before presenting predictions for the surface density of eros (  3.2 ) .",
    "redshift distributions are discussed in  [ sec : nz ] .",
    "= 8.5truecm    the local k - band luminosity function is one of the datasets used to fix the values of the parameters which define each semi - analytical model .",
    "a comparison of the model predictions to these data is given in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite also show how the @xcite and @xcite models compare against observational estimates of the rest - frame k - band luminosity function to z=1.5 . in the @xcite model",
    ", there is remarkably little evolution at the bright end with redshift , in very good agreement with the observations .",
    "the @xcite model does predict a modest but significant degree of evolution at the bright end .    before considering the surface density of eros , it is instructive to first look at the overall k - band number counts , which are sensitive to the evolution of the _ observer _ frame k - band luminosity function .",
    "the motivation for this is the following .",
    "a deficiency in the predicted number counts of eros could be explained in part by the failure of a model to match the total galaxy counts .",
    "[ fig : kdata ] shows legend : @xcite ] the differential k - band number counts , after dividing by a power law fit to the observed counts to expand the useful dynamic range on the y - axis .",
    "what is plotted is effectively the deviation of the counts from the power law that best fits the compiled observational data .",
    "there is a considerable spread in the observed counts at bright magnitudes ( @xmath24 ) , which could be a sign that surveys in particular directions are affected by a local hole in the galaxy distribution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the @xcite model is higher than many of the observed counts at these magnitudes , but does agree well with some of the datasets . the @xcite model on the other hand underpredicts the bright counts by a factor of three .",
    "this discrepancy can be traced to a mismatch between the predicted and observed shape of the k - band luminosity function around @xmath25 .",
    "the observed number counts are most sensitive to the form of the luminosity function close to @xmath25 , whereas when assessing a plot of a luminosity function , the eye is naturally drawn to the faint and bright ends .",
    "the scatter between the various observational estimates of the counts is still almost a factor of two at faint magnitudes . at @xmath26 ,",
    "the @xcite counts are a factor of four lower than the prediction of the @xcite model .",
    "the @xcite and @xcite model predictions bracket the observational data at @xmath26 and converge at @xmath27 .",
    "= 8.5truecm    as we discussed in the introduction , reproducing the abundance of eros has previously eluded many hierarchical models , but is a necessary requirement for any model which aims to explain the nature of these objects . in fig .  [",
    "fig : erodndm ] we compare the observed counts legends : @xcite ] with the predicted counts for samples of eros defined by different colour cuts , @xmath28 and @xmath29 .",
    "the dispersion between observational estimates is due in part to the use of different filters , the application of different apertures to determine colours and sample variance due to the small fields used @xcite .",
    "the predictions of the @xcite model reproduce the observed abundance of eros impressively well , for all the colour cuts shown , which is remarkable as none of the model parameters have been tuned to achieve this level of agreement .",
    "the observational data for eros defined by @xmath4 show the least dispersion .",
    "these results are matched well by the @xcite model , except around @xmath30 where the model slightly overpredicts the number counts by a factor of @xmath31 .",
    "@xcite overestimates the number counts of eros with @xmath32 , particularly around @xmath33 where the discrepancy is close to a factor of five .",
    "the excess of eros in the bower et  al .",
    "model could result from the star formation in massive galaxies being quenched too efficiently at high redshift by the agn heating of the hot halo , which cuts off the supply of cold gas and hence leads to old stellar populations .",
    "an alternative explanation could lie in the treatment of satellite galaxies in the model .",
    "typically in semi - analytical models , when a halo merges with another halo , the hot gas is assumed to be stripped completely from the smaller halo .",
    "the largest galaxy in the newly formed halo is called the central galaxy , and any gas which subsequently cools is directed onto this galaxy .",
    "star formation in the satellite ceases when its reservoir of cold gas has been exhausted ; this is sometimes referred to as `` strangulation '' .",
    "motivated by the results of gas dynamics simulations of the efficiency of hot gas stripping by ram pressure from mccarthy et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) , font et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) presented a revised version of galform in which satellites retain some fraction of their hot gas haloes , depending on their orbits .",
    "font et  al .",
    "found that this new model changes the fraction of satellites with red colours and gives a better match to the colour distribution of satellites in galaxy groups as determined from the sloan survey by weinnmann et  al .",
    "however , this extension of the gas cooling model is unlikely to have a significant impact on the predicted counts of eros , since the galaxies whose colours are affected are primarily fainter than @xmath25 .",
    "we show the contribution of central galaxies to the counts of eros in fig .",
    "[ fig : erodndm ] . at faint magnitudes ,",
    "satellites account for a substantial fraction of the ero population , and the predictions of the bower et  al .",
    "model are in better agreement with the observed counts if satellites are excluded altogether .",
    "the font et  al .",
    "paper was in the final stages of being refereed when our paper was being prepared for submission ; the number counts of eros in the font et  al .",
    "model will be discussed in the other papers in this series .",
    "the agreement is less impressive for the @xcite model .",
    "[ fig : erodndm ] shows that this model typically underestimates the number counts of eros by more than an order of magnitude .",
    "appealing to scatter resulting from the small size of the fields surveyed to measure the ero counts is overly optimistic .",
    "the errors shown in fig .  [ fig : erodndm ] are poisson counting errors .",
    "eros are believed to be strongly clustered ( see paper ii ) and so the poisson error is a lower limit on the error , to which sampling variance in the spatial distribution of eros should be added .",
    "however , it has been argued that this is unlikely to account for more than a factor of two scatter in number density @xcite .",
    "another possibility to improve the @xcite predictions would be to force the model to agree with the overall @xmath34band counts . in the previous section",
    ", we pointed out that at @xmath26 the @xcite model underpredicts the total counts by a factor of @xmath35 .",
    "one could imagine applying an equal correction to the predicted luminosities in all bands ( to preserve galaxy colours ) , in order to force the @xcite k - band counts to agree with the observations .",
    "upon doing so there would still be a factor of 2.5 to 3 discrepancy with the observed ero counts .",
    "some fraction of eros are likely to be heavily dust extincted , a point we return to in section [ sec : mix ] .",
    "it is therefore important to make a realistic calculation of the degree to which galaxy colours are extincted in order to be able to make robust predictions for the counts of eros .",
    "as we shall see in the next subsection , the typical redshift of eros with @xmath4 is @xmath36 .",
    "the r - band samples the rest frame near ultra - violet ( @xmath37 ) for a galaxy at this redshift . in our standard calculations",
    "we use a refinement of the dust extinction model introduced by @xcite , as described in section 2 , in which the dust is assumed to be in two components , diffuse dust and molecular clouds .",
    "we have experimented with changing the fraction of dust contained in molecular clouds ( the default choice is 25% ) and do not find a significant difference in the predicted counts of eros in the @xcite model .",
    "we also repeated the calculation using the spectro - photometric code grasil @xcite .",
    "again , we find a similar amount of extinction to that obtained with the less expensive calculation carried out with galform alone .",
    "we shall see in the next section that the @xcite model predicts very few dusty starburst eros .",
    "this can also be connected to the lack of a break in the predicted shape of the ero counts in @xcite .",
    "the observations of both @xcite and @xcite show evidence for the presence of a break in the slope of number counts at @xmath38 $ ] for eros with @xmath4 and @xmath39 $ ] for eros with @xmath40 . this has led to speculation that there may be a change in the nature of eros around this magnitude , with a transition from the dominance of old galaxies at low redshifts and to dusty starbursts at high redshift .",
    "no such feature is apparent in the @xcite model , except for eros with @xmath32 . to investigate if the lack of a break ( and the overall deficit of ero counts ) is due to the choice of burst timescale adopted in @xcite , we reran the model with a burst time scale set to twice the bulge dynamical time , with a minimum allowed value of @xmath41 myr .",
    "the original parameter values adopted in @xcite were 50 times the dynamical time with a minimum timescale of 200 myr .",
    "changing to a shorter burst duration had little impact on the predicted number of eros .",
    "the disagreement between the @xcite model and observations suggests that the superwind feedback used in this model could be too efficient for bright galaxies at @xmath42 , delaying their formation , and that bursts of star formation maybe should also be allowed to be triggered by other events besides mergers ( such as the dynamical instabilities of disks ) , in order to try to account for the larger observed number of red , dusty star - forming galaxies .",
    "= 8.5truecm    = 8.5truecm    the colour criteria that classify a galaxy as an ero are designed to select objects at @xmath1 based on combining simple star formation histories with stellar population synthesis models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    ". however , the redshift selection can be different when dealing with hierarchical galaxy formation models , due to the rich variety of star formation histories that can be generated ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "in this section we present the redshift distributions of eros predicted by the @xcite and @xcite models .",
    "we start by testing the model predictions against observational data for k - selected galaxies , since eros are a subsample of these .",
    "the predicted differential redshift distributions of galaxies brighter than @xmath43 are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : nz1 ] , and are compared with the observational data from the k20 survey @xcite .",
    "this survey covers an area of 52 @xmath44 and contains 480 galaxies with @xmath45 .",
    "the spectroscopic completeness is @xmath46 ; most of the incompleteness is for galaxies at @xmath42 , for which it was particularly hard to extract redshifts , unless strong h@xmath47 was present in emission .",
    "where a spectroscopic redshift was not available , a photometric redshift was estimated using multiband photometry .",
    "observations by @xcite find a similar redshift distribution to that of the k20 survey , using a larger sample of galaxies , @xmath48 in 0.6 @xmath49 , but with only @xmath50 spectroscopic detections and so a much heavier reliance on photometric redshifts .",
    "the spike in the k20 redshift distribution at @xmath51 is due to the presence of two clusters . ignoring this spike",
    ", it can be seen that @xcite makes an accurate prediction of the redshift distribution of k - selected galaxies out to @xmath52 . at higher redshifts ,",
    "the @xcite model overpredicts the number of objects .",
    "this is reinforced by the fact that the median redshift predicted by @xcite model , @xmath53 , is comparable to but slightly higher than that observed by @xcite , @xmath54 ( excluding the two clusters ; @xmath55 otherwise ) .",
    "such good agreement is in contrast with the @xcite model which predicts a narrower redshift distribution around a lower redshift value , @xmath56 .",
    "[ fig : nz1 ] shows that the observation of significant numbers of galaxies with @xmath42 favours the @xcite model ; in the @xcite model it is much less likely that one would find galaxies at such redshifts .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : s_morfo ]    table  [ tab : s_morfo ] summarizes the predicted percentages of _ quiescent _ and _ starburst _ galaxies for k - selected samples and for eros , according to the classification methods outlined above . the magnitude range has been chosen to be close to that used in observations .",
    "spectroscopic studies of eros , with @xmath4 or @xmath57 and magnitude limits around @xmath58 , find roughly equal numbers of passively evolving and dusty star forming eros .",
    "similar ratios where found in observational studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that used the pozzetti & mannucci color - colour diagram to distinguish between _ quiescent _ and _ starburst _ eros .",
    "therefore , the predicted mix of _ quiescent _ and _ starburst _ eros does not match the observations .",
    "the @xcite model underpredicts the number of dusty star forming eros .",
    "this is likely to be due to the predicted scarcity , @xmath59 , of _ bursty _ galaxies among eros .",
    "this result can be connected with the number counts and redshift distribution of eros , which suggest the need to review the star formation at @xmath42 in the @xcite model .",
    "either the star formation is quenched too soon due to a lack of cold gas or the burst timescale is too short .",
    "table  [ tab : s_morfo ] shows the tendency for the percentage of galaxies classified by the lookback time of the burst as _ quiescent _ to fall with increasing redshift .",
    "this matches the expectation for young galaxies to become the dominant population at high redshift .",
    "nevertheless , this tendency is not as clear when the classification is made following the @xcite colour - colour method .",
    "no clear dependency is found in the ratio between _ quiescent _ and _ starburst _ for k - selected galaxies with magnitude range .",
    "the same can be said for eros classified with the @xcite method .",
    "however , the percentage of _ quiescent _ eros , defined by the occurrence of their last burst , increases by @xmath60% from a bright magnitude range , @xmath61 , to a faint one , @xmath62 .",
    "@xcite observed the opposite tendency , though with a smaller variation ( a @xmath63 change ) . comparing observations from studies with different magnitude limits @xcite no clear tendency",
    "@xcite proposed that the change in the slope of ero number counts evident in fig .",
    "[ fig : erodndm ] is due to a change in the nature of bright and faint eros .    from table  [ tab : s_morfo",
    "] there is a clear tendency for the reddest eros to be dominated by quiescent galaxies , independent of the classification method .",
    "the same tendency was found by @xcite , whose sample of eros , was classified into old and starburst using the @xcite method .",
    "finally , following the scheme set out by @xcite , the models trace the growth of supermassive black holes , so in principle it is possible to identify if an ero also has some sort of nuclear activity .",
    "the mass of the black hole may grow through mergers of pre - existing black holes , the accretion of cold gas during a starburst or the accretion of cooling flow gas in a quasi - static halo .",
    "the accretion of cold gas during mergers is usually associated with a qso phase and the feeding of the black hole from the cooling flow with a `` radio mode '' of activity @xcite .",
    "the timescale for the `` radio mode '' activity is ill - defined in the model .",
    "some fraction of the mass that would be involved in a cooling flow is diverted onto the black hole and the energy released stifles the cooling .",
    "this is assumed to operate over the lifetime of the halo .    in the case of qso activity , the timescale for the accretion of cold gas onto the black hole is specified more transparently , but is poorly constrained .",
    "the choice of timescale has an impact on the luminosity of the qso and so is chosen to reproduce the qso luminosity function @xcite . with the current choice of parameters for these timescales , none of the eros modelled by @xcite show qso activity .",
    "observations suggest that the presence of agns among eros is rare , and when present they are likely to be in a weak phase , rather than in a qso state .",
    "@xcite detected @xmath64 ( @xmath65 ) eros with radio emission that was compatible with a weak agn , and @xmath41 ( @xmath66 ) were detected in x - ray , which suggested an agn in a stronger phase .",
    "@xcite estimated that @xmath67 of their radio detected eros were agns .",
    "= 8.5truecm    in this section we explore the model predictions for basic properties of eros , such as luminosity , stellar mass , host halo mass , galaxy size and age .",
    "given that the @xcite model gives the best match to the observed counts of eros , we shall again only show predictions from this model in this section .",
    "[ fig : bower_lf ] shows the predicted @xmath34band luminosity function at @xmath68 , for all galaxies and for different samples of eros defined by @xmath69 colour .",
    "@xcite showed that the luminosity function of all galaxies in the @xmath70-band agrees well with the available observations up to @xmath71 .",
    "[ fig : bower_lf ] shows that faintwards of @xmath22 , only a fraction of galaxies have the colour required to be classified as an ero .",
    "furthermore this fraction falls dramatically with declining luminosity .",
    "the fraction of faint galaxies that are eros also drops significantly as the @xmath69 colour threshold gets redder .",
    "brightwards of @xmath25 , however , essentially all galaxies are predicted to be eros , until @xmath72 is reached .",
    "this result matches the observations of @xcite , who found the reddest galaxies at @xmath73 to be also the brightest in k - band .",
    "= 8.5truecm      we first compare the predicted stellar masses in a @xmath70-selected sample with masses estimated from the k20 survey .",
    "the contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : mass_k ] show the distribution of stellar mass for @xcite galaxies with @xmath74 at z=2 .",
    "each contour represents a change in the number density of galaxies by a factor of 10 .",
    "the dotted line shows a best fit to the stellar mass - @xmath70-band apparent magnitude relation .",
    "the dashed lines show the best fit to the mass estimated for galaxies in the same magnitude range around @xmath75 in the k20 survey @xcite .",
    "the two estimates correspond to the best fits when using the full photometry ( lower line ) or just one colour ( @xmath69 , termed the maximal mass estimate ) .",
    "note that these curves have been shifted to account for the different stellar initial mass function ( imf ) adopted by @xcite .",
    "@xcite adopt a @xcite imf , whereas @xcite use a @xcite imf . the difference in mass to light ratio depends on star formation history and metallicity .",
    "@xcite give some examples of how the mass to light ratios differ for these two choices of imf .",
    "for a stellar population with age @xmath76gyr , they state that the mass to light ratio is a factor @xmath77 higher when using a @xcite imf compared with @xcite ; the difference becomes a factor 2.2 for older populations .",
    "we have applied an indicative correction , dividing the masses inferred with a @xcite imf by a factor 1.7 .",
    "the stellar masses estimated by @xcite for k20 galaxies are in very good agreement with the model predictions .",
    "= 8.5truecm    we now compare the stellar masses of samples defined by a @xmath70-band selection and a @xmath69 colour threshold .",
    "[ fig : mass ] shows the stellar mass distribution of galaxies at redshifts @xmath68 and @xmath78 , in two magnitude bins : @xmath79 , which probes the region around @xmath25 in the luminosity function and @xmath80 , which is sensitive to the faint end of the luminosity function at these redshifts .",
    "[ fig : mass ] clearly shows the tendency for redder galaxies to be more massive , independent of the redshift or magnitude range .",
    "this distinction in the mass of eros is more pronounced for the fainter magnitude range , due to the smaller fraction of eros .    at @xmath68 ,",
    "the @xcite model predicts that galaxies with @xmath80 have a median stellar mass of @xmath81 , while the median mass of the subset of these galaxies which are also redder than @xmath82 is appreciably higher , @xmath83 .",
    "therefore , eros are predicted to be the most massive galaxies present at the time .",
    "@xcite predicts that eros are indeed the most massive galaxies in the redshift range @xmath84 .",
    "in particular , at @xmath68 , eros with @xmath85 and @xmath86 account for @xmath87 of all galaxies with stellar masses in excess of @xmath88 , in remarkably good agreement with the fraction found observationally by @xcite . this percentage increases with redshift .",
    "the stellar mass distributions at higher redshift extend to larger masses than those at lower redshift .",
    "this arises because we are using a fixed apparent magnitude bin and simply sample intrinsically more luminous , and consequently more massive galaxies at high redshift .",
    "galform predicts the size of the disk and bulge components of galaxies by tracking the angular momentum of the gas which cools to make a galactic disk , and , in the case of mergers , by applying the conservation of energy and the virial theorem . in fig .",
    "[ fig : r50 ] we plot the predicted median half - mass radius of eros as a function of apparent magnitude , and compare this with observational determinations of the radii of eros from @xcite .",
    "the shaded region in fig .",
    "[ fig : r50 ] shows the 90-percentile range of the model predictions .",
    "whilst there is some overlap between the model predictions and the observational estimates at faint magnitudes , the model galaxies are on the whole too small by around a factor of two or more .",
    "it is possible that the radii of some of the observed galaxies may be overestimated , due to the ero being associated with two galaxies which are in the process of merging , whereas the model predictions refer to the size of the merger remnant or to the sizes of the progenitor galaxies . in the @xcite model we find that @xmath89 of the eros present at @xmath68 experienced a merger in the preceeding 1 gyr . if this fraction of eros are considered as close pairs in the process of merging and are assigned larger sizes ( by a factor 2 ) , then the predicted @xmath90-percentile range would cover most of @xcite data points .",
    "= 8.5truecm    @xcite also reported that bright , local early - type galaxies are observed to have larger radii than predicted by the model .",
    "the solution to this problem is unclear .",
    "semi - analytical models assume that the angular momentum of the infalling gas is conserved whereas numerical simulations of disk formation show that this is not always the case ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "loss of angular momentum would make the problem even worse .",
    "the self - gravity of the baryons and their pull on the dark matter halo make the disk and bulge components smaller ; @xcite showed that if this contraction of the dark matter halo in response to the presence of the galaxy could somehow be switched off , the correct slope is predicted for the radius - luminosity relation .",
    "= 8.5truecm    we have already shown that eros tend to be the most massive galaxies in place at a given redshift .",
    "one might naturally expect therefore that they should be hosted by the most massive dark matter haloes present at a given epoch . in practice",
    ", the efficiency of galaxy formation tends to drop with increasing halo mass , as revealed observationally by an increase in the mass to light ratio in clusters compared with galactic haloes @xcite , and so the trend between the luminosity of the main galaxy within a halo and halo mass could be quite weak .",
    "furthermore , we have also seen that eros can have a wide range of luminosities and presumably can be hosted by a wide range of halo masses .",
    "[ fig : mh ] shows the distribution of dark halo mass for haloes which host galaxies in two ranges of @xmath34band magnitude at @xmath68 and @xmath91 .",
    "it is clear how these distributions shift to larger masses when a cut on @xmath69 colour is also applied .",
    "this effect is very pronounced at @xmath91 , where the median mass of haloes hosting eros is ten times larger than that of a sample of galaxies without a colour selection . this shift in host halo mass and its dependence on the redness of the ( r - k ) cut will have consequences for the predicted clustering of eros .",
    "this is addressed further in paper ii .",
    "= 8.5truecm    the formation histories of galaxies found in the deepest gravitational potential wells are shifted to earlier times compared with galaxies of the same mass found in less extreme haloes .",
    "this is a natural consequence of hierarchical structure formation @xcite .",
    "the most massive haloes will tend to be found in regions with higher than average overdensity .",
    "drawing an analogy with the spherical collapse model , the evolution of such a patch of universe will be accelerated with respect to an average density patch , with the consequence that haloes , and hence galaxies , will start to form earlier . this will lead to galaxies in massive haloes having older stellar populations . a further difference in the age of galaxies in different mass haloes will be introduced if there is a physical process which acts to suppress galaxy formation preferentially in the more massive haloes .",
    "the predicted rest - frame v - band luminosity weighted age of the stellar populations is plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : age ] .",
    "the model eros ages have a wide distribution , with medians in the range @xmath92 $ ] gyr .",
    "few observational studies have estimated the age of eros . using pure luminosity evolution models , @xcite estimated a formation redshift of around @xmath93 for eros .",
    "the average observed redshift of their sample is approximately @xmath94 , thus implying an age of @xmath95gyr . at @xmath94 ,",
    "the @xcite model predicts that eros with @xmath85 have a median age of @xmath95gyr , for both the bright and faint magnitude ranges in fig .",
    "[ fig : age ] , in good agreement with the estimate of @xcite .",
    "@xcite compared the average spectrum of quiescent eros with stellar population synthesis models , and derived a lower limit to the age of eros of @xmath95gyr . within a similar magnitude and redshift range to those of the @xcite sample ,",
    "the @xcite model predicts that quiescent eros have an average age of @xmath96gyr , in agreement with the observational estimate . here , as in section ",
    "[ sec : qui ] , we consider quiescent galaxies as those that have not experienced a recent burst of star formation",
    ".    proceeding in a similar way to @xcite but considering a sample of mainly dusty starburst eros , @xcite found ages of @xmath97gyr .",
    "the mean redshift of these eros is @xmath68 . at this redshift",
    ", simulated eros with @xmath85 and @xmath79 , experiencing a starburst are expected to have a mean age of @xmath98gyr . the observed sample",
    "is composed of only 8 eros , found behind lensing clusters .",
    "thus , it is quite possible that the observational results are not representative of the averaged age of bursting eros , but rather are extreme cases .",
    "more observations will be needed to reach firm conclusions about the age of bursty eros .",
    "in this paper we have extended the tests of the galform galaxy formation code to include red galaxies at @xmath42 .",
    "@xcite started this series of comparisons by presenting model predictions for the abundance of luminous red galaxies at lower redshifts , @xmath99 and @xmath100 .",
    "the eros we consider in this paper are not , as a whole , necessarily as intrinsically bright as luminous red galaxies",
    ". nevertheless , the much longer look - back time to @xmath42 poses challenges if hierarchical models are to accommodate eros .",
    "eros are thought to be made up of relatively old passively evolving stellar populations and dusty starbursts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the former implies a high formation redshift for the stars and the latter suggests the presence of dust - enshrouded objects with high star formation rates .",
    "an important feature of the calculations presented here is that they are readily connected to observations .",
    "the semi - analytical model applies simple physical recipes to determine the fate of the baryonic component of the universe .",
    "the output is the full record of galaxy mergers and the star formation history for a wide range of galaxies .",
    "the composite stellar spectrum predicted for each galaxy can then be convolved with filter transmission curves so that samples of galaxies can be constructed with the same photometric selection as the data .",
    "moreover , by using a chemical evolution model to track the metallicity of the cold gas in galactic disks and by computing the size of the disk and bulge components , the model is able to calculate the amount of extinction experienced by starlight at any wavelength .",
    "this is a particularly important consideration given our findings regarding the nature of eros .",
    "these galaxies seem to have a range of properties so it would be incorrect to take short cuts and assume that eros are exclusively starburst galaxies or galaxies with little recent star formation , and then to try to use this as a proxy instead of applying the proper photometric selection of eros .",
    "we have tested two published models of galaxy formation , those of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the parameters in both models were set to reproduce observations of the local galaxy population , though with different emphasis on which observations were the most important to reproduce closely .",
    "both models enjoy successes in matching observations of the high redshift universe .",
    "the @xcite model reproduces the number counts of sub - mm selected galaxies and the luminosity function of lyman - break galaxies , whereas @xcite model matches the evolution of the k - band luminosity function and the inferred evolution of the stellar mass function .    the @xcite model , despite the aforementioned successes at high redshift ,",
    "underpredicts the counts of eros by an order of magnitude , mirroring the predictions of earlier semi - analytical models ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the model predicts some passively evolving eros ( around @xmath101 of the number it should do , depending on the magnitude ) but does not produce any dusty starbursts with the colour of eros .",
    "there are dusty starbursts in the @xcite model , as these are the sub - mm sources which match the observed scuba counts .",
    "however , there seems to be little overlap between the population of sub - mm galaxies and eros in this model ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for the observational view on the connection between these two types of galaxy ) .",
    "the @xcite model , on the other hand , gives an impressively close match to the number counts of eros .",
    "if anything , this model predicts somewhat too many galaxies with the colours of passively evolving stellar populations at high redshift ; intrinsically red galaxies dominate over dusty starbursts at all magnitudes in this model .",
    "what does this tell us about the physics of massive galaxy formation ?",
    "we experimented with the @xcite model to see if its predictions could be reconciled with the observed number of eros on changing the model parameters .",
    "an obvious place to start was the duration of starbursts . in the @xcite model ,",
    "starbursts have a long duration to prevent the dust from getting too hot , which would reduce the counts of sub - mm galaxies . reducing the duration of starbursts made little difference to the predicted ero counts , again suggesting that dusty starbursts are not the dominant population of eros .",
    "the key seems to be that @xcite model gives a better match to the observed evolution of the k - band luminosity function , which means that this model puts massive galaxies in place earlier than in the @xcite model .",
    "this problem has been revealed from a different point of view by @xcite , who argued that the stellar masses of sub - mm galaxies are too small in @xcite model .",
    "this difference between the two models arises from the different redshift dependence of the feedback processes which suppress the formation of massive galaxies and from the choice of the star formation timescale . in both models ,",
    "a physical process operates to reduce the cooling rate in massive haloes . in the @xcite model",
    "this is achieved by the ejection of gas in a superwind , which lowers the effective baryon fraction in massive haloes , thereby reducing the rate at which gas can cool . in the @xcite model , the feeding of a central supermassive black hole releases energy which stalls the cooling flow completely .",
    "the lack of a dribble of cold gas from which to form even a small amount of stars helps galaxies in the @xcite model to attain the colours of eros . in @xcite ,",
    "the star formation timescale scales with the local dynamical time , whereas the scaling is independent of redshift in the @xcite model .",
    "this means that a given amount of cold gas will be turned into stars more quickly at high redshift in the @xcite model than in the @xcite model .    in the @xcite model",
    ", eros are predominantly passively evolving galaxies .",
    "however , we do not find two distinct populations of objects , which suggests a transformation from a dusty starburst phase , which lasts a comparatively short time , to a longer lived quiescent phase .",
    "this is slightly at odds with observations which suggest a more equal split between passive galaxies and dusty starbursts .",
    "also , the redshift distribution of passive galaxies predicted by the @xcite model is more extended than is observed .",
    "this suggests that the star formation in massive objects may have been quenched too efficiently by the radio - mode agn feedback .",
    "@xcite predict that eros are mainly spheroid dominated , though we also find disk dominated eros .",
    "the @xcite model predicts that eros are the most massive galaxies in place at @xmath102 , in agreement with observations .",
    "the main discrepancy between the predicted properties of eros and observations lies with the scale sizes of eros , which are smaller than observed ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "the @xcite model has proven to be successful at reproducing the abundance and general properties of eros at @xmath103 , and also the luminosity function of lrgs at @xmath99 @xcite .",
    "both eros and lrgs are massive , bright galaxies , dominated , at least in the model , by old stellar populations .",
    "however , the @xcite model does not reproduce the observed counts of sub - mm galaxies @xcite , which are also massive galaxies , with stellar mass @xmath104 at @xmath105 , experiencing active star formation . on the other hand",
    ", the @xcite model does reproduce the counts and redshift distribution of sub - mm galaxies , but does less well at matching the abundance of red galaxies at @xmath106 . in a later paper in this series",
    ", we will investigate the nature of the objects selected by different colour and magnitude criteria .",
    "the semi - analytical model is ideally suited to connecting galaxies identified at high redshift with their local , @xmath23 counterparts .",
    "we will address the issue of what fraction of today s galaxies had a progenitor which passed the criteria to be identified as a red galaxy and we will determine what fraction of the present day stellar mass was already in place by this epoch .",
    "this is the first paper in a series which examines the properties and nature of red galaxies in hierarchical models . here",
    "we have presented predictions for the abundance and redshift distribution of eros , along with some basic properties , such as stellar mass and host halo mass . in the second paper we present predictions for the clustering of eros and in the third we compare different colour cuts used to select red galaxies and compare the properties of their present day descendants .",
    "we thank s. foucaud , c. simpson and i. smail for providing their measured eros number counts in a table format .",
    "we also acknowledge f. j. castander , j. helly , a. benson , r. malbon and m. swinbank for discussions and comments .",
    "we thank the referee for a helpful report .",
    "vgp acknowledges support from csic / ieec , the spanish ministerio de ciencia y tecnologa and travel support from a royal society international joint project grant .",
    "cmb was supported by the royal society .",
    "cgl is supported in part by a grant from the science and technology facilities council .",
    "ca gratefully acknowledges a scholarship from the fct , portugal ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present predictions for the abundance and nature of extremely red objects ( eros ) in the @xmath0 cold dark matter model . </S>",
    "<S> eros are red , massive galaxies observed at @xmath1 and their numbers and properties pose a challenge to hierarchical galaxy formation models . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the predictions from two published models , one of which invokes a `` superwind '' to regulate star formation in massive haloes and the other which suppresses gas cooling in haloes through `` radio - mode '' agn feedback . </S>",
    "<S> the superwind model underestimates the number counts of eros by an order of magnitude , whereas the radio - mode agn feedback model gives excellent agreement with the number counts and redshift distribution of eros . in the agn feedback model </S>",
    "<S> the ero population is dominated by old , passively evolving galaxies , whereas observations favour an equal split between old galaxies and dusty starbursts . </S>",
    "<S> also , the model predicts a more extended redshift distribution of passive galaxies than is observed . </S>",
    "<S> these comparisons suggest that star formation may be quenched too efficiently in this model . </S>"
  ]
}