{
  "article_text": [
    "the process of accretion is the power source driving the luminosities for a wide range of objects , including protostars , binary systems containing accreting white dwarfs , neutron stars or black holes , gamma ray bursts and supermassive black holes in active galactic nuclei .",
    "a comprehensive review of this process is provided by frank , king & raine ( 2002 ) .    in most of these systems ,",
    "most of the time , the accretion process proceeds via an accretion disc which transports angular momentum outwards and matter inwards .",
    "the temperature of this disc increases towards the centre , and is a function of accretion rate and central accretor mass .",
    "the disc may also produce ( or even be partially replaced by ) at various times a relatively cool disc wind , a very hot corona and a collimated relativistic outflow or ` jet ' .",
    "finally , the ` state ' of the accretion flow at the centre of the disc may vary dramatically indicating rapid variations between phases with different geometries , temperatures and outflows .",
    "reviews of observation of accretion onto white dwarfs , neutron stars and black holes in binary systems can be found in e.g. warner ( 2003 ) and lewin & van der klis ( 2006 ) .    in x - ray binary systems containing an accreting neutron star or black hole",
    "the region of the accretion disc responsible for the optical continuum and emission lines lies at a large distance from the central accretor ( several light seconds , or @xmath3 gravitational radii ",
    "e.g. hynes et al .",
    "many such systems are transients , in that they display phases of very high luminosities lasting typically weeks to months , followed by long periods in quiescence ( e.g. chen , shrader & livio 1997 ) .",
    "such cycles are likely to have their origin in accretion disc instabilities associated with hydrogen ionization ( frank et al .",
    "2002 and references therein ) .",
    "it is widely accepted that the emission lines in such systems arise in the rotating accretion disc flow .",
    "the strongest evidence for this interpretation is in the form of twin - peaked line profiles ( e.g. horne & marsh 1986 ; charles & coe 2006 and references therein ) .",
    "the dominant pumping mechanism for these lines is likely to be irradiation by the central x - ray source at high luminosities , as is observed for the optical continuum ( van paradijs & mcclintock 1994 ) . at lower luminosities viscous heating of the disc",
    "may contribute significantly .",
    "however , the picture may not be so simple .",
    "russell et al .",
    "( 2006 and references therein ) have demonstrated that in black hole x - ray binaries ( bhxbs ) in ` hard ' x - ray states synchrotron emission from the jet dominates the continuum in the near - infrared and can contribute significantly in the optical band .",
    "wu et al . ( 2001 , 2002 ) argue for three distinct origins for the emission line depending on the source luminosity and spectral states . in their model , in bright / soft x - ray states the line arises in the atmosphere of an optically thick disc , whereas in bright / hard x - ray states the h@xmath0 line arises in a dense outflow . in the faintest quiescent states the whole accretion flow is optically thin .    in a related work ,",
    "eikenberry et al . (",
    "1998 ) found a near - linear correlation between br@xmath4 ( 2.166 @xmath5 m ) integrated line flux and the adjacent continuum flux density in the black hole x - ray binary grs 1915 + 105 , during phases when the continuum was likely to be synchrotron emission from the powerful jet in this source .",
    "this suggests radiative pumping of the lines by uv emission from the jet .",
    "comparison with phases of soft x - ray spectra with no jet emission in the same study were taken to indicate that the jet is a far better source of photoionising photons than the inner accretion disc , presumably due to the fact that the ultraviolet - emitting region of the jet is raised above the disc and illuminates it very efficiently ( this argument does not work if this region of the jet is moving relativistically away from the disc and therefore strongly doppler de - boosted ) .",
    "however , a strong change in h@xmath0 ew associated with x - ray state , and therefore jet production , is _ not _ observed in gx 339 - 4 ( wu et al .",
    "2001 ; see also fig 1 ) , possibly arguing against strong pumping of h@xmath0 by the jet .    in this paper",
    "we have compiled measurements of the strength of h@xmath0 , the most prominent emission line in the optical spectra of x - ray binaries .",
    "our goal was to see how the properties of the emission line varied , if at all , with accretion ` state ' and luminosity of x - ray binary systems , and whether or not there was clear evidence for phases where the lines were formed in an outflow rather than a disc .",
    "what we find is evidence for an anti - correlation between the equivalent width ( ratio of line to local continuum flux ) and overall luminosity of such systems , in particular when in the ` hard ' x - ray state ( at luminosities below about 1% of the eddington limit ) .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      the approach taken in section 2.1 , in plotting h@xmath0 ew as a function of time for bhxbs is a strong but indirect indication of an anti - correlation of the ew with luminosity .",
    "a more direct comparison of luminosity and ew would be desirable , to rule out some unexpected mechanism rather than luminosity changes dominating the observed effect .",
    "unfortunately , the majority of the optical spectroscopic observations do not appear to be well flux - calibrated , so we can not directly compare ew with optical continuum luminosity .",
    "a second possibility is to compare with an x - ray measurement which has been made contemporaneously , which is what we attempt next . in order to be considered , the x - ray and optical spectroscopic measurements had to be made within one day of each other , except at quiescent levels at which we assumed a more or less stable level had been reached ( quiescent variability can reach factors of several , but this not very significant for these logarithmic plots ) . in fig 4",
    "we plot h@xmath0 ew as a function of @xmath6 for the sample of objects discussed previously ( except for v404 cyg for which we do not have contemporaneous x - ray measurements ) , plus the more unusual object gx 339 - 4 .",
    "none of the individual sources show a statistically significant rank ( anti-)correlation ( see table 2 ) . in fig 5",
    "we plot the ensemble of data points , plus a small amount of additional data from the sources v404 cyg , gro j1655 - 40 , 4u 1957 + 11 , gs 2000 + 25 , xte j1650 - 500 and xte j1859 + 226 ( see table 1 for references ) .    a spearman rank correlation test for the complete sample plotted in fig 5 results in a spearman rank correlation coefficient of @xmath7 ( a @xmath8 result ) .",
    "this supports the conclusion of section 2.1 .",
    "a single power - law fit to the data presented in fig 5 gives    @xmath9    this is close to , but steeper than , the ew @xmath10 estimated in section 2.1 , and indicates a mean x - ray decay e - folding time less than the 30 days given in chen et al .",
    "the apparent anti - correlation seems to be dominated by the difference between measurements at @xmath11 erg s@xmath12 , where all sources are in the hard x - ray spectral state , and those at higher luminosities , where transitions between different spectral states can occur ( see e.g. nowak 1995 ; homan & belloni 2005 ; remillard & mcclintock 2006 for a discussion of these states ) .",
    "it is somewhat puzzling that the anti - correlation stands out much more clearly in the first analysis ( figs 2 and 3 ) than in the second ( figs 4 and 5 ) , which implies that there may not be a simple one - to - one relation between x - ray luminosity and h@xmath0 ew . in this context",
    "it is interesting to note that the low - frequency qpos in some hard state black hole candidates show similar monotonic behaviour with time which is not so simple when compared to x - ray flux ( e.g. xte j1118 + 480 in wood et al .",
    "2001 ) . in any case ,",
    "the anti - correlation , whether simple or not , is clearly there .",
    "far fewer results were available in the literature for neutron star systems ; the details and references are provided in table 1 . in fig 6",
    "we plot the neutron star data alongside the black hole data presented in fig 5 .",
    "what we see is approximately similar behaviour , in that there is a suggestion of a similar trend , with a similar ( or slightly lower ) normalisation .",
    "in fact a spearman rank correlation test indicates that the sample of seven neutron star measurements are anticorrelated at the @xmath13 level ( @xmath14 ) .",
    "so the neutron star data are consistent with , but do not independently establish , the anti - correlation found for the bhxbs .    adding the bhxb and neutron star samples results in a spearman rank correlation coefficient of @xmath15 , corresponding to an anticorrelation at the @xmath16 level .    in summary ,",
    "although the individual simultaneous @xmath6 and ew measurements do not confirm the anti - correlation further , the effect is significant when considering the ensemble of all data points , moreso when combining neutron star data with the black hole sample .",
    "the upper x - axes of figs 5 and 6 also indicate a rough estimate of the optical  infrared luminosities , @xmath17 based on the relations presented in russell et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , and repeated in the figure captions ( without statistical uncertainties ) .",
    "note that the relations are slightly different for black holes and neutron stars ( @xmath18 is larger for black holes at any given x - ray luminosity ) .",
    "this allows us to get a better idea of how the ew varies as a function of the optical continuum .",
    "subject to caveats about the possibly complex nature of the relation to the lines , we can go further . by definition ,    @xmath19    where @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the line and continuum luminosities respectively . from russell et al .",
    "( 2006 ) ,    @xmath22    where the value of @xmath23 is slightly different for bh and ns systems .",
    "we also fit a crude relation of the form    @xmath24    above .",
    "if we can assume @xmath25 ( i.e. @xmath26 which is justified for a maximum ew of @xmath27 angstroms and a filter width of @xmath28 angstroms , _ and _ a large fraction of the data in russell et al .",
    "( 2006 ) being in the r - band ) we get    @xmath29    substituting , we get    @xmath30    for the black holes , @xmath31 and @xmath32 , resulting in    @xmath33    given the crudeness of the fit to the ew-@xmath34 relation , there seems little point in propagating uncertainties on these relations . while this analysis is crude ,",
    "it does demonstrate that the h@xmath0 line luminosity must vary quite strongly with x - ray luminosity , but not quite as fast as the continuum .",
    "a key diagnostic of the emission site of a spectral line is the line profile itself .",
    "a twin - peaked line profile is a strong indication that the line originates in a rotating flow , such as the atmospheres of geometrically thin accretion discs ( e.g. horne & marsh 1986 ; note however that murray & chiang 1996,1997,1998 have shown that accretion discs with winds can produce single - peaked lines ) .    in fig 7",
    "we indicate which lines , from the sample presented in fig 5 , were reported as twin - peaked .",
    "we see that twin - peaked line profiles have been reported at nearly all luminosities , which strongly suggests that the line - emitting region is ubiquitously associated with the rotating accretion flow .",
    "as already noted in the introduction , this is not universally accepted , and a more complex picture is put forward by wu et al .",
    "( 2001 , 2002 ) who argue for three distinct origins for the emission line depending on the source luminosity and spectral states . in all cases , the optical continuum and",
    "lines are likely to be excited by irradiation from a central hot continuum source at least at high luminosities ( see arguments in van paradijs & mcclintock 1994 , and the more recent global study by russell et al . 2006 ) . as noted in the introduction",
    ", however , it has been suggested that the ionising source may in fact be ( at times ) associated with an outflowing jet or corona and not necessarily a static central x - ray source ( see e.g. eikenberry et al .",
    "1998 ; beloborodov et al .",
    "1999 ; markoff et al . 2005 ) .",
    "although we do not think it has an important impact on this analysis , we note that double - peaks may be filled in if the inclination is low or additional components produce low velocity emission .",
    "similarly , single peaked profiles can also be mainly from a disc and vice - versa an intrinsic single peaked profiles with central absorption could give the appearance of a double - peaked line without needing a disc - like flow .    the observed anti - correlation between h@xmath0 ew and x - ray luminosity ( both direct and inferred ) implies that as the x - ray luminosity decreases the optical continuum flux drops faster than the line flux .",
    "the analysis in section 2.3 above demonstrates that , over large luminosity ranges at least , all three quantities ( x - ray luminosity , optical luminosity , h@xmath0 line flux ) are dropping , but at different rates ( x - rays drop fastest , line flux slowest ) .",
    "the optical continuum in bhxbs appears to have contributions from both thermal emission from the outer , irradiated , accretion disc plus , in hard x - ray states , a component associated with optically thin synchrotron emission from a jet ( russell et al .",
    "the jet contribution is strongest at longer wavelengths , dominating in the infrared band , but probably contributes no more than 30% of the luminosity in the r - band ( corbel & fender 2002 ; homan et al .",
    "2005 ; russell et al . 2006 ) , which contains the h@xmath0 line .    note that at low luminosities the companion star may begin to have a discernible contribution to the continuum luminosity of the systems .",
    "russell et al .",
    "( 2006 ) compile the estimated optical luminosities of several x - ray binaries , and find that in most systems the companion only contributes significantly in quiescence ( i.e. @xmath35 erg s@xmath12 ) .",
    "marsh et al .",
    "( 1994 ) show how in the quiescent system a0620 - 00 the h@xmath0 ew is modulated at the orbital period , presumably due to varying continuum contributions from the tidally distorted companion .",
    "we do not attempt in this paper to subtract such a contribution , noting that ( i ) over the range of luminosities covered in this compilation it is probably not a major effect , ( ii ) any contribution to the continuum by the companion would serve to _ increase _ the true disc ew at low luminosities and strengthen the anti - correlation were it taken into account .",
    "however , it is worth noting that in a regime in which an approximately constant continuum level is set by the companion , the true line flux may be proportional to the measured ew .",
    "based on a wealth of observational data , we have an approximate picture of how the emitted spectra and , to a lesser extent , central accretion / outflow geometry , might vary in bhxbs , principally as a function of luminosity .",
    "for example , it is known that an approximately steady jet is produced at relatively low accretion rates ( @xmath36 ) which are associated with hard x - ray spectra , whereas at higher accretion rates transitions to softer x - ray states with weaker jets can occur ( fender , belloni & gallo 2004 ; homan & belloni 2005 ) . at lower accretion rates",
    "a simple relation between radio and x - ray luminosities appears to hold to at least @xmath37 ( gallo et al .",
    "there is however some evidence that the x - ray spectrum does soften at very low luminosities ( corbel , tomsick & kaaret 2006 ; corbel , krding & kaaret 2008 ) . in the case of accreting white dwarfs in cataclysmic variables , williams ( 1980 )",
    "argued that the outer region of the accretion discs may at some times be optically thick in the line but thin in the continuum .",
    "if a similar situation exists during the decay phase of x - ray transients outbursts , it may well contribute significantly to the observed ew anti - correlation .",
    "the observed anti - correlation is likely to be due to some combination of these changes in the accretion / outflow geometry , the irradiating spectrum , and the optical depth in the outer accretion disc .",
    "a key question is whether or not there are changes in the line properties across the accretion state transitions .",
    "as noted earlier this was one of the key motivations for this research ; however , our findings are inconclusive . on the one hand",
    "the line profile and ew of h@xmath0 in gx 339 - 4 is clearly very similar in bright hard or soft states ( fig 1 ) , but the analysis in section 2.1 suggests that the anti - correlation is better in the hard state below @xmath38 .",
    "results for the black hole transient gro j1655 - 40 presented in shrader et al .",
    "( 1996 ) also suggest a large increase in h@xmath0 ew across a soft @xmath39 hard state transition , although the soft x - ray luminosity of the source would also have been fading during this period . the reader is reminded that wu et al .",
    "( 2001 ) claim that the line profile changes from hard to soft x - ray states .",
    "a possible explanation for the observed anti - correlation is that a large part of the outer disc becomes cold enough to be optically thin in the continuum , not the line , during the decline ( williams 1980 ) . in that case",
    ", the optical continuum drops much more quickly than the ionizing continuum from the inner region ( where the inflow is still optically thick and producing strong continuum emission ) . as a result",
    "the ew of the optical lines from the outer ( optically thin ) region should increase .",
    "such optically thin regions of the outer disc may well exist in x - ray binaries ( e.g. canizzo & wheeler 1984 ) .",
    "shahbaz et al .",
    "( 2004 ) discuss the possibility of regions of different optical depth contributing to the h@xmath0 and h@xmath40 emission from the bhxb a0620 - 00 in quiescence .",
    "it is also possible that there is a saturation effect , in that during outbursts most of the accretion disc becomes too hot for the production of h@xmath0 line emission .",
    "the effect should therefore be different for higher excitation lines such as heii .",
    "although the models mentioned above may well be responsible for the observed anti - correlation , studies over the past decade have indicated that the accretion flow in x - ray binaries , in particular black hole systems , undergo dramatic changes on short timescales which could well have an effect upon observed emission line profiles .",
    "for this reason we summarize this empirical understanding below , and comment on whether or not it might affect the observed anti - correlation .",
    "if , as we assume , the h@xmath0 is a result of irradiation of the outer disc , then the main source of this irradiation will be euv photons with energies between about 13  25 ev .",
    "these photons are not directly observable in nearly all black hole x - ray binaries , which lie at several kpc in the galactic plane and as a result suffer from strong interstellar extinction .",
    "lower energy photons can not ionise hydrogen , and photons with significantly higher energies ( i.e. x - rays ) are more likely to contribute to the reprocessed ( reflection ) continuum ( e.g. ross & fabian 1993 ) .",
    "we do not consider here the possibility of collisional excitation in e.g. an accretion disc hotspot .",
    "how plausible is it that changes in the ionising spectrum are responsible for the observed anti - correlation ?",
    "in bright soft states ( @xmath41 ) the x - ray spectra of bhxbs are dominated by thermal ( accretion disc ) components with kt @xmath42 kev . in less bright , but still very luminous ( @xmath43 ) , hard x - ray states",
    "the x - ray spectrum is dominated by a component which peaks at @xmath27 kev and probably has its origin in a comptonising ` corona ' ( e.g. sunyaev & titarchuk 1980 ) , with some possible contributions from a jet ( e.g. markoff , nowak & wilms 2005 ) .",
    "it should be noted that there can be strong hysteresis between spectral state and luminosity for @xmath44 ( homan & belloni 2005 ) . as a source drops further in luminosity",
    "the accretion disc temperature should drop monotonically until in ` quiescence ' ( @xmath45 ) it is only about 1 ev ( mcclintock , horne & remillard 1995 ; mcclintock et al .",
    "as noted above , at most x - ray luminosities this thermal disc component is essentially unmeasurable as it peaks at ( e)uv wavelengths , in which band most distant galactic plane bhxbs can not be observed . in the case of xte j1118 + 480",
    "( mcclintock et al . 2003 ) this disc component was found to be significantly more luminous than the x - ray component when in quiescence .",
    "therefore , at the lowest x - ray luminosities the bulk of the photons released by the accretion process are not able to ionise hydrogen , which  naively  should result in a reduced h@xmath0 ew at the lowest luminosities , _ contrary _ to what is observed .",
    "however , the optical continuum is also dominated by reprocessing and so the overall effect on ew will depend upon which component is pumped most effectively by the ionizing continuum , which in some sense returns us to the models dealing with the optical depth of the outer disc ( e.g. williams 1980 ) .    what about changes in the geometry of the accretion flow and outflow with luminosity ? some recent sketches of the accretion flow as a function of luminosity for bhxbs ( esin",
    ", mcclintock & narayan 1997 ; done , gierlinski & kubota 2007 ) suggest that as luminosity increases the ability of the central hard x - ray source to illuminate the disc is reduced , as the coronal component shrinks .",
    "geometries which include jets ( e.g. fender , belloni & gallo 2004 ; ferreira et al .",
    "2006 ) may be more complete , although it is unclear how significantly any x - ray emission from the jet could contribute to irradiation of the accretion disc or its atmosphere ( markoff , nowak & wilms 2005 ) .",
    "such x - ray emitting regions near the base of the jet may be essentially indistinguishable from an outflowing corona ( e.g. beloborodov 1999 ) .",
    "nevertheless , it has been suggested that the velocity of the outflow from x - ray binaries may increase with luminosity , and in a more complex way with spectral state .",
    "if the jet or outflowing corona is responsible for some irradiation of the disc , then an increase in velocity with luminosity could result in a reduced h@xmath0 ew as an increasing fraction of the x - rays are beamed along the direction of motion , away from the disc .",
    "a prime motivation for this research was to investigate whether the profiles of optical emission lines change significantly across the accretion state transitions in x - ray binary systems .",
    "such a result may have indicated a strong response to a changing irradiating spectrum and/or geometry of the line - emitting region . however , the results in this respect remain inconclusive .    what we did find , and report in detail , is an anti - correlation between the broadband luminosity ( optical  x - ray ) and the equivalent width of the h@xmath0 emission line in x - ray binaries .",
    "possibly the most closely related phenomenon already known is a comparable anti - correlation in the h@xmath40 line for cataclysmic variables ( patterson 1984 ; see also witham et al .",
    "2006 ) , accreting binaries hosting a white dwarf rather than a black hole or neutron star .",
    "patterson ( 1984 ) compares this result with the models of tylenda ( 1981 ) , which are similar to those of williams ( 1980 ) in which the outer accretion disc becomes optically thin at low luminosities .",
    "this may also turn out to be the appropriate explanation for the x - ray binaries under discussion here , but the complex and hysteretical accretion state changes about which we have learned much in the past decade caution us against drawing such a conclusion at this time .",
    "more detailed observations of line profiles across state transitions would clearly be of interest .",
    "the reader is further reminded that ( i ) rebrightenings during the decay of transients , ( ii ) the monotonic behaviour of qpos in sources such as xte j1118 + 480 despite varying behaviour in @xmath6 , and ( iii ) the poorer anticorrelation of ew with quasi - simultaneous @xmath6 than with time all suggest that the causal link between luminosity and ew may be complex .",
    "it it worth mentioning in passing the similarity with the baldwin effect observed in accretion flows around supermassive black holes ( baldwin 1977 ; see also e.g. mushotzky & ferland 1984 ) . in this case",
    "an anti - correlation is observed between the ew some lines originating in the broad line region ( blr ) and the continuum luminosity .",
    "a related effect is observed in the x - ray band ( iwasawa & taniguchi 1993 ; page et al .",
    "2004 ) , and maybe also in the strong stellar winds of wolf - rayet stars ( morris et al . 1993 ) . however , there is little evidence for a blr - like region in x - ray binary systems , probably due to the high ionisation state of the gas in the inner disc region ( e.g. proga , kallman & stone 2000 ) .",
    "therefore the physical origins of the two effects are almost certainly rather different .",
    "further observations would obviously be of interest to understand better this effect .",
    "these should include observations of other lines and in other bands .",
    "observations in the near - infrared , where the continuum should have a much stronger jet contribution ( e.g. corbel & fender 2002 ; russell et al .",
    "2006 ) should show a much stronger reaction to accretion state changes ( e.g. we would expect a large jump in ew of a line like br @xmath4 as the jet switches off in a hard @xmath39 soft state transition ) .",
    "it is interesting to note that the spectra in fig 1 hint at a similar anti - correlation for hei , and heii would be even more interesting , given the higher ionisation potentials .",
    "the observed anti - correlation holds the promise of being able to estimate the luminosity of a source from the h@xmath0 ew , something which could prove invaluable in distance determinations for faint x - ray binaries .",
    "however , the relation obviously needs to be significantly improved before that is possible , and may turn out to have enough intrinsic scatter to reduce its usefulness in this aspect ( as is in fact the case for the baldwin effect in agn ) . in any case it is promising that low - luminosity accreting sources should be clearly identifiable in e.g. h@xmath0 surveys by their large equivalent widths .    finally , it is interesting to note that observations of the variation of the h@xmath0 line strength with luminosity may in fact be our best way to track the behaviour of the accretion disc component at intermediate luminosities .",
    "below @xmath46 the accretion disc component peaks in the ( e)uv spectral regime and is unobservable for nearly all sources . for two sources",
    "only has it been observed in quiescence , at which point it appears that it no longer extends to the isco but is truncated ( mcclintock et al .",
    "1995 , 2003 ) .",
    "although well - defined models exist ( e.g. dubus , hameury & lasota 2001 ) , exactly how and where this truncation begins is observationally very uncertain ( e.g. miller et al . 2006 ) .",
    "however , since the h@xmath0 line responds preferentially to photons of energies 1325 ev , it may be the best way to study the evolution of this disc component at luminosities @xmath47 .",
    "we would like to thank cristina zurita for providing tables of data for xte j1118 + 480 , and tariq shahbaz and gavin dalton for providing some of the data for fig 1 .",
    "we would like to thank guillaume dubus , daniel proga and kinwah wu for careful reading of , and useful comments on , an earlier version of this work , and the anonymous referee for advice which helped to improve this work .",
    "wu k. , soria r. , johnston h. , hunstead r. , 2002 , in : the ninth marcel grossmann meeting .",
    "proceedings of the mgixmm meeting held at the university of rome `` la sapienza '' , 2 - 8 july 2000 , eds .",
    ": vahe g. gurzadyan , robert t. jantzen , remo ruffini .",
    "singapore : world scientific publishing , p 2274 ( astro - ph/0101390 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report an anticorrelation between continuum luminosity and the equivalent width ( ew ) of the h@xmath0 emission line in x - ray binary systems . the effect is evident both in a universal monotonic increase in h@xmath0 ew with time following outbursts , as systems fade , and in a comparison between measured ews and contemporaneous x - ray measurements . </S>",
    "<S> the effect is most clear for black hole binaries in the low / hard x - ray state , which is prevalent at x - ray luminosities below @xmath1% eddington . </S>",
    "<S> we do not find strong evidence for significant changes in line profiles across accretion state changes , but this is hampered by a lack of good data at such times . </S>",
    "<S> the observed anti - correlation , highly significant for black hole binaries , is only marginally so for neutron star systems , for which there are far less data . </S>",
    "<S> comparison with previously established correlations between optical and x - ray luminosity suggest that the line luminosity is falling as the x - ray and optical luminosities drop , but not as fast ( approximately as @xmath2 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we briefly discuss possible origins for such an effect , including the optical depth , form of the irradiating spectrum and geometry of the accetion flow . </S>",
    "<S> further refinement of the relation in the future may allow measurements of h@xmath0 ew to be used to estimate the luminosity of , and hence the distance to , x - ray binary systems . beyond this , further progress will require a better sample of spectro - photometric data .    </S>",
    "<S> accretion , accretion discs  x - rays : binaries </S>"
  ]
}