{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the key issues of condensed matter physics , both from the theoretical and the experimental point of view , is the understanding of the electronic structure of materials . with the advent of density",
    "functional theory ( dft ) within the local density approximation ( lda ) , or its gradient extensions , the _ ab initio _ calculation of electronic properties of astonishingly many classes of compounds became feasible in a reliable fashion @xcite .",
    "the manageable complexity of the material ever increases and even the verge of chemical precision comes into view .    from a conceptual point of view , however , this might appear rather miraculous , as there are severe , well known , principle limitations .",
    "indeed dft is a theory of the ground state only .",
    "the interpretation of the kohn - sham eigenvalues of the effective one - particle system as excitation energies of the real n - particle system , has no theoretical justification , and only the striking compatibility with experiment promotes this interpretation , which is often tacitly assumed .",
    "on the other hand , regarding the original domain of the theory , i.e. ground state properties , implementations of dft inevitably have to resort to approximations , the exchange - correlation potential being unknown .",
    "this leads to the fact that for some even apparently simple materials , the calculated ground state is found to contradict experimental findings .",
    "this is the case when electronic correlations , i.e. genuine many - body effects , invalidate the band - picture which originates from an effective one - particle theory .",
    "the most prominent example is the mott transition@xcite , where the correlations prevail upon the itineracy of the electrons , forcing them to localize . among the materials where this mechanism is present",
    "are for example cr - doped @xmath3 or the parent compounds of the high t@xmath4 superconductors .",
    "a genuine signature of strong correlations , highly affecting the distribution of spectral weight , is the sensitivity to changes of external parameters , such as temperature or pressure , as is indeed observed in experiments such as transport , photoemission or optics .",
    "the formidable task is to unravel the behaviour of a system in - between these two limits  : the effective free case ( a problem that is diagonal in momentum space ) , and the atomic limit ( that is diagonal in real space ) . in the latter the notion of bands having lost its sense , the quantity to discuss is the spectral function . within a band - theory it will , for a given momentum , consist of dirac distributions . with the increase of correlations",
    "these will broaden , due to scattering effects , inducing finite life - times , and loose weight that will reappear as incoherent features or satellites at different energies .    in this work ,",
    "we present for the specific example of the insulating phase of vo@xmath0 , a study of how correlations modify the excitation energies of the system and how , if at all , this can be cast into an effective one - particle picture .    to this effect",
    ", we implemented a scheme to analytically continue matsubara self - energies to the real frequency axis , including for the first time the continuation of off - diagonal elements .",
    "this allows us to make a detailed analysis of recent cluster dynamical mean field calculations@xcite .",
    "the paper is organized as follows  : in section 2 we review the electronic structure of vo@xmath0  and recent cluster dynamical mean field calculations . in section 3",
    "we apply the analytical continuation scheme ( that we detail in [ anacon ] ) and discuss the real - frequency self - energies for the m1 phase of vo@xmath0 .",
    "section 4 presents a study of the correlation effects on the excitation spectrum and suggests an effective one - particle potential which corrects the lda band structure .",
    "the phase diagram of vanadium dioxide vo@xmath0  has intrigued condensed matter physicists for decades@xcite . at high temperature vo@xmath0",
    "is a ( bad ) metal and the crystal structure is of rutile type . at t=340k",
    "the compound undergoes a first - order metal - insulator transition ( mit)@xcite and the structure becomes monoclinic ( m1 phase ) .",
    "the paramount characteristic of the low temperature structure is the pairing up of vanadium atoms , which form dimers along the c - axis that tilt out of the axis .",
    "moreover the phase is found to exhibit no local moment behaviour .",
    "there is a long standing debate as to whether the mit is primarily caused by the structural changes that double the unit cell ( peierls transition ) , or whether it is correlation effects that drive the system insulating ( mott - hubbard transition ) .",
    "vo@xmath0  has a @xmath5 configuration and hence the key focus lies on the d - orbitals .",
    "the cubic component of the crystal field resulting from the octahedral coordination of the vanadium atoms in the rutile phase splits the d - orbitals into an @xmath6 and a @xmath7 manifold , the latter being lower in energy .",
    "the total crystal field further splits the @xmath7 into two @xmath2  and a single @xmath1  orbital , which is directed along the c - axis .",
    "both types of orbitals overlap , accounting for the metallic character of the rutile phase . in the m1 phase , where one has four formula units per unit - cell , the @xmath1  orbitals split due to the dimerization into bonding / antibonding states . furthermore , because of an increased hybridization with the oxygen 2p orbitals owed to the tilting of the dimers , the @xmath2  are pushed up in energy relative to the former centre of the @xmath1orbitals .",
    "both these effects are working in favour of a gap - opening@xcite .",
    "however , lda calculations , though decreasing the density of states at the fermi level as compared to the rutile phase , fail to capture the experimental gap ( see figure [ figz ] ) , which is only opened , once non - local correlation effects beyond the lda are taken into account@xcite .",
    "a theoretical model , that embodies the above mentioned struggle between localized and itinerant behaviour , or kinetic and potential energy , is the well - known hubbard model . in the multi - band case",
    "its hamiltonian reads @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the one - particle dispersion , l being an orbital index , and @xmath10 an on - site coulomb repulsion that is here limited to density - density terms only .",
    "@xmath11 , @xmath12 are the usual fermionic creation and annihilation operators and @xmath13 the corresponding number operators in real space . in a realistic context , the one - particle dispersion will be taken from e.g. an lda calculation .",
    "though the values of the interactions are often guided by constrained lda@xcite , rpa@xcite or experimental estimates , they somewhat remain parameters of the technique .",
    "to solve this many - body problem in cases where the dominant correlation effects are local , a method of choice is the dynamical mean field theory ( dmft ) and its realistic extension ( lda+dmft)@xcite . the tremendous merit of dmft is that it is a non - perturbative technique that is able to accurately describe the local physics , independent of the interaction strength .",
    "the dynamical aspect allows for an accurate description of spectral weight transfer to incoherent features .    the basic idea of dmft is to replace a lattice problem ( or as in the realistic case , a problem defined within a localized basis set ) by an effective one - site system , coupled to a bath and subject to a self - consistency condition , analogue to conventional weiss mean field theory in statistical mechanics .",
    "contrary to the latter however , the intervening mean field is energy - dependent , hence the notion of a dynamical mft . for solving the dmft equations ,",
    "a variety of techniques are available . in the case of realistic multi - band calculations ,",
    "a widely used technique is the quantum monte carlo ( qmc ) .",
    "a common feature of qmc implementations is that they work within the finite temperature matsubara formalism , i.e. in imaginary time or frequency .",
    "hence , an analytic continuation to the real frequency axis is needed . in [ anacon ]",
    "we describe such a procedure for the dmft self - energy in the most general case , that for the first time includes the continuation of off - diagonal elements .",
    "the scheme thus gives access to the full orbital physics , as well as to non - local ( cluster dmft ) effects .",
    "recently , both the rutile and the m1 phase of vo@xmath0  were investigated within dmft@xcite .",
    "not surprisingly the insulating character of the monoclinic phase proved to be not capturable in the standard ( single site ) lda+dmft formalism without the unphysical creation of local moments .",
    "instead , a cluster - extension of dmft ( cdmft ) , where the solid is replaced not by a single impurity , but by a two - site cluster of vanadium atoms ( surrounded by their oxygen octahedra ) was needed@xcite .",
    "it is of course very appealing from the physical point of view , to choose the vanadium dimers as the fundamental unit of the calculation .",
    "herewith non - local inter - vanadium correlations are treated in a non - perturbative manner .",
    "the calculation in ref @xcite used an @xmath14mto - wannier hamiltonian@xcite where all orbitals other than the @xmath7 were downfolded , an on - site coulomb repulsion @xmath15ev , a hund s coupling @xmath16ev and @xmath17k . for solving the dmft equations ,",
    "the hirsch - fye quantum monte carlo ( qmc ) algorithm@xcite was used . the insulating nature of the m1 phase is correctly described and the resulting local spectral functions of both phases compare favourably with photoemission and x - ray experiments@xcite .",
    "the authors concluded that the non - local correlations effectively assist the peierls - like transition , the dimerization leading to the formation of molecular singlets in the @xmath1  channel embedded in a bath .",
    "in the present work , we have implemented an analytic continuation procedure for imaginary frequency dmft self - energies ( see [ anacon ] ) , which enabled us to develop a more detailed analysis of the above calculation . with the real - frequency self - energy at hand , interesting quantities become accessible , among which figure momentum - resolved spectral functions and linear response functions , such as the optical conductivity ( when neglecting vertex - corrections ) . in the following",
    "we shall analyse the correlation induced modifications in the excitation spectrum of m1 vo@xmath0  and discuss whether the result can still be cast into an effective band - picture .    with four formula units in the unit cell , the m1 vo@xmath0  self - energy matrix acquires the following form  : @xmath18 where the blocks @xmath19 are 3x3 matrices each , and @xmath20 @xmath21 are the local self - energy matrices for a given vanadium atom , and @xmath22 and @xmath23 are the inter - vanadium , intra - dimer blocks .",
    "still , when given this additional freedom , the system is found to have in total only four non - equivalent self - energy elements .",
    "all other elements are zero within numerical precision .",
    "the self - energy for one dimer , i.e. the upper - left or down - right 2x2 block in ( [ s1 ] ) comes out to be    @xmath24    i.e. the intra - dimer coupling is entirely due to the @xmath1  channel , as can be expected from the discussed symmetry of the system .      using the procedure detailed in [ anacon ]",
    ", we compute the dmft self - energy on the real frequency axis .",
    "figure [ figs1 ] and [ figs2 ] display our result .",
    "we have chosen to change the basis of the @xmath1components and to show their bonding / antibonding combinations @xmath25 , in which the self - energy is diagonal in orbital space .",
    "several important observations can be made .",
    "the suppression of spectral weight at the fermi energy can be achieved by two distinct behaviours of the imaginary parts of the self - energy within the charge gap : either they diverge ( as is the case of the insulating phase of the one - band hubbard model ) , or they have to vanish within the gap . in the present case of m1 vo@xmath0",
    "we see , figure [ figs2 ] , that the self - energies are all regular and their imaginary parts vanish within the gap .",
    "hence it is not a divergence of the effective mass that is responsible for the mit .",
    "concerning the @xmath2  elements , both the real and the imaginary part , depend only weakly on frequency .",
    "moreover the imaginary part is globally low in magnitude , signaling only minor life - time effects .",
    "this is a consequence of the low occupation of these orbitals ( @xmath2616% ) .",
    "the interesting physics is carried by the @xmath1  components .",
    "they exhibit a rather selective dependence on frequency : the @xmath27anti@xmath28$]bonding component has a quite flat ( @xmath27positive@xmath28 $ ] negative ) real and an unimportant imaginary part in the @xmath27un@xmath28$]occupied part of the spectrum .",
    "the d@xmath29-configuration , with its nearly filled bonding bands , and empty anti - bonding bands , thus leads again  but this time in a non - trivial way  to only small life - time effects . despite the considerable on - site interactions ,",
    "the complex structure of the self - energy thus suggests the existence of well - defined one - particle excitations . as we shall see below ,",
    "this effective band structure is however strongly rearranged as compared to the former lda energies , due to the differences in the regions of constant real - parts .",
    "when neglecting the anti - hermitian parts of the self - energy , which  as we have seen above  are small for the bonding / antibonding bands , the excitation energies of the system are given by the poles of the one - particle green s function  : @xmath30    in contrast to the dft equations , the above is not an eigenvalue problem , due to the frequency dependence of the self - energy . as a first step we shall discuss a graphical construction for finding solutions of ( [ pole ] ) .      in the one - band case",
    "the problem reduces to @xmath31 .",
    "solutions are the intersections of the real - part of the self - energy ( minus @xmath32 ) with a frequency stripe of slope one and a width corresponding to the dispersion of @xmath33 . in the general hamiltonian case",
    "this construction is no longer exact , but might still give qualitative insights . in the present case",
    "we expect this procedure to give a rather good description , when working in the bonding / antibonding basis and limiting ourselves to a discussion of the @xmath1  orbitals only . indeed ,",
    "if the @xmath2  orbitals were empty , this contruction would be exact .    in figure [ figs1 ]",
    "we indicate the positions and bandwidths of the @xmath1  bands within lda . as in the bonding / antibonding basis",
    "the orbital pole equations approximately decouple , we show the lda @xmath27anti@xmath28$]bonding bandwidth only in the region @xmath34 $ ] @xmath35 , where relevant intersections can be found . below the fermi - level",
    ", bonding pole solutions appear between -0.5 and -1.0ev , due to intersections with the bonding part of the self - energy ( red ) with the stripe representing the former lda @xmath1  bonding band ( @xmath35 ) . as a result ,",
    "the bonding orbital is considerably pushed downwards in energy .",
    "the @xmath1  anti - bonding poles , i.e. the intersection of the ( blue ) anti - bonding self - energy and the stripe at @xmath36 are pushed beyond 2ev .",
    "thus , already at this point , we suspect the spectral weight above 2ev as seen in the local spectral - function of ref.@xcite to stem from the @xmath1  anti - bonding excitation rather than from an upper hubbard band .",
    "we will come back to this point in the next section .      to solve the quasi - particle equation ( [ pole ] )",
    ", one could in practice scan through frequency and look for sign - changes of the determinant ( [ pole ] ) .",
    "however , as along various symmetry - lines , degenerate solutions exist , we had to introduce a threshold and solutions where identified as yielding an absolute value of the determinant below this value .",
    "figure [ figpole ] shows our results .    on general grounds ,",
    "there are , at a given @xmath37-vector , at least as many poles as there were lda bands ( including possible degeneracies ) .",
    "however , the frequency dependence of the self - energy may produce additional solutions of ( [ pole ] )  : in the particle - hole symmetric one - band hubbard model , for example , there is one solution in the non - interacting limit , which simply is the one - particle dispersion , whereas in the atomic limit there are two poles at @xmath38 . in between",
    "there is a regime in which three poles may occur , representing the famous three - peak structure in the spectral function . in our example of the m1 phase of vo@xmath0",
    ", we note that the number of one - particle dmft poles equals the number of lda - bands . in other words ,",
    "the bands get shifted and reshaped , but the importance of incoherent features is rather small .",
    "this finding is far from trivial .",
    "for example in the metallic rutile phase of vo@xmath0@xcite or v@xmath0o@xmath39@xcite , additional poles occur , representing incoherent hubbard bands .",
    "the most important changes as compared to the lda is the opening of a gap between the bonding @xmath1  and the @xmath2  bands . besides",
    ", the anti - bonding @xmath1  band is shifted well beyond the @xmath2  ones , as already seen in the graphical discussion above . in a molecular picture ,",
    "the bonding / antibonding splitting of the @xmath1-orbitals , due to the dimerization , is tremendously enhanced by the _ non - local _ intra - dimer correlations that are caused by the _ local _ interactions .",
    "these results confirm the picture by koethe who identify a high frequency xas intensity peak as the @xmath1  anti - bonding band , while a small low - energy feature in the partial @xmath1  spectrum , both seen in the experiment and the cdmft calculation results from @xmath2 @xmath1  hybridization @xcite .",
    "the neglected life - time effects will in our case broaden the spectra and shift the positions a little due to their frequency dependence , as can be seen in the ( @xmath37-integrated ) spectral function@xcite .",
    "however they will not , as is e.g. the case in v@xmath0o@xmath39@xcite , completely suppress spectral weight for some given pole solutions .",
    "hence , in the current example , the effective band structure gives a quite accurate guidance to the physics of the system .    at first sight , it may seem surprising that despite strong local correlations  the imaginary parts of the on - site selfenergies reach values of the order of 3ev  well - defined one - particle excitations survive .",
    "mathematically spoken , this is the consequence of a cancellation of local and inter - site self - energies resulting in nearly negligeable life - time effects for the @xmath27anti-@xmath28$]bonding bands at @xmath27positive@xmath28 $ ] negative energies , respectively .",
    "physically , enhanced inter - site hoppings allow the electrons to avoid the strong on - site repulsion by delocalizing over the dimer , and the resulting intra - dimer fluctuations reduce the net effects of the interaction@xcite .      as we have seen",
    ", the frequency dependence of the bonding / antibonding self - energy in regions where they yield solutions of the pole equation is rather unimportant .",
    "hence the question arises as to which extent one could derive the effective band structure from a constant one - particle , albeit orbital - dependent , potential @xmath40 . to this end",
    "we will approximate our dynamical self - energy in a static way , by its values at the former lda band - centres for the @xmath2 , and by the values at the pole energies for the @xmath1  orbitals .",
    "this means we choose @xmath41 , @xmath42 for the @xmath2 components , and @xmath43 , @xmath44 for the @xmath1   bonding / antibonding components respectively . as a consequence , there will be a downshift of the @xmath1  bonding band ( @xmath45 ) , which , together with an upshift of the @xmath2  bands ( @xmath46 ) is responsible for the opening of the gap . thus , these considerations put numbers to goodenough s picture@xcite . however , the effect caused by the re - hybridisations with the oxygen bands , as described in the introduction , is supplemented by the following  : the correlations cause a depopulation of the @xmath2 bands , in favour of the @xmath1  bonding one , as thereby the electrons are effectively avoiding the on - site coulomb interaction . moreover ,",
    "the anti - bonding @xmath1  band is pushed up in energy way beyond all the @xmath2 , tremendously enhancing the bonding / antibonding splitting .    after transforming back into the original basis , we solve the eigenvalue problem for @xmath47 .",
    "the results are shown in figure [ figpole ] along with the exact poles from above .",
    "the shiftings of the bands , owed to the additional potential , as described above , are , besides minor details , in excellent agreement with the cdmft poles .    the above one - particle potential acts like a scissors - operator and is somewhat reminiscent of results obtained within the gw approximation@xcite .",
    "indeed , within a model gw approach , a gap was found to open in the m1 phase@xcite .",
    "furthermore , preliminary results of a fully _ ab initio _ gw calculation suggest that the gw approximation is as a matter of fact suited to describe the insulating character in the present case .",
    "though disposing of the fully frequency dependent dmft self - energy , we find it instructive to compare with an approximate low - frequency expansion , one would employ if one had used a many - body technique that gives only information about the renormalization of low lying coherent excitations , such as e.g. slave - boson theories . the renormalized band structure",
    "is then given by the solutions @xmath48 of @xmath49\\right)=0\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath50 , and @xmath51 $ ] @xmath52 is the @xmath27anti-@xmath28 $ ] hermitian part of the self - energy on the imaginary axis .",
    "this approach , exact at the fermi - level and normally identified with the fermi - liquid regime , may in principle be applicable in our case to the insulating phase of vo@xmath0  as the self - energies do not diverge at low frequency , as is the case in the mott - insulating phase of the one - band hubbard model .",
    "albeit , the quantity z should , in this context , not be identified with the usual quasi - particle weight .",
    "as can be seen in figure [ figz ] , a charge gap is found to open , thus correctly describing the insulating behaviour ; however when comparing to the one - particle poles , we remark huge discrepancies :   the overall bandwidth is too small , the bands too flat and the bonding / antibonding splitting lacks the tremendous increase found before .",
    "this is natural , since foremost the involved slopes of the self - energy at low - frequency overestimate the renormalizations towards the fermi - level , whereas at high enough energy the self - energies are essentially constant .      in conclusion ,",
    "we have presented a detailed analysis of the excitation spectrum of the m1 phase of vo@xmath0 , with special emphasis on an effective band structure description . indeed , we found life - time effects to be rather negligeable and the correlation effects to only shift and reshape the kohn - sham energies with respect to the starting lda calculation .",
    "furthermore , by approximating the dynamical self - energy , we were able to construct a frequency - independent , though orbital - dependent , one - particle potential , that , when added to the lda reproduced the dmft excitation energies to a quite satisfactory extent .",
    "we remark that due to the orbital - dependence of this potential , it can not be viewed as an improved density functional .",
    "hence , despite the undeniable presence of strong local correlations , the system retains the coherence of its excitations by means of intra - dimer fluctuations , to an extent that the physics of the compound is indeed dominated by the goodenough - peierls - picture .",
    "the role of correlations consists in ( i ) pushing the @xmath1  anti - bonding band beyond the top of the @xmath2 , consistent with the experimental findings , and , more importantly , in ( ii ) enhancing the @xmath1  bonding ",
    "splitting due to an effectively reduced coulomb repulsion in the @xmath1  bonding band , hence favouring the depopulation of the @xmath2  bands .",
    "the latter results in the opening of the gap .",
    "thus , as a matter of consequence it _ is _ the correlations that are responsible for the insulating state , albeit they cause it in a rather specific fashion .",
    "we thank a. i. poteryaev , a. georges and a. i. lichtenstein for useful discussions and for collaborations which resulted in @xcite , which was the starting point of the present work .",
    "further , we appreciated discussions with f. aryasetiawan , m. gatti , l. reining , g. a. sawatzky , and a. tanaka .",
    "jmt kindly acknowledges support by the japan society for the promotion of science ( jsps ) under grant pe05050 .",
    "this work was supported by idris , orsay , under project no . 061393 .",
    "whereas for the continuation of the green s function from the matsubara formalism to real frequency a numerical technique , called the maximum entropy algorithm ( maxent)@xcite has become a standard approach , the analytic continuation of the self - energy has only recently been envisioned in the context of realistic ( i.e. multi - band ) calculations@xcite .    in this work",
    "we have implemented a scheme that is sufficiently general to work in the multiorbital cluster dmft case , and which , in particular , allows for off - diagonal self - energy elements .",
    "the following sketch outlines our continuation procedure  :    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     starting from the local green s function in imaginary time , we perform the aforementioned maxent algorithm , yielding the spectral function , which is proportional to the imaginary part of the real - frequency green s function . the real part of this quantity is related to the former by kramers - kronig transformation .",
    "the by far most difficult step in this scheme is the last one .",
    "whereas in the one - band hubbard model on the bethe - lattice an exact expression for the self - energy in terms of the local green s function exists ( @xmath53 ) , in the general multi - band case a multi - dimensional root - finding procedure@xcite has to be employed to solve ( [ root ] ) . in the present case , of four formula units in the cell ,",
    "the hamiltonian is a 12x12 matrix and the self - energy has the structure shown in section [ ss ] .    in the degenerate case , the k - sum in ( [ root ] ) can be replaced by an integral over the density of states and one ends up with the simpler task of inverting the hilbert transform .    in the most general case",
    ", the starting green s function will furthermore have off - diagonal elements in orbital space .",
    "as the standard implementation of the maxent - algorithm in this context has , to our knowledge , so far been used for diagonal elements only , some comments are in order .",
    "the equation that is to be inverted reads @xmath54 with @xmath55 being the usual maxent kernel@xcite .",
    "in contrast to the diagonal elements of the spectral function , which are normalized to one and are positive at all frequencies , off - diagonal elements have vanishing zeroth moment and hence change sign as a function of @xmath56 .    for mending this difference , the idea is simply to add a function f(@xmath56 ) of zeroth moment one to @xmath57 , and calculate the corresponding shift in g(@xmath58 ) .",
    "however this function has to be chosen such , that the resulting fictitious spectral function is non - negative for all frequencies .",
    "to this end , we construct it in the following way . given the orthogonal orbital transformation @xmath59 with    @xmath60    the ll - element ( @xmath61 ) of the spectral function in the new basis reads @xmath62 and is thus per construction a proper diagonal element of the spectral function in the rotated basis , i.e. in particular it is positive for all @xmath56 .",
    "therefore @xmath63 is a suitable shift for @xmath64 in the original basis .",
    "hence , after having continued the original diagonal elements , one constructs as input the function @xmath65 from which , using ( [ a3 ] ) the off - diagonal spectral function is then deduced .",
    "we note that in the present case the above rotation has the same geometrical interpretation as the transformation into a bonding / antibonding basis , as used for the @xmath1  self - energies of vo@xmath0 , but the construction is more general and does not require special symmetry properties of the system .",
    "10                    j.  p. pouget , h.  launois , t.  m. rice , p.  dernier , a.  gossard , g.  villeneuve , and p.  hagenmuller .",
    "dimerization of a linear heisenberg chain in the insulating phases of @xmath67 . , 10(5):18011815 , sep 1974 .",
    "f.  aryasetiawan , m.  imada , a.  georges , g.  kotliar , s.  biermann , and a.  i. lichtenstein .",
    "frequency - dependent local interactions and low - energy effective models from electronic structure calculations . , 70(19):195104 , nov 2004 .",
    "s.  shin , s.  suga , m.  taniguchi , m.  fujisawa , h.  kanzaki , a.  fujimori , h.  daimon , y.  ueda , k.  kosuge , and s.  kachi .",
    "vacuum - ultraviolet reflectance and photoemission study of the metal - insulator phase transitions in @xmath69 , @xmath70@xmath71 , and @xmath72@xmath73 .",
    ", 41(8):49935009 , mar 1990 .",
    "e.  z. kurmaev , v.  m. cherkashenko , yu  m. yarmoshenko , st  bartkowski , a.  v. postnikov , m.  neumann , l.  c. duda , j.  h. guo , j.  nordgren , v.  a. perelyaev , and w.  reichelt . electronic structure of vo@xmath0 studied by x - ray photoelectron and x - ray emission spectroscopies .",
    ", 10:4081 , 1998 .",
    "k.  okazaki , h.  wadati , a.  fujimori , m.  onoda , y.  muraoka , and z.  hiroi .",
    "photoemission study of the metal - insulator transition in vo@xmath0/tio@xmath0(001 ) : evidence for strong electron - electron and electron - phonon interaction .",
    ", 69(16):165104 , 2004 .",
    "m.  abbate , f.  m.  f. de  groot , j.  c. fuggle , y.  j. ma , c.  t. chen , f.  sette , a.  fujimori , y.  ueda , and k.  kosuge .",
    "soft - x - ray - absorption studies of the electronic - structure changes through the vo@xmath68 phase transition .",
    ", 43(9):72637266 , mar 1991 .",
    "m.  w. haverkort , z.  hu , a.  tanaka , w.  reichelt , s.  v. streltsov , m.  a. korotin , v.  i. anisimov , h.  h. hsieh , h .- j .",
    "lin , c.  t. chen , d.  i. khomskii , and l.  h. tjeng .",
    "orbital - assisted metal - insulator transition in vo@xmath0 .",
    ", 95(19):196404 , 2005 .",
    "r.  eguchi , m.  taguchi , m.  matsunami , k.  horiba , k.  yamamoto , y.  ishida , a.  chainani , y.  takata , m.  yabashi , d.  miwa , y.  nishino , k.  tamasaku , t.  ishikawa , y.  senba , h.  ohashi , y.  muraoka , z.  hiroi , and s.  shin .",
    "photoemission evidence for a mott - hubbard metal - insulator transition in vo@xmath0 .",
    ", 78(7):075115 , 2008 .",
    "t.  c. koethe , z.  hu , m.  w. haverkort , c.  schussler - langeheine , f.  venturini , n.  b. brookes , o.  tjernberg , w.  reichelt , h.  h. hsieh , h .- j .",
    "lin , c.  t. chen , and l.  h. tjeng .",
    "transfer of spectral weight and symmetry across the metal - insulator transition in vo@xmath0 .",
    ", 97(11):116402 , 2006 .",
    "alexander  i. poteryaev , jan  m. tomczak , silke biermann , antoine georges , alexander  i. lichtenstein , alexey  n. rubtsov , tanusri saha - dasgupta , and ole  k. andersen .",
    "enhanced crystal - field splitting and orbital - selective coherence induced by strong correlations in v@xmath0o@xmath39 .",
    ", 76(8):085127 , 2007 .",
    "v.  i. anisimov , d.  e. kondakov , a.  v. kozhevnikov , i.  a. nekrasov , z.  v. pchelkina , j.  w. allen , s .- k .",
    "kim , p.  metcalf , s.  suga , a.  sekiyama , g.  keller , i.  leonov , x.  ren , and d.  vollhardt .",
    "full orbital calculation scheme for materials with strongly correlated electrons .",
    ", 71(12):125119 , 2005 .",
    "i.  a. nekrasov , k.  held , g.  keller , d.  e. kondakov , th .",
    "pruschke , m.  kollar , o.  k. andersen , v.  i. anisimov , and d.  vollhardt .",
    "momentum - resolved spectral functions of srvo@xmath39 calculated by lda + dmft .",
    ", 73(15):155112 , 2006 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> vanadium dioxide vo@xmath0  and its metal - insulator transition at t=340k continues to receive considerable interest . the question whether the physics of the insulating low - temperature phase is dominated by the mott or the peierls scenario , i.e. by correlation or band effects , is still under debate . a recent cluster dynamical mean field theory calculation@xcite suggests a combination of both effects , characterizing the transition as of a correlation assisted peierls type . </S>",
    "<S> in this paper we present a detailed analysis of the excitation spectrum of the insulating m1 phase of vo@xmath0 , based on this calculation . </S>",
    "<S> we implement a scheme to analytically continue self - energies from matsubara to real frequencies , and study the physics of the strong interactions , as well as the corresponding changes with respect to the density functional theory ( lda ) band structure . </S>",
    "<S> we find that in the m1 phase life - time effects are rather negligeable , indeed allowing for an effective band structure description . </S>",
    "<S> a frequency independent but orbital dependent potential , constructed as an approximation to the full cluster dynamical mean field self - energy , turns out to satisfactory reproduce the fully interacting one - particle spectrum , acting as a scissors operator which pushes the @xmath1  bonding and @xmath2bands apart and , thus , opening the gap . </S>"
  ]
}