{
  "article_text": [
    "we have known of the phenomenon called solar flare ever since the first observation by carrington and hodgson in 1859 .",
    "we have learned a great deal in the century and a half that have passed since , but these basic questions remain with us : what powers a solar eruption ? what triggers it ?",
    "these questions continue to occupy us as we bring ever - increasing instrumental and computational capabilities to bear on the problem . at the time of this writing , in the summer of 2008 , a search with the astrophysics data system yielded over 11,000 refereed publications with the words flare and sun or solar in the abstract .",
    "even the limited focus of this paper on the energy source and triggering process of active - region flares and their associated eruptions is associated with thousands of studies .",
    "this review focuses on active - region m- and x - class flares and the flux - rope destabilizations associated with them .",
    "i present my summary first , followed by a synthesis scenario for the driving of field eruptions .",
    "these two sections are meant to give the reader a context to assess the supporting evidence that is discussed in detail , , in subsequent sections .",
    "a selection of characteristic flares and eruptions discussed in the text is compiled in table  1 .",
    "[ sec : conclusion][sec : discussion ] one would like to have an understanding of solar flares and eruptions that is founded on theory and on numerical models of the behavior of magnetic fields from before they intrude into the solar atmosphere to their subsequent evolution within it . unfortunately",
    ", our modeling abilities in these respects are limited by the enormous gradients and scale ranges involved .",
    "for one thing , simulations of the emergence of magnetic flux from deep within the convective envelope have made substantial progress in recent years , but they all require twists of flux ropes that are not obviously compatible with the bulk of the regions observed to emerge through the photosphere : most solar regions emerge as bipolar regions with fibril and loop connections through chromosphere and corona more or less parallel to the line connecting the centers of gravity of the two polarities , whereas simulations would have the initial fields come up very nearly at right angles to the flux rope s subsurface direction .",
    "even when the field is in the corona , we have to be very careful in drawing conclusions from modeled field topologies and derived energy estimates .",
    "the main reasons for that problem are ( 1 ) the forces acting on the field within the photosphere , ( 2 ) the uncertainties on vector - field measurements , particularly on the transverse component , and ( 3 ) the large domain that needs to be modeled to capture the connections of an active region to its surroundings ( see sects .  [",
    "sec : topology ] and  8) .    in view of these problems ,",
    "most of our knowledge about what powers and triggers flares comes from observations ( supported by generic models and theory ; ) .",
    "it appears that flares and eruptions are intrinsic to the emergence of magnetic field interacting with the overlying field both within and above the active region core field .",
    "hence , it is crucial that we extend our thinking from instantaneous , 2d observations and sketches to an intrinsically - dynamic , 3d view to elucidate why the large - scale polarity - inversion lines , which probably requires understanding of the deep active - region field configuration .",
    "flares , flux - rope eruptions ( with or without chromospheric material showing as filaments ) , and cmes associated with active - region events are largely - overlapping populations of closely - related features of field destabilization .",
    "it appears that the factors that determine which of these features dominates the evolution are matters of scale , available energy , twist , the surrounding magnetic field .",
    "large statistical studies are needed to better elucidate the relationships between these features , and to separate the causally related parameters from the many others that exhibit substantial correlations .",
    "essential to the occurrence of m- or x - class flares is a strong - gradient polarity - inversion line ( spil ) in the strong - field interior of an active region . in the absence of such a spil , or when",
    "there is not enough flux associated with it ( sect .",
    "[ sec : patterns ] ) .",
    "such spils are generally associated with flux emergence , and for the cases for which vector - magnetic data are available , that emergence pattern looks like a wound flux - rope that breaches the surface ( see the well - studied example in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : flarefluxmodel ] ) . such systems either flare or relax back to a near - potential state within a day or so after flux emergence ends .",
    "the emergence of these flux ropes requires that most of the mass that they carry is drained back into the depths below the photosphere . for a spiraling , undulating field this presents problems for the field - line segments that thread the corona on two sides with a sub - photospheric segment in the pinching - off of the mass - carrying pockets by near - photospheric reconnection may be one of the mechanisms involved in the destabilization of the field configuration .    even as flux - rope emergence appears fundamental to the driving of major field destabilizations",
    ", it does not necessarily do so .",
    "perhaps the available energy can be dissipated in a series of smaller flares ( e.g. , )    or by enhanced coronal heating ( e.g. , )   . or",
    ", perhaps this happens because the twist of emerging flux ropes must be aligned with the direction of the overlying field to build up energy ; if largely anti - parallel , reconnection may happen immediately without the buildup of much energy ( cf .",
    ", simulations by ) .",
    "more comprehensive multi - day studies of active regions are critical to understand this .",
    "the finding that the flare - magnitude power - law spectrum of individual active regions is similar to the ensemble s average distribution ( see sect .",
    "4 ) suggests that the energy - release process is the result of some process of self - organization of the coronal field .",
    "but it may also be a consequence of the sub - photospheric flux - rope shredding .",
    "repeated flaring of a region with continued , intermittent flux emergence supports the latter , while observations that a flare or eruption releases only part of the region s non - potentiality supports the former .",
    "understanding the consequences of these processes on the of a deterministic flare forecast requires systematic large - sample studies to differentiate the roles of the sub - photospheric and atmospheric processes .    with respect to flare forecasting",
    ", i note that ( 1 ) if there is no sign of substantial flux ropes within the photosphere for about a day , no major flares will occur within the next few hours , but ( 2 ) flux rope - emergence may lead to major flares within about a quarter of a day , and ( 3 ) may be associated with one or more major flares , or with a series of smaller flares , or with gradual dissipation of the flux - rope s energy .",
    "at present , there are no flare - forecast metrics with an outstanding skill score , although the total flux near a spil appears to be a good indicator of the flare potential of an active region .",
    "it remains to be seen whether the limited skill score of forecasts can be improved with additional observations , or whether the flare process is intrinsically probabilistic with the possibility of a wide range of responses to any given boundary perturbation .",
    "the literature on flares and field destabilizations , on properties of flux emergence , and on field topology and reconnection , suggests the following scenario for the majority of the large active - region flares that are the focus of this review ,     _ top : _",
    "schematic representation for an emerging field configuration involved in flaring or flux - rope eruption as discussed in sect .",
    "[ sec : scenario ] . _",
    "bottom : _ nlff field model over an active region prior to an x3.4 flare ( case 8 in table  1 ) , rendered from a perspective 50 degrees from the normal view .",
    "the two main spots are connected by a flux rope with strong electrical currents ( shown by a grey isosurface ) within which field lines spiral from end to end on the photosphere .",
    "the hinode vector - magnetic data and the extensive nlfff modeling are discussed by schrijver et al.(2008 ) . ]     _ top : _ schematic representation for an emerging field configuration involved in flaring or flux - rope eruption as discussed in sect .",
    "[ sec : scenario ] . _",
    "bottom : _ nlff field model over an active region prior to an x3.4 flare ( case 8 in table  1 ) , rendered from a perspective 50 degrees from the normal view .",
    "the two main spots are connected by a flux rope with strong electrical currents ( shown by a grey isosurface ) within which field lines spiral from end to end on the photosphere .",
    "the hinode vector - magnetic data and the extensive nlfff modeling are discussed by schrijver et al.(2008 ) . ]    first , a large active region , itself already carrying substantial net twist , helicity , and electrical currents , as witnessed by surface motions such as rotating sunspots , by its net kinetic helicity , and by the generally complex shape of the magnetic field .",
    "subsequently , a current - carrying bundle of magnetic flux ( either a single flux rope , or an ensemble of such ropes , perhaps formed by pre - emergence fragmentation ) breaches the solar surface ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : flarefluxmodel]-top ) .",
    "this rope may be a separate rise of flux through the convective envelope , or may be a late emergence of strands of flux from the same parent flux bundle that formed the active region .",
    "one flux rope , or a series of them , may emerge , forming a strong - gradient polarity - inversion line ( spil ) characterized by two parallel opposite - polarity ridges of line - of - sight flux in close proximity . at high resolution",
    ", the vector magnetic field across the spil will be highly sheared , and rotating as the flux bundle moves through the photosphere .",
    "interaction with the near - surface convection , radiative cooling in the stratified atmosphere , and the draining of heavy plasma into surface - crossing undulations or windings of the field appear to result in a number of anchor points for the emerging flux rope(s ) .",
    "near - surface reconnection ( `` tether cutting '' ) enables the rope to break any ties to the interior between its two extremities , so that part or all of it can rise relatively freely into the overlying corona .    .",
    "part of all of the emerged strands may participate in this , depending on the remaining sub - photospheric anchors .",
    "if the field gradient slows with height or changes sign , the flux rope may stabilize again , resulting in a confined flare or failed flux - rope ( and , often , filament ) eruption .",
    "if the field gradient is large ( particularly if the field goes through a null , as in the `` breakout '' concept ) , the eruption may proceed higher , if not in fact into the heliosphere as a cme .",
    "if the winding of the emerging flux rope is too strong , then ( confined or ejective ) kinking may happen after any photospheric anchors between the end points are released ; such kinking may , but needs not , transition to an ejective eruption .",
    "subsequent emergence of a series of flux rope fragments is likely responsible for repeating and homologous flares , which can manifest themselves as leaving non - potential energy ( or helicity , or electrical currents , or filaments ,  ) behind in the corona if these are not ( yet ) unstable or released from their photospheric anchors . or they may manifest themselves as repeating flares when subsequent strands of the flux rope emerge .    how general is this scenario ?",
    "the following sections address various aspects of this , but let me point out here , in summary , that the vast majority of major flares are associated with flux emergence ( within the preceding day or so ) in the form of tightly wound flux ropes in active regions with large - scale twist , that field gradients above the zone near the polarity - inversion line help differentiate confined from ejective filament eruptions , while the photospheric differences between immediately before and after the flare are generally conversely , no major flares occur in regions that have a largely potential appearance , or more than about a day after the emergence of substantial flux ropes .",
    "it remains unclear what role tether - cutting or anchor - cutting play in near - photospheric reconnection .",
    "these processes have both observational and theoretical support , but it remains unclear how instrumental they are in the triggering of flares , either by themselves or in combination with the ( evolving ) field gradient above the polarity - inversion line .",
    "flares , filament eruptions , and coronal mass ejections ( cmes ) are three aspects that manifest themselves following the destabilization of the coronal magnetic field . their precise relationship remains an area of intense study , which is aided by the ever - increasing observational coverage of the sun and inner heliosphere , yet hampered by the fact that different observatories are involved that generally do not have overlapping fields of view , and in many cases do not have continuous coverage of a given target active region .",
    "another problem is , of course , that the sources of cmes that originate on the far side of the sun can not be observed , ",
    "at least there was until the launch of the stereo spacecraft late in 2006 .",
    "in addition to flares and cmes , there are the failed eruptions in which filaments begin to rise , but then stop their progress while twisting and writhing within the confines of what appears to be a domain of connectivity for the field bounded by a separatrix ; some particularly well - observed examples of this with trace are cases @xmath0 in table  [ tab : regions ] .",
    "these failed eruptions are associated with flares up to low m class .",
    "at least some of these failed eruptions have no cme counterpart ( e.g. , ) .",
    ".[tab : regions ] sample flaring regions and flare events discussed in the text . [ cols=\"<,<,<,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     another example of a statistical study is that by , who looks at the magnetic properties of regions associated with almost 300 m- and x - class flares , and compares that with the properties of 2,500 randomly selected active regions , all within 45@xmath1 of disk center .",
    "he notes that the regions with large flares all have a pronounced polarity - inversion line with a strong gradient across it .",
    "he subsequently measures the unsigned flux @xmath2 within about 15 mm of such strong pils ( spils ) , and this is a good indicator for flares that allows prediction of the largest flare to be expected from the region ( see fig .  3 and table  2 ; i return to the issue of predictability and the skill of various metrics in sect .",
    "[ sec : instability ] ) .    based on the inspection of many full - disk soho - mdi magnetogram sequences for regions with large flares , argues that the spils appear to be associated with emerging flux , in particular with emerging flux ropes ( also supported by the detailed field modeling by ; cf.fig .  1 ) .",
    "show that there is a pronounced tendency of increasing @xmath2 to be correlated with increasing total unsigned flux , i.e. , with signs of flux emergence . given the resolution of full - disk mdi magnetograms and the likelihood that emerging flux immediately cancels partly against pre - existing flux ,",
    "this is strong evidence for flux emergence as driver for the spil flux metric @xmath2 .",
    "more evidence for the association with flux ropes in particular is found when looking at shear at such spils .",
    "[ sec : shear ] shear at the polarity - inversion line is often associated with flaring activity ( examples are a statistical study by , e.g. , , and individual event studies by , , , , , and ; also coronal field studies described in sect .  [",
    "sec : overlying ] ) .",
    "the same holds for eruptions : report that the pitch angle of h@xmath3 structures outlining filaments is telling regarding the eruption potential : prominences with twist angles exceeding 50@xmath1 and heights exceeding 80%  of the footpoint separation erupted , while those with angles below 35@xmath1 and heights below 60%  of the footpoint separation were stable .    , based on simulations of an emerging flux rope , argues that shear motion at the polarity - inversion line in emerging flux is a natural consequence of the lorentz forces that develop as a rope enters the corona .",
    "this may explain the general correspondence of field shear and shear flows .",
    "the conversion of large - scale electromagnetic energy in the process of a flare or filament eruption changes the field configuration over active regions , and this should in turn have consequences for the observable vector - magnetic field in the photosphere . until recently",
    ", these changes proved elusive ( other than temporary changes in line profiles during the flares , which are mostly if not entirely a consequence of the energy deposition in the near - atmospheric layers by populations of energetic particles generated early in the flare , see , e.g. , ) .",
    "part of the problem in finding flare - related field changes is that it can not really be done with vector - magnetic measurements based on spectrograph scans , simply because these scans take too long to complete relative to the evolution of the photospheric field between two successive magnetograms with spacings that are much longer than the impulsive phase of the flare or eruption .",
    "for example , , using a series of 12 vector - magnetograms in the course of five days of ar10486 ( case 22 in table  [ tab : regions ] ) , find that magnetic shear angles , electric current density , and current helicity increase at the sites of impulsive flares at least a day prior to the main ( x17 and x10 ) flares .",
    "but they attribute these changes to the emergence of twisted flux ropes rather than to changes associated with the flares per se .",
    "although they say their metrics decrease after the main flares , the observational cadence is too low to unambiguously differentiate flare - related relaxation of the field or the passage of flux ropes through the photosphere prior to the post - flare magnetograms .",
    "the analysis of line - of - sight magnetograms taken at much higher frequency has been successful in identifying differences in the magnetic field just before and after major flares .",
    ", for example , find : a ) that the time scale for changes in the l.o.s .  field is less than @xmath4min . , some even less than one minutes , but in all cases abrupt ; b ) in many cases these changes are close to the noise but in some cases very significant ; c ) the changes persist for at least the two hours past the peak flare time studied by them , and in one case for at least 5 hours .",
    "show cases in which the shear angle across the polarity - inversion line of active regions increases during , and persists after a set of five x - class flares , with a time resolution that ranges from about 4 - 10min .  in the best cases to about 45min .",
    "they propose as one possible interpretation that new flux emerging just before the flare could be the cause of this increase , but comment that it is hard to understand how that could change the shear over more than 10,000 km in such a short time .",
    "on the other hand , report on shear studies of 18 regions around m - class flares ; they find no detectable changes , suggesting that perhaps only the largest flares are associated with observable changes .",
    "even very large flares and eruptions are associated with relatively weak or very localized changes in the surface magnetic field .",
    "this is , of course , part of the problem of measuring significant changes in the field energy , helicity , and topology around the time of such field destabilizations : too often , the field changes that are intrinsic changes in the photospheric field caused by flows ( horizontal and , often , vertical associated with flux emergence )      there do not seem to be many studies that compare the coronal appearance before and well after a major flare ( well observed in , e.g. , case 24 in table  1 ) .",
    "there are some studies , however , that look at loops early in a flare / eruption and in the late stages of the post - flare arcade . among these is , who find that during the course of the initial stages of the flare , the conjugate footpoints at first indicate strongly sheared field lines , and later reveal less sheared coronal connections",
    ". study trace observations of 50 x- and m - class two - ribbon flares , with well - defined , largely parallel ribbons .",
    "they find that 86%  of these flares show a general decrease in the shear angle between the main polarity inversion line and pairs of conjugate bright ribbon kernels .",
    "they interpret this as a relaxation of the field towards a more potential state because of the eruption that carries helicity / current with it , but one can readily argue that a similar decrease in shear angle would be seen if sequentially higher , less - sheared post - flare loops lit up with time as the loops cool after reconnection .",
    "these results are consequently ambiguous : they may show a decrease in shear , or they may reflect that flares generally do not release all available energy and part of the flux - rope configuration remains ( cf . , sect .  [ sec : homology ] ) .",
    ", from a study of a sample of 31 two - ribbon flares with cmes , find that the primary parameters describing the peak flare brightness and cme terminal velocity are the total flux in the region , and the change in shear angle between the early and late phases of the flare , and -  to a significantly lesser degree  - the initial shear angle .",
    "the change in shear angle may reflect a real decrease in shear and associated energy , but -  in view of the preceding paragraph  - may also be a measure of the residual shear after the eruption ; hence , it remains unclear what the measured shear angle is telling us in this case .    compounding the efforts to understand the field evolution are the relative roles of twist and writhe , and their coupling .",
    "one study on this topic by reports that the number of turns around an erupting filament initially is about 5 , decreasing to 1 later into the eruption ( entry 25 in table  [ tab : regions ] ) .",
    "here we may see an exchange of twist and writhe .",
    "numerical mhd models continue to shed light on the potential causes of the instability that leads to flares and , in particular , filament eruptions , .",
    "some of these models rely on the expected general slowness of reconnection in a solar atmospheric plasma , except for particular field configurations , specifically null points .",
    "the so - called breakout model , for example , `` exploits a vulnerability of multi - polar configurations , which consist of two or more distinct flux systems separated by null points in the corona , to rearrangements of the magnetic field s connectivity '' ( ) . specifically , rapid reconnection is anticipated as flux is pushed into a null region .",
    "one recent example of such fields is discussed by .",
    "they simulate a multi - polar configuration with a null in the corona over a model active region subjected to rotational flows ( somewhat like rotating sunspots ) .",
    "their simulation run extends to cover three homologous eruptions in their breakout concept .",
    "these , by the way , are confined , in the sense that they erupt only from the active region , but not into interplanetary space .",
    "another concept is the tether - cutting model ( originally described by ) , in which ( near-)photospheric reconnection associated with flux emergence removes the anchors to flux rope that can subsequently reconnect with the overlying field , or even erupt .",
    "this is discussed further in sect .",
    "[ sec : reconnection ] .    a different possibility to destabilize a field configuration is related to the kink and torus instabilities .",
    "the kink instability occurs when the helicity , current , or winding - number for the field in a flux rope exceeds a critical value .",
    "for example , perform line - tied mhd simulations of an emerging flux rope into a pre - existing configuration . for a case",
    "in which the twisted field in the top part of the rising rope has the same general direction as the overlying arcade , they find that the configuration becomes unstable after the coronal field reaches 1.76 full turns about the rope s axis .",
    "the erupting rope exchanges twist for writhe as it evolves as is often -  but certainly not always  - seen in filament eruptions . in a case",
    "in which the rope s top - most winding relative to the overlying arcade is reversed , no flux rope builds up in the corona as reconnection proceeds from the very first emergence , and consequently no instability develops .",
    "the torus instability occurs whenever the gradient in the surrounding field is strong enough , so that the forces exerted on a flux rope subject to a perturbation can not be contained by the overlying magnetic field .",
    "( also , e.g. , ) discuss the torus instability , and find a critical field gradient beyond which the configuration is unstable .",
    "they argue that line tying of the field to the photospheric boundary in this case helps to stabilize a configuration , arguing that it may even stabilize an emerging flux rope entirely until it is semi - circular and thereafter may help to destabilize it .",
    "discuss a unifying approach to slow and fast cmes in which the torus instability drives the cme , and in which the gradient in the surrounding field determines the acceleration profile and eventual velocity of the ejecta : fast cmes for rapid decrease ( as typical of ars ) and slow for gradual decrease ( as often over quiet sun ) .",
    "start from a similar field configuration as developed by , but perform an analytical analysis for eruptions without twist ( i.e. , without the subsurface current introduced by ) .",
    "they confirm the instability of the configuration when the flux rope length exceeds a few times the diameter of the flux rope .",
    "the proposition of the torus instability , , based on potential - field models , find that the ratio of the magnetic flux in the low corona to that in the high corona is systematically larger for the eruptive events than for the confined ones. , for a sample of ten flares , find a low field gradient for failed eruptions or kinking , and a steeper gradient for successful eruptions .",
    "the power - law indices for the field decrease with height for the failed eruptions and for the kink and torus eruptions combined are @xmath5 and @xmath6 , respectively , for height ranges from @xmath7)=3.7 - 4.7 $ ] .",
    "the use of potential - field models here is an oversimplification and the findings may say more about the distribution of the surrounding field on the photosphere than about the actual field gradient in the low corona .",
    "the above - mentioned studies deal with cmes in which flux ropes that may contain filaments are part of the story .",
    "it remains to be seen how this can apply to flares , or to eruptions with failed ejections , but there is no obvious reason why the above arguments would not apply to compact flares as much as they do to more extended flux - rope cum filament systems .",
    "in view of the theoretical and numerical considerations described in the preceding subsection , it is no surprise that multiple observational studies look at the coronal field configuration .",
    "of course , this brings us back to the problem that the coronal magnetic field configuration can not be known really well with present tools ( sect .",
    "[ sec : topology ] ) .",
    "this is particularly bothersome because it is clear that the coronal fields in flare - prone regions differ markedly from the potential field based on the same vertical ( or line of sight ) photospheric field ; see , for example , .",
    "this does not mean that currents pervade much of the active - region corona , of course , but at least points out that somewhere there must be currents strong enough to warp the field relative to a pure potential field everywhere from the core field to the peripheral field .",
    "it appears that such currents survive for typically only a day , while powering one or more flares during their decay ( e.g. , ; ; ) .",
    "how common is a strongly non - potential field ?",
    "compare photospheric vector - magnetograms and coronal configurations as seen by yohkoh s sxt .",
    "they compute lff models that best match the coronal geometry , and find that over 90%  of the regions studied are fitted well by such a model .",
    "find that this is true for only 60%  of their sample .",
    "furthermore , find that the @xmath3 parameter derived from the vector - magnetogram correlates well with that estimated for the coronal configuration .",
    "apparently , the currents that are responsible for the large - scale non - potentiality of the coronal field close through the photosphere , while small - scale structure of the @xmath3 parameter in the photosphere often does not contribute significantly to the large - scale field configuration .",
    "the electrical currents involved in non - potential regions appear to emerge with the flux , according to several studies .",
    ", for example , use line - of - sight mdi magnetograms and lff field fits to eit euv images to estimate the helicity evolution in emerging active regions .",
    "they find that the helicity parameter @xmath3 starts essentially at zero on first emergence for all six regions that were well observed , and subsequently converges to a maximum plateau value over the following 1.5d .",
    "they argue that this means that the twist is in fact injected into the corona by the spinning of the active region polarities driven by magnetic torque from below. note that this means on first emergence , the coronal field is apparently nearly potential , with @xmath8 .",
    "work by supports this finding .",
    "the studies in the literature , both observational and theoretical , suggest that whether a flux rope erupts not at all , evolves into a `` failed eruption '' , or makes it into the heliosphere as a cme depends critically on the structure of the overlying field , in particular on the gradient of the field with height , but likely also the direction of the overlying field relative to the twist of the emerging flux rope .",
    "select examples of proposed 3d configurations to explain the motions of pores around a spot ( top left ) , of the complex motions of multiple concentrations of flux in an emerging region ( top right ) , and the photospheric crossing of an emerging flux rope ( bottom two panels ) . in these sketches",
    "the possibility of efficient supra - photospheric reconnection ( as in the ellerman bombs of fig .",
    "5 ) has been ignored .",
    "( top left : from ishii et al .",
    ", 1998 ; top right : kurokawa et al . , 2002 ;",
    "bottom : from low , 2001),title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=30.0% ] select examples of proposed 3d configurations to explain the motions of pores around a spot ( top left ) , of the complex motions of multiple concentrations of flux in an emerging region ( top right ) , and the photospheric crossing of an emerging flux rope ( bottom two panels ) . in these sketches",
    "the possibility of efficient supra - photospheric reconnection ( as in the ellerman bombs of fig .",
    "5 ) has been ignored .",
    "( top left : from ishii et al .",
    ", 1998 ; top right : kurokawa et al . , 2002 ;",
    "bottom : from low , 2001),title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=60.0% ]     select examples of proposed 3d configurations to explain the motions of pores around a spot ( top left ) , of the complex motions of multiple concentrations of flux in an emerging region ( top right ) , and the photospheric crossing of an emerging flux rope ( bottom two panels ) . in these sketches",
    "the possibility of efficient supra - photospheric reconnection ( as in the ellerman bombs of fig .",
    "5 ) has been ignored .",
    "( top left : from ishii et al .",
    ", 1998 ; top right : kurokawa et al . , 2002 ;",
    "bottom : from low , 2001),title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=40.0% ] select examples of proposed 3d configurations to explain the motions of pores around a spot ( top left ) , of the complex motions of multiple concentrations of flux in an emerging region ( top right ) , and the photospheric crossing of an emerging flux rope ( bottom two panels ) . in these sketches",
    "the possibility of efficient supra - photospheric reconnection ( as in the ellerman bombs of fig .",
    "5 ) has been ignored .",
    "( top left : from ishii et al . , 1998 ;",
    "top right : kurokawa et al .",
    ", 2002 ; bottom : from low , 2001),title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=40.0% ]",
    "currents through the photosphere are often not neutralized when integrating over either of the two polarities .",
    "this notion is compatible with the observational evidence that the sun s magnetic field is often twisted on emergence ( e.g. , , [ see , e.g. , his fig .  5 ] , , , , , ) .",
    "study in detail , with high spatio - temporal resolution , the conditions of two emerging flux regions , one with a small flare , and one without , in the field of view of the svst .",
    "they find that the flaring region is associated with the emergence of what looks like a twisted , i.e. , current - carrying flux rope ( compare fig .  1 ) , while the other has no such appearance .",
    "not only emerging currents contribute to a region s free energy , however .",
    "also systematic flow patterns at , or just below , the surface can do so .",
    "for example , , report that rotating sunspots are associated with almost all of the x - flares observed by trace since april 1998 , and many of the m - flares .",
    "it is difficult to differentiate twist in the emerging flux from twisting flows .",
    "support that these twists are associated with flows , at least below the surface , is found by , who estimate the kinetic helicity density ( @xmath9 ) below active regions using helioseismic measurements .",
    "they find that the maximum helicity density in the outer 2%  of the sun correlates remarkably well with the x - ray flaring activity , perhaps -  as they point out  - because of the link between helicity and twist in the subsurface magnetic field .    whereas sunspot rotation has been argued to add energy to the coronal field , either because of the work done by the ( sub-)photospheric flows or because it reflects the emergence of a twisted , current - carrying flux bundle , the study by shows that all x - m flaring regions contain spils . as all x - flaring regions appear to contain rotating sunspots",
    ", it may well be that these are related phenomena , perhaps because many , if not all , flux bundles in a flare - prone region have significant electrical currents associated with them induced by preferential flow systems .",
    "there appears to be a net relative helicity in each hemisphere , negative in the north , positive in the south , corresponding to left - handed screws in the north and right - handed ones in the south : the statistical study by shows a 2:1 preferences of the sign of helicity for the hemispheres , averaged over all latitudes and for two cycles ( see ) .",
    "this twist , if existent already below the surface , is likely to be affected by turbulent convective buffeting of rising flux ( see , for a discussion of an example of this ) . as argue , this would trade twist with writhe of the emerging flux tubes , without affecting relative helicity . the writhe should affect the tilt angle of dipole axes on emergence , if not cause kinking of the subsurface flux arches into what may be seen as complex , or even @xmath10-class regions",
    ". this suggestion has been made , but i have not found this empirically investigated .    on the theoretical side ,",
    "a persistent problem is that even state - of - the - art numerical experiments still have difficulty in successfully bringing flux bundles from some depth up into the photosphere without them exploding in the strongly stratified uppermost layers of the convective envelope ( e.g. , ) .",
    "note that among the stabilizing forces in this process we find increasing curvature , the coriolis forces , and reynolds number ( e.g. , , , , ) .",
    "models suggest that twist is needed for the flux bundles -  thus turning them into flux ropes  - to survive the rise . on the other hand ,    starting with too much",
    "twist subjects the emerging flux ropes to kink instabilities . discusses models of rising flux tubes through a rotating medium stratified like a convective envelope .",
    "she shows that if these non - axisymmetric flux tubes rise with a twist of the observed hemispheric preference that is strong enough to prevent substantial shredding during the rise , the twist converts into a writhe that has the opposite sign than the observed preferred tilt angle .",
    "if the twist is weakened by only a factor of two this effect becomes weaker than that of the coriolis force , and the net result is a tilt that is comparable to the observed one .",
    "but the consequence of this is that the rising 3d tube loses a lot of its flux by shredding as it moves buoyantly through the surrounding medium . in view of this",
    ", one sees this scenario develop : weakly twisted tubes explode and cause network field ; moderately twisted regions have a trail of shredded field behind them , perhaps causing active - region nesting ; and strongly twisted field should come up coherently , perhaps subjected to a kinking - instability leading to @xmath10-spots .",
    "with mounting evidence for the emergence of flux ropes as a characteristic ingredient in major solar flaring , it is instructive to look at some of the highest - resolution studies made of the process of flux emergence .",
    "these observations suggest that emerging magnetic flux often does not emerge as a simple arch , as traditionally studied , but rather as an undulating field that transits the photospheric layer multiple times in sea - serpent fashion .",
    "in such a geometry , the magnetic field reaching into the chromosphere might drain its plasma load into sub - photospheric dips in the field , with trapped material that would not allow those field segments to rise .",
    "but perhaps near - surface reconnection allows the heavily mass - loaded pockets of magnetic field to be pinched off ( thus creating a variant of the tether - cutting concept in which the emerging and pre - existing flux ropes are , in fact , one and the same ) .",
    "discusses such observations of emerging flux made with hinode s sp , nfi , and bfi .",
    "he argues that the observations of opposite - polarity patches moving towards each other , with downflows seen in the spectral data , present an opportunity for plasma to drain back into the photosphere , and then be pinched off from the supra - photospheric configuration , which can then rise into the corona .",
    "recent numerical simulations of emerging flux ( e.g. , ) support such an interpretation .     conceptual illustration ( by schmieder and pariat , 2007 ) of emerging flux , with undulating strands of flux with multiple photospheric crossings . in this concept ,",
    "the approach of pairs of corresponding opposite - polarity patches on either side of a dipped field line could lead to reconnection ( in what might appear as an ellerman bomb , or eb ) that pinches off the heavy sub - photospheric segment , thus allowing the flux to rise . for field configurations that can destabilize ,",
    "twist and or kinking appears needed , as illustrated in figs .",
    "[ fig : flarefluxmodel ] and  [ fig : ishiikurokawa].,scaledwidth=70.0% ]    the concept of pinching off the heavy , sub - photospheric dips in emerging , twisted magnetic field ( such as sketched in the lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : ishiikurokawa ] ) has been suggested before ( also , e.g. , ) .",
    "one example of this is the interpretation of ellerman bombs as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : schmieder ] , taken from .",
    "let me , finally , address two issues before ending this review .",
    "first a comment on the nature of the instability .",
    "not much seems to have been written on this topic , but interestingly , point out that they have found evidence that each t&d [ ] equilibrium has a corresponding toroidal equilibrium with exactly the same boundary conditions at the solar surface , which is unstable when the t&d equilibrium is stable and vice versa, thus pointing to a catastrophe scenario . among the other studies that address the existence of multiple solutions ( some stable , some unstable ) i mention the catastrophe models by and . whether the possibility that the nearly force - free state of the coronal field allows multiple solutions to ( very nearly ) the same boundary condition will need additional work in order to be able to assess these effects in the context of field instabilities .",
    "the second point relates to the predictability based on proposed metrics for flare likelihood .",
    "a landmark study in this is the work by who evaluate the skill scores of forecasts based on four metrics : total flux , the `` total excess energy '' ( ) , the spil flux metric @xmath11 ( ) , and the `` effective connected magnetic field '' ( ) .",
    "they limit their sample to regions within 30@xmath1 from disk center to create a relatively uniform set of observing conditions .",
    "they show that the highest success rate for any of these single parameter , @xmath2 , is 92.2% , whereas a uniform forecast that nothing will every produce an m - class flare or larger is 90.8% .",
    "they conclude that none of these parameters are robust as forecasting tools .",
    "this , then , brings us back to the issue of `` understanding . '' if we could deterministically forecast flares and eruptions , then we certainly could claim success .",
    "but we might also have reached a deep understanding if this were not the case : if flux - rope emergence is the driver , or if self - organization occurs within the corona , then no such thing as a `` deterministic forecast '' based on present - day observables is feasible in principle .",
    "how do we find out if either or both of these possibilities apply ?",
    "it seems that statistical studies for observations from interior to high corona are essential . the relatively slow process of emergence and the rapidity of flare onset also point to multi - day , high - cadence coverage for such coordinated observations .",
    "these observations need to be complemented by numerical experiments of flux emergence with a realistic treatment of the interior , of the near - surface layers , and of the corona .",
    "moverover , we shall need to learn how to model the atmospheric field in order to measure properties such as energy , helicity , and topology .",
    "coordinated multi - instrument observations of the sun in the era of the solar dynamics observatory , supported by extensive spectroscopy and numerical experiments , hold the promise of a breakthrough for our understanding of magnetic instabilities involved in flares and cmes .",
    "i thank hugh hudson , nariaki nitta , and alan title for very helpful comments on early drafts of this manuscript , and the referees for very constructive suggestions to improve the presentation and to some key references .",
    "derosa , m. , c. schrijver , g. barnes , k. leka , b. lites , m. aschwanden , t. amari , a. canou , j. mctiernan , s. regnier , j. thalmann , g. valori , m. wheatland , t. wiegelmann , m. cheung , p. conlon , m. fuhrmann , b. inhester , and t. tadesse : 2009 . .",
    "in preparation .                                                                                                          , t.  r. , k.  d. leka , g. barnes , b.  w. lites , m.  k. georgoulis , a.  a. pevtsov , k.  s. balasubramaniam , g.  a. gary , j. jing , j. li , y. liu , h.  n. wang , v. abramenko , v. yurchyshyn , and y .- j .",
    "moon : 2006 . , 267 .      , r.  l. and g. roumeliotis : 1992 . in : z. svestka , b.  v. jackson , and m.  e. machado ( eds . ) : _ iau colloq . 133 : eruptive solar flares _ , vol",
    ". 399 of _ lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag_.",
    "p.  69 .",
    ", t.  j. , s. tsuneta , b.  w. lites , m. kubo , t. yokoyama , t.  e. berger , k. ichimoto , y. katsukawa , s. nagata , k. shibata , t. shimizu , r.  a. shine , y. suematsu , t.  d. tarbell , and a.  m. title : 2008 . , l215 .",
    "schrijver , c. , m. derosa , t. metcalf , g. barnes , b. lites , t. tarbell , j. mctiernan , g. valori , t. wiegelmann , m. wheatland , t. amari , g. aulanier , p. dmoulin , m. fuhrmann , k. kusano , s. rgnier , and j. thalmann : 2008 . , 1637 .                                          , b.  t. and y. li : 2008 . in : r. howe , r.  w. komm , k.  s. balasubramaniam , and g.  j.  d. petrie ( eds . ) : _ subsurface and atmospheric influences on solar activity _ , vol .",
    "383 of _ astronomical society of the pacific conference series_. p. 429 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this review focuses on the processes that energize and trigger m- and x - class solar flares and associated flux - rope destabilizations . </S>",
    "<S> numerical modeling of specific solar regions is hampered by uncertain coronal - field reconstructions and by poorly understood magnetic reconnection ; these limitations result in uncertain estimates of field topology , energy , and helicity . </S>",
    "<S> the primary advances in understanding field destabilizations therefore come from the combination of generic numerical experiments with interpretation of sets of observations . these suggest a critical role for the emergence of twisted flux ropes into pre - existing strong field for many , if not all , of the active regions that produce m- or x - class flares . </S>",
    "<S> the flux and internal twist of the emerging ropes appear to play as important a role in determining whether an eruption will develop predominantly as flare , confined eruption , or cme , as do the properties of the embedding field . based on reviewed literature </S>",
    "<S> , i outline a scenario for major flares and eruptions that combines flux - rope emergence , mass draining , near - surface reconnection , and the interaction with the surrounding field . </S>",
    "<S> whether deterministic forecasting is in principle possible remains to be seen : to date no reliable such forecasts can be made . </S>",
    "<S> large - sample studies based on long - duration , comprehensive observations of active regions from their emergence through their flaring phase are needed to help us better understand these complex phenomena .    </S>",
    "<S> sun : flares , sun : magnetic field , sun : emerging flux    = 0.5 cm </S>"
  ]
}