{
  "article_text": [
    "terrestrial impactors ( asteroids and comets ) have been suggested to play a major role in modulating the existence of life on earth , as the dating of craters linked to kilometer - sized impactors at popigai and chesapeake bay , chicxulub @xcite , and morokweng and mjolnir strongly correlate in age with three of the last major global extinctions ( late - eocene , cretaceous - tertiary , and jurassic - cretaceous respectively ) .",
    "indeed , readers can view images of the corresponding impact craters at the _ earth impact database _ ( http://www.unb.ca/passc/impactdatabase/ ) , which is maintained by the planetary and space science center at the university of new brunswick .",
    "one of the challenges , undoubtedly , is to explain how such impactors transition from otherwise benign orbits in the solar system to become near - earth objects ( neos ) .",
    "historically , it has been suggested that the cause of such extinctions may be linked to an influx of comets by means of a perturbation of the oort cloud , a spherical zone of loosely - bound comets thought to encompass the periphery of the solar system .",
    "a litany of possible causes have been put forth as catalysts for such a perturbation , most notably density gradients ( stars and the interstellar medium ) encountered as the sun oscillates vertically through the plane of the milky way during its revolution about the galaxy , or interactions with a suspected substellar companion to the sun ( nemesis ) .",
    "certain ideas are advocated because they inherently assume a periodicity to mass extinction events , although unproven , rather than stochastic punctuations . a different impact delivery system revisited below",
    "is based primarily on orbital resonances , and favours a reservoir of projectiles from the asteroid belt located between mars and jupiter , in addition to comets from the kuiper belt and oort cloud , the former extending beyond neptune from 35 a.u . to 50 + a.u .",
    "large bodies can be delivered from both belts into earth - crossing orbits by means of resonances ( secular and mean motion ) .",
    "formally , a resonance occurs where the orbital periods of two bodies are commensurate ( ratios of integers ) .",
    "for example , an asteroid that is near a 2:1 resonance with mars will orbit the sun once for each two orbits mars completes .",
    "most importantly , asteroids near resonances may experience periodic perturbations from a planet that could lead to an increasing eccentricity and a subsequent close encounter , resulting in the asteroid being gravitationally scattered .",
    "observations confirm that areas in the main belt associated with strong resonances with the orbit of jupiter ( or mars ) are indeed devoid of asteroids ( kirkwood gaps ) , securing the resonance phenomenon as a feasible mechanism for transporting objects from the belt .",
    "inevitably , a fraction of the asteroids depleted by orbital resonances become neos .",
    "a distribution analogous to the kirkwood gaps is also noted in computational models of the kuiper belt @xcite , where neptune plays a major role in scattering comets .",
    "moreover , simulations confirm that comets from the region could then enter other planet - crossing orbits , although the relevant impact probabilities are difficult to constrain because firm statistics on the kuiper belt s comet population lie beyond present limits of solid observational data . the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) , scheduled for launch in @xmath1 , and the ongoing canada france ecliptic plane survey ( cfeps ) should place firmer constraints on the kuiper belt demographic .",
    "indeed , many canadian astronomers and institutions are active partners in jwst ( i.e. john hutchings , nrc - hia , ren doyon , universit de montral ) and cfeps ( i.e. jj kavelaars and lynne jones , nrc - hia , brett gladman , ubc ) .",
    "the yarkovsky effect ( ye ) is another component of the delivery system that can work to enhance the transport of asteroids ( or comets ) into resonances , essentially increasing the possibility that bodies not near resonances may eventually arrive at such locations . in its simplest form ,",
    "the canonical ye arises from a temperature differential between the sunlit and dark sides of an object exposed to the sun .",
    "thermal energy from the object is therefore reradiated asymmetrically , causing the body to experience a thrust that may result in an outwards or inwards orbital migration , depending upon its sense of rotation and the direction of the resulting rocket force ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "the ye also allows constraints to be placed on the ages of asteroid families @xcite  which is used below to connect the bapstina asteroid family to the k / t impactor  although such a framework is still in its scientific infancy .",
    "the force causes smaller asteroids to undergo a greater orbital migration in comparison with larger bodies , producing a characteristic distribution in semi - major axis space ( see figure 1 , * ? ? ?",
    "computer simulations can then determine at what time after the fragmentation of a parent body the present day distribution of an asteroid family is reproduced satisfactorily .",
    "such analyses depend on knowledge of several different parameters , which in the case of the baptistina asteroid family ( baf ) are not well established as discussed below .",
    "lastly , it is noted that the ye has been invoked to describe the motion of asteroid 6489 golevka @xcite , and additional efforts to test and confirm the effect observationally are forthcoming .      in sum , a three - component terrestrial impact delivery system could begin in the belt with the fragmentation of a parent body near a resonance by means of a collision that spawns hundreds of smaller asteroids , thereby augmenting the statisticaly probability and likelihood of a terrestrial impactor .",
    "after fragmentation , a particular asteroid could then enter a nearby resonance or drift there by means of the ye , where it may be scattered by a planet into an earth - crossing orbit .",
    "in harmony with the delivery model revisited above , @xcite postulate that the baptistina asteroid family formed from the catastrophic breakup of its progenitor approximately 160 myr ago , following which some debris entered a nearby resonance and eventually led to the ejection of what would inevitably become the k / t impactor .",
    "their proposal is argued , based in part ( the reader is also referred to the comprehensive supplemental texts that accompany the @xcite paper ) , on the following lines of evidence : ( i ) the asteroid family is located near a resonance capable of delivering passing asteroids into planet - crossing orbits .",
    "( ii ) the purported destruction of the parent body 160 myr ago , an age inferred from sorting the asteroids into orbital parameter space according to the ye , created a prodigious supply of baf members that inevitably populated the neo demographic , consistent with an alleged increase in the terrestrial impact rate during the same era .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the terrestrial record of impacts suffers from poor statistics owing to the subsequent erosion of craters with time , complicating any statistical interpretation .",
    "( iii ) the k / t impactor and baf share a similar composition . yet",
    "the results of @xcite appear to imply otherwise ( at least vis  vis the family s largest member , 298 baptistina ) , and moreover , the suggested c - type composition of baf members would not be unique ; such asteroids are found throughout the belt .",
    "the final conclusions are based on statistical grounds , namely what is the probability that the impactor was a fragment from the creation of the baf rather than a random c - type asteroid ( or background population ) .",
    "bottke et al .",
    "( 2007 ) suggest that there is a 90% chance that the k / t impactor was a baf member , or @xmath2 baf members of size d@xmath3 km impacted earth in the past 160 myr .",
    "readers should be aware that contributions from the background population are difficult to assess .",
    "in addition , accurate modeling of the ye requires knowledge of both physical and material properties that are conducive to baf members , sensitive parameters that are poorly constrained and require further research by the community at large .",
    "indeed , the rotational period derived here for baf member 298 baptistina ( @xmath0 hrs , see below ) is a factor of three greater than the value used in the simulations , although @xcite adopted a value that may be consistent with smaller - sized baf members ( @xmath4 hours , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the difference in rotational periods noted above is sufficient to warrant additional investigations to confirm the mean rotational period and material properties conducive to kilometer - sized baf members .",
    "such work needs to be pursued in conjunction with increasing the number of known family members and reaffirming the family s taxonomy .",
    "efforts to secure such parameters will invariably lead to stronger constraints on the properties of family members and might permit a more confident evaluation of whether the source of the k / t impactor was indeed a @xmath5 km sized baf member .",
    "lastly , and _ most importantly _ , irrespective of the conclusion regarding the putative source of the k / t impactor , the approach outlined by @xcite provides the quantitative framework and a pertinent example needed to effectively characterize the terrestrial impact delivery system .",
    "asteroid 298 baptistina was discovered over a century ago , in september 1890 , by the french astronomer auguste charlois .",
    "the origin of the asteroid s designation ( baptistina ) is unknown , an uncertainty that is also representative of the asteroid s rotational period , morphology , size , etc .",
    "a need to establish such parameters inspired the present study , especially in light of the asteroid s reputed status .",
    "asteroid 298 baptistina was therefore observed throughought march and april 2008 from the abbey ridge observatory ( halifax , canada ) , the hunter hill observatory ( canberra , australia ) , and the calvin - rehoboth observatory ( new mexico , usa ) .",
    "details regarding the observatories can be found elsewhere in @xcite & @xcite ( aro ) , @xcite ( hho ) , and @xcite ( cro ) .",
    "image pre - processing and differential photometry were performed using mpo canopus @xcite and maximdl @xcite .",
    "the asteroid s large proper motion required the selection of different reference stars on each night @xcite , consequently the falc algorithm was employed to search both magnitude and temporal space for a period solution @xcite .",
    "the period analysis was carried out in the mpo canopus @xcite and peranso @xcite software environments .",
    "a rotational period of @xmath0 hours was determined for 298 baptistina from the analysis , and the resulting phased light curve is presented in figure 2 .",
    "the light curve exhibits a peak to peak amplitude of @xmath6 magnitude and displays complex characteristics that are likely indicative of irregular surface features",
    ". continued photometric observations are envisioned to refine the rotational period , and in conjunction with archival observations by @xcite and @xcite , to model the asteroid s shape and spin axis by light curve inversion @xcite .",
    "the data will also permit a detailed study of the asteroid s absolute magnitude and oppositional surge , fundamental for any subsequent research .",
    "thermal imaging and spectroscopic follow - up would also be of value , permitting a precise determination of the asteroid s diameter and confirmation of its taxonomical class ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "this paper s referee has estimated that 298 baptistina may be _ approximately _ @xmath7 km in size , which follows from the standard formula utilizing albedo @xcite and the h - magnitude .",
    "lastly , the present study appears to reaffirm the importance of small telescopes in conducting pertinent scientific research @xcite .",
    "indeed , modest telescopes can even be mobilized to help address questions surrounding the extinction of the dinosaurs .",
    "we are indebted to petr pravec , alan harris , and brian warner for their help in mobilizing the collaboration .",
    "djm also extends his gratitude to the halifax rasc , daniel u. thibault , aaron gillich , joris van bever , arne henden and the staff at the aavso , and robin humble and chris loken for facilitating simulations of the kuiper belt on the mckenzie computer cluster , which is part of the canadian institute for theoretical astrophysics ( cita ) at the university of toronto .",
    "lastly , we also thank the referee for his / her comments .",
    "bottke , w.  f. , vokrouhlick , d. , & nesvorn , d.  2007 , nature , 449 , 48 chesley , s.  r. , et al .",
    "2003 , science , 302 , 1739 ditteon , r. , & hawkins , s.  2007 , minor planet bulletin , 34 , 59 george d.  b. , 2007 , maximdl advanced ccd imaging software , http://www.cyanogen.com harris a.  w. , et al . , 1989 , icarus , 77 , 171 henden a.  a. , kaitchuck r.  h. , 1998 , astronomical photometry : a text and handbook for the advanced amateur and professional astronomer , willmann - bell , richmond higgins , d. , pravec , p. , kusnirak , p. , reddy , v. , & dyvig , r.  2006 , minor planet bulletin , 33 , 64 hildebrand , a.  r.  1993 , jrasc , 87 , 77 kaasalainen , m. , & torppa , j.  2001 , icarus , 153 , 24 lane d.  j. , 2007 , 96th spring meeting of the aavso , http://www.aavso.org/aavso/meetings/spring07present/lane.ppt majaess d.  j. ,  2004 , ` assessing the yarkovsky effect in the kuiper belt ' , undergraduate thesis , saint mary s university .",
    "majaess , d.  j. , turner , d.  g. , lane , d.  j. , & moncrieff , k.  e.  2008 , journal of the american association of variable star observers ( jaavso ) , 74 molnar , l.  a. , & haegert , m.  j.  2007 , minor planet bulletin , 34 , 126 molnar , l.  a. , & haegert , m.  j.  2008 , aas / division of dynamical astronomy meeting , 39 , # 02.03 percy , j.  r.  1980 , jrasc , 74 , 334 pravec , p. , harris , a.  w. , & michalowski , t.  2002 , asteroids iii , 113 pravec , p. , & harris , a.  w.  2000 , icarus , 148 , 12 reddy , v. , et al .",
    "2008 , ` composition of 298 baptistina : implications for k - t impactor link . ' asteroids , comets , and meteors conference , baltimore maryland .",
    "rubincam , d.  p.  1998",
    ", journal of geophysical research , 103 , 1725 turner , d.  g. , savoy , j. , derrah , j. , abdel - sabour abdel - latif , m. , & berdnikov , l.  n.  2005 , pasp , 117 , 207 vanmunster t. , 2007 , peranso light curve and period analysis software , http://www.peranso.com vokrouhlick , d. , bro , m. , bottke , w.  f. , nesvorn , d. , & morbidelli , a.  2006 , icarus , 182 , 118 warner b.  d. , 2006 , a practical guide to lightcurve photometry and analysis , by b.d .",
    "2006 xiii , 297 p.  0 - 387 - 29365 - 5 .",
    "berlin : springer , 2006 wisniewski , w.  z. , michalowski , t.  m. , harris , a.  w. , & mcmillan , r.  s.  1997 , icarus , 126 , 395"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in their study @xcite suggest that a member of the baptistina asteroid family was the probable source of the k / t impactor which ended the reign of the dinosaurs 65 myr ago . </S>",
    "<S> knowledge of the physical and material properties pertaining to the baptistina asteroid family are , however , not well constrained . in an effort to begin addressing the situation , data from an international collaboration of observatories were synthesized to determine the rotational period of the family s largest member , asteroid 298 baptistina ( @xmath0 hrs ) . </S>",
    "<S> discussed here are aspects of the terrestrial impact delivery system , implications arising from the new constraints , and prospects for future work . </S>",
    "<S> +   + dans leur recherche , @xcite suggre quun astrode </S>",
    "<S> membre de la famille des baptistina , est la source probable de limpacte du k / t qui a mis fin au rgne des dinosaures environ 65 milliards dannes . </S>",
    "<S> la connaissance des proprits physiques et matrielles de la famille dastrode baptistina nest cependant pas bien tudis . </S>",
    "<S> dans un effort de comprendre la situation , des donnes prises dune collaboration internationale dobservatoires ont t synthtises pour dterminer la priode de rotation du plus grand membre de la famille , lastrode 298 baptstina ( @xmath0 hrs ) . </S>",
    "<S> cette tude discute les aspects du systme de limpact terrestriel , les implications souleves de ces nouvelles contraintes , et les opportunits de futures recherches . </S>"
  ]
}