{
  "article_text": [
    "we still do not understand the origin of the morphology - density - relation and the star - formation ( sf)-density relation .",
    "the local morphology - density relation ( dressler 1980 ) appears to persist out to @xmath6 in the field ( guzzo et al 2007 ) and to @xmath7 in clusters @xcite , while the sf - density relation appears to invert its slope between high redshift where star formation first commences at highest densities ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for results at @xmath7 ) and low - redshift ( lewis et al 2002 ; gomez et al 2003 ) where it avoids overdense regions .",
    "this evolution could be explained by continuous formation of non - starforming early - type galaxies throughout cosmic history ( faber et al 2007 ) , where the higher - density regions would be leading the process ( smith et al 2005 ) . as a result , we also find a colour - density relation at low redshift , whereby dense regions are inhabited mostly by red galaxies with old stellar populations ; @xcite and @xcite have shown that the colour - density relation is the primary trend , while superimposed residual trends in morphology are relatively weak ; mostly morphology appears to be driven by colour whatever the density .    in clusters , however , the situation is more controversial : the above picture suggests the presence of an age - density relation at fixed morphology : thomas et al ( 2005 ) claim a strong dependence of early - type ages with environmental density at all masses ; while no such evidence is seen in the rich local coma cluster ( mehlert et al 2003 ; trager et al 2008 ) , wolf et al ( 2007 ) see an age - density relation at fixed morphology and low luminosity in the young a901/2 cluster complex .",
    "@xcite again do not see an age trend at higher luminosity in @xmath8 clusters and find that the sf - d and morphology - density relation are equivalent and thus equally fundamental .",
    "but if there is no age - density relation at fixed morphology , either close synchronisation between sf quenching and morphological transformation is required , or all transformation producing the patterns must have happened in the distant past such that memories of time scales are wiped out .    while star formation rate ( sfr ) is a unique number , morphology is a complex multi - parametric variable : an important distinction must be made between the mass concentration of a galaxy , which is driven by its dynamical history , and its clumpiness , which is driven by star formation and correlates with colour : over three decades ago _ anemic spirals _ with smooth arms and no signs of clumpy star formation were discovered @xcite , which could provide a missing link by being a phase in the transition from a blue star - forming field spiral to a red , non - starforming cluster s0 .",
    "also , poggianti et al .",
    "( 1999 , 2004 ) and goto et al .",
    "( 2003 ) found spirals without optical signs of star formation in outskirts of clusters , and dubbed them optically - passive spirals. using an sed - based approach , wolf , gray & meisenheimer ( 2005 , hereafter wgm05 ) have described a population of dusty red galaxies dominating the outskirts of the clusters a901/2 .",
    "detailed seds from the combo-17 survey measure dust reddening independent of age - induced reddening .",
    "their sample has red colours due to both dust and intermediate age rather than old age as for regular early - types .",
    "ground - based combo-17 morphologies show them to be mostly early spirals @xcite .",
    "at least four interesting questions arise here :    \\(1 ) what are the properties of these dusty red spirals ? both passive spirals and the wgm05 dusty red galaxies show no strong optical signs of star formation .",
    "the presence of dust and absence of significant optical emission lines , however , motivates a study of obscured star formation with far - infrared data in this paper .",
    "\\(2 ) where are the cluster galaxies undergoing change , such as a decline in star formation ?",
    "truncated star - formation disks are common in virgo spirals and mark a slowly transforming population @xcite .",
    "but most studies of large data sets find that the average star formation rate in star - forming galaxies does not change with environment ; instead it appears as if only the fraction of star - forming galaxies declines towards higher densities @xcite . in this paper",
    ", we argue that the role of star formation in red spirals has often been ignored ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while it is an important aspect in clusters : in fact , we find most star - forming galaxies in a901/2 to be red , while a blue galaxy sample restricts attention to only the most intense tail of star formation .",
    "\\(3 ) are they credible progenitors for cluster s0s ? it has been argued that disk fading in field spirals does not produce s0s of the highest known luminosities @xcite and correct distribution of bulge / disk ratios @xcite , so that the progenitors of bright cluster s0s are still at large . instead",
    ", bulge enhancement @xcite or mergers among infalling galaxies @xcite may be required .",
    "there is indeed evidence for centrally concentrated star formation in cluster spirals , both at low @xcite and intermediate redshift @xcite that will increase concentration over time .",
    "recent work on higher - quality data also suggests that the concentration differences between spirals and s0s are not as large as once claimed @xcite .",
    "\\(4 ) which processes initiate the quenching of star formation and the morphological transformation ? both internal and environmental factors may be involved .",
    "internal factors include feedback from supernovae and agn @xcite as well as primordial differences in the formation conditions of massive galaxies at high redshift propagating into their present - day behaviour .",
    "they are expected to depend on galaxy mass , and upper galaxy mass limits for star formation may evolve with redshift @xcite .",
    "environmental mechanisms include ram - pressure stripping by hot icm ( gunn & gott 1972 ) ; star formation enhanced by major mergers or tidal excitation from the cluster potential ( barnes 1992 ; bekki 1999 ) ; loss of gas by suffocation , harassment or strangulation ( larson et al 1980 ; moore et al 1996 ; balogh et al 2000 ) .",
    "e.g. , @xcite find gradual star formation decline and red spirals in the outskirts of clusters , but truncated star formation and e / s0 galaxies with smooth profiles in the core regions filled by hot gas , presumably due to ram - pressure stripping .",
    "it was also speculated , that gravitational heating inherent in structure growth on a cosmic scale ( khochfar & ostriker 2007 ) may quench cosmic star formation as effectively as ad - hoc agn feedback in semi - analytic models .",
    "any progress in identifying the mechanism producing red spirals requires the measurement of masses as well as environmental indicators .",
    "a low - redshift study by @xcite revealed that concentration correlates with mass , while clumpiness correlates with environment . to what extent",
    "are then red spirals a mass - specific or a cluster - specific phenomenon ?",
    "agn feedback and environment - driven gas depletion are both expected to suppress star formation , perhaps in different mass regimes and over different timescales .",
    "at this point , it is not yet clear what their relative role is in suppressing star formation as galaxies grow and structure is built up . to learn more ,",
    "we need larger samples of galaxies ideally showing their transformation in a few discernible stages .",
    "also , it is important to address evolution in a mass - resolved picture and not with mass - limited samples , as in the latter a mass mix changing with environment produces purely apparent environmental trends .    the intricate problem described above requires a multi - faceted data set of a region in our universe where galaxies are presently undergoing major change .",
    "we have previously identified the supercluster region abell 901ab/902 ( @xmath9 ) as a complex environment that is particularly rich in dusty red galaxies and suggestive of strong galaxy infall activity .",
    "the cluster redshift is ideal for obtaining observations that have both high signal - to - noise ratio and complete wide - field multi-@xmath10 coverage .",
    "such a data set has been obtained by the stages team ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter g08 ) and provides a high - quality description of a few environmental components coupled to different physics , as well as masses , seds , morphologies and star - formation rates for over 1000 cluster members .",
    "this effort started with the combo-17 survey delivering 17-filter seds and high - fidelity photometric redshifts ( rms scatter among 800 brightest members is 0.006 , see wgm05 ) .",
    "the large hst survey at the core of the stages initiative added morphologies with @xmath11pc resolution for all cluster members over a @xmath12  mpc@xmath13 ( @xmath14 ) area and the highest resolution dark matter map of large - scale structure @xcite .",
    "xmm and gmrt observations reveal intracluster gas and agn @xcite .",
    "we found that a901/2 is made up of four distinct cluster cores with different masses and geometries , icm , dark matter and galaxy properties .",
    "the role of environment in the stages data has already been subject to some studies : @xcite find that mergers and interactions are found predominantly outside the cluster cores and can be accounted for by the large galaxy velocity dispersion in the cores and the accretion of groups and field galaxies within coherent flows .",
    "@xcite find no region of enhancement in overall star formation , whether or not obscured star formation is included . with no clear indication of enhanced mergers or triggered star formation",
    ", the main impact of environment appears to be a suppression in star formation as already seen in red spirals .    in this paper , we focus on the rich sample of optically passive , red spiral galaxies , which appear to undergo transformation as we observe them , possibly descending from blue spirals and evolving into s0 galaxies .",
    "while their sfr is lower than in blue galaxies by a sufficient degree to give them red colours , we choose to relabel them semi - passive given their persistent levels of star formation ; as our spitzer / mips data show , these galaxies still harbour significant star formation , which is more obscured than in the average cluster population .",
    "we present the stages data relevant to this subject in sect .  2 , and define our environment measures .",
    "in sect .  3 we present relations between ir and optical properties , confirming earlier inferences from combo-17 seds .",
    "we demonstrate the differences between splitting galaxies by blue vs. red and by star - forming vs. non - star - forming .",
    "sect .  4 presents our morphological results and the correspondence of red spirals with dusty red galaxies. in sect .  5",
    ", we discuss galaxy mass functions by type , motivating a mass - resolved investigation of any environmental trends . sect .",
    "6 shows galaxy properties and type fractions by mass and environment , and finally we discuss a possible evolutionary sequence involving red spirals in sect .",
    "this study is entirely based on a data set assembled by the stages project and recently published in catalogue form ( g08 ) .",
    "it encompasses high - fidelity photometric redshifts and observed-/rest - frame seds from combo-17 ( wolf et al 2003 ) , imaging with the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) on board of hst and spitzer / mips ir data , all overlapping on an area of almost @xmath15 .",
    "further data have been obtained with xmm , gmrt and galex , but are neither part of the recent data release nor used in this study .",
    "we select cluster members on the basis of their photometric redshifts . throughout the paper ,",
    "we use cosmological parameters of @xmath16  km / s / mpc@xmath17 .",
    "the combo-17 survey was observed with the wide field imager ( wfi ) at the mpg / eso 2.2m - telescope on la silla , chile .",
    "it used five broad - band filters ubvri and 12 medium - band filters with resolution @xmath18 , altogether covering wavelengths from 350 to 930  nm , to define detailed optical seds for objects of @xmath19 .",
    "one of its four fields observed from 1999 to 2001 covers an area of @xmath20 around the a901/2 clusters ; see g08 for all technical details of object search , photometry , classification , redshifts and further derived parameters .",
    "the literature contains several combo-17 studies of galaxy evolution using samples defined by photometric redshift .",
    "all these restrict themselves to galaxies brighter than @xmath21 to make sure only reliable redshifts are being used .",
    "the g08 catalogue of the a901 field contains @xmath22 galaxies with redshift estimates at @xmath23 . however , photometric redshift ( photo - z ) accuracy is a function of photometric noise and declines with fainter magnitudes and field contamination in a photo - z - selected cluster sample increases directly with photo - z scatter .",
    "g08 present a detailed discussion of the photo - z scatter and of the completeness and contamination in a901 cluster samples as a function of depth . in sect .",
    "2.5 we specify the galaxy samples and photo - z accuracies drawn for the purposes of this paper ; given the low redshift of a901 , we can choose a mass - limited sample while including only the brightest objects with the most accurate photo - z s .    here",
    ", we only repeat numbers characterizing the overall combo-17 galaxy sample .",
    "generally , at bright magnitudes of @xmath24 the combo-17 photo - z s have an rms in @xmath25 of @xmath26 , which has been confirmed with spectroscopy on all three combo-17 fields with a full data set ( cdfs , a901 , s11 ) . using a spectroscopy of 404 galaxies including 249 members of the a901 cluster , @xcite",
    "have shown that the cluster photo - z s show an rms scatter of @xmath27 corresponding to @xmath28  km / s .",
    "@xmath29 of these galaxies have photo - z deviations from the true redshift of @xmath30 .",
    "only three objects ( @xmath31% ) are confirmed to deviate by more than 0.04 from the true redshift and are typically galaxies with unusual seds due to contributions from an active nucleus .",
    "a deeper comparison is currently only available on the cdfs field , where @xcite find an increase of photo - z scatter to @xmath32 at @xmath33 increasing further to fainter magnitudes . on the a901 field low - resolution prism spectroscopy of a faint sample",
    "was obtained with imacs at magellan , which will shed light on the error behaviour at fainter magnitudes when analysed .",
    "the detailed observed - frame seds and accurate redshifts have allowed the derivation of robust rest - frame magnitudes for some wavebands including johnson and sdss filters and a pseudo - continuum filter at 280  nm intended as a proxy for unobscured star formation rate . at the cluster redshift ,",
    "the wfi filters used for combo-17 cover the rest - frame spectrum from 300 to 800  nm .",
    "the combo-17 sed fit involves an age parameter and an estimate of the dust reddening @xmath34 .",
    "stellar mass estimates are based on sed fitting as well and assume a kroupa ( 1993 ) imf , while a kroupa ( 2001 ) or chabrier ( 2003 ) imf would yield values within @xmath35% of those ( see g08 for all details ) .",
    "note , that a @xcite imf increases stellar masses by a factor of 1.8 .",
    "the combo-17 survey mostly targetted galaxies at @xmath36 $ ] @xcite with much smaller angular extent than the most massive cluster galaxies in a901 .",
    "thus its processing was optimised to obtain high signal - to - noise photometry of faint objects from identical physical footprints ( after psf deconvolution ) in all filters .",
    "these seds represent a central gaussian aperture with @xmath37 fwhm on a hypothetical infinitely sharp image , and are the basis for the estimation of redshifts , mass - to - light ( m / l ) ratios and stellar masses , as they have been published now for the a901 field by g08 .",
    "the sed is normalised with the total object photometry in the deep ( 20  ksec ) r - band image , in which the total light is measured with optimal surface brightness sensitivity , but the colours outside the aperture are ignored . for small objects or particularly large objects without colour gradients",
    "this has no consequence .",
    "but if large size , low concentration and strong colour gradients are combined , then the seds constructed from total magnitudes may be different from the seds based on aperture magnitudes .",
    "since our stellar mass estimates depend on m / l ratios from these seds , aperture - based seds that are not representative of the total galaxy will yield a stellar mass estimate that is incorrect . at the cluster distance",
    "the aperture has 4.25  kpc fwhm , and is broadly comparable to the footprint of the fiber aperture in sdss spectroscopic data at @xmath38 .",
    "this implies that any sed types for galaxies that we discuss later in the paper are defined by the stars seen in the central footprint of 4.25  kpc fwhm .",
    "the total seds could be different if substantial light with a different sed originated outside this aperture , which may change the colour class to which an object is allocated .",
    "we have investigated the total colours of a few dozen selected galaxies in a separate procedure using sextractor total magnitudes of all broad bands , although for general use , these colours would be too noisy and object matching is too unreliable , especially given the low sensitivity of the u - band imaging .",
    "this has revealed , that aperture values are similar to the total ones across a wide parameter space in our sample .",
    "masses of spirals are reliable at @xmath39 and masses of e / s0 galaxies are reliable everywhere .",
    "but there is an issue with cluster spirals estimated currently at @xmath40 : their total observed - frame @xmath41 colours are on average 0.3  mag bluer than the aperture colours , and this translates into their @xmath42 being overestimated by @xmath43  dex .",
    "the @xmath44 corrections range from 0 to @xmath45  mag , and in the most extreme object ( 42497 ) the mass is overestimated by 0.5  dex as a result .",
    "this is in contrast to s0 galaxies at @xmath46 , whose total @xmath41 is only 0.04  mag bluer than in the aperture .",
    "for this reason , most of the 16 spirals in the sample with @xmath40 are truly just below 11 .",
    "almost all galaxies in the field or cluster sample that truly have @xmath40 appear to be old , red and of e or s0 type . in the absence of a consistent fix for the mass values of high - mass spirals we will omit them later when focussing on the properties of spirals and limit ourselves to the mass range of @xmath47 $ ] then .",
    "the primary hst observations of the stages project cover an 80-tile mosaic with acs covering an area of @xmath48 in the v606w filter during cycle 13 , thus covering @xmath49% of the combo-17 area .",
    "various parallel observations of other hst instruments are not part of this study .",
    "the mean psf on these images after data reduction has @xmath50 fwhm which corresponds to a resolution of 300  pc at the cluster redshift .",
    "while the surface - brightness sensitivity of the hst images is lower than that in the 20  ksec r - band image of the ground - based combo-17 observations , structural features are seen much more clearly in the acs images ( with few exceptions of lsb tidal arms ) due to the @xmath51 better resolution of hst .",
    "the published catalogue contains morphological parameters from sersic profile fitting with galfit @xcite , but here we have used mostly hubble types .",
    "all galaxies have been visually classified by seven co - authors ( aas , fb , mg , kj , kl , dm , cw ) into hubble types , including flags on asymmetries and interactions .",
    "we distinguish between the types ( e , s0,sa , sb , sc , sd , irr ) and their barred cousins , and define an s0 as a disk galaxy with a visible bulge but no spiral arms . when we notice spiral arms , we put the object into the sa - sd range on the basis of our perceived bulge - to - disk ratio , but we suspect that smooth disks and arms as in anemic spirals may bias our judgement towards earlier types @xcite .",
    "the classifiers agree generally well , but small or faint galaxies can be ambiguous when they show little features . for this paper ,",
    "we use weighted average estimates of the hubble types , ignoring bars and degrees of asymmetry .",
    "we also include all mergers in the irregular class , since they are not of separate interest to this paper ( with the exception of fig .",
    "[ rfcols ] ) .",
    "[ cls ] shows examples of cluster galaxies from all morphological types we differentiate in this work and covers the entire mass range of our sample .",
    "barred or interacting galaxies are studied in separate works @xcite .",
    ".properties of cluster galaxy sample .",
    "[ sample ] [ cols=\"<,>,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     * the specific sfr and the dust extinction ( row 1 and 2 ) of the overall stellar population both change gradually with density .",
    "it appears as if there is already a change to less star formation and less extinction from the field to our outermost infall points ; while the error bars overlap , a formal decline is seen in mass bin .",
    "this may correspond to the group pre - processing much discussed in the literature ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . * there is no difference in the morphological properties ( row 3 and 4 ) between field galaxies and those in the outermost infall bin at @xmath52 and there appears to be a more sudden change further into the infall region .",
    "below 10 , however , the morphology appears to change gradually with density again .",
    "* at @xmath53 all trends appear much weaker , because field galaxies are already mostly of early type and have little star formation .",
    "below 10.5 , the overall changes from field to cores are virtually identical between the two mass bins despite possible differences in the infall region .    unfortunately , we could not sensibly plot trends of the mean extinction in the star - forming regions of star - forming galaxies due to the shallow ir sensitivity limits in the field sample . however , in sect .",
    "3 we have already established broadly that dusty red galaxies dominate the sf sample in the cluster while having little relevance in the field , and have more obscured star formation regions than blue galaxies .    fig .",
    "[ tdrel ] shows trends in several galaxy type fractions with environment .",
    "the first two rows plot hubble type fractions ; the third row compares the fractions of the three sed types , blue cloud vs. old red and dusty red galaxies .",
    "the last row shows in dark points the fraction of spirals is redwards of the cmr cut ( old red plus dusty red ) ; the light points show the fraction of dusty red galaxies out of all red galaxies , which we take to be the fraction of star - forming galaxies among red galaxies ( sf / red ) .",
    "we draw the following conclusions :    * the strongest morphological changes ( row 1 and 2 ) are seen within the infall region of the mass bin @xmath54 $ ] and are associated particularly with the demise of all kinds of spirals and a steep increase in the s0 fraction .",
    "scd and irr galaxies decline first , while sa / sb spirals only decline closer to the cores . at @xmath55 $ ] s0s dominate over e s everywhere in the cluster , but at higher masses ( not shown here ) ellipticals are clearly dominant .",
    "* there is little change in the hubble type fractions ( row 1 and 2 ) between the field and the lowest - density infall point that is plotted , especially above @xmath56 . * dusty red galaxies ( row 3 ) are most dominant at intermediate mass and density , but they play virtually no role at @xmath57 ; by implication the same applies to red spirals ( row 4 ) . at @xmath58",
    "the rise of red spirals in the infall region is due to sfr decline that is _ not _ accompanied by morphological change , so that blue field spirals are replaced by red infall spirals ; going further towards the cores all sorts of spirals are gradually replaced by red s0s ( row 1 ) . * at @xmath57 in contrast , blue field spirals are replaced by red infall spheroids as a result of colour change being accompanied by synchronised morphological change .",
    "hence , the red fraction among spirals depends strongly on mass and ranges from @xmath59% at low mass ( @xmath60 ) to @xmath61% at high mass ( @xmath62 ) . at @xmath52",
    "it changes strongly from field to the first infall point and stays high throughout infall , while the overall spiral fraction declines . * the contamination of star - forming galaxies in the red sequence (",
    "sf / red , row 4 ) is generally low in the cores , but high in the infall regions at intermediate mass due to dusty red galaxies being common there , and high in the field sample at low mass ( @xmath60 ) , where the cmr cut enters into the contiguous structure otherwise known as blue cloud and leads to 80% of the red sample being star - forming .",
    "* again , at @xmath53 all trends are weaker .    with respect to red spirals",
    "our particular cluster environment appears quantitatively consistent with the cosmic distribution of red spirals at low redshift as studied very recently in the galaxy zoo project : @xcite show that at low density roughly 10% of @xmath63 $ ] spirals are red , which increases to nearly 50% at @xmath64 $ ] ; finally , at high density this number converges to @xmath65% . despite differences in mass determination and density estimator , these numbers match ours surprisingly precisely .",
    "another strong signal that could appear spurious , data - specific or possibly a901-specific , is the extreme ( @xmath66% ) sf contamination of the red low - mass field sample ; again this number matches perfectly the recent results of @xcite .",
    "hence , we also conclude that although a901/2 has been selected by us to be a convenient laboratory harbouring a range of different environments in a diverse cluster complex that is accessible to single - shot observations , it appears to still be a completely representative environment , from which physical conclusions can be generalised .",
    "there are in total exactly 200 galaxies in the four cores of our sample at @xmath67 . of these , the three cores with abell numbers ( 901a , 901b and 902 ) contain between 50 and 70 each ,",
    "while the sw group has a less rich dense core with only 20 galaxies ( the fact that these galaxy numbers here are integer multiples of 10 is entirely coincidental ) .",
    "the sw group also differs from the other cores in its high giant - to - dwarf ratio : 25% of its core galaxies have @xmath40 , compared to only @xmath68% in the abell cores ( see tab .",
    "[ cores ] ) .",
    "the abell 901a core appears most circular in shape and is further characterized by the lowest fraction of blue galaxies , i.e. @xmath68% vs. @xmath69% for the others , and less significantly the lowest fraction of galaxies with @xmath70 and 24@xmath1-detections , i.e. @xmath71% vs. @xmath72% .",
    "it could thus be the most evolved core among the four , although the various possible evolution indicators do not present a clear picture .",
    "we consider a regular shape , high e / s0 fraction , low spiral fraction and low blue galaxy fractions indicators for maturity in a cluster core .",
    "the other three cores show various properties indicating that they are less evolved , but no clear ranking appears .",
    "the abell 901b core shows a particularly high s0 fraction with 44% vs. @xmath71% in the other cores and a correspondingly lower red spiral fraction of 8% vs. @xmath69% for the other cores , so it appears more evolved than a902 or the sw group . as gray et al .",
    "( in preparation ) point out , a901b has the highest x - ray luminosity of all four cores , so ram - pressure stripping by hot gas could well have been responsible for the final suppression of star formation and ensuing wiping - out of disk structure from former red spirals .",
    "a902 in particular has the lowest spheroid fraction of all , with 50% vs. @xmath73% for the others , which means that a902 has the properties of a truly less dense region .",
    "perhaps some line - of - sight projection has boosted its apparent density ; @xcite show from a weak - lensing analysis , that a902 is the lowest - mass structure among the four with a virial mass of @xmath74 compared to @xmath75 each for a901a and b. further evidence for projection effects is discussed in rhodes et al .",
    "( in preparation ) .",
    "it had been established by several authors , that red samples defined by cmr cuts do not only contain passively evolving spheroidal galaxies , but are contaminated with spiral galaxies both in clusters @xcite and in the field @xcite .",
    "there is also evidence for a large population of star - forming and at least moderately dusty galaxies in clusters ( wgm05 ) or the field @xcite , who report average fractions of 30 - 40% in red samples , or fractions as a function of mass and environment : we see the most extreme environmental dependence at low mass , where fractions range from @xmath60% in cores to @xmath66% in the field , in excellent agreement with @xcite .    while @xcite find red spirals in the field to be mostly edge - on galaxies , we emphasise that in dense environments inclination is not the dominant explanation for their colour : instead lower specific sfrs cause the red colour irrespective of a galaxy s orientation .",
    "the key is to look not at contamination fraction in red samples , but at the ratio of red to blue spirals instead : if red spirals were purely due to high inclination , random orientation statistics would suggest in a given mass bin , that the red fraction among spirals ( or star - forming galaxies ) should be independent of environment .",
    "in fact , the @xmath76 field sample in wgm05 has a 1:8 ratio of dusty red to blue galaxies , indistinguishable from the red spiral to blue galaxy ratio at @xmath77 reported by @xcite .",
    "it is entirely plausible that one in eight spiral galaxies have inclinations high enough to extinguish most of the light from young disk stars due to the increased optical depth of dust projected on the disk .",
    "however , the red spiral fraction in our cluster sample exceeds dramatically the small geometric fraction , as it has _ more red spirals than blue galaxies _ at @xmath70 .",
    "the majority of these show reduced star formation but do not show enhanced dust extinction of the overall stellar population .",
    "their morphologies are also clearly not edge - on , but they have smoothed substructure as expected for a low - sfr system and seen in fig .",
    "[ csseq ] .",
    "given that these galaxies are the major constituent of the star - forming population , we would like to include them when studying a star - forming sample .",
    "as a result , star - forming samples show different colour and star - formation properties than pure blue cloud samples .",
    "wgm05 report an average equivalent width of [ oii ] emission in a901 dusty red galaxies of @xmath78 , compared to 17.5  in the blue cloud .",
    "[ oii ] line fluxes are an order of magnitude reduced in dusty red compared to blue galaxies . hence , their [ oii ] emission would be undetectable in the cluster studies of @xcite or in the vvds field survey @xcite .",
    "their spectra otherwise appear similar to those of truly passive galaxies .",
    "it is thus no surprise that spectroscopic surveys have found red spirals _ without optical signatures of star formation_. @xcite point out that the sdss fiber spectra at low redshift target a small nuclear region and fail to detect young stellar populations in many cases , a bias that enhances red - sequence contamination . in order to identify virtually all star - forming galaxies",
    ", they suggest to combine nuv data with an h@xmath79-line sensitivity of 2  ( equivalent width ) .",
    "finally we note , that @xcite report a fraction of star - forming red galaxies ( their intermediate types ) among all galaxies in their sdss sample ( @xmath80 ) of 20% .",
    "surprisingly , it appears to be entirely independent of the galaxy luminosity and its environment ( halo mass , location in a galaxy group ) .",
    "a number of works have established two independent observations that are in apparent conflict :    \\(1 ) the proximity of the virgo cluster has permitted the discovery of a substantial population of spiral galaxies , which have truncated star - forming disks .",
    "the idea is that gas is gradually being stripped from galaxies , perhaps via ism - icm interaction , whereby the outer regions of a galaxy are swept first given their lower column densities @xcite , and the truncation radius shrinks with time . at intermediate redshifts",
    "there is further evidence that cluster spirals have more centrally - concentrated star formation than field galaxies @xcite .",
    "seeing such transition objects abundantly requires a long time scale for the sf - suppressing process .",
    "\\(2 ) most studies of sfr in star - forming galaxies report an independence of sfr on environment ; they only find that the fraction of star - forming galaxies declines with density , thus requiring a fast transition ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the average equivalent width of the [ oii ] line in star - forming galaxies is found by @xcite at @xmath81 $ ] to be @xmath82  in the field , groups or clusters alike ; in @xmath83 clusters @xcite find @xmath84 , and at @xmath85 @xcite find 15  in bright @xmath86 galaxies . why this number should be constant across such a wide range in redshift",
    "is unclear , and may coincidentally arise from the mass - dependence of the s - sfr evolution with redshift and the redshift dependence of mass limits in the galaxy samples .",
    "our results show that at @xmath4 $ ] the mean s - sfr of star - forming galaxies declines almost by 50% from field to cores , but by much less in lower - mass galaxies .",
    "thus , we have found a significant sfr decline with density , as a result of including dusty red galaxies in our star - forming sample and using more reliable sfr estimates .",
    "had we restricted ourselves to blue galaxies alone , we would have seen only a 20% decline with very large errors due to the smaller sample , instead of a clear 50% decline .",
    "also , our blue sample has [ oii ] properties similar to the literature samples above .",
    "the comparison between blue and star - forming samples helps to resolve the contradiction posed between observations of slow transformation in virgo and apparently rapid truncation in more distant clusters : the inclusion of semi - passive spirals in the star - forming sample of cluster galaxies produces a decline of sfr in star - forming galaxies with density , which is consistent with slow quenching in clusters .",
    "in contrast , considerations of only blue - cloud galaxies require to invoke nearly instantaneous sf suppression given that their sfrs are apparently constant over density .",
    "we note that @xcite report a 20% sfr decline across density in their faintest sample bin at @xmath87 $ ] .",
    "their brighter bins show no trends but are affected by an aperture bias , which they argue may hide evolution that may only play out in an extended star - forming disk outside the aperture .",
    "we believe that their judgement is correct ; we have a smaller aperture bias in our data , given that our aperture has 4.25  kpc fwhm as opposed to the on average sub - kpc fiber aperture in @xcite .      in @xmath88 clusters",
    "@xcite reported seeing numerous _ optically passive _ spirals , i.e. spiral galaxies with an absorption - line spectrum characteristic of older stellar populations , and no [ oii ] emission or otherwise apparent star formation .",
    "they also found a population of _",
    "k+a galaxies _ characterised by abrupt sf truncation and asked why these quiescent infall populations are so prevalent at @xmath88 , but apparently lacking at low @xmath89 .",
    "in the virgo cluster , star formation was still observed and spatially resolved in spirals , and it was later shown that the anemic spirals discovered by @xcite were not the most abundant cluster - specific phenomenon @xcite ; instead , the principal effect of the virgo cluster on infalling spirals seemed to be a slow outside - in truncation of the star - forming disk .    in our young @xmath90 cluster environment , we see again a very abundant infall population with similar optical properties as poggianti s _ optically passive _ spirals , except that we have shown them to be on average only _ semi - passive _ : they still form stars at a substantial rate , as shown consistently from either our ir data or from our optical estimates of dust extinction and star formation .",
    "their specific sfr , however , is on average lower by 0.6  dex in comparison to regular blue galaxies of the same mass . given an s - sfr scatter in the blue cloud of @xmath91  dex @xcite , these semi - passive spirals are @xmath92-outliers from the regular star - forming sequence in field galaxy samples ( see also the discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "altogether , we see spirals in the cluster to span the whole range from normally star - forming to virtually passive .",
    "we note that we do not see a star - bursting population in a901 , and wgm05 found no evidence for an abundant post - starburst population either , although that was concluded from stacked spectra , and they could not reliably measure h@xmath93 equivalent widths in individual galaxies .",
    "wgm05 showed the optical spectral signatures of dusty red galaxies to be almost indistinguishable from passively evolving ( old red ) galaxies on the basis of high - s / n stacked spectra .",
    "individual spectra were too noisy to find the weak [ oii ] lines and were otherwise dominated by the absorption - line spectrum of the older stars .",
    "it is now clear that the drop in star formation combined with an increase in the obscuration of star - forming regions , is sufficient to make the optical detection of star - formation signatures a challenge .",
    "but although the @xmath94 colours of red spirals and red spheroids are indistinguishable , this is only a coincidence of choosing two bands in which the effects of age and dust are ambiguous .",
    "choosing a wider range of colour , it turns out that red spirals are redder than spheroids at the red end and bluer at the blue end of the spectrum , which was the critical differentiation used by wgm05 . in fig .",
    "[ ssfrm ] we saw how e.g. the use of a near - uv colour discriminates dusty red from old red galaxies .",
    "we thus suggest that the red , or optically passive , spirals in cluster environments discussed by various authors are the same phenomenon as our semi - passive dusty red galaxies .",
    "the differentiating criterion for separating them from canonical red - sequence galaxies was the spiral morphology in @xcite and despite similar @xmath94 colour the signature of dust and younger ages in the sed in wgm05 . in some more star - forming and less obscured cases [ oii ]",
    "lines could be strong enough to appear above detection limits @xcite ; @xcite also used mir colours to trace star formation in red galaxies . in this paper ,",
    "the morphology , the spiral - typical dust extinction , the brighter uv luminosity and the substantial ir fluxes all came together to form a consistent picture of semi - passive spirals .",
    "finally , we believe we can consider the sf - truncated virgo spirals to be local counterparts to the dusty red galaxies as their properties match at least in global respects : @xcite find the s - sfr in their virgo spirals to be on average @xmath95 reduced compared to the field , with an overall range from 10-fold reduction to slight enhancement ; this echoes the s - sfr properties of our dusty red galaxies .",
    "also , the star formation in the virgo spirals is on average more obscured , just as in dusty red galaxies again ; in virgo this is a consequence of the less obscured star formation in the outer disk being much reduced while the more obscured star formation in the central parts remains normal or is even enhanced .",
    "their appearance in large numbers suggests that spirals in many clusters undergo only slow quenching of their star formation , and that the time scale of morphological evolution must be longer than that of the spectral evolution .",
    "all this applies only in the mass regime of @xmath4 $ ] , where the sfr decline from blue galaxies in the field to dusty red galaxies in the infall region is not accompanied by morphological changes .",
    "morphology seems to change only further into the cluster alongside further sf decline that replaces dusty red galaxies by old red ones . at lower masses , in contrast , sfr decline and morphological changes",
    "appear more synchronised , and virtually no red spirals are found , except for a near - constant fraction of @xmath96% that may result from high - inclination spirals following random orientation statistics .",
    "this situation appears to be similar in the virgo cluster where @xcite find dwarf galaxies ( defined by @xmath97 ) to be either star - forming or quiescent with no intermediate objects being found .      already kennicutt ( 1983 )",
    "observed that at fixed hubble type virgo galaxies were redder and less star - forming than their cousins in the field .",
    "@xcite confirmed the colour difference for further clusters .",
    "however , whether these trends are due to nature ( hidden in the past ) or due to nurture ( change during cluster infall ) could not be identified from snapshot pictures of individual galaxies or clusters , because a snapshot will show the effects of infall and cosmic evolution of the progenitors intertwined .",
    "if we can not see the histories of the individual galaxies , we have no means to assess whether the progenitors of present - day cluster galaxies looked like the present - day infall galaxies do .",
    "only if this is the case , could we map the density axis onto a time axis and interpret the environmental trends as evolutionary tracks .    however , there is strong evidence , e.g. , that higher - redshift clusters have fewer s0s and more spirals @xcite , so for s0s the link is established that a build - up in time corresponds to a build - up in density .",
    "higher - redshift cluster cores have similarities with lower - redshift cluster outskirts giving rise to a double downsizing picture where star formation moves progressively to lower - mass objects as you move either forward in cosmic time or higher in density of the environment @xcite .",
    "our results for a901/2 suggest , that empirically there are three mass domains with different behaviour along density :    * at high mass ( @xmath98 , but certainly at @xmath99 ) only little change is observed with density , as most galaxies are red and spheroidal in all environments . * at intermediate mass ( @xmath100 $ ] ) we see a sequence with density whereby blue spirals in the field are replaced by red spirals in the infall region , which are then replaced by s0s in the core .",
    "* at low mass ( @xmath101 ) we see a sequence from blue field spirals and irregulars directly to red cluster spheroids .",
    "let us assume that the density axis can be mapped on a time arrow in the evolution of infalling galaxies , and the environmental trends are mostly due to nurture .",
    "an average galaxy falling in at 600  km / sec ( the velocity dispersion of a901a / b dusty red galaxies listed , see wgm05 ) needs @xmath102  gyr to fall from the virial radius to the core assuming a plunging orbit .",
    "there is thus no need to assume that they have already passed through the core .",
    "the results then say that star formation is suppressed at all densities and masses , and already between the field and the outermost infall region in our data , i.e. outside the virial radius of the cluster .",
    "this agrees with observations of galaxy pre - processing in infalling groups ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "morphological transformation appears in step with the sfr decline in low - mass galaxies , but is delayed for intermediate - mass galaxies .",
    "the delay gives rise to spiral galaxies in the infall region that appear red due to a combination of moderate extinction and reduced star formation .",
    "they appear broadly less clumpy and have less well - defined spiral arms than their blue cousins in the field , and they are the only progenitor candidates of similar - mass s0 galaxies .",
    "the steeper s - sfr decline for massive galaxies demonstrates that they transform slowly and remain visible in transformation for long .",
    "in contrast , the near - absence of a trend in mean s - sfr at lower mass requires more abrupt conversions that leave little chance to observe transforming objects , while giving rise to the steep trends in the sf / non - sf composition .",
    "we roughly find ( with large errors ) that the red fraction of spirals is increased in the infall region by perhaps 10% over the field value at a mass of @xmath103 and by maybe 50% at @xmath104 . at equal infall velocity",
    "this would imply @xmath105 longer quenching time - scales at @xmath105 higher mass or @xmath106 .",
    "the time - scale for ram - pressure stripping though is @xmath107 assuming constant surface mass density of disk galaxies @xcite and equal infall velocity .",
    "while we do not have the data to be very quantitative here , we argue that at least the quenching time - scale is unlikely to decline with mass .",
    "@xcite model the evolution of dwarf galaxies in virgo ( with @xmath108 ) assuming interaction with the intracluster medium , and derive sf quenching time scales of @xmath109  myr .",
    "such a rapid sf truncation would be consistent with the absence of a noticeable transition population .",
    "also , @xcite see k+a galaxies in the coma cluster only fainter than @xmath110 : the k+a signature requires a sharp truncation in star formation , which argues in favour of a faster shutdown of star formation at lower mass . in higher - mass spirals , gas stripping by hot icm",
    "would first remove gas from the outer disks where the gas column densities are lower , and the slow truncation of star - forming disks seen by @xcite would leave morphology largely intact over a slow sf quenching process , and would hence not lead to a k+a signature .",
    "it then may remain as puzzling that @xcite found many k+a spirals of normal mass in clusters at @xmath88 .",
    "however , the transformation time scale must depend not only on galaxy mass but also on the icm properties",
    ". already @xcite found higher s0 fractions with increasing x - ray luminosity of the clusters , although the presence of a residual relation at fixed cluster mass is unclear ( see discussion in * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "however , the basic effect has been studied by comparing two @xmath111 clusters with very different icm properties representing a low - mass ( cl0024 ) and high - mass ( ms0451 ) prototype in cluster evolution @xcite .",
    "low - mass clusters are irregular with several sub - clumps , perhaps young and still assembling , and have little volume occupied by hot icm ( e.g. virgo and a901/2 ) ; higher - mass clusters are more regular in structure and have a large volume occupied by hot icm ( e.g. coma ) .",
    "the galaxies in the two clusters compared by @xcite are on two different tracks of s - sfr - vs .- age as seen from [ oii]-vs.-@xmath112 , showing that ram pressure from the well - developed icm in ms0451 shuts down star formation rapidly even in larger galaxies , while the less developed icm in cl0024 means the transition is a lot slower and may even be driven predominantly by factors other than stripping by the icm , so that many transitioning red spirals with low s - sfr are seen . in line with this picture , we already see variation between our four cluster cores : the most x - ray - luminous core a901b has not only the most prominent icm but also the lowest red spiral and the highest s0 fraction .",
    "the discussion whether the observed s0 galaxies have evolved from spiral progenitors has continued for three decades now @xcite .",
    "we suggest to tackle the question with a mass - resolved approach , motivated by the strong trends seen at intermediate mass in our cluster .",
    "several authors ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have argued that present - day s0s are too luminous to be made from present - day infalling spirals . in a901/2",
    "we admittedly find s0 galaxies , but no infalling spirals at @xmath46 ; we suggest that these would have formed in the more distant past of this cluster from more massive progenitors that we do not observe in the present snapshot due to downsizing .",
    "we have no evidence against this picture , and note the absence of massive star - forming galaxies that could further enrich the massive s0 sample in a901/2 in the near future .",
    "in contrast , at @xmath113 $ ] we find a very strong trend of red spirals disappearing towards the core and s0s appearing in comparable numbers ; the s0 concentration towards the cores of a901/2 is markedly different from the flat s0 fraction within a virial radius seen in ensembles of more evolved clusters @xcite .",
    "this is consistent with a901/2 being a young clusters with weaker icm , and it suggests that a901/2 has much progenitor material to form more intermediate - mass s0s over the next few gyrs to fill the virial volume more evenly .",
    "a further obstacle in the understanding of s0 formation is the difference in the structural properties of s0s compared to their progenitor spirals : s0s are claimed to have larger concentrations or bulges and thicker disks than their progenitors , although recent works claim a smaller degree of difference @xcite .",
    "we are not aware of a mass - resolved study of progenitors and s0s that evaluates the effects of gradual gas stripping and continuing centrally concentrated star formation .",
    "@xcite studied residual morphological trends in the sdss data after eliminating the primary trend of the dominant colour - density relation and found only a weak trend towards higher concentration with density , and applying only to more luminous galaxies .",
    "this would be entirely consistent with a picture where low - mass galaxies experience more abrupt sf shutoff in dense environments , while high - mass galaxies continue forming stars in their inner regions .",
    "however , @xcite find no change in concentration with density at @xmath98 , and only a weak trend below .",
    "we have investigated the properties of galaxies , especially those of optically passive spirals , in a cluster complex at redshift @xmath0 , which consists of four cores ( a901a , a901b , a902 and sw group ) .",
    "we have used the stages dataset published by @xcite , exploiting the restframe near - uv - optical seds , ir 24@xmath1 m data and hst morphologies .",
    "the cluster sample is defined on the basis of combo-17 redshifts with an rms precision of @xmath2  km / sec ( at @xmath114 ) .",
    "we draw the following conclusions :    1 .",
    "optically passive spirals in clusters , dusty red galaxies in a901/2 and virgo spirals with truncated star - formation disks @xcite appear to be basically the same phenomenon .",
    "however , these objects are not truly passive galaxies despite their integrated optical appearance from large distances . 2 .",
    "they form stars at a substantial rate but reduced in comparison to field spirals ( on average @xmath3 lower sfr at fixed mass in our sample ) . however ,",
    "their star formation is more obscured and its optical signatures are weak .",
    "they appear predominantly in the mass range @xmath4 $ ] where they constitute over half of the star - forming galaxies in the cluster , and thus form an important transition population .",
    "we find that the mean s - sfr of star - forming galaxies in the cluster is clearly lower than in the field , in contrast to the s - sfr properties of blue galaxies alone , which appear unchanged .",
    "the dusty red spirals are thus a vital ingredient for understanding the overall picture of sf quenching in clusters . 5 .   at lower mass",
    "the dusty red sample consists mostly of edge - on spirals , which are a small fraction of all spirals with no environmental dependence .",
    "there is limited room for a cluster - specific contribution .",
    "physically , it seems that star formation quenching is fast in low - mass galaxies and accompanied by morphological change ; hence , no cluster - specific red spiral phenomenon is observed at @xmath5 . at larger masses , sf quenching is a slower process and strong morphological transformation is even more delayed , thus giving rise to abundant red spirals . 7 .",
    "the currently observed red spirals are expected to turn into s0s with time when their star formation is terminated by hot icm , although they may end up with different detailed properties from those s0s that are already in place .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for a very careful reading of the paper and very helpful suggestions improving the manuscript .",
    "we also thank richard s. ellis , benjamin d. johnson , tommaso treu for comments on this work .",
    "support for stages was provided by nasa through go-10395 from stsci operated by aura under nas5 - 26555 .",
    "meg and cw were supported by stfc advanced fellowships .",
    "ch acknowledges the support of a european commission programme 6th framework marie cure outgoing international fellowship under contract moif - ct- 2006 - 21891 .",
    "cyp was supported by the nrc - hia plaskett fellowship , and the stsci institute / giacconi fellowship .",
    "efb , ag and kj are greatful for support from the dfg s emmy noether programme of the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft , ab by dlr grant no .",
    "50 or 0404 , dhm by nasa under ltsa grant nag5 - 13102 , mb and evk by the austrian science foundation fwf under grant p18416 , sfs by the spanish mec grants aya2005 - 09413-c02 - 02 and the pai of the junta de andaluca as research group fqm322 , sj by nasa under ltsa grant nag5 - 13063 , go-10861 , g0 - 11082 , and by nsf under ast-0607748 .",
    "balogh , m. l. , navarro , j. f. & morris , s. l. , 2000 , apj , 540 , 113 balogh , m. l. , eke , v. , miller , c. , lewis , i. et al , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 1355 balogh , m. l. , baldry , i. k. , nichol , r. , miller , c. , bower , r. , glazebrook , k. , 2004 , apj , 615 , l101 bamford , s. p.,milvang - jensen , b. & aragn - salamanca , a. , 2007 , mnras , 378 , l6 bamford , s. p. , nichol , r. et al , 2008 , mnras , submitted ( astro - ph/0805.2612 ) barden , m. , rix , h .- w . ,",
    "somerville , r. s. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 635 , 959 barnes , j. e. , 1992 , apj , 393 , 484 bekki , k. , 1999 , apj , 510 , l15 bell , e. f. , mcintosh , d. h. , barden , m. , wolf , c. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 600 , l11 bell , e. f. , zheng , x. z. , papovich , c. , borch , a. , wolf , c. & meisenheimer , k. , 2007 , apj , 663 , 834 benson , a. j. , bower , r. g. , frenk , c. s. , lacey , c. g. , baugh , c. m. , cole , s. , 2003 , apj , 599 , 38 blanton , m. r. , eisenstein , d. , hogg , d. w. , schlegel , d. j. , brinkmann , j. , 2005 , apj , 629 , 143 boselli , a. , boissier , s. , cortese , l. & gavazzi , g. , 2008 , apj , 674 , 742 butcher , h. & oemler , a. , jr .",
    ", 1985 , apjs , 57 , 665 bundy , k. , ellis , r. s. , conselice , c. j. , taylor , j. e. et al , 2006 , apj , 651 , 120 burstein , d. , ho , l. c. , huchra , j. p. & macri , l. m. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 246 calzetti , d. , 2001 , pasp , 113 , 1449 calzetti , d. , kinney , a. & storchi - bergmann , t. , 1994 , apj , 429 , 582 cassata , p. , guzzo , l. , frnceschine , a. , scoville , n. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apjs , 172 , 270 cooper , m. c. , newman , j. a. , weiner , b. j. , yan , r. , willmer , c. n. a. et al .",
    ", 2008 , mnras , 383 , 1058 croton , d. j. , springel , v. , white , s. d. m. et al , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 christlein , d. & zabludoff , a. i. , 2004 , apj , 616 , 192 christlein , d. & zabludoff , a. i. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 201 dressler , a. , 1980 , apj , 236 , 351 dressler , a. , oemler , a. , couch , w. j. , smail , i. et al .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 577 elbaz , d. , daddi , e. , leborgne , e. , dickinson , m. et al , 2007 , a&a , 468 , 33 franzetti , p. , scodeggio , m. , garilli , b. , vergani , d. et al . , 2007 , a&a , 465 , 711 gallazzi , a. , bell , e. f. , wolf , c. et al , 2008 , apj , in press giallongo , e. , salimbeni , s. , menci , n. , zamorani , g. et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 622 , 116 gilmour , r. , gray , m. e. , almaini , o. , best , p. , wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , papovich , c. & bell , e. f. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1467 gomez , p. l. , nichol , r. c. , miller , c. j. et al , 2003 , apj , 584 , 210 gray , m. e. , wolf , c. , barden , m. , peng , c. y. et al , 2008 , mnras , in press ( this issue ) gunn , j. e. & gott , j. r. , 1972 , apj , 176 , 1 guzzo , l. , cassata , p. , finoguenov , a. , massey , r. , scoville , n. z. et al , 2007 , apjs , 172 , 254 haines , c. p. , fargiulo , a. , la barbera , f. , mercurio , a. , merluzzi , p. & busarello , g. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 7 haines , c. p. , gargiulo , a. & merluzzi , p. , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 385 , 1201 heiderman , a. , jogee , s. , marinova , i. , van kampen , e. et al . , 2008 ,",
    "apj , submitted heymans , c. , gray , m. e. , peng , c. y. , van waerbeke , l. et al . , 2008 , mnras , 385 , 1431 kauffmann , g. , heckman , t. m. , white , s. d. m. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 54 kauffmann , g. , white , s. d. m. , heckman , t. m. et al . , 2004 , mnras , 353 , 713 koopman , r. a. & kenney , j. d. p. , 1998",
    ", apj , 497 , l75 koopman , r. a. & kenney , j. d. p. , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 613 , 851 koopman , r. a. & kenney , j. d. p. , 2004",
    ", apj , 613 , 866 kenney , j. d. p. , wong , o. i. et al .",
    ", 2008 , submitted ( astro - ph/0803.2532 ) kennicutt , r. c. , 1983 , aj , 88 , 483 kennicutt , r. c. , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 189 khochfar , s. & ostriker , j. , 2008 , apj , 680 , 54 kodama , t. , smail , i. , nakata , f. , okamura , s. & bower , r. g. , 2001 , apj , 562 , l9 lane , k. p. , gray , m. e. , aragn - salamanca , a. , wolf , c. & meisenheimer , 2007 , mnras , 378 , 716 larson , r. b. , tinsley , b. m. & caldwell , c. n. , 1980 , apj , 237 , 692 laurikainen , e. , salo , h. , buta , r. & knapen , j. h. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 401 lewis , i. , balogh , m. , de propris , r. , couch , w. et al . , 2002 , mnras , 334 , 673 marinova , i. , jogee , s. , heiderman , a. et al . , 2008 , apj , submitted mehlert , d. , thomas , d. , et al . , 2003 , a&a , 407 , 423 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. & oemler , a. , 1996 , nature , 379 , 613 moran , s. m. , ellis , r. s. , treu , t. et al , 2007 , apj , 671 , 1503 moss , c. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 167 moss , c. & whittle , m. , 2000 , mnras , 317 , 667 noeske , k. g. , weiner , b. j. , faber , s. m. , papovich , c. et al . , 2007 ,",
    "apj , 660 , l43 park , c. , choi , y .- y .",
    ", vogeley , m. s. , gott , r. ( iii ) & blanton , m. r. , 2007 , apj , 658 , 898 park , c. , gott , r. & choi , y .- y . , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 674 , 784 pei , y. c. , 1992 , apj , 395 , 130 peng , c. y. , ho , l. c. , impey , c. d. & rix , h .- w . , 2002 ,",
    "aj , 124 , 266 poggianti , b. m. , smail , i. , dressler , a. , couch , w. j. et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 518 , 576 poggianti , b. m. , bridges , t. j. , komiyama , y. , yagi , m. et al . , 2004 , apj , 601 , 197 poggianti , b. m. , desai , v. , finn , r. et al . , 2008 , apj , 684 , 888 postman , m. , franx , m. , cross , n. j. g. , holden , b. et al . , 2005 , apj , 623 , 721 rines , k. & geller , m. j. , 2008 , aj , 135 , 1837 sabatini , s. , davies , j. , scaramella , r. , smith , r. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 981 salim , s. , rich , r. m. , charlot , s. et al .",
    ", 2007 , apjs , 173 , 267 salpeter , e. e. 1955 , apj , 121 , 161 sandage , a. , binggeli , b. & tammann , g. a. , 1985 , aj , 90 , 1759 schawinksi , k. , thomas , d. , et al . , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1415 schiminovich , d. , wyder , t. k. , martin , d. c. , et al . , 2007 , apjs , 173 , 315 smith , g. p. , treu , t. , ellis , r. s. , moran , s. m. & dressler , a. , 2005 , apj , 620 , 78 tanaka , m. , kodama , t. et al .",
    ", 2005 , mnras , 362 , 268 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , bender , r. & mendes de oliveira , c. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 673 trager , s. c. , faber , s. m. & dressler , a. , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 715 tremonti , c. a. , moustakas , j. & diamond - stanic , a. m. , 2007 , apj , 663 , l77 van den bergh , s. , 1976 , apj , 206 , 883 van der wel , a. , 2008 , apj , 675 , l13 verdugo , m. , ziegler , b. l. & gerken , b. , 2008 , a&a , 486 , 9 wilman , d. j. , balogh , m. l. et al . , 2005 , mnras , 358 , 71 wilman , d. j. , pierini , d. , tyler , k. et al . , 2008 , apj , 680 , 1009 weinmann , s. m. , van den bosch , f. c. , yang , x. & mo , h. j. , 2006 , mnras , 366 , 2 weinzirl , t. , jogee , s. , khochfar , s. , burkert , a. & kormendy , j. , 2008 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0807.0040 ) wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , et al . , 2003 , a&a , 401 , 73 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , kleinheinrich , m. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "a&a , 421 , 913 wolf , c. , gray , m. , & meisenheimer , 2005 , a&a , 443 , 435 wolf , c. , gray , m. e. , aragn - salamanca , a. , lane , k. p. & meisenheimer , 2007 , mnras , 376 , l1 wolf , c. , hildebrandt , h. , taylor , e. n. & meisenheimer , k. , 2008 , a&a , in press xu , c. k. , sun , y. c. & he , x. t. , 2004 , apj , 603 , l73"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the properties of optically passive spirals and dusty red galaxies in the a901/2 cluster complex at redshift @xmath0 using restframe near - uv - optical seds , 24@xmath1 m ir data and hst morphologies from the stages dataset . </S>",
    "<S> the cluster sample is based on combo-17 redshifts with an rms precision of @xmath2  km / sec . </S>",
    "<S> we find that dusty red galaxies and optically passive spirals in a901/2 are largely the same phenomenon , and that they form stars at a substantial rate , which is only @xmath3 lower than that in blue spirals at fixed mass . </S>",
    "<S> this star formation is more obscured than in blue galaxies and its optical signatures are weak . </S>",
    "<S> they appear predominantly in the stellar mass range of @xmath4 $ ] where they constitute over half of the star - forming galaxies in the cluster ; they are thus a vital ingredient for understanding the overall picture of star formation quenching in clusters . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the mean specific sfr of star - forming galaxies in the cluster is clearly lower than in the field , in contrast to the specific sfr properties of blue galaxies alone , which appear similar in cluster and field . </S>",
    "<S> such a rich red spiral population is best explained if quenching is a slow process and morphological transformation is delayed even more . at @xmath5 , </S>",
    "<S> such galaxies are rare , suggesting that their quenching is fast and accompanied by morphological change . </S>",
    "<S> we note , that edge - on spirals play a minor role ; despite being dust - reddened they form only a small fraction of spirals independent of environment .    surveys ; galaxies : evolution ; galaxies : spiral ; galaxies : clusters : general ; stars : formation ; infrared : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}