{
  "article_text": [
    "brown dwarfs in short and intermediate periods ( @xmath3 au ) are relatively rare compared to their occurrence at wider separations .",
    "@xcite show that the frequency of brown dwarfs at larger separations ( 29 - 1590 au ) is @xmath4 3.2% , much larger than the @xmath5% observed for separations less than 3 au @xcite .",
    "this brown dwarf desert in radial velocity observations is highly significant and not easy to explain .",
    "confirmation of radial velocity detected brown dwarf candidates is also challenging since the observations only yield a minimum mass and radial velocity alone can not break the degeneracy between companion mass and inclination .    for some of the brighter stars hosting brown dwarf candidates , the hippparcos measurements @xcite ( coupled with the radial velocity data ) can be used to estimate the mass of the companion .",
    "such techniques have been demonstrated by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite . eclipsing binary systems , and close binaries where",
    "both spectra can be observed , offer the prospect of the dynamical measurement of the mass of the two companions , and such systems have been used to determine accurate brown dwarf and low - mass star masses by @xcite and @xcite . @xcite",
    "have measured the dynamical mass for gj  802b using aperture masking and interferometry .",
    "another way to confirm the mass of the companion unambiguously is to detect a transit .",
    "coupled with radial velocity data this constrains the inclination angle and therefore the mass of the companion .",
    "the challenge with attempting this method on brown dwarf candidates discovered using the radial velocity technique is that the periods are typically 1001000 days , making the transit probability very small .",
    "another approach is to follow - up up detections from transit surveys with radial velocity observations to determine the mass of the candidate .",
    "this method has recently been employed by @xcite in the discovery of the transiting brown dwarf ( @xmath422 jupiter mass ) companion to the f3v star corot - exo-3 . while this is frequently done for the most promising candidates , the large amount of time required for precision radial velocity observations to confirm",
    "a planet leads to many candidates also being rejected before radial velocity follow - up .",
    "we selected 5 candidate transiting objects from the superwasp fields between 0616 hours @xcite for radial velocity follow - up .",
    "our motivation was to confirm either a brown dwarf or a low - mass stellar companion .",
    "no confirmed transiting brown dwarf around relatively bright stars ( @xmath6 ) has been discovered yet , although the planet xo-3b @xcite may be massive enough for deuterium burning .",
    "transiting low - mass stars are also interesting in their own right since an estimate of both mass and radii helps to constrain the equation of state used in current models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in this paper we present our radial velocity and photometric observations for one of our candidates , tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 , which has a tycho @xmath7 magnitude of 10.8 . for this object",
    "the superwasp data shows a transit depth of 17.9 millimags and a periodicity of @xmath8 days .",
    "we find no radial velocity variability at this period , but our radial velocities show the existence of a 0.037 @xmath0 low - mass companion ( minimum mass ) at a 103.69 day orbit .",
    "in this section we discuss the acquisition of the radial velocity and photometric data .",
    "radial velocity observation of tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 were obtained using the high resolution spectrograph ( hrs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on the hobby - eberly telescope ( het ) in queue scheduled mode .",
    "the observations used a 2 arcsecond fiber , resulting in a spectral resolution of @xmath9 .",
    "thirteen observations were acquired with the hrs with an iodine cell placed in the stellar beam path .",
    "one stellar template exposure was acquired without the iodine cell in order to facilitate the extraction of precise radial velocities from the combined star and iodine spectra . on sky integration time ranged from 1015 minutes .",
    "the queue scheduled nature of the het allows great flexibility in the observations .",
    "the observations were placed on hold many times while the data were reduced in order to determine the best period .",
    "this made it possible to request observations that would be most useful in constraining the period of the companion .",
    "our initial cadence was designed to detect the signature of the claimed superwasp periodicity of @xmath10 days .",
    "the high - resolution spectroscopic data obtained with the iodine cell were reduced by the method described in @xcite using the stellar template and high - resolution iodine spectrum to simultaneously model instrumental and doppler velocity shifts as well as variations in the point - spread function of the spectrograph .",
    "this technique allows the instrument drift to be calibrated out , and radial velocity precision of better than 23 ms@xmath11 has been demonstrated on bright stars .",
    "good velocity precision can only be obtained in the spectral region where iodine has sharp absorption lines , and therefore only the 50006200  region is used to derive velocities .",
    "table [ tbl : vels ] lists the radial velocities obtained for tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 .",
    "the dominant source of velocity error is the photon noise limited radial velocity uncertainty , mainly due to the target being faint and the exposure time being short .",
    "the error bars stated are determined from the the scatter in the velocities obtained from 2  chunks of the spectrum .",
    "the radial velocities are not consistent with the expected period from the superwasp data , but show the presence of a longer period companion .",
    "we discuss the fits to the radial velocity data in  [ sec : rvmodel ] .",
    ".het radial velocities for tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      the mass function can be related to the observed period , eccentricity , and radial velocity semi - amplitude as : @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the mass of the primary and @xmath14 the mass of the secondary . without having",
    "observed the transit we can not constrain @xmath15 directly , leading to the degeneracy of the companion mass with assumed inclination angle . using the derived stellar mass ( @xmath16 ) for the primary with the orbital parameters determined from the radial velocity model ( table [ tab : rvmodel ] )",
    "we determine that the minimum mass of the companion for an edge - on orbit ( @xmath17 ) is @xmath18 . using an upper - mass limit of @xmath19 for a brown dwarf , equation [ eqn : massfunction ]",
    "predicts that a companion of this mass would have an orbital inclination of @xmath20 to reproduce the radial velocity curve observed .    for a chance orientation of the orbital inclination",
    ", the probability that the inclination angle @xmath21 is less than an angle @xmath22 is given by @xmath23 the probability of the companion having an inclination less than @xmath24 , and therefore being more massive than a brown dwarf , is only 12.1% .",
    "figure [ fig : exclusion_regions ] shows the range of possible masses for the companion as a function of the inclination angle .",
    "masses of the companion close to that of the primary ( for very low inclination angles ) are excluded based on the absence of any secondary spectra in echelle data .",
    "however , the constraint is rather weak since the s / n of the spectra itself is not very high , making it difficult to exclude fainter m star companions .    ) .",
    "the mass of the companion falls in the brown dwarf regime for all inclination angles larger than 28.5 degrees.,width=309 ]      the possible transit of the stellar companion motivated a considerable amount of the photometric campaign that was undertaken ( see  [ sec : phot ] ) . as the knowledge regarding the orbital parametrs evolved ,",
    "new transit ephemerides were calculated and transit windows were communicated to the observers .",
    "the time of predicted transit based upon the complete orbital solution is shown in figure [ fig : ephemeris ] .",
    "the solid vertical lines correspond to nights on which photometric data was acquired .",
    "unfortunately , the final radial velocity measurements obtained shifted the transit window such that photometry was not obtained on the night of predicted transit .",
    "in addition , the final orbital solution was checked with the original superwasp observations and did not match any of the observed transits .",
    "although 6 transits were observed by superwasp , they were only observed in one camera and were not detected by the other cameras looking at the same field .",
    "the photometry presented in  [ sec : phot ] is more than adequate , both in coverage and precision , to detect the superwasp transit if it is real .",
    "thus the superwasp detection is likely to be spurious in nature .",
    "the orbital orientation of this system is such that the periastron location is behind the star . as such , the probability of a transit occurring is 0.89% , but the probability of a secondary eclipse is 1.89% .",
    "these are small odds indeed , but the possibility of constraining the inclination and therefore the mass of the companion make this a compelling target to study further . the duration of a planetary transit for a circular orbit is generally given by @xmath25 where @xmath26 and @xmath27 are the radii of the planet and parent star respectively . for our target , and assuming a companion radius of 1 jupiter radius , this amounts to a 9.38 hour duration . however , the eccentricity of the companion changes this duration significantly .",
    "using the transit duration scaling factor for eccentric orbits provided by @xcite , @xmath28 we compute a transit duration of 13.61 hours and a secondary eclipse duration of 6.35 hours .",
    "if we assume a radius of 1 jupiter radius , the predicted transit depth is 1% .",
    "if we assume a radius of 2 jupiter radii , the predicted transit depth becomes 4.2% .",
    "following up the target at the predicted transit times is therefore a feasible task with high scientific yield .",
    "based on random inclinations the probability of the companion being a brown - dwarf is high . however , given that low - mass stars in binary systems are more frequent than brown dwarfs at these separations , it is necessary to constrain the mass of the companion and exclude the possibility that it may be a low - mass star . in this section",
    "we explore the various techniques possible to accomplish this and their relevance and applicability for tyc 2534 - 698 - 1    _ astrometric orbit : _ using the orbital parameters , we can estimate the astrometric perturbation expected for different values of the companion mass .",
    "the orbital parameters yield a semi - major axis of @xmath29 au for the orbit and the best fit spectroscopic stellar model indicates that the absolute magnitude @xmath30 is 4.77 , yielding an approximate distance estimate of @xmath31 parsecs . for the case of the minimum mass companion ,",
    "the astrometric perturbation is only 100 @xmath32 arcseconds , and is 220 @xmath32 arcseconds if the companion were 0.08 @xmath0 .",
    "the small semi - major axis coupled with large distance to the star makes astrometric detection difficult .",
    "the hubble space telescope fine guidance sensors are capable of sub milli - arcsecond astrometry , but a 1 milli - arcsecond signature only appears when the companion mass exceeds 0.36 @xmath0 . constraining the astrometric signature to demonstrate that the object is indeed",
    "a brown dwarf will require the astrometric accuracy of planned instruments like space interferometry mission ( sim ) .",
    "_ transit & secondary eclipse : _ the detection of a transit would constrain the inclination of the companion orbit and unambiguously confirm its mass to be in the brown dwarf regime .",
    "the long period eccentric orbit however leads to a low probability of only @xmath33% for the transit .",
    "the predicted transit duration of 13.6 hours is also too long for the transit to be observed with most available telescopes .",
    "longer period transits are also more difficult to detect from the ground due to correlated red - noise and other systematics .",
    "the observed eccentricity and orientation of the orbit makes the detection of a secondary eclipse more likely than that of a transit .",
    "the probability of this is @xmath34% which , while still small , is a factor of 2 larger than the probability of a primary transit . the secondary eclipse ,",
    "if present , would be easier to detect with spitzer than similar transits of planets due to the self - luminous nature of the brown dwarf candidate .",
    "_ constraints from radial velocity : _ high precision radial velocity observations can themselves be used to exclude certain mass ranges of the companion .",
    "if an iodine cell were used then the presence of a brown dwarf companion spectra would manifest itself as increased noise in the radial velocity data when the different spectral chunks are being compared .",
    "such a technique has been used by @xcite to detect a probable brown dwarf around gj  1046 .",
    "meaningful contraints with this technique however require very high - precision velocities at 23 ms@xmath11 .",
    "even with such a precision it is not possible to distinguish between a brown dwarf and a very low - mass star .",
    "the primary is also relatively faint , making the acquisition of precision radial velocities very time consuming .    _ interferometric observations : _ the projected maximum separation of the companion from the primary is only @xmath35 mas , making any direct detection difficult",
    ". the projected separation is smaller than the 5 mas resolution ( at 2.2 @xmath32 m ) of even the 85 m keck interferometer baseline , and the contrast requirements too high unless the companion were an early m dwarf at a high inclination .",
    "we have reported the discovery of a low mass candidate around tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 .",
    "confirmation of a mass less than @xmath19 , or the detection of a transit , would make this one of the very few known brown dwarfs in the desert. while the detection of a transit is a low probability , such a detection would make this the only bright transiting brown dwarf .",
    "the long transit timescale , while disadvantageous for the detection , is actually a tremendous advantage for transmission spectroscopy ( if a transit is detected ) to probe the atmosphere of the candidate @xcite . in the event that transits do not occur ,",
    "tighter limits on the mass of the companion will have to await future missions such as sim , which can easily detect the small predicted amplitude of the astrometric signal .",
    "the authors would like to thank leslie hebb for several useful discussions , the het staff astronomers for performing the observations , and bertrand plez for providing the new version of the turbospectrum code which uses the latest marcs models .",
    "we would also like to thank university of texas at austin for awarding director s discretionary time which allowed us to obtain complete phase coverage of the target .",
    "the het is a joint project of the university of texas at austin , the pennsylvania state university , stanford university , ludwig - maximilians - universitt mnchen , and georg - august - universitt gttingen .",
    "the het is named in honor of its principal benefactors , william p. hobby and robert e. eberly .",
    "alvarez , r. , plez , b. 1998 , , 330 , 1109 asplund , m. 2005 , , 43 , 481 barklem , p.s . , omara , b.j .",
    "1998 , , 300 , 863 burke , c.j .",
    "2008 , , 679 , 1566 chabrier , g. , baraffe , i. 2000 , , 38 , 337 cochran , w.d . , et al .",
    "2004 , , 611 , l133 deleuil , m. , deeg , h.  j. , alonso , r. , bouchy , f. , rouan , d. 2008 , , in press ( arxiv:0810.0919 ) gustafsson , b. , edvardsson , b. , eriksson , k. , jrgensen , u.g . ,",
    "nordlund ,  .",
    ", plez , b. 2008 , , 486 , 951 ireland , m.  j. , kraus , a. , martinache , f. , lloyd , j.  p. , tuthill , p.  g. 2008 , , 678 , 463 johns - krull , c.m . , et al .",
    "2008 , , 677 , 657 kane , s.r . , schneider , d.p . , ge , j. 2007 , , 377 , 1610 kane , s.r .",
    ", et al . 2008 , , 384 , 1097 kupka , f. , piskunov , n. , ryabchikova , t.a . , stempels , h.c . ,",
    "weiss , w.w .",
    "1999 , , 138 , 119 krster , m. , endl , m. , reffert , s. 2008 , , 483 , 869 maz - apellniz , j. 2004 , , 116 , 859 marcy , g.w . , butler , r.p .",
    "2000 , , 112 , 137 metchev , s. , hillenbrand , l. 2008 , , submitted ( arxiv:0808.2982 ) perryman , m.a.c . ,",
    "1997 , , 323 , l49 plez , b. , cohen , j.g .",
    "2005 , , 434 , 1117 redfield , s. , endl , m. , cochran , w.d . , koesterke , l. 2008 , , 673 , l87 reffert , s. , quirrenbach , a. 2006 , , 449 , 699 stassun , k.  g. , mathieu , r.  d. , valenti , j.  a. 2006 , , 440 , 311 tull , r.g .",
    "1998 , , 3355 , 387 zucker , s. , mazeh , t. 2000 , , 531 , l67 zapatero osorio , m.  r. , lane , b.  f. , pavlenko , y. , martn , e.  l. , britton , m. , kulkarni , s.  r. 2004 , , 615 , 958"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> brown dwarfs and low - mass stellar companions are interesting objects to study since they occupy the mass region between deuterium and hydrogen burning . </S>",
    "<S> we report here the serendipitous discovery of a low - mass companion in an eccentric orbit around a solar - type main sequence star . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar primary , tyc 2534 - 698 - 1 , is a g2v star that was monitored both spectroscopically and photometrically over the course of several months . </S>",
    "<S> radial velocity observations indicate a minimum mass of 0.037 @xmath0 and an orbital period of @xmath1 days for the companion . </S>",
    "<S> photometry outside of the transit window shows the star to be stable to within @xmath2 millimags . </S>",
    "<S> the semi - major axis of the orbit places the companion in the brown dwarf desert and we discuss potential follow - up observations that could constrain the mass of the companion . </S>"
  ]
}