{
  "article_text": [
    "coronal mass ejections ( cmes ) are energetic expulsions of plasma from the solar corona that are driven by the release of magnetic energy typically in the range of @xmath0 ergs .",
    "the majority of cmes originate from the eruption of pre - existing large - scale helmet streamers @xcite .",
    "less common fast cmes typically come from smaller , more concentrated locations of magnetic flux referred to as active regions . in this case , the cmes often occur shortly after the flux has emerged at the photosphere , but can also happen even as the active region is decaying . while cmes occur in a wide range of circumstances , all cmes originate above photospheric magnetic polarity inversion lines ( neutral lines ) , which exhibit strong magnetic shear .",
    "shear implies that the magnetic field has a strong component parallel to the photospheric line that separates magnetic flux of opposite sign , and in this configuration , the field possesses significant free energy .",
    "in contrast , a potential field runs perpendicular to the inversion line and has no free energy .",
    "there is enormous evidence for the existence of highly sheared magnetic fields associated with cmes and large flares . at the photosphere",
    ", magnetic shear is measured directly with vector magnetographs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "higher in the atmosphere , the magnetic field is difficult to measure directly , but its direction may be inferred from plasma structures formed within the field . seen in chromospheric h@xmath1 absorption , filaments form only over photospheric inversion lines @xcite along which the magnetic field is nearly parallel @xcite . fibrils and h@xmath1 loops that overlay photospheric bipolar active regions are also indicative of magnetic shear @xcite .",
    "comparisons between vector magnetograms and h@xmath1 images show that the direction of the sheared photospheric magnetic field coincides with the orientation of such fibril structures @xcite .",
    "higher in the corona , evidence of magnetic shear is found in loops visible in the extreme ultraviolet @xcite and x - ray sigmoids @xcite .",
    "these structures run nearly parallel to the photospheric magnetic inversion line prior to cmes , and are followed by the reformation of closed bright loops that are much more potential in structure .",
    "finally , observations by the transition region and coronal explorer ( trace ) show that 86 percent of two - ribbon flares show a strong - to - weak shear change of the ribbon footpoints that indicates the eruption of a sheared core of flux @xcite",
    ".    sheared magnetic fields are at the epicenter of solar eruptive behavior .",
    "large flares are preferentially found to occur along the most highly sheared portions of magnetic inversion lines @xcite .",
    "more recent analysis by @xcite found that shear flows associated with flux emergence drove enhanced flaring .",
    "similarly , active region cme productivity is also strongly correlated with magnetic shear as shown by @xcite .",
    "it is not coincidental that large flares and cmes are strongly associated with filaments , which are known to form only along sheared magnetic inversion lines @xcite .",
    "the buildup of magnetic shear is essential for energetic eruptions , and for this reason , it is of fundamental importance to understanding solar activity .",
    "currently the majority of cme initiation models rely on the application of artificially imposed shear flows",
    ". examples of such models include @xcite . until recently , there was no theory to account for these large scale shear flows . in this paper , we discuss a series of simulations that illustrate a physical process by which these shear flows are self - organized in emerging magnetic fields . we will give a close comparison of these simulations in the context of new observations that make a more complete and compelling picture of a fundamental cause of eruptive solar magnetic activity .",
    "shearing motions and magnetic field alignment with the polarity inversion line , so frequently observed in active regions , are readily explained as a response to the lorentz force that arises when magnetic flux emerges in a gravitationally stratified atmosphere .",
    "the motions take the form of large - amplitude shear alfvn waves in which the magnetic tension force drives horizontal flows in opposite directions across the polarity inversion line .",
    "the physical process was first shown by @xcite and found in later simulations by @xcite . as will be discussed in greater detail ,",
    "what ultimately produces the shearing lorentz force is the nonuniform expansion of the emerging magnetic field .",
    "the shearing process was first simulated by @xcite , with a two - and - a - half - dimensional ( 2.5d ) simulation of flux emergence from a horizontal magnetic layer placed 2 - 3 pressure scale heights below the photosphere .",
    "the crucial aspect of this simulation is that the magnetic field is initially in a _ sheared _ configuration oriented at a 45 degree angle to the plane of variation . in this case , for spatial and temporal variations of the instability described by @xmath2 , @xmath3 is oblique to the magnetic field ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "this distinguishes the mode of instability from a parker mode @xcite in which @xmath3 is parallel to @xmath4 or an interchange mode in which @xmath3 is perpendicular to @xmath4 . with @xmath3 oblique to @xmath4 , the instability can be thought of as a mixed mode , ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this case , there will be a component of the lorentz force out of the plane of variation any where the magnetic component out of the plane ( @xmath5 in the chosen coordinates ) is not constant along field lines . in the simulation by @xcite",
    ", it was shown that the departure of @xmath5 from constant values along field lines produced strong shear flows in the emerging flux .    when the magnetic flux rises forming an arcade as shown in figure [ layer ] , expansion causes the magnitude of @xmath5 to decrease in the arcade .",
    "the gradient in @xmath5 along field lines results in the lorentz force that drives the shear flows . examining the expression for the @xmath6 component of the lorentz ( tension ) force , @xmath7",
    ", we see the reason for the shear .",
    "the gradient in @xmath5 is negative moving up the arcade in the direction of @xmath8 on one side of the arcade , while on the opposite side , the gradient of @xmath5 along @xmath8 is positive .",
    "these shear flows are illustrated in color in the top row of figure [ layer ] .",
    "here , we see the persistence of shear flows as the magnetic field ( drawn with black lines ) expands in the atmosphere .",
    "the magnitude of the shear flow velocity reaches a peak of 15 km / s high in the arcade , 3 - 4 km / s at the photosphere and approximately 1 km / s below the photosphere .",
    "the maximum shear speed typically reaches half the value of the local alfvn speed .",
    "the bottom row of figure [ layer ] shows the time evolution of magnetic field lines integrated in three - dimensional space , and shown from above projected onto the @xmath9 plane .",
    "footpoints of the field lines are shown with black dots .",
    "these panels show the shear displacement of the footpoints and how the magnetic field evolves to be parallel to the polarity inversion line .",
    "note that the field is most highly sheared in close proximity to the polarity inversion line , and grows more nearly perpendicular to the line with greater distance from it .",
    "this same shearing process is found in more complex simulations such as three - dimensional emerging flux ropes @xcite .",
    "panel ( a ) of figure [ rope ] shows in greater detail than before the structure of the magnetic field and current systems in the emerging flux rope of @xcite that leads to the lorentz force , which drives the shear flows . here",
    ", the axial field strength of the rope is shown in color , while the direction of the magnetic field and current density ( confined to the plane ) are shown with white and black lines respectively on the vertical plane that is at the central cross section of the flux rope . the large expansion of the upper part of the flux rope produces a vertical gradient in the axial component of the magnetic field @xmath10 that results in a horizontal current @xmath11 .",
    "the magnetic field crosses the current in opposite direction on opposite sides of the flux rope .",
    "this produces the lorentz force out of the plane that reverses direction across the flux rope , and drives the horizontal shear flow .",
    "panel ( b ) shows the magnitude of these shear flows on the same central cross section of the flux rope .",
    "the shear flow is greatest precisely where the field is most nearly perpendicular to the current reaching a magnitude of approximately 30 km / s . at this time",
    ", the flux rope has risen twice as high as the flux that emerged from the magnetic layer and similarly the shear flow in the rope is also twice as fast .        in the case of @xcite",
    "the flux rope erupted , which was not found in earlier simulations such as @xcite .",
    "this eruption resulted from high speed shear flows close to the neutral line that formed a highly sheared core that lifted off , and was followed by magnetic reconnection .",
    "the bottom panels show the magnetic and current structure at the time of the eruption .",
    "panel ( c ) gives a view of the system that shows the vertical magnetic field in color and the horizontal field with arrows at the photosphere .",
    "a current sheet is illustrated with an isosurface of current density .",
    "the sigmoid shape of the sheet reflects the shape of both the coronal field lines passing close to the sheet as well as the highly sheared field at the photosphere .",
    "this model strongly suggests that x - ray sigmoids seen prior to and during cmes are indicative of a highly sheared magnetic field geometry .",
    "panel ( d ) shows that at this current sheet , reconnection is taking place that separates the upper part of the rope that is erupting from the lower part that has v - shaped field lines full of dense plasma that remains attached to the photosphere .",
    "such flux separations in cmes have been suggested by @xcite based on observations of filament eruptions .",
    "finally we discuss a numerical simulation of an arcade eruption .",
    "this simulation is essentially identical to the simulation of @xcite , with the exception that it is carried out in fully three - dimensional space with the bats - r - us mhd code developed at the university of michigan .",
    "the left panel of figure [ arcade ] shows the initial state of the simulation with field lines drawn in black showing the sheared magnetic arcade . on the boundaries of the computational domain ,",
    "the plasma mass density is shown in color along with the computational grid shown with white lines . the center and right panels show the shear and vertical velocities respectively in color on the central plane of the simulation . the magnetic field confined to the plane ( ignoring the component out of the plane )",
    "is drawn with white lines in both panels . in these panels , we find that the arcade erupts very violently with a shear flow that reach a magnitude of 200 km / s",
    ". the arcade rises at a peak velocity of 150 km / s , and drives a shock ahead of it in the corona .    in this simulation ,",
    "the eruption is caused by shear flows driven by the lorentz force .",
    "a shearing catastrophe occurs when the @xmath5 component of the magnetic field can not be equilibrated along field lines .",
    "this simulation is different from the pervious two discussed in that it does not treat flux emergence through the photosphere , but only models the coronal plasma at a temperature of one million degrees .",
    "not needing to resolve the photospheric pressure scale hight allows much larger cells and a computational domain that is 25 times larger than that of the previous two simulations .",
    "the result of this coronal arcade simulation is an eruption that is 5 times faster than the flux rope eruption , and extends out to half a solar radius above the surface .",
    "this progression of eruption velocity with the size of the flux system being treating offers compelling evidence that shear flows driven by the lorentz are capable of producing fast cmes from large active regions .",
    "the build up of magnetic energy in active regions is essential to the onset of cmes and flares .",
    "the magnetic stress must pass from the convection zone into the corona in the form of non - potential fields , and effectively couple layers of the atmosphere .",
    "observations show that such non - potential fields occurs along magnetic polarity inversion lines where the magnetic field is highly sheared .",
    "the evidence that magnetic shear is essential to cmes and flares is provided by the very strong correlation between photospheric shear flows , flux emergence and the onset of cmes and large flares @xcite .",
    "these shear flows are found to be strongest along the magnetic inversion line precisely where flares are found @xcite .",
    "this complements earlier evidence that in the case of two - ribbon flares @xcite , prior to the eruption , h@xmath1 arches over the inversion line are highly sheared , afterward , the arches are nearly perpendicular to the inversion line .",
    "@xcite found a similar pattern of magnetic shear loss in the apparent motion of footpoints in two - ribbon flares .",
    "there are even now observations of subphotospheric shear flows with a magnitude of 1 - 2 km / s 4 - 6 mm below the photosphere that occur during flux emergence @xcite , which simulations show is fully consistent with the lorentz force driving mechanism @xcite .",
    "these ubiquitous shear flows and sheared magnetic fields so strongly associated with cmes are readily explained by the lorentz force that occurs when flux emerges and expands in a gravitationally stratified atmosphere .",
    "this physical process explains and synthesizes many observations of active regions and gives them meaning in a larger context .",
    "this shearing mechanism explains ( 1 ) the coincidence of the magnetic neutral line with the velocity neutral line , ( 2 ) the impulsive nature of shearing in newly emerged flux , ( 3 ) the magnitude of the shear velocity in different layers of the atmosphere , ( 4 ) the large scale pattern of magnetic shear in active regions , ( 5 ) the transport of magnetic flux , and energy from the convection zone into the corona , ( 6 ) eruptions such as cmes and flares . with so much explained ,",
    "it still remains a numerical challenge to model an active region with sufficient resolution to produce a large scale cme by this shearing mechanism .",
    "the rope emergence simulation discussed here only produces a flux concentration that is one tenth the size of an active region , which at this scale simply can not produce an eruption the size of a cme .",
    "however , this simulation illustrates the basic process by which cmes and flares must occur , and current simulations already show a very favorable scaling of eruption size . with increases in computer power ,",
    "simulations of flux emergence should soon be producing cme size eruptions by shear flows driven by the lorentz force ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> shear flows have been prescribed in numerical models of coronal mass ejections and flares for decades as a way of energizing magnetic fields to erupt . </S>",
    "<S> while such shear flows have long been observed in the solar atmosphere , until recently , there was no compelling physical explanation for them . </S>",
    "<S> this paper will discuss the discovery that such shear flows are readily explained as a response to the lorentz force that naturally occurs as bipolar magnetic fields emerge and expand in a gravitationally stratified atmosphere . </S>",
    "<S> it will be shown that shearing motions transport axial flux , and magnetic energy from the submerged portion of the field to the expanding portion , strongly coupling the solar interior to the corona . </S>",
    "<S> this physical process explains active region shear flows and why the magnetic field is found to be nearly parallel to photospheric polarity inversion lines where prominences form . </S>",
    "<S> finally , shear flows driven by the lorentz force are shown to produce a loss of equilibrium and eruption in magnetic arcades and flux ropes offering a convincing explanation for cmes and flares . </S>"
  ]
}