{
  "article_text": [
    "in the 75 years since @xcite first pointed out the need for substantial amounts of unseen material in the coma cluster , the case for a gravitationally dominant component of non - baryonic dark matter has become overwhelmingly strong .",
    "it seemed a long shot when @xcite first suggested that the dark matter might be an entirely new , weakly interacting , neutral particle with very low thermal velocities in the early universe , but such cold dark matter ( cdm ) is now generally regarded as the most plausible and consistent identification for the dark matter . particle physics has suggested many possible cdm particles beyond the standard model .",
    "two promising candidates are wimps ( weakly interacting massive particles , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and axions @xcite .",
    "among the wimps , the lightest supersymmetric particle , the neutralino , is currently favoured as the most likely cdm particle , and the case will be enormously strengthened if the lhc confirms supersymmetry . however , ultimate confirmation of the cdm paradigm can only come through the direct or indirect detection of the cdm particles themselves .",
    "neutralinos , for example , are their own antiparticles and can annihilate to produce @xmath3-rays and other particles .",
    "one goal of the recently launched fermi gamma - ray space telescope is to detect this radiation @xcite .",
    "direct detection experiments , on the other hand , search for the interaction of cdm particles with laboratory apparatus . for wimps , detection is based on nuclear recoil events in massive , cryogenically cooled bolometers in underground laboratories @xcite ; for axions , resonant microwave cavities in strong magnetic fields exploit the axion - photon conversion process @xcite . despite intensive searches ,",
    "the only experiment which has so far reported a signal is dama @xcite which has clear evidence for an annual modulation of their event rate of the kind expected from the earth s motion around the sun .",
    "the interpretation of this result is controversial , since it appears to require dark matter properties which are in conflict with upper limits established by other experiments ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion and possible solutions ) .",
    "regardless of this , recent improvements in detector technology may enable a detection of `` standard model '' wimps or axions within a few years .",
    "event rates in all direct detection experiments are determined by the local dm phase - space distribution at the earth s position .",
    "the relevant scales are those of the apparatus and so are extremely small from an astronomical point of view . as a result ,",
    "interpreting null results as excluding specific regions of candidate parameter space must rely on ( strong ) assumptions about the fine - scale structure of phase - space in the inner galaxy . in most analyses",
    "the dark matter has been assumed to be smoothly and spherically distributed about the galactic centre with an isotropic maxwellian velocity distribution ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or a multivariate gaussian distribution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the theoretical justification for these assumptions is weak , and when numerical simulations of halo formation reached sufficiently high resolution , it became clear that the phase - space of cdm halos contains considerable substructure , both gravitationally bound subhalos and unbound streams .",
    "as numerical resolution has improved it has become possible to see structure closer and closer to the centre , and this has led some investigators to suggest that the cdm distribution near the sun could , in fact , be almost fractal , with large density variations over short length - scales ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this would have substantial consequences for the ability of direct detection experiments to constrain particle properties .",
    "until very recently , simulation studies were unable to resolve any substructure in regions as close to the galactic centre as the sun ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for example ) .",
    "this prevented realistic evaluation of the likelihood that massive streams , clumps or holes in the dark matter distribution could affect event rates in earth - bound detectors and so weaken the particle physics conclusions that can be drawn from null detections ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for recent discussions ) .",
    "as we shall show in this paper , a new age has dawned . as part of its aquarius project @xcite",
    "the virgo consortium has carried out a suite of ultra - high resolution simulations of a series of milky way - sized cdm halos .",
    "simulations of individual milky way halos of similar scale have been carried out by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "here we use the aquarius simulations to provide the first reliable characterisations of the local dark matter phase - space distribution and of the detector signals which should be anticipated in wimp and axion searches .",
    "the cosmological parameters for the aquarius simulation set are @xmath4 and @xmath5 with @xmath6 , where all quantities have their standard definitions .",
    "these parameters are consistent with current cosmological constraints within their uncertainties , in particular , with the parameters inferred from the wmap 1-year and 5-year data analyses @xcite .",
    "milky way - like halos were selected for resimulation from a parent cosmological simulation which used @xmath7 particles to follow the dark matter distribution in a @xmath8 periodic box .",
    "selection was based primarily on halo mass ( @xmath9 ) but also required that there should be no close and massive neighbour at @xmath10 .",
    "the aquarius project resimulated six such halos at a series of higher resolutions .",
    "the naming convention uses the tags aq - a through aq - f to refer to these six halos .",
    "an additional suffix @xmath11 to @xmath12 denotes the resolution level .",
    "aq - a-1 is the highest resolution calculation , with a particle mass of @xmath13 and a virial mass of @xmath14 it has more than a billion particles within the virial radius @xmath15 which we define as the radius containing a mean density 200 times the critical value .",
    "the plummer equivalent softening length of this run is @xmath16  pc .",
    "level-2 simulations are available for all six halos with about @xmath17 million particles within @xmath15 .",
    "further details of the halos and their characteristics can be found in @xcite .    in the following analysis",
    "we will often compare the six level-2 resolution halos , aq - a-2 to aq - f-2 . to facilitate this comparison , we scale the halos in mass and radius by the constant required to give each a maximum circular velocity of @xmath18  km / s , the value for aq - a-2",
    ". we will also sometimes refer to a coordinate system that is aligned with the principal axes of the inner halo , and which labels particles by an ellipsoidal radius @xmath19 defined as the semi - major axis length of the ellipsoidal equidensity surface on which the particle sits .",
    "we determine the orientation and shape of these ellipsoids as follows . for each halo",
    "we begin by diagonalising the moment of inertia tensor of the dark matter within the spherical shell @xmath20 ( after scaling to a common @xmath21 ) .",
    "this gives us a first estimate of the orientation and shape of the best fitting ellipsoid .",
    "we then reselect particles with @xmath22 , recalculate the moment of inertia tensor and repeat until convergence .",
    "the resulting ellipsoids have minor - to - major axis ratios which vary from @xmath23 for aq - b-2 to @xmath24 for aq - d-2 .",
    "the radius restriction reflects our desire to probe the dark matter distribution near the sun .",
    "the density of dm particles at the earth determines the flux of dm particles passing through laboratory detectors .",
    "it is important , therefore , to determine not only the mean value of the dm density 8  kpc from the galactic centre , but also the fluctuations around this mean which may result from small - scale structure .",
    "we estimate the local dm distribution at each point in our simulations using an sph smoothing kernel adapted to the 64 nearest neighbours .",
    "we then fit a power law to the resulting distribution of @xmath25 against @xmath26 over the ellipsoidal radius range @xmath27 .",
    "this defines a smooth model density field @xmath28 .",
    "we then construct a density probability distribution function ( dpdf ) as the histogram of @xmath29 for all particles in @xmath22 , where each is weighted by @xmath30 so that the resulting distribution refers to random points within our ellipsoidal shell rather than to random mass elements .",
    "we normalise the resulting dpdfs to have unit integral .",
    "they then provide a probability distribution for the local dark matter density at a random point in units of that predicted by the best fitting smooth ellipsoidal model .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : dpdf ] we show the dpdfs measured in this way for all resimulations of aq - a ( top panel ) and for all level-2 halos after scaling to a common @xmath31 ( bottom panel ) .",
    "two distinct components are evident in both plots .",
    "one is smoothly and log - normally distributed around @xmath32 , the other is a power - law tail to high densities which contains less than @xmath33 of all points .",
    "the power - law tail is not present in the lower resolution halos ( aq - a-3 , aq - a-4 , aq - a-5 ) because they are unable to resolve subhalos in these inner regions .",
    "however , aq - a-2 and aq - a-1 give quite similar results , suggesting that resolution level 2 is sufficient to get a reasonable estimate of the overall level of the tail . a comparison of the six level 2 simulations",
    "then demonstrates that this tail has similar shape in different halos , but a normalisation which can vary by a factor of several . in none of our halos",
    "does the fraction of the distribution in this tail rise above @xmath34 .",
    "furthermore , the arguments of springel et al ( 2008 ) suggest that the total mass fraction in the inner halo ( and thus also the total volume fraction ) in subhalos below the aq - a-1 resolution limit is at most about equal to that above this limit . hence , the chance that the sun resides in a bound subhalo of any mass is of order @xmath33 .",
    "the striking similarity of the smooth log - normal component in all the distributions of fig .",
    "[ fig : dpdf ] has nothing to do with actual density variations in the smooth dark matter distribution .",
    "it is , in fact , simply a reflection of the noise in our local density estimates .",
    "we demonstrate this by setting up a uniform poisson point distribution within a periodic box and then using an sph smoothing kernel adapted to the 64 nearest neighbours to associate a local density with each particle in exactly the same way as for our halo simulations .",
    "we can then construct a dpdf for these estimates ( relative to their mean ) in exactly the same way as before .",
    "the result is shown in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : dpdf ] as a dashed black line .",
    "it is an almost perfect fit to the smooth component in the simulations , and it would fit the other halos equally well if plotted in the lower panel .",
    "the fit is not perfect , however , and it is possible to disentangle the true scatter in density about the smooth model from the estimation noise .",
    "the latter is expected to be asymptotically log - normal for large neighbour numbers , and fig .",
    "[ fig : dpdf ] shows that it is very close to log - normal for our chosen parameters .",
    "if we assume that the scatter in intrinsic density about the smooth model is also approximately log - normal , we can estimate its scatter as the square root of the difference between the variance of the simulation scatter and that of the noise : symbolically , @xmath35 . indeed , it turns out that the variance in @xmath36 which we measure for our simulated halos ( excluding the power - law tail ) is consistently higher than that which we find for our uniform poisson distribution .",
    "furthermore , tests show that the differences are stable if we change the number of neighbours used in the sph estimator to 32 or 128 , even though this changes the noise variance by factors of two .",
    "this procedure give the following estimates for _ rms _ intrinsic scatter around the smooth model density field in our six level-2 halos , aq - a-2 to aq - f-2 : @xmath37 , @xmath38 , @xmath39 , @xmath40 , @xmath41 and @xmath42 respectively .",
    "the very large particle number in the radial range we analyse results in a standard error on these number which is well below @xmath43 for all halos .",
    "thus , we can say with better than @xmath1 confidence that the dm density at the sun s position differs by less than @xmath0 from the average over the ellipsoidal shell on which the sun sits .",
    "this small scatter implies that the density field in the inner halo is remarkably well described by a smooth , ellipsoidal , power - law model .",
    "we conclude that the local density distribution of dark matter should be very smooth .",
    "bound clumps are very unlikely to have any effect on direct detection experiments .",
    "the main reason for this is the short dynamical time at the solar radius ( about 1% of the hubble time ) .",
    "this results in very efficient mixing of unbound material and the stripping of all initially bound objects to a small fraction of the maximum mass they may have had in the past ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion of these processes ) .",
    "note that the actual density of dm in the solar neighbourhood and the shape of the equidensity surfaces of the milky way s dark matter distribution will depend on how the gravitational effects of the baryonic components have modified structure during the system s formation .",
    "unfortunately , the shape of the inner dm halo of the milky way is poorly constrained observationally @xcite .",
    "the dissipative contraction of the visible components probably increased the density of the dark matter component , and may also have made it more axisymmetric ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) but these processes are unlikely to affect the level of small - scale structure",
    ". the very smooth behaviour we find in our pure dark matter halos should apply also to the more complex real milky way .",
    "the velocity distribution of dm particles near the sun is also an important factor influencing the signal expected in direct detection experiments .",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , most previous work has assumed this distribution to be smooth , and either maxwellian or multivariate gaussian .",
    "very different distributions are possible in principle . for example , if the local density distribution is a superposition of a relatively small number of dm streams , the local velocity distribution would be effectively discrete with all particles in a given stream sharing the same velocity @xcite . clearly , it is important to understand whether such a distribution is indeed expected , and whether a significant fraction of the local mass density could be part of any individual stream .",
    "we address this issue by dividing the inner regions of each of our halos into cubic boxes @xmath44  kpc on a side , and focusing on those boxes centred between @xmath45 and @xmath46  kpc from halo centre . in aq - a-1",
    ", each @xmath44  kpc box contains @xmath47 to @xmath48 particles , while in the level-2 halos they contain an order of magnitude fewer . for every box",
    "we calculate a velocity dispersion tensor and study the distribution of the velocity components along its principal axes . in almost all boxes these axes",
    "are closely aligned with those the ellipsoidal equidensity contours discussed in the last section .",
    "we also study the distribution of the modulus of the velocity vector within each box .",
    "the upper four panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : boxvela ] show these distributions of a typical @xmath44  kpc box at the solar circle in aq - a-1 ( solid red lines ) . here and in the following plots we normalise distributions to have unit integral .",
    "the black dashed lines in each panel show a multivariate gaussian distribution with the same mean and dispersion along each of the principal axes .",
    "the difference between the two distributions in each panel is plotted separately just above it , this particular box is quite typical , in that we almost always find the velocity distribution to be significantly anisotropic , with a major axis velocity distribution which is platykurtic , and distributions of the other two components which are leptokurtic .",
    "thus the velocity distribution differs significantly from maxwellian , or even from a multivariate gaussian .",
    "the individual velocity components have very smooth distributions with no sign of spikes due to individual streams .",
    "this also is a feature which is common to almost all our 2  kpc boxes .",
    "it is thus surprising that the distribution of the velocity modulus shows clear features in the form of bumps and dips with amplitudes of several tens of percent .    to see how these features vary with position , we overlaid the distributions of the velocity modulus for all 2  kpc boxes centred between 7 and 9  kpc from the centre of aq - a-1 ( bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : boxvela ] ) .",
    "we superpose both the directly measured distributions and the predictions from the best - fit multivariate gaussians . at each velocity , the solid red line show the median value of all the directly measured distributions , while the dashed black line is the median of all the multivariate gaussian fits .",
    "the dark and light regions enclose @xmath49 and @xmath50 of all the individual measured distributions at each velocity .",
    "it is interesting to note that the bumps in the velocity distribution occur at approximately the same velocity in all boxes .",
    "this suggests that they do not reflect local structures , but rather some global property of the inner halo . in fig .",
    "[ fig : gaussianboxvel_resolution ] we show velocity modulus distribution for four different boxes in aq - a at the three highest resolutions ( levels 1 , 2 and 3 ) .",
    "the error bars are based on poisson statistics in each velocity bin .",
    "clearly the same bumps are present in all boxes and at all resolutions .",
    "thus , they are a consequence of real dynamical structure that converges with increasing numerical resolution .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : boxvelall ] we make similar plots of the velocity modulus distribution for all level-2 halos .",
    "these distributions are quite smooth .",
    "the sharp peak in aq - b-2 is due to a single @xmath44  kpc box where 60% of the mass is contained in a single subhalo . no other box in this or any other halo has more than @xmath51% of its mass in a single subhalo .",
    "the great majority of boxes contain no resolved subhalo at all .",
    "although the details of the median distributions vary between halos , they share some common features .",
    "the low velocity region is more strongly populated in all cases than predicted by the multivariate gaussian model . in all cases ,",
    "the peak of the distribution is depressed relative to the multivariate gaussian . at moderately high velocities",
    "there is typically an excess .",
    "finally , and perhaps most importantly , all the distributions show bumps and dips of the kind discussed above .",
    "these features appear in different places in different halos , but they appear at similar places for all boxes in a given halo .",
    "the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : vel_mean ] superposes the median velocity modulus distributions of all level-2 halos and plots their mean as a black dashed line .",
    "the middle panel shows the deviations of the individual halos from this mean .",
    "the amplitudes of the deviations are similar in different halos and at low and high velocities . in percentage terms",
    "the deviations are largest at high velocity reaching values of 50% or more , as can be seen from the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : vel_mean ] .",
    "the bumps in the velocity distribution are too broad to be explained by single streams .",
    "furthermore , single streams are not massive enough to account for these features .",
    "this is shown more clearly in fig .",
    "[ fig : streams ] where we illustrate some streams in velocity space for a @xmath44  kpc box in halo aq - a-1 .",
    "different colours here indicate particles that belonged to different fof groups at redshift @xmath52 . for clarity",
    "we only show streams from groups that contribute at least 10 particles to this volume ( @xmath53 of the total number of particles present at this location ) .",
    "there are 27 such objects .",
    "if we consider all fof groups that contribute more than @xmath44 particles to the volume shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : streams ] , we find that a given fof group contributes streams that are typically only populated by @xmath54 particles ( @xmath55 of the total mass in the box ) .",
    "this implies that most of the groups contribute several streams of very low density .",
    "the most prominent streams have @xmath56 particles , i.e. @xmath57 of the mass in this volume .",
    "this clearly shows that streams are expected to be neither dense nor massive in the solar vicinity .",
    "the most prominent streams typically occupy the tail of the velocity distribution in these local boxes .",
    "the excess of particles moving with similar velocities and high kinetic energies can be measured using a velocity correlation function , as shown by @xcite .",
    "we have seen that the distributions of individual velocity components in localised regions of space are very smooth , whereas the velocity modulus distribution shows clear bumps . taken together with the fact that these bumps occur at similar velocities in regions on opposite sides of the halo centre , this indicates that we must be seeing features in the energy distribution of dark matter particles .    to investigate this further",
    ", we estimate the mean phase - space density as a function of energy in each of our halos using the properties of the particles at radii between @xmath58 and @xmath59  kpc . clearly our halos are not perfectly in equilibrium and they are far from spherical .",
    "thus their phase - space densities will only approximately be describable as functions of the integrals of motion , and they will depend significantly on integrals other than the energy . nevertheless we can estimate a mean phase - space density as a function of energy by taking the total mass of particles with @xmath60 and energies in some small interval and dividing it by the total phase - space volume corresponding to this radius and energy range , e.g. @xmath61 where @xmath62 is the energy - dependent mean phase - space density and @xmath63 is the available phase - space volume in the configuration - space volume @xmath64 . the differential energy distribution is easily calculated by binning the energies of all particles between @xmath58 and @xmath59  kpc .",
    "the phase - space volume can be calculated by solving for the gravitational potential at the position of all simulation particles and then using these as a monte - carlo sampling of configuration space in the relevant integrals . taking the ratio then yields the desired estimate of @xmath62 .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : df_a_convergence ] we show @xmath62 measured in this way for all our simulations of aq - a .",
    "we express the energy in units of @xmath65 and we take the zero - point of the gravitational potential to be its average value on a sphere of radius 8  kpc . as a result",
    "the measured energy distribution extends to slightly negative values .",
    "note how well the distribution converges at the more strongly bound energies . at higher energies",
    "the convergence between the level-1 and 2 resolutions is still very good .",
    "this demonstrates that we can robustly measure the mean phase - space density distribution .",
    "furthermore , we see clear wiggles that reproduce quite precisely between the different resolutions .    fig .",
    "[ fig : df_a_redshift ] shows similarly estimated mean phase - space density distributions for aq - a-2 at five different times separated by about @xmath66 myr .",
    "this is longer than typical orbital periods in the region we are studying . despite this , the wiggles at energies below @xmath67 are present over the complete redshift range shown .",
    "this demonstrates that these features are well - mixed , and that the phase - space distribution function has reached a coarse - grained equilibrium . in contrast , the variability of the wiggles in the part of the distribution corresponding to weakly bound particles ( where the orbital periods are much larger ) shows that these must be due to individual streams or to superpositions of small numbers of streams , which have not yet phase - mixed away .    to estimate what these phase - space distribution functions should look like for a `` smooth '' system , we average the functions found in our six individual level-2 halos . in fig .  [",
    "fig : df_2_scaled ] we superpose these six functions and their mean @xmath68 ( the black dashed line ) .",
    "the similarity of the different distribution functions at high binding energies suggests a near - universal shape for @xmath62 . at lower binding energies , individual halos",
    "deviate quite strongly from @xmath68 .",
    "this can be seen more clearly in fig .",
    "[ fig : df_2_scaled_scatter ] where we plot @xmath69 , the decimal logarithm of the ratio of the phase - space density of an individual halo to the mean .",
    "the lower axis is orbital energy in units of @xmath65 , while the upper axis is the corresponding dark matter particle velocity at the solar circle . in this plot",
    "one can clearly see the wiggles , which are located at different energies for different halos . for @xmath70",
    "km / s the distribution functions for all halos satisfy @xmath71 . for low binding energies ( velocities of 600  km / s or more at the solar circle ) this ratio can exceed a factor of ten .",
    "these features in the phase - space density distribution must be related to events in the formation of each halo . to demonstrate this explicitly ,",
    "we have computed @xmath62 separately for particles which were accreted onto two of our halos ( i.e. first entered the main progenitor fof group ) at different epochs .",
    "the upper left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : df_formation ] shows that aq - a-2 had a very `` quiet '' merger history .",
    "material accreted at different times is arranged in a very orderly way in energy space .",
    "all the most strongly bound particles were accreted before redshift 5 , and material accreted at successively later times forms a series of `` shells '' in energy space .",
    "the most weakly bound wiggles are due entirely to the most recently accreted material , and progressively more bound bumps can be identified with material accreted at earlier and earlier times .",
    "in contrast , the top right panel shows that aq - f-2 had a very `` active '' merger history , with a major merger between @xmath72 and @xmath73 .",
    "the correspondence between binding energy and epoch of accretion is much less regular than for aq - a-2 , and much of the most bound material actually comes from the object which fell in between @xmath72 and @xmath73 .",
    "it is also striking that many of the wiggles in this object are present in material that accreted at quite different times , suggesting that they may be non - steady coherent oscillations rather than stable structures in energy space .",
    "nevertheless , in both halos one can identify features in the phase - space density distribution with particles accreted at certain epochs , and in both halos the most weakly bound particles were added only very recently .",
    "note that the phase - space density of this material is very low , so it contributes negligibly to the overall local dark matter density . in the bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : df_formation ] we show the @xmath62 distributions of particles which were associated with a single , massive fof - group which was identified at @xmath74 in the case of aq - a-2 and at @xmath72 in the case of aq - f-2 .",
    "the wiggles in the strongly bound part of aq - a-2 are clearly due to this early merger event , while the later merger in aq - f-2 is responsible for most of the material accreted in @xmath75 and for most of the strong features in the phase - space density distribution .    we conclude that these features in the energy distribution should open the window to `` dark matter astronomy '' once experiments reach the sensitivity needed for routine detection of dm particles",
    ". we will then be able to explore the formation history of the milky way using the dm energy distribution .",
    "we will now use the spatial and velocity distributions explored above to calculate expected detector signals .",
    "the main question here is how the non - gaussian features of the velocity distribution influence these signals .",
    "our results show that features due to subhalos or massive streams are expected to be unimportant . on the other hand , deviations of the velocity distributions from a perfect gaussians in terms of general shape , bumps and dips can have an impact on detector signals .",
    "there are currently more than 20 direct detection experiments searching for galactic dm , most of them focusing on wimps . for these",
    ", the detection scheme is based on nuclear recoil with the detector material .",
    "the differential wimp elastic scattering rate can be written as @xcite : @xmath76 where @xmath77 encapsulates the particle physics parameters ( mass and cross - section of the wimp ; form factor and mass of target nucleus ) , @xmath78 is the local dark matter density that we assume to be constant based on the results of section 3 , and @xmath79 where @xmath80 is the wimp speed distribution in the rest frame of the detector integrated over the angular distribution .",
    "@xmath81 here is the detector - dependent minimum wimp speed that can cause a recoil of energy @xmath82 : @xmath83 where @xmath84 is the wimp mass and @xmath85 the atomic mass of the target nucleus . to get detector independent results we set @xmath86 in the following .",
    "the recoil rate shows a annual modulation over the year @xcite . to take this into account",
    "we add the earth s motion to the local box velocities to transform galactic rest frame velocities into the detector frame .",
    "we model the motion of the earth according to @xcite and @xcite .",
    "let @xmath87 be the velocity of the earth relative to the galactic rest frame decomposed into galactic rotation @xmath88 , the sun s peculiar motion @xmath89 and the earth s velocity relative to the sun @xmath90 . in galactic coordinates",
    "these velocities can be written as : @xmath91&\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath92 , @xmath93 is the ecliptic longitude ( @xmath94),@xmath95  km / s is the mean velocity of the earth around the sun , and the ellipticity of the earth orbit @xmath96 .",
    "the @xmath88 value is based on a combination of a large number of independent determinations of the circular velocity by @xcite .",
    "we note that this value has a standard deviation of @xmath97  km / s . for the constant @xmath98 and @xmath93 angles",
    "we take : @xmath99 the ecliptic longitude can be written as @xmath100 where @xmath101 is the fractional day number relative to noon ( ut ) on 31 december 1999 ( j2000.0 ) .",
    "we refer to a day number relative to 31 december 2008 in our plots .",
    "in what follows we will assume that the @xmath102-direction is always aligned with the major axis of the principal axis frame of the velocity ellipsoid in each box and the @xmath103- and @xmath104-directions , with the intermediate and short axes .",
    "this is needed to add the earth s motion to the box velocities , and to transform the velocity vectors in each box to the detector frame .",
    "clearly the deviations of the velocity distribution from a perfect multivariate gaussian found in the previous sections will also alter the recoil spectrum , because the velocity integral @xmath105 effectively measures the @xmath106-weighted area under the velocity curve .",
    "as in the previous sections we compare the results obtained directly from the simulations to the expectation for a best - fit multivariate gaussian distribution . in fig .",
    "[ fig : wimp_spectrum ] we plot recoil spectra ratios for the three highest resolution simulations of aq - a ( left ) and the level-2 ( right ) simulations of the other halos .",
    "for these plots we averaged the recoil rate over a year for individual boxes .",
    "the rates are calculated using the simulation velocity distribution ( @xmath107 ) and the best - fit gaussian model for each box ( @xmath108 ) .",
    "the plots show the median of the ratios @xmath109 over all boxes .",
    "since we assume that the density @xmath78 is constant in a given box , it drops out when calculating the ratios .",
    "the @xmath110-axis measures the energy in dimensionless @xmath111 values . for a given detector",
    "this can easily be converted to kev , assuming the masses @xmath84 and @xmath85 are given in gev/@xmath112 : @xmath113    fig .",
    "[ fig : wimp_spectrum ] clearly shows that in all level-2 halos the expected recoil spectrum based on a multivariate gaussian model can differ by up to @xmath114 from the directly predicted simulation result .",
    "furthermore , the behaviour of the deviations seems to be similar in all cases , especially at low energies , where we already found that the phase - space density is nearly universal .",
    "the similarity in the deviations between the different halos is due to the fact that the velocity distributions all differ in a characteristic way from the gaussian distributions as shown in section 4 .",
    "the deviations in the recoil spectra are typically highest at high energies .",
    "the @xmath114 deviations in the recoil spectra are larger than the typical deviations expected due to the annual modulation .",
    "therefore these deviations from the gaussian model can also influence the annual modulation signal . in fig .",
    "[ fig : modulationall ] ( top row ) we plot the dimensionless recoil rate @xmath115 of all local @xmath44  kpc boxes at @xmath116  kpc from the centre of aq - a-1 ( left),where @xmath107 is the annual mean recoil .",
    "we have assumed @xmath117  km / s for all plots in this figure .",
    "the maximum can clearly be seen around the month of june .",
    "the plot on the right in fig .",
    "[ fig : modulationall ] shows the modulation parameter space that we define by the day of maximum amplitude ( @xmath110-axis ) and the maximum modulation amplitude of the recoil rate over the year defined as @xmath118 ( @xmath119-axis ) .",
    "the bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig : modulationall ] shows the maximum amplitude ( left ) and day of maximum ( right ) for all level-2 halos ( solid red ) and the corresponding best - fit multivariate gaussian model ( dashed black ) .    comparing the gaussian median values to the box median values",
    "one can see that the day of maximum amplitude does not deviate significantly from that predicted for a multivariate gaussian ; in particular there is no clear trend visible over the halo sample . on the other hand ,",
    "the median amplitude in all halos is slightly higher than expected based on the gaussian sample for @xmath117  km / s .",
    "the amplitude differences for various @xmath81 values are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : recoilvmin ] .",
    "here we calculated the maximum amplitude and day of maximum for different @xmath81 values for all level-2 halos .",
    "the amplitude plot ( top ) shows the difference between the maximum relative modulation amplitude observed in the simulation and that expected for the best - fit multivariate gaussian model .",
    "the maximum amplitude @xmath81-dependence is similar for the six halos .",
    "since only the velocity distribution enters into the recoil calculation , this similarity is due to the fact that deviations of the halo velocity distribution from the gaussian model are also quite similar for all six halos . the bottom plot of fig .",
    "[ fig : recoilvmin ] shows the day of maximum amplitude is well predicted by the multivariate gaussian for all halos .",
    "the sharp transition in the day of maximum is due to the well - known phase - reversal effect @xcite .",
    "we checked that the subhalo dominated box in aq - b-2 , where by chance about @xmath120 of the box mass is in a single subhalo , leads to a very different modulation signal .",
    "the day of maximum in that case shifts about @xmath121 days from the gaussian distribution .",
    "we note that although the subhalo mass fraction in this particular box is high , the subhalo volume fraction is tiny , so even within this box , almost all observers would see the smooth regular signal .",
    "although most of the direct experiments currently search for wimps the axion provides another promising candidate for cdm .",
    "it arises from the peccei - quinn solution to the strong cp - problem .",
    "one axion detection scheme is based on using the axion - electromagnetic coupling to induce resonant conversions of axions to photons in the microwave frequency range .",
    "galactic axions have non - relativistic velocities ( @xmath122 ) and the axion - to - photon conversion process conserves energy , so that the frequency of converted photons can be written as : @xmath123 where @xmath124 is the axion mass that lies between @xmath125  ev/@xmath112 and @xmath126  ev/@xmath112 .",
    "@xmath127ev axions would therefore convert into @xmath128  mhz photons with an upward spread of @xmath129  khz due to their kinetic energy .",
    "an advantage of axion detection compared to wimp searches is the fact that it is directly sensitive to the energy rather than to the integral over the velocity distribution .",
    "the power @xmath130 , developed in the axion search cavity due to resonant axion - photon conversion can be written as @xcite : @xmath131 where @xmath132 encapsulates the experimental properties ( cavity volume , magnetic field , quality factor ) and particle physics properties ( model dependent coupling parameter , axion mass ) .",
    "the only astrophysical input is the local density @xmath133 of axions with energies corresponding to the cavity frequency . for simplicity we set @xmath134 .",
    "we can produce axion spectra from our simulations by taking a local volume element ( a box ) and computing the distribution of kinetic energies @xmath135 of the particles found in this location .",
    "the number of particles with a given @xmath135 is then directly proportional to @xmath136 at this frequency , and so to the power in the frequency bin .    to make the results independent of axion mass and other experimental properties we present",
    "histograms of @xmath137 normalised to one .",
    "for a given axion mass @xmath124 ( in @xmath138 ) the @xmath110-axis must be transformed according to @xmath139 to get the corresponding frequencies in mhz .",
    "a long - running axion search experiment is admx at llnl @xcite .",
    "it has channels at medium ( mr ) and high resolution ( hr ) .",
    "the latter has a frequency resolution of about @xmath140  hz . for @xmath141  mhz and an axion velocity of @xmath142  km / s this translates into a velocity width of only @xmath143  km / s . ] .",
    "our numerical resolution prevents us from predicting the behaviour on such small scales . for wider bin searches and especially for the medium resolution ( mr ) channel ( @xmath144  hz corresponding to a typical velocity spread of about @xmath121  km / s ) we can , however make reliable predictions by binning particles with respect to @xmath137 .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : stackedaxionb ] we show axion spectra for all level-2 halos  hz due to annual modulation and a daily shift of about @xmath11  hz due to the earth s rotation @xcite . ] . in a broad sense ,",
    "the spectra obtained from our simulations look similar to those of multivariate gaussian models .",
    "however there are a number of differences .",
    "for example , the peak power is shifted to lower frequencies .",
    "the gaussian distribution is also a poor description of the spectrum at low frequencies . in all halos",
    "the power at low and high frequencies is higher then expected from a multivariate gaussian model .",
    "this effect is quite small for high frequencies but very significant for low frequencies .",
    "the higher power at low frequencies can be understood from the velocity distributions in fig .",
    "[ fig : boxvelall ] . in aq - b-2 the subhalo dominated box that was seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : boxvelall ] is clearly visible as a peak in the power spectrum at high frequency .",
    "the bumps in the velocity distribution also result in quite significant features in the axion spectra that might be visible in the mr channel given enough signal - to - noise .",
    "we have characterised the local phase - space distribution of dark matter using the recently published ultra - high resolution simulations of the aquarius project .",
    "our study provides new insights relevant to searches for the elusive cdm particles .",
    "this results from the unprecedented resolution and convergence ( in a dynamical sense ) of our simulations , as well as from the fact that they provide a sample of six milky way - like dark matter halos .",
    "we have measured the probability distribution function of the dm mass density between @xmath58 and @xmath59  kpc from the centre of the halo , finding it to be made up of two components : a truly smooth distribution which scatters around the mean on ellipsoidal shells by less than @xmath145 in all the halos of our sample , and a high - density tail associated with subhalos .",
    "the smooth dm component dominates the local dm distribution . with @xmath1 confidence",
    "we can say that the sun lies in a region where the density departs from the mean on ellipsoidal shells by less then @xmath0 .",
    "experimentalists can safely adopt smooth models to estimate the dm density near the sun .",
    "we find that the local velocity distribution is also expected to be very smooth , with no sign of massive streams or subhalo contributions .",
    "the standard assumption of a maxwellian velocity distribution is not correct for our halos , because the velocity distribution is clearly anisotropic .",
    "the velocity ellipsoid at each point aligns very well with the shape of the halo",
    ". a better fit to the simulations is given by a multivariate gaussian .",
    "even this description does not reproduce the exact shape of the distributions perfectly .",
    "in particular the modulus of the velocity vector shows marked deviations from such model predictions .",
    "velocity distributions in our six different halos share common features with respect to the multivariate gaussian model : the low - velocity region is more populated in the simulation ; the peak of the simulation distribution is depressed compared to the gaussian ; at high velocities there is typically an excess in the simulation distribution compared to the best - fit multivariate gaussian .",
    "furthermore the velocity distribution shows features which are stable in time , are reproduced from place to place within a given halo , but differ between different halos .",
    "these are related to the formation history of each individual halo .",
    "the imprints in the modulus of the velocity vector reflect features in the energy distribution .",
    "we explicitly show that the phase - space distribution function as a function of energy contains characteristic wiggles . the amplitude of these wiggles with respect to the average distribution function of our sample of six halos rises from high to low - binding energies .",
    "after appropriate scaling , the most bound part of the distribution function looks very similar in all halos , suggesting a ( nearly ) universal shape .",
    "the weakly bound part of the distribution , on the other hand , can deviate in any given halo by an order of magnitude from the mean .",
    "we have used our simulations to predict detector signals for wimp and axion searches .",
    "we find that wimp recoil spectra can deviate about @xmath114 from the recoil rate expected from the best - fit multivariate gaussian model .",
    "the energy dependence of these deviations looks similar in all six halos ; especially at higher binding energies .",
    "we find that the annual modulation signal peaks around the same day as expected from a multivariate gaussian model with no clear trend over our halo sample for varying recoil velocity thresholds .",
    "the maximum recoil modulation amplitude , on the other hand , shows a clear threshold - dependent difference between the signal expected for a multivariate gaussian model and that estimated from the simulation . we have also explored the expected signal for direct detection of axions .",
    "we find the axion spectra to be smooth without any sign of massive streams .",
    "the spectra show characteristic deviations from those predicted by a multivariate gaussian model ; the power at low and high frequencies is higher than expected .",
    "the most pronounced effect is that the spectra peak at lower frequencies than predicted . since the frequencies in the axion detector are directly proportional to the kinetic energy of the axion particles , the bumps in the dm velocity and energy distributions are also clearly visible in the axion spectra .",
    "all the effects on the various detector signals are driven by differences in the velocity distribution .",
    "individual subhalos or streams do not influence the detector signals however , since they are sub - dominant by a large factor in all six halos .",
    "our study shows that , once direct dark matter detection has become routine , the characterisation of the dm energy distribution will provide unique insights into the assembly history of the milky way halo . in the next decade ,",
    "a new field may emerge , that of `` dark matter astronomy '' .",
    "the simulations for the aquarius project were carried out at the leibniz computing center , garching , germany , at the computing centre of the max - planck - society in garching , at the institute for computational cosmology in durham , and on the ` stella ' supercomputer of the lofar experiment at the university of groningen . the analysis for this work",
    "was mainly done on the opa and vip computing clusters at the computing centre of the max - planck - society in garching .",
    "mv acknowledges the kapteyn astronomical institute in groningen for a productive atmosphere where most of this work was done .",
    "mv thanks anne green for helpful discussions .",
    "ah acknowledges financial support from nova and nwo .",
    "this research was supported by the dfg cluster of excellence `` origin and structure of the universe '' .",
    "r. , belli p. , montecchia f. , nozzoli f. , cappella f. , incicchitti a. , prosperi d. , cerulli r. , et al 2007 , in sissakian a. , kozlov g. , kolganova e. , eds , high energy physics : ichep 06 dama at gran sasso : results and perspectives ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study predictions for dark matter phase - space structure near the sun based on high - resolution simulations of six galaxy halos taken from the aquarius project . </S>",
    "<S> the local dm density distribution is predicted to be remarkably smooth ; the density at the sun differs from the mean over a best - fit ellipsoidal equidensity contour by less than @xmath0 at the @xmath1 confidence level . </S>",
    "<S> the local velocity distribution is also very smooth , but it differs systematically from a ( multivariate ) gaussian distribution . </S>",
    "<S> this is not due to the presence of individual clumps or streams , but to broad features in the velocity modulus and energy distributions that are stable both in space and time and reflect the detailed assembly history of each halo . </S>",
    "<S> these features have a significant impact on the signals predicted for wimp and axion searches . </S>",
    "<S> for example , wimp recoil rates can deviate by @xmath2 from those expected from the best - fit multivariate gaussian models . </S>",
    "<S> the axion spectra in our simulations typically peak at lower frequencies than in the case of multivariate gaussian velocity distributions . </S>",
    "<S> also in this case , the spectra show significant imprints of the formation of the halo . </S>",
    "<S> this implies that once direct dm detection has become routine , features in the detector signal will allow us to study the dark matter assembly history of the milky way . a new field , `` dark matter astronomy '' </S>",
    "<S> , will then emerge .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    cosmology : dark matter  methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}