{
  "article_text": [
    "the natural outcome of cosmological structure formation theory is equilibrated dark matter ( dm ) structures . according to numerical simulations , the mass density profile , @xmath2 , of these structures changes from something with a fairly shallow profile in the central region , @xmath3 ( or maybe zero ) , to something steeper in the outer region , @xmath4 ( or maybe steeper ) @xcite",
    "( see also @xcite ) . for the largest structures , like galaxy clusters , there appears to be fair agreement between the numerical predictions and observations concerning the central steepness @xcite , however , for smaller structures , like galaxies or dwarf galaxies , observations tend to indicate central cores  @xcite ( see also  @xcite ) .",
    "the various theoretical approaches still make different predictions @xcite , varying from central cores to cusps .",
    "the second natural quantity to consider ( after the density profile ) is the velocity anisotropy , which is defined through @xmath5 where @xmath6 and @xmath7 are the 1-dimensional tangential and radial velocity dispersions  @xcite .",
    "if most dark matter particles in an equilibrated structure were purely on radial orbits , then @xmath1 could be as large as 1 , and for mainly tangential orbits @xmath1 could be arbitrarily large and negative . since dark matter is collision - less @xmath1 does not have to be zero , and it could in principle even vary as a function of radius .",
    "numerical n - body simulations of collision - less dark matter particles show that the dark matter velocity anisotropy is indeed radially varying , and that @xmath1 goes from roughly zero in the central region , to 0.5 towards the outer region  @xcite .",
    "only very recently has this velocity anisotropy been measured to be non - zero in galaxy clusters @xcite , and it has even been observed to be increasing as a function of radius @xcite , in excellent agreement with the numerical predictions . for smaller structures , like our own galaxy ,",
    "this has not been observed yet . in principle @xmath1 of our galaxy",
    "can be measured in an underground directional sensitive detector , however , it will require a large dedicated experimental programme  @xcite .",
    "very little theoretical understanding of the origin of this velocity anisotropy exists , and to my knowledge no successful derivation of it has been published ( see , however , @xcite ) .",
    "we will in this paper present an attempt towards deriving @xmath1 .",
    "when analyzing the outcome of a numerically simulated dark matter structure one traditionally divides the equilibrated structure in bins ( shells ) in radius , or in potential energy . for spherical structures",
    "there is naturally no difference .",
    "we can now consider all the particles in a given radial bin , and calculate properties like average density , angular momentum , velocity anisotropy etc . in order to do this",
    ", we must decompose the velocity of each particle into the radial component , and the two tangential components .",
    "the two tangential components can for instance be separated according to the total angular momentum of all the particles in the bin .    by summing over all the particles in the radial ( or potential ) bin",
    ", we thus get the velocity distribution function ( vdf ) , which for a gas would have been a gaussian represented by the local gas temperature , @xmath8 .",
    "we are here discussing the 1-dimensional vdf ( i.e. the one where the two other velocities are integrated over ) , and we are not assuming that the radial and tangential vdf s are independent .",
    "naturally , since dark matter particles are not collisional , the concept of temperature is not well defined for them . in numerically simulated structures",
    "one observes that the radial vdf is symmetric ( with respect to particles moving in or out of the structure ) , and also the non - rotational part of the tangential vdf is symmetric .",
    "the asymmetry of the rotational part of the tangential vdf was discussed in @xcite for the dm particles . for the structures with very little rotation , the two tangential vdf s are virtually identical . to avoid any complications from the total angular momentum we will hereafter only discuss the two symmetric 1-dimensional vdf s . for any given radial bin in a given dm structure ,",
    "the shape of the vdf only depends on the momentaneous distribution of particles ( which should be virtually time - independent for equilibrated structures ) , and is independent of the method by which the structure is selected .",
    "when analyzing dark matter structures resulting from cosmological simulations , we find that the shape of the _ radial _ vdf changes as a function of radius  @xcite . in particular , the bins in the inner region tend to have long tails ( more particles at high velocity compared to a gaussian ) , whereas bins at larger radii tend to have stronger reduction in high velocity particles .",
    "this is exemplified in figure [ fig : vdf ] , where the upper curves ( blue and green ) show the radial vdf .",
    "the open diamonds ( blue ) come from a radial bin in the inner region , whereas the stars ( green ) are from a bin further out .",
    "the vdf s are normalized such that a comparison is possible , and velocity is normalized to the dispersion .",
    "this simulated cosmological data is from the local group simulation of @xcite .",
    "the lower curves ( red and black ) are the tangential vdf from the same two bins , however , for the _ tangential _ vdf there is a striking resemblance , infact to a first approximation these two tangential vdf s from different radial bins look identical .        ) , and stars are from an outer bin ( @xmath9 ) .",
    "there is a striking resemblance with the radial vdf s from the cosmological simulation in the upper curves in figure [ fig : vdf ] .",
    "same normalization as figure [ fig : vdf].,scaledwidth=49.0% ]    the most frequently used approach to discuss dm structures is through the first jeans equation , which relates the velocity dispersions to the density profiles .",
    "if we were to have some knowledge about some of the quantities entering the jeans equation , then we can solve for the others .",
    "one example hereof was presented in  @xcite , who demonstrated how to derive a generalized nfw density profile , by both assuming that the pseudo phase - space is a power - law in radius @xcite , and that there is a linear relation between the velocity anisotropy and the density slope @xcite .",
    "a somewhat generalized approach was presented in  @xcite , where the authors demonstrated how to derive the velocity anisotropy by assuming simple forms for both the density profile and the pseudo phase - space density .",
    "the fundamental problem with this kind of approaches is , that any departure from truth in the assumptions will lead to departure from correctness in the results .",
    "@xcite demonstrated this in a very convincing way , by deriving significantly different velocity anisotropy profiles by just changing between nfw or sersic density profiles as input .",
    "another related problem with these approaches is , that the assumption that pseudo phase - space is a simple power - law , was recently demonstrated to be oversimplified .",
    "the unknown question was which component ( radial , tangential , or something else ) of the velocity dispersion in the pseudo phase - space gives the best approximation to a power - law in radius @xcite .",
    "@xcite demonstrated that different numerically simulated structures are best fitted by different forms of the pseudo phase - space , and hence that there is no universal simple behavior of the pseudo phase - space .      for ergodic structures , that is structures where the orbits depend only on energy ( hence with @xmath10 ) we can use the eddington formula to get the vdf at any radius  @xcite , ( see also  @xcite ) .",
    "the eddington formula only depends on the radial dependence of the density profile of the structure , and by assumption the vdf is the same for the radial and tangential directions , @xmath11 function@xmath12 .",
    "it is natural to interpret this in the following way .",
    "the structure is in equilibrium , so there is detailed balance for each phase - space element .",
    "the velocity of each particle is decomposed into the radial and tangential components , and for any infinitesimal time step , the radial component of any individual particle can tell that it is moving in a changing density and changing potential ( the radial component of any individual particle is either moving directly inwards or outwards ) .",
    "it is therefore natural that the radial vdf is imprinted by the radial variation in the density and potential . for a truncated nfw density profile we can e.g. get the vdf at radius 0.1 and 10 , in units of the characteristic radius , see figure [ fig : edd ] . by comparison of figures [ fig : vdf ] and [ fig : edd ]",
    "it is clear , that the radial vdf of the cosmological simulation indeed looks very similar to the vdf from the eddington formula .",
    "it is therefore tempting to suggest that the radial vdf to a first approximation is identical to the one which results when applying the eddington formula to the given density profile .",
    "now , the actual radial vdf ( for a given cosmologically simulated structure ) will differ slightly from the vdf resulting from the eddington formula , since the latter was based on the assumption that @xmath10 .",
    "specifically , the vdf from the eddington formula gives also @xmath13 , and to ensure consistency with the jeans equation , one must have @xmath10 .",
    "however , we will here use this vdf _ as a first approximation _ to the radial vdf , and we will present a quantitative comparison in a future paper . recently , @xcite showed that for a large class of theoretical model , this is an excellent approximation ( see their figure 5 ) .",
    "it is somewhat less trivial to argue ( or claim ) the shape of the tangential vdf . for an infinitesimal time step ,",
    "the tangential component of any individual particle s velocity is moving in constant density and constant potential ( the tangential velocity component of any individual particle is moving , well , tangentially , and we assume spherical symmetry ) .",
    "we still assume that the structure is in equilibrium with no time variation .",
    "this means , that _ as a first approximation _ the tangential vdf can be thought of as the one resulting from an infinite and homogeneous medium , where both the density and potential is constant everywhere .",
    "this argument is similar to the jeans swindle , where the homogeneous medium implies constant potential .",
    "naturally , such an infinite structure is not gravitationally stable against perturbations , but we can instead approximate it in the following way .",
    "let us consider a density profile , which is a power - law in radius over many orders of magnitude , and is then truncated .",
    "one example hereof is an nfw profile , where the central density slope is -1 , and the corresponding truncation is then happening after the scale radius .",
    "we are thus considering the vdf in a bin at a radius which is many orders of magnitude deeper towards the center than the scale radius .",
    "we can now consider a generalized double power - law profile , where the central slope can be more shallow than -1 , and we can use the eddington formula to extract the vdf for any central slope . by lowering the central slope towards zero , we get a structure which in principle is stable towards perturbations , but at the same time is approaching constant density and constant potential in the central region .",
    "the resulting vdf ( extrapolated to zero slope ) has been discussed by @xcite and has the shape @xmath14 with @xmath15 , and @xmath16 shows that the normalization only depends on the local density .",
    "this form is known as a q - generalized exponential  @xcite .",
    "for comparison one should note that a simple comparison with polytropes ( where @xmath17 ) breaks down , since the normal connection between density and potential , @xmath18 , is not valid for such shallow slopes  @xcite .    ) .",
    "the velocity is normalized to the dispersion , and the y - axis has been shifted vertically for two of the bins to enhance visibility .",
    "one clearly sees that the tangential vdf s are virtually identical , whereas the radial vdf s vary as function of radius.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]     but with log - scales to make the suppression at high - energy more visible .",
    "the normalization of the y - axis is random , to enhance visibility.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]    when considering the shape of the tangential vdf from simulations in figs .",
    "[ fig : tangent ] and [ fig : tangent.log ] we see that this form indeed provides a very good fit for all radii , at least for @xmath19 smaller than roughly @xmath20 .",
    "the structure in figs .",
    "[ fig : tangent ] and [ fig : tangent.log ] is from a very non - cosmological simulation ( the `` tangential orbit instability '' of @xcite ) .",
    "the same form fits the tangential vdf s from a cosmological simulation ( lower lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : vdf ] ) equally well .    clearly , this form in eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) has an extended tail of high energy particles , which would not be bound by the equilibrated structure .",
    "the suppression of high energy particles due to the finite radial extend of the structure is naturally included through the eddington formula for the radial component , and we therefore make the suggestion that the _ tangential _ vdf must have a high - energy tail which follows the _ radial _ vdf .",
    "effectively , this means that for large velocities the tangential component of the velocity might as well be moving in the radial direction .",
    "this corresponds to the fact that the tangential velocity component of any individual particle actually is moving somewhat radially after a finite time - interval .    when looking at fig .",
    "[ fig : tangent.log ] we see that the actual suppression is even slightly larger for these high - energy particles , however , the difference between the suggested and the actual suppression at high energy is very small . when looking at the number of particles ( the integral under the curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : tangent ] ) we find , that the difference is virtually zero .    in conclusion ,",
    "the tangential vdf is surprisingly well fit by the phenomenologically predicted shape in eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) , and with a high - energy tail suppression corresponding to the tail of the radial vdf .    to emphasize the general nature of the shape of the tangential vdf , we also present the radial and tangential vdf s of a cosmological simulation of a galaxy , including both cooling gas , star - formation and stars , as well as supernova feedback from @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ fig : k15 ] we see that the dark matter vdf also in this case has the suggested shape .    )",
    "now , after having established the shape of both the radial and tangential vdf s , the velocity anisotropy at any given radius can easily be determined , as we will show later in this section , since it is just an integral over these distributions , @xmath21 .",
    "the shape of the radial vdf changes as a function of radius ( section 2.1 ) , whereas the shape of the tangential vdf is virtually constant ( section 2.2 ) , and it is therefore natural to expect that the velocity anisotropy will also change as a function of radius . since the radial vdf generally is more flat - topped than the tangential one ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : tangent.log ] , top lines ) , then we will expect @xmath1 to be positive .",
    "only when the density slope approaches zero ( e.g. a central core ) will the radial vdf approach the tangential one , and hence @xmath22 ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : tangent.log ] , bottom lines ) .",
    "let us assume that the radial density profile is given , e.g. by a truncated nfw profile . in this case",
    "the radial vdf is completely determined through the eddington formula .",
    "the tangential vdf is given by eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) and at first sight there are 2 free parameters , namely the @xmath23 entering equation  [ eq : tsallis ] , and then the normalization . for a given @xmath23 we can determine the normalization , since the particle number is conserved when integrating over the radial or tangential vdf , @xmath24 .",
    "this leaves us only to determine the @xmath23 entering eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) .",
    "one could argue that it most likely is either @xmath25 or @xmath26 which should enter here .",
    "we will allow ourselves to be guided by the results of numerical simulations , and use the average @xmath26 , since that gives a fairly good approximation to all the tangential vdf s from the simulations discussed above .",
    "we will present a more quantitative test of this in a future paper , but the effect is modest .",
    "e.g. for the truncated nfw profile at the radius where the slope is @xmath27 , we find @xmath28 when using @xmath29 , and if we instead use @xmath30 ( @xmath31 ) we get @xmath32 .",
    "it is now straight - forward to calculate the velocity anisotropy , @xmath1 , at any radius for any given density profile with no free parameters .",
    "practically we do it iteratively in the following way .",
    "1 ) first we find the radial vdf , using the eddington formula .",
    "2 ) then we write the tangential vdf , which is eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) where we initially use @xmath30 ( initially assuming @xmath1 to be very small ) .",
    "3 ) then replace this form at high momenta with the radial vdf ( as described in detail in section 2 ) , and normalized in such a way that the particle number is conserved ( between radial and tangential ) .",
    "4 ) it is now trivial to calculate @xmath1 as an integral over these distribution functions , and if this is different from the initial assumption , then re - iterate the entire process with the calculated @xmath1 .",
    "this means explicitely that we return to point 2 ) with this newly calculated @xmath1 , and @xmath29 . in practice",
    "we repeat until @xmath1 has converged with accuracy @xmath33 .    , which has a central core ( x - axis normalized to the scale radius ) . the squares with error - bars is from the clef simulation @xcite , where the 67 most relaxed galaxy clusters at @xmath34 have been selected ( x - axis normalized to @xmath35 ) .",
    "the error - bars correspond to 1 sigma scatter over the 67 most relaxed clusters  @xcite .",
    "the @xmath1-profiles from pure dark matter simulations ( e.g. @xcite ) are in good agreement with this radial behaviour.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]    in fig .",
    "[ fig : beta.r ] we present the radial dependence of @xmath1 for 3 density profiles , namely an nfw profile with a truncation at large radius , a profile like the one advocated by @xcite , and finally a profile of the form @xmath36 , which has a central core .",
    "we see that the anisotropy increases in a way similar to what is observed in numerical simulations , namely from something small in the central region , to something of the order 0.4 towards the outer region .",
    "the orange squares are from clef numerial simulation  @xcite , where the error - bars represent the 1@xmath23 scatter over the 67 most relaxed clusters  @xcite .",
    "observations of @xmath37 in galaxy clusters are in excellent agreement with these numerical predictions  @xcite .",
    "the radial scale of the simulated @xmath1 is @xmath35 , which does not have to coincide with the scale radius of the analytical profiles .",
    "this gives a free parameter ( of the order unity ) in the normalization of the x - axis , which we just put to 1 for simplicity . in a similar way the analytical profiles are all normalized to their respective scale radii , which means that they could also have different @xmath35 .    since we have suggested the shape of the full vdf s",
    ", then we can naturally also get higher order moments , such as the kurtosis , as function of radius .",
    "we thus also predict that the radial profile of the higher velocity moments are fully determined by the shape of the density profile .",
    "one of the consequences of the above considerations is , that the appearance of the radial variation of @xmath1 is dictated by the density profile .",
    "that is , given any density profile , the velocity anisotropy is entirely determined , as long as the structure has had time to equilibrate .",
    "we are thus stating explicitly , that @xmath1 is unrelated to the infall of matter in the outer region , and that the only connection @xmath1 has to the formation process is through the radial structure of the density profile .",
    "this is naturally supported by the very non - cosmological simulations ( see figs .  [",
    "fig : tangent ] , [ fig : tangent.log ] ) which also produce a @xmath1-profile in agreement with cosmological simulations  @xcite .",
    ", as function of the density slope , @xmath0 .",
    "the blue line ( triangles ) is for an nfw profile , and the black solid line ( crosses ) is for a power - law density profile .",
    "the orange ( squares ) is for the non - trivial double - bump profile , the green ( stars ) is for @xmath38 profile , and the red diamonds are for the profile suggested in @xcite .",
    "the dashed straight line is the suggestion from @xcite .",
    "these results are roughly fit by @xmath39.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]    another consequence is that @xmath1 must always be positive in equilibrated structures , since the density profile at most can develop a core ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : beta.r ] ) .",
    "this is also in good agreement with dark matter simulations @xcite .",
    "virtually no numerical simulations find negative velocity anisotropy , and when they do , this is usually only in the very inner region where numerical convergence may be questioned .",
    "few analytical treatments have predicted a negative @xmath1 in the inner region @xcite , however , this result may be an artefact of assuming that the pseudo phases - space is a perfect power - law in radius , which is generally not correct @xcite .",
    "if future high - resolution numerical simulations instead will establish that the central velocity anisotropy is negative ( in agreement with the predictions of @xcite ) , then that would be a proof that the present analysis is flawed somehow .",
    "it has previously been suggested that a connection between the anisotropy and the slope of the density profile should exist .",
    "this connection appears to hold even for structures which have profiles with non - trivial radial variation in @xmath40 @xcite .",
    "we can now test this connection . in figure",
    "[ fig : gamma.beta ] we show @xmath1 as function of the density slope for the nfw profile ( solid line , blue triangles ) , the profile suggested by @xcite ( red diamonds ) , and also for a `` double - bump '' structure ( the sum of two spatially separated profiles of the form @xmath41 , orange squares ) ) .",
    "this double - hump profile has a very non - trivial radial variation of @xmath42 , which can not be well approximated by any generalized double power - law profile .",
    "all these structures appear to land near a connection roughly given by @xmath39 .",
    "we also show the results for the @xmath38 profile ( green stars ) , as well as for single power - law profiles ( fat black line , crosses ) .",
    "the dashes line is @xmath43 as suggested in @xcite , based on a set of cosmological and non - cosmological simulations .",
    "these two results differ by approximately 0.1 in @xmath1 .",
    "we indeed see that all structures land in a relatively narrow band in the @xmath0@xmath1 plane , and hence likely explaining the origin of the @xmath0@xmath1 relations .",
    "the most important practical implication of this suggestion is , that it will allow us to close the jeans equation . as is well - known , the jeans equation depends on the density , dispersion , anisotropy and the total mass .",
    "now , having demonstrated ( or at least suggested strongly ) that the anisotropy is uniquely determined once the density is known , we see that it is possible to close the jeans equation for systems that are fully relaxed .",
    "we have been making simplifying assumptions above , which all need to be tested through high resolution simulations .",
    "first , we assume that the radial vdf is very similar to the one appearing from the eddington formula , even in the presence of a non - zero @xmath1 .",
    "we also assume that the @xmath23 entering eq .",
    "( [ eq : tsallis ] ) is the total one .",
    "if the correct @xmath23 to use is instead closer to @xmath31 , then @xmath1 will be slightly larger , but the radial variation will remain . from these assumptions we estimate the accuracy of the present work to be about 0.1 or up to about @xmath44 in @xmath45 .",
    "one could naturally ask why and how the radial and tangential vdf s get their shapes ?",
    "it is slightly disappointing that it is not a deep physical principle , like a generalized entropy , which is responsible .",
    "instead it is simply the density profile ( either the radially varying , or the tangentially constant ) which through the eddington formula demands that the vdf s take on these forms .",
    "these forms will therefore appear when there is sufficient amount of violent relaxation to allow enough energy exchange between the particles .",
    "the velocity of any particle can be decomposed into the radial and tangential components , and when summing over all particles in a radial bin , we get the particle velocity distribution function , the vdf .",
    "we suggest that both the radial and tangential vdf s are given through the eddington formula .",
    "the radial one comes from the radially changing density profile , and the tangential vdf arises when considering a structure with constant density and potential .",
    "this is because the tangential component of the velocity as a first approximation is moving in constant density and constant potential . in addition",
    "the tangential vdf is reduced for high - energy particles in accordance with the radial vdf , to ensure that the particles remain bound to the structure .",
    "these phenomenological predictions are in remarkably good agreement with the results from numerical simulations of collisionless particles , both of structures of cosmological origin as well as highly non - cosmological origin .    under these suggestions",
    "it is straight forward to derive the velocity anisotropy profile , @xmath37 , with no free parameters .",
    "this is shown to increase radially from something small ( possibly zero ) in the center , to something large and positive ( possibly around 0.4 ) towards the outer region .      * acknowledgements * + it is a pleasure to thank jin an and ole host for discussions , and ben moore and jesper sommer - larsen for kindly letting me use their simulations .",
    "the dark cosmology centre is funded by the danish national research foundation .",
    "austin , c.  g. , williams , l.  l.  r. , barnes , e.  i. , babul , a. , & dalcanton , j. j. 2006 , apj , 634 , 756 barnes , e.  i. , williams , l.  l.  r. , babul , a. , & dalcanton , j. j. 2007 , astrophys .",
    "j.   * 654 * ( 2007 ) 814 bellovary , j. m. et al .",
    "2008 , arxiv:0806.3434                                  gilmore , g. , wilkinson , m.  i. , wyse , r.  f.  g. , kleyna , j.  t. , koch , a. , evans , n.  w. , & grebel , e.  k. 2007 , astrophys .",
    "j.  663 , 948 gonzlez - casado , g. , salvador - sol , e. , manrique , a. , & hansen , s.  h.  2007 , arxiv : astro - ph/0702368 graham , a.  w. , merritt , d. , moore , b. , diemand , j. , & terzi , b.  2006 , , 132 , 2701    hansen , s.  h. , egli , d. , hollenstein , l. , salzmann , c. 2005 , new astron .",
    "10 , 379 hansen s.  h. , & moore b 2006 , new astron . , 11 , 333 hansen , s.  h. , moore , b. , zemp , m. , & stadel , j.  2006 , journal of cosmology and astro - particle physics , 1 , 14                                                            van hese , e. , baes , m. , & dejonghe , h. 2008 , arxiv:0809.0901 vikhlinin , a. , kravtsov , a. , forman , w. , jones , c. , markevitch , m. , murray , s.  s. , & van speybroeck , l. 2006 , astrophys .  j.   640 , 691 wilkinson , m.  i. et al .",
    "2004 , astrophys .",
    "j.   611 , l21 wojtak , r. et al .",
    "lokas , e.  l. , gottloeber , s. , & mamon , g.  a. 2005 , mon .  not .",
    "361 , l1 wojtak , r. , lokas , e.  l. , mamon , g.  a. , gottloeber , s. , klypin , a. , & hoffman , y. 2008 , arxiv:0802.0429 zait , a. , hoffman , y. , & shlosman , i. 2008 , arxiv:0711.3791"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the density profile of simulated dark matter structures is fairly well - established , and several explanations for its characteristics have been put forward . in contrast , the radial variation of the velocity anisotropy has still not been explained . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest a very simple origin , based on the shapes of the velocity distributions functions , which are shown to differ between the radial and tangential directions . </S>",
    "<S> this allows us to derive a radial variation of the anisotropy profile which is in good agreement with both simulations and observations . </S>",
    "<S> one of the consequences of this suggestion is that the velocity anisotropy is entirely determined once the density profile is known . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate how this explains the origin of the @xmath0@xmath1 relation , which is the connection between the slope of the density profile and the velocity anisotropy . </S>",
    "<S> these findings provide us with a powerful tool , which allows us to close the jeans equations . </S>"
  ]
}