{
  "article_text": [
    "there has been recent interest in the sizes of galaxies : at fixed stellar mass , galaxies appear to be more than three times smaller at @xmath12 than at @xmath14 ( trujillo et al .",
    "2006 ; cimatti et al . 2008 ; van dokkum et al . 2008 ; younger et al . 2008 ; buitrago et al . 2008 ; tacconi et al . 2008 ; chapman et al . 2008 ; franx et al .",
    "2008 ; damen et al . 2008 ; damjanov et al . 2009 ; saracco et al .",
    "similar evolution in the size - luminosity relation of radio galaxies was seen almost a decade ago @xcite .",
    "this evolution is difficult to arrange in models where the galaxies form from a simple monolithic collapse .    on the other hand ,",
    "qualitatively similar behaviour for dark matter halos has been expected for some thirty years : a virialized halo at a given epoch is approximately 200 times denser than the critical density at that epoch , whatever its mass @xcite .",
    "thus , at fixed mass , the virial radius scales approximately as @xmath17 .",
    "mass - independent densities appear to be a good description of cluster - mass halos locally @xcite and at higher redshifts ( e.g. , meneux et al .",
    "these halos are expected to have formed from essentially dissipationless mergers , so , for systems dominated by dissipationless merging , we expect that , at fixed mass , the radii are larger at late times .",
    "one arrives at the same conclusion if one considers mergers along parabolic orbits @xcite . for example , the velocity dispersion of the product of a parabolic merger of two equal mass galaxies is the same as that of its progenitors ( this assumes mass and energy conservation ) .",
    "the virial theorem requires that if the mass has doubled with no change to the velocity dispersion , then the size must also have doubled , making the density smaller by a factor of four .",
    "this is the most extreme case : if the progenitor masses were unequal , then the density of the product is less than that of the more massive progenitor , but by a factor of less than four .",
    "again , dissipationless mergers act to decrease the density .",
    "galaxy formation was not dissipationless @xcite : gas dissipation has played an important role , although this is expected to have been more true at high redshift @xcite .",
    "subsequent major mergers between disk galaxies are thought to be the main way in which elliptical galaxies form @xcite , possibly followed by dry dissipationless mergers in which both the size and the stellar mass of the final object increase @xcite .",
    "so , to answer the question of where , today , are the super - dense objects seen at high-@xmath18 , it has been suggested that they must have undergone dissipationless mergers since then , so as to have gone unnoticed today .",
    "( cimatti et al .",
    "2008 note that there is a class of local objects which may be direct descendents of the high-@xmath18 samples for which the merger hypothesis is unnecessary ",
    "these are the fast rotators in the sample of bernardi et al .",
    "2008 which have large @xmath19 but small sizes .",
    "but these objects are too rare to be the typical descendents .",
    "recently , trujillo et al .",
    "2009 also found a very low number density of old superdense massive galaxies in the present universe ) .    however , fan et al .",
    "( 2008 ) have shown a model which may be able to reproduce the observed evolution in the size@xmath16 relation .",
    "they assume that the agn feedback which expels gas from the central regions produces a sudden reduction of mass in the core , as a result of which the stellar distribution puffs - up . in this model ,",
    "the sizes increase , but the stellar masses do not . since the peak of agn activity was around @xmath12 , most of the size evolution in this model is over by @xmath20 .",
    "in contrast , dry mergers and evolution in hierarchical models is expected to continue to the present day @xcite .",
    "most observational studies have concentrated on objects at @xmath21 .",
    "van der wel et al .",
    "( 2008 ) measured the size of a sample of massive early - type galaxies at @xmath20 and found that they are about a factor of two smaller than at @xmath14 .",
    "one of the main goals of this paper is to investigate the possibility that the sizes are evolving even at small redshift ( @xmath22 ) , paying particular attention to those objects for which dry dissipationless merging is thought to have been most common  early - type bcgs @xcite .",
    "late - type bcgs , and , indeed , late - type galaxies , are not studied in this paper , so we will often not bother to specify the qualifier ` early - type ' when we discuss bcgs ( and similarly , when we discuss non - central galaxies ) .",
    "early - type bcgs at @xmath23 have been compared with more local samples recently .",
    "one study concludes that the stellar mass appears to not have grown significantly since @xmath20 @xcite , but does not include a study of the bcg sizes .",
    "another suggests that the sizes may have been smaller at high redshift , but some of this apparent evolution was almost certainly a consequence of not looking at fixed restframe wavelength or stellar mass @xcite .",
    "section  [ sample ] describes our early - type bcg sample in which we have size , velocity dispersion , stellar mass and age estimates out to @xmath24 . in section  [ evolve ]",
    "we show that , at fixed ( evolution corrected ) luminosity bcgs were larger in the past , and they had smaller velocity dispersions .",
    "this remains true if we replace luminosity with stellar mass , although in this case the measurement is complicated by selection effects ( as we illustrate in appendix a , where we also discuss how correlated errors in stellar mass and age can compromise the observed correlations ) .",
    "we also show that the objects which formed earlier are smaller , but their velocity dispersions are not larger  whereas the former is expected in monolithic collapse models the latter is harder to arrange .    in section  [ censat ]",
    "we compare the sizes and ages of bcgs to those of other ( early - type ) cluster galaxies .",
    "this complements recent work indicating that non - central or satellite luminosities should be approximately independent of the mass of a group or the luminosity of the central bcg @xcite .",
    "a final section summarizes our results .",
    "appendix  b discusses how our luminosity - size correlation for bcgs compares with other recent determinations .",
    "complementary studies of the sizes and velocity dispersion of the bulk of the local early type population are presented in shankar & bernardi ( 2009 ) and shankar et al .",
    "these other studies show that the size - luminosity relation of galaxies with @xmath25  @xmath26 at @xmath14 is independent of the age of the stellar population , implying that the size - stellar mass relation does depend on age : older galaxies are smaller than younger galaxies of the same stellar mass .",
    "however , they find a weak dependence of the velocity dispersions ( at fixed mass ) on galaxy age  this is difficult to accomodate in a monolithic - based collapse model .",
    "the amplitude of these trends for massive galaxies ( @xmath27  @xmath26 ) is even smaller .    as discussed below , we show that early - type bcgs / massive galaxies are different , and have evolved differently , at least at small lookback times , from the bulk of early - type galaxies ; their properties are more consistent with formation from predominantly dissipationless mergers than from a monolithic collapse .",
    "in what follows , we will study the luminosities , sizes , velocity dispersions and stellar masses of early - type bcgs identified in the sdss .",
    "spectra are available for objects with @xmath28 , whereas the photometry allows galaxies to be reliably identified down to about 4 magnitudes deeper .",
    "the photometric quantities ( magnitudes , half - light radii ) we use in what follows are not exactly the same as those output by the sdss dr6 database .",
    "rather , we use the prescriptions ( equations  1  4 ) in hyde & bernardi ( 2009 ) to correct the sdss parameters for known sky subtraction problems with the photometry of bright objects in crowded fields . typically , the corrected magnitudes are slightly brighter and the sizes correspondingly larger ( there is a well - known correlation for correlated errors in early - type galaxy photometry which has @xmath29constant ) .",
    "the velocity dispersions are measured through a fiber of radius 1.5  arcsec ; they are then corrected to @xmath30 ( as is standard practice ) . the size and velocity dispersion",
    "can be combined to estimate a dynamical mass ; we do this by setting @xmath31 . for a subset of objects , stellar masses , and luminosity - weighted age estimates are available from gallazzi et al .",
    "( 2005 ) . throughout , angular diameter and luminosity distances were computed from the measured redshifts assuming a hubble constant of @xmath32  km  s@xmath33  mpc@xmath33 in a geometrically flat background model dominated by a cosmological constant at the present time : @xmath34 .",
    "we would like to study early - type bcgs over a relatively large range in redshift .",
    "since we are most interested in evolution , we would like the sample to be homogeneously selected over the entire redshift range .",
    "this motivates the use of the maxbcg catalog which was assembled by koester et al .",
    "( 2007 ) from the sdss .",
    "it spans the range @xmath35 ; the 13823 groups and clusters in it each contain at least 10 galaxies brighter than @xmath36 in the @xmath37-band ( i.e. , brighter than about @xmath38  mags in @xmath37 ) .        .",
    "]    at the very least , we would like to study bcg luminosities and sizes over this redshift range , but , if possible , we would like to study velocity dispersions and stellar masses as well . of 13823 clusters in the maxbcg catalog , 5413 are reported to have bcgs with spectroscopic redshifts .",
    "however , upon matching with the sdss - dr6 ( adelman - mccarthy et al .",
    "2008 ) , we find 7832 objects with spectroscopic redshifts .",
    "a subset of 4912 has devaucouleur apparent magnitude between 14.5 and 17.5 . requiring fracdev>0.8 in both the @xmath39- and @xmath37-bands",
    "is a good way to select early - types ; this reduces the sample size to 4350 . of these",
    ", 2634 have stellar mass estimates from gallazzi et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , and only 2012 of these have estimated velocity dispersions .",
    "for the objects with stellar mass estimates , gallazzi et al .",
    "( 2005 ) also provide ( luminosity weighted ) age estimates . the results which follow that are based on @xmath40 rather than @xmath41 do not depend on whether or not we used 4350 or 2634 galaxies .",
    "( requiring that velocity dispersions were estimated but not caring about @xmath41 makes the sample size 3277 . )",
    "we will also be interested in how bcgs compare to non - central or satellite galaxies .",
    "we do this by searching an appropriately chosen volume around each maxbcg in our sample as follows .",
    "the catalog contains an estimate of the number of galaxies , @xmath42 in the group associated with each bcg .",
    "we define a velocity dispersion @xmath43  km  s@xmath33 and a radius @xmath44  mpc .",
    "the relation between group radius and velocity dispersion is chosen to approximately match the expected scaling for dark matter halos .",
    "the resulting scaling between group velocity dispersion and @xmath45 is close to that reported by becker et al .",
    "( 2007 ) in their analysis of this catalog .",
    "we identify as satellites all objects which are within @xmath46 across and @xmath47 along the line of sight to a bcg in the catalog .",
    "having identified the satellites , we would now like to exclude those that are of later type .",
    "we do so by applying the same selection cuts as we did to identify early - type bcgs .",
    "this leaves a sample of 1734 objects  less than half the full sample of satellites .",
    "( if the bcg does not sit at the center of its cluster , then we will be making errors of inclusion and exclusion at the cluster boundaries ; but since we are already making approximations about which objects along the line of sight are true members , which lead to qualitatively similar errors , we do not attempt to correct for this effect . )",
    "note that our satellite sample is smaller than the bcg sample ; this might seem in conflict with our previous statement that each maxbcg cluster has at least 10 satellites brighter than @xmath36 .",
    "this is because we are requiring that satellites have measured spectra ; because of the sdss magnitude limit , spectra of @xmath36 objects are not available beyond @xmath48 .",
    "for example , of the 1734 satellites in our sample , 1555 have @xmath10 .",
    "thus , the vast majority of these objects are more luminous than @xmath49 ",
    "they represent the bright - end of the satellite luminosity function .",
    "in addition , if an sdss fiber was placed on a bcg , then objects within 55 arcsecs of it will not have an sdss spectrum .",
    "these fiber - collisions affect a larger physical scale for the higher redshift clusters , further reducing the number of satellites with measured spectra .",
    "note that this means we tend to miss those satellites which are closest to their bcgs  dynamical friction arguments suggest that these may be amongst the most massive satellites in each cluster .",
    "johnston et al . ( 2007 ) note that about 20% of the bcgs are misidentified , and that this fraction increases at lower @xmath45 . in such cases where",
    "a satellite has been classified as a bcg , fiber collisions almost certainly prevent the bcg from having a spectrum and so entering our sample of satellites .",
    "this will serve to make the bcg sample more like the satellites , but not vice versa  a point we return to later .    at lower redshifts",
    ", we use the c4 catalog of miller et al .",
    "although this is a rather different catalog , we show below that if we extrapolate the trends we see in the maxbcg catalog to smaller @xmath18 , then they are in good agreement with those in the c4 catalog .",
    "( the most important difference is that the maxbcg algorithm searches for a red sequence in the photometric sample , whereas the c4 method simply searches for objects with similar colors in the spectroscopic sample , so it does not select against groups of blue galaxies .",
    "since we only use the early - type bcgs from this catalog anyway , the real difference is that , because the c4 method is based on the spectroscopic sample , it may miss the true bcg because of fiber collisions .",
    "this is a known problem , for which the catalog provides a flag .",
    "we only use the subset of c4 clusters for which the photometric and spectroscopic bcg are the same . )",
    "furthermore , there is previous work on the c4 bcg catalog ; studying this catalog allows us to tie our measurements to those in the literature ( see appendix  b ) .",
    "this is important because , although all the objects we analyze are drawn from the sdss database , the photometric quantities ( magnitudes , half - light radii ) are not exactly the same as those output by the survey .",
    "rather , we use the prescriptions in hyde & bernardi ( 2009 ) to correct the sdss parameters for known sky subtraction problems with the photometry of bright objects in crowded fields .",
    "figure  [ bcgz ] shows the distribution of early - type bcg redshifts in the c4 ( solid ) and maxbcg ( maxbcg - dr6spec , solid ) catalogs ( the c4 bcgs probe lower redshifts ) , the redshift distribution of maxbcg early - type satellites ( dotted ) , and the redshift distribution of early - type maxbcgs with early - type satellites ( maxbcg - withsatel , dashed )",
    ". the satellite distribution does not extend to as high redshifts , because satellites are fainter than bcgs ( by definition ) .",
    "the dashed histogram shows the redshift distribution of those bcgs which have satellites with spectroscopic information .",
    "most of the high redshift bcgs have no satellites , due to the combined effects of the magnitude limit and fiber - collisions .",
    "however , over the redshift range @xmath50 there are approximately three satellites per bcg ; we will only use the objects in this range when we compare bcg and satellite properties .",
    "figure  [ bcgl ] shows the distribution of ( evolution corrected ) luminosities over this range : the mean bcg luminosity is about half a magnitude brighter .    :",
    "results for 6 bins of width 0.1  dex , starting from @xmath51 , are shown .",
    "open circles show a similar analysis of the bcgs : 4 bins of width @xmath52  dex , starting from @xmath53 . ]",
    "the main goal of this section is to present measurements of the correlation between ( restframe ) size and ( evolution corrected ) luminosity in a few redshift bins .",
    "( the measured luminosities are corrected for known problems associated with the sdss sky subtraction algorithm following equation  2 in hyde & bernardi 2009 .",
    "they are then corrected for evolution , by adding @xmath54 to all absolute magnitudes .",
    "the sizes are corrected for the known sky subtraction problems and for the fact that early - type sizes depend on wavelength following equations  3 and 6 in hyde & bernardi 2009 , respectively . )",
    "inferences about evolution in this correlation depend upon how much one believes that the effects of luminosity evolution have been removed .",
    "for this reason , one might have thought it preferable to study the correlation between size and stellar mass . in",
    "what follows , we will show these relations side - by - side , but emphasize that because the sdss is magnitude limited , evolution in correlations with @xmath41 should be interpretted carefully .",
    "appendix  a discusses why .",
    "appendix  b compares the bcg size - luminosity relation we find here with other determinations in the recent literature .",
    "note that although our @xmath41 estimates are from gallazzi et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , we correct them slightly to account for the fact that they actually come from multiplying an estimate of @xmath55 by the observed luminosity . the @xmath40 used by gallazzi et al .",
    "did not account for the sdss sky subtraction problem , so we divide their @xmath41 estimates by the same correction factor we used for the magnitudes ( equation  4 in hyde & bernardi 2009 ) .      the sizes and luminosities of early - type galaxies are correlated : the mean size increases with luminosity as @xmath56 ( e.g. hyde & bernardi 2009 ) .",
    "however , bcgs follow a steeper relation : @xmath57 ( see appendix b ) , and it has long been argued that this is evidence for formation histories that are dominated by dry mergers .",
    "the argument is not so straightforward , however .",
    "this is because objects with small values of @xmath19 are not bcgs , so bcgs have a narrower distribution in @xmath19 than the bulk of the population .",
    "however , for the bulk of the population , the @xmath58 correlation at fixed @xmath19 is considerably steeper , @xmath59 , than when averaged over all @xmath19 ( bernardi et al .",
    "2003 ; bernardi et al . 2008 ) .",
    "so one may ask if the steeper relation for bcgs can be attributed to the fact that they are biased to larger @xmath19 .",
    "figure  [ lrsigbin ] presents a direct comparison : the dashed and dot - dashed lines in the top panel show the @xmath60 relation for the bulk and for the early - type bcgs , and the various solid lines show this relation for narrow bins in @xmath19 : the lines are offset to smaller @xmath61 as @xmath19 increases .",
    "the bottom panel shows these relations after subtracting - off the dashed line .",
    "this shows clearly that , except for the smallest bin in @xmath19 , the other relations are all steeper .",
    "however , the bcgs are steeper still : the @xmath60 relation of bcgs is steeper than that of the bulk , even at fixed @xmath19 . in the next subsections ,",
    "we study other evidence that bcgs are a different population .",
    "the top panels in figure  [ c4maxbcgbulk ] compare the size - luminosity and stellar mass relations for the bcgs in the c4 and maxbcg catalogs , with the relations traced out by the bulk of the early - type galaxy population . at fixed @xmath40 ,",
    "the c4 bcgs are larger than maxbcgs , and both are larger than the mean relation traced by the bulk of the population .",
    "these differences are most pronounced for the most luminous objects ; there is essentially no effect at @xmath62 or @xmath63 .",
    ", for the bulk of the early - type galaxy population in different redshift bins : @xmath64 , @xmath65 , @xmath66 , @xmath67 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 and @xmath70 . at @xmath71 , there is a tendency for the objects at higher redshift to have slightly smaller @xmath19 . at @xmath10 ,",
    "the difference in size between two different redshift bins increases for brighter galaxies , in agreement with the evolution seen for bcgs in figure  [ maxbcgonly ] .",
    "bottom panel shows the result of applying the corrections in equations  1 and 3 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ] , for the bulk of the early - type galaxy population in different redshift bins : @xmath64 , @xmath65 , @xmath66 , @xmath67 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 and @xmath70 . at @xmath71",
    ", there is a tendency for the objects at higher redshift to have slightly smaller @xmath19 . at @xmath10 ,",
    "the difference in size between two different redshift bins increases for brighter galaxies , in agreement with the evolution seen for bcgs in figure  [ maxbcgonly ] .",
    "bottom panel shows the result of applying the corrections in equations  1 and 3 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]    -luminosity relation : @xmath72 , for the bulk of the early - type galaxy population in different redshift bins .",
    "bottom panel shows the result of applying the corrections in equations  2 and 4 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ] -luminosity relation : @xmath72 , for the bulk of the early - type galaxy population in different redshift bins .",
    "bottom panel shows the result of applying the corrections in equations  2 and 4 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]    the bottom panels show that complementary differences are seen when size is replaced with velocity dispersion : at the brightest luminosities ( @xmath73 ) c4 bcgs have the smallest velocity dispersions .",
    "while the trends at the bright end are the ones of most interest in the present context , we note that , at fainter luminosities , bcgs tend to have larger @xmath19 for their @xmath40 than the bulk of the population .",
    "that bcgs have larger sizes and smaller velocity dispersions than the bulk is no surprise  what _ is _ surprising is the significant difference between the two bcg samples .",
    "although it is possible that this is related to the fact that the two samples span different redshift ranges , it is also possible that systematic differences between how the catalogs were assembled are to blame .    to eliminate the second possibility , figure  [ maxbcgonly ] shows a similar analysis , but now restricted to maxbcg objects only .",
    "since this sample is relatively large , we divided it into subsamples in redshift : @xmath74 , @xmath75 and @xmath76 .",
    "this shows clearly that , even within the maxbcg catalog itself , the lower redshift bcgs tend to have larger sizes and smaller velocity dispersions than their higher redshift counterparts of similar luminosity or stellar mass .",
    "moreover , the maxbcgs in the lowest redshift bin tend to follow similar scaling relations to those defined by the c4 bcgs .",
    "finally , figure  [ bulkrz ] shows the @xmath60 relation for the bulk of the early - type galaxy population .",
    "( recall that the measured luminosities have been corrected for evolution by adding @xmath54 to all absolute magnitudes , and the sizes are corrected for the fact that early - type sizes depend on wavelength . )",
    "each set of symbols shows data from a number of redshift bins : @xmath64 , @xmath65 , @xmath66 , @xmath67 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 and @xmath70 . to reduce the range of sizes , in the top panel we have subtracted out a fiducial relation to better see if there is any evolution : we actually show @xmath77 ( from table  1 of hyde & bernardi 2009 ) .",
    "the top panel in figure  [ bulkvz ] shows a similar analysis of the velocity dispersions , for which @xmath78 ( from table  1 of hyde & bernardi 2009 ) .    there is a hint that the higher redshift objects have smaller sizes . at @xmath10 ,",
    "the difference in size between two different redshift bins increases for brighter galaxies , in agreement with the evolution seen for bcgs ( figure  [ maxbcgonly ] ) .",
    "thus , at the bright end ( @xmath4 ) , we find that the evolution depends on the luminosity of the galaxy : the sizes evolve as @xmath5 and the velocity dispersions as @xmath9 . at fainter luminosities ( @xmath6 ) ,",
    "the evolution is weaker ; we approximate it as @xmath7 and @xmath11 .",
    "hence , to correct the sizes and velocity dispersions to @xmath79 one could use : @xmath80 if @xmath10 and by @xmath81 if @xmath71 .",
    "the bottom panels in the two figures show the result of applying these corrections .",
    "we show below that the scaling at the bright end is slightly smaller than the luminosity dependent evolution in the sizes of our bcg sample which goes as @xmath3 .",
    "if we are seeing evolution , then it is interesting to ask if this depends on the age or formation time of the stellar population .",
    "e.g. , the simplest monolithic collapse models predict that , for fixed formation time , there should otherwise be no dependence on age .",
    "to address this , we use age estimates of the stellar populations in these galaxies ( from gallazzi et al .",
    "2005 ) ; these , with the observed redshifts , yield the lookback time to when the stars formed .",
    "( because the age and @xmath41 estimates have significant uncertainties , and they are correlated , it is important to use ages that are output from the same models which estimate @xmath41 . )",
    "figure  [ age2 ] is similar to figure  [ maxbcgonly ] , but now the objects in each redshift bin have been divided into two subgroups , based on the formation time of the stars .",
    "these two bins correspond approximately to @xmath82 ( solid lines ) and @xmath83 ( dashed lines ) .",
    "we begin with a comparison of the solid lines in the panels on the left .",
    "these show that , for fixed formation time , older objects have larger sizes ( top left ) and smaller velocity dispersions ( bottom left ) than younger objects of the same stellar mass .",
    "the same is true of the dashed lines in these panels : size increases and velocity dispersion decreases as the galaxy population ages . the increase in size",
    "is more easily accomodated in dry merger models , and the decrease in velocity dispersion suggests that these mergers were minor .",
    "comparison of the dashed and solid curves for a given redshift of observation shows that , for a given stellar mass , the objects which formed more recently have larger sizes . while this is qualitatively consistent with having formed when the universe was less dense , the difference is much less than the factor of @xmath84  dex one might naively have expected .",
    "similarly , the velocity dispersions of the objects which formed more recently are not much smaller than when the formation redshift was higher .",
    "presumably , this is because the sizes of the older objects have increased from their initial values , and the velocity dispersions have decreased ( as suggested by comparing the solid lines with one another , and the dashed lines with one another ) .",
    "there are important qualitative differences when one uses luminosity rather than @xmath41 , meaning that care must be taken when translating trends seen in plots with @xmath40 into trends with @xmath41 .",
    "the top right panel shows that , at a given redshift of observation , the size - luminosity correlation does not depend on formation time ( solid and dashed lines overlap ) , and the @xmath85 relation does not either ( bottom right panel ) .",
    "this may be understood as follows .",
    "the panel on the right is obtained by shifting each galaxy in the panel on the left by its @xmath86 . in a model",
    "where the stars age passively ( whatever the assembly history ) , the older population has a larger @xmath55 : the expected difference in @xmath55 between the two age bins is about 0.1  dex ( @xmath87 or so , where @xmath88 is the age of the population ) .",
    "so , if we start from the @xmath13 relation , then the solid curves in each redshift bin should shift towards the left , bringing them closer to the dashed ones .",
    "finally , figure  [ rvcorrected ] shows the effect of correcting the sizes and velocity dispersions of our early - type bcgs using an equation similar to equation  ( [ correctmbright ] ) ( since the size evolution of bcgs is better described by @xmath3 we replace 0.7 with 0.85 ) and equation  ( [ correctmbrightv ] ) .",
    "these corrections bring the curves associated with different redshifts into better agreement , suggesting that they have captured most of the evolution .",
    "we conclude that , at fixed luminosity or stellar mass , the high redshift bcgs are denser , with the effect being more pronounced for objects with the largest luminosities or stellar masses .",
    "the most straightforward interpretation of this observation is that _ the sizes and velocity dispersions of luminous bcgs are evolving in a manner which is qualitatively consistent with assembly histories that are dominated by dissipationless mergers which are still happening at low redshift _ ; the large size of our sample has allowed a detection of this even though it spans only a small lookback time .",
    "before we conclude this section , we emphasize again that one must be cautious when replacing luminosity with stellar mass , since selection effects can complicate the measurement ( as we illustrate in appendix a ) .",
    "working with age and @xmath41 presents additional complications because errors in age and @xmath55 are correlated ( see appendix  [ agem * ] for further discussion ) .",
    "early - type bcgs tend to have larger sizes than the bulk of the early - type galaxy population .",
    "so one might wonder if the large sizes of bcgs are something that is characteristic of the group / cluster environment , or if this is specific to bcgs .    to address this , figure  [ cs ]",
    "compares the scaling relations of the objects we identified as early - type satellites , with those for early - type bcgs and for the bulk of the early - type population .",
    "this comparison indicates that the non - central / satellite early - types tend to be very similar to the bulk of the early - type population ; it is the bcgs which are different . at @xmath89",
    "they have unusually large sizes with the effect increasing at large @xmath41 ; at lower masses ( @xmath90 ) , there is a hint that bcg velocity dispersions are larger than those of satellites and of the bulk of the early - type population ( a hint also seen in figure  [ maxbcgonly ] ) .",
    "our findings appear to contradict those of weinmann et al .",
    "( 2008 ) who report that the sizes of early - type central galaxies are _ not _ larger than the sizes of early - type satellites of the same stellar mass ( see their fig .  4 ) .",
    "we suspected that some discrepancy arised because they used petrosian - based quantities which are ill - suited for this sort of analysis @xcite . however , more recently guo et al . (",
    "2009 ) have fit sersic profiles to a subset of the same sample of galaxies and found a similar result : no difference in the size of central and satellite early - type galaxies of the same stellar mass .",
    "the difference between our results and theirs may be explained by the fact that they studied groups which are less massive than ours and so they do not have satellites at the high mass end where we find the differences to be most significant .",
    "the ratio of dynamical to stellar mass is another quantity of recent interest @xcite ; it increases at large masses , suggesting that star formation is inefficient at large mass .",
    "figure  [ mdmscs ] shows that this ratio is about 0.05  dex larger for bcgs than it is for the bulk of the population of the same luminosity , whereas the satellites are similar to the bulk of the population . at the bright end ( @xmath91 ) , the difference is primarly due to the differences in sizes  the velocity dispersions of bcgs are similar to those of satellites of the same luminosity . in a model",
    "where bcgs formed from dissipationless mergers this is easily understood : the offset to large @xmath92 is associated not with lower star formation efficiency , but with the subsequent assembly of the stars which has increased the sizes more than the velocity dispersions . at the faint end ( @xmath62 ) , the difference is probably due to the velocity dispersions rather than to the stellar masses .",
    "we have also studied the correlation between the ages and luminosities or stellar masses of bcgs and satellites .",
    "( appendix  a discusses why , at smaller @xmath41 than we show here , the trends with stellar mass may be strongly affected by selection effects  see figure  [ mstf ] . )",
    "figure  [ mstf_zoom ] shows that at luminosities of about @xmath93 ( i.e. , @xmath94 mag in the @xmath95band ) and larger , the bulk of the population defines an age@xmath16 or age@xmath15 relation : massive or more luminous galaxies tend to be slightly older .",
    "there is a hint that , about a magnitude brighter than @xmath93 , bcgs are slightly older ( @xmath96 gyr ) than other objects of the same luminosity ; but there is no difference at brighter or fainter @xmath40 , and there is no difference when compared with objects of the same @xmath41 .",
    "satellites and bcgs ( whether or not they have satellites ) follow the same age@xmath16 relation as the bulk of the population .",
    "this is remarkable , given that we see this trend over a redshift range where the counts of centrals and satellites are approximately proportional to one another ( figure  [ bcgz ] ) . given that the bcgs in the same volume are more luminous ( figure  [ bcgl ] ) , and have larger stellar masses on average , one might have expected the bcgs to also be older .",
    "our results indicate that , if they have the same stellar mass , satellites and bcgs have the same age .    to understand why this happens",
    ", we now compare the luminosity - weighted age difference between satellites and their bcg , as a function of bcg luminosity .",
    "figure  [ tbcg - tsat ] shows that bcgs tend to be older than their satellites , by about @xmath97  gyrs , over about two magnitudes in bcg luminosity  a range over which the mean bcg age changes by about 1  gyr .",
    "( our results are unchanged if we use the number- rather than luminosity - weighted age difference . )",
    "the younger ages with the smaller luminosities conspire to keep the satellites and bcgs along the same age-@xmath40 or age-@xmath41 relations .",
    "early - type bcgs have larger sizes than other early - type galaxies of similar luminosity or stellar mass .",
    "if restricted to a narrow bin in velocity dispersion , the size-@xmath40 relation of the bulk of the population is steeper , suggesting that perhaps it is the fact that bcgs are biased towards larger velocity dispersions that is the origin of this difference .",
    "however , at fixed @xmath19 , the bcg @xmath60 scaling relation is steeper still ( figure  [ lrsigbin ] ) .",
    "moreover , the sizes of bcgs appear to be evolving : higher redshift bcgs had smaller sizes than their local counterparts of the same ( evolution corrected ) luminosity or stellar mass ( figure  [ maxbcgonly ] ) .",
    "the evolution in the @xmath60 relation of the early - type bcg population ( and in general of galaxies with @xmath98 ) is more evident than that of the bulk of the early - type population at fainter luminosity : the bcg sizes evolve as @xmath3 ( figures  [ rvcorrected ] ) .",
    "the evolution in the @xmath85 relation over this same period suggests that velocity dispersions evolve as @xmath9 .    for",
    "the bulk of the early - type population , the sizes of bright objects ( @xmath4 ) evolve as @xmath5 and the velocity dispersions evolve similarly to bcgs ( figures  [ bulkrz ] and  [ bulkvz ] ) .",
    "the scaling for the bulk of the early - type population that we see from studying small lookback times is consistent with that reported by van der wel et al .",
    "( 2008 ) from a comparison of @xmath79 with @xmath99 objects : they find that the sizes evolve as @xmath100 for objects brighter than @xmath101 ( they did not study luminosity or mass - dependent trends ) .        at fainter luminosities ( @xmath6 ) ,",
    "the evolution is weaker ; it goes as @xmath7 and @xmath11 .",
    "see shankar & bernardi ( 2009 ) for a more detailed analysis of the bulk of the population , who conclude that the more massive galaxies ( @xmath27  @xmath26 ) show stronger evidence of the effects of dissipationless mergers .",
    "the cleanest tests of the evolution we see come from restricting the bcg sample to narrow bins in formation time . at fixed formation time and",
    "stellar mass , the objects observed at lower redshift are larger , and their velocity dispersions are smaller ( compare solid curves in figure  [ age2 ] ) .",
    "the evolution , which we detect over lookback times as small as 1  gyr , is difficult to reconcile with the simplest monolithic collapse models , and is most pronounced for the most luminous objects .",
    "the recent growth in bcg sizes is in qualitative agreement with hierarchical galaxy formation models in which the assembly of bcgs continues to the present day @xcite .",
    "figure  [ age2 ] also shows that the objects which formed earlier are smaller , but their velocity dispersions are not larger ( compare dashed with solid curves in figure  [ age2 ] ) .",
    "whereas the former is expected in the simplest monolithic collapse models  the universe was denser at high redshift , so one expects the younger objects of a given mass to be smaller and have larger velocity dispersions ",
    "the latter is harder to arrange .",
    "thus , both trends in figure  [ age2 ]  the evolution of the sizes and velocity dispersions of objects ( of fixed stellar mass ) that formed at the same time , and the dependence of the sizes and velocity dispersions on formation time  are difficult to accomodate in the simplest monolithic collapse models .",
    "recently , fan et al . (",
    "2008 ) have suggested a _ puffing - up _",
    "scenario for the evolution in the size@xmath16 relation  it postulates that it is the sizes which evolve , not the stellar masses .",
    "this model exploits the fact that the super - dense galaxies mentioned in the introduction are observed at about the epoch at which qsos are most active ; feedback from the agn activity at @xmath12 or 3 is assumed to expel gas from the central regions .",
    "the sudden reduction of mass in the core makes the surrounding stellar distribution puff up , after which the objects settle down to new ( larger ) sizes .",
    "_ this is expected to have been completed by @xmath20 , whereas our observations of evolving sizes are at low redshift , so it seems unlikely that this mechanism can explain our measurements .",
    "_ also , there is little evidence for recently outflowing gas in our bcg sample .",
    "nevertheless , we note that if the stellar masses have not changed , then figure  [ age2 ] suggests that at @xmath102 , the sizes have increased by a factor of 1.5 , and the velocity dispersions have decreased by a factor of 1.15 , between @xmath103 and @xmath104 .",
    "in addition , the dependence of the size and ( especially ) velocity dispersion of bcgs on formation time ( at a given @xmath41 ) predicted by fan et al .",
    "( @xmath105 and @xmath106 ) is significantly larger than what we observe in figure  [ age2 ] ( compare dashed with solid curves for a given redshift ) .    these results ( i.e. the evolution in size and velocity dispersion at small lookback times , and the weak dependence on formation time of the @xmath85 relation ) are more consistent with models which assume that galaxies formed from predominantly dissipationless mergers @xcite . in such models , the stars formed in gas rich mergers at high",
    "redshift ( explaining the small sizes at early times ) , but were assembled into bcgs at later times by gas - poor , dissipationless mergers . in these models , the stellar masses , the sizes and the velocity dispersions can evolve , and _",
    "the question arises as to whether the mergers were major _ ( approximately equal size pieces ) _ or minor .",
    "our results suggest that the recent mergers for bcgs were minor .",
    "_ this is because equal mass mergers have the growth in stellar mass approximately the same as the growth in size , with little change in velocity dispersion @xcite .",
    "however , our figure  [ age2 ] shows that the velocity dispersion decreases .    if the mergers are minor , and the mass increases by a factor of @xmath107 in each merger , where @xmath108 , then the size increases by @xmath109 and @xmath110 decreases by @xmath111 in each merger .",
    "in this case , a given change in size implies a smaller change in mass than if the changes were caused by a major merger . in this case",
    ", we can estimate a required change in mass and size by sliding the @xmath13 relation at @xmath103 upwards and to the right until it sits above the @xmath112 relation : this suggests that @xmath113 . the predicted evolution in the @xmath114 relation",
    "can now be compared with that observed ; while it is in the right sense , it is a little too strong . the problem can be alleviated slightly if we account for the fact that the stellar mass estimates at low redshift are slightly smaller than they should be , because of mass losses associated with stellar evolution .",
    "if so , the implied growth in mass agrees well with that expected in the hierachical models @xcite .",
    "however , almeida et al . ( 2007 ) predict that the velocity dispersions of luminous red galaxies ( most luminous early - type bcgs are lrgs ) were smaller , not larger , in the past .",
    "note that a 0.4:1 merger is not what we would call minor ; we are supposing that the mass increase of 40% was due to a sequence of minor mergers ( e.g. four mergers each adding @xmath11510% to the mass and increasing the size by @xmath11520% ) .",
    "in this context , it is also interesting that motion along an @xmath116 line ( major mergers ) can not bring the superdense galaxies recently seen at @xmath12 onto the @xmath14 @xmath13 relation .",
    "however , minor mergers ( motion along a line of slope 2 in the @xmath117 plane ) may bring them onto the local relation traced by bcgs .",
    "the objects at @xmath12 have large @xmath41 even by @xmath14 standards , so it is not implausible that they are the progenitors of today s bcgs .",
    "this requires mass growth factors of order 4 or 5 ( 0.6  dex ) , coupled with an increase in size by a factor of order 10 .",
    "this is consistent with our estimate of the observed bcg size evolution @xmath3 : setting @xmath118 and @xmath119 we get an evolution of a factor of @xmath120 .",
    "recent results support our conclusion that minor mergers are important .",
    "hopkins et al .",
    "( 2008 ) suggest that if mergers are major , then the fraction of superdense massive galaxies which survived intact since their formation at @xmath121 could reach @xmath122%",
    ". however , trujillo et al . (",
    "2009 ) show that the actual number density of superdense galaxies at @xmath14 is much smaller ( the few which do exist appear to be young , so they are unlikely to be descendents of the @xmath12 objects ) .",
    "minor mergers must account for the difference .",
    "minor mergers are also prefered because constraints from the bright end of the luminosity function suggest little evolution since @xmath20 ( e.g. wake et al .",
    "2006 ; brown et al . 2007 ;",
    "cool et al .",
    "2008 ) , even though cluster masses are expected to have grown substantially , through mergers , during this time ( e.g. sheth & tormen 1999 ) . of course , as a result of such mergers , the fractional mass growth of the bcg need not be the same as that of its cluster , since some of the added stellar mass must make the intercluster light ( e.g. skibba et al .",
    "2007 ) . and",
    "indeed , comparison of the clustering of the most luminous galaxies at @xmath123 with that more locally suggests that cluster merging has resulted in some stellar mass growth of the bcgs ( white et al .",
    "2007 ; wake et al .",
    "2008 ) ; while massive halos double in mass over the last 7 gyr , the stellar masses of their bcgs are expected to have changed by about 30% ( brown et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "if this estimate of the mass change is accurate , then major mergers can not account for the factor of 2 change in size which van der wel et al .",
    "( 2008 ) report is typical for massive early - types over this time  and which our measurements suggest is even more dramatic for bcgs . on the other hand ,",
    "minor mergers are better able to reconcile the observations of dramatic size evolution with little mass evolution . indeed , bournaud et al .",
    "( 2007 ) have recently highlighted the fact that multiple minor mergers may be the dominant channel for early - type galaxy formation .",
    "simulations show that , for such a merger , the fractional increase in size can be larger than that of the mass ( e.g. , halo a in naab et al .",
    "2007 ) , consistent with our simple analytic estimate above .",
    "we also compared the ages and sizes of our early - type bcgs with other cluster galaxies ( satellites ) .",
    "bcgs are larger than early - type cluster galaxies of similar luminosity or stellar mass at the same redshift ( figure  [ cs ] ) .",
    "although satellites and bcgs trace the same weak age-@xmath40 or age@xmath16 relation ( figure  [ mstf_zoom ] ) , this can be understood by noting that bcgs are typically about 1  gyr older than the satellites in their group ( figure  [ tbcg - tsat ] ) , and they are about 0.5  mags more luminous ( figure  [ bcgl ] ) .",
    "the mean satellite luminosity is approximately independent of bcg luminosity  a prediction @xcite which has recently been confirmed from measurements in other group catalogs @xcite .",
    "figure  [ lbcg - lsat ] shows that this remains true if both bcgs and satellites are required to be early - types .",
    "skibba & sheth ( 2008 ) went on to suggest that satellite colors should also be much weaker functions of group mass than are the colors of centrals , and skibba ( 2009 ) showed that this was indeed the case .",
    "since color is an indicator of @xmath55 , and satellite @xmath40 is almost independent of group mass , @xmath41 should be similarly independent .",
    "this prediction has now been confirmed : van den bosch et al .",
    "( 2008 ) find that @xmath41 for satellites changes by a factor of only 2 over a range where group mass changes by a factor of 100 . for similar reasons",
    ", one expects only a small increase of mean satellite age with bcg luminosity ; this is qualitatively consistent with the constant age offset between satellites and bcgs in our figure  [ tbcg - tsat ] , and the weak age - luminosity relation for bcgs in our figure  [ mstf_zoom ] .",
    "m.b . is grateful for support provided by nasa grant ltsa - nng06gc19 g .",
    "she also thanks francesco shankar and ravi sheth for helpful conversations .",
    "funding for the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) and sdss - ii archive has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , and the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium ( arc ) for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , the university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , the johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "99    abbas u. , sheth r. k. 2007 , mnras , 378 , 641    adelman - mccarthy , j.  k. , et al .",
    "2008 , apjs , 175 , 297    almeida , c. , baugh , c. m. & lacey , c. g. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 1711    barnes , j. e. , hernquist , l. , 1991 , apj , 370 , 65    becker , m. r. et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 669 , 905    bernardi , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 125 , 1849    bernardi , m. , hyde , j.  b. , sheth , r.  k. , miller , c.  j. , & nichol , r.  c.   2007 , aj , 133 , 1741    bernardi , m. , hyde , j. b. , fritz , a. , sheth , r. k. , gebhardt , k. , & nichol , r. c.  2008 , mnras , 391 , 1191    boylan - kolchin , m. , ma , c. p. , & quataert , e. 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1081    brown , m. j. i. , dey , a. , jannuzi , b. t. , brand , k. , benson , a. j. , brodwin , m. , croton , d. j. , & eisenhardt , p. r. 2007 , apj , 654 , 858    brown m. , et al . , 2008 , apj , 682 , 937    buitrago , f. , trujillo , i. , conselice , c. j. , bouwens , r. j. , dickinson , m. , & yan , h. 2008 , apjl , submitted ( arxiv:0807.4141 )    bournaud , f. , jog , c. j. & combes , f. 2007 , a&a , 476 , 1179    chapman , s. c. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , in press ( arxiv:0807.3674 )    cimatti , a. , et al .",
    "2008 , a&a , 482 , 21    cimatti , a. 2009 , ( arxiv:0901.1457 )    ciotti , l. 2008 , la rivista del nuovo cimento , in press ( arxiv:0808.1349 )    cool , r. j. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 682 , 919    damjanov i. , et a. , 2009 , apj , in press ( arxiv:0807.1744 )    damen , m. , labbe , i. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p. g. , taylor , e. n. , & gawiser , e. j. 2008 , apj , in press ( arxiv.0809.1426 )    de lucia g. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 366 , 499    fall , s. m. , & efstathiou , g. , 1980 , mnras , 193 , 189    fan i. , lapi a. , de zotti g. , danese l. , 2008 , apjl , submitted ( arxiv:0809.4574 )    franx , m. , van dokkum , p. g. , foerster schreiber , n. m. , wuyts , s. , labbe , i. , toft , s. 2008 , apj , in press ( arxiv:0808.2642 )    gallazzi , a. , charlot , s. , brinchmann , j. , white , s.  d.  m. , tremonti , c.  a.  2005 , mnras , 362 , 41    guo , y. et al .",
    "2009 , mnras , submitted ( arxiv:0901.1150 )    gunn j. , gott j. r. , 1972 , apj , 176 , 1    hansen s. , sheldon e. , wechser r. h. , koester b. , 2007 , apj , submitted ( arxiv:0710.3780 )    hopkins , p. f. , lauer , t. r. , cox , t. j. , hernquist , l. & kormendy , j. 2008 , apj , submitted ( arxiv:0806.2325 )    hyde j. b. & bernardi m. 2009 , mnras , in press ( arxiv:0810.4922 )    johnston d. e. , et al . , apj , submitted , arxiv:0709.1159    koester , b. p. et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 660 , 239    khochfar , s. & silk , j. 2006 , apj , 648 , l21    lauer , t.  r. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 662 , 808    liu , f. s. , xia , x. y. , mao , shude , wu , hong & deng , z. g. 2008 , mnras , 385 , 23    malumuth e.  m. & kirshner , r.  p. 1981 ,",
    "apj , 251 , 508    . 1985 , apj , 291 , 8    masjedi , m. et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 644 , 54    masjedi , m. et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 679 , 260    meneux , b. et al .",
    "2008 , a&a , 478 , 299    miller c. , et al . , 2005 , aj , 130 , 968    naab , t. , johansson , p. h. , ostriker , j. p. & efstathiou g. 2007 , apj , 658 , 710    nelson a. e. , simard l. , zaritsky d. , dalcanton j. j. , gonzalez a. h. , 2002 , apj , 567 , 144    oegerle w. r. & hoessel j. g. 1991 , apj , 375 , 15    ostriker j. , hausman m. a. , 1977 , apj , 217 , l125    robertson , b. , cox , t.  j. , hernquist , l. , franx , m. , hopkins , p.  f. , martini , p. , & springel , v.  2006 , apj , 641 , 21    roche n. , eales s. , rawlings s. , 1998 , mnras , 297 , 405    saracco , p. , longhetti , m. , & andreon , s. 2008 , mnras , in press ( arxiv:0810.2795 )    shankar , f. bernardi , m. , 2009 , apj , submitted    shankar , f. , marulli , f. , bernardi , m. , dai , x. , hyde , j. , sheth , r. k. , 2009 , mnras , submitted    sheth r. k. , tormen g. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 119    skibba r. a. , sheth r. k. , connolly a. j. , scranton r. , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 68    skibba r. a. , sheth r. k. , martino m. c. , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1940    skibba r. a. , sheth r. k. , 2008 , mnras , in press ( arxiv:0805.0310 )    skibba r. a. , 2009 , mnras , in press ( arxiv:0805.1233 )    tacconi , l. j. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 680 , 246    toomre , a. , & toomre , j. 1972 , apj , 178 , 623    tran k .- v .",
    "h. , moustakas j. , gonzalez a. h. , bai l. , zaritsky d. , kautsch s. j. , 2008 , apj , 683 , l17    trujillo , i. , et al .",
    "2006 , mnras , 373 , 36    trujillo , i. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjl , in press ( arxiv:0901.1032 )    van den bosch , f. et al .",
    "mnras , 2008 , 387 , 79    van der wel , a. , holden , b. p. , zirm , a. w. , franx , m. , rettura , a. , illingworth , g. d. , & ford , h. c. 2008 , apj , 688 , 48    van dokkum , p. g. et al .",
    "2008 , apjl , 677 , 5    vikhlinin a. , burenin r. a. , ebeling h. , forman w. r. , hornstrup a. , jones c. , kravtsov a. v. , murray s. s. , nagai d. , quintana h. , voevodkin , a. , 2008 , apj , in press ( arxiv:0805.2207 )    van der wel a. , holden b. p. , zirm a. w. , franx m. , rettura a. , illingworth g. d. , ford h. c. , 2008 , apj , 688 , 48    von der linden , a. , best , p. n. , kauffmann , g. & white , s. d. m. 2007 , mnras , 379 , 867    wake , d. a. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 537    wake , d. a. , et al . , 2008 , mnras , 387 , 1045    weinmann , s. m. , kauffmann , g. , van den bosch , f. c. , pasquali , a. , mcintosh , d. h. , mo , h. , yang , x , & guo , y. 2008 , mnras , submitted ( arxiv:0809.2283 )    whiley i. m. , et al . , 2008 , mnras , 387 , 1253    white m. , zheng z. , brown m. j. i. , dey a. , jannuzi b. t. 2007 , apj , 655 , l69    younger , j. d. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , in press ( arxiv:0807.2243 )",
    "the sdss is magnitude limited . as a result",
    ", care must be taken when interpretting redshift - dependent trends .",
    "in general , accounting for the selection effect is only straightforward for correlations with luminosity ; correlations with stellar mass may be strongly affected  even though @xmath41 and @xmath40 are tightly correlated .",
    "things are even more complicated if one wishes to study age related trends , since the errors on the age estimates are correlated with those on @xmath41 , and these may be substantial .      to illustrate , the panel on the left of figure  [ m*l ] shows the @xmath124 relation in a number of redshift bins ; there is no trend with redshift .",
    "the standard way of accounting for the magnitude limit is to weight each galaxy by the inverse of the volume @xmath125 , over which it could have been seen . for the @xmath124 relation ,",
    "this weighting does not matter , as all galaxies in a given @xmath40 bin have almost the same weight ( the weighting matters very much for the @xmath126 relation ! ) .",
    "the panel on the right shows the @xmath126 relation in these same bins , when objects have been weighted by @xmath127 : notice how the relation flattens out to constant @xmath40 at small @xmath41 . the mass scale on which this bias appears depends on redshift , and is purely a consequence of the sdss magnitude limit",
    " the @xmath128-weighting does not solve this problem .",
    "figure  [ selrms ] illustrates that this can have a dramatic effect on the @xmath13 relation if it is measured in a narrow redshift bin .",
    "the panel on the left shows the @xmath60 relation in the same sequence of narrow redshift bins as before . at small @xmath40",
    ", the @xmath60 relation is the same in all the redshift bins ; at high @xmath40 where there is significant curvature in the relation , there is some evidence for evolution .",
    "in contrast , the @xmath13 relation appears to evolve dramatically , particularly at small @xmath41 .",
    "it is easy to see that this is a selection effect , and that it produces dramatic effects even though @xmath40 and @xmath41 are tightly correlated .",
    "consider objects in a given narrow redshift bin .",
    "because of the magnitude limit , objects which scatter to lower @xmath40 for their @xmath41 will be excluded from the sample .",
    "the observed sample will contain objects with large @xmath40 for their @xmath41 ; since @xmath40 and @xmath41 are strongly correlated , this will be more dramatic at small @xmath41 ; since size and @xmath40 are strongly correlated , the exclusion of small @xmath40 objects biases the sample to large @xmath129 at small @xmath41 .",
    "since @xmath55 increases with age , the effect of the magnitude limit is particularly pernicious for studies which include both @xmath41 and the age .",
    "this is shown in figure  [ mstf ] .",
    "the left hand panel shows that @xmath130 , the lookback time from the present to when the stars formed , increases slightly with luminosity .",
    "the right hand panel shows the correlation when @xmath40 is replaced with @xmath41 . for @xmath41",
    "smaller than @xmath131  @xmath132 the relation for the bulk of the population is changed dramatically .",
    "this is because , to make the plot on the right , we have shifted each object in the panel on the left by @xmath55 .",
    "however , because we have restricted to a narrow bin in @xmath18 , @xmath55 increases with @xmath130 , so the shift is larger for large @xmath130 .",
    "now , at small @xmath41 , the objects with large @xmath55 fell outside the magnitude limit of the survey ( @xmath133 ) , so they are missing from the @xmath134 correlation . since large @xmath55 means large @xmath130 , the correlation between @xmath130 and @xmath41 curves sharply downwards as a result .",
    "we emphasize that this curvature is a selection effect .",
    "the satellites and bcgs are far enough from the limiting magnitude that they are less affected by this bias .",
    "the main text studies the @xmath60 and @xmath13 correlations as a function of the formation time and the age of the stellar population . however , because the age and @xmath41 estimates have significant uncertainties , and they are correlated , it is important to use ages that are output from the same models which estimate @xmath41 .    although we can not actually plot the error in the age versus the error in @xmath55 , we expect they will be correlated because , for older stellar populations , @xmath87 or so , where @xmath88 is the age of the population . as a result a galaxy that is incorrectly assigned a small age will also be assigned a small @xmath55 ratio .",
    "in addition , if the uncertainty on the age is small then the uncertainty on @xmath55 , and hence @xmath41 will also be small .",
    "this explains the trends shown in the bottom panels of figure  [ errors ] ( note that these do not show the correlated errors themselves  they show that when one quantity has a large error bar , then so does the other ) .",
    "notice that when the estimated age is small , then the uncertainties on the age increase dramatically ; this increases the uncertainty on @xmath41 as well .",
    "correlated errors in age and @xmath55 complicate analyses of how galaxy structure correlates with formation time and age .",
    "to illustrate , figure  [ m*ltform ] shows @xmath55 as a function of @xmath40 and @xmath41 for a number of bins in formation time .",
    "the panel on the left is not very surprising  galaxies which formed longer ago have larger @xmath55 ratios  although it appears that there may be something amiss in the bin with the most recent formation times .",
    "the offset from one bin to another is consistent with the expected fading of an old stellar population : @xmath87 or so , where @xmath88 is the age of the population .",
    "figure  [ m*lcorr ] shows this explicitly : when the luminosity has been corrected for this age effect , then the different formation time bins overlap .",
    "it is worth noting that using age estimates from a different algorithm than the one which provided the @xmath55 estimates results in qualitatively similar behaviour to that shown in the lefthand panel of figure  [ m*ltform ] , except that the offset between the different formation time bins is smaller .",
    "this is because , if this is done , then the correlated nature of the age and @xmath55 errors is missing . as a result",
    ", it would be possible for an object to be assigned a younger age than its true one , as well as a larger @xmath55 ratio than its true one , and so objects assigned recent formation times would have larger @xmath55 ratios on average , and objects assigned older formation times have smaller @xmath55 ratios , than when the errors in age and @xmath55 are correlated .    unfortunately , the presence of correlated errors produces spurious features in the right hand panel of figure  [ m*ltform ] . in this case , errors in @xmath55 move objects along lines that slope upwards and to the right .",
    "but if an object scatters downwards and to the left along such a line ( of constant @xmath40 ) , it is also assigned a younger age , and so it contributes to a more recent formation time bin .",
    "if there are , in fact , no real galaxies having large @xmath41 but recent formation times , then the correlated errors will have produced such a population .",
    "since the uncertainties are largest for the youngest galaxies , we believe that it is this effect which causes the sharp upturn in the lowest two formation time bins .    a better procedure ,",
    "if only the age or only @xmath41 is known , is to assume that @xmath135 , and to use this to correct luminosities for age effects .",
    "thus , when we use @xmath136 as a proxy for @xmath41 , we obtain the correct spread in ages at fixed @xmath40 ( solid lines in figure  [ m*ltform ] ) , and we find @xmath137  constant ( figure  [ m*lcorr ] ) .",
    "the size - luminosity relation for bcgs has been the subject of much recent interest @xcite . whereas most authors agree that early - type bcgs are very different from the bulk of the population , von der linden et al .",
    "( 2007 ) find substantially smaller differences .",
    "this is almost certainly because von der linden et al . use petrosian - based quantities , and these have been compromised by seeing @xcite .",
    "however , the @xmath58 scaling relation from bernardi et al .",
    "( 2007 ) differs slightly from that found in the main text above .",
    "figure  [ b07 ] compares the relation for c4 bcgs reported by bernardi et al .",
    "( 2007 ) ( long dashed line ) , with our present determination ( symbols and dashed - triple - dot line ) for the same bcgs ; the bernardi et al .",
    "sizes are slightly smaller , and the scaling relation is slightly shallower . we have traced this to the fact that , although both sizes come from 2d fits to the surface brightness profile , our size is an effective circular size ( @xmath139 ) , whereas bernardi et al .",
    "inadvertently show the minor axis @xmath140 , even though they state that they show @xmath141 ( a result of correcting the long axis @xmath142 by two powers of @xmath143 rather than just one ) .",
    "correcting for this effect makes their relation the same as ours . for completeness",
    ", this relation is @xmath144        however , figure  [ l07 ] compares the scaling we find for the c4 bcgs with that reported by lauer et al .",
    "although both relations are clearly more like one another than like the bulk of the population , there are significant differences .",
    "some of this is due to systematic differences between the two reductions , and , in light of the results in the main text , some may be due to evolution : the lauer et al .",
    "sample is at even lower redshifts than our c4 sample .",
    "this , of course , does not explain the offset at smaller luminosities ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> at the present time , early - type brightest cluster galaxies in the sdss maxbcg and c4 catalogs have larger sizes than early - type galaxies of similar luminosity , whether these other objects are in the field , or are satellites in clusters . </S>",
    "<S> bcg sizes are also stronger functions of luminosity @xmath0 than are the sizes of the bulk of the population ; this remains true if one restricts attention to narrow bins in velocity dispersion . at fixed stellar mass _ and </S>",
    "<S> _ formation time , objects at lower redshift are larger and have smaller velocity dispersions  i.e. the sizes increase and velocity dispersions decrease with age . in addition , at any given redshift , younger bcgs have slightly larger sizes than older bcgs of the same stellar mass ; however , they have similar velocity dispersions . as a result , at redshifts @xmath1 </S>",
    "<S> , corresponding to lookback times of order 3  gyrs , bcgs are smaller than their lower redshift counterparts by as much as @xmath2 for the brightest bcgs : the sizes evolve as @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> qualitatively similar but weaker evolution in the sizes is also seen in the bulk of the early - type population : at @xmath4 the sizes evolve as @xmath5 , while at @xmath6 the evolution is approximately @xmath7 , independent of @xmath8 . </S>",
    "<S> the velocity dispersion - luminosity correlation also evolves : @xmath9 at @xmath10 ( as for the bcgs ) and @xmath11 for fainter galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the size and velocity dispersion  stellar mass correlations yield consistent results , although , in this case , accounting for selection effects is less straightforward . </S>",
    "<S> these trends , in particular the fact that the velocity dispersions at fixed stellar mass decrease with age , are most easily understood if early - type bcgs grew from many dry minor mergers rather than a few major mergers . only in such a scenario can bcgs be the descendents of the super - dense galaxies seen at @xmath12 ; major dry mergers , which increase the size in proportion to the mass , can not bring these galaxies onto the bcg @xmath13 relation at @xmath14 .    </S>",
    "<S> we also compared the ages and sizes of our early - type bcgs with other cluster galaxies ( satellites ) . </S>",
    "<S> bcgs are larger than satellites of similar luminosity or stellar mass at the same redshift . </S>",
    "<S> although both satellites and bcgs trace the same weak age@xmath15 or age@xmath16 relation , this can be understood by noting that bcgs are typically about 1  gyr older than the satellites in their group , and they are about 0.5  mags more luminous . finally , we find that the mean satellite luminosity is approximately independent of bcg luminosity , in agreement with recent predictions based on the luminosity - dependence of clustering .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : formation - galaxies : haloes - dark matter - large scale structure of the universe </S>"
  ]
}