{
  "article_text": [
    "the mechanisms by which radio - loud active galaxies transfer energy to their surroundings are of considerable interest , due to the likely rle of such energy input in counteracting gas cooling in the central regions of galaxies , galaxy groups and clusters .",
    "shocks are particularly important , as they provide a means of increasing the entropy of the surrounding gas .",
    "there are now a number of examples of shocks associated with radio galaxies , which include weak shock structures in the intracluster medium ( icm ) of some of the nearest galaxy clusters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) generally on scales larger than the radio lobes , and a small number of examples of strong shocks associated with galaxy - scale radio lobes in comparatively isolated environments ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the best - studied example of a strong shock associated with a radio galaxy is the prominent shell of bright x - ray emission surrounding the south - west inner lobe of centaurus a ( cen a ) , detected with _",
    "chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ , as first reported by @xcite .",
    "as cen a ( ngc5128 ) is the nearest radio galaxy ( @xmath4 mpc , see below ) , it is an ideal laboratory for investigating the physics of radio - lobe shocks and their effects on the galaxy interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "kraft et al . ( 2003 ) interpreted the bright x - ray emission as thermal in origin , based on acceptable fits to a thermal spectrum , and a lack of radio emission at the location of the shock front ( as might be expected if the x - ray emission was associated with high - energy particle acceleration ) ; however , their analysis raised questions about the shock hydrodynamics , as the apparent density contrast between shocked and unshocked material was significantly higher than the expected value of 4 for a strong shock ( where the adiabatic index is 5/3 ) . in @xcite ,",
    "deeper _ chandra _ observations were used to resolve the structure of the shock front in more detail , and to investigate the shock structure as a function of position .",
    "they developed a more complex two - fluid model for the shocked material , which accommodated the electrons and ions in the shocked material being out of equilibrium .",
    "however , that work did not address the issue of the density contrast between pre - shocked and post - shocked gas .    here we present a new analysis of the cen a shock properties , based on very deep _ chandra _ observations of the source as part of a very large programme carried out in _ chandra _ cycle 9 .",
    "a total of @xmath5 ks of _ chandra _ data on cen a is now available by combining all of the available _ chandra _ data . this rich dataset has already been used to carry out detailed studies of the x - ray binary population in ngc5128 @xcite , particle acceleration in the x - ray jet @xcite , and of the galaxy ism @xcite .",
    "our analysis in this paper of the new deep observations of the cen a shell revises some of the conclusions of earlier work by kraft et al .    in section  [ analysis ]",
    "we summarize the data reduction and analysis , in section  [ results ] we discuss the results of our new spatial and spectral analysis of the x - ray shell , and in section  [ discuss ] we compare our results with previous work , present a new interpretation for the majority of the shell x - ray emission , and discuss the implications of that interpretation .",
    "we adopt a distance of 3.7 mpc to cen a ( the average of five distance estimates to cen a ",
    "see section 6 of @xcite ) , giving an angular scale of 1 arcsec = 17.9 pc .    -15pt",
    "cen a has now been observed a total of 10 times using _ chandra _ s axaf ccd imaging spectrometer ( acis ) instrument .",
    "the south - west radio lobe and surrounding x - ray shell are entirely within the detector area for 7 of these observations ( obsids 0962 , 2978 , 3965 , 7797 , 7800 , 8489 and 8490 ) . the effective on - source time for the entire shell region is @xmath6 ks .",
    "the inner parts of the shell have a higher total exposure time , but for this analysis we chose to include only the datasets in which the entire shell falls within the detector field of view .",
    "the datasets were all processed uniformly using ciao version 3.4 and caldb version 3.3.0.1 .",
    "further details of the data processing are given in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "spectral fitting was carried out using xspec .    since the primary beam of the vla limits the sensitivity of maps of cen a at high frequencies and large distances from the pointing center",
    ", we made a new radio map with an effective frequency of 1.5 ghz from archival vla datasets .",
    "we combined data from observations with the vla in its a configuration ( ab257 : 1983 oct 30 ) , b configuration ( ac175 : 1986 aug 11 ) , bnc configuration ( ac175 : 1986 oct 03 ) and cnd configuration ( ab587 : 1991 feb 16 ) to give a map that had the highest possible resolution while sampling the large - scale structure to the extent possible with the vla at this frequency .",
    "calibration and data reduction were carried out with aips in the standard way .",
    "the resulting map has a resolution of @xmath7 ( fwhm of major and minor axes of elliptical gaussian : the major axis is closely aligned with the north - south axis ) and is dynamic - range limited by artefacts around the bright core , with an off - source r.m.s . around 1.8 mjy beam@xmath1 .",
    "images presented in this paper are corrected for attenuation due to the primary beam of the vla .",
    "fig .  [ image ] shows a gaussian - smoothed image of the x - ray emission surrounding the south - west radio lobe with radio contours overlaid .",
    "it can be seen that the shell is sharply edge - brightened .",
    "we interpret the outermost edge of the x - ray emission as the shock front .",
    "this lies @xmath8 arcsec from the outer edge of the radio lobe , which is well defined in our radio images , as demonstrated by the radio and x - ray surface brightness profiles shown in fig",
    ".  [ profile ] , extracted for the regions shown in the bottom right panel of fig .",
    "[ regions ] .",
    "we interpret the sharp radio lobe boundary to be the contact discontinuity .",
    "shell emission is seen throughout the lobe region , including a bright region on the northern edge of the shell , a distance of 1.4 arcmin e of the nucleus , which was first discussed by @xcite .",
    "the fact that the x - ray emission clearly extends a significant distance beyond the edge of the radio lobe ( well defined in our high resolution radio maps ) and is edge - brightened ( see fig .  [ profile ] ) strongly supports a model in which the x - ray emission originates in a shell surrounding the radio lobes , rather than originating in a fluid contained within them .",
    "we initially carried out spectral analysis for several large regions to determine the global properties of the shell x - ray emission .",
    "the spectral extraction regions are shown in fig .",
    "[ regions ] .",
    "spectra were extracted from all seven datasets using the ciao task _ specextract _ , which also calculates appropriate response files .",
    "the background regions used are also shown in fig .",
    "[ regions ] . for the background spectra",
    ", additional exclusion regions were included on an observation - by - observation basis to mask any out - of - field - of - view regions and chip gaps .",
    "point sources were also excluded from all of the extracted spectra .",
    "the spectra were fitted in the 0.4  3.0 kev energy range to minimize background contamination from the wings of the psf from the very bright central agn ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which dominate above 3.0 kev across the entire field - of - view ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this choice of energy range also minimizes any contamination from readout streaks . in the few cases where readout streaks pass through regions of interest ( e.g. obsid 7800 for region 3 , and obsids 7797 and 8490 for a small number of inner regions discussed in section  [ spix ] ) we checked that excluding the datasets that could be contaminated did not affect the spectral results . for each region we carried out joint fits to the spectra from all epochs , and we assumed a fixed hydrogen column density at the galactic value of n@xmath9 @xmath10 @xcite , except where otherwise specified .",
    "this is reasonable in general , as our spectral extraction regions are mainly well away from the central region where varying absorption from gas associated with the dust lane needs to be taken into account . for each of the regions we initially fitted five spectral models : an apec ( astrophysical plasma emission code : @xcite ) model with free abundance ( model i ) , an apec model with abundance fixed at @xmath11 ( model ii ) , an apec model with abundance fixed at @xmath12 ( model iii ) , a single power - law model ( model iv ) and a model consisting of an apec ( @xmath13 ) plus a power - law component ( model v ) .",
    "the abundance values for models ii and iii were chosen to sample the range of abundances from the low values found in free - abundance fits to more typical values for galaxy atmospheres ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "complete results of all the spectral fits are given in table  [ spectra ] .",
    "quoted errors are @xmath14 for one or two interesting parameters except where otherwise specified .",
    "we first considered a region encompassing all of the bright shell emission ( region 1 in fig .",
    "[ regions ] ) , with point sources excluded . while the spectral model parameters vary somewhat across this large region , the general features of the model fits described below are present in all the fits from smaller regions when region 1 is subdivided . for this region",
    "we find that models iv and v ( single power law and 2-component power - law plus apec , respectively ) give the best fits to the spectra .",
    "models i  iii ( thermal models ) give much poorer fits .",
    "model i , the free abundance fit , has the lowest @xmath15 of all of the thermal models ; however , the abundance is constrained to be extremely low ( a @xmath16 upper limit on @xmath17 of 0.007 @xmath18 ) , and the fitting statistic is still significantly poorer than for the power - law fit ( model iv ) . for model v ( apec plus power law ) , the inclusion of a thermal component does not significantly improve the fit when compared to model iv , and the thermal model contributes an unabsorbed 0.4  3.0 kev flux of @xmath19 erg @xmath10 s@xmath1 , whereas the power - law contributes a flux of @xmath20 erg @xmath10 s@xmath1 , a factor of 30 times higher . the spectrum for region 1 is shown in fig .",
    "[ mod1 ] with each of the five models overplotted .",
    "the fitting statistics for this region are fairly poor for all five models .",
    "this is likely to be due to radial variation in the spectral properties of the emission , possibly including variation in the contribution from thermal emission .",
    "we explore this spatial variation in section  [ spix ] .",
    "to summarize , we find that a single power law is a better description of the spectrum than any thermal models . in addition , the fitted temperature values for thermal models are strongly dependent on the adopted abundance . the shallower observations analysed by @xcite meant that thermal models provided an adequate fit to the data , but with our deeper data , we are now able to rule out a simple , single - temperature apec model at high confidence . in particular ,",
    "the thermal fits have large residuals at soft energies .",
    "fitting a two - temperature apec model can mitigate this problem to some extent : we find best - fitting temperatures of @xmath21 kev and @xmath22 kev , assuming 0.5 times solar abundances .",
    "this fit has @xmath15 of 1065 for 742 d.o.f , which is a significant improvement on the single temperature models for realistic abundances , but still considerably poorer than the power law fit .    in order to firmly rule out a thermal origin for the shell emission",
    ", we also considered the limits on the 6.7 kev line from ionized fe , and the fe l complex , for assumed gas temperatures of 1.5 and 3 kev ( spanning the range seen in the thermal spectral fits ) .",
    "we found that the limits on the 6.7 kev line do not provide strong constraints , but the predicted fluxes in the fe l complex at 1.17 kev for an abundance of 0.15z@xmath23 are @xmath24 and @xmath25 photons @xmath10 s@xmath1 , respectively , whereas the @xmath16 upper limit from our joint fits ( using the linewidth and energy of a broad gaussian fit to the complex in a faked spectrum of the same parameters ) is @xmath26 photons @xmath10 s@xmath1 .",
    "hence there is no evidence for the line emission expected from a thermal plasma with realistic temperature and abundance values .",
    "we can not rule out a model in which turbulent broadening has erased the lines from the spectrum , but this would require turbulent velocities at or well above the sound speed of the gas .",
    "we also examined separately the brightest region of shell emission at the south - west rim , @xmath0 5.6 arcmin to the sw of the nucleus ( region 2 in fig .",
    "[ regions ] ) , which is external to the radio lobes ( see fig .  [ profile ] ) , to construct a broad - band sed for the shell without contamination from any possible radio lobe emission ( see below ) .",
    "details of the spectral fits are in table  [ spectra ] .",
    "the overall conclusions of the spectral analysis for this region are very similar to those for region 1 ; this is , the spectrum is much better fitted by a non - thermal power - law component rather than thermal emission .",
    "this is as expected given that this region contributes a significant fraction of the flux in region 1 .",
    "we therefore conclude that the shell emission is likely to be non - thermal , in contrast to the conclusions of earlier work based on poorer quality spectra .      as shown in fig .",
    "[ image ] , there is a small region of brighter shell emission at the northern edge of the sw shell close the agn ( @xmath0 1.4 arcmin east of the nucleus : region 3 in fig .",
    "[ regions ] ) .",
    "this region was shown to be associated with the shell and examined in detail by @xcite , who concluded that the emission was thermal , and significantly cooler than at the outer , sw edge of the shell ( @xmath27 kev for their s1 and s2 regions for an assumed abundance of @xmath12 ) . since the line emission is expected to be stronger at these temperatures , this region can potentially provide useful constraints on the shell x - ray emission .",
    "we therefore examined spectra for region 3 ( fig .",
    "[ regions ] ) , which is similar to @xcite s s1 region .",
    "results are listed in table  [ spectra ] .",
    "in contrast to the situation in region 1 and sub - regions of the outer shell , we find that a thermal model is strongly favoured in this region . with a free abundance fit , we obtain a best - fitting temperature of @xmath28 kev and an abundance of @xmath29 z@xmath23 with @xmath30 for 97 d.o.f .",
    "the fe l complex is very prominent in the spectrum , which can not be fitted adequately with a power - law model .",
    "the inclusion of a power - law component to the model , in addition to the apec , does not improve the fit .",
    "hence we conclude that the x - ray emission from this region is unambiguously thermal .",
    "the best - fitting abundance is significantly lower than that expected from the galaxy ism , which is likely to be due to the assumption of a single temperature ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "as our spectral regions are likely to include multi - temperature gas , we can not obtain a reliable estimate of the metallicity from the x - ray data .",
    "we therefore chose to adopt a metallicity of @xmath31 , more appropriate for a galaxy halo .",
    "the single temperature fits also showed strong residuals at @xmath32 kev , likely to be due to mg xi , and so we chose to include a narrow gaussian at this energy .",
    "the best fitting temperature for an apec model with fixed abundance plus 1.35 kev gaussian is @xmath33 kev , with @xmath34 for 97 d.o.f .",
    "we also investigated whether additional silicon features are present in the spectrum as would be expected if the gas is overabundant in alpha elements .",
    "we found a significant improvement in the fit if a gaussian is added at 1.865 kev , corresponding to si xiii , and a marginal improvement including a gaussian at 2.006 kev , corresponding to si xiv . using the vapec model with all other elements fixed at an abundance of 0.5 times solar ( which gives a very similar fit )",
    ", we find a magnesium abundance of @xmath35 times solar .",
    "if the silicon abundance is allowed to vary , an abundance of @xmath36 times solar is obtained .",
    "the data are therefore consistent with a model in which the shocked gas in this region is alpha - enriched .",
    "it is also possible that the unexpectedly strong magnesium and silicon lines are indicative of a non - equilibrium ionization state .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<,>,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xcite found that the apparent density contrast between shocked and unshocked gas in the outer parts of the shell ( assuming a thermal interpretation for all the shell x - ray emission ) is much higher than the prediction for a strong shock , and derived the expansion speed assuming that the observed shell is shocked gas that has cooled rather than the component that directly enters the jump equations for shocked gas . a non - thermal model for most of the x - ray emission within the shell can provide a simpler interpretation of the larger x - ray - intensity constrast inside and outside the shell .",
    "we checked the low apparent contribution from thermal emission in the outer regions of the shell is consistent with the thermal emission expected from a shell of shocked gas a factor of 4 denser than the ism in the shell s outer regions ( for several assumed temperatures ) .",
    "we assumed an unshocked ism density of @xmath37 @xmath38 at the outer edge of the shell ( kraft et al . in prep . :",
    "note that this is a factor 1.7 lower than that assumed by @xcite and @xcite ) , so that the shell gas would be expected to have a density of @xmath39 @xmath38 .",
    "we calculated the volume corresponding to the outer shell region discussed in section  [ outer ] assuming a half spherical shell of outer radius 121 arcsec .",
    "we estimated the thickness of the shell using the 1.4-ghz radio map and the merged 0.42.5 kev event file by measuring the separation between the edge of the radio lobe and the brightest part of the shell edge .",
    "we took the average of three measurements around the edge of the shell , giving a mean thickness of @xmath40 arcsec , where the measurement uncertainty ( which may be partly due to real variations in the thickness of the shock front ) is larger than any astrometric uncertainty or resolution effects .",
    "our measured shell thickness is consistent with the value of @xmath41 arcsec adopted by @xcite .",
    "this assumed geometry leads to an expected emission measure of @xmath42 @xmath38 ( corresponding to a 0.4 - 3.0 kev flux of @xmath43 erg @xmath10 s@xmath1 ) .",
    "the measured normalization for the apec component of model v discussed in section  [ outer ] corresponds to an emission measure more than thirty times higher , hence the data are consistent with this emission being present .",
    "however , as the apec component in the spectrum of this region is not required by the data , the spectra can also be well fitted by an apec + power - law model with the apec normalization fixed at the value corresponding to the expected emission measure , for any reasonable temperature ( e.g. between @xmath44 and @xmath45 kev  our adopted shock model as discussed below implies a post - shock temperature of @xmath46 kev ) . in all cases the thermal contribution to the fit is negligible .",
    "hence the x - ray spectra for the outer shell are consistent with a model in which a strong shock is occurring , with the x - ray emission dominated by synchrotron emission from high - energy particle acceleration .",
    "if we assume that the radio lobe is isobaric , and that the radio lobe and shocked gas are in pressure balance everywhere , then the pressure in the shocked gas shell at its outer edge ( e.g. region 2 ) should be the same as the lobe internal pressure and shell pressure in region 3 , which we calculated above .",
    "this implies that the expansion speed at the outer edge of the lobe where we see the brightest non - thermal emission should be much higher , given the significantly lower external gas density ( @xmath47 @xmath38 ) . assuming an ism gas temperature of 0.35 kev ( kraft et al . in prep ) , we obtain a pressure jump @xmath48 , corresponding to a mach number of @xmath49 , and a lobe expansion speed at its outer edge of @xmath50 km s@xmath1 .",
    "this speed is similar to that inferred by @xcite .",
    "we can also infer a transverse expansion speed for the radio lobe similarly , using the external density at the lobe midpoint given by the profile in @xcite , which we find to be @xmath51 km s@xmath1 .",
    "the observed axial ratio of the radio lobe is roughly consistent with the inferred longitudinal and transverse expansion speeds for the lobe if the expansion has been self similar throughout the source s lifetime ( though in practice this is unlikely to have been the case ) .",
    "the adopted physical parameters for regions 2 and 3 are summarized in table  [ params ] .    as for region 3 , we have assumed here that @xmath52",
    ". this will be correct if the shell pressure is dominated by the thermal component of the shocked gas , rather than by the pressure in the relativistic particles that are producing the observed x - ray synchrotron emission . as we concluded above ,",
    "the observations are consistent with a scenario in which the hot shocked gas has the density expected for a strong shock , but is not separable from the dominant emission attributed to synchrotron radiation .",
    "however , we also checked whether the internal pressure of the synchrotron - emitting particles is likely to significantly alter the shock dynamics . assuming the sed discussed in section",
    "[ sed ] with an equipartition magnetic field of @xmath53 @xmath54 g and no energetically significant protons , we find that the pressure in cosmic rays and magnetic field is @xmath55 dyne @xmath10 , which is insignificant compared to the thermal pressure .",
    "we note that this is an upper limit on the pressure in the relativistic particles if in equipartition , because the sed model is based on upper limits at radio , ir and uv wavelengths .",
    "magnetic field strengths of @xmath56 g or higher , more than an order of magnitude higher than the equipartition value , would be required for the non - thermal ( magnetic ) pressure to dominate , assuming @xmath57 .",
    "a departure from equipartition in the direction of electron dominance could also lead to non - thermal pressure dominating over thermal pressure ; however , this would also have to be extreme .",
    "we can also estimate the total energy of the radio source and the power of the jet .",
    "approximating the shock front as a prolate spheroid with semi - major axis 167.2 arcsec and semi - minor axis 115.0 arcsec , we find an enclosed volume of @xmath58 @xmath59 .",
    "the cavity enthalpy , @xmath60 is then @xmath61 ergs .",
    "we make a rough estimate of the kinetic energy of the shell using the expansion speed midway along the shell , and the gas density for region 1 , to obtain @xmath62 ergs . assuming a constant expansion speed",
    ", we obtain a source age estimate of @xmath63 y , and hence we estimate a mean jet power over the source lifetime of @xmath64 erg s@xmath1 .",
    "we can also estimate an instantaneous jet power as @xmath65 , where @xmath66 , with @xmath67 and @xmath68 the semi - major and semi - minor axes respectively .",
    "if the lobe expansion is self - similar , then @xmath69 .",
    "as one end of the expanding lobe is tied to the agn , @xmath70 , the shock expansion speed at its outer edge , and hence the instantaneous jet power , @xmath71 , is given by @xmath72 erg s@xmath1 ( using the shock speed of 2,600 km s@xmath1 at the outer edge of the shock ) .",
    "this is roughly a factor 15 times higher than the current radiative power of the agn @xcite .",
    "our conclusions about the shock dynamics in section  [ dyn ] depend strongly on our adopted spectral model for the thermal emission in region 3 . as discussed in section  [ s1 ] , the region shows a somewhat unusual spectrum , with a prominent magnesium line , that is not well fitted by a single apec model . as the gas in this region",
    "is assumed to have passed through the shock front recently , it is likely that the ionization balance has been affected by the shock , as discussed in section  [ s1 ] .",
    "it is also likely that our spectral extraction region contains gas with a range of temperatures and ionization states , but in section  [ s1 ] we concluded that any effect on our conclusions about the gas density and shock dynamics is likely to be smaller than the uncertainties introduced by our geometric assumptions in section  [ dyn ] .",
    "however , an additional complication is that the electron and ion fluids may not have achieved equilibrium , as was discussed in the context of earlier work on the cen a shock by @xcite .    for gas temperatures of @xmath73 kev and below , and photon energies below @xmath73 kev , at the energy resolution of acis - i the thermal continuum is submerged by lines , particularly those of the fe l complex .",
    "this makes fitted temperatures insensitive to the continuum . if the gas is not in ionization equilibrium , the relationship between line strengths and gas temperature is model - dependent , so that a detailed model of the shock and subsequent return to ionization equilibrium is required to determine the gas temperature accurately . on the other hand ,",
    "the shape of the continuum is determined largely by the electron temperature . in the absence of a detailed model for the ionization state of the gas",
    ", we have attempted to constrain the postshock electron temperature by fitting the spectrum of region 3 in the energy range 1.5  3 kev , where the lines are weaker relative to the continuum .",
    "a 1.3 kev gaussian line was included in this fit , as discussed in section  [ s1 ] .",
    "its energy and normalization were fixed by fitting it together with an apec model over the energy range 0.5  2 kev .",
    "for the 1.5  3 kev fit , the abundances were fixed at 0.5 solar .",
    "the resulting 90% confidence range for the temperature is 0.52  1.39 kev , consistent with the previous thermal fit .",
    "if the flow time through region 3 is comparable to or smaller than the electron - ion equilibration time , then the shocked protons there could be significantly hotter than the electrons ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "in that case , the postshock pressure may be significantly greater than estimated above , only providing a lower limit on the true pressure of the radio lobe .",
    "the value of the lobe pressure is important , since it determines the strength and speed of the shock , and the estimated jet power scales approximately as @xmath74 , so this issue warrants careful scrutiny .    to determine how much the electron and proton temperatures may differ ,",
    "we have used the two - fluid hydrodynamic model of @xcite .",
    "motivated by observations of galactic supernova remnants , this model assumes that the protons are heated rapidly in a collisionless shock , while the electrons are heated by coulomb collisions with the protons .",
    "the model is spherically symmetric and , for the cases illustrated here , the shock is driven by constant power input into an expanding `` radio lobe '' at the centre of an initially uniform atmosphere . for scaling purposes",
    ", the shock radius is taken to be 1.6 kpc ( 90 arcsec ) .    in terms of the electron and proton temperatures , @xmath75 and @xmath76 , respectively",
    ", the energy exchange can be expressed as @xmath77 , where the rate coefficient is determined chiefly by the electron temperature , approximately @xmath78 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "although the electron - ion equilibration time is relatively short , @xmath79 y for @xmath80 and @xmath81 kev , it is not much shorter than the sound crossing time of region 3 , @xmath82 y. increasing the temperature of the shocked gas increases the electron - proton equilibration time while also decreasing the sound crossing time .",
    "thus , although electrons and protons in region 3 should have much the same temperature if the electron temperature there is close to 1 kev , their temperatures can differ significantly if the electron temperature is moderately higher .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ noneq ] , which shows postshock proton and electron temperature profiles for two cases . in the first case ( fig .",
    "[ noneq]a ) , the emission measure weighted electron temperature in region 3 ( 1.48  1.60 kpc ) is 1 kev and the rms proton density is @xmath83 . in this case",
    "the difference between the electron and proton temperatures is negligibile . for the second case ( fig .",
    "[ noneq]b ) , the rms density is the same , but the emission measured weighted electron temperature is close to 1.4 kev , the 90 per cent level upper limit . here",
    ", the proton temperature is @xmath84 per cent greater than the electron temperature .",
    "the postshock pressure would then be roughly 35 per cent larger than suggested by the electron temperature .",
    "this disparity between electron and proton temperatures grows rapidly with electron temperature .",
    "however , if the electron temperature is smaller than the 1.4 kev upper limit , our estimate for the postshock pressure should be a reasonable estimate of the true pressure .      in section",
    "[ sed ] we demonstrated that a synchrotron origin for the shell x - ray emission is consistent with the broad - band sed of the shell emission in a region exterior to the radio lobe ( where the most constraining radio limits could be obtained ) .",
    "we have also shown that the lack of thermal x - ray emission from the outer parts of the shell is consistent with the expected level of emission from a strong shock  the observed thermal x - ray emission in the more central nw shell region ( section  [ s1 ] ) and the lack of any signatures of such emission in its outer parts ( section  [ outer ] ) are as expected for a strong shock propagating into cen a s environment .",
    "we conclude that the majority of the shell x - ray emission is synchrotron emission from high - energy particle acceleration at the shock front .",
    "interestingly , the inferred expansion speed of the radio lobe at its outer edge , as calculated in the previous section , is very similar to the expansion speeds of supernova remnants ( snrs ) that show x - ray synchrotron emission ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whereas at the nw edge , where no significant non - thermal emission is detected ( although particle acceleration to x - ray - emitting energies can not be ruled out  see section  [ sed ] ) , the expansion speed is significantly lower .",
    "if the inner lobes of cen a are indeed expanding at these high velocities , then it is perhaps not unexpected to see such a strong signature of high - energy particle acceleration .",
    "the statistically significant decrease in spectral index in the outer @xmath85 arcsec of the shell ( section  [ spix ] ) could indicate differences in the particle acceleration behaviour as a function of distance and hence of shock expansion velocity .",
    "a possible interpretation is that the spectrum is flattest at the outermost edge of the shell ( where the expansion speed is highest ) because of a higher value for @xmath2 , the observed high - energy cut - off of the electron population , with the high - energy cut - off moving to lower energies , thus steepening the spectrum , in regions closer to the nucleus where the shock front is slower due to a denser environment .",
    "this would require @xmath2 in the range @xmath86 over the bright shell region , and significantly lower than @xmath87 in region 3 .",
    "( we note that , assuming the observed value of @xmath2 is determined by radiative losses , the high - energy cut - off for hadrons would be significantly higher ) .",
    "if the x - ray - emitting electrons are being accelerated by diffusive shock acceleration , and if the high - energy cut - off is determined by the synchrotron loss timescale , then we can determine the dependence of @xmath2 on shock speed , as well as the expected value of @xmath2 for the shock conditions we observe .",
    "the high - energy cut - off for particle acceleration has been discussed extensively in the context of x - ray synchrotron emission from supernova remnants ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for electrons ,",
    "the acceleration timescale to a given energy @xmath88 depends on @xmath89 ( the pre - shock magnetic field strength ) , @xmath88 , @xmath90 , the ratio of the electron mean free path along the magnetic field to the gyroradius ( @xmath91 , assumed to between 1 and @xmath92 ) , and on a factor @xmath93 that takes into account the decrease in efficiency of scattering if the magnetic field direction is not parallel to the shock .",
    "we used equation ( 1 ) of @xcite : @xmath94 where units are cgs and the shock speed is in units of @xmath95 cm s@xmath1 .",
    "we assumed @xmath96 , @xmath97 and @xmath98 g , and find that @xmath99 for the outer edge of the shell and @xmath100 at region 3 .",
    "in order to fit a synchrotron model consistent with the observed x - ray spectral index for region 2 , and with equipartition @xmath101 fields , we require @xmath2 in the range @xmath102 ( see fig .",
    "[ sedfig ] ) , which is roughly consistent with this analysis .",
    "this suggests that a model in which the observed x - ray spectral changes can be explained by changes in @xmath2 as a function of shock speed is viable .",
    "we have not considered the role of changes in @xmath89 and @xmath91 along the shell in this discussion ",
    "these are likely to vary somewhat with position as well , but the dependence of @xmath2 on these parameters is weaker so that the change is shock speed is likely to be the dominant effect .      if we accept a synchrotron origin for the x - ray emission from cen a , then the x - ray properties of the outer shell region can not be used to measure the impact of the radio galaxy on its environment directly ; however , the detection of thermal emission from the shocked gas in region 2 allows us to infer the dynamics of the shocked shell and radio lobe indirectly as discussed above .",
    "the results on the overall dynamics of the radio lobe and its environmental impact are not significantly different from the conclusions of @xcite . unlike the shock in cen",
    "a , the strong shock detected in the similar system ngc3801 @xcite is clearly dominated by thermal x - ray emission , with no significant x - ray synchrotron emission .",
    "it is likely that the lobes of ngc3801 are expanding much more slowly than the outer parts of cen a ( @xmath103 km s@xmath1 , similar to cen a s expansion speed at region 3 ) , and so the lack of strong high - energy particle acceleration in that system is probably explained by this lower speed .",
    "the bolometric x - ray luminosity of the shell emission in cen a is @xmath104 erg s@xmath1 , and so shocks on similar physical scales will be undetectable in more distant radio galaxies ; however , these results could also have implications for powerful frii radio galaxies , whose lobes are much larger .",
    "a number of nearby frii radio galaxies have been found to reside in comparatively gas poor environments ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and so may be having similarly dramatic effects on their environments .",
    "if supersonic expansion is occurring in friis at speeds similar to that of cen a , then high - energy particle acceleration could be important in frii environments .",
    "we considered the example of the nearby frii radio galaxy 3c33 , whose poor environment is discussed in @xcite . if the lobes of 3c33 are expanding at a similar speed to those of cen a , and we assume ( i ) that the particle acceleration is similarly efficient and ( ii ) that the density of accelerated particles is proportional to the density of the shocked gas , then the expected x - ray synchrotron flux should scale as @xmath105 .",
    "the external density ratio @xmath106 is @xmath107 , the volume ratio is @xmath108 , and the square of the ratio of luminosity distances is @xmath109 , giving an expected reduction in x - ray flux of a factor @xmath110 and a predicted 1-kev flux density from synchrotron emission of @xmath73 njy .",
    "this is comparable to the level of non - thermal x - ray emission measured by kraft et al . and attributed to inverse - compton scattering of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and so for 3c33 the observed x - ray flux levels from the radio lobes do not rule out the possibility that high - energy particle acceleration is occurring at a similar level to cen a. however , the spectral index for the non - thermal x - ray emission from 3c33 and other frii radio lobes ( @xmath111 ) is flatter than that of the shell in cen a , and no edge - brightening is observed for the x - ray lobes of friis @xcite . in addition , the x - ray flux from this process decreases as @xmath112 , unlike the ic / cmb flux , and so ic / cmb is predicted to dominate by a large factor in the majority of friis , which are more distant than 3c33 .",
    "nevertheless , it is plausible that particle acceleration by expanding frii lobes may result in significant cosmic ray populations and potentially detectable x - ray synchrotron emission for sources in weaker environments .",
    "it is interesting to consider the implications of these results for our understanding of cen a as a source of cosmic rays , particularly in light of recent results from the pierre auger observatory showing an overdensity of ultra - high energy cosmic rays ( uhecrs ) from the direction of cen a @xcite . to have efficient cosmic - ray acceleration to high energies",
    ", the particle gyroradius can not be significantly larger than the size of the acceleration region . by the criterion of @xcite ,",
    "for an assumed acceleration region of @xmath113 pc ( the observed thickness of the shock front : section  [ dyn ] ) and @xmath114 g , typical particle energies can not exceed @xmath115 ev .",
    "hence magnetic fields significantly higher than equipartition ( e.g. @xmath116 g ) would be required for the shock front to accelerate cosmic rays to @xmath117 ev .",
    "there is considerable evidence that magnetic fields can be amplified by large factors at the forward shocks of snrs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ( for example lower limits on @xmath101 in cass a are of the order of those required here to confine crs of @xmath117 ev : @xcite ) , and so if similar processes were operating at the cen a shock front then uhecr energies could be achieved . however , the equipartition magnetic field strengths in snrs are comparable to values inferred from the thickness of the shock front .",
    "this suggests that magnetic field amplification by similar factors at the cen a shock may be unlikely , as it would require a large departure from equipartition in the direction of magnetic field dominance .",
    "the cen a shock front appears resolved in our _ chandra _ observations , with a width of @xmath118 arcsec ( corresponding to @xmath119 pc ) . we can use the shock thickness to estimate the magnetic field strength in the shell , assuming it is determined by synchrotron losses . following the method used by @xcite for the cas a snr , assuming the accelerated electrons travel away from the shock front with the shocked gas at a speed of @xmath120 , we find synchrotron lifetimes of @xmath121 y are required .",
    "these lifetimes for 1-kev photons imply magnetic field strengths of @xmath122 g , consistent with the equipartition values dicussed above , but much lower than would be required to accelerate uhecrs .",
    "in addition , as discussed above , our x - ray observations suggest that we may be observing the high - energy cut - off in the electron distribution directly , at energies of @xmath123 , which corresponds to electron energies of @xmath124 ev .",
    "nevertheless , if the cut - off energy is determined by losses then its value will be higher for hadrons .",
    "we conclude that it is possible that the cen a shock could accelerate cosmic rays to uhecr energies ; however , this would require magnetic field amplification by large factors , and magnetic domination of the energetics of the synchrotron - emitting plasma .",
    "the @xmath125-kpc - scale giant outer lobes of cen a may be a more likely candidate for the origin of the uhecrs apparently associated with cen a ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it is also important to consider the implications of our results for emission at higher energies .",
    "the detection of x - ray synchrotron emission from the shell implies the existence of electrons with tev energies ( for plausible values of @xmath101 ) , and hence it is possible that the shock could produce significant emission at very high energies .",
    "we therefore investigated the predicted inverse - compton emission from the cen a shell .",
    "the dominant photon fields in the shell region that can be scattered to gamma - ray energies are ( 1 ) starlight from the host galaxy , and ( 2 ) the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) .",
    "we determined the photon density from starlight at the position of the shell by deprojecting the v - band surface brightness profile of @xcite , using the method of @xcite to obtain a v - band spectral energy density at a radius of 268 arcsec ( midway between the inner and outer radii encompassing region 1 ) of @xmath126 j hz@xmath1 m@xmath127 .",
    "a spectral energy distribution for the entire galaxy was obtained using the uv measurements of @xcite , optical measurements from @xcite , infrared measurements from 2mass @xcite and iras @xcite , which was normalised to the v - band energy density given above .",
    "we note that the corresponding total energy density at the radius of interest is in good agreement with that determined by @xcite .",
    "the analysis was carried out for region 1 , so as to include most of the x - ray - emitting electrons , and the electron population was modelled as described in fig .",
    "we used the synch code of @xcite to determine the predicted inverse - compton emission from starlight and ic / cmb .",
    "[ tev ] shows the inverse - compton predictions for magnetic field strengths of 1 @xmath54 g ( the value obtained above from consideration of the width of the x - ray shell ) and @xmath128 g ( the equipartition value for region 2 discussed in section  [ sed ] ) . also plotted",
    "is an upper limit from the high - energy stereoscopic system ( hess ) of @xmath129 ph @xmath10 s@xmath1 above 0.19 tev @xcite , which corresponds to a flux density at 0.19 gev of @xmath130 jy for an assumed photon index of 2.0 , consistent with our assumed spectrum . for @xmath131",
    "g , we predict a total flux density at 0.19 gev from ic scattering of starlight and the cmb of @xmath132 jy , an order of magnitude below the hess limit , which corresponds to @xmath133 photons @xmath10 s@xmath1 above 0.19 tev ( for @xmath134 = 2 ) .",
    "however , with a lower magnetic field strength , as is suggested by the calculation in section  [ uhecr ] , we find a predicted total flux density at 0.19 gev of @xmath135 jy , corresponding to a total @xmath136 ph @xmath10 s@xmath1 , i.e. we predict a flux that is comparable to or higher than the hess upper limit .",
    "hence it is reasonable to think that a tev detection of the cen a shell may be possible with deeper observations .",
    "it is unclear whether the cen a shell would be expected to dominate over emission from the jet ( which also contain electrons of tev energies : e.g.  @xcite ) at tev energies .",
    "a full calculation of the predicted tev emission from the jet is beyond the scope of this paper ; however , a rough estimate based on the x - ray jet properties discussed in @xcite suggests a level of tev emission comparable to that from the shell . in principle",
    "it would be possible to distinguish spectrally between ic emission from the jet and the shell , as the diffuse x - ray synchrotron emission in the jet has a significantly steeper spectral index than the shell",
    ". hence deeper tev observations of cen a have the potential to provide important constraints on the properties of the fluid in the shocked shell as well as the jet .",
    "we have presented a detailed study of the x - ray emission associated with the south - west inner lobe of cen a. our deep observations as part of a _",
    "chandra _ very large programme have enabled us to establish firmly that the majority of the x - ray emission associated with the shock surrounding the sw lobe , first discussed by kraft et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , is x - ray synchrotron emission associated with particle acceleration at the shock front , and not thermal emission from shocked gas .",
    "we have investigated the spectral structure of the x - ray shell , presenting maps of spectral structure for the first time , and we conclude that non - thermal emission dominates over most of the shell , except in the inner regions , where the thermal x - ray emission can be used to determine the shock conditions .",
    "we have described a self - consistent model for the lobe and shock dynamics , considering in detail the implications of possible electron - ion non - equilibrium in the shocked material .",
    "our analysis of the spatial distribution of power - law spectral index constrains @xmath2 for the accelerated particles to be @xmath010@xmath3 at the strongest part of the shock , consistent with the expectations of diffusive shock acceleration theory .",
    "we considered the implications of our results for cen a s role as a source of cosmic rays , but conclude that the inner lobe shocks are unlikely to be an important source of ultra - high energy cosmic rays as this would require very high magnetic field strengths .",
    "finally we considered the expected inverse - compton emission from this synchrotron shell , finding that the predicted emission from ic scattering of starlight and the cmb is comparable to current upper limits at tev energies .",
    "this work was partially supported by nasa grants nas8 - 03060 and go7 - 8105x , and hubble grant hst - go-10597.03-a .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge support from the royal society ( research fellowship for mjh ) .",
    "aharonian , f. et al .",
    "[ for the hess collaboration ] 2005 , , 441 , 465 abraham , j. et al .",
    "[ for the pierre auger collaboration ] 2007 , , 318 , 938 acero , f. , ballet , j. , decourchelle , a. 2007 , . 475 , 883 berezhko , e. g. , vlk , h. j. 2004 , , 419 , 27 brookes , m. h. , lawrence , c. r. , keene , j. , stern , d. , gorijan , v. , werner , m. , charmandaris , v. 2006 , , 646 , 41 buote , d. a. 2000 , , 311 , 176 croston , j. h. , hardcastle , m. j. , harris , d. e. , belsole , e. , birkinshaw , m. , worrall , d. m. 2005 , , 626 , 733 croston , j. h. , kraft , r. p. , hardcastle , m. j. 2007 , , 660 , 191 croston , j. h. , hardcastle , m. j. , birkinshaw , m. , worrall , d. m. , laing , r. a. 2008 , , 386 , 1709 david , l. p. , jones , c. , forman , w. , vargas , i. m. , nulsen , p. 2006",
    ", , 653 , 207 de vaucouleurs , g. de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h. g. jr . , buta , r. j. , paturel , g. , fouque , p. 1991",
    ", , springer - verlag .",
    "dickey , j. m. , lockman , f. j. 1990 , , 28 , 215 dyer , k. k. , reynolds , s. p. , borkowski , k. j. 2004 , , 600 , 752 ellison , d. c. , decourchelle , e. , ballet , j. 2004 , , 413 , 189 evans , d. a. , kraft , r. p. , worrall , d. m. , hardcastle , m. j. , jones , c. , forman , w. r. , murray , s. s. 2004 , , 612 , 786 fabian , a.  c. , sanders , j.  s. , allen , s.  w. , crawford , c.  s. , iwasawa , johnstone , r.  m. , schmidt , r.  w. , taylor , g.  b. 2003 , , 344 , l43 fabian , a. c. , sanders , j. s. , taylor , g. b. , allen , s. w. , crawford , c. s. , johnstone , r. m. , iwasawa , k. 2006 , , 366 , 417 ferrarase , l. , mould , j. r. , stetson , p. b. , tonry , j. l. , blakeslee , j. p. , ajhar , e. a. 2007 , , 654 , 186 forman , w. , nulsen , p. , heinz , s. , owen , f. , eilek , j. , vikhlinin , a. , markevitch , m. , kraft , r. , churazov , e. ; jones , c. , 635 , 894 golombek , d. , miley , g. k. , neugebauer , g. 1988 , , 95 , 26 hardcastle , m. j. , birkinshaw , m. , worrall , d. m. 1998 , , 294 , 615 hardcastle , m. j. , kraft , r. p. , worrall , d. m. 2006 , , 368 , l15 hardcastle , m.j .",
    "2007 , , 670 , 81 hardcastle , m. j. , cheung , c. c. , feain , i. j. , stawarz ,  .",
    "2008 , , in press .",
    "hillas , a. m. 1984 , , 22 , 425 jarrett , t. h. , chester , t. , cutri , r. , schneider , s. e. , huchra , j. p. 2003",
    ", , 125 , 525 jetha , nazirah n. , hardcastle , martin j. , ponman , trevor j. , sakelliou , irini 2008 , , in press .",
    "jordn , andrs et al .",
    "2007 , , 671 117 , r.  p. , v ' azquez , s.  e. , forman , w.  r. , jones , c. , murray , s.  s. , hardcastle , m.  j. , worrall , d.  m. & churazov , e. 2003 , , 592 , 129 kraft , r. p. , hardcastle , m. j. , worrall , d. m. , murray , s. s. 2005 , , 622 , 149 kraft , r. p. , nulsen , p. e. j. , birkinshaw , m. , worrall , d. m. , penna , r. f. , forman , w. r. , hardcastle , m. j. , jones , c. , murray , s. s. 2007a , , 665 , 1129 kraft , r. p. , birkinshaw , m. , hardcastle , m. j. , evans , d. a. , croston , j. h. , worrall , d. m. , murray , s. s. 2007b , , 659 , 1008 kraft , r. p. et al .",
    "2008 , , 677 , 97 lagage , p. o. , cesarsky , c. j. 1983 , , 125 , 249 mellier , y. , mathez , g. 1987 , , 175 , 1 moskalenko , i.v . ,",
    "stawarz ,  . ,",
    "porter , t. a. , cheung , c. c. 2008 , , in press .",
    "neff , a. g. , schiminovich , d. , martin c. d. 2003 , , 203 , 9607 reynolds , s.p .",
    "1996 , , 459 , 13 rho , j. , reynolds , s. p. , reach , w. t. , jarrett , t. h. , allen , g. e. , wilson , j. c. 2003 , , 592 , 299 rothenflug , r. , ballet , j. , dubner , g. , giacani , e. , decourchelle , a. , ferrando , p. 2004",
    ", , 425 , 121 sivakoff , g. r. et al .",
    "2008 , , 677 , 27 smith , r. k. , brickhouse , n. s. , liedahl , d. a. , raymond , j. c. , 2001 , , 556 , 91 stawarz ,  . , aharonian , f. , wagner , s. , ostrowski , m. 2006 , , 371 , 1705 van den bergh , s. , 1976 , , 208 , 673 vink , j. , laming , m. j. 2003 , , 584 , 758 vink , j. , bleeker , j. , van der heyden , k. , bykov , a. , bamba , a. , yamazaki , ryo , 2006 , , 648 , 33 warren , j. s. et al .",
    "2005 , s , 634 , 376 welch , g.a .",
    "1979 , , 228 , 419 worrall , d. m. et al .",
    "2008 , , 673 , 135"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new results on the shock around the southwest radio lobe of centaurus a using data from the _ chandra _ very large programme observations ( 740 ks total observing time ) . </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray spectrum of the emission around the outer southwestern edge of the lobe is well described by a single power - law model with galactic absorption  thermal models are strongly disfavoured , except in the region closest to the nucleus . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that a significant fraction of the x - ray emission around the southwest part of the lobe is synchrotron , not thermal . </S>",
    "<S> we infer that in the region where the shock is strongest and the ambient gas density lowest , the inflation of the lobe is accelerating particles to x - ray synchrotron emitting energies , similar to supernova remnants such as sn1006 . </S>",
    "<S> this interpretation resolves a problem of our earlier , purely thermal , interpretation for this emission , namely that the density compression across the shock was required to be much larger than the theoretically expected factor of 4 . </S>",
    "<S> we describe a self - consistent model for the lobe dynamics and shock properties using the shell of thermal emission to the north of the lobe to estimate the lobe pressure . </S>",
    "<S> based on this model , we estimate that the lobe is expanding to the southwest with a velocity of @xmath02600 km s@xmath1 , roughly mach 8 relative to the ambient medium . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the spatial variation of spectral index across the shock region , concluding that our observations constrain @xmath2 for the accelerated particles to be @xmath010@xmath3 at the strongest part of the shock , consistent with expectations from diffusive shock acceleration theory . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we consider the implications of these results for the production of ultra - high energy cosmic rays ( uhecrs ) and tev emission from centaurus a , concluding that the shock front region is unlikely to be a significant source of uhecrs , but that tev emission from this region is expected at levels comparable to current limits at tev energies , for plausible assumed magnetic field strengths .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  galaxies : elliptical and lenticular  galaxies : individual ( cen a )  radio continuum : galaxies  x - rays : galaxies  shock waves </S>"
  ]
}