{
  "article_text": [
    "imaging of a significant number of extrasolar planets requires achieving star vs. planet contrasts of @xmath0  ( young giant planets ) , or even @xmath1  ( old giant and rocky planets ) at a few tenths of an arc - second from a star , which value is @xmath2 in the near infrared for telescopes having pupil sizes of @xmath3 @xmath4  m.    in this regime , the dominant noise contribution is due to the stellar background . to achieve these ambitious goals ,",
    "high contrast imagers usually include various components .",
    "first , an extreme adaptive optics ( xao ) system is used , allowing to correct aberrations up to a high order , and providing a high strehl ratio ( sr ) .",
    "second , some coronagraph is included , attenuating the coherent diffraction pattern of the on - axis point spread function ( psf ) . proper combination of these two devices allows reduction of the stellar background down to values of @xmath5  out to the ao system control radius , @xmath6 actuator spacing projected on the telescope pupil . ] , for state - of - the - art system . this background is due to a rapidly changing halo of speckles generated by residual telescope pupil phase distortions , that have spacial frequencies close to those of planet images . in order to avoid false alarms , the detection threshold level",
    "should then be set at several times the root mean square ( rms ) noise level .    even in the favourable case where the speckle intensity distribution can be assumed to be gaussian @xcite the detection confidence limit",
    "should be at least 5 times the noise level .",
    "this implies that at angular separations @xmath7 , the limiting contrast provided by state - of - the - art extreme - ao and coronagraphy is @xmath8  for 8 - 10 m telescopes .",
    "in addition , phase aberrations originating inside the optical train not corrected by the extreme - ao system produce speckles of longer lifetime ( minutes or hours ) than those due the atmosphere .",
    "other slowly varying ( of the order of seconds ) phase errors are due to aliasing effects in the wavefront sensor @xcite and  for coronagraphic systems  to adaptive optics time - lag @xcite .    beyond a handful of favorable cases where planets are warm - e.g. @xcite - or with large separation from their parent star @xcite , or",
    "eventually with both these properties @xcite , additional techniques are required to reach the larger contrasts needed for extrasolar planets detection .",
    "simultaneous differential imaging ( sdi ) is a high - contrast imaging differential technique by which subtraction of different images of the same field acquired simultaneously by the same instrument allows to remove or reduce the noise produced by atmospheric and instrumental phase aberrations .",
    "the sdi principle can be applied to images obtained with different polarization modes @xcite or selecting two distinct wavelengths in a fixed spectral range @xcite , or better exploiting the entire spectral range by integral field spectroscopy @xcite . in this paper",
    "we will focus on sdi based upon this latter strategy only .",
    "essentially , sdi is a calibration technique @xcite : images are acquired simultaneously in bands at close wavelengths where the planetary ( but not the stellar ) flux differ appreciably . subtracting each other",
    "these images should allow to remove or at least reduce the speckle noise , since this is assumed to be similar in the various images after a suitable chromatic re - scaling , while the planet signal is left nearly untouched .    there",
    "at least two ways to exploit this calibration technique . in the more traditional approach ,",
    "specific characteristics of the ( expected ) planetary spectra are exploited . as indicated by various theoretical work @xcite and observations ( e.g. of brown dwarfs and gaseous planets in the solar system ) ,",
    "the spectra of giant planets are dominated by several absorbtion bands ( mainly due to methane and water vapor ) at both visible and near infrared wavelengths .",
    "in such a case , sdi may work by subtracting images where the planet signal is absent from those where it is present , while the background is nearly the same , because the spectrum of the parent star is nearly featureless , see figure [ fg : testi ] .",
    "the main advantage of this technique , is the minimum assumptions required on the chromatic behavior of speckles ; however , this technique allows only a limited reduction of noise .",
    "alternatively , we might try to model the variation of speckles with wavelength @xcite . in principle",
    "this allows to remove completely speckle noise without making any assumption about the planetary spectrum , hence allowing to retrieve the real planetary spectrum @xcite .    independently to the adopted sdi recipe , integral field spectrograph designs tuned for diffraction - limited high - contrast imaging should take into account several effects jeopardizing the interpolation procedures requested before simultaneous spectral subtractions , which in turn severely limit the accuracy of this calibration technique .",
    "in this paper we present a discussion of these effects and derive the basic equations that should be considered when designing lenslet - based diffraction - limited integral field spectrographs .",
    "then , we describe a new concept for the lenslet - array shaping the ifu of such instruments ( i.e. bigre ) allowing to improve significantly over the main limitations of the more traditional designs based on the tiger concept .",
    "the structure of the paper is as follows . in ",
    "[ sec : speckle ] we recall the basics of a post - coronagraphic speckle field . in ",
    "[ sec : sdi ] we summarize the principle of sdi . in ",
    "[ sec : s - sdi ] we discuss the basics of spectroscopic sdi ( hereafter s - sdi ) , defining the conditions allowing to avoid aliasing errors when sampling both the entrance speckle field and the final exit slit functions . in   [ sec : ifs - options ] we present various options for ifs - instruments suited for s - sdi . in ",
    "[ sec : ct ] we define the cross - talk terms in the case of diffraction - limited lenslet - based ifs . in ",
    "[ sec : tiger ] we derive the rules governing the image propagation at the diffraction limit through the tiger concept , and in   [ sec : bigre ] the ones proper to the new bigre concept .",
    "specifically , we explain here how to conceive a bigre - oriented ifs instrument adopting standard dioptric devices . in   [ sec : sphere - ifs ] we present two design setups ( based on bigre and tiger respectively ) for sphere , indicating the solution adopted for its future ifs . in   [ sec : tigervsbigre ] we compare the tiger and the bigre concepts in terms of coherent and incoherent signals suppression , considering several cases for the single lens shape and the ifu lattice configuration .",
    "finally , our conclusions are drawn in   [ sec : end ] .",
    "an appropriate understanding of chromatic intensity ( e.g. @xcite ) and spatial ( e.g. @xcite ) scaling of a speckle field is basic to any application of the sdi calibration technique .",
    "for this reason a short description of these physical concepts is fundamental to introduce the reader to the topics treated in the rest of the paper .",
    "inspired by the approach of @xcite , we will use the fraunhofer approximation to describe the impact of small residual phase variations of the electric field @xmath9 imaged on a fixed post - coronagraphic entrance pupil plane , i.e. the working case of high - contrast imaging instruments like sphere .",
    "while this approach allows a simple mathematical treatment and physical understanding , it ignores more complex effects due to amplitude errors and fresnel propagation , as pointed out by @xcite .",
    "it is outside the scope of this paper to discuss such effects , which can be minimized by careful instrument design , but it is likely that they will set the ultimate limit of planet imaging .    the most general expression of the monochromatic electric field once projected on the coronagraphic entrance pupil plane is :    @xmath10,\\ ] ]    where @xmath11 is the coronagraphic pupil transmission function , and @xmath12 is the phase of the electric field evaluated over this coronagraphic pupil plane . assuming a perfect optical propagation from the telescope to this plane - i.e. no differential chromatical aberrations in the beam - the chromatism of the phase can be written explicitly as a function of the wavelength @xmath13 and the wavefront error @xmath14 as follows :    @xmath15    assuming as real the expectation value of the wavefront error given by an extreme - ao system in the near infrared ( i.e. @xmath16 at @xmath17 ) , equation ( [ eq : coro-1 ] ) can be approximated as follows :    @xmath18    at this point , the action of an un - specified coronagraph can be formalized directly on the coronagraphic exit pupil plane .",
    "the goal of the coronagraph is to cancel as much as possiblee the amplitude of the electric field along the optical axis on this plane . exploiting ( [ eq : coro-3 ] ) , the resulting on - axis electric field @xmath19  for a perfect coronagraph is then :    @xmath20    or , by equation ( [ eq : coro-2 ] ) , is equal to :    @xmath21    defining finally @xmath22 as the fourier transforms ( ft ) of @xmath23 , equation ( [ eq : coro-5 ] ) allows to express the monochromatic post - coronagraphic speckle field @xmath24 as :    @xmath25    equation ( [ eq : coro-6 ] ) shows that the intensity of a speckle field scales proportionally to @xmath26 , while its chromatic wavelength scaling comes from the fact that the variable involved in the wavefront @xmath27 is the spatial frequency @xmath28 and not the position @xmath29 in the image plane , i.e. :    @xmath30.\\ ] ]    this indicates that spatial frequency translates into position according to wavelength , e.g. by applying the standard grating equation as follows :    @xmath31    where @xmath32 is the diffraction order , @xmath33 the diffraction angle and @xmath34 is the grating constant corresponding to the spatial frequency @xmath28 , or :",
    "@xmath35    the position on the image plane returns :    @xmath36    @xmath37 being the focal length of the post - coronagraphic re - imaging optics . using equations ( [ eq : coro-8 ] ) and ( [ eq : coro-9 ] ) this position",
    "can be written finally as :    @xmath38    equation ( [ eq : coro-11 ] ) indicates that the position of a speckle corresponding to a given fixed spatial frequency due to the post - coronagraphic wavefront error scales linearly with wavelength @xcite .",
    "more in detail , this means that for every fixed position in the image plane , speckles corresponding to distinct spatial frequencies get distinct wavelengths ( figure [ fg : speckle - spectrum ] ) .",
    "we call this feature speckle chromatism .",
    "in the approach considered in this paper , the fundamental sdi step is the simultaneous acquisition of images at adjacent wavelengths in a spectral range where the planetary and stellar spectra differ appreciably . from ground - based observations ,",
    "the wavelength bands y , j , h , and k are well suited for extrasolar giant planets @xcite , and rocky planets @xcite .",
    "let @xmath39 be the monochromatic spectral signal corresponding to a fixed angular position @xmath33 on sky expressed as the sum of the spectral signal of the star , @xmath40 , and the spectral signal of a candidate low - mass companion ( e.g an extrasolar planet ) which lies specifically in this angular position , @xmath41 . fixing a pair of wavelengths @xmath42  inside the window above , the following relations hold :    @xmath43    the basic sdi assumption is that after suitable flux normalization and chromatic re - scaling , the following relations hold for the boundary wavelengths of the range above :    @xmath44    then the difference between @xmath45 and @xmath46 should return  in principle  the spectral signal @xmath47 only , i.e. the one appropriate to the low - mass ( or extrasolar planet ) candidate .",
    "however , while working with narrow - band filters several precautions are required :    * an image taken with one filter has to be spatially re - scaled before confronting it with a second image taken with a different filter due to the speckle scaling described in   [ sec : speckle ] ; * any filter separating two adjacent spectral bands should have similar spectral transmission profiles ; * the difference ( @xmath48 ) between the central wavelengths @xmath49 of two adjacent filters should be as small as possible .",
    "the last item is the most critical due to the fact that chromatism of the speckle field always induces a certain amount of phase errors .",
    "adopting the formalism of @xcite , the residual wavefront distortion can be described through the fourier transform of the post - coronagraphic wavefront error @xmath50 , or by its relative chromatic phase - error @xmath51 .",
    "adopting the standard approximation for the strehl ratio @xcite , it is possible to transfer this rms wavefront - error @xmath52 on a relative flux variation on the detector plane . in detail , defining @xmath53 as the rms chromatic wavefront - error , @xcite found the following relation for the flux residual between images taken with two narrow - band filters @xmath54 :    @xmath55    equation ( [ eq : marois-1 ] ) indicates that with the so called _ single difference _",
    "method the final error is proportional to :    * the variance of the wavefront error : @xmath56 , * the relative wavelength separation between the narrow - band filters : @xmath57 .",
    "the need for a calibration technique more efficient than sdi but still based on the simultaneous difference of chromatic images of the same target field was addressed theoretically by @xcite , which showed that the speckle noise reduction could be much more efficient if observations at three wavelengths were available using their _",
    "double difference _ method , and tasted experimentally with the discovery the first planet obtained by using this calibration technique @xcite , whose infrared contrast is @xmath58 .",
    "starting from there , it is reasonable to assume that a larger number of images at different wavelengths , taken with a regular spectral - step , can result in even better reduction of speckle noise with a true s - sdi calibration technique",
    ". the gain could be even larger if observations at several wavelengths would allow an accurate derivation of the chromatic wavelength scaling , as proposed e.g. by @xcite .",
    "this thought suggests the use of integral field spectroscopy for collecting data simultaneously at a large number of wavelengths given by the total spectral length and the spectral resolution of a suitable disperser @xcite .",
    "note that such an approach is convenient even in the more conservative approach where modeling of the spectral dependence fail , simply because a larger number of wavelength pairs can be constructed .",
    "exploiting an ifu as field stop array over an optical plane conjugated with the focal plane of the telescope itself allows an appropriate sampling of the post - coronagraphic speckle field defined by equation ( [ eq : coro-6 ] ) . the fact that this optical signal gets a finite cut - off spatial frequency proportional to @xmath59 , where @xmath3 is the post - coronagraphic pupil size and",
    "@xmath60 is the spectrograph s cut - on wavelength , means that a correct spatial sampling on this plane should be imposed searching for suitable sizes for the separation between adjacent spaxels , which in turn compose the adopted ifu .",
    "this sampling condition is detailed in ",
    "[ sec :- speckles - spatial - sampling ] .",
    "the request of a sampling criterion based upon the shannon theorem is mandatory not only at the level of the ifu spaxels but also at the level of the detector pixels . in this case",
    "the shannon sampling condition allows to interpolate correctly , both spatially and spectrally , the exit slit functions , which in turn are the final output of an integral field spectrograph .",
    "these two sampling conditions are detailed in   [ sec : spatial - sampling ] and   [ sec : spectral - sampling ] respectively .",
    "let @xmath61 be the focal ratio by which the post - coronagraphic speckle field is projected on the ifu plane .",
    "theory of image formation ( e.g. goodman 1996 ) implies then that the cut - off spatial frequency appropriate to @xmath62 can be written as a function of @xmath61 and @xmath60 as follows :    @xmath63    the spaxel size ( @xmath64 ) defines the nyquist spatial frequency on this plane :    @xmath65    thus , the shannon sampling theorem applied to the ifu plane returns :    @xmath66      the condition avoids aliasing effects when interpolating the array of exit slits over the whole range of wavelengths considered by the spectrograph , and it may be written through the following formalism .",
    "the detector pixel size @xmath67 defines the nyquist spatial frequency on this plane :    @xmath68    once the final spectrograph s exit slits are imaged on the detector pixels through a fixed output focal ratio @xmath69 and an optical magnification @xmath70 , theory of image formation , e.g. , implies that their spatial cut - off frequency is :    @xmath71    where @xmath60 indicates the shortest wavelength imaged by the spectrograph .",
    "we define the super - sampling condition as :    @xmath72      when working with a speckle pattern data - cube , chromatic re - sampling is needed to obtain both monochromatic images , as indicated by @xcite , or spectra , as indicated by @xcite .    to this aim",
    "@xcite suggested to adopt a suitable pixel - dependent re - sampling of the speckle field which varies according to wavelengths , while @xcite developed a subtraction algorithm based upon analytical modelings of the spectral content of a speckle field .",
    "anyhow , before any re - sampling recipe , it is important to find out the exact condition allowing to avoid aliasing errors due to the speckle chromatism effect .    since the speckle pattern scales proportionally to wavelength (   [ sec : speckle ] ) , a feature located at an angular distance @xmath73 from the central star at wavelength @xmath74 moves spectrally at a rate of @xmath75 .",
    "spatial speckles of width @xmath76 therefore translates into spectral speckles of width :    @xmath77    i.e. , the spectral extension of speckles is inversely proportional to the distance from the field center .",
    "nyquist sampling of spectral speckles requires spectral sampling ( @xmath78 ) corresponding to half the speckle width , so far a two - pixel resolving power ( @xmath79 ) , nyquist sampling implies the following condition :    @xmath80    this condition will be fulfilled within a field angle @xmath81 , referred to as the nyquist radius , given by :    @xmath82    we note that it is possible to ensure nyquist sampling in a system which does not fulfil the super - sampling condition written in equation ( [ eq : super-3 ] ) , as long as its field of view does not exceed the nyquist radius and as long as the source itself does not contain spectral features which violate the shannon theorem . for example , an instrument operating on an @xmath83 meter telescope at @xmath84 with a full field of view of @xmath85 arc - seconds , would require a two - pixel resolving power of at least @xmath86 . for systems where larger field of view or lower resolving power is required",
    ", the super - sampling condition must be fulfilled . in these systems ,",
    "the zone lying within the nyquist radius fulfils both equation ( [ eq : super-3 ] ) and and equation ( [ eq : hyper-2 ] ) .",
    "we refer to this double fulfilment as hyper - sampling .    for an integral field spectrograph covering a spectral range fixed between a cut - on ( @xmath60 ) and a cut - off wavelength ( @xmath87 ) ,",
    "where @xmath88 represents the central one , the hyper - sampling condition will be valid over the whole spectral range within the radius :    @xmath89",
    "ifs needs a very large number of pixels at the level of the final image plane where the matrix of spectra is acquired by the detector .",
    "this issue is particularly important when spectral and spatial information are recorded simultaneously in the detector plane , such as for ifs based on the image slicer or the tiger concepts .",
    "the image slicer option is more efficient in terms of detector pixels usage , since no separation between spectra from adjacent pixels is required in one space dimension . assuming a square detector , the number of detector pixels @xmath90 required for a given number of spaxels @xmath91 and number of spectral samples @xmath92 , is given by the following relation :    @xmath93    in this concept a bi - dimensional field of view is divided by mirrors into strips , and then re - formatted on a mono - dimensional pseudo long - slit ( see figure [ fg : slicer ] ) .",
    "monochromatic exit slits will be then obtained downstream , by using a standard collimator , disperser and camera optical system .",
    "a potential problem of the image slicer design concerns the non common path aberrations in adjacent spaxels of the field of view that fall on different slices .",
    "however this concept has been proved able to obtain ( moderately ) high - contrast images from ground even without coronagraphic devices and with moderate strehl ratios @xmath94 @xcite .",
    "a further examination of an image slicer instrument dedicated to high - contrast diffraction - limited imaging spectroscopy is on progress within the feasibility study for the future e - elt planet finder facility @xcite .    on the other hand",
    ", non - common path aberrations are expected to be very small in the case of the tiger - type concept @xcite , which uses an ifu based on a matrix of lenses with fixed lens pitch . in this case",
    "spectra given by individual spaxels should be separated on the detector . for a separation of @xmath95 between spectral samples ,",
    "the required number of detector pixels becomes :    @xmath96    the lenslet - based concept then requires a large number of detector pixels .",
    "however , the format of image slicer ifs - data on the detector is suited for spectra with many spectral elements , i.e. @xmath97 , and relatively small number of spaxels , i.e. @xmath98",
    ". this are not typical values for instruments dedicated to planet search that generally requires short spectra ( @xmath99 spectral elements ) for a large number of spaxels @xmath100 . in order to adequately exploit the detector ,",
    "the number of slices should be roughly given by the ratio between the spaxels and the length of the spectra .",
    "this value is @xmath101 for an integral field spectrograph tuned to planet finding , which would result in an extremely long pseudo - slit .",
    "the format of the image slicer ifu then exacerbates the problems related to non common paths : indeed photons from adjacent spaxels may have very different paths through the instrument .",
    "it is then difficult to maintain small the phase errors , possibly compromising most demanding high - contrast imaging .",
    "given the difficulties inherent to the image slicer solution , we carefully examined the properties of the lenslet - based design , trying to minimize the separation between spectral samples .",
    "to this aim , we developed the new optical concept proposed by @xcite : bigre .",
    "the properties of this design are discussed and compared to the tiger ones , starting from   [ sec : bigre ] .",
    "adopting the formalism of @xcite , any spaxel of an ifu is a sum of linear optical systems . in the specific case of a lenslet - based ifu",
    "these systems are the single lenses .",
    "the coherent and incoherent part of the electric field incoming onto these optical linear systems are transmitted in a different way through two adjacent spaxels . specifically , when the illumination is coherent , the linear responses of adjacent spaxels vary in unison , and therefore their signals , once transmitted and re - imaged on the spectrograph s slits plane , must be added in complex amplitude .",
    "contrarily , when the illumination is incoherent , the linear responses of two adjacent spaxels are statistically independent .",
    "this means that their signals , once transmitted and re - imaged on the spectrograph s slit plane , must be added in intensity .",
    "hence , once dispersed and re - imaged by the spectrograph s optics , monochromatic slits corresponding to adjacent spaxels will suffer from a certain amount of interference .",
    "we call this quantity coherent cross - talk .",
    "furthermore , monochromatic slits will be affected by a spurious amount of signal due to its adjacent spectra .",
    "we call this quantity incoherent crosstalk . with reference to figure [ fg : zoomed - image ] , coherent cross - talk",
    "is the interference signal between monochromatic spectrograph s entrance slits which correspond to adjacent lenses , i.e. separated by a distance equal to the ifu lens pitch . while , incoherent cross - talk is the spurious signal registered over a fixed monochromatic spectrograph s exit slit and due to its closest spectra , even if due to photons of different wavelength .",
    "incoherent and coherent cross - talks represent a major issue identifying the best solution for the spaxels shape ( circular , square , etc ... ) , the lenslet lattice configuration ( hexagonal , square , etc ... ) , and for the geometric allocation of the spectra at the level of the detector plane .",
    "in fact , incoherent and coherent cross - talks are spurious signals  not removed by the application of super- and hyper - sampling criteria  which still affect the final array of spectra , thus damaging the final three - dimensional data cube .",
    "the selection of the kind of field unit to be mounted at the entrance of a lenslet - based integral field spectrograph should then depend on the estimate of the level of incoherent and coherent signals over the individual exit slits of such a spectrograph .",
    "additional considerations should enter in this choice , e.g. the fact that the relevance of the cross - talk terms depends on the wavefront errors after the coronagraph or that minimization of the cross - talk might result in a system design which is potentially less efficient when observations are limited by photon noise .",
    "in general , cross - talk should be specified so that its contribution to the contrast error budget is less than the flat field errors and all remaining spurious effects affecting the the post - coronagraphic speckle field .      basically , coherent cross - talk is the interference of a beam passing through a number of apertures ( individual lenslets ) and measured on a screen ( the spectrograph s entrance slits plane ) conjugated to the detector plane .",
    "let us assume a flat wavefront impinging onto the ifu lenses .",
    "let now be @xmath102 the complex electric field of the coherent signal transmitted by spaxel @xmath103 on the spectrograph s entrance slits plane .",
    "let be @xmath104 the stray part of the complex electric field of the coherent signal transmitted by spaxel @xmath105 ( spaxel @xmath105 being adjacent to spaxel @xmath103 ) and evaluated in the position of the slit corresponding to spaxel @xmath103 .",
    "@xmath102 and @xmath104 are complex quantities that differ according to the phase difference , which is due to different optical paths through the different apertures ( lenslets ) .",
    "the effective coherent intensity measured on the spectrograph s entrance slits plane and corresponding to the position of spaxel @xmath103 will then be :    @xmath106    in the worst case , the phase difference of waves passing through adjacent lenses is @xmath107 @xmath108 . in this case and neglecting the term @xmath109 in the binomial expression of equation ( [ eq : coherent-1 ] ) , the effective coherent intensity proper to spaxel @xmath103 becomes :    @xmath110    cct is defined as the coherent cross - talk coefficient :    @xmath111    where the stray coherent intensity proper to spaxel @xmath105 evaluated in the position of spaxel @xmath103 is defined as :    @xmath112    and the own coherent intensity of spaxel @xmath103 is defined as :    @xmath113    cct represents the maximum extra - amount of coherent signal on the slit function corresponding to a fixed lenslet aperture , and its estimate can be given by measuring the square root of the coherent intensity proper to the slit function corresponding to the adjacent aperture .",
    "however , the total amount of coherent cross - talk is obtained only by adding the contribution due to all the apertures in the lenslet - array .",
    "the amount of spurious incoherent light can be evaluated directly on the detector plane , where a single exit slit appears as a spectrum .",
    "as indicated in figure [ fg : zoomed - image ] , any final spectrum is surrounded by several adjacent spectra .    let be @xmath114 the intensity proper to a fixed monochromatic exit slit ; due to the presence of an adjacent exit slit its effective incoherent intensity will be :    @xmath115    where @xmath116 is the stray incoherent monochromatic intensity of a given adjacent exit slit , evaluated at a distance equal to the separation to the fixed one :    @xmath117    where @xmath118 is defined as the monochromatic term of the incoherent cross - talk coefficient ( ict ) .",
    "the incoherent cross - talk coefficient corresponding to the spectrograph s wavelengths range @xmath119 is then defined as :    @xmath120    thus  differently to the coherent case  the incoherent cross - talk must be considered on the detector plane , searching for spectral alignments for which the distance among adjacent spectra is minimized .",
    "once this spectral alignment is found , an estimate of ict can be given by measuring the incoherent intensity of a single monochromatic exit slit at the distance equal to the transversal separation among adjacent spectra .",
    "however , the total amount of incoherent cross - talk is obtained only by adding the contribution of all the spectra imaged onto the detector plane .",
    "in classical tiger design optimized for seeing limited conditions the spaxels ( or microlenses ) composing the ifu are much bigger than the airy disk , providing therefore resolved images of the telescope entrance pupil , which in turn represent the entrance slits of this kind of integral field instrument , see e.g. @xcite .    differently , in the case of high - contrast imaging the microlenses sample the telescope image according to the shannon theorem .",
    "each microlens acts like a diaphragm isolating a portion of the incoming electric field and concentrates it into a micropupil image in the focal plane of the microlens , acting as the entrance slit function of the spectrograph .",
    "the micropupil image is the convolution between the geometrical pupil image and the psf of the microlens .",
    "as seen below , nyquist sampling of the focal plane implies that the telescope entrance pupil is unresolved by the microlens .",
    "for a circular lens of diameter @xmath64 the transmission function is @xmath121 , where @xmath122 is the image co - ordinate normalized to the lens diameter and @xmath123 is a top - hat function with unitary transmission within the unitary diameter and zero outside of this diameter . according to condition ( [ eq : spatial-3 ] ) , the size of the single microlens should be :    @xmath124    following @xcite , the monochromatic full - width - half - maximum ( fwhm ) of the psf proper to a circular microlens with focal length @xmath125 is :    @xmath126    while the geometrical diameter of the micropupil is :",
    "@xmath127    combining equations ( [ eq : tiger - ifu-1 ] ) , ( [ eq : tiger - ifu-2 ] ) and ( [ eq : tiger - ifu-3 ] ) we obtain then :    @xmath128    this size is therefore at least twice as wide as the geometrical pupil , and so the convolution product is approximately equal to the microlens psf .",
    "thus , we can stay that the field distribution onto the spectrograph s slit plane approximates the one proper to an unresolved micropupil , which is described by the jinc function , where @xmath129 indicates the bessel - j function of order one .",
    "] corresponding to the microlens aperture :    @xmath130    @xmath131 being defined as the pupil the co - ordinate normalized to @xmath132 , where @xmath133 is :    @xmath134    finally , the slit function will be the square modulus of this signal :    @xmath135      as indicated by equation ( [ eq : tiger - ifu-6 ] ) , the single spectrograph s slit is an un - bound signal whose size varies linearly with wavelength .",
    "the final pixel size defines the spatial nyquist frequency on the spectrograph image plane according equation ( [ eq : super-1 ] ) . due to its un - bound nature , the spatial cut - off frequency of the spectrograph s exit slit",
    "gets the finite value fixed by equation ( [ eq : super-2 ] ) .",
    "then , following condition ( [ eq : super-3 ] ) , super - sampling imposes a lower limit to the output focal ratio by which the single microlens generates its corresponding micropupil :    @xmath136    output focal ratios lower than the one fixed by equation ( [ eq : tiger - ifu-7 ] ) introduce aliasing errors in the sampled spectrum , unless the field is smaller than the nyquist radius . according to condition ( [ eq : hyper-4 ] ) , this latter depends on the post - coronagraphic pupil size , the spectrograph s working wavelengths range and its spectral resolution .",
    "hence , the true hyper - sampling is obtained when this radius matches with the maximum image field radius , which in turn is related to the spectrograph s resolving power .",
    "then , for a fixed resolving power , hyper - sampling is then a matter of allocation of the array of final spectra onto the detector pixels , which in turn depends on the accepted cross - talk levels .",
    ".independent parameters of a tiger - oriented ifs [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     as figure [ fg : tigervsbigre-1 ] indicates , adopting a bi - logarithmic scale , the single bigre slit gets an intensity profile steeper than the one proper to the single tiger slit both in the case of circular and square shapes .",
    "more in detail , the upper envelope to the slit intensity profile proper to a circular tiger - oriented spaxel is a power law with index equal to @xmath137 , while the same quantity for a square tiger - oriented spaxel is a power law with index equal to @xmath138 along the aperture side and with index equal to @xmath139 along its diagonal . at contrary , the upper envelope of the slit intensity profile proper to a circular",
    "bigre - oriented spaxel is not a power law ( only its asymptotic tail is fitted quite well with a power law having index @xmath140 ) ; the same quantity is not a power law in the case of a square bigre - oriented spaxel too ( only its asymptotic tail is fitted quite well with a power law with index @xmath141 in the direction of the aperture side and index @xmath142 along its diagonal ) .",
    "the result is that the bigre - oriented circular aperture within a hexagonal lattice configuration allows a superior suppression of coherent and incoherent signals , while the slits generated by a circular tiger - oriented aperture in a hexagonal lattice are similar  in this context  to the ones generated by a square bigre - oriented aperture in a square lattice .",
    "finally , the slits generated by a square tiger - oriented aperture in a square lattice are the worst in term of coherent and incoherent signals suppression , see figure [ fg : tigervsbigre-2 ] .",
    "hence , the contribution of non - adjacent spaxels can be neglected when evaluating the cross - talk signals in the case of a bigre spectrograph , just because the power laws fitting  in a bi - logarithmic plot  the intensity distribution proper to the tiger slit functions do not fit at all the one proper to the bigre slit functions . at contrary , the intensity distribution proper to the bigre slit functions can be only approximated with lower index power laws .",
    "thus , what for a tiger lenslet - array represents an estimate only , for a bigre lenslet - array it gives realistic measures of the signals due to the spectrograph s slit functions cross - talk .",
    "by integral field spectroscopy it is possible to realize the s - sdi calibration technique in the way proposed by @xcite , and  at least in a few cases  to get the spectrum of candidate extrasolar giant planets adopting suited spectral de - convolution recipes , as the one proposed by @xcite .",
    "however , these techniques can increase the contrast performances only when several sampling conditions , both in the spatial and in the spectral domain of the speckle field , are verified .    in this context , our effort has been to discuss in general terms the critical sampling conditions needed to deal with a speckle field data cube before applying on it the s - sdi calibration technique or any spectral de - convolution recipe . to this purpose",
    ", we evaluated the impact of the cross - talk as function of various parameters of a lenslet - based integral field spectrograph , especially in the case of trying to minimize the number detector pixels ( which is an issue in general for ifs ) in the case of strong specifications , as the ones requested for high - contrast imaging .",
    "for this reason we conceived a new optical scheme  we named bigre  and characterized it in the specific case of the ifs channel foreseen inside sphere , showing that a bigre - oriented spectrograph is conceptually feasible by standard dioptric optical devices .",
    "once applied to the technical specifications of this instrument , a bigre integral field unit is able to take into account the effects appearing if a lenslet - array is used in diffraction - limited conditions .",
    "specifically , we proved here that coherent and incoherent cross - talk coefficients reach values deeper than for a tiger ifu when applied to the same optical frame .",
    "more in general , the comparison between the bigre and the tiger spaxel concept has been pursued in terms of coherent and incoherent cross - talk suppression , adopting a common size for the single aperture and a fixed monochromatic wavelength for the wavefront propagation . in the ideal case of uniform illumination with un - resolved entrance pupil , the circular bigre spaxel within an hexagonal ifu lattice configuration shows to be the optimal solution among the ones we investigated .",
    "the authors thank roberto ragazzoni for the support he gave them in the development of this subject , from the primeval cheops project to sphere .",
    "jacopo antichi thanks personally bernard delabre for a dedicated work session at eso - garching in april 2007 , devoted to the final design optimization of the bigre - oriented spectrograph to be mounted in sphere and christophe vrinaud for his advising during the completion of the manuscript .",
    "jacopo antichi is supported by laog through the european seventh framework programme infra-2007 - 2.2.1.28 .",
    "beuzit , j .- l . , feldt , m. , dohlen , k. , mouillet , d. , puget , p. , wildi , f. , abe , l. , antichi , j. charton , j. , claudi , r. , downing , m. , fabron , c. , feautrier p. , fedrigo , e. , fusco , t. , gach , j .-",
    "l , gratton , r. g. , henning , t. , hubin , n. , joos , f. , kasper , m. e. , langlois , m. , lenzen , r. , moutou , c. , pavlov , a. , petit , c. , pragt , j. , rabou , p. , rigal , f. , roelfsema , r. , rousset , g. , saisse , m. , schmid , h. m. , stadler , e. , thalmann , c. , turatto , m. , udry , s. , vakili , f. , waters , r. 2008 , proceeding spie , 7014e .. 41b                              langrange , a .- m . ,",
    "gratadour , d. , chauvin , g. , fusco , t. , ehrenreich , d. , mouillet , d. , rousset , g. , rouan , d. , allard , f. , gendron ,  .",
    ", charton , j. , mugnier , l. , rabou , p. , montri , j. , lacombe , f. 2008 , arxiv0811.3583l          kasper , m. e. , beuzit , j .- l . ,",
    "vrinaud , c. , yaitskova , n. , baudoz , p. , boccaletti , a. , gratton , r. g. , hubin , n. , kerber , f. , roelfsema , r. , schmid , h. m. , thatte , n .- a . , dohlen , k. , feldt , m. , venema , l. , wolf , s. 2008 proceeding spie , 7014e .. 46k        macintosh , b .- a . , graham , j .-",
    ", palmer , d .- w . ,",
    "doyon , r. , dunn , j. , gavel , d .-",
    ", larkin , j. , oppenheimer , b. , saddlemyer , l. , sivaramakrishnan , a. , marois , c. , pyoneer , l - a . , soummer , r. 2008 , proceeding spie , 7015e .. 31 m                                    vrinaud , c. , korkiakoski , v. , martinez , p. , kasper , m. e. , beuzit , j .- l . , abe , l. , baudoz , p. , boccaletti , a. , dohlen , k. , gratton , r. g. , mesa , d. , kerber , f. , schmid , h. m. , venema , l. , slater , g. , tezca , m. , thatte , n. 2008 proceeding spie , 7014e .. 52v"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> integral field spectroscopy ( ifs ) represents a powerful technique for the detection and characterization of extrasolar planets through high contrast imaging , since it allows to obtain simultaneously a large number of monochromatic images . </S>",
    "<S> these can be used to calibrate and then to reduce the impact of speckles , once their chromatic dependence is taken into account . </S>",
    "<S> the main concern in designing integral field spectrographs for high contrast imaging is the impact of the diffraction effects and the non - common path aberrations together with an efficient use of the detector pixels . </S>",
    "<S> we focus our attention on integral field spectrographs based on lenslet - arrays , discussing the main features of these designs : the conditions of appropriate spatial and spectral sampling of the resulting spectrograph s slit functions and their related cross - talk terms when the system works at the diffraction limit . </S>",
    "<S> we present a new scheme for the integral field unit ( ifu ) based on a dual - lenslet device ( bigre ) , that solves some of the problems related to the classical tiger design when used for such applications . </S>",
    "<S> we show that bigre provides much lower cross - talk signals than tiger , allowing a more efficient use of the detector pixels and a considerable saving of the overall cost of a lenslet - based integral field spectrograph . </S>"
  ]
}