{
  "article_text": [
    "the warps in spiral galaxies continue to be a puzzling phenomenon even after about half a century since their discovery ( kerr 1957 ) .",
    "recent observational analysis along with theoretical studies have substantially improved our understanding of the nature of warps in spiral galaxies .",
    "warps are primarily seen in the 21 cm neutral hydrogen line ( bosma 1978 ; briggs 1990 ; garcia - ruiz et al .",
    "2002 ) and the optical bands ( sanchez - saavedra et al .",
    "1990 ; reshetnikov & combes 1999 ; drimmel et al .",
    "2000 ; reshetnikov et al .",
    "based on the iras ( infrared astronomical spectrograph ) observations of the old stellar population , djorgovski and sosin ( 1989 ) detected warps in the stellar disc of our galaxy and the signature of warps in the mid - infrared has also been confirmed recently by vig et al .",
    "however , unlike the optical , the infrared ( ir ) observations and a thorough analysis of warps in external galaxies are lacking , a situation we try to remedy here .",
    "the amplitudes of warps in the optical and infrared are much smaller than in the hi . based on a small sample of hi observations of warps , briggs ( 1990 ) created a set of rules for warps .",
    "his first rule states that warps develop between r@xmath0 and the holmberg radius , r@xmath1 ( corresponding to 25 and 26.5 b - mag arcsec@xmath2 surface brightness respectively ) .",
    "typically , these radii would correspond to 4 - 6 exponential radial scale lengths .",
    "however , no such rule exists so far in the literature for the optical warps .",
    "it is also not clear whether the onset of warp in the old stellar population follows the briggs rule .",
    "so we would like to understand the onset of warps in the stellar discs ; where exactly the warp begins in the disc ? what can we learn from the ir observations ?",
    "since the onset of warp is global in nature , how is it connected to the baryon distribution as well as the dark matter distribution in disc galaxies ? in the present paper ,",
    "we focus on the issue of the onset of warps in edge - on spiral galaxies based on the deep 4.5 micron _ spitzer / irac _ observations .    several mechanisms have been put forward to explain the origin of the classical integral sign symmetric warps in the galactic discs : intergalactic magnetic fields ( battaner et al .",
    "1991 ) , cosmic infall ( jiang & binney 1999 ; shen & sellwood 2006 ) , angular momentum misalignment between the dark matter halo and the disc ( debattista & sellwood 1999 ) , and intergalactic accretion flows ( lopez - corredoira et al . 2002 ; sanchez - salcedo 2006 ) .",
    "however , none of them seems to be unquestionable .",
    "here we concentrate on the model where warps are formed by tidal interactions only . in the hierarchical structure formation scenarios , galaxy interactions",
    "are common and tidal interactions with nearby companions or satellites have often been considered as a plausible mechanism for the generation of warps in disc galaxies ( zaritsky & rix 1997 ; reshetnikov & combes 1998 ; schwarzkopf & dettmar 2001 ; bailin & steinmetz 2003 ) . the principle of warp generation is quite straightforward and generic in the tidal interaction scenario , because the m=1 fourier component of the perturbing potential is proportional to @xmath3 , which can naturally induce an integral sign symmetric warp in the galactic midplane ( saha & jog 2006 , hereafter sj06a ) .",
    "we will check our observations against this model only as it makes testable predictions for the onset radius of a warp , which is not trivially the case for other models of warp generation .    since warps are observed in both the young stellar populations ( drimmel et al . 2000 ) and old stellar populations as well as in the neutral hydrogen gas , it is no longer just a gaseous phenomenon .",
    "warping emerges as a self - gravitating phenomenon of the galactic disc .",
    "based on the fact that warp is self - gravitating , sj06a have recently put forward an explanation for the onset of warps in the galactic discs by calculating the self - consistent linear response of the disc due to tidal interaction .",
    "it is possible that warps and their onset radii can be explained by many other mechanisms as mentioned above , but at present we have only sj06a the model that provides the onset radii for the warps .",
    "building new models for the onset radii under other mechanism is beyond the scope of the present paper .",
    "van der kruit ( 2007 ) has made a comparative study of the edge - on galaxies in the garcia - ruiz et al .",
    "( 2002 ) sample and tried to find the connection between the onset of hi warps and the truncation in the stellar discs .",
    "surprisingly , little attention is given so far to the onset of optical / ir warps predominantly due to the difference in resolution between radio and optical data .",
    "it is not clear whether the onset of hi warp coincides with that of the optical warps .",
    "the onset of warps might be able to provide valuable information about the structure of disc galaxies .",
    "given the mass model , which can be derived from the photometry and the observed rotation curve of a galaxy , sj06a allows us to calculate the linear response function of the disc to tidal interaction and derive semi - analytically a minimum radius for the onset of warps .",
    "the beauty of the linear response theory lies in that it does not need the distance to the tidal perturber in evaluating the onset of warp .",
    "our primary aim in this paper is to measure the onset radii for the warps in a sample of edge - on spiral galaxies observed in the _",
    "spitzer / irac _ 4.5 micron band and then test whether these observed onset radii are consistent with the theoretically estimated onset radii of warps according to sj06a .",
    "our analysis shows that the onset of warps are generally not symmetric about the center of the galaxy and this fact has led us to investigate the underlying symmetry of the light distribution in edge - on disc galaxies .",
    "we then study the correlation between the asymmetry in the onset of warp and the asymmetry ( if any ) of the light distribution in the sample galaxies .",
    "we also study the possible connection between the onset radii for the warps and the dark matter content within the extent of the stellar disc .    in  2 and  3",
    ", we discuss the sample selection , the modeling of the light distribution and its asymmetries . in  4 and  5 , we develop the basic ingredients for the rotation curve modeling and the disc response to the tidal interaction respectively .  6",
    "is devoted to the onset of warps .",
    "the comparison between the theory and observation and important results from our analysis are layed out in  7 .",
    "discussion and conclusions are presented in  8 .",
    "appendix a presents detailed results on each of the sample galaxies .",
    "the _ spitzer / irac _ observations of edge - on spiral galaxies are from both a dedicated survey ( proposal 20268 ,  the formation of dust lanes in nearby , edge - on disk galaxies  , p.i : r. s. de jong ) , and all public _ spitzer / irac _ observations of very high inclination spiral galaxies in the archive that are near enough to easily resolve their vertical disc structure .",
    "the sample spans a range of spiral galaxy subtypes and a range of masses .",
    "_ spitzer _ data is processed by a pipeline after transmission from the satellite .",
    "this pipeline corrects for known behavior of the infrared array camera ( irac ) and takes care of flatfielding the images .",
    "our data was processed with the s13 version of the pipeline or better .",
    "the resulting basic calibrated data ( bcd ) can be retrieved with _ leopard _ , the online data - retrieval tool .",
    "these bcds were subsequently combined into mosaics with the mopex package , the mosaicing software specific for _ spitzer / irac _ data , using input settings kindly provided by karl .",
    "d. gordon .",
    "the resulting mosaics are of similar quality than those produced by the _",
    "spitzer infrared nearby galaxy survey _ ( sings , kennicutt et al 2003 ) , which used a custom mosaicing pipeline .",
    "remaining issues in the mosaics are leaks of flux from bright stellar objects ( mux - bleed ) , column - to - column background level changes ( optical / electronic banding ) , lower column values due to a bright object ( column pull - down ) and ghost afterimages of bright objects ( persistence ) . however , the careful dithering of the observations for our dedicated survey has substantially reduced the banding and persistence issues in our data . in possible future versions of the irac bcd pipeline or mopex",
    ", these remaining issues will be taken care of . however , most are small scale and only near bright stars and therefore do not affect the results presented here .",
    "the details of our data reduction are described in detail in holwerda et al . _ in prep .",
    "_    initially we started with 24 edge - on galaxies .",
    "of these , we found 14 galaxies showing warps ( by eye ) in channel 2 , i.e. , the 4.5 micron band of _",
    "spitzer_. but 4 galaxy images have some problem , e.g. , eso373 and ngc 5946 both suffer from incomplete coverage on one side and ngc 4437 and ngc 4631 have too mild warps to measure .",
    "our final sample consists of 10 galaxies for which we have a reliable measurement of warps .",
    "only 6 of those galaxies were found to have rotation curves in the literature , which are necessary for our analysis .",
    "before performing our 2-dimensional fit of the edge - on disc in channel 2 ( 4.5 @xmath4 m ) , we rotated the image mosaics so that the major axis are aligned with the x - axis and degraded the resolution to that of the 8 micron mosaics .",
    "we furthermore masked all fore and background objects and other structures artifacts and bright disc sources with a combination of a source extractor ( holwerda 2005 ) catalog and a visual inspection .",
    "we fitted a projected exponential disc , adapted from van der kruit and searle ( 1981 ) , but with an exponential decline instead of a @xmath5 in the vertical ( z ) direction : @xmath6 .",
    "the fit is performed with _",
    "mpfit2dfun _ routine using idl with six parameters : the central position ( @xmath7,@xmath8 ) , position angle ( @xmath9 ) and disc s central surface brightness ( @xmath10 ) , scale lengths ( @xmath11 ) and height ( @xmath12 ) .",
    "the data - reduction and 2d fits to all channels is presented in holwerda et al .",
    "( in prep ) .      apart from the modeling of the radial and vertical variations of the stellar light in the edge - on disc galaxies , we also investigate the underlying symmetry of the light distribution about the centre of the galaxy .",
    "there exist many dynamical signatures of asymmetry in the edge - on disc galaxies , e.g. hi line - width profiles ( richter & sancisi 1994 ) ; rotation curves ( sofue 1996 ; jog 2002 ) ; asymmetric warps ( garcia - ruiz et al . 2002 ; saha & jog 2006b ) , etc .",
    "we also find asymmetry in the location of the onset of warps on either side of the disc about the centre as presented in  6.1 .",
    "are the underlying asymmetries in the light and hence stellar mass distribution causing the asymmetries in the onset of warps ? or are the dynamical asymmetries mainly caused by asymmetric dark matter distribution ?",
    "these questions have provided the basic motivation to come up with a method to measure the asymmetry in the light distribution of an edge - on galaxy .    to quantify the asymmetry in the light distribution ,",
    "we use horizontally rotated 4.5 micron images of edge - on galaxies from our sample ( which are also being used to measure the radii for the onset of warps , see  6 ) and sum all the flux in two equal - sized boxes encompassing one half of the galaxy , one on the left of the galaxy centre and one on the right .",
    "these fluxes on the left and right of the galaxy centre are denoted by @xmath13 and @xmath14 respectively .",
    "we then define the asymmetry in the light distribution of edge - on galaxies as a dimensionless and normalized quantity called the edge - on asymmetry ( @xmath15 ) as    @xmath16    it is obvious from the above definition that @xmath17 refers to a symmetric light distribution about the center of the edge - on galaxy .",
    "note that @xmath18 would imply a deficiency in the light on the left side of the galaxy centre compared to that on the right side and vice - versa for @xmath19 .",
    "@xmath15 calculated in this way gives us a global measure of the asymmetry in edge - on disc galaxy .",
    "since we use the total integrated flux to calculate the @xmath15 value , we loose any local information of asymmetry in the edge - on image of the galaxy .",
    "however , it may be interesting to see the variation of @xmath15 along the major axis of the galaxy by considering small sized rectangles on either side of the centre of the galaxy .",
    "we discuss the possible connection of the edge - on asymmetry with the onset of warps in  7.3 .",
    "we consider a three component galaxy model in modeling the observed rotation curves .",
    "the galaxy is composed of a bulge , a disc , surrounded by a spheroidal dark matter halo .",
    "below we describe each component in detail .",
    "the bulge dominates , in general , the inner parts of the rotation curve .",
    "one galaxy in our subsample , ngc7814 , is actually bulge - dominated and indeed the bulge is a major contributor to the overall rotation curve of ngc7814 . for simplicity , we assume the density profile of the bulge to be described by a two - parameter plumer - kuzmin model ( binney & tremaine , 1987 ) :    @xmath20    where r@xmath21 is the bulge scale - length and m@xmath21 is the total bulge mass .",
    "the potential , @xmath22 , due to the bulge is obtained by inverting the poisson equation for the density profile ( eq.[2 ] ) and is given in binney & tremaine , 1987 ( eq.[2.47a ] ) .",
    "we use this potential to derive the bulge contribution to the observed rotation curves .      the almost negligible influence of dust in the _ spitzer / irac _ ( 4.5 micron ) band allows us to do an accurate 3d mass modeling of the stellar disc .",
    "the light distribution of the stellar disc is reasonably well modelled by a double exponential profile .",
    "we assume the stellar disc to be axisymmetric and the density distribution is given by :    @xmath23    where @xmath24 is the disc central density and @xmath11 is the disc scale - length .",
    "@xmath25 is the vertical scale - height that in general is a function of the galactocentric distance @xmath26 .",
    "interactions and mergers are some of the possible candidates that could give rise to flaring discs , i.e. , the scale - height @xmath25 increasing systematically with the radial distance . apart from the external perturbations , it is possible that some internal disc instabilities could cause such a scenario giving rise to flaring . a number of mechanisms such as scattering due to spiral arms and gmcs ( spitzer & schwarzschild 1953 ; lacey 1984 ) , levitation ( sridhar & tauma 1996 ) , accretion of small satellites ( sellwood et al . 1998 ) , clustered star formation ( kroupa 2002 ) , unstable bending waves ( sotnikova & rodionov 2003 ) could heat up the disc in the vertical direction but it is not obvious what internal mechanisms could produce radially dependent heating resulting in flaring in the disc . the choice of the double exponential disc comes from a recent study by schwartzkopf & dettmar ( 2001 ) of tidally - triggered vertical disc perturbations performed on a fairly large sample of disc galaxies including both interacting as well as non - interacting galaxies .",
    "their study reports that @xmath27 of the discs show an exponential mass distribution in the vertical direction indicating that many disc galaxies have such non - isothermal vertical profiles .",
    "another study by de grijs et al .",
    "( 1997a ) , based on a fairly large number of highly inclined disc galaxies , shows preference towards exponential vertical profiles as compared to the @xmath28 or @xmath5 vertical profiles also proposed for the vertical light distributions ( van der kruit 1988 ) . by solving the hydrodynamical equations incorporating simple star formation law , burkert & yoshii ( 1996 ) found that the proto - galactic disc naturally settles down to the vertical exponential stellar distribution .",
    "so in the present work , we concentrate on investgating how these non - isothermal ( double exponential ) discs respond to tidal interaction due to an external perturber .",
    "nevertheless , we will discuss qualitatively the expected differences when adopting a @xmath5 law for the vertical density distribution instead of an exponential law .",
    "the potential , @xmath29 , due to the above form of the double - exponential disc is given by kuijken & gilmore ( 1989 ) and sackett & sparke ( 1990 ) :    @xmath30^{3/2 } } } { \\frac { { { k z_{\\circ}}e^{-|z|/z_{\\circ } } } - { e^{-k |z| } } } { k^2 { z_{\\circ}}^2 -1}}dk\\ ] ]      the dark matter halo is modelled by an axisymmetric spheroidal system with a pseudo - isothermal density profile ( de zeeuw & pfenniger 1988 ) :    @xmath31    where @xmath32 is the central mass density of the halo , @xmath33 is the core radius and @xmath34 is the halo flattening ( or oblateness ) parameter .",
    "note that @xmath35 would give rise to a spherical halo , while @xmath36 produces an oblate halo and @xmath37 leads to a prolate halo .",
    "here @xmath38 is the axis in the disc plane and @xmath39 is along the vertical direction .",
    "the mass density goes as @xmath40 at large radii ( @xmath41 ) and the mass within a spheroid @xmath42 giving rise to an asymptotically flat outer rotation curve .",
    "the calculation of potential ( @xmath43 ) due to the dark matter halo is cumbersome and we use eq.(2.88 ) of binney & tremaine ( 1987 ) to calculate the circular velocity in the disc midplane ( which in our model is coplanar with equatorial plane of the dark matter halo ) for the assumed halo profile .",
    ".parameters for the dynamical mass models of the sample galaxies.[tbl-2 ] [ cols=\"^ , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > \" , ]     [ param ]      in fig .  1",
    ", we show the ratio of theoretically estimated onset radii to the observed ones versus the disc thickness parameter ( z@xmath44/r@xmath45 ) .",
    "we first reproduce the onset radii for these galaxies using a constant thickness parameter ( meaning a disc without stellar flaring ) from the analytical calculation .",
    "the theoretical predictions in this way overestimates the onset radii for the warps in these galaxies as can be seen from fig .  1 .",
    "the reason for this overestimation lies in the assumption of the constant thickness of the galactic disc , causing the disc self - gravity to increase and consequently the disc to become stiffer .",
    "however , by relaxing this assumption and considering the galactic disc to be moderately flaring , the theoretical predictions can match quite well the observed radii for the onset of warps .",
    "such moderate flaring of the galactic discs can possibly arise due to some tidal interactions with nearby galaxies , minor mergers , or satellite infall ( quinn et al . 1993 ; schwartzkopf & dettmar 2001 ; kazantzidis et al . 2008 ) .    in order to have a proper comparison between the observation and the theory",
    ", we measure the rate of flaring in the stellar disc .",
    "this is accomplished by fitting gaussian profiles along the vertical direction at each point along the major axis of each galaxy image in the 4.5 micron band and then averaging over both sides of the disc .",
    "the reason we use averaged flaring is to have a better comparision with the theory ( sj06a ) which is built on axisymmetric models .",
    "the measured flaring rate varies from @xmath46 per scale length ( see table 4 ) in our sample of galaxies .",
    "note that these flaring measurements are normally an overestimation because we use linear fitting to the flaring curves",
    ". such flaring rate would increase the disc scale height by a factor of @xmath47 over the optical disc .",
    "these values are still , in general , in good agreement with previous observations in other galaxies ( see de grijs & peletier 1997 ; narayan & jog 2002 ) .",
    "we note that the models with moderate flaring are more favourable to the present observational analysis . in fig .  2 , we carry out a detailed statistical analysis for the model with observed flaring .",
    "2 shows the direct comparison between the theoretical onset radii calculated incorporating the observed flaring and observed onset radii .",
    "as expected , we fit a simple straight line through the data points .",
    "the dotted curves are the boundary of a 95% confidence ellipse and the interior region bounded by the dotted curves is the 95% confidence band for the true linear regression model .",
    "we study here the effect of dark matter on the onset radii of the warps .",
    "as the dark matter halo becomes more and more massive compared to the disc , it pushes the onset radius inward in the disc as explained in sj06a ( see their fig .  3 ) .",
    "we try to verify the effect of the dark matter in our observational analysis . in fig .  3 , we show the observed onset radii versus the ratio of the dark matter to the disc mass ( @xmath49 ) derived from the rotation curve modeling .",
    "the observed onset radii are in reasonably good qualitative agreement with what had been predicted in sj06a . since the analysis of sj06a is linear , it is hard to find a good match with real observations .",
    "the onset radii for the warps decrease as the amount of dark matter increases .",
    "also the theoretical predictions of the onset radii using the model with moderate flaring are in good agreement with the observations .    in fig .  4",
    ", we aim at understanding the connection between the baryonic @xmath48 and the observed onset radius of the warp of a disc galaxy .",
    "according to theoretical expectations , with the increase of @xmath48 , the disc mass increases and this in turn increases the self - gravity . as a consequence , the warp should start at a larger radius . however , this trend is not very clear from fig .  4 .",
    "for a given rotation curve , the interplay between the @xmath48 and the amount of dark matter is complicated and it is a bit too simplistic to expect such correlation in the first place .",
    "it is possible that @xmath48 does not vary much in the spitzer bands .",
    "the observed scatter in the plot may not be surprising given that there can be uncertainties associated with these @xmath48 values .",
    "it is of course a non - trivial job to have an accurate error estimation on the @xmath48 values .",
    "the primary source of error on @xmath48 comes from the mass modelling which requires velocity profiles , observed luminosities , inclination angles etc . in the present study ,",
    "the dominant error on @xmath48 is due to the modelling of the rotation curves that are available in the literature .",
    "since none of the rotation curves in our sample comes with error bars , we indeed suffer from accuracy in the modelling and a formal error calculation is not possible here .",
    "instead , we perform an order of magnitude estimate for the errors on @xmath48 values based on the overall fitting of the rotation curves .",
    "we used relative root mean square error deviation to get an overall error between the model and the observed rotation curve .",
    "the typical model uncertainties derived in this way lie in the range @xmath50 .",
    "note that these errors should be regarded as the maximum on the derived @xmath48 values from the fitting procedure .",
    "these errors are more or less consistent with the scatter in the @xmath48 values and thus the @xmath48 values are what one would expect from the stellar population models ( bell & de jong 2001 ) .",
    "this in turn indicates that these galaxies are reasonably well modeled with maximum disc hypothesis .",
    "we measure the onset - asymmetry and the edge - on asymmetry for ten galaxies in our sample as shown in table 3 . as mentioned in  3.1 and  6.1 . , the basic aim of these measurements was to see if there is any correlation between the asymmetries which are seen in the onset of warps and the asymmetries in stellar light distribution about the centre of galactic disc . now , based on a naive theory , we expect the warp should start at a larger radii if the disc self - gravity is dominating over other factors which might be influencing the onset of warp .",
    "so in an edge - on galaxy , if there is more light on one side of the centre compared to the other , the warp should begin at a larger radii on that side .",
    "this simple idea tells us that if the edge - on asymmetry ( for the light ) index ( @xmath15 ) is positive , it implies a positive onset - asymmetry index ( @xmath51 ) for the warp too ( according to our definition ) . in fig .  5",
    ", we show the variation of onset asymmetry in warps with the edge - on asymmetries in the stellar light .",
    "out of ten galaxies in our sample , only two galaxies ( namely ngc 4013 and ngc 5907 ) show positive correlation and the rest of them show anti - correlation",
    ". can we understand this anti - correlation between the two physical entities ?",
    "the onset of warp is a non - local phenomenon and the disc s self - gravity plays a dominant role in deciding where the warp will begin , irrespective of whether the driving force coming from a tidal perturber ( e.g. statellite or companion galaxy ) , misaligned dark matter halo or any other relevant source .",
    "however , any asymmetry in the location of the onset of warp in the disc could likely be a reflection of the asymmetry in the underlying total potential of the galaxy which includes a dominant contribution from the surrounding dark matter halo .",
    "although the light distribution is not symmetric in our sample of galaxies , the total potential arising out of the baryon distribution could still be smooth or the degree of asymmetry in the disc potential is not adequate enough to influence or break the symmetry in the onset of warp .",
    "this could be the reason why we do not see any positive correlation in our sample , but still it remains to explain the anti - correlation .",
    "tidal interactions with companion galaxies are common and it is possible that due to such interaction a large scale wake ( say an m=1 mode ) is set up in the dark matter halo beside a warp in the disc .",
    "such a large scale wake in the dark matter halo could be long lasting ( weinberg 1994 ) and likely to influence the onset of warp in the disc . even local asymmetries ( e.g. substructures ) in the dark matter halo could as well affect the onset radius of warp in the disc .",
    "our speculation that the surrounding dark matter potential is asymmetric and causing the observed anti - correlation is supported by the fact that the inner regions of dark matter halos are seen to be asymmetric in the millennium simulation ( gao & white 2006 ) .",
    "we have also studied the possible correlation of the onset - asymmetry index with other relevant galaxy properties .",
    "6 shows that the onset - asymmetry index tends to be larger in galaxies with smaller scale lengths of the baryonic mass distribution .",
    "since many galaxies in our sample have comparatively smaller scale lengths , we plan to carry out this analysis in future for a larger homogenoeus sample containing galaxies with equal distribution of scale lengths over a chosen range .",
    "however , we do not find any good correlation between the asymmetry index and the core radius of the dark matter halo or the total mass of the halo .",
    "infact , the number of galaxies ( 6 ) available for this analyses is too small too draw any conclusive statement . on the other hand ,",
    "its not even understood how the onset - asymmetry index would depend on these parameters given that there are many other influencing factors in actual observations .",
    "in this paper , we have studied the nature of the onset of warps in the discs of edge - on spiral galaxies observed by irac camera on board spitzer .",
    "our observational analysis shows that the locations of the onset of warps in the stellar discs have a slightly wider range ( 3 - 6 @xmath11 ) as compared to the h@xmath52 warps as shown by briggs ( 1990 ) . by studying the onset of warps",
    ", it is possible to shed light on the structure of disc galaxies . measuring the location for the onset of warp is of geometric nature and through such geometrical measurements , it is possible to infer or constrain some associated dynamical quantities ( e.g. , dark matter mass within the stellar disc , disc thickness parameter , flaring in stellar disc , @xmath48 etc . ) in edge - on galaxies .",
    "however , in order to achieve this , we first need to benchmark the relations between the onset radius of warp with those dynamical parameters for a larger number of galaxies .",
    "the main important factors which govern the onset of warps in galactic discs are the rate of flaring in the stellar disc and the amount of dark matter within it .",
    "however , we note that changing the rate of flaring is more effective in determining the radius for the onset of warps than changing the dark matter mass - to - stellar mass ratio ( @xmath49 ) . the observed onset radii for the warps favour a model with moderate flaring of the galactic disc .    in order to model the onset of a warp",
    ", we have assumed a double exponential disc to model the light distribution in the vertical direction as well as radial . near - ir",
    "observations of edge - on disc galaxies show that an exponential distribution is a better fit of the observed vertical light distribution than the @xmath5 distribution ( de grijs et al .",
    "still , it is interesting to know how our results would be affected by a different choice of vertical light distribution .",
    "near - ir observations show an excess light over the @xmath5 model near the galactic mid - plane and thereby a preference towards exponential distribution . in this case",
    ", a @xmath5 distribution would turn the disc to a less massive one over the exponential one ( assuming a constant @xmath48 for the galaxy ) and thereby its self - gravity would be reduced .",
    "we would expect thus to have a smaller radius for the onset of warp for a disc modeled by a vertical @xmath5 distribution .",
    "but it is not possible to give a quantitative estimate without doing a detailed analysis .",
    "we intend to model this in more detail in the future .",
    "interestingly , our measurements of the radii for the onset of warps show that warps do not begin from the same radius on either side of the edge - on disc galaxy .",
    "most of the galaxies in our sample show this kind of asymmetry .",
    "what causes such asymmetry ?",
    "since the warping is a global phenomenon ( typical length scale of warp @xmath53 size of the disc itself ) and the onset of such a large scale bending is certainly a dynamical process , any asymmetry associated with the onset of warp must be a reflection of the inherent asymmetry in the total galaxy potential .",
    "the total potential arises out of the baryon ( here , stellar ) and dark matter distribution in the galaxy .",
    "therefore , it is possible that the asymmetry in the onset of warp could be either due to the asymmetry in the potential arising out of the baryon distribution or dark matter distribution or both . as a first step towards such a diagnostics , we have measured the global asymmetry in the light distribution of the edge - on galaxies as described in  3.1 .",
    "most galaxies in our sample show an anti - correlation between luminosity distribution on either side of the centre and warp asymmetry ( fig .  5 ) , which indicates that the potential arising out of the baryon distribution asymmetry is not affecting the symmetry in the onset of warps .",
    "this suggests that the onset asymmetry in warps might be due to the asymmetry in the dark matter potential . in a hierarchical @xmath54cdm universe dark matter halos",
    "contain a lot of long - lasting substructure at all scales that could give rise to gravitational potential asymmetries uncorrelated with the baryon asymmetry .",
    "another possiblity is the galaxy - galaxy interaction which can produce long - lasting large - scale non - axisymmetric modes in the dark matter halos .",
    "these modes can also be the cause for the asymmetry in the underlying dark matter potential .",
    "however , to conclusively say such thing , we need to repeat this excercise for a larger , statistically significant , sample of galaxies .",
    "our main conclusions are as follows :    \\1 .",
    "we provide the measurements for the onset radii of warps for ten galaxies observed in the _",
    "spitzer s _ 4.5 micron band .",
    "we compare six onset radii with the theoretically estimated radii for the onset of warps based on self - consistent linear response theory .",
    "the onset radii for the warps lie within 3 - 6 disc scale lengths in our sample of galaxies .",
    "we find that the theoretical predictions from the models with a constant disc thickness overestimates the observed onset radii for the warps .",
    "theoretical models with a moderately flaring discs are favoured for explaining the observations .",
    "the observed onset radii for the warps are seen to be declining with the increasing amount of dark matter within the stellar disc ( as was shown theoretically in sj06a ) .",
    "so in a dark matter dominated disc , the warp is expected to be starting at a smaller radius .",
    "the location for the onset of warp in a disc does not show any clear correlation with the @xmath48 in our sample of edge - on galaxies .",
    "the onset of warps in the discs show a clear asymmetry and we quantify these asymmetries by an index called the onset - asymmetry index .",
    "the onset of warps is more likely to be asymmetric in galaxies with smaller scale lengths .",
    "we show that in most of the cases the asymmetries in the onset of warps are anti - correlated with the measured global asymmetries in the stellar light distribution in our sample of edge - on galaxies .",
    "we speculate that the onset asymmetries in warps could plausibly arise due to the underlying asymmetry in the dark matter halo potential .",
    "the onset - asymmetry index can possibly be used as a potential tool for studying the detailed structure in the dark mater halos .",
    "* acknowledgments : *    ks would like to thank the ddrf grant of space telescope science institute operated for nasa by aura for carrying out most of the research in this paper .",
    "this work is based on observations made with the spitzer space telescope , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology under a contract with nasa .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through an award issued by jpl / caltech .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for valuable suggestions and comments which have improved the quality of the manuscript .",
    "ks would like to thank samir saha for useful discussions on statistics .",
    "we acknowledge the usage of the statistical computing and graphics package r ( http://www.r-project.org/ ) .",
    "we acknowledge the usage of the hyperleda database ( http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr ) .",
    "we present here the observational analysis and results for each galaxy in our sample . for each galaxy",
    "we show an image , a warp curve , observed and model rotation curves , and the warped response curve using self - consistent linear response theory .",
    "this galaxy shows a classical integral sign warp .",
    "the disc of the galaxy is slightly thicker than that of our galaxy as can be seen from the thickness parameter ( @xmath55 ) in table 4 .",
    "we use the disc parameters derived from the photometric analysis to model the observed h@xmath56 rotation curve ( mathewson et al .",
    "1992 ; christlein & zaritsky 2008 ) as outlined above in  4 .",
    "the bulge , disc and dark matter halo parameters , derived from the modeling of the observed rotation curve , are shown in table 1 . note that the dynamical mass of the disc of this galaxy is very small compared to other galaxies in the sample .",
    "the disc and dark matter halo parameters are then used to calculate the theoretical radius ( @xmath57 ) for the onset of warps using eq.(8 ) ( see table 4 ) .",
    "a constant thickness disc does not seem to explain the observed onset radius .",
    "however , the observed flaring of the disc results in a slight underestimate of the onset radius .",
    "this is a comparatively smaller sized , perfectly edge - on spiral galaxy lying in the constellation of ursa major .",
    "ngc 4013 is famous for its prodigious warp , studied in great detail in h@xmath52 by bottema ( 1996 ) .",
    "the galaxy shows a mild warping of the disc in the 4.5 micron image as well as in the optical r band observation ( schwartzkopf & dettmar 2001 ) .",
    "our rotation curve modeling yields a dynamical mass of the disc that is quite similar to that of bottema ( 1996 ) .",
    "the shape of the available h@xmath52 rotation curve ( from bottema 1996 ) seems to require a rather larger core radius for the dark matter halo . using the 4.5 micron scale length ( @xmath53 1.63 kpc ) for the disc",
    ", we get the core radius r@xmath58 @xmath53 5 kpc which is quite different from the previous studies . in the previous study done by bottema ( 1996 ) ,",
    "a larger disc scale length ( @xmath53 2.3 kpc ) was used for the rotation curve modeling .",
    "the parameters of the galaxy mass model from our analysis are shown in table 1 . by incorporating the observed flaring",
    ", we get a smaller onset radius for the warps than the observed one . however , the difference is very small ( @xmath59 ) .",
    "ngc4157 is a small barred spiral edge - on galaxy lying in the constellation of ursa major roughly in between two big galaxies m106 and m109 .",
    "its neighbour ngc4088 is also an edge - on spiral .",
    "we detect a small warp in the 4.5 micron band image of the galaxy .",
    "the observed h@xmath52 rotation curve is obtained from marc verheijen ( verheijen & sancisi 2001 ) .",
    "note that even though the galaxy is small , it is not dominated by the dark matter halo in our model .",
    "infact , the ratio of dark to disc mass ( @xmath49 ) is the smallest in the sample .",
    "the theoretically estimated onset radius ( @xmath57 ) , using the constant scale height for the stellar disc , overestimates the observed onset radius by 0.5 disc scale lengths ( i.e. by @xmath53 10 % ) . using the measured flaring of the stellar disc",
    ", we get a perfect match between the theory and observation .",
    "ngc4302 is a very nearly edge - on spiral galaxy lying in the constellation of coma berenices and has a nearby companion galaxy ngc4298 with apparently no sign of interactions in the optical images .",
    "however , radio observations with gmrt 330 mhz by kantharia et al .",
    "( 2005 ) shows quite a clear sign of interactions in terms of tidal bridge between the two galaxies .",
    "this galaxy has been studied recently in great detail to understand the distinct nature of extra - planar diffused ionized gas by heald et al .",
    "we have adopted the major axis h@xmath52 rotation curve of this galaxy from heald et al .",
    "the galaxy shows a mild warping of the underlying thin disc in the 4.5 micron band .",
    "the warp has also been seen in the optical r - band analysis ( schwartzkopf & dettmar 2001 ) . the theoretically estimated onset radius using the disc ( without flaring ) and halo parameters overestimates the onset radius by 1.33 scale length .",
    "the measured flaring rate is very high for this galaxy .",
    "the scale height increases by a factor of @xmath53 3 over 10 disc scale lengths . even using the measured flaring ,",
    "a discrepancy of @xmath60 remains between the theory and observations .",
    "ngc4565 is a very well studied galaxy in the literature .",
    "the disc in the 4.5 micron band is clearly warped .",
    "it also has an extended optical warp ( naeslund & joersaeter 1997 ) .",
    "the thickness parameter ( see table 4 ) indicates that the disc is fairly thin .",
    "using the disc parameters , obtained from the photometric analysis , we model the co + hi rotation curve obtained from sofue ( 1997 ) .",
    "the modelled bulge of the galaxy is quite massive , but ngc4565 is a disc dominated galaxy ( see table 1 ) . using the disc - halo parameters derived from the modeling of the rotation curve , we calculate the theoretical radius for the onset of warp which is about 0.9 scale length more than the observed one ( see table 4 ) .",
    "the stellar scale height of ngc4565 is known to be moderately flaring ( narayan & jog , 2002 ) .",
    "the measured flaring rate is shown in table 4 . using this flaring rate",
    ", we get a reasonably good match with the observation .",
    "this is another well studied , nearby edge - on spiral galaxy in our sample .",
    "warps in this galaxy have been observed both in optical @xmath26-band ( florido et al . 1992 ; schwartzkopf & dettmar 2001 ) and in h@xmath52 ( sancisi 1976 ) .",
    "we detect a small warp in the 4.5 micron band .",
    "earlier thought to be a non - interacting galaxy , this galaxy has recently been discovered to be interacting with a dwarf companion pgc54419 lying at a projected distance of only @xmath53 36 kpc from the center of the galaxy ( shang et al .",
    "1998 ; martinez - delgado et al .",
    "the dwarf companion could to be the cause of ngc5907 s warp .",
    "the disc of ngc5907 also show small scale corrugations as can be seen in the warp curve .",
    "the thickness parameter indicates that this is a fairly thin galaxy ( see table 4 ) .",
    "we model the co+hi rotation curve from sofue ( 1997 ) .",
    "the bulge of this galaxy is moderately massive .",
    "there is a large discrepancy between the theoretically estimated onset radius without any flaring and the observed one .",
    "the stellar scale height flares with a rate of 0.24 per scale length in the galaxy ( see table 4 ) . even using the measured flaring rate",
    ", there remains a discrepancy of about 0.5 scale length in the onset radius between the observation and theory .",
    "bailin , j. & steinmetz , m. 2003 , ap&ss , 284 , 701 battaner , e. , garrido , j. l. , sanchez - saavedra , m. l. & florido , e. 1991 , a & a , 251 , 402 bell , e. f. , & de jong r. s. 2001 , apj , 550 , 212 binney , j. & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics ( princeton : princeton univ . press ) bosma , a. 1978 , phd thesis .",
    "groningen univ .",
    "bottema , r. 1996 , a & a , 306 , 345 briggs , f. h. 1990 , apj , 352 , 15 burkert , a. & yoshii , y. 1996 , mnras , 282 , 1349    christlein , d. & zaritsky , d. 2008 , apj , 680 , 1053 debattista , v. p. & sellwood ,",
    "j. a. 1999 , apj , 513 , l107 de grijs , r. , & peletier , r.f .",
    "1997a , a & a , 320 , l21 de grijs , r. , peletier , r. f. , & van der kruit , p. c. 1997b , a & a , 327 , 966 djorgovski , s. & sosin , c. 1989 , apj , 341 , l13 de zeeuw , t. & pfenniger , d. 1988 , mnras , 235 , 949 drimmel , r. , smart , r. l. , & lattanzi , m. g. 2000 , a & a , 354 , 67 dutton , a. a. , courteau , s. , de jong , roelof , & carignan , c. 2005 , apj , 619 , 218 florido , e. , battaner , e. , gros , a. , prieto , m. & mediavilla , e. 1992 , ap & ss , 190 , 293 gao , l. & white",
    ". s. d. m. 2006 , mnras , 373 , 65 garcia - ruiz , i. , sancisi , r. & kuijken , k. 2002 , a & a , 394 , 769 heald , g. h. , rand , r. j. , benjamin , r. a. , & bershady , m. a. 2007 , apj , 663 , 933 holwerda , b. w. 2005 , astro - ph/0512139 holwerda , b. w. et al .",
    "2009 ( in prep . )",
    "jiang , i. -g . , & binney , j. 1999 , mnras , 303 , l7 jimenez - vicente , j. , porcel , c. , sanchez - saavedra , m. l. , & battaner , e. 1997 , ap & ss , 253 , 225"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze warps in the nearby edge - on spiral galaxies observed in the _ spitzer / irac _ 4.5 micron band . in our sample of 24 galaxies </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence of warp in 14 galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate the observed onset radii for the warps in a subsample of 10 galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the dark matter distribution in each of these galaxies are calculated using the mass distribution derived from the observed light distribution and the observed rotation curves . </S>",
    "<S> the theoretical predictions of the onset radii for the warps are then derived by applying a self - consistent linear response theory to the obtained mass models for 6 galaxies with rotation curves in the literature . by comparing the observed onset radii to the theoretical ones </S>",
    "<S> , we find that discs with constant thickness can not explain the observations ; moderately flaring discs are needed . </S>",
    "<S> the required flaring is consistent with the observations . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis shows that the onset of warp is not symmetric in our sample of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we define a new quantity called the onset - asymmetry index and study its dependence on galaxy properties . </S>",
    "<S> the onset asymmetries in warps tend to be larger in galaxies with smaller disc scale lengths . </S>",
    "<S> we also define and quantify the global asymmetry in the stellar light distribution , that we call the edge - on asymmetry in edge - on galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that in most cases the onset asymmetry in warp is actually anti - correlated with the measured edge - on asymmetry in our sample of edge - on galaxies and this could plausibly indicate that the surrounding dark matter distribution is asymmetric .    galaxies : kinematics and dynamics - galaxies : spiral - galaxies : structure </S>"
  ]
}