{
  "article_text": [
    "shortly after the discovery of quasars , brightness fluctuations of their uv - optical brightnesses were discovered ( matthews and sandage , 1963 ) .",
    "but while several important brightness monitoring programs were undertaken to observe such fluctuations with photographic and photoelectric photometry , little is yet known about the nature and origin of such fluctuations .",
    "many studies searching for short term inter - night and intra - night variability have been undertaken , especially for bl lac objects , to put constraints on internal structure , possibly the inner edge of the accretion disc .",
    "we concern ourselves here with longer term variability because it would evidence the global structure of the quasar .    among the first and most comprehensive studies",
    "was the publication by hawkins ( 1996 ) , based upon a sparse sampling ( 4 observations per year ) . a more recent work ( hawkins 2007 ) incorporated an analysis of the macho quasars with structure function analysis and fourier techniques not suited for the study of random events of the kind we find .",
    "netzer et al ( 1996 ) analyzed photoelectric photometry and looked for many correlations with quasar properties but did not find the reverberation signature .",
    "webb and malkan ( 2000 ) analyzed brightness fluctuations but on time scales too short to recognize the reverberation patterns that we find in our data and rengstorf et al ( 2004 ) used structure function analysis for detection of variability in large samples of stellar objects .",
    "the existence of reverberation in the uv - optical continuum was recognized already in 1997 , and interpreted as indicative of large quasar structure by schild , leiter , and robertson ( 2006 ) in the comprehensively studied gravitationally lensed q0957 ( the first lens ) quasar . following the earlier discovery by thomson and schild ( 1997 ) from autocorrelation analysis that strong repeat patterns of brightness fluctuations were seen over a long 20-year period of monitoring",
    ", these reverberations were combined with microlensing results to produce a picture of luminous structure that seemed to reinforce the picture of outer quasar structure already found by elvis ( 2000 ) . in particular , the radial distance of the elvis outflow structure matched the distance to the reverberating emission line structures found in seyfert galaxy ngc 5548 ( peterson et al 1993 ) when allowance was made for the larger quasar mass .",
    "a refinement by schild ( 2005 ) seemed to demonstrate that the pulse trains observed evidenced outer structure above and below the accretion disc plane , about as described in the elvis ( 2000 ) model .",
    "a microlensing simulation showing that the inner and outer luminous structure is required to fit all available microlensing data was given by schild & vakulik ( 2003 ) .",
    "no physical theory is yet available to guide a discussion of such large quasar structure as implied if the reverberations , observed on time scales of approximately 100 days , are produced by the collapsed central object and propagate to outer luminous structure at light speed .",
    "the broad , blue - shifted high - excitation emission lines present in all quasars are presumed in standard theory to originate in clouds randomly orbiting the central structure . a unification model featuring absorption in a dusty torus",
    "has no physical basis in kinematic or dynamical theory , although it seems to be required to explain the outflow winds that are revealed in diverse spectroscopic data ( elvis , 2000 ) .",
    "proga ( 2000 ) has developed a theory of line driving to explain the outward forces driving an outflow wind but no theory is available to explain why mass is observed so high above the accretion disc plane .",
    "however the meco model of black hole and quasar structure seems to offer a way for strong magnetic fields originating at the center to produce the uplift as a result of magnetic effects caused near the outer light cylinder ( schild , leiter , and robertson 2008 ) . in this case",
    "the central object would be radiatively inefficient ( robertson and leiter , 2006 ) , much as standard black hole models also predict .",
    "we have analyzed the data for the 59 quasars that are seen behind the magellanic clouds and which therefore had their brightnesses monitored during the 7-year duration of the macho microlensing project .",
    "a simple autocorrelation calculation immediately showed that they all had significant autocorrelation structure on time scales of several hundred days and according to current theory such large structure must either evidence systematic brightening of the small central source , whose light travel time size is less than a light day , or must originate in distant outer structure illuminated by the central region .",
    "because no theory for central structure non - periodic oscillations with 100-day time scales is known to us and reverberation between central and outer structure has been reported on relevant time scales in seyfert galaxies ( peterson et al 1993 ) , when scaled from seyfert to quasar masses , we have presumed that the effects we observe are the result of reverberation of the central continuum brightness fluctuations on the outer luminous region that has already been demonstrated by elvis ( 2000 ) to originate the broad blue - shifted emission lines due to an outflow wind .",
    "the data files that we analyzed are available at the yale university website www.astro.yale.edu/mgeha/macho .",
    "we immediately converted the brightness records tabulated in magnitudes to linear units , and removed the outlying data points exceeding 5 sigma .",
    "the brightness records available were available from v and r color filters , but the v brightness records are significantly more complete , and we have not thus far analyzed the r data .",
    "following our preliminary autocorrelation calculation we realized that approximately half of the quasars had significantly more data points than the remainder . to minimize problems",
    "associated with interpolation we restricted our attention to the half which have the most data , each with approximately 1000 nights .",
    "as we further analyzed the brightness data , we found a variety of unexpected behaviors , such as semi - periodicity and broad central autocorrelation peaks .",
    "therefore we have chosen to report on one particular quasar , macho 13.5962.237 , which exemplifies the kinds of behaviors encountered , to allow us to demonstrate the analysis techniques employed .",
    "the redshift of the quasar is 0.17 , and all results in this report are expressed in time units measured by an observer in our local reference frame .",
    "our initial procedure when confronting the macho quasar data was to compute autocorrelation for each of the quasars , since we expected to see the autocorrelation structure discovered in q0957 by thomson and schild ( 1997 ) .",
    "however we noticed that for macho 13.5962.237 a much longer lag was seen to the autocorrelation minimum at 700 days , and that the broad central autocorrelation structure appears to show sub - structure as inflection points for the 150-day lags expected .",
    "inspection of the original brightness record , fig .",
    "1a , showed that the largest brightness fluctuations were indeed long - term changes that had the appearance of semi - periodic change . in our fig .",
    "1a plot of the brightness data , the peaks of the semi - periodic signature are at lags 200 , 1600 and 2200 days .",
    "correspondently , minima of the brightness curve are at days 900 and 2000 .",
    "significantly , the central peak also showed inflection points for lags at 170 , 280 , and 450 days .",
    "to look for the autocorrelation signal evidencing structure of the kind seen in q0957 , we subtracted off the semiperiodicity . because no model for semi - periodic brightness fluctuations due , for example , to a relativistic orbiting hot spot , and because simple inspection of the heavy solid curve in fig .",
    "1a shows asymmetrical profiles , correction with a simple function like @xmath0 would not give a good representation and possibly leave worrisome artifacts .",
    "therefore we adopted a simple procedure of removal by a kind of unsharp masking .",
    "the structure we are looking for should have a time scale of approximately 150 days and the observed quasi - periodicity autocorrelation bottom is at 700 days .",
    "so we ran a 150-day boxcar smooth algorithm over the data to create a smooth representation of the longest term trends .",
    "the smoothed data is also shown in fig . 1a as a heavy solid line .",
    "the smoothed data were then subtracted from the original data to produce a brightness record dominated by fluctuations on time scales of interest for reverberation , fig .",
    ". simple inspection of fig 1c shows a pattern of sharp pulses with brightness amplitudes of approximately 15 % and durations of approximately 50 days .",
    "we next performed our autocorrelation analysis on the de - trended data , with the results shown in fig 1d , where we clearly see a signficant negative ( anti - correlation ) detection of 0.31 for lag 70 days .",
    "the profile of this anti - correlation peak is convincingly symmetrical .",
    "the anticorrelation peak is followed by several peaks of comparable width but lower ( 0.1 ) positive correlation amplitude . of the ensuing peaks shown ,",
    "only the first few are likely to be real , since the autocorrelation function produces spurious peaks at multiples and at the sums of the shorter peak lags .",
    "in previous study of the q0957 + 561 a , b gravitationally lensed quasar , we found evidence for reverberation in the uv - optical continuum brightness curves and attributed it to reflections ( or fluoresces ) off of the outer elvis structure surfaces ( schild , 2005 ; slr06 ) . from this simple model",
    ", we were able to determine the angle of the quasar rotation axis to the line of sight .    in schild ( 2005 ) and in the absence of a full theory of brightness fluctuations created from reverberation of a central disturbance ,",
    "the simple equations describing the sequence of pulse arrivals were presented and solved only for the q0957 quasar . in this section",
    "we show the full solution in the form of a plot that shows how the reverberation pattern varies with the angle of projection between the rotation axis and the plane of the sky .",
    "the equations for the time lags to the four brightness peaks expected for the elvis structure geometry with luminous regions above and below the accretion disc plane have been given in schild ( 2005 ) . for the purposes of this report",
    ", we adopt a value of 13 degrees for the small internal quasar structure variable @xmath1 , since 13 degrees is the value determined for the two quasars for which the reverberation has already been observed ( schild , leiter , and robertson , 2006 , 2008 ) .    in figure 2",
    "we show the plot of reverberation times for the four reverberations seen in quasar brightness histories .",
    "we will see in subsequent sections that the central quasar structure presumably causing the starting pulse is apparently small , with a size parameter estimated from the ( half-)width of the central pulse of only 25 days .",
    "the reverberations have typical time widths of 80 days and are separated by typical times of 100 days .    the curves in fig . 2 show behaviors that are qualitatively distinctive depending on the orientation of the quasar rotation axis to the plane of the sky . for quasars",
    "seen pole - on ( viewing angle 90 degrees ) , an initial brightening of the central region ( near to the inner edge of the accretion disc ) will be followed after some months by the brightening of the nearest ring , and then by the farthest ring . for equator - on orientation , with the rotation axis lying in the plane of the sky , the initial central pulse is followed almost immediately by the brightening of the nearest surfaces and , after a long lag , by brightening of the distant surfaces . for an intermediate orientation , say 45 degrees , the four reverberations are well separated in time and can be individually recognized easily , as has been found for q0957 where we have determined a viewing angle of 54 degrees ( slr06 ; schild 2005 ) .    the curves showing reverberation in fig",
    "2 are shown having a width ( fuzziness ) approximately equal to the expected pulse width .",
    "so for a quasar with a viewing angle of 60 degrees , shown as the horizontal line in fig . 2 ( upper ) , we show in fig .",
    "2 ( bottom ) the pulse train expected .",
    "an initial pulse of 25 day ( half-)width is followed by 4 additional pulses having 80 day widths in the pattern shown . the reverberation pulse amplitudes will be a complicated function of the outflow wind geometry , and our fig .",
    "2 ( lower ) cartoon of the predicted pulse train arbitrarily shows the pulses equal in brightness .",
    "we have made an approximate solution for the orientation angle on the sky for macho quasar 13.5962.237 .",
    "although the equations for the reverberation structure given in schild ( 2005 ) are over - constraining , in the sense that there are four equations for 3 unknown parameters , we find that a solution exists at 72 degrees for the four autocorrelation peaks identified from the fig 1d plot . the same autocorrelation estimate is found plotted to larger scale in our final plot of comparison to simulated data .",
    "we do not estimate a formal error bar because the errors are apparently systematic , relating to small assymetries in the profiles of the pulses seen in autocorrelation .",
    "however we suspect that from the agreement of solutions for various assumptions about the determinations of the pulse centers that the true error of the determination is approximately 3 degrees .",
    "the positive autocorrelation peaks calculated from the brightness data are of low amplitude , but are probably real .",
    "since the original data defining a single 70-day wide peak would contain on average 23 data points , each with a 1-sigma error of 0.03 magnitude , an entire peak has a significance exceeding 10 sigma .",
    "we have used a `` poor man s autocorrelation '' technique to reveal the nature of the reverberations . in figure 3",
    "we have co - added the data segments following the central structure peaks that we can easily identify in the fig .",
    "1c brightness record .",
    "we have not included the wave trains following several of the peaks , especially in the cases where the peaks are double or ambiguous . in the data segments in fig .",
    "3 , we have placed the central brightness peak at 70 days , to see the average brightness preceding the peak in case there are any precursors ( which we do not find ) . in each panel of fig . 3 ( and of fig .",
    "4 ) we show the individual wave trains following the initiating pulse . for comparison ,",
    "the mean wave train formed by averaging the 6 contributing wave trains is shown as a heavy solid curve .",
    "this mean curve shows by construction the mean profile of the initial pulse and the ensuing pattern of reverberations .",
    "the initial pulse has a mean average of 0.3 magnitudes , or 30 % brightness peak , and a pulse ( half-)width of 50 days .",
    "this is followed on time scales of approximately 100 days by secondary , or reverberation , pulses , of comparable widths but lower , .10 mag or 10% , brightness increase .",
    "we do not know of any model that could generate an error statistic for the mean waveform computed , because noise in this mean waveform determination is physically caused by their overlapping .",
    "simple inspection of fig .",
    "1c also shows important events where the quasar brightness @xmath2 , with the amplitudes and durations of the fading events comparable or slightly smaller than the brightening structure .",
    "such events have never been predicted by theoretical work .",
    "the existence of such events - and their characterization - must necessarily be ambiguous to some extent because our methodology includes referring all fluctuations to the long term mean quasar brightness .",
    "nevertheless the fact that we find similar pulse train lags for the fading and brightening events shows that they have some reality , with future quantitative refinement of our analysis method still needed .    in fig .",
    "4 we show the procedure for averaging data segments for individual fading event pulse trains analogous to fig .",
    "in particular , the peak fading is again set at 70 days to allow inspection for a precursor .",
    "however in fig .",
    "4 all the data have been sign inverted to make the pulse trains look like our brightening pulse trains in fig .",
    "it will be immediately recognized that the fig .",
    "4 pulse trains have surprising similarity to the positive pulse trains in fig .",
    "3 . in particular , we find that the central structure has a slightly lower mean amplitude but a similar pulse width .",
    "the later arriving pulses have the same width as in fig . 3 , and are separated by comparable lags .",
    "however an important difference is found between the pulse trains following central brightening and fading events .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "5 a comparison between the two mean pulse trains measured . in the comparison",
    "we find evidence for an @xmath3 @xmath4 .",
    "this means that when the quasar brightens at a reverberation site for some lag relative to a central brightening , the quasar also @xmath5 at the same lag for a central fading .",
    "such inverted structure may be seen in fig . 5 at lags of 82 and 115 days ( shown by the vertical lines in fig . 5 ) .",
    "the 82-day pulse in the two waveforms seem to agree well in pulse width and amplitude ( fig . 5 bottom ) .",
    "however for the 115-day lag , it is not obvious if there is a real inverted structure or just a difference in waveform , possibly caused by noise in the mean waveform determination .    in some ways , it may have been counter - productive to analyze a quasar selected to show the full catalogue of brightness variability behaviors .",
    "the resulting report has a remarkable list of unexpected behaviors needing explanation and even though the data quality is excellent and does not limit any of the interpretations , the complexity of the phenomena does .",
    "thus we present fig . 6 with a view toward bringing together several phenomena explored .",
    "6 we show the brightness records of the mean wave trains determined for the positive and negative spikes in comparison with the fig 1d autocorrelation calculation . the solid heavy line represents the autocorrelation , and the thin line represents the mean of the positive and negative pulse means . in other words , fig . 6 is a comparison of the pulse trains estimated from autocorrelation with the mean pulse train averaged from the many data segments .",
    "the purpose is to show the similarity of the autocorrelation properties to the structured brightness trends .    in fig .",
    "6 , the full width to the first 0 of the autocorrelation curve is at approximately 25 days .",
    "the zero crossing of the mean waveform curve occurs for a comparable lag .",
    "thus the width of the initial brightness burst is measured to be about the same , 25 days , for both techniques .",
    "summarizing our comparison of the autocorrelation estimates with our attempts to identify the specific wave form of the brightness fluctuations , we would say that we have found a mixed picture .",
    "while it seems likely that a sharp 30% brightness spike of 25-day width precedes a pulse train extending over a year , the problem of overlapping of these wave trains makes difficult their clear representation and frustrates any attempt to estimate an error bar .",
    "the different kind of wave train for pulses of fading brightness may have related form . in particular , at the two lags where the brightening and fading wave peaks have inverted structure , the autocorrelation estimate has near-0 amplitude .",
    "nevertheless it is clear that some kind of structure is evidenced in these pulse trains of year - long duration . because the standard black hole model of quasar structure does not include any luminous regular structures with length scales longer than a light day , the study of such repeating or quasi - repeating brightness features on year long time scales is new information about the nature of luminous quasar structure .",
    "although it might seem obvious that a brightening of quasar structure would reverberate around the quasar as lagging brightenings , this is not necessarily the case , and gallagher and everett ( 2007 ) have suggested a mechanism that might produce negative reverberation .",
    "in fig . 7 we show the amplitudes and lags of the quasar brightness pulses determined as the cross - correlation of the mean pulse train profile estimated in section 5 with the semi - periodicity corrected brightness data illustrated in fig .",
    "1c . with the interpretation that the pulse trains illustrated in figs . 3 and 4 represent the ordinary quasar brightness fluctuations resulting from its fueling , the results in fig .",
    "7 are effectively the quasar fueling function .",
    "recall that the curve in fig .",
    "7 has been set againsst a zero mean .    the results in fig .",
    "7 seem to show that the quasar fueling is a reasonably stochastic process with a train of pulses having similar brightness amplitude and duration during the 7-year period of observations .",
    "because of the complexities of the brightness phenomena that we are discussing , and particularly because no model of these effects is yet available , it is difficult to imagine a thorough simulation of the results obtained in the context of random noise .",
    "however , we have undertaken the two simplest kinds of simulations to make some approximation to the effects of random noise .",
    "our first simulation was made by simply scrambling the data points randomly onto the observed observation dates , to produce a noise data set related to the set we have been analyzing .",
    "this produced very noisy plots of autocorrelation which reached a peak anti - correlation value of -0.1 ( instead of our comparable observed value of -0.45 ) and a significantly different appearance of the autocorrelation peak .",
    "the peak in the simulation was significantly narrower , at about 10 days width , which is the effective resolution of our data .",
    "10 realizations of this randomizing of the data points produced similar results that did not look like our real data products .",
    "a second simulation was made by following our next procedure and producing a boxcar smoothed version of our data and subtracting it from our simulated data set .",
    "this produced autocorrelation and mean wavelet properties about as above but with lower amplitude .",
    "nevertheless the autocorrelation peaks had much sharper structure than our real data , and in 10 realizations gave qualitatively different results than our real data .    in fig .",
    "8 we show a typical plot of the noise simulation for the quasar data with red noise suppressed exactly as was done for our real data .",
    "the solid curve is the autocorrelation computed for real data .",
    "it may be seen that the two are qualitatively different , with the quasar data showing quasar brightness fluctuations on time scales much slower than the effective sampling , whereas the noise data show twinkling at lower amplitude and higher frequency .",
    "we have found that the macho program observations of quasar brightness are an excellent resource for the study of brightness fluctuations , because the fields observed are circumpolar and do not suffer from seasonal dropouts and produce results independent of procedures of interpolation . from our autocorrelation analysis of 29 of the best studied cases , we have found that fluctuations seem to have interesting characteristics on two major time scales .    on the longest time scales , of order of 2 years , the fluctuations seem to have a quasi - periodic character with amplitudes of order 30% brightness change .",
    "they are not well represented by sine ( t/500 days ) but nevertheless seem to have a quasi - regular structure .",
    "we have analyzed one of the quasars showing this structure and investigated further the structure seen on much shorter time scales . although it may be premature to call the large overall brightness structure semi - periodic on the basis of the data for macho 13.5962.237 , similar structure has already been seen in the much longer brightness records for the q0957 quasar ( pelt et al , 1998 , figs . 1 and 2 ) .",
    "though seen at a larger redshift , 3 such peaks with comparable 0.3 magnitude amplitude and reasonably uniform cadence have been seen .    after removing the quasi - periodic overall structure ,",
    "we have found that the autocorrelation properties evidence complex and reasonably regular structure having the character of a sharp central pulse followed by broader secondary pulses of lower brightness .",
    "the pulses are surprisingly similar for these rapid events whether the quasar is brightening or fading .",
    "it is worth stating even though not proved herein , that all of the 30 quasars for which we have analyzed brightness data evidence structure on 50-day and separately multi - year time scales .",
    "thus large scale structure with associated size scales of a light year appear to be a universal property of quasars .",
    "because the tentatively observed reverberations have been associated with the previously discussed region where the quasar - defining broad high - ionization blue - shifted emission lines originate , it appears that only a fraction of the dominant uv - optical emission of quasars comes from the central region understood theoretically .",
    "our results suggest a technique for discovering quasars from large area photometric surveys presently being planned ( pann - stars , lsst ) .",
    "calculation of auto - correlation of photometric brightness curves will reveal a signal with anti - correlation bottom of at least -.2 for quasars .",
    "it remains to undertake simulations of data sets at various noise levels and observational epochs to establish the limits of effectiveness of this quasar discovery technique .",
    "such photometric monitoring has the prospect of not only discovering quasars , but also of directly determining masses .",
    "establishment of the fundamental plane for meco quasars by leiter and schild ( in preparation ) seems to show that measurement of the bolometric brightness and a reverberation - measured size parameter related to the distance of the quasar s light cylinder , or to the size of the inner edge of the accretion disc , allows the mass of the central object to be determined .",
    "we thank tesvi mazeh and victor vakulik for useful conversations about the properties of the autocorrelation function .    elvis , m. 2000 , apj , 545 , 63 gallagher , s. & everett , j. 2007 , pasp , 373 , 305 hawkins , m. , 1996 , m.n.r.a.s .",
    "278 , 787 hawkins , m. , 2007 , @xmath6 , 462 , 581 matthews , t. & sandage , a. , 1963 , apj , 138 , 30 netzer , h. , 1996 , m.n.r.a.s .",
    "279 , 429 pelt , j. et al , 1998 , a&a , 336 , 829 peterson , b. et al , 1994 , ap j , 425 , 622 proga , d. 2000 , apj , 538 , 684 robertson , s. & leiter , d. , 2006 , astro - ph/0602543 rengstorf , a. , et al , apj , 606 , 741 schild , r. e. , 2005 , aj , 129 , 1225 schild , r. e. & vakulik , v . , 2003 , aj , 126 , 689 schild , r. leiter , d. & robertson , s. , 2006 , aj , 132 , 420 ( slr06 ) schild , r. leiter , d. & robertson , s. , 2008 , aj , 135 , 947 thomson , d. j. , & schild , r. , 1997 , in applications of time series analysis in astronomy and meteorology , ed",
    ". t. subba rao , m. priestly & o. lessi [ chapman and hall : new york ] , 187 webb , w. @xmath7 malkan , m. , 2000 , apj , 540 , 652"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the nature of brightness fluctuations in the uv - optical spectral region of an ordinary quasar with 881 optical brightness measurements made during the epoch 1993 - 1999 . </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence for systematic trends having the character of a pattern of reverberations following an initial disturbance . </S>",
    "<S> the initial pulses have brightness increases of order 20% and pulse widths of 50 days , and the reverberations have typical amplitudes of 12% with longer mean pulse widths of order 80 days and pulse separations of order 90 days . </S>",
    "<S> the repeat pattern occurs over the same time scales whether the initial disturbance is a brightening or fading . </S>",
    "<S> the lags of the pulse trains are comparable to the lags seen previously in reverberation of the broad blue - shifted emission lines following brightness disturbances in seyfert galaxies , when allowance is made for the mass of the central object . </S>",
    "<S> in addition to the burst pulse trains , we find evidence for a semi - periodicity with a time scale of 2 years . these strong patterns of brightness fluctuations suggest a method of discovering quasars from photometric monitoring alone , with data of the quality expected from large brightness monitoring programs like pann - stars and lsst . </S>"
  ]
}