{
  "article_text": [
    "over the past years , the ( 110 ) surface of tio@xmath0 in the rutile structure has become one of the most popular model systems for fundamental surface science studies of transition metal oxides.@xcite it is the thermodynamically most stable crystal face of tio@xmath0 and therefore represents the dominating facet of rutile crystallites.@xcite stoichiometric , single crystal ( 1@xmath11 ) surfaces may be easily prepared , and most experimental surface science techniques can be applied without difficulties.@xcite the interest in tio@xmath0(110 ) surfaces is furthermore driven by many technological applications of tio@xmath0 , ranging from pigments , coatings , electronic devices , implants , gas sensors , photochemical reactions to catalysis . in all of them , the surface properties of tio@xmath0 play a crucial role.@xcite    one of the most important properties of tio@xmath0 is that it can be easily reduced .",
    "the reducibility is essential for many applications of tio@xmath0 in heterogeneous catalysis .",
    "oxide - supported metal - based catalysts with tio@xmath0 as part of the support often show a so - called strong metal  support interaction ( smsi).@xcite here , the catalytic properties of the supported metal clusters",
    "are profoundly modified by an incorporation of partially reduced tio@xmath2 into the boundary areas of the metal particles.@xcite in many cases , the tio@xmath2-decorated metal particles exhibit a much higher catalytic activity for hydrogenation reactions than the pure metal itself.@xcite    one way to reduce the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface is to remove surface o atoms . by this process , formally two neighboring ti@xmath3 ions of a vacancy change to a ti@xmath4 oxidation state . in ultra - high vacuum ( uhv )",
    "experiments o  vacancies are easily created either by electron bombardment , sputtering , or simply by annealing .",
    "the presence of o  vacancies strongly increases the reactivity of the surface . among the many investigated processes ,",
    "probably the best studied surface reaction is the dissociation of water , which has been shown to occur at o  vacancies,@xcite whereas on the stoichiometric , well - annealed parts of the surface the water molecules stay mostly intact.@xcite there is , however , a limit to what extend the surface can be reduced .",
    "oxygen vacancy concentrations are typically in the order of several percent,@xcite but it is not possible to remove all surface o atoms , in contrast to , for example , the rutile sno@xmath0(101 ) surface.@xcite    alternatively , the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface can be reduced by hydroxylation of the surface o atoms via adsorption of hydrogen . while on unreducible oxides , such as mgo , a heterolytic dissociative adsorption of h@xmath0 with h@xmath5 adsorbing on o@xmath6 and h@xmath7 on the metal cations is preferred , it is more favorable for reducible oxides , such as tio@xmath0 , to form only oh@xmath7 groups . in the latter case",
    "the excess electrons are transferred to the cations , thus reducing ti@xmath3 to ti@xmath4 .",
    "the interaction of hydrogen with tio@xmath0(110 ) , however , has been much less intensively investigated by surface science studies than the reduction by o depletion .",
    "this is rather surprising in view of the importance of tio@xmath0 as catalyst component for hydrogenation reactions and the prospective application of tio@xmath0 as photocatalyst for the decomposition of water .",
    "it has been shown that molecular hydrogen does not interact strongly with tio@xmath0(110),@xcite while atomic hydrogen readily sticks to the surface o atoms.@xcite no ti ",
    "h vibrations could be detected with high resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy ( hreels).@xcite interestingly , also the reducibility of tio@xmath0(110 ) with hydrogen is limited .",
    "recent scanning tunneling microscopy ( stm ) measurements@xcite revealed that even after very high exposures to atomic hydrogen the surface can not be saturated . only a maximum coverage of about 0.7 monolayers could be achieved .",
    "the scattering of thermal energy he atoms ( has ) showed that the hydroxyl groups do not form an ordered overlayer.@xcite performing a thermal desorption spectroscopy ( tds ) experiment by monitoring the he atom reflectivity of the surface while increasing the temperature ( he - tds ) , two distinct changes in the reflectivity at 388k and 626k were observed , which indicate structural rearrangements of the surface.@xcite these rearrangements must involve the loss of the hydrogen atoms , since afterwards the surface was h ",
    "free , as seen by has and hreels .",
    "however , in conventional tds no desorption of h@xmath0 , and only a very small amount of h@xmath0o was detected,@xcite even after heating the surface up to 650k .",
    "this led to the conclusion that the h atoms rather diffuse into the bulk than desorb from the surface.@xcite    as for experiment , also theoretical studies of reduced tio@xmath0(110 ) have mainly focused on o deficient surfaces . while the properties of o  vacancies on tio@xmath0(110 ) have been investigated extensively ( see ref .",
    "for a recent review ) , we are aware of only two recent studies addressing specifically the adsorption of hydrogen.@xcite the determination of binding energies , adsorption sites and some reaction barriers , however , was restricted in both cases to slabs with a ( 1@xmath11 ) periodicity , thus assuming h coverages of one and more h atoms per surface unit cell .    finally , next to the formation of o  vacancies and the hydroxylation of the surface by hydrogen adsorption , also the interaction with water has to be taken into account .",
    "the adsorption of water , either molecular or dissociative , does not lead to a reduction of the surface .",
    "but since water is always present , even in well - controlled uhv experiments , one has to account for residual hydroxyl groups which affect other adsorption and reaction processes.@xcite water adsorption on tio@xmath0(110 ) has been investigated extensively both experimentally and theoretically . among the experimental studies",
    "the common view is that at all coverages water adsorbs molecularly on the ideal terraces of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface and only dissociates at defects.@xcite however , it should be noted that in all these experiments always a small amount of dissociated water was present as seen by xps and hreels and indicated by a high - temperature tail in tds .",
    "these signatures were naturally attributed to water molecules dissociated at o  vacancies , but it would be difficult to distinguish them from a situation in which water initially would adsorb dissociatively at very low coverages and molecularly afterwards as suggested by some early studies.@xcite in contrast to the consensus among the experimental studies the results from theoretical calculations are very contradictorily .",
    "early investigations predicted water dissociation at all coverages in complete disagreement with experiment . only in some more recent calculations partial dissociated or molecular structures of water",
    "were found to be lower in energy .",
    "overall , the theoretical studies are almost evenly divided whether molecular , dissociative or a partial dissociative adsorption of water ( strongly depending on the coverage ) is predicted as the energetically most stable state.@xcite     atomic structure of the stoichiometric rutile tio@xmath0(110 ) surface .",
    "oxygen atoms are shown in red , ti atoms in gray .",
    "the two- and threefold - coordinated o sites and the fivefold - coordinated ti sites are labeled by o(2 ) , o(3 ) and ti(5 ) , respectively . ]",
    "the aim of the present paper is to explore the competition between the reduction of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface via o  vacancy formation or hydrogen adsorption and the non - reductive interaction of the surface with water in a comprehensive and systematic way . for a series of surface models with different o defect configurations and for a wide range of both hydrogen and water coverages",
    "we determine the total energies and the fully relaxed atomic structures using first - principles density functional theory ( dft ) . in order to extend the zero temperature and zero pressure dft results to relevant environmental situations , such as uhv or reaction conditions in heterogenous catalysis , and to identify the thermodynamically most stable surface structures and compositions depending on the experimental conditions",
    ", we assume that the surfaces are in thermodynamic equilibrium with a surrounding gas phase at a given temperature @xmath8 and finite partial pressures @xmath9 . to account for the exchange of oxygen and hydrogen between the surface and the gas phase , appropriate chemical potentials @xmath10 and @xmath11 are introduced.@xcite by minimizing the gibbs free surface energy as function of the chemical potentials , surface phase diagrams of the most stable surface structure and composition",
    "are constructed depending on both temperature and partial pressures .",
    "within this context the main focus of the present study will be on the hydroxylated surface .",
    "in addition to the thermodynamic considerations we investigate the kinetic behavior of hydrogen atoms and water molecules on the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface .",
    "energy barriers for various surface processes related to the migration and desorption of hydrogen and to the dissociation of water are calculated .",
    "our results support the recently proposed suggestion that hydrogen atoms , instead of being desorbed from the surface at higher temperatures , migrate into the bulk .",
    "in addition , we find a rather small barrier for water dissociation .",
    "however , in contrast to some previous studies , our results indicate that the molecular adsorption of water is preferred over dissociation in the monolayer coverage limit .",
    "the dft calculations for the different tio@xmath0(110 ) surface structures , as well as the bulk and molecular reference energies , have been carried out using the car  parrinello molecular dynamics ( cpmd ) code.@xcite the gradient - corrected perdew  burke ",
    "ernzerhof functional@xcite pbe was used to describe the exchange and correlation effects .",
    "vanderbilt ultrasoft pseudopotentials@xcite were employed together with a plane wave basis set to represent the kohn - sham orbitals .",
    "a plane wave cut - off energy of 25ryd was sufficient to get well converged results for structures and energetics . in particular , increasing the cut - off to 30ryd changed the adsorption energies for water molecules by less than 0.02ev .",
    "the ti pseudopotential was constructed from an ionic 3@xmath124@xmath13 configuration , and the 3@xmath14 and 3@xmath9 semicore electrons were treated as full valence states . since very large supercells were used ( see below ) , the @xmath15point sampling was restricted to the @xmath16point .",
    "spin polarization was included for all systems with an odd number of electrons and for all calculations with oxygen vacancies .",
    "all configurations were relaxed by minimizing the atomic forces .",
    "convergence was assumed when the maximum component of the residual forces on the ions was less than 0.01ev /  .    with this computational setup",
    "we find for the optimized tio@xmath0 bulk lattice parameters values of @xmath17=4.649 , @xmath18=2.966 and @xmath19=0.305 , which compares very well to previous gga calculations@xcite and to experiment ( @xmath17=4.594 , @xmath18=2.959 and @xmath19=0.305 , see ref .  ) .",
    "convergence of the unrelaxed ( upper panel ) and relaxed ( lower panel ) tio@xmath0(110 ) surface energy with slab thickness ; note the different energy scale .",
    "the solid black line in the lower panel represents the result from fully relaxed slabs . the calculation with the atoms in the bottom two trilayers fixed at the bulk positions",
    "is shown by the red dashed line . ]",
    "convergence of the hydrogen adsorption energy @xmath20 with slab thickness at full monolayer coverage .",
    "the atoms in the bottom two trilayers were fixed at the bulk positions .",
    "the solid black and the dashed red lines distinguish calculations without and with saturation of the broken surface bonds at the bottom of the slabs with pseudo atoms of nucleus charge of + 4/3 and + 2/3 , respectively . ]     local density of states ( ldos ) of ti and o atoms in bulk tio@xmath0 ( black solid lines ) , of the fivefold- and twofold - coordinated ti(5 ) and o(2 ) surface atoms at the bottom of a four trilayer tio@xmath0(110 ) slab ( top two layers relaxed , bottom two layers fixed at bulk positions , red dashed lines ) , and after saturation of the bottom ti(5 ) and o(2 ) surface atoms with pseudo - hydrogen atoms ( see text , blue dashed - dotted lines ) . ]    for the calculation of the energetics of o  vacancy formation as well as hydrogen and water adsorption , the total energies of the isolated o@xmath0 , h@xmath0 and h@xmath0o molecules are needed . while h@xmath0 and h@xmath0o are reasonably well described within pbe / dft , it is a well - known deficiency of all local and semilocal functionals ( such as pbe ) that they strongly overbind the o@xmath0 molecule.@xcite in our setup we find an o@xmath0 binding energy of 5.87ev , which is about 0.4ev lower than the fully converged pbe value of 6.24ev,@xcite which is in turn about 1ev larger than the experimental value@xcite of 5.26ev ( with zero point vibrational energy removed in the harmonic approximation ) .    in order to circumvent errors introduced by a poor description of the o@xmath0 molecule",
    ", we do not employ the total energy of the o@xmath0 molecule from the dft calculation as reference , but deduce it via a thermodynamic cycle from the total energies of the h@xmath0 and h@xmath0o molecules together with the experimental value of 2.51ev@xcite for the formation energy of water from h@xmath0 and o@xmath0 ( also taking into account the corrections due to zero point vibrations ) . with this reference energy for the gas phase o@xmath0 molecule",
    "we obtain a formation energy of bulk tio@xmath0 from metallic bulk ti and o@xmath0 of 9.60ev , which is in excellent agreement with the experimental formation enthalpy of 9.73ev.@xcite    the second problem we have to address is how reliable can we expect the dft calculations to be when describing the reduced state of an insulator / semiconductor.@xcite it is a well - known shortcoming of lda and all commonly used gga functionals that band gaps are substantially underestimated due to the insufficient cancellation of the self - interaction energy . with our setup",
    "we find a band gap for bulk tio@xmath0 of 1.86ev , which is in very good agreement with previous dft calculations , but is much smaller than the experimental value of 3.03ev,@xcite as expected . upon reduction ,",
    "defect states are created , which typically appear in the band gap region . in dft calculations , however , due to the underestimation of the band gap , they might be placed erroneously into the conduction band . in such a case",
    ", a delocalized conduction band state and not the localized defect state would be occupied with electrons . in particular",
    ", this is partially true for o  vacancies on tio@xmath0(110 ) .",
    "experiment indicates that the o  vacancies are responsible for a defect state about 0.70.9ev below the conduction band edge.@xcite a careful survey of the available literature data@xcite showed , however , that in well converged gga / dft calculations this defect level is pinned at the bottom of the conduction band , giving rise to a defect state which is too delocalized .",
    "the problem of both , the band gap and the position of the defect levels , could be cured to a large extend by employing hybrid density functionals.@xcite unfortunately , for extensive studies using large supercells as required for the present purpose , they are computationally still very demanding even if localized basis sets are used . on the other hand , the review ref .",
    "surprisingly reveals that despite the problem of the correct position of the defect level , gga / dft calculations give quite good results for the _ energetics _ of the defect formation . while the best estimate for the o  vacancy formation energy using a cluster model and",
    "the b3lyp hybrid functional is 2.7ev ( which relies on extrapolations to account for the finite cluster size and the limited atomic relaxation in this calculation , thus adding some uncertainty to this value),@xcite the converged dft result ( using the generalized gradient functionals pw91 , pbe or rpbe ) is 3.0ev.@xcite it is in particular noticeable that despite the underestimation of the band gap and the too strong delocalization of the defect state , the dft calculation _ overestimates _ the vacancy formation energy and thus underestimate the reducibility of tio@xmath0 .    in recent experiments",
    "it was shown that the dissociative adsorption of water at o  vacancies ( thereby forming two neighboring oh groups on the surface ) does not change significantly the o  vacancy induced defect state in the band gap ( which was seen 0.9ev below the conduction band edge).@xcite also for this hydrogen reduced state of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface ( which can be viewed as adsorbing an h@xmath0 molecule on the defect - free surface instead of dissociating a water molecules at an o  vacancy ) , di valenti _ et al_.@xcite found that the defect state is not separated from the conduction band in gga / dft calculations . nevertheless , despite this problem of accurately describing the electronic structure",
    ", we will argue in the present paper that the gga / dft calculations still give quite reliable results for the _ energetics _ of reduced surfaces via hydroxylation , similar as we have seen for the surface reduction via o  vacancy formation .",
    "in particular in the regime of higher h coverages , when the defect states start to interact and a defect band is formed which will gradually hybridize with the conduction band , the dft calculations will be less and less hampered by the band gap problem .",
    "figure  [ f1 ] shows the atomic structure of the stoichiometric tio@xmath0(110 ) surface . in our calculations",
    "all surface structures were modeled by periodically repeated slabs .",
    "slabs for the stoichiometric ( 110 ) surface are built by a stacking sequence of trilayers with a composition of o  ti@xmath0o@xmath0o . in the bulk , the ti and o ions are sixfold- and threefold - coordinated , respectively . at the surface",
    "this coordination is reduced and the characteristic feature of the ( 110 ) surface is the presence of rows of twofold - coordinated bridging o ions parallel to fivefold - coordinated ti atom along the [ 001 ] direction . using formal ionic charges of + 4 and @xmath212 for the ti and o ions , respectively , the stoichiometric ( 110 ) surface would be charge neutral . from a more covalent point of view ,",
    "the ( 110 ) surface , as shown in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] , is created by a cleavage of the crystal in which the minimum possible number of bonds has been broken .",
    "the surface energy for the unrelaxed slabs converges very fast with slab thickness as shown in fig .",
    "after a full relaxation , however , the surface energy shows strong odd  even oscillations with the number of trilayers in the slab ( see fig .  [ f2 ] ) . a very large number of trilayers",
    "would be needed to get well converged results .",
    "these oscillations have been noted previously@xcite and are also present in plots of vacancy formation@xcite and water adsorption energies.@xcite the odd  even oscillations arise from the different symmetry of the slabs which leads to a significant change in the hybridization of the o 2@xmath9 and ti 3@xmath22 states in the direction of the surface normal.@xcite in slabs with an even number of trilayers the o  ti hybridization causes a modulation of the coupling between the trilayers in such a way that a sequence of pairs of trilayers is formed in which the coupling of the trilayers within the pair is stronger than the interaction between pairs.@xcite for slabs with an odd number of trilayers , in contrast , the atomic relaxations , which are associated with this pair formation , are suppressed by the central ti@xmath0o@xmath0 mirror plane and the o  ti hybrid orbitals become more delocalized over the whole slab.@xcite the surface energy of the slabs with an odd number is higher and the convergence to the limit of infinite slab thickness is slower than when using an even number of trilayers .",
    "the odd  even oscillations can be largely reduced if not the full slab is allowed to relax . in fig .",
    "[ f2 ] the surface energy is shown for a calculation in which the atoms in the bottom two trilayers were held fixed at their bulk positions . using this setup , quite well converged results",
    "are already obtained with only four trilayers .",
    "based on this observation thompson and lewis@xcite proposed to use such a slab setup of four trilayers with the bottom two layers fixed for any large scale calculation .",
    "however , the surface properties of a stoichiometric slab might be less influenced by the slab thickness than when it comes to reduced surface structures .",
    "states above the valence band ( either defect states in the band gap or states from the lower edge of the conduction band ) are more delocalized than the valence states and might be more sensitive to the truncation at the bottom of the slab .",
    "for example , leconte _ et al_.@xcite have reported that for fully hydroxylated slabs with a thickness of two trilayers only 63% of the spin density is localized at the hydroxylated top surface layer , but 37% at the bottom of the slab .",
    "the fully hydroxylated surface is the highest reduced state which we will consider in our calculations ( though , as we will show in sec .",
    "[ hadsorp ] , this configuration is thermodynamically not stable ) . even after fixing the atomic positions of the bottom two trilayers to the bulk positions ,",
    "the hydrogen adsorption energy at monolayer coverage still shows a slow convergence and noticeable oscillations with slab thickness , as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ f3 ] .",
    "though tio@xmath0 is a strong ionic insulator , the chemical bond has significant covalent contributions .",
    "it is therefore worth to think about the tio@xmath0 surface in terms of broken surface bonds as one would do for covalent semiconductor surfaces.@xcite ti and o have four and six valence electrons , respectively . to fulfill the octet rule , each o",
    "atom receives 2/3 electrons from its three nearest ti neighbors and ti contributes 4/6 electrons to each of its six nearest - neighbor bonds . at the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface the fivefold ti and the twofold bridging o atoms have lost one of their nearest - neighbor atoms .",
    "thus , dangling bonds are created which are occupied with 2/3 electrons for the fivefold ti(5 ) and 4/3 electrons for the twofold o(2 ) . at the stoichiometric surface the partial occupation of these dangling bonds is removed by autocompensation.@xcite alternatively , we saturate these broken bonds at the bottom of the slab by introducing artificial atoms with a nucleus charge of + 4/3 and + 2/3 which we place next to the ti(5 ) and o(2 ) atoms , respectively , thus creating a more bulk - like environment for these surface atoms.@xcite the distance between the pseudo - hydrogen and the surface atoms was determined by a geometry optimization in which all ti and o atoms were kept fixed at the tio@xmath0 bulk positions .",
    "the effect of saturating the broken surface bonds with the pseudo - hydrogen atoms on the electronic structure of the surfaces is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ f4 ] . without saturation , the local density of states ( ldos ) of the fixed ti(5 ) and",
    "o(2 ) surface atoms ( red dashed lines ) deviates strongly from the bulk behavior ( black solid lines ) .",
    "the surface band gap is reduced and strong changes and shifts in the ldos peaks due to the autocompensation can be seen .",
    "after saturation of the broken surface bonds , however , the ldos of the surface atoms ( blue dashed - dotted lines ) is almost indistinguishable from the bulk . with this saturation of the bottom of our slabs we find now also for reduced surface structures a much faster convergence of surface properties with slab thickness .",
    "the oscillations in the hydrogen adsorption energy in fig .",
    "[ f3 ] have been reduced from 0.1ev to about 0.02ev per adsorbed hydrogen atom .",
    "based on these convergence tests we decided to use for all further calculations slabs with a thickness of four trilayers , including a saturation of the broken surface bonds at the bottom .",
    "the upper two trilayers were always fully relaxed while the atoms in the lower two layers were fixed at the bulk positions .",
    "a large ( 4@xmath12 ) surface unit cell@xcite was used in order to be able to study adequately the coverage dependence of hydrogen and water adsorption .",
    "the slab for the stoichiometric surface thus contained 208 atoms , including the artificial atoms for saturating the broken surface bonds at the bottom of the slab .",
    "the calculated equilibrium bulk values were taken for the lattice constants parallel to the surface .",
    "the slabs were separated by a vacuum region of about 13 thickness , which corresponds to the thickness of the slab itself .",
    "the surface relaxations of the stoichiometric surface are essentially the same as described by thompson and lewis@xcite . as shown in fig .",
    "[ f2 ] , the relaxation energy of the surface is quite substantial .",
    "the unrelaxed surface energy is reduced by atomic relaxations from 1.64ev ( 1.35j / m@xmath23 ) by 1.21ev to 0.43ev per surface unit cell ( 0.36j / m@xmath23 ) . for comparison , the relaxation energy for the zno(10@xmath240 ) surface amounts to only 0.37ev per surface unit cell.@xcite",
    "as we will see later on , these large surface relaxations have a strong impact on the coverage dependence of adsorption energies .    in order to analyze the thermodynamic stability of our different surface structures",
    "we assume that the surfaces can exchange o and h atoms with a surrounding gas phase .",
    "assuming thermodynamic equilibrium , the most stable surface composition at a given temperature @xmath8 and pressure @xmath9 is given by the minimum of the gibbs free surface energy @xmath25 .",
    "since we are only interested in the relative stabilities of surface structures , we calculate directly the difference @xmath26 of the gibbs free surface energy of the defective or adsorbate - covered and the stoichiometric , ideal surface according to @xmath27 where @xmath28 and @xmath29 are the gibbs free energies of the modified and the stoichiometric reference surface configurations , respectively .",
    "@xmath30 is the surface area , @xmath31 , @xmath32 are the differences in the numbers of o and h atoms between the two surfaces , and @xmath10 , @xmath11 are chemical potentials representing the gibbs free energy of the gas phase with which the o and h atoms are exchanged .",
    "according to this definition , @xmath33 is negative if the modified surface is thermodynamically more stable than the stoichiometric surface and positive otherwise .",
    "assuming that all differences in entropy and volume contributions in @xmath33 are negligible,@xcite we approximate the gibbs free energies @xmath28 and @xmath29 by their respective total energies of our dft slab calculations as usual.@xcite upper bounds for the chemical potentials @xmath34 and @xmath35 are given by the total energies of their most stable elemental phases,@xcite that is , molecular oxygen @xmath36 and molecular hydrogen @xmath37 , respectively .",
    "these upper bounds are taken as new zero point of energy by introducing @xmath38 and @xmath39 .",
    "a lower bound for @xmath40 is given by minus half of the formation energy of bulk tio@xmath0 , i.e. @xmath41 ( here @xmath42 and @xmath43 are the energies of one bulk unit cell of tio@xmath0 and metallic ti , respectively),@xcite for which we have taken the theoretical value of 4.80ev from our pbe / dft calculations . the chemical potential can be related to experimental temperature and pressure conditions by using experimental thermochemical reference data or by applying the ideal gas equation.@xcite    .[t1 ] vacancy formation energies @xmath44 ( in ev ) for different oxygen vacancy configurations on tio@xmath0(110 ) in the limit of @xmath45 ( oxidizing , i.e. oxygen rich conditions ) . [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the binding energies @xmath46 from these studies for molecular , mixed molecular / dissociative , and full dissociative adsorption at monolayer coverage are summarized in table  [ t4 ] .",
    "the situation becomes even more confused if the published results for the adsorption of ` isolated ' water molecules are compared ( see table  [ t5 ] ) .",
    "a survey of the publications shows that the results for the water binding energies @xmath46 depend sensitively on the computational setup , in particular the slab thickness and how the results are extrapolated to the limit of infinite thick slabs , as well as on the gga functional which was used in the calculations ( though the result reported in ref .",
    "@xcite on the dissociative water adsorption is probably due to an error in the calculations since it was never reproduced in more recent studies ) . from embedded cluster calculations using wave function based methods ( hartree  fock , b3lyp and mp2 )",
    "it has been suggested that overall gga / dft might overestimate the stability of the dissociated state of the water molecules compared to a molecular adsorption.@xcite however , embedded cluster calculations have to be taken with considerable caution . as we will see below , surface re - relaxations , not only of the nearest neighbor atoms of the adsorption site but also including atoms in the next surface unit cells , make up a major contribution to the binding energy of the molecules , in particular for the dissociated state . due to the limited cluster size it is questionable how well such structural effects have been captured in this study",
    "since the hydroxylated bridging o atoms created by the dissociation of a water molecule were already located at the boundary of the cluster.@xcite     schematic illustration of water pairs adsorbed on the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface .",
    "ti , o and h atoms are depicted as small gray , large red and small white spheres , respectively .",
    "the labels are defined in table  [ t6 ] . ]",
    "the main intention of our study is not to resolve the controversy between the different dft studies on the molecular or dissociative nature of the adsorption of water , but to evaluate the relative stability of surface hydroxyl groups created by the non - reductive dissociation of water compared to both molecular water adsorption and to hydroxylation of the surface by reductive hydrogen adsorption which we will represent in terms of a phase diagram .",
    "the general features of the phase diagram and the qualitative position of the phase boundaries only depend on the overall interaction strength of the water molecules with the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface but not , in cases where the energy difference between molecular and dissociative adsorption is small as for single , isolated water molecules , whether the molecular or the dissociate state turns out to be more stable .",
    "however , since our calculational setup with a large surface unit cell and a passivated slab seems to be quite reliable to give well converged results , we explored the question whether water dissociates on the ideal terraces of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface or not a little bit further than it would have been necessary for the construction of our surface phase diagram .",
    "the most favorable adsorption site for water molecules and hydroxyl groups is ontop of the fivefold - coordinated ti(5 ) cations , thereby restoring their sixfold - coordination as in the bulk .",
    "water molecules lie relatively flat on the surface and form a weak hydrogen bond to one of the bridging o(2 ) atoms .",
    "hydroxyl groups take a more upright position and orient themselves along a ti(5)o(3 ) bond , as long as they can not form a hydrogen bond to an adsorbed molecule on a neighboring ti(5 ) site ( see fig .",
    "[ f9 ] ) .    for single water molecules in a ( 4@xmath12 ) surface unit cell",
    "we find that dissociative adsorption is preferred compared to the molecular state by 0.11ev , as can be seen from the compiled results in table  [ t6 ] .",
    "this is in contrast to the results of ref .  , but in agreement with ref .  .",
    "on the other hand , at full monolayer coverage molecular adsorption is found to be 0.05ev and 0.19ev per water molecule more stable than partial or full dissociation , respectively .",
    "in view of the very contradictory results from previous dft calculations in the literature on the relative stability of molecular and dissociative adsorption of water on tio@xmath0(110 ) , we have carefully re - evaluated the convergence of our computational setup . from the surveil of the literature",
    "it appears that the slab thickness and the degree of atomic relaxation of the slabs are the most crucial parameters .",
    "therefore we have recalculated the energy difference @xmath47 between molecular and dissociative adsorption of water as a function of slab thickness . in the first set of calculations we have considered a full monolayer water coverage as represented by one water molecule in a ( 1@xmath11 ) surface unit cell . as shown in fig .",
    "[ f10 ] , the molecular and dissociative adsorption energy @xmath48 and @xmath49 , respectively , exhibit the well - known strong odd  even oscillations if the water molecules are adsorbed symmetrically on both sides of the slab and a full atomic relaxation is performed .",
    "these oscillations are even present in the energy difference @xmath47=@xmath48@xmath21@xmath49 . switching to our standard setup in which we adsorb water only on one side of the slab , fix the atoms in the two bottom layers at the bulk positions and saturate the broken surface bonds at the bottom with pseudo - hydrogen atoms , the odd  even oscillations are almost completely removed ( see fig .  [ f10 ] ) . for @xmath47",
    "we find only a small increase from 0.19ev for the four trilayer slab to 0.23ev in the limit of infinite slab thickness . in the second set of calculations we repeated the calculations for a single water molecule in a ( 4@xmath12 ) surface unit cell with our passivated slabs for slab thicknesses up to seven trilayers .",
    "in the seven trilayer calculation the supercell contained 355 atoms .",
    "also in this case , as shown in fig .",
    "[ f10 ] , there are almost no odd  even oscillations visible in the water adsorption energy @xmath20 and the energy difference @xmath47 between the molecular and dissociative adsorption increases only slightly from @xmath210.11ev for four trilayers to @xmath210.06ev in the six and seven trilayer calculation . since in general such small energy differences depend sensitively on the quality of the pseudopotentials and the functional which are used in the computations , we only conclude that molecular and dissociative adsorption become energetically degenerate in the limit of single , isolated water molecules .",
    "convergence of the molecular and dissociative water adsorption energy @xmath20 and the difference @xmath47=@xmath48 @xmath21@xmath49 with slab thickness at full monolayer coverage ( left ) and for single water molecules in a ( 4@xmath12 ) surface unit cell ( right ) .",
    "the solid black lines represent results from full relaxations with water adsorbed symmetrically on both sides of the slab .",
    "the calculations in which water was adsorbed only on one side of the slab with the bottom two trilayers fixed at the bulk positions and the broken surface bonds at the bottom of the slab saturated with pseudo - hydrogen atoms are shown by the red dashed lines . ]    when comparing our results on the adsorption of isolated water molecules with the literature surveil in table  [ t5 ] it has to be taken into account that in the previous calculations for ` single ' water molecules smaller surface unit cells with effective water coverages of 1/4 monolayer were used , compared to 1/8 monolayer in our study . as can be seen from our results in table  [ t6 ] , at 1/4 monolayer coverage",
    "there is already a significant interaction between the water molecules . for two water molecules in the ( 4@xmath12 ) surface unit cell the water binding energy",
    "is clearly reduced compared to a single molecule .",
    "the reason is , as we will point out below , the large contribution of the surface relaxations to the binding energy , which is now smaller since less degrees of freedom are associated with each molecule . in particular , for a ( 2@xmath12 ) arrangement of water molecules , which was used in basically all previous calculations as setup for ` isolated ' molecules , we find already a preference for molecular adsorption .",
    "clearly , the 1/4 monolayer coverage does not represent isolated water molecules , and in principle , it would have to be checked if our 1/8 monolayer truly represents the limit of independent molecules .",
    "this implies that also in the embedded cluster approach large clusters are needed to take these contributions from the atomic relaxations appropriately into account .",
    "our result that for isolated water molecules molecular and dissociative adsorption is energetically degenerate is not in agreement with the common view expressed in most experimental studies that water only dissociates at defect sites . since our calculations are very well converged , this might point towards a deficiency of the pseudopotential approximation or , in general , pbe / dft calculations .",
    "however , it also has to be taken into account that all experiments have shown a certain amount of dissociated molecules and it is very difficult to distinguish whether they only stem from dissociation at defects or if some initial dissociation at very low coverages has taken place .    comparing the water binding energies of two water molecules in a c(4@xmath12 ) with the p(4@xmath11 )",
    "arrangement we find that the interaction of water molecules between different [ 001 ] rows is rather weak since the relative position of the water molecules within the [ 001 ] rows does not matter .",
    "this is very different from the situation when both water molecules are placed into the same [ 001 ] row ( as in the p(2@xmath12 ) configuration ) , where the changes in the surface relaxation lead to a strong repulsion between dissociated molecules .",
    "this repulsion has also been reported by lindan _",
    "et al_.,@xcite although with a slightly smaller magnitude .",
    "the repulsion can be compensated by adsorbing the two water molecules on neighboring ti(5 ) sites , since now a hydrogen bond between the molecules is formed .",
    "we have considered all possible pairs of dissociated and undissociated water molecules with ` upward ' and ` downward ' orientation as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ f9 ] . as can be inferred from the binding energies in table  [ t6 ] ,",
    "all these configurations are almost equivalent , with a slight preference of pairs of dissociated / undissociated molecules in which the donating molecule of the hydrogen bond stays intact and the receiving molecule dissociates .",
    "furthermore , we can see that the relative orientation of the molecules within the pair ( ` upward ' or ` downward ' ) does not matter , which will be also true at higher water coverages .",
    "we take now these water pairs as building blocks to form higher water coverages .",
    "first we put two water pairs in the same [ 001 ] row to built structures of alternating full and empty [ 001 ] lines .",
    "the molecular adsorption is now the most stable one . the half - dissociated structure of lindan _ et al._@xcite is only slightly lower in energy .",
    "the fully dissociated structure , however , has become clearly unfavorable . since",
    "the interaction of the water molecules between [ 001 ] rows is weak , as already pointed out above , this result remains unchanged when all [ 001 ] rows are filled with water molecules and the full monolayer coverage is reached .    for the length of the ti(5)o@xmath50 bond we obtained values between 2.246 and 2.306 for isolated water molecules and at full monolayer coverage , respectively .",
    "in a recent quantitative analysis of photoelectron diffraction experiments@xcite a value for this bond length of 2.21@xmath510.02 was determined . taking into account that gga typically overestimates bond length by 12%",
    ", our result for isolated water molecules agrees quite well with the experimental value , but overestimate it slightly in the limit of full monolayer coverage .    in conclusion",
    ", we find that in the limit of very low coverages the molecular and dissociative adsorption of water is almost degenerate .",
    "for single , isolated water molecules we find a small preference for dissociation , however , already at coverages when water pairs can form , mixed dissociated / molecular structures are more favorable than full dissociation .",
    "finally , in the full monolayer coverage limit the molecular adsorption is the most stable configuration .",
    "based on these results one would expect that if water islands are formed upon adsorption , almost all water molecules stay intact and only those molecules at the boundary of the water patch which do not have a neighbor to which they can form a hydrogen bond may dissociate .",
    "it is interesting to see the difference in the role of donated and accepted hydrogen bonds for the stability of water molecules between the tio@xmath0(110 ) and zno(10@xmath240 ) surface . on zno(10@xmath240 ) , water molecules also show a tendency to dissociate.@xcite but while on zno(10@xmath240 ) isolated water molecules stay intact and only start to dissociate when they receive an hydrogen bond , isolated water molecules on tio@xmath0(110 ) are found to be close to dissociation and recombination is preferential when they can donate a hydrogen bond .",
    "our results for the water binding energies are throughout slightly lower than the previous results obtained with the pw91 functional,@xcite but significantly higher than what has been found in rpbe calculations@xcite ( see also tables  [ t4 ] and [ t5 ] ) . in order to compare our water binding energy of 0.82ev at full monolayer coverage with experiment ,",
    "we have furthermore calculated the corrections due to the zero - point vibration energy ( zpe ) .",
    "the vibration frequencies of the surface with and without the molecular water monolayer were obtained in harmonic approximation by a finite difference scheme . only the atoms in the adsorbate and the first surface layer",
    "were displaced by 0.01 in the three cartesian directions .",
    "for the zpe we obtain 0.12ev so that we arrive at a zpe - corrected water binding energy at monolayer coverage of 0.70ev , which is in excellent agreement with the results of the tds experiments of 0.65ev@xcite and 0.66ev@xcite .",
    "the minor overbinding of the water molecules is typical for pbe calculations and has also been observed for the adsorption of water on zno(10@xmath240 ) , where pbe calculations gave a water binding energy of 1.13ev ( without zpe corrections ) compared to the tds / redhead analysis of 1.03ev.@xcite    looking at the qualitative trend of the adsorption energy with water coverage of the surface it is interesting to see in table  [ t6 ] that overall the binding energy decreases with water saturation .",
    "this contradicts the results of ref .  , whereas it is in full agreement with the rpbe calculations of lindan _ et al_.@xcite and , in addition , to the experimental observation in the tds measurements .",
    "this is a rather unusual behavior since one would expect an increase in the binding energy with water coverage due to the formation of hydrogen bonds . in order to gain deeper insights into the origin of this behavior",
    "we have decomposed the process of desorbing the water molecules into four steps .",
    "starting from the fully relaxed adsorbate structure we detach in the first step the water layer from the surface without relaxing the atoms .",
    "then we separate the water molecules in order to obtain the hydrogen bond strength .",
    "finally , we allow the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface and the water molecules to relax to obtain the relaxation energies of the systems ( see ref .",
    "@xcite for a similar analysis of the water adsorption energy on zno(10@xmath240 ) ) . for structures with neighboring water molecules",
    "we find indeed that hydrogen bonds are formed which increases the water binding energy .",
    "this gain in adsorption energy , however , is overcompensated at higher coverages by a loss in relaxation energy of the substrate per adsorbate molecule .",
    "why are the surface relaxations so much more important for the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface than , for example , zno(10@xmath240 ) ? as we have seen in sec .",
    "[ method ] , the surface relaxation energy of the stoichiometric , ideal surface is quite large , 1.21ev per surface unit cell compared to 0.37ev for zno(10@xmath240 ) .",
    "thus , re - relaxations induced by the restoration of the cation bulk coordination upon water adsorption will have a much stronger impact on the binding energy of the molecules than for zno(10@xmath240 ) .",
    "lindan _ et al_.@xcite have suggested that the dissociation of water at low coverages has not been observed experimentally because the dissociation of the molecules is hindered by a significant dissociation barrier which is difficult to overcome on the time scale of the experiments .",
    "using neb with a subsequent refinement of the transition state with the dimer method we have calculated the activation barrier for water dissociation for two cases : an isolated water molecule in a ( 4@xmath12 ) surface cell and a single water molecule within a molecularly adsorbed water layer ( also employing a ( 4@xmath12 ) supercell ) .",
    "our results of 0.16ev and 0.14ev , respectively , are significant lower than the activation barriers reported by lindan _",
    "et al_.@xcite of 0.45ev ( single water molecule in a ( 4@xmath11 ) cell ) and 0.26ev ( dissociation of every second water molecule in a full monolayer ) and show a much weaker dependence on the water coverage . therefore , based on our results",
    ", we can not confirm that the dissociation of water molecules at low coverages is prevented by a large dissociation barrier .",
    "finally we combine the results of all previous sections to construct a two - dimensional phase diagram .",
    "we assume that the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface is simultaneously in thermodynamic equilibrium with reservoirs with which it can exchange o and h atoms , for example , a surrounding o@xmath0 and h@xmath0 gas phase .",
    "the surface free energy @xmath33 of the different tio@xmath0(110 ) surface structures now depends on both chemical potentials , @xmath40 and @xmath52 . by indicating the most stable structure and composition of the tio@xmath0o(110 ) surface as a function of the two chemical potentials we obtain the phase diagram which is shown in fig .  [ f11 ] .    the surface phase diagram of fig .",
    "[ f11 ] summarizes in a condensed fashion the results of our study on the relative stability of the different surface compositions which we have considered .",
    "the phase diagram is dominated by four different types of surface structures : the stoichiometric , ideal surface , the water saturated , oxidized surface and the reduced surface structures by o depletion and h adsorption . for ambient conditions ( @xmath53ev ) we find that the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface is saturated with molecularly adsorbed water .",
    "the water can be gradually removed by lowering the o and h chemical potentials ( i.e. , by heating or lowering the partial pressures ) . passing through a transition region with low water coverages",
    "in which dissociated water molecules may appear , the stoichiometric , ideal surface structure is reached .",
    "it is the most stable surface structure at uhv conditions for a wide range of temperatures ( @xmath54ev , @xmath55ev at room temperature ) . by heating the surface in uhv",
    ", the surface can be reduced by removing bridging oxygen atoms and creating structural o  vacancies . at hydrogen rich and oxygen poor conditions the surface",
    "is reduced by hydrogen adsorption .",
    "however , the surface can not be fully hydroxylated , but only a maximum h coverage of about 60% can be reached .",
    "overall the surface phase diagram shows a quite expected behavior of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface and does not yield any new surprises . under uhv conditions the stoichiometric and the o reduced surface structures are the most important ones . on the other hand , under wet conditions or at high hydrogen partial pressures , as it is typical in catalytic or photochemical applications , the surface is water covered or reduced via hydroxylation .",
    "phase diagram for the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface in thermodynamic equilibrium with h@xmath0 and o@xmath0 particle reservoirs controlling the chemical potentials @xmath52 and @xmath40 . ]",
    "using density functional theory we have investigated in detail the formation of oxygen - related vacancies as well as the interaction of hydrogen and water with the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface in terms of a comprehensive surface phase diagram .",
    "careful convergence tests have shown that a computational setup of using slabs consisting of four trilayers in conjunction with saturating the surface bonds at the bottom with artificial hydrogen - like atoms with effective nuclear charges of + 4/3 and + 2/3 and fixing the atoms in the bottom two trilayers at their bulk positions almost completely eliminates the otherwise pronounced odd - even oscillations of surface and adsorption energies as a function of slab thickness . using this procedure , the relaxation energy of the stoichiometric surface as well as the h and h@xmath0o adsorption energies at full monolayer coverage are within 0.06ev per surface unit cell , 0.02ev per h atom and 0.04ev per h@xmath0o molecules , respectively , of the extrapolated results for infinitely thick slabs .",
    "thus , very well converged results with slab thickness are obtained without relying on somewhat questionable extrapolation schemes such as the `` 25% rule''@xcite or averaging four and five trilayer results,@xcite as proposed previously in the literature .",
    "it is also demonstrated that the contribution of surface relaxations to both binding and formation energies of molecules and defects , respectively , are substantial .",
    "both adsorbate- and defect - induced relaxations are not limited to one surface unit cell , but contributions to the relaxation energy from more neighboring surface cells have to be taken into account .",
    "this leads to substrate - mediated interactions between defects and adsorbate molecules which can extend over several lattice constants .",
    "consequently , large surface unit cells have to be used when properties of isolated defects or adsorbed molecules are studied .",
    "the same arguments apply for embedded cluster studies where clusters have to be large enough to be able to take the relaxations of the relevant environment appropriately into account .",
    "in general , gga / dft calculations of reduced tio@xmath0 structures are hampered by the underestimation of the tio@xmath0 band gap of about 1.0ev .",
    "for isolated o  vacancies and pairs of oh groups on the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface it has been shown that in gga / dft calculations the defect level lies at the bottom of the conduction band@xcite instead of 0.70.9ev below .",
    "naively one would therefore expect that gga / dft calculations should underestimate the energy of reduced tio@xmath0 structures and thus _ overestimate _ the reducibility of tio@xmath0 since defect states will tend to be too delocalized .",
    "in contrast to this expectation , a survey of the literature data showed instead that gga / dft overestimates the o  vacancy formation energy .",
    "furthermore we found in the present study that the dissociation energy of water at o  vacancies is slightly too low in the pbe / dft calculations and also the predicted maximum coverage of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface with hydrogen atoms is found to be slightly smaller than observed in experiment .",
    "this implies that in all three cases the gga / dft calculation have _ underestimated _ the reducibility of the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface . however , the presumable error in the total energies is small : about 0.3ev for the o defect formation energy and a tenth of an ev in the other two cases .",
    "based on this analysis we conclude that the _ energetics _ is quite reliably described by gga / dft despite the problem of such calculations to obtain accurately the underlying electronic structure of the corresponding reduced tio@xmath0 surfaces .",
    "it might be argued that the energetics of reduced tio@xmath0 is well described because although the defect level of o  vacancies and oh pairs is at the bottom of the conduction band instead of 0.70.9ev below , its energy difference with respect to the top of the valence band is almost right .",
    "this might be correct for single , isolated o  vacancies and oh pairs .",
    "however , in the case of an increasing hydroxylation of the surface when the defect states start to interact and to hybridize with the conduction band the whole defect band is now more easily accessible due to the underestimation of the band gap , but still the overall energetics is quite reliable with a tendency to _ underestimate _ the reducibility of tio@xmath0 .",
    "after having clarified these crucial convergence and accuracy issues , we have compared the relative stability of surfaces with oxygen vacancies or adsorbed hydrogen atoms and water molecules by combining our dft calculations with a thermodynamic formalism .",
    "lowest - energy structures were determined by assuming that the surfaces are in thermodynamic equilibrium with oxygen and hydrogen reservoirs .",
    "the exchange of o and h atoms with the reservoirs is described by introducing appropriate chemical potentials which can be related to experimental temperature and pressure conditions .",
    "this allows us to extend the zero - temperature and zero - pressure dft calculations to more realistic environmental conditions such as in uhv surface science experiments or in catalytic and photochemical applications .",
    "the central result of this approach is the phase diagram depicted in fig .",
    "[ f11 ] . for ambient conditions",
    "we find that the non - reductive adsorption of water prevails .",
    "a full monolayer of molecular adsorbed water is predicted as the most stable adsorbate structure in agreement with experimental observations . in the low coverage limit molecular and dissociative adsorption",
    "becomes energetically degenerate .",
    "in addition , according to our calculations the dissociation barrier for molecularly adsorbed water molecules is not large enough to prevent their dissociation even at low temperatures .    at strongly reducing ,",
    "oxygen - poor conditions structural o  vacancies are formed on the tio@xmath0(110 ) surface in thermodynamic equilibrium . however , for a wide range of temperature and pressure conditions it is found that removing full tio@xmath0 units is thermodynamically more favorable instead . in the case of reduction of the surface via hydrogen adsorption we observed that the surface can not be fully hydroxylated in thermodynamic equilibrium . a maximum coverage of about 60% is predicted from our thermodynamical analysis .",
    "furthermore , our calculated energy barriers for hydrogen migration indicate than hydrogen atoms rather migrate into the bulk than desorbing from the surface .",
    "both observations are supported by recent experiments in which a maximum saturation of the surface with hydrogen of 70% is reported , whereas no desorption of h@xmath0 could be observed in tds.@xcite    the authors thank christof wll , monica calatayud , and ulrike diebold for fruitful discussions .",
    "this work has been supported by the german research foundation ( dfg ) via the collaborative research center sfb 558 `` metal - substrate interactions in heterogeneous catalysis '' .",
    "computational resources were provided by bovilab@rub ( bochum ) .",
    "99 u. diebold , surf .",
    "rep . * 48 * , 53 ( 2003 ) .",
    "m. ramamoorthy , d. vanderbilt , and r.d . king - smith , phys . rev .",
    "b * 49 * , 16721 ( 1994 ) .",
    "tauster , s.c .",
    "fung , and r.l .",
    "garten , j. am .",
    "soc . * 100 * , 170 ( 1978 ) .",
    "tauster , acc .",
    "20 * , 389 ( 1987 ) .",
    "vannice and c. sudhakar , j. phys .",
    "88 * , 2429 ( 1984 ) .",
    "brookes , c.a .",
    "muryn , and g. thornton , phys .",
    "lett . * 87 * , 266103 ( 2001 ) .",
    "r. schaub , p. thostrup , n. lopez , e. lgsgaard , i. stensgaard , j.k .",
    "nrskov , and f. besenbacher , phys .",
    "* 87 * , 266104 ( 2001 ) .",
    "s. wendt , r. schaub , j. matthiesen , e.k .",
    "vestergaard , e. wahlstrm , m.d .",
    "rasmussen , p. thorstrup , l.m .",
    "molina , e. lgsgaard , i. stensgaard , b. hammer , and f. besenbacher , surf .",
    "sci . * 598 * , 226 ( 2005 ) .",
    "s. wendt , j. matthiesen , r. schaub , e.k .",
    "vestergaard , e. lgsgaard , f. besenbacher , and b. hammer , phys .",
    "lett . * 96 * , 066107 ( 2006 ) .",
    "o. bikondoa , c.l .",
    "pang , r. ithnin , c.a .",
    "muryn , h. onishi , and g. thornton , nature mat . * 5 * , 189 ( 2006 ) 189 .",
    "hugenschmidt , l. gamble , and c.t .",
    "campbell , surf .",
    "sci . * 302 * , 329 ( 1994 ) .",
    "henderson , surf .",
    "sci . * 355 * , 151 ( 1996 ) .",
    "d. brinkley , m. dietrich , t. engel , p. farrall , g. gantner , a. schafer , and a. szuchmacher , surf .",
    "* 395 * , 292 ( 1998 ) .",
    "kurtz , r. stockbauer , t.e .",
    "madey , e. roman , and j.l .",
    "de segovia , surf .",
    "sci . * 218 * , 178 ( 1989 ) .",
    "pan , b.l .",
    "maschhoff , u. diebold , and t.e .",
    "madey , j. vac .",
    "a * 10 * , 2470 ( 1992 ) .",
    "m. batzill , k. katsiev , j.m .",
    "burst , u. diebold , a.m. chaka , b. delley , phys .",
    "b * 72 * , 165414 ( 2005 ) .",
    "k. katsiev , m. batzill , u. diebold , a. urban , and b. meyer , phys .",
    "98 * , 186102 ( 2007 ) .",
    "henrich and r.l .",
    "kurtz , phys .",
    "b * 23 * , 6280 ( 1981 ) .",
    "m. kunat , u. burghaus , and ch .",
    "wll , phys .",
    "chem . phys .",
    "* 6 * , 4203 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s. suzuki , k.i .",
    "fukui , h. onishi , and y. iwasawa , phys .",
    "84 * , 2156 ( 2000 ) .",
    "t. fujino , m. katayama , k. inudzuka , t. okuno , and k. oura , appl .",
    "phys . lett . *",
    "79 * , 2716 ( 2001 ) .",
    "yin , m. calatayud , h. qiu , y. wang , a. birkner , c. minot , and ch .",
    "wll , chemphyschem * 9 * , 253 ( 2008 ) .",
    "m. ramamoorthy , r.d .",
    "king - smith , and d. vanderbilt , phys .",
    "b * 49 * , 7709 ( 1994 ) . p.j.d .",
    "lindan , n.m .",
    "harrison , m.j .",
    "gillan , and j.a .",
    "white , phys .",
    "b * 55 * , 15919 ( 1997 ) .",
    "a.t . paxton and l. thien - nga , phys .",
    "b * 57 * , 1579 ( 1998 ) . t. bredow and g. pacchioni , chem .",
    ". lett . * 355 * , 417 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. vijay , g. mills , and h. metiu , j. chem",
    ". phys . * 118 * , 6536 ( 2003 ) .",
    "x. wu , a. selloni , m. lazzeri , and s.k .",
    "nayak , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 241402(r ) ( 2003 ) . m.d .",
    "rasmussen , l.m .",
    "molina , and b. hammer , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 120 * , 988 ( 2004 ) .",
    "x. wu , a. selloni , and s.k .",
    "nayak , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 120 * , 4512 ( 2004 ) .",
    "j. oviedo , m.a .",
    "san miguel , and j.f .",
    "sanz , j. chem . phys . *",
    "121 * , 7427 ( 2004 ) .",
    "wang , x .- d .",
    "wen , d .- b .",
    "cao , y .- w .",
    "li , j. wang , and h. jiao , surf .",
    "sci . * 577 * , 69 ( 2005 ) .",
    "zhang , w. lin , y. li , k .-",
    "n . ding , and j .- q .",
    "li , j. phys .",
    "b * 109 * , 19270 ( 2005 ) .",
    "k. hameeuw , g. cantele , d. ninno , f. trani , and g. iadonisi , phys .",
    "( a ) * 203 * , 2219 ( 2006 ) .",
    "t. pabisiak and a. kiejna , solid state comm . * 144 * , 324 ( 2007 ) .",
    "ganduglia - pirovano , a. hofmann , and j. sauer , surf .",
    "62 * , 219 ( 2007 ) j. leconte , a. markovits , m.k .",
    "skalli , c. minot , and a. belmajdoub , surf .",
    "sci . * 497 * , 194 ( 2002 ) .",
    "j. goniakowski and m.j .",
    "gillan , surf .",
    "sci . * 350 * , 145 ( 1996 ) .",
    "lindan , n.m .",
    "harrison , j.m .",
    "holender , and m.j .",
    "gillan , chem .",
    "phys . lett . *",
    "261 * , 246 ( 1996 ) .",
    "bates , g. kresse , and m.j .",
    "gillan , surf .",
    "sci . * 409 * , 366 ( 1998 ) .",
    "lindan , n.m .",
    "harrison , and m.j .",
    "gillan , phys .",
    "lett . * 80 * , 762 ( 1998 ) .",
    "stefanovich and t.n .",
    "truong , chem .",
    ". lett . * 299 * , 623 ( 1999 ) .",
    "w. langel , surf .",
    "sci . * 496 * , 141 ( 2002 ) . c. zhang and p.j.d .",
    "lindan , j. chem . phys . * 118 * , 4620 ( 2003 ) . p.j.d . lindan and c. zhang , phys .",
    "b * 72 * , 075439 ( 2005 )",
    ". l.a . harris and a.a .",
    "quong , phys .",
    "lett . * 93 * , 086105 ( 2004 ) ; comment : p.j.d .",
    "lindan and c. zhang , phys .",
    "lett . * 95 * , 029601 ( 2005 ) ; reply : l.a .",
    "harris , and a.a .",
    "quong , phys .",
    "95 * , 029602 ( 2005 ) .",
    "h. perron , j. vandenborre , c. domain , r. drot , j. roques , e. simoni , j .-",
    "ehrhardt , and h. catalette , surf .",
    "* 601 * , 518 ( 2007 ) .",
    "e. kaxiras , y. bar - yam , j.d .",
    "joannopoulos , and k.c .",
    "pandey , phys .",
    "b * 35 * , 9625 ( 1987 ) .",
    "qian , r.m .",
    "martin and d.j .",
    "chadi , phys .",
    "b * 38 * , 7649 ( 1988 ) .",
    "k. reuter and m. scheffler , phys .",
    "b * 65 * , 035406 ( 2001 ) .",
    "b. meyer , phys .",
    "b * 69 * , 045416 ( 2004 ) .",
    "r. car and m. parrinello , phys .",
    "lett . * 55 * , 2471 ( 1985 ) .",
    "d. marx and j. hutter , in : _ modern methods and algorithms of quantum chemistry _ , edited by j. grotendorst , nic , fz jlich , p.  301",
    "( 2000 ) ; + see : www.theochem.rub.de/go/cprev.html ; + cpmd code : j. hutter _",
    "et al . _ , see : www.cpmd.org .",
    "j.p . perdew , k. burke , and m. ernzerhof , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 77 * , 3865 ( 1996 ) ; erratum : phys .",
    "lett . * 78 * , 1396 ( 1997 ) .",
    "d. vanderbilt , phys .",
    "b * 41 * , 7892 ( 1990 )",
    ". t. bredow , l. giordano , f. cinquini , and g. pacchioni , phys .",
    "b * 70 * , 035419 ( 2004 ) .",
    "thompson and s.p .",
    "lewis , phys .",
    "b * 73 * , 073403 ( 2006 ) .",
    "hameeuw , g. cantele , d. ninno , f. trani , and g. iadonisi , j. chem . phys . * 124 * , 024708 ( 2006 ) . a. kiejna , t. pabisiak , and s.w .",
    "gao , j. phys . : condens .",
    "matter * 18 * , 4207 ( 2007 ) .",
    "abrahams and j.l .",
    "bernstein , j. chem .",
    "55 * , 3206 ( 1971 ) .",
    "batyrev , a. alavi , and m.w .",
    "finnis , phys .",
    "b * 62 * , 4698 ( 2000 ) .",
    "this deviation is due to the o pseudopotential . by decreasing the cut - off radius , making the local part of the potential more attractive and adding @xmath22-projectors ,",
    "the converged all - electron result for the o@xmath0 binding energy can be systematically approached . however , such pseudopotentials are usually much harder and require a larger plane wave cut - off energy . , edited by p.j .",
    "linstrom and w.g .",
    "mallard , nist standard reference database no .",
    "69 ( national institute of standards and technology , gaithersburg md , 2001 ) , see : http://webbook.nist.gov g. pacchioni , j. chem",
    ". phys . * 128 * , 182505 ( 2008 ) .",
    "k.m . glassford and j.r .",
    "chelikowsky , phys .",
    "b * 46 * , 1284 ( 1992 ) . j. pascual , j. camassel , and h. mathieu , phys .",
    "* 39 * , 1490 ( 1977 ) ; phys .",
    "b * 18 * , 5606 ( 1978 ) .",
    "w. gpel , j.a .",
    "anderson , d. frankel , m. jaehnig , k. phillips , j.a .",
    "schfer , and g. rocker , surf .",
    "sci . * 139 * , 333 ( 1984 ) .",
    "henderson , surf .",
    "sci . * 400 * , 203 ( 1998 ) . c. di valentin , g. pacchioni , and a. selloni , phys .",
    "lett . * 97 * , 166803 ( 2006 ) .",
    "henderson , w.s .",
    "epling , c.h.f .",
    "peden , and c.l .",
    "perkins , j. phys .",
    "b * 107 * , 534 ( 2003 ) .",
    "m. lannoo and p. friedel , _ atomic and electronic structure of surfaces _ , springer verlag , berlin ( 1991 ) . b. meyer and d. marx , phys",
    "b * 69 * , 235420 ( 2004 ) .",
    "we follow here the notation of ref .  [ ] : a ( @xmath56@xmath1@xmath57 ) cell is built by repeating the primitive surface unit cell @xmath56 and @xmath57 times along the bulk [ 001 ] and [ 1@xmath240 ] directions , respectively .",
    "it has dimensions of @xmath58 . in some other publications",
    "the order of @xmath56 and @xmath57 is reversed .",
    "b. meyer and d. marx , phys .",
    "b * 67 * , 035403 ( 2003 ) .",
    "h. jnsson , g. mills , and k.w .",
    "jacobsen , in : _ classical and quantum dynamics in condensed phase simulations _ , edited by b.j .",
    "berne , g. ciccotti , and d.f .",
    "coker , world scientific , singapore , p.  385",
    "g. henkelman and h. jnsson , j. chem . phys . *",
    "111 * , 7010 ( 1999 ) .",
    "g. henkelman , b.p .",
    "uberuaga , and h. jnsson , j. chem . phys . *",
    "113 * , 9901 ( 2000 ) .",
    "g. henkelman and h. jnsson , j. chem . phys . *",
    "113 * , 9978 ( 2000 ) .",
    "a. heyden , a.t .",
    "bell , and f.j .",
    "keil , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 123 * , 224101 ( 2005 ) .",
    "r. kovik , b. meyer , and dominik marx , angew .",
    "chem . * 119 * , 4980 ( 2007 ) ; angew .",
    "int . ed . *",
    "46 * , 4894 ( 2007 ) .",
    "s. wendt , p.t .",
    "sprunger , e. lira , g.k.h .",
    "madsen , z. li , j. .",
    "hansen , j. matthiesen , a. blekinge - rasmussen , e. lgsgaard , b. hammer , and f. besenbacher , science * 320 * , 1755 ( 2008 ) .",
    "redhead , vacuum * 12 * , 203 ( 1962 ) .",
    "k. r. paserba and a. j. gellman , phys .",
    "* 86 * , 4338 ( 2001 ) .",
    "becke , phys .",
    "a * 38 * , 3098 ( 1988 ) .",
    "perdew , phys .",
    "b * 33 * , 8822 ( 1986 ) ; erratum : phys .",
    "b * 34 * , 7406 ( 1986 ) .",
    "perdew , j.a .",
    "chevary , s.h .",
    "vosko , k.a .",
    "jackson , m.r .",
    "pederson , d.j .",
    "singh , and c. fiolhais , phys .",
    "b * 46 * , 6671 ( 1992 ) ; erratum : phys . rev .",
    "b * 48 * , 4978 ( 1993 ) .",
    "b. hammer , l.b .",
    "hansen , and j.k .",
    "norskov , phys .",
    "b * 59 * , 7413 ( 1999 ) .",
    "a. tilocca , c. di valentin , and a. selloni , j. phys .",
    "b * 109 * , 20963 ( 2005 ) . in the calculation of the transition path for water dissociation at o  vacancies we have not pre - adsorbed the water molecules in the defect and then searched for a subsequent dissociation barrier as it was done in ref .   but have started from a water molecule in the gas phase .",
    "s. kajita , t. minato , h.s .",
    "kato , m. kawai , and t. nakayama , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 127 * , 104709 ( 2007 ) .",
    "herman , z. dohnlek , n. ruzycki , and u. diebold , j. phys .",
    "b * 107 * , 2788 ( 2003 ) .",
    "f. allegretti , s. obrien , m. polcik , d.i .",
    "sayago , and d.p .",
    "woodruff , phys .",
    "lett . * 95 * 226104 ( 2005 ) .",
    "b. meyer , d. marx , o. dulub , u. diebold , m. kunat , d. langenberg , and ch .",
    "wll , angew . chem . * 116 * , 6809 ( 2004 ) ; angew . chem .",
    "int . ed . *",
    "43 * , 6641 ( 2004 ) .",
    "o. dulub , b. meyer , and u. diebold , phys .",
    "lett . * 95 * , 136101 ( 2005 ) .",
    "b. meyer , h. rabaa , and d. marx , phys .",
    "* 8 * , 1513 ( 2006 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a comprehensive phase diagram of lowest - energy structures and compositions of the rutile tio@xmath0(110 ) surface in equilibrium with a surrounding gas phase at finite temperatures and pressures has been determined using density functional theory in combination with a thermodynamic formalism . </S>",
    "<S> the exchange of oxygen , hydrogen , and water molecules with the gas phase is considered . </S>",
    "<S> particular attention is given to the convergence of all calculations with respect to lateral system size and slab thickness . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , the reliability of semilocal density functionals to describing the energetics of the reduced surfaces is critically evaluated . for ambient conditions the surface </S>",
    "<S> is found to be fully covered by molecularly adsorbed water . at low coverages , in the limit of single , isolated water molecules , molecular and dissociative adsorption </S>",
    "<S> become energetically degenerate . </S>",
    "<S> oxygen vacancies form in strongly reducing , oxygen - poor environments . however , already at slightly more moderate conditions it is shown that removing full tio@xmath0 units from the surface is thermodynamically preferred . in agreement with recent experimental observations it is furthermore confirmed that even under extremely hydrogen - rich environments the surface can not be fully hydroxylated , but only a maximum coverage with hydrogen of about 0.60.7 monolayer can be reached . finally , calculations of migration paths strongly suggest that hydrogen prefers to diffuse into the bulk over desorbing from the surface into the gas phase . </S>"
  ]
}