{
  "article_text": [
    "with the introduction of xfel sources new possibilities open for structural studies .",
    "this is clearly illustrated by the several works done on the already existing soft xfel - s @xcite . in the near future similar sources in the hard x - ray regime",
    "will also be operational . according to the work of neutze et al @xcite the very short and intense x - ray pulses of xfel - s",
    "might allow atomic resolution imaging of single non - periodic objects .",
    "their idea is that one collects the elastically scattered photons before the deterioration of the sample is appreciable .",
    "many models have been worked out for the description of the behavior of the sample in the xfel pulse @xcite .",
    "their conclusion is that at @xmath010  kev the @xmath1 photons have to be concentrated in an approximately 10  fs time window for successful atomic resolution imaging .",
    "sources presently under construction do not meet simultaneously all the requirements .",
    "therefore various ideas are introduced to relax the above conditions .",
    "one of them is the application of a thin sacrificial tamper layer about the sample @xcite . in this case",
    "the sample deteriorates with a slower rate , which may allow longer times for imaging .",
    "however , this layer adds to the background , which might hinder structure solution @xcite .",
    "other suggestions concentrate to the evaluation process @xcite : in one of them @xcite the possibility to correct the charge loss during imaging is pointed out , and in the other a new method for the construction of the 3d reciprocal space dataset is introduced @xcite . to understand the usefulness and limits of the various approaches one should start from as realistic description of the damage process as possible .",
    "so far most of the modeling was done for spatially homogeneous samples .",
    "the reason is that this assumption makes the modeling simpler , more tractable .",
    "this allowed the application of continuum models , with reduced dimensionality ( 1d ) @xcite .",
    "even more sophisticated models like molecular dynamics type models ( md ) were applied for homogeneous systems , mostly because of comparability with the results of continuum models @xcite .",
    "however , md modeling allows the description of more realistic non - homogeneous systems like biological molecules .",
    "further , it has an other advantage ; it directly gives atomic coordinates , which are necessary for the calculation of the diffraction pattern . in this paper",
    "we concentrate on the effect of inhomogenities on sample dynamics .",
    "inhomogenity is inherent to biological systems . in these systems we find short and long near neighbor distances leading to spatially non - homogeneous arrangement of atoms",
    "further , in many cases we also find heavy elements in the light matrix .",
    "a typical example is iron , which is contained by various building blocks of living organisms .",
    "however , many other heavy atoms ( co , ni , i etc . ) can also be found in biological systems . in the present work",
    "we show that the local distortion about heavy atoms is much larger than the average distortion in a biological sample .",
    "it is also shown that the large spatial density fluctuations significantly alter the time evolution of the atomic displacements .",
    "this fact was not recognized until now .",
    "we discuss our results from the point of view of structural imaging .",
    "we use simple c and c  fe model systems to separately illustrate the above points , and we also show the deterioration of a real biological system , the myoglobin , in which the two effects appear at the same time . based on our model - calculations",
    "it might be possible to correct for the above distorting effects .",
    "in the proposed experiment , individual identical molecules are going to be exposed to xfel pulses one - by - one in random , unknown orientation .",
    "estimates for the number of elastically scattered photons show , that single diffraction patterns will be very noisy . therefore the compilation of a 3d diffraction pattern , which is necessary to solve the structure , is not possible directly from the individual 2d images .",
    "many pictures have to be collected and added to improve statistics .",
    "this means that the minimum requirement of photon counting statistics is determined by the ability to classify the diffraction patterns according to their orientations .",
    "the requirements set by the classification might be relaxed according to a new approach , which uses the collected data set as a whole @xcite .",
    "however , the applicability of this approach is not proved for a realistic large data set , therefore we use the more conservative estimate given by the classification @xcite .    starting structures used in the model - calculations . for clarity",
    "we show four atomic layers thick cross sections of the samples : homogeneous 40    diameter pure carbon sample ( a ) ; the same sample as in ( a ) but 3 carbon atoms replaced by fe ( b ) ; spatially non - homogeneous sample ( c ) , and myoglobin ( d ) .",
    "all samples are surrounded by a water layer resulting in spherical droplets with 60    total diameters .",
    "the sample parts are encircled by 40    diameter spheres . the color convention given in the figure",
    "is used through the paper . ]    based on @xcite we are considering xfel pulses with energy of 12  kev and with fluence @xmath2  ph / pulse .",
    "this beam is focused to a 100  nm diameter spot . as pulse length",
    "we use 10  fs with flat top shape , which is shorter than the pulse length of xfel - s under construction but it is realistically reachable .",
    "the reason of using this short pulse is that even under this short time , atoms might move appreciable distances . in our md model the motion of all particles are followed by solving the non - relativistic equations of motion .",
    "coulomb forces are explicitly included , and the various quantum - processes are taken into account through their cross sections as stochastic processes . the detailed description of this model is given in @xcite . as a reference model - system",
    "we use a 40    diameter carbon cluster with homogeneously distributed c - s , surrounded by a 10    thick water tamper layer [ sample ( a ) ] ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f1].a . ) .",
    "atoms are placed on a 2.5  grid , which corresponds to the typical density of biological systems , 1.35  g/@xmath3 . in order to illustrate the effect of heavy atoms ,",
    "the same 40    diameter carbon cluster is used with three carbons exchanged to fe [ sample ( b ) ] ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f1].b . ) .",
    "the effect of spatial inhomogenities is studied on a pure carbon system with similar sizes and average density as in the previous cases , but in this sample the density is not spatially homogeneous [ sample ( c ) ] .",
    "the sample is built in the following way : first c atoms are placed on a dense regular grid @xmath4   .",
    "this leads to 6.25  g/@xmath3 density . to reach the 1.35  g/@xmath3 ,",
    "randomly chosen atoms are removed ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f1].c ) . at last the behaviour of a real biological molecule ,",
    "the myoglobin is modeled [ sample ( d ) ] ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f1].d ) .",
    "first we discuss the effect of heavy atoms . on fig .",
    "[ fig : f2].a and b the atomic positions in the c and c  fe systems are shown at the end of the pulse .",
    "the structure of c ( a ) , fe  c ( b ) , non - homogeneous c ( c ) and myoglobin ( d ) at the end of the pulse . ]    for easy comparison not the whole samples , only their cross sections are depicted .",
    "further , we do not show the electrons for clarity . in the case of the pure carbon system [ sample ( a ) ] the changes in the structure are hardly recognizable .",
    "however , in the water layer there are significant distortions .",
    "the reason of the different behavior of the sample and of the water parts were discussed in previous works @xcite . here",
    "we briefly describe the processes leading to this particular behaviour .",
    "this discussion also helps to understand the reasoning behind the effects of heavy atoms and spatial inhomogenities .",
    "when the probe beam hits the sample , high energy photoelectrons are produced .",
    "these leave the sample resulting in highly excited ions and a positively charged particle .",
    "auger relaxation and electron - ion collisions lead to a large number of free electrons .",
    "these non - bonded electrons rapidly rearrange in such a way , that a neutral core  composed of ions and electrons  develops . in the core",
    "there is an effective debye shielding , which slows down the deterioration of the sample . around the core",
    "we find a positively charged layer , in which the coulomb forces are not shielded resulting in the fast explosion of this layer . in order to avoid large structural distortion of the sample",
    "the thickness of the water layer has to be chosen to be equal to the thickness of the positively charged shell . in our case 10",
    "  was chosen as the minimum necessary thickness . until this point",
    "our results agree with those of the continuum models @xcite .",
    "now we turn to the fe ",
    "c sample . inspecting fig .",
    "[ fig : f2].b .",
    "it is clear , that a significantly larger distortion develops around the fe atoms than around the matrix c atoms . to make this difference more quantitative we plotted the first nieghbour distributions about fe and c atoms on fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].a .     time evolution of the first neighbor distributions and pair correlation functions .",
    "( a ) first neighbor distributions around the fe and c atoms ( inset ) in sample ( b ) .",
    "( b ) pair correlation functions of sample ( c ) ( upper panel ) and ( d ) ( lower panel ) .",
    "( c ) first neighbor distributions around the c atoms in sample ( d ) and ( c ) ( inset ) .",
    "( d ) first neighbor distribution around the fe in sample ( d ) . ]    in the case of fe centers the distortion is large ; the center of the distribution shifts about 1    as compared to the original atomic positions .",
    "further , the width of the distribution increases to about 1   .",
    "an increase of the width is expected because the random nature of various ionization processes lead to different momentum transfer to the ions resulting in different displacements . for c atoms ,",
    "the center of the distribution shifts only around 0.1   , small compared to the fe case .",
    "the increase of the width of the distribution is about the same as for fe .",
    "we can understand the different behaviour of fe environment by analyzing the physical processes .",
    "the differences come from two sources : ( i ) the ionization dynamics of the fe is much faster than that of c , therefore a high ionization state of the fe atoms develops in a short time ; ( ii ) the debye shielding does not work effectively for local inhomogenities .",
    "the reason is that the electrons shield the average charge of the system , which is determined by the c ions .",
    "the much higher positive charge of the fe ions is not compensated by the collective motion of electrons .",
    "these two factors lead to a large coulomb repulsion about the fe atoms , which pushes out the neighboring c - s .",
    "next we describe the effect of non - homogeneous spatial atomic arrangement . on fig .",
    "[ fig : f2].c . sample ( c ) is shown at the end of the pulse .",
    "we can identify large structural changes .",
    "one can follow this quantitatively by analyzing the time dependence of the pair correlation function ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].b.,upper panel ) and the nearest neighbour distribution ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].c .",
    "inset ) . we can divide the nearest neighbours into three classes : 1.5   , 2.1   , 2.55   . following these separately ,",
    "we see a large increase of the peak position of the first class , a much smaller change in the second class and almost nothing in the third class . at the end of the pulse an almost homogeneous system develops .",
    "the explanation of this behaviour is the following : the shielding by the free electrons is determined by the average density , which corresponds to 2.5  first neighbour distance . in this spatial range",
    "the debye shielding is effective .",
    "however , for shorter distances the positive charge of the c ions are not compensated , which leads to large coulomb forces between close ions .",
    "the second factor , which determines the motion of ions is the available space . in the inhomogeneous system the ions tend to move toward those places , where the local density is small ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : f1].c . and fig .",
    "[ fig : f2].c ) . starting from the above calculations we can understand the behaviour of the myoglobin in the xfel pulse . in fig .",
    "[ fig : f2].d .",
    "the molecule is shown at the end of the pulse .",
    "its deterioration is severe , it resembles to that of sample ( c ) . plotting the time evolution of the pair correlation functions ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].b.,lower panel ) we see a similar trend than for the model system , with the exception , that one can not separate three distinct first neighbour distances .",
    "this is natural , since in a real molecule the bonding distances change almost continuously according to the various types of bonds .",
    "we can obtain even more details by separately studying the c and fe environments ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].c and d. ) . while the time evolution of the c environment is very close to that of the reference system ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].c . )",
    "the fe environment shows a slightly different behaviour ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f3].a . and",
    "the reason is that in the case of myoglobin the fe first neighbour distances are smaller than it was in the model system .",
    "therefore the heavy atom effect is combined with the effect of non - homogeneous spatial arrangement . as a result , some elements in the fe environment move even more than in the model system , and some move less , depending on the interplay between the geometric arrangement and the extra charge on the fe ion . to illustrate this , we plotted the environment of the fe ion as a function of time ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f4 ] ) .",
    "the figure clearly shows that the oxygen atoms move the most , while the nitrogen atoms the less . in the light of our calculations",
    "this is not surprising since the fe  o distance is the shortest leading to a large coulomb repulsion .",
    "further , there is a large empty space for the oxygen atoms to move to . in the case of the nitrogen atoms the starting fe ",
    "n distance is larger and there is no room around the nitrogen atoms , so their neighbors slow down their motions . at",
    "last we point out one more interesting feature . in all cases the volume and the shape of the samples do not change . to emphasize this we put a constant diameter sphere around the samples ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f1 ] . and fig .",
    "[ fig : f2 ] . ) . why is this fact important ?",
    "this clearly shows that a 1d homogeneous shell model would predict a negligible distortion for all samples , since the debye shielding , which governs the damage in these models depends on the average density but not on the detailed structure of the samples",
    ". however , as our calculations show this is very far from reality .",
    "of course our conclusions can be generalized to other non - biological systems containing inhomogenities .",
    "this fact has serious consequences on single particle imaging .",
    "although the overall shape and size of the samples may remain the same during an xfel pulse , their internal atomic structure can significantly change .",
    "therefore the reconstruction of the original structure at the atomic level can not be directly obtained , even slowing down the sample destruction with the application of a tamper layer .",
    "this layer slows down the explosion of the sample as a whole , but the internal atomic structure may drastically change .",
    "the behaviour of small samples in highly focused xfel pulses was studied .",
    "we have examined the effect of inhomogenities on the time evolution of the distortions of near neighbor environments .",
    "it was found that around heavy atoms the local distortions significantly increase as compared to the distortions about the light matrix atoms .",
    "an even larger distortion develops around density fluctuations , where the light atoms are much closer than the average distance corresponding to the density of the system .",
    "both of these effects are present in biological systems , which are one of the target areas of research by xfel sources . until now most of the damage modeling was done for homogeneous systems , and conclusions about the feasibility of structural imaging experiments were drawn from these calculations .",
    "our study shows that atomic resolution imaging is hindered by inhomogenities , and no reliable information can be obtained from models using simplified homogeneous density .",
    "unfortunately this problem can not be overcome by the application of tamper layers , because local distortions show up even in the presence of debye shielding .",
    "however , knowing this type of behavior , we can envisage the introduction of corrections in the evaluation process .",
    "it is clear that we can not avoid the distortions , but we can use the fact that we know about it .",
    "we know that diffraction data will result too large first neighbor distances about heavy atom sites , and also about such sites where light atoms are very close to each other . using md type modeling we can correct the structure obtained directly from the diffraction data .",
    "this could be done in a multi - step process : ( i ) roughly correct the structure obtained from the diffraction data and use this as input parameters to the md modeling ; ( ii ) calculate the time evolution of the corrected structure and use this result to calculate the diffraction pattern ; ( iii ) compare this to the measured one and correct the starting structure accordingly ; ( iv ) start again md modeling with this new structure and continue until the calculated and measured patterns are close enough . using this type of approach ,",
    "atomic resolution imaging might be possible even in the presence of large local distortions ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the local distortion of the atomic structure in small biological samples illuminated by x - ray free electron laser ( xfel ) pulses . </S>",
    "<S> we concentrate on the effect of inhomogenities : heavy atoms in a light matrix and non - homogeneous spatial distribution of atoms . in biological systems </S>",
    "<S> we find both . </S>",
    "<S> using molecular - dynamics type modeling it is shown that the local distortions about heavy atoms are larger than the average distortion in the light matrix . </S>",
    "<S> further it is also shown that the large spatial density fluctuations also significantly alter the time evolution of atomic displacements as compared to samples with uniform density . </S>",
    "<S> this fact has serious consequences on single particle imaging . </S>",
    "<S> this is discussed and the possibility of a correction is envisaged . </S>"
  ]
}