{
  "article_text": [
    "an important problem in the 21st century is to construct sustainable power sources to replace or supplement coal , oil and gas whose power supplies will eventually decline .",
    "leading candidates for renewable power sources are solar and wind power .",
    "how much of this type of power needs to be generated to significantly alter the worlds energy profile ? in table 1",
    "we list existing power sources today @xcite @xcite . from this table",
    "we can surmise that 3000 gw of solar power would have a significant global impact .",
    "thus one can set as a goal :    @xmath0    similar goals of adding large amount of wind power have been discussed elsewhere @xcite .",
    "how realistic is the construction of 3000 gw of solar power ?",
    "the current worldwide deployment of photovoltaic solar power plants is about .955 gw so one needs more than a thousandfold increase to achieve this goal @xcite .",
    "we will see that the vast land area that must be covered to construct 3000 gw of solar power is a significant factor in the deployment of this energy resource .",
    "the 3000 gw goal can be accomplished for example through the construction of 50 solar power plants of 60 gw each , 3000 plants of 1 gw or 30,000 plants of 100 mw . in section 4",
    "we will discuss a particular case of a 60 gw solar power plant .",
    ".data from @xcite @xcite about energy production [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     after 2050 the tiger sanctuary will be a full capacity and the population can develop similar to the existing tiger sanctuaries of today .",
    "tiger and prey populations can be analyzed using the competitive lotka - volterra equations @xcite which are : @xmath1 here @xmath2 is the birth rate of the prey ( for example deer)with cumulative @xmath3 and @xmath4 is the death rate for the tiger population whose cumulative is @xmath5 .",
    "@xmath6 is a parameter which governs the rate of successful hunting by the tiger , @xmath7 is a parameter that describes the addition to the tiger population due to increased ability to successfully hunt , @xmath8 is a parameter which keeps the prey population from increasing exponentially in the absence of predators and is inversely related to the carrying capacity .    in these equations deer",
    "are taken as representative of the prey populations . in actual preserves",
    "tiger prey vary among different animals .",
    "one can generalize the lotka - volterra equation to include several prey species .",
    "a large variety of behaviors can be found among the solutions to these multi - prey equations @xcite .",
    "thus one needs to determine the parameters of the model accurately for each prey species from external field studies to ensure the stability of the population solution .",
    "besides several prey species one can also take into account several competing predators in the equations , such as the leopard , wild dog , or jackal . of particular interest is the equations governing the apex predator which in our case is the tiger .",
    "recent work indicates that the existence of an apex predator adds to the stability of the competitive lotka - volterra equation @xcite . beside the lotka - volterra equation that governs the total populations one can also use stochastic methods that provide spatial dependence of the predator - prey systems @xcite . these are typically of greater computation cost but can be run effectively on large parallel computers @xcite @xcite .    in figures 6 - 8",
    "we plot the tiger and prey population for a local tiger sanctuary using the competitive lotka - volterra equations with parameters @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 . for this set of parameters",
    "the tiger and prey populations oscillate about a fixed point over many generations .",
    "the parameters were chosen so that near the fixed point the ratio of prey to tiger populations approached 500:1 and the tigers eat 10 percent of the prey population per year as was indicated in the field studies of todays tiger preserves . from the figures",
    "one can see that if the tigers can be trained to hunt as effectively as the wild tigers of today , that is if the coefficient @xmath6 is large enough , then a sustainable population of tigers and prey can be obtained .",
    "solar power plants have greater efficiency if operated in a desert , however if a country does nt have a desert , solar power plants can also operate in temperate regions .",
    "also if located in a desert one has potential costs in transporting the energy to more hospitable locations . in such situations",
    "one can consider an integrated approach where the wildlife sanctuary and solar power plant coexist .",
    "one such integrated approach is indicated in figure 9 .",
    "it consists of a wildlife sanctuary surrounded by a solar power plant .",
    "two outer circles bounds the solar power plant and an inner bounding circle bounds the wildlife sanctuary .",
    "one must insure that the inner circle contains a sufficient barrier to prevent the entrance of wildlife into the region of the solar power plant @xcite .",
    "for example , a tiger sanctuary with 300 tigers and 3000 square miles with 150,000 prey animals would have a inner radius of 30.9 miles .",
    "this could be bound by an solar power plant in the form of an annulus with width 3 miles and area 610.35 square miles .",
    "the solar power plant would supply 61 gw of electric power .",
    "this is enough electricity to power over 20 million homes .",
    "the cost of this integrated system can be determined using the estimates of @xcite where a 3000 gw solar power system was estimated to be 420 billion dollars .",
    "thus a 61.1 gw system would cost approximately 85.4 billion dollars .",
    "the main assumption here is that the installed cost of solar power will be reduced from 4 dollars / watt to about 1.2 dollars / watt by 2050 .",
    "the highest cost to date for the construction of a tiger sanctuary is 153 million over five years from the indian government for security , population tracking and villager relocation @xcite .",
    "the cost of the wildlife sanctuary is thus only .18 percent of the cost the solar power system .",
    "this double circle arrangement has some advantages for security and defense as well as for military tactics @xcite .",
    "the outer circle protects the energy infrastructure while the inner circle protects the sanctuary .",
    "the area between them contains the solar power plant and the resources needed to maintain it .",
    "the integrated approach solves the security aspects of the wildlife sanctuary @xcite @xcite @xcite by coupling it to the security of the renewable energy infrastructure .",
    "another advantage of this double circle design is that power lines and energy transport from the solar plant are attached to the outer circle only .",
    "roads and service entrances are not requires inside the sanctuary .",
    "this allows the sanctuary portion of the facility to be contiguous allowing for migration of prey animals and greater diversity .",
    "we have studied the space , economic and manpower required to achieve the goal of adding 3000 gw of solar power to an electrical grid as well the goal of adding 3000 tigers to a wildlife reserve . due to a numerical coincidence the space required to generate 1 gw of solar power was about the same space required for a tiger , namely 10 square miles or 6400 acres .",
    "we emphasized scalability and rate of deployment in achieving both goals .",
    "we used modified logistic equations to study both the growth of solar power under competition and the growth of tiger populations interacting with prey .",
    "because the equations are similar one sees that the same analysis methods can be fruitfully applied to both problems studied in this paper .",
    "finally we introduced an integrated approach for deploying solar plants and wildlife sanctuaries within which both can coexist despite the large land areas involved .",
    "one difficulty with wildlife conservation is that it that it is often tied to human problems .",
    "this is because most of the wildlife is located near poor rural populations as those areas have less habitat destruction .",
    "one has to make a choice as resources are limited .",
    "ultimately one has to help the human population .",
    "an advantage of the integrated approach is that it ties wildlife conservation to a human solution , one which must be urgently implemented .",
    "the solar energy infrastructure must surely be secured due to its strategic importance .",
    "this security extended to the integrated wildlife sanctuary within , solves on the main costs how to maintain security over a 30,000 square mile reserve .",
    "thus in this approach one helps the wildlife as well as the human population .",
    "indeed one is beginning to see the use solar power bordering tiger reserves as an application of electrification in rural areas @xcite @xcite",
    "i wish to acknowledge useful discussions with dave rutledge and shigemi ohta .",
    "this manuscript has been authored in part by brookhaven science associates , llc , under contract no . de - ac02 - 98ch10886 with the u.s .",
    "department of energy .",
    "t. r. shankar raman , n. v. joshi , r. sukumar , `` tropical rainforest bird community structure in relation to altitude , tree species composition , and null models in the western ghats , india '' , arxiv : q - bio/0510033 ( 2005 ) .",
    "greg p. smestad , frederik c. krebs , carl m. lampert , claes g. granqvist , k.l .",
    "chopra , xavier mathew , hideyuki takakura , `` reporting solar cell efficiencies in solar energy materials and solar cells '' , solar energy materials and solar cells 92 , 371 ( 2008 ) .",
    "paul denholm , robert m. margolis , `` evaluating the limits of solar photovoltaics ( pv ) in electric power systems utilizing energy storage and other enabling technologies '' , energy policy 35 , 4424 ( 2007 ) .",
    "uma ramakrishnan , richard g. coss , neil w. pelkey , `` tiger decline caused by the reduction of large ungulate prey : evidence from a study of leopard diets in southern india '' , biological conservation 89 , 113 ( 1999 ) .",
    "cox , m. , 1998 . a new approach to tiger conservation : integrating top - down and bottom - up strategies .",
    "endangered species update , march / april , school of natural resources and environment , university of michigan .",
    "stephens , o.yu .",
    "zaumyslova , g.d . hayward and d.g .",
    "miquelle , `` analysis of the long - term dynamics of ungulates in sikhote - alin zapovednik , russian far east '' report to sikhote - alin zapovednik , usda forest service and wcs(2006 ) .",
    "a. stephens , o. yu .",
    "zaumyslova , d. g. miquelle , a. i. myslenkov , g. d. hayward , `` estimating population density from indirect sign : track counts and the formozov - malyshev - pere;eshin formula '' , animal conservation 9 .",
    "339 ( 2006 ) .    c. carroll and d. g. miquelle , `` spatial viability analysis of amur tiger panthera tigris altaica in the russian far east : the role of protected areas and landscape matrix in population persistence '' , journal of applied ecology 43 , 1056 ( 2006 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss separate and integrated approaches to building scalable solar power plants and wildlife sanctuaries . </S>",
    "<S> both solar power plants and wildlife sanctuaries need a lot of land . </S>",
    "<S> we quantify some of the requirements using various estimates of the rate of solar power production as well as the rate of adding wildlife to a sanctuary over the time range 2010 - 2050 . </S>",
    "<S> we use population dynamics equations to study the evolution of solar energy and tiger populations up to and beyond 2050 .    0.5 in 0.0 in 5.5 in 0.0 in .25 in = 9.0 in    addtoresetequationsection </S>"
  ]
}