{
  "article_text": [
    "in view of the rapidly advancing miniaturization in microelectronics and sensing , molecules are envisioned as fundamental building blocks in a future `` molecular nanotechnology '' . since controlled switching between defined states is a crucial basis component for storage and logic , molecules offering this functionality ( e.g. through externally induced changes between conformational isomers ) attain a central importance .",
    "considering contacting and defined integration into a larger framework , it is more precisely the function of the molecule when stabilized at a solid surface that is of key interest . while a large variety of molecules can be controllably switched in gas - phase or solution , still little is known about their function in such an adsorbed state .",
    "suppression of the switching capability e.g. due to steric hindrance is a possible scenario , but completely new properties under the influence of the solid surface are equally conceivable .",
    "the atomic - scale understanding necessary for a technological exploitation of such effects builds on a detailed structural and electronic characterization of the adsorbed molecular switch , as well as its response to external stimuli like fields , forces or external currents.@xcite    as a prototypical conformational switch of modest complexity azobenzene ( c@xmath0h@xmath1-n = n - c@xmath0h@xmath1 ) has been on the research agenda for many years.@xcite in solution it exhibits a reversible photo - isomerization between an energetically more stable planar trans geometry and a three - dimensional cis configuration , in which the planes of the two phenyl - rings are tilted with respect to each other .",
    "a common theme in existing experimental studies addressing the function in surface mounted geometries is that a too strong substrate interaction is suspected to cause adverse effects on the switching efficiency .",
    "this has either led to the use of ligands like alkanethiol chains to decouple the azobenzene moiety in vertical geometries @xcite or to a focus on unreactive materials like close - packed surfaces of coinage metals and there in particular on au(111 ) . on the latter surface",
    "bare azobenzene could be successfully isomerized using tip - manipulation techniques @xcite , but even in this alleged weak physisorption limit switching with light could not be achieved @xcite .",
    "reasoned as an ultrafast quenching of the electronic excitation azobenzene - derivatives that are further lifted up from the surface appear as a viable alternative and reversible photomechanical switching has indeed been reported for the functionalized molecule tetra - tert - butyl azobenzene ( tba ) @xcite .",
    "the intricate role played even then by the metallic substrate is nevertheless exemplified by the fact that exactly for the same azobenzene - derivative , tba , light - induced switching could not be achieved at ag(111).@xcite    as already stated , the characterization of the stable ( or meta - stable , long - lived ) molecular states at the surface is a necessary prerequisite to a detailed understanding of these experimental findings and of the actual excitation mechanism . while already less ambitious than a comprehensive first - principles treatment of the entire switching process , corresponding static electronic structure theory calculations still pose a considerable challenge .",
    "the large system sizes resulting from the sheer extension of the azobenzene molecule and the periodic supercell geometries dictated by the metallic bandstructure , can at present only be tackled by density - functional theory ( dft ) with local- or semi - local exchange and correlation ( xc ) functionals .",
    "while this is the state of the art and the lowest level of theory at which one can still at least hope for the aspired quantitative and predictive - quality modeling , it is clear from the start that the specificities of the molecule - surface binding directly challenge two well - known deficiencies of the named functionals : the spurious self - interaction and the lack of long - range dispersive ( van der waals ) attraction . with several frontier orbitals of different symmetry ( _ vide infra _ ) presumably involved in the bonding , the detrimental effect of self - interaction blurred orbital energies on fundamental quantities like the preferred adsorption site has already been demonstrated for much simpler adsorbates @xcite .",
    "similarly well known is the important role played by long - range van der waals interactions when aromatic @xmath2-like orbitals participate in the molecule - surface interaction @xcite .",
    "the present trend study addressing the binding of azobenzene at the three coinage metal surfaces , cu(111 ) , ag(111 ) and au(111 ) within large - scale dft calculations correspondingly has a twofold focus . on the one hand , we critically discuss the obtained detailed energetic , geometric , and electronic structure data in the context of the sketched limitations of the employed semi - local xc functional , namely the generalized gradient approximation ( gga ) functional due to perdew , burke and ernzerhof ( pbe ) @xcite . with respect to the lack of long - range dispersive interactions this includes the main conclusions from an assessment of this issue on the level of semi - empirical van der waals correction schemes @xcite , the details of which will be published in a consecutive paper @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "we carve out some governing factors in the molecule - surface interaction that appear quite robust with respect to the employed approximate xc treatment .",
    "this concerns notably a rationalization of the obtained energetic ordering of the molecular states at the surface , and an analysis of the recent tip - manipulation and photo - excitation experiments from the view point of the derived bonding mechanism . as such",
    ", the reported data also provides an important reference for future studies , in which we will investigate the differences induced by the engineered functionalization of this molecule to improve the switching efficiency .",
    "the dft gga - pbe calculations were carried out within the plane - wave implementation and using the standard library ultrasoft pseudopotentials @xcite as provided by the castep code @xcite .",
    "gas phase molecular geometries and properties were determined by optimizing isolated molecules in a rectangular ( 30 @xmath3 40 @xmath3 30 ) supercell , with @xmath4-point sampling and a plane - wave kinetic energy cutoff of 800ev .",
    "these supercell molecular calculations were complemented by computations of truly isolated molecules using the nwchem package @xcite and the def - tzvp @xcite basis set . while the geometries , orbital energies and relative stabilities of neutral azobenzene obtained with both codes for gga - pbe are identical on the accuracy level discussed here , we additionally used the molecular nwchem code for reference calculations using the hybrid b3lyp functional @xcite , as well as for the calculation of ionized molecular properties , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] below .",
    "the molecule - surface system was modeled in supercell geometries , employing the gga - pbe optimized lattice constants ( @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 ) and , depending on the registry of the trans isomer with the substrate , large @xmath8 or @xmath9 ( 111 ) surface unit - cells to decouple the adsorbed molecule from its periodic images .",
    "no possibility for reconstruction was considered for both clean and adsorbate - covered surfaces .",
    "the search for the most stable adsorption site at concomitant optimized adsorption geometries was performed using three layer slabs with adsorption on one side and allowing full relaxation of the topmost layer .",
    "structure optimization relied on the bfgs algorithm @xcite as implemented in castep , and the default convergence threshold on the maximum absolute ionic force component of 0.05ev /  .",
    "the plane - wave kinetic energy cutoff was 350ev , the vacuum region exceeded 13 , and reciprocal space integration was done using @xmath10 monkhorst - pack grids @xcite .",
    "centrally targeted in these calculations was the relative energetic stability , which we found to be converged to @xmath11mev at these computational settings . in order to determine the preferred adsorption site ,",
    "both azobenzene isomers were optimized in six different adsorption geometries on all three surfaces as sketched in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] : the molecule was centered on the bridge ( b ) , top ( t ) and hollow ( h ) surface sites , and shifted such that either the azo - bridge ( @xmath12 ) center of mass ( designated as 1 ) or one of the azo - bridge n atoms ( designated as 2 ) aligned with the adsorption site . in most optimizations , the molecule relaxed towards the 1:1 metal - n atom coordinated b1 geometry ( shown centered at the bottom of fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) , which at all three surfaces and for both isomers was also the energetically most favorable among those found .    for the thus defined most stable geometry the absolute adsorption energy , work function and projected density of states ( pdos ) were determined at refined computational settings and a @xmath8 ( 111 ) surface unit - cell . to also avoid a finite dipole across the vacuum region we switched to thicker , inversion - symmetric seven layer slabs with adsorption on both sides .",
    "the vacuum was increased to 22 and the * k*-point density doubled .",
    "the adsorption energy is defined as @xmath13 \\quad , \\ ] ] where @xmath14 is the total energy of the relaxed azobenzene - surface system , @xmath15 the total energy of the clean slab , @xmath16 the total energy of the corresponding relaxed gas - phase isomer ( all three computed at the same plane - wave cutoff ) , and the factor @xmath17 accounts for the fact that adsorption is at both sides of the slab .",
    "the adsorption energy of either cis or trans isomer at the surface is thus measured relative to its stability in the gas - phase , and a negative sign indicates that adsorption is exothermic .",
    "systematic convergence tests indicate that this central quantity is converged to within @xmath18mev at the chosen settings .",
    "the work function of a particular surface structure is determined as the difference of the fermi level and the value of the electrostatic potential at the center of the vacuum between two consecutive slabs , and we also verified that this quantity is converged to within @xmath18mev at the chosen settings . as a technical point",
    ", we note that this required increasing the size of the grid on which the charge density is represented from the 1.8 @xmath19 otherwise used , to the maximum of 2.0 @xmath19 . additionally , we had to lower the scf convergence energy threshold from otherwise @xmath20ev / atom to @xmath21ev / atom .",
    "the molecular pdos@xcite @xmath22 is defined by projections of the kohn - sham ( ks ) states of the ( adsorbed ) molecule - surface system @xmath23 with ks eigenvalues @xmath24 onto a certain ks orbital @xmath25 of the isolated molecule in the adsorption geometry @xmath26",
    "the summation over band indices @xmath27 and * k*-point indices @xmath28 is weighted by the * k*-point - weights @xmath29 so that an integration of @xmath22 over @xmath30 gives @xmath31 if sufficiently many bands of the molecule - surface system are considered . conveniently , we used molecular ks orbitals @xmath32 which were calculated in the same supercell and with the same energy cut - off and * k*-point grid as the molecule - surface system to evaluate eq .",
    "( [ eq_pdos ] ) .",
    "we verified that the artificial dispersion of these molecular ks orbitals is indeed negligible within the desired accuracy of our computational setup .",
    "in addition , eq .  ( [ eq_pdos ] ) was evaluated using the scalar product induced by the overlap matrix s due to the ultrasoft pseudopotentials @xcite . in the plots below ,",
    "the @xmath33-functions have finally been convoluted with a gaussian function of 0.2ev full width at half maximum for better visualization .",
    ".[table1 ] selected structural parameters of gas - phase azobenzene ( ab ) as defined in the text and in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] below . compared are the optimized values from the gga - pbe calculations against higher - level theory ( b3lyp ( this work ) and mp2/cc - pvtz @xcite ) and experiment@xcite . [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     important information concerning the bonding mechanism at the surface is already provided by the electronegativity ( en ) of the isolated molecule . for trans and cis azobenzene",
    "we compute the mulliken en , defined as the mean of electron affinity and ionization potential , as 4.44ev and 4.11ev , respectively , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] .",
    "if we start our discussion again with the adsorption at au(111 ) and correspondingly compare these values to the work function of the clean surface , @xmath34ev , this suggests some charge transfer from the molecule to the metal substrate , and more specifically slightly more charge transfer in case of the less electronegative cis isomer .",
    "the actually calculated lowering of the work function for trans and cis azobenzene adsorption of @xmath35ev and @xmath36ev , respectively , is consistent with this expectation , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] .",
    "quantitatively , it is , however , important to realize that even without any charge transfer ( or more generally charge rearrangement ) upon adsorption a work function change can already result if the molecular overlayer as such exhibits a non - zero dipole moment @xcite . in this respect ,",
    "the two azobenzene isomers differ significantly in that the gas - phase trans configuration has no dipole moment , whereas the cis configuration exhibits a finite calculated dipole moment of 3.23debye . in order to disentangle the contributions to the work function change",
    ", we therefore compute the potential change across a free - standing molecular overlayer in exactly the same geometric structure as it has in the adsorbed state . subtracting this term we arrive at the work function change @xmath37 solely due to the charge rearrangement caused by the interaction of the overlayer with the metal substrate .",
    "as shown in table [ table4 ] , the values for @xmath38 are @xmath39ev and @xmath40ev for trans and cis azobenzene , respectively , which now fit almost too perfectly into the electronegativity picture of an only slightly larger charge transfer to the metal in case of the cis isomer . at this stage",
    ", we stress , however , the well - known limitations of the charge transfer notion at metallic surfaces.@xcite distinguishing between an actual transfer of charge between molecule and substrate or a polarization of the molecular charge accompanied by a varying degree of charge displacement due to pauli repulsion in the overlapping electron density tails of the bonding partners is to some degree semantics.@xcite we make no attempt to contribute to this discussion here , and henceforth simply refer to charge transfer in quotes to emphasize its conceptual nature .",
    "figure [ fig4 ] analyses the azobenzene / au(111 ) interaction in terms of the density of states projected onto the molecular frontier orbitals .",
    "similar to the discussion of the work function changes we aim to single out the effect of the charge rearrangement upon adsorption by also showing the level positions as they would result within a schottky - mott model , i.e. by simply aligning the vacuum level of the free molecule and the clean surface .",
    "while this model in general ignores the formation of a surface dipole , we modify it for our purposes by including the above described potential change caused already by the dipole moment of the free - standing molecular overlayer . any shift between the orbital energy in this modified schottky - mott model and in the fully self - consistent calculation can this way be attributed to the charge rearrangement caused by the molecule - surface interaction . starting with the pdos of trans azobenzene at au(111 ) shown in the left upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] , we see the four projected frontier orbitals , homo-1 , homo , lumo , and lumo+1 broadened with hardly any degree of intermixing with au @xmath41-states . compared to their position in the modified schottky - mott model all levels are roughly equally shifted by about 0.8ev to lower energies , which is the direction one would also expect from the afore discussed `` charge transfer '' into the metal substrate , but which could equally well merely result from the lowering in the surface potential . despite the down - shift , the lumo still remains well above the fermi - level .",
    "both this and the actually resulting homo and lumo positions at @xmath420.7ev and + 1.2ev respectively are in reasonable agreement with scanning - tunneling spectroscopy ( sts ) measurements by choi _ et al .",
    "this suggests that the sizable self - interaction induced error in the description of the homo - lumo gap of the free molecule , cf .",
    "section iiia , is to some extent lifted , and that the orbital energies of the surface adsorbed molecule may be rather adequately described at the gga - pbe level .    in case of cis azobenzene adsorption at au(111 ) the actual level positions are in general at lower energies , cf .",
    "this is primarily due to the fact that because of the finite potential change caused by the free - standing molecular overlayer already the level positions in the modified schottky - mott model lie at lower energies . with a comparable down - shift of the self - consistently calculated frontier orbitals as for trans azobenzene ( _ vide infra _ ) , this has as one consequence that the projected lumo lies now just above the fermi - level . as a second consequence , both the homo and homo-1 level fall right into the energy range of the au @xmath41-band with a concomitant stronger hybridization .",
    "the down - shift of the lumo is with about 1.0ev even slightly stronger than for the trans isomer , again in line with the above discussed picture of a slightly stronger `` charge transfer '' as inferred from electronegativity differences and work function changes , or alternatively with a stronger lowering in the surface potential due to the lower adsorption height of this isomer .",
    "the exception of the much smaller shift of the lumo+1 level of only @xmath43ev is in this respect primarily due to the distorted adsorption geometry : the computed lumo+1 for a free molecule in this distorted geometry is higher in energy than in the relaxed gas - phase geometry , and if one takes this into account , one arrives at an effective down - shift of the lumo+1 that is comparable to that of the other frontier orbitals .",
    "moving to the azobenzene adsorption at ag(111 ) we find essentially the same picture as obtained at au(111 ) , yet with subtle and intriguing modifications . with a much lower work function of @xmath44ev",
    "the electronegativity difference to the azobenzene molecule is much smaller , and one would correspondingly expect a smaller `` charge transfer '' . consistently ,",
    "the reduced work function change @xmath37 upon trans azobenzene adsorption , i.e. after correcting for the dipole moment of the free - standing molecular overlayer , is with @xmath45ev smaller than the corresponding value at au(111 ) , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] .",
    "also the again roughly equal down - shift of the projected frontier orbitals compared to their position in the modified schottky - mott model shown in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] is with about 0.6ev smaller than the corresponding value of 0.8ev for trans adsorption at au(111 ) .",
    "nevertheless , due to the much smaller ag(111 ) work function the lumo still ends up closer to the fermi - level than was the case at au(111 ) , and is further lowered to just above @xmath46 in the van der waals corrected geometry .",
    "nevertheless , with the ag @xmath41-band starting at lower energies not even the homo-1 has significant overlap with the metal @xmath41-states , and we find all four frontier orbitals largely retaining their molecular character . while all of these findings fit perfectly into the overall picture developed at au(111 ) , the deviations start when turning to the cis azobenzene adsorption . from the smaller electronegativity of this isomer , one would expect a slightly larger `` charge transfer '' than in the case of trans azobenzene , and correspondingly a somewhat larger reduced work function change @xmath37 as was the case at au(111 ) . however , actually calculated after correcting for the change induced by the free - standing molecular overlayer is an essentially zero @xmath37 , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] .",
    "we attribute this to the closeness of the lumo to the fermi - level already in the modified schottky - mott model as apparent in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] . a `` charge transfer '' or surface potential induced down - shift of this orbital leads therefore to a significant population of this formerly unoccupied level with a concomitant charge back - donation into the molecule counteracting the work function lowering .",
    "this more complex interaction is finally also obtained for trans and cis azobenzene at cu(111 ) , where we now find a significant lumo population for both isomers . that this results also for the trans case is partly already due to the strongly distorted adsorption geometries described in section iiib above .",
    "these distorted geometries exhibit a much increased dipole moment , which offsets the somewhat larger cu(111 ) work function , cf .",
    "table [ table3 ] , and leads to level positions in the modified schottky - mott model that are as low as in the case of ag(111 ) . with the higher - lying cu @xmath41-band and the much shorter distance of the adsorbed molecule above the cu(111 ) surface",
    "this enables a much stronger hybridization of the frontier orbitals than at the other two coinage metal surfaces , which is even further increased at the van der waals corrected geometry . as a result homo-1 , homo and",
    "lumo all form broad bands with mixed metallic and molecular character and the counteracting donation and back - donation contributions result in overall small reduced work function changes @xmath37 for both isomers , cf .",
    "table [ table4 ] .",
    "we have presented a dft gga - pbe trend study of the adsorption of azobenzene at the three coinage metal surfaces , cu(111 ) , ag(111 ) , and au(111 ) , providing detailed energetic , geometric , and electronic structure data of the meta - stable surface molecular states . as a central insight",
    "the calculations identify the conflicting bonding interests of the azo - bridge moiety on the one side and of the phenyl - rings on the other side as the governing factor for the molecule - surface interaction .",
    "while the phenyl - rings prefer a rather large , pauli - repulsion dictated @xmath47-height above the surface , much shorter distances are required to enable the formation of stronger covalent n - metal bonds .",
    "for the planar trans configuration these two demands are incompatible and as a result we find the molecule either floating at a larger @xmath47-height above au(111 ) and ag(111 ) , or severely buckled and distorted at a shorter @xmath47-height above cu(111 ) .",
    "the three - dimensional cis configuration does not suffer from this conflict and the actually calculated adsorption height corresponds at all three surfaces to n bond lengths to the directly coordinated surface metal atoms that are highly reminiscent of corresponding distances in transition metal complexes .",
    "due to the more favorable gas - phase molecular geometry adsorption leads thus naturally to a larger stabilization of the cis isomer . at the employed gga - pbe level",
    "we correspondingly compute a diminished relative stability with the trans isomer still more stable at au(111 ) and ag(111 ) , and an actual reversal of the gas - phase energetic order at cu(111 ) .",
    "this is traced back to the more reactive cu @xmath41-band in conjunction with the smaller cu atomic radius , which together enable the formation of strong covalent n - cu bonds at a low adsorption height and a concomitantly reduced pauli - repulsion of the phenyl - rings . from a critical discussion of these findings including a semi - empirical account of long - range van der waals forces",
    "we conclude that the stronger dispersive attraction in case of the planar trans isomer largely counteracts the covalent bond driven preferential stabilization of the cis isomer .",
    "whether the stability reversal of cis and trans azobenzene obtained with gga - pbe at cu(111 ) indeed prevails remains thus to be confirmed by higher - level theory or experiment .",
    "comparison to scarce experimental data suggests that the energetic positions of the frontier orbitals in the surface mounted geometry are reasonably well described to also attempt some conclusions with respect to the bonding and isomerization mechanisms .",
    "light - induced switching in gas - phase and solution is conventionally discussed in terms of photo - excitation of the homo-1 to lumo ( @xmath48 ) and homo to lumo ( @xmath49 ) resonances in the trans and cis states , respectively.@xcite in this respect , the obtained noticeable broadening of these levels at all three surfaces casts severe doubts on the efficiency of these conventional mechanisms , and could rationalize the unsuccessful attempts to photo - isomerize bare azobenzene at au(111 ) @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "the actual degree of hybridization of the occupied orbitals could just be the key to the function , considering the homo - involving substrate - mediated charge - transfer process suggested recently in the context of the reversible photo - induced isomerization of the azobenzene - derivative tba at au(111 ) @xcite . in this regard",
    ", we expect further insight from a detailed comparison of the present reference data for bare azobenzene with corresponding data for differently functionalized azobenzene molecules .",
    "a last intriguing aspect is the partial occupation of the lumo in both isomers at cu(111 ) and in the cis isomer at ag(111 ) with a corresponding back - donation contribution to the bonding .",
    "it is thus only at au(111 ) that the lumo position remains distinctly above the metal fermi - level for both isomers .",
    "this has quite some bearing on the negative ion resonance mechanism discussed in the context of tip - manipulation techniques @xcite and could explain why the hitherto only such isomerization has been reported for this surface @xcite .",
    "funding by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft through sfb 658 - elementary processes in molecular switches at surfaces - is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "we thank the deisa consortium ( co - funded by the eu , fp6 projects 508830/031513 ) for support within the deisa extreme computing initiative ( www.deisa.org ) .",
    "e. j. bylaska , w. a. de jong , n. govind , k. kowalski , t. p. straatsma , m. valiev , d. wang , e. apra , t. l. windus , j. hammond , p. nichols , s. hirata , m. t. hackler , y. zhao , p .- d . fan , r. j. harrison , m. dupuis , d. m. a. smith , j. nieplocha , v. tipparaju , m. krishnan , q. wu , t. van voorhis , a. a. auer , m. nooijen , e. brown , g. cisneros , g. i. fann , h. fruchtl , j. garza , k. hirao , r. kendall , j. a. nichols , k. tsemekhman , k. wolinski , j. anchell , d. bernholdt , p. borowski , t. clark , d. clerc , h. dachsel , m. deegan , k. dyall , d. elwood , e. glendening , m. gutowski , a. hess , j. jaffe , b. johnson , j. ju , r. kobayashi , r. kutteh , z. lin , r. littlefield , x. long , b. meng , t. nakajima , s. niu , l. pollack , m. rosing , g. sandrone , m. stave , h. taylor , g. thomas , j. van lenthe , a. wong , and z. zhang , _ nwchem , a computational chemistry package for parallel computers , version 5.1 _ ( 2007 ) , pacific northwest national laboratory , richland , washington 99352 - 0999 , usa ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a density - functional theory trend study addressing the binding of the trans - cis conformational switch azobenzene ( c@xmath0h@xmath1-n = n - c@xmath0h@xmath1 ) at three coinage metal surfaces . from the reported detailed energetic , geometric , and electronic structure data </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the governing factor for the molecule - surface interaction is a competition between covalent bonding of the central azo ( -n = n- ) bridge on the one hand and the surface interaction of the two closed - shell phenyl ( -c@xmath0h@xmath1 ) rings on the other . with respect to this factor </S>",
    "<S> the cis conformer exhibits a more favorable gas - phase geometric structure and is thus more stabilized at the studied surfaces . with </S>",
    "<S> the overall binding still rather weak the relative stability of the two isomers is thereby reduced at ag(111 ) and au(111 ) . </S>",
    "<S> this is significantly different at cu(111 ) , where the cis bonding is strong enough to even reverse the gas - phase energetic order at the level of the employed semi - local electronic exchange and correlation ( xc ) functional . </S>",
    "<S> while this actual reversal may well be affected by the deficiencies due to the approximate xc treatment , we critically discuss that the rationalization of the general effect of the surface on the meta - stable molecular states is quite robust . this should equally hold for the presented analysis of recent tip - manipulation and photo - excitation isomerization experiments from the view point of the derived bonding mechanism . </S>"
  ]
}