{
  "article_text": [
    "thanks to the outstanding work by n.  walborn and collaborators over the last 30 years , a detailed classification scheme for ob - stars of solar metallicity has been developed , based on the morphology of the line spectrum .",
    "for the specific case of o - type stars , an alternative scheme relying on quantitative criteria has been provided by conti & alschuler @xcite and mathys @xcite as well .",
    "consequently , the classification of galactic ob stars is rigorously defined .",
    "the classification of extragalactic stars , on the other hand , is still somewhat problematic . in particular",
    ", the calibration between spectral types and physical parameters differs as a function of metallicity when criteria for milky way stars are applied . with respect to b - stars ,",
    "this point has been extensively discussed by various authors ( e.g. , monteverde et al .",
    "@xcite , lennon @xcite , urbaneja et al .",
    "@xcite ) who pointed out that the use of the mk classification criteria for stars with metallicities different than solar can significantly influence the derived spectral types and luminosity classes .    unlike b - type stars , where the relative strengths of metal to he  i optical lines are used for classification purposes ,",
    "o - type stars are generally classified by comparing the strengths of he  i and he  ii lines ( see , e.g. , conti & alschuler @xcite ; mathys @xcite , walborn @xcite ; walborn & fitzpatrick,@xcite ) .",
    "thus , one might conclude that there should be no problem to employ the standard classification schemes of either walborn or conti to o - type stars in various metallicity environments . however , theoretical considerations predict that helium line strengths should also depend , though indirectly , on metallicity , due to the processes of mass - loss and euv line - blocking / blanketing ( e.g. , abbott & hummer @xcite , sellmaier et al .",
    "@xcite , herrero et al .",
    "@xcite ) . whilst in stars with weaker winds ( e.g. , dwarfs ) the effect is controlled , to a major extent , by the blanketing alone , in stars with stronger winds ( e.g. , supergiants ) , the processes of wind emission and additional wind - blanketing seem to be of similar or even dominating impact ( e.g. , repolust et al .",
    "as noted in the previous section , the classification of o - type stars in the optical band relies either on the walborn or on the conti classification schemes , both developed to be used at solar metallicity . in the walborn scheme visual estimates of individual line strengths or line strength ratios of strategic helium transitions are used as classification criteria , while in the conti scheme the logarithm of the equivalent width ( ew ) ratio of he  i  4471 to he  ii  4541 is used instead .",
    "given that an eye - estimated ratio is roughly equivalent to the logarithmic ratio of the corresponding ews , these two approaches should lead to similar results ( but see heap et al .",
    "@xcite ) .    to address the metallicity issue regarding the spectral classification of o - type stars , we developed the following strategy .",
    "as a first step and using the fastwind code ( puls et al .",
    "@xcite ) , we constructed 6 model grids , corresponding to two values of metallicity , solar , @xmath1 , and 0.3  @xmath1 , of about -0.5 was found , corresponding to an average metallicity of about 0.3  ( for more information , see efremova et al . @xcite and references therein ) . ] , and three luminosity classes : dwarfs ( dws ) , giants ( gs ) and supergiants ( sgs ) . by means of these models we investigated the predicted variations in helium line strengths , caused by the adopted change in metallicity , as a function of  and luminosity class .",
    "subsequently , we evaluated the shifts in spectral type ( and ) and luminosity class , that would eventually appear if galactic classification criteria were used to o - type stars of metallicity 0.3  .",
    "our model grids comprise 64 nlte , line - blanketed models with stellar winds . for all models and independent of metallicity , stellar parameters ( , , and )",
    "were taken from the empirical calibrations of martins et al .",
    "@xcite for galactic stars of luminosity classes i , iii and v. we used a solar chemical composition as derived by asplund et al.@xcite , subsequently scaled to z=0.3  @xmath2 .",
    "a standard @xmath3-velocity law with @xmath3=0.9 was adopted for all models .",
    "terminal velocities , , for solar metallicity models were determined by means of the spectral type - calibration from kudritzki & puls @xcite .",
    "the effects of metallicity on were taken into account by employing the scaling relation from leitherer et al .",
    "@xcite , namely @xmath4 .",
    "mass - loss rates were calculated using the mass - loss recipe from vink et al .",
    "a microturbulent velocity of 10  was used to calculate the atmospheric structures , whilst values of 5 , 10 and 15  were assumed for calculating the emergent spectrum .",
    "based on these model grids , the ew variations of several strategic he  i ( e.g. , he  i  4026 , he  i  4471 and he  i  4387 ) and he  ii ( e.g. , he  ii  4200 , he  ii  4541 and he  ii  4686 ) lines were investigated , as a function of metallicity ( and 0.3  ) , and luminosity class .    our results , partly illustrated in figures  [ he_lines ] and 3 , indicate that in the o - star temperature domain he  i and he  ii are both influenced by metallicity .",
    "the effect is opposite to that for metal lines , i.e. , while metal lines become weaker due to the lower metal content , the helium line strengths are predicted to increase in absorption .",
    "moreover , individual lines react differently .",
    "members of the he  i singlet series are more sensitive to metallicity than those of the triplet series , which in turn are more sensitive than he  ii transitions ( except for he  ii  4686 , see next section ) .",
    "in addition , the effect depends on and , being more pronounced in hotter sgs ( where mass loss effects are strongest ) , and almost negligible ( within @xmath510% ) at intermediate and cooler temperature dws .",
    "our findings imply that , due to the lower metal content , the optical helium line spectrum of low metallicity o - stars would appear somewhat different from that of their galactic conterparts . in particular , at z=0.3   and",
    "if the strength of the primary classification lines , he  i  4471 and he  i  4387 , were to be considered , these lines would resemble those of a galactic star with _ lower _",
    "( assuming the same  and ): about 2  kk lower for sgs and up to 1  kk lower for dws .",
    "vice versa , if compared to galactic counterparts with the _ same observed _ ews in he  i , stars with a lower metal content should be hotter .    for the strategic he  ii  4200 and he  ii  4541 transitions",
    "we find the following situation : for intermediate and low temperature dws ( 39 @xmath6 @xmath6 32 kk ) and cooler sgs (  below 34kk ) , the corresponding lines strengths are predicted to remain rather unaffected by metallicity , whilst at higher  they are amplified by up to 20 percent , mimicking the lines of a galactic star of _ higher _ .",
    "the effect of metallicity on the spectral classification of o - stars can be evaluated by investigating the behaviour of he  i / he  ii line ratios instead of individual line strengths .",
    "thus , we have calculated and compared the logarithmic he  i(+ii )  4026/he  ii  4200 , he  i  4471/he  ii  4541 and he",
    "i  4387/he  ii  4541 line ratios , as a function of , for the cases of dws , gs and sgs and for the two values of metallicity , and 0.3  .",
    "the results of these calculations are partly illustrated in figure  [ he_ratio ] , where the lower and upper limits of the line strength ratios from the mathys @xmath7 - spectral type calibration are overplotted as vertical lines .",
    "the x - position of each of these lines has been placed at the appropriate -value following from the martins et al .",
    "empirical calibration for the corresponding spectral type .",
    "apparently , this criterion to classify o - stars with z=0.3   would lead to temperature differences that increase with  and luminosity class .",
    "in particular , for sgs these differences are predicted to range from about 1 to about 2 kk ( i.e. about one sub - type ) , while for dws the expected values are a factor of 2 smaller .",
    "another important result to be noted is that whilst for galactic dws a good correspondence between the calculated and the calibrated values of the he  i  4471/he  ii  4541 line ratios is found , for cooler sgs ( subtypes later than o7 ) the calculated values are systematically smaller .",
    "this discrepancy results from the ( still not understood ) so - called `` generalized dilution effect '' , which makes the synthetic he  i  4471 lines in low temperature sg models weaker than observed ( see repolust et al . @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "since this effect seems to be independent on metallicity , it is not expected to influence our general findings though .      in the walborn classification scheme ,",
    "the main luminosity criterion is he  ii  4686 . in sgs",
    "this line appears only in emission , while in dws it is observed as a pure absorption feature . since the amount of emission depends on the wind properties , which in turn depend on metallicity , one expects the strength of he  ii  4686 to depend on metallicity as well ( see , e.g. , massey et al .",
    "@xcite ) .    in figure",
    "3 the behaviour of the he  ii  4686 ews ( positive for emission and negative for absorption ) are shown as a function of , for two luminosity classes ( sgs and dws ) and for z=  and 0.3  .",
    "expectedly , our calculations for solar metallicity models produce he  ii  4686 in emission for sgs and in absorption for dws .",
    "interestingly , however , our calculations predict that the metallicity effects on this line can be so strong that at z=0.3   its sensitivity to luminosity vanishes almost completely , and he  ii  4686 appears in absorption for all calculated models .",
    "[ heii4686 ]    finally let us note that although an increase in microturbulent velocity ( from 5 to 15 ) is predicted to shift the assigned spectral types by half ( for dws ) to one ( for sgs ) subtype towards later spectral types , this effect does not seem to depend on metallicity . due to this reason model predictions corresponding to = 10   only are shown throughout this paper .",
    "based on a grid of nlte , line blanketed model atmospheres with stellar winds as calculated by means of fastwind , we found that    @xmath8 in o - stars the optical helium spectrum can be significantly influenced by metallicity effects , where a decrease in metal content results in stronger he line absorptions _ from both ionization stages _ , where lines from he  i are more severely affected than those from he  ii .",
    "individual lines react differently in dependence of  and luminosity class , but do not depend on microturbulence .",
    "this result is particularly important when _",
    "individual line strengths _ are used to classify stars , as it is the case for the walborn scheme where the detection of weak he  i  4471 and he  i  4387 is used to fix the subtypes o4 and o6 , respectively . according to our calculations at @xmath9=0.3",
    ", the use of these lines as classification indicators would shift the assigned spectral types by up to one subtype to the later side , provided the detection threshold is the same .",
    "@xmath8 furthermore , our calculations showed that not only individual helium lines , but helium line ratios are also varying with metallicity .",
    "in particular , the use of the he  i  4471/he  ii  4541 ratio to classify o - stars of @xmath9=0.3   would shift the derived temperature scale by up to 2  kk ( i.e. , about one sub - type ) for sgs , and up to 1  kk ( i.e. , about half a sub - type ) for dws to the hotter side .",
    "the latter result is consistent with the predictions by mokiem et al .",
    "@xcite , who found , using cmfgen ( hillier & miller @xcite ) , that variations in the metal content from z=2   to z=0.1   can change the spectral type of a hot dw by up to one and a half sub - type .    extended extragalactic surveys of hot massive stars showed that o - stars in low metallicity environment are systematically hotter than their galactic counterparts with the same spectral type ( e.g. , mokiem et al .",
    "@xcite , massey et al .",
    "@xcite , efremova et al .",
    "2009 ) , thus confirming our principal predictions . however , the observed shifts in  are significantly larger than those predicted to appear from a shift in the assigned spectral types , as calculated here and in other work . in particular , for o - type dws temperature differences of 3 to 4 kk , i.e. , a factor of 3 to 4 larger than those predicted by mokiem et al .",
    "@xcite were established between objects in our galaxy and in the smc ( z=0.2  )   would result in a shift of only 1  kk in  of a hot dw , i.e. , about half a subtype . ] .",
    "the corresponding results for dws in ngc  6822 are roughly the same ( efremova et al .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "thus , only part ( @xmath1025 to 30 percent ) of the observed differences in  of o - type dws in the smc and in ngc  6822 could be explained by metallicity effects on the spectral type indicators , while the rest must be attributed to other , more `` physical''reasons , such as , e.g. , different stellar structures as a function of metallicity or differences between observed and theoretical wind parameters etc . additional calculations",
    "are required to separate and evaluate these effects .",
    "@xmath8 our calculations predict that the amount of wind emission in he  ii  4686 diminishes towards lower metallicities , so that at @xmath00.3   this line would appear only in absorption and could no longer serve as a reliable luminosity indicator .",
    "in particular , using this line to classify stars in low metallicity environments might artificially increase the number of low luminosity ( dws and gs ) o - stars identified in galaxies with lower metallicity , on the expense of the number of o - sgs .",
    "some hints about such effects seem to have been established already .",
    "for instance , massey et al .",
    "@xcite recently noted that in several of their mc targets the he  ii  4686 emission is weaker than it might be expected , given their absolute magnitudes , .",
    "and although one might argue that a discrepantly high could be due to spectroscopic binarity , an alternative explanation in terms of metallicity effects is also possible , accounting for our present results .",
    "moreover , the number of sgs identified in the smc appears to be less than expected ( d. lennon , priv .",
    "comm . ) , in agreement with what might be expected from our calculations .",
    "_ acknowledgments : _ part of this work was performed during a visit of nm at the dept . of physics and astronomy of the johns hopkins university .",
    "the work was supported by nasa grant nag5 - 9219 ( nra-99 - 01-ltsa-029 , pi bianchi ) .",
    "j.p . acknowledges a travel grant by the dfg ( under grant pu 117/6 - 1 ) and by the bg nsf ( under grant f-1407/2004 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> based on an exteded grid of nlte , line blanketed model atmospheres with stellar winds as calculated by means of fastwind , we have investigated the change in the strengths of strategic helium transitions in the optical as caused by a 0.3 decrease in metallicity with respect to solar abundances . </S>",
    "<S> our calculations predict that only part of the observed increase in of o - type dwarfs could be explained by metallicity effects on the spectral type indicators , while the rest must be attributed to other reasons ( e.g. , different stellar structures as a function of metallicity or differences between observed and theoretical wind parameters etc . ) . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we found that using the he  ii  4686 line to classify stars in low metallicity environments ( @xmath0 0.3 ) might artificially increase the number of low luminosity ( dwarfs and giants ) o - stars , on the expense of the number of o - supergiants . </S>"
  ]
}