{
  "article_text": [
    "decay light curves of explosive phenomena are often bumpy . optical and x - ray light curves of gamma - ray bursts are superimposed with flares ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggesting late - time activity of the central engine .",
    "similar features have been observed during outbursts of x - ray novae ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and of an accretion - driven millisecond pulsar @xcite .",
    "a fraction of classical novae also exhibit a series of rebrightenings that were observed for the first time during the 1901 outburst of gk  per @xcite .",
    "these rebrightenings are the subject of this letter .",
    "an outburst of a classical nova is a result of a thermonuclear runaway in the matter accreted onto the surface of a white dwarf , which ejects an expanding envelope ( for a review see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "maximum visual brightness occurs when the pseudo - photosphere reaches its maximum radius .",
    "then , the pseudophotosphere shrinks and heats while keeping the bolometric flux essentially constant .",
    "this results in a decrease in the visual flux as the bolometric luminosity is radiated at shorter wavelengths . after the ejection the hydrogen remaining on the white dwarf continues burning near the eddington limit for several weeks to several years ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "roughly a third of very fast or fast novae @xcite decline smoothly .",
    "the rest either show a series of rebrightenings or they create dust which brings the visual flux to a deep minimum .",
    "this time period , which usually occurs @xmath0@xmath1 mag below visual maximum , is commonly called the  transition phase \" because of spectroscopic changes toward a nebular spectrum . for simplicity",
    ", we will restrict the term  transition phase \" throughout the letter only to the rebrightenings .",
    "the underlying physical reason for the transition phase is not yet clear , for a recent review of the proposed models , see @xcite .",
    "they spectroscopically monitored the transition phase of v4745  sgr and found that during the rebrightenings the continuum emission rose and that the spectral lines showed p - cyg profiles , which suggests a temporary increase in mass - loss rate .",
    "on the basis of these observations , @xcite suggested that the rebrightenings are envelope - hydrogen - burning instabilities .",
    "they also observed a gradual increase of the time intervals between rebrightenings , which was also noted previously in gk  per and dk  lac by @xcite .    in this letter , we analyze visual light curves of novae that experience the transition phase .",
    "we show that these rebrightenings are indeed of eruptive nature and that they follow a specific pattern that relates to the overall rate of decline of the light curve of the nova .",
    "we conclude that the rebrightenings are likely caused by hydrogen - burning instabilities and mention other examples of similar timing pattern in astronomy and in the theory of self - organizing critical systems .",
    "to study the short timescale variations during the transition phase , we need well - sampled light curves obtained using a standard - enough detector so that we can directly compare different objects that erupted during the last @xmath2100 years . due to the plethora of variable and often strong emission lines ,",
    "a slight difference in the detector response function could create substantial systematic shift in the magnitude .",
    "we choose to use visual observations carried out by amateur astronomers .",
    "we obtained magnitude estimates from the archives of the aavso @xcite and afoev for v603  aql , v1494  aql , dk  lac , v2540  oph , and v4745  sgr . for v4745  sgr ,",
    "we supplement these data with visual observations from the vsnet archive and with the @xmath3 band measurements of the all sky automated survey ( asas ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for gk  per",
    ", we use the mean light curve of @xcite constructed from visual observations .",
    "we also include v373  sct and its visual light curve published by @xcite and supplement it with aavso and afoev observations . to our knowledge ,",
    "the above mentioned objects represent the best - observed novae exhibiting sufficient number of rebrightenings to study their timing evolution .",
    "note that the error in a single visual estimate is usually assumed to be about @xmath4 mag @xcite and we investigate events with amplitudes typically greater than @xmath5 mag and defined by many observations of several observers .",
    "the rebrightenings we discuss here are robust .    in figure",
    "[ fig : lc ] , we show the visual magnitudes of novae in our sample as a function of time . to illustrate a nova light curve with a smooth decline , we include a very fast nova , v1500  cyg @xcite .",
    "we plot moving - averaged data with bin size of @xmath5 day , and we align the light curves so that the visual magnitude at the time of maximum @xmath6 is @xmath7 mag .",
    "this procedure is potentially problematic in the case of v4745  sgr and v2540  oph , because the rebrightenings began shortly after discovery , unlike other novae .",
    "however , prediscovery asas observations of v4745  sgr rule out the possibility that the true visual maximum was missed . given the overall similarity of light curves of both objects , we suggest that the same is true for v2540  oph and we set @xmath6 for both objects to be approximately the time of discovery .",
    "importantly , an uncertainty of a couple of days in @xmath6 does not affect any of our conclusions .",
    "shortly after maximum , the visual flux of novae decreases as a power - law function of time @xcite , which can be observed as a linear decline in our figure  [ fig : lc ] .",
    "several hundred days after @xmath6 , the slope of the decline steepens , which is caused by a decrease in the wind mass - loss rate .",
    "the shell hydrogen burning stops shortly afterward @xcite . the rebrightenings start to occur approximately @xmath8 days after the maximum . at this time , fast novae like gk  per or v1494  aql have faded by about 4 visual magnitudes while the slow novae v2540  oph and v4745  sgr are still close to their maximal visual brightness .    to investigate the nature of rebrightenings more closely , we plot in figure  [ fig : max ] a blow - up of well - covered rebrightenings for v4745  sgr , dk  lac , and gk  per .",
    "we see that the rise of brightness is much faster than the decline back to the base level .",
    "further , for all novae the amplitude of the rebrightenings ranges from @xmath9 to @xmath10 mag , without any obvious time dependence , although the duration of individual rebrightenings ranges from @xmath11 days for gk  per to @xmath12 days for v4745  sgr .",
    "we note that even for gk  per , where the time interval between the maxima is about @xmath13 days , the individual rebrightenings are well separated by a period of essentially constant magnitude .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the data for v603  aql and v1494  aql do not show the rebrightenings so clearly separated .",
    "we attribute this to the lower quality of data available for these stars and to the averaging that smears out details in the light curves .",
    "indeed , the phase of constant brightness stands out more clearly in unbinned data . given this evidence , we consider the transition phase rebrightenings to be appropriately described as _ flares _ on top of a continuous underlying light curve .",
    "looking again at figure  [ fig : lc ] and particularly at the light curve of v4745  sgr ( purple line ) we see that the flares have approximately constant separation in logarithmic time .",
    "this means that the intervals between consecutive maxima get gradually longer , as was noted for this nova by @xcite .",
    "v2540  oph and dk  lac exhibit apparently the same behavior . to investigate further this gradual increase of separation between flares ,",
    "we have determined times of maxima @xmath14 , @xmath15 , by fitting a low - order polynomial to the data with the flare and reading its maximum position .",
    "we estimate the error of @xmath14 to be @xmath16 of the time interval used for polynomial fitting .",
    "this translates to less than @xmath5day for most of the flares .",
    "we experimented with fitting data averaged with different bin sizes and with unbinned data and conclude that the differences in maxima timings @xmath14 are smaller than the assumed error .",
    "we compared our maxima timings of dk  lac with those of @xcite and found good agreement .",
    "data of @xcite contain timings of several maxima that occurred prior to those that we were able to derive from our data .",
    "we add these timings to ours but we note that our conclusions below are not affected in any way by their inclusion .",
    "we also point out that in addition to the seven flares observed by @xcite in v4745  sgr the asas data contain two additional flares that occurred at jd@xmath17 and jd@xmath18 ( @xmath19 and @xmath20days ) which have lower amplitude and shorter duration than the preceding flares .",
    "two single brighter data points indicate that there might have also been other flares at jd@xmath21 and jd@xmath22 ( @xmath23 and @xmath24days ) but we can not show that they are maxima .    in the left panel of figure  [ fig : times1 ] , we show the time interval between two consecutive flares @xmath25 as a function of time elapsed since @xmath6 for v4745  sgr , dk  lac , and gk  per .",
    "we see that the timings for v4745  sgr and dk  lac follow a power law @xmath26 with similar values of the power - law index @xmath27 but with different normalization @xmath28 .",
    "a least - squares fit to the data yields @xmath29 for dk  lac and @xmath30 for v4745  sgr , assuming a 2-day error of maxima timings .",
    "however , maxima timings for these stars can be well fitted with @xmath27 being held fixed at @xmath31 as is shown in figure  [ fig : times1 ] .",
    "this value of @xmath27 has a convenient property that the ratio of the times of two consecutive flare maxima is constant : @xmath32 . in other words ,",
    "the times of the flares @xmath33 increase as a geometrical series .",
    "the situation is more complicated for gk  per .",
    "initially , the time interval between the flares increases , as noted by @xcite , and the increase agrees with equation  ( [ eq : powlaw ] ) with @xmath31 ( as is shown by a fit to the first eight points in the left panel of figure  [ fig : times1 ] ) . afterward , the flare separation remains steady with a possible decrease at @xmath34days .",
    "while this behavior is not seen in dk  lac , we point out that the two latest flares of v4745  sgr are separated by only about @xmath8days and suggest that a late decrease of flare separation can occur also in novae that otherwise behave according to equation  ( [ eq : powlaw ] ) .",
    "time intervals between consecutive flares in v4745  sgr grow faster than in dk  lac , the normalization @xmath28 of the former is higher than that of the latter .",
    "flare intervals for gk  per are consistently lower than for both dk  lac and v4745  sgr at the same @xmath35 .",
    "is there some correlation between this behavior and other parameters of the novae ? looking at figure  [ fig : lc ] , we find that the visual magnitude of gk  per declined faster than that of dk  lac which is in turn slower than v4745  sgr .",
    "we propose there is a correlation between the normalization @xmath28 and the rate of decline of the nova .",
    "to check this assumption further , we plot in the right panel of figure  [ fig : times1 ] time intervals between consecutive flares for the remaining novae in our sample plus those flare timings of v373 sct determined from the light curve given by @xcite that are supported by observations . we see that v2540  oph with basically the same light curve follows almost the same power law as v4745  sgr , albeit with a lower total count of flares .",
    "similarly , flare times of v373  sct fall between dk  lac and v4745  sgr , which is true also for the light curve .",
    "this correlation does not entirely hold for v1494  aql and v603  aql .",
    "v603  aql is usually regarded as a very fast nova similar to gk  per and v1494  aql .",
    "however , while its visual light curve declines initially in the same manner as gk  per , starting from @xmath36 days it declines less steeply and in the final stages of the light curve v603  aql is slower than gk  per by a factor of about @xmath11 . on the other hand ,",
    "the light curve of v1494  aql is virtually the same as of gk  per , but the flare separations are significantly larger and until @xmath37 days they increase according to equation  ( [ eq : powlaw ] ) .",
    "interestingly , the total duration of the transition phase is the same in both objects .    to put our correlation analysis on more quantitative grounds",
    ", we have obtained the rate of the magnitude decline by determining the time - stretching factor @xmath38 of the light curves of our novae with respect to the light curve of v1500 cyg , assuming that light curves of novae are homologous @xcite .",
    "we also derived normalizations @xmath28 while holding @xmath31 fixed for all our novae .",
    "spearman s rank correlation coefficient of quantities @xmath28 and @xmath38 is @xmath39 with a @xmath40 chance of random correlation .",
    "we conclude that the time intervals between the flares generally increase faster for slower novae , but there exists other parameter or parameters that have also effect as is shown by differences in v1494  aql and gk  per .",
    "finally , we note that while the time interval between the flares increases , the duration of the individual flares does not increase in similar manner .",
    "for example , in gk  per the duration varies randomly by about a factor of @xmath11 with a mean of @xmath23 days and in dk  lac the duration of flares ranges from @xmath1 to @xmath41 days .",
    "this can be observed also in figure  [ fig : lc ] where the flares are becoming increasingly narrower due to the nonlinear abscissa .",
    "during the shell hydrogen burning , when the transition phase occurs , the white dwarf is radiating at its eddington luminosity @xcite . an isotropic energy release of @xmath42@xmath43ergs",
    "is required to brighten the nova by an additional factor of @xmath25 for about @xmath13 days , assuming the rebrightening affects between @xmath44 and @xmath45 of the bolometric luminosity .",
    "this can be accomplished either by burning of @xmath46@xmath47m@xmath48 of hydrogen , by accreting from @xmath47@xmath49m@xmath48 of matter onto the white dwarf , or by tapping onto the rotational energy of the white dwarf @xcite .",
    "we do not consider accretion likely because the white dwarf powers a continuum - driven wind during the shell hydrogen burning @xcite .",
    "rotational energy extraction would happen most likely by employing strong magnetic fields embedded in the expanding envelope and rotating differentially with respect to the white dwarf .",
    "when the envelope density decreases enough , the magnetic field restores synchronous rotation driving strong magnetic activities .",
    "this process has been suggested by @xcite as an explanation for the secondary maxima of several recent novae .",
    "however , a strong magnetic field is not a sufficient condition for the rebrightenings to occur : @xcite found polar strength magnetic fields in a smoothly decaying nova v1500  cyg .",
    "@xcite suggested that the transition phase in novae is caused by stagnating super - eddington winds .",
    "performed numerical simulations of porosity - moderated photon - tiring winds and found strong quasi - periodic luminosity variations caused by the fact that a changing fraction of the photon energy is being used to drive the wind .",
    "they also found complex patterns of outflowing and infalling matter .",
    "we found that the transition phase flares are generally isolated events well separated by intervals of relatively constant or slowly declining visual brightness .",
    "furthermore , @xcite analyzed optical spectra covering the transition phase of v4745  sgr and did not find any spectroscopic evidence of infalling matter .",
    "they concluded that the flares are caused by repetitive instabilities in shell hydrogen burning on the white dwarf .",
    "our estimate of @xmath46@xmath47m@xmath48 of hydrogen burned is 12 orders of magnitude lower than the minimum envelope mass necessary to sustain equilibrium hydrogen burning @xcite .",
    "a late - time increase in the envelope hydrogen burning and the associated mass ejection has also been invoked to explain a secondary peak in v2362  cyg @xcite .",
    "therefore , we conclude that the transition phase flares are likely caused by sudden increases in otherwise steady hydrogen burning in the white dwarf envelope .    by analysis of flare timings",
    ", we have shown that the intervals between consecutive flares increase as a power - law function of time .",
    "however , the length of the flares remains essentially constant during the transition phase suggesting that only the trigger of the flare is affected .",
    "the power - law exponent is generally the same for all novae , but the normalization is larger for novae with smaller rates of decline .",
    "the primary parameter that controls the rate of decline is the mass of the white dwarf : faster novae occur on more massive white dwarfs @xcite .",
    "it is then natural to expect that with a more massive white dwarf the intervals between hydrogen - burning flashes will be shorter and also that the flare will last a shorter amount of the time .",
    "however , as we have demonstrated on v1494  aql and gk  per , which have essentially the same light curve but substantially different intervals between flares , there is one or more parameters that also influence the properties of the flares .",
    "we suspect that chemical composition of the white dwarf and its hydrogen - burning envelope , as well as its mass or the mass accretion rate might play a role .",
    "the gradual increase of intervals between individual rebrightenings is an unusual phenomenon in astronomy .",
    "we have been able to find only one other example of such behavior : the x - ray and optical light curve of the accretion - driven millisecond pulsar sax j1808.43658 during its 2000 outburst @xcite .",
    "we plot the x - ray light curve in the right panel of figure  [ fig : lc ] .",
    "however , during the 2002 outburst the flares were more regular , with no apparent increase in time separation @xcite .",
    "in other areas of physics the phenomenon of logarithmic periodicity occurs as a correction to a power - law behavior and suggests presence of discrete scale invariance ( dsi , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "a well - known example of dsi is the triadic cantor set which is geometrically identical to itself only under magnifications equal to powers of 3 @xcite . among examples of dsi and logarithmic periodicity observed in nature",
    "we specifically mention the rate of acoustic emissions as a function of time before the rupture of pressure vessels @xcite , and ground - water chemical anomalies preceding the 1995 kobe earthquake @xcite .",
    "theoretical models , which exhibit spontaneous emergence of dsi , include earthquake aftershock simulations based on cellular automata @xcite and rupture studies with a thermal fuse model @xcite .",
    "log - periodic echoing was also found during a critical relativistic gravitational collapse of a massless scalar field @xcite .",
    "finally , we point out that there is no single underlying mechanism for the dsi in general @xcite",
    ".    we are grateful to k.  z. stanek , t.  a. thompson , r.  w. pogge , c.  s. kochanek , l.  bildsten and d.  sornette for discussions , encouragement , advice on astrophysical processes and critical reading of the manuscript .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for comments that improved the letter .",
    "we acknowledge the observations acquired from the aavso international database , the afoev database , operated at cds , france , and from the vsnet database .",
    "bianchini , a. , friedjung , m. & brinkmann , w. 1992 , , 257 , 599 bochnek , z. 1951 , bull .",
    "astron . inst . of czech . , 2 , 88 burrows , d. n. , et al .",
    "2005 , science , 309 , 1833 callanan , p. j. , et al .",
    "1995 , , 441 , 786 campbell , l. 1903 , ann .",
    ", 48 , 39 chen , w. , shrader , c. r. & livio , m. 1997 , , 491 , 312 choptuik , m.  w.  1993 , phys .",
    "lett . , 70 , 9 choptuik , m.  w. , hirschmann , e.  w. , liebling , s.  l. , & pretorius , f.  2003 , , 68 , 044007 csk , b. , kiss , l. l. , retter , a. , jacob , a. & kaspi , s. 2005 , , 429 , 599 dai , x. , halpern , j. p. , morgan , n. d. , armstrong , e. , mirabal , n. , haislip , j. b. , reichart , d. e. & stanek , k. z. 2007 , , 658 , 509 hachisu , i. & kato , m. 2005 , , 631 , 1094 hachisu , i. & kato , m. 2006 , , 167 , 59 hachisu , i. & kato , m. 2009 , , 694 , l103 henden , a.a . , 2009 , observations from the aavso international database , private communication johansen , a. , saleur , h. & sornette , d. 2000 , eur .",
    "j. b , 15 , 551 johansen , a. & sornette , d. 1998 , int . j. mod .",
    "c , 9 , 433 kiss , l. l. , szatmry , k. , cadmus , r. r. , jr . , & mattei , j. a. 1999 , , 346 , 542 krautter , j. , gelman , h. , starrfield , s. , wichmann , r. & pfeffermann , e. 1996 , , 456 , 788 lee , m. w. & sornette , d. 2000 , european physical journal b , 15 , 193 lynch , d. k. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 136 , 1815 mattei , j.  a. 1993 , j. am .",
    "star obs . , 22 , 47 ness , j .- u . , schwarz , g. j. , retter , a. , starrfield , s. , schmitt , j. h. m. m. , gehrels , n. , burrows , d. , & osborne , j. p. 2007",
    ", , 663 , 505 ness , j .- u . , schwarz , g. , starrfield , s. , osborne , j. p. , page , k. l. , beardmore , a. p. , wagner , r. m. & woodward , c. e. 2008 , , 135 , 1328 obrien , p. t. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 647 , 1213 gelman , h. , orio , m. , krautter , j. & starrfield , s. 1993 , , 361 , 331 pojmaski , g. 2002 , acta astron .",
    ", 52 , 397 prialnik , d. 1986 , , 310 , 222 prialnik , d. & kovetz , a. 1995 , , 445 , 789 rosino , l. 1978 , , 55 , 383 sala , g. & hernanz , m. 2005 , , 439 , 1061 schmidt , g. d. & stockman h. s. 1991 , , 371 , 749 shaviv , n. j. 2001 , , 326 , 126 sornette , d. 1998 , phys . rep . , 297 , 239 sornette , d. 2004 , critical phenomena in natural sciences , ( 2nd ed .",
    ", springer series in synergetics ; berlin : springer ) stanek , k. z. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 654 , l21 van marle , a.  j. , owocki , s.  p. , & shaviv , n.  j.  2009 , , 394 , 595 warner , b. 1995 , cataclysmic variable stars , cambridge astrophysics series , cambridge , new york : cambridge university press wijnands , r. 2004 , nucl .",
    ", 132 , 496 wijnands , r. , mndez , m. , markwardt , c. , van der klis , m. , chakrabarty , d. & morgan , e. 2001 , , 560 , 892 zhou , w .- x . & sornette , d. 2002a , , 66 , 046111 zhou , w .- x . & sornette , d. 2002b , international journal of modern physics c , 13 , 137"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a significant fraction of novae exhibit a series of rebrightenings on the decline branch of their light curves . </S>",
    "<S> we use visual observations to study this phase in several well - observed novae . </S>",
    "<S> we find that these rebrightenings are isolated flare - like events on otherwise smooth light curves and we show that in most novae in our sample the time intervals between consecutive flares gradually increase as a geometric series ; rebrightenings are equally spaced in logarithmic time . </S>",
    "<S> we also find a correlation between the rate of increase in the time between rebrightenings with the speed class of the nova in the sense that slower novae tend to increase the time intervals faster . </S>",
    "<S> we attribute these rebrightenings to instabilities in the envelope hydrogen burning and we mention other cases of such timing pattern in astronomy and natural sciences in general . </S>"
  ]
}