{
  "article_text": [
    "recent x - ray observations with _ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ have revealed a surprising aspect of cooling flows in clusters ; they showed far less cooling below x - ray temperatures than expected , altering the previously accepted picture of cooling flows @xcite .",
    "unless gas is thermally supported , radiative cooling leads to a ` cooling catastrophe ' , i.e. inexorable inflow of cold gas onto the central galaxy . to prevent this , some heating mechanism was required to raise gas temperature above@xmath1 kev , supressing the cooling flow .",
    "although several such mechanisms were discussed , the most effective heating process is the energy injected into the intra - cluster medium ( icm ) by radio jets from agns of central galaxies of clusters and groups @xcite .",
    "almost all cool - core clusters harbour powerful central agns @xcite which suggests that they are fuelled by accretion of cooling gas @xcite , with the flow rate itself regulated by agn - heating @xcite .",
    "many details of how this agn - icm feedback process works are still far from clear .",
    "radio jets from a central agn would inflate two bubble - like lobes of non - thermal plasma , filled with relativistic particles and magnetic field , and thus become visible in radio observations @xcite .",
    "such non - thermal bubbles are visible in radio and x - ray observations ; such as those in clusters ms0735.6 + 7421 , hydra - a , and others , showing an unusually large and energetic pair of radio emitting , x - ray dark cavities ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "these synchrotron plasma bubbles are resposible for the mechanical ( pdv ) work on the icm for heating it , which is one of the suggested mechanism of agn - icm feedback .",
    "therefore , observations of bubble - like , diffuse radio sources near cluster centres can provide crucial data for understanding this important astrophysical process .",
    "an early report on a diffuse radio source mrc  0116 + 111 matching the characteristics of a mini - halo , was presented by some of us , based on vla and gmrt observations @xcite .",
    "recently , a distant galaxy cluster was reported at the position of mrc  0116 + 111 @xcite . here",
    "we report higher sensitivity gmrt observations made at 1.28 ghz , 621 mhz and 240 mhz frequencies using the 128 channel fx correlator .",
    "the earlier vla observations made in c - band ( dnc array ) and l - band ( cnb array ) have been reanalysed .",
    "optical broadband ( _ b , v , r , i _ )",
    "ccd imaging observations were taken with ifosc on the 2  mt telescope at the iucaa girawali observatory ( igo ) .",
    "for spectroscopy we used the eso 3.6  mt new technology telescope ( ntt ) and emmi ( eso multi - mode instrument ) . a low resolution slit - spectrum was taken with the grism-3 optics on the emmi ( december 1998 ) which gave a redshift @xmath2 for the brightest central cd galaxy and @xmath3 for the second brightest elliptical galaxy @xmath4 south of cd @xcite .",
    "a radio - optical overlay of gmrt 1.28 ghz radio map and optical ccd image of mrc  0116 + 111 ( fig .  [ f1 ] ) shows a highly diffuse ` halo ' or ` bubble ' like structure which bears close resemblance to so - called ` radio mini - halos ' ( rmh ) .",
    "mini - halos are @xmath0100 kpc scale , low surface brightness amorphous radio sources with a steep spectral index ( @xmath5 - 1 , @xmath6 @xmath7 @xmath8 ) , which are rare objects and found around powerful agns at the center of cooling - core clusters @xcite .",
    "the 1.4 ghz radio luminosity of mrc  0116 + 111 , @xmath9 = @xmath10 w / hz , is quite large , comparable to the luminous radio - halos in perseus and a2390 clusters @xcite .",
    "its bolometric radio luminosity ( over 10 mhz - 10 ghz range ) , @xmath11 = @xmath12 w , would place it amongst the most luminous radio halos known",
    ".    integrated spectrum of mrc  0116 + 111 shows a ` break ' near 400 mhz , after which it attains a power - law slope @xmath13 @xcite , signifying an ongoing particle injection , even though no radio core is detected down to 1 mjy level .",
    "spectral index maps show that between 240 and 621 mhz the spectral index distribution is fairly uniform ( @xmath14 ) with no strong steepening or gradients across the source , showing a lack of strong radiative losses at these frequencies ( fig .",
    "[ f1 ] center panel ) .",
    "however , the high frequency spectral index map between 1.4 and 4.8 ghz shows a very different picture ( fig .",
    "[ f1 ] right panel ) . while the south - eastern bubble ( fig .",
    "[ f2 ] ) still has the same average spectral index value around -1 ( @xmath15 ) - implying a straight synchrotron spectrum between low and high radio frequencies - the north - west bubble , in contrast has developed an extremely steep spectrum ( @xmath16 ) , suggestive of strong radiative energy loss in this part of the source .",
    "such a situation might be explained if we assume that the very steep spectrum north - western bubble is buoyantly rising away and then detaching itself from a centrally located mechanism of energy injection , while this source or mechanism is still active and possibly injecting relativistic particles into the flatter spectrum south - eastern bubble .",
    "one possibility is agn activity , though we fail to detect a radio core or jets ( fig .",
    "[ f1 ] ) . based on a sample of 5 - 6 mini haloes ,",
    "@xcite have reported a positive correlation between the radio power of the mini - halo and the cooling flow power . from this and because of their estimate of the lifetimes of the radiating electrons falling considerably short of the diffusion time scale , they have inferred that in mini - haloes the cooling flow ( through the compressional work done on the icm and the frozen - in magnetic field ) energizes the particle acceleration process through magneto - plasma turbulence acting on relic electron population probably left behind by the past episodes of agn activity .",
    "an alternative proposal is that the radiating electrons in the mini - halos are of secondary origin , created in proton - proton collisions @xcite .",
    "figure .  [ f2 ] compares the gmrt 621 mhz radio map with the deep vla 90  cm image of m87 @xcite , revealing striking morphological similarities .",
    "m87 shows extensive diffuse outer structure extending upto @xmath040 kpc from the nucleus .",
    "two collimated flows emerge from the inner - jet region , one directed north - eastward and the other oppositely directed to the south - west ( orientation as shown in the rotated image , fig .",
    "the south - west flow ends in a well - defined pair of edge - brightened torus - like vortex rings .",
    "the north - eastern flow develops a gradual but well - defined s - shaped southward twist , starting only a few kiloparsecs beyond the inner lobes .",
    "finally , both flows are immersed in a pair of giant overlapping radio ` bubbles ' , each extending about 40 kpc from the nucleus . after entering the outer lobes , the flows gradually disperse , filling the entire halo with radio - loud , filamented plasma .",
    "we observe similar flow pattern in the central region of mrc  0116 + 111 : an edge brightened torus - like ` mushroom ' structure about 40  kpc west of the center , analogous to the peculiar ` ear - shaped ' vortex structure of m87 . here the flow pattern sharply turns northward and appear to be flowing into the smaller radio bubble to the north - west .",
    "we observe an s - shaped flow pattern to the east north - east of the center , which further bends southward , and thus clearly resembles the filamentary structure visible in the southern bubble of m87 ( fig .",
    "both these radio sources are surrounded by a pair of radio emitting ` bubble ' like lobes .",
    "the similarity of large scale radio outflow structures indicates that both sources might have originated in , and their evolution goverened by , similar physical process and conditions prevailing in the central regions of their host clusters .",
    "hydrodynamic simulation of @xcite suggests that twin bubbles in m87 are buoyant bubbles of cosmic rays , inflated by jets launched during an earlier nuclear active phase of the central galaxy , which rise through the cooling gas at roughly half the sound speed .",
    "as shown above ( section 2 ) , detection of a @xmath0100 kpc scale very steep - spectrum radio bubble north - west of center of strongly supports this model .",
    "the flattened ` mushroom ' shape of this plasma bubble resembles a rapidly rising vortex - ring ( fig .",
    "[ f2 ] ) into which an intially spherical bubble will naturally transform due to viscosity and drag forces @xcite . interestingly , at @xmath0240 kpc is about three times larger than m87 ( @xmath080 kpc ; @xcite ) .",
    "the bolometric radio luminosity of both is about the same , @xmath11 = @xmath17 w , implying that average volume emissivity of is roughly factor 30 times smaller than that of m87 .",
    "we have presented radio and optical observations of mrc  0116 + 111 showing that it is a @xmath0240 kpc scale radio mini - halo source in which huge radio bubbles have been blown by a central agn , and which are possibly rising buoyantly in the hot atmosphere of a cluster .",
    "such plasma bubbles are precursors of the giant x - ray dark cavities observed in several clusters .",
    "a remarkable morphological similarity with radio structure of m87 is found both in twin bubble - like structures and internal flow patterns , suggesting a common origin .",
    "the lack of an x - ray image of the present cluster prohibits us from quantifying the energy input rate by the agn as well as the dynamics of the mini - halo .",
    "this gap is in the process of being bridged .",
    "future x - ray imaging with _ xmm - newton _ or _ chandra _ will probe the intracluster medium , look for a cooling - core and search for signs of radio plasma - icm interaction : such as x - ray dark cavities , bright filaments and shock heating .",
    "detection of giant cavities will allow calorimetry for estimating the energy injected into the cooling gas by the rising bubbles .",
    "it seems also feasible to search for non - thermal inverse - compton x - ray emission of radio bubbles from lower energy electrons ( with lorentz factor @xmath18600 - 3000 ) up - scattering the cmb photons .",
    "combination of the observed non - thermal x - ray and radio fluxes will determine the volume averaged magnetic field of intra - cluster medium in cluster core , which is currently unknown .",
    "we thank the operations team of the ncra ",
    "tifr gmrt observatory and iucaa girawali observatory .",
    "norbert werner was supported by the nasa through chandra postdoctoral fellowship award number pf8 - 90056 issued by the chandra x - ray observatory center , which is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory for and on behalf of the national aeronautics and space administration under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "allen s.w . ,",
    "dunn r.j.h .",
    ", fabian a.c . , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 21 bagchi et al . , 2009 , in preparation bagchi j. , kapahi v.k . , 1994 , ja&a , 15 , 275 binney j. , tabor j. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 663 burns j.o . , 1994 , aj , 99 , 14 cassano r. , gitti m. , brunetti g. , 2008 , a&a , 486 , l31 churazov e. , bruggen m. , kaiser c. r. , bohringer h. , forman w. , 2001 , apj , 554 , 261 ferrari c. , govoni f. , schindler s. , et al .",
    ", 2008 , space science reviews , 134 , 93 gopal - krishna , kulkarni v.k . , bagchi j. , melnik j. , 2002 , _ the universe at low radio frequencies _",
    ", proceedings iau symposiun , vol .",
    "199 , 159 gitti m. , brunetti g. , feretti l. , setti g. , 2004 , a&a , 417 , 1 gull s.f . , northover k.j.e . , 1973 , nature , 244 , 80 lopes p.a.a . , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 128 , 1017 mcnamara b.r . , et al . , 2000 , apj , 534 , l135 mcnamara b.r",
    ", et al . , 2005 ,",
    "nature , 433 , 45 mcnamara b. r. , nulsen p. e. j. , 2007 , ara&a , 45 , 117 owen f.n . , eilek j.e .",
    ", kassim n.e .",
    ", 2000 , apj , 543 , 611 pedlar a. , ghataure h.s . ,",
    "davis r.d . ,",
    "harrison b.a . , et al . , 1990 , mnras , 246 , 477 peterson j.r . , fabian a.c",
    ", 2006 , physics reports , 427 , 1 pfrommer c , ensslin t.a . , 2004 , a&a , 413 , 17"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the discovery of a luminous , mini radio halo of @xmath0240 kpc dimension at the center of a distant cluster of galaxies at redshift z = 0.131 . </S>",
    "<S> our optical and multi - wavelength gmrt and vla observations reveal a highly unusual structure showing a twin bubble - like diffuse radio halo surrounding a cluster of bright elliptical galaxies ; very similar to the large - scale radio structure of m87 , the dominant galaxy in virgo cluster . </S>",
    "<S> it presents an excellent opportunity to understand the energetics and the dynamical evolution of such radio jet inflated plasma bubbles in the hot cluster atmosphere . </S>"
  ]
}