{
  "article_text": [
    "in a recent detailed and elegant study , laor & behar ( 2008 ) present a correlation between radio and x - ray emission over some 15 orders of magnitude , from magnetically active stars to radio quiet agn . the correlation they observe is consistent with @xmath2 , a correlation known as the gdel - benz relation in magnetically active stars ( gdel & benz 1993 ) .",
    "this suggests that the source of the radio emission in these highly diverse objects may be related .",
    "indeed laor & behar ( 2008 ) suggest that in radio quiet agn the source of radio emission is coronae above accretion disks .",
    "suzaku observations of the dwarf nova ( dn ) ss cyg ( ishida et al . 2008 ) provide spectral evidence for thermal plasma distributed on the disk during outburst analogous to the solar corona .",
    "suggestions for the presence of coronae above accretion disks are not new ( e.g. , galeev et al .",
    "1979 ; done & osborne 1997 ; wheatley & mauche 2005 ) , and the connection between coronae and jets were proposed in the past ( e.g. , fender et al .",
    "1999 ; markoff et al .",
    "the results of laor & behar ( 2008 ) and ishida et al .",
    "( 2008 ) put the presence of coronae in accretion disks on solid ground .",
    "the correlation does not hold for radio loud agn , where most of the radio emission comes from jets , and systems show @xmath3 .",
    "laor & behar ( 2008 ) find that some galactic black hole ( gbh ) binaries also reside close to this correlation .",
    "this implies that the common practice of attributing radio emission of accreting neutron stars and black holes ( bh ) to emission from jets ( e.g. , dunn et al .",
    "2008 ) should be done with caution , if we assume that these systems are analogous with agn ( e.g. , markoff 2006 ) .",
    "it is correct to attribute the radio emission to jets in some cases , as in ss  433 ( miller - jones et al .",
    "2008 ) , but not necessarily in all binaries .",
    "jets are not usually observed in cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) , among them dn . in cvs a white dwarf ( wd ) accretes mass from a companion via an accretion disk . in many other astrophysical systems accretion disks",
    "are known to launch jets .",
    "the absence of jets in cvs impose strong constraints on some jet launching models ( soker 2007 ) .",
    "for example , no jets are observed in intermediate polars ( dq her systems ) .",
    "these are cataclysmic variables where the magnetic field of the accreting wd is thought to truncate the accretion disk in its inner boundary .",
    "this magnetic field geometry is the basis for some jet - launching models in ysos ( e.g. , shu et al .",
    "why then are no jets observed from intermediate polars ?    theoretical arguments ( soker & lasota 2004 ) , and at least one observation ( retter 2004 ) claimed that jets might be present in cvs when the accretion rate is high .",
    "high accretion rates result in longer diffusion time for photons ( radiation ) from the disk , and might leave time for the energy to be channeled to kinetic ( soker & lasota 2004 ) or magnetic ( soker 2007 ) energy .",
    "soker ( 2007 ) proposed that in some cases jets are launched in a manner similar to coronal mass ejection ( cme ) in the sun . instead of a dynamo and buoyant magnetic flux tubes as in the sun , in accretion disks the kinetic energy of the gas in the accretion disk",
    "is transferred , e.g. , by shock waves , to thermal energy .",
    "the thermal energy builds pressure that inflates magnetic flux loops above the disk , and from there on the activity is analogous to solar flares .",
    "it is also possible that the kinetic energy is transfered directly to the magnetic field .",
    "this model predicts that some burst activity must precede the magnetic activity .",
    "the idea that jets are launched by magnetic fields reconnection events similar to that in the sun is not new , e.g. , de gouveia dal pino & lazarian ( 2005 ; de gouveia dal pino 2006 ) .    in a recent paper krding et al .",
    "( 2008 ) attributed radio emission in an outburst of ss cyg to jets . here",
    "we argue in @xmath4 that the radio emission in ss cyg is more likely to come from a corona that was formed during the outburst .",
    "the same activity could have launched jets , or more generally , collimated outflows , as we argue in @xmath5 .",
    "fender et al .",
    "( 1999 ; also markoff et al .",
    "2005 ) proposed that the base of the jet and the corona are the same region .",
    "our idea goes beyond this identification , and we argue that the acceleration mechanism of the jet is similar to solar magnetic activity .",
    "our results are not in contradiction with the results of these works .",
    "our claims are aiming at identifying the acceleration process of the jet .",
    "to put our claim on a broader view , in @xmath6 we discuss some related systems .",
    "krding et al . ( 2008 ) conducted radio observation of ss cyg in its april 2007 outburst .",
    "the peak radio luminosity at 8.6  ghz reached a value of @xmath7mjy , and then declined to @xmath8mjy in a short time .",
    "it then continued slowly to decline .",
    "we take the average outburst radio emission to be @xmath9mjy .",
    "this gives a radio flux of @xmath10 .",
    "no x - ray observations were conducted during the april 2007 outburst , and krding et al .",
    "( 2008 ) refer to x - ray observations at previous outbursts .",
    "wheatley et al . ( 2003 ) followed the x - ray emission from ss cyg in its october 1996 outburst and analyze the x - ray emission as coming from two sources .",
    "strong emission from the boundary layer ( the boundary of the accretion disk and the wd ) , with a maximum flux of @xmath11 .",
    "( the fluxes here include their correction of a factor of 1.8 to include the total x - ray emission ) .",
    "this emission is obscured , because of high optical depth , during most of the outburst ( patterson & raymond 1985a , b ) .",
    "wheatley et al .",
    "identify another source , the residual , which they interpret as extended emission , possibly coronal .",
    "the residual x - ray emission flux is @xmath12 .",
    "okada et al . ( 2008 ) find the x - ray luminosity of the september 2000 outburst to be @xmath8 that in quiescence .",
    "taking the quiescent flux from wheatley et al .",
    "the september 2000 outburst x - ray luminosity is @xmath13 . the asca flux in the @xmath14 band reported by baskill et al .",
    "( 2005 ) was higher than the quiescent one : @xmath15 in the outburst versus @xmath16 in quiescence .",
    "similar x - ray outburst fluxes were observed in the past ( e.g. , nousek et al . 1994 ) .    over all , we find the ratio of radio to residual x - ray emission ( the x - ray emission that is not attributed to the boundary layer by wheatley et al .",
    "2003 ) during outburst to be @xmath17    for a distance of 166  kpc  to ss cyg ( harrison et al .",
    "1999 ) the residual x - ray luminosity is @xmath18 .",
    "we can now place the eruptive ss cyg on the radio vs. x - ray luminosity seminal plot ( @xmath19 vs. @xmath20 plane ) of laor & behar ( 2008 ) .",
    "we do this in figure 1 .",
    "the radio and residual x - ray luminosities of ss cyg at outburst put it where the magnetically active stars are .",
    "+ 3.5 cm    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "magnetically active stars follow the gdel - benz relation ( @xmath21 ; gdel & benz 1993 ) . in a recent paper laor & behar ( 2008 ) found this correlation to hold over some 15 orders of magnitude , from magnetically active stars to radio quiet agn . for strong jets to be present in agn @xmath3 .",
    "the new finding of laor & behar ( 2008 ) , and the observations of ishida et al .",
    "( 2008 ) of disk coronae formed during an outburst of ss cyg , motivated us to examine whether the radio emission found in the outburst of the dwarf nova ss cyg by krding et al .",
    "( 2008 ) is due to magnetic flaring as well .",
    "in accreting wd and neutron stars the task of finding the ratio @xmath22 is more complicated , as the accreting gas near the boundary layer emits in the x - ray band . as we showed in section",
    "[ sec : objects ] , the strong x - ray emission from the disks in x - ray binaries prevent us from using the ratio @xmath22 to learn about the presence of absence of a jet .    however , in the case of ss cyg the high accretion rate during outburst obscures the boundary layer , and the residual x - ray emission observed by wheatley et al .",
    "( 2003 ) can be attributed to a corona .",
    "in @xmath4 we found the ratio between the peak radio emission at outburst ( krding et al .",
    "2008 ) and the residual x - ray emission at outburst ( wheatley et al .",
    "2003 ) of ss cyg to be @xmath23 .",
    "note that the two measurements are in two different outbursts , but the outbursts peaks of ss cyg are quite regular ( wheatley et al . 2003 ) .",
    "this finding leads us to suggest that most of the radio emission in the outburst of ss cyg comes from a magnetically newly formed corona , and not from jets as argued by krding et al .",
    "this does not mean that jets , or a collimated outflow , were not launched in the outburst .",
    "on the contrary , if the magnetic activity on the surface of accretion disks is similar to stellar magnetic activity , then ejection of mass is expected ( e.g. , de gouveia dal pino & lazarian 2005 ) .",
    "soker ( 2007 ) suggested that jets are launched in a manner analogous to stellar magnetic eruptions and coronal mass ejection .",
    "we have elaborated on this idea in @xmath5 .",
    "we do note that fender et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and markoff et al .",
    "( 2005 ) proposed that the base of the jet and the corona are the same region .",
    "we are not in dispute with their claim .",
    "we simply argue that processes similar to solar flares form the corona and accelerate the jets ( de gouveia dal pino & lazarian 2005 ) , and that this magnetic activity is the source of the radio emission in ss cyg , rather than the already collimated outflow ( jets ) .",
    "the main assumption of the stellar - like magnetic activity is that local heating occurs in the regions of the disk close to the accreting object , in a manner described by soker & regev ( 2003 ) : if the accretion rate is high enough such that radiative cooling occurs on a time scale longer than the expansion time scale , then the gas motion due to the local heating is mainly in the vertical direction .",
    "the critical mass accretion rate for wds is @xmath24 ( soker & lasota 2004 ) .",
    "the vertical motion can stretch magnetic field lines and amplify the magnetic fields ( soker 2007 ) .",
    "here we considered the @xmath25 dynamo ( see also de gouveia dal pino & lazarian 2005 who considered a turbulence dynamo ) .",
    "local velocities can be in all directions , not only vertical .",
    "we assumed that such a motion can play the @xmath26 role in the @xmath27 dynamo mechanism , and concluded that the time scale for the amplification of the magnetic field is very short compared with the rise time of the outburst .",
    "it is very likely that the strong magnetic fields behave similarly to stellar magnetic fields ( laor & behar 2008 ) .",
    "we argued that these magnetic fields emit most of the radio emission observed by krding et al .",
    "( 2008 ) in the eruption of ss cyg .",
    "the magnetic flares can also lunch jets , and might even be the main mechanism for lunching jets in variety of objects , from ysos to massive bhs ( soker 2007 ) .",
    "this research was supported by the asher fund for space research at the technion , the israel science foundation , and a smithsonian short term visitor grant to soker and nsf grant ast0507637 and nasa grant nnx08aj61 g to sdv ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we suggest that the radio emission from the dwarf nova ss cyg during outburst comes from magnetic activity that formed a corona ( similar to coronae found in magnetically active stars ) , rather than from jets . </S>",
    "<S> we base our claim on the recent results of laor & behar , who found that when the ratio between radio and x - ray flux of accretion disks in radio - quiet quasars is as in active stars , @xmath0 , then most of the radio emission comes from coronae . using observations from the literature we find that for ss cyg during outburst @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> this does not mean jets are not launched during outbursts . on the contrary , if the magnetic activity in erupting accreting disks is similar to that in stars , then mass ejection , e.g. , as in coronal mass ejection , is expected . </S>",
    "<S> hence magnetic flares similar to those in active stars might be the main mechanism for launching jets in a variety of systems , from young stellar objects to massive black holes . </S>"
  ]
}