{
  "article_text": [
    "finding the form of the mass function of stars , in particular the initial mass function ( imf ) , has been a major goal of stellar and galactic astrophysics since salpeter s ( 1955 ) seminal study ( also see kroupa 2002 ; chabrier 2003 ; bonnell et al .",
    "the origin of the imf has recently been a subject of intense interest ( see bonnell et al .",
    "2007 for a review ) .",
    "observationally , studies of the core mass function ( cmf ) have shown it to have a similar form to the imf ( motte et al .",
    "1998 ; testi & sergent 1998 ; johnstone et al . 2000,2001",
    "; motte et al .",
    "2001 ; johnstone & bally 2006 ; young et al . 2006 ; alves et al . 2007",
    "; nutter & ward - thompson 2007 ; simpson et al .",
    "2008 ; enoch et al .",
    "2008 ) suggesting a link between the two ( see , in particular , alves et al . 2007 ; goodwin et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "it is often assumed that if the imf of two regions is the same , then star formation in those two regions must have been basically the same .",
    "however , the imf is the mass function of _ individual _ stars .",
    "therefore the imf  taken in isolation  ignores the fact that many stars are in multiple systems , and that most / many stars are thought to have formed as multiples ( e.g. , goodwin & kroupa 2005 ; kouwenhoven et al .",
    "2005 , 2007 ; goodwin et al . 2007 ; goodwin et al .",
    "2008 , and references therein ; see also lada 2006 ) .",
    "the imf thus ignores a large amount of information related to the star formation process that is stored in the binary population .    during star formation , many cores must collapse and fragment into a multiple system ( goodwin & kroupa 2005 ; goodwin et al .",
    "therefore , it is the system mass function ( smf ) that we should expect to follow the cmf ( as emphasised by goodwin et al .",
    "the imf is produced by splitting these multiple systems into their component parts .",
    "how the masses of the individual stars in the imf are distributed depends not only upon the smf , but on the binary fraction and mass ratio distribution of systems .",
    "moreover , these quantities may well be mass - dependent .    in this paper",
    "we show that very different models for the conversion of the cmf to the smf and from the smf to the imf can produce very similar imfs . in section  2",
    "we outline our method and the results , and we discuss the implications in section  3 .",
    "following goodwin et al . ( 2008 ) we have constructed a simple model of multiple star formation from ` cores ' .",
    "we assume a universal core mass function with a log - normal form ( although as we describe below , this is not an important assumption ) .",
    "this form is based on the observations of alves et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and nutter & ward - thompson ( 2007 ) .",
    "we take the average mass to be @xmath0 , and the width to be @xmath1 .",
    "we then randomly sample cores from this cmf in a monte carlo simulation ( see also earlier studies by larson ( 1973 ) , elmegreen & mathieu ( 1983 ) , and zinnecker ( 1983 ) ) .",
    "we note that taking a log - normal form means that we fail to reproduce the power - law tail at high - mass that is observed and expected theoretically ( e.g. padoan & nordlund 2002 ; hennebelle & chabrier 2008 ) , and so we do not expect to fit the imf properly at high masses .",
    "we create a system mass function from a core mass function by converting each core into a system with a particular efficiency .",
    "thus , a core of mass @xmath2 will become a system of mass @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the core - to - star efficiency .",
    "the core - to - star efficiency may depend on the mass of the core , and even upon the mass ratio of the stars within the core .",
    "we show below that , depending on the core mass function and the core - to - star efficiency , many different system mass functions can be formed .",
    "therefore , we use an assumed system mass function and then convert the mass of the system @xmath5 into stars of mass @xmath6 and @xmath7 , or or into a single star , depending on the binary fraction to create an imf .",
    "the mass ratio @xmath8 is drawn from a mass ratio distribution ( mrd ) in the range @xmath9 .",
    "the corresponding masses of the primary and companion star are then @xmath10 and @xmath11 ( see kouwenhoven et al .",
    "2008 for a detailed study of pairing functions in binary systems ) . for simplicity",
    ", we will only consider single stars and binary systems .",
    "finally , the imf is given by the distribution of masses of all _ individual _ stars ( single stars , primaries , companions ) in all of the systems .",
    "we then compare this derived imf to the ` canonical ' chabrier ( 2003 ) log - normal imf .    in summary , we have an initial core mass function ( cmf ) .",
    "a combination of the cmf and the core - to - star efficiency ( cse ) gives the system mass function ( smf ) .",
    "combining the smf and the mass ratio distribution ( mrd ) then gives the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "note that the cse may depend on the mrd as we shall discuss below .",
    "we have assumed at the first step that the cmf is universal ( and has a log - normal form ) . clearly this assumption may well be wrong .",
    "firstly , determinations of the cmf are very difficult , and it is not clear if the observed cmf is indeed the cmf that should be used as the underlying distribution from which stars form ( clark et al . 2007 ; hatchell & fuller 2008 ; smith et al . 2008 ; swift & williams 2008 ) . however ,",
    "for the purposes of this paper we wish to show that _ even if _ the cmf is universal , we are able to produce the canonical imf through different modes of star formation .",
    "however , as we shall see later , the assumed initial log - normal form of the cmf is one of the main reasons why the following distributions also maintain a log - normal form .      in fig .  1",
    "we show how it is possible to change the width and shape of the smf formed from the cmf by changing how the cse varies with core mass .",
    "if high - mass cores are more efficient at converting gas to stars than low - mass cores , the the smf is broader than the cmf .",
    "however , if low - mass cores are more efficient , then the smf is narrower than the cmf . but",
    "note that the resultant smf always has a roughly log - normal form , often with a just a small degree of skewness added .    presumably , the cse is not independent of mass",
    ". the higher the level of feedback from stars the lower we might expect the cse to be .",
    "however , this may not be a trivial relationship .",
    "more massive stars presumably produce more feedback , however the mass - luminosity relationship for pms stars is highly complex and age- and mass - dependent . ] , and so be able to reduce the fraction of a core that accretes onto the system . on the other hand , a more massive core is also more bound and so more difficult to disperse .",
    "an interesting possibility is that the cse depends not just on the mass of the system , but also on the mass ratio of that system .",
    "it is possible that an unequal - mass system ( say , 1.8@xmath120.2@xmath12 ) will produce far more feedback than an equal - mass system ( say , 1@xmath121@xmath12 ) with the same system mass .",
    "therefore , a larger core is required to form the first system . also , as pointed - out by myers ( 2008 )",
    ", the cse should also depend on the core density .      in fig .  2 we present the imfs that result from systems with a binary fraction of unity for a selection of very different choices for the mrd",
    "we have fine - tuned the smfs in order to obtain good fits to the canonical imf .",
    "what is clear from fig .",
    "2 is that very different choices for the mrd are _ all _ able to produce the canonical imf .",
    "a potential problem is that we have introduced a fine - tuning element in that the smf has been chosen to give the best - fit to the canonical imf for a given mrd .",
    "however , this fine - tuning is not significant . as indicated in the captions to each part of fig .  2",
    ", the smfs do not vary very much , with means of @xmath13 , @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 and variances of @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 , and @xmath20 , respectively , for the different models .",
    "it would be extremely difficult , if not impossible , to distinguish observationally differences in the mean of the smf between @xmath19 and @xmath21 , and differences in the @xmath22 widths of @xmath23 ",
    "@xmath24 at one end , and @xmath25 ",
    "@xmath26 at the other . indeed , the models presented in figs .",
    "2a and  2c have identical smfs despite having completely different mrds ( a single peak at @xmath27 , compared to peaks at @xmath28 and @xmath29 ) and yet both give good fits to the canonical imf .",
    "all of the models presented in fig .",
    "2 have assumed that _ all _ systems produce a binary ( as shown in fig .  3 ) . clearly , the canonical imf can also be recovered from a smf of entirely single stars if the smf is exactly the same as the imf .",
    "however , we know that a significant fraction of systems in the field are multiples , and that presumably many more were multiples at birth as multiples are destroyed , but not created ( kroupa 1995a , b ; parker et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "goodwin et al . ( 2008 ) found that  assuming a constant cse and a uniform mrd  a model with a binary fraction of unity was a better fit to the canonical imf than one in which binarity declined with system ( ie .",
    "primary ) mass as is observed in the field ( see lada 2006 ) .    in fig .",
    "4 we show the best fits to the canonical imf for the same set of mrds as in fig .  2 , but for a binary fraction that varies with system mass as shown in fig .  3  unity for a system mass @xmath30 , linear for @xmath31 , and @xmath23 for @xmath32",
    "in order to fit the canonical imf for each mrd the best smfs are @xmath33 and @xmath34 for _ all _ of our models .",
    "the peaks of the smfs ( @xmath35 ) are lower than for a binary fraction of unity as the reduced number of low - mass companions means that the low - mass end of the imf must be made - up largely of single stars directly from the smf .",
    "the increased width is then required in order to allow sufficient numbers of higher - mass stars to form .",
    "it might seem that this result is at odds with goodwin et al .",
    "however , goodwin et al . set the cmf with which to generate the smf and then the imf as being the orion / pipe nebula cmf ( with a mean of @xmath36 and variance of @xmath37 , see above ) and a constant cse .",
    "given these constraints it is impossible to form an smf with a mean of @xmath38 and a variance of @xmath34 as required to produce the canonical imf with a decreasing binary fraction .",
    "however , as we show here , if the cmf is different , or if the cse is such that the variance is increased and the mean lowered significantly such a cmf can produce the canonical imf with a varying binary fraction .    we have also examined the effect of using a cmf that is not log - normal ( in particular , triangular and top - hat cmfs ) .",
    "features in the cmf are always reflected in some way ( even if distorted ) in the smf and the imf no matter our choice of the cse and mrd .",
    "thus the apparently smooth log - normal - like shape of the imf would seem to be a natural consequence of the log - normal - like shape of the cmf ( cf .",
    "elmegreen & mathieu 1983 ; zinnecker 1983 ) . however , the lack of features tells us that the cmf that produces the smf that produces the imf is highly unlikely to contain any sharp features or discontinuities as these should be apparent in the imf .",
    "it is surprising that the imf is so insensitive to the mrd of stars .",
    "the reason is that the imf is so insensitive is that it retains the log - normal - like shape of the smf ( which itself is retained from the cmf ) .",
    "as the smf is distributed in a roughly log - normal way , each chosen mass ratio from the mrd retains this shape ( e.g. for an mrd of two delta functions , the smf will produce two stellar distributions , each a log - normal ) .",
    "thus the imf is the sum of a number of log - normals thus retaining the log - normal shape ",
    "@xmath39 ( e.g. duquennoy & mayor 1991 ) . ] .",
    "it is interesting to examine what form we might expect the mrd to have .",
    "we would expect that most binaries form via the fragmentation of discs ( or massive disc - like objects ) around young stars ( see goodwin et al .",
    "2007 for a review ) .",
    "if discs fragment early then the secondary will form whilst there is still a significant amount of material to accrete and we might expect the mrd to favour more equal - mass systems . if the discs fragment late after the primary has accreted most of its mass then there will be little material left to accrete and unequal - mass systems might predominate ( as might also happen if the secondary formed at a large distance from the primary ) . thus the mrd might contain information on the formation time of secondaries ( which might depend on the amount of angular momentum or strength of magnetic fields in the core ? ) .",
    "if the mrd favours unequal - mass binaries then the primary imf will reflect well the form of the smf , however if many binaries are more equal - mass then the primary imf would not .",
    "we have investigated the origin of the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) as produced by a system mass function ( smf ) , which is itself formed from a particular core mass function ( cmf ) .",
    "the cmf is converted to the smf via a core - to - star efficiency ( cse ) factor , and then turned into the imf via a mass ratio distribution ( mrd ) .",
    "our main findings are :    * different core - to - star efficiencies can significantly change the width and shape of the system mass function formed from a given core mass function . * very different mass ratio distributions within systems",
    "can produce very similar ( and canonical ) imfs from very similar system mass functions .",
    "thus , we conclude that observing the same initial mass function in different regions does not necessarily mean that star formation was the same in those regions . for very different choices of the mass ratio distribution in star forming cores , the same ( canonical ) imf may be found .",
    "in addition , the form of the imf is surprisingly insensitive to the variation of the binary fraction with mass ( modulo the position of the peak of the system mass function ) .",
    "this raises a question about the universality , or non - universality , of star formation based on observing the same imf in different regions .",
    "if one star forming region produced systems with generally equal - mass stars , whilst another produced systems with generally comparatively low - mass companions , it seems very difficult to claim that star formation in those regions was the same .",
    "however , the core mass functions , system mass functions , and the imfs could all be very similar .",
    "therefore , in order to claim that star formation is the same in different regions , the _ birth _ system mass function and mass ratio distribution of binaries , and the binary fraction , must also be the same .",
    "it is important to note that it is the _ birth _ system mass functions and mass ratio distributions that must be determined .",
    "dynamical evolution can seriously alter the initial binary population in a cluster ( e.g. kroupa 1995a , 1995b ; parker et al .",
    "2009 ) and destroy much of the vital information on the birth properties .",
    "it is important to note that the peak mass of the imf which always seems to occur at @xmath40 ",
    "@xmath41 does constrain the star formation process .",
    "the initial core mass functions must always have a similar peak mass which is then imposed on the system mass function ( regulated by the core - to - star efficiency ) which is then imposed on the imf ( but regulated by the mass ratio distribution including the binary fraction ) . if the binary fraction varies between different star formating regions the peak of the core mass functions could change by a factor of @xmath42 or @xmath43 , but no more . thus the underlying core mass functions in all regions should probably have a peak mass of order @xmath44 .",
    "we would like to thank the referee , charlie lada , for his useful comments .",
    "m.b.n.k . was supported by pparc / stfc under grant number pp / d002036/1 .",
    "we acknowledge networking funding from the british council under the prime minister s initiative 2 through grant no .",
    "rc01 .",
    "ward - thompson , d. , andre , p. , crutcher , r. , johnstone , d. , onishi , t. & wilson , c. 2007 , in ` protostars and planets v ' , eds .",
    "b. reipurth , d. jewitt & k. keil ( university of arizona press : tuscon ) , p 33"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that the same initial mass function ( imf ) can result from very different modes of star formation from very similar underlying core and/or system mass functions . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we show that the canonical imf can be recovered from very similar system mass functions , but with very different mass ratio distributions within those systems . </S>",
    "<S> this is a consequence of the basically log - normal shapes of all of the distributions . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that the relationships between the shapes of the core , system , and stellar mass functions may not be trivial . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , different star formation in different regions could still result in the same imf .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : formation , mass function  </S>",
    "<S> ism : clouds  binaries : general </S>"
  ]
}