{
  "article_text": [
    "in the spring of 1909 evershed published a remarkable discovery of strong horizontal mass flows in sunspots penumbra , the outer part of sunspots characterized by filamentary magnetic field structures @xcite .",
    "the flows , with typical speed of 14 km / s , start at the boundary between the umbra and penumbra and expand radially , accelerating with distance and suddenly stopping at the outer sunspot boundary .",
    "the evershed effect may play a significant role in the formation , stability and dynamics of sunspots and is considered as one of the fundamental process in solar physics .",
    "this phenomenon caused significant interest and detailed observational and theoretical investigations , but the understanding of the physical mechanism is still missing ( a recent review is published by @xcite ) .    high - resolution observations from large ground - based telescopes and the hinode space mission revealed a complicated filamentary structure of these flows @xcite and their non - stationary dynamics in the form of quasiperiodic ",
    "evershed clouds \" @xcite . in some cases",
    ", the flows showed a large - scale coherent behavior across several flow channels @xcite , and also provided evidence of a wave - like behavior @xcite .",
    "theories of the evershed effect can be divided in two categories , describing it as channel flows in magnetic flux tubes @xcite or as elongated magnetoconvective rolls @xcite .",
    "recent numerical simulations @xcite successfully modeled the filamentary magnetic structure of sunspot penumbra and horizontal outflows , thus providing a strong support to the magnetoconvective nature of the evershed effect @xcite .    in this paper , we present a study of solar magnetoconvection in the presence of inclined magnetic field , based on the realistic radiative mhd simulations , and link the evershed effect to the phenomenon of traveling magnetoconvection waves .",
    "the convective waves is a very interesting mhd phenomenon @xcite , which , in fact , has been previously suggested as a reason of the evershed flows @xcite , but did not receive further development .",
    "our study provides a basis for explaining the evershed effect as a result of traveling magnetoconvection waves in highly inclined magnetic field of sunspot penumbra .",
    "the phenomenon of traveling magnetoconvection waves is considered also in the dynamics of the earth s core @xcite , and may happen in various astrophysical objects , such as magnetic stars , accretion disks , compact objects and active galactic nuclei .",
    "thus , detailed observational and theoretical studies of this phenomenon are of great interest .",
    "we use a three - dimensional non - linear radiative - magnetohydrodynamics code developed for simulating the upper solar convection zone and lower atmosphere @xcite .",
    "this code takes into account several physical phenomena : compressible fluid flow in a highly stratified medium , 3d multi - group radiative energy transfer between the fluid elements , a real - gas equation of state , ionization and excitation of all abundant species , and magnetic effects .",
    "a important feature of this code is implementation of various subgrid scale turbulence models . in this paper",
    ", we adopted the most widely used smagorinsky model @xcite in the compressible formulation @xcite .",
    "the turbulent electrical conductivity is calculated by using the extension of the smagorinsky model to the mhd case @xcite .",
    "we simulate the upper layer of the convection zone , extending from 5  mm below the visible surface to 0.5 mm above the surface .",
    "the horizontal size varied from 6.4  mm  @xmath0  6.4  mm to 25  mm  @xmath0 25  mm . the computational grid step size varied from 25 to 100 km .",
    "the results of this paper are obtained using @xmath1 grid with the step size of 50 km ( except fig .  5 , which is obtained using @xmath2 grid ) .",
    "we have verified that the results do not change in computations with finer grids ( except of the development of smaller scale turbulent motions ) .",
    "the initial uniform magnetic field is imposed on a snapshot of the preexisting hydrodynamic convection @xcite .",
    "the initial field strength , @xmath3 , varies from 0 to 2000 gauss , and the inclination angle , @xmath4 , varies from 0 to 90 degrees .",
    "the lateral boundary conditions are periodic , and the top and bottom boundary conditions maintain the total magnetic flux and the mean inclination .",
    "this formulation allows us to carry out a series of controlled numerical experiments and investigate how the structure and dynamics of solar turbulent convection depend on the magnetic field properties in regimes close to the observed in sunspot penumbra , and elucidate the physical mechanism of the evershed effect .",
    "outside magnetic field regions the solar convection forms granular cells of a typical size of 1 - 2 mm and lifetime of about 10 min . in the presence of magnetic field the structure of convection strongly depend on the field strength and inclination .",
    "when the magnetic field is vertical the granules become smaller @xcite , and their overturn time is shorter resulting in generation of high - frequency turbulence and acoustic waves ( `` halos '' ) @xcite . in the presence of an inclined magnetic field , such as observed in sunspot penumbra , the granular cells becomes naturally elongated in the direction of the field because magnetic field restricts motions across the magnetic field lines .",
    "but the most interesting effect is that the inclined field changes the nature of solar convection . instead of a stationary overturning convection pattern",
    "the simulation reveal traveling convection waves , which become more apparent and stronger for higher field strengths and inclination .",
    "this convection develops long narrow structures of velocity , thermodynamic parameters and magnetic field , resembling the filamentary structure and motions in the penumbra of sunspots .",
    "these structures are illustrated in figures 1 and 2 .",
    "figure 1 shows a 3d slice of our computational domain with a sample of magnetic field lines ( red curves ) , velocity field ( black arrows ) and a volume rendering of the temperature structures ( blue - red color scale ) .",
    "the initial 1000 gauss magnetic field is oriented in the @xmath5-plane and inclined by 85 degrees to the @xmath6-axis , so that the @xmath7-vector is the positive in the @xmath8-direction . evidently the strongest motions occur in the direction of the field inclination in narrow structures , with upflows and downflows at the initial and end point of these structures .",
    "the magnetic field lines change in accord with these elongated motions , rising up at the initial points and declining at the end points , thus giving an impression of rising and falling loop - like motions .",
    "the temperature is typically higher at the start points and lower at the end points .",
    "the typical vertical velocity around these points is about 1 km / s , but the horizontal velocity between them in the positive @xmath8-direction reaches 46 km / s .",
    "most of the horizontal mass flow occur in these relatively narrow patches , which strongly resemble  evershed clouds \" , discovered in observations @xcite .",
    "significantly weaker flows in the opposite direction are also observed .",
    "these are often originate at the initial upflow points .",
    "vertical cuts through the flow field ( e.g. left @xmath9-plane in fig .",
    "1 ) reveal associated vortex - type motions below the surface .",
    "when the background field is strong , the horizontal flow patches become quite narrow , with the width of 0.5 mm or less .",
    "the magnetic field variations also becomes more filamentary .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .  2 , which shows the surface structure of the horizontal flows and the @xmath10 component for two different initial magnetic field strengths , 1000 and 1200 g. the simulations show strong interaction between the plasma flows and magnetic field .",
    "the magnetic field controls the general direction of the flows , but in the strong flow patches , the magnetic field is pushed aside and has a reduced magnetic field strength",
    ". this may give impression , sometimes , reported from observations that the flows occur in magnetic field  gaps \" .",
    "nevertheless , the plasma flows remain magnetized . the filamentary magnetic structures and flows",
    "are strongly coupled .",
    "the most interesting feature of the simulations , which , we argue , is a key for understanding the evershed effect , is the traveling wave pattern of magnetoconvection in the presence of strongly inclined magnetic field .",
    "the simulations show that the velocity patches and magnetic field perturbations migrate in the direction of the field inclination .",
    "vertical cuts in @xmath5-planes show rapidly moving inclined convective cells ( a snapshot is illustrated in fig .",
    "this process is best seen in the movies ] , and also in the time - distance slices of the surface @xmath11 velocity component along the @xmath8-axis .",
    "figure 4 shows an example of these slices for the initial magnetic field , @xmath12 g , and the inclination angle of @xmath13 . in this case",
    "the convective velocity reaches @xmath14 km / s , and a pattern of convection waves traveling in the direction of the field inclination with a speed of 1 - 2 km / s can be identified .",
    "the general picture is that the overturning convection motions are swept by the traveling waves .",
    "this interaction amplifies the flows in the direction of the waves .",
    "this is accompanied by weaker plasma motions in the opposite direction .",
    "in fact , the initial points of the convective upflows often move in the opposite direction .",
    "this may explain the puzzling discrepancy between the outward flow direction and the apparent motion of  penumbra grains \" .",
    "it is intriguing that the traveling convection pattern shows variations with a characteristic time of 20 - 50 min , resembling the quasi - periodic behavior noticed in the observations @xcite . by increasing the computational domain up to 25 mm",
    "we have checked that the quasi - periodicity does not depend on the size of the domain and , thus , is not due to the periodic boundary condition .",
    "this is an intrinsic property of the inclined field magnetoconvection , but understanding of this phenomenon require further investigation .    as we have pointed out the high - speed ( 4 - 6 km / s ) horizontal flows occur in localized patches corresponding to the",
    " evershed clouds \" .",
    "an averaged over time and space velocity is smaller , about 12 km / s .",
    "the flows are concentrated in a shallow subsurface layer less than 1 mm deep ( fig .",
    "the velocity peaks about 100200 km below the surface .",
    "this also corresponds to the observations showing that the velocity of the evershed flows increases with depth .",
    "the averaged velocity does not change much with the magnetic field strength in the range of 10001500 g , but it strongly depends on the inclination angle ( fig .",
    "the mean horizontal flow is much weaker for small inclination angles .",
    "the radiative mhd simulations of solar magnetoconvection in regions of inclined magnetic field qualitatively and quantitatively describe many observed features of the evershed effect in sunspots .",
    "the results indicate that the principal physical mechanism of the evershed flows is the traveling wave nature of the magnetoconvection .",
    "the traveling waves have been extensively studied in idealized situations @xcite , and it has been suggested that they play significant role in sunspot flows @xcite .",
    "our simulations model this phenomenon in the realistic solar conditions , and show that indeed many details correspond to the observations , thus providing a basis for explaining the evershed effect .    in particular , the simulations show that the high - speed flows reaching 4 - 6 km / s occur in the direction of the field inclination in narrow , 23 mm long patches , which tend to appear quasi - periodically on the time - scale of 15 - 40 min .",
    "these patches correspond to the so - called  evershed clouds \" @xcite and represent the main component of the evershed flows .",
    "these horizontal flows originate from convective upflows of hotter plasma , like in ordinary convection , but are channeled by the magnetic field and amplified by the traveling convective waves .",
    "the whole process is highly non - linear and stochastic with high - speed patches appearing randomly , but the simulations also show large - scale organization patterns across the simulation domain , which seem to be associated with the traveling waves .",
    "these patterns are evident in the simulation movies .",
    "some observations showed a signature of coherence in appearance of the evershed clouds @xcite but this has not been fully established @xcite .",
    "the simulations suggest that a large - scale coherence may be a fundamental property of the traveling wave phenomenon , and certainly encourage further observational studies . of course , in real sunspots the magnetic field stricture is highly inhomogeneous , and this may affect the large - scale appearance .",
    "this must be investigated in future simulations .    in the past several models",
    "were suggested to explain the evershed effect .",
    "interestingly , some features of these models can be found in our simulations .",
    "one of the first models describes the penumbra filaments as convective rolls along the direction of magnetic field @xcite , first suggesting the convective nature of the evershed effect .",
    "the apparent observed wave - like behavior inspired attempts to explain the evershed effect as magnetoacoustic or magnetogravity waves @xcite .",
    "our model specifies that these waves are convective in nature .",
    "the rising and falling thin - flux tube model @xcite was suggested to describe the discrepancy between the apparent motion of penumbra features and the main evershed flows .",
    "our simulations explain this naturally , and also reveal upward and downward loop - like motions of magnetic field lines synchronized with the high - velocity patches .",
    "the siphon model @xcite suggested that the flow is driven by the pressure difference between the initial and end points , and indeed , in the simulations the gas pressure in the initial points is higher than at the end points .",
    "the recent numerical simulations of the sunspot structure @xcite led to the suggestion that the evershed effect is caused by the overturning convection @xcite , but the flow speed was not sufficiently high . our simulation show that the high - speed matching the observations is achieved if the magnetic field is strong , 1000 - 1500 g , and highly inclined , when the magnetoconvection has properties of traveling waves .",
    "thus , it seems that the mhd simulations provide a unified description of the models and the key observed features , and , perhaps , lead to the understanding of the 100-year old discovery .",
    "bunte , m. , darconza , g. , & solanki , s.  k.  1993 , , 274 , 478 cabrera solana , d. , bellot rubio , l.  r. , beck , c. , & del toro iniesta , j.  c.  2007 , , 475 , 1067 cabrera solana , d. , bellot rubio , l.  r. , borrero , j.  m. , & del toro iniesta , j.  c.  2008 , , 477 , 273 danielson , r.  e.  1961 , , 134 , 289 evershed , j.  1909 , , 69 , 454 georgakilas , a.  a. , & christopoulou , e.  b.  2003 , , 584 , 509 germano , m. , piomelli , u. , moin , p. , & cabot , w.  h.  1991 , physics of fluids , 3 , 1760 heinemann , t. , nordlund ,  . , scharmer , g.  b. , & spruit , h.  c.  2007 , , 669 , 1390 hurlburt , n.  e. , matthews , p.  c. , & proctor , m.  r.  e.  1996 , , 457 , 933 hurlburt , n.  e.,matthews , p.  c. , & rucklidge , a.  m.  2000 , , 192 , 109 ichimoto , k. , et al .  2007a , science , 318 , 1597 ichimoto , k. , et al .  2007b , , 59 , 593 jacoutot , l.,kosovichev , a.  g. , wray , a. , & mansour , n.  n.  2008a , , 684 , l51 jacoutot , l. , kosovichev , a.  g. , wray , a.  a. , & mansour , n.  n.  2008b , , 682 , 1386 maltby , p. , & eriksen , g.  1967 , , 2 , 249 meyer , f. , & schmidt , h.  u.  1968 , mitteilungen der astronomischen gesellschaft hamburg , 25 , 194 moin , p. , squires , k. , cabot , w. & lee , s. 1991 , phys .",
    "fluids a , 3 , 11 , 2746 montesinos , b. , & thomas , j.  h.  1997 , , 390 , 485 rempel , m. , schssler , m. , & knlker , m.  2009 , , 691 , 640 rimmele , t.  r.  1994 , , 290 , 972 rimmele , t.  r.  1995 , , 298 , 260 scharmer , g.  b. , nordlund ,  .",
    ", & heinemann , t.  2008 , , 677 , l149 schlichenmaier , r. , jahn , k. , & schmidt , h.  u.  1998 , , 493 , l121 shine , r.  a. , title , a.  m. , tarbell , t.  d. , smith , k. , frank , z.  a. , & scharmer , g.  1994 , , 430 , 413 smagorinsky , j. , 1963 , monthly weather review , 93 , 99 stein , r.  f. , & nordlund ,  .",
    "2002 , solmag 2002 .",
    "proceedings of the magnetic coupling of the solar atmosphere euroconference , 505 , 83 theobald , m. l. , fox , p. a. , sofia , s. 1994 , phys .",
    "plasmas , 1 , 9 tritschler , a.  2009 , structure and dynamics of sunspots .",
    "arxiv e - prints arxiv:0903.1300 walker , m.  r. , & barenghi , c.  f.  1999 , physics of the earth and planetary interiors , 111 , 35 weiss , n.  o.  1991 , geophysical and astrophysical fluid dynamics , 62 , 229 zhang , k.  1999 , physics of the earth and planetary interiors , 111 , 93    , is 1000 g , the inclination angle , @xmath4 , is 85 degrees with respect to the vertical .",
    "red curves show magnetic field lines ; the color 3d structures show the temperature variations relative to the mean vertical stratification ( dark green and blue correspond to lower temperature ) ; the arrows show the velocity field .",
    "the horizontal size of the box is 6.4 mm , the depth is about 2.5 mm . ]    , in the direction of the field inclination , and arrows show the horizontal velocity at the solar surface for different initial magnetic field strength , @xmath3 : a ) 1000 g , b ) 1200 g , and the inclination angle , @xmath15 . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> discovered in 1909 the evershed effect represents strong mass outflows in sunspot penumbra , where the magnetic field of sunspots is filamentary and almost horizontal . these flows play important role in sunspots and have been studied in detail using large ground - based and space telescopes , but the basic understanding of its mechanism is still missing . </S>",
    "<S> we present results of realistic numerical simulations of the sun s subsurface dynamics , and argue that the key mechanism of this effect is in non - linear magnetoconvection that has properties of traveling waves in the presence of strong , highly inclined magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> the simulations reproduce many observed features of the evershed effect , including the high - speed  evershed clouds \" , the filamentary structure of the flows , and the non - stationary quasi - periodic behavior . </S>",
    "<S> the results provide a synergy of previous theoretical models and lead to an interesting prediction of a large - scale organization of the outflows . </S>"
  ]
}