{
  "article_text": [
    "graphene sheets and related carbon based nanomaterials have attracted attention recently after seminal experiments @xcite revealed novel physics related to their unique electronic structure@xcite . in graphene",
    "nanoribbons@xcite lateral confinement leads to size quantization and to one - dimensional conduction channels whose properties depend qualitatively on edge termination character .",
    "neutral zigzag terminated ribbons have attracted particular attention because they have a flat band , perflectly flat in simple @xmath0-band models , pinned to the fermi level . in self - consistent field ( scf ) theories , including _ ab initio _ spin - density - functional theories , the flat band leads to robust magnetic order .",
    "ferromagnetic alignment of spins at the zigzag edges is predicted also in treatments going beyond mean field @xcite .",
    "although the reliability of scf theories is uncertain and not yet tested experimentally , interest in zigzag edge magnetism has remained strong because of potential for interesting applications in nano - electronics @xcite .",
    "most studies of the electronic structure of zigzag terminated graphene ribbons have focused on properties of the neutral system or systems with substitutional doping @xcite .",
    "we study the role of gate voltage induced changes in carrier density ,",
    "_ i.e. _ gate doping .",
    "a related work in the low carrier doping regime with an additional neutralizing background charge explored the possibility of stable non - collinear magnetic states @xcite .",
    "in neutral systems , scf theories predict edge magnetization in graphene nanoribbons with opposite spin polarizations on opposite edges @xcite . in theoretical studies of",
    "locally gated zigzag ribbon junctions usually the non - interacting electronic structure is assumed @xcite , neglecting the possibility of doping - dependent interaction - driven rearrangements . in this work",
    "we show that gate doping leads to changes in charge distribution , spin configuration , and total net spin polarization , which are accompanied by important modifications in electronic structure .",
    "c +   +   +    our study is based on the @xmath0-orbital hubbard - model scf theory for the magnetic properties of graphene nanostructures @xcite , in which an electron of spin @xmath1 in site @xmath2 experiences a repulsive interaction proportional to the density of opposite - spin electrons @xmath3 .",
    "the hubbard - model scf theory is broadly consistent with dft calculations when the interaction parameter @xmath4 is chosen appropriately .",
    "@xmath0-orbital hartree - fock theory reduces to the hubbard model when only the on - site coulomb interactions are retained .",
    "we have chosen to use a hubbard interaction parameter @xmath5 which reproduces in the undoped case the band - gaps obtained by microscopic density functional theory in the local density approximation .",
    "this value is smaller than other estimates @xcite , but has been adopted with a similar motivation in some other recent work@xcite .",
    "the hubbard model mean - field hamiltonian for each spin @xmath1 is @xmath6 consist of a nearest neighbor tight - binding term with hopping @xmath7 connecting lattice sites @xmath2 and @xmath8 , the hubbard term representing electron - electron interactions , and an external potential term accounting for the interaction with the constant positive background charge proportional to a coefficient we choose to be @xmath9 .",
    "given the uncertainty of predictions implied by particular versions of scf - theory , the advantages of this relatively simple model often outweigh disadvantages . because the magnetism in zigzag ribbons is essentially one - dimensional , we measure doping @xmath10 in units of the number of excess electrons per repeat distance @xmath11 along the edge .",
    "the corresponding areal density @xmath12 where the ribbon width @xmath13 and @xmath14 is the number of atom pairs per ribbon unit cell .",
    "the main players in zigzag edge magnetism are the flat band states which occupy one - third of the one - dimensional ribbon brillouin - zone ( bz ) and are localized@xcite near the ribbon edges , most strongly so near the bz boundary @xmath15 . in the undoped scf ground state ,",
    "electrons of opposite - spin are localized near opposite edges of the ribbon and a gap@xcite @xmath16 separates occupied valence and empty conduction band ribbon states . by appealing to particle - hole symmetry",
    "we can limit our discussion of doping to the @xmath17-type case in which electrons start filling the conduction band . doping causes charge - density variation across the ribbon and to a complicated competition between band and interaction energies manifested by the variety of scf equation solutions classified below .",
    "we label solutions as af ( opposite ) or f ( parallel ) to indicate the relative alignment of spins on opposite edges .",
    "the label nc is used indicate non - collinear spin solutions .",
    "the label b is applied for solutions which break inversion symmetry across the ribbon in a way which will be explained in more detail later .",
    "finally we use the letter p to designate a paramagnetic state with no local spin - polarization . the phase diagram in fig .",
    "(  [ fig : phase ] ) illustrates the sequence of transitions af @xmath18 nc @xmath18 f @xmath18 fb @xmath18 p in narrower ribbons . in wider ribbons we find an additional af state region between the f and fb regimes .",
    "the total energy per unit cell consist of a sum over all the occupied single - particle eigenvalues @xmath19 labeled with @xmath20 and @xmath21 the band index divided by @xmath22 the total number of @xmath20-points minus a term to account for the double counting correction in the interaction @xmath23 where the occupations @xmath24 are evaluated in the local frame at lattice site @xmath2 where spin is diagonal .",
    "their differences between different self - consistent solutions are shown in fig .",
    "(  [ fig : energy ] ) for a particular ( @xmath25 ) ribbon width when only collinear spin solutions are considered . in the collinear scheme the energy associated with breaking inversion symmetry across the ribbons is always small and the main trend is a crossover from antiferromagnetic solutions at small @xmath10 to ferromagnetic solutions for @xmath26 to non - magnetic solutions for @xmath27 .",
    "for the f type solutions and those with broken charge symmetry the system has a nonzero net spin polarization as a function of doping density .",
    "the doping dependence of spin - polarization is illustrated for the same @xmath25 ribbon width in fig .",
    "(  [ fig : spol ] ) .",
    "c    ccccc & & & & +   + & & & & +    each of the solution types identified in fig .",
    "( [ fig : phase ] ) is associated with particular electronic structure features which are illustrated in fig .",
    "( [ fig : bands ] ) . for the af solution ,",
    "finite doping requires that states above the interaction induced gap be occupied . for small doping electrons",
    "start occupying states near the conduction band minima .",
    "( see fig .",
    "( [ fig : bands ] ) . )",
    "these additional electrons suffer a large energy penalty due to the neutral solution band - gap and have lower energy when spin - polarized .",
    "the resulting half metallic solution in the spin - collinear scheme implies a non - zero overall spin polarization in the system and is accompanied by a breaking of charge distribution symmetry around the ribbon center .",
    "this asymmetric charge distribution is a combined effect of the net spin polarization and the character of the af solution at the neutrality point , in which electrons with opposite spin polarizations are concentrated on opposite edges @xcite . if both up and down spin bands were equally occupied there would be no charge distribution asymmetry around the ribbon center .    in the low doping regime",
    "a non - collinear spin - order that continuously bridges the intermediate situation between the neutral af configuration and mostly f configuration at higher doping is @xcite a possibility . in the version of the hubbard model mean - field theory which allows for non - collinear spin denisties we must allow for the possibility that the average spin polarization on different lattice sites points in different directions @xcite .",
    "this allows a larger variational space within a single slater determinant approximation and can potentially lead to lower energy solutions , but the spin label becomes undefined for each single - particle wave function .",
    "we verified that non - collinear spin solutions are favored energetically @xcite in the hubbard model calculations for low doping region and that the transition to f configuration happens at doping densities typically about @xmath28 higher than when only collinear solutions are considered .",
    "the angle between the spin densities on opposite edges and the band structure of the non - collinear state are represented in fig .",
    "c +   +   +   +    in the intermediate doping regime the total energy is minimized by solutions which are more similar to the f neutral - ribbon configuration@xcite which do not have an energy gap , and are therefore favored by doping . this transition to f - like",
    "solutions occurs already at a relatively small value of doping @xmath29 .",
    "the states that are occupied first at finite doping are those near the valley points @xmath30 that are@xcite spread across the ribbon and therefore control the exchange coupling between opposite edges",
    ". the @xmath31-scaling rules of the energy bands near the valley points @xcite are consistent with the @xmath32 decay law of the threshold doping at which the transition to f - like transition occurs in our numerical phase diagram . in electronic structures with dominantly f character the charge distribution symmetry around the ribbon center",
    "is preserved . in this case",
    "every occupied states , up or down spin and valence or conduction edge band , has a symmetric distribution of electron density around the ribbon center . when the doping is sufficiently large , however , we find a broken charge symmetry solution that we label as fb . in this state one of the occupied conduction bands",
    "has af ( unbalanced across the ribbon ) rather than f ( balanced across the ribbon ) character .",
    "in addition to these solutions , we find that for wide ribbons there is an intermediate doping region in which af solutions have lower total energy than the f solutions before the fb solution is stabilized .",
    "the difference in energy between different magnetic solutions is small at intermediate and large doping .    in the high doping regime",
    "the magnetic features of the system progressively disappear as the edge state bands become filled .",
    "the ribbon is found to turn paramagnetic above a critical value that increases with the ribbon width and saturates around @xmath33 .",
    "considering that edge localized states in the conduction bands with @xmath20-points near @xmath34 span approximately @xmath35 of the whole brillouin zone we find that the total amount of doping electrons required to fill completely the edge for both up and down spins is @xmath36 , an amount that can be surpassed near the mentioned doping saturation limit .",
    "the af state of zigzag nanoribbons has the unusual feature that inversion symmetry across the ribbon is broken in opposite senses in the two spin sub - systems @xcite .",
    "our calculation suggest that in low doping regime the system can easily develop solutions with a charge density that is distributed asymmetrically across the ribbon , creating an interesting and unusually strong type of multiferroic behavior @xcite in which spin polarization and charge density are coupled .",
    "we expect that transport properties can correspondingly be manipulated in interesting interrelated ways by both external magnetic fields and external electric fields directed across the ribbon .",
    "edge transport should be strongly suppressed , for example , when a transverse electric field is applied which has opposite orientations on opposite ends of a ribbon .    above a certain critical doping density , which is inversely proportional to the ribbon width @xmath32",
    ", we find that the system undergoes a transition to a f configuration in which opposite edges have parallel spin polarizations .",
    "when doping is increased further the spin - configuration is altered yet again , restoring inversion symmetry breaking across the ribbon . in this high - doping regime",
    "the total magnetic condensation energy is small and the energy differences between different magnetic configurations is small .",
    "eventually at sufficiently high doping the hubbard - model scf equations have only paramagnetic solutions .",
    "the @xmath37 substrates on which exfoliated graphene samples are usually prepared have electron density inhomogeneities @xcite of the order of @xmath38 that can extend over lengths of the order of @xmath39 . in the limiting case of ribbons with this same width as the puddle sizes a rough estimate of doping per unit lattice constant @xmath40 within each puddle can be evaluated with the product of these two quantities @xmath41 this amount of doping can influence the spin configurations in the system and the presence of these random perturbations is therefore expected to appreciably weaken the tendency towards magnetic order , especially for wide ribbons .",
    "for this reason we should expect a better chances of detecting edge magnetism in suspended ribbons which have much weaker electron density fluctuations .",
    "the long - ranged character of the coulomb interaction , neglected in the present work , is expected to introduce important changes in the details of electronic structure especially in the regions in which states with different charge and spin configurations compete closely .",
    "the discrepancies can be more acute than in the neutral case because the inadequacy of short ranged screening can be more relevant when the occupation of each lattice site in the unit cell becomes inhomogeneous as we depart from half filling .",
    "nevertheless , it is also likely that several qualitative features of the solutions are still correctly captured by the hubbard model and therefore can provide useful hints on the actual behavior of the magnetic configurations in ribbons as a function of doping .",
    "even though fluctuation effects we have neglected may work against the formation of long - range order in these 1d - magnets , the unusually stiff ferromagnetic alignment of the spins predicted by mean field theories for zigzag ribbons @xcite suggests that magnetic order could be possible and should be manifested in some way in experiments .",
    "_ acknowledgments . _",
    "we gratefully acknowledge helpful discussions with p. m. haney , t. pereg - barnea , k. t. delaney , and p. rinke .",
    "financial support was received from the welch foundation , nri - swan , aro , doe and the spanish ministry of education through the mec - fulbright program .",
    "k. s. novoselov et al . , nature 438 , 197 ( 2005 ) .",
    "y. zhang et al . ,",
    "nature 438 , 201 ( 2005 ) a. h. castro neto , f. guinea , n. m. r. peres , k. s. novoselov and a. k. geim , rev .",
    "phys . * 81 * , 109 ( 2009 ) ; a. k. geim and k. s. novoselov et al . , nature materials",
    "* 6 * , 183 - 191 ( 2007 ) ; a. k. geim and a. h. macdonald , physics today * 60 * , 35 ( 2007 ) .",
    "there have been several studies of the influence of substitutional doping which changes the charge density and at the same time introduces structural modifications in the system : bing huang , qimin yan , gang zhou , jian wu , feng liu , bing - lin gu , and wenhui duan , appl .",
    ". lett . * 91 * , 253122 ( 2007 ) ; f. cervantes - sodi , g. csanyi , s. piscanec , and a. c. ferrari , phys . rev .",
    "b 77 , 165427 ( 2008 ) ; n. gorjizadeh , a. a. farajian , k. esfarjani , and y. kawazoe phys . rev .",
    "b 78 , 155427 ( 2008 ) ; s.s .",
    "yua , w.t .",
    "zheng , q.b .",
    "wena and q. jiang , carbon * 46 * , 537 ( 2008 ) ; t. wassmann et al .",
    "* 101 * , 096402 ( 2008 ) ; s. dutta and s. k. pati , j. phys .",
    "chem b * 122 * 1333 ( 2008 ) ; s. dutta , a. k. manna , and s. k. pati phys .",
    "* 102 * , 096601 ( 2009 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the influence of carrier density on magnetism in a zigzag graphene nanoribbon is studied in a @xmath0-orbital hubbard - model mean - field approximation . </S>",
    "<S> departures from half - filling alter the magnetism , leading to states with charge density variation across the ribbon and parallel spin - alignment on opposite edges . </S>",
    "<S> finite carrier densities cause the spin - density near the edges to decrease steadily , leading eventually to the absence of magnetism . at low doping densities </S>",
    "<S> the system shows a tendency to multiferroic order in which edge charges and spins are simultaneously polarized . </S>"
  ]
}