{
  "article_text": [
    "our current model of galaxy formation includes the hierarchical merging of galaxies , first proposed by @xcite .",
    "evidence for this includes the observation of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters that are even now going through the process of tidal disruption that will eventually assimilate stars from what were once distinct gravitationally bound objects into the milky way spheroid . the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; abazajian et al .",
    "2009 ) and the follow - up segue survey @xcite have provided astronomers with a detailed look at tidal disruption of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters in the spheroid of the milky way @xcite .    the first significant tidal stream to be discovered , and also the most prominent halo stream , is from the disintegrating sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy @xcite .",
    "the sagittarius dwarf tidal tails have been traced nearly completely around our galaxy using 2mass m - giant stars @xcite ; it is inclined only @xmath1 from a polar orbit .",
    "since the shape of the dark - matter potential determines the precession of the tidal - debris orbits , and the lumpiness of the dark matter could scatter stars out of debris streams , the sgr dwarf tidal debris stream may be an excellent laboratory with which to study the distribution of ( presumed ) dark matter in and around the milky way .",
    "the radial velocities of the m giants in the sgr tidal stream , however , have presented a puzzle for understanding our galaxy s gravitational potential .",
    "since sgr tidal debris is fairly well constrained to a plane , @xcite and @xcite have argued that the potential must be close to spherical . on the other hand",
    ", @xcite argues that the debris could be close to the orbital plane in a prolate potential if it was stripped within the last 1.6 gyr , and that the velocities of the leading tidal tail favor a prolate dark - matter potential .",
    "this is further supported by data on rr lyrae stars from @xcite .",
    "other studies have identified stars that are apparently in the trailing tail 80 kpc from the sun @xcite , and are near the sgr orbital plane .",
    "this suggests that the potential is nearly spherical or slightly oblate .",
    "the leading tidal tail appears to be bifurcated @xcite .",
    "detailed modeling of the sgr leading tail(s ) , making the assumption that the smaller of the two streams in the north galactic cap is an extension of the trailing tidal tail , and is thus a full orbit behind the main leading tidal tail , confirm this spherical dark halo finding @xcite .",
    "the tilt of the tidal tails with respect to the sgr orbital plane and other velocities of 2mass m giants in the sgr stream , however , suggest that the potential is oblate @xcite .",
    "this puzzle has so far prevented measurement of the even low - order properties of the halo potential .",
    "more data and better models are clearly required .",
    "both photometric imaging , which provides coordinates , estimated distances ( from photometric parallax ) , population information ( from colors ) , and stream stellar densities as a function of position along the stream , as well as spectroscopic information , including radial velocity , kinematics , and metallicity and gravity estimates , are needed for a large set of sgr stream stars to uniquely constrain an orbit within a potential which may change as a function of radial distance from the galactic center @xcite .",
    "@xcite suggested that there was sufficient confusion in the stellar membership of the stars in the sgr leading tidal tail that it was possible that the velocities of the leading tidal stars were incorrect .",
    "figure 1 reproduces the stellar density polar plot for photometrically selected sdss f - turnoff stars ( @xmath2 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 ) from the lower panel of figure 6 in @xcite , but here we also show the star density in the south galactic cap . using a typical absolute magnitude for the f stars of @xmath5 , the sgr stream is traced for distances of 23 to 36 kpc from the sun .",
    "the sgr stream disappears on the right side of the top panel where it is further from the sun , and is faint on the left side of the top panel where it is closer to the sun .",
    "notice in figure 1 that there is a clear bifurcation of the sgr dwarf tidal stream as traced by f - turnoff stars ( noted by previous authors ) above and below @xmath6 .",
    "in this paper we isolate stars that are spatially associated with the sgr leading and trailing tidal tails , and so ensure that the velocities we are measuring are in fact from stars that are part of the tidal debris streams . using these spatially selected stars , we determine that the velocities from the @xcite paper are correct , so the puzzle regarding the halo shape still remains .    we show that the velocities , metallicities , and stellar populations in the two pieces of the sgr dwarf leading tidal tail above and below @xmath6 are indistinguishable , which calls into question the assumption that they are different  wraps \" of the sagittarius stream .",
    "@xcite showed that the smaller of the two sgr leading tidal tails was only slightly farther away than the larger one .",
    "in addition , we show in this paper that k / m giants , color selected in sdss and segue , can be used to trace distant pieces of the sgr tidal stream . @xcite and collaborators first used this technique with the all - sky 2mass survey to trace the sgr tail around the sky to distances of @xmath7 kpc .",
    "we use sdss and segue spectroscopy of selected k / m giants to confirm their identity as distant giants , rather than nearby m dwarfs or other contaminants .",
    "this allows us to make a nearly complete fiducial color magnitude sequence for the sgr stream in the direction of virgo / ngp in the sdss @xmath8 filter system .",
    "we refine the distance measurement to the sgr structure by tying the k / m - giant stars to blue horizontal - branch stars ( bhbs ) and rr lyraes @xcite previously detected in the same region of the sky .",
    "we confirm the result of @xcite that the leading tidal tail of sgr stream does not go through the solar position , but instead passes over the solar position in the north galactic cap , and passes through the galactic plane in the general direction of the galactic anticenter .",
    "we show in this section that we can photometrically select the reddest k / m0-giant stars in the sgr dwarf spheroidal tidal stream with sdss @xmath9 filters .",
    "m giants are generally metal - rich stars at the tip of the red giant branch , above the point where the horizontal branch intersects the ascending giant branch .",
    "they are relatively rare in the galaxy at high latitude @xmath10 , and are saturated in the sdss ( @xmath11 ) if they are closer to the sun than about 20 kpc .",
    "globular clusters are generally metal poor and therefore have more vertical giant branches in @xmath12 color magnitude diagrams .",
    "unfortunately , k giants are difficult to distinguish from k dwarfs based on sdss @xmath8 colors alone ; a spectrum is required to reliably separate the dwarfs from the giants in the color range @xmath13 .",
    "figure 2 ( upper plot ) shows a @xmath14 vs. @xmath15 color - color diagram of 11,236 sdss stars with @xmath16 toward @xmath17 , where the sgr stream is 44 kpc away @xcite .",
    "this dataset can be reproduced by selecting from the star data table of sdss dr7 all of the objects with @xmath18 , @xmath19 , @xmath20 , @xmath21 , and @xmath22 in the sdss dr7 database .",
    "the sdss star table contains one instance of each point source in the photometric survey .",
    "we compare this with a control field ( figure 2 , lower plot ) that is located at at the same galactic latitude but at the mirror image position on the opposite side of the galactic center , @xmath23 , so the number of stars is expected to be similar ( except that the sgr dwarf stream does not pass through that position ) .",
    "the mirror field contains 10,485 stars selected with the same criteria as the sgr stream field , except with @xmath24 , @xmath25 .",
    "this diagram clearly shows an excess of red stars below the main sequence in the direction of the sgr tidal stream .",
    "an astute reader will notice that the m - dwarf main - sequence stars are somewhat redder in the control field than they are in the direction of the sgr stream .",
    "that is because all of the stars have been dereddened with the full reddening correction from @xcite ; since m dwarfs are in front of most of the dust , they have been over - corrected . in the direction of @xmath26 , e(b - v)@xmath27 , and in the direction of @xmath28 , e(b - v)@xmath29 .",
    "therefore , the m dwarf stars have been over - corrected by a larger amount in the control field , explaining their apparent redder color .",
    "the giants , on the other hand , are all at distances well beyond the dust .    in figure 2 we show two regions of color - color space",
    "in which sgr k / m giants are separated from disk main - sequence stars .",
    "the long truncated ",
    "diagonal \" strip with @xmath30 is most useful for detecting k / m giants at high galactic latitude . in the sdss ,",
    "the photometric errors on @xmath31-band become @xmath32 mag at about @xmath33 , corresponding to @xmath34 for these red stars , which means we can confidently photometrically distinguish the reddest k / m giants from dwarfs out to distances of about 80 kpc from the sun . at lower galactic latitudes , there are so many dwarf m stars that even the small fraction that fall at large distances from the locus of dwarf stars make it impossible to distinguish the k / m - giant stars along this whole strip .",
    "however , the very reddest stars in the color - color box @xmath35 , @xmath36 , shown as a rectangle in the lower right of figure 2 , are well separated and can still be used to trace galactic structure .",
    "we explored the possibility of including @xmath37 and @xmath38 information to achieve better separation of the k / m dwarfs and giants , but only tiny improvements to the selection efficiency were obtained .",
    "using the color selection technique from the previous section , we are able to select k / m - giant stars in the sgr dwarf tidal stream , and place them on a hess diagram similar to that of figure 5 in @xcite . in that diagram",
    "it is not possible to distinguish the m giants due to the more numerous foreground of m - dwarf stars .",
    "we selected stars that were on the sagittarius stream from the same part of the sky that were used in the 2002 version of the figure .",
    "one slight difference is that , when the 2002 paper was written , the database was not fully developed , so we used only stars in particular stripes ; here we select photometry from objects classified as star in sdss dr7 .",
    "this slightly changes the epoch of the imaging data used near the stripe boundaries .",
    "the sgr stars are selected with @xmath39 , @xmath40 , @xmath41 , @xmath42 , and @xmath9 colors within the diagonal k / m - giant strip cut of figure 2 ( equation 1 ) .",
    "because there are very few spheroid k / m giant stars outside of the sgr dwarf tidal stream , it was not necessary to perform a background subtraction of stars from regions of the sky that do not contain the sgr dwarf galaxy .    in figure 3a",
    ", we show the hess color magnitude diagram for the stars with colors of k / m giants ( amplified by 10x ) superimposed on the hess diagram of dr7 stars in the box @xmath43 .",
    "the gap in k / m stars between @xmath44 and @xmath45 supports our contention that the population of photometrically identifed k / m - giant candidates is distinct from that of disk m dwarfs .",
    "figure 3b shows fiducial loci from @xcite and @xcite for the clusters m3 with [ fe / h ] = @xmath46 ( cyan ) , m92 with [ fe / h ] = @xmath47 ( blue ) , and m71 with [ fe / h ] @xmath48 ( red ) and shows the spectroscopically confirmed k / m giants in the region of the sgr northern leading tail ( marked with plus signs and crosses , see section below ) .    from the relative apparent magnitudes of the k / m - giant stars and the a - type stars in the sgr dwarf tidal stream",
    ", we can calculate the absolute magnitude of these k / m - giant stars .",
    "our previous work @xcite shows that the sagittarius bhb stars in stripes 10 and 11 are at @xmath49 , consistent with figure 3 here .",
    "the tip of the red giant branch is at @xmath50 for the stars in this direction , again derived from averaging the stars in figure 3 .",
    "if the horizontal - branch stars have an absolute magnitude of @xmath51 , then the tip of the m - giant branch in the sgr dwarf tidal stream is at @xmath0 , and @xmath52 , estimated from the typical m - giant color of @xmath53 .",
    "the estimate that bhb stars in our color range have @xmath51 was obtained in @xcite , by converting the absolute magnitude for halo rr lyrae stars from @xcite into the @xmath54 filter , and noting that the bhb stars are about the same absolute magnitude as the rr lyrae stars .",
    "since this determination rests on several approximate steps our distance scale is not absolute , however , it enables measurement of the relative magnitudes of the different types of stars that have been used as distance indicators in the sgr stream .",
    "note here that @xcite measured a metallicity gradient along the tails of the sgr dwarf tidal tails that could affect the average absolute magnitude of k / m giants as a function of position on the stream .",
    "this gradient is in addition to the scatter in absolute magnitude for these stars that arises due to surface gravity and metallicity differences between stars in the same stream position .",
    "we attempted to confirm the metallicity gradient by measuring the difference in apparent magnitude between the bhb stars and the k / m - giant stars as a function of position along the stream , but were unable to form any firm conclusions because the stream is not well- separated from foreground stars by photometry for most of the length of the stream ( see figures 6 and 8) , and the vast majority of the spectra are within a @xmath55 piece of the stream at @xmath56 ( see section 8) . the difference in apparent magnitude between the bhb and k / m - giant stars was calculated for sgr stream stars with @xmath57 and with @xmath56 .",
    "this apparent magnitude difference was about 1.7 magnitudes for @xmath57 and 1.6 magnitudes for @xmath56 , but consistent with no metallicity change over this section of the tidal stream .",
    "it should be noted that we are using primarily photometrically selected m - giant candidates in this study , so the results are likely to be affected by the presence of many k giants in the tidal debris .",
    "this study needs to be repeated with many more spectra of both bhb and m giants .",
    "next we attempt to fill in the sgr giant branch in the @xmath58 region by selecting spectra of stars with radial velocities that are the same as other stars in the sgr stream .",
    "we selected sgr giant branch candidates from all of the spectra in sdss dr7 with @xmath39 , @xmath59 , log @xmath60 , @xmath61 , @xmath62 , and @xmath63 .",
    "this selection netted 51 candidate k / m - giant spectra , which we then examined individually by eye .",
    "thirty - three of the stars we classified as k / m giants ; the other stars were g stars and m dwarfs .",
    "note that this exercise was done to determine the colors and magnitudes of k and m giants the the sgr dwarf tidal stream , and not to assess the general success of the color selection in identifying giant - branch stars .",
    "of the 51 candidate k / m - giant stars , 25 are in the @xmath9 diagonal k / m - giant color selection box . of those twenty - five ,",
    "one is an m dwarf , 9 are k giants , and 15 are m giants , but recall that these stars were also pre - selected on surface gravity and velocity . a better way to assess the contamination of the sgr k /",
    "m - giant sample is to compare the density of stars in the stream to the density of stars in the field in figures 2 and 6 . in figure 2",
    ", there are 94 k / m - giant star candidates in the sgr dwarf tidal stream and 30 in the off - stream field , suggesting that 68% of the selected stars in this region are actually members of the sgr stream . of these",
    ", about 60% are expected to be m giants rather than k giants . in figure 6",
    ", one can see that the background contamination increases close to the galactic plane , so the fraction of stars that are in the stream will be lower .    in figure 4",
    "we show two selected sgr k / m - giant tidal stream spectra , plus , for comparison , one spectrum that we classified as an m dwarf .",
    "the stars were classified as m dwarfs if they had a strong and narrow na absorption line , the mg triplet at 5200  was prominent , and there was strong ca at 4226 ; otherwise we classified it as a giant .",
    "we saw two distinctly different types of giant spectra , as can be seen by comparing the top two spectra in figure 4 .",
    "stars with strong tio bands , which we identify as m giants , as seen in the second spectrum in figure 4 , are shown as plus signs in figure 3b .",
    "stars with spectra more like the top spectrum in figure 4 tended to be bluer , and are k giants , as represented by the crosses in figure 3b .",
    "the giant stars in the sgr stream were plotted on the hess diagram in figure 3b , allowing us to better trace the sgr giant branch .",
    "the giant branch , which previously could nt be seen redder than @xmath64 , is now completed from @xmath65 to @xmath66 .",
    "we verified that the color - magnitude diagram for the stars that we spectroscopically identified as g stars and m dwarfs does not show a coherent giant branch , validating our ability to correctly classify the sdss spectra .",
    "comparison of the fiducial sdss photometric sequences of known globular clusters @xcite indicates that the bhb stars in the sgr tidal stream have metallicities of @xmath67 < -1.6 $ ] .",
    "rr lyraes in the northern leading tail have metallicities of @xmath68 = -1.76\\pm 0.22 $ ] as shown by @xcite .",
    "the stellar structure parameters pipeline ( sspp ) @xcite generates metallicities for all stars in sdss + segue ( over the color range @xmath69 , and with spectra of sufficient signal - to - noise ) ; the 33 sgr k / m - giant stars have [ fe / h ] @xmath70 .",
    "we note that the absolute metallicity determinations of the sspp are not well - calibrated for m giants .",
    "however , @xcite have obtained high - resolution metallicities of some sgr stream m giants in this part of the sky , and find metallicities consistent with these values .",
    "we obtained infrared photometry from the 2mass catalog @xcite for each of the sgr k / m - giant stars selected in the previous section , using the matching program from the us national virtual observatory .",
    "figure 5 shows stars ( j - k@xmath71)@xmath72 , ( j - h)@xmath72 colors of the k / m giant candidates selected from @xmath9 photometry , both for the strip cut and the very red box that can be used at low galactic latitude .",
    "the 2mass colors have been dereddened using the procedures described in @xcite . in the same figure",
    "we show jhk@xmath71 photometry for spectroscopically confirmed sgr k and m giants , and the jhk@xmath71 selection box used by @xcite to select k and m giants from sgr over the entire sky .",
    "examining figure 5 in detail , we note that the 2mass @xmath73 color is good at separating dwarfs with @xmath74 from giants with @xmath75 , while @xmath76 can be additionally used to somewhat separate k giants with @xmath77 from m giants with @xmath78 .",
    "we select similar k- and m - giant candidates to the @xcite selection , but the population of k and m giants selected optically in @xmath9 by the diagonal strip cut of eq .",
    "1 includes some bluer stars in @xmath79 , while the very red sdss @xmath9 selection box of figure 2 excludes most of the stars on the blue side ( in @xmath80 ) of the @xcite selection box .",
    "now we select k / m - giant candidates via the strip color cut ( eq 1 ) over the whole of the sdss+segue imaging area .",
    "we used only regions of the sky with low reddening ( @xmath81 ) . in order to eliminate some of the nearby disk m dwarfs from the sample , we eliminated stars from the sample if they had proper motions of more than 6 mas @xmath82 ( note that @xmath83 and @xmath84 mas yr@xmath85 is required if a proper motion is measured at all in the sdss dr7 proper motions table , where the typical proper motion error for a star is typically 3 mas @xmath86 ) . using an estimated distance to each giant candidate assuming the absolute magnitude is @xmath87 , as determined in  3 , and also using the definition of the sgr dwarf coordinate system as defined by @xcite , we convert @xmath88 and distance to @xmath89 for all k / m - candidate giant stars . in this coordinate system , the axes @xmath90 and @xmath91 are in the sgr dwarf spheroidal orbital plane , and are not far from the galactocentric @xmath92 and @xmath93 coordinates , respectively . the @xmath94",
    "coordinate direction is perpendicular to the sgr dwarf orbital plane , and is approximately in the galactocentric @xmath95 direction .",
    "figure 6a shows 5,402 stars within 5 kpc of the sgr dwarf orbital plane , @xmath96 kpc .",
    "the leading sgr tail arcs over the sun s position and intersects the plane of the milky way at approximately @xmath97 kpc ( the sun is at -8 kpc , so that is about 17 kpc from the sun ) .",
    "additionally , candidate sgr k / m giants south of the plane are clearly present .",
    "the positions of these stars are consistent with the positions of bhb stars in figure 1 of @xcite .",
    "our next step is to spatially isolate those stars that are in the sgr stream in three dimensions .",
    "part of the motivation for this is to separate the sgr members from the closer virgo stars , a very confusing region of the halo with likely several structures present @xcite .",
    "we draw two parabolic arcs to define the limits of the leading tidal tail : @xmath98 , @xmath99 , and @xmath100 , where all distances are in kpc . in the south galactic cap we selected stars in the trailing tidal between the parabolas defined by : @xmath101 , @xmath102 , and @xmath103 figure 6b shows in red the 472 candidate k / m - giant stars that were selected in the region of the leading tidal tail , and the 133 candidate k / m - giant stars that were selected in the region of the trailing tidal tail .",
    "figure 7 shows the @xmath88 positions of the final set of candidate k / m - giant stars that are spatially coincident with the sgr dwarf tidal stream defined by the annular cuts above .",
    "the upper panel shows positive @xmath104 and the lower panel shows negative @xmath104 ( below the galactic plane ) .",
    "the light gray shading represents the sky covered by the sdss and segue imaging surveys .",
    "the darker black regions represent areas where the sgr tidal stream stars are present .",
    "since the stars were selected to be at the same distance as the sgr stream , and within 5 kpc of the sgr orbital plane , the footprint of the stream on the sky is narrower on the right side of the figure where the stream is 50 kpc away , and wider on the left side where the stream is only 20 kpc away from the sun .",
    "we do not see a bifurcation of the sgr stream in this figure , though this can be easily accounted for by the low numbers of of k / m - giant candidates .",
    "we now do the same analysis as performed for the k / m stars , except we choose photometrically selected bhb stars , which are also very prominent in the sgr tidal streams .",
    "the a - type stars were selected from the sdss dr7 star database , with @xmath105 , @xmath106 , and @xmath107 .",
    "an additional color cut in @xmath9 was applied that separates these blue stars into those that are more likely to be high surface - gravity stars and those that are likely to be low surface - gravity bhb stars @xcite . just as in the k / m - giant candidate selection ,",
    "we eliminated stars with proper motions larger than 6 mas yr@xmath85 and in areas of the sky with @xmath81 .",
    "the positions of the 32,881 bhb stars within 5 kpc of the sgr dwarf tidal stream are shown in figure 8a .    because the k / m - giant candidate selection is cleaner ( the photometrically selected bhbs have significant contamination from blue - straggler stars and bhbs in the spheroid ) , the spatial selection for leading and trailing tail bhb stars",
    "was chosen to be identical , assuming the candidate k / m giants are at @xmath0 and the bhbs are at @xmath51 .",
    "figure 8b shows in red the positions of all the selected bhbs that are in the same areas of sky as the candidate k / m giants in figure 6b , but with @xmath108 limits that are shifted by 1.7 magnitudes .",
    "we note several interesting features in figure 8 in the region beyond 40 kpc from the sun .",
    "there is a significant group of bhbs at about 80 kpc from the sun , near @xmath109 kpc , which are believed to be associated with the sgr stream , and have been discussed in detail by @xcite .",
    "additionally , in their study of the sagittarius stream , @xcite note distant ( @xmath110 ) structures manifesting themselves as double sub - giant branches in color - magnitude diagrams along the stream .",
    "the fainter turnoffs which they note at @xmath111 correspond roughly to the overdensity of bhb points at @xmath112 kpc , behind the main upper branch of the sgr stream at @xmath113 kpc .",
    "figure 9 shows the @xmath88 polar plots of bhb stars selected in figure 8b that are within 5 kpc of the sgr dwarf orbital plane .",
    "the density pattern is very similar to the density pattern for candidate k / m giants shown in figure 7 .",
    "the bifurcation is not apparent , probably because the star counts are not high enough to see the two streams clearly .",
    "the dark spot on the left side of the top panel in figure 9 near @xmath114 is a lower latitude region where the monoceros stream is also present at these distances ( @xmath115 ) from the galactic plane .",
    "thus we are not certain of the association of this bhb overdensity with the sgr stream .",
    "the f - turnoff stars are also selected for comparative analysis .",
    "they are more numerous , but we begin to lose sensitivity to these intrinsically fainter stars in the sdss at distances beyond 40 kpc from the sun , so we do not sample the most distant parts of the stream in the north galactic cap .",
    "we photometrically selected f - turnoff stars from the sdss dr7 star database with @xmath116 , @xmath117 , @xmath118 , @xmath119 mas yr@xmath85 , @xmath81 , and @xmath120 kpc , where the conversion from @xmath121 to @xmath122 assumes @xmath5 .",
    "we also eliminated stars near the globular clusters m  53 and ngc  5053 by eliminating stars in the region @xmath123 and @xmath124 .",
    "this results in a sample of 710,832 stars .",
    "figure 10 shows the density of f - turnoff stars in the sagittarius orbital plane .",
    "the sgr stream artificially appears much broader in f - turnoff stars , since these stars have a wider range of absolute magnitudes ; when we calculate each star s position we assume a single , average , absolute magnitude so there are large distance errors in the positions of these stars in figure 10 . in the upper right corner of this diagram",
    "we lose most of the stars in the sgr dwarf tidal stream because they are too distant to be seen in sdss data .",
    "the background counts of f - turnoff stars are very high near the sun , and those with @xmath16 are removed from the figure .",
    "nevertheless , we select f - turnoff stars @xmath125 kpc as we selected bhb and candidate k / m - giant stars in the previous two sections . because there are much larger distance errors , we select a somewhat smaller fraction of the sgr f - turnoff stars this way .",
    "the 223,977 stars that are positionally coincident with the sgr stream are shown in figure 11 .",
    "even though we lose the sgr stream at large distances , on the right side of the upper panel , we do not lose them as quickly as for the magnitude - limited sample in the upper panel of figure 1 .",
    "the larger number of f - turnoff stars allows us to see the bifurcated leading tidal tail above and below @xmath6 .",
    "some sdss striping , an artifact of the sdss s photometric calibration near its magnitude limit @xmath126 , is seen in the density distribution of the upper panel of figure 11 .",
    "we now select stars that are positionally coincident with the sgr leading and trailing tidal tails , and plot their line - of - sight , galactic standard of rest velocity , @xmath127 , where rv is the heliocentric radial velocity , as a function of position along the stream , @xmath128 .",
    "we selected from sdss dr7 all of the sdss / segue velocities for k / m - giant stars in figure 7 for which spectra exist .",
    "neither sdss nor segue targeted giant stars this red ; most of the 55 selected k / m - giant spectra are from a small set of special plates in a very restricted part of the sky .",
    "since we have spectrally determined surface - gravity information for horizontal - branch ( hb ) stars that will allow us to distinguish them from the much more numerous f dwarfs , we can select hb - star spectra with a much broader color range that we used to photometrically select the bhb stars in figure 9 .",
    "the spectroscopically selected bhb - star sample includes all sdss dr7 spectra of point sources with @xmath129 , @xmath107 , @xmath130 , and @xmath120 .",
    "the annular cuts of  5 are performed . using these criteria ,",
    "999 hb stars were selected .",
    "we show in the upper panel of figure 12 a plot similar to that of @xcite figure 12 , showing the galactocentric , line - of - sight velocity of all k / m giants with radial velocity information , as well as the 999 hb stars with velocities , as a function of angle along the sgr tidal stream .",
    "the heliocentric angle along the stream , @xmath131 , is the same as used above .",
    "when we initially made figure 12 , we noticed that the velocities of the hb stars near @xmath132 did not match the velocities measured in the @xcite paper .",
    "we looked at the metallicities of the bhb stars and determined that in the south galactic cap , near @xmath132 , there was a cluster of bhbs with lower metallicities than the other sgr bhb stars , and higher @xmath133 than the other sgr k / m giants and bhbs .",
    "therefore , we split the bhbs into higher metallicity ( @xmath68_{\\rm wbg } > -1.9 $ ] ) and lower metallicity @xmath68_{\\rm wbg } < -1.9 $ ] subsets .",
    "the wbg subscript refers to the technique of estimating metallicity for a blue star based on its estimated @xmath134 and ca k line strength of @xcite .",
    "the sdss sspp measures metallicities by several techniques , and includes an ` feha ' ( [ fe / h ] adopted ) average metallicity that is generally accepted as the best overall measure of metallicity .",
    "however , we have found that the wbg metallicity , which was developed specifically for bhb stars , is a better measure for these blue stellar types , so we use that measure for hb stars throughout this paper .",
    "the k / m giants and the higher - metallicity bhb stars trace the sgr dwarf tidal stream , and are a good match to the velocities determined by @xcite .",
    "the low - metallicity bhb stars , while they are at a similar apparent distance as the sgr dwarf tidal stream , have distinct velocities in the trailing tidal tail ( upper panel of figure 12 ) . in the north",
    "galactic cap , there are many high- and low - metallicity bhb stars with a broad range of velocities , as one would expect in the spheroid , the k / m giants and some of the higher - metallicity bhb stars follow the sgr stream , and there is a cluster of stars with zero or slightly negative @xmath133 at @xmath135 ( which are presumably associated with the monoceros stream complex , or a distorted disk , that is found at low galactic latitude near the anticenter ) .",
    "spectra of stars in the field associated with the globular clusters ngc  5053 and m  53 , which overlaps the sgr north high - latitude branch , are explicitly removed from this study .    in the sgr stream",
    "we find both low- and high - metallicity bhb stars .",
    "note the very low - metallicity bhbs in the virgo overdensity at @xmath136 , @xmath137 km s@xmath85 in the upper panel of figure 12 .",
    "additionally , a close examination of spectra associated with density enhancements in the lower panel of figure 9 , where the sgr stream crosses near the south galactic pole , also shows a second stream , apparently independent of sagittarius , and not in the sgr plane , of very low - metallicity stars ( [ fe / h ] @xmath138 ) .",
    "these low - metallicity stars will be explored in a forthcoming paper @xcite .",
    "figure 13 highlights the metallicity difference used to help identify this apparent additional population , distinct from sgr in the south .",
    "figure 13(a ) contains two outlined boxes .",
    "the rectangular box has 22 high - metallicity bhbs ( black dots ) and 41 low - metallicity bhbs ( blue crosses ) , a ratio of 1:2 high : low . the diagonal sgr box , however , has 60 high - metallicity bhbs and 37 low - metallicity stars , for a reverse ratio approaching 2:1 .",
    "the distances to the objects are shown in figure 13(b ) , where the objects in the rectangular ( non - sgr ) box are presented as ( green ) triangles ( low metallicity ) and squares ( high metallicity ) . here too , the distribution of the low - metallicity bhbs in the rectangular at 30 kpc appears distinct from that of the higher - metallicity stars in sgr , which slopes from d=20 kpc to d=30 kpc as @xmath128 increases from @xmath139 to @xmath140 .",
    "the sgr bhb stars and the k / m - giant stars with sdss and segue spectra trace the sgr dwarf tidal stream with essentially the same velocities as those measured by @xcite , using stars that follow the density enhancement of the the sgr stream .",
    "the conjecture put forth by @xcite that the sgr stream velocities in @xcite might have been measured for stars at the wrong distance appears to be incorrect .",
    "therefore , it remains a challenge to fit a model for sgr dwarf tidal disruption to the measured velocities in the leading tidal tail .",
    "in this section we compare spectra of the stars in the two tidal debris streams identified by @xcite , and apparent in the top panel of figure 1 . in the north galactic cap ,",
    "the two pieces of the stream can be separated in @xmath94 .",
    "figure 14 ( upper panel ) shows the positions of all of the sdss and segue spectroscopically selected hb stars , as selected in the previous section , ( and shown in figure 12 ) that have @xmath141 kpc .",
    "the smaller debris stream at higher galactic latitude , @xmath142 , is shown as cyan dots in the figure .",
    "the larger debris stream , @xmath143 , is shown as magenta dots . although the larger stream at lower galactic latitude has more stars , and presumably more hb stars , it is more sparsely sampled .",
    "figure 15 shows all of the stars in figure 12 that are in the higher galactic latitude piece of the leading tidal tail , and figure 16 shows all of the stars in figure 12 that are in the lower galactic latitude piece of the leading tidal tail .",
    "the k / m giants in both the northern and southern branches have velocities that are consistent with the full set of spectra .",
    "the difference in the @xmath128 positions of the concentration of k / m giants in each branch is a selection effect in the data and not due to any intrinsic difference between the streams . in the lower panels of figure 15 and 16",
    ", we see that the k / m giants in the higher galactic latitude stream are on the closer side of the selection box , while the k / m giants in the lower galactic latitude stream are on the further side of the selection box .",
    "in contrast , @xcite found that the northern branch was farther away at @xmath144 .",
    "this suggests that the two pieces of the stream cross each other in distance .",
    "there is also no difference in the velocities of the sgr bhb stars as a function of @xmath128 .",
    "since the more northern branch of the leading tidal tail is extremely low surface brightness in the region @xmath145 , the sgr stream is not apparent in figure 15 in this region .    in the lower panel of figure 14",
    "we show all of the spectra from the upper panel that also have the velocities of the sgr dwarf leading tidal tail .",
    "these were selected as stars that have @xmath146 km s@xmath85 , and @xmath147 .",
    "this cut eliminates most of the spectra at low galactic latitudes near the galactic anticenter , most of the spectra on the orphan stream , and most of the spectra that are not aligned with photometric overdensities of f - turnoff stars in figure 14 .",
    "it was shown in @xcite that , by comparing bhbs in globular clusters with published globular cluster metallicities , that the sspp wbg metallicities for bhb stars were reasonable , but possibly a tenth of a dex too high . here",
    ", we would like to compare the bhb stars in the two branches of the leading sgr tidal tail , doing an internal comparison to see if the metallicities are different .",
    "this check is independent of any overall offset in the metallicities determined by sspp , which could be a few tenths of a dex .    in figure 17 ,",
    "the upper panel shows the distribution of metallicites of the hb stars in figure 14 ( lower panel ) .",
    "these stars were divided into those that have the velocities of the sgr leading tidal tail , as used to select the spectra in the lower panel of figure 14 , and those which were in the upper panel but did not have velocities of the sgr leading tidal tail .",
    "the sgr bhb spectra were further divided by branch of the leading tidal tail ( cyan and magenta points in figure 14 for the upper and lower branches respectively ) .",
    "note that both the upper and lower branches of the sgr leading tidal tail stars have similar metallicity distributions .",
    "the hb stars that do not have the correct velocities are spread in a much broader range of metallicities , as one would expect from a background spheroid population ( black line in upper panel of figure 17 ) .",
    "the sgr dwarf bhbs in both branches of the leading tidal stream have metallicities @xmath148_{wbg } } < -1.6 $ ] . since the bhbs are expected to trace only the older , more metal poor component of the sgr dwarf galaxy , these stars do not represent the entire range of metallicities in the stream .",
    "some of these stars may in fact overlap the rr lyrae sample studied by @xcite in the northern sgr leading tidal stream .",
    "our determination of hb metallicity ( as well as velocity ) is consistent with their determination of @xmath68 = -1.76\\pm 0.22 $ ] .",
    "the lower panel of figure 17 justifies our definition of ` higher ' and ` lower ' metallicities in figure 12 .",
    "the metallicity distribution of the bhb stars with velocities of the trailing sgr tidal stream ( @xmath149 , @xmath150 km s@xmath85 ) are similar to the metallicities of both branches of the sgr leading tidal tail . on the other hand , stars selected with velocity ( @xmath151 km s@xmath85 ) and @xmath128 ( @xmath152 ) are consistent with the new debris stream discovered in the south galactic cap have a lower metallicity ( see figure 13 ) .",
    "@xcite showed that the ratio of bhb to red - clump stars is higher in the stream vs. the bound core of sgr , indicating that the stream stars are from a more metal - poor population of stars that was less tightly bound and thus was stripped first .",
    "we studied the metallicity of the bhb stars as a function of @xmath128 , and find that there is no significant trend in bhb metallicity vs. @xmath128 , at least along these portions of the tidal stream ( @xmath153 ) .",
    "note that since all bhb stars have low metallicity , it is unclear that one would expect a trend in the metallicities of bhb stars even if there is a metallicity gradient along the stream @xcite .",
    "figures 7 , 9 , and 11 graphically show the density of k / m - giant , bhb , and f- turnoff stars , respectively , along the sgr dwarf tidal tails .",
    "note that the number counts in bhb and k / m - giant stars are much higher on the right sides of these figures in the north galactic cap , both because the stream density is higher at apogalacticon and because the stream is farther away , so each pixel , which represents a fixed angular area in the sky , intersects a larger linear distance along the stream . in this section ,",
    "we construct histograms of the number counts of these three types of stars along the sagittarius stream .",
    "we plot in figure 18 the number density of photometrically selected sgr candidate k / m - giant , bhb and f - turnoff stars , selected as a function of angle along the sgr dwarf tidal stream , @xmath128 , as defined in @xcite . figure 18(a )",
    "shows the star counts from figures 7 , 9 and 11 as a function of @xmath128 .    in figure 18(b ) , we correct the star counts for the fraction of the width of the stream we observe , subtract the background counts , and divide by the distance to the stream . to estimate the fraction of the stream width that we observe in each ten - degree slice of @xmath128",
    ", we first estimate the density of objects on the sky within the sdss footprint by using quasar number counts as a constant density reference tracer @xcite .",
    "we select qsos over the whole sky from the sdss dr7 star data base which had @xmath154 , @xmath155 , and @xmath156 . at each @xmath128 bin , we estimated the angular cross section , @xmath157 , of the stream from its distance ( @xmath1585 kpc/@xmath159 ) .",
    "in addition to the longitude - like angle @xmath128 along the sgr stream , @xcite also defined a latitude - like angle @xmath160 that we will use to measure the angle across the stream .",
    "we counted all qsos in the @xmath128 range that were also within the @xmath161 limits .",
    "the fraction of the stream sampled by our data is given by the number of qsos in the @xmath162 bin , divided by the number of qsos we would have expected .",
    "the expected number of qsos is the typical number of qsos per square degree , multiplied by ten degrees of @xmath128 , and then multiplied by @xmath163 .",
    "the normalization factor , multiplied by 20 , is indicated by the small circles in figure 18 .",
    "for example , if the normalization circle is at  20 \" , there is no correction factor applied .",
    "if the circle is at  60 , \" then the number counts are multiplied by three .",
    "if the stream is not uniform density in cross section within 5 kpc of the sgr orbital plane , then this correction is not perfect . in general",
    ", @xmath128 bins with data in the center of the stream but not the edges are over - corrected , and bins with data at the edges of the stream but not in the center are under - corrected .    to estimate the background counts , we divided both the bhb star sample and the k / m giant sample into distance bins that were 5 kpc deep ( 0 - 5 kpc from the sun , 5 - 10 kpc from the sun , etc . ) , and then for each type of star and each distance range we constructed binned star counts .",
    "we estimated the background from the portions of the histograms that were away from the sgr stream , and not at very low galactic latitude .",
    "these estimates were done only in the north galactic cap where we had full sky coverage , but were applied to both the northern and southern data sets . to find the background in the entire distance range of the sgr stream selection , we numerically integrated the star counts over each of the 5 kpc deep bins that overlapped the area between the two parabolas that were used to select the stream stars , for each @xmath128 bin .",
    "the total background counts was then subtracted from the corrected star counts . if the background subtraction resulted in negative stream density , then that bin is suppressed in figure 18 .    in a fixed angular distance along the stream , we intersect a larger linear distance along the stream",
    "therefore , after correcting for completeness and background we divided the counts in each bin by the distance to the stream for each @xmath128 bin .",
    "therefore , the counts in each bin are an estimate of the number of stars along the stream , per kpc projected perpendicular to our line of sight .    figure 18(b )",
    "shows that the k / m - giant and bhb star counts fall quite rapidly from @xmath164 to @xmath165 , as we move away from one of the stream s apogalactic orbital ` turning points ' where stars are expected to pile up in density .",
    "the f - turnoff star number counts are low near @xmath164 because f - turnoff stars at the distance to the sgr stream there are too faint to be observed in the sdss .",
    "we expect that the actual counts of f stars have similar density patterns to the k / m - giant and bhb stars .",
    "there are about 50% more bhb stars than k / m giants in the leading tidal tail , and about 300 times as many f - turnoff stars as bhbs . in the south ,",
    "the numbers are less certain because the correction factors are larger .",
    "the number counts for all three types of stars are approximately constant in the range @xmath166 .",
    "it is plausible that the ratios of k / m giants to bhbs to f - turnoff stars is the same in the trailing tail as in the leading tail . in both the leading and trailing tidal tails , the bhb star counts show more bin - to - bin fluctuations than the k / m - giant star counts .",
    "the last two panels of figure 18 are similar to the second panel , except they give star counts for the upper , c ) , and lower , d ) , branches of the leading tidal tail only , with the split at @xmath167 kpc .",
    "the upper leading tidal tail has about 40% as many stars as the lower branch , but shows the same downward trend in star counts from @xmath164 to @xmath165 .",
    "however , the upper - branch density falls precipitously by @xmath136 .",
    "this is most apparent in the f - turnoff star counts . in the range @xmath168",
    "there are 12,653 f - turnoff stars in the lower branch , and none in the upper branch ( after background subtraction ) .",
    "these density distributions and ratios of relative numbers of k / m giant : bhb : f - turnoff stars will be of considerable use in modeling the sgr stream , since the prediction of stellar number density can be used as a constraint , in addition to the position and velocity data that has so far been used .",
    "the sdss / segue spectroscopy give us the opportunity to look at the h - r diagram of the sgr tidal stream with much less contamination from main- sequence stars than the photometric h - r diagram in figure 3 ; the drawback is that the spectra are not a complete sample and there are significant selection effects as a function of color .",
    "we selected from the sdss dr7 sppparams database table all of the objects with spectra , within the angular limits of the sgr leading tidal tail in figure 7 , 9 , and 11 ( those figures use limits in @xmath94 , but since we do not know the distance to each spectroscopic target we selected a similar area of the sky in @xmath169 ) .",
    "we then selected all of the stars with low surface gravity , @xmath170 , and within the velocity range of the leading tidal tail as a function of @xmath128 .",
    "this resulted in a sample of 1,887 objects that are candidate sgr stream stars at a variety of distances from the sun .",
    "since the sgr stream is at different distances at different places in the sky , we calculated a  corrected \" apparent magnitude by adding the quantity @xmath171 to each @xmath108 apparent magnitude .",
    "this adjusts the apparent magnitude of each star in the sgr stream to the apparent magnitude it would have if it were at 30 kpc .",
    "the upper panel of figure 19 shows the adjusted apparent @xmath108 magnitude as a function of @xmath15 the imprint of the sdss / segue selection function is discernable here ( for example , segue took spectra of a large number of g dwarfs near @xmath172 ) .",
    "we can also clearly see the sgr stream candidate hb stars at a corrected @xmath108 of 18 , and the very red m - giant stream candidate stars at a corrected @xmath108 of about 16.5 .",
    "the lower panel of figure 19 shows a color magnitude diagram for stars from figure 12 that have velocities consistent with membership in the sgr tidal stream .",
    "the bhb stars are similar , since they were spectroscopically selected .",
    "our k / m - giant sample extends redder than the spectroscopically selected m giants .",
    "the sspp does not prvide reliable surface gravities for stars redder than @xmath173 , so they are not present in the upper panel s selected sample .",
    "from analysis of optical imaging and spectroscopy of stars in the complex sagittarius tidal stream , we present new results on the stellar populations , velocities , metallicity distributions , and spatial and density distributions of the tidal debris stream .",
    "this information , combined with other sgr stream data in the literature , can be used to constrain models for the stream orbit and thereby contribute to our knowledge of the shape of the milky way s dark - matter halo gravitational potential .",
    "kinematic information is crucial to separating leading - tail candidates from trailing - tail candidates .",
    "metallicity and stellar population information is important for distinguishing or identifying separate stellar populations , which may have be stripped at different times .",
    "\\(1 ) we can photometrically select the reddest k / m - giant stars in the sgr dwarf tidal stream with sdss @xmath9 filters for objects down to about @xmath34 , corresponding to d= 80 kpc from the sun .",
    "the tip of the m - giant branch in the sgr dwarf tidal stream has an absolute magnitude of @xmath174 .",
    "the giant branch in the sgr dwarf leading tidal tail is consistent with those of globular clusters with [ fe / h ] of @xmath175 .",
    "the 33 identified sgr k / m giant stars have metallicities of @xmath176 , as measured by the sdss dr7 segue stellar parameters pipeline , but an independent determination of these giant star metallicities should be made .",
    "\\(2 ) following the technique of @xcite , we can trace the sgr dwarf tidal stream over the entire sdss+segue imaging footprint .",
    "the positions of the k / m giants are consistent with the measured positions of sgr bhb stars from @xcite .",
    "\\(3 ) the line - of - sight velocities of bhb and k / m giant stars that are spatially coincident with the sgr leading and trailing tidal tails are the same as those measured by @xcite .",
    "this indicates that the velocities are not seriously contaminated with other debris in the virgo region , as ( incorrectly ) conjectured by @xcite .",
    "\\(4 ) we measure the density of k / m - giant stars , hb stars , and f - turnoff stars as a function of angle along the sagittarius dwarf tidal stream . within our errors ,",
    "the ratio of star counts in each of these star types is the same in both branches of the leading tidal tail and in the trailing tidal tail . the stellar density in the sgr leading tidal tail decreases from the apogalactic turning point at @xmath177 going toward the galactic anticenter , falling more sharply for the lower surface brightness , higher galactic latitude branch .",
    "these density profiles can be used to aid in modeling of the tidal disruptions .",
    "\\(5 ) the lower surface brightness tidal debris stream ` branch ' that is parallel to the main leading tidal tail has velocities , metallicities , and relative densities of k / m - giant , bhb , and f - turnoff stars that are similar to the main sgr leading tidal tail .",
    "models that explain the upper branch as debris that has orbited the galaxy at least one more time than the lower branch ( leading tidal tail ) , or at least one less time ( trailing tidal tail ) , must also explain the similarity in populations between these two debris streams . alternatively , we suggest the two branches might be from debris that was stripped from the sgr dwarf galaxy at similar times .",
    "\\(6 ) a previously unknown , low - metallicity tidal debris stream that is spatially coincident with the sgr south dwarf trailing tidal stream , but which exhibits a distinct metallicity and velocity profile , is identified and will be the subject of a future paper .",
    "this research was funded by the national science foundation ( nsf ) grant ast 06 - 07618 .",
    "y.s.l . and t.c.b .",
    "acknowledge partial support from phy 08 - 22648 : physics frontier center / joint institute for nuclear astrophysics ( jina ) , awarded by the nsf . p.r.f .",
    "acknowledges support through the marie curie research training network elsa ( european leadership in space astrometry ) under contract mrtn - ct-2006 - 033481 . this research has made use of software provided by the us national virtual observatory , which is sponsored by the national science foundation .",
    "this publication makes use of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "we acknowledge useful discussions with heather morrison on the selection and classification of k and m giants .",
    "we acknowledge useful discussions with jim gunn on the nature and selection of m giants .",
    "we acknowledge several important observations by the referee , which led to an improved paper .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , cambridge university , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "abazajian k. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjs , 182 , 543 .",
    "abazajian et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 126,2081 allende prieto , c. et al .",
    "2008 aj , 136 , 2070 .",
    "allgood , b. , flores , r. , primack , j. kravtsov , a. wechsler , r. , faltenbacher , a. & bullock , j. 2006 mnras 367 , 1781 .",
    "an , d. , johnson , j. et al .",
    "2008 apjs , 179 , 326 .",
    "bell , e. f. et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 680 , 295 .",
    "bellazzini , m. , newberg , h. j. , correnti , m. , ferraro , f. r. , & monaco , l. 2006 ,  , 457 , l21 belokurov , v. , evans , n.  w. , irwin , m.  j. , hewett , p.  c. , & wilkinson , m.  i.  2006 , , 637 , l29 belokurov , v. et al .",
    "2006a , apj 642 , l137 .",
    "belokurov , v. et al .",
    "2006b , apj 647 , l111 .",
    "belokurov , v. et al .",
    "2007a , apj 658,337 belokurov , v. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 657 , l89 chou , m .- y .",
    "2007 , , 670 , 346 clem , j. l. , vanden berg , d. a. , stetson , p. b. 2008 aj 135 , 682 dehnen , w. & binney , j. j. 1998 , , 298 , 387 duffau , s. , zinn , r. , vivas , a. k. , carraro , g. , mendez , r. a. , winnick , r. , & gallart , c. 2006 , , 636 , l97 fellhauer , m. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 651 , 167 fukugita , m. , ichikawa , t . , gunn , j. e. , doi , m. , shimasaku , k. , schneider , d. p. 1996",
    ", , 111 , 1758 grillmair , c.  j.  2008 , arxiv:0811.3965 grillmair , c.  j.  2006a , , 645 , l37 grillmair , c.  j.  2006b , , 651 , l29 grillmair , c.  j. , & dionatos , o.  2006 , , 643 , l17 grillmair , c.  j. , & johnson , r.  2006 , , 639 , l17 gunn , j. e. et al .",
    "1998 , , 116 , 3040 gunn , j. e. et al .",
    "2006 , , 131 , 2332 harrigan , m. j. , newberg h. j. , yanny , b. , beers , t.c .",
    ", lee , y.s . , & re fiorentin , p. , in preparation helmi , a. et al .",
    "2005 , , 586 , 195 helmi , a. 2004 , , 610 , l97 hogg , d. w. , finkbeiner , d. p. , schlegel , d. j. , & gunn , j. e. 2001 , , 122 , 2129 ibata , r. a. , gilmore , g. , and irwin , m. j. 1994 , , 370 , 194 ibata , r. , lewis , g. f. , irwin , m. , totten , e. , and quinn , t. 2001 , , 551 , 294 ibata , r. a. , irwin , m. j. , lewis , g. f. , ferguson , a. m. n. , & tanvir ,",
    "n 2003 , mnras 340 , l21 ivezi , z. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 963 ivezi , z. , et al .",
    "2004 , astronomische nachrichten , 325 , 583 johnston , k. v. , law , d. r. , & majewski , s. r. 2005 , , 619 , 800 juric , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj 673 , 864 .",
    "keller , s. c. , da costa , g. s. , & prior , s. l. 2009 mnras , 394 , 1045 .",
    "layden , a.  c. , hanson , r.  b. , hawley , s.  l. , klemola , a.  r. , & hanley , c.  j.  1996 , , 112 , 2110 law , d. r. , johnston , k. v. & majewski , s. r. 2005 , , 619 , 807 lee , y. s. et al . 2008 aj 136 , 2022 .",
    "lee , y. s. et al .",
    "2008 aj 136 , 2050 .",
    "lenz , d. d. , newberg , h. j. , rosner , r. , richards , g. t. , & stoughton , c. 1998 , , 119 , 121 majewski , s. r. , skrutskie , m. f. , weinberg , m. d. , and ostheimer , j. c. 2003 , , 599 , 1082 martinez - delgado , d. , penarrubia , j. , juric , m. , alfaro , e. j. , ivezic , z. 2007 , ap . j. suppl .",
    ", 660 , 1264 martinez - delgado , d. , gomez - flechoso , m. a. , aparicio , a. , carrera , r. 2004 , , 601,242 moultaka , j. , ilovaisky , s. a. , prugniel , p. , & soubiran , c. 2004 , pasp , 116 , 693 monaco , l. , bellazzini , m. , bonifacio , p. , buzzoni , a. , ferraro , f. r. , marconi , g. , sbordone , l. , & zaggia , s. 2006 , a&a , 464 , 201 newberg , h.j .",
    ", yanny , b. & willett , b.a .",
    "2009 , , submitted .",
    "newberg , h. , yanny , b. , cole , n. , beers , t. , re fiorentin , p. , schneider , d. , and wilhelm , r. 2007 , , 668 , 221 .",
    "newberg , h. , & yanny , b. 2006 , in jpc conf .",
    "ser . : physics at the end of the galactic cosmic ray spectrum , ed . g. thomson & p. sokolsky , astro - ph/0507671 newberg , h. , & yanny , b. 2005 , in asp conf .",
    "ser . 338 : astrometry in the age of the next generation of large telescopes , ed .",
    "p. k. seidelmann & a. k. b. monet , 210 , astro - ph/0502386 newberg , h. , yanny , b. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 596 , l191 newberg , h. , yanny , b. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 569 , 245 odenkirchen , m. et al .",
    "2006 , , 126 , 2385 parker , j. e. , humphreys , r. m. , & larsen , j. a. 2003 , , 126 , 1346 pier , j. r. , munn , j. a. , hindsley , r. b. , hennessy , g. s. , kent , s. m. , lupton , r. h. , and ivezi , z. 2003 , , 125 , 1559 savage , c. , newberg , h. j. , freese , k. , & gondolo , p. 2006",
    ", journal of cosmology and astroparticle physics , 7 , 3 schlegel , d.j .",
    ", finkbeiner , d.p . , & davis , m. 1998 , apj , 500 , 525 searle , l. , & zinn , r.  1978 , , 225 , 357 skrutskie , m.  f. , et al .  2006 , , 131 , 1163 smith , j. a. et al . 2002 , , 123 , 2121 stoughton , c. , et al . 2001 , , 123 , 485 tucker , d. , et al .",
    "2006 , astronomische nachrichten , 325 , 583 vivas , a.  k.  et al .",
    "2001 , , 554 , l33 vivas , a. k. , zinn , r. & gallart , c. 2005 , aj , 129 , 189 .",
    "wilhelm , r. , beers , t. c. , & gray , r. o. 1999 , , 117 , 2308 willett , b.  a. , newberg , h.  j. , zhang , h. , yanny , b. , & beers , t.  c.  2009 , arxiv:0901.4046 xu , y. , deng , l. c. & hu , j. y. 2006 , , 368 , 1811 xu , y. , deng , l. c. & hu , j. y. 2007 , , 379 , 1373 .",
    "yanny , b. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 137 , 4377 .",
    "yanny , b. , newberg , h. j. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 540 , 825 yanny , b. , newberg , h. j. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 588 , 841 york , d.g .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579 zinn , r. , vivas , a. k. , gallart , c. & winnick , r. 2004 , asp conf .",
    "series , 327 , 92     colors which extend redward of the @xmath14 m - dwarf stellar locus for @xmath178 redder than 1.1 .",
    "upper panel : ( @xmath179 ) color - color diagram red stars in a 50 square degree box covering the sagittarius north tidal stream leading tail .",
    "note the excess of stars below the locus at red @xmath14 : these are distant k / m giant candidates .",
    "the outlined selection boxes are described in the text .",
    "lower panel : same size selection box as above , but in a mirror image direction on the sky in galactic @xmath180 with respect to the galactic center .",
    "there are significantly fewer k / m giant candidates , especially in the lower - right rectangular ` very red ' selection box .",
    "[ ugr ] ]     similar to figure 6 , except photometrically selected bhb stars are shown instead of k / m giants .",
    "the left panel shows the positions of bhb stars within 5 kpc of the sgr stream orbital plane .",
    "the right panel shows the stars that are candidate sgr stream stars .",
    "they were selected in exactly the same positions in the galaxy as the k / m giants in figure 6 , assuming that bhb stars are intrinsically 1.7 magnitudes fainter in @xmath54 than the k / m giants .",
    "notice that the background contamination is higher for bhb stars , particularly close to the sun .",
    "similar to figures 6 and 8 , but showing the density of photometrically selected f - turnoff stars within 5 kpc of the sgr dwarf orbital plane .",
    "since the density of f stars is some 60 times that of bhbs , we use a gray scale density ( hess ) diagram rather than plotting individual stars . radial features in this diagram are due to incompleteness , star clusters , or calibration errors ( often due to reddening correction ) . the dark radial stripe in the south",
    "is due to higher completeness in the region of a segue imaging stripe at constant galactic longitude .",
    "we lose completeness of f - turnoff stars at about 40 kpc from the sun . in the north",
    ", we see the sgr dwarf leading tidal tail arcing over the virgo overdensity .",
    "we can also see the sgr trailing tidal tail in the south .",
    ", for all hb stars with sdss / segue spectra ( selected as stars with @xmath181 and @xmath182 ) that are within 5 kpc of the sgr dwarf orbital plane , and spatially coincident with the sgr stream .",
    "we also show those photometrically selected k / m giant stars for which with sdss+segue spectra were taken ( not many , and over a small area of sky ) .",
    "this plot mirrors that of figure 12 in @xcite .",
    "the angle @xmath183 increases along the sgr tidal stream , as defined in @xcite .",
    "the hb stars are divided into low metallicity ( @xmath68_{\\rm wbg } < -1.9 $ ] , indicated with blue crosses ) , and high metallicity ( @xmath68_{\\rm wbg } > -1.9 $ ] , filled black dots ) , samples .",
    "we find k / m giants ( red dots ) and both low- and high - metallicity bhb stars in the sgr dwarf tidal stream .",
    "bhbs in the virgo overdensity are apparent at @xmath184 km s@xmath85 .",
    "a new stellar stream is apparent in low - metallicity bhb stars near @xmath132 , @xmath185 km s@xmath85 .",
    "the lower plot shows the estimated distances for each of the stars in the upper plot as a function of @xmath128 .",
    "the newly identified low - metallicity stream has a very narrow distance distribution that rises toward the right in the lower panel . ]",
    "subsets of stars in figure 12 that are in the upper branch of the sgr leading tidal tail , with @xmath186 , are shown .",
    "two lines that approximately trace the velocities of the sgr dwarf tidal debris are shown for reference .",
    "coordinate , so that if it is at the distance of the sgr stream in that direction it would be shifted to 30 kpc .",
    "this should give us a sgr blue horizontal branch at an adjusted @xmath108 of 18.1 and an k / m - giant branch at an adjusted @xmath108 of 16.4 .",
    "in the top panel , we show the adjusted color - magnitude diagram for these stars , which does show the horizontal branch and k / m - giant branch of sgr .",
    "the large number of counts at @xmath172 is due to the color selection for segue spectra that favors this color range .",
    "the fiducial sequences for m  3 and m  71 @xcite , shifted to 30 kpc , are shown for reference .",
    "the lower panel shows the sgr hb and k / m giant stars from figure 12 that are at the correct velocities for sgr tidal debris .",
    "the bhb selection is very good .",
    "since @xmath189 is not measured reliably for m giants with @xmath190 in sdss , they can not be spectroscopically selected and are therefore absent in the top panel .",
    "our lower panel k / m giant candidates are spectra that were selected by their photometric indices . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that the sagittarius dwarf tidal stream can be traced with very red k / m - giant stars , selected from sdss photometry . </S>",
    "<S> a subset of these stars are spectroscopically confirmed with segue and sdss spectra , and the distance scale of 2mass and sdss m giants is calibrated to the rr lyrae distance scale . </S>",
    "<S> the absolute magnitude of the k / m - giant stars at the tip of the giant branch is @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> the line - of - sight velocities of the m giant and bhb stars that are spatially coincident with the sgr dwarf tidal stream are consistent with those of previous authors , reinforcing the need for new models that can explain all of the sgr tidal debris stream observations . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate stellar densities along the tidal tails that can be used to help constrain future models . the k / m - giant , bhb , and f - turnoff stars in the lower surface brightness tidal stream that is adjacent to the main leading sgr dwarf tidal tail have velocities and metallicities that are similar to those of the stars in the leading tidal tail . </S>",
    "<S> the ratio of k / m giants to bhbs and bhbs to f - turnoff stars are also similar for both branches of the leading tidal tail . </S>",
    "<S> we show that there is an additional low - metallicity tidal stream near the sgr trailing tidal tail . </S>"
  ]
}