{
  "article_text": [
    "the winds of o and wr stars couple high mass - loss rates of @xmath1 to a few times @xmath2 with fast velocities typically @xmath3 .",
    "the ram pressure balance between the hypersonic winds determines the position of the wind - wind collision region ( wcr ) .",
    "shocks are formed either side of the wcr which thermalize the plasma , heating it to @xmath4k .",
    "the properties ( e.g. density ) of the wcr can span a very large range ( see e.g. table  2 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , reflecting the diversity of the underlying binary population . in systems where the orbital period is only a few days ,",
    "the shocks are collisional , and the wcr displays a large aberration and downstream curvature due to the coriolis force .",
    "cooling of the shocked gas is also likely to be significant .",
    "in addition , the presence of the companion star s radiation field may have significant influence on the driving and dynamics of the winds .",
    "in contrast , in systems with longer orbital periods the shocks may be collisionless , orbital and radiation - field - induced effects on the dynamics and geometry of the wcr are much smaller , and the hot shocked gas may only cool adiabatically as it flows downstream .",
    "particle acceleration at the shocks ( but also possibly within the wcr - see @xcite for a detailed review ) is likely to occur in these wider systems .",
    "systems with ( highly ) eccentric orbits are particularly interesting since the changing separation of the stars is useful as a probe of the physics which takes place . colliding wind binaries ( cwbs )",
    "are also useful as simpler , less complicated , analogues of the multiple wind - wind collisions which occur throughout the volume of clusters of massive stars .",
    "the collision of the winds is best studied using hydrodynamical simulations .",
    "a seminal paper by @xcite was the first to self - consistently include cooling , and it focussed on the dynamical instabilities and x - ray emission which arise from the wcr .",
    "other works since then have examined the influence of the companion star s radiation field @xcite , the effects of thermal conduction @xcite , electron - ion temperature non - equilibrium @xcite , and non - equilibrium ionization @xcite .",
    "the effect of clumps within the stellar winds on a wcr near the radiative and adiabatic limits has been investigated by @xcite and @xcite , respectively .",
    "three - dimensional models have allowed orbital effects to be explored @xcite .",
    "this work has also been complemented by smoothed - particle - hydrodynamics simulations @xcite and the development of a compute - efficient dynamical model @xcite .",
    "more recently , three dimensional hydrodynamical models which incorporate gravity , the driving of the winds , the cooling of the shocked plasma , and the orbital motion of the stars , have been presented by @xcite .",
    "this work represents the most realistic simulation to date of the wind - wind collision in short period systems .",
    "[ fig:3d_ooraddrv ] displays cuts through the orbital plane of the density and temperature in two different systems with identical o - stars but with orbital periods of 3 ( left ) and 10 days ( right ) .",
    "the wcr is highly radiative in the shorter period system since the winds collide before they have had much opportunity to accelerate , the postshock gas temperature is lower , and the postshock density is higher .",
    "there is also considerable inhibition of the acceleration of the winds caused by the opposing radiation field of the companion star .",
    "in contrast , with an orbital period of 10 days the wider separation of the stars is enough to more than double the pre - shock velocities of the winds ( along the line - of - centres through the stars it increases from @xmath5 to @xmath6 ) , which leads to significantly higher ( lower ) postshock temperatures ( densities ) , resulting in a largely adiabatic wcr .",
    "the higher wind speeds and reduced orbital velocities also diminishes the aberration and downstream curvature of the wcr due to coriolis forces ( note the difference in spatial scale between the two systems presented in fig .",
    "[ fig:3d_ooraddrv ] ) .",
    "direct evidence for non - thermal emission from relativistic particles within a wcr was presented by @xcite . here , radio images were overlaid on ukirt shift - and - add ir images of wr  147 .",
    "when the southern ( thermal ) radio source was aligned with the southern ( wr ) star , the northern ( non - thermal ) radio source was found to lie just south of the northern ( o ) star , in a position consistent with the point of ram - pressure balance between the winds .",
    "direct imaging of the wcr in wr  146 and wr  140 have provided further support for this interpretation @xcite .",
    "see dougherty ( these proceedings ) for further details .",
    "wr  146 and wr  147 are both very wide , and the non - thermal radio emission from the wcr escapes easily from the system .",
    "this contrasts with wr  140 ( the best studied of any wr+o binary ) , where the stars are very much closer together , and which displays dramatic , phase - repeatable , variations in its radio emission over the course of every 7.94  yr orbit ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the high eccentricity of the orbit causes the stellar separation to vary between @xmath7au .",
    "while the radio lightcurve has defied satisfactory explanation to date , it is likely that at least part of its variation is caused by variable circumstellar extinction to the source of the non - thermal emission as the o star orbits in and out of the radio photosphere in the dense wr wind .",
    "more recently , this system has been imaged with the vlba , yielding a full orbit definition , including , most importantly , the inclination of the system @xcite . while this study has helped to provide some of the best modelling constraints of any system , relatively little",
    "is known about the wind of the o star , and the wind momentum ratio of the system remains ill - constrained .    in the hard x - ray and @xmath0-ray regimes",
    "there has been many false dawns concerning potential emission from cwbs .",
    "however , definitive evidence for non - thermal x - ray and @xmath0-ray emission from cwbs has finally been presented in recent years , with an especially exciting period in just the last few months . using integral",
    ", @xcite presented a clear detection of mev @xmath0-ray emission from @xmath8carinae ( a lower spatial resolution observation with bepposax was previously presented by * ? ? ? * though some of the emission attributed to @xmath8carinae was shown by @xcite to be associated with other nearby sources ) .",
    "this detection has since been confirmed with a suzaku observation @xcite . and in just the last few months , @xmath8carinae has been associated with an agile source @xcite , and is on the fermi bright source list .",
    "upper limits have also been placed on the mev emission from wr140 , wr146 , and wr147 @xcite , and on the tev emission from wr146 and wr147 @xcite .",
    "finally , a great deal of effort has gone into searching for non - thermal x - ray emission from cwbs with known non - thermal radio emission ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". however , the lack of success in this undertaking appears to show that the physical conditions necessary to produce _ observable _ emission at radio and hard x - ray energies are mutually incompatible .",
    "there are many possible mechanisms for accelerating particles in cwbs .",
    "most works assume that diffusive shock acceleration ( dsa ) is the dominant process , though reconnection and turbulent processes are other possibilities .",
    "each mechanism differs in its efficiency , and in the properties of the non - thermal particles which it produces , such as their spectral index .",
    "a detailed discussion of the many possibilities can be found in @xcite .",
    "some notes on the key physics of particle acceleration in cwbs were presented by @xcite .",
    "early models of the non - thermal radio emission were very simple , with the observed flux ( @xmath9 ) assumed to be a combination of the free - free flux from the spherically symmetric winds ( @xmath10 ) , plus the flux from a point - like non - thermal source located at the stagnation point of the winds ( @xmath11 ) , the latter being attenuated by free - free absorption ( opacity @xmath12 ) through the surrounding winds : @xmath13 this approach allows relatively simple analytical solutions to the radiative transfer equation to be obtained ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unsurprisingly , such simple models fail to reproduce the spectral variation of the emission with orbital phase .",
    "this led @xcite to propose the need for a more complicated model which accounted for the low - opacity `` hole '' in the dense wr wind created by the o - star s wind .",
    "however , @xcite pointed out that in the case of wr140 , even the o - star s wind has significant opacity .",
    "these works clearly demonstrate the need for more realistic modelling where the presence of the hot , low - opacity , wcr is a fundamental component .",
    "in addition , the interferometric observations of spatially - extended synchrotron emission indicate that the assumption of a point - like non - thermal source needs also to be modified .",
    "other problems with these simple models are that no consideration of cooling ( e.g. inverse compton ) or other mechanisms ( e.g. the razin effect ) are made .    in many ways ,",
    "the state of modelling in the @xmath0-ray domain was , until a few years ago , even more rudimentary . with no firm detections at @xmath0-ray energies ,",
    "theoreticians were reduced to estimating the inverse compton ( ic ) luminosity , @xmath14 , by the following simple formula : @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the synchrotron luminosity , and @xmath17 and @xmath18 are the photon and magnetic field energy densities , respectively .",
    "a fundamental problem with the use of the above formula is that the predicted value of @xmath14 is highly sensitive to the assumed magnetic field ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "varying @xmath20 results in a wide range of predictions for @xmath14 , as shown in @xcite .",
    "the magnetic field in the wcr is highly uncertain , even when the surface magnetic fields are known ( which is very rare ) , because one can not necessarily extrapolate these to obtain their strength in the wcr , since there are the possibilities of large - scale magnetic reconnection within the wcr on the one hand , and magnetic field amplification by non - linear dsa on the other . finally ,",
    "_ observed _ rather than _ intrinsic _ values have been used for @xmath16 .",
    "this may be of little consequence in the wider systems where the attenuation of non - thermal emission through the circumstellar envelope surrounding the stars may be negligible , but for a given set of parameters , @xmath14 could be underestimated in closer systems .",
    "while there are many problems and uncertainties associated with the early modelling work of the non - thermal radio and @xmath0-ray emission from cwbs , these simple models nevertheless paved the way for the more sophisticated modelling which has since followed , as we now describe",
    ".        a major step along the path towards improved models of the radio emission from colliding wind binaries was taken by @xcite .",
    "this work removed the assumptions of a point - like source of non - thermal emission , and a spherically symmetric , single temperature , surrounding envelope .",
    "instead , models of the thermal and non - thermal radio emission were based on 2d , axisymmetric hydrodynamical simulations .",
    "this approach provided a much better description of the density and temperature distribution in the the system , allowing sight - lines to the observer to pass through regions of both high and low opacity .",
    "the non - thermal emission was treated in a phenomenological way : accelerated electrons were assumed to be present within the wcr , with an energy density ( @xmath21 ) proportional to the local thermal energy density ( @xmath22 ) i.e. @xmath23 .",
    "the magnetic field energy density was specified in a similar manner : @xmath24 .",
    "the non - thermal electrons were further assumed to have a power - law distribution , @xmath25 , where @xmath0 is the lorentz factor and @xmath26 is proportional to @xmath27 .",
    "the non - thermal electrons were assumed to arise from test particle dsa , where @xmath28 for strong shocks of adiabatic index @xmath29 .",
    "though this work introduced a number of assumptions and involved some essentially free parameters , it nevertheless provided a great deal of new insight into the phenomenon of radio emission from colliding wind binaries .",
    "an immediate benefit was the realization of the potential importance of the razin effect in attenuating the low frequency synchrotron emission within the wcr .",
    "it also established several key scaling relations .",
    "for instance , given the assumptions in the model , the total synchrotron emission from the entire wcr in adiabatic systems was found to scale as @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the separation of the stars ( for comparison , the x - ray emission in the optically thin , adiabatic limit , scales as @xmath32 ) .",
    "this work also highlighted the importance of ic cooling , which was noted to be important even in wide systems .",
    "indeed , neglect of ic cooling of the non - thermal electrons in this model led to an overestimation of the high frequency synchrotron flux in a model of wr147 .",
    "this failing was addressed in a follow - up paper @xcite . here , the non - thermal electrons were assumed to be accelerated by dsa at the _ global _ shocks confining the wcr , and to cool once they flowed downstream . since the amount of cooling is dependent on the `` exposure '' time of the non - thermal electrons to the radiation fields of the stars , this assumption led to those electrons suffering the most severe cooling to concentrate along the contact surface between the winds , and thus to a dearth of emission from this region ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : iccool ] ) .",
    "this addition significantly improved the fit between models and observations of wr147 .",
    "it also modified the scaling relation for the total synchrotron luminosity noted in @xcite - now , the _ intrinsic _ luminosity was observed to decline with stellar separation as ic cooling became increasingly strong .",
    "in addition , it was noted that the _ thermal _ radio emission from the wcr scales as @xmath32 , in an identical way to the thermal x - ray emission . since this emission is optically thin ( on account of the high temperatures within the wcr ) , it can mimic a synchrotron component .",
    "therefore , one needs to cautiously interpret data with a spectral index @xmath33 , where @xmath34 ( more negative values of @xmath35 , e.g. @xmath36 , clearly indicate a bona - fide synchrotron component ) .",
    "the dramatic sensitivity gains made by arrays of cerenkov telescopes have led in recent years to a new interest in the level of non - thermal x - ray and @xmath0-ray emission from colliding wind binaries .",
    "@xcite calculated the expected @xmath0-ray emission from wr20a , a wr+wr binary .",
    "the short orbital period means that the optical depth to electron - positron pair creation is high enough to initiate electromagnetic cascades in this system .",
    "particle acceleration by magnetic reconnection and dsa was considered , and it was concluded that detectable neutrino fluxes should be produced . due to the high optical depth to tev photons within this system ,",
    "wr20a can not be directly responsible for nearby tev emission @xcite , which more likely is the result of acceleration processes within the collective wind of the nearby cluster westerlund 2 .    following on from this work , @xcite developed a two - zone model of the non - thermal emission .",
    "particles are accelerated in an inner zone where their spatial diffusion exceeds their motion due to advection with the background fluid .",
    "their energy distribution is self - consistently computed by considering all relevant gain and loss mechanisms .",
    "particles are assumed to be resident within this region until their timescales for advection and diffusion are comparable , after which they are assumed to move into the advection region where they suffer further losses as they flow downstream .",
    "[ fig:2zone ] shows the assumed geometry and the resultant non - thermal energy spectra of the electrons and nucleons .",
    "consideration is also given to the anisotropic nature of the ic process , where the emitted power is dependent on the scattering angle .",
    "[ fig : reimer_wr140 ] shows the predicted ic emission from wr140 as a function of orbital phase .",
    "@xcite conclude that while wr140 should be easily detected with glast / fermi , the change in the ic flux with viewing angle due to anisotropic scattering is likely to be obscured by large variations in the energy density of the stellar radiation fields resulting from the high orbital eccentricity .",
    "however , the latest work by @xcite demonstrates that it is possible to use the property of nonisotropic ic emission to constrain the orbital inclination of colliding wind systems .",
    "another model of the x - ray and @xmath0-ray emission , which is in many ways complementary to that of @xcite , was presented by @xcite .",
    "this built on the phenomenological model developed previously by @xcite and @xcite to explore the non - thermal radio emission .",
    "although the energy spectrum is assumed rather than calculated , and so in this sense is weaker than the model in @xcite , this approach benefits from a realistic description of the density and temperature distribution within the system , and constraints placed on the key parameters ( e.g. mass - loss rates ) by fits made to the x - ray data .",
    "@xcite showed that other uncertainities , such as the particle acceleration efficiency and the spectral index of their energy distribution ( both of which unfortunately remain ill - constrained from fits to radio data ) , have at least as much influence on the predicted flux as the angle - dependence of the ic emission .",
    "[ fig : wr140he ] shows a predicted spectral energy distribution for wr140 from one of the models presented in @xcite .",
    "large differences in the predicted @xmath0-ray emission occur depending on whether the low frequency turndown in the radio spectrum results from free - free absorption through the surrounding stellar winds , or from the razin effect .",
    "furthermore , satisfactory fits to the radio spectrum at orbital phase 0.837 could be achieved in one of two ways : either with a standard @xmath28 index , or with a harder index ( e.g. @xmath38 ) .",
    "harder indices can result from the shock re - acceleration process , whereby the non - thermal particles pass through a sequence of shocks @xcite , or from 2nd order fermi acceleration .",
    "either of these processes may be significant in cwbs , since the clumpy nature of the winds means that the wcr is likely to be highly turbulent , with weak shocks distributed throughout it @xcite .    while @xcite could not determine the nature of the absorption process from the fits to the radio spectrum",
    ", future @xmath0-ray detections will determine the @xmath0-ray flux and spectral index , and thus will also distinguish the nature of the low - frequency turndown .",
    "the acceleration efficiency of the non - thermal electrons and the strength of the magnetic field will then both be revealed .",
    "work is also continuing on fits to the radio spectra of wr140 at other phases around its orbit .",
    "preliminary results indicate that there is significant evolution of key parameters in the model ( such as the acceleration efficiency and magnetic field ) .",
    "finally , the non - thermal emission from the short period o+o binary models in @xcite is being investigated .",
    "one area of interest concerns the ease with which non - thermal radio emission can escape these systems , despite the orbital - induced curvature preventing lines - of - sight to the non - thermal emission from existing purely within the low opacity , hot wcr .",
    "in recent years there has been a steady improvement in theoretical model predictions of the non - thermal emission from cwbs , in both the radio and @xmath0-ray domains .",
    "this work is being driven by corresponding advances on the observational front . in the past",
    ", cwbs have played a poor second role to snrs in terms of investigations of the physics of high mach number shocks and cosmic ray acceleration . however , they provide access to higher mass densities , radiation backgrounds , and magnetic field energy densities than found for supernova remnants , thus enabling studies in previously unexploited regimes , and due to recent observational detections of non - thermal emission at hard x - ray and @xmath0-ray energies are slowly gaining popularity in the community",
    ". future high energy observational prospects with fermi and cta , etc .",
    ", look very good .",
    "an exciting future is also expected in the radio regime , with evla , e - merlin , and ska ( see benaglia , these proceedings , for further information ) .    future theoretical work should combine the best features of the different modelling efforts to date : for instance , adding a calculation of the non - thermal particle energy spectra and anisotropic ic to the hydrodynamical based models of @xcite . a more distant goal would be to incorporate the effects of particle acceleration on the underlying thermal plasma , since dsa , when present , appears to be very efficient at placing energy into the non - thermal particle distribution .",
    "i gratefully acknowledge the invitation of the soc to present a review at this conference , and would like to especially thank dr .",
    "josep mart for his tireless organization and enthusiasm which made , i believe , a very successful meeting .",
    "i would also like to thank collaborators and colleagues for their interesting discussions and input over the years , especially drs .",
    "sean dougherty and don ellison , and my phd student ross parkin .",
    "finally , i would like to thank the royal society for funding a research fellowship .",
    "aharonian f. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 467 , 1075 aliu e. , et al . , 2008 , apj , 685 , l71 bednarek w. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , l46 benaglia p. , romero g.  e. , 2003 , a&a , 399 , 1121 chapman j.  m. , leitherer c. , koribalski b. , bouter r. , storey m. , 1999 , apj , 518 , 890 de becker m. , et al . , 2004 , a&a , 420 , 1061 de becker m. , rauw g. , pittard j.  m. , sana h. , stevens i.  r. , romero g.  e. , 2007 , a&a , 472 , 905 de becker m. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "a&a , 371 , 1280 dougherty s.  m. , beasley a.  j. , claussen m.  j. , zauderer b.  a. , bolingbroke n.  j. , 2005 , apj , 623 , 447 dougherty s.  m. , pittard j.  m. , kasian l. , coker r.  f. , williams p.  m. , lloyd h.  m. , 2003 , a&a , 409 , 217 dougherty s.  m. , williams p.  m. , pollacco d.  l. , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 143 eichler d. , usov v. , 1993 , apj , 402 , 271 gayley k.  g. , owocki s.  p. , cranmer s.  r. , 1997 , apj , 475 , 786 lemaster m.  n. , stone j.  m. , gardiner t.  a. , 2007 , apj , 662 , 582 leyder j .- c . , walter r. , rauw g. , 2008 , a&a , 477 , l29 myasnikov a.  v. , zhekov s.  a. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 686 okazaki a.  t. , owocki s.  p. , russell c.  m.  p. , corcoran m.  f. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , l39 parkin e.  r. , pittard j.  m. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 1047 parkin e.  r. , pittard j.  m. , corcoran m.  f. , hamaguchi k. , stevens i.  r. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 1758 pittard j.  m. , 2007 , apj , 660 , l141 pittard j.  m. , 2009 , mnras , in press pittard j.  m. , dougherty s.  m. , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 801 pittard j.  m. , dougherty s.  m. , coker r.  f. , corcoran m.  f. , 2005 , in `` x - ray and radio connections '' , eds",
    "sjouwerman and k.  k dyer , published electronically by nrao , http://www.aoc.nrao.edu/events/xraydio pittard j.  m. , dougherty s.  m. , coker r.  f. , oconnor e. , bolingbroke n.  j. , 2006 , a&a , 446 , 1001 pittard j.  m. , stevens i.  r. , williams p.  m. , pollock a.  m.  t. , skinner s.  l. , corcoran m.  f. , moffat a.  f.  j. , 2002 , a&a , 388 , 335 pope m.  h. , melrose d.  b. , 1994 , pasa , 11 , 175 rauw g. , et al . , 2002 , a&a , 394 , 993 reimer a. , pohl m. , reimer o. , 2006 , apj , 644 , 1118 reimer a. , reimer o. , 2009 , apj , 694 , 1139 sekiguchi a. , tsujimoto m. , kitamoto s. , ishida m. , hamaguchi k. , mori h. , tsuboi y. , 2009 , pasj in press ( 2009arxiv0903.3307 ) stevens i.  r. , blondin j.  m. , pollock a.  m.  t. , 1992 , apj , 386 , 265 stevens i.  r. , pollock a.  m.  t. , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 226 tavani m. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "apjl in press ( 2009arxiv0904.2736 ) viotti r.  f. , antonelli l.  a. , rossi c. , rebecchi s. , 2004 , a&a , 420 , 527 walder r. , 1998 , ap&ss , 260 , 243 white r.  l. , becker r.  h. , 1995 , apj , 451 , 352 williams p.  m. , dougherty s.  m. , davis r.  j. , van der hucht k.  a. , bode m.  f. , setia gunawan d.  y.  a. , 1997 , mnras , 289 , 10 williams p.  m. , van der hucht k.  a. , pollock a.  m.  t. , florkowski d.  r. , van der woerd h. , wamsteker w.  m. , 1990 , mnras , 243 , 662 zhekov s.  a. , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 886 zhekov s.  a. , skinner s.  l. , 2000 , apj , 538 , 808"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the powerful wind - wind collision in massive star binaries creates a region of high temperature plasma and accelerates particles to relativistic energies . </S>",
    "<S> i briefly summarize the hydrodynamics of the wind - wind interaction and the observational evidence , including recent @xmath0-ray detections , of non - thermal emission from such systems . </S>",
    "<S> i then discuss existing models of the non - thermal emission and their application to date , before concluding with some future prospects . </S>"
  ]
}