{
  "article_text": [
    "type i x  ray bursts are observationally characterized by a rapid rise of the x  ray flux ( of the order of a few seconds ) and an exponential decay ( usually lasting a few minutes ) together with a black body spectrum which softens as the burst decays .",
    "these bursts are interpreted as thermonuclear flashes on the surface of a neutron star , thus definitely identifying the source as a neutron star binary . in the last few years",
    "thanks to the long monitoring of the galactic center region with the wide - field cameras onboard bepposax , a number of sources showing only type i bursts without persistent emission were discovered ( cocchi et al .",
    "2001 ; cornelisse et al .",
    "2002a , c02a hereafter ) , upper limits on the quiescent emission were relatively high in the @xmath0 range ( c02a ) .",
    "this level is significantly lower than the outburst peak luminosity observed in bright x  ray binary transients ( e.g. aql x-1 , for a review see campana et al .",
    "1998 ) , thus justifying their name : burst - only sources .",
    "a follow - up of these burst - only sources with short chandra exposures led to the detection of possible quiescent counterparts at a level consistent with other x  ray transients in quiescence , i.e. @xmath1 ( cornelisse et al .",
    "2002b , c02b hereafter ) .",
    "in addition to classical x  ray binary transients , the increased sensitivity level of monitoring instruments led to the discovery of faint x  ray transients with peak outburst luminosity in the @xmath2 ( heise et al .",
    "1999 ; int zand 2001 ) .",
    "the most famous example is the accreting x  ray millisecond pulsars ( amxps ) sax j1808.43658 ( as well as many other amxps ; see wijnands 2005a for a review ) .",
    "furthermore , galactic plane x ",
    "ray surveys with xmm - newton and chandra ( e.g. sakano et al . 2005 ; muno et al . 2005 ; wijnands et al .",
    "2006 ) revealed the existence of a class of very faint x ",
    "ray transients ( vfxts ) with peak outburst luminosities in the @xmath3 range .",
    "a large number of them were found close to the galactic center ( muno et al . 2005 , 2008 ) .",
    "close to vfxts are quasi - persistent sources like 1rxs j170854.4321857 , 1rxs j171824.24029 34 ( int zand et al .",
    "2005 ) and xmmu j174716.1281048 ( del santo et al .",
    "these sources are type i bursters , with the only difference with burst - only sources that they have been detected in a low - level active ( @xmath4 ) state ( at least ) quite frequently .    in this paper",
    "we exploit swift x  ray telescope ( xrt ) observations of six burst - only sources ( c02a ) as well as of three quasi - persistent vfxts ( int zand et al .",
    "2005 ; del santo et al .",
    "in section 2 we describe the general treatment of the data . in section 3",
    "we analyze burst - only swift xrt data and in section 4 data of quasi - persistent sources . in section 5",
    "we discuss our results .",
    "the swift satellite ( gehrels et al .",
    "2004 ) easily offers the possibility of short snapshot observations thanks to its fast repointing capabilities and its low earth orbit .",
    "burst - only sources are therefore ideal targets to look for signs of activity and at the same time collect photons to identify their counterparts in quiescence . in table 1 ( burst - only sources ) and 2 ( quasi - persistent vfxts ) we report the log of our observations .",
    "we concentrate on xrt data ( burrows et al .",
    "2005 ) , being our sources too faint for a detection with the burst alert telescope and too absorbed ( and faint ) for a detection with the ultraviolet / optical telescope . given the faintness of our sources all the data were collected in photon counting mode ( pc , providing 2d imaging and full spectroscopic resolution ) .",
    "all data were processed with the standard xrt pipeline within heasoft 6.5.1 ( xrtpipeline v.0.12.0 ) in order to produce screened event files .",
    "pc data were extracted in the 0.310 kev energy range with standard grade filtering ( 012 ) .",
    "extraction regions were selected depending on source strength .",
    "concentric background regions were used to extract background spectra .",
    "appropriate ancillary response files were generated with the task xrtmkarf , accounting for point spread function losses and ccd defects .",
    "we used v.010 response matrices .",
    "data collected after 2007 , august 30 were taken with a 6v ccd substrate voltage and require different filtering criteria and ( slightly ) different response matrices ( godet et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "we observed the original set of seven sources with swift xrt .",
    "we confirm and improve the detections in quiescence of sax j1754 and sax j2225 , and discover the counterpart to sax j1754 . for sax",
    "j1752 we have not enough data . for the other three sources we detect possible counterparts with different degrees of certainty .",
    "from this limited sample we can hint that a common characteristic seems to be a hardness of the x  ray spectrum in quiescence .",
    "this is at variance with classical neutron star transients in quiescence ( campana et al .",
    "1998 ) but is more common in lower luminosity transient in quiescence as accreting millisecond x  ray pulsars group .",
    "we also infer the presence of some variability in many of the proposed counterparts in quiescence , which likely is a common characteristic of neutron star transients in quiescence ( campana et al .",
    "2004b ) .    in addition to burst - only sources we observed also three faint persistent ( or quasi - persistent ) sources with swift xrt .",
    "these sources are characterized by strong variability ( and rxs j171724 showed an outburst ) .",
    "these sources have softer spectra and higher ` quiescent ' fluxes with respect to burst - only sources .",
    "the comparison between the two classes calls for an explanation .",
    "faint persistent bursting sources are difficult to explain within disk instability models . in our sample rxs j170854",
    "has the highest mean persistent luminosity ( around @xmath7 ) and can be accounted for by a @xmath8 min binary system with a @xmath9 companion .",
    "such a system can provide the required mean accretion rate ( e.g. bildsten & chakrabarty 2001 ; king 2000 ) and retain a stable accretion disk ( e.g. lasota et al .",
    "on the contrary rxs j171724 and xmmu j174716 have lower mean luminosities ( @xmath10 ) and to maintain a stable system very short orbital periods ( @xmath11 min ) _ and _ very low mass companions ( @xmath12 ) are needed .",
    "these constraints seem to be too demanding and we suggest that these systems are instead quasi - persistent systems ( as suggested for xmmu j174716 ) , i.e. with long outbursts like classical transients as ks1731260 or exo 0748676 but they will likely turn down to quiescence in the next years .    for burst - only sources we have detected three out of seven sources in outburst , likely indicating that these sources are really transient in nature .",
    "swift j1749 , if typical , indicates that outbursts are faint and very short ( from outburst to quiescence in less than a week ) , providing a justification for the peak luminosities and mean accretion rates ( for typical @xmath13 duty cycles ) of burst - only sources are very low , hinting to vfxts .",
    "king & wijnands ( 2006 ) discussed several possibilities to explain the nature of vfxts .",
    "the only one working with neutron star primaries concerns systems that formed with brown dwarfs ( or even planetary systems ) from the beginning or high inclination systems .",
    "we note here that the column densities we found for burst - only sources are consistent ( or less ) than the galactic value thus constraining the presence of additional material ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> burst - only sources are x  ray sources showing up only during short bursts but with no persistent emission ( at least with the monitoring instrument which led to their discovery ) . </S>",
    "<S> these bursts have spectral characteristics consistent with thermonuclear ( type i ) burst from the neutron star surface , linking burst - only sources to neutron star x  ray binary transients . </S>",
    "<S> we have carried out a series of snapshot observations of the entire sample of burst - only sources with the swift satellite . </S>",
    "<S> we found a few sources in outburst and detect faint candidates likely representing their quiescent counterparts . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we observed three quasi - persistent faint x  ray binary transients </S>",
    "<S> . finally we discuss burst - only sources and quasi - persistent sources in the framework of neutron star transients . </S>"
  ]
}