{
  "article_text": [
    "kinematic data play an important role in dynamical studies of galaxy clusters .",
    "they offer a unique possibility to constrain simultaneously the total ( dark and luminous ) mass profile and the orbital structure of galaxies which is commonly quantified by the anisotropy of velocity dispersion tensor ( binney & tremaine 2008 ) . the main challenge of this approach is the fact that both factors , the mass and the anisotropy profile , are interconnected . in the particular case of commonly used jeans analysis of velocity dispersion profile this leads to a well known problem of the mass - anisotropy degeneracy that hampers the constraining power of the data ( e.g. binney & mamon 1982 ; merritt 1987 ; merrifield & kent 1990 ) .",
    "it turns out that in general there are two ways to break this degeneracy : one can either combine the results with other constraints on the mass profile or use a dynamical model going beyond the jeans equation .",
    "the first solution has been widely applied in the literature .",
    "promising constraints on the anisotropy of galactic orbits in clusters have been obtained by combining the results from velocity dispersion profiles with the mass constraints from x - ray gas ( e.g. benatov et al .",
    "2006 ; hwang & lee 2008 ) or lensing data ( e.g. natarajan & kneib 1996 ) .",
    "a different approach was adopted by biviano & katgert ( 2004 ) who argued for an isotropic velocity dispersion tensor of early type galaxies in clusters from the eso nearby abell cluster survey ( enacs ) . assuming this property they inferred the total mass profile from velocity dispersions of ellipticals and used this result to constrain the anisotropy profile of late type galaxies .",
    "this approach was an implementation of the anisotropy inversion algorithm ( binney & mamon 1982 ; solanes & salvador - sol 1990 ) .",
    "the second method of breaking the mass - anisotropy degeneracy relies on the extension of the classical jeans formalism .",
    "the first natural step in this field is to consider the fourth velocity moment or kurtosis ( merrifield & kent 1990 ) .",
    "the method based on the joint fitting of velocity moments ( dispersion and kurtosis ) was shown to provide constraints both on the mean anisotropy of a system and the parameters of the mass profile ( okas 2002 ; okas & mamon 2003 ; sanchis , okas & mamon 2004 ; okas et al .",
    "these results confirmed the idea that any attempt to infer the anisotropy profile from kinematic data of spherical systems must be preceded by the construction of a detailed dynamical model . in general there are two ways to achieve a desired complexity of a model .",
    "one is the so - called schwarzschild modelling ( schwarzschild 1979 ) in which one considers a superposition of base orbits defined in the integral space ( e.g. merritt & saha 1993 ; gerhard et al .",
    "1998 ; chanam , kleyna & van der marel 2008 ) .",
    "another one , which we adopt in this work , is to provide a properly parametrized form for the phase space density .",
    "there were several studies devoted to the analysis of kinematic data in terms of the phase space density .",
    "an important step in this field was made by kent & gunn ( 1982 ) who used a family of simple analytical models of the distribution function to analyze the data for the coma cluster .",
    "van der marel et al .",
    "( 2000 ) obtained constraints on the anisotropy of 16 galaxy clusters from the cnoc1 ( canadian network for observational cosmology ) cluster redshift survey .",
    "a conceptually similar analysis was carried out by mahdavi & geller ( 2004 ) for galaxy groups and clusters . in all cases a constant anisotropy",
    "was assumed which does not reproduce well the results of cosmological simulations where the dependence of the anisotropy on radius is usually seen ( e.g. mamon & okas 2005 ; wojtak et al . 2005 ; ascasibar & gottlber 2008 ) .",
    "since the anisotropy profile has recently become a subject of growing interest , it appears reasonable to generalize the above methods so that both the mass and the anisotropy profiles may be inferred from the data .",
    "this implies that one has to deal with an anisotropic model of the phase space density which accounts for its radial variation .",
    "quite recently several models satisfying this requirement have been proposed .",
    "the anisotropy profile is specified by a proper parametrization of the angular momentum part of the distribution function ( wojtak et al .",
    "2008 ) or the augmented density ( van hese , baes & dejonghe 2009 ) .",
    "the purpose of the present work was to adopt the approach of wojtak et al .",
    "( 2008 ) to the bayesian analysis of kinematic data and to test on mock data sets how well the mass and anisotropy profiles are reproduced .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in the first section",
    "we introduce a model of the phase space density and discuss its projection on to the plane of sky . in section 2 we describe mock kinematic data of galaxy clusters generated from a cosmological simulation .",
    "section 3 provides technical details on the monte carlo markov chain analysis and section 4 presents the results .",
    "the discussion follows in section 5 .",
    "any spherical system in equilibrium embedded in a fixed gravitational potential is described completely by the distribution function which depends on the phase space coordinates through the binding energy @xmath1 and the absolute value of the angular momentum @xmath2 . in this work ,",
    "we use the model of the distribution function recently proposed by wojtak et al .",
    "( 2008 ) which was shown to recover spherically averaged phase space distribution of dark matter particles in simulated cluster - size haloes .",
    "the main idea of this approach lies in the assumption that the distribution function is separable in energy and angular momentum , i.e. @xmath3 . the angular momentum part @xmath4 is given by an analytical ansatz motivated by the purpose of providing an appropriate parametrization of the anisotropy profile , which is traditionally quantified by the so - called anisotropy parameter @xmath5 where @xmath6 and @xmath7 are dispersions of the tangential and radial velocity respectively .",
    "this part of the distribution function takes the following form @xmath8 where @xmath9 and @xmath10 are the asymptotic values of the anisotropy parameter at the halo centre and at infinity respectively .",
    "the scale of transition between these two asymptotes is determined by @xmath11 , whereas a typical radial range of the growth or decrease of @xmath12 is fixed at about 2 orders of magnitude centred on the radius corresponding to @xmath11 ( see the anisotropy profiles in the top right panel of fig .",
    "[ df_los_ex ] ) . although some recent models of the distribution function offer a little more flexible parametrization of the anisotropy profile ( e.g. baes & van hese 2007 ; van hese et al .",
    "2009 ) , we find that our choice is quite suitable for the purpose of this work , given that we wish to reproduce the variability of @xmath12 with as few parameters as possible .",
    "the energy part of the distribution function @xmath13 is given by the solution of the integral equation @xmath14 this equation can be simplified to the one - dimensional integral equation and then solved numerically for @xmath15 ( see appendix b in wojtak et al .",
    "2008 ) . as an approximation for the density profile in ( [ rho_df ] ) we use the nfw profile ( navarro , frenk & white 1997 ) , i.e. @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the scale radius and",
    "@xmath18 is the mass enclosed in a sphere of this radius .",
    "both parameters of the mass profile provide natural scales of the phase space coordinates so that any change of @xmath18 or @xmath17 corresponds to the expansion or contraction of a system in the space of velocities or the positions .",
    "for the sake of convenience , we use the scaling which fixes the range of positively defined binding energy per unit mass @xmath1 at @xmath19 $ ] , namely @xmath17 as the unit of radius and @xmath20 as the unit of velocity ( see wojtak et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "due to projection effects , a fraction of the phase space is not accessible to observation .",
    "an observer is able to measure velocity along the line of sight @xmath21 and the position on the sky which can be easily translated into the projected clustercentric distance @xmath22 .",
    "this data set , when plotted @xmath21 versus @xmath22 , is commonly referred to as the phase space diagram or the velocity diagram .",
    "data points in such diagrams are distributed according to the projected phase space density which is given by ( e.g. dejonghe & merritt 1992 ; merritt & saha 1993 ; mahdavi & geller 2004 ) @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the distance along the line sight from the cluster centre , while @xmath25 and @xmath26 are velocity components in cylindrical coordinates .",
    "we will hereafter refer to @xmath27 as the phase space density .",
    "the integration area of the last two integrals is given by the circle @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is a positively defined gravitational potential for the nfw density profile , @xmath30 ( cole & lacey 1996 ) .",
    "the boundaries of the integral along the line of sight are given by the distance @xmath31 at which @xmath32 becomes the escape velocity .",
    "it is worth mentioning that in ( [ f_los_def ] ) we assume that the density profiles of a tracer ( galaxies ) and dark matter are proportional to each other .",
    "second , @xmath33 is defined up to the normalization which must therefore be imposed by the following additional condition @xmath34 where @xmath35 is a cut - off radius of the phase space diagram . from ( [ df_los_norm ] )",
    "one can immediately infer that the normalization factor is @xmath36\\}^{-1}$ ] , where @xmath37 is the projected mass within the aperture @xmath35 for the nfw density profile ( see okas & mamon 2001 for an analytical expression ) . from now on when referring to the phase space density @xmath33 we will always mean that it is properly normalized as in ( [ df_los_norm ] ) .",
    "we calculate the phase space density ( [ f_los_def ] ) numerically using the algorithm of gaussian quadrature to evaluate each integral ( press et al . 1996 ) .",
    "the energy part of the distribution function @xmath13 is interpolated between points which are equally spaced in energy and provide the numerical solution of equation ( [ rho_df ] ) . in order to remove improper boundaries of the integral along the line of sight for @xmath38 we changed the variable @xmath24 into @xmath39 .",
    "next , to avoid singularity along the line @xmath40 , when @xmath41 , we used an even number of abscissas for the variable @xmath26 so that @xmath4 is never evaluated at @xmath42 .",
    "[ df_los_ex ] shows the contour maps of phase space density @xmath27 for 5 different anisotropy profiles plotted in the top right panel . in all cases we used @xmath43 , a typical virial radius of massive galaxy clusters , and the scale of transition between @xmath9 and @xmath10 , @xmath44 , which corresponds to @xmath45",
    ". to facilitate comparison , in the four bottom panels we plot the differences between the given and the isotropic ( @xmath46 ) @xmath33 .",
    "the contours below the @xmath47 threshold are neglected as insignificant for the typical number of data points considered in this work .",
    "the results shown in fig",
    ".  [ df_los_ex ] are quite intuitive to interpret .",
    "we notice that @xmath9 modifies @xmath33 in the central part of the diagram in such a way that radially biased models predict more high velocity particles than tangentially biased ones ( see the middle panels ) . on the other hand",
    ", @xmath10 influences the outer part of a diagram so that the tangentially biased anisotropy suppresses @xmath33 at @xmath38 and increases it for moderate velocities ( see the bottom panels ) . in the limit of @xmath48",
    "the velocity distribution at @xmath49 takes the characteristic horn - like shape with a minimum at @xmath38 and a maximum at the circular velocity @xmath50^{1/2}$ ] ( see van der marel & franx 1993 for a qualitative comparison ) . as a final remark on fig .",
    "[ df_los_ex ] , let us note that the parameters of the mass profile , @xmath18 and @xmath17 , manifest themselves only in the scaling of the axes of the diagram while preserving the shape of the phase space density .",
    "this property , when put together with the way how @xmath33 depends on the anisotropy , automatically excludes the mass - anisotropy degeneracy that is an intrinsic problem of the analysis based on the jeans equation ( see e.g. merrifield & kent 1990 ) .",
    "the model of the phase space density introduced in the previous section provides an idealized description of the real data .",
    "it neglects various secondary effects that occur in real galaxy clusters and perturb their phase space diagrams . among those the most important",
    "seem to be : the breaking of spherical symmetry , the presence of substructures , the finite size of equilibrated zone and filamentary structures surrounding the clusters and infalling towards them . in order to study the impact of such effects on the reliability of our approach to data analysis we need to construct a mock catalogue of phase space diagrams which on the one hand resembles the real spectroscopic cluster survey and on the other provides the true mass and anisotropy profiles .",
    "this can be easily achieved with the use of cosmological simulations .",
    "we used an @xmath51-body cosmological simulation of a @xmath0cdm model .",
    "the simulation was carried out in a box of @xmath52 with wmap3 cosmological parameters ( spergel et al . 2007 ) : @xmath53 , @xmath54 and the dimensionless hubble constant @xmath55 ( for more details see wojtak et al .",
    "we identified all cluster - size haloes at redshift @xmath56 and selected @xmath57 of them that appeared not to be products of recent major mergers . for each halo we measured the virial mass @xmath58 and the virial radius @xmath59 which are defined in terms of the mean density within the virial sphere by the following equation @xmath60 where @xmath61 is the so - called overdensity parameter . for cosmological model under consideration we adopted @xmath62 ( see e.g. okas & hoffman 2001 ) .",
    "the virial mass of selected haloes is in the range @xmath63 .",
    "the minimum number of particles inside the virial sphere is @xmath64 .    by fitting the nfw formula ( [ nfw ] ) to the density profile calculated in radial bins equally spaced in logarithmic scale we determined the scale radius @xmath17 of each halo and then the concentration parameter @xmath65 .",
    "the scale mass @xmath18 was measured directly as the mass enclosed by the sphere of radius @xmath17 .",
    "we found that the mass profile extrapolated from @xmath17 outward to the virial sphere recovers the virial mass with the precision of a few percent .",
    "[ beta_3d ] shows the anisotropy profiles in selected dark matter haloes .",
    "the profiles were measured from velocity dispersions of dark matter particles inside thin spherical shells of radii extending to @xmath66 .",
    "although a general trend for radial variation of the anisotropy is very clear , the profiles are considerably scattered .",
    "one can distinguish at least two classes of anisotropy profiles : steeply rising and flat or moderately rising . according to this criterion we divided our halo sample into two equally numerous groups of ten haloes each ( see the left and right panel of fig .  [ beta_3d ] ) .",
    "the reason for this division will become clear in section 5 , where we consider constraints on the anisotropy profile from the joint analysis of many phase space diagrams .    in order to construct phase space diagrams associated with the haloes we pick a line of sight and find all particles inside a cylinder of observation .",
    "the selection is restricted to the particles with the projected halocentric distances @xmath67 and velocities along the line of sight @xmath21 ( with the hubble flow included ) in the range @xmath68 km s@xmath69 in the rest frame of a halo , which is the commonly used and sufficiently conservative velocity cut - off .",
    "the final phase space diagrams are generated by drawing randomly @xmath70 particles for each halo , where we assume , to make the scheme unambiguous , that the tracer is given simply by the particles .",
    "the number of data points is fixed at a typical number of spectroscopic redshifts available for a nearby galaxy cluster with the same criterion of velocity cut - off .",
    "the selection of particles is done three times for three lines of sight chosen to be parallel to the cartesian axes of the simulation box .",
    "thus we effectively get three independent sets of phase space diagrams for the same sample of 20 haloes .",
    "due to projection effects , the phase space diagrams include the so - called interlopers : the particles ( galaxies ) of background or foreground which are not physically connected to the haloes ( clusters ) .",
    "it is commonly accepted that any dynamical analysis should be necessarily preceded by an identification and removal of as many of these objects as possible . in this work",
    "we apply the procedure proposed by den hartog & katgert ( 1996 ) which appears to be one of the most effective algorithms for interloper removal ( wojtak et al . 2007 ; wojtak & okas 2007 ) .",
    "the method is based on an iterative rejection of galaxies with velocity exceeding a maximum velocity which is a function of the clustercentric distance @xmath22 .",
    "the maximum velocity is calculated using a model which allows the galaxies to be either on circular orbit with velocity @xmath71 or to fall towards the cluster centre with velocity @xmath72 , where @xmath73 is approximated in each iteration by the virial mass estimator ( heisler , tremaine & bahcall 1985 ) .",
    "the phase space diagrams preprocessed in such a way are suitable for the proper analysis in terms of the phase space density .",
    "hereafter , when referring to the phase space diagram we will always mean the diagram after interloper removal .",
    "our aim is to constrain the parameters of the mass and anisotropy profiles by analyzing the mock phase space diagrams generated from the simulation . following the principle of bayesian inference our knowledge of model parameters @xmath74 given the data @xmath75",
    "may be expressed as the posterior probability @xmath76 which is related to the probability of obtaining the data in a given model @xmath77 ( likelihood ) and the prior probability @xmath78 via equation @xmath79 where @xmath74 is a vector of model parameters and @xmath75 stands for the data .",
    "the probability @xmath80 plays the role of the normalization coefficient and can be neglected without loss of generality .    the data @xmath75 of a phase space diagram consists of @xmath51 points located at @xmath81 , where @xmath82 .",
    "assuming that the number and mass density are proportional to each other the likelihood is given by @xmath83 where @xmath33 is the phase space density given by ( [ f_los_def ] ) and @xmath84 .",
    "it is worth mentioning that this formula does not take into account statistical errors of @xmath21 and @xmath22 .",
    "this is motivated by the fact that the errors of spectroscopic redshift measurements for nearby clusters are quite small and have negligible impact on the results of the analysis ( see e.g. van der marel et al .",
    "2000 ) .",
    "the two parameters of the mass profile , @xmath18 and @xmath17 , are the scale parameters .",
    "the most appropriate prior probability for such parameters is the jeffreys prior which represents equal probability per decade ( jeffreys 1946 ) , i.e. @xmath85 and @xmath86 .",
    "we will use this kind of prior in the analysis of any single phase space diagram . the situation will change in subsection @xmath87 where we consider joint analysis of many phase space diagrams .",
    "the commonly used anisotropy parameter @xmath12 gives rise to unequal weights for tangentially and radially biased models . in order to make the prior probability for both types of anisotropy equal we introduce , following wilkinson et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and mahdavi & geller ( 2004 ) , the following reparametrization @xmath88.\\ ] ] using a uniform prior for @xmath89 and @xmath90 we put equal weights to all types of anisotropy .",
    "the ranges of both priors are limited by @xmath91 and @xmath92 .",
    "the first condition is motivated by the requirement of the distribution function to be positive ( see an & evans 2006 ) , whereas the second one allows us to avoid improper posterior distribution that is important when the data favour @xmath93 .",
    "the scale of transition between the two asymptotic values of anisotropy is defined by @xmath11 .",
    "we find that keeping this parameter free causes degeneracy with @xmath10 and @xmath9 .",
    "this considerably restricts the information on the growth or decrease of the anisotropy profile that @xmath9 and @xmath10 are expected to convey . to overcome this difficulty we fix @xmath11 at @xmath94 , a value corresponding to the @xmath95 transition scale expected from cosmological simulations ( see wojtak et al .",
    "this implies that the anisotropy profiles approach their asymptotic values at some characteristic scales of radius , namely @xmath96 and @xmath97 .",
    "fixing @xmath11 reduces the dimension of the parameter space by one so that the analysis is based on the four - parameter phase space model specified by @xmath18 , @xmath17 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "our purpose is to calculate the posterior probability density and provide credibility regions in the parameter space .",
    "this involves numerical integrations of multivariate semi - gaussian functions that can be efficiently tackled with the markov chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) algorithm .",
    "the main idea of this approach is to construct a sufficiently long chain of models which are distributed in the parameter space according to the posterior probability density .",
    "once such a chain is provided , one can easily compute the marginal probability distributions by projecting all points on to an appropriate parameter subspace and evaluating the histograms .",
    "we construct the markov chains following the metropolis - hastings algorithm ( see e.g. gregory 2005 ) . in the first step of this algorithm one",
    "picks a trial point in parameter space @xmath98 by drawing from the so - called proposal distribution @xmath99 centred on the previous point of the chain @xmath100 .",
    "then the point @xmath98 is accepted with the probability equal to @xmath101 , where @xmath102 is the so - called metropolis ratio given by @xmath103 otherwise it takes the value of its predecessor , @xmath104 . in the case of a few parameter model",
    "the proposal probability density can be any function that roughly resembles the target posterior distribution . in our work",
    "we use a multivariate gaussian with a diagonal covariance matrix .",
    "the variances are calculated from short trial markov chains of about @xmath105 models , where our best initial guess for parameter variances is used .",
    "this approach is a simplified version of the scheme outlined in widrow , pym & dubinski ( 2008 ) .",
    "it is worth mentioning that the proposal distribution is symmetric , @xmath106 , so that the metropolis ratio is given by @xmath107 .",
    "an important issue of the mcmc analysis is a relative number of distinct points in the parameter space which is described by the so - called acceptance rate ( the average rate at which proposed models are accepted ) .",
    "a recommended value of this parameter for many - parameter models is around @xmath108 percent ( see e.g. gregory 2005 ) .",
    "we note that our choice of the proposal distribution keeps the acceptance rates of the resulting markov chains within this range .",
    "some additional modification of the proposal distribution is required in subsection 5.3 , where we consider a joint analysis involving @xmath109 parameters . in order to keep the acceptance rate at a desirable level all initial variances of the proposal distribution",
    "are scaled by @xmath110 ( see e.g. gelman et al .",
    "this correction prevents the acceptance rate from dropping , due to a large number of parameters in use , to a very low value of around 1 percent .",
    "when applying the mcmc algorithm , it is crucial to check whether the chains explore properly the parameter space , i.e. whether they possess the property often referred to as mixing . to save computing time",
    ", we decided not to create several chains for each data sample that is a commonly advised way to look for convergence .",
    "as an alternative , we follow two simple indicators of mixing .",
    "first , we calculate parameter dispersions in two halves of a given chain and within the whole chain .",
    "if the relative differences between them do not exceed 10 percent for each parameter , the chain is considered to be mixed .",
    "second , we monitor the variation of the posterior probability along the chains . unless the profiles of @xmath76 exhibit a long - scale tendency to grow or decline , the chain is again expected to be mixed .",
    "we note that the so - called burn - in part of the chains , when the first models gradually approach the most favoured zone of the parameter space , is not longer than 1 percent of the total length of the chains .",
    "all chains used in this analysis consist of @xmath111 models that is above the recommended minimum of @xmath112 ( dunkley et al . 2005 ) .",
    "one of the leading factors affecting the posterior probability is the limited number of data points . in order to study the impact of this effect we carried out the analysis of three theoretical phase space diagrams with @xmath70 , @xmath113 and @xmath114 points that correspond to a typical size of a data sample for a single nearby galaxy cluster ( the first number ) and to a compilation of @xmath115 of them ( the last two numbers ) .",
    "the diagrams were generated from a discrete representation of the full phase space distribution function with the following parameters of the anisotropy profile : @xmath116 , @xmath117 and @xmath44 .",
    "the phase space was sampled using the acceptance - rejection technique ( press et al .",
    "1996 ) in a manner described by kazantzidis , magorrian & moore ( 2004 ) .",
    "[ 1sig_3dia ] shows the @xmath118 credibility regions , i.e. the regions enclosing @xmath119 percent of the corresponding marginal probability , inferred from the mcmc analysis of the three theoretical diagrams . for the sake of simplicity",
    ", the parameters of the mass profile were rescaled by the true values .",
    "the best - fitting model for @xmath120 case is overplotted in solid lines on top of the smoothed contour map of the phase space density ( dashed lines ) in fig .",
    "[ 9k_cont ] . from fig .",
    "[ 1sig_3dia ] we conclude that typical relative errors of @xmath18 and @xmath17 from the analysis of a single phase space diagram with @xmath121 points are about 20 percent . on the other hand ,",
    "the corresponding constraints on the anisotropy parameters are very poor .",
    "the marginal distribution is so wide , particularly along @xmath10 , that it is expected to be sensitive to any kind of noise in the real data .",
    "anticipating the results of the following section we emphasize that the only way to reliably constrain the anisotropy profile is to increase the number of data points . in practice , this can be achieved in the joint analysis of at least @xmath122 independent diagrams ( @xmath113 data points ) , where one assumes a universal anisotropy profile . the result for @xmath123 in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ 1sig_3dia ] shows what we can expect from such analysis .",
    "we carried out the mcmc analysis of @xmath124 phase space diagrams of our mock data catalogue described in section 3 .",
    "the results are presented in the form of the maximum a posteriori ( map ) values of the parameters and the errors that correspond to the boundary of the @xmath118 credibility regions of the marginal distributions , i.e. the regions enclosing @xmath119 percent of the marginal probability .",
    "[ msrs_60 ] shows the results for the parameters of the mass profile , @xmath18 and @xmath17 . from the diagrams showing residuals , attached below the mains plots , we conclude that in half of the cases the relative errors do not exceed 25 percent",
    "( see the lines of the first and third quartile of the residuals ) . on the other hand ,",
    "around 15 percent of the results differ from the real values by more than 50 percent that can hardly be reconciled with the expectations from the effect of a shot noise . analyzing a few tens of theoretical phase space diagrams from subsection 4.3 with @xmath121 data points",
    "we find that residuals induced by a shot noise do not exceed 30 percent .",
    "this may suggest that the most outlying points in fig .",
    "[ msrs_60 ] are probably subject to non - negligible systematic errors .",
    "potential sources of these errors could include projection effects as well as those associated with internal structure .",
    "we looked for the influence of the shape of dark matter haloes and found no correlation between the accuracy of parameter estimates and the halo ellipticity or the alignment of the major axis with respect to the line of sight .",
    "= 7.8 cm    all markov chains can be easily transformed into the chains of models parametrized by the virial mass @xmath58 and the concentration @xmath125 .",
    "the resulting credibility ranges and the map values of these parameters are shown in fig .",
    "[ mvc_60 ] .",
    "we find that the scatter in residuals is comparable to the case where the scale parameters were used and the positions of the most discrepant points imply the presence of similar systematic errors .",
    "there is noticeable progress in the constraints on the concentration parameter in comparison to previous work based on modelling velocity moments ( sanchis et al .",
    "2004 ; okas et al .",
    "2006 ) . on the other hand",
    ", there is no convincing evidence for a similar improvement for the virial mass .",
    "the map values of the mass parameters typically underestimate the true values by 15 percent and 11 percent for the virial and scale mass respectively ( see the position of median lines in the diagrams showing residuals in figs .",
    "[ mvc_60 ] and [ msrs_60 ] ) .",
    "interestingly , a similar offset was reported by biviano et al .",
    "( 2006 ) for the virial mass estimated from the jeans analysis of velocity dispersion profiles .",
    "they suggested that this bias is related to the presence of interlopers infalling towards the cluster along filaments .",
    "due to relatively small velocities in the rest frame of a cluster , these objects can not be identified by any algorithm of interloper removal and , therefore , remain in the sample decreasing the velocity dispersion and the resulting virial mass .",
    "we think that a similar mechanism is likely responsible for the offset of our results .",
    "nevertheless , we emphasize that this bias is smaller than the statistical errors obtained in the mcmc analysis so that the overall effect is not statistically significant .",
    "it is a well known fact the concentration parameter is weakly correlated to the virial mass ( e.g. navarro et al .",
    "1997 ; bullock et al .",
    "this so - called mass - concentration relation is an imprint of the formation history and is therefore thought to be one of the predictions of the cosmological model .",
    "[ c - m_pers ] demonstrates the prospects of recovering this relation with our approach .",
    "each panel in this figure shows the results obtained for 20 phase space diagrams for a given direction of observation ( filled circles with error bars ) and the best power - law fit ( solid line ) . for comparison with the prediction of the @xmath0cdm model",
    ", we plot the true parameters of our 20 clusters ( open circles ) and with a dashed line the power - law fit to the mean mass - concentration relation for relaxed haloes simulated in the framework of wmap3 cosmology from macci , dutton & van den bosch ( 2008 ) .",
    "we find that , within errors , the empirical @xmath58-@xmath125 relation is consistent with a flat profile in all cases .",
    "for one projection ( top panel ) the slope deviates from the expected value of @xmath126 by more than two sigma .",
    "the normalization within the mass range under consideration does not exhibit any offset with respect to the prediction so that future determination of this quantity for real clusters seems to be feasible .",
    "this result is particularly important in the context of recently discussed inconsistency between the normalization from the simulations and observational constraints ( see e.g. comerford & natarajan 2007 ) .      fig .",
    "[ ani_60 ] shows the results of the mcmc analysis for the anisotropy parameters .",
    "since the phase space model is well - defined only within the virial sphere , we decided to replace the parameter @xmath10 with @xmath127 measured at @xmath128 which is the typical scale of the virial radius .",
    "this allows us to avoid extrapolation of the model beyond the virial sphere . for comparison",
    "the figure also shows in gray boxes the range of anisotropy values at @xmath129 and @xmath128 in two samples of clusters introduced is section @xmath130 which differ in steepness of their anisotropy profiles .",
    "the majority of results for @xmath9 are consistent with the true values .",
    "the errors are quite large , however , so they would not allow to distinguish between radially and tangentially biased anisotropy .",
    "we emphasize that all @xmath118 credibility ranges are clearly detached from the upper boundary of the prior probability , @xmath131 .",
    "this means that this limit is not artificial but is embedded in the phase space structure of an equilibrated system .",
    "the anisotropy at @xmath128 is poorly constrained .",
    "although there is a weak tendency for the results to cluster around the true values , most of them are shifted considerably upwards or downwards .",
    "an important circumstance responsible for this bias is the fact that the posterior probability distribution is so wide in the space of anisotropy parameters that it is sensitive to any irregularities in the phase space diagram .",
    "these irregularities often occur in the outermost part of the diagrams , mostly due to subclustering and the presence of small velocity interlopers from the outside of the virial sphere .",
    "the overall consequence is that the posterior probability is often perturbed in @xmath10 ( or @xmath127 ) and typically stable in @xmath9 .",
    "due to significant systematic errors of @xmath127 ( or @xmath10 ) , the constraints on the radial variation of the anisotropy for a single galaxy cluster are very weak . most probably this caveat can not be avoided in any approach aiming to determine the anisotropy profile of galaxies in a cluster ( see e.g. hwang & lee 2008 ) .",
    "the only possibility to obtain reliable constraints on the anisotropy profile is to increase the number of data points used in the analysis . in subsection 4.3",
    "we showed that a sample of @xmath113 data points is expected to provide conclusive results in this matter . when dealing with galaxy clusters , such increase in the amount of data",
    "can only be achieved at present by means of the joint analysis of several clusters ( @xmath132 clusters ) .",
    "an additional advantage of this approach is that all local irregularities of the phase space diagrams compensate each other minimizing systematic errors .    a common approach to carry out a joint analysis of several clusters consists of two stages .",
    "first , one merges all phases space diagrams with properly rescaled radii @xmath22 and velocities @xmath21 .",
    "as the units of phase space coordinates one most often uses the virial radius @xmath59 and the so - called virial velocity @xmath133 .",
    "then , assuming homology of the cluster sample , the resulting phase space diagram is reanalyzed in the framework of a model reduced by the parameters that were used to scale the radii and velocities .",
    "the final constraints obtained in this approach are thought to represent typical properties of galaxy clusters in a given sample ( e.g. van der marel et al .",
    "2000 ; mahdavi & geller 2004 ; okas et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "our approach differs from the above scheme in both respects .",
    "first , instead of merging many phase space diagrams we introduce the following generalization of the likelihood function ( [ like_1diagram ] ) for the joint analysis of @xmath134 phase space diagrams @xmath135 where @xmath136 and @xmath137 are respectively the reference number of a cluster and a data point of @xmath136-th phase space diagram .",
    "the likelihood as well as the posterior probability distribution are functions of @xmath138 parameters ( the parameter @xmath11 is fixed as discussed in subsection 4.1 ) .",
    "we assume that the two parameters of the anisotropy profile are common to all clusters so that the final result concerning both of them is expected to provide a typical variation of the anisotropy in a given cluster sample .",
    "our knowledge of @xmath139 and @xmath140 obtained in the previous analysis ( see fig .",
    "[ msrs_60 ] ) is incorporated in the prior probability .",
    "for the sake of maintaining the analytical form of the prior , we used the product of @xmath141 gaussian distributions centred at the map values of @xmath139 and @xmath140 .",
    "the dispersion of each gaussian was fixed at the dispersion of the corresponding marginal probability distribution .",
    "it is interesting to note that if we arbitrarily ignored the credibility region of the nuisance parameters @xmath139 and @xmath140 , our approach would be conceptually very similar to the case when all phase space diagrams are merged except that radii and velocities would be scaled by @xmath17 and @xmath142 .",
    "we analyzed two samples of clusters , with @xmath143 objects each , observed in three directions as described in section 3 .",
    "the samples separate the objects with distinctly rising anisotropy profiles from those with flat or moderately rising ones .",
    "this provides an opportunity to verify whether our approach is able to distinguish between these two cases . fig .",
    "[ ani_joint ] shows the @xmath118 credibility regions in the @xmath144 plane inferred from the markov chains of @xmath111 models .",
    "first , we notice that all results are consistent with the velocity dispersion tensor that is isotropic in the cluster centre and radially biased outside .",
    "second , the resulting anisotropy profiles are clearly steeper for clusters with rising anisotropy profiles ( top panel ) and flatter for the others ( bottom panel ) .    in order to check the radial variation of the anisotropy in fig .",
    "[ ani_prof ] we plot the @xmath118 credibility regions of its radial profiles .",
    "the resulting anisotropy effectively traces the true profiles ( solid lines ) within the radial range covering more than two orders of magnitude around @xmath17 .",
    "a local deviation from the true values occurs only once ( middle right panel for @xmath145 ) as a result of relatively low quality of this data sample ( see the results shown with asterisks in fig .",
    "[ ani_60 ] ) .",
    "since the constraints on @xmath9 are considerably tighter than on @xmath10 , statistical errors of local anisotropy typically increase with radius .",
    "nevertheless , it is still possible to distinguish between steeply rising ( left panels ) and flat ( right panels ) profiles .",
    "note that the accuracy achieved in this analysis is close to the upper limit , since statistical errors become comparable to the internal dispersion of the anisotropy profiles in the cluster samples ( see e.g. the bottom right panel of fig .",
    "[ ani_prof ] ) .",
    "still , one may still expect to improve the results and minimize systematic errors by adding more clusters .",
    "we have performed the bayesian analysis of mock phase space diagrams of galaxy clusters in terms of a fully anisotropic model of the phase space density . our approach allows to constrain parameters of the total mass profile , @xmath18 and @xmath17 , as well as the asymptotic values of the anisotropy profile , @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "the phase space model was designed to detect the radial variation of the anisotropy profile within a fixed distance range covering two orders of magnitude in radius around @xmath17 .",
    "the choice of this radial range is motivated by the results from cosmological simulations ( wojtak et al .",
    "2008 ) and our goal to avoid degeneracy between radial scales and the asymptotes of the anisotropy .",
    "parameters of the mass profile are determined in our approach with rather satisfying average accuracy of about 30 percent . on the other hand ,",
    "around 15 percent of the results are probably subject to systematic error and differ from the true values by @xmath146 percent .",
    "nevertheless , it is worth noting that the typical relative errors of 30 percent in the virial mass are comparable to the potential accuracy of mass determination from other methods , such as modelling of x - ray gas ( e.g. nagai , vikhlinin & kravtsov 2007 ) , analysis of velocity moments ( sanchis , okas & mamon 2004 ) or the standard virial mass estimator ( e.g. biviano et al .",
    "the constraints on the concentration parameter are however more reliable and tighter in comparison to the approach based on velocity moments ( sanchis , okas & mamon 2004 ; okas et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "we find that the scale mass @xmath18 and the virial mass @xmath58 tend to be underestimated on average by 11 and 15 percent respectively .",
    "it is very likely that this bias is caused by small velocity interlopers , as described in biviano et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , which are not tractable by algorithms for interloper removal and effectively decrease the velocity dispersion of a system .",
    "interestingly , a similar offset in the virial mass estimates is noticed in the analysis of mock x - ray data of clusters ( e.g. ameglio et al .",
    "2009 ; nagai et al .",
    "2007 ) . however , this happens probably incidentally , since these authors claim that their bias is due to the lack of hydrostatic equilibrium in the outer parts of clusters .",
    "the constraints on the anisotropy profile of a single cluster are barely conclusive .",
    "the reason for this is the presence of substructures at large clustercentric distances which gives rise to significant systematic errors of @xmath10 .",
    "the final effect is that , although the central asymptotic anisotropy is determined rather precisely , the overall constraint on the anisotropy profile is rather poor .",
    "this situation changes in the case of a joint analysis of several phase space diagrams .",
    "we find that it is then easy to obtain reliable constraints on the radial variation of the anisotropy within the radial range of two orders of magnitude around the scale radius @xmath17 .",
    "note that we adopted the phase space scaling that is consistent with the intrinsic parameters of the mass profile : @xmath18 and @xmath17 , in contrast to commonly used assumption that a sample of phase space diagrams is homologous with respect to scaling by the virial radius and virial velocity ( e.g. van der marel et al . 2000 ; okas et al .",
    "2006 ) .    in this work we demonstrated the potential and discussed the reliability of the analysis of kinematic data of galaxy clusters in terms of an anisotropic phase space density model .",
    "the method is able to provide robust constraints on the parameters of the total mass profile and the mean anisotropy profile .",
    "the results could certainly contribute to tests of the mass - concentration relation as well as improve constraints on the mean anisotropy profile of galaxy clusters ( e.g. van der marel et al .",
    "2000 ; biviano & katgert 2004 ; okas et al .",
    ". this will be the subject of a follow - up work where we analyze real kinematic data for a sample of @xmath147 nearby galaxy clusters .",
    "the simulations have been performed at the altix of the lrz garching .",
    "rw is grateful for the hospitality of institut dastrophysique de paris and astrophysikalisches institut potsdam where parts of this work were done .",
    "this work was partially supported by the polish ministry of science and higher education under grant nn203025333 as well as by the polish - german exchange program of deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft and the polish - french collaboration program of lea astro - pf .",
    "rw acknowledges support from the start fellowship for young researchers granted by the foundation for polish science .",
    "ameglio s. , borgani s. , pierpaoli e. , dolag k. , ettori s. , morandi a. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 479 an j. h. , evans n. w. , 2006 , apj , 642 , 752 ascasibar y. , gottlber s. , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 2022 baes m. , van hese m. , 2007 , a&a , 471 , 419 benatov l. , rines k. , natarajan p. , kravtsov a. , nagai d. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 427 binney j. , mamon g. a. , 1982 , mnras , 200 , 361 binney j. , tremaine s. , 2008 , galactic dynamics .",
    "princeton univ . press , princeton biviano a. , katgert p. , 2004 ,",
    "a&a , 424 , 779 biviano a. , murante g. , borgani s. , diaferio a. , dolag k. , girardi m. , 2006 , a&a , 456 , 23 bullock j. s. , kolatt t. s. , sigad y. , somerville r. s. , kravtsov a. v. , klypin a. a. , primack j. r. , dekel a. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 559 chanam j. , kleyna j. , van der marel r. , 2008 , apj , 682 , 841 cole s. , lacey c. , 1996 , mnras , 281 , 716 comerford j. m. , natarajan p. , 2007 ,",
    "mnras , 379 , 190 dejonghe h. , merritt d. , 1992 , apj , 391 , 531 den hartog r. , katgert p. , 1996 ,",
    "mnras , 279 , 349 dunkley j. , bucher m. , ferreira p. g. , moodley k. , skordis c. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 925 gelman a. , carlin j. b. , stern h. s. , rubin d. b. , 1995 , bayesian data analysis . chapman & hall , london gerhard o. , jeske g. , saglia r. p. , bender r. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 197 gregory p. c. , 2005 , bayesian logical data analaysis for the physical science .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge heisler j. , tremaine s. , bahcall j. n. , 1985 , apj , 298 , 8 hwang h. s. , lee m. g. , 2008 , apj , 676 , 218 jeffreys h. , 1946 , proc .",
    "soc . a , 186 , 453 kazantzidis s. , magorrian j. , moore b. , 2004 , apj , 601 , 37 kent s. m. , gunn j. e. , 1982 , aj , 87 , 945 okas e. l. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 697 okas e. l. , hoffman y. , 2001 , in spooner n. j. c. , kudryavtsev v. , eds , proc .",
    "3rd international workshop , the identification of dark matter .",
    "world scientific , singapore , p. 121 okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 155 okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 401 okas e. l. , wojtak r. , gottlber s. , mamon g. a. , prada f. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1463 macci a. v. , dutton a. a. , van den bosch f. c. , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1940 mahdavi a. , geller m. j. , 2004 , apj , 607 , 202 mamon g. a. , okas e. l. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 705 merrifield m. r. , kent s. m. , 1990 , aj , 99 , 1548 merritt d. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 121 merritt d. , saha p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 409 , 75 nagai d. , vikhlinin a. , kravtsov a. v. , 2007 , apj , 655 , 98 natarajan p. , kneib j .-",
    ", 1996 , mnras , 283 , 1031 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 press w. h. , teukolsky s. a. , vetterling w. t. , flannery b. p. , 1996",
    ", numerical recipes in fortran 77 .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge sanchis t. , okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , 2004 , mnras , 347 , 1198 schwarzschild m. , 1979 , apj , 232 , 236 solanes j. m. , salvador - sol e. , 1990 , a&a , 234 , 93 spergel d. n. , bean r. , dor o. et al .",
    ", 2007 , apjs , 170 , 377 van der marel r. , franx m. , 1993 , apj , 407 , 525 van der marel r. p. , magorrian j. , carlberg r. g. , yee h. k. c. , ellingson e. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 2038 van hese e. , baes m. , dejonghe h. , 2009 , apj , 690 , 1280 widrow l. m. , pym b. , dubinski j. , 2008 , apj , 679 , 1239 wilkinson m. i. , kleyna j. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. , 2002 , mnras , 330 , 778 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , 2007 , mnras , 377 , 843 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , gottlber s. , mamon g. a. , 2005 , mnras , 361 , l1 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , gottlber s. , prada f. , moles m. , 2007 , a&a , 466 , 437 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , gottlber s. , klypin a. , hoffman y. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 815"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new method of constraining the mass and velocity anisotropy profiles of galaxy clusters from kinematic data . </S>",
    "<S> the method is based on a model of the phase space density which allows the anisotropy to vary with radius between two asymptotic values . </S>",
    "<S> the characteristic scale of transition between these asymptotes is fixed and tuned to a typical anisotropy profile resulting from cosmological simulations . </S>",
    "<S> the model is parametrized by two values of anisotropy , at the centre of the cluster and at infinity , and two parameters of the nfw density profile , the scale radius and the scale mass . in order to test the performance of the method in reconstructing the true cluster parameters we analyze mock kinematic data for 20 relaxed galaxy clusters generated from a cosmological simulation of the standard @xmath0cdm model . </S>",
    "<S> we use bayesian methods of inference and the analysis is carried out following the markov chain monte carlo approach . </S>",
    "<S> the parameters of the mass profile are reproduced quite well , but we note that the mass is typically underestimated by 15 percent , probably due to the presence of small velocity substructures . </S>",
    "<S> the constraints on the anisotropy profile for a single cluster are in general barely conclusive . </S>",
    "<S> although the central asymptotic value is determined accurately , the outer one is subject to significant systematic errors caused by substructures at large clustercentric distance . </S>",
    "<S> the anisotropy profile is much better constrained if one performs joint analysis of at least a few clusters . in this case </S>",
    "<S> it is possible to reproduce the radial variation of the anisotropy over two decades in radius inside the virial sphere .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics  cosmology : dark matter </S>"
  ]
}