{
  "article_text": [
    "the quantum critical points ( qcp ) in itinerant magnets have being investigated during long time .",
    "moriya theory @xcite was first attempt to describe thermodynamic properties near qcp .",
    "this theory was further developed within hertz - millis renormalization group approach@xcite . in more than two dimensions hertz - moriya - millis approach",
    "predicts that the magnetic transition temperature @xmath2 depends on the distance @xmath3 to the qcp as @xmath4 . in two - dimensional systems ,",
    "the long - range magnetic order at finite temperatures is prohibited according to the mermin - wagner theorem , but the quantum phase transition is accompanied by vanishing of the temperature of the crossover to the regime with exponentially large correlation length ( renormalized - classical regime ) , @xmath5 .",
    "the applicability of hertz - moriya - millis ( hmm ) approach to magnetic systems was however recently questioned because of expected strong momenta- and frequency dependence of the paramagnon interaction vertices@xcite and possible non - analytical dependence of the magnetic susceptibility@xcite which arises due to strong electron - paramagnon interaction .",
    "studying the problem of quantum critical behavior of these systems in terms of fermionic degrees of freedom may be helpful to obtain concentration dependence of the crossover temperature and provide valuable information about their magnetic properties near quantum critical points .",
    "itinerant systems with van hove singularities in the electronic spectrum have strong momentum dependence of interaction vertices due to peculiarity of the electronic dispersion , and , therefore represent an interesting example for studying the quantum critical behavior . the competition of different kinds of fluctuations , and even long range orders is important in the presence of van hove singularities , which makes formulation of effective boson - fermion theories rather complicated . at the same time , fermionic approaches can treat naturally both , ( anti)ferromagnetic and superconducting fluctuations , which were considered to be important near magnetic quantum phase transitions in systems with van hove singularities in the electronic spectrum .",
    "the simplest mean - field analysis of the hubbard model is insufficient to study quantum critical behavior ; due to locality of the coulomb repulsion in this model it is also unable to investigate the range of existence of unconventional ( e.g. , d- or p - wave ) superconducting order , and introduction of the nearest - neighbor interaction is required in this approach@xcite . to study the competition of magnetism and superconductivity in the hubbard model , more sophisticated approaches , e.g. cluster methodslicht , jarrell and functional renormalization group ( frg ) approachesmetzner1,salmhon , salmhon1,kk were used .",
    "the frg approaches are not limited by the system ( cluster ) size and offer a possibility to study both , magnetic and superconducting fluctuations , as well as their interplay at weak and intermediate coupling .",
    "the frg approaches were initially applied to the paramagnetic non - superconducting ( symmetric ) phase to study the dominant type of fluctuations in different regions of the phase diagrammetzner1,salmhon , salmhon1,kk . although these approaches suffered from the divergence of vertices and susceptibilities at low enough temperatures near the magnetic or superconducting instabilities , comparing susceptibilities with respect to different types of order at the lowest accessible temperature provided a possibility to deduce instabilities in different regions of the phase diagram .",
    "in fact , the temperature where the vertices and susceptibilities diverge in the one - loop approach , is related to above discussed temperature @xmath6 of the crossover to the ` strong - coupling ' regime with exponentially large magnetic correlation length .    to access the region",
    "@xmath7 the combination of the frg and mean - field approach was proposed in ref .",
    "@xcite , which was also able to study possible coexistence of magnetic and superconducting order at @xmath8 ( the magnetic order parameter was assumed to be commensurate ) .",
    "more sophisticated frg approach in the symmetry - broken phase @xcite was developed recently to avoid application of the mean - field approach after the rg flow ; the application of this method was however so far restricted by the attractive hubbard model , because of complicated structure of the resulting renormalization group equations .",
    "so far only susceptibilities corresponding to spin and charge fluctuations with commensurate wavevectors , as well , as to superconducting fluctuations were carefully investigated . in the present paper",
    "we use the frg approach in the symmetric phase@xcite and perform an accurate analysis of temperature dependence of susceptibilities with respect to both , commensurate and incommensurate magnetic order , as well as superconducting order .",
    "we propose extrapolation method which allows us to study thermodynamic properties both above and below the temperature at which the frg flow is stopped , and extract the crossover temperature @xmath6 .",
    "this gives us a possibility to obtain phase diagram , capturing substantial part of the fluctuations of magnetic and superconducting order parameters without introducing symmetry breaking .",
    "contrary to the functional renormalization group analysis in the symmetry broken phase@xcite , the presented method can be easily generalized to study instabilities with different type of the order parameters .",
    "we consider the 2d @xmath9-@xmath10 hubbard model @xmath11 with @xmath12where @xmath13 for nearest neighbor ( nn ) sites @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 for next - nn sites ( @xmath17 ) on a square lattice ; for convenience we have shifted the chemical potential @xmath18 by @xmath19 .",
    "we employ the frg approach for one - particle irreducible generating functional and choose temperature as a natural cutoff parameter as proposed in ref .",
    "this choice of cutoff allows us to account for excitations with momenta far from and close to the fermi surface .",
    "neglecting the frequency dependence of interaction vertices , the rg differential equation for the interaction vertex @xmath20 @xmath21 has the form salmhon1 @xmath22where @xmath23 is a short notation for summations over intermediate momenta and spin , momenta @xmath24 are supposed to fulfill the momentum conservation law @xmath25@xmath26and @xmath27 is the fermi function .",
    "the upper signs in eq .",
    "( lphpp ) stand for the particle - hole ( @xmath28 ) and the lower signs for the particle - particle ( @xmath29 ) bubbles , respectively .",
    "( dv ) is solved with the initial condition @xmath30 ; the initial temperature is chosen as large as @xmath31 .",
    "the evolution of the vertices with decreasing temperature determines the temperature dependence of the susceptibilities according to @xcite @xmath32here the three - point vertices @xmath33 describe the propagation of an electron in a static external field , @xmath34 denotes one of the instabilities : antiferromagnetic ( af ) with @xmath35 incommensurate magnetic ( * q * ) with the wave vector @xmath36 , or d - wave superconducting ( dsc )  with @xmath37 ( upper signs and ph correspond to the magnetic instabilities , lower signs and pp to the superconducting instability);@xmath38    the initial conditions at @xmath39 for eqs .",
    "( [ dh ] ) are @xmath40 and @xmath41 , where the function @xmath42 belongs to one of the irreducible representations of the point group of the square lattice , e.g. @xmath43 for the magnetic instabilities and @xmath44 for the d - wave superconducting instability , with a normalization coefficient @xmath45 .    , @xmath46 , and different values of the chemical potential ( the list of the chemical potentials and fillings corresponds to the curves from top to bottom , the smallest @xmath47 corresponds to upper curve ) .",
    "dashed lines show the extrapolation of the inverse susceptibilities to the temperature region @xmath48 by polynomials of 6-th order , width=328 ]    , @xmath46 and the incommensurate wavevector determined by a maximum @xmath49 , dashed lines show the extrapolation to @xmath50 .",
    "dot - dashed line shows the inverse commensurate susceptibility at @xmath51 .",
    "the inset shows temperature dependences of the inverse susceptibility with respect to d - wave superconducting pairing at different values of the chemical potential , width=328 ]    to solve the eqs .",
    "( [ dv ] ) and ( [ dh ] ) we discretize the momentum space in @xmath52 patches using the same patching scheme as in ref .",
    "this reduces the integro - differential equations ( [ dv ] ) and ( [ dh ] ) to a set of 5824 differential equations , which were solved numerically . in the present paper",
    "we perform the renormalization group analysis down to the temperature @xmath53 at which vertices reach some maximal value ( we choose @xmath54 ) .    to obtain the behavior of the susceptibilities at @xmath55",
    "we extrapolate obtained temperature dependence of the inverse susceptibilities by fitting this dependence above ( but close to ) @xmath56 by polynomials of @xmath57-th to @xmath58-th order .",
    "we identify the crossover temperature @xmath59 to the regime of strong correlations of the order parameter denoted by @xmath34 from the condition that the extrapolated @xmath60 ( we assume that the susceptibilities are almost analytic functions of temperature in the crossover regime ) .",
    "we have checked that the obtained @xmath59 essentially depends on neither the order of polynomial , used for the fitting , nor on the fitting range .",
    "studying the behavior of @xmath59 as a function of electron density , interaction strength etc . allows us to obtain the phase diagram .",
    "we consider first small interaction strength @xmath46 and @xmath61 . for this value of @xmath10",
    "the ground state was previously found unstable with respect to antiferromagnetic order and/or superconductivity at the fillings close to van hove band fillingmetzner1,salmhon , salmhon1,kk .",
    "temperature dependences of the inverse antiferromagnetic susceptibility ( @xmath62 ) obtained in the present approach for different chemical potentials are shown in fig . 1 .",
    "one can see that for large enough chemical potential @xmath63 ( @xmath64 corresponds to van hove band filling ) , the inverse antiferromagnetic susceptibility monotonously decreases with decreasing temperature and vanishes at a certain temperature @xmath65 . the value of @xmath66 increases with increasing @xmath67 .",
    "study of susceptibilities at the incommensurate wave vectors ( see fig .",
    "2 ) shows that close to @xmath68 ( in the range @xmath69 ) we have @xmath70 for some @xmath71 .",
    "therefore an instability with respect to incommensurate , rather than a commensurate magnetic order is expected in this interval of @xmath18 . at @xmath72",
    "we obtain @xmath73 , which shows existence of a quantum critical point below half filling . near the quantum critical point",
    "we find @xmath74 , which is similar to the result of the hertz - moriya - millis theory@xcite .",
    "the behavior of the inverse susceptibility with respect to the @xmath75-wave superconducting order is shown in the inset of fig .",
    "2 . similarly to the inverse antiferromagnetic susceptibility , it monotonously decreases upon lowering temperature , with a different temperature dependence .     and @xmath46 . the temperatures of the crossover into regime with strong antiferromagnetic , incommensurate magnetic , and superconducting fluctuations are marked by squares , triangles and circles , respectively",
    ", ps denotes a possibility of phase separation of the antiferromagnetic case . dashed line ( stars )",
    "show the temperature @xmath76 , at which the frg flow is stoped , width=328 ]    the obtained phase diagram is shown in fig . 3 and contains antiferromagnetic , incommensurate magnetic and superconducting phases . away from half filling the commensurate antiferromagnetic order",
    "is expected to be unstable towards phase separation ( to hole - rich and hole pure regions)ps , although this possibility can not be verified in the present approach .",
    "the obtained value of @xmath77 monotonously increases with increasing density for @xmath78 .",
    "deeper in the antiferromagnetic phase the superconducting transition temperature is somewhat suppressed .",
    "the origin of this suppression comes from the competition between antiferromagnetic and superconducting fluctuations .",
    "the coexistence of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism , which is possible in the interval @xmath79 can not be verified in the present approach .",
    "the region of the incommensurate phase obtained in fig .",
    "3 is much narrower , than that expected in the mean - field approaches@xcite , which predict incommensurate instability in the most part of the phase diagram .",
    "in fact , accurate mean - field investigations@xcite show , that substantial part of incommensurate state in the mean - field approach is unstable towards phase separation into commensurate and incommensurate regions and therefore qualitatively agree with the renormalization group approach .",
    "the presence of incommensurate phases within the renormalization group approach was noticed previously for @xmath80 in ref .",
    "metzner1 .    the density dependence of @xmath81 and @xmath82 , obtained in fig .",
    "3 , is similar to that of the antiferromagnetic and superconducting gap components in the electronic spectrum , @xmath83 and @xmath84 , recently obtained within the combination of functional renormalization group approach and mean - field theory@xcite .",
    "slower decrease of @xmath82 when going into the antiferromagnetic phase in the present approach is explained by the fact that in the present approach magnetic and superconducting fluctuations are weaker coupled in the absence of spontaneous symmetry breaking , since the latter leads to opening a gap in the electronic spectrum at the fermi surface .",
    "contrary to the study of ref .",
    "@xcite we included incommensurate phases in our analysis .     and @xmath85 .",
    "the notations are the same as in fig .",
    "3,width=328 ]    , @xmath86 ( dot - dashed line ) and @xmath85 , @xmath87 ( solid line ) , @xmath88 .",
    "dashed line shows the standard @xmath89 dependence , width=328 ]    at @xmath85 we obtain similar behavior of the magnetic and superconducting susceptibilities near the quantum critical point ; the resulting phase diagram is shown in fig .",
    "4 . compared to the case @xmath46 , the phase diagram has broader region of the incommensurate phase .",
    "the crossover temperature into regime with strong superconducting fluctuations approximately follows that for the incommensurate fluctuations , implying that the superconductivity in this case is possibly caused by incommensurate spin fluctuations . to clarify this point , we plot in fig .",
    "5 the momentum dependence of the superconducting gap , obtained from the bethe - salpeter analysis@xcite .",
    "we see that the shape of the gap , calculated for @xmath85 shows",
    "stronger deviation from the @xmath75-wave form , than for @xmath90 which indicates possible role of the incommensurate fluctuations in this case .",
    "we have investigated temperature dependence of the commensurate and incommensurate magnetic susceptibilities , as well as the susceptibility with respect to the @xmath75-wave pairing in the frg framework , which allowed us to obtain the phase diagrams of the hubbard model at different @xmath91 we obtain an intermediate phase with strong incommensurate fluctuations between the commensurate and paramagnetic phases , the former is characterized by a wavevector @xmath92 the size of the incommensurate phase increases with increasing interaction strength .",
    "the tendency towards incommensurate order near magnetic quantum phase transition comes from the absence of nesting of the fermi surface at finite @xmath10 .",
    "the corresponding profile of static noninteracting spin susceptibility @xmath93 is however almost flat near @xmath62 ( see , e.g. ref .",
    "@xcite ) showing that one can not restrict oneself to fluctuations with only one certain @xmath94 as assumed in hmm theory . at the same time , the obtained size of the incommensurate phase is much narrower , than obtained in the mean - field approaches@xcite , which is explained by existence of a phase separation in both approaches .",
    "near the quantum critical point the inverse magnetic susceptibility with respect to the preferable order parameter shows in frg approach almost linear temperature dependence , similar to that in hmm theory .",
    "the electron - paramagnon interaction , not considered in the present study , may however change the critical behavior of the susceptibility . note that recently the incommensurate magnetic fluctuations were also considered within the renormalization - group approach for fermion - boson modelwetterich , where similar results were obtained .",
    "while the mermin - wagner theorem states no spontaneous breaking of continuos symmetry in two dimensions at finite @xmath95 , we have obtained finite temperature of vanishing inverse magnetic and superconducting susceptibilities , which is the consequence of the one - loop approximation , considered in eqs .",
    "( [ dv ] ) .",
    "as we argue in the introduction , the obtained temperatures @xmath59 should be considered as a crossover temperature to the regime with strong magnetic fluctuations and exponential increase of the correlation length .",
    "the patching scheme invoking the projection of the vertices to the fermi surface , used in the present renormalization group study , may have some influence on the phase diagram .",
    "we expect , however , that this influence does not modify the phase diagram strongly .",
    "this is confirmed by the recent two - loop study @xcite which necessarily includes corrections to the effect of the projection of vertices and shows that the effects of these corrections and the two - loop corrections to large extent cancel each other .",
    "the non - analytical corrections to the susceptibility and electron - paramagnon interaction vertices may become important near quantum phase transitionschub .",
    "these corrections are however expected to produce much weaker effect , than the effects of the band dispersion considered in the present paper .",
    "investigation of the role of these corrections in the presence of van hove singularities has to be performed .",
    "application of the method considered in the present paper to ferromagnetic instability and detail comparison of the results of the present approach with the mean - field approach and quasistatic approach of ref .",
    "@xcite also has to be performed .",
    "i am grateful to h. yamase for stimulating discussions and careful reading of the manuscript . the work is supported by grants 07 - 02 - 01264a and 1941.2008.2 from russian basic resarch foundation and by the partnership program of the max - planck society .",
    "a. v. chubukov , c. pepin , and j. rech , phys .",
    "lett . * 92 * , 147003 ( 2004 ) ; j. rech , c. pepin , a. v. chubukov , phys .",
    "b * 74 * , 195126 ( 2006 ) ; d. v. efremov , j. j. betouras , and a. v. chubukov , phys . rev .",
    "b * 77 * , 220401(r ) ( 2008 )    a. b. eriksson , t. einarsson , and s. stlund , phys . rev .",
    "b * 52 * , 3662 ( 1995 ) ; m. murakami , j. phys . soc",
    ". jpn . * 69 * , 4 ( 2000 ) ; b. kyung , phys .",
    "b * 62 * , 9083 ( 2000 ) ; a. p. kampf and a. katanin , phys . rev .",
    "b * 67 * , 125104 ( 2003 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the interplay of magnetic and superconducting fluctuations in two dimensional systems with van hove singularities in the electronic spectrum is considered within the functional renormalization group ( frg ) approach . while the frg flow has to be stoped at a certain minimal temperature @xmath0 , we study temperature dependence of magnetic and superconducting susceptibilities both , above and below @xmath1 , which allows to obtain the resulting ground state phase diagram . close to half filling the frg approach yields two quantum phase transitions : from commensurate antiferromagnetic to incommensurate phase and from the incommensurate to paramagnetic phase , the region of the commensurate magnetic phase is possibly phase separated away from half filling . </S>",
    "<S> similarly to results of hertz - moriya - millis approach , the temperature dependence of the inverse ( incommensurate ) magnetic susceptibility at the quantum phase transition from incommensurate to paramagnetic phase is found almost linear in temperature . </S>"
  ]
}