{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the key observable quantities for understanding the evolution of galaxies is the merger rate .",
    "this is defined as the number of galaxies which are merging per unit time , per unit volume , as a function of the history of universe .",
    "the merger rate , when known , reveals the ultimate importance of mergers within the galaxy formation process .",
    "previous papers in this series have explored this issue in great depth , and have derived the merger history in terms of the merger fraction evolution up to @xmath6 ( conselice et al . 2008 ; 2009a , b ) .",
    "these papers find that the merger fraction increases with higher redshifts , and largely flattens at roughly @xmath7 or so .",
    "the merger fraction is also non - neglectable , and in general between 2 - 6 major mergers occur per galaxy with stellar mass m@xmath4 since @xmath8 .",
    "this large uncertainty in the cumulative number of mergers is the result of uncertainties in the time - scale for the merger process .",
    "while it is relatively easy to measure the merger fraction , converting this into a merger rate requires knowledge of the time sensitivity of our methods for locating merging galaxies .",
    "for example , if a method of finding mergers was sensitive to long - lived features , such as outer tidal tails , then the merger fraction would be high .",
    "however , because the time - scale is also large in this case , the merger rate @xmath9 , would be the same if the process for measuring the merger fraction had a very short time sensitivity , as while merger fractions can differ , the merger rate must be the same if measuring the same process ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009b ) .    the major merger fractions and rates we measure in papers i - iii all use the cas system , which is well calibrated on nearby and high - redshift objects in various environments ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2000a , b ; conselice 2003 ; conselice et al .",
    "2003 ; conselice et al . 2005 ; conselice 2006a ; conselice et al . 2008 ; conselice et al .",
    "2009a , b ) . however , a major unknown factor is the time - scale sensitivity of the cas system within the major merger process .",
    "there have been several attempts to understand and calculate what this merger time - scale sensitivity is .",
    "the first attempt was carried out by conselice ( 2006a ) who measured n - body models of the merger process to determine how long a merging galaxy would be asymmetric enough to be considered a major merger .",
    "conselice ( 2006a ) calculated an average value of @xmath100.2 gyr .",
    "however , these n - body models are basic , and do not include star formation , dust , etc .",
    "which are all important factors in understanding and interpreting galaxy structure .",
    "more recently , lotz et al . ( 2008 ) examined elaborate galaxy mergers that include dust and star formation , and determined a merging time - scale for the cas method of between 0.4 and 1.2 gyr , depending on the orbital and initial conditions .",
    "while we have a rough range of cas time - scales , this factor of two to three uncertainty does not allow us to accurately measure the total number of mergers , or the merger rate , as a function of time .",
    "we also have the issue that these time - scales are all model dependent , and it remains possible that the actual merger time - scales are different , and possibly much longer .    in this paper",
    "we develop and utilise a new empirical method for measuring merger time - scales based on the evolution of the merger fraction at low redshifts .",
    "we have recently found that the merger fraction declines at redshifts @xmath11 , and we use this to obtain a minimum time - scale for detecting mergers . in conclusion , we find that the average cas merger time scale at @xmath12 is 0.6@xmath13 gyr for galaxies with stellar masses m@xmath4 .",
    "we furthermore use this value to argue that the minimum number of major mergers a galaxy with stellar mass m@xmath4 undergoes at @xmath1 is n@xmath14 .",
    "we also describe how our results constrain the orbital properties of mergers , as well as providing further evidence that our methods for locating mergers are not strongly biased by star formation .",
    "we use a standard cosmology of h@xmath15 km s@xmath16 mpc@xmath16 , and @xmath17 = 0.3 throughout .",
    "the basic method for measuring the merger time - scale consists of assuming that between two relatively close redshift bins , there are no additional mergers occurring ( we examine and revise this assumption later in this paper ) . based on this ,",
    "the decline in the observed merger fraction ( @xmath18 ) , which is simply the number of galaxies which match our cas profile for mergers ( @xmath19 , see papers i - iii ) divided by the total number of galaxies within the sample being examined ( @xmath20 ) , is as a function of redshift and stellar mass , given by :    @xmath21    as an example , at a redshift @xmath22 we observe a cas merger fraction of @xmath23 . at a redshift @xmath24",
    "we observe a cas merger fraction @xmath25 .",
    "if no new mergers occur between @xmath22 and @xmath26 , then the merger fraction @xmath27 .",
    "this is due to the fact that no new mergers are occurring , and we only witness passively evolving morphological structures .",
    "an observed decline in the merger fraction then results from galaxies which were asymmetric enough to be within the cas merger criteria , cooling morphologically to regular symmetrical systems .",
    "note that for this calculation we are only considering mergers which are detectable with cas . from n - body models and empirical observations",
    ", it appears that gas - rich major mergers are likely the majority of the types detected ( e.g. , conselice 2006 ; lotz et al .",
    "we furthermore make the assumption that all gas rich major mergers are detectable with cas ( see conselice et al . 2006 , 2009b ) .",
    "if we assume that within the population of asymmetric galaxies , the typical merger time - scale is @xmath28 , and that these asymmetric galaxies began their merger sensitivity evenly within the past @xmath28 years previous to @xmath29 , this implies that at @xmath22 there is a uniform probability that a given asymmetric galaxy started its merger process some - time in the past @xmath28 gyr .",
    "therefore after an amount of time @xmath30 a fraction of these systems will no longer be asymmetric enough to be counted as a merger .",
    "this number is given by :    @xmath31    where , as an extreme example , after the entire merger sensitivity time - scale has occurred ( i.e. , @xmath32 ) , there would remain no galaxies satisfying the merger criteria . after a time @xmath30 , which we take to be at the observed redshift range @xmath33 , the number of observable ongoing mergers is then ,    @xmath34    again",
    ", this assumes that there have been no additional mergers within the mass range of interest between @xmath22 and @xmath26 .",
    "if we divide this equation by @xmath35 we get    @xmath36    where we have assumed that the total number of galaxies has not significantly changed between redshifts . this equation",
    "can then be solved to find the value of @xmath28 ,    @xmath37    we note that this measurement of @xmath28 is a ` typical ' cas merger time - scale sensitivity - it is the sum over all merging systems in their various orbital configurations , dust content , star formation rates , inclination , etc . for a mixture of systems with different time - scales ,",
    "( 5 ) will tend to overestimate the average cas merger time - scale at a maximum of 20%-30% based on monte carlo simulations .",
    "( 5 ) also does not hold when there are mergers occurring between the two redshifts of interest .",
    "thus , we can not use equation ( 5 ) to measure merger time - scales when merging is ongoing .    the time - scale from eq . ( 5 ) does however apply to any distribution of galaxies , even if during a merger a galaxy is asymmetric at two or more distinct times .",
    "we test this by a monte carlo simulation of galaxies being asymmetric for two different times , and derive similar time - scales as for continuous mergers , using eq .",
    "the derived cas merger time - scale does increase slightly if the gap between when a galaxy remains asymmetric is @xmath3850% of the total merger time - scale , but this is a very unlikely scenario ( lotz et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "we also carry out a monte carlo simulation to determine how much influence a small ( 10% ) fraction of galaxies in our sample with long cas time - scales ( @xmath39 gyr ) would affect our results , finding no significant increase in the measured time - scale .",
    "however , simulations suggest that the range of time - scales differs by only a factor of 2 - 3 , and a wide time - scale distribution is an unlikely scenario .",
    "we however know that massive galaxies at @xmath1 still undergo some merging ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2008 ; bluck et al .",
    "2009 ) , even between two close redshifts .",
    "if we denote the fraction of galaxies which have begun to undergo a merger between @xmath22 and @xmath26 as @xmath40 then the time - scale @xmath28 can be measured as ,    @xmath41    where the value of @xmath40 needs to be determined independently of the change of merger fraction between @xmath22 and @xmath26 .",
    "we explore possible values for @xmath40 , although the value is unlikely to be higher than a few % at @xmath12 .",
    "this approach can be generalised by the fact that the value of @xmath40 depends on the merger rate , or the inverse merger rate per galaxy , @xmath42 , which is measured as @xmath43 , and the evolution of @xmath42 can be parameterised as a function of redshift ( conselice et al .",
    "2008 ; bluck et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "if we measure @xmath42 in units of 1 gyr , such that @xmath44 , then by considering the fraction of new mergers , which is @xmath45 , then the time - scale @xmath28 is :    @xmath46    where the value of @xmath47 is measured using a time - scale of 1 gyr .",
    "the values of @xmath42 in this paper are measured , in a slightly different way than previously , as the time between successive mergers .",
    "the value of @xmath42 we use in equation ( 7 ) is based on the merger fractions from conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) (  3 ) .",
    "the data we use for this paper originates from the study of merger fractions at @xmath48 , published by conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) .",
    "conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) find that the merger fraction drops steadily at @xmath1 , although the most rapid drop is seen at @xmath12 .",
    "this decline is found in both the extended groth strip ( egs ) and the cosmic evolution survey ( cosmos ) .",
    "this evolution is shown in detail in figure  7 of conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) , in which paper the values we use are also tabulated . in this paper",
    ", we use the individually measured merger fractions in both the cosmos and egs surveys , as well as the combination of the two surveys , to measure the merger fraction .",
    "we do not discuss the details of the calculation of the merger fraction , although this is described in great detail in conselice ( 2003 ) , conselice et al .",
    "( 2008a ) and conselice et al .",
    "( 2009a , b ) .",
    "an important aspect concerning our use of merger fractions within this paper is that they are measured within the same rest - frame wavelength , and in the same way , at different redshifts .",
    "our analysis first consists of examining how eq . ( 5 ) gives an upper limit on the merger time - scale .",
    "we later we utilise eq . ( 7 ) to measure the merger time - scale for our sample while accounting for any additional mergers that have occurred between @xmath22 and @xmath26 .",
    "we carry out our analyses by applying these two equations to various redshift bins of sizes @xmath49 = 0.1 .",
    "our resulting time - scales are the average values we find , while the error is the average error on these measurements , given uncertainties in the measured merger fractions .",
    "we also describe the scatter in these values at different redshifts .",
    "when we apply equation ( 5 ) to our data the maximum time - scale is @xmath50 gyr .",
    "that is , the maximum time for a cas asymmetry to last is roughly @xmath51 1 gyr .",
    "this is similar to the maximum time - scale found for cas mergers in n - body models by lotz et al .",
    "this reveals that any claims that the merger time - scale for cas assumed to date ( e.g. , conselice 2006a ; lotz et al .",
    "2008 ) are underestimated by more than a factor of 2 - 3 can not be correct .",
    "we now utilize the fact that even when the merger fraction is declining there are still ongoing mergers between different redshifts , which will raise the merger fraction , and thus result in an overestimated merger time - scale using eq .",
    "we use equation ( 7 ) to calculate the likely true merger time - scale , through an examination of the merger rate per galaxy , or the time between mergers , given by @xmath42 .    using equation ( 7 ) the computed merger time - scale ranges between 0.3@xmath3 gyr and 0.9@xmath520.3 gyr , with an average value of @xmath53 . in general , we find that the computed merger time - scale is lower at lower redshifts between @xmath54 and @xmath55 within the combined egs and cosmos samples .",
    "the values we calculate are roughly similar to what n - body models of the merger process find is the time - scale for cas sensitivity ( e.g. , conselice 2006a ; lotz et al .",
    "our measurement of merger times is thus likely correct , given the consistency of independent methods .    our merger time - scale measurement is smaller by roughly a factor of two compared to the results of kitzbichler & white ( 2008 ) , who calculate merger time - scales for pairs based on semi - analytical simulations .",
    "our merger time - scale is also shorter than other predictions based on semi - analytical models of merging dark matter halos ( e.g. , boylan - kolchin , ma & quataert 2008 ) , suggesting that the implementations of merging time - scales in these models are off by at least a factor of two ( see also e.g. , conroy et al .",
    "2007 ; bertone & conselice 2009 ) .",
    "one important caveat about this measurement of the merger time - scale is that we can not assume that it applies at earlier times , particularly in the early universe at @xmath56 when galaxies were more gas rich than they are today . in principle , the method used in this paper can be applied at higher redshifts , but will require more accurate measures of the merger fraction than that provided by the available data ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "future large surveys with wfc3 on hubble will potentially allow this measurement to be made at @xmath57 .",
    "the implications of this result can be obtained by integrating the merger rate per galaxy over time to obtain the number of major mergers a galaxy undergoes since @xmath58 .",
    "we assume in this calculation that the efficiency of detection for major mergers is 100% ( see conselice 2006 , 2009b ) .",
    "the number of major mergers is then given by :    @xmath59    where @xmath60 is the hubble time , and @xmath61^{-1/2}$ ] = @xmath62 . using our average time - scale of 0.6@xmath3 gyr , we find that the total number of mergers occurring since @xmath63 is @xmath64 . this number is reduced to @xmath65 mergers if we use the maximum time - scale of @xmath66 gyr .",
    "these numbers are similar to what we calculate in previous papers in this series ( conselice et al .",
    "2009b ) , and even in early work where the merger history at @xmath11 was uncertain ( conselice et al . 2003",
    "; conselice 2006a ) . however , this is the first completely empirical method for measuring the merger history at @xmath1 , without recourse to models .    to 105 mm     to @xmath67 for galaxies with stellar masses m@xmath4 for two merger time - scale : @xmath68 gyr and @xmath66 gyr .",
    "the shaded area shows the likely range of possible merger histories , with a range from 0.5 major mergers to a single major merger at @xmath1 .",
    ", width=321 ]    [ sample - figure ]    this implies that massive galaxies with stellar masses m@xmath4 , undergo a relatively high number of average major mergers at @xmath1 .",
    "most of this merging ( @xmath51 80% ) occurs at @xmath69 ( figure  1 ) .",
    "this shows that the major merger process is indeed still occurring , albeit at a reduced rate , for these massive systems within the last half of the age of the universe .",
    "we however still do not know for certain what the mass sensitivity of the cas system is , although n - body models suggest that it is only sensitive to mergers which are 1:3 or greater .",
    "we use this to calculate how much mass these galaxies potentially grow by due to these mergers .",
    "if the average cas merger is sensitive to a 1:2 major merger , then an average massive galaxy with m@xmath4 will grow by roughly 50% since @xmath63 .",
    "this is similar to the results found by conselice et al .",
    "( 2007 ) who calculated the likely amount of merging in massive galaxies at @xmath70 based on changes in the mass function , finding a very similar answer of 0.9@xmath71 major mergers since @xmath72 , after removing contributions from star formation ( conselice et al . 2007 ) .",
    "these results also agree with our previous measures based on merger time - scales calculated from n - body models of the merging process .",
    "we find roughly the same number of mergers , as described in conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) , when using time - scales calculated through n - body models from lotz et al .",
    "( 2009 ) .",
    "while the results we have discussed and presented thus far concern the derived merger history , we can also use our empirically measured time - scales to determine the likely average physical conditions of the mergers themselves .",
    "this is done by comparing the time - scale we calculate to the merger - time scales measured through n - body models of equal mass galaxy mergers from lotz et al .",
    "lotz et al . have calculated the time - scale for merging as a function of orbital parameters , and in terms of initial conditions , such as bulge / disk ratio , and gas mass fraction . a large fraction of the differences in lotz et al .",
    "( 2008 ) time - scales is due to the orbital parameterisation as one of : prograde - prograde ( sbcpp ) , prograde - retrograde ( sbcpr ) , retrograde - retrograde ( rr ) , or prograde - polar ( sbcpol ) .",
    "we determine the average merging conditions for galaxies within our sample up to @xmath11 , assuming that orbital time - scales of the lotz et al .",
    "( 2008 ) major merger models are representative of lower mass ratio mergers .    the time - scale for the cas method within lotz et al .",
    "( 2008 ) ranges from 0.2 gyr to 1.5 gyr .",
    "the shorter time - scales are for galaxy mergers which are not dominated by gas , and have sub - parabolic orbits , which tend to produce faster merger time - scales .",
    "the longest time - scales occur for galaxies in the sbcrr model , with a merger time - scale of nearly @xmath73 gyr ( lotz et al .",
    "2008 ) . based on our time - scale measurement",
    ", we can rule out that the average merger at @xmath11 is a retrograde - retrograde merger .",
    "because of their short time - scales , we can also rule out a rapid merger history in sub - parabolic orbits .",
    "in fact , the only simple orbital orientation that matches our average value of the merger time scale of @xmath74 gyr is the prograde - prograde orientation , which has a cas merger time - scale in lotz et al . of @xmath75 .",
    "the best matching orbital configuration , in comparison to our findings , is the sbcpp model , the sbcppr- model and the sbcr model .",
    "the sbcppr- model is a prograde - prograde merger with a small peri - centric distance , while the sbcr model is a merger with a highly radial orbit with a prograde - retrograde orientation .",
    "this reveals that a typical merging galaxy at @xmath11 is likely a prograde - prograde merger .",
    "however it remains possible , or even likely , that other merger types are occurring , but these can not dominate the merger process .      in this final subsection",
    "we address the question of whether the asymmetry criteria for locating mergers could be significant affected by star formation events .",
    "while it has been shown through using the clumpiness index ( conselice 2003 ) , and a comparison between asymmetries and distorted kinematics ( conselice et al . 2000b ) , as well as visual estimates of mergers ( conselice et al . 2005 ) , that ultra - high asymmetries correlate with merging galaxies , we provide further evidence here based on the asymmetry time - scale .",
    "we argue this based on the fact that the merger time - scale is roughly @xmath76 gyr , and is no higher than @xmath77 gyr at @xmath1 . if the asymmetric regions in these galaxies were due to star forming complexes , they would last no longer than a few tens of myr , as the ages of star formation regions are typically no older than 10 - 30 myr ( e.g. , palla & galli 1997 ) .",
    "thus , within roughly half a gyr , these star forming regions would no longer be distinct from the rest of the galaxy , and as such would not stand out when measuring asymmetries .",
    "we conclude that it is unlikely for star formation to be the cause of the very high asymmetries we attribute to merging galaxies .",
    "it is possible that star formation re - occurs throughout our time - scale , but the drop in the star formation rate is faster than the derived merger fraction , suggesting the two are not coupled .",
    "for example , baldry et al .",
    "( 2005 ) find that the star formation rate declines from 0.15 yr@xmath16mpc@xmath78 at roughly @xmath79 to @xmath80 yr@xmath16mpc@xmath78 at @xmath81 . while conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) find that the merger fraction declines from @xmath82 at @xmath63 to @xmath83 at @xmath55 . while the star formation rate declines by at least a factor of ten , the merger fraction drops by a factor of three .",
    "we have made the first empirical measurement of the time - scale for mergers within the cas system , based on the detailed merger fraction evolution described in conselice et al .",
    "( 2009b ) .",
    "these merger fractions are taken from the extended groth strip and cosmos surveys , and constitute @xmath2 galaxies with stellar masses m@xmath4 .",
    "our major result is that the time - scale for cas mergers at @xmath11 is between 1.1 gyr and 0.3 gyr .",
    "our best estimated time - scale is @xmath53 gyr , which gives the total number of mergers occurring at @xmath1 as n@xmath5 , similar to previous work based on n - body simulation time - scales , and from changes in the mass density of galaxies at @xmath11 ( conselice et al .",
    "we calculate that , on average , a galaxy with stellar mass m@xmath4 will increase its stellar mass by 50% due to these mergers .",
    "this time - scale also rules out the possibility that star formation is the cause of asymmetries seen in galaxies , as our observed time - scales are over an order of magnitude too long to be produced by single star formation events .",
    "the fact that there is a good agreement between empirically derived merger time - scales and those based on galaxy merger simulations suggests that we are beginning to understand the role of mergers within galaxy evolution . while in the local universe roughly 70% of galaxies with masses m@xmath4 are disks , the majority of these contain large bulges , and very few are pure disks ( e.g. , conselice 2006b ) .",
    "likely , some of these massive galaxies are undergoing more evolution than others , and it is possible that some of the more clustered systems , such as ellipticals are more likely to undergo more than one merger at @xmath1 , which would also help explain the increase in sizes for these galaxies ( e.g. , trujillo et al . 2007 ; buitrago et al . 2008 ) .",
    "these results show that mergers are an important part of the galaxy formation process at @xmath1 , when most galaxies appear to have morphologies similar to today ( e.g. , conselice et al . 2005 ) . applying this methodology to higher redshifts",
    "will prove more challenging , due to the active ongoing evolution of these systems at early times , and the likelihood that some fraction will undergo more than a single merger .",
    "this can be probed in the future when large area surveys for galaxy mergers at @xmath7 are carried out .",
    "i thank the referee , patrik jonsson , for his comments which significantly improved this paper .",
    "i also thank asa bluck and russel white for useful conversations on these topics , and support from the stfc .",
    "99 baldry , et al .",
    "2005 , mnras , 358 , 441 bertone , s. , conselice , c.j .",
    "2009 , mnras , arxiv:0904.2365 bluck , a.f.l . ,",
    "conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bouwens , r.j . , daddi , e. , dickinson , m. , papovich , c. , yan , h. 2009 , mnras , 394 , 51l boylan - kolchin , m. , ma , c .- p . ,",
    "quataert , e. 2008 , mnras , 383 , 93 buitrago , f. , trujillo , i. , conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bouwens , r.j . , dickinson , m. , yan , h. 2008 , apj , 687 , 61l conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "jangren , a. 2000a , apj , 529 , 886 conselice , c.j . , bershady , m.a . ,",
    "gallagher , j.s .",
    "2000b , a&a , 354 , 21l conselice , c.j .",
    "2003 , apjs , 147 , 1 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "dickinson , m. , papovich , c. 2003 , aj , 126 , 1183 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "blackburne , j. , papovich , c. 2005 , apj , 620 , 564 conselice , c.j .",
    "2006a , apj , 638 , 686 conselice , c.j .",
    "2006b , mnras , 373 , 1389 conselice , c.j . , et al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 381 , 962 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "rajgor , s. , myers , r. 2008 , mnras , 386 , 909 ( paper i ) conselice , c.j . ,",
    "arnold , j. 2009a , mnras , arxiv:0904.4250 ( paper ii ) conselice , c.j . , yang , c. , bluck , a.f.l .",
    "2009b , arxiv:0812.3237 ( paper iii ) conroy , c. , ho , s. , white , m. 2007 , mnras , 379 , 1491 kitzbichler , m.g . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    "2008 , mnras , 391 , 1489 lotz , j.m .",
    ", jonsson , p. , cox , t.j . , primack , j.r .",
    "2008 , mnras , 391 , 1137 palla , f. , galli , d. 1997 , apj , 476 , 35l trujillo , i. , conselice , c.j .",
    ", bundy , k. , cooper , m.c . , eisenhardt , p. , ellis , r.s .",
    "2007 , mnras , 382 , 109"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> understanding the role of mergers in galaxy formation is one of the most outstanding problems in extragalactic astronomy . </S>",
    "<S> while we now have an idea for how the merger fraction evolves at redshifts @xmath0 , converting this merger fraction into merger rates , and therefore how many mergers an average galaxy undergoes during its history , is still uncertain . </S>",
    "<S> the main reason for this is that the inferred number of mergers depends highly upon the time - scale observational methods are sensitive for finding ongoing or past mergers . </S>",
    "<S> while there are several theoretical and model based estimates of merger times , there is currently no empirical measure of this time - scale . </S>",
    "<S> we present the first observationally based measurement of merger times utilising the observed decline in the galaxy major merger fraction at @xmath1 based on @xmath2 galaxies in the extended groth strip and cosmos surveys . using a new methodology described in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we are able to determine how long a galaxy remains identifiable as a merging system within the cas system . we find a maximum cas major merger time - scale of 1.1@xmath3 gyr at @xmath1 , and a most likely cas merger time - scale of 0.6@xmath3 gyr , in good agreement with results from n - body simulations . </S>",
    "<S> utilizing this time - scale we are able to measure the number of major mergers galaxies with masses m@xmath4 undergo at @xmath1 , with a total number n@xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> we further show that this time - scale is inconsistent with a star formation origin for ultra - high asymmetries , thereby providing further evidence that structural methods are able to locate mostly merging galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution , formation , structure , morphology , classification </S>"
  ]
}