{
  "article_text": [
    "globular clusters are touchstones of astrophysics.galaxies .",
    "the oldest of them witnessed the formation and early evolution of their host galaxies and of their substructures , and their study has historically coloured the different scenarios of galaxy formation .",
    "however , as a collective population in a galaxy , they present unsolved problems .",
    "in particular their origin is not firmly established despite the large amount of work devoted to the analysis of correlations among their observable properties .",
    "it has long been realised that part of the difficulty arises from sheer dynamical evolution undergone by these objects since the time of their formation . indeed , any star cluster is the subject of a long list of erosive mechanisms that operate at different rates depending on the cluster s location and orbit within the galaxy , and on its initial mass ( @xcite , @xcite ) .    related to these difficulties , the search for a",
    " second parameter \" , beyond metallicity , to explain the distribution of stars along the horizontal branch , has met with a limited success .",
    "@xcite suggested that the halo globular clusters break down into two groups according to their horizontal - branch properties : the two groups have different ages , kinematics and radial distributions .",
    "@xcite found that an age difference can explain different horizontal - branch morphologies at a given metallicity . but",
    "@xcite , following the seminal work by @xcite on the impact of stellar mass loss on the horizontal - branch morphology , has shown that considering @xmath0-element enhancement and metallicity - dependent mass loss along the red - giant phase produces similar effects .",
    "on the other hand @xcite have found that globular clusters with extended horizontal branch are more massive than normal clusters and are dominated by random motions with no correlation between kinematics and metallicity .",
    "multivariate analyses have been performed by @xcite who find that more concentrated clusters have bluer and longer horizontal - branch , and by @xcite who find that more massive clusters have a horizontal branch that extends to higher temperatures .",
    "we can point to several reasons why previous studies have not been completely successful .",
    "for example , empirically separating the clusters into disc and halo populations solely on the basis of one parameter ( metallicity ) can not be satisfactory , as the environment at birth must influence other cluster parameters .",
    "this was already recognized by @xcite , who combined metallicity and kinematics to establish two major groups ( halo versus bulge / disk ) .",
    "the properties of the horizontal branch have been used , but its usual characterisation by the parameter hbr = ( b - r)/(b+v+r ) is also unsatisfactory . in this respect ,",
    "the parameter @xmath1 ( maximum effective temperature on the horizontal branch ) introduced by @xcite is a welcome innnovation as shown in the present paper .",
    "the classical paradigm describing globular clusters as fairly simple systems of coeval stars of homogeneous chemical composition has been seriously challenged recently , and this may bring a crucial piece to the puzzle .",
    "one fundamental characteristic of these systems is their metallicity [ fe / h ] ( identified as the so - called  first - parameter \" ( @xcite ) ) that is generally inferred from their integrated photometric colours , and that varies strongly from cluster to cluster ; in our galaxy , globular clusters have [ fe / h ] ranging between @xmath2 -2.2 and 0 ( @xcite ) .",
    "spectroscopy reveals that , within individual clusters , stars present very homogeneous contents in fe , but also in @xmath3 and s - elements , indicating that protoclusters formed from gas pre - enriched in heavy metals ( @xcite ) .",
    "this is in agreement with the predictions of quantitative models that rule out stochastic self - enrichment in most globular clusters as a significant contributor to their heavy metals , leaving pre - enrichment as the dominant contributor to metallicity [ fe / h ] ( @xcite ) .",
    "however globular cluster stars exhibit extremely scattered light - element ( li , f , c , n , o , na , mg , and al ) contents that are not seen among their field counterparts ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "this points to early internal chemical evolution ( i.e. , self - enrichment ) in the globular cluster driven by first - generation massive and fast evolving stars which polluted with their hydrogen - burning products ( among which helium in very important quantities ) the intracluster gas out of which second generation stars formed ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "recent findings of double or even multiple stellar populations in the colour - magnitude diagrams of several globular clusters , as well as the complexity of the horizontal branch morphology ( namely the wide colour distribution , i.e. , effective temperature , of the stars presently burning helium in their core ) constitute further evidence for internal evolution ( @xcite ) .",
    "all these features can indeed be related to the presence of a second generation of he - enriched stars .",
    "importantly , the star formation history depicted by these features seems to vary from cluster to cluster ( @xcite ) in a way which is still far from being understood .",
    "however we have now firm evidence that galactic globular clusters have undergone internal chemical evolution and complex star formation histories during their infancy that shaped their properties and in particular their present total mass ( @xcite ) .",
    "this new paradigm has opened a novel route for a better understanding of the origin and history of globular clusters .",
    "it thus appeared to us that a multivariate analysis which simultaneously takes into account any cosmic variance due to evolving physical conditions and groups objects according to environment of formation would be very valuable .",
    "cladistics provides such a methodology .",
    "it differs from other clustering analyses in that it focuses on evolution within and between groups rather than on similarities between objects ( @xcite ) .",
    "cladistics is very commonly used in evolutionary biology and has been pioneered in astrophysics by @xcite and successfully applied to the dwarf galaxies of the local group ( @xcite ) .",
    "this paper presents a multivariate analysis based on the method of cladistics of a large sample of galactic globular clusters . after presenting the data and the method of analysis ( sect .",
    "[ data ] ) , we describe the three groups found by the cladistic analysis ( sect .",
    "[ 3groups ] ) , and discuss two important results , evidence for self - enrichment ( sect .",
    "[ enrichment ] ) and a possible luminosity - metallicity relation ( sect .  [ mv - fe ] ) .",
    "we then compare the properties of the three groups with those of galactic halo field stars ( sect .  [ comp ] ) , before proposing a scenario for the formation of the three groups ( sect .",
    "[ origin ] ) .",
    "the choice of parameters is a crucial step in any multivariate analysis . @xcite",
    "have shown that the manifold of galactic globular cluster properties has a dimension larger than 4 , but that a subset of parameters linked to morphology and dynamics forms a three - dimensional family . including properties of the stellar populations ( e.g. a horizontal - branch parameter or metallicity ) will increase the manifold by 1 or 2 dimensions ( @xcite ) . finally , using a large number of photometric and structural parameters",
    ", @xcite found that 4 eigenvectors account for 79% of the total sample variance .",
    "taking advantage of this indication , we selected the following four parameters for analysis : relative ages , metallicity ( [ fe / h ] ) , absolute v magnitude ( @xmath4 ) , and maximum effective temperature ( @xmath1 ) on the horizontal branch .",
    "the age parameter is related to the secular evolution of the stellar populations .",
    "[ fe / h ] reflects the chemical composition of the environment when and where globular clusters formed and is the  first parameter \" for the horizontal branch morphology @xmath4 is a structural parameter that measures the present total baryonic mass of the globular clusters of globular clusters in the milky way spans a vast range ( @xmath5 , @xcite ) , and reflects a large mass range ( @xmath6 , @xcite ) . ] .",
    "finally @xmath1 is a measure of both the pristine chemical composition of the protocluster ( [ fe / h ] being the first parameter ) and of the helium enrichment during early internal chemical evolution , since stars with higher helium content are expected to reach higher effective temperatures on the horizontal branch ( @xcite ) .",
    "the last three quantities describe truly intrinsic properties of globular clusters .",
    "as the age parameter evolves in all clusters , it can not be used to classify them at the same level as the other three parameters .",
    "we thus gave it a lower weight in the cladistic analysis ( see appendix a ) .",
    "we performed our analysis using the large sample ( 54 objects ) of @xcite based on homogeneous hubble space telescope photometry .",
    "we used the @xmath1 values obtained uniformly from this database by @xcite , as well as the relative ages and @xmath4 values they adopted ( i.e. , taken respectively from @xcite and the 2003 on - line revision of @xcite ) .",
    "we did not include more parameters in the cladistic analysis as we preferred to avoid the unwanted effect of redundancies , which give more weight to correlated parameters .",
    "note also that we did not use any kinematical information in the cladistic analysis .",
    "however we used other parameters _ a posteriori _ to characterize the different groups found by the cladistic analysis : the radial velocities and structural parameters were taken from the 2003 on - line revision of @xcite , the orbital parameters from @xcite . in this respect , the distinct orbital properties of group 3 found a posteriori ( see  3 ) are independent of the methodology .",
    "more recent age estimation was published by @xcite after most of this project was completed , but for only 35 out of 54 globular clusters of our sample . using these produces an inhomogenous data set , from different sources , relying on different values of fe / h .",
    "the ages of @xcite have been determined from colour - magnitude diagrams and values of fe / h which are different from those of @xcite .",
    "@xcite themselves point out the importance of using a homogeneous set of fe / h to derive the ages .",
    "nevertheless , it is instructive to perform analyses using both sets and compare the results , so as to determine how sensitive they are to the specific choice of parameter values .",
    "one then has the problem of combining two sets of ages , and it is not obvious how this should be done .",
    "it turns out that 9 out of 11 globular clusters that calibrate relative ages of @xcite are in common with @xcite , and using the relative ages of @xcite for these 9 globular clusters gives a mean value of 1.0055 instead of 1.00 , which is fine .",
    "however , comparing the ages of all the globular clusters in common suggests a non - linear systematic effect , which should perhaps be taken into account .",
    "furthermore , we can not simply convert each set of relative ages to absolute ages with the zero - point of each set , because the two zero - points are rather different ( 11.2gyr for @xcite and 12.8gyr for @xcite ) .",
    "we thus simply used the relative ages without any attempt at homogenizing them , and the zero - point of one author for all ages .",
    "this additional analysis is compared to the main one in sect .",
    "[ addanal ] .",
    "the multivariate analysis was performed using the method of cladistics . in short ,",
    "the method works as follows .",
    "one first builds a matrix with values of the four parameters for each clusters .",
    "the values must be discretized , and the number of bins ( here 10 ) depends on the resolution one wants for the analysis .",
    "one then chooses a cluster which represents the most unevolved state , in the present case the metal - poorest cluster ( ngc 6934 ) , and the software classifies all the other clusters in order of increasing diversification of properties ( in other words , by increasing distance in the manifold of parameters ) .",
    "clusters which are diverging from the original cluster in the same direction are put on the same branch .",
    "we refer to appendix a and @xcite for more details on the principles of the method .",
    "the main result of our analysis is presented in the form of a tree structure , a usual form of representation in graph theory .",
    "the properties of the sample can be read from the structure of the tree shown on fig .",
    "[ treefig ] .",
    "the tree has been rooted with group 2 which has the lowest metallicity on average , and as such is supposedly made of more primitive ( or `` ancestral '' ) material .",
    "the tree divides into three main branches , which define three groups with quite distinct properties .",
    "age increases roughly monotonically along each branch , as expected .",
    "there are some subbranches sharing similar values of the adopted parameters , such as ngc 5904 , 2808 , 6388 and 6441 , and which set them apart in the four - dimensional space of parameters , implying that they might in fact belong to a fourth small group with properties similar to those of group 1 .",
    "specialists will immediately remark that the latter three clusters indeed share peculiar properties , in particular a very helium - rich stellar population ( @xcite ) .",
    "we emphasize that the helium abundance is not one of the parameters included in the cladistic analysis : it thus must influence one way or another the four parameters used in the analysis .",
    ".properties of the three groups of globular clusters .",
    "no age estimate is available for ngc 6139 , 6229 , 6304 , 6388 , 6441 , 6569 and 6642 .",
    "the middle part of the table gives the correlations : + means a correlation , - means an anticorrelation , x no correlation .",
    "the orbital properties presented in the lower part of the table are only available for a subset of each group .",
    "numbers in brackets are rms dispersions [ cols= \" < ,",
    "< , < , < \" , ]",
    "it is generally assumed that the galaxy assembled in a hierarchical fashion from collapsing haloes of dark matter ( @xcite . small proto - galactic clumps formed first , from initial small - scale density fluctuations , and collapsed in a dissipationless way ( because their gas was quickly consumed or blown away ) , or else they merged and grew in size to form larger clumps which spiralled toward the inner regions of the galaxy by dynamical friction and experienced a dissipational collapse .",
    "this scenario , or variants of it , first proposed by @xcite and verified by cosmological simulations(@xcite ) , has repeatedly been invoked to explain the properties of the galactic globular clusters and of the stellar halo .",
    "furthermore , cosmological simulations have shown that globular clusters can form in the densest regions of collapsing subhaloes of dark matter and giant molecular clouds , when the clouds reach a critical density and are under a high external pressure .",
    "the mass distribution function of the clusters is similar to that of the clouds ( @xcite ) .",
    "it has often been proposed that some clusters , in particular those identified as young halo clusters by @xcite , which tend to be in the outer halo and counter - rotating , were formed by accretion and disruption of satellite galaxies .",
    "but the chemical homogeneity of the halo , as well as substantial differences in chemical composition between field stars in the halo and dwarf spheroidal galaxies , argue against the accretion scenario ( @xcite ) .",
    "the properties of our three groups of clusters can be interpreted in the following way , without resorting to an external origin for any of the groups :     the clusters of the outer halo ( group 2 ) formed during the initial dissipationless collapse of the proto - galaxy , from material already polluted by earlier generations of stars , but not well homogenized and thus inhomogeneous in @xmath0-elements .",
    "contrary to the outer halo stars , they lost their initial average retrograde rotation by dynamical friction and gravitational encounters .",
    "as suggested by the referee , this group could also have originated in some `` pregalactic dwarfs '' ( i.e. metal - poor , gas - rich satellites that soon afterward began hierarchical merging ) .     the clusters of the inner halo ( group 1 ) formed later , during the dissipational phase of galactic collapse , which continued in the halo after the formation of the thick disc and its globular clusters . since the formation of group 1 occurred later , the molecular clouds from which they formed had time to grow by accretion of smaller clumps .",
    "these clouds were already enriched at the same level in @xmath0-elements .",
    "thanks to the strong potential well in the clusters ( as evidenced by their high central velocity dispersions ) , the he - rich ejecta of first generation massive stars were not blown away and found their way into a more strongly helium - enriched second generation of stars , favouring the production of hot horizontal - branch and cepheid stars .    ",
    "as indicated by their short range in age ( 1.5 gyr , see fig .",
    "[ age_fe2fig ] ) , the disc clusters ( group 3 ) formed in a more rapid fashion than the two other groups , before many clusters of group 1 .",
    "this could presumably be due to the higher densities and external pressure in the thick disc .",
    "this group shows significant average prograde rotation , because the dissipational collapse of the disc conserved angular momentum .",
    "the metal - poor disc clusters seem to rotate more slowly and have larger eccentricities and inclinations than the metal - rich disc clusters .",
    "since there is no significant age difference between the two subgroups , we assume that the metal - poorer clusters formed further away from the galactic plane , and thus retained a larger vertical velocity component .",
    "paired t - tests were performed with the vostat software ( http://vo.iucaa.ernet.in/  voi / vostat.html ) .",
    "we thank asis chattopadhyay for advice .",
    "we would like to thank the referee , w. harris , for his constructive comments and suggestions .",
    "bailin j. , harris w.e .",
    ", 2009 , apj 695 , 1082 bekki k. , chiba m. , 2001 , apj 558 , 666 bertschinger e. , 1998 , araa 36 , 599 brodie j.p .",
    ", strader j. , 2006 , araa 44 , 193 ( astro - ph/0602601 ) buchanan b. , collard m. , 2008 , journal of archaeological science 35 , 1683 caloi v. , dantona f. , 2008 , apj 673 , 847 carretta e. , 2006 , aj 131 , 1766 ( astro - ph/0511144 ) carretta e. , recio - blanco r. , gratton r.g . et al . , 2007 ,",
    "apj 671 , l125 carollo d. , beers t.c . ,",
    "lee y.s . ,",
    "et al . , 2007 , nature 450 , 1020 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3005 ) casetti - dinescu d.i . ,",
    "girard t.m . , herrera d. , van altena w.f . ,",
    "lopez c.e . ,",
    "castillo d.j . , 2007 , aj 134 , 195 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3438 ) clement c.m . , muzzin a. , dufton q. , et al . , 2001 , aj 122 , 2587 dantona , f. , caloi v. , 2008 , mnras 390 , 693 ( astro - ph/0209331 ) dantona , f. , caloi , v. , montalbn , j. , ventura , p. , gratton , r. , 2002 , a&a 395 , 69 ( astro - ph/0209331 ) de angeli f. , piotto g. , cassisi s. , busso g. , recio - blanco a. , salaris m. , aparicio a. , rosenberg , a. , 2005 , aj 130 , 116 decressin , t. , charbonnel , c. , meynet , g. , 2007 , a&a , 475 , 859 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4160 ) dekel a. , silk j. , 1986 , apj 303 , 39 dinescu d.i . , girard t.m . , van altena w.f",
    "lopez c.e . , 2003 , aj 125 , 1373 ( astro - ph/0212279 ) dinescu d.i . ,",
    "girard t.m . , van altena w.f . ,",
    "1999 , aj 117 , 1792 djorgovski s. , meylan g. , 1994 , aj 108 , 1292 dotter a. , 2008 , apj 687 , l21 fraix - burnet , d. , in _ evolutionary biology .",
    "concept , modelization and application_. pontarotti , p. ( ed . ) , springer , in press fraix - burnet d. , choler p. , douzery e.j.p .",
    ", verhamme a. , 2006a , journal of classification , 23 , 31 - 56 ( astro - ph/0602581 ) fraix - burnet d. , douzery e.j.p . ,",
    "choler p. , verhamme a. , 2006b , journal of classification , 23 , 57 - 78 ( astro - ph/0602580 ) fraix - burnet d. , choler p. , douzery e.j.p .",
    ", 2006c , a&a , 455 , 845 - 851 ( astro - ph/0605221 ) frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m . , 1980 ,",
    "mnras 193 , 295 fusi pecci f. , ferraro f.r . , bellazini m. , et al . , 1993 aj 105 , 1145 fusi pecci f. , bellazini m. , buzzoni a. , et al .",
    ", 2005 , aj 130 , 554 geisler d. , wallerstein g. , smith v.v .",
    ", casetti - dinescu d.i . , 2007 ,",
    "pasp 119 , 939 gnedin o.y . ,",
    "ostriker j.p . , 1997 , apj 474 , 223 ( astro - ph/9603042 ) goloboff p.a . , mattoni c.i . ,",
    "quinteros a.s . , 2006 , cladistics 22 , 589 gratton r.g . , carretta e. , desidera s. , et al . , 2003 , a&a 406 , 131 ( astro - ph/0305358 ) harris , w. , 1996 , aj 112 , 1487 ( http://physwww.physics.mcmaster.ca/@xmath2harris/mwgc.dat , 2003 on - line revision ) harris w.e",
    ". , whitmore b.c . , karakla d. , okon w. , baum w.a . , hanes d.a . , kavelaars j.j",
    ". , 2006 , apj 636 , 90 harris w. , 2001 , saas - fee advanced course 28 .",
    "lecture notes 1998 swiss society for astrophysics and astronomy .",
    "carney b.w .",
    ", harris w.e .",
    "( eds ) , springer harris , w. , 2009 , apj in press ( arxiv:0904:4208 ) james g. , franois p. , bonifacio p. , carretta e. , gratton r.g . , spite f. , 2004 , .",
    "427 , 825 ( astro - ph/0408330 ) .",
    "kravtsov a.v , gnedin o.y . , 2005 , apj 623 , 650 ( astro - ph/0305199 ) lee y - w .",
    ", gim h.b .",
    ", casetti - dinescu d.i . , 2007 ,",
    "apjl 661 , l49 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0486 ) maddison w.p . ,",
    "maddison d.r . , 2004 , mesquite : a modular system for evolutionary analysis , version 1.05 ( http://mesquiteproject.org ) marn - franch a. , aparicio a. , piotto g. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj 694 , 1498 mclaughlin d.e .",
    ", van der marel r.p .",
    ", 2005 , apjs 161 , 304 mieske s. , jordn a. , ct p. , et al . 2006 , apj 653 , 193 milone a. p. , bedin , l. r. , piotto , g. , et al . , 2008 , a pj 673 , 241 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3762 ) morrison h.l . , harding p , perrett k , hurley - keller d. , 2004 , apj 603 , 87 piotto g. , 2009 , iau symp .",
    "258 ( in press ) , astro - ph/0902.1422 prantzos n. , charbonnel c. , 2006 , a&a 458 , 135 pritzl b.j .",
    ", venn k.a . , irwin m. , 2005 , aj 130 , 2140 ( astro - ph/0506238 ) pumo m.l . , dantona f. , ventura p. , 2008",
    ", apj 672 , 25 ( http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0235 ) recio - blanco a. , aparicio a. , piotto g. , de angeli f. , djorgovski s.g . , 2006 , a&a 452 , 875 ( astro - ph/0511704 ) rey s .- c . ,",
    "yoon s .- j . ,",
    "lee y .- w .",
    ", 2001 , aj 122 , 3219 rood r.t . , 1973 , apj 184 , 815 searle l. , zinn r. , 1978 , apj 225 , 357 stephens a. , boesgaard a.m. , 2002 , aj 123 , 1647 swofford d. l. , 2003 , paup * : phylogenetic analysis using parsimony ( * and other methods ) , sinauer associates , sunderland , massachusetts ( http://paup.csit.fsu.edu/ ) thuillard m. , fraix - burnet d. , 2009 , evolutionary bioinformatics 5 , 33 ( http://fr.arxiv.org/abs/0905.2481 ) van den bergh s. , 1967 , aj 72 , 70 venn k.a . , irwin m. , shetrone m.d . , et al .",
    "aj 128 , 1177 ( astro - ph/0406120 ) wallerstein , g. , 2002 , pasp 114 , 689 wiley e.o . , siegel - causey d. , brooks d.r .",
    ", funk v.a . _",
    "the compleat cladist : a primer of phylogenetic procedures_. the university of kansas , museum of natural history special publication n@xmath7 19 , 2007 zinn r. , 1985 , apj 293 , 424 zinn r. , 1993 , _ the globular cluster - galaxy connection _ , asp conf .",
    "multivariate clustering methods compare objects with a given measure and then gather them according to a proximity criterion .",
    "distance analyses are based on the overall similarity derived from the values of the parameters describing the objects .",
    "the choice of the most adequate distance measure for the data under study is not unique and remains difficult to justify a priori .",
    "the way objects are subsequently grouped together ( this is called the linkage ) is also not uniquely defined .",
    "cladistics uses a specific measure that is based on characters ( a trait , a descriptor , an observable , or a property , that can be given at least two states characterizing the evolutionary stages of the object for that character ) and compares objects in their evolutionary relationships . here , the `` distance '' is an evolutionary cost .",
    "groupings are then made on the basis of shared or inherited characteristics , and are most conveniently represented on an evolutionary tree .",
    "character - based methods like cladistics are better suited to the study of complex objects in evolution , even though the relative evolutionary costs of the different characters is not easy to assess .",
    "distance - based methods are generally faster and often produce comparable results , but the overall similarity is not always adequate to compare evolving objects . in any case , one has to choose a multivariate method , and the results are generally somewhat different depending on this choice ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "however , the main goal is to reveal a hidden structure in the data sample , and the relevance of the method is mainly provided by the interpretation and usefulness of the result . in the present paper , the use of cladistics is justified a priori by the evolutionary nature of globular clusters , and a posteriori by the strong astrophysical significance of the grouping found .    in astrophysics , cladistics",
    "has already been applied to galaxies because they can be shown to follow a transmission with modification process when there are transformed through assembling , internal evolution , interaction , merger or stripping ( @xcite ) . for each transformation event ,",
    "stars , gas and dust are transmitted to the new object with some modification of their properties . for globular clusters , interactions and mergers",
    "are probably rare .",
    "it was previously thought that once they assembled , only the stellar ageing would affect their properties .",
    "nowadays , we have firm evidence that internal evolution can create another generation of stars , and clusters can lose mass .",
    "basically , the properties of a globular cluster strongly depend on the environment in which it formed ( chemical composition and dynamics ) , and also on the internal evolution which includes at least the ageing of its stellar populations . to compare globular clusters ,",
    "it is thus necessary to take into account the different stages of evolution of both the objects and their environments of formation . since the clusters form in a very evolving environment ( evolution of the universe and the dynamical environment of the parent galaxy )",
    ", the basic properties of different clusters are related to each other by some evolutionary pattern . in particular , the dust and gas from which the stars of the globular clusters form have been `` polluted '' ( enriched in heavy elements ) by more ancient stars , being field stars or belonging to other globular clusters .",
    "this results in a kind of transmission with modification process , which justifies a priori the use of cladistics .",
    "it must be clear that this is not a `` descent with modification '' in the sense that there is no replication .",
    "but evolution does nevertheless create diversity .",
    "we are dealing with phylogeny ( relationships between species ) , not with genealogy ( relationships between individuals ) . since a multivariate classification of globular clusters",
    "is not yet available , we assume in the present work that each cluster represents a `` species '' that will have to be defined later on .    as our work on galaxies has shown us , it is important to remove parameters that are redundant . since",
    "previous studies of the manifold of galactic globular clusters have shown that 4 parameters are sufficient to describe their diversity , we selected 4 parameters , 3 of which are intrinsic characteristics of the environment of formation .",
    "the fourth one , age , is particular in the sense that it does not inform on the conditions when the clusters formed , and is not discriminant for clustering because it evolves similarly for any cluster ( parallel evolution ) .",
    "however , age is useful to rank the clusters within each group . consequently , we applied to age a weight half that of the other three parameters .",
    "in addition , a stepmatrix was employed to impose the irreversibility constraint on the age parameter ( age can only increase ) .",
    "in contrast to multivariate distance methods , undocumented values are not a problem in cladistics analyses . this is why the seven galaxies that have no age determination ( see fig.[age_fe2fig ] and table  [ tableprop ] ) have not been excluded in our work .    in this paper , we use parsimony as the optimisation criterion .",
    "this works as follows .",
    "one first builds a matrix with values of the four parameters for all clusters .",
    "the values for each parameter are discretized into 10 bins representing supposedly evolutionary states .",
    "discretization of continuous variables is quite a complex problem , especially in the evolutionary context ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the choice of the number of bins can not be made in a simple objective way . here , we took equal - width bins , and considered a compromise between an adequate sampling of continuous variables and the uncertainties on the measurements . the first constraint is given by the software ( 32 in this case )",
    "the second one would a priori give a lower limit of something like total range / uncertainty , but shannon s theorem would multiply this by 2 . hence , 10 bins would account for about 20% measurement errors , which is rather large , but @xcite do not provide precise error estimates , especially for logte .",
    "even so , border effects always imply that some objects could belong to a bin or its neighbour , a process that add some more artificial noise .",
    "the best way to avoid this effect is to make several analyses with different number of bins and check that the result does not depend on this number .",
    "we have done this for 3 , 5 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 15 and 20 , and the result is identical , to at most one misplaced cluster , for numbers higher than 8 . for 3 ,",
    "no structure is found , and for 5 bins the groups are not well defined .",
    "then , all possible arrangements of clusters on a tree are constructed , and using the discretized matrix , the total number of state changes is computed for each tree .",
    "the most parsimonious tree is finally selected .",
    "if several such trees are found , then a consensus ( strict or majority rule ) tree is built .",
    "the whole procedure is computerised since the number of arrangements is here very large .",
    "the result is a diversification scenario that should be confronted to other knowledge and parameters .",
    "maximum parsimony heuristic searches were performed using the paup*4.0b10 ( @xcite ) package .",
    "the results were interpreted with the help of the mesquite software ( @xcite ) .    the tree presented in fig .",
    "1 is a majority rule consensus tree of 20000 trees , the strict consensus tree showing exactly the same three groups but with group 1 and 2 slightly less resolved . to further assess the robustness of the tree , it was not possible to make bootstrapping due to the irreversibility constraint on the age parameter , and it would not have been very significant with only 4 parameters .",
    "we performed other analyses using only 3 parameters , excluding the age .",
    "they all gave essentially the same three groups , but they were individually slightly less resolved , as expected .",
    "all these convergences yield strong confidence on the tree shown in fig .",
    "1 . in the end ,",
    "the most important point is the astrophysical interpretation we are able to give of the results .    on fig .",
    "1 , the tree is rooted with group 2 as an outgroup .",
    "this is not strictly necessary in cladistics , and we find here the same three groups whatever the root chosen or even on the unrooted tree .",
    "but we know that a low metallicity is an ancestral state for stars in general , this is why we have chosen group 2 a posteriori because it has a homogeneously low metallicity ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we perform an evolutionary multivariate analysis of a sample of 54 galactic globular clusters with high - quality colour - magnitude diagrams and well - determined ages . </S>",
    "<S> the four parameters adopted for the analysis are : metallicity , age , maximum temperature on the horizontal branch , and absolute v magnitude . </S>",
    "<S> our cladistic analysis breaks the sample into three novel groups . </S>",
    "<S> an _ a posteriori _ kinematical analysis puts groups 1 and 2 in the halo , and group 3 in the thick disc . </S>",
    "<S> the halo and disc clusters separately follow a luminosity - metallicity relation of much weaker slope than galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> this property is used to propose a new criterion for distinguishing halo and disc clusters . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison of the distinct properties of the two halo groups with those of galactic halo field stars indicates that the clusters of group 1 originated in the inner halo , while those of group 2 formed in the outer halo of the galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the inner halo clusters were presumably initially the most massive one , which allowed the formation of more strongly helium - enriched second generation stars , thus explaining the presence of cepheids and of very hot horizontal - branch stars exclusively in this group . </S>",
    "<S> we thus conclude that the  second parameter \" is linked to the environment in which globular clusters form , the inner halo favouring the formation of the most massive clusters which subsequently become more strongly self - enriched than their counterparts of the galactic outer halo and disc .    [ firstpage ]    </S>",
    "<S> globular clusters : general  galaxy : formation  galaxy : evolution  galaxy : halo  method : statistical </S>"
  ]
}