{
  "article_text": [
    "observations of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) radiation have enormous power to address fundamental questions in cosmology . primary temperature and polarization anisotropies in the cmb provide a unique view of the primordial plasma , while secondary anisotropies yield information about the structures that have formed in the universe ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ". measurements of cmb anisotropy are the main scientific motivation for the south pole telescope ( spt ) .",
    "the sunyaev - zeldovich ( sz ) effect , in which cmb photons are scattered by hot , intracluster electrons @xcite , is a potentially powerful tool for finding clusters at high redshift ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "a sufficiently sensitive sz cluster survey can produce a large , nearly mass - limited sample of clusters .",
    "follow - up measurements of photometric redshifts will then allow determination of the cluster abundance as a function of redshift .",
    "this is a sensitive probe of structure formation , capable of providing strong constraints on the amplitude of density fluctuations and on the density and equation of state of dark energy ( @xcite ) . on small angular scales ( @xmath1 ) ,",
    "cmb temperature anisotropies are expected to be dominated by the sz effect .",
    "a measurement of the angular power spectrum of this signal will yield constraints on @xmath2 and @xmath3 that are complementary to those from a cluster survey ( @xcite ) .",
    "measurements of the b - mode polarization anisotropy of the cmb probe the gravitational wave background generated during inflation ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "this is an important test of inflation theories , but the situation is complicated because gravitational lensing of the intrinsic cmb polarization by large - scale structure also generates b - mode polarization .",
    "unraveling the signals will require measurements over a wide range of angular scales ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the lensing polarization signal is interesting in its own right .",
    "it is another probe of the growth of large - scale structure , so it can also provide constraints on the equation of state of dark energy , curvature and the neutrino masses ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the measurements of the cmb necessary to achieve these science goals involve imaging large areas of sky with high sensitivity at millimeter wavelengths .",
    "the best bolometer detectors in this band are already close to sky - noise limited ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , the spt aims to improve sensitivity by increasing the number of background - limited detectors , observing at the best site , and minimizing systematic errors . as discussed in @xcite ,",
    "the key performance features of the spt are :    \\(1 ) @xmath4 arcmin beamwidth , to resolve the sz effect from galaxy clusters .",
    "this requires an @xmath5 m diameter or larger telescope at @xmath6 mm .",
    "the spt has a @xmath7 m primary with @xmath8 m rms surface error to facilitate future submillimeter observations .",
    "\\(2 ) low scattering , to reduce detector loading and reduce potential systematic errors such as scan - synchronous offsets due to ground pick - up .",
    "this leads to an offset optical design with smooth mirrors to reduce scattering and ground shields to control spillover .",
    "the secondary mirror is cooled to @xmath9k and surrounded by cooled absorbing baffles to limit scattered light and loading on the detectors .",
    "\\(3 ) many detectors with a wide field of view , so we can quickly map large areas of sky .",
    "an sz survey must cover a large area of the sky to yield enough clusters to set useful constraints on dark energy .",
    "the spt has a 966-pixel bolometer array receiver operating in the 3 , 2 and 1.3 mm atmospheric windows .",
    "this provides spectral discrimination against galactic foregrounds and radio and infrared extragalactic sources , and allows us to separate cmb and sz signals .",
    "\\(4 ) high sensitivity , because cmb signals are weak .",
    "the amplitude of the sz effect from massive galaxy clusters is typically tens to hundreds of @xmath10k ; the amplitudes of the cmb polarization and fine - scale temperature anisotropies are much weaker .",
    "the spt uses transition edge sensor ( tes ) bolometer detectors with a noise equivalent temperature ( net ) of @xmath11k@xmath12 ( in cmb  temperature units ) at @xmath13 mm .",
    "it is located at the amundsen - scott south pole station , which is one of the best millimeter and submillimeter wave sites on earth .    in section  [ site ] of this paper ,",
    "we review the south pole site .",
    "sections  [ optics ] and [ telescope ] describe the design and performance of the optics and telescope , respectively .",
    "section  [ receiver ] contains an overview of the receiver . in section  [ observations ]",
    "we describe our observing strategy .",
    "conclusions are presented in section  [ conclusions ] .",
    "the south pole is a high , dry site with exceptional atmospheric transparency and stability at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths . in winter , the median precipitable water vapor is @xmath14 mm ( @xcite ) and the zenith opacity at @xmath13 mm is @xmath15 .",
    "the median brightness fluctuation power at @xmath13 mm is @xmath16 mk@xmath17 rad@xmath18 in cmb temperature units ( @xcite ) .",
    "this is at least an order of magnitude better than other established terrestrial sites ( @xcite ) .",
    "temperatures can fall to @xmath19 c in winter , which places severe constraints on the design of exposed components , but weather conditions are otherwise fairly benign . the average pressure altitude in winter is 3300 m ( cf .",
    "2800 m physical altitude ) .",
    "light ( @xmath20 m s@xmath21 ) katabatic winds blow from the east antarctic plateau most of the time ( @xcite ) , and high winds are rare .",
    "the peak recorded wind speed is only @xmath22 m s@xmath23 .",
    "snow accumulation is @xmath24 mm yr@xmath25 but local drifting around surface structures is a problem , so most buildings are elevated .",
    "the ice pack is over 2 km thick and it moves @xmath26 m yr@xmath27 transport to the south pole is via lc130 aircraft , which can carry @xmath28 kg of cargo .",
    "access is only possible between about 1st november and 14th february of each year .",
    "air transportation and the short annual construction season are unique and challenging constraints to fielding instruments at the south pole .",
    "the spt ( see figure  [ telescopepicture ] ) is an offset classical gregorian design .",
    "we chose this because : ( 1 ) the unblocked aperture minimizes noise and ground pickup , which is a serious problem for observations of faint , low - contrast emission such as the cmb ; ( 2 ) a gregorian configuration provides an image of the primary for a chopper or lyot stop for future receivers ; ( 3 ) the secondary in a gregorian design is concave , which makes testing of the mirror easier ; and ( 4 ) the paraboloidal primary of the classical form allows us to change the focal length of the secondary for future receivers .",
    "an aplanatic design offers a wider field of view ( @xcite ) but the focal length of the secondary can not be changed much and the focal surface is more curved .",
    "the optical configuration of the spt is unusually simple because the detectors are at the gregory focus ( see figure  [ opticslayout ] and @xcite ) .",
    "there are just 2 mirrors ( primary and secondary ) and a lens ( to make the final focus telecentric and improve the illumination of the secondary ) .",
    "this scheme gives low loss , scattering and instrumental polarization , and makes alignment easy .",
    "the field of view is roughly @xmath29 degrees and is limited mainly by coma .",
    "the primary has a 10 m diameter aperture with a focal length of 7 m. prime focus is 300 mm below the bottom of the primary .",
    "this arrangement gives a reasonable compromise between aberrations , ease of manufacture , and the size of the secondary support structure .",
    "millimeter - wave telescopes usually have a chopping mirror that quickly scans or switches the beam to freezeatmospheric and gain fluctuations .",
    "a chopping secondary is sometimes used , but telescopes with a wide field of view usually have a flat chopping mirror at an image of the primary .",
    "the image of the primary just after a gregorian secondary is a common choice .",
    "wide field designs favor a fast secondary , to keep the size of the focal plane reasonable , but this gives a poor image of the primary and increases chop - synchronous offsets .",
    "for the spt , we decided to abandon a chopper in favor of rapidly scanning the entire telescope .",
    "this works for the low - impedance tes bolometers and frequency domain readout in our receiver , but could be a problem for semiconductor bolometers , which are typically sensitive to vibration from the telescope drives . avoiding",
    "a chopper was an important choice because it allowed us to make the gregory focus fast enough to feed the detectors directly .",
    "the spt receiver has wafers of detectors mounted behind a close - packed array of smooth - wall , conical feedhorns .",
    "the spacing between horns is 4.8 mm , which gives reasonable separation between the 4 mm diameter pixels on the detector wafers and provides space for the readout wiring . for optimum coupling to a point source , the horn aperture diameter should be @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the final focal ratio ( @xcite ) . for @xmath13 mm",
    "the @xmath32 telescope optics are well matched to the horn apertures .",
    "the fast final focus moves the receiver close to the secondary , which increases the mass of the secondary support structure .",
    "in addition , the small secondary magnification means the mirror must be tilted through a large angle to compensate aberrations ( @xcite ) .",
    "this requires that the receiver be located close to the beam from the primary .",
    "the receiver - to - beam clearance is a fairly severe constraint in the spt design , but it is difficult to avoid without adding mirrors .    to control the illumination pattern of the primary",
    "while keeping loading low , the optical system must include a cold stop .",
    "the spt optical design does not have a good image of the primary for a stop , so we moved the exit pupil to the secondary and surrounded the mirror with cold absorber .",
    "the absorber extends from the secondary to prime focus , and also into the receiver , so it functions both as the stop and as a shield around the beam . in this scheme",
    ", the obvious place for a cryostat window is near prime focus , where the beam is small .",
    "the large cold stop at the secondary does require additional cryogenics , and the primary must be a little larger because it is no longer the entrance pupil .",
    "the key advantage is good control of spillover because the entire beam from prime focus to the detectors is contained inside a cold , absorbing box .    with the exit pupil at the secondary",
    ", there is a trade - off between the size of the secondary and the size of the primary ( @xcite ) .",
    "a smaller secondary , and hence smaller receiver - to - secondary spacing , results in a larger shift of the illumination on the primary with field angle , so the primary must be made larger .",
    "this is expensive and it pushes the design towards a larger secondary . for the spt , we chose a 1 m secondary , for which standard machining techniques can achieve @xmath26 @xmath10 m rms surface error .",
    "the primary must then be 1 m oversize , which fits with our 10 m aperture and our requirement for a 1 arcmin beam to resolve the sz effect from clusters of galaxies at @xmath13 mm .",
    "the focal plane of a gregorian telescope is curved , so we added a lens just in front of the detectors to make the final focus telecentric .",
    "this lens reduces the final focal length , allowing us to use a slightly higher secondary magnification , which increases the clearance between the receiver and the beam .",
    "we optimized the lens to center the illumination pattern on the secondary for all detectors , which pushes the lens to a meniscus shape . at @xmath13 mm , the spillover on the stop",
    "is @xmath33 where the range indicates the variation in spillover across the detector array .",
    "the lens is made of high - density polyethylene , with azimuthal triangular grooves machined on both surfaces to reduce reflections and increase the transmission .",
    "the spt cryostat has two independent sections that share the same vacuum space ( see figure  [ cryostatsection ] ) .",
    "the optics cryostat contains the secondary mirror , most of the cold stop , and the window and associated heat - blocking filters .",
    "the receiver cryostat contains the lens , band - defining filters and the detectors .",
    "each cryostat has its own refrigerator system .",
    "this arrangement allows us to test the receiver without the optics cryostat and to change receivers without disrupting the secondary .",
    "the secondary and cold stop are supported by a truss that attaches to the receiver mounting flange on the optics cryostat .",
    "the detectors are attached to the other side of that flange via a cone and truss .",
    "the separation between the secondary and the detectors is fixed , but the cryostat assembly is mounted on an optical bench that can be moved @xmath34 mm in any direction to maintain alignment with the primary ( see figure  benchpicture ) .",
    "this allows us to compensate gravitational flexure of the secondary support structure and changes in the focal length of the primary with elevation ( which are both a few mm over the full elevation range ) .",
    "the optical bench actuators have a maximum speed of 25 mm min@xmath25 so they can only follow slow changes .",
    "the secondary is a lightweighted ( 20 kg ) aluminum 7075-t6 mirror , 1 m in diameter @xmath35 50 mm thick .",
    "it is attached at 3 points to a triangular back plate , which is in turn supported by a truss made of 20 mm diameter @xmath35 1 mm wall stainless steel tubes .",
    "the truss rods have preloaded ball joint ends that allow some movement during cooling .",
    "the secondary surface profile error was initially 11 @xmath10 m rms at room temperature ( measured using holography at 89 ghz ) , but this increased to 50 @xmath10 m rms when the mirror was cooled .",
    "it is now 23 @xmath10 m rms at room temperature .",
    "stress inside the mirror is likely responsible for these changes .",
    "we did stress relieve the blank by cooling it to 77 k and then slowly warming to room temperature , 3 times , before the final cut .",
    "however , the first thermal cycles of the finished mirror were done in a mount that had no compliance between the mirror and its back plate .",
    "we will probably replace the secondary and improve its mount in the future .",
    "the cold stop is microwave absorber ( flexible foam sheet hr-10 ) cooled to 10 k. with 20% spillover , this contributes just a few k to detector background loading .",
    "the absorber is glued to the inside of a shroud made of annealed , i.e. , high thermal conductivity , aluminum 1100 .",
    "this is surrounded by a radiation shield made of the same material .",
    "both the shroud and the shield are covered with 9 layers of superinsulation ( nrc-2-cryolam ) to reduce the radiation load .",
    "the secondary end of the 20 kg stop and shield assembly is attached to the mirror back plate .",
    "the other end is attached to the receiver mounting flange with an axial flexure .",
    "the flexure reduces the torque on the mirror support and allows the end of the stop and shield to move @xmath36 mm on cooling .",
    "metal - mesh , heat - blocking filters ( @xcite ) are attached to the stop shroud and radiation shield just behind the 100 mm thick expanded polypropylene foam ( zotefoam ppa30 ) cryostat window .",
    "the loss through the window has been measured to be less than 0.5% at 2.1 mm the stop assembly is cooled by a pulse tube refrigerator ( cryomech inc . , model pt410 ) with a capacity of 10 w at 10 k and 80 w at 70 k.",
    "the stop cools to 10 k , with @xmath37 k gradient along its length , and the shield cools to 70 k at the heat - blocking filters and 60 k at the refrigerator end .",
    "cooling time for the optics cryostat is 3 days .",
    "changes in the temperature of the cold stop are coupled to the detectors through the spillover from the feedhorns and this raises two concerns :    \\(1 ) systematic signals due to temperature fluctuations from the pulse tube refrigerator .",
    "this turns out to be a small effect because the fluctuations are strongly attenuated by the low - pass filter formed by the thermal resistance of the various heat straps and the heat capacity of the stop shroud and secondary .",
    "a thermometer on the stop shroud shows @xmath37 @xmath38k rms fluctuations at the @xmath39hz pulse tube frequency .",
    "in addition , the pulse tube frequency is very stable in time and can be notched in the incoming data with negligible loss of information .",
    "\\(2 ) scan - synchronous offsets or systematic signals noise due to changes in loading on the cold stop from the cryostat window .",
    "the cold absorber has very low thermal conductivity , so changes in loading at the mw level could cause mk amplitude systematic signals in the detectors .",
    "this is addressed in the spt design through careful filtering , which reduces the calculated heat load on the stop to @xmath40 mw .",
    "in addition , the zotefoam cryostat window is opaque to ir radiation ensuring that the power reaching the stop is not significantly modulated by the radiation coming through the cryostat window .",
    "mechanical stability of the stop is also a concern because any movement of the beam on the stop , filters , or window could change the spillover and generate scan - synchronous offsets .",
    "this signal is calculated to be @xmath26 mk mm@xmath21 in the spt .",
    "the stiffness of the secondary truss is 0.2 mm/@xmath41 , the peak acceleration during scanning is @xmath42 ( @xmath43 s@xmath44 7 m from the azimuth axis ) and the time to accelerate the telescope is @xmath4 s , so scan - synchronous offsets are expected to be @xmath45 @xmath10k hz@xmath46 . despite the fact that this is well below the detector noise , we discard data taken when the telescope is accelerating .",
    "the primary has 218 machined aluminum ( al mg 4.5 mn ) panels mounted on a composite back up structure ( bus ) .",
    "the bus is made of 24 identical , wedge - shaped segments that are essentially deep , stiff boxes with thick facesheets ( see figure  [ mountdiagram ] ) .",
    "the segment walls have an aluminum honeycomb core covered with carbon - fiber - reinforced plastic ( cfrp ) .",
    "invar inserts are glued into the composite to provide attachment points for fasteners and panel adjusters .",
    "a large , stiff , invar cone behind the bus provides an interface to the steel telescope mount , and an invar cylinder running from the center of the bus to the steel mount adds axial stiffness .    each aluminum panel is @xmath47 m@xmath17 @xmath35 60 mm thick .",
    "the mass of each panel is reduced to @xmath48 kg by machining 20 to 40 pockets with 2 mm walls and leaving a 3 mm facesheet .",
    "the in - plane position of a panel is set by 3 horizontal adjusters .",
    "these have a post with an offset ball that engages a slot in the back of the panel .",
    "piston is controlled by 5 vertical adjusters , one near each corner of the panel and one near the center .",
    "the vertical adjusters have a differential screw with a @xmath45 mm long @xmath35 8 mm diameter rod that acts as a radial flexure .",
    "a 5-point vertical mount allows some bending to correct low - order surface profile errors , which are typically @xmath49 @xmath10 m . after setting all the vertical adjusters , the surface profile error of a single panel",
    "is 510 @xmath10 m rms .",
    "the panels were initially installed on the bus based on theodolite measurements of the positions of the panel corners .",
    "this gave a surface profile error of 240 @xmath10 m rms .",
    "adjustments based on photogrammetry measurements at el@xmath50 reduced the surface error to 40 @xmath10 m rms , and a final adjustment based on holography measurements at el@xmath51 ( mcmahon et al .  in prep ) yielded a 20 @xmath10 m rms surface ( see figure  [ primarysurface ] ) .",
    "gravitational deflection of the primary contributes @xmath52 @xmath10 m rms surface error at the el extremes ( after moving the receiver to the new focus position and assuming the primary was set at el@xmath50 ) .",
    "thermal deformation is @xmath53 @xmath10 m rms for a temperature change of 35 k from the set point .",
    "the thermal effect is so small because the bus and its invar mounting adapters ( which all have a low coefficient of thermal expansion ) are attached to the steel mount with radial flexures ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "gaps between panels are nominally 1 mm wide at @xmath54 c ( the temperature at which we assembled the primary ) , increasing to 2 mm at @xmath55 c. the total gap area is @xmath56 of the primary , so the gaps would contribute @xmath57 k to the receiver noise and @xmath56 polarization errors .",
    "both effects are a concern for cmb observations , so we covered the gaps with 5 mm wide @xmath35 75 @xmath10 m thick becu strips .",
    "these strips have spring fingers that engage the panel edges to pull the strip flat against the panel surface and center it in the gap @xcite .",
    "the cover strips contribute 11 @xmath10 m rms , which increases the surface error of the primary from 20 to 23 @xmath10 m rms .",
    "the panels were etched in naoh to give a matte surface that scatters visible wavelengths .",
    "this reduces solar heating of the receiver cabin window to a few @xmath58 w , preventing damage to the optics cryostat vacuum window if the telescope is pointed at the sun .",
    "ice on the primary would increase the receiver noise and scan - synchronous offsets , so the panels must be kept clean .",
    "manual de - icing , e.g. , brushing and scraping , is not practical for a 10 m telescope , so we have an electrical de - icing system with a 50 w m@xmath44 flexible heating pad mounted behind each panel .",
    "total power dissipation for the heater is 4 kw .",
    "this system runs continuously , raising the temperature of the panels 12 k above ambient , which is enough to discourage ice accumulation without significantly distorting the panels .",
    "any ice that does form on the surface during a storm clears in about a day .",
    "the spt has an az - el fork mount with both axes balanced to minimize deflections .",
    "the primary and receiver cabin are supported by a large , l - shaped frame with the el axis and counterweight at the corner ( see figure  [ mountdiagram ] ) .",
    "the el bearings are spherical roller bearings mounted on the sides of the l frame , with stationary shafts that connect to the fork arms .",
    "the az bearing is a 3 m diameter roller bearing supported by a stiff ( 2 inch thick wall ) cone tower .",
    "space constraints in the offset design push the el counterweight close to the el axis , which makes for a large counterweight .",
    "the total mass of the spt is @xmath59 kg and 20% of this is the counterweight .",
    "the structure breaks down into pieces that fit inside an lc130 aircraft for transportation to the south pole , but welding on site is difficult so there are many flanges and bolts .",
    "these represent @xmath60 of the total mass .",
    "the receiver cabin is a 5.5 m long @xmath35 2.1 m wide @xmath35 3.4 m high , insulated , shielded room on the end of the l frame .",
    "it moves with the telescope , but can be docked  to the control room for work on the receiver .",
    "large doors on the bottom of the cabin can be positioned above a sliding section of the control room roof .",
    "a retractable boot then seals the bottom of the cabin to the outside of the roof . in the docked position ,",
    "the cabin is essentially an extension of the control room , providing easy , warm access to the receiver and associated electronics .",
    "the docked configuration also provides a high ceiling for cryostat work that requires overhead lifting .",
    "the beam from the primary enters the cabin through a 12 mm thick expanded polypropylene foam window ( zotefoam ppa30 ) .",
    "the window has a metal shutter covered with microwave absorber that can be used as an ambient load .",
    "ground shields are mounted along the l frame to reflect scattered radiation from the receiver window and primary to the sky .",
    "these shields are made of foam - core aluminum panels .",
    "exposed edges are rolled with a radius of 3 cm , to reduce scattering , and gaps between the shields and primary are sealed with reflecting flashing .",
    "the shields have doors near the bottom of the primary to make snow removal easier .",
    "we did not install de - icing heaters on the shield panels , but we may add these in the future because manual de - icing is difficult .",
    "the mount sits on a 5 m thick ice pad .",
    "this was built in 150 mm layers that were compacted by driving a bulldozer over each lift to give a density of 0.550.60 g @xmath61 .",
    "after construction , the ice was left to harden for a year .",
    "the ice now has a young s modulus of @xmath57 gpa and a compressive strength of @xmath47 mpa .",
    "the weight of the telescope is distributed by a large , wood raft .",
    "this is a regular hexagon , 6.4 m along each side , made of @xmath62 mm timbers on 300 mm centers , with 19 mm plywood facesheets .",
    "it reduces the static pressure on the ice to @xmath63 kpa .",
    "deflection of the ice and wood when the telescope accelerates is calculated to be @xmath4 arcsec .",
    "a 5.2 m high steel spaceframe tower supports the telescope on the raft .",
    "this tower helps to distribute the load , but its main function is to raise the telescope above snow grade to reduce drifting around the structure .",
    "the legs of the tower are insulated to reduce the cold load on the control room and deformation due to solar heating in summer .",
    "each axis has 4 brushless dc motors with gearboxes .",
    "these are mounted in pairs , with a torque bias between the motors in each pair to eliminate backlash .",
    "the 2 pairs of az motors are mounted on opposite sides of the fork and they engage an external ring gear on the az bearing .",
    "each arm of the fork has a pair of el motors that drive a sector gear mounted on the l frame .",
    "all the motors have disc brakes that can stop the motor shaft at full torque .",
    "the l frame also has hard stops with shock absorbers .",
    "the drive can operate at reduced speed with just 2 motors per axis in the event of a failure .",
    "both axes have 26-bit optical encoders ( bei model ls898 ) .",
    "the az encoder is mounted at the base of the cone tower on a reference frame attached to the foundation mounting pads .",
    "it has a @xmath57 m long shaft / flexure that passes through the helical - spring az cable wrap to the bottom of the fork .",
    "there are 2 el encoders , one in each fork arm , and they also have a @xmath57 m long shaft / flexure that runs through the el bearing to the l frame .",
    "performance details for the drive are given in table  [ t1 ] .",
    "the spt can chop between 2 positions @xmath64 apart , settling within 3 arcsec of the requested position in 3 s. during a scan , it can follow the commanded path within 20 arcsec at accelerations up to @xmath65 s@xmath44 ( with better performance at lower accelerations ) .",
    "the actual path can always be reconstructed within 1 arcsec using the encoder readings .",
    "a metrology system measures changes in the overall tilt of the mount and deformations in the fork structure .",
    "there are 3 metrology subsystems :    \\(1 ) a biaxial tiltmeter ( applied geomechanics model 711 - 2a ) mounted on the pedestal wall measures changes in the tilt of the az axis , which are mainly due to settling of the foundation .",
    "we have a second tiltmeter in the fork , just above the center of the az bearing , to measure repeatable tilts in the bearing . these are @xmath20 arcsec p - p and they are recorded in a look - up table which can be applied in the on - line pointing model .",
    "\\(2 ) el encoders in each fork arm measure twisting of the l frame and forks .",
    "the average of the two encoder readings provides the elevation position feedback to the drive system and the difference is used to calculate the az error due to twisting .",
    "\\(3 ) a pair of linear displacement sensors ( bei model lgdt-5 ) mounted on each fork arm measure changes in the height and rotation of the arms relative to a stiff , cfrp reference frame inside the fork ( see figure  [ forkmetrology ] ) .",
    "rotations of the fork arms cause az and el offsets and changes in height tilt the el axis .",
    "metrology corrections can be applied in the telescope control system , based on a 10 s running average of the sensor readings .",
    "this ensures stability and low noise , but it means we can not correct deflections due to fast motion of the telescope .",
    "the spt has an optical star pointing system for measuring axis tilts , encoder offsets and gravitational flexure .",
    "two 75 mm near - ir refractors are mounted on the edge of the bus ( at 12 and 3 oclock ) and a 3rd is mounted on the end of the l frame by the receiver cabin .",
    "the pointing telescopes have ccd video cameras connected to a frame grabber in the telescope control computer .",
    "we can automatically measure pointing errors for about 30 bright stars in half an hour .",
    "the rms pointing error in one of these runs is typically 3 arcsec ( see figure  [ pointingresiduals ] ) , but the best fit model varies by a few tens of arcsec on timescales of a day .",
    "this appears to be due mainly to complicated thermal deformation of the fork arms , so we have improved the insulation and have installed temperature sensors to measure thermal gradients in the fork .",
    "a radio pointing model which combines the information from the temperature sensors , the linear displacement sensors , and observations of galactic h ii regions has been implemented and achieves 7 arcsec rms pointing accuracy .",
    "the telescope control system is based on software written for the sunyaev - zeldovich array ( sza ) . requested (",
    "az , el ) positions ( including precession , refraction , mount errors etc . ) are computed every 10 ms and sent to the drive .",
    "encoder readings and status information ( motor currents , faults etc . ) are recorded every 10 ms .",
    "scanning is implemented by adding offsets from a table to the requested ( az , el ) .",
    "most observations are managed by scripts containing high - level control commands ( e.g. , wait until a particular time and then start a series of scans on the target source , or drive to stow if the receiver temperature is above some threshold ) .",
    "the drive motors , brakes , gearboxes , encoders and limit switches are all warm to improve reliability , and they are easily accessible from the control room , so they can be repaired in winter when it is difficult to work outside .",
    "the cone tower and the bottom of the fork are inside the control room , which has a rotating roof attached to the fork .",
    "the fork arms are enclosed by insulated cabins ( riding on top of the rotating roof ) with openings to the control room below .",
    "the only cold drive parts are the el sector gears and the el bearings .",
    "the detectors in the spt receiver ( shirokoff et al . in prep . ) are arrays of horn - coupled , spider - web bolometers with tes thermometers ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "a voltage - biased tes exhibits strong electrothermal feedback , resulting in good linearity and a responsivity that is independent of bath temperature and optical loading ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the tes devices also have low impedance ( typically @xmath66 ) , so they should be fairly insensitive to vibrationally induced currents .",
    "in addition , the resonant circuits in series with each bolometer ( see section 5.2 ) pass only a narrow band of signals at several hundred khz where there are no mechanical excitations .",
    "the spt detectors have an al - ti tes , with a transition temperature of @xmath47 k , mounted near the center of a spiderweb absorber .",
    "this absorber is a 1 @xmath10 m thick , suspended silicon nitride mesh , 3 mm in diameter suspended by six 0.5 mm legs .",
    "it is coated with gold to give a sheet resistance of a few @xmath67 high electrothermal loop gain leads to a short electrical time constant that can cause instability ( @xcite ) , so our detectors also have a gold pad coupled to the tes to increase its heat capacity and slow its electrical time constant .",
    "we use triangular arrays of 161 close - packed bolometers ( see figure  [ wedgepicture ] ) fabricated on 100 mm diameter wafers .",
    "the wafers are metalized on the back to provide a backshort at @xmath68 .",
    "the bands are defined by the low - frequency cut off in a short length of circular waveguide between each smooth - wall conical horn and its detector , and by low - pass , metal - mesh filters ( @xcite ) mounted in front of each feedhorn array .",
    "the focal plane has 6 triangular bolometer arrays , for a total of 966 detectors ; however , due to readout limitations at most 840 detectors can be active .",
    "for a typical detector , the optical time constant is @xmath69 ms and the optical coupling from the sky to the tes is @xmath70 for the recently begun 2009 season , one @xmath71 mm array , four 2 mm arrays and two 1.3 mm arrays have been installed .",
    "typically , @xmath72 detectors pass our performance cuts with high sensitivity and noise close to the background limit .",
    "the mean noise equivalent cmb temperatures and yields for each of the three bands in the 2009 sz receiver configuration are summarized in table  [ receiver ] .    the spt receiver ( benson et al .",
    ", in prep ) is cooled by a pulse tube refrigerator ( model pt415 ) with capacity of 1.5 w at 4.2 k and 40 w at 45 k , and a 3-stage @xmath73he@xmath74he@xmath74he sorption refrigerator ( model crc10 ) with a capacity of 80 @xmath10w at 380 mk and 4 @xmath10w at 250 mk .",
    "the sub - k refrigerator is cycled automatically in @xmath36 hrs and the hold time is @xmath75 hrs      the spt receiver readout ( lueker et al . in prep ) is a frequency multiplexed squid readout with 8 detectors per squid ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "each tes is biased with a constant voltage amplitude sine wave , in the 0.31 mhz range , and has a series lc filter , mounted near the focal plane at 250 mk , to select the appropriate bias frequency from a comb of 8 ( see figure  [ readoutdiagram ] ) . in this scheme ,",
    "only 2 superconducting nbti wires are needed to connect 8 detectors in the focal plane to their squid , which is mounted at 4 k. the lc filters all have 16 @xmath76h chip inductors , so the filter q increases with frequency and the bandwidth ( @xmath20 khz in the spt ) is constant .",
    "the filter frequency is set by the capacitor , which is a standard ceramic chip device .",
    "the squids are 100-element series arrays ( @xcite ) with a small input coil to reduce pickup of spurious signals .",
    "these devices have 120 mhz bandwidth , 500 v / a transimpedance and the noise ( referred to the input coil ) is 2.5 pa hz@xmath77 ( cf .",
    "@xmath69 pa hz@xmath46 bolometer noise ) .",
    "squids are extremely sensitive to magnetic fields , so the squid boards ( each with 8 squid arrrays ) are enclosed in a cryoperm shield to attenuate any external fields . inside the cryoperm shield ,",
    "each squid is mounted on a nb film ( type 2 superconductor ) to pin any residual magnetic flux .",
    "to maintain constant voltage bias across the tes , the input impedance of the squid must be small compared with the tes resistance .",
    "this requires that the squid be operated with shunt feedback from the output of the room - temperature amplifier that follows .",
    "negative feedback also linearizes the squid response , reducing intermodulation between the bias signals .",
    "the feedback amplifier has a high gain @xmath35 bandwidth product , so connections between the squid and the room temperature electronics must be short .",
    "this is a severe constraint on the mechanical and thermal design of the receiver .",
    "bias signals for the detectors are generated by direct digital synthesizers with low sideband noise .",
    "the squid amplifier outputs are demodulated by square - wave mixers , which have low distortion because they contain no non - linear components .",
    "the demodulated signals are filtered by 8-pole , low - pass , anti - aliasing filters and then digitized with 14 bits resolution .",
    "all the bias synthesizers and demodulator electronics are on 9u vme cards with 16 channels per card .",
    "each card has a field programmable gate array that packages the data with a time tag and provides control and monitoring of the readout configuration .",
    "the electronics for a 966-pixel receiver occupy 3 vme crates ( see figure  [ readoutpicture ] ) .",
    "most spt observations involve scanning the telescope to fully sample the sky with all the detectors ( and hence all of the frequency bands ) .",
    "we generally scan back and forth in az at constant speed , turning around as quickly as possible , with a step in el at the end of each az scan .",
    "the speed in the linear part of the az scan involves a trade off between noise and observing efficiency .",
    "higher scan speeds move the sky signals to higher frequency in the detector timestreams , so low - frequency noise from the atmosphere and receiver become less important , but the observing efficiency is reduced because a larger fraction of the time is spent turning around .",
    "this trade off tends to favor a higher scan speed for a larger field .",
    "the el steps at the end of each scan are profiled to minimize the excitation of elevation oscillations , which would lead to scan synchronous modulations of the atmosphere .",
    "a typical observation starts with a small ( @xmath57  degree ) scan in el , followed by observations of a chopped thermal source and h ii regions . in figure  [ rcw38_image ]",
    "we show the spt images of one of the galactic hii regions used , rcw38 .",
    "this set of calibration observations allows us to measure the detector gains and monitor the opacity of the atmosphere .",
    "the chopped thermal source is a @xmath78 k black - body , with a 4100 hz chopper wheel , connected to a 9.5 mm diameter light pipe that runs into the optics cryostat and through a hole in the center of the secondary .",
    "we check the pointing by mapping two bright h ii regions near the target field , which takes @xmath79 min total , and then we scan on the target field for a few hours .",
    "the cycle is repeated until the mk refrigerator in the receiver warms up .",
    "detector outputs and telescope positions are recorded at 100 hz , but most of the monitoring ( e.g. , cryostat temperatures , weather , receiver readout configuration and optical bench position ) is at 1 hz .",
    "the data rate is typically 30 gbytes / day and all the data are returned to the us via nasa s tracking and data relay satellite system .",
    "about half of our 1st year ( 2007 ) observations were performance tests ( e.g. , measurements of beams , focus , pointing , ground pickup and detector noise and time constants ) . the rest of the year was spent on a deep observation of a @xmath48 deg@xmath17 field and a @xmath80 deg@xmath17 field to search for galaxy clusters via the sz effect and to measure the high-@xmath0 angular power spectrum of the cmb .",
    "the second year observations concentrated primarily on sz and fine - scale cmb surveys in two @xmath45 deg@xmath17 fields .",
    "targeted sz observations toward known galaxy clusters were also pursued .",
    "now in the third year , we are continuing the sz survey .",
    "we reported the first clusters detected via a sz survey in @xcite .",
    "the south pole telescope ( spt ) , a 10 m diameter , wide - field , offset gregorian telescope equipped with a 966-pixel millimeter - wave bolometer camera , has been successfully deployed at the amundsen - scott south pole station .",
    "the spt has been operating at the south pole since february 2007 .",
    "it has a simple , low - loss optical system , with good control of spillover and scattered radiation .",
    "low noise , small offsets and high throughput , combined with the exceptional transparency and stability of the south pole atmosphere , makes the instrument ideal for survey work and observations of low surface brightness emission , such as the cmb .",
    "the telescope has a 20 @xmath10 m rms surface , and pointing errors of a few arcsec , so it can be used at submillimeter wavelengths .",
    "the first key project of the spt is a large scale survey of the sky ( 1000 s of sq .",
    "degrees ) at 3 , 2 and 1.3  mm to search for the galaxy clusters via the sz effect and to measure the fine - scale anisotropy of the cmb .",
    "the sz receiver is now operating with background limited performance in all three observing bands .",
    "early survey results include the first clusters to be detected via a sz survey ( @xcite ) .",
    "this paper offers a snapshot of the current status of the spt . throughout the life of the telescope",
    "it is expected that several receivers will be deployed for conducting major large - scale survey projects at millimeter through submillimeter wavelengths .",
    "we are currently building a polarimeter for measuring the b - mode polarization anisotropy of the cmb .",
    "we thank r. hills for many useful discussions on the optical design .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge the contributions to the construction of the telescope from t.  hughes , p.  huntley , b.  johnson and e.  nichols and his team of iron workers .",
    "we also thank the national science foundation ( nsf ) office of polar programs , the united states antarctic program and the raytheon polar services company for their support of the project .",
    "we are grateful for professional support from the staff of the south pole station the spt is supported by the national science foundation through grants ant-0638937 and ant-0130612 .",
    "partial support is also provided by the nsf physics frontier center grant phy-0114422 to the kavli institute of cosmological physics at the university of chicago , the kavli foundation and the gordon and betty moore foundation .",
    "the mcgill group acknowledges funding from the national sciences and engineering research council of canada , the quebec fonds de recherche sur la nature et les technologies , and the canadian institute for advanced research .",
    "the following individuals acknowledge additional support : j.  carlstrom from the james s.  mcdonnell foundation , k.  schaffer from a kicp fellowship , j.  mcmahon from a fermi fellowship , z.  staniszewski from a gaan fellowship , and a.t .",
    "lee from the miller institute for basic research in science , university of california berkeley .",
    "holland , w. , duncan , w. & griffin , m. 2002 , in asp conf .",
    "278 , single - dish radio astronomy : techniques and applications , ed .",
    "s. stanimirovic , d. r. altschuler , p. f. goldsmith & c. j. salter ( san francisco : asp ) 463                      lanting , t. m. , arnold , k. , cho , h .-",
    "m . , clarke , j. , dobbs , m. , holzapfel , w. , lee , a. t. , lueker , m. , richards , p. l. , smith , a. d. & spieler , h. g. 2006 , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research a , 559 , 793            padin , s. , staniszewski , z. , keisler , r. , joy , m. , stark , a. a. , ade , p. a. r. , aird , k. a. , benson , b. a. , bleem , l. e. , carlstrom , j. e. , chang , c. l. , crawford , t. m. , crites , a.t .",
    ", dobbs , m. a. , halverson , n. w. , heimsath , s. , hills , r. e. , holzapfel , w. l. , lawrie , c. , lee , a. t. , leitch , e. m. , leong , j. , lu , w. , lueker , m. , mcmahon , j. j. , meyer , s. s. , mohr , j. j. , montroy , t. e. , plagge , t. , pryke , c. , ruhl , j. e. , schaffer , k. k. , shirokoff , e. , spieler h. g. and vieira , j. d. 2008 , applied optics 47(24 ) , 4418 - 4428 ( 2008 ) .",
    "ruhl , j. e. , ade , p. a. r. , carlstrom , j. e. , cho , h. m. , crawford , t. , dobbs , m. , greer , c. h. , halverson , n. w. , holzapfel , w. l. , lanting , t. m. , lee , a. t. , leitch , e. m. , leong , j. , lu , w. , lueker , m. , mehl , j. , meyer , s. s. , mohr , j. j. , padin , s. , plagge , t. , pryke , c. , runyan , m. c. , schwan , d. , sharp , m. k. , spieler , h. , staniszewski , z. & stark , a. a. 2004 , proc .",
    "spie , 5498 , 11            staniszewski , z. , ade , p. a. r. , aird , k. a. , benson , b. a. , bleem , l. e. , carlstrom , j. e. , chang , c. l. , cho , h .-",
    ", crawford , t. m. , crites , a. t. , de haan , t. , dobbs , m. a. , halverson , n. w. , holder , g. p. , holzapfel , w. l. , hrubes , j. d. , joy , m. , keisler , r. , lanting , t. m. , lee , a. t. , leitch , e. m. , loehr , a. , lueker , m. , mcmahon , j. j. , mehl , j. , meyer , s. s. , mohr , j.j . ,",
    "montroy , t.e . ,",
    "ngeow , c .- c . ,",
    "padin , s. , plagge , t. , pryke , c. , reichardt , c. l. , ruhl , j. e. , schaffer , k. k. , shaw , l. , shirokoff , e. , spieler , h. g. , stalder , b. , stark , a. a. , vanderlinde , k. , vieira , j. d. , zahn , o. and zenteno , a. 2009 , , 701 , 32"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the south pole telescope ( spt ) is a 10 m diameter , wide - field , offset gregorian telescope with a 966-pixel , multi - color , millimeter - wave , bolometer camera . </S>",
    "<S> it is located at the amundsen - scott south pole station in antarctica . </S>",
    "<S> the design of the spt emphasizes careful control of spillover and scattering , to minimize noise and false signals due to ground pickup . </S>",
    "<S> the key initial project is a large - area survey at wavelengths of 3 , 2 and 1.3 mm , to detect clusters of galaxies via the sunyaev - zeldovich ( sz ) effect and to measure the high-@xmath0 angular power spectrum of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) . </S>",
    "<S> the data will be used to characterize the primordial matter power spectrum and to place constraints on the equation of state of dark energy . </S>"
  ]
}