{
  "article_text": [
    "type ia supernovae ( sne ia ) are of major astrophysical relevance .",
    "they have acquired particular cosmological significance as a probe of the scale and geometry of the universe , providing the first evidence for its acceleration @xcite .",
    "these results depend crucially on the assumption that sne ia are standard candles .",
    "this assumption could be tested if the origins of sne ia are recognized .",
    "knowledge of their nature is also of importance for understanding the metallicity evolution and star - formation history of galaxies . yet , despite their relevance , no concensus on the nature of their progenitor systems has been reached .    while there is broad agreement that the disintegration of a white dwarf ( wd ) in a thermonuclear explosion constitutes the supernova event itself , there are two main classes of competing models for the events that lead to the explosion . in the single - degenerate scenario ,",
    "the exploding wd accretes from a non - degenerate stellar companion @xcite , which is expected to survive and be potentially identifiable . in the double - degenerate scenario ,",
    "the donor star is also a wd .",
    "the most commonly discussed progenitor system involves the coalescence of two co wds @xcite , which after explosion should leave no remnant .",
    "there has been no conclusive proof to date that either scenario can lead to normal sne ia , nor has the evidence that the sn ia rate is different for different stellar populations led to any firm conclusions .",
    "therefore , any new observational or theoretical constraint on the progenitor systems is of great value .    here",
    "we present an alternative evolutionary scenario to produce a sne ia , which is not restricted to mass transfer in gravitationally bound double stellar systems .",
    "this new paradigm considers white dwarfs that reside within dense stellar systems where the stars are sufficiently close to each other to make collisions quite likely .",
    "the resultant shock compression could then lead to densities which exceed the threshold for pycnonuclear reactions so that thermonuclear runaway ensues .",
    "understanding the feasibility of this channel for producing successful thermonuclear explosions as well as exploring the observational manifestations of such phenomena are the main purpose of this _",
    "letter_. the layout is as follows .",
    "a concise summary of the numerical methods and the initial models is given in   2 .",
    "we describe the detailed hydrodynamic simulations in   3 , while the resulting broadband lightcurves and spectra together with a discussion of the relevance of this new progenitor channel to upcoming supernova surveys are presented in   4 .",
    "as two stars approach each other to within a few stellar radii , their mutual gravitational interactions lead to the development of large - scale tidal distortions that substantially alter their global structures . if the trajectories of the stars bring them so close to each other that they experience a collision , the response of the stellar material to the impact is critical in understanding the future evolution of the system . as such , it is no longer appropriate to treat the stars as point masses , and a hydrodynamical description of the encounter becomes necessary .",
    "the outcome of a collision between two white dwarfs depends in an essential way on several factors : their masses and nuclear compositions , their relative speed , and the distance of closest approach .    to study this problem , we use two complementary approaches : the eulerian , adaptive - mesh hydrodynamics code flash @xcite , and a lagrangian hydrodynamics code @xcite based on the smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) method @xcite .",
    "both codes incorporate the helmholtz equation of state @xcite and similar , small nuclear reaction networks tuned to correctly reproduce nuclear energy release @xcite , but they differ in their treatment of hydrodynamics and gravity . using the same stellar models and impact conditions , this approach not only provides a classic code verification , but in particular allows to gain unique insight into the physics of white dwarf encounters .",
    "some of the questions at the forefront of our attention are the effects of the initial nuclear composition and masses of the white dwarfs as well as the impact conditions .",
    "we have performed a large set of three - dimensional calculations .",
    "a detailed account of all models will be given elsewhere , here our focus is on central collisions .",
    "a summary of the performed calculations is given in table [ table1 ] .",
    "the stars with 0.4 are instantiated as pure he , those with larger masses as a homogeneous mixture of 50% c and 50% o. all stars are initially cold ( @xmath0 k ) , placed at a mutual distance of three times their combined unperturbed stellar radii and with the relative free - fall velocities of the corresponding point mass values .",
    "+    [ cols=\"<,<,>,^,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the relative velocity at contact is entirely dominated by the mutual gravitational attraction , i.e. it is much larger than typical gc velocity dispersions , @xmath1 km / s , @xmath2 ) @xmath3 .",
    "the sound velocity @xmath4 in the core of a 0.6 wd is about 2600 km / s , and thus shocks are a natural result of a wd collision .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows the thermodynamic evolution of the most common combination of masses , 2 x 0.6 .",
    "the snapshots of density and temperature in the upper two rows were obtained with sph , the lower two are the result of flash ( 19-isotope network , minimum linear resolution @xmath5 cm ) .",
    "the details of the collision differ slightly in the two simulation environments , which is evident in the shock geometries .",
    "however , the overall behavior is similar : shortly after contact , a discus - shaped , shock - heated region forms in which nuclear processing occurs . since the ignition site is not coincident with the original central density peak of either wd , the shocks more quickly propagate through the shallow density gradient that is perpendicular to the direction of infall . as a result ,",
    "the hot processed material first breaks out through a ring which lies in a plane that is parallel to the collisional plane .",
    "it is only when the rear of the stars have passed through the shock fronts that a significant overall expansion can set in .",
    "apart from hydrodynamics and gravity , the codes also differ in the used reaction networks , the sph code is coupled to a 7-species network @xcite while the flash run uses a 19-isotope network @xcite . as a test of the energy generation accuracy we have used both networks along 1000 thermodynamic trajectories extracted from the sph simulation .",
    "maximum deviations in the resulting energy generation were 15% , while 95% of the trajectories agreed to better than 5% .",
    "the mass fractions reported in this paper are all post - processed or direct results of the 19-isotope network . while the networks could be partly responsible for the shock structure differences the latter may also be influenced by the local resolution and details how burning directly in the shock is suppressed in both codes .",
    "a further difference between both runs is the spike - like feature at the rear side of the star in the flash simulation , this is an artifact of the rapid advection across the grid . despite these differences our main conclusions are robust",
    ": the shocks trigger an explosion producing a substantial amount of @xmath6ni ( 0.32 for sph , 0.16 for flash ) .",
    "mass - segregated environments may favour encounters of more massive wds , though .",
    "we therefore show in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] the outcome of a 2 x 0.9 collision ( run g ; left : density and temperature , right : mass fractions ) .",
    "this event yields 0.66 of @xmath6ni , comparable to a typical snia .",
    "the topic of white dwarf collisions has been pioneered by @xcite . in their work",
    "they modeled the white dwarfs with an equation of state containing contributions from degenerate , relativistic electrons , from a boltzmann gas of nuclei and from photons .",
    "moreover , they coupled their smooth particle hydrodynamics code to a 14-isotope network . at that time their calculations",
    "were restricted to 5000 sph particles resulting in a moderate numerical resolution .",
    "although in some cases substantial nuclear burning took place , none of their models resulted in a complete disintegration of the white dwarf pairs . for comparison , we performed a test run of a headon collision between two 0.6 wds using 5000 sph particles in total , similar to their run 1 .",
    "consistent with their work , we find a surviving remnant and only 0.30 of expelled material ( 0.09 in their work ) .",
    "the degraded numerical resolution results in a one order of magnitude reduction of the released nuclear energy compared to our run d. the remaining differences between our test run and the results of benz et al .",
    "are mainly due to the different equation of state , but they may to some extent also reflect the differences in the networks and the advances in the sph method .",
    "our overall results are similar to those of @xcite which were submitted while our paper was under review .",
    "some white dwarf collisions should produce luminous light curves powered by the decay of radioactive @xmath7  synthesized in the explosion .",
    "to predict the observable emission , we post - processed select models using the radiative transfer code sedona @xcite .",
    "this code is 3-dimensional , time - dependent , multi - wavelength and includes a detailed treatment of the physics of @xmath7  decay and bound - bound line opacity . as initial conditions",
    ", we used the sph results with post - processed abundances for the 2 x 0.6  ( run d ) and 2 x 0.9  ( run g ) collisions , at a simulation time late enough that the ejected material had reached the free , homologous phase of expansion .",
    "given the axial symmetry of head - on encounters , the results where azimuthally averaged onto a cylindrical grid .",
    "in figure  [ fig3 ] ( right panel ) we show synthetic spectra of the models , computed at the peak of the light curve ( @xmath8  days after collision ) .",
    "the model spectra closely resemble those of normal type  ia supernovae , with broad p - cygni line features due to si  ii , s  ii , and ca  ii .",
    "this outcome is not surprising given that the ejecta compositional stratification ( figure  [ fig1 ] ) is very similar to that of standard sne  ia models , with an outer layer of intermediate mass elements and an inner core of iron group elements .",
    "the asymmetry of the ejected debris introduces some variation of the spectrum with viewing angle , most prominently in the ultraviolet where the radiation transport is most sensitive to line blanketing opacity .",
    "the velocity of the supernova photosphere , as measured form the doppler shift of the line absorption minima , is @xmath9  km  s@xmath10 , similar to , though slightly higher than that observed in average sne  ia .",
    "the light curves of the white dwarf collisions ( figure  [ fig3 ] , center panel ) also resemble those of type  ia supernovae .",
    "as expected , the models which produced more @xmath7  have brighter light curves which decline more slowly .",
    "the calculated peak magnitudes and b - band decline rates lie within the range of typical sne  ia , and are consistent with the slope and normalization of the observed phillips relation ( figure  [ fig3 ] , left panel ) .",
    "this result is not totally unexpected , given that the principle parameter underlying the phillips relation is the @xmath7  mass , which influences both the supernova luminosity and the ejecta opacity ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "on the other hand , the light curve width is also sensitive to the total ejected mass . in collision models , unlike most standard sn  ia scenarios , this value is not constrained to be the chandrasekhar mass .",
    "thus , although the particular models studied here roughly obey the phillips relation , in detail white dwarf collisions could show small but systematic deviations .",
    "the explosion mechanism reported here is not tied to a particular mass scale and therefore allows for considerably more diversity . as mentioned above ,",
    "collisions between white dwarfs provide a pathway to ignite co white dwarfs that completely disintegrate the wd pair .",
    "in contrast , for low - mass collisions ( run a ) or for collisions between a co and a he wd a remnant remains , which , in the latter case , produces an identifiable outcome : a hot , high - speed ( @xmath11 km / s ) co wd engulfed by a cloud of intermediate mass elements .",
    "the mechanism discussed here is found to work for the collision of two 0.4 he wds , but does not lead to an explosion in the case of 2 x 0.5 .",
    "this is mainly the result of the different available fuel ",
    "helium burning releases more energy on the way to iron group elements ( @xmath12 mev / nucleon , @xmath13 mev / nucleon ) . due to the wd mass function",
    ", collisions between 0.6 wds are expected to dominate unless they occur in a strongly mass - segregated environments where more massive wds would then be preferred . on average ,",
    "however , this sn ia channel will preferably ignite lighter wds than standard channels @xcite and , as a result , the nucleosynthetic yields should be less neutron - rich due to the slower @xmath14-evolution via electron captures .      in order to critically evaluate the outcome of these ideas , the frequency of such encounters must be addressed . for a core - collapsed gc , the high densities in the core completely dominate the collision rate .",
    "we assume the white dwarfs to be distributed homogeneously within a spherical core of radius @xmath15 .",
    "we further assume that the total number density @xmath16 and stellar velocity dispersion @xmath17 are constant within @xmath15 .",
    "together with the dominating gravitational focusing , this means we can approximate the total collision rate as : @xmath18 @xmath19/1\\;{\\rm m}_\\odot)(r_{\\rm col}/5 \\times 10 ^ 3\\;{\\rm km})$ ] , where @xmath20 is the fractional number of stars of type @xmath21 within @xmath22 and we use the properties of the well - studied , proto - typical core- collapsed gc m15 @xcite .",
    "fokker - planck model fits to m15 predict the presence of a significant population of wds with @xmath23 , so that @xmath24 . by setting the distance of closest approach to the sum of the radii of the two wds , @xmath25 , an estimate of the collision rate @xmath26 yr@xmath10 gpc @xmath27 ,",
    "can be obtained by multiplying @xmath28 ( per gc ) with the average gc space density of @xmath29 @xcite . here",
    "@xmath30 is derived by combining the number of gcs per galaxy with the galaxy luminosity density distribution and @xmath31 is the fraction of core - collapsed clusters .",
    "this is most likely an underestimation since , for example , the effect of binaries in gcs can increase @xmath32 by a moderate factor ( @xmath33 , j. fregeau , private communication ) .",
    "moreover , if m15 formed at higher initial concentration , it might have been in ( or around ) deepest core collapse for a longer time , significantly increasing the ( average ) @xmath28 .",
    "numerical experiments for the dominant 2 x 0.6 case indicate that about 20% of the collisions may result in explosions .",
    "although these rates are still subject to significant uncertainties such as whether other gcs follow a similar core - collapse evolution , they indicate that white dwarf collisions in their dense cores are not unlikely and can contribute with a modest fraction to the sne ia population , whose event rates are estimated to be of order a few @xmath0 yr@xmath10 gpc@xmath27 @xcite .",
    "in addition , a number of collisions are also expected from ultra- compact dwarf galaxies @xcite , the hypercompact stellar systems that form when supermassive black holes are ejected from galactic centres by the action gravitational wave recoil @xcite and from more `` typical '' galactic centers .",
    "the transient sky at faint magnitudes is poorly known , but there are major efforts under way that would increase the discovery rate for type ia supernovae from a few thousands to about hundreds of thousands per year .",
    "while the estimates given above are much too low to explain the bulk of the sne ia population , they may be frequent enough to provide upcoming supernova surveys with hundreds of collision - induced sne ia per year .",
    "we thank holger baumgardt , lars bildsten , john fregeau , ken shen and glenn van de ven for very useful discussions .",
    "the simulations presented in this paper were performed on the jump computer of the hchstleistungsrechenzentrum jlich and the pleiades computer of ucsc .",
    "we acknowledge support from dfg grant ro 3399 ( s.r . ) , the doe program for scidac de - fc02 - 01er41176 ( d.k and e.r . ) and the david and lucile packard foundation ( j.g . and e.r . ) .",
    "support for dnk was provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant # hst - hf-01208.01-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 .      , p. , guy , j. , regnault , n. , pain , r. , aubourg , e. , balam , d. , basa , s. , carlberg , r.  g. , fabbro , s. , fouchez , d. , hook , i.  m. , howell , d.  a. , lafoux , h. , neill , j.  d. , palanque - delabrouille , n. , perrett , k. , pritchet , c.  j. , rich , j. , sullivan , m. , taillet , r. , aldering , g. , antilogus , p. , arsenijevic , v. , balland , c. , baumont , s. , bronder , j. , courtois , h. , ellis , r.  s. , filiol , m. , gonalves , a.  c. , goobar , a. , guide , d. , hardin , d. , lusset , v. , lidman , c. , mcmahon , r. , mouchet , m. , mourao , a. , perlmutter , s. , ripoche , p. , tao , c. , & walton , n. 2006 , a & a , 447 , 31                                    , s. , aldering , g. , goldhaber , g. , knop , r.  a. , nugent , p. , castro , p.  g. , deustua , s. , fabbro , s. , goobar , a. , groom , d.  e. , hook , i.  m. , kim , a.  g. , kim , m.  y. , lee , j.  c. , nunes , n.  j. , pain , r. , pennypacker , c.  r. , quimby , r. , lidman , c. , ellis , r.  s. , irwin , m. , mcmahon , r.  g. , ruiz - lapuente , p. , walton , n. , schaefer , b. , boyle , b.  j. , filippenko , a.  v. , matheson , t. , fruchter , a.  s. , panagia , n. , newberg , h.  j.  m. , couch , w.  j. , & the supernova cosmology project .",
    "1999 , apj , 517 , 565        , a.  g. , filippenko , a.  v. , challis , p. , clocchiatti , a. , diercks , a. , garnavich , p.  m. , gilliland , r.  l. , hogan , c.  j. , jha , s. , kirshner , r.  p. , leibundgut , b. , phillips , m.  m. , reiss , d. , schmidt , b.  p. , schommer , r.  a. , smith , r.  c. , spyromilio , j. , stubbs , c. , suntzeff , n.  b. , & tonry , j. 1998 , aj , 116 , 1009"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a systematic numerical study of an alternative progenitor scenario to produce type ia supernova explosions , which is not restricted to the ignition of a co white dwarf near the chandrasekhar mass . in this scenario , a shock - triggered thermonuclear explosion ensues from the collision of two white dwarfs . </S>",
    "<S> consistent modeling of the gas dynamics together with nuclear reactions using both a smoothed particle and a grid - based hydrodynamics code are performed to study the viability of this alternative progenitor channel . </S>",
    "<S> we find that shock - triggered ignition and the synthesis of ni are in fact a natural outcome for moderately massive white dwarf pairs colliding close to head - on . </S>",
    "<S> we use a multi - dimensional radiative transfer code to calculate the emergent broadband light curves and spectral time - series of these events . </S>",
    "<S> the synthetic spectra and lightcurves compare well with those of normal type ia supernovae over a similar b - band decline rate and are broadly consistent with the phillips relation , although a mild dependence on viewing angle is observed due to the asymmetry of the ejected debris . </S>",
    "<S> while event rates within galactic centers and globular clusters are found to be much too low to explain the bulk of the type ia supernovae population , they may be frequent enough to make as much as a one percent contribution to the overall rate . </S>",
    "<S> although these rate estimates are still subject to substantial uncertainties , they do suggest that dense stellar systems should provide upcoming supernova surveys with hundreds of such collision - induced thermonuclear explosions per year .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1 ( # 1 ) </S>"
  ]
}