{
  "article_text": [
    "stratum corneum ( sc ) , the outer layer of the skin @xcite , provides the main barrier against water loss @xcite and invasion by foreign pathogens . during their life - cycle ,",
    "cells formed in the basal layer of the epidermis change their shape and composition .",
    "they progressively occupy outer layers of the epidermis , until they are peeled off from the outer layer .",
    "sc is often viewed as a _ bricks and mortar _",
    "structure @xcite with corneocytes , the keratin filled non - viable disc like cells , arranged like _ bricks _ in a lipid mixture forming the _ mortar _",
    "phase @xcite .",
    "the three main components of the sc lipid matrix are a family of ceramide sphingolipids ( cer ) , cholesterol ( chol ) and free fatty acid ( ffa ) @xcite .",
    "selective inhibition of any one of the ceramide @xcite , cholesterol @xcite or ffa @xcite is known to compromise the barrier function of the skin .",
    "however , how the three components affect the lipid matrix properties at the molecular level is not known . to our knowledge , there have been only a few previous attempts at atomistic modeling of the sc lipid layer .",
    "most notably , @xcite simulated a two component mixture of fatty acid and cholesterol .",
    "@xcite simulated a bilayer composed of symmetric cer  ns  16:0 molecules .",
    "@xcite used atomistic simulation to investigate the effect of dmso molecules on a hydrated bilayer composed of cer  ns  24:0 . but a systematic study of the effects of the three components is lacking and this study is specifically concerned with understanding the interplay of the three components which endows the skin with an almost contradictory combination of pliability and an extremely high penetration barrier .",
    "there are at least 9 different classes of ceramide found in human sc , with minor modifications in the head group region and the addition of an esterified fatty acid in the case of ceramide 1 .",
    "all the ceramides are conspicuous by having a large asymmetry in the length of the two tails and a large polydispersity in the fatty acid tail lengths @xcite .",
    "similar polydispersity is found also in the length of the free fatty acids @xcite .",
    "realistic representation of such a complex collection of molecules with atomic details is beyond current computational capabilities .",
    "instead we choose just one representative ceramide , ceramide ns ( also referred to as ceramide 2 ) , with an asymmetric but monodisperse tail length .",
    "ceramide ns is the most abundant species among the ceramide family .",
    "its fatty acid tail is chosen to be 24:0 , guided by the relative abundance of the different tail lengths in human sc @xcite ; while its sphingosine motif is chosen to have 18 carbons .",
    "similarly we choose only ffa 24:0 because it is the most abundant free fatty acid found in sc lipid layer @xcite .",
    "fig  [ fig.scskeletal ] shows a skeletal representation of the molecules .    between the corneocytes , the lipid matrix shows regular electron density variations , similar to lipid multilayers .",
    "this is not necessarily the only possible arrangement in the sc lipid matrix . in vitro experiments",
    "show the possibility of asymmetric leaflets @xcite and multiple layer thicknesses , with indications that ceramide 1 connects different bilayers @xcite .",
    "the lipids are predominantly in a gel phase , possibly a single continuous gel phase @xcite or with fluid regions @xcite . in the skin ,",
    "the corneocytes are arranged in clusters with the lipid matrix extending through the full depth of the sc at intervals @xcite .",
    "these regions show a much lower permeation barrier than the layers between corneocytes @xcite and it is not known whether or not the lipids there are arranged in a multilayer structure .",
    "there is a hydration gradient across the sc , with the average water content around 30% by weight @xcite .",
    "how the water molecules are arranged in the sc is not completely known .    with this uncertainty about the arrangement of the lipids in sc , and with the computational limitations imposed by detailed atomistic simulations",
    ", we study lipid mixtures arranged in symmetric bilayer structures in excess water . an atomistic potential is chosen in this study to have a faithful representation of the lipids involved . in the absence of prior atomistic simulations , or , experimental results on hydrated sc lipid bilayers ,",
    "a coarse - grained description is not appropriate for this system .",
    "the water is required to stabilize the bilayer structure , and can be viewed as a replacement for the layering field imposed by the flat corneocytes .",
    "the lateral arrangement of the components and the properties of such a hydrated bilayer will probably be representative of the lipid matrix confined between the corneocytes .",
    "the rest of the paper is organized as follows : in the section simulation details we outline the force field and protocols used for the simulations , and define the various properties measured .",
    "next we provide the results for a wide range of compositions , concentrating mainly at temperature t=340k , which is much higher than the skin temperature .",
    "however , much of the results were found to remain qualitatively the same even at the skin temperature @xmath0 300k .",
    "we present the results for the higher temperature because we are more confident of the equilibration at 340k than at skin temperature t@xmath0300k .",
    "finally we summarize the main findings and present an outlook for further studies on sc lipid structures .",
    "the interaction parameters used in the simulation are based on the united atom opls force field @xcite with modifications for the nonpolar ch@xmath1/ch@xmath2 groups @xcite that accurately reproduce experimental quantities for lipid molecules @xcite .",
    "the polar hydrogens were included explicitly and the partial charges for the headgroup atoms were selected to conform with molecules having similar structures and simulated using the same force field in the literature .",
    "the dihedral potentials in the hydrocarbon tails were described by the ryckaert - bellemans term @xcite .",
    "the force field used for the ceramide molecules has been used previously @xcite .",
    "the topologies of the polar part of the fatty acid and the cholesterol are the same as used in @xcite .",
    "the water is modeled with the spc potential @xcite .",
    "we used extended ensemble molecular dynamics simulation at constant temperature and pressure ( npt ) ensemble with gromacs molecular dynamics package @xcite .",
    "temperature was controlled by nos - hoover thermostats @xcite coupled separately to the lipid and water molecules with time constant 5ps .",
    "pressure was controlled by an anisotropic parrrinello - rahman barostat @xcite with time constant 5ps and compressibility @xmath3/bar .",
    "the off - diagonal terms of the compressibility matrix were set to zero to preserve the orthogonal shape of the simulation box .",
    "standard periodic boundary conditions were applied in all three directions .",
    "a simple group - based cut - off was used for calculating electrostatic interaction .",
    "the cut - off length was chosen to be @xmath4 for both the van  der waals and electrostatic potentials . because the lipid molecules considered in this study do not fully ionize ,",
    "the dominant electrostatic interaction is the dipole - dipole interaction , with the dipoles made up of the partial changes separated by fixed bond lengths .",
    "this is quite different from the case of phospholipids , where fully ionized phosphate group introduces a large dipole moment from well separated n@xmath5 and p@xmath6 charges . as a specific example , the c25=o26 atoms on cer molecule ( see fig .",
    "1 ) form a dipole from equal charges of magnitude @xmath7 separated by a fixed distance of @xmath8 .",
    "this creates a dipole moment of @xmath9 , which is roughly @xmath10 times smaller than the dipole moment at the head groups in dppc bilayer @xcite . noting that the dipolar interaction falls of as @xmath11 and that for dppc bilayer effect of electrostatic interaction with the periodic images become negligible for system sizes @xmath12 lipid molecules @xcite",
    ", we estimate that for the dipole moments involved in our system , the effect of electrostatic interaction with the periodic images become neglibile for systems containing @xmath13 lipids .",
    "we have carried out simulations with pure cer molecules and 2:2:1 composition system both with group - based cut - off and particle mesh ewald summation ( pme ) for several system sizes .",
    "the results are presented in the appendix and validates the independence of the results presented on long range electrostatic interaction and system size .",
    "because the use of pme requires more than twice the computational cost as compared to using cut - off and it has no effect on the validity of the results presented here , we restrict ourselves to group - based cut - off for handling electrostatic interaction in the simulations presented in the main paper .",
    "all bond lengths were constrained using the shake algorithm @xcite .",
    "the analytic settle algorithm was used to handle the rigid spc water molecules @xcite .",
    "we used a timestep of @xmath14 for @xmath15 and @xmath16 for high temperature simulations . during the the production run , configurations at intervals of @xmath17 were stored for further analysis .",
    "the sc lipid matrix ( in mice ) shows a ph of @xmath18 @xcite .",
    "the ionization state of ffa is known to modify the structure of chol - ffa ( c16:0 ) mixtures @xcite . for ceramide - cholesterol mixtures containing palmitic acid ( c16:0 ) and",
    "oleic acid ( c18:1 ) , reported values of the pk@xmath19 lie in the range of 6.2 - 7.3 @xcite .",
    "typically longer tailed ffa are expected to have higher pk@xmath19 ; _",
    "e.g. _ , for hexacosanoic acid ( c26:0 ) in an egg - phosphatidylcholine bilayer pk@xmath20 .",
    "this suggests that a fraction of the ffa should ionize at skin ph .",
    "however , the experimental evidence for the effect of ph on sc lipid mixture is not clear . surface force and afm measurements on sc lipid mixtures containing free fatty acid seem to show no detectable effect in a wide range of ph ( between 3.0 and 7.0 ) @xcite . the apparent insensitivity to ph for sc lipid mixture may be because the bilayers containing long tail ceramides remain in a dense gel phase and do not allow much structural freedom to the ffa molecules . with this background , we chose to simulate only _ un - ionized _ ffa - not having free charges allow fast calculation of the forces with cut - off as alluded before .      in all but one of the six different crystal structures formed under varying conditions , the sphingosine and the fatty acid tails of cer  ns  24:0 arrange themselves with a large opening angle v - shaped structure @xcite",
    "only low temperature crystallization from solution leads to a hairpin arrangement of the tails ( inset of fig .",
    "[ fig.scskeletal ] ) . to ensure a hairpin arrangement of the ceramides ,",
    "we start with a multilayer anhydride system with the ceramides placed in a slightly expanded hexagonal lattice with a hairpin structure at 300k , and relax the configuration with a 20ns npt md run . a bilayer from the multilayer",
    "was then placed in a larger box and the box was filled with water .",
    "we ran the system for 5ns with the ceramide molecules fixed ( to hydrate the bilayer properly ) , and then for 2ns with only the terminal methyl group on all the lipid tails frozen , so that the rest of the molecules reorient themselves to accommodate the water environment .",
    "this configuration was used as the initial configuration for the pure cer system .",
    "a further 10ns npt md run was used at each temperature before the production runs .",
    ".compositions ( as molar ratios ) and number of particles simulated in this study .",
    "the pure ffa system had 9020 water molecules .",
    "for all other compositions , there were 5250 water molecules .",
    "[ table.composition ] [ cols=\"^,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     for the smallest system sizes used in this study , typical cpu requirements for pme based calculations are more than twice as compared to the cpu requirement for group - based cut - off .",
    "hence , for the simulation results presented in the main paper , we confine ourselves to group - based cut - off scheme only .",
    "this work was supported by yorkshire forward through the grant yfrid award b/302 .",
    "cd acknowledges softcomp eu network of excellence for financial support and computational resources .",
    "the authors thank jamshed anwar , simon connell , brett donovan , andrea ferrante , robert marriott , rebecca notman , khizar sheikh , sathish sukumaran , and barry stidder for useful discussions .",
    "norln , l. , i.  nicander , b.  l. rozell , s.  ollmar , and b.  forslind , 1999 .",
    "inter- and intra - individual differences in human stratum corneum lipid content related to physical parameters of skin barrier function in vivo .",
    "_ j. invest .",
    "_ 112:7277 .",
    "holleran , w.  m. , m.  q. man , w.  n. gao , g.  k. menon , p.  m. elias , and k.  r. feingold , 1991 .",
    "sphingolipids are required for mammalian epidermal barrier function .",
    "inhibition of sphingolipid synthesis delays barrier recovery after acute perturbation .",
    "_ j. clin .",
    "_ 88:13381345 .",
    "hltje , m. , t.  frster , b.  brandt , t.  engels , w.  von rybinski , and h .- d .",
    "hltje , 2001 .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of stratum corneum lipid models : fatty acids and cholesterol .",
    "_ biochim .",
    "acta _ 1511:156167 .",
    "notman , r. , w.  k. den otter , m.  g. noro , w.  j. briels , and j.  anwar , 2007 . the permeability enhancing mechanism of dmso in ceramide bilayers simulated by molecular dynamics .",
    "_ biophys . j. _ 93:20562068 .",
    "norln , l. , i.  nicander , a.  lundsj , t.  cronholm , and b.  forslind , 1998 . a new hplc - based method for the quantitative analysis of inner stratum corneum lipids with special reference to the freee fatty acid fraction .",
    "_ 290:508516 .",
    "bouwstra , j.  a. , g.  s. gooris , f.  e.  r. dubbelaar , a.  m. weerheim , a.  p. ijzerman , and m.  ponec , 1998 .",
    "role of ceramide 1 in the molecular organization of the stratum corneum lipids .",
    "_ j. lipid res . _ 39:186196 .",
    "schtzlein , a. , and g.  cevc , 1998 .",
    "non - uniform cellular packing of the stratum corneum and permeability barrier function of intact skin : a high - resolution confocal laser scanning microscopy study using highly deformable vesicles ( transfersomes ) .",
    "_ british journal of dermatology _",
    "138:583592 .",
    "jorgensen , w. , and j.  tirado - rives , 1988 .",
    "the opls [ optimized potentials for liquid simulations ] potential functions for proteins , energy minimizations for crystals of cyclic peptides and crambin .",
    "_ 110:16571666 .",
    "chiu , s. , m.  clark , v.  balaji , s.  subramaniam , h.  scott , and e.  jackobsson , 1995 .",
    "incorporation of surface tension into molecular dynamics simulation of an interphase : a fluid phase lipid bilayer membrane .",
    "_ biophys .",
    "j. _ 69:12301245 .",
    "berger , o. , o.  edholm , and f.  jhnig , 1997 .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of a fluid bilayer of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine at full hydration , constant pressure , and constant temperature .",
    "_ biophys .",
    "72:20022013 .",
    "berendsen , h. , j.  postma , w.  van gunsteren , and j.  hermans , 1981 .",
    "interaction models for water in relation to protein hydration .",
    "_ in _ b.  pullman , editor , intermolecular forces , reidel , dordrecht , 331342 .",
    "van  der spoel , d. , e.  lindahl , b.  hess , a.  r. van buuren , e.  apol , p.",
    "j. meulenhoff , d.  tieleman , a.  l. t.  m. sijbers , k.  a. feenstra , r.  van drunen , and h.  j.  c. berendsen , 2005 .",
    "gromacs user manual version 3.3 .",
    "www.gromacs.org .",
    "ryckaert , j.  p. , g.  ciccotti , and h.  j.  c. berendsen , 1977 .",
    "numerical integration of the cartesian equations of motion of a system with constraints ; molecular dynamics of n - alkanes .",
    "_ j. comp .",
    "_ 23:327341 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present atomistic molecular dynamics results for fully hydrated bilayers composed of ceramide ns-24:0 , free fatty acid 24:0 and cholesterol , to address the effect of the different components in the stratum corneum ( the outermost layer of skin ) lipid matrix on its structural properties . </S>",
    "<S> bilayers containing ceramide molecules show higher in - plane density and hence lower rate of passive transport compared to phospholipid bilayers . at physiological temperatures , for all composition ratios </S>",
    "<S> explored , the lipids are in a gel phase with ordered lipid tails </S>",
    "<S> . however , the large asymmetry in the lengths of the two tails of the ceramide molecule leads to a fluid like environment at the bilayer mid - plane . </S>",
    "<S> the lateral pressure profiles show large local variations across the bilayer for pure ceramide or any of the two component mixtures . </S>",
    "<S> close to the skin composition ratio , the lateral pressure fluctuations are greatly suppressed , the ceramide tails from the two leaflets interdigitate significantly , the depression in local density at the inter - leaflet region is lowered , and the bilayer have lowered elastic moduli . </S>",
    "<S> this indicates that the observed composition ratio in the stratum corneum lipid layer is responsible for both the good barrier properties and the stability of the lipid structure against mechanical stresses . </S>"
  ]
}