{
  "article_text": [
    "solar corona , a tenuous and very hot outer part of the solar atmosphere which sits on top of other layers ( photosphere , chromosphere , and the transition region ) can be seen either in white light observations during the solar eclipses ( because of @xmath0 times more flux of visible photospheric photons is otherwise outshining it ) or in extreme ultra - violet and x - ray observations from space ( because of atmospheric absorption of the short wavelength radiation ) .",
    "@xcite describe the first successful observations of the green coronal line @xmath1 by w. harkness and independently by c.a .",
    "young during the total solar eclipse of august 7 , 1869 .",
    "this `` new '' line was attributed to a new chemical element `` coronium '' .",
    "it was easy to make such a mistake because just a year before , 1868 , during the solar eclipse @xcite discovered a prominent yellow line @xmath2 , which could not be ascribed to any known chemical element at the time .",
    "this marked a discovery of helium after greek word helios meaning sun. on earth helium was only found about 10 years later by w. ramsay .",
    "the blunder with coronium went on for quite some time .",
    "moreover , as described by @xcite , the new gas geo - coronium extends from 200 km above earth into the space , and that the steady auroral arcs are due to electric luminescence in this gas .",
    "the truth had to wait until the beginning of 1940s . in his george darwin",
    "lecture of the royal astronomical society @xcite entitled `` the identification of the coronal lines '' edln describes the process of realising that the mysterious coronal lines , including the green coronal line @xmath3 , come from so - called forbidden lines of highly ionised metals .",
    "for example , the most intense green coronal line comes from fexiv , iron atom with 13 electrons stripped off .",
    "edln rightfully acknowledges that the correct identification of the coronal lines was triggered by a letter of 13 february 1937 sent to him by w. grotrian .",
    "these forbidden lines are emitted from energetically unfavourable metastable atomic energy levels . under normal laboratory conditions electrons do not readily make transitions from the metastable states to lower energy states ( whilst emitting photons ) due collisional de - excitation . in the extremely rarefied conditions of the solar corona",
    "such transitions become possible .",
    "the highly ionised metal ions can only be created in extremely hot conditions @xmath4 few @xmath0 k. thus , at the time it was rather difficult to accept that solar corona is so hot . especially because this seemed in an apparent violation of the second law of thermodynamics ( in rudolf clausius s formulation ) that the heat can not flow from a cold body ( photosphere at @xmath5 k ) to a hotter body ( corona at few @xmath0 k ) . in this manner ,",
    "one of the major unsolved problem in solar physics has emerged : which physical mechanisms are responsible for heating of solar corona ?",
    "some significant progress has been made , partcitlucalry , with the advent of space era in solving the coronal heating problem ( see e.g. chapter 9 in @xcite ) . as it happens in science , in general ,",
    "the progress has led to yet more , previously unknown challenges such as finding the answers to the questions : ( i ) why solar wind speed in the polar regions is twice higher during the solar minimum than plausible solar wind models can explain ? ( ii ) why the solar flares , the violent events in the corona when magnetic energy is converted into other forms , occur on timescales much shorter than the plausible resistive timescales predict ? ( iii ) why the most of the solar flare energy is taken away by the accelerated , super - thermal particles ? and so on .",
    "it is important to realise that reproducing or mimicking the reality in ( mostly ) numerical models does not necessarily mean that we have an _ understanding _ of physical mechanisms in action . here",
    "are a few examples e.g. in simple 1d coronal loop models a steady state of few @xmath0 k plasma can be maintained by balancing an _ ad hoc _ heat input with realistic losses such as heat conduction , radiation , etc , or even time - varying flare dynamics can be simulated @xcite .",
    "more realistic 3d models @xcite mimic the solar coronal observations and yet use unrealistically high magnetic resistivity .",
    "no wonder if one puts sufficient heating or artificially adjusts dissipation coefficients , a few @xmath0 k plasma can be obtained that `` looks like '' the solar corona .",
    "but did we learn what generates this heat or makes the dissipation coefficients anomalously high ?",
    "albeit , the answer is no .",
    "notwithstanding , something useful can be learnt e.g. where spatially heat needs to be deposited to reproduce the observations .",
    "similarly , consider the sophisticated solar wind models which solve numerically fluid - like equations for electrons , protons and alpha particles @xcite . indeed",
    ", such models can reproduce twice as high solar wind speeds in the polar regions than near the solar equatorial plane , as observed during solar minima .",
    "but , this is obtained based on an _ ad hoc _ energy flux injected into the both ion species . again",
    ", it comes as no surprise that _ ad hoc _ energy flux ( essentially an additional momentum added ) to the ion species produces observed fast solar wind speeds .",
    "again , no answer is provided to the main question : what provides this additional energy flux ( momentum ) ?",
    "is it due to absorption of waves ? or due to some microscopic reconnection events at the base of the corona ? as to the question of why the most of the solar flare energy is taken away by the accelerated particles ,",
    "the situation is analogous .",
    "kinetic - scale particle - in - cell modelling @xcite can in principle reproduce the solar flare observations in that within one alfvn time , somewhat less than half ( @xmath6% ) of the initial total ( roughly magnetic ) energy is converted into the kinetic energy of electrons , and somewhat more than half ( @xmath7% ) into kinetic energy of ions ( similar to solar flare observations ) .",
    "also , a sizable fraction ( up to 20% ) of the magnetic energy can be released / conversted into other forms such as kinetic energy of super - thermal particles and to much small extent waves .",
    "however , such simulations are performed usually in a domain sizes of several hundreds of electron debye length @xmath8 m , which is about @xmath9 times smaller than the solar flare particle acceleration site . here",
    "@xmath10 is electron thermal speed taken at @xmath11k and @xmath12 is electron plasma frequency taken at @xmath13 m@xmath14 , commensurate to solar corona .",
    "the question is whether realistic behaviour mimicked in small simulation domains will also hold if they are up - scaled to realistic sizes ?",
    "the situation is analogous to the stability of plasma in thermonuclear fusion devices such as tokamaks : small - scale ( `` laboratory''-scale ) versions behave quite differently from the plasma stability point of view than the large , `` factory''-scale ones .",
    "the above discussion about the spatial scales , @xmath15 ,  the characteristic length scales of a physical system over which properties of physical quantities ( e.g. magnetic field of an active region in the solar corona ) change  brings us to the following dichotomy or a dilemma .",
    "one one hand , solar corona is well described by the mhd approach .",
    "this is because if we take @xmath15 as the hydrostatic scale - height of the corona ( height over which pressure drops @xmath16-times ) @xmath17 m , this is much larger than all relevant kinetic scales : ( i ) @xmath18 m , ion ( proton ) inertial length ( also called ion skin depth ) , ( ii ) @xmath19 m electron inertial length ( also called electron skin depth ) , ( iii ) @xmath20 m electron larmor radius .",
    "( @xmath21 is the electron cyclotron frequency , which quantifies rotation of electrons around the magnetic field on their helical path . ) on the other hand , all interesting physical processes such as wave dissipation , nano - scale _ fast _ reconnection ( coronal plasma heating ) and particle acceleration ( during flares ) occur at small , kinetic scales .",
    "the dichotomy , depicted in fig .  1 , is in that the bulk plasma dynamics in the solar corona ( where most of the energy is stored ) is observable remotely from earth ( typical smallest coronal structures resolved e.g. with trace satellite is 0.5@xmath22 i.e. @xmath23",
    "m on the sun ) .",
    "but the above interesting physical processes all operate at scales below 10 m. thus , unless an in - situ probes are sent to the solar corona the kinetic - scales processes will never be observed .",
    "it seems unlikely humankind will ever come up with materials ( for the probes ) which will withstand the heat of the coronal environment .",
    "however , esa has plans for proba mission ( @xmath24 ) , in which the telescope of proba-3 s solar coronagraph will be mounted on one of the spacecraft , while the other craft is manoeuvred to accurately occult ( mask ) the main disc of the sun . with the proposed proba-3 arrangement",
    ", it is anticipated that accurate measurements will be possible from 1.05 to 3.2 solar radii .",
    "note that the discussion about spatial scales @xmath15 can always be cast into temporal scales , @xmath25 or frequencies @xmath26 by using characteristic speed of processes @xmath27 via @xmath28 .",
    "for example @xmath27 can be the alfvn speed , @xmath29 , if mhd - scale processes are considered .",
    "this would equally be applicable to waves and reconnection . in the latter case reconnection outflow speeds",
    "would be implied , while in the case of former  phase speed of the wave .    , ( i.e. @xmath30 ) , versus @xmath31 ) of magnetic fluctuations in the solar wind . adopted from @xcite . ]",
    "let us briefly discuss conditions of when the above mentioned kinetic scales become important . strictly speaking mhd equations are scale - free , in a sense that there is no physical spatial scale appearing in the equations ( except @xmath15 which is an _",
    "arbitrary _ size of the system , which simply needs to stay macroscopic so that continuum mechanical ( fluid - like ) description remains valid ) .",
    "the devil is in the detail , however . in order to obtain closed set of equations one needs to express the electric field by means of other physical quantities . in mhd ,",
    "the induction equation for the magnetic field is obtained by plugging in @xmath32 into the faraday s law ( from the maxwell s equations ) @xmath33 .",
    "intrinsic physical scales start appearing when instead of usual mhd - version generalised ohm s law @xcite , p. 89",
    ", @xmath34 one starts to use a more general form : @xmath34 @xmath35 eq.(2 ) essentially can be obtained from the electron equation of motion if electron speed @xmath36 is replaced by @xmath37 .",
    "the latter is mathematical statement of : when electron and ion speeds are different , this causes charge separation electric field and hence current @xmath38 . in mhd , however , ion and electron separate dynamics is ignored and @xmath39",
    ". it can be shown @xcite that each of the non - mhd terms ( second line of eq.(2 ) ) have intrinsic spatial scales associated with them : ( i ) the term containing @xmath40 ( called hall term ) becomes important on scales comparable to @xmath41 , ion skin depth ; ( ii ) the term containing @xmath42 ( called electron inertia term ) becomes important on , @xmath43 , electron skin depth scale ; and finally ( iii ) the term containing the divergence of the pressure tensor , @xmath44 , ( called pressure tensor term ) becomes important on scales comparable to @xmath45 , electron larmor radius .",
    "in order to better understand ordering of different spatial scales let us consider a simple problem of steady reconnection when oppositely directed magnetic field lines are brought into a diffusion region by an inflow of plasma , then they change connectivity and plasma outflow carries the field lines away .",
    "the change of connectivity occurs in the diffusion region which has width @xmath46 and length @xmath47 . in mhd , in the simplest possible formulation ( sweet - parker model ) : ( i ) bernoulli equation determines the outflow speed being the alfvn speed , @xmath48 ; ( ii ) continuity equation prescribes in the reconnection inflow speed @xmath49 ; while ( iii ) the generalised ohm s law in which the advection term @xmath50 is balanced by the resistive term @xmath51 sets the reconnection rate @xmath52 , where @xmath53 is the magnetic lundquist number",
    ". thus , in mhd sweet - parker model ( in which @xmath47 is fixed at @xmath15 ) is producing reconnection rates much smaller what is observed in e.g. flares in solar corona .",
    "for the parameters commensurate to solar corona ( @xmath54 m@xmath14 , @xmath55 k , @xmath56 m , @xmath57 t ( 100 gauss and hence @xmath58 m s@xmath59 ) , @xmath60 ) the classical sweet - parker rate is @xmath61 .",
    "the reconnection rate is also interpreted as the ratio of alfvn time ( @xmath62 s ) and resistive ( or reconnection ) times .",
    "this means in the sweet - parker model resistive ( or reconnection ) time is @xmath63 s @xmath64 days . on contrary , in the observations flares last for up to tens of minutes .",
    "petschek model alleviates this problem by making the diffusion region length , @xmath65 .",
    "this means that the plasma inflow speed @xmath49 a sizable fraction of the alfvn speed making reconnection rates faster and hence flare times shorter commensurate to the observations .",
    "however , petschek model is a phenomenological one ( not derived from the first principles ) and for it to work ( as demonstrated by numerous numerical simulations ) it requires plasma resistivity to be non - uniform and be enhanced on the diffusion region ( so - called anomalous resistivity ) .",
    "whilst , the latter being quite plausible , given that turbulent transport is known to enhance the dissipation / resistive coefficients dramatically , we have not sent in - situ probes to the solar corona yet , and hence we do not know for certain whether it is turbulent or not !    it should be noted that in the laboratory plasma magnetic reconnection experiment ( mrx ) measurements show indication of the reconnection rates or equivalently anomalous resistivity values 10s and even 100 times larger that sweet - parker model predicts @xcite .",
    "the mrx experiment plasma _ is not in the turbulent _ state .",
    "what is observed , however , is that the reconnection rates or equivalently anomalous resistivity values are attained when the transition from collisional ( resistive mhd ) to collisionless ( kinetic ) regime takes place .    ) and below the magnetic field is carried by electrons .",
    "black box with width @xmath43 shows electron diffusion region where magnetic connectivity change take place .",
    "the green box with width @xmath45 shows region where electron meandering motion makes pressure to become a tensor with off - diagonal ( non - gyrotropic ) terms playing a major role .",
    "blue and black dashed lines with arrow heads show ion and electron flow , respectively .",
    "note how ion flow deflects at the scale @xmath41 , while electron flow does so at @xmath43 .",
    "the green wiggle in the centre show an electron orbit .",
    "its radius is small and follows a magnetic field line away from the diffusion region .",
    "the radius becomes large and motion chaotic ( meandering ) as the magnetic field drops to zero close to the magnetic null .",
    "]    so , is there an alternative way ( i ) to have fast reconnection i.e. get solar flare times right ?",
    "( ii ) also to demonstrate that the large proportion of flare energy goes into the accelerated particles ? and ( iii ) not to make assumptions about the turbulent state of the corona ( hence postulating the anomalous resistivity ) ? it turns out that plasma _",
    "kinetic _ approach can provide answer `` cautious yes '' to all of these fundamental questions . here",
    "is how : for the solar coronal parameters : a temperature of @xmath66 k , coulomb logarithm of 18.1 , the lundquist number ( using spitzer resistivity ) is @xmath67 . here",
    "@xmath56 m was used .",
    "one of the reasons for going beyond resistive mhd is comparing typical width of a sweet - parker current sheet @xmath68 m to the ion skin depth .",
    "typical scale associated with the hall term in the generalised ohm s law at which deviation from electron - ion coupled dynamics is observed is , @xmath69 m. here particle number density of @xmath70 m@xmath14 has been used .",
    "hence , the fact that @xmath71 justifies going _ beyond single fluid resistive mhd approximation _ ( a similar conclusion is reached by @xcite in their fig .",
    "in other words , ion skin depth scale is reached first before resistive mhd sweet - parker current sheet .",
    "let us put this fact ( that @xmath72 ) in the visual context using fig .  2 : on a global ( bulk mhd ) scale @xmath15 electrons and ions inflow towards the diffusion region ( where magnetic field connectivity changes ) in a coordinated way as if they are glued to each other .",
    "when the flow approaches ion skin depth scale @xmath41 ions become demagnetised ( magnetic field is no longer is frozen into ion fluid ) and magnetic field is carried forward by electrons . at @xmath41 scale the hall term in the generalised ohm s law dominates .",
    "this picture is broadly corroborated by kinetic , particle - in - cell simulations of x - point collapse @xcite . in panel ( a ) of fig.3 we see that for electrons the diffusion region width is indeed @xmath43 , while for ions , panel ( b ) of fig.3 , the width of the region where ions start to deflect from the current sheet ( region where ions become demagnetised ) is about @xmath73 ( note that here the ion to electron mass ratio of @xmath74 has been used ) .",
    "this continues until electron skin depth scale @xmath43 is reached where electron inertia term takes over .",
    "further down the spatial scales , when electron larmor radius scale @xmath45 is reached electron meandering motion ( dashed green wiggled curve in fig.2 ) sets in @xcite .",
    "this makes the non - gyrotropic ( off - diagonal ) components of the electron pressure tensor to dominate other terms in the generalised ohm s law , and hence makes them responsible for breaking the frozen - in condition .",
    "the concept of pressure _ tensor _ is somewhat counter - intuitive .",
    "this can be comprehended as follows : away from the electron diffusion region pressure is scalar ( isotropic ) and electrons flow along ( are frozen into ) the magnetic field lines . inside the the diffusion region",
    "@xmath75 electrons become demagnetised and execute meandering ( rather chaotic ) motions .",
    "these are such that pressure becomes different as one travels in different directions ( i.e. pressure becomes a tensor as opposed to a scalar ) .",
    "previous results on collisionless reconnection both in tearing unstable harris current sheet @xcite and stressed x - point collapse @xcite have shown that magnetic field is frozen into electron fluid and the term in the generalised ohm s law that is responsible for breaking the frozen - in condition is electron pressure tensor off - diagonal ( non - gyrotropic ) component gradients .",
    "thus , there is a case for inclusion of the _ electron pressure tensor non - gyrotropic components _ in a model of collisionless reconnection .",
    "analytically , this was achieved by @xcite . in this simple model instead of balancing the advection term in the generalised ohm s law with the resistive term ( as discussed above ) ,",
    "non - gyrotropic components of the electron pressure tensor gradient were used .",
    "this produced simple analytical results which explain well ( i ) the reconnection rate and ( ii ) width of the electron diffusion region measurements in mrx experiment .",
    ", while ion flow deflects from the diffusion region at a width @xmath41 ( here @xmath76 ) , as sketched in fig .",
    "2.,title=\"fig : \" ] , while ion flow deflects from the diffusion region at a width @xmath41 ( here @xmath76 ) , as sketched in fig .",
    "2.,title=\"fig : \" ]    there is a growing amount of work @xcite that suggests that in the collisionless regime , on the scales less than @xmath41 magnetic field is frozen into the electron fluid rather than bulk of plasma .",
    "one can write in general @xmath77 .",
    "this relation clearly shows that in collisional regime ( when the number density @xmath78 is large ) , the difference between electron and ions speeds diminishes @xmath79 .",
    "however , as one enters collisionless regime ( when the number density @xmath78 is small ) the deviation between electron and ion speeds starts to show . in @xcite",
    "we proposed a possible explanation why the reconnection is fast when the hall term is included .",
    "inclusion of the latter means that in the reconnection inflow magnetic field is frozen into _",
    "electron _ fluid . as it was previously shown in @xcite",
    "( see their figs.(7 ) and ( 11 ) ) speed of electrons , during the reconnection peak time , is at least 4 - 5 times greater than that of ions .",
    "this means that electrons can bring in / take out the magnetic field attached to them into / away from the diffusion region much faster than in the case of single fluid mhd which does not distinguish between electron - ion dynamics .",
    "thus , it is clear that inclusion _",
    "magnetic field transport by electrons _ is crucial in resolving of above mentioned problems mhd description of the solar corona faces .",
    "to summarise , some of the time - dependent collisionless reconnection models such as tearing unstable harris current sheet @xcite and stressed x - point collapse @xcite where able : ( i ) to show that a sizable fraction of the magnetic energy can be converted / released into heat and accelerated , super - thermal particle energy ( see e.g. fig.13 from @xcite ) ; ( ii ) obtain fast reconnection rates and hence magnetic energy release rate commensurate to solar flare observations ( see e.g. figs.3 and 9 from @xcite ) ; ( iii ) reproduce the observational fact that the large proportion of flare energy goes into the accelerated particles in the correct partition , i.e. somewhat less than half ( 40% ) of the initial total ( roughly magnetic ) energy is converted into the kinetic energy of electrons , and somewhat more than half ( 60% ) into kinetic energy of ions ( see e.g. figs.3 and 4 from @xcite ) ; ( iv ) not to invoke anomalous resistivity . however , despite this success there are main challenges ahead : ( i ) the processes described by the collisionless reconnection models are small scale ( @xmath80 m ) . indeed , on scale less than ion skin depth magnetic field is advected into the diffusion region by electrons and since electrons are lighter and move faster , the reconnection is accordingly fast .",
    "but , sufficiently far away from the electron diffusion region , electron flow must slow down to bulk plasma speeds when mhd description takes over ( ions and electrons become glued to each other ) , where and how this happens ?",
    "recent pic simulations @xcite suggest that the electron diffusion region length can extend for much longer distances downstream than previously thought .",
    "why does this happen is not understood .",
    "( ii ) how this small - scale dynamics on the kinetic scale translate into mhd scales ?",
    "i.e. despite producing fast reconnection rates , these processes happen in physically small volumes .",
    "will they affect mhd - scale ( say a @xmath81 m ) processes ?",
    "it will be impossible to find out until we can perform a numerical simulation @xmath0m@xmath82m@xmath82 m using realistic coronal active region fields as an input for particle - in - cell or vlasov simulation .",
    "the latter would seem many decades away even if moore s law ( that the number of transistors that can be placed inexpensively on an integrated circuit has increased exponentially , doubling approximately every two years ) continues to hold in the future .",
    "until such times , we can do @xmath83m@xmath84m@xmath84 m kinetic simulation and hope for the best that our models will scale correctly towards the larger ( physically meaningful ) spatial scales .",
    "study of mhd waves in the solar corona has seen steady progress over last two decades .",
    "there are two aspects to the study : ( i ) waves carry information about the medium they propagate in .",
    "this is used in the field of solar coronal seismology to infer physical parameters of the corona ( see for reviews @xcite ) .",
    "for example traditional method of measuring magnetic field in solar photosphere is based on the zeeman effect . however , in solar corona plasma is too dilute rendering this method unusable . based on the seminal theoretical work of @xcite ,",
    "transverse oscillations of solar coronal euv loops were used to successfully measure the magnetic field @xcite .",
    "( ii ) waves transport mechanical ( and magnetic ) energy and if dissipated may produce plasma heating .    in the mhd approximation , in a uniform plasma penetrated by a uniform magnetic field , @xmath85 ,",
    "there are three distinct types of waves : fast and slow magnetosonic and alfvn waves .",
    "fast magnetosonic waves are compressible mhd waves which have an advantage of propagating across the magnetic field .",
    "this implies that the heat produced by the wave dissipation can spread across and cover a large area .",
    "the fast magnetosonic waves that are generated in the solar interior can not reach the corona because of the reflection on the pressure / density gradient ( due to gravitational stratification ) .",
    "thus , initially they were excluded from coronal heating models . however , in the transversely inhomogeneous plasma there are two possibilities to couple alfvn waves ( which have no problem of crossing the gradient ) with fast magnetosonic waves : either by non - linear coupling in 2.5 mhd approximation @xcite ; or linear ( much more efficient ) coupling in 3d mhd approximation @xcite .",
    "slow magnetosonic waves are also compressible , but propagate preferentially along the magnetic field . normally , these waves are discounted from coronal heating candidate list on the grounds of not carrying ( less by four orders of magnitude ) sufficient flux @xcite .",
    "however , the latter estimate is based on the assumption of just a single harmonic ( fixed frequency ) and @xcite have demonstrated that if a wide spectrum ( continuous spectrum with a plausible frequency ( or wavenumber ) range ) of slow magnetosonic waves exists in the corona , than their dissipation would provide sufficient heating . whether such spectrum exists is an open question .",
    "however since in the nature there is always a cascade of energy from large scales to small scales ( see e.g. fig .",
    "1 ) , this wide spectrum conjecture seems plausible .",
    "alfvn wave is an incompressible , transverse wave ( such as e.g. electromagnetic wave ) , with frequency , @xmath86 , much smaller that ion cyclotron frequency , @xmath87 . in an alfvn wave",
    "the background magnetic field tension provides restoring force , while plasma ions provide inertia ( the two key ingredients for any oscillatory motion ) .",
    "alfvn waves are easy to excite , e.g. a sheared plasma flow across magnetic field .",
    "however , they are notoriously difficult to dissipate because of small resistivity of the solar corona .",
    "i.e. alfvn wave is a good vehicle for transporting energy ( e.g. from convective motions below the photosphere into the corona ) , but this `` vehicle '' has virtually no breaks ( hence can not be stopped ! ) .",
    "thus , in order to deposit energy in the first @xmath17 m of the corona ( the hydrostatic scale - height ) above the transition region , some enhanced dissipation mechanisms where proposed in the past . in the solar corona , basic magnetic structure that is encountered is either a closed loop ( during 11-year cycle minimum more of these are found near solar equator and low latitudes ) ; or open magnetic strictures such a plumes ( during the solar minimum these are mostly located near the north and south polar regions ) .",
    "the common feature of these coronal structures is the density variation _ across _ the magnetic field .",
    "i.e. inside the loops and plumes density is enhanced by 3  10 times compared to the surrounding plasma . in the case of closed magnetic structures this enhanced density",
    "is believed to be due to material evaporation from denser layers of the sun such as transition region and chromosphere . in the open magnetic structures the density enhancement is either due to a solar wind and again material evaporation from below ( which could be either due to reconnection or any other process which increases plasma temperature so that the balance no longer holds ) .",
    "there are two mechanisms for the above mentioned enhanced alfvn wave dissipation and absorption in the solar corona : phase mixing @xcite and resonant absorption @xcite . in both mechanisms",
    "transverse inhomogeneity of plasma ( i.e. plasma with density variation across the uniform magnetic field ) plays a crucial role ( albeit for different reasons ) .",
    "brief review of both topics can be found in @xcite .        for particle acceleration and efficient _ non - resonant _ wave - particle interactions ( e.g. converting wave energy to particle kinetic energy and heat if inter - particle collisions are efficient ) , it is necessary for a wave in question to have magnetic field - aligned electric field .",
    "the word non - resonant is crucial here because , interaction of waves with particles when ( i ) the wave phase speed @xmath88 coincides with particle ( thermal ) speed @xmath89 leads to the landau resonance ; or ( ii ) to the cyclotron resonance , when the rotation frequency of the electric field vector of the circularly polarised wave , @xmath90 coincides with the particle s cyclotron frequency , @xmath91 ( and when both the wave electric field vector and particle rotate in the same direction ) . in the both cases particle experiences almost constant electric field , which facilitates efficient wave - particle resonant interaction .",
    "away from the resonance @xmath92 or @xmath93 in the case of landau damping ; or @xmath94 or @xmath95 in the case of cyclotron resonance , wave electric field oscillates too fast or too slow and has no effect on plasma particles of species @xmath96 . in the mhd approximation alfvn",
    "wave propagates strictly along the magnetic field ( with some finite parallel to the magnetic field wave number @xmath97 ) as shown in case a , fig .",
    "4 . in this case the perpendicular wave number @xmath98 . for the field aligned electric field to exist @xmath99 condition should be true .",
    "case c , fig.4 also shows why the fast magnetosonic waves are believed to be efficient particle accelerators .",
    "this because they preferentially propagate across the magnetic field and hence posses finite @xmath99 . for alfvnic waves",
    "@xmath99 ( see case b , fig .",
    "6 ) only possible when kinetic - scale effects are included .",
    "in particular , it has been realised @xcite that when externally applied wave frequency becomes resonant with the alfvn frequency @xmath100 , a resonance occurs and the driving wave converts into kinetic alfvn wave ( kaw ) which has the finite field - aligned electric field .",
    "more generally , generation of the parallel ( magnetic field - aligned ) electric field occurs when the applied low - frequency ( @xmath101 ) alfvn wave has @xmath102 comparable to any of the _ kinetic spatial scales_. such alfvn waves ( with @xmath103 ) are called _ dispersive alfvn waves _ ( daw ) @xcite . the latter split into two classes : kinetic alfvn waves ( kaw ) and inertial alfvn waves ( iaw ) .",
    "the distinction between the two is drawn according to the value of plasma beta , which is the ratio of thermal and magnetic pressures , i.e. @xmath104 .",
    "plasma beta can also be related to the ratio of the sound speed and alfvn speed squared , i.e. @xmath105 , the ratio of specific heats @xmath106 in e.g. adiabatic case is 5/3 .",
    "here @xmath107 is the sound speed .",
    "physically , plasma beta prescribes importance of either thermal effects or magnetic field .",
    "e.g in solar corona @xmath108 meaning that magnetic fields play a dominant role in coronal plasma behaviour . in the context of dispersive alfvn waves plasma beta prescribes which term in the generalised ohm s law supports parallel electric field @xcite . if @xmath109 , i.e. @xmath110 then the dominant mechanism for generation of parallel electric field in the generalised ohm s law is the electron inertia and one has inertial alfvn waves ( iaw ) . if @xmath111 , i.e. @xmath112 then the dominant mechanism for generation of parallel electric field in the generalised ohm s law is electron pressure gradient and one has kinetic alfvn waves ( kaw ) .    in the solar corona ,",
    "particle acceleration e.g. during solar flares is generally believed to be occurring as a result of magnetic reconnection . for description of particle dynamics either test particle approach @xcite which is ignores self consistent fields or more recently kinetic ,",
    "particle - in - cell simulation @xcite has been used . the problem with particle acceleration during solar flares",
    "is associated with the numbers of particles involved . in the standard flare model",
    ", reconnection event occurs higher up the corona and as result 50 - 80 % of the flare energy is converted into accelerated particles ( electrons and ions ) .",
    "these rush down towards denser layers of the solar atmosphere guided by coronal magnetic field structures and produce x - ray emission via bremsstrahlung .",
    "the number of detected x - ray photons can be related ( via certain model assumptions ) to the number of accelerated electrons . for a typical flare more than @xmath113 electrons",
    "are accelerated , yielding a huge current sheet ( with a volume of @xmath114 @xmath115 ) that must remain stable for more than 60 seconds .",
    "this is an unlikely course of events because of the dissolution ( thinning ) of the current sheet @xcite . in effect , the above numbers imply that all of the electrons in the current sheet need to be evacuated .",
    "another problem is with the return currents .",
    "a beam of electrons injected into plasma is known to be compensated by the generated counter beam .",
    "thus , expecting a bunch of all @xmath113 electrons happily travels towards the footpoints of the magnetic structure is naive .",
    "a viable alternative for transporting flare energy by the beam of accelerated particles , is waves . as we know",
    "waves can transport energy without mass transport .",
    "therefore , if flare energy is delivered to footpoints by waves then the above mentioned difficulties ( the number problem and return currents can be avoided ) . in this scenario , reconnection flare event produces dispersive alfvn waves ( which posses parallel electric fields ) . these subsequently travel to the footpoints , then accelerate particles in the vicinity of footpoints .",
    "the accelerated particles ( mostly electrons , because these waves are known to preferentially accelerate electrons due to their small inertia , whilst producing ion heating  broadening of their distribution function ) , in turn , produce the observed x - rays via the bremsstrahlung . using particle - in - cell simulation , @xcite have recently explored how circularly polarised alfvn wave with @xmath116 propagates in a transversely inhomogeneous plasma .",
    "this frequency is somewhat higher than that for mhd wave and yet smaller that ion cyclotron resonance .",
    "such wave strictly speaking is called ion cyclotron rather than alfvn wave . in the @xmath117 limit , however , is behaves like an alfvn wave .",
    "the density in the middle of simulation domain was smoothly increased by a factor of 4 ( a ramp - like function @xmath118 $ ] ) across the uniform magnetic field in order to model a coronal loop ( accordingly temperature was varied as inverse of density so that total pressure balance is preserved ) .",
    "the widths of the transverse inhomogeneity on each side of the ramp is @xmath119 .        fig .",
    "5 s left column demonstrates that initially plane alfvn wave front becomes distorted ( middle part travels slower ) because its phase speed ( @xmath120 ) is a function of density , which in turn is a function of a coordinate @xmath121 across the uniform magnetic field applied along @xmath122-axis .",
    "it is also interesting to note that in the strongest density gradient regions @xmath123 and 150 the propagating alfvn wave damps . in the middle column of fig.5 parallel electric field @xmath124",
    "is shown . at time @xmath125",
    ", @xmath126 is zero everywhere , but as the alfvn wave propagates and its wave front becomes distorted @xmath126 starts to grow .",
    "it typically attains values of few @xmath127 . for solar coronal conditions",
    "this is typically exceeds the dreicer electric field ( which is associated with the particle acceleration runaway regime @xcite ) @xmath0 times !",
    "hence , the generated parallel electric field efficiently accelerates electrons , as can be seen in the right column of fig.5 .",
    "the latter shows parallel to the magnetic field phase space ( @xmath128 vs. @xmath122 ) where each dot corresponds to an electron ( total of @xmath129 ) . we gather that in the regions where @xmath126 is generated , the number of particles with increased field - aligned velocity @xmath128 is increased ( i.e. particles are accelerated ) . note that this coincides with the regions where alfvn wave enhanced damping occurs .",
    "@xcite performed a parametric study , exploring how the new mechanism of parallel electric field generation and acceleration of electrons discovered by @xcite depends on problem parameters , such as the variation of frequency and amplitude of the applied ( driving ) alfvn wave , as well as plasma beta , affect levels attained by the @xmath126 and the fraction of accelerated particles ( the latter is defined as percentage of electrons with speeds above the electron thermal speed in the density gradient regions ) .",
    "it was established that ( i ) @xmath126 is always orders of magnitudes greater than dreicer electric field and ( ii ) the faction of accelerated electrons ranges within 20 - 50% .",
    "the latter makes the discovered electron acceleration mechanism quite efficient and potentially capable of resolving the above mentioned problems of standard flare models which use reconnection - produced electron beams instead of waves as the means of delivering energy flux to the footpoints in order to produce the x - rays .",
    "it should be noted that the transverse inhomogeneity is crucial in the model of @xcite ( see also further analysis paper @xcite ) .",
    "in fact , when the transverse density inhomogeneity is removed , i.e. when alfvn wave front remains always perpendicular to the uniform background magnetic field , no parallel electric field generation or electron acceleration is observed ( see figs.7 - 10 in @xcite ) . in terms of the above @xmath102 discussion ,",
    "this can be explained as following : when the density across the magnetic field is inhomogeneous , despite the fact that initially @xmath98 as the alfvn wave front starts to deform @xmath102 is efficiently generated .",
    "when on the other hand density is constant everywhere then alfvn wave front is always at right angles to the magnetic field , i.e. alfvn",
    "wave propagates strictly along the field , and thus @xmath98 at all times .",
    "recently , @xcite revisited the problem of solar flare electron acceleration with alfvnic pulses .",
    "further , @xcite quantified the full details , namely , exploring how fraction of accelerated particles is affected by such crucial parameter as transverse length - scale @xmath130 of the alfvnic pulse .",
    "they found that significant fraction of electrons would be accelerated if @xmath131 is few meters or less .",
    "a clear distinction should be made between models of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "as explained above , in the case of former , @xmath102 is _ initially zero _ and it seems that such wave is more plausible to exist in nature .",
    "this is because it represents simple , ubiquitous alfvnic _ harmonic _ wave .",
    "recall that even in mhd approximation @xmath102 is also zero at all times .",
    "it is crucial in @xcite s model that plasma has density inhomogeneity mimicking transverse density structure of the coronal loop .",
    "it is this inhomogeneity that makes alfvn wave front to distort and create finite @xmath102 and hence generate @xmath126 . in the case of @xcite s model @xmath99 ( and hence @xmath103 ) _ from the start _ and there is no transverse density inhomogeneity .",
    "also , a pulse instead of harmonic have is considered .",
    "if we try to compare plausibility of the two models the following considerations come to mind . both models `` work '' i.e. generate large enough @xmath126 and accelerate sufficient proportion of electrons if the following are true : in @xcite s model a large scale alfvnic , harmonic wave initially has @xmath98 , interacts with the transverse density inhomogeneity which has a scale of @xmath132 . in @xcite s model ( see their eq.(28 ) ) alfvnic pulse with @xmath133 $ ] travels in the homogeneous plasma ( where @xmath134 is the perturbation amplitude ) . in effect , both models imply either small scale transverse inhomogeneity of the medium or small scale transverse wave number .",
    "it is unclear at this stage whether we have such small scale phenomena in solar corona .",
    "perhaps , in situ coronal probes or remote sensing from distances much small than sun - earth distance could shed some light , as this is currently possible in earth magnetospheric applications .",
    "however , until such times the jury on this topic will remain out .    in summary ,",
    "wave based models offer attractive solutions to the above mentioned outstanding problems in solar flare particle acceleration .",
    "it is yet to be clarified however , how small - scale ( kinetic - scale ) phenomena feeds into the large - scale ( mhd - scale ) phenomena . from the fundamental point of view , of course kinetic - scale modelling includes all the essential physics .",
    "however , realistically shortcomings of man - made even the largest parallel supercomputers will unlikely offer us the performance we need .",
    "e.g. a full 3d vlasov code @xmath135 grids in the 6-dimensional phase space ( 3 spatial dimensions and 3 velocity dimensions ) require 32 terabytes ( 32,000 gb ) of ram . given that spatial grid size is the debye length ( @xmath136 m in the solar corona ) , in 3d this offers rather uninterestingly small physical volume .",
    "thus , there is always a restriction imposed to consider a lower dimensional physical systems .",
    "despite significant progress in understanding of physical processes ongoing in solar atmosphere  it is enough to take a look as nasa or esa webpages describing a number of previous and existing successful space missions , as well future mission plans  there is still a long and exciting way to go ! as far as coronal heating problem is concerned , in author s opinion further progress could be made if following considerations are noted .    from the observational perspective",
    "it would be rather important to investigate heating of active regions ( ars ) .",
    "ar is a volume of solar atmosphere above sunspots .",
    "they are important because during solar maximum ars can be responsible for @xmath137% of heating of the entire corona @xcite .",
    "top left of fig.6 shows trace 171 @xmath138 image of an ar .",
    "the box in fig.6 shows potential extrapolation ( using green s function method ) of magnetic field lines based on an input from the measured normal component of the photospheric magnetic field that can be used for numerical modelling . ideally ,",
    "if we have _ simultaneous _ , high time cadence 2d imaging and 2d doppler shift data at several wavelength , @xmath139 , corresponding to emission from e.g. white light ( continuum , photosphere , @xmath140 ) , heii ( @xmath141 , chromosphere , transition region , @xmath142 ) , feix ( @xmath143 , quiet corona , upper transition region , @xmath144 ) fexii , fexxiv ( @xmath145 , corona and hot flare plasma , @xmath146 ) , etc then one would able to fourier transform the data to see e.g. how much wave power spectrum is lost ( dissipated ) from one height ( a horizontal cross - section through the box in fig.6 ) to another .",
    "essentially , different line forming ions probe different temperatures and therefore different heights in the box in fig.6 .",
    "this would ultimately enable us to make a judgement to what extent _ waves _ contribute to the ar and coronal heating ? also , measuring the abundance of the observed bi - polar jets , which are believed to be signatures of small - scale reconnection , could enable us to make a judgement on _ reconnection _",
    "s contribution to the coronal heating .",
    "nasa s atmospheric imaging assembly ( aia ) on board of the solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) , to be launched in november 2009 , will make such unprecedented progress . however , aia s resolution of about 1 arcsec and time cadence of 10 seconds or better will naturally limit the types of waves it can detect .",
    "perhaps a better job could be done by a ground based project called rapid oscillations in solar atmosphere ( rosa ) , @xmath147 , which will have 0.1 arcsec resolution and will take in 30 - 125 frames per second ! however , rosa being a ground based instrument , can only probe photosphere / chromosphere / tr lines , i.e. can not probe corona , and yet a whole wealth of new data is expected which will hopefully lead to new discoveries . on a negative note , with sdo s aia and rosa importance of kinetic effects still can not be probed , because 1 arcsec on the sun is @xmath148 m  orders of magnitudes larger than any kinetic scale discussed above .",
    "the concept of measuring wave dissipation with height has been used recently by @xcite .",
    "this was based on variations in euv line widths of coronal plumes ( viewed off the solar limb ) with height .",
    "image of an active region in solar corona .",
    "the box shows potential extrapolation ( using green s function method ) of magnetic field lines based on an input from the measured normal component of the photospheric magnetic field that can be used for numerical modelling . ]",
    "also , there seems to be is a serious gap in the studies of the coronal heating problem , as here are no studies which consistently would monitor global _ ( average ) coronal temperature_.",
    "there are studies that monitor tsi ( total solar irradiance ) and its correlation to the ( 11 year- ) solar activity cycle .",
    "recent study by @xcite suggests that the long - term trend of tsi is most probably caused by a global temperature change of the sun ( photosphere ) that does not influence the uv irradiance in the same way as the surface magnetic fields .",
    "there is however , a work of @xcite , where they split the differential emission measure ( dem ) into 10@xmath149 sectors and estimate coronal heating requirement sector - by - sector .",
    "for every full - disk dataset with euv and sxr coverage , it would be straightforward to compute a dem of the entire corona , from which an emission measure - weighted temperature could be extracted as function of time .",
    "i.e. it could be possible to produce a graph of averaged ( by all sectors i.e. full disk ) coronal temperature as function of time , over the time interval of e.g. @xmath150 years with sufficient time cadence ( e.g. once per year or more ) .",
    "such plot would answer a significant question : whether the heat release in the corona is indeed related to the magnetic field ( which we know changes on 11 year timescale ) .",
    "there is certainly a good correlation between the magnetic flux and sxr intensity ( e.g. @xcite , or see fig . 1.13 in @xcite  indeed",
    ", there seems to be a good case for @xmath151 ) .",
    "however , it is questionable whether @xmath152 is a good proxy for global average coronal temperature , because sxr emission is non thermal ( produced by the forbidden lines )  cf .",
    "fig.2.3 from @xcite showing strong deviation of coronal emission from the blackbody spectrum .",
    "the analogy with a patient who has caught cold is relevant here : if a patient is sick , its temperature is routinely monitored by doctors .",
    "if we claim there is a coronal heating problem , indeed , solar physicists should monitor the global average temperature of their patient  the sun s corona !",
    "as far as modelling challenges are concerned , it seems a real progress can be made if two - fluid simulation of heating release in ar is attempted . when ion and electron dynamics is decoupled , we know that reconnection will proceed fast @xcite even without invoking anomalous resistivity .",
    "what is encouraging is that we do not need to use realistic ion to electron mass ration of @xmath153 .",
    "as previous results have shown , as long as ion - electron dynamics is decoupled simulation with @xmath74 is as good @xcite .",
    "this implies that significant reduction in cpu requirements can be achieved .",
    "the two - fluid simulation results then can be compared with the sdo s aia and rosa data to see whether inclusion of the two - fluid effects can provide fast enough reconnection or generated wave power and hence adequate coronal heating .",
    "author is supported by the science and technology facilities council ( stfc ) of the united kingdom ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the solar corona , anomalously hot outer atmosphere of the sun , is traditionally described by magnetohydrodynamic , fluid - like approach . here </S>",
    "<S> we review some recent developments when , instead , a full kinetic description is used . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that some of the main unsolved problems of solar physics , such as coronal heating and solar flare particle acceleration can be viewed in a new light when the small - scale , kinetic plasma description methods are used .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ] </S>"
  ]
}