{
  "article_text": [
    "massive stars have dense stellar winds that are photo - ionized by the strong uv radiation fields from the underlying star , giving rise to an excess of free - free continuum emission over the photospheric emission , that can be observed from ir to radio wavelengths .",
    "the brightness temperature of this emission is @xmath0  k , as expected from a photo - ionized envelope .",
    "the emission is partially optically thick , and between mid - ir and radio frequencies has a power - law spectrum @xmath1 , with spectral index ( @xmath2 ) typically @xmath3 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a number of massive stars have radio emission properties that differ from this typical picture : they exhibit brightness temperatures @xmath4  k , and flat or negative spectral indices , both properties characteristic of non - thermal synchrotron emission and therefore of relativistic electrons .",
    "often , this non - thermal emission is variable @xcite .",
    "it was first noted by @xcite that many wolf - rayet ( wr ) stars exhibiting non - thermal emission were long - period binary systems , and they proposed that the non - thermal emission arose from the region where the massive stellar winds of the two binary components collided , the wind - collision region ( wcr ) outside the optically thick part of the circumbinary stellar wind envelope .",
    "the colliding - wind binary ( cwb ) model was described in the seminal paper of @xcite .",
    "spatially resolved observations of the wr+o system wr  147 @xcite presented the first unequivocal confirmation of the cwb model .",
    "the model is supported further by the dramatic variations of the synchrotron radio emission in the 7.9-year wr+o binary system wr  140 , that are clearly modulated by the binary orbit ( c.f .",
    "[ fig : wr140data ] ) . among wr stars ,",
    "the cwb model has now been substantiated with over 90% of wr stars that exhibit non - thermal emission are either a binary system or have a `` nearby '' massive stellar companion that results in a wcr @xcite .",
    "amongst o - type stars , there is now increasing evidence that a similar explanation also holds ( see papers by van loo , and benaglia in these proceedings ; @xcite ) .",
    "the nature of the acceleration mechanism is , as yet , unidentified but is widely attributed to diffuse shock acceleration in shocks that `` bound '' the wcr .",
    "alternative mechanisms , such have magnetic reconnection have been discussed ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "colliding - wind binary systems present an important laboratory for investigating the underlying physics of particle acceleration , of not only the relativistic electrons that give rise to the observed radio emission , but potentially to ion acceleration that may give rise to gamma - ray gev - tev emission ( see other papers in these proceedings ) .",
    "in addition to the excellent modelling constraints provided from high - resolution vlbi imaging , radiometry and most recently high - energy observations , cwbs provide access to higher mass , radiation and magnetic field densities than found in supernova remnants , that have been widely and successfully used for studying particle acceleration , particularly diffusive shock acceleration ( see ellison , these proceedings ) .    here",
    "the observational evidence for non - thermal radio emission arising in wcrs in both wr and o - star binary systems is reviewed . in closing , some potential schemes for finding more of these particle acceleration laboratories are suggested .",
    "@xcite provided the first direct imaging confirmation of the colliding - wind model in observations of wr147 .",
    "this system was shown by @xcite using the merlin telescope array in the uk to have two distinct components ; a thermal component associated with the optical position of the wr star , and a non - thermal component 0.6 arcseconds to the north .",
    "@xcite speculated that this may be due to the presence of a companion star as had been suggested previously to explain non - thermal emission in wr140 @xcite .",
    "no companion could be found in a search for objects down to 1.9 magnitudes fainter than the wr star in optical r - band observations .",
    "soon thereafter , @xcite made multi - wavelength radio observations with the very large array ( vla ) and confirmed the nature of the emission components , but also did not identify a companion star .",
    "a compact companion was suggested to explain the x - ray and non - thermal radio emission .",
    "it was not until @xcite carried out sufficiently high - resolution imaging at 2.2 microns with ukirt that a nearby companion was identified , 3 magnitudes fainter than the wr star at 2.2 microns and with the luminosity of a b0-type star .",
    "the companion is 60 mas to the north of the non - thermal radio component , in a position consistent with the stellar wind momentum ratio of a wn8 and a b0 star ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : wr147 ] ) and with enough kinetic luminosity to power the x - ray emission .",
    "subsequently , multi - frequency radio data of wr147 was used to attempt to constrain models of the emission from cwbs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , because the thermal emission from the stellar wind of the wn8 star in wr147 dominates at radio wavelengths , the continuum spectrum of the non - thermal emission is not of sufficient signal - to - noise to constrain the models well .",
    "better model constraints have had to wait for the observations of other systems .",
    "at a similar time as the wr147 observations , @xcite found evidence in merlin 5-ghz observations for a wide colliding - wind binary system in wr146 .",
    "this assertion was supported by observations from the hst that revealed an o - type star 168 milli - arcsecond north of the wc star @xcite . unlike wr147 , the radio emission from this system",
    "is dominated by the non - thermal emission arising from the wcr and so is a more ideal object for both very high resolution multi - wavelength imaging and high - quality radiometry that give more robust modelling constraints .",
    "initial models have been constructed for this system @xcite ( see fig  [ fig : wr146 ] ) .",
    "both wr146 and wr147 are `` visual '' binary systems . as such",
    ", the wcr occurs far out in the stellar wind of the dense wr star , and the lines - of - sight to the wcr are typically optically thin .",
    "the apparent separation of the stars ( @xmath5 , where @xmath6 and @xmath7 are the orbit size and inclination respectively ) in these systems suggest that , with an assumed binary mass of @xmath8m@xmath9 , the orbital periods are a minimum of @xmath10  yrs . in such systems , variations due to the relative motion of the stars will all have long timescales - long relative to the time frame of typical study ! such systems lack a well - defined `` orbit '' , most particularly the separation of the stars . in spite of the apparent success modelling the continuum spectra and spatial distribution of the radio emission in both wr146 and wr147 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , this presents an impediment to modelling as a number of key system criteria remain ill - defined e.g. the uv - radiation density and the wind - kinetic luminosity available within the wcr .",
    "closer systems , with periods of a few years and orbits that are well constrained through spectroscopic studies , yet are sufficiently wide for optically thin lines - of - sight to the wcr through the circumbinary stellar wind plasma are better suited for modelling .",
    "in addition to excellent system constraints , those with particularly eccentric orbits have variable conditions within the wcr that offer an additional probe of the underlying physics .    the 7.9-yr period , highly eccentric wc7+o4 binary wr140 is one such system , and is the archetype cwb system .",
    "it is well known for its dramatic variations in emission from near - ir to radio wavelengths @xcite , and also at x - ray energies throughout its orbit @xcite .",
    "the wcr in wr140 experiences significant changes in its local environment as the stellar separation varies between @xmath11  au at periastron and @xmath12  au at apastron .",
    "the observed radio emission increases by up to two orders of magnitude between periastron and a frequency - dependent peak between orbital phases 0.65 and 0.85 , followed by a steep decline .",
    "this behavior repeats almost exactly from one orbit cycle to another , suggesting a particle acceleration mechanism that is well - controlled by the orbit of the system ( fig .",
    "[ fig : wr140data ] ) .      to fully establish the geometry of the wr140 binary system , particularly the orbital inclination ( @xmath7 ) and semi - major axis ( @xmath6 ) , but also",
    "the longitude of the ascending node ( @xmath13 ) , the system must be resolved into a `` visual '' binary .",
    "this was achieved by @xcite using the infrared - optical telescope array ( iota ) interferometer . together with other established orbit parameters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , families of possible solutions for ( @xmath14 ) can be determined . until similar observation at other orbital phases are available , vlbi observations of the wcr are the only means to determine uniquely @xmath7 , and hence @xmath13 and @xmath6 , from these solution families .    a 24-epoch campaign of vlba observations of wr140 was carried out between orbital phase 0.7 and 0.9 @xcite . at each epoch , an arc of emission is observed , resembling the bow - shaped morphology expected for a wcr .",
    "this arc rotates from `` pointing '' nw to w as the orbit progresses .",
    "the wcr emission is expected to wrap around the star with the lower wind momentum - the o star . in this case",
    ", the rotation of the wcr as the orbit progresses implies that the o star moves from the se to close to due e of the wr star over the period of the vlba observations .",
    "thus , the direction of the orbit is established .",
    "secondly , the orbital inclination can be derived from the change in the orientation of the wcr with orbital phase .",
    "each ( @xmath15 ) family provides a unique set of position angles for the projected line - of - centres as a function of orbital phase .",
    "this gives @xmath16 and @xmath17 , leading to a semi - major axis of @xmath18  mas , and the first full definition of orbit parameters for _ any _ cwb system . from optical spectroscopy @xmath19",
    "au @xcite , implying a distance to wr140 of @xmath20  kpc .",
    "notably , this estimate is independent of a calibration of stellar parameters e.g. absolute magnitude , and implies that the luminosity of the o star is that of a supergiant .      with the geometry and stellar parameters , models of the wcr in wr140 have better observational constraints than in any other known cwb . in addition , observations of the thermal x - ray emission that arises from the shocked plasma in the wcr provide the best available constraints on the mass - loss rates of the two winds as a function of the momentum ratio of the winds .",
    "@xcite studied models of the radio and x - ray emission at orbital phase 0.837 , where non - thermal emission dominates the radio spectrum and a good estimate of the characteristics of the relativistic electrons is possible .",
    "[ fig : wr140models ] shows two model fits to the radiometry , with quite different values of relative wind - momentum .",
    "the models suggest the low - frequency turnover at @xmath21  ghz is due to free - free absorption in the winds , since models where the razin effect dominates the low - frequency spectrum place an unacceptably large fraction of the shock energy in non - thermal electrons .",
    "development of these models continues ( see pittard , these proceedings ) .",
    "observations over a wide radio frequency range , and particularly those at the higher and lower frequencies , are key to distinguishing between models ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : wr140models ] ) . currently , radiometry is the only available technique since high - resolution radio observations made to date do not have sufficient low brightness sensitivity combined with resolution to detect lower brightness emission far out in the downstream flow of the wcr that may reveal the asymptotic opening angle of the wcr , a function of wind - momentum ratio .",
    "the current upgrade to the very large array ( the evla ) will significantly improve radiometry precision , and the broad - banding of vlbi networks e.g. vlba , emerlin will improve high - resolution imaging capability , most especially when combined with the data from the evla .",
    "the bulk of observations and modelling of cwb systems has been established using radio - bright wr+ob binary systems . given that these are the descendents of massive o - star binaries , it begs the question of whether the cwb model can also explain non - thermal emission amongst o stars . certainly , of the 16 o - star systems that exhibit non - thermal emission ( @xmath22 of all the radio - detected o stars ) , at least @xmath23",
    "are established binary systems @xcite . here , a couple of systems with good observational evidence for a wcr are given as examples .    in the 6.6-day",
    "binary o6+o6 star system cyg ob2 # 5 , is both a thermal and a non - thermal radio component ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , similar to those observed in wr146 and wr147 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : cygob25 ] ) .",
    "@xcite suggested that the non - thermal component is from a wcr between the o - star binary and a b - type star @xmath24 arcseconds distant .",
    "however , most recently kennedy et al .",
    "have demonstrated that radio emission from the putative wcr is constant and the radio variations first noted by @xcite arise solely from the `` thermal '' component that is associated with the o6 binary .",
    "they succeed in modelling the variations through orbit - modulated free - free opacity along lines of sight to a non - thermal source in a 6.7-yr orbit around the o6-star binary , where at minimum the spectral index is closely that of a `` classic '' stellar wind plasma ( @xmath25 ) , and at maximum is flatter ( @xmath26 ) due to the non - thermal contribution to the total emission ( fig .",
    "[ fig : cygob25 ] ) .",
    "recently @xcite suggest that this model may also explain the x - ray emission .",
    "the success of this simple model is compelling , though multi - frequency observations may reveal a more complex story - as discovered for wr140 !    in cyg",
    "ob2 # 9 , analysis of the radio emission from the system shows that the emission is clearly modulated with a 2.35-year period , very similar to the behavior of the radio emission from wr140 .",
    "vlba observations of this system reveal a bow - shaped non - thermal emitting region , as anticipated for a wind - collision region ( fig .",
    "[ fig : cygob29 ] ) .",
    "together , this evidence suggests strongly a wcr origin for the emission , and recently @xcite succeeded in the long - standing challenge of finding spectroscopic evidence of the companion required to give rise to the wcr .",
    "the observational support for the cwb model among o - type stars is rising ( see van loo , these proceedings ) .",
    "the evidence from imaging and/or radiometry in these examples of recent radio work is remarkably similar to those of the established wr+ob cwb systems - even in the absence of supporting evidence for a stellar companion .",
    "the evidence of wcrs in non - thermal emitting o stars continues to grow in new observations , particularly at higher resolution e.g. hd93129a @xcite .",
    "identifying stellar companions through the traditional technique of detecting radial velocity variations can be extremely challenging .",
    "it is strongly dependent on the luminosity ( and mass ) contrast of the two stars in the binary systems , and the period and orientation of the orbit . certainly for many of the currently known cwb systems , the periods are long ( @xmath27 ) and require long - term dedicated observing programmes over many years to identify ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for examples ) .",
    "identifying cwb systems is important in a number of leading areas of astrophysics .",
    "establishing the binary fraction among massive stars is crucial for models of binary star formation , especially in young massive stellar clusters where the long - period binary systems may be readily disrupted .",
    "secondly , the ability of the wc - type wr binaries to produce quite large amounts of dusts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) leads to the question of whether massive binary systems could have provided significant dust production during the era of first stars and galaxy formation .",
    "the cwb systems that we know of today have been identified through at least one , and often two of the following : 1 ) non - thermal radio emission , 2 ) thermal x - ray emission or , 3 ) variable dust emission , all emission from within the wcr . a number of methods that take advantage of these observational attributes have been successfully used recently and suggest methods for identifying binary systems that will not be readily identified using spectroscopic techniques .",
    "furthermore , these methods mitigate against the need for long - term monitoring to detect binaries .",
    "@xcite studied the x - ray properties of the young massive cluster westerlund 1 and showed that a number of members have hard ( @xmath28  kev ) and bright ( @xmath29  erg  s@xmath30 ) x - ray emission as anticipated from a wcr ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "interestingly , these stars also exhibit either radio continuum spectra that are too flat to be thermal emission alone ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and/or they exhibit an ir excess that has been attributed to hot dust @xcite .",
    "these identifications have contributed to determining a very high binary fraction ( @xmath31 ) amongst the wr stars in westerlund 1 @xcite .",
    "perhaps most dramatically , @xcite used diffraction - limited ir imaging to readily identify the five ` cocoon ' stars in the massive young quintuplet cluster as wr - binary systems , with each having a characteristic cwb dusty `` pinwheel '' nebula .",
    "the difficulty of previous attempts at identifying the character of these stars , demonstrates the power of this high - resolution technique , certainly for identifying dusty wc - type wr stars .",
    "most recently , the chicago project has been identifying `` anomalous '' asca x - ray sources with fluxes in the range @xmath32  erg  s@xmath30 in the galactic plane .",
    "such sources are not bright enough to be well - known , yet too bright to be canonical active stars or agn . through follow - up observations with chandra ( for resolution ) , 2mass and spectroscopy ( for stellar identification ) and radio observations a number of these objects",
    "have now been identified as colliding - wind systems ( g.  anderson & b.  gaensler , priv .",
    "communication ) .",
    "high - resolution imaging at radio wavelengths has provided dramatic confirmation that relativistic electrons are being accelerated in wind - collision regions in massive binary systems .",
    "the evolution of the wcr revealed in wr140 shows what can be achieved with this technique .",
    "however , high quality radiometry is still central to models of the radio emission , and other high - energy emission , in colliding - wind binaries .    with the advent of the upgrade to the very large array , the evla",
    ", it will be possible to attain radiometry at least an order of magnitude better than currently available .",
    "further , it will be possible to observe the entire continuum spectrum from 1 to 50 ghz with unprecedented precision .",
    "the atacama large millimetre array ( alma ) is another exciting development that will have the ability to image dust emission structures around massive stars , most particularly older , cooler dust that exists further from the underlying wc binary systems .",
    "the ability to readily identify binaries through the radio , x - ray and ir characteristics of cwbs gives a very powerful tool for extending our understanding of the birth - rate and formation environments of massive stellar binaries .",
    "this is especially timely given the recent discoveries of more massive , optically obscured stellar clusters in the milky way , especially in the direction of the galactic centre .",
    "much of the work described in this brief review was done in collaboration with many colleagues .",
    "most particularly , i have had many engaging discussions with both julian pittard ( leeds university ) and perry williams ( ifa , edinburgh ) as part of a number of successful projects related to colliding - winds .",
    "also i like to thank a number of very enthusiastic students who have worked with me on various cwb projects over the past six years - nick bolingbroke , evan oconnor , marshall kennedy and thomas johnson .",
    "lastly , i m grateful to gemma anderson for sharing some of the results from the chicago project prior to publication .                                        , s.  v. , moffat , a.  f.  j. , ballereau , d. , chauville , j. , zorec , j. , hill , g.  m. , annuk , k. , corral , l.  j. , demers , h. , eenens , p.  r.  j. , panov , k.  p. , seggewiss , w. , thomson , j.  r. , & villar - sbaffi , a. 2003 , , 596 , 1295      , j.  d. , traub , w.  a. , schloerb , f.  p. , millan - gabet , r. , berger , j .-",
    "p . , pedretti , e. , carleton , n.  p. , kraus , s. , lacasse , m.  g. , brewer , m. , ragland , s. , ahearn , a. , coldwell , c. , haguenauer , p. , kern , p. , labeye , p. , lagny , l. , malbet , f. , malin , d. , maymounkov , p. , morel , s. , papaliolios , c. , perraut , k. , pearlman , m. , porro , i.  l. , schanen , i. , souccar , k. , torres , g. , & wallace , g. 2004 , , 602 , l57"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this brief review describes radio observations of colliding winds in massive stars starting with the first direct observational support for the colliding - wind model advanced in the early 1990 s to explain non - thermal radio and thermal x - ray emission in some massive stars . </S>",
    "<S> studies of the well - studied and highly - eccentric wr+o star system wr140 are described along with recent observations of o - star systems . </S>",
    "<S> also discussed is the binary nature of almost all massive stars that exhibit non - thermal behavior and some strategies for finding new systems . </S>"
  ]
}