{
  "article_text": [
    "magnetism is still a very important topic in condensed matter physics . analyzing the elements involved in magnetic materials",
    ", one has to conclude that the existence of magnetism is intimately connected to the presence of partially filled d- or f - shells .",
    "it is thus not surprising that understanding the influence of these shells on the low temperature physics is crucial for a proper description of magnetic materials .    since d- or f - shells are typically more strongly localized than the s- or p - shells of simple metals or semiconductors , they often are subject to strong correlation effects making their theoretical study a challenging task . in this context",
    "very interesting materials are the transition metal oxides @xcite",
    ". one prevalent lattice structure of transition metal oxides is the cubic perovskite , in which the transition metal atom sits in the center of an oxygen octahedron .",
    "the states relevant at low temperatures are the d - orbitals of the transition metal atom . due to the cubic crystal symmetry the d - orbitals split into a threefold degenerate @xmath1- and a twofold degenerate @xmath0-band , which for the coordination present in the perovskite structure has the higher energy compared to the @xmath1-band .",
    "thus not only strong correlations but also orbital degeneracy plays an important role in the physics of these compounds .    to give a specific example for a transition metal oxide ,",
    "let us consider the manganites @xcite , or more precisely la@xmath2ca@xmath3mno@xmath4 .",
    "manganites became famous for their colossal magneto resistance ( cmr ) .",
    "besides this particular feature they show a very rich phase diagram with different magnetic and orbitally ordered phases . in la@xmath2ca@xmath3mno@xmath4",
    "one has to distribute @xmath5 electrons per site to the d - states of the manganese according to hund s rules .",
    "thus , the electronic configuration in this compound can be modeled by a partially filled @xmath0-band close to quarter filling and a half filled @xmath1-band which couples via hund s coupling ferromagnetically to the @xmath0-electrons .",
    "the hopping between the @xmath1-states is very small and thus the @xmath1-states are often modeled as localized @xmath6 spins . besides this electronic part",
    "the lattice degrees of freedom and especially jahn - teller distortions are important to correctly describe the physics of manganites @xcite .",
    "the ultimate goal surely is to theoretically describe the properties of materials like la@xmath2ca@xmath3mno@xmath4 including all the degrees of freedom mentioned before .",
    "however , at least equally important for a proper microscopic understanding of the physics is to disentangle the contributions of the different degrees of freedom and identify the individual influence , in particular to what extent a certain degree of freedom is responsible for effects or just follows the lead @xcite .",
    "for this reason we now leave the special topic of manganites and focus on the role of the electronic degrees of freedom , in particular the role of interactions on the magnetic and orbital properties of a degenerate @xmath0-band .",
    "we thus ignore effects of the @xmath1-spin and the lattice in the following .",
    "based on such an investigation , one can later include further features , like different band widths of the @xmath0-band @xcite , or additional degrees of freedom , for example the @xmath1-spin ( or band ) respectively the strong coupling to the lattice , step by step , thereby properly identifying for which particular features they are actually responsible . as we will discuss , already the simplified situation with only an @xmath0-band present shows very complex ground state properties , involving the coupling of charge , spin and orbital degrees of freedom .",
    "the article is organized as follows : after this introduction we establish the model and discuss the methods we have used for solving it . in the results section",
    "we first analyze the situation for a band filling between quarter filling and half filling . in the second part of the results section",
    "we particularly address quarter filling representing a very special point in the phase diagram , at which different ordered phases compete with each other .",
    "we model the @xmath0-band as a two orbital hubbard model @xcite @xmath7 here @xmath8 label the lattice sites ; @xmath9 is the orbital and @xmath10 the spin index .",
    "thus , @xmath11 creates an electron at site @xmath12 in orbital @xmath13 with spin @xmath10 . as usual , @xmath14 represents the chemical potential with @xmath15 being the density operator .",
    "note that , in the spirit of the philosophy discussed in the introduction , we assume the same band structure and -width for both orbitals in the @xmath0-band and also do not include orbitally off - diagonal hopping .",
    "the two particle interaction is parametrized as in ref .  , but we neglect the two particle hopping term @xmath16 @xcite .",
    "this is done mainly for numerical reasons , as otherwise one can not introduce a conserved orbital quantum number .",
    "this of course introduces an additional approximation ; however , previous studies indicated that this particular term is of minor importance , at least for ferromagnetic hund s exchange , while the inclusion of the rotationally invariant spin exchange appears to be crucial @xcite .",
    "therefore , in our model the two particle interaction is given as a local intra - band interaction with amplitude @xmath17 , a local inter - band interaction with amplitude @xmath18 and a hund s coupling with amplitude @xmath19 between the spins @xmath20 and @xmath21 of the two orbitals .    in order to investigate the possible",
    "magnetically , orbitally and charge - ordered phases of the two orbital model we use the dynamical mean field theory ( dmft ) @xcite .",
    "as this mean field theory properly includes the local dynamics due to electronic correlations , it accounts for such subtle effects like crossover between itinerant and localized order @xcite and strong reduction of transition temperatures . as it is well - known , the lattice structure enters the dmft calculation only via the non - interacting density of states ( dos ) .",
    "since we are interested in general qualitative aspects of ordering phenomena in the two band model and not in the description of a particular material , we can use this property and choose a numerically convenient form of the dos . as has been discussed extensively@xcite ,",
    "the semi - elliptic dos obtained from a bethe lattice with infinite coordination number is indeed a numerically convenient choice , which also allows to address the ordered structures we are interested in , namely antiferromagnetic nel , homogeneous ferromagnetic , as well as charge and orbital order .",
    "more complex structures , like for example ferromagnetic order in one direction and antiferromagnetic in another @xcite are excluded deliberately .",
    "the dmft self - consistency maps the lattice onto an effective impurity anderson model , which in the present case becomes a two orbital anderson model .",
    "we solve this anderson model with the numerical renormalization group ( nrg ) @xcite , which allows us to calculate properties for wide parameter regions at @xmath22 . to reliably calculate spectral function with nrg we use the complete fock space method @xcite .",
    "it must be noted that the two orbital model is an extreme case for calculating spectral functions within the nrg .",
    "the calculation of one spectral function requires approximately @xmath23 gb shared memory and several cpu - hours .",
    "as discretization parameter within the nrg we used @xmath24 , keeping up to @xmath25 states per nrg step in a typical calculation .",
    "let us begin the discussion of our numerical results by an overview of the magnetic phase diagram as function of filling for @xmath26 .",
    "the calculations were carried out using a fixed local intra - orbital interaction @xmath27 . here , @xmath28 is the bandwidth of the semi - elliptic dos , which will be used as energy scale throughout this article .",
    "this strength of the interaction is a good guess for transition metal oxides . as in the one orbital hubbard model @xcite",
    ", we also observe that for strong local interaction and half filling     as function of filling at @xmath29 , @xmath30 and @xmath22 . for fillings",
    "@xmath31 we observe signs of an incommensurate spin density wave extending to half filling .",
    "the phase diagram was created by fitting a smooth surface through approximately @xmath32 inhomogeneously distributed data points .",
    "therefore the location of the phase boundaries are only meant as rough sketches .",
    ", scaledwidth=48.0% ]    the physics is dominated by an antiferromagnetic insulator originating from super exchange @xcite .",
    "the nel temperature does not depend on @xmath33 or @xmath34 within the temperature resolution given by the nrg , as long as @xmath17 is the dominating interaction .",
    "the antiferromagnetic phase can be doped resulting in an incommensurate spin density wave away from half filling , which can extend to occupations @xmath35 .",
    "this is again the behavior expected for strong local interaction @xcite .",
    "note that by virtue of the self - consistency only phases commensurate with the lattice structure can be stabilized by a dmft calculation , but not a truly incommensurate phase .",
    "instead , we rather observe oscillations in the magnetization and occupation during the dmft self - consistency cycle . together with evidence from the one orbital model",
    "we can conclude that these oscillations , appearing when doping the nel state at half filling , are indeed signs of an incommensurate spin density wave @xcite . for occupations of",
    "@xmath36 the physical situation starts to become influenced by the double exchange mechanism @xcite and we thus expect to find ferromagnetic order @xcite .     for @xmath37 .",
    "compared to @xmath38 the ferromagnetic phase extends to higher temperatures and larger hole doping . , scaledwidth=48.0% ]    figure [ ferro824 ] and [ ferro832 ] display the ferromagnetic polarization versus the occupation for two values of the hund s coupling @xmath33 for fixed @xmath29 and @xmath30 .",
    "one can see how the ferromagnetic phase is stabilized at fillings @xmath39 .",
    "the blank rectangles close to half filling in figures [ ferro824 ] and [ ferro832 ] represent the already mentioned parameter regimes where we found no convergent solution to the dmft , but an oscillatory behavior we interpreted as spin density waves .",
    "as they can not really be stabilized , the true phase boundaries can not be determined in this parameter region .    as the ferromagnetic double exchange is mostly due to the hund s coupling",
    ", it is not surprising that for increasing hund s coupling the ferromagnetic state is stabilized up to higher temperatures and larger doping and can even extend beyond quarter filling .",
    "however , one must emphasize that hund s coupling alone is not sufficient to enforce ferromagnetic order in the two orbital model .",
    "we furthermore observe that one in addition needs a rather strong interaction parameter @xmath17 to stabilize extended regions of ferromagnetism .",
    "for example , for @xmath40 we found no ferromagnetism for @xmath41 .",
    "quarter filling , like half filling , represents a very special point for the two orbital hubbard model . in a classical picture",
    "there is one electron per site , which can choose between two orbitals .",
    "this picture makes already clear that orbital degeneracy and fluctuations will play an important role at quarter filling . in fig .",
    "[ orbital ] we show the ferromagnetic ground state phase diagram for @xmath43 as function of @xmath44 and @xmath33 .",
    "as noted before , for strong hund s coupling @xmath33 and moderate @xmath34 we obtain the orbitally homogeneous ferromagnetic phase discussed in figure [ ferro832 ] .",
    "however , for large enough repulsive inter - orbital density - density interaction @xmath34 , we observe that the ferromagnetic spin alignment is accompanied by an antiferro - orbital order of the conventional nel - type @xcite .     and @xmath29 as function of @xmath44 and @xmath33 .",
    "tuning hund s coupling and the inter - orbital density - density interaction , one can observe a transition between an orbitally ordered ferromagnetic insulator and orbitally degenerate ferromagnetic metal .",
    "the symbols denote the parameters for which calculations were actually performed .",
    "the phase boundaries are fits to the calculated points and meant as guide to the eye.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    there is a first order transition between the orbitally ordered ferromagnetic state and the homogeneous one : both the magnetic and orbital polarization show jumps when crossing the phase boundary , see figure [ orbtrans ] .",
    "note that both states are strongly polarized , i.e.  the jump in the magnetization is comparatively small .",
    "a more important aspect is that the orbitally ordered ferromagnetic phase is an insulator , while the homogeneous one is a metal .",
    "( @xmath13 denotes the orbital ) and spin polarization for @xmath27 , @xmath45 , @xmath22 , and different interaction strengths @xmath34 . at @xmath46",
    "the transition between the homogeneous ferromagnetic state ( @xmath47 ) to the orbital ordered ferromagnet ( @xmath48 ) occurs .",
    "lines are meant as guide to the eye.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    this particular difference becomes apparent from fig .",
    "[ config ] , which shows the spectral function of both ferromagnetic states at quarter filling .",
    "the left ( right ) panel illustrates the spin and orbital configuration of the metallic ( insulating ) phase in the upper part and the spectral function corresponding to that phase in the lower part .",
    "the fermi energy lies at @xmath49 .",
    "as can be easily seen , the homogeneous ferromagnetic state has a large spectral weight at the fermi energy , thus representing a metallic system . on the other hand , the orbitally ordered ferromagnetic state",
    "has a gap around the fermi energy , thus representing an insulating state .",
    "the gap width of the insulating state decreases when approaching the transition line .    ,",
    "@xmath50 and @xmath51 .",
    "right panel : insulating ferromagnetic phase for @xmath27 and @xmath52 .",
    "@xmath49 represents the fermi energy.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    thus , by varying hund s coupling @xmath33 or the inter - orbital interaction @xmath34 one can observe a metal insulator transition ( mit ) between two almost fully polarized ferromagnetic phases .",
    "note that this metal insulator transition is very different from the usual paramagnetic one , which appears in the hubbard model at half filling as function of @xmath17 .",
    "the mit observed here between the ferromagnetic phases is rather due to a strong inter - orbital density - density interaction , which is responsible for driving the orbital ordering .",
    "as the latter introduces a doubling of the unit cell , the insulating solution is thus akin to the antiferromagnetic insulator .",
    "the usual intra - orbital hubbard interaction @xmath17 plays a minor role in this transition .",
    "it is worth noting that within a simplified two - site model representing the ab structure of the nel - state the antiferro - orbital situation wins over the orbitally homogeneous for all values of @xmath44 and @xmath33 due to virtual hopping and the gain of hund s exchange energy .",
    "it is thus the presence of the lattice which allows for smaller @xmath44 through an additional gain in kinetic energy the formation of the homogeneous metallic ferromagnet . in view of effects like colossal magneto resistivity it is an obviously interesting question , what influence external control parameters like temperature and magnetic field will have when one is close to the phase transition .",
    "these questions are presently under investigation .    , @xmath53 , @xmath51 as function of the chemical potential .",
    "the upper ( lower ) panel shows the occupation ( polarization ) .",
    "notice the jump in these quantities.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    another important aspect is the dependence of the phases upon doping .",
    "for the homogeneous ferromagnetic phase we already saw when discussing figure [ ferro832 ] , that its filling can be varied smoothly .",
    "the dependency on the chemical potential of the orbital ordered ferromagnet , on the other hand , is dramatically different and can be seen in figure [ orbdop ] .",
    "the plot shows that for a critical chemical potential the filling of the system jumps from approximately @xmath54 to quarter filling @xmath43 . at the same critical chemical potential",
    "also the polarization jumps from a non - polarized phase to nearly fully polarized .",
    "in other words , there is a first order transition between a paramagnetic phase with filling less than one and an orbitally ordered ferromagnetic state at quarter filling .",
    "consequently the electronic system shows phase separation between these states and the precise physics will depend on additional interactions , like long - range coulomb interaction , or additional degrees of freedom like the lattice .",
    "as already noted before , this appearance of phase separation is similar to what we find in the hubbard model in the antiferromagnetic phase at half filling@xcite , and thus seems to be a generic feature of the symmetry broken phases on an ab lattice .",
    "note , however , that longer - ranged hopping can actually destroy this phase separation@xcite , depending on the sign of the additional hopping and the type of doping .    in the region of large @xmath44 , where the orbitally ordered ferromagnet is found ,",
    "we were also able to stabilize an antiferromagnetic phase at quarter filling .",
    "as the system at quarter filling is dominated by ferromagnetic double exchange , one actually does not expect such a phase here .",
    "like the orbitally ordered ferromagnet , this antiferromagnetic phase also exists only exactly at quarter filling .",
    "the spectral function and the doping dependence can be seen in figure [ antquart ] .",
    "the spectral function shows that also this state is a perfect insulator .",
    "when trying to dope it we again find phase separation to a paramagnetic metal away from quarter filling . in order to find out",
    "which state is the thermodynamically stable one , we calculated the energy of both states .    , @xmath53 , @xmath51 as function of the chemical potential .",
    "the upper ( lower ) panel shows the occupation ( polarization ) .",
    "notice the jump in the properties .",
    "the right panel shows the spectral function.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    the result is that , as expected , the orbital ferromagnet has the lower energy , thus is the thermodynamically stable one .",
    "looking at the different terms in the energy , the kinetic energy gives a larger decrease for the antiferromagnetic state than for the ferromagnetic state , while the interaction terms increase the energy of the antiferromagnet . varying the parameters @xmath33 and @xmath34",
    ", we always find the antiferromagnetic state having the higher energy .      for large hund s coupling @xmath55 ,",
    "the term @xmath56 defining the inter - orbital density - density interaction becomes attractive .",
    "although at first glance such a large hund s coupling appears unphysical , one might have situations , for example jahn - teller coupling to phonons , which can lead to additional contributions to @xmath44 , typically reducing it effectively . in this case such an attractive interaction can effectively be generated and the physics will change dramatically .",
    "the first thing one notes is that during a numerical calculation it becomes very difficult to stabilize fillings other than @xmath57 or @xmath58 .",
    "inspired by this difficulty we investigated charge ordered phases in this parameter regime ; and for sufficiently large hund s coupling @xmath33 it is indeed possible to stabilize a charge ordered state    .",
    "the inter - orbital interaction becomes repulsive for @xmath59 .",
    "the lines are meant as guide to the eye . ]    with alternating almost doubly occupied and nearly empty sites and an average occupation of @xmath43 , see figure [ twocharge1 ] .",
    "interestingly , this state seems to reach into the regime with @xmath60 , already representing a repulsive inter - orbital interaction .",
    "if @xmath34 is increased further , this charge ordered state finally becomes unstable for @xmath61 , i.e.  we obtain a quarter filled paramagnetic state .",
    "note that we do not observe a vanishing order parameter but rather a jump as @xmath62 , indicating a first order transition here , too .",
    "another open point is how the charge ordered state connects to the magnetic phases present in this parameter region .",
    "as we have not yet been able to perform calculations allowing for both charge and magnetic order , we can not tell whether there is a direct transition into one of the ferromagnetic phases rather than to the paramagnetic state . for the magnetic properties of the charge",
    "ordered state one may expect some kind of magnetic order between the half filled sites , which however requires larger unit cells to be used in the calculations .",
    "besides magnetism , the charge density wave state is a perfect insulator , too , and again it is not possible to dope this state away from quarter filling .",
    "in conclusion , we have analyzed the magnetic phase diagram of a two orbital hubbard model within dmft and nrg .",
    "while around half filling the system behaves quite similar to the one orbital hubbard model , there occurs an extended ferromagnetic phase for occupation @xmath63 .",
    "such a ferromagnetic phase can not be observed for the one orbital case on a bethe lattice with semi elliptic dos and is due to double exchange mechanism present in the two - orbital model . with increasing hund s coupling @xmath33",
    "this ferromagnetic phase becomes more and more extended and finally can also be observed for occupation smaller than 1 .    a particularly important point in the phase diagram is quarter filling , where we could observe four different ordered phases , and",
    "an especially interesting feature of the quarter - filled case is the presence of a metal - insulator transition between two ferromagnetic states .",
    "the transition seems to be of first order and is driven by the inter - orbital density - density interaction @xmath34 . for low @xmath34",
    "the ferromagnetic state is homogeneous and metallic . for large @xmath34",
    ", an orbital order can be observed in addition to the ferromagnetic one , which now is accompanied by an insulating behavior as the orbital order breaks translational symmetry similar to the nel state at half filling .",
    "besides these ferromagnetic states , we also could stabilize an antiferromagnetic insulating and a charge ordered insulating state at quarter filling .",
    "the antiferromagnetic state exists in the same parameter region as the orbital ordered ferromagnetic state , but has a higher energy , i.e.  will not be the thermodynamically stable one .",
    "the charge ordered state can be observed for rather large hund s coupling @xmath33 respectively reduced inter - orbital density interaction @xmath44 .",
    "the latter situation can for example be realized in the presence of jahn - teller phonons , which definitely play an important role in two - orbital systems with @xmath0 symmetry .",
    "thus , the inclusion of lattice degrees of freedom is a very important extension and presently under investigation .",
    "we thank prof .",
    "n.  kawakami and prof .",
    "a.  koga for their hospitality during a visit to kyoto and for the discussions on the topic discussed in this paper .",
    "rp also thanks gcoe for financial support during his extended stay at kyoto university .",
    "we also thank the dfg for financial support through project dfg - pr298/10 and acknowledge computer support by the gesellschaft fr wissenschaftliche datenverarbeitung in gttingen ( gwdg ) and the norddeutsche verbund fr hoch- und hchstleistungsrechnen ( hlrn ) .",
    "22 s. maekawa , t. tohyama , s. barnes , s. ishihara , w. koshibae , and g. khaliullin , `` physics of transition metal oxides '' , ( springer ) , ( 2004 ) m. imada , a. fujimori , and y. tokura , , 1039 ( 1998 ) j. coey , m. viret , and s. molnar , , 167 ( 1999 ) m. salamon and m. jaime , , 583 ( 2001 ) y. tokura et al . , ( 2000 ) e. dagotto , t. hotta , and a. moreo , , 1 ( 2001 ) a. millis , , 147 ( 1998 ) y. tokura , , 50 ( 2003 ) a. millis , p. littlewood , and b. schraiman , , 5144 ( 1995 ) this topic has already been addressed for kcuf@xmath4 by i.  leonov , n.  binggeli , dm .",
    "korotin , v.i .",
    "anisimov , n.  stoji , and d.  vollhardt , phys .",
    "* 101 * , 096405 ( 2008 ) a. koga , n. kawakami t. rice , and m. sigrist , 216402 ( 2004 ) a. koga , k. inaba , and n. kawakami , 253 ( 2005 ) r. arita and k. held 201102(r ) ( 2005 ) t. costi and a. liebsch 236404 ( 2007 ) e. jakobi , n. blmer , and p. van dongen , 115109 ( 2009 ) j. hubbard , , 238 ( 1963 ) j. hubbard , , 237 ( 1964 ) j. kanamori , , 275 ( 1963 ) m. gutzwiller , , 159 ( 1963 ) a. ole , , 327 ( 1983 ) t. pruschke and r. bulla , , 217 ( 2005 ) a. georges , g. kotliar , w. krauth , and m. rozenberg , , 13 ( 1996 ) t. pruschke , m. jarrell , and j. freericks , , 187 ( 1995 ) t. pruschke , , 274 ( 2005 ) t. pruschke and m.b .",
    "zlfl , `` electronic structure and ordered phases in transition metal oxides '' in advances in solid state physics * 40 * , b. kramer ( ed . ) , vieweg braunschweig , germany , p. 251 .",
    "( 2001 ) k. wilson , , 773 ( 1975 ) r. bulla , t. costi , and t. pruschke , , 395 ( 2008 ) r. peters , t. pruschke , and f. anders , , 245114 ( 2006 ) a. weichselbaum and j. von delft , , 076402 ( 2007 ) t. pruschke , and r. zitzler , * 15 * , 7867 ( 2003 ) r. peters , and t pruschke , * 11 * 083022 ( 2009 ) p. anderson , 350 , ( 1950 ) j. freericks and m. jarrell 186 ( 1995 ) m. fleck , and a. lichtenstein , and a. ole , and l. hedin , 5224 , ( 1999 ) r. peters and t. pruschke 245101 ( 2007 ) c. zener , , 440 ( 1951 ) c. zener , , 403 ( 1951 ) r. fresard and g. kotliar , , 12909 ( 1997 ) k. held and d. vollhardt , , 473 ( 1998 ) t. momoi and k. kubo , , r567 ( 1998 ) k. held and d. vollhardt , , 5168 ( 2000 ) l. didkuh , v. hankevych , o. kramar , and y. skorenkyy , , 827 ( 2002 ) r. fresard , m. raczkowski , and a. oles , , 370 ( 2005 ) s. sakai , r. arita , and h. aoki , , 216402 ( 2007 ) k. kubo , , 020407(r ) ( 2009 ) c. roth , , 306 ( 1966 ) k. kugel and d. khomskii , , 725 ( 1973 ) p. van dongen , 182 ( 1994 ) p. van dongen , 1584 ( 1995 ) r. zitzler , t. pruschke , and r. bulla , 473 ( 2002 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the orbital and magnetic order of the two orbital hubbard model within dynamical mean field theory . </S>",
    "<S> the model describes the low energy physics of a partially filled @xmath0-band as can be found in some transition metal compounds . </S>",
    "<S> the model shows antiferromagnetic as well as ferromagnetic phases . for stabilizing ferromagnetism </S>",
    "<S> we find that hund s coupling is particularly important . </S>",
    "<S> quarter filling represents a very special situation in the phase diagram , where the coupling of spin , charge , and orbital degrees of freedom are involved . </S>",
    "<S> exactly at quarter filling we find a metal insulator transition ( mit ) between two almost fully polarized ferromagnetic states . </S>",
    "<S> this mit can be tuned by changing the local interaction strength and seems to be a first order transition at zero temperature . </S>",
    "<S> apart from these ferromagnetic states we were also able to stabilize antiferromagnetic and charge ordered phases at quarter filling , depending on the interaction parameters . </S>"
  ]
}