{
  "article_text": [
    "circuit quantum electrodynamics ( qed ) is a novel field combining atomic physics and quantum optical cavity qed concepts with superconducting circuits.@xcite its fundamental dynamics is understood within the jaynes - cummings model , describing the interaction between a two - level system and a single field mode.@xcite in circuit qed , superconducting qubits are considered as artificial atoms @xcite interacting with on - chip one - dimensional resonators playing the role of cavities.@xcite these mesoscopic devices are candidates for implementations in quantum information processing  @xcite due to their inherent tunability and scalability properties , at least as good as trapped ions  @xcite or quantum dots.@xcite    to implement quantum algorithms in circuit qed@xcite within the standard quantum computing approach , the sequential realization of fast high - fidelity quantum gates is required.@xcite several implementations of quantum operations in coupled superconducting qubits have been proposed@xcite and the implementation of a controlled - not gate has been achieved.@xcite furthermore , coherent coupling@xcite and quantum information exchange@xcite of two superconducting qubits , through a cavity bus and cavity state synthesis@xcite , have been realized .",
    "scalable architectures in circuit qed may require efficient designs of two - dimensional cavity arrays.@xcite these allow scalable standard quantum computation , and also open the possible realization of two - dimensional cluster states for one - way quantum computing.@xcite another crucial challenge in quantum information and also in circuit qed is to speed up operations and , thus , beat decoherence .",
    "for this purpose it would be desirable to employ resonant gates .",
    "indeed , based on first - order couplings between qubits and cavities , resonant gates are much faster than the commonly used dispersive gates , based on second - order couplings . in cavity",
    "qed , a controlled - phase ( cphase ) gate has been already implemented in the resonant regime  @xcite , but these ideas are difficult to scale up and build , for example , cluster states in multiqubit systems . in this work , we focus on the field of circuit qed and propose the implementation of a toolbox of resonant quantum gates improving on speed and fidelity when compared to slower dispersive gates in circuit qed . to this end ,",
    "a key concept from quantum optics will be the use of an auxiliary excited state for the qubits and the use of the cavity as a resonant mediator of the qubit interactions .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section ii , we will explain how to realize , resonantly and efficiently , the paradigmatic two - qubit cphase gate .",
    "the theoretical protocol is inspired by cavity qed experimental works@xcite . to prove its feasibility in circuit qed",
    ", we test our results with full numerical simulations involving decoherence mechanisms , reaching a fidelity of @xmath4 .",
    "then , in section iii , we extend the ideas of previous section and propose the implementation of other two - qubit gates : the iswap gate and the bogoliubov gate .",
    "@xcite some of these two - qubit gates , together with suitable one - qubit gates , can form universal sets for quantum computation . in section iv , as an example of the resonant cphase gate presented before , we propose the realization in circuit qed of a cluster state for one - way quantum computing@xcite in a two - dimensional array of cavities .",
    "the cphase gate is one of the paradigmatic two - qubit gates for quantum information . indeed , by combining it with one - qubit gates , it forms a set of universal gates .",
    "this cphase gate produces a phase - shift @xmath5 only when both qubits are excited . in the computational basis of two qubits , @xmath6 ,",
    "the cphase matrix reads @xmath7 where @xmath8 and @xmath9 represent the ground and excited states of the qubits , labeled with subindices @xmath10 and @xmath11 . in a recent experiment  @xcite , where a quantum algorithm was implemented in circuit qed , a dispersive interaction using the third level of a superconducting qubit",
    "was used . to implement a cphase gate in the resonant regime ,",
    "in which the detuning is zero , we borrow from quantum optics the use of the cavity as a mediator for the operation and the use of auxiliary qubit levels.@xcite we develop below a specific modelisation in the context of circuit qed and present numerical simulations , including realistic losses , of the involved superconducting qubits and microwave resonators .",
    "we consider two three - level superconducting qubits , 1 and 2 , with @xmath12 , @xmath13 , and @xmath14 being their first three lower energy levels , respectively .",
    "the usefulness of auxiliary qubit levels in the superconducting qubit context has been recognized only recently , for phase qubit operations,@xcite for circuit qed quantum optics applications,@xcite as well as for a recent demonstration of gates in circuit qed.@xcite the qubits are coupled to a coplanar waveguide cavity and their dynamics is described , after a rotating - wave approximation , by the hamiltonian @xmath15 here , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , while @xmath18 are the bosonic annihilation ( creation ) operators of the resonator field mode , @xmath19 is the energy for level @xmath20 of qubit @xmath21 , @xmath22 is the cavity mode frequency , and the @xmath23 s denote the vacuum rabi coupling strengths .",
    "we assume that the qubit levels are anharmonic and that each transition can be tuned to match the cavity frequency , e.g. by using ac - stark - shift fields,@xcite thereby effectively switching on the qubit - cavity couplings for the respective transition .",
    "conversely , we could make use of a tunable cavity.@xcite    we assume that at a certain point of a quantum computation the tripartite system ( qubits+cavity ) is in the following state @xmath24 where @xmath25 and @xmath26 are arbitrary complex amplitudes and @xmath27 is the cavity vacuum .",
    "a cphase gate is implemented on qubits 1 and 2 after the protocol displayed in fig .",
    "1 is applied . in step ( i ) , the state of qubit 2 , encoded in its two lowest energy levels , @xmath28 and @xmath29 , is mapped onto a photonic cavity qubit through a resonant coupling between qubit 2 and the cavity mode , while the first qubit remains off - resonant .",
    "it is possible to achieve this mapping without introducing extra phase factors , such that the state at that stage is @xmath30 . in step ( ii )",
    "@xcite , a 2@xmath5 resonant pulse between the two upper energy levels of qubit 1 , @xmath31 and @xmath32 , and the cavity mode realizes a cphase gate among them , yielding @xmath33 . in the last step ( iii ) , the cavity qubit is mapped back to qubit 2 , thus implementing an overall cphase gate between qubits 1 and 2 , leaving the cavity qubit decoupled in the vacuum state @xmath34        [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]     as application of these resonant toolbox of two - qubit gates , we propose in the next section a protocol to implement a cluster state of @xmath35 superconducting qubits . in this cluster state , each qubit is entangled with its nearest neighbor with the help of a resonant cphase gate .",
    "one - way quantum computing@xcite is an alternative model to the standard approach based on quantum gates  @xcite .",
    "it requires the initial generation of a two - dimensional cluster state , containing all necessary entanglement for the local and sequential implementation of a quantum algorithm .",
    "a cluster state can be obtained by the action of a cphase gate between neighbouring qubits , assuming all of them initially in the state @xmath36 .",
    "its experimental realization is one of the main difficulties when trying to implement one - way quantum computing in different physical systems .",
    "we present here a resonant protocol for realizing a cluster state of @xmath35 superconducting qubits . to achieve this goal , we consider a two - dimensional cavity grid@xcite as the most suitable architecture in circuit qed .",
    "indeed this architecture consists of a 2d square array of one - dimensional resonators where the superconducting qubits are placed at the crossings of the cavities .",
    "we assume that the qubits are initially in their ground states and the cavity - resonators contain zero photons .    to generate this initial state",
    ", one can send an external field resonant to the transition frequency of all qubits to implement a y - rotation for a @xmath37 pulse .",
    "these local qubit rotations can be done simultaneously so that the corresponding operation time is @xmath38 , with @xmath39 the frequency of the external field .",
    "the qubits are then entangled by performing a cphase gate between each qubit and their nearest neighbours .",
    "although all cphase gates mathematically commute and could be implemented simultaneously,@xcite the proposed architecture of the cavity grid imposes critical constraints .",
    "in particular , one cphase gate can be implemented at most in one cavity at the same time . a solution to optimize the number of steps",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "[ simultgates ] .",
    "it consists in implementing simultaneously all cphase gates on the first row using the vertical cavities , plus the ones we can do on the first column with the unused horizontal cavities .",
    "we then repeat this step n times by shifting the row to the top and the column to the right . as a result",
    ", we will have implemented all required cphase gates between neighbouring qubits except the ones at the crossing points between the horizontal and vertical cavities during the process .",
    "last , we implement the missing gates on the two diagonals in two steps . the total time used to realize",
    "the 2d cluster state is    @xmath40    where the second and third term on the r.h.s . of the first line correspond to",
    "the simultaneously done and the last missing cphase gates , respectively .",
    "the total time scales with @xmath1 , whereas the number of qubits is @xmath35 , producing a resonant and efficient technique to build 2d cluster states in the cavity grid architecture .     cavities and contains @xmath35 qubits , one at each crossing point .",
    "the performed cphase gates for the lines are displayed in red and for the columns in blue .",
    "the row is shifted to the top and the column to the right .",
    "the missing gates at the crossings are indicated as dashed black lines.,title=\"fig : \" ]   cavities and contains @xmath35 qubits , one at each crossing point .",
    "the performed cphase gates for the lines are displayed in red and for the columns in blue .",
    "the row is shifted to the top and the column to the right .",
    "the missing gates at the crossings are indicated as dashed black lines.,title=\"fig : \" ]   cavities and contains @xmath35 qubits , one at each crossing point .",
    "the performed cphase gates for the lines are displayed in red and for the columns in blue .",
    "the row is shifted to the top and the column to the right .",
    "the missing gates at the crossings are indicated as dashed black lines.,title=\"fig : \" ]   cavities and contains @xmath35 qubits , one at each crossing point .",
    "the performed cphase gates for the lines are displayed in red and for the columns in blue .",
    "the row is shifted to the top and the column to the right .",
    "the missing gates at the crossings are indicated as dashed black lines.,title=\"fig : \" ]    we consider now how errors would accumulate during this process in the case of the generation of a cluster state in a cavity grid with an array of @xmath41 superconducting qubits .",
    "this example implies operating on 9 qubits , a rather advanced platform when compared with the state - of - the - art case of 3 qubits  @xcite .",
    "for each one - qubit gate , we consider a fidelity of @xmath42 , which is in agreement with recent experimental results.@xcite .",
    "although a fidelity of @xmath4 for the cphase gates was achieved in our numerical simulation of section ii , we consider a more conservative value of @xmath43 in our present error estimations . following the steps presented before",
    ", we have to implement @xmath44 one - qubit operations and 12 cphase gates , reaching a global fidelity of @xmath45 . given the number of operations , this fidelity can be considered as good for the sake of demonstrating the scheme with a small number of qubits . clearly , full studies of decoherence sources ! and popu",
    "with this work , we extended ideas of quantum optics and cavity qed to the field of circuit qed .",
    "we considered the two - qubit cphase gate to introduce the tools used to implement this unitary two - qubit operation in the resonant regime and to prove its feasibility in circuit qed .",
    "indeed , we have shown numerically that one can obtain fast resonant cphase gates of high fidelity , above @xmath43 by using an auxiliary qubit level and the cavity photon to establish qubit communication . then we have applied these tools to the implementation of other two - qubit gates , the iswap and bogoliubov gates .",
    "all these resonant gates , together with high - fidelity one - qubit gates , constitute a circuit qed toolbox of resonant gates for the sake of implementing standard quantum computing . as possible application of this resonant toolbox ,",
    "we have introduced a method of generating efficiently a cluster state in circuit qed in a two - dimensional architecture for implementations of one - way quantum computing .",
    "we expect the introduced toolbox of resonant and efficient gates will enhance the theoretical and experimental research in quantum information applications in circuit qed .",
    "the authors acknowledge valuable discussions with a. wallraff .",
    "this work was funded by the dfg through sfb 631 and the nanosystems initiative munich ( nim ) as well as the emmy - noether program .",
    "e.s . thanks support from upv / ehu grant giu07/40 , spanish micinn project fis2009 - 12773-c02 - 01 , eurosqip and solid european projects .",
    "g.h . acknowledges the support of the swiss nsf .      o. buisson and f. hekking , in macroscopic quantum coherence and quantum computing , edited by d. v. averin , b. ruggiero and p. silvestrini ( kluwer , new york ) 2001 ; f. marquardt and c. bruder , phys .",
    "b * 63 * , 054514 ( 2001 ) ; j. q. you and f. nori , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 064509 ( 2003 ) .",
    "i. chiorescu , p. bertet , k. semba , y. nakamura , c. j. p. m. harmans , and j. e. mooij , nature * 431 * , 159 ( 2004 ) ; a. wallraff , d. i. schuster , a. blais , l. frunzio , r .- s .",
    "huang , j. majer , s. kumar , s. m. girvin , and r. j. schoelkopf , nature * 431 * , 162 ( 2004 ) .",
    "j. majer , j. m. chow , j. m. gambetta , j. koch , b. r. johnson , j. a. schreier , l. frunzio , d. i. schuster , a. a. houck , a. wallraff , a. blais , m. h. devoret , s. m. girvin , and r. j. schoelkopf , nature * 449 * , 443 ( 2007 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose the implementation of fast resonant gates in circuit quantum electrodynamics for quantum information processing . </S>",
    "<S> we show how a suitable utilization of three - level superconducting qubits inside a resonator constitutes a key tool to perform diverse two - qubit resonant gates , improving the operation speed when compared to slower dispersive techniques . </S>",
    "<S> to illustrate the benefit of resonant two - qubit gates in circuit qed , we consider the implementation of a two - dimensional cluster state in an array of @xmath0 superconducting qubits by using resonant controlled - phase ( cphase ) and one - qubit gates , where the generation time grows linearly with @xmath1 . for @xmath2 , and taking into account decoherence mechanisms , a fidelity over @xmath3 for the generation of this cluster state is obtained . </S>"
  ]
}