{
  "article_text": [
    "dispersal strategies occur over both short and long spacial scales . at all scales",
    ", it has been suggested that dispersal is a bet - hedging or risk - spreading strategy used by organisms to deal with heterogeneous , stochastic environments @xcite .",
    "however , dispersal and movement by individuals also have more concrete consequences for populations .",
    "it allows them to utilize new resources and areas , it connects separate populations within a metapopulation , and it may help maintain population and metapopulation stability and decrease extinction risk @xcite .",
    "dispersal into novel environments can also result in local adaptations and speciation @xcite .",
    "linyphiid , or money , spiders are one example of an animal that employs both short and long distance dispersal strategies @xcite . for money spiders ,",
    "long distance dispersal occurs as a mostly passive process known as ballooning @xcite . during ballooning ,",
    "the spider is able to float within air currents , suspended by a single strand of silk .",
    "nearly all linyphiid species have been observed ballooning , although ballooning propensity varies between species @xcite .",
    "although it is unknown how far a spider can travel by this method , observations of spiders ballooning over the ocean , far from land @xcite , place some bounds on what is possible .",
    "linyphiid spiders prefer to live in agricultural areas , such as field or pasture land , where they predominantly feed on aphids , although some species are generalist predators @xcite .",
    "since they are able to balloon into areas that have been disturbed by agricultural processes , it has also been suggested that linyphiid spiders may be important for controlling outbreaks of pests in these areas @xcite .",
    "however , the spiders are themselves sensitive to agricultural activities , such as harvesting or pesticide applications @xcite .",
    "additionally , since the early 1970s , observations indicate that populations of many linyphiid species have been decreasing , possibly due to climate change @xcite .",
    "since this decline seems to correlate most strongly with a reduction in days where the weather is appropriate for ballooning , the difference in population outcomes between species may be related to differing dispersal propensities @xcite .",
    "more specifically , particular dispersal strategies may allow some species to better cope with the agricultural landscape , which is characterized by a heterogeneous environment and fairly frequent high - mortality `` catastrophes '' .",
    "however , it is difficult to observe the details of both dispersal and life histories of the spiders directly , so another approach is needed .",
    "various models of spider ballooning have been developed .",
    "@xcite first developed a simple one dimensional fluid dynamics model of a single spider , and more recently @xcite proposed a stochastic model of the process in a turbulent flow .",
    "@xcite proposed a statistical model for the distances travelled by money spiders in different weather conditions parameterized with data from observations of spiders collected during ballooning .",
    "this model indicates that these spiders may be able to travel more than 30 km within a single day @xcite , which is within observed bounds .",
    "however , none of these models address the population consequences for this kind of very long distance dispersal .",
    "there have been previous models that have been constructed to address how dispersal strategies interact with life history strategies and field disturbances to influence linyphiid population levels .",
    "@xcite developed a very detailed individual based model ( ibm ) for one linyphiid species , erigone atra , within a two dimensional landscape .",
    "their model includes details of landscape dynamics ( including crop growth and weather , as well as different types of disturbance ) , stage structured life histories , and environmentally cued dispersal .",
    "they primarily focus on how variation in specific landscape activities ( such as crop rotation ) and landscape compositions effect population sizes .",
    "however , the detail and specificity of this model has drawbacks .",
    "many of the conclusions may not be generalizable to other species , and the shear complexity and computational power needed for this type of model can make exploration of the possible behaviors of this system much more difficult .",
    "@xcite developed a simpler one dimensional , deterministic model of a spider population composed of `` dispersers '' and `` non - dispersers '' in an agricultural landscape .",
    "however , like the @xcite model , the specificity of this model , particularly the use of very specific deterministic disturbances , makes it difficult to draw general conclusions about how metapopulation persistence is impacted by factors such as dispersal and life history strategies .    in this paper",
    "i examine a simple stochastic model of a metapopulation of ballooning spiders within a heterogeneous environment .",
    "the primary goal of the study is to understand how dispersal strategies impact long term population persistence in the face of high levels of habitat disturbance and mortality .",
    "i approach the problem in the spirit of a population viability analysis @xcite , determining how populations characterized by different life history parameters and dispersal propensities may be more or less likely to go extinct within 110 years when faced with varying levels of catastrophic events .",
    "this time horizon is used as it would be a reasonable time frame for conservation targets .",
    "i begin by introducing the model in section [ sec : model ] , followed in section [ sec : sims ] by the simulation methods used to explore the model . in section [ sec : cart ] , i introduce classification and regression trees ( cart ) , which are used to analyze the simulation output .",
    "results for a baseline case and three variations are presented in section [ sec : results ] .",
    "section [ sec : disc ] concludes the paper with a short discussion .",
    "the model presented here is comprised of three portions : a population model with demographic stochasticity within an agricultural field ; a data driven dispersal model ; and a stochastic environment , incorporating field level catastrophes . the model is formulated as a quasi individual based model ( ibm ) . whereas a full ibm would follow each particular individual over their whole lifetime , here i employ a novel approach whereby individuals are only followed during the dispersal process ",
    "population dynamics and catastrophes are not individual - based .",
    "this approach has computational benefits , especially when large numbers of individuals are being modeled .",
    "the landscape considered in this model is comprised of a one dimensional ribbon consisting of patches or fields , each of size @xmath0 , with periodic boundary conditions .",
    "each simulated landscape consists of 50 virtual fields , numbered sequentially from 1 to 50 .",
    "all fields are the same fixed size , @xmath1 km , and have the same fixed carrying capacity @xmath2 ( i.e. , i assume that carrying capacity is constrained by space availability within a field @xcite ) .",
    "in discrete time the number of individuals in the @xmath3 patch changes as @xmath4 where @xmath5 are the number of deaths in the patch , @xmath6 the number of births , @xmath7 the number of emigrants leaving the patch , and @xmath8 the number of spiders successfully immigrating to the patch .",
    "figure [ f : model ] shows a diagram of the model flow at each time step , which is explained in more detail below .",
    "each patch or field is one of @xmath9 types .",
    "field types are characterized by their `` quality '' , i.e. , by the population birth and death rates within the field .",
    "more specifically , spiders in high quality fields could reproduce more quickly or are less likely to die from intrinsic mortality than those in poor quality fields .",
    "births and deaths are modeled using simple stochastic logistic growth such that density dependence acts to regulate reproduction and recruitment into the adult population . in this case , at each time step a spider in field @xmath10 , of type @xmath9 , dies with a probability @xmath11 and produces a single ( adult ) offspring with probability @xmath12 where @xmath13 is related to the traditional carrying capacity @xmath14 by @xmath15 . in other words , i assume that only reproductive rates ( and not death rates ) are density dependent . thus the expected number of births ( here , recruited adults ) and deaths in a single field are given , respectively , by @xmath16 where @xmath17 are the number of spiders that do not disperse at time @xmath18 .",
    "two hypotheses of dispersal are considered in the model : density independent and density dependent .",
    "thus the number of spiders emigrating or dispersing from the @xmath3 field at time @xmath19 can either be a fixed proportion of the population in the patch at time @xmath18 , @xmath20 or can vary with population density as @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the carrying capacity in the @xmath3 field , and where we constrain @xmath23 .",
    "thus , as @xmath24 the proportion of individuals dispersing is the same for both the density dependent and density independent cases . when @xmath25 spiders are less likely to disperse when there is density dependent dispersal than density independent dispersal , and vice versa for the case when @xmath26 .",
    "during dispersal , emigrants avoid mortality in the patch but die with probability @xmath27 .",
    "the mortality during dispersal could include multiple factors such as predation or desiccation .",
    "however , for simplicity here i assume a constant daily mortality rate while dispersing .",
    "spiders also can not reproduce as they disperse .",
    "the number of spiders that immigrate into the @xmath3 patch is given by the sum of the spiders that leave all the fields ( @xmath28 ) , survive dispersal , and consequently arrive in the @xmath3 field .",
    "the dispersal kernel @xmath29 describes the probability that a spider starting in field @xmath30 lands in field @xmath10 on day @xmath18 given parameters , @xmath31 . the data - driven model used to generate the dispersal dynamics",
    "is presented in section [ disp_mod ] .",
    "spiders will only attempt to disperse under favorable weather conditions .",
    "i assume that daily conditions are good for dispersal with some fixed probability , @xmath32 . in other words , out of @xmath33 days ,",
    "the number of days with conditions favorable for dispersal , @xmath34 , is binomial with success probability @xmath32 : @xmath35 . whenever conditions are favorable the numbers of spiders that attempt to disperse are given by equation ( [ eq : e1 ] ) or ( [ eq : e2 ] ) , and when conditions are not favorable @xmath36 in every field .    in the fields , `` catastrophes '' , i.e. , mortality events that wipe out significant proportions of spiders in a particular field , can occur @xcite .",
    "a catastrophe with mortality rate @xmath37 occurs on a given day with probability @xmath38 .",
    "catastrophes occur after dispersal has begun ( so that dispersing spiders can escape catastrophes ) but before births or ( intrinsic ) deaths .",
    "in addition , all parameters that determine dispersal behaviors or population dynamics are fixed and constant through time .",
    "i am primarily interested in how variation of four parameters , given the other parameters as fixed ( see table [ tb : params ] and section [ disp_mod ] ) , influences the probability of extinction .",
    "specifically i look at : the probability of catastrophe , @xmath38 ; the probability of weather suitable for flying , @xmath32 ; the probability that a spider disperses in good weather , @xmath39 ; and the mortality rate experienced during flying , @xmath27 .",
    "in addition , the dispersal probability can be either density dependent or density independent .",
    "the catastrophe rate , @xmath38 , is regarded here as being primarily human induced mortality , for example due to application of pesticides in a field .",
    "two of the parameters , @xmath32 and @xmath27 , can be viewed as environmentally determined parameters .",
    "the parameter @xmath32 , which may be decreasing for these spiders due to climate change @xcite , constrains the opportunities for dispersal into new habitats , and the ability for spiders employing any dispersal strategy to escape local mortality events .",
    "the mortality rate during dispersal , @xmath27 , includes mortality from various factors , such as predation and desiccation .",
    "thus the spiders must weigh the risks of dispersing against the risks of catastrophes or benefits of reproduction if remaining in a field .",
    "the final parameter , @xmath39 , together with the options for density dependence or not , thus determine what i consider the evolved `` dispersal strategy '' .",
    ".parameters and their values or ranges in for the baseline simulations[tb : params ] [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      i begin with the baseline case , as described in section [ sec : bl ] .",
    "the pruned tree for the full data set is shown in figure [ fig : bigtree ] .",
    "even with the appropriate pruning the tree is fairly complicated .",
    "first , we notice that the probability of catastrophe , @xmath38 , is the most important determinant of extinction probability , as the initial branching depends on @xmath38 , and there are more branchings in the tree that depend on @xmath38 than any other factor .",
    "the tree can be approximately viewed as having three regions with low ( @xmath40 ) , medium ( @xmath41 ) , and high ( @xmath42 ) probability of catastrophe , that loosely correspond to low , medium , and high probability of extinction within 110 years .    ) .",
    "the splits from each node follow the rule left = true .",
    "density values of @xmath43 indicate density independent and dependent dispersal , respectively .",
    "leaves with extinction probability of @xmath44 are indicated with circles , and those with @xmath45 with squares . ]    for most of the parameter space , the particular dispersal strategy employed , ( i.e. , the probability of dispersing given good weather , @xmath39 , and density dependent or independent dispersal ) is not particularly important .",
    "when the risk of catastrophe is low , as long as the inflight mortality is low enough ( @xmath46 ) , populations employing any dispersal strategy are predicted to have a low probability of extinction .",
    "however , when in - flight mortality is higher than this , populations are only likely to persist when catastrophe levels are are low ( @xmath47 ) and , simultaneously , either dispersal propensity is not too high ( @xmath48 ) or density dependent dispersal is used ( which reduces the effective dispersal propensity as long as the population is below the carrying capacity ) . in other words , when dispersal mortality is very high , frequent dispersal increases the probability of population extinction , as one might expect .    at intermediate catastrophe levels ( here @xmath49 )",
    "populations only persist in a very narrow range of circumstances where the probability that a day has good weather for dispersal is greater than 44% ( more than 160 days per year ) and , simultaneously , the inflight mortality rate is not too high ( @xmath50 ) . in other words , for the population to persist under intermediate disturbance , there need to be adequate opportunities for at least some of the spiders to disperse and survive to reach a new field . outside of this area of the parameter space , the probability of a population persisting , particularly for catastrophe levels of over @xmath51 , is very low ( @xmath52 5 - 20% ) .",
    "figure [ fig : set2 ] shows the results for the best / worst scenario , which is characterized by high variance in the birthrates .",
    "first we notice that , as in section [ sec : bl.results ] , the strategy employed by the spiders is not particularly important for determining the extinction probability ( i.e. , the tree only has a few splits , near the leaves , that depend on either @xmath39 or `` dense '' ) . again",
    "the most important consideration is the level of catastrophe .",
    "however , notice that in this case the population is actually less sensitive to low levels of disturbance , where the population has a very good chance of persisting ( extinction probabilities of @xmath53 to 0.1 ) , as long as @xmath54 .",
    "this is likely due to the increased abundance of high quality fields . like the baseline case ,",
    "the exception to this is when both in - flight mortality and dispersal propensity are high ( @xmath55 and @xmath56 , respectively ) and individuals utilize density independent dispersal . in this case",
    ", populations have a greater than 70% chance of going extinct .    ) the splits from each node follow the rule left = true .",
    "density values of @xmath43 indicate density independent and dependent dispersal , respectively .",
    "leaves with extinction probability of @xmath44 are indicated with circles , and those with @xmath45 with squares . ]",
    "figure [ fig : set3 ] shows the results for the many moderate scenario , characterized by lower variance in the birthrate .",
    "the resulting tree is nearly identical to the best / worst scenario .",
    "however , in this scenario , populations are slightly more likely to go extinct ( extinction probability of @xmath57 ) when both the probability of catastrophes and inflight mortality rates are low ( @xmath58 , @xmath59 ) compared to the best / worst case ; instead the extinction probabilities more similar to the baseline .    )",
    "the splits from each node follow the rule left = true .",
    "density values of @xmath43 indicate density independent and dependent dispersal , respectively .",
    "leaves with extinction probability of @xmath44 are indicated with circles , and those with @xmath45 with squares . ]",
    "( mean birthrate of @xmath60 , or 57% of the baseline mean ) and death rate parameter @xmath61 ( death rate 2.5 times higher than the baseline ) and with a uniform distribution of field types as shown in figure [ fig : fields ] ( a ) .",
    "( see section [ sec : p2 ] ) the splits from each node follow the rule left = true .",
    "density values of @xmath43 indicate density independent and dependent dispersal , respectively .",
    "leaves with extinction probability of @xmath44 are indicated with circles , and those with @xmath45 with squares . ]",
    "figure [ fig : set1 ] shows the results for the final scenario explored in this paper , the population ii case . as one would expect , since the intrinsic death rate is higher than the previous cases and the mean birth rate is lower , much more of the parameter space results in the extinction of the population .",
    "the threshold level of catastrophe that results in a low probability of extinction is @xmath62 , which is quite a bit lower than any of the previous cases .",
    "even with this low level of catastrophe , the population is still only likely to persist if the dispersal mortality is low enough ( @xmath59 ) , the probability of dispersing on a day with good weather is not too high ( @xmath63 ) , or density dependent dispersal is utilized .",
    "the results from all of the scenarios explored above show many similarities .",
    "for instance , much of the tree structures , such as primary splits depending on @xmath38 , correlations between @xmath27 and @xmath63 , and density dependence only being important in limited circumstances . in each case",
    ", the probability of catastrophe determines the probability of extinction within 110 years more than any other factor .",
    "the similarities between the left - most branch in all four of the scenarios also indicates that the product of in - flight mortality rate and dispersal propensity , which together determine the expected proportion of individuals within a field that will die on a day with good conditions for dispersal , may be an important threshold for determining extinction probability for a given catastrophe level .",
    "however the quantitative results ( especially locations of splits ) exhibit more variation .",
    "in particular , the results indicate that the values of population parameters ( birth and death rates ) are considerably more important for determining population persistence at a given catastrophe level than the relative abundance of the different types of fields , which in turn has a greater impact than changes in the dispersal strategy ( dispersal propensity and density dependence ) .",
    "the results of the model presented in this study suggest that , although a general dispersal ability is important for the persistence and growth of linyphiid spider populations , the exact details of this dispersal strategy , i.e. , whether dispersal is density dependent and the particular probability of dispersing on a day with appropriate weather , are less important than other factors in determining persistence in the face of field level catastrophes .",
    "instead , actual catastrophe probability seems to be the most important factor in determining the extinction probability , given landscape and life history parameters .",
    "as demonstrated , one may observe thresholds in the catastrophe level where the population switches from being very unlikely to being very likely to go extinct .",
    "for instance , results for populations with life histories and landscape distributions described by the parameters in the baseline simulation suggest that if the daily probability of a catastrophe is greater than 22% , then there is greater than 80% chance of extinction within 100 years . otherwise , there is less than 10% chance that the population would go extinct",
    ". the baseline results also make it apparent that reducing the catastrophe level further can help to mitigate the effects of mortality during dispersal .",
    "although the model presented here fairly simple , it is able to capture patterns that have been observed in more complex models .",
    "for instance , the model developed by @xcite exhibited similar thresholding behavior in population size / persistence with catastrophic events , specifically landscape wide pesticide application ( all fields affected ) .",
    "they found that if all the fields were of the same type , the population could persist ( i.e. , the population was @xmath64 ) if the field was sprayed no more than once per year with a pesticide that caused 90% mortality . by including a second field type that is less ideal for habitat , but is not sprayed , the population remains large even with higher frequency of pesticide application in other fields . in the current study",
    "we find a similar increase in persistence by limiting the average catastrophe rate across fields , instead of explicitly including refuge habitats .",
    "this indicates that for highly dispersive species , undisturbed land for refuges may not be as necessary for population persistence as lower mean disturbance rates , although providing refuges may be an efficient method for reducing the mean disturbance rate .",
    "this is a similar result to one reported by @xcite who found that some habitat needed to be available for spiders at all times , although the habitat did not need to be permanent .    on the other hand , by using a more simple model for some aspects , such as the life history , i have been able to focus more on the more general question of the relative importance of dispersal strategy compared to other population and landscape factors for population persistence in the face of catastrophes .",
    "although many of the qualitative results of this model did not depend upon the life history and landscape parameters , the quantitative predictions and , more importantly , the threshold catastrophe levels do depend upon the assumptions about the distribution of field quality in the landscape , reproductive rates , and baseline mortality . on the other hand ,",
    "the particulars of the dispersal strategy adopted by the spider ( such as density dependence or dispersal propensity ) were not particularly important under most circumstances .",
    "this is in contrast to @xcite , who found a fairly strong dependence between population size / extinction and the proportion of individuals dispersing .",
    "this difference is could be due to a number of different factors .",
    "one possibility is that this the effect of dispersal is less apparent in the current model due to significant stochasticity in all of the model processes .",
    "another is that the difference could be an effect of the stage structured population dynamics , which may result in the particular amount of dispersal being more important in recovery from a catastrophe . a third possibility is related to the fact that the optimal proportion of dispersers in the @xcite study was also strongly related to the proportion of non - habitat patches within the landscape .",
    "this factor changes the risk of mortality while dispersing , while simultaneously altering the population reproduction parameters , and seems to be more important in determining the maximum population level than the other factors they explored .",
    "a final possibility is that the difference could also be due to the fact that @xcite assume that each individual spider is either a `` disperser '' or `` non - disperser '' for its entire life - cycle .",
    "this factor may also be part of why @xcite , and @xcite draw conflicting conclusions about the effect of field rotations on the population .",
    "if a portion of the population are `` non - dispersers '' , then rotating a field would effectively increase the catastrophe level for a large portion of the population , since these individuals can not escape a dramatic change in mortality due to the rotation by dispersing .",
    "although i do not deal with rotation explicitly in this model , i expect it would have a similar , though mild , effect here , as long as the rotations do not change the overall distribution of fields in the landscape dramatically .",
    "since there is such a strong interaction between the effect of population parameters and catastrophe level , the current study suggests that the current patterns of decline are likely to be due to a combination of both changing life histories and agricultural practices ( field composition and catastrophe level ) . in order to preserve or increase spider populations in the future",
    ", we may want to suggest conservation measures that seek to curb the levels of human induced catastrophes in the environment .",
    "the observed thresholding behavior in the model indicates that the development of a simple guideline may be possible . for the parameters explored here the thresholds were in the 20% range . in other words , @xmath65 20% of fields experience catastrophic mortality on a given day , and in a single field we expect nearly 10 weeks worth of high mortality days each year .",
    "although pesticides applied to fields can remain toxic to spiders for more than two weeks after application @xcite , and other types of disturbances also cause significant mortality @xcite , the predicted threshold seems to be fairly high .",
    "however , this value depends fairly strongly on model parameters , especially the population birth and death rates .",
    "thus , more observational data on the reproductive capabilities of target species within various types of agricultural fields , and how these may be affected by climate change , would be most useful for estimating this threshold .",
    "data gathered to estimate different dispersal behaviors / propensities or changes in the proportion of days that are suitable for ballooning would be less useful .    in the current simulations ,",
    "the effect of a reduction in the number of  habitat \" fields has not been explored .",
    "this is partly because the effect of reducing carrying capacity , @xmath14 , on metapopulations is fairly well understood @xcite .",
    "the addition of `` non - habitat '' fields at random into the landscape , without reducing the total @xmath14 , would be equivalent to raising the level of mortality during dispersal .",
    "the current model focuses on the case where there are no spatiotemporal correlations in either catastrophes or reproductive schedules .",
    "it may be that these kinds of correlations could reduce the tolerance of a population to disturbance , or make other dispersal strategies , such as ones signalled by external factors , more important . including these factors",
    "this would be an important aspect of future work .",
    "l.  r.  j. was funded by bbsrc grant d20476 as part of the national centre for statistical ecology .",
    "thanks to : george thomas for unpublished data and biological expertise on linyphiid life histories ; bobby gramacy for advice on statistical methods ; ian carroll for comments on an earlier draft ; and two very helpful and thorough reviewers .",
    "charles darwin .",
    "_ journal of reseraches into the natural history and geology of the countries visited during the voyage of hms beagle around the world _ , chapter viii .",
    "everyman s library , dent , london , 1906 .",
    "l.  r. johnson , c.  f.  g. thomas , p.  brain , and p.  c. jepson .",
    "correction to : aerial activity of linyphiid spiders : modelling dispersal distances from meteorology and behavior .",
    "_ journal of applied ecology _ , 2007 .",
    "j.  michael reed , l.  scott mills , john b.  dunning jr .",
    ", eric  s. menges , kevin  s. mckelvey , robert frye , steven  r. beissinger , marie - charlotte anstett , and philip miller . emerging issues in population viability analysis . _ conservation biology _ , 160 ( 1):0 719 , februrary 2002 .",
    "a.  m. reynolds , d.  a. bohan , and j.  r. bell . ballooning dispersal in arthropod taxa with convergent behaviours : dynamic properties of ballooning silk in turbulent flows . _ biology letters _ , 20 ( 3):0",
    "371373 , 2006 .",
    "url doi:10.1098/rsbl.2006.0486 .            c.  f.",
    "g. thomas , e.  h.  a hol , and j.  w. everts . modelling the diffusion component of dispersal during recovery of a population of linyphiid spiders from exposure to an insecticide . _ functional ecology _ , 40 ( 3):0 357368 , 1990 .      c.  f.  g. thomas , s.  brooks , s.  goodacre , g.  hewitt , l.  hutchings , and c.  woolley .",
    "aerial dispersal by linyphiid spiders in relation to meteorological parameters and climate change .",
    "technical report available online , 2006 .",
    "url www.statslab.cam.ac.uk/$\\sim$steve/mypapers/thobghhw06.pdf ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> linyphiid spiders have evolved the ability to disperse long distances by a process known as ballooning . </S>",
    "<S> it has been hypothesized that ballooning may allow populations to persist in the highly disturbed agricultural areas that the spiders prefer . in this study , </S>",
    "<S> i develop a stochastic population model to explore how the propensity for this type of long distance dispersal influences long term population persistence in a heterogeneous landscape where catastrophic mortality events are common . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of this model indicates that although some dispersal does indeed decrease the probability of extinction of the population , the frequency of dispersal is only important in certain extremes . instead , both the mean population birth and death rates , and the landscape composition , are much more important in determining the probability of extinction than the dispersal process . </S>",
    "<S> thus , in order to develop effective conservation strategies for these spiders , better understanding of life history processes should be prioritized over an understanding of dispersal strategies . </S>"
  ]
}