{
  "article_text": [
    "transiting planet discoveries have become an integral component of the extrasolar planets field , with discoveries taking place at an ever increasing rate .",
    "the additional information provided by the detection of a transit to the overall understanding of both the orbital elements and the planetary properties is invaluable . in particular , data acquired through the observations of secondary",
    "eclipses has allowed an unprecedented insight into the analysis of planetary atmospheres @xcite .",
    "these secondary eclipses have been observed most notably from space @xcite but have also been detected from the ground @xcite .",
    "the effect of orbital parameters upon the probability of an observable primary transit has been discussed in detail by such papers as @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the effects of the eccentricity and argument of periastron have a considerable effect on this probability for many of the known planets discovered through the radial velocity method @xcite .",
    "an example of this is the planet orbiting hd 17156 whose relatively large eccentricity results in a high primary transit probability .",
    "subsequent observing campaigns confirmed that this planet does indeed transit its parent star @xcite .    for a given eccentricity ,",
    "the inverse case of a high primary transit probability is that of a high secondary eclipse probability .",
    "the case of hd  80606b @xcite is a spectacular example with an orbital eccentricity of @xmath0 and argument of periastron of @xmath1 , resulting in an especially high secondary eclipse probability , despite an orbital period of more than 111 days .",
    "the secondary eclipse was successfully detected by @xcite using the spitzer space telescope s infrared array camera . with the observation of a seconday eclipse",
    ", efforts were undertaken to determine if the planet also produces an observable primary transit .",
    "these efforts were eventually fruitful with the confirmation of a primary transit @xcite .    despite a favourable orbital inclination , merely the presence of either a secondary eclipse or a primary transit",
    "does not necessarily imply that its counterpart will be detectable .",
    "if a secondary eclipse is observed for a known radial velocity planet ( as was the case for hd  80606b ) then the likelihood of a primary transit is increased .",
    "however , exactly how likely this primary transit is will inform the justification for mounting an exhaustive follow - up campaign . here",
    "we calculate secondary eclipse probablities for known radial velocity planets and show how improved estimates on primary transit probabilities and predicted transit mid - points can be placed if a secondary eclipse is observed .",
    "we further demonstrate this with several case studies which apply these constraints to some of the known radial velocity planets .",
    "in this section we calculate secondary eclipse probablities and apply it to the known radial velocity planets .",
    "we also discuss the limitations of impact parameter measurements and subsequent uncertainties in the estimation of the orbital inclination from secondary eclipse observations . in this and all subsequent sections , we use @xmath2 and @xmath3 as subscripts for ( primary ) transit and ( secondary ) eclipse , respectively .          the geometric transit probability , @xmath4 , is often approximated as the ratio of the radius of the parent star , @xmath5 , to the semi - major axis of the planetary orbit , @xmath6 .",
    "a more thorough consideration of the orbital parameters shows that the probability of a primary transit can be more accurately described by @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the radius of the planet , @xmath3 is the eccentricity , and @xmath9 is the argument of periastron .",
    "the effects of @xmath3 and @xmath9 upon the transit probability can be considerable , as shown by @xcite .",
    "this probability peaks where @xmath10 .",
    "the true anomaly , @xmath11 , is defined as the angle between the current position of the planet in its orbit and the direction of periapsis .",
    "the location in the orbit at which the planet crosses a plane between the host star and the observer which is perpendicular to the orbit is where a primary transit is possible to occur , and is where @xmath12 @xcite .",
    "if we extend the star ",
    "observer plane beyond the host star , the location where the planet crosses the plane on the far side of the star is where @xmath13 and is the location where it is possible for for a secondary eclipse to occur .",
    "hence the geometric eclipse probability , @xmath14 , is given by @xmath15 this probability peaks where @xmath16 .",
    "depending upon the orientation of an eccentric orbit , it is possible for planets to have both a higher transit and eclipse probability than that produced by a circular orbit with the same period . in other words , there is a range of periastron arguments for which the projected star  planet separation : @xmath17 is smaller than that for a circular orbit with the same period both in front of and behind the star along the line of sight .",
    "this is demonstrated in figure [ orbits ] , which shows three different orbital orientations relative to the line of sight of an observer ( indicated by the arrow ) .",
    "the periastron arguments of orbits a , b , and c are @xmath18 , @xmath19 , and @xmath20 respectively .",
    "this visualization of the various configurations clearly shows how the star  planet separation along the line of sight is dependent on the argument of periastron and subsequently affects both the transit and eclipse probabilities .",
    "figure [ regions ] shows the dependence of transit and eclipse probability upon periastron argument for an eccentricity of 0.6 , along with those regions for which both probabilities exceed that of a corresponding circular orbit ( shaded regions ) .",
    "the stellar mass and radius are assumed to be solar mass and radius respectively , whilst the planet is assumed to have a jupiter radius .",
    "for this particular eccentricity , the shaded regions account for 40% of the possible periastron arguments .",
    "it is often non - intuitive that there exist orbital configurations where both probabilities are enhanced since they are often assumed to have inverse relation to each other .     and [ eclprob ] ) .",
    "the solid line indicates the probabilities for a circular orbit with the same orbital period .",
    "these are plotted for periods of 4.0 days ( left ordinate ) and 50.0 days ( right ordinate ) .",
    "stellar and planetary radii are assumed to be a jupiter and solar radius , respectively .",
    "the shaded regions represent those ranges of periastron arguments for which both the transit and eclipse probabilities exceed that of a circular orbit.,width=309 ]    the total size of the shaded regions depends upon the eccentricity of the orbit and can be calculated analytically by considered those values of @xmath9 for which the transit probability of a circular orbit equals that of an eccentric orbit for the same period . using equation [ separation ] , this is where @xmath21 which yields @xmath22 when @xmath23 ( circular orbit ) .",
    "the values of @xmath9 which define the boundaries of the shaded regions in figure [ regions ] are then given by @xmath12 and @xmath24 for primary transits and secondary eclipses respectively .",
    "the total size of the shaded regions @xmath25 can then be expressed as @xmath26 figure [ deltaomega ] shows the dependence of the value of @xmath27 on the eccentricity of the orbit . according to @xcite ,",
    "the mean eccentricity of the known extra - solar planets is @xmath28 for orbital periods greater than 10 days .",
    "this is indicated on figure [ deltaomega ] as a dashed line which shows that almost 20% of the @xmath9 values for this eccentricity will have higher transit / eclipse probabilities than for a circular orbit with the same period .",
    "the eccentricity for which half of the @xmath9 values fall into this category is also shown as a dotted line .",
    "this occurs when the magnitude of the eccentricity exceeds @xmath29 .",
    "this can be used to identify planets for which observations at both predicted transit and eclipse times would be beneficial to make efficient use of observing time . in general ,",
    "if the value of @xmath3 has been measured , then the value of @xmath9 will also have an associated estimate which will define exactly where on figures [ regions ] and [ deltaomega ] the planet lies .",
    "it should also be noted that a high probability of both transit and eclipse provides access to greater science opportunities .",
    "a transit passage primarily enables measurement of the planetary radius , whereas an eclipse passage primarily enables measurement of the planetary flux which , when combined with planetary atmosphere models , can lead to an estimate of the planetary temperature .    ) on the orbital eccentricity .",
    "the dashed lines correspond to @xmath30 and the dotted lines correspond to @xmath31.,width=309 ]    @xcite used the orbital parameters provided by @xcite to calculate the primary transit probabilities for 203 planets .",
    "these calculations took into account the eccentricity and argument of periastron to demonstrate the inflated probabilities that can occur as a result . in figure [ gep ]",
    "we show the results of performing a similar calculation using the same data to estimate secondary eclipse probabilities .",
    "we assume a jupiter and solar radius for the values of @xmath8 and @xmath5 respectively to provide ease of comparison with the eclipse probability of a circular orbit with the same period , shown as a solid curve .",
    "note that there are a handful of m dwarfs in the sample whose eclipse probabilities will be a factor of two lower than those shown in the figure dur to the assumption regarding stellar radius .     between the actual orbit and a hypothetical circular orbit with the same period for each of the planets.,width=309 ]",
    "the secondary eclipse probability of hd  80606b is labelled in figure [ gep ] .",
    "since hd  80606 is of solar - type ( g5v ) and the planet is approximately the same size as jupiter then the indicated probability is close to the true probability for this planet .",
    "the residuals show that the increase in eclipse probability for this planet compared to a circular orbit with the same period is @xmath32% .",
    "apart from hd  80606b and a few outliers at periods @xmath33 days , another example of an unexpectedly high @xmath4 in this plot is the long - period planet hd  4113b @xcite .",
    "this planet has a period of 526.62 days and an eccentricity of 0.903 .",
    "such a high eccentricity means that , according to figure [ deltaomega ] , @xmath34% of the possible values of @xmath9 will result in both a higher transit and eclipse probability than if the eccentricity were zero .",
    "thus , even though the periastron argument is @xmath35 , the secondary eclipse probability is still raised by 3.5% compared to the corresponding circular orbit .      here",
    "we show how the existence of a secondary eclipse can constrain values of the impact parameter and orbital inclination angle .",
    "the dimensionless impact parameter , @xmath36 , of an exoplanetary transit is defined as the projected separation of the planet and star centers at the point of mid - transit .",
    "thus @xmath36 is related to the inclination , @xmath37 , by @xmath38 such that @xmath39 . in equation",
    "[ impact ] , we have generalised from a circular to an eccentric orbit by replacing @xmath6 with @xmath40 . as discussed in detail by @xcite ,",
    "the measured impact parameter is highly dependant upon the shape of the light curve , in particular the duration of ingress and egress .",
    "@xcite also point out that @xmath36 will typically be underestimated when there is relatively low signal - to - noise in the transit data .",
    "this will be true for almost all ground - based observations of secondary eclipses , and is even sometimes true for spitzer secondary eclipse observations .",
    "if we assume that the maximum secondary eclipse depth is achieved ( the full disc of the planet passes behind the star ) , then @xmath36 can be as high as @xmath41 .",
    "the orbital inclination will then be as low as @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the star ",
    "planet separation at eclipse ( see equation [ separation ] ) . for a jupiter - type planet orbiting a solar - type star with a period of 4 days ,",
    "this results in a maximum impact parameter of @xmath44 and hence a minimum orbital inclination of @xmath45 . for hd  80606b ,",
    "the orbital parameters of @xmath46 and @xmath47 @xcite , lead to a star ",
    "planet separation of @xmath48  au at mid - eclipse and @xmath49  au at mid - transit .",
    "adopting the stellar and planetary radii used by @xcite , the minimum inclination for this planet is @xmath50 .",
    "in this section we show the impact the detection of a secondary eclipse has on the predictions regarding an observable primary transit of the planet .      in most cases , an estimate of a planet s primary transit probability",
    "is made with no knowledge of the planet s orbital inclination .",
    "however , the constraints on the inclination discussed in the previous section allow for an improved estimate of the primary transit probability .",
    "since the minimum inclination can be calculated from the presence of a secondary eclipse , the probability of a primary transit is given by @xmath51 note the inequality used in this equation to make it clear that this represents a lower limit on the true transit probability .",
    "using equation [ inclination ] , this probability may be re - expressed as @xmath52 thus removing the inclination dependence . generally speaking ,",
    "if @xmath53 then a secondary eclipse detection almost guarantees that a primary transit will also be observable . by substituting equation [ separation ] and using trigonometric identities ,",
    "the probability may be re - expressed once again as @xmath54 which removes dependence upon semi - major axis or period , and replaces these with the dependence upon eccentricity and periastron argument .",
    "figure [ newgtp ] demonstrates the improvement one gains in the primary transit probability if a secondary eclipse is detected as a function of both eccentricity and periastron argument .",
    "this demonstration uses the same orbital parameters for the 203 planets shown in figure [ gep ] as provided by @xcite . as for figure [ gep ] , jupiter and solar radii",
    "are assumed for the planetary and host star radii respectively .",
    "the open circles are the transit probabilities calculated using equation [ tranprob ] , which assumes no prior knowledge regarding the inclination of the planetary orbit .",
    "the crosses are the revised transit probabilities calculated from equation [ newprob ] , which assumes that a secondary eclipse has been observed .",
    "the 50 highest eclipse probability planets from this sample are tabulated in table [ top50 ] along with basic orbital parameters and their original and revised transit probabilities .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]      if a secondary eclipse is observed , then how long will it be before the expected time of primary transit occurs ? can the necessary observing resources be acquired or alerted in time to perform the observations",
    "? what will be the size of the transit window and can the observations be justified with regards to the uncertainty in the transit mid - point , the predicted transit duration , and the transit probability ?",
    "these are all fair questions to ask when planning a follow - up campaign in the wake of a secondary eclipse detection , especially in light of the deteriorating precision of the transit ephemerides with time .",
    "the predicted time of mid - transit can be calculated by utilising kepler s equations .",
    "firstly , the eccentric anomaly is calculated from the following relation to the true anomaly @xmath55 the mean anomaly , @xmath56 , which defines the time since last periapsis in units of radians , is then computed by @xmath57 which can be converted to regular time units using @xmath58 by substituting @xmath12 and @xmath24 into equation [ eccanom ] , we can calculate the predicted times of primary transit , @xmath59 , and secondary eclipse , @xmath60 , respectively @xmath61 where @xmath62 is the time of periastron passage .",
    "these times can then be combined to yield the predicted time of primary transit as a function of secondary eclipse @xmath63 where @xmath64 and @xmath65 are the mean anomalies for primary transit and secondary eclipse respectively .",
    "this equation is true for @xmath66 , with an additional period needing to be added for @xmath67 .",
    "the term of @xmath68 can be used to calculate an ephemeris where @xmath69 is the number of complete orbits one would like to consider .",
    "as expected , equation [ timediff ] reduces to @xmath70 when @xmath71 .",
    "the uncertainties in the orbital parameters can be propogated through these equations to determine the size of the transit window . under normal circumstances ,",
    "the size of a transit window is most dependent upon the uncertainty in the period and the time elapsed since last observations were acquired . however ,",
    "if a secondary eclipse has been observed then the constraints on the window tighten and become dominated by the eccentricity .",
    "there are several specific cases of known exoplanets for which it is useful to apply the principles described above .",
    "we consider some of these cases here .",
    "hd  80606b @xcite is the first planet whose secondary eclipse was discovered before its primary transit . as described in section [ impactpar ] , if we used the revised orbital parameters by @xcite , then the observation of a secondary eclipse places a constraint of @xmath72 on the inclination of the orbit .",
    "the equations in section [ newgtp ] yield an a - posteriori primary transit probability of 13.4% . for comparison ,",
    "the probability of a primary transit without any knowledge of the orbital inclination is 1.7% .    using the equations in section [ trantime ]",
    ", one can calculate the time between secondary eclipse and primary transit to be only 5.86 days ; small compared to the 111.43 day period .",
    "additionally , the time difference between secondary eclipse mid - point and periapsis is 0.12 days ( @xmath73 hours ) ; emphasizing the suitability of this system for secondary eclipse detection .",
    "this time difference yields a predicted transit mid - point of hjd 2454876.32 for the 5th primary transit after the eclipse observed by @xcite , comparable to the observed mid - transit time of hjd 2454876.344 by @xcite .",
    "the planet hd  4113b @xcite is a relatively long period ( 526.62 days ) planet in an eccentric orbit ( @xmath74 ) .",
    "the periastron argument is @xmath35 , which results in a secondary eclipse probability of 3.9% .",
    "in contrast , the transit probability for this planet is only 0.5% . if this planet were observed to undergo a secondary eclipse , then the subsequent constraints upon the orbital inclination increase the transit probability to an attractive 16.1% .",
    "the long period of this planet s orbit implies an expected transit duration of @xmath75 hours , which produces the observational challenge of attempting to observe either ingress or egress .",
    "if a secondary eclipse is observed , then the next predicted transit mid - point will occur only 19.55 days later .",
    "although it is certainly possible to marshall the needed observing resources within that time - frame , a missed opportunity will require waiting an entire complete period of 526.62 days before the next chance arrives .",
    "additionally , the similar orbital orientation of hd  4113b to hd  80606b with respect to the observer means that the time between eclipse and periapsis is only 1.72 days .",
    "the eccentric planet hd  37605b was discovered by @xcite . since then , the orbital parameters have been revised and published in the catalog by @xcite . the orbital period of 54.23 days , eccentricity of 0.731 , and periastron argument of @xmath76 yield a secondary eclipse probability of 6.0% . a priori",
    ", the transit probability of this planet is 2.6% .",
    "the constraints placed upon the inclination if a secondary eclipse is detected raises this probability to an impressive 54.1% .    the relatively short period of this planet make this an attractive target for follow - up campaigns .",
    "the time period between periastron passage and the secondary eclipse is 1.09 days . after the secondary eclipse",
    "is observed , the possibility of a primary transit will present itself 48.48 days later which should be sufficient time to schedule the necessary follow - up resources .",
    "there are various factors which we have not included in this analysis which we briefly discuss here .",
    "firstly , the effects of transit timing variations for cases of multi - planet systems has not been considered in the transit / eclipse predictions .",
    "this has been discussed in detail by several others , such as @xcite and @xcite .",
    "attempts have been made to detect this effect , such as the monitoring of hd  209458b by the most satellite @xcite , but the effect has not been observed at the time of writing . for a given transit , the influence of additional planets on timing variations could be large depending upon the mass ratio of the planets and the eccentricities of the orbits . in general",
    "though , this effect is relatively small ( minutes ) and is cyclic in nature such that the net effect over many orbits is zero .",
    "in addition , many of the more interesting cases discussed in this paper are highly eccentric giant planets which tend to be the only known ( detectable ) planet in those systems .",
    "the second item of note is the issue of how detectable the signature of a secondary eclipse is , both from the ground and from space .",
    "the attempt to observe a secondary eclipse is undoubtedly much more difficult than that for a primary eclipse due to such factors as the relatively low eclipse depth and the wavelength restriction for optimal detection .",
    "planetary emissions and their associated flux ratios have been discussed in detail by such papers as @xcite and @xcite . in particular , @xcite have shown that the contrast ratios for hot jupiters in the mid - ir will be of order @xmath77 . the contrast ratio for longer period planets will scale with @xmath78 where in this case @xmath40 ( as defined in equation [ separation ] )",
    "is evaluated at the point of predicted secondary eclipse .",
    "the results described in this paper assist in evaluating the preferred targets for follow - up and whether a difficult observation with high probability ( secondary eclipse ) may be preferable to a somewhat easier observations with low probability ( primary transit ) , as was the case for hd  80606b .",
    "finally , we note that the results of this paper will be verifiable statistically as more secondary eclipses are detected",
    ". this will be particularly pertinent in upcoming years as the high - precision photometry from such missions as corot and kepler are released .",
    "one such secondary eclipse detection has been observed by corot for the transiting exoplanet corot-2b @xcite .",
    "though the presence of the eclipse may be expected for such a short - period planet , the sensitivity of kepler to longer period planets will result in the detection of secondary eclipses without the necessity of primary transits .",
    "the photometric precision of the kepler photometry is such that , despite the contrast ratios mentioned above , we can expect many such detections from the kepler mission .",
    "the equations described in this paper can then be used to assess if and when the primary transit will occur .",
    "using the known expressions for the a - priori probabilities of primary and secondary transits , we have confirmed the literature result that higher eccentricities favor transit and eclipse detections when compared to circular orbits with the same period .",
    "furthermore , we find that higher eccentricities produce a larger range of @xmath9 for which both transit and eclipse probabilities are increased with respect to corresponding circular orbits .",
    "we show the probabilities of secondary eclipses for the known exoplanets in combination with the range of periastron arguments for which both eclipse and transit probabilities are enhanced . applying our insight to the planets catalogued by @xcite , we find there are several interesting cases that warrant further investigation .    furthermore , we show that the constraints placed upon the orbital inclination through detection of a secondary eclipse can substantially improve a - posteriori estimates of transit probability even with weak constraints upon the impact parameter . for 75% of the planets considered here",
    ", the transit probability reaches 100% if a secondary eclipse is observed .",
    "we also provide analytical expressions for calculating the time from detected secondary eclipse to the time of predicted primary transit .",
    "we present several case studies with relatively high secondary eclipse probabilities with respect to their periods .",
    "the planets hd  4113b and hd  37605b present analogous secondary eclipse potential to hd  80606b and we encourage follow - up of these targets at predicted secondary eclipse times provided the eclipse windows can be sufficiently constrained .    with the picture of planetary atmospheres becoming gradually clearer ,",
    "the importance of additional eclipsing planets is obvious . for planets with high secondary eclipse probabilities ,",
    "the high - risk / high - return strategy of monitoring these planets will reap significant rewards in the growing field of exoplanetary atmospheres .",
    "the authors would like to thank scott fleming and suvrath mahadevan for several useful suggestions and the anonymous referee for a thorough and expeditious critique of the paper .",
    "agol , e. , steffen , j. , sari , r. , clarkson , w. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 567 alonso , r. , guillot , t. , mazeh , t. , aigrain , s. , alapini , a. , barge , p. , hatzes , a. , pont , f. , 2009 , a&a , in press ( arxiv:0906.2814 ) barbieri , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 476 , l13 barnes , j.w . , 2007 , pasp , 119 , 986 burke , c.j . , 2008 , apj , 679 , 1566 burrows , a. , hubeny , i. , sudarsky , d. , 2005 , apj , 625 , l135 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , hubeny , i. , 2006 , apj , 650 , 1140 butler , r.p . , et al . , 2006 , apj , 646 , 505 charbonneau , d. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 626 , 523 cochran , w. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 611 , l133 de mooij , e.j.w . ,",
    "snellen , i.a.g . , 2009 ,",
    "a&a , 493 , l35 deming , d. , harrington , j. , seager , s. , richardson , l.j . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 644 , 560 deming , d. , richardson , l.j . ,",
    "harrington , j. , 2007 , mnras , 378 , 148 deming , d. , harrington , j. , laughlin , g. , seager , s. , navarro , s.b . ,",
    "bowman , w.c .",
    ", horning , k. , 2007 , apj , 667 , l199 fossey , s.j . , waldman , i.p .",
    ", kipping , d.m . , 2009 , mnras , 396 , l16 garcia - melendo , e. , mccullough , p.r . , 2009 , apj , 698 , 558 gillon , m. , 2009 , a&a , in press ( arxiv:0905.4571 ) grillmair , c.j . , et al . , 2008 , nature , 456 , 767 holman , m.j . , murray , n.w . , 2005 , science , 307 , 1288 kane , s.r",
    ". , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1488 kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2008 , apj , 689 , 492 knutson , h.a . , et al . , 2007 , nature , 447 , 183 laughlin , g. , deming , d. , langton , j. , kasen , d. , vogt , s. , butler , p. , rivera , e. , meschiari , s. , 2009 , nature , 457 , 562 miller - ricci , e. , et al .",
    ", 2008 , apj , 682 , 586 moutou et al . , 2009 ,",
    "a&a , 498 , l5 naef , d. , et al . , 2001 , a&a , 375 , l27 seager , s. , malln - ornelas , g. , 2003 , apj , 585 , 1038 sing , d.k . , lpez - morales , m. , 2009 , a&a , 493 , l31 tamuz , o. , et al . , 2008 ,",
    "a&a , 480 , l33 williams , p.k.g . , charbonneau , d. , cooper , c.s . , showman , a.p . , fortney , j.j . , 2006 , apj , 649 , 1020 winn , j.n . , et al . , 2009 , apj , 693 , 794"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> transiting extrasolar planets provide an opportunity to study the mass - radius relation of planets as well as their internal structure . </S>",
    "<S> the existence of a secondary eclipse enables further study of the thermal properties of the the planet by observing at infrared wavelengths . </S>",
    "<S> the probability of an observable secondary eclipse depends upon the orbital parameters of the planet , particularly eccentricity and argument of periastron . here </S>",
    "<S> we provide analytical expressions for these probabilities , investigate their properties , and calculate their values for the known extrasolar planets . </S>",
    "<S> we furthermore quantitatively discuss constraints on existence and observability of primary transits if a secondary eclipse is observed . finally , we calculate the a - posteriori transit probabilities of the known extrasolar planets , and we present several case studies in which orbital constraints resulting from the presence of a secondary eclipse may be applied in observing campaigns . </S>"
  ]
}