{
  "article_text": [
    "[ ! h , ! t , ! b ]        @xmath3 virginis ( spica , hd 116658 ) is a double - lined spectroscopic binary consisting of two early b - type stars in a short - period ( @xmath04 d ) eccentric orbit .",
    "the b1 iii - iv primary was discovered to be a @xmath4 cephei - type star in early observations , with a pulsation period of 0.1738 d in both the light curve ( shobbrook et al .",
    "1969 ) and radial velocity ( rv ) variations ( smak 1970 ) .",
    "although the light variations became undetectable a short time after they were first detected ( lomb 1978 ; sterken et al .",
    "1986 ) , the line - profile variability persists ( smith 1985a , 1985b ; riddle 2000 ) .",
    "its most striking characteristic is the presence of discrete absorption and emission features travelling from the blue towards the red wing of the absorption line .",
    "the first detection of this type of periodic line - profile variability was made by walker et al .",
    "( 1979 ) in the rotationally - broadened o9.5v star @xmath5 ophiuchi . in their seminal study , vogt & penrod ( 1983 ) showed that this variability could be explained by non - radial pulsations ( nrp ) .",
    "subsequent observations show a prevalence of this type of line - profile variability ( c.f .",
    "baade 1984 ; gies & kullavanijaya 1988 ; reid et al .",
    "1993 ; fullerton et al .",
    "1996 ; rivinius et al .",
    "2001 ; uytterhoeven et al .",
    "the numerous models based on the nrp mechanism are reviewed by townsend ( 1997a , 1997b ) , some of which incorporate the effects of rapid rotation .",
    "a general feature of these models is to assume a prescription for the surface velocity field of the pulsating star , from which the perturbed photospheric absorption line - profiles are computed .",
    "a very different approach was used by moreno et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , which calculates the surface velocity field from first principles .",
    "this calculated ( but not assumed ) field is then projected along the line - of - sight to the observer to produce photospheric absorption line profiles .",
    "the one basic approximation in this model is to assume that only the external layer of the star oscillates in response to the forces in the system , while the interior region is assumed to rotate rigidly .",
    "this one - layer approximation is essentially equivalent to the assumption that the surface layer behavior is primarily controlled by the binary companion perturbations .",
    "the advantages of this method are threefold : 1 ) it makes no _ a priori _ assumption regarding the mathematical formulation of the tidal flow structure since the velocity field @xmath6 is derived from first principles ; 2 ) the method is not limited to slow stellar rotation rates nor to small orbital eccentricities ; and 3 ) it is computationally inexpensive .",
    "it is not clear to what extent the response of the inner layers may affect the line - profile calculation because the amplitudes of induced oscillations decrease sharply in deeper layers ( dolgivon & smelchakova 1992 ) . in this paper",
    "we confront the results obtained from the moreno et al .",
    "( 2005 ) method with very high - quality observational data of spica .",
    "we show that the azimuthal velocity components of the tidal perturbations ( the  tidal flows \" ) play a dominant role in determining the line - profile variability as produced using this theoretical framework .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows : in sections 2 and 3 we describe the observations and the characteristics of spica s spectrum and variability ; in section 4 we present the results of the model calculations of spica s surface velocity field and line - profile variability ; the conclusions are presented in section 5 ; and details of the data reduction process and a discussion of the local line profile effects and size of the perturbations on the stellar surface are given in the appendices .    0.1 cm    .espadons observations [ espobs ] [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     this table shows order number , calculated beginning wavelength , libre - esprit log `` central '' wavelength and calculated ending wavelength .",
    "we also performed some experiments on the accuracy of the signal - to - noise predictions given by libre - esprit . in the very high signal - to - noise regime ,",
    "systematic effects caused by flat fielding issues , non - linearity or instrument instabilities can become significant .",
    "the libre - esprit reduction logs output two estimates of the signal - to - noise based on the flux .",
    "there is an estimate for each `` spectral pixel '' and `` ccd pixel '' .",
    "the difference between these pixels is the resolution of 2.6km / s per physical ccd pixel compared to 1.8km / s per spectral pixel as resampled in libre - esprit .    [ !",
    "+      the noise properties of the espadons data in the high signal - to - noise regime can be best seen in our best observation set : march 27th .",
    "these properties are measured directly on the libre - esprit output data without applying our wavelength - regularizing scripts .",
    "figure [ noiseprop ] shows four separate spectra of spica for order number 44 centered at 5150 .",
    "there are two complete polarization measurements which each consist of two intensity spectra output by libre - esprit .",
    "each individual spectrum there is calculated from four individual exposures each with two orders .",
    "thus , each spectrum in figure [ noiseprop]a represents an average of 8 individual spectra .",
    "the libre - esprit package gives signal - to - noise ratio for each plotted spectrum of roughly 1350 / 1600 per spectral and ccd pixel .",
    "the wavelength solution is derived independently for each 4-exposure polarization measurement .",
    "the shift between the wavelength solutions is typically 0 - 2 pixels . in figure [ noiseprop]b , the change in wavelength solution",
    "is shown to be a small fraction of a pixel across this spectral order .",
    "the illumination pattern on the ccd changes only slightly between individual exposure sets .",
    "the noise in the spectra can be estimated by subtracting a boxcar - smoothed spectrum from a raw spectrum .",
    "as the full - width - half - maximum of spectral features is roughly 2.2 pixels , any wavelength variation present at the 1-spectral - pixel level is surely noise .",
    "figure [ noiseprop]c shows residual noise from each spectrum after subtracting a 3-pixel boxcar smooth .",
    "this highlights the noise and removes spectral structure .",
    "this noise - spectrum can then be cross - correlated to determine the level of any systematic errors present .",
    "figure [ noiseprop]d shows the cross correlation between each of the four noise spectra and the first noise spectra ( the top spectrum in box c ) .",
    "the top curve represents an autocorrelation and a clear signature from the boxcar smooth is seen .",
    "the lower three cross - correlation curves also show this same signature , but spectrally offset by 1 or 2 pixels and at significantly lower amplitude .",
    "the wavelength solutions differ by less than 10% of a pixel across an order and are generally stable .",
    "however , a 1 - 2 pixel shift between exposures has been recorded by libre - esprit between the four wavelength solutions .",
    "this correlation between the noise spectra is likely caused by structure on the ccd .    [",
    "this illustrates the time evolution of the line profile over a single orbit .",
    "the left panel shows deviations from the average profile over an orbital cycle .",
    "the right hand panel shows the average line profile as well as some individual line profiles from various orbital phases .",
    "the velocity is corrected for @xmath7 s orbital motion . ]",
    "in this appendix section we will describe some general properties of the model calculations .",
    "figure [ time - evolution ] shows a typical model run .",
    "the code is allowed to run for roughly 30 orbital cycles to damp out any perturbations from initial conditions . the perturbed velocity field",
    "is then calculated at each timestep , as is its projection along the line - of - sight to the observer , from which a total line profile is output .",
    "the right hand panel of figure [ time - evolution ] shows the average line profile over the orbital cycle as the dark solid line .",
    "several individual spectra from throughout the orbit are also over - plotted as the dashed and dotted lines .",
    "once the average line profile is subtracted from each individual measurement , a grey - scale plot of the deviations can be constructed to show how individual surface perturbations move across a line profile and preserve their identity over an orbital cycle .",
    "the left hand panel is dominated by the main tidal bulge - the light and dark patches that are most prominent on the line wings ( largest velocities ) . however , the smaller - scale surface perturbations can be more easily seen near line center as the individual diagonal streaks .    [",
    "this illustrates the local line profiles used in computing perturbed average spectral line profiles .",
    "the solid line represents the cmfgen local line profiles .",
    "the dashed line is a voigt profile fit to the cmfgen line profile .",
    "the dot - dash line is a gaussian fit to the cmfgen line profile .",
    "fits are shown for both disk - center ( @xmath8=1 ) and for the limb ( @xmath8=0 ) .",
    "the difference between voigt and gaussian fits lie primarily in the width and the wings of the profiles . ]",
    "in order to test the accuracy and utility of using gaussian local line profiles , we performed an investigation as to the effect of using different shape local - line profiles in computing the integrated rotationally broadened , tidally - perturbed profiles .",
    "we obtained cmfgen model atmosphere profiles with t@xmath9=25000k and log(g)=3.75 provided by john hillier .",
    "since the cmfgen model provides emergent flux ( local line profiles ) for a set of projected locations on the stellar disk ( @xmath8 ) this database of profiles represents our starting point to simulate local line profile effects .",
    "we now have a model local line profile shape for any point on the stellar surface .",
    "these model atmosphere profiles are then fit with both gaussian and voigt functions at every @xmath8 .",
    "these fits are straightforward using idl s curve - fitting routines : gaussfit and curvefit .",
    "once we have cmfgen , gaussian and voigt local line profiles for every @xmath8 an accurate integrated line profile can be made to simulate an observation of a tidally perturbed star .",
    "the projected velocity is known for every surface element as is the value for @xmath8 and emergent flux at every surface element .",
    "an example of these local line profiles is shown in figure [ local - profs - mu ]    to illustrate the effects of local line profile shapes on the perturbations caused by macroscopic surface flows , we computed a perturbed line profile for a velocity field using all three of these local line profile shapes .",
    "a simulated perturbing velocity field is created as a combination of spherical harmonic functions and random fluctuations with a maximum amplitude of @xmath1015km / s .",
    "this creates a highly perturbed line profile with known properties that can clearly demonstrate the effect of local line profile shapes .",
    "figure [ local - prof - nomatter ] shows a perturbed velocity field in the top panel as well as integrated line profiles in the bottom panel .",
    "the integrated line profiles are calculated using the perturbed stellar velocity field .",
    "the cmfgen ( solid ) , gaussian ( dot - dash ) and voigt ( dash ) local si iii line profiles are used to generate an integrated profiles seen in the bottom panel .",
    "there is essentially no difference between integrated line profiles even though significant differences in local line profile shapes are apparent .",
    "this illustrates the perturbed integrated profiles using different local profile shapes .",
    "the top panel shows a velocity perturbation on the stellar surface .",
    "the bottom panel shows the integrated line profile when calculated using cmfgen ( solid ) , gaussian ( dot - dash ) and voigt ( dashed ) local line profiles .",
    "the difference between local line profile morphology is significant - the gaussian and voigt local line profiles show broader wings and a sharper core while the cmfgen spectra are more boxy. however , these local differences have an entirely negligible effect on the integrated profile.,title=\"fig : \" ] +   this illustrates the perturbed integrated profiles using different local profile shapes .",
    "the top panel shows a velocity perturbation on the stellar surface .",
    "the bottom panel shows the integrated line profile when calculated using cmfgen ( solid ) , gaussian ( dot - dash ) and voigt ( dashed ) local line profiles .",
    "the difference between local line profile morphology is significant - the gaussian and voigt local line profiles show broader wings and a sharper core while the cmfgen spectra are more boxy. however , these local differences have an entirely negligible effect on the integrated profile.,title=\"fig : \" ]    as a third test of local line profile shape effects on integrated line profiles , we adapted our tidal - flow code to compute integrated line profiles using a more boxy local line profile shape - @xmath11 instead of @xmath12 .",
    "as expected , the difference in local line profile shape was negligible .",
    "figure [ local - profs - tidal ] shows integrated line profiles computed for case ggd3 parameters .",
    "the more boxy local line profiles are used for the solid curve and the gaussian local line profiles are used for the dotted curve .",
    "there is a very small difference in the depth of the perturbations but the overall morphology is very similar .",
    "we consider the use of gaussian local line profiles to be entirely sufficient to demonstrate this tidal - flow model for integrated line profiles .",
    "the integrated line profile intensities differ at the 0.05% level for various local line profile shapes .",
    "this is considered to be entirely below any systematic errors or errors caused by uncertainties in the physical parameters used in calculating the properties of the binary systems .    [ !",
    "b ]   computed line profiles with case ggd3 parameters showing that the intrinsic shape of the adopted line profile only affects the the depth of the sharp features , but does not modify the general characteristics of the perturbed line profile . the dotted profile was computed with a gaussian intrinsic line - shape , while the continuous one with a more `` boxy '' ( @xmath11 ) intrinsic line - shape.,title=\"fig : \" ]    [ ! h , !",
    "we feel it is worth pointing out that the amplitude and size of the bumps fairly tightly constrain the size and amplitude of the corresponding velocity fluctuations on the stellar surface . in order to produce the bumps we observe ,",
    "one simply needs a velocity perturbation of order 10 - 30km / s with a few patches of velocity perturbation on the stellar surface for each observed bump .",
    "figure [ randomper ] illustrates this idea .",
    "we created radially projected velocity perturbations on the stellar surface with a random number generator scaled to a peak amplitude of @xmath1015km / s .",
    "the surface of the star was perturbed with this random field scaled to have an increasing number of granules on the stellar surface .",
    "this illustrates the effect of decreasing the size - scale of velocity perturbations on the integrated line profiles .",
    "our experiments were run with spatial scales of 0 , 2 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 50 , 100 , 200 and 400 individual perturbations across an equatorial slice .",
    "the top panel of figure [ randomper ] shows first the rotational broadening of 160km / s in the top left followed by these perturbed velocity fields .",
    "once these perturbations are incorporated with the rotational broadening , the corresponding line profiles are calculated .",
    "the bottom panel of figure [ randomper ] shows these perturbed line profiles .",
    "a fairly simple trend can be seen . a small number of perturbed surface patches ( 2 - 5 ) results in small bulk - shape deviations of the line profile .",
    "when the number of surface perturbation patches reaches 10 - 20 , line profiles resembling those observed are seen .",
    "as the number of surface perturbations increase , more bumps appear at increasingly smaller amplitudes until ( by 400 equatorial patches ) there s essentially no visually apparent difference between perturbed and unperturbed line profiles .",
    "this example illustrates a simple constraint on the perturbed velocity field coming directly from the observed amplitude and number of bumps - relatively large - scale surface perturbations ( a few to several patches in an equatorial slice ) with an amplitude that is a fraction of the rotational velocity can cause the observed bumps . since the structure of the observed perturbations ( the line profile shape ) is more or less similar from one orbit to the next , the corresponding velocity perturbations are clearly not random .",
    "aufdenberg , j. et al . , 2009 , in prep .",
    "baade , d. , 1984 , a&a , 134 , 105 .",
    "dolginov , a.z . &",
    "smelchakova , e.v .",
    "1992 , a&a 257 , 783 .",
    "donati , j.f .",
    "et al . , 1997 ,",
    "mnras , 291 , 658 .",
    "dalessio , p. et al , 1999 , , 527 , 893 .",
    "eggleton , p.p . , kiseleva , l. g. & hut , p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 499 , 853 .",
    "fullerton , a.w . ,",
    "gies , d.r .",
    "& bolton , c.t . , 1996 ,",
    "apjs , 103 , 475 .",
    "gies , d.r . & kullavanija , a. , 1988 , apj , 326 , 813 .",
    "hartmann , l. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , apj , 495 , 385 .",
    "herbison - evans , d. et al .",
    ", 1971 , mnras , 151 , 161 .",
    "hillier , d.j .",
    "& miller , d.l .",
    ", 1998 , apj , 496 , 407 .",
    "lomb , n.r . , 1978 , mnras , 185 , 325 .",
    "moreno , e. & koenigsberger , g. 1999 , rma&a , 35 , 157 .",
    "moreno , e. , koenigsberger , g. & toledano , o. 2005 , a&a , 437 , 641 .",
    "reid a.h.n .",
    ", 1993 , apj , 417 , 320 .",
    "riddle , r. l. , 2000 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , georgia state universtiy .",
    "rivinius , t.h .",
    "et al . , 2001 , a&a 369 , 1058 .",
    "scharlemann , e.t .",
    ", 1981 , apj , 246 , 292 .",
    "shobbrook , r.r et al . , 1969 , mnras , 145 , 131 .",
    "smak , j. 1970 , acta astron .",
    "smith , m.a .",
    "1985a , apj , 297 , 206 .",
    "smith , m.a .",
    "1985b , apj , 297,224 .",
    "sterken , c. jerzykiewicz , m. & manfroied , j. , 1986 , a&a , 169 , 166 .",
    "tassoul , j.l .",
    "1987 , apj , 322 , 856 .",
    "townsend , r.h.d .",
    "1997a , mnras , 284 , 839 .",
    "townsend , r.h.d .",
    "1997b , phd thesis , university college london .",
    "uytterhoeven k. et al . , 2001 , a&a , 371 , 1035 .",
    "vogt , s.s . &",
    "penrod , g.d .",
    ", 1983 , apj , 275 , 661 .",
    "walker , g.a.h .",
    ", yang , s. & fahlman , g.g . , 1979 , apj , 233 , 199 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of high precision , high resolution ( r@xmath068000 ) optical observations of the short - period ( 4d ) eccentric binary system alpha virginis ( spica ) showing the photospheric line - profile variability that in this system can be attributed to non - radial pulsations driven by tidal effects . </S>",
    "<S> although scant in orbital phase coverage , the data provide s / n@xmath12000 line profiles at full spectral resolution in the wavelength range @xmath240008500 , allowing a detailed study of the night - to - night variability as well as changes that occur on @xmath02 hr timescale . using an _ ab initio _ theoretical calculation , we show that the line - profile variability can arise as a natural consequence of surface flows that are induced by the tidal interaction . </S>"
  ]
}