{
  "article_text": [
    "in the near - century since henrietta leavitt s announcement of the cepheid period - luminosity relation ( leavitt & pickering 1912 ) , enormous progress has been made in our understanding of the observational properties and physical origin of cepheid pulsation .",
    "a delightful and thorough presentation of the early history of what is now being called the leavitt law is given by fernie ( 1969 ) .",
    "but one aspect of the relation has proved elusive  a calibration of cepheid luminosities based on fundamental geometry . due to the large distances to cepheids",
    " other than the overtone pulsator polaris near 130 pc , the closest is @xmath1 cep itself at 273 pc  distance determinations have depended , first upon statistical parallaxes , and later , upon the presence of cepheids in galactic clusters .",
    "neither of these methods can be considered _",
    "fundamental _ in the geometric sense .",
    "recent developments have changed that situation .    in this paper",
    "i will examine the techniques of fundamental distance measurement of cepheids , compare the results from those techniques , and discuss the potential systematic error common to two of the techniques .",
    "i will restrict my discussion to fundamental - mode cepheids only .",
    "three methods qualify as geometric or quasi - geometric determinations of cepheid distances : surface brightness pulsation distances , interferometric pulsation distances , and trigonometric parallaxes .",
    "i omit here discussion of the cepheid distances determined by means of the maser in ngc 4258 as that result is better used as a check on the other three .",
    "the distinction i make between geometric and quasi - geometric is the following .",
    "trigonometric parallaxes are based on geometry .",
    "some may quibble that the adjustment from relative to absolute parallax is not geometric , but i would argue that the distances to the reference stars may be traced back to trigonometric parallax calibration . on the other hand , the quasi - geometric methods ( comparison of linear diameters to angular diameters to determine the distance ) would be geometric except for complications that are not geometric . in the case of the surface brightness pulsation method ,",
    "this is the @xmath0-factor that converts observed radial velocity into stellar pulsation velocity . in the case of interferometric pulsation distances there is the limb darkening correction to the uniform - disk angular diameter as well as the @xmath0-factor .",
    "the surface brightness technique is an extension of the work by baade ( 1926 ) and by wesselink ( 1946 , 1969 ) .",
    "the first two of these papers established a practical method for determining the mean radius of a cepheid without knowing the actual surface brightness .",
    "phases of equal color index are assumed to be phases of equal surface brightness .",
    "the difference in magnitude between the two phases is then dependent only on the ratio of the radii at the two phases .",
    "the difference in radii at the two phases may be determined by integration of the radial velocity curve , appropriately converted to a pulsational velocity curve .",
    "application to multiple phases yield the mean radius .",
    "this is the classic baade - wesselink method .",
    "wesselink ( 1969 ) later determined actual surface brightnesses for eighteen stars of measured angular diameter .",
    "although no cepheid variables were among the sample , he assumed ( with full acknowledgment of the risk ) that the correlation between these surface brightnesses and @xmath2 would apply to cepheids . from the mean @xmath2 of a cepheid and his correlation he obtained the mean surface brightness ; from the baade - wesselink method he obtained the mean stellar radius",
    "; a combination of these two provided the mean absolute magnitude .",
    "this method depends upon a reliable determination of the color excess in order to infer the cepheid surface brightness correctly from @xmath2 and also to compute the distance .",
    "later studies found that the slope of the surface brightness  @xmath2 relation determined from angular diameter stars did not agree with the slope for cepheid variables ( see for example , thompson 1975 ) . that notwithstanding , wesselink obtained a distance to @xmath1 cep of 270 pc , in remarkable agreement with the recent trigonometric parallax distance of 273 pc .",
    "et al . _ ( 1976 , 1977 ) extended the wesselink ( 1969 ) approach in two ways . using a much larger sample of measured angular diameters",
    ", they showed that the visual surface brightness @xmath3 correlated with @xmath4 much better than with @xmath2 .",
    "the tight correlation included stars of all luminosity classes , unlike the separation of supergiants exhibited in the @xmath2 correlation , and thus seemed likely to be applicable to supergiant cepheid variables .",
    "secondly , their mathematical approach to the problem solves for the distance and radius simultaneously , unlike wesselink s separate solutions .",
    "not only is this approach more appropriate mathematically , but it also , when used with @xmath4 , renders a distance that is essentially independent of the reddening . a one magnitude _",
    "error _ in the adopted interstellar extinction @xmath5 causes a 4% error in distance .",
    "significant improvement in the surface brightness method was introduced by welch ( 1994 ) .",
    "he demonstrated that use of the infrared color index @xmath6 preserves the advantages of the surface brightness method ( quasi - geometric , insensitivity to reddening ) while reducing the uncertainties substantially .",
    "fouqu and gieren ( 1997 ) compared the @xmath7 ; @xmath8 ; and @xmath9 versions of the method and found that the three choices yield very similar distances and radii but that the @xmath8 combination produces percentage uncertainties nearly an order of magnitude smaller than those for @xmath7 . as a result",
    "most researchers have adopted the infrared surface brightness method .",
    "one problem with this choice is that the @xmath10 and @xmath11 photometric data are seldom acquired simultaneously , hence some interpolation scheme based on accurate knowledge of the period is needed to compute the colors .    ]",
    "despite the shift to the infrared , the surface brightness method still suffered from two major problems . none of the mathematical solutions by various researchers to the equations for determination of distance and radius from magnitude , color and radial velocity were rigorous , and none of the angular diameters used to calibrate the surface brightness ",
    "color relation were obtained from cepheids .",
    "these two issues were not fully addressed until very recently .",
    "a rigorous and objective solution to the mathematics of the surface brightness equations was provided by barnes _",
    "( 2003 ) using a bayesian markov - chain monte carlo code .",
    "this paper also provides a thorough discussion of the equations needed to solve for the distance and radius in the surface brightness method .",
    "their analysis objectively selects a model for the radial velocity curve , correctly propagates the radial velocity uncertainties through the analysis , correctly handles the problem of uncertainties in both the inferred angular diameters and the computed linear displacements , and averages over the probabilities associated with all the models for distance and radius .",
    "the latter is demonstrated in figure 1 .",
    "the adopted parallax is the expectation value of the posterior marginal distribution and its uncertainty is given by the breadth of that distribution . in a later paper barnes _",
    "( 2005 ) showed that the linear - bisector solution to the surface brightness equations adopted by some researchers gives the same results for distance and radius as the bayesian solution , but underestimates the uncertainties considerably and lacks the internal checks of the bayesian approach .",
    "@xmath6 ( upper part ) and the corresponding residuals ( lower part ) .",
    "figure from kervella _ et al . _",
    "( 2004a ) .",
    "[ fig2 ] ]    the issue of calibration of the surface brightness by means of observed cepheid angular diameters has also been addressed recently .",
    "the first demonstration of a surface brightness relation using observed angular diameters was by nordgren _",
    "( 2002 ) using data from several interferometers .",
    "based on 59 angular diameter measures of three cepheids , they found an @xmath3@xmath6 relation consistent with that found for non - variable stars by fouqu and gieren ( 1997 ) .",
    "( 2004a ) resolved the angular pulsation curves of seven cepheids with the vlt interferometer .",
    "figure 2 shows the combined infrared surface brightness relation for these stars .",
    "they demonstrated that the observed surface brightness relation with the smallest scatter is the @xmath8 relation , that the slope of the surface brightness relation is independent of the period of the cepheid to within their uncertainties , that the previously determined surface brightness relation of fouqu and gieren ( 1997 ) , based on angular diameters of non - variable stars , matches very closely the one in figure 2 based on cepheid angular diameters , and that the surface brightness relations of cepheids and main sequence stars of similar @xmath6 are essentially identical .",
    "it is not possible to overstate the importance of these papers to establishing the validity of surface brightness distance measures .    as to the precision of the infrared surface brightness method , the bayesian calculations published by barnes _ et al .",
    "( 2005 ) for 38 galactic cepheids had a typical random uncertainty in measured distance of @xmath124% .",
    "( 2005 ) obtained a similar uncertainty for lmc cepheids that had periods similar to the galactic ones studied by barnes _",
    "the gieren _",
    "_ study demonstrates that the surface brightness method makes it possible to determine with confidence quasi - geometric distances to cepheid variables at any distance for which the requisite photometry and radial velocities can be obtained .",
    "it is obvious that a superior , if limited , application of the surface brightness method for determining cepheid distances would use direct measurement of the angular diameters .",
    "interferometric pulsation distances are superior in that they do not require inference of the angular diameter from a color index and because they are fully independent of reddening .",
    "they are limited because only a modest number of cepheids are close enough to permit measurement of the angular diameter throughout the pulsation cycle .",
    "thus there are few such measures and some of those have rather large uncertainties .",
    ".cepheids with interferometric pulsation parallaxes . adapted from fouqu _ et al .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > , > , > , > , > , < \" , ]     the preceding discussion has laid the foundation for a leavitt law based on geometric and quasi - geometric distances to fundamental - mode galactic cepheids .",
    "there are seventy cepheids with distances from the infrared surface brightness method , eight from the interferometric pulsation method and ten from hst trigonometric parallaxes .",
    "( 2007 ) have combined these results into a single leavitt law in a variety of bands ( table 3 ) .",
    "( the fourth column gives the scatter of the absolute magnitudes about the fit . )",
    "when there are multiple distances , they adopted a distance based on hst parallaxes , if available , and then chose from interferometric pulsation distance , infrared surface brightness distance , and _ hipparcos _ distance on the basis of precision .",
    "because of overlap in distance measures and variations in the quality of the photometry , the relations contain up to 59 distances . in figure 7",
    "we show their results for the wesenheit magnitude and the @xmath13 magnitude compared to the ogle slope for lmc cepheids ( udalski _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 ) .",
    "it is important to examine whether there are any systematic differences between these three distance indicators .",
    "( 2007 ) quote that the infrared surface brightness @xmath14 magnitudes differ from the ones determined from hst parallaxes by @xmath15 mag .",
    "i have computed from their results that the interferometric pulsation distances give @xmath14 magnitudes that differ from the hst ones by @xmath16 mag .",
    "clearly these fundamental methods agree with each other .",
    "until now i have not addressed a potential systematic error common to the infrared surface brightness distances and the interferometric pulsation distances : the velocity @xmath0-factor .",
    "distances by both of these methods scale directly with the adopted @xmath0-factor .",
    "the other potential systematic error in interferometric pulsation distances , the limb - darkening correction , will not be discussed here .",
    "see marengo _",
    "( 2002 , 2003 ) .",
    "the observed radial velocity is not the pulsational velocity of the stellar atmosphere because of geometrical projection , limb - darkening , choice of measurement technique , choice of lines measured ( @xmath17 , line depth ) , spectral resolution , and still more parameters .",
    "the effect of these parameters is approximated by multiplying the observed radial velocity by a @xmath0-factor . from these parameters , it is clear that @xmath0 will vary from cepheid to cepheid and with pulsation phase for an individual cepheid .",
    "moreover , both the infrared surface brightness method and the interferometric pulsation method require that the @xmath0-factor link the radial velocity curve to the pulsation curve at the level of the atmosphere that yields the photometry or visibility function .",
    "( 2007 ) give a brief summary of historical papers on the @xmath0-factor .",
    "for the past two decades the @xmath0-factor chosen for surface brightness calculations has usually been that given by eq .",
    "( 8) of gieren _",
    "( 1989 ) :    @xmath18    where @xmath19 is the period of pulsation in days .",
    "they developed this relation as a simplified fit to the theoretical calculations of @xmath0 by hindsley and bell ( 1986 ) .",
    "it accounts for the change in @xmath0 in their models due to mean effective temperature and surface gravity of the cepheid ( using period as a proxy ) and ignores any variation with pulsation phase or other factors .",
    "hindsley and bell s calculations were appropriate to radial velocities determined by cross - correlation radial velocity meters .",
    "in recent years the success of the infrared surface brightness method and the interferometric pulsation method generated much interest in establishing the appropriate @xmath0-factor .",
    "these efforts were both observational and theoretical .    the first observational determination of a @xmath0-factor for a cepheid was by mrand _ et al . _",
    "they used the hst parallax of @xmath1 cep to invert the interferometric pulsation method .",
    "given the distance and the observed angular diameter variation , they determined that @xmath0-factor that would match the scaled displacement curve to the angular diameters .",
    "their value is @xmath20 .",
    "groenewegen ( 2007 ) later extended the analysis to seven stars using the additional hst parallaxes publish by benedict _",
    "he found @xmath21 .",
    "he did not find any period dependence .",
    "the second observational determination was by gieren _",
    "( 2005 ) using their infrared surface brightness distances to galactic and lmc cepheids . when gieren _",
    "used eq . in determination of lmc cepheid distances , they found a strong dependence of the distance modulus upon period  an unphysical result .",
    "after ruling out other possibilities , they concluded that the @xmath0-factor eq .",
    "was incorrect and determined a new one that ( 1 ) yielded a zero slope in the period - distance plane ( affects the slope in eq . ) , and ( 2 ) yielded agreement within the galaxy in cepheid @xmath14 magnitudes between infrared surface brightness distances and zams fitting distances ( affects the zero point in eq . ) .",
    "their result , as modified by gieren _",
    "( 2009 , these proceedings ) is    @xmath22    finally , benedict _ et al . _",
    "( 2007 ) determined @xmath0 for t vul by inverting the @xmath4 surface brightness method using their new hst parallax .",
    "the result , while rather uncertain , @xmath23 , is another independent determination .",
    "using very high resolution spectra , nardetto _ et al . _",
    "( 2004 , 2006 , 2007 , 2009a , 2009b ) have examined cepheid atmospheres and their motions extensively , including a calculation of the @xmath0-factor . when based on observations of the single line fe i",
    "_ @xmath244896 _ , they determined a dependence of @xmath0 upon period to be ( nardetto _ et al .",
    "_ 2007 )    @xmath25    whereas observations based on velocities determined by cross - correlation gave ( nardetto _ et al . _",
    "2009a ) gave    @xmath26    they note that the cross - correlation method of measuring velocities overestimates the velocity curve amplitude and thus the correction factor to pulsational velocities eq .",
    "must be smaller .",
    "this indicates that researchers must ensure that the @xmath0-factor used in their infrared surface brightness and interferometric pulsation calculations be the correct one for the velocities adopted .",
    "it is interesting to put these results into context . in figure 8",
    "i show the @xmath0-factor appropriate to the period of @xmath1 cep according to each of the above studies .",
    "several conclusions may be drawn from the figure .",
    "first , the value approximated from the work of hindsley and bell ( 1986 ) , source ( 1 ) , is too large compared to recent determinations in the galaxy . a too large @xmath0-factor yields too large distances in the surface brightness and interferometric distance methods .",
    "second , the observational results in the galaxy and the theoretical results for cross - correlation velocities are consistent ( sources 2,4,5,7 ) .",
    "this is very encouraging as the observational work is based on cross - correlation velocities .",
    "third , the result by gieren _",
    "( 2005 , 2009 ) , source 3 , using lmc cepheids is larger by somewhat more than one sigma than the purely galactic determinations . as the chain or reasoning in gieren",
    "_ et al . _",
    "( 2005 ) seems strong , one immediately suspects a metallicity effect . finally , the @xmath0-factor for the single line fe i _ @xmath244896 _ , source ( 6 ) , is larger than the other galactic determinations , as expected from nardetto _ et al . _",
    "( 2009a )     values inferred for @xmath1 cep from each of the recent @xmath0-factor studies .",
    "sources : 1 ) gieren _ et al .",
    "_ 1989 ; 2 ) mrand _ et al .",
    "_ 2005 ; 3 ) gieren _ et al .",
    "_ 2005 , 2009 ; 4 ) groenewegen 2007 ; 5 ) benedict _ et al .",
    "_ 2007 ; 6 ) nardetto _ et al .",
    "_ 2007 ; 7 ) nardetto _ et al .",
    "[ fig8 ] ]    figure 8 shows only a snapshot of @xmath0 at the period of @xmath1 cep .",
    "the dependence upon pulsation period has only one observational determination , in the lmc ( gieren _ et al .",
    "_ 2005 , 2009 ) , and one recent theoretical determination , appropriate to galactic metallicity ( nardetto _ et al .",
    "_ 2007 , 2009a ) .",
    "these differ by a factor of two in slope of the @xmath0-factor with period . in order to improve this situation observationally ,",
    "we need more cepheid parallaxes of high quality to use with more resolved angular pulsation curves in an inverted interferometric pulsation calculation .",
    "it may be some time before this is possible .",
    "improvement theoretically would be to determine if the difference between the observed lmc slope and the galactic slope can be understood as a result of differences in the cepheid atmospheres or whether it requires some other explanation .",
    "in the previous section on leavitt laws we saw that the three fundamental methods of cepheid distance determination agree with each other to better than 2% in distance .",
    "the distance determinations that led to this agreement in fouqu _",
    "( 2007 ) used a dependence of @xmath0 upon period quite close to that in eq . .",
    "that relation is appropriate to velocity measures using the line fe i _",
    "@xmath244896 _ , not cross - correlation velocities , which is what the data they had would require .",
    "( this is not a criticism of fouqu _ et al .",
    "_ as the work by nardetto _",
    "2009a on the cross - correlation @xmath0-factor was still in the future . )",
    "the effect of using eq . rather than eq .",
    "at the period of @xmath1 cep is to increase the distance by about @xmath27 , or about @xmath28 mag in @xmath14 .",
    "( there is no difference between the relations in the period dependence of @xmath0 . )",
    "the actual difference between the @xmath0-dependent distances and the hst parallaxes was less than 0.03 mag .",
    "the pessimist will say that this implies a failure of our understanding of @xmath0 ; the optimist will say that it shows , to one sigma , that we actually understand the value of @xmath0 .",
    "in this review i have endeavored to summarize recent work on our understanding of the distance scale of fundamental - mode cepheids as based on geometric and quasi - geometric distance determinations .",
    "we have seen that the infrared surface brightness method has reached a level of maturity that permits it to be used as a reliable method for measurement of cepheid distances in our galaxy .",
    "the interferometric pulsation method has demonstrated its usefulness as a check on the infrared surface brightness distance scale and as a method to determine the @xmath0-factor observationally .",
    "the distances determined by both these methods are found to be in excellent agreement with the high quality parallaxes from hst .    the above agreement between @xmath0-dependent ( quasi - geometric ) and trigonometric ( geometric ) distances notwithstanding , there is still uncertainty in our understanding of the correction factor from observed radial velocities to pulsational velocities .",
    "the relationship between @xmath0 and pulsation period appears to be different in the galaxy from that in the lmc .",
    "until this is resolved , we must be cautious in applying the infrared surface brightness method in environments that differ greatly from the galaxy . within the galaxy , observational and theoretical determinations of @xmath0",
    "seem to be in agreement , and this agreement is supported by the agreement between quasi - geometric and geometric distances to cepheids .",
    "i express my thanks to g. fritz benedict for permission to use figures prepared by him .",
    "i also thank paul bradley for assistance with latex .",
    "my interest in the cepheid distance scale was sparked by j. d. fernie , reinvigorated by d. s. evans , sustained over many years by t. j. moffett and w. p. gieren , and enhanced by collaborations with many colleagues and students .",
    "for their support i am sincerely grateful .",
    "this material is based in part upon work by tgb while serving at the national science foundation .",
    "any opinions , findings , and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the national science foundation .",
    "g.  f. benedict , b.  e. mcarthur , l.  w. fredrick , t.  e. harrison , c.  l. slesnick , j.  rhee , r.  j. patterson , m.  f. skrutskie , o.  g. franz , l.  h. wasserman , w.  h. jefferys , e.  nelan , w.  van altena , p.  j. shelus , p.  d. hemenway , r.  l. duncombe , d.  story , a.  l. whipple , and a.  j. bradley , _ astron .",
    "j. _ , * 124 * , 16951705 ( 2002 ) .                                              a.  mrand , p.  kervella , v.  coud  du  foresto , s.  t. ridgway , j.  p. aufdenberg , t.a .",
    "ten  brummelaar , d.  h. berger , j.  sturmann , l.  sturmann , n.  h. turner , and h.  a. mcalister , _ astron .",
    "_ , * 438 * , l9l12 ( 2005 ) .",
    "a.  mrand , p.  kervella , v.  coud du foresto , g.  perrin , s.  t. ridgway , j.  p. aufdenberg , t.  a. ten brummelaar , h.  a. mcalister , l.  sturmann , j.  sturmann , n.  h. turner , and d.  h. berger , _ astron .",
    "_ , * 453 * , 155162 ( 2006 ) .",
    "n.  nardetto , p.  kervella , t.  g. barnes , d.  bersier , a.  fokin , p.  fouqu , w.  gieren , d.  gillet , j.  groh , s.  kraus , p.  mathias , a.  mrand , f.  millour , d.  mourard , g.  pietrzyski , d.  queloz , a.  stoekl and j.  storm , _ this conference _ , ( 2009b ) .",
    "t.  e. nordgren , m.  e. germain , j.  a. benson , d.  mozurkewich , j.  j. sudol , n.  m. elias ii , a.  r. hajian , n.  m. white , d.  j. hutter , k.  j. johnston , f.  s , gauss , j.  t. armstrong , t.  a. pauls , and l.  j. rickard , _ astron . j. _ ,",
    "* 118 * , 30323038 ( 1999 ) .",
    "m.  a.  c. perryman , l.  lindegren , j.  kovalevsky , e.  hoeg , u.  bastian , p.  l. bernacca , m.  crz , f.  donati , m.  grenon , f.  van leeuwen , h.   van der marel , f.   mignard , c.  a. murray , r.  s. le poole , h.  schrijver , c.  turon , f.  arenou , m.  froeschl , and c.  s. petersen , _ astron .",
    "_ , * 323 * , l49l52 ( 1997 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this review examines progress on the pop i , fundamental - mode cepheid distance scale with emphasis on recent developments in geometric and quasi - geometric techniques for cepheid distance determination . </S>",
    "<S> specifically i examine the surface brightness method , interferometric pulsation method , and trigonometric measurements . </S>",
    "<S> the three techniques are found to be in excellent agreement for distance measures in the galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the velocity p - factor is of crucial importance in the first two of these methods . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison of recent determinations of the @xmath0-factor for cepheids demonstrates that observational measures of @xmath0 and theoretical predictions agree within their uncertainties for galactic cepheids .     </S>",
    "<S> address = the university of texas at austin , mcdonald observatory , 1 university station , c1402 , austin , texas , 78712 - 0259 </S>"
  ]
}