{
  "article_text": [
    "the most reliable measures of black hole ( bh ) mass are derived from spatially resolved dynamical tracers , the stars at the center of our own galaxy providing the most precise bh mass measurement ( e.g.,ghez et al .",
    "2008 ; gillessen et al .",
    "2009 ) followed closely by water masers in keplerian rotation fractions of a parsec from the central bh ( e.g. ,  herrnstein et al .",
    "stellar and gas dynamical models use the integrated light from stars or gas in the centers of nearby , relatively inactive galaxies to infer bh masses with @xmath0 precision ( e.g. ,  gebhardt et al .",
    "2003 ) , although potential systematics due to , e.g. , the varying importance of dark matter as a function of galaxy mass are not yet well known ( e.g. , gebhardt & thomas 2009 ) .",
    "the advent of the _ hubble space telescope _ has enabled the measurement of dynamical bh masses in dozens of nearby massive galaxies , which in turn has revolutionized our understanding of bh demographics .",
    "it has become clear that not only are supermassive bhs a ubiquitous component of bulge - dominated galaxy centers ( e.g. ,  ho 2004 ) , but that apparently the evolution of the bh and the surrounding bulge are coupled , as evidenced by the remarkably tight correlations between bh mass and the properties of the surrounding bulge , particularly bulge velocity dispersion ( the @xmath1  relation ; e.g. ,  gltekin et al .",
    "2009 ) .    given the apparent cosmological significance of supermassive bhs in the evolution of galaxies , we are highly motivated to study the demographics and growth histories of bhs beyond the local universe .",
    "unfortunately , the dynamical techniques outlined above require very sensitive observations with high spatial resolution , which are currently limited to galaxies within tens of mpc .",
    "techniques using active galactic nuclei ( agns ) , which currently must be calibrated to the direct dynamical methods , are the only means to study the cosmological evolution of bh demographics and accretion .",
    "this article addresses the current limitations on indirect bh mass measurements , and experiments that could substantially improve them in the next decade .",
    "as early as woltjer ( 1959 ) it was recognized that if the signature broad emission lines in the spectra of agns truly represent gas orbiting the central bh , then they may serve as a virial tracer of the enclosed mass , provided one has a scale for the emission region .",
    "a size can be determined from the delay between variability in the central continuum source and the surrounding photoionized gas [ known as reverberation mapping ( rm ) ; blandford & mckee 1982 ; see review in peterson et al .",
    "the bh mass scales as the virial product @xmath2@xmath3 , but remains uncertain within a scale factor @xmath4 due to the unknown structure and kinematics of the broad - line region ( blr ) . only with the discovery of the @xmath1relation did it become possible to independently cross - check the rm masses , as well as to solve for @xmath4 in an average sense ( e.g. ,  nelson et al .  2004 ; onken et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "rm experiments are time consuming , particularly for luminous objects , and have been performed for only @xmath5 objects to date , but , due to a well - defined correlation between agn luminosity and blr size ( the radius - luminosity relation ; e.g. ,  kaspi et al .",
    "2000 ; bentz et al.2009a ) it is possible to estimate so - called virial bh masses from single - epoch agn spectroscopy .",
    "comparisons between large samples of single - epoch virial masses and @xmath6  yield reasonable agreement and similar @xmath4 values as the rm samples ( greene & ho 2006 ; shen et al .",
    "it is these virial masses that enable study of the demographics ( e.g. ,  greene et al .",
    "2008 ) , mass - dependent clustering ( e.g. ,  fine et al .  2006 ; shen et al .",
    "2009 ) , bh mass functions ( e.g. ,  greene & ho 2007 ; kelly et al .  2009b ) and eddington - ratio distributions ( e.g. ,  kollmeier et al .  2006 ; shen et al .",
    "2008b ; hickox et al .",
    "2009 ) for accreting bhs , as well as investigations of the evolution in bh - bulge scaling relations with cosmic time ( e.g. ,  peng et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "while the ability to estimate bh masses using the virial method has resulted in substantial progress in our understanding of bh demographics and evolution , the technique is very indirect , and each calibration step introduces a new layer of uncertainty .",
    "first of all , the radius - luminosity relation on which the entire architecture rests has been calibrated using only @xmath7 objects .",
    "when measured using lags between h@xmath8  and @xmath9  the slope is found to be @xmath10 ( bentz et al .",
    "2009a ) , in agreement with the slope of @xmath11 ( kaspi et al .",
    "however , the formal errors do not properly reflect the true slope uncertainties .",
    "prior to the careful galaxy subtraction performed by bentz et al .",
    ", the radius - luminosity relation slope was substantially steeper ( @xmath12 ; e.g. , kaspi et al .  2005 ) , while the slope also changes when various objects are removed or included . in our view",
    "the most significant outstanding systematic uncertainties in the radius - luminosity relation slope come from the limited scope of the sample .",
    "the range in luminosity is only @xmath9@xmath13  erg s@xmath14 , with only five and three objects in the lowest and highest decades respectively , while the eddington ratios are strongly clustered around @xmath15 .",
    "there are hardly any radio - loud targets .",
    "these biases are present because only a small sample of local , heterogeneous targets selected for their known variability properties have been targeted to date .",
    "ideally , we would like to see blr measurements for bhs ranging over @xmath16  @xmath17  and at least two decades in luminosity at each mass .",
    "_ unbiased virial bh masses require a measurement of the radius - luminosity relation for objects spanning a complete range in bh mass and luminosity . _",
    "even with a perfect radius - luminosity relation , there is still ambiguity in the overall mass scaling from object to object due to our ignorance of blr structure .",
    "collin et al .  (",
    "2006 ) make a compelling case for systematic changes in the value of @xmath4 as a function of accretion rate and perhaps bh mass as well .",
    "theoretically , we do expect blr structure to vary as a function of accretion rate .",
    "for instance , the existence and opening angle of disk winds are thought to depend on both @xmath2  and @xmath18  ( e.g. ,  proga & kallman 2004 ) .",
    "alternatively , radiation pressure may provide non - negligible support to the blr gas , thus biasing the virial masses ( marconi et al .",
    "2008 ) although debate continues on the importance of this effect in practice ( e.g. , netzer 2009 ; onken 2009 ) .",
    "_ independent bh mass estimates are required to calibrate the f factor for objects spanning a complete range in bh mass and luminosity .",
    "_    there is one more central concern worth noting here .",
    "rest - frame optical spectra containing balmer emission - lines are not available for large samples of high - redshift quasars , and we are thus forced to rely on uv lines , specifically  @xmath19",
    "  and  @xmath20    ( e.g. , vestergaard 2002 ; mclure & jarvis 2002 ) . there is little reverberation mapping done for , and thus the virial mass scale is simply bootstrapped from h@xmath8  ( vestergaard & peterson 2006 ; see also onken & kollmeier 2008 ) . in the case of",
    ", reverberation mapping has been performed for a small handful of objects ( e.g. , peterson et al .",
    "2005 ) , but the line width may not be dominated by virial motions .",
    "it is clear that the scatter between  and  or h@xmath8  line widths is substantial ( e.g. , baskin & laor 2005 ; shen et al .",
    "2008 ) , and the overall reliability of as a virial estimator remains a matter of debate ( e.g. , kelly et al.2007 ) .",
    "we choose here to focus on improving the balmer line calibrations , as a necessary step to understanding the uv lines .",
    "we focus on a few potential avenues for future progress in improving the reliability of bh mass measurements that we believe are achievable with existing or planned instrumentation :    1 .",
    "dedicated rm campaigns are required to securely measure the radius - luminosity relation for a large and representative sample of active galaxies .",
    "a recent extensive monitoring program at lick observatory demonstrates the feasibility of such campaigns ( bentz et al . 2009b ; denney et al . 2009 ) , measuring an additional eight new blr radii in a low - luminosity regime as yet unexplored .",
    "the data are of such high quality that velocity - resolved lags can be measured in a few cases , which may yield measurements of @xmath4 for individual objects ( bentz et al .",
    "2008 , 2009b ; denney et al .",
    "2 .   a dedicated spectroscopic monitoring telescope could substantially improve the diversity of the samples used to define the radius - luminosity relation at intermediate luminosities and low redshift .",
    "it is convenient to consider three distinct luminosity regimes , + -0.4 in -0 mm and , for this discussion , luminosity refers to @xmath9 . in general",
    ", campaigns should last at least 3 times as long as the maximum timescale that they need to probe ( e.g. ,  peterson 2001 ) , although recent monitoring campaigns demonstrate that @xmath21 times longer is actually preferred in the presence of finite sampling and signal - to - noise ratio ( e.g. ,  bentz et al .",
    "2008 ) . of course",
    ", only a fraction of sources will vary at any given time .",
    "objects with @xmath9@xmath22  erg s@xmath14  have lags less than one light day and require continuous monitoring with an 8 m - class telescope over a period of at least a week , in order to achieve sufficiently short individual exposures to resolve the lag times but still detect broad - line variability .",
    "so far , the only such object with successful rm in this regime is ngc 4395 , which was done with @xmath231549 from space ( peterson et al .",
    "for the regime @xmath9@xmath24  erg s@xmath14 , the lags are a few days and the targets should be observed at least every other day for a few months ( e.g. ,  bentz et al .",
    "2008 ) . at @xmath9@xmath25",
    "erg s@xmath14  the appropriate sampling is @xmath26 weekly for 12 years .",
    "objects more luminous require significantly longer baselines , since not only are their blrs physically larger , but they also tend to reside at @xmath27 , causing additional stretching of the observed variability timescale .",
    "+ the targets requiring daily observations must be monitored photometrically with a dedicated 1 m - class telescope . for more luminous targets the 35 day temporal sampling delivered by current and upcoming time - domain surveys ( e.g. , palomar transient factory , law et al .",
    "2009 ; pan - starrs ; lsst , ivezic et al .",
    "2008 ) should provide adequate photometry . assuming a 4 m - class spectroscopic telescope , with a 2  slit ( to minimize light losses in bad seeing conditions ) and @xmath28    resolution",
    ", it should be possible to obtain sufficient s / n in @xmath29 hr to measure @xmath30 variability in the h@xmath8  line for objects with @xmath31  erg s@xmath14 @xmath32  ( e.g. ,  kaspi et al .",
    "we note that many recent lag measurements have achieved @xmath33 spectrophotometry in the emission lines ( e.g. , denney et al .",
    "2006 ; bentz et al .  2006 , 2008 ) ,",
    "but such precision is feasible only for a very small number of targets . in the sloan digital sky survey data release 4 ( adelman - mccarthy et al .",
    "2006 ) at @xmath34 there are @xmath35 broad - line objects with @xmath9@xmath36  erg s@xmath14  and @xmath2  @xmath37 @xmath17  ( greene & ho 2007 ) . assuming that 1 hr of integration is spent per observation and that each galaxy needs @xmath38 observations to determine a lag , a two - year dedicated spectroscopic survey could observe more than half of the entire sample , if only one - fifth of the observing time is lost to bad weather .",
    "this very crude sketch demonstrates that even with existing modest resources , substantial progress could be made on measurements of the radius - luminosity relation as a function of agn properties . to significantly expand the dynamic range in luminosities ,",
    "however , requires both an investment of 8 m - class resources for low - luminosity targets and a much longer campaign to target luminous ( and necessarily distant ) ones ( e.g. ,  kaspi et al.2007 ) .",
    "3 .   in addition to improvements in the radius - luminosity relation , independent measurements of bh mass are needed , again spanning the full mass - luminosity parameter space , with which to calibrate @xmath4 . to zeroth order",
    "@xmath4 has been calculated by scaling rm or virial masses to match the @xmath1  relation ( see fig .",
    "1 ) . in a handful of cases it ought to be possible to constrain the kinematic structure of the blr using two - dimensional rm in which lags are determined as a function of velocity in the broad line ( e.g. ,  bentz et al .",
    "while expensive , this technique provides a real measurement of blr structure .",
    "+ the next obvious step is to amass a sufficiently large sample of stellar velocity dispersions in agns , spanning a wide enough range in bh mass , that @xmath4 can be measured as a function of linewidth and luminosity .",
    "some progress has been made using both near - infrared spectroscopy ( e.g. ,  dasyra et al .",
    "2007 ) and adaptive - optics assisted integral - field unit spectroscopy ( e.g ,  watson et al .",
    "2008 ) . with large samples ( e.g. ,  10 objects per decade in mass and luminosity ) it should be possible to measure @xmath4 as a function of @xmath2  and @xmath39 .",
    "+ comparison with @xmath1  in the determination of @xmath4 may well fail if the galaxies in question do not obey the @xmath1  relation .",
    "it is important to bear in mind that while the range of dynamical bh masses extends over @xmath2  @xmath40  @xmath17 , the majority of the objects are clustered around @xmath2  @xmath41  @xmath17 .",
    "in contrast , the masses of the local active samples range from @xmath42 to @xmath43  @xmath17 , and the majority of those with @xmath6  measurements have @xmath2  @xmath44  @xmath17 .",
    "there is some indication that the scatter , and possibly the shape , of the @xmath1  relation depend on galaxy type ( e.g. ,  hu 2008 ; greene et al .",
    "2008 ; c. y. peng & l. c. ho , in preparation ; greene , j. e. et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "furthermore , active systems may not obey the @xmath1  relation during their active phase ( e.g. ,  ho et al .",
    "2008 ; kim et al .  2008 ) .",
    "direct gas or stellar dynamical bh masses are needed to bypass these degeneracies , but so far have been attempted in only a handful of cases ( fig . 1 ; davies et al .  2006 ; onken et al .  2007 ; hicks & malkan 2008 ) .",
    "of the rm objects with stellar velocity dispersions in hand , nine are close enough to attempt a dynamical measurement ( i.e. ,  current adaptive - optics assisted spectrographs can reach to a few times the gravitational sphere of influence of the bh ; e.g. ,  hicks & malkan 2008 ) .",
    "the number should increase with new rm surveys targeting low - luminosity sources ( e.g. ,  bentz et al .",
    "while these numbers are still small , and restricted to @xmath45  @xmath17bhs , even a few dynamical bh mass measurements would provide a crucial cross - check on rm .",
    "4 .   aside from direct dynamical masses and galaxy scaling relations",
    ", variability timescales also correlate with @xmath2 . in particular",
    ", it has been shown that the characteristic x - ray variability timescale correlates with bh mass ( e.g. ,  czerny et al .",
    "2001 ; lu & yu 2001 ; markowitz et al . 2003",
    "; ; nikoajuk et al .",
    "2004 , 2006 ; done & gierliski 2005 ) . in principle , x - ray variability is completely independent of the @xmath1  relation and rm , since the masses are scaled to the variability properties of high - mass x - ray binaries . however , the story may be more complicated , as there appears to be additional dependence on the luminosity or eddington ratio of the bh ( mchardy et al .",
    "2006 ) . at the moment , x - ray power - spectrum analysis has been possible only for a handful of bright local agns ( e.g. ,  uttley et al .  2002 ) .",
    "upcoming all - sky x - ray monitors such as _ _ lobster _ _ ( 0.13 kev ) and _ maxi _ ( 230 kev ; matsuoka et al .",
    "2009 ) will deliver increases of factors of a few in the number of targets with adequate long - term monitoring to explore all scales in x - ray variability .",
    "for instance , _",
    "lobster _ , with a sensitivity of 0.15 mcrab per day , will monitor @xmath46 agns per year with daily cadence and @xmath47 accuracy , and ten percent of those will have @xmath48 accuracy .",
    "thus , the opportunities for cross - calibration between x - ray variability , dynamical masses , rm , and virial mass estimates will also increase dramatically .",
    "much like in the x - rays , optical variability timescales are correlated with bh mass , again with a secondary dependence on luminosity ( e.g. ,  collier & peterson 2001 ; kelly et al .",
    "2009a ; walsh et al .",
    "2009 ) . again , upcoming optical time - domain surveys ( see above ) will enable cross - calibration of this relatively new technique with large and relatively unbiased samples .",
    "we note also that a byproduct of a large rm campaign would be very well - sampled optical light curves yielding characteristic optical timescales that can be compared with the rm masses .    in closing",
    ", we note that our discussion focuses on observational avenues for improvements in bh mass measurement techniques . while we believe the experiments described above are crucial to tie down the bh mass scale at cosmological distances , they alone are not sufficient . despite decades of research",
    ", we still do not have a complete model for the blr .",
    "we are hopeful that these experiments , in addition to providing more robust empirical estimators of bh mass , will also provide needed constraints on the kinematics and structure of the line - emitting region as a function of @xmath2 , thereby inspiring more detailed modeling of the physics of the blr ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the critical importance of black hole mass indicators based on scaling relations in active galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we highlight outstanding uncertainties in these methods and potential paths to substantial progress in the next decade . </S>"
  ]
}