{
  "article_text": [
    "quantum states of light are very important resource for quantum communication and computation protocols @xcite .",
    "especially , entangled states play a key role in quantum information processing ( qip ) , such as quantum teleportation @xcite , entanglement swapping zuk93 , remote state preparation @xcite and quantum repeaters bri98 . quantum states of propagating light beams can be treated as discrete single photon states or quantum continuous variables ( qcv ) states , which can be analyzed either by photon counting or by homodyne detection , respectively .",
    "qcv is a very interesting system of qip @xcite , which encoding the information in the quadratures @xmath0 and @xmath1 of traveling light fields . in most studies",
    "the qcv states are limited to gaussian states because of their well understood theoretical structure and ability to be easily generated experimentally @xcite .",
    "for example , gaussian two - mode squeezed state ( qcv entangled light ) can be efficiently produced via optical parametric amplification ( opa ) , and the two - mode squeezing degree can be easily varied by adjusting the pump power . however , non - gaussian states are also very important .",
    "they can be employed to fulfil optimal quantum cloning and minimal disturbance measurement for coherent states @xcite .",
    "and there have been a few proposals to detect entanglement in non - gaussian states @xcite .",
    "furthermore , it has been shown that gaussian entanglement distillation requires non - gaussian operations @xcite . with the current experiment conditions , one of the practical ways to prepare non - gaussian states is the conditional subtraction  ( addition ) of photons from ( to ) gaussian entangled beams @xcite . and the properties of these non - gaussian states have been investigated , including the non - classicality , inseparability and entanglement @xcite .    we know that entanglement distillation allows one to produce stronger entanglement between distant sites , which is essential for long - distance quantum communications @xcite . in the discrete - variable systems ,",
    "entanglement distillation has been well studied and demonstrated by several experiments recently @xcite . while in the qcv systems , several proposals have been put forward to realize qvc distillation @xcite .",
    "it has been shown that the photon - subtracted and photon - added operations on two - mode squeezed states can be applied to enhance the entanglement of qcv states @xcite .",
    "recently , a. ourjoumtsev _",
    "et al . _ have completed an experiment which increased entanglement between gaussian states by coherent photon subtraction ( cps ) @xcite .",
    "they coherently subtracted single photons from gaussian quadrature - entangled light pulses , produced delocalized states with negative wigner functions and complex structures more entangled than the initial states in terms of negativity , which is the quantity of entanglement @xcite .",
    "this experiment opens up a way to coherently subtract one photon from two modes of light .",
    "naturely , we may ask how about coherent photon addition ( cpa ) ? can this non - gaussian operation enhance the entanglement ? and how to experimentally realize cpa ? in this paper",
    ", we make a theoretical analysis about cpa process and cpa states , find that it is similar to cps state our07 whose entanglement , quantified by the negativity @xcite , is significantly increased compared with the initial state generated by opa .",
    "we also give an experimental setup on how to realize the cpa process under current technique conditions .",
    "last , we give a brief discussion and conclusion .",
    "the non - gaussian state of coherently subtracting a photon from a two - mode squeezed state has been investigated theoretically and experimentally our07 . for a simple theoretical analysis between cps and cpa below",
    ", we can get that the final states of cps and cpa are almost in a same form .",
    "this directly show us that the non - gaussian operation of cpa can enhance the entanglement .",
    "the two - mode squeezed state can be expressed in the fock state basis as follows    @xmath2    where @xmath3 and @xmath4 is the squeezing degree parameter .",
    "then the cpa state can be write as @xmath5@xmath6 is a complex parameter , @xmath7 and @xmath8 are photon creation operators for modes 1 and 2 . without loss of generality",
    ", we can consider the case of @xmath9 . under a detailed calculation , we get@xmath10while for cps process , we can define the operator as @xmath11 .",
    "so coherently subtracting a photon from a two mode squeezed state ( eq .",
    "( 1 ) ) can be written as@xmath12@xmath13 and @xmath14 are photon annihilation operators for modes 1 and 2 .",
    "for the same reason as above , we consider the case @xmath9 .",
    "we can get@xmath15where @xmath16 .",
    "we can see that eq .",
    "( 5 ) is almost same as eq .",
    "( 3 ) except for different start point of @xmath17 .",
    "this means that cpa operation can act on squeezed vacuum state which cps operation can not .",
    "we know that the squeezed vacuum state is a very useful state and in common use , so cpa operation should be more useful than cpa operation .",
    "cps state has been experimental tested that the entanglement is higher than the initial two - mode squeezed state with up to 3 db of squeezing , and even small experimental improvements should significantly increase this limit @xcite . from the simple analysis above ,",
    "it is interesting that cpa process can generate a similar non - gaussian state as cps , and can be used as entanglement distillation .",
    "furthermore , we may combine cps and cpa process together , such as cps then cpa or cpa then cps , to study some new phenomenon .     and @xmath18 are varied by the piezoelectric transducer ( pzt ) .",
    "all the pbs are translated vertical polarized light and reflected horizontal polarized light .",
    "f is a combination of spectral and spatial filter made of a interference filter and a single - spatial - mode optical fiber directly connected to a single - photon counting module ( spcm ) .",
    "additional optics and computer control to realize the homodyne detection and coincidence count are not shown here for the sake of clarity.,width=377 ]",
    "we have designed an experimental scheme for cpa process , which can be realized in lab under current technique . the experimental scheme is shown in fig .",
    "femtosecond pulses produced by a ti : sapphire laser are split into two parts by a high - transmission beam splitter ( ht - bs ) . the small part ( reflected part )",
    "is used as a local oscillator for homodyne detection , and the main part ( transmitted part ) is frequency doubled by a type i non - critically phase - matched potassium niobate ( knbo@xmath19 ) crystal .",
    "one of the frequency - doubled beam pumps an identical crystal used as an opa , generating gaussian quadrature - entangled pulses spatially separated by an angle of @xmath20 and also with orthogonal polarizations defined as horizontal ( h ) polarization and vertical ( v ) polarization .",
    "another part of the frequency - doubled beam pumps a type - i beta - barium borate ( bbo ) nonlinear crystal to generate entangled photon pairs . the entangled gaussian beams are spatially combined on a polarizing beam splitter ( pbs ) cube but remain different polarizations .",
    "then this beam is injected in the bbo nonlinear crystal as a seed field of signal mode , and the conditional preparation of the photon - added state takes place every time that a single photon is detected in the correlated idler mode . to achieve adding one photon to the two mode coherently",
    ", we can adjust the polarization of pump beam of bbo crystal by a half - wave plate ( hwp ) in order to generate @xmath21-polarized twin photons . in this case , when the signal beam ( mixed with signal photons and the entangled gaussian beams ) pass the second pbs , two orthogonal polarized beams are and the @xmath22-polarized photons spatially separated and combined with bright local oscillator beams . if the detector on the idler route is clicked , we can get that one photon has been coherently added to the gaussian quadrature - entangled beam generated by opa . the intensities and the relative phase of local oscillator",
    "can be easily adjusted by a quarter - wave plate ( qwp ) , a hwp and a piezoelectric transducer ( pzt ) . at the end of this setup",
    ", we can perform a homodyne detection to analyze the nonclassical character of the cpa states .    in this setup",
    ", we mainly use polarization information of photons and pulses to control their spatial routes , so the relative phases except @xmath23 and @xmath24 can be precisely adjusted by wave plates . @xmath23 and @xmath18 are controlled by the pzt , which can easily and precisely realize a phase scan for experimental request . in our setup , we can easily change the phase parameter @xmath6 of eq .",
    "( 2 ) by adjusting the polarization of pump beam of bbo crystal .",
    "this can be achieved by simply rotating the hwp before bbo crystal .",
    "especially , when the twin photons polarization is at @xmath21 , we can realize the cpa process mentioned above ; when the twin photons polarization is at @xmath25 ( @xmath26 ) , we can get that one photon is added in one of two modes definitely ( normal photon addition ) .",
    "so , this setup can be used to verify the nonclassical properties of two - mode single - photon - added states from cpa to normal photon addition . the precision of adding exactly a single photon is mainly limited by the nonunit detection efficiency of spcm trigger and the higher - order emissions from the spdc process in bbo crystal",
    ". however , these limitations are not very restrictive for the present application where the down - conversion should be operated in a regime of low gain .",
    "in conclusion , we firstly put forward a cpa protocol which allows one to increase the entanglement between gaussian states .",
    "this non - gaussian operation can generate similar non - gaussian states whit cps even the initial state is squeezed vacuum state . and the realization of cpa can make the further studies of combining cps and cpa .",
    "the final non - gaussian cpa states can in principle be used as a starting point for a `` gaussification '' procedure @xcite .",
    "the experimental setup we put forward here is simple and realizable under current technique .",
    "it is useful for gaussian entanglement distillation , and it is also one of the key steps for long - distance quantum communications with continuous variables .",
    "the authors thank ai - ping fang and yang yang for interesting and helpful discussion .",
    "this work was funded by the national fundamental research program , national natural science foundation of china ( grant no . and grant no .",
    "10774117 ) .",
    "g. s. agarwal and k. tare , phys .",
    "a * 43 * , 492 ( 1991 ) ; a. zavatta , s. viciani and m. bellini , science * 306 * , 660 ( 2004 ) ; a. zavatta , s. viciani and m. bellini , phys . rev .",
    "a * 72 * , 023820 ( 2005 ) ; a. zavatta , v. parigi , and m. bellini , phys .",
    "a * 75 * , 052106 ( 2007 ) ; v. parigi , a. zavatta , m. s. kim and m. bellini , science * 317 * , 1890 ( 2007 ) ; m. s. kim , h. jeong , a. zavatta , v. parigi and m. bellini , phys .",
    "* 101 * , 260401 ( 2008 ) .",
    "a. r. usha devi , r. prabhu and m. s. uma , eur .",
    "j. d * 40 * , 133 ( 2006 ) ;",
    "m. s. kim , e. park , p. l. knight and h. jeong , phys . rev .",
    "a * 71 * , 043805 ( 2005 ) ; a. kitagawa , m. takeoka , m. sasaki and a. chefles , phys . rev .",
    "a * 73 * , 042310 ( 2006 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the entanglement between gaussian entangled states can be increased by non - gaussian operations . </S>",
    "<S> we firstly design a simple scheme of coherently adding a photon generated by spontaneous parametric down conversation process to gaussian quadrature - entangled light pulses created by a nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier . according to this non - gaussian operation </S>",
    "<S> , the entanglement is increased as an entanglement distillation . </S>"
  ]
}