{
  "article_text": [
    "since the advent of semiconductor based microelectronics , the component density of integrated circuits has increased at a steady exponential rate .",
    "as component sizes approach the nano - scale , maintaining this pace will require a shift towards alternative materials more versatile than doped silicon .",
    "one such approach , already on the research agenda for several years , is to exploit the great variety and adaptability of organic molecules in component design . in the context of such a molecular nanotechnology , molecules with properties bi - stably and reversibly modifiable by external stimuli , so - called molecular switches ,",
    "are a research topic of paramount importance .",
    "the azobenzene molecule ( c@xmath0h@xmath1n@xmath2c@xmath0h@xmath3 ) qualifies in this class by undergoing a reversible trans - cis isomerization . because of its relative chemical simplicity",
    ", this molecule has come under intensive experimental scrutiny .",
    "numerous potential applications have been proposed , e.g. as a light - driven actuator@xcite , or data storage medium@xcite . on the theoretical side , the precise mechanism behind the switching from the planar ,",
    "c@xmath4 symmetric trans isomer to the torsioned - twisted c@xmath5 cis isomer , is a much debated topic .",
    "the consensus view explains the observed trans - cis ( cis - trans ) isomerization , following photo - excitation of the @xmath6 ( @xmath7 ) resonance , in terms of conical intersections between the ground and low lying excited states on the isomerization reaction coordinate@xcite .",
    "nevertheless , gas phase or solvated switches carry their own set of limitations within the framework of molecular microelectronics , wherefore in recent years , properties of switches adsorbed at solid surfaces@xcite has emerged as an important research field . since the switching function is an innate property of the azobenzene electronic structure , the choice of substrate and substrate coupling is non - trivial : while bonding strong enough to localize and order switches is desirable , significant hybridization of the mentioned frontier orbitals , or steric hindrance due to substrate registry is not .",
    "close - packed coinage metal ( cu , ag , au ) surfaces ostensibly offer a reasonable such balance .",
    "however , even at these substrates , azobenzene and -derivate switches exhibit a host of modifications to the switching function , in all combinations of reversible or irreversible switching , and switching by light or exclusively by a local electric field@xcite .    in this situation",
    "first - principles calculations stand to offer a unique perspective on the geometric and electronic structure of these systems . with such motivation",
    "we have recently performed a density - functional theory ( dft ) study of the metastable states of azobenzene adsorbed at coinage metal ( 111 ) surfaces @xcite . within the employed generalized - gradient approximation ( gga ) to the dft exchange - correlation ( xc ) functional , the essential findings of this study are summarized as follows : at all three substrates the most stable adsorption geometry corresponds to the azo ( -n = n- ) bridge centered on and aligned with the bridge site of the ( 111 ) lattice , cf .",
    "[ fig2 ] below . in the flat trans",
    "isomer geometry the two phenyl ( @xmath8c@xmath0h@xmath3 ) moieties lie parallel to the surface , while in the three - dimensional cis isomer geometry they stand upright , pointing away from the surface . in this decomposition into azo - bridge and phenyl - ring moieties ,",
    "the overall bonding is characterized by a balance between three major effects : the binding energy gained by the formation of a covalent - type bond between azo - bridge and surface , the energetic penalty due to distortion of the gas - phase molecular geometry upon adsorption , and pauli repulsion between the phenyl - rings and the substrate . in the flat trans adsorption geometry the first and third effect are in conflict in the sense that the formation of covalent - type bonds requires shorter surface distances , where the phenyl - rings already suffer from strong pauli repulsion .",
    "since this conflict does not arise in the three - dimensional cis geometry , the latter is relatively more stabilized upon adsorption : while the gas phase trans isomer is more stable than cis by some 0.6 ev , this value is lowered upon adsorption and at cu(111 )  where the azo - bridge to surface bond is strongest  dft - gga even predicts a reordering of the isomer stability , with the cis isomer @xmath9 0.3 ev lower in energy @xcite .    within this picture of a delicate balance between competing effects , it is clear that these results will be sensitive to the well - known inability @xcite of semi - local gga xc - functionals to account for a fourth surface bonding contribution , namely dispersive van der waals ( vdw ) interactions . for the present system a rough estimate of the importance of this contribution",
    "may be obtained from the similarity of the phenyl moiety and a benzene ( c@xmath10h@xmath10 ) molecule . comparing the @xmath90.6",
    "ev benzene binding energy derived from temperature programmed desorption ( tpd ) experiments @xcite to the essentially zero value obtained within dft - gga @xcite , _ vide infra _ , suggests that the computed dft - gga binding energy of the trans azobenzene isomer with its two flat - lying phenyl - rings might be underestimated by more than 1ev . while this underscores that a real understanding of azobenzene and related organic molecules at metal surfaces can only be obtained from a properly balanced description of all four surface bonding contributions , realizing this in electronic structure calculations for such systems is still a largely unresolved challenge .",
    "in fact , an accurate account of dispersion interactions is one of the major issues in contemporary large - scale first - principles modeling , and recent years have seen a plethora of proposed solutions , ranging from high - level wave - function techniques within various embedding schemes @xcite , via xc - functionals explicitly constructed to include dispersion interactions @xcite , to the electron correlation resulting from applying the random - phase approximation ( rpa ) in the context of the adiabatic - connection dissipation - fluctuation theorem @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , due to the sheer adsorbate - dictated system size none of these approaches are presently computationally tractable for the problem at hand .",
    "in this situation , much more modest semi - empirical schemes that correct at least for the long - range vdw interaction represent a viable alternative for a first assessment of how much the missing fourth bonding contribution skews the previously obtained dft - gga results .",
    "however , while computationally highly efficient , these semi - empirical dispersion correction approaches @xcite are also not unproblematic . on the practical side their semi - empirical derivation has given rise to a manifold of suggested schemes that all have the same conceptual structure , but differ in their material - specific parameters .",
    "on the fundamental side the mere validity of these schemes for bonding at metal surfaces is uncertain .",
    "apart from the system - specific interest a second objective of our study is therefore to subject the obtained dispersion corrected results to critical scrutiny . for this",
    "we analyze the scatter when applying different prevalent semi - empiricial correction schemes to the azobenzene problem and use the adsorption of benzene at the close - packed coinage metal surfaces as a vehicle to isolate the balance between pauli repulsion and vdw interaction within this methodology .",
    "the overall structure of the paper is correspondingly as follows : the next theory section provides a detailed description primarily of the different employed semi - empirical correction schemes and how they are integrated into the dft calculations .",
    "thereafter we present the changes obtained through these dispersion corrections to the previous pure dft - gga results for the geometric , energetic and electronic properties of adsorbed azobenzene at cu(111 ) , ag(111 ) and au(111 ) .",
    "this is followed by a critical discussion which includes the detailed results when applying the semi - empirical correction schemes to the simpler problem of benzene at these three surfaces .",
    "shown in the lower panel is the @xmath11 term in the obs ( medium dash - dotted line ) and g06 ( medium solid line ) scheme , as well as the finally resulting correction after multiplication with the damping function @xmath12 ( separately shown in the upper panel ) , cf .",
    "( [ eq1 ] ) : obs ( thick dash - dotted line ) and g06 ( thick solid line ) . note the largely different form of the dispersion correction , which at not too different @xmath13 coefficients in the two schemes , cf . table [ table0 ] , is predominantly due to the very shallow damping function employed in the obs scheme . at distances comparable to the sum of interatomic vdw radii , 2.30 and 3.09 for obs and g06 respectively ( marked as thin vertical lines in the upper panel ) ,",
    "this leads to energetic corrections that differ by an order of magnitude .",
    "the ts correction potential is qualitatively very similar to that of g06 , differing in @xmath14 and @xmath15 parameters only.,width=309 ]    in the semi - empirical dispersion correction approach , the missing dispersion contribution to the inter - atomic interaction is approximated by a simple isotropic potential . at long range ,",
    "this potential is given by the leading @xmath16 term of the london series , where @xmath17 is a material - specific , so - called dispersion coefficient between any atom pair @xmath18 and @xmath19 at distance @xmath20 . at short range ,",
    "the long - range expression is matched to the dft potential by multiplication with a damping function @xmath21 , which reduces the additional dispersion contribution to zero , subject to a cutoff defined by some suitably calculated combination @xmath22 of the vdw radii of the atom pair , as illustrated in fig .",
    "the dispersion corrected xc - functional is then formed by simply adding the correction potential to the ordinary dft xc - functional . as @xmath17 coefficients",
    "are additive@xcite , the dispersion corrected total energy @xmath23 may therefore be written as @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the standard dft total energy , and the sums go over all _",
    "n _ atoms in the system . in existing schemes , heteronuclear @xmath22 and @xmath17 coefficients are approximated from semi - empirically determined homonuclear parameters , and differences between dft xc - functionals in the description of short to medium range dispersion interaction are taken into account by a suitable modification of the correction potential through the parameters @xmath26 or @xmath27 as further detailed below .",
    "while effortless to evaluate computationally , this general expression has obvious weaknesses , of which perhaps the most glaring is the ( free- ) atom - in - molecule approximation : the substantial variation of properties between effective atoms of the same species in the molecule , e.g. the influence of hybridization states on effective polarizability , is neglected .",
    "this may be particularly severe for the metal surface , where the lowering of the effective dielectric constant due to screening @xcite should be reflected by reduced dispersion coefficients of atoms in deeper layers in the substrate .",
    "the applicability of such semi - empirical dispersion corrections to ( transition ) metal bonding systems is therefore uncertain . in order to qualify this to some extent for the present azobenzene at coinage metal surface problem",
    ", we therefore study the variation of our results between three published dispersion correction schemes that ( apart from different semi - empirical material parameters ) each have their own approach to this issue :    .[table0 ] calculated @xmath17 dispersion coefficients and cutoff radii @xmath22 between elements @xmath18 and @xmath19 .",
    "as the dispersion coefficients in the ts scheme depend slightly , @xmath28% for adsorbed trans azobenzene , on the effective atomic volume we only show averaged values over all atomic constituents of each species . to allow direct comparison between the effective parameters employed by the three schemes , we show the values @xmath29 and @xmath30 , i.e. after multiplication with the xc - functional dependent scaling factors ( see text ) .",
    "note that the g06 scheme does not feature parameters for au .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     this corroborates benzene adsorption as a suitable reference system and it is therefore meaningful to assess the performance of the three semi - empirical dispersion schemes with respect to the benchmark provided by the tpd experiments . for a more quantitative comparison table [ table3 ] compiles the corresponding data of the minima of the binding energy curves and additionally accounts for zero - point energy shifts . as obvious from these results ,",
    "all three schemes certainly provide an improvement compared to the gga - pbe data , with the obs scheme even falling close to the experimentally measured value at all three surfaces .",
    "the other two schemes exhibit instead a tendency to overbind which gets most pronounced at cu(111 ) . at this surface",
    "this in fact amounts to an overcorrection by @xmath31ev particularly by these two presumably more refined correction schemes . within the simple analogy considering only the number of phenyl - rings",
    ", this would suggest that the corresponding trans azobenzene at cu(111 ) adsorption energies in table [ table1 ] could contain sizable errors of the order of @xmath32ev .",
    "this trend of increased overbinding for benzene at au(111 ) to cu(111 ) goes hand in hand with a systematically smaller height @xmath33 of the molecule above the surface , cf .",
    "table [ table3 ] .",
    "this brings the corresponding molecule@xmath8metal atom distances entering eq .",
    "( [ eq1 ] ) closer and closer to the sum of their vdw radii and therewith into the distance range most affected by the damping function , cf .",
    "[ fig1 ] . in order to assess the implications also for the azobenzene problem",
    ", we note that at these intermediate distances this dependence on @xmath21 extends not only to the actual functional form employed , but also sensitively to the cut - off radii@xcite .",
    "thus , while e.g. the metal - carbon correction energy at long range varies exclusively with the rather well motivated @xmath17 coefficients ( listed in table [ table0 ] ) , it may easily in- or decrease by a factor two with just a @xmath34 10% variation in @xmath22 when the metal - carbon distance is comparable to @xmath22 .",
    "we would therefore again attribute most of the observed scatter among the three semi - empirical schemes to the specifics of the employed damping function .    in this respect",
    "it is discomforting to realize that this influential part of the semi - empirical correction expression , eq .",
    "( [ eq1 ] ) , is the one least motivated from first - principles . introduced to merely prevent double counting of those dispersion interaction contributions that are already contained in the employed local or semi - local dft xc functional at short and intermediate range , there is no guidance on the exact form , nor even existence , of an analytical function that would achieve this .",
    "the difference in our obs versus the g06 and ts results shows that a certain steepness of the damping function is required to achieve a significant dispersion - induced change of the adsorption geometry . on the other hand",
    ", we verified that the dependence on the onset of the damping function , i.e. the cutoff - radii , is intuitive .",
    "larger cutoff - radii reduce the dispersion correction , which means for the systems studied here that the adsorption energy is reduced and the adsorption geometry comes closer to the original gga - pbe one .",
    "however , without knowing the exact structure and binding energy , it is impossible to conclude in which direction the damping function employed by the different schemes would need to be modified , even if other uncertainties of the approach like the neglect of metallic screening could be excluded as the source of the error .",
    "only corresponding detailed data from experiment or high - level theory can therefore provide the final answer as to the performance of the semi - empirical correction schemes for the azobenzene at coinage metal surface problem . in the absence of such data we cautiously conclude from the comparison to the similar benzene adsorption problem that the three schemes employed in this work seem to provide an account of dispersive vdw interactions that is in the right ballpark , and",
    "could even be semi - quantitative .",
    "the obs scheme is likely mostly limited by its shallow damping function that yields too small gradients to significantly modify the adsorption geometries .",
    "g06 and ts on the other hand are likely to overbind , with a maximum estimated error of @xmath32ev in the adsorption energies .",
    "the problem of azobenzene adsorption at coinage metals combines a large molecule , heavy transition metal surface chemistry and a multi - facetted bonding mechanism , in which dispersive vdw interactions play a crucial role .",
    "this combination forms a tremendous challenge for contemporary first - principles modeling , with dft with semi - local xc - functionals still setting the standard . in order to assess the effect of the insufficient description of dispersive interactions at this level we employed three different semi - empirical correction schemes that account for such interactions at least on the level of the leading long - range @xmath35 term .",
    "the low computational cost of these schemes makes them an attractive solution for this problem , and the overall trend obtained by applying them to the azobenzene problem at cu(111 ) , ag(111 ) and au(111 ) is consistent with the anticipated effects of an additional attractive interaction : compared to pure gga - pbe adsorption energies become more exothermic , somewhat more for the trans isomer with its phenyl - rings at closer distance to the surface and thereby reinforcing the higher gas - phase trans isomer stability .",
    "the additional interaction pulls the molecule further towards the surface , or where this is prevented by strong covalent azo - bridge@xmath8surface bonds , at least flattens the molecular geometry by driving the pauli - repelled phenyl - rings to smaller heights .",
    "much more problematic than this overall trend is the sheer magnitude of the effects predicted .",
    "constructed as a semi - empirical correction , the dispersion schemes thereby actually provide a contribution to the final adsorption energy that is in some cases up to an order of magnitude larger than the original first - principles result .",
    "in addition the three conceptually similarly rooted schemes exhibit a discomforting scatter in their results that amounts up to 1ev in the adsorption energies and up to 1 in central geometry parameters .",
    "an analysis of the congeneric adsorption of benzene at the three coinage metal surfaces suggests that the three schemes employed in this work seem to provide an account of dispersive vdw interactions in the azobenzene adsorption that is in the right ballpark , with the more refined g06 and ts schemes likely to overbind . the ultimate answer as to the performance",
    "can only be provided by comparison to detailed structural and energetic data from high - level theory or experiment , which could then critically stimulate further development and improvement of these schemes .",
    "funding by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft through sfb 658 - elementary processes in molecular switches at surfaces - is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "we thank the deisa consortium ( co - funded by the eu , fp6 projects 508830/031513 ) for support within the deisa extreme computing initiative ( www.deisa.org ) , and dr .",
    "a. tkatchenko for useful discussions .",
    "y. wang and j. p. perdew , phys .",
    "b * 43 * , 8911 ( 1991 ) . ; j. p. perdew , j. a. chevary , s. h. vosko , k. a. jackson , m. r. pederson , d. j. singh , and c. fiolhais , phys . rev .",
    "b * 46 * , 6671 ( 1992 ) . ; ibid . * 48 * , 4978 ( 1993 ) .                      this full - featured fortran 90 module",
    "is purposely written for simple interfacing to periodic boundary condition or cluster dft codes .",
    "it is licensed under the lesser gnu public license ( lgpl ) , and freely available from the authors upon request ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use different semi - empirical dispersion correction schemes to assess the role of long - range van der waals interactions in the adsorption of the prototypical molecular switch azobenzene ( c@xmath0h@xmath1n@xmath2c@xmath0h@xmath3 ) at the coinage metal surfaces cu(111 ) , ag(111 ) and au(111 ) . compared to preceding density - functional theory results employing a semi - local exchange and correlation functional </S>",
    "<S> we obtain partly sizable changes of the computed adsorption geometry and energetics . </S>",
    "<S> the discomforting scatter in the results provided by the different schemes is largely attributed to the unknown form of the damping function in the semi - empirical correction expression . using the congeneric problem of the adsorption of benzene as a vehicle to connection with experiment </S>",
    "<S> , we cautiously conclude that the account of dispersive interactions at the metal surfaces provided by the various schemes is in the right ballpark , with the more recent , general schemes likely to overbind . </S>"
  ]
}