{
  "article_text": [
    "as the strongest emission line in the vacuum ultraviolet ( vuv ) spectral range , the hydrogen lyman - alpha ( ) plays a crucial role in the radiative energy transport in the lower transition region ( tr ) @xcite .",
    "its radiance and profile provide important information on the structure of the tr , where the solar wind flows out through coronal funnels @xcite .",
    "the solar  line is also very important for interplanetary studies because the spectral irradiance at the center of its profile is the main excitation source responsible for the atomic hydrogen resonant scattering in cool cometary and planetary materials @xcite .    at the times of _ skylab _ ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and _ oso 8 _ ( orbiting solar observatory ) ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , full  and  line profiles were obtained .",
    "spectra in different locations of the sun were also obtained by the hrts ( high resolution telescope and spectrograph ) instrument on rocket flights @xcite and by the uvsp instrument onboard _ smm _",
    "( solar maximum mission , * ? ? ?",
    "these early observations provided valuable information on the lyman line profiles .",
    "however , since these observations were made in earth orbits , the obtained lyman line profiles were hampered by the geocoronal absorption at the center .",
    "the sumer ( solar ultraviolet measurements of emitted radiation , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) observations at the first lagrangian point overcame this problem .",
    "the whole hydrogen lyman series is covered by the sumer spectral range . by analyzing sumer spectra",
    ", @xcite found that the average profiles for  through ly@xmath1(@xmath2=5 ) are self - reversed and show a strong enhancement in the red wings .",
    "they also found that the peak separation of these line profiles is larger at limb than at disk center .",
    "@xcite found that the asymmetry of the average  line profile - the red - peak dominance - is stronger in the quiet sun than in a coronal hole .",
    "also in sunspots sumer observed lyman line profiles ( @xmath32 ) and @xcite found that they are almost not reversed , indicating a much smaller opacity above sunspots than in surrounding regions .",
    "however , since the  line is so prominent , its high radiance leads to a saturation of the detector microchannel plates .",
    "although attempts were made to observe  on the bare part of the detector , the signal determination was highly uncertain due to the gain - depression correction @xcite .",
    "high - quality  profiles without geocoronal absorption were obtained after june 2008 , when several non - routine observations were made by sumer . by closing the aperture door to reduce the incoming photon flux to a level of about 20% ,",
    "the full  profiles were obtained @xcite .",
    "it turned out that the average  profile in the quiet sun is strongly reversed and has a stronger blue peak .",
    "moreover , this asymmetry is stronger in regions where the downflows are stronger in the tr .",
    "here we present new results from these unique data sets .",
    "emphasis is put on the results from a more recent observation in a polar coronal hole region .",
    "the different behaviors of  and   profiles in the coronal hole as compared to the quiet sun are presented and discussed .",
    "the data set allows for a study of the ratio between  and  radiances in the coronal hole .",
    "we also investigate the limb brightening effect and the different radiances between coronal holes and quiet sun for the two lyman lines as well as siiii and ovi , by studying their radiance distributions .",
    "emission lines used in this study . here",
    "@xmath4 and @xmath5 represent the rest wavelength and formation temperature , respectively . [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     as mentioned in @xcite , we scanned six quiet - sun regions with a size of @xmath6 at different locations in the equatorial plane on 24 and 25 june 2008 .",
    "three regions along the central meridian and including the southern polar region were scanned on 26 june 2008 .",
    "for these scans , profiles of  and siiii ( @xmath41206   ) lines were transmitted to the ground .",
    "the scanned region in the southern polar region is outlined in white and is superposed on an xrt ( x - ray telescope , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) image , as shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig.1 ] . on 23 september 2008",
    ", we added a second wavelength setting for  and ovi ( @xmath41032   ) and scanned a quiet - sun region at disk center @xcite .",
    "the rest wavelengths and formation temperatures of the four lines are listed in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "more recently , we adopted these two wavelength settings and scanned a region inside a large coronal hole in the southern polar region from 16:01 to 17:19 on 17 april 2009 . similarly to previous observations , we partly closed the aperture door , and could thus reduce the input photon rate by a factor of @xmath7 . as a prologue to the observation ,",
    "full - detector images in the lyman continuum around 880   were obtained with open and partially - closed door . in this way , accurate values of the photon flux reduction could be established .",
    "after this prologue , the slit  7 ( 0.3  @xmath8  120 ) was used to scan the target with a size of about 150  @xmath8  120 , with an exposure time of 15  s. the scanned region is outlined in white and is superposed on an xrt image , as shown in the middle panel of fig .",
    "[ fig.1 ] .",
    "the standard procedures for correcting and calibrating the sumer data were applied , including local - gain correction , dead - time correction , flat - field correction , destretching , and radiometric calibration .",
    "finally , the radiances of the spectra were divided by the factor of the photon flux reduction , which was 18.4% in this observation .",
    "due to the radiative transfer effect , a central reversal and two peaks in the wings are normally present in  profiles .",
    "the peak separation can be regarded as an indicator of the opacity .",
    "it has been found that the peak separation is larger at limb positions than at disk center @xcite .",
    "here we aim at finding possible differences in the peak separation between coronal holes and quiet - sun regions at the limb .",
    "we selected four limb scans for this study .",
    "for each scan , we first sorted all the data points by the distance from disk center and defined 10 bins . the  profiles in each bin",
    "were then averaged to pick up general properties out of the large solar variability .",
    "the signal to noise ratio is , consequently , very high . by applying a second - order polynomial fit to both peaks of the average profile",
    ", we determined the spectral positions of the two peaks @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "the variations of the peak separation with the distance from disk center are shown in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig.1 ] .",
    "the off - disk profiles were excluded in the above calculations since their shapes approximate a gaussian and show no peaks in the wings .    from fig .",
    "[ fig.1 ] we find that in both coronal holes and the quiet sun the peak separation of the  profile increases towards the limb , indicating a larger opacity combined with a source function decreasing with altitude .",
    "this result complements the finding by @xcite , in which the authors found that the peak separations of the average profiles for  through ly@xmath1(@xmath2=5 ) are larger at limb than at disk center .",
    "it is also obvious that the peak separation in the polar coronal hole is larger than those in the quiet - sun region at the east limb .",
    "the different behavior of the two coronal holes can be understood if we check the positions of the scans with respect to the coronal hole boundaries . from fig .",
    "[ fig.1 ] it is clear that the scanned region on 17 april 2009 was well inside the polar coronal hole . however , the upper part of the scanned region on 26 june 2008 was very close to the boundary , so that the radiance there was likely to be contaminated by the nearby quiet - sun emission .",
    "this effect might explain the fact that the peak separation increases from the quiet - sun level to the coronal hole level , for the observation on 26 june 2008 .",
    "another possibility might be that although coronal radiation is much reduced in the coronal hole ( see the next paragraph ) , from the nearby quiet - sun structures we may still get quiet a bit of radiation flux which ionizes hydrogen atoms and reduces the opacity .",
    "this effect should be weaker with increasing distance from the boundary .",
    "this result indicates a larger opacity in coronal holes , as compared to the quiet sun .",
    "there might be two possible explanations .",
    "first , the magnetic - field lines in polar coronal holes are almost perpendicular to the line of sight , whilst they are aligned in various directions at the east limb .",
    "it has been shown that since the variations of density and temperature are different when seen across and along the magnetic field lines , the self - reversal of the lyman line profiles in a prominence can be different if the prominence is observed from different viewing angles @xcite . in coronal holes and quiet - sun regions",
    ", we should not exclude the possibility that the different magnetic structures might influence the  profile in the processes of emission and absorption .",
    "it is also possible that the larger opacity is the result of a weaker radiation field in the upper atmosphere of coronal holes . due to the lower radiative",
    "ionization , more atomic hydrogen will be populated in the upper tr and corona , which leads to a stronger absorption of the profiles . in order to fully understand this phenomenon ,",
    "sophisticated models including calculations of non - lte ( local thermodynamic equilibrium ) radiative transfer should be developed in the future .",
    "previous observations have shown that the dominant asymmetry for profiles of the hydrogen  and higher order lyman lines is opposite in the quiet sun .",
    "most  profiles have a stronger blue peak @xcite , while most  profiles have a stronger red peak @xcite .",
    "the asymmetries are probably produced by the combined effects of the differential flows in the solar atmosphere and different line opacities @xcite .",
    "similar to @xcite , here we present in fig .",
    "[ fig.2 ] the average profiles of  and  in six bins which are equally spaced in radiance .",
    "the off - disk profiles were excluded from the averaging .",
    "the  profiles at the west limb were acquired from 13:25 to 14:36 on 07 june 1996 , with an exposure time of 10  s. for this observation only 25 spectral pixels were recorded so that the profiles were not complete .",
    "profiles presented in the other five panels are all from the non - routine observations mentioned above . from fig .",
    "[ fig.2 ] it is clear that the lyman line profiles are more reversed at limb positions than at disk center , which has already been found by @xcite and @xcite .    the most interesting feature in fig .  [ fig.2 ]",
    "is that the  profiles in the polar coronal hole have an asymmetry opposite to those in the quiet sun , while the dominant asymmetry of the  profiles is the same in different locations of the sun .",
    "we noticed that @xcite found more locations with blue - peak dominance in  profiles in equatorial coronal holes than in quiet - sun regions .",
    "however , the average  profile in @xcite is still stronger in the red peak . here",
    "we find very clearly that most  profiles are stronger in the blue peak in the polar coronal hole .",
    "since the asymmetries of the lyman line profiles are likely to be influenced by flows in various layers of the solar atmosphere , and we know that upflows are predominant in the upper tr and lower corona in coronal holes @xcite , it is natural to relate the upflows to the profile asymmetries . in order to investigate this relationship",
    ", newly designed observations will be done in the near future .",
    "however , the flows of the emitting material might also be different in the coronal hole and quiet sun , which will also alter the asymmetries of line profiles .",
    "the /  ratio is very sensitive to the physical and geometrical properties of the fine structures in prominences @xcite .",
    "however , this ratio in coronal holes is not well established .",
    "the spectra obtained on 17 april 2009 include both  and  lines , and , thus , allow for studying the center to limb variation of the radiance ratio between  and  in the coronal hole . in fig .",
    "[ fig.3 ] we present the radiances of four lines and the ratio /   in 23 bins which are equally spaced in distance . in each bin ,",
    "the diamond and the vertical bar represent the median value and standard deviation , respectively .",
    "the median values and the corresponding standard deviations obtained from the disk - center quiet - sun region on 23 september 2008 are also shown and marked in red for comparison .",
    "the radiances are given in energy unit of @xmath11 .    from fig .",
    "[ fig.3 ] , we can see that the effect of limb brightening is obviously present in the line radiance of ovi , and also clear in siiii .",
    "this effect is totally absent in , which is consistent with @xcite .",
    "the effect is present , although not prominent , for .",
    "this is because  has a smaller opacity and thus should behave more similarly to optically thin lines than . as a result",
    ", the ratio /  decreases towards the limb , from the quiet - sun level of about 190 to 130 at the limb .    above the limb ,",
    "the ratio increases further because the opacity of  stays higher than one while the lower - than - one  opacity leads to a lower radiance .",
    "an additional effect might result from the different conditions of formation of the two lines when one goes higher in the atmosphere : the  line becomes scattering dominated ( and proportional to the density ) while the  line stays collision - dominated ( and proportional to the square of the density ) .",
    "radiance distributions of euv lines have been intensively studied ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "radiance histograms of coronal holes are shifted towards lower values , having a narrower and higher peak indicative of more uniform radiances , as compared to those of quiet - sun regions . as shown in @xcite ,",
    "the radiance distributions are more similar in the quiet - sun region and the coronal hole for lower - tr lines , while they become increasingly different for lines formed in the upper - tr and corona .    in fig .",
    "[ fig.4 ] we present the radiance histograms of , , siiii , and ovi at different locations of the sun , by using the spectra obtained in the non - routine observations mentioned above .",
    "again , off - disk data points were excluded from the histograms .    at first sight ,",
    "the behaviors of the radiance distributions of siiii and ovi are `` peculiar '' . according to @xcite",
    ", the radiance distribution of the lower - tr line siiii should be similar in coronal holes and in the quiet sun , and the radiance distribution of the upper - tr line ovi should be shifted towards the weaker side in coronal holes .",
    "however , we have to bear in mind that the east - limb region and the polar coronal hole in our study are much closer to the limb , as compared to the polar regions in @xcite .",
    "thus , the limb brightening effect is much more prominent in our distributions . due to this effect",
    ", the radiance of siiii should be weaker at disk center , and stronger at east / west limb . in polar coronal holes ,",
    "the radiance should also be stronger than that at disk center , and perhaps slightly weaker than that at east / west limb .",
    "this is exactly what we see in the radiance distributions of siiii . for ovi , a combined effect of dark coronal hole emission and limb brightening",
    "makes its radiance distribution similar in the polar hole and at disk center .",
    "these two effects are clearly revealed by the median of ovi radiances , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig.3 ] .",
    "the median values of the radiances shown in fig .  [ fig.3 ] also reveal that the polar coronal hole is darker in  and , although these two lines are formed in the lower tr .",
    "this behavior is likely due to the large optical thickness .",
    "the reduced ionizing coronal radiation may also play a role , as in the case of the heii line ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "since the lines of  and  have no or little limb brightening , their radiance distributions in coronal holes are shifted towards the weaker side , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig.4 ] .",
    "full hydrogen   profiles which are clean from geocoronal absorption were acquired by sumer with high spectral and spatial resolutions , through several non - routine observations . in some of these observations , in addition , siiii , and ovi profiles were recorded ( quasi- ) simultaneously .",
    "the peak separations of  profiles are found to be larger in coronal holes than in the quiet sun , indicating a larger opacity in coronal holes .",
    "this difference might be due the different magnetic structures or the different radiation fields in the two regions .",
    "we also found that the dominant asymmetry of the  profiles in the polar coronal hole is opposite to that in the quiet sun . in order to understand this phenomenon",
    ", we need to investigate the influence of the upflows in the upper tr and the flows of the emitting materials on the line profiles .",
    "we also investigated the center to limb variation of the radiance ratio between  and  , which has a declining trend towards the limb in the coronal hole .",
    "finally , the radiance distributions of the four lines were explained by taking into account the effects of limb brightening and darker emission in coronal holes .",
    "* acknowledgements : * sumer , which is financially supported by dlr , cnes , nasa , and the esa prodex programme ( swiss contribution ) , is an instrument onboard _",
    "soho_. xrt is an instrument onboard _",
    ", a japanese mission developed and launched by isas / jaxa , with naoj as domestic partner and nasa and stfc ( uk ) as international partners .",
    "it is operated by these agencies in co - operation with esa and nsc ( norway ) .",
    "hui tian is supported by the imprs graduate school run jointly by the max planck society and the universities of gttingen and braunschweig .",
    "the work of hui tian s group at peking university is supported by nsfc under contract 40874090 .",
    "teriaca ,  l. , schhle ,  u. , solanki ,  s.  k. , et al .",
    "2005a , in proc .",
    "_ chromospheric and coronal magnetic fields _ , ed .",
    "innes ,  d.  e. , lagg ,  a. , & solanki ,  s.  k. , sept .",
    "2005 , katlenburg - lindau , germany , esa sp-596 , 66    teriaca ,  l. , schhle ,  u. , solanki ,  s.  k. , et al .",
    "2005b in proc .",
    "espm _ the dynamic sun : challenges for theory and observations _ , ed .",
    "danesy ,  d. , poedts , s. , de groof ,  a. , & andries ,  j. , sept .",
    "2005 , leuven , belgium , esa sp-600,100"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the hydrogen lyman - alpha ( ) plays a dominant role in the radiative energy transport in the lower transition region , and is important for the studies of transition - region structure as well as solar wind origin . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the  profiles obtained by the solar ultraviolet measurements of emitted radiation spectrograph ( sumer ) on the soho ( solar and heliospheric observatory ) spacecraft in coronal holes and quiet sun . in a subset of these observations , also the hi lyman-@xmath0 ( ) , siiii , and ovi lines were ( quasi- ) simultaneously recorded . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the distances between the two peaks of  profiles are larger in coronal holes than in the quiet sun , indicating a larger opacity in coronal holes . </S>",
    "<S> this difference might result from the different magnetic structures or the different radiation fields in the two regions . </S>",
    "<S> most of the  profiles in the coronal hole have a stronger blue peak , in contrast to those in quiet - sun regions . </S>",
    "<S> whilst in both regions the  profiles are stronger in the blue peak . although the asymmetries are likely to be produced by differential flows in the solar atmosphere , their detailed formation processes are still unclear . </S>",
    "<S> the radiance ratio between  and  decreases towards the limb in the coronal hole , which might be due to the different opacity of the two lines . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that the radiance distributions of the four lines are set by a combined effect of limb brightening and the different emission level between coronal holes and quiet sun . </S>"
  ]
}