{
  "article_text": [
    "screening of nuclear reactions in stellar interiors is a hotly debated issue .",
    "the standard salpeter treatment @xcite was a necessary improvement in early equation - of - state work .",
    "many faithful fans consider this as evidence that the traditional screening formulation must be used for solar models .",
    "however , the incompatibility of models generated with the recently revised solar abundances and helioseismic results highlights the need to re - examine the physics used to develop and analyze solar models @xcite . in this paper , we re - examine screening in the solar core and present evidence that dynamic effects must be considered when examining screening in stars .      under the extreme temperatures and densities of the solar core ,",
    "the plasma is fully ionized .",
    "the free electrons and ions interact with a coulomb potential energy @xmath0 in this coulomb system , nearby plasma is polarized by each ion .",
    "when two ions approach with the possibility of engaging in a nuclear reaction , each ion is surrounded by a screening cloud . each ion is attracted to the electrons and repelled by the protons in its partner s cloud .",
    "the combined effect of the particles in the screening clouds on the potential energy of the pair of ions is referred to as screening .",
    "this electrostatic screening effect reduces the standard coulomb potential between approaching ions to a screened potential which includes the contribution to the potential from the surrounding plasma .",
    "the reduced potential enables the ions to tunnel through the potential barrier more easily , thus enhancing fusion rates .",
    "as illustrated by other authors at this meeting @xcite , understanding screening is important in solar and stellar modeling .",
    "@xcite derived an expression for the enhancement of nuclear reaction rates due to electron screening . by solving the poisson - boltzmann equation for electrons and ions in a plasma under the condition of weak screening ( @xmath1 ) , salpeter arrived at an expression for the screening energy that is equivalent to that of the debye - hckel theory of dilute solutions of electrolytes @xcite , @xmath2 where the debye length , @xmath3 , is the characteristic screening length of a plasma at temperature @xmath4 with number density @xmath5 , @xmath6      although salpeter s approximation for screening is widely accepted , several papers over the last few decades ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have questioned either the derivation itself or the validity of applying the approximation to hot , dense , coulomb systems like the plasma of the solar core . various work deriving alternative formulae for",
    "_ electrostatic _ screening @xcite were refuted in subsequent papers ( see * ? ? ? * for a summary of arguments in salpeter s defense ) .",
    "however , the question of _ dynamic _ screening remains open .",
    "dynamic screening arises because the protons in a plasma are much slower than the electrons .",
    "they are therefore not able to rearrange themselves as quickly around individual faster moving ions . since nuclear reactions require energies several times the average thermal energy , the ions that are able to engage in nuclear reactions in the sun are such faster moving ions , which therefore may not be accompanied by their full screening cloud .",
    "salpeter uses the mean - field approach in which the many - body interactions are reduced to an average interaction that simplifies calculations .",
    "this technique is quite useful in calculations that rely on the average behavior of the plasma .",
    "however , dynamic effects for the fast - moving , interacting ions lead to a screened potential that deviates from the average value .",
    "the nuclear reaction rates will therefore differ from those computed with the mean - field approximation .",
    "@xcite used the method of molecular dynamics to model the motion of charges in a plasma under solar conditions in order to investigate dynamic screening .",
    "the advantage of the molecular - dynamics method is that it does not assume a mean field .",
    "nor does it assume a long - time average potential for the scattering of any two charges , which is necessary in the statistical way to solve poisson s equation to obtain the mean potential in a plasma .",
    "shaviv and shaviv attribute the differences between their simulations and salpeter s theory to dynamic effects .",
    "since their claims have been met with skepticism , we have conducted independent molecular - dynamics simulations to confirm the existence of dynamic effects .    the viewpoint presented by bahcall et al .",
    ", 2002 can be summarized with their statement `` there is only one right answer , but there are many wrong answers . ''",
    "although we agree that equation ( [ eq2 ] ) is the right answer to the question of static screening , we contend that this is not the right question to ask .",
    "all arguments in favor of salpeter s formulation rely on a mean - field treatment , an assumption that must be tested before it is implemented .",
    "the work presented in this paper addresses the more appropriate question `` is the mean - field approach applicable in stellar plasma ? ''",
    "our work will show that there are deviations from the mean field in the case of p - p reactions in the solar core and that dynamic screening should be considered in order to obtain a more accurate representation .",
    "how can we test the question of mean - field theory s relevance in solar plasma ?",
    "@xcite developed a method that relies on the techniques of molecular dynamics to model the behavior of solar plasma without using mean - field assumptions .",
    "their simulations show deviations from mean - field theory that would lead to changes in nuclear reaction rate calculations .",
    "their claims have been met with skepticism , so we replicated and analyzed their work in order to resolve the issue . in our previous work @xcite , we examined the methods and assumptions used in shaviv and shaviv s work , including their treatment of the long - range coulomb force , the effective quantum potentials , and the system size .",
    "we did not find any problems with their techniques .",
    "furthermore , we confirmed that the mean - field theory does not adequately describe the behavior of the plasma .",
    "here we show that the screening energy of two interacting protons in our simulation depends on the relative kinetic energy of the pair .",
    "we also determine the dynamically screened interaction potential energy and discuss the significance of this result .    in order to numerically determine the effect of dynamic screening on p - p reactions",
    ", we modeled a 3-dimensional box of 500 protons and 500 electrons interacting via the coulomb potential .",
    "the effective pair potentials derived for a hydrogen plasma by @xcite were employed to include quantum corrections .",
    "the temperature and density of the solar core ( @xmath7 , @xmath8 ) were used to determine the velocities and density of the particles in the box .",
    "a thermostat was implemented to maintain constant temperature .",
    "periodic boundary conditions and the minimum - image convention were applied .",
    "the velocity verlet algorithm followed the time evolution of the system .",
    "see @xcite for more details .",
    "the screening energy was calculated for pairs of approaching protons in the following way . for each proton",
    ", we designated the nearest approaching proton as its partner .",
    "then we tracked each pair of protons through their approach and subsequent retreat .",
    "at the point of closest approach , we recorded the separation , @xmath9 , and the kinetic energy of the pair , @xmath10 .",
    "when the pair was separated by a sufficiently great distance , @xmath11 , we recorded the kinetic energy of the pair , @xmath12 , and stopped tracking that pair ( for our simulations , @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the bohr radius ) . at this point , we designated a new partner and repeated the tracking process .",
    "the screening energy of each pair was computed from the difference in energy at @xmath9 and at @xmath11 @xmath15 this represents the energy exchanged between a pair and the surrounding plasma .",
    "equation [ eq4 ] can be expanded as @xmath16",
    "a key ingredient for the screening energy in equation [ eq5 ] is the difference in the kinetic energy of a pair when partner protons are far apart and when they are at their closest separation . @xmath17 in figure [ plot1 ] , we show the average change in kinetic energy of approaching pairs for each distance of closest approach . for comparison , we also plot the bare coulomb potential and the statically screened coulomb potential as a function of separation .     on the closest distance @xmath9 ,",
    "compared with the coulomb potential and screened coulomb potential.,title=\"fig:\",width=309 ] -0.4 cm    0.3 cm    we see that at the distance of closest approach , the average kinetic energy exchanged between a pair of protons and the plasma closely matches the statically screened potential .",
    "this confirms that salpeter s static screening can successfully describe _ average _ properties of the system .",
    "however , we can see the dynamic effect on screening when we sort the pairs of particles by relative kinetic energy .",
    "figure [ plot2 ] shows the average energy gained from the plasma by pairs of protons with a given far - apart kinetic energy .",
    "this is quite different from the debye - hckel screening energy calculated for the average closest - approach distance of pairs in each kinetic energy bin .",
    "we see that pairs of protons with a kinetic energy less than the thermal energy of the plasma gain more energy from the surrounding plasma than the mean - field result , while pairs with a kinetic energy greater than the thermal energy gain less energy than the mean - field result and even tend to lose energy to the plasma . from this plot",
    ", we can estimate the screening energy of the p - p reaction at the gamow energy of @xmath18 .    .",
    "the debye - hckel screening energy computed at the averege closest - approach distance of pairs of protons with a given far - apart kinetic energy is shown ( circles ) for comparison.,title=\"fig:\",width=309 ] -0.4 cm    .3 cm    in order to quantify the dynamic effect on screening in the plasma of the solar core , we have split the total interaction energy into the coulomb contribution and the interaction energy from the plasma , @xmath19 for the mean - field treatment , @xmath20    because there is no formalism to compute the dynamic effect analytically , we use the simulation results to determine @xmath21 for dynamic screening .",
    "one key difference from the static screening expression is that the dynamic screening energy is a function of both pair separation and relative velocity .",
    "as before , we split the total interaction energy into the coulomb and screening cloud contributions .",
    "@xmath22    for comparison , the dynamic screening energy at the distance of closest approach can be written in a form similar to the static screening energy @xmath23    by including a new velocity dependent debye - like radius , @xmath24 .",
    "figure [ plot3 ] shows the form of @xmath24 determined from the simulations .",
    "-0.4 cm    .3 cm",
    "this work confirms that screening in the hot , dense plasma of stellar cores depends on the relative velocities of the interacting ions .",
    "the debye - hckel screening energy is only valid for describing average properties of the plasma .",
    "since faster ions are more likely to engage in nuclear reactions than thermal ions , the mean - field treatment does not provide an accurate representation of this velocity - skewed phenomenon .",
    "in fact , the fast pairs of ions tend to lose energy to the plasma instead of gaining energy from it which would reduce nuclear reaction rates instead of enhancing them .",
    "solar and stellar models should be adjusted to account for this dynamic screening effect .",
    "currently , there is no formalism to compute dynamic screening analytically .",
    "this paper is intended to provide insight into the difference between the salpeter formalism and the numerically determined dynamic screening .",
    "a detailed calculation of the dynamic screening correction to the p - p reaction rate in the solar core based on this numerical work is underway for a future publication .",
    "however , these numerical calculations will not minimize the need for an analytical formalism for dynamic screening in order to generalize the results to other temperatures , densities , compositions , and reactions",
    ". only then can dynamic screening be encorporated consistently in solar and stellar models .",
    "opher , m. , and opher , r. 2000 , , 535,473 salpeter , e. e. 1954 , australian j. phys . , 7,373 savchenko , v. i. 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph /9904289 ) .",
    "shaviv , n. j. and shaviv , g. 1996 , , 468,433 straniero , o. 2010 , , this issue"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in the hot , dense plasma of solar and stellar interiors , the coulomb interaction is screened by the surrounding plasma . </S>",
    "<S> although the standard salpeter approximation for static screening is widely accepted and used in stellar modeling , the question of dynamic screening has been revisited . in particular , shaviv and shaviv </S>",
    "<S> apply the techniques of molecular dynamics to the conditions in the solar core in order to numerically determine the dynamic screening effect . by directly calculating the motion of ions and electrons due to coulomb interactions , </S>",
    "<S> they compute the effect of screening without the mean - field assumption inherent in the salpeter approximation . here </S>",
    "<S> we reproduce their numerical analysis of the screening energy in the plasma of the solar core and conclude that the effects of dynamic screening are relevant and should be included in the treatment of the plasma , especially in the computation of stellar nuclear reaction rates . </S>"
  ]
}