{
  "article_text": [
    "due to its unique electronic properties , the study about the graphene system has recently drawn great attentions.@xcite .",
    "the charge carriers in single - layer graphene behave like `` relativistic '' chiral massless particles and possess a gapless linear energy spectrum .",
    "effectively , in low energy regime , graphene can be viewed as a two - dimensional ( 2d ) dirac fermion system . for such dirac - like quasiparticles ,",
    "the transport properties are dramatically different from the conventional semiconductors .",
    "there is hope to utilize these peculiar transport characteristics to develop novel relativistic electronic devices@xcite .",
    "recently , another 2d dirac fermion system has been confirmed experimentally.@xcite it is called topological metal ( tm ) , _ i.e. _ , the surface states of a strong topological insulator ( sti)@xcite . the strong topological insulator is a new state of matter protected by the time - reversal invariance .",
    "though still with a bulk gap , it is distinguished from the normal insulator by the topological @xmath0 invariance .",
    "this distinction results in the existence of the gapless electronic states on the sample surfaces .",
    "the surface state is the tm mentioned above , which can be effectively viewed as a 2d chiral dirac fermion system . due to the time - reversal symmetry and the topology of the bulk gap ,",
    "the topological surface states are robust against disorder .    because of the similar energy dispersions , the transport property of the tm is very similar to that of a graphene . however , there are important differences between the two systems .",
    "tm is a surface state of semiconductor alloy , _",
    "e. g. _ , @xmath1 or @xmath2 , thus more stable than a fragile thin graphene sheet .",
    "furthermore , the spin of the dirac fermion of a tm is the real spin , while for graphene it is the pseudo spin .",
    "hence , the magnetic or spin control of the electronic transport on a tm can be much more effective than that on a graphene .",
    "is @xmath3 ( @xmath4 ) . @xmath5",
    "denote the interface between region @xmath6 and @xmath7 .",
    ", width=302 ]    in this work , we study the transport properties with ferromagnetic barriers on top of a topological surface . as shown in fig.1 , for a ferromagnetic barrier , a ferromagnetic insulator is put on the top of the topological insulator to induce an exchange field via the magnetic proximity effect . meanwhile , a metal gate on the top of the insulator is used to control the electrostatic potential .",
    "we find that by adjusting the magnetization orientation in the ferromagnetic insulator and the gate voltage , the ferromagnetic barrier can be tuned into various transmission regions .",
    "the behaviors of the transmission probability , as a function of the incident angle of the electron , in different regions are rather different .",
    "an interesting issue is about the klein tunneling .",
    "it is well known that , for dirac fermion , merely with electrostatic potential one can not block the electron transport , and the normal incidence is at least partially transmitted .",
    "but for the ferromagnetic barrier , because the induced exchange field , not only could the angle of klein tunneling be controlled , but also the klein tunneling could even be blocked .",
    "we carefully analyze the transmission probabilities in various regions , for both single and double barriers . based on these analyses",
    ", we propose that electron beam collimation , wavevector filtering , magnetic and electric switch , wavevector - based in - plane spin valve could be realized in such structures .",
    "these transport phenomena are quite different from the case with ferromagnetic barrier on graphene@xcite .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "ii , we introduce the model and formalisms . in sec .",
    "iii , we discuss the analytical and numerical results of the transport properties of single and double ferromagnetic barriers . and",
    "we then show how to construct novel electronic devices based on the phenomena obtained in our theory .",
    "finally , a brief summary is given in sec .",
    "the dirac fermion of the topological surface can be described as : @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the effective exchange field induced via magnetic proximity effect . in this work ,",
    "we only consider the in - plane exchange field .",
    "the main consequence of the z component of the exchange field is to open an energy gap and its effects have been investigated in a recent theoretical study@xcite . if the fermi level of the whole system is inside the gap , the transport of the barrier is completely blocked .",
    "no tunneling is permitted . otherwise , the effect is just a change of the position of the fermi surface .",
    "but in our ferromagnetic barrier model , adjusting the gate voltage will also change the fermi surface .",
    "so for simplicity and without loss of generality , we merely consider an in - plane exchange field .",
    "the sketch of the barrier structure is shown in fig.1 .",
    "take the single barrier structure for example , the whole system consists of three different regions and the interfaces between these regions are labeled by @xmath5 . with the above hamiltonian ,",
    "the eigenfunctions for region @xmath10 are @xmath11 @xmath12 where @xmath13 , @xmath14 , and @xmath15 .",
    "@xmath16 is the potential of this region , @xmath17 is the energy of the incident electron . due to the translation invariant along the y - axis , the momentum @xmath18 is conserved , i.e. @xmath19 .    in order to solve the transport problem , we use the standard transfer matrix method@xcite . by matching the wave functions at the interface @xmath20 ,",
    "we get the transfer matrix @xmath21 the transfer matrix at the interface @xmath22 can be represented as @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the same as @xmath25 except the region index .",
    "finally , we will get the total transfer matrix for the single barrier @xmath26 with the transfer matrix , the reflection and translation coefficients can be got through following equation @xmath27 @xmath28 is just the transmission probability we want .",
    "double barrier structure could be treated in similar way .",
    "the only difference is that we have four interfaces here .",
    "@xmath29    with the transmission probability , in the linear transport regime and for low temperature , we can get the conductance density ( the conductance per unit length along the interface ) of the barrier structure@xcite @xmath30 here , @xmath31 , @xmath32 is the fermi energy of the system , @xmath33 is the incident angle of the electron and @xmath34 is the transmission probability through the barrier .",
    "for a single barrier , an analytical expression of the transmission probability could be given .",
    "@xmath35    where @xmath36 .",
    "formally , it is the same as the one for the graphene potential barrier except a shift of the fermi surface due to the in - plane exchange field .    .",
    "@xmath17 is the energy of incident electron .",
    "@xmath37 is the electrostatic potential of region 1(2 ) .",
    "@xmath38 is the in - plane rotational angle of the exchange field .",
    ", width=302 ]    as mentioned above , for a ferromagnetic barrier , changing the gate voltage will alter the fermi surface , the in - plane exchange field will also cause a shift .",
    "the key issue about the transport is that , during the tunneling , the energy and @xmath18 of the incident electron are conserved . as shown in fig .",
    "2 , in the incident region ( region 1 in fig.1 ) , the range of @xmath18 values @xmath39 is plotted .",
    "but not all the incident electrons are allowed to transmit , since the fermi surface has been changed in the ferromagnetic barrier ( region 2 in fig .",
    "the @xmath18 range of the ferromagnetic barrier is @xmath40 .",
    "therefore , the permitted incident angle of the electron is determined by the overlap of the @xmath18 ranges of adjacent regions .",
    "it means that , through adjusting the gate voltage and the direction of the magnetization of the ferromagnetic barrier , we can tune the acceptable range of @xmath18 , and rather different transmissions will appear accordingly .",
    "is the incident angle of the electron .",
    "@xmath38 is the in - plane rotation angle of the magnetization of the barrier . here ,",
    "@xmath41 , @xmath42 , @xmath43 , @xmath44 , @xmath45 , @xmath46 , @xmath47 . , title=\"fig:\",width=340 ] +     and other parameters are the same as fig .",
    "3 . , title=\"fig:\",width=340 ] +    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]     , @xmath48 , @xmath49 and @xmath50 . , width=302 ]    for the double barrier structure , we also could understand the transport properties through the conservation of the @xmath18 and the energy . as mentioned above , depending on the voltage and magnetization , single ferromagnetic barrier could be tuned into three different transmission statuses : total transmission , partial transmission , and the blockade situations .",
    "the transport behavior of the double barrier system is more complex than that of the single one , since that the two barriers can be tuned into different transport situations .    here ,",
    "we investigate two interesting examples .",
    "one is the case that two ferromagnetic barriers are both in the partial transmission status . in this case , both barriers have their own transmission sector of the incident angle of the electron .",
    "only when the two transmission sectors overlap , the double barrier structure becomes conducting .",
    "hence , as shown in fig .",
    "7 , the direction of magnetization of the second barrier is fixed @xmath51 . only if the angle of the first barrier @xmath52 is tuned in parallel , the transmission of the double barrier structure is nonzero .",
    "the corresponding conductance is also given in fig .",
    "7 . essentially , in this situation the double barrier system becomes a special wavevector - dependent in - plane spin valve system , for which the parallel configuration is the only conducting state .",
    "the blockade of the transmission is mainly because the mismatch of the wavevectors , while for normal spin valve the primary reason is the different spin dependent potentials .",
    "therefore , for a normal spin valve , the conductance will vary continuously with the angle between the magnetizations .",
    "but , as shown in fig . 7 , for the in - plane spin valve on tm",
    "the change of the conductance is rather sharp and the the conductance of the non - parallel configuration is exactly zero .",
    "these special transport properties of the double barrier structure on tm could also be tested in transport experiments as a distinction between the tm and normal semiconductors .    for a single barrier",
    ", it is hard to directly observe the partial transmission region through the conductance .",
    "this is because that the change of position of the transmission sector will not induce an obvious change in the conductance .",
    "but in the double barrier system this can be done .    as a comparison ( see in fig .",
    "8) , we also calculate the case that both barriers are in the total transmission status .",
    "in this situation , the angle dependent transmission probability is much more complicated .",
    "in conclusion , we have investigate the transport properties of the ferromagnetic barriers on the surface of a topological insulator .",
    "the single and double barrier structures have been carefully considered .",
    "we show that the gate voltage and the magnetization could be used to manipulate the fermi surface of the barrier . due to the conservation of energy and @xmath18 of an incident electron during the transport process ,",
    "adjusting the fermi surface will tune the single ferromagnetic barrier into three different transmission statuses : total transmission , partial transmission , and the transmission blockade . in the total transmission case ,",
    "all the incident angles are allowed .",
    "the angle of the klein tunneling and position of the resonance vary with the direction of the magnetization , and meanwhile new resonance peaks appear . in the partial transmission situation ,",
    "only the incident angles in a transmission sector are allowed .",
    "the position and width of the transmission sector can be adjusted through the gate voltage and the magnetization . therefore ,",
    "the electron collimation and wavevector filter could be realized based on this phenomenon . with proper gate voltage and magnetization",
    ", one can even separate the fermi surfaces , reaching the blockade status . in this case , no transport can occur , even the klein tunneling .",
    "we propose that both magnetic and electric switchs , based on the single ferromagnetic barrier on topological surface , could be realized in this situation .",
    "we also study the transport of the double barrier structure . in this system",
    ", we can construct a special wavevector - dependent spin valve when both barriers are in the partial transmission status .",
    "the spin valve is conducting only if the magnetization of the two barriers are parallel .",
    "we emphasis that these unique transport properties of tm could be used to distinguish tm from the normal semiconductors and the graphene systems .",
    "hence , the observations of these transport properties provide confirmation of the existence of tm .",
    "a. h. castro neto , f. guinea , n. m. r. peres .",
    "k. s. novoselov , and a. k geim , rev .",
    "81 , 109 ( 2009 ) c. w. beenakker , rev .",
    "mod . phys .",
    "80 , 1337 ( 2009 ) m. i. katsnelson , mater .",
    "today 10 , 20 ( 2007 ) f. rana , ieee transactions on nanotechnology , 7 , 91 ( 2008 ) ; j. r. williams , l. dicarlo , c. m. marcus , science , 317 , 638 ( 2007 ) ; m. c lemme , t. j. echtermeyer , m. baus , h. kurz , ieee electron device letters , 28 , 4 , 284 ( 2007 ) ; d. hsieh et al . ,",
    "nature 452 , 970 ( 2008 ) d. hsieh , et al . ,",
    "arxiv:0904.1260 y. xia et al . , nat . phys . 5 , 398 ( 2009 ) y.",
    "l. chen et al .",
    "science 325 , 5937 ( 2009 ) x. -l .",
    "qi , t. hughes , and s .- c .",
    "zhang , phys .",
    "b 78 , 195424 ( 2008 ) j. e. moore and l. balents , phys .",
    "b 75 , 121306 ( 2007 ) l. fu , c. l. kane , and e. j. mele , phys . rev .",
    "98 , 106803 ( 2007 ) l. fu and c. l. kane , phys .",
    "b 76 , 045302 ( 2007 ) j. c. y. teo , l. fu , and c. l. kane phys . rev .",
    "b 78 , 045426 ( 2008 ) h. zhang et al",
    "phys . 5 , 438 ( 2009 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the transmission through single and double ferromagnetic barriers on the surface of a topological insulator . by adjusting the gate voltage and magnetization oreintation </S>",
    "<S> , the ferromagnetic barrier can be tuned into various transmission regions , where the wavevector - dependent tunnelings are quite different . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the klein tunneling can be manipulated or even be turned off . </S>",
    "<S> these special properties offer the possibility to control electron beams on the `` topological metal '' . various novel devices , such as electronic collimation , wavevector filter , magnetic and electric switchs , and wavevector - based spin valve , may be constructed based on our observed phenomena . </S>"
  ]
}