{
  "article_text": [
    "computer vision and video analytics algorithms rely on background subtraction as the engine of choice for detecting areas of interest ( change ) . although a number of models have been developed for background subtraction , from single gaussian @xcite and mixture of gaussians @xcite to non - parametric kernel methods @xcite , they all share the underlying assumption that photometric scene properties ( e.g. , luminance , color ) are either static or exhibit temporal stationarity .",
    "the static background assumption works quite well for some applications , e.g. , indoor scenes under constant illumination , while the temporally - stationary background assumption is needed in other cases , such as outdoor scenes with natural phenomena ( e.g. , fluttering leaves ) .",
    "however , both models fail if one is interested in discovering _ changes in scene dynamics _ rather than those taking place in a static background . examples of such scenario are : detection of unusual motor traffic patterns ( e.g. , too fast or too slow ) , detection of a moving group of individuals where a single walking person is expected , detection of a moving object against shimmering or turbulent water surface ( background motion ) .",
    "although each of these challenges can be addressed by a custom - built method , e.g. , explicitly estimating object trajectories or discovering the number of moving objects , there is no approach to - date that can address _ all _ such scenarios in a single framework .    in order to address this challenge , instead of searching for photometric deviations in time ,",
    "one should look for dynamic deviations in time . to date",
    ", the problem has been attacked primarily by analyzing two - dimensional motion paths resulting from tracking objects or people @xcite .",
    "usually , reference motion paths are computed from a training video sequence first .",
    "then , the same tracking algorithm is applied to an observed video sequence , and the resulting paths are compared with the reference motion paths .",
    "unfortunately , such methods require many computing stages , from low - level detection to high - level inferencing @xcite , and often result in failure due to multiple , sequential steps .    in this paper",
    ", we propose a new model and computational framework that extend background subtraction to , what we call , _ behavior subtraction _",
    "@xcite , while at the same time addressing deficiencies of motion - path - based algorithms .",
    "whereas in background subtraction static or stationary photometric properties ( e.g. , luminance or color ) are assumed as the background image , we propose to use stationary scene dynamics as a `` background '' activity with which observed scene dynamics are compared .",
    "the approach we propose requires neither computation of motion nor object tracking , and , as such , is less prone to failure .",
    "central to our approach is the concept of an _ event _ , that we define as short - term scene dynamics captured over a time window at a specific spatial location in the camera field of view .",
    "we compute events by time - aggregating motion labels and/or suitable object descriptors ( e.g. , size ) .",
    "subsequently , we characterize events probabilistically as random variables that are independent and identically distributed ( _ iid _ ) in time . since the estimation of a probability density function ( pdf ) at each location is both memory- and cpu - intensive , in practical implementation we resort to a low - memory , low - complexity surrogate .",
    "using such a surrogate amounts to behavior subtraction , a new algorithm with some surprising properties . as we demonstrate",
    "experimentally , behavior subtraction is an effective tool in anomaly detection , including localization , but can also serve as motion detector very resilient to spurious background motion , e.g. , resulting from camera jitter .",
    "furthermore , it is content - blind , i.e. , applicable to humans , cars , animals , and other objects in both uncluttered and highly - cluttered scenes .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section",
    "[ sec : previous ] , we review previous work . in section  [ sec : backsub ] , we recall background subtraction and introduce notation . in section  [ sec : behspace ] , we introduce behavior space and the notion of an event , while in section  [ sec : behsubframework ] we describe the behavior subtraction framework . in section  [ sec : expres ] , we discuss our experimental results and in section  [ sec : concl ] we draw conclusions .",
    "there are two fundamental approaches to anomaly detection .",
    "one approach is to explicitly model all anomalies of interest , thus constructing a dictionary of anomalies , and for each observed video to check if a match in the dictionary can be found .",
    "this is a typical case of classification , and requires that _ all _ anomaly types be known _ a priori_. although feasible in very constrained scenarios , such as detecting people carrying boxes / suitacases / handbags @xcite , detecting abandoned objects @xcite or identifying specific crowd behavior anomalies @xcite , in general this approach is not practical for its inability to deal with unknown anomalies .",
    "an alternative approach is to model normality and then detect deviations from it . in this case , no dictionary of anomalies is needed but defining and modeling what constitutes normality is a very difficult task .",
    "one way of dealing with this difficulty is by applying machine learning that automatically models normal activity based on some training video .",
    "then , any monitored activity different from the normal pattern is labeled as anomaly .",
    "a number of methods have been developed that apply learning to two - dimensional motion paths resulting from tracking of objects or people @xcite .",
    "typically , the approach is implemented in two steps . in the first step , a large number of `` normal '' individuals or objects are tracked over time .",
    "the resulting paths are then summarized by a set of motion trajectories , often translated into a symbolic representation of the background activity . in the second step ,",
    "new paths are extracted from the monitored video and compared to those computed in the training phase .    whether one models anomaly or normality , the background activity must be somehow captured .",
    "one common approach is through graphical state - based representations , such as hidden markov models or bayesian networks @xcite . to the best of our knowledge",
    "johnson and hogg @xcite were the first to consider human trajectories in this context .",
    "the method begins by vector - quantizing tracks and clustering the result into a predetermined number of pdfs using a neural network .",
    "based on the training data , the method predicts trajectory of a pedestrian and decides if it is anomalous or not .",
    "this approach was subsequently improved by simplifying the training step @xcite and embedding it into a hierarchical structure based on co - occurrence statistics @xcite .",
    "more recently , saleemi _ et al . _",
    "@xcite proposed a stochastic , non - parametric method for modeling scene tracks .",
    "the authors claim that the use of predicted trajectories and tracking method robust to occlusions jointly permit the analysis of more general scenes , unlike other methods that are limited to roads and walkways .",
    "although there are advantages to using paths as motion features , there are clear disadvantages as well .",
    "first , tracking is a difficult task , especially in real time .",
    "since the anomaly detection is directly related to the quality of tracking , a tracking error will inevitably bias the detection step . secondly , since each individual or object monitored is related to a single path , it is hard to deal with people occluding each other .",
    "for this reason , path - based methods are nt well suited to highly - cluttered environments .",
    "recently , a number of anomaly detection methods have been proposed that do not use tracking .",
    "these methods work at pixel level and use either motion vectors @xcite or motion labels @xcite to describe activity in the scene .",
    "they all store motion features in an image - like 2d structure ( be it probabilistic or not ) thus easing memory and cpu requirements .",
    "for example , xiang _",
    "@xcite represent moving objects by their position , size , temporal gradient and the so - called `` pixel history change '' ( phc ) image that accumulates temporal intensity differences . during the training phase ,",
    "an em - based algorithm is used to cluster the moving blobs , while at run - time each moving object is compared to the pre - calculated clusters .",
    "the outlying objects are labeled as anomalous . although the concept of phc image is somewhat similar to the behavior image proposed here , xiang _",
    "do not use it for anomaly detection but for identification of regions of interest to be further processed .",
    "a somewhat different approach using spatio - temporal intensity correlation has been proposed by shechtman and irani @xcite . here , an observed sequence is built from spatio - temporal segments extracted from a training sequence . in this analysis - by - synthesis method ,",
    "only regions that can be built from large contiguous chunks of the training data are considered normal .",
    "our approach falls into the category of methods that model normality and look for outliers , however it is not based on motion paths but on simple pixel attributes instead .",
    "thus , it avoids the pitfalls of tracking while affording explicit modeling of normality at low memory and cpu requirements .",
    "our contributions are as follows .",
    "we introduce the concept of an event , or short - term scene dynamics captured over a time window at a specific spatial location in the camera field of view . with each event we associate features , such as size , direction , speed , busy time , color , etc . , and propose a probabilistic model based on time - stationary random process .",
    "finally , we develop a simple implementation of this model by using surrogate quantities that allow low - memory and low - cpu implementation .",
    "we assume in this paper that the monitored video is captured by a fixed camera ( no ptz functionality ) that at most undergoes jitter , e.g. , due to wind load or other external factors .",
    "let @xmath0 denote a color video sequence with @xmath1 denoting color attributes ( e.g. , @xmath2 ) at specific spatial location @xmath3 and time @xmath4 .",
    "we assume that @xmath1 is spatially sampled on 2-d lattice @xmath5 , i.e. , @xmath6 is a pixel location .",
    "we also assume that it is sampled temporally , i.e. , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , where @xmath9 is the temporal sampling period dependent on the frame rate at which the camera operates . for simplicity , we assume @xmath10 in this paper , i.e. , normalized time .",
    "we denote by @xmath11 a frame , i.e. , a restriction of video @xmath0 to specific time @xmath4 .    in traditional video analysis ,",
    "color and luminance are pivotal quantities in the processing chain .",
    "for example , in background subtraction , the driving engine of many video analysis tasks , the color of the background is assumed either static or stationary .",
    "although simple frame subtraction followed by thresholding may sometimes suffice in the static case , unfortunately it often fails due to acquisition noise or illumination changes .",
    "if the background includes spurious motion , such as environmental effects ( e.g. , rain , snow ) , fluttering tree leaves , or shimmering water , then determining outliers based on frame differences is insufficient .",
    "a significant improvement is obtained by determining outliers based on pdf estimates of features such as color .",
    "assume that @xmath12 is a joint pdf of the three color components estimated using a 3-d variant of the mixture - of - gaussians model @xcite or the non - parametric model @xcite applied to a training video sequence .",
    "@xmath12 can be used to test if a color at specific pixel and time in the monitored video is sufficiently probable , i.e. , if @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is a scalar threshold , then @xmath1 is likely to be part of the modeled background , otherwise it is deemed moving .",
    "although the thresholding of a pdf is more effective than the thresholding of frame differences , it is still executed in the space of photometric quantities ( color , luminance , etc . ) , and thus unable to directly account for scene dynamics . however , modeling of background dynamics ( activities ) in the photometric space is very challenging .",
    "we propose an alternative that is both conceptually simple and computationally efficient .",
    "first , we remove the photometric component by applying background subtraction and learn the underlying stationary statistical characterization of scene dynamics based on a two - state ( moving / static ) renewal model .",
    "then , we reliably infer novelty as a departure from the normality .",
    "as color and luminance contain little direct information on scene dynamics , we depart from this common representation and adopt motion label as our atomic unit .",
    "let @xmath15 be a binary random variable embodying the presence of motion ( @xmath16 ) or its absence ( @xmath17 ) at position @xmath3 and time @xmath4 .",
    "let @xmath18 be a specific realization of @xmath15 that can be computed by any of the methods discussed in section  [ sec : backsub ] , or by more advanced methods accounting for spatial label correlation @xcite .",
    "while some of these methods are robust to noise and background activity , such as rain / snow or fluttering leaves , they often require a large amount of memory and are computationally intensive .",
    "since simplicity and computational efficiency are key concerns in our approach , we detect motion by means of a very simple background subtraction method instead , namely @xmath19 where @xmath14 is a fixed threshold and @xmath20 is the background image computed as follows @xmath21 with @xmath22 in the range 0.001 - 0.01 .",
    "this linear background update allows to account for long - term changes .",
    "although this method is sensitive to noise and background activity , it is trivial to implement , requires very little memory and processing power , and depends on one parameter only .",
    "clearly , replacing this method with any of the advanced techniques will only improve the performance of our approach .",
    "[ fig : mdtraining ] shows an example realization of motion label field @xmath23 computed by the above method as well as a binary waveform showing temporal evolution of motion label at specific location @xmath3 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mdtraining].b ) .",
    "each such waveform captures the amount of activity occurring at a given spatial location during a certain period of time and thus can be considered as a simple _",
    "behavior signature_. for instance , patterns associated with random activity ( fluttering leaves ) , periodic activity ( highway traffic ) , bursty activity ( sudden vehicle movement after onset of green light ) , or no activity , all have a specific behavior signature .",
    "other behavior signatures than a simple on / off motion label are possible ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> background subtraction has been a driving engine for many computer vision and video analytics tasks . </S>",
    "<S> although its many variants exist , they all share the underlying assumption that photometric scene properties are either static or exhibit temporal stationarity . while this works in some applications , the model fails when one is interested in discovering _ changes in scene dynamics _ rather than those in a static background ; detection of unusual pedestrian and motor traffic patterns is but one example . </S>",
    "<S> we propose a new model and computational framework that address this failure by considering stationary scene dynamics as a `` background '' with which observed scene dynamics are compared . </S>",
    "<S> central to our approach is the concept of an _ event _ , that we define as short - term scene dynamics captured over a time window at a specific spatial location in the camera field of view . </S>",
    "<S> we compute events by time - aggregating motion labels , obtained by background subtraction , as well as object descriptors ( e.g. , object size ) . </S>",
    "<S> subsequently , we characterize events probabilistically , but use a low - memory , low - complexity surrogates in practical implementation . using these surrogates amounts to _ behavior subtraction _ , a new algorithm with some surprising properties . </S>",
    "<S> as demonstrated here , behavior subtraction is an effective tool in anomaly detection and localization . </S>",
    "<S> it is resilient to spurious background motion , such as one due to camera jitter , and is content - blind , i.e. , it works equally well on humans , cars , animals , and other objects in both uncluttered and highly - cluttered scenes . clearly , treating video as a collection of events rather than colored pixels opens new possibilities for video analytics .    </S>",
    "<S> video analysis , activity analysis , anomaly detection , behavior modeling , video surveillance . </S>"
  ]
}