{
  "article_text": [
    "planet formation theories thus far extract much of their information from the known transiting exoplanets which are largely in the short - period regime .",
    "this is because transit surveys which have provided the bulk of the transiting planet discoveries , such as superwasp @xcite and hatnet @xcite , are biased towards this region .",
    "the two planets which contribute to the sample of intermediate to long - period transiting exoplanets are : hd  17156b @xcite and hd  80606b @xcite , the latter of which exhibits both a primary transit and secondary eclipse . in both of these cases ,",
    "the detection was largely due to the inflated transit / eclipse probability caused by their extreme orbital eccentricities .",
    "both of these were observed to transit through predictions based upon their radial velocity data .",
    "planetary orbits may be considered in three basic categories : short - period ( @xmath0 days ) planets , intermediate to long - period high - eccentricity ( @xmath1 ) planets , and intermediate to long - period low - eccentricity planets .",
    "the first type of planet are the focus of current studies , and we are beginning to gain insight into the second type ( hd 80606b for example ) .",
    "exploration into the structure of those planets occupying the second and third orbit types will require probing parameter - space beyond that currently encompassed by the known transiting exoplanets .",
    "the science objectives of such an exploration include understanding how planetary properties , such as average planet density , vary with periastron distance as well as providing the first observational data for exoplanet models with low incident stellar radiation .",
    "recent observations of hd  80606b by @xcite and @xcite suggest a spin - orbit misalignment caused by a kozai mechanism ; a suggestion which could be investigated in terms of period and eccentricity dependencies if more long - period transiting planet were known .",
    "figure [ peri ] shows the distribution of periastron distances for the known exoplanets using data from jean schneider s extra - solar planets encyclopaedia .",
    "also shown as a shaded histogram is the same distribution for the known transiting exoplanets .",
    "clearly the periastron distribution of the known transiting planets does not accurately represent the distribution of the entire sample of known exoplanets .",
    "thus far , our picture of exoplanets is based on the planets with super - heated atmospheres through either short - period orbits or intermediate - period eccentric orbits .",
    "figure 1 shows how our view of planetary properties is highly biased towards planets of short periastron distance , thus demonstrating the need for detecting transits of exoplanets at larger distances in order to study atmospheres with greatly reduced flux from the parent star .",
    "long - period transits will give us valuable insight into the structure of exoplanets that are more similar to those in our own solar system .",
    "additionally , host stars of long - period planets discovered using the radial velocity technique tend to be very bright , and potentially one of these could be the brightest star with a transiting jupiter - mass planet .",
    "the brightness of such host stars can faciliate atmospheric studies via transmission spectra @xcite and thermal phase variations @xcite .",
    "the long period typically also translates to a longer transit duration , allowing significantly more signal to be collected when trying to probe the atmospheric composition of these objects with high - resolution spectrographs . since most bright late - f , g ,",
    "k type stars have already been searched for short - period jupiter - mass planets , the long period hosts are the obvious sample to now search since their relative brightness and longer transit times are both very helpful in attempting to probe the exoplanetary atmosphere .    it is clear that the discovery of long - period transiting planets is very important .",
    "they are , however , difficult to detect in ground - based transit surveys due to the the presence of correlated ( red ) noise @xcite and effects of the observational window function @xcite .",
    "though combining data from various on - going transit surveys to search for transiting long - period planets will improve detectability @xcite , it is easier to discover transits among the large number of long - period exoplanets already known from radial velocity surveys . based upon monte - carlo simulations of the transit probabilities , it is expected that several of the known long - period planets should transit their parent stars due to the enhanced probabilities produced by eccentric orbits @xcite .",
    "there have been suggestions regarding the strategy for photometric follow - up of these radial velocity planets at predicted times of primary transit @xcite and secondary eclipse @xcite , and the instruments which could be used for such surveys @xcite .",
    "here we describe a methodology through which to search for transits of known planets . in section 2",
    "we calculate transit windows for a large selection of the known exoplanets and show the impact of additional radial velocity measurements on refining the transit ephemerides .",
    "section 3 describes the techniques through which optimal target selection and observations of the transit window can be achieved .",
    "the methods described here have been successfully tested and implemented by the transit ephemeris refinement and monitoring survey ( terms ) .",
    "the transit window as described here is defined as a specific time period during which a complete transit ( including ingress and egress ) could occur for a specified planet .",
    "the limiting factor for successfully observing a known exoplanet host star during the predicted transit window is often the precision of the transit ephemeris .",
    "the quality of the transit ephemeris is primarily determined by ( a ) the uncertainties associated with the fitted orbital parameters , and ( b ) the time elapsed since the most recent radial velocity data was acquired .",
    "acquiring new high precision radial velocity data can easily mitigate both effects . with a prompt photometric observing strategy after the orbital parameters have been revised",
    ", one can maximize the chances of being able to obtain complete coverage of the transit observing window and thus either confirm or rule out the transiting nature of the planet .",
    "the orbital parameters measured from fitting the radial velocity data of a planet are sufficient for calculating a transit ephemeris .",
    "the predicted time of mid - transit can be calculated by using kepler s equations .",
    "firstly , the eccentric anomaly is calculated from the following @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the orbital eccentricity and @xmath4 is the true anomaly . as described in @xcite ,",
    "the time of transit mid - point will occur when @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the argument of periastron . substituting this for the true anomaly in equation [ eccanom ]",
    "thus yields the eccentric anomaly at the point of predicted transit .    the mean anomaly , @xmath7 , which defines the time since last periapsis in units of radians , is then computed by @xmath8 which can be converted to regular time units using @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the orbital period .",
    "the predicted mid - point of primary transit can then be calculated using @xmath11 where @xmath12 is the time of periastron passage and the term of @xmath13 incorporates the number of complete orbits which have transpired since @xmath12 .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "amongst the southern hemisphere rv planets , there are few that have been adequately monitored photometrically to confirm or rule out planetary transits . by calculating transit ephemerides for these planets and designing an efficient observing program , it is possible to examine a large subset of these planets with a relatively small amount of observing time on a 1.0m - class telescope . by applying strict criteria on the predicted transit properties of the targets ,",
    "we are able to produce a robust selection which yields the most promising targets on which one can place transit constraints .",
    "these criteria and general observing strategy considerations are described here .      for each observing run",
    ", the experimental design constitutes the selection of targets which meets the necessary criteria ( described below ) for successful observations to be undertaken .",
    "the primary challenge is to match transit windows with observability for each target which is not a trivial task .",
    "here we describe the minimum criteria that must be met for each target .",
    "the first step is to select all known radial velocity targets for which an estimate of the stellar radius , either from measurement or models , is available for calculating the transit depth and the geometric transit probability .",
    "the probability that is most important for the target scheduling is the transit detection probability which is a combination of the geometric transit probability and the fraction of the transit window during which the target is observable . to first order ,",
    "this is a straight multiplication but will depend upon the probability distribution of the predicted transit mid - point , as discussed in section [ coverage ] .",
    "based upon the photometric precision of the experimental system , the predicted transit depth can be used to exclude targets whose depth is too low , particularly giant host stars .",
    "the steps thereafter depend upon how the observing time is allocated ; a fixed time - slot ( such as noao time ) , or queue - scheduled / service time ( such as that used by @xcite ) . for a fixed time - slot ,",
    "the essential steps are :    1 .   for 0.91.0 m class telescopes , stars brighter than @xmath14 often need to be excluded unless the telescope has the options of aperture diaphragms or neutral density filters",
    ". 2 .   include only those stars whose airmass is less than @xmath15 for at least 3 hrs during the night . a transit window of 3 hours is the likely minimum transit window available and so the visibility of the target will still be useful if the transit window happens to largely coincide .",
    "3 .   for each target that passes the visibility and brightness criteria ,",
    "the transit ephemeris is checked and transit times are noted for those predicted transits which fall on dates during the run .",
    "4 .   for each date during the run , the ut times of the transit are checked and transit windows which occur during the day are rejected .",
    "transit windows which do not coincide with the observable hours are also rejected .",
    "the schedule for each night is considered in terms of the transit detection probability ( described above ) and the targets are ranked in descending order of the probability . if one seeks to concentrate the investigation on long - period planets , then the planets should be ranked by the observability of the transit windows since the geometric transit probability will dominate the transit detection probability for short - period planets .",
    "queue - scheduled observations essentially allow an opportunity to target long - period planets whose transit windows occur far less frequently than those usually monitored during pre - allocated observing runs . for queue - scheduled observations the steps are as follows :    1 .",
    "rank the exoplanets from long - period to short - period and keep only those whose transit probability exceeds the geometric transit probability for a circular orbit ( see @xcite ) .",
    "2 .   examine the the transit window for each planet and reject those for which the transit windows are excessively long ( for example , greater than @xmath16 days ) .",
    "3 .   investigate the visibility of each target from the observing site and reject the targets for which there is a mis - match between the occurance of the transit window and the time the target is observable .",
    "ideal targets are those for which the transit window occurs during a single night and the target is up all night . for targets which have transit windows spanning multiple nights , the decision will be based upon the value of the target in terms of the transit detection probability .",
    "these steps are almost the reverse of the steps recommended for fixed time - slot observing runs . since queue - scheduled observations allow for targeted observations of rare transit windows for long - period planets , they are thus those which will yield the highest success for these high - risk / high - return targets .",
    "the difficulties in establishing an optimal observing schedule not withstanding , there are further considerations that one needs to take into account when planning observations .",
    "one of these is the decision about which parts of the transit window to monitor if the window spans more than one night ( and often several nights for long - period planets ) , especially if one or more of those nights competes with other favourable targets .",
    "so far we have assumed that all parts of the transit window are equally significant in the likelihood of a transit being observed or ruled out .",
    "this is generally not true but depends upon the probability distribution of the orbital parameter uncertainties .",
    "for example , we can suggest an empirical model whereby we assume gaussian uncertainties for the fit parameters , which in turn assumes gaussian noise in the radial velocity measurements .    ) , assuming that the uncertainties in the orbital parameters are gaussian.,width=309 ]    figure [ winprob ] shows a gaussian probability distribution for the predicted location of the transit mid - point for a planet which has a transit window size 5% of the orbital period . if one is able to monitor the target for only half of the transit window , then choosing this range to be centered on the predicted transit mid - point ( shown as the shaded region in figure [ winprob ] )",
    "will account for 38% of the area under the probability distribution , as opposed to 30% for the remainder of the time within the transit window .    in reality",
    ", the uncertainties associated with the orbital parameters will have a more complex distribution due to systematic noise components .",
    "their distributions may be close to that described by gaussian or poisson statistics , but can be determined empirically through monte - carlo simulations which randomize the sequence of the residuals on the radial velocity measurements and redetermining the orbital fit ( see @xcite and @xcite for more details ) .",
    "in addition , the probability distribution for a particular parameter is usually non - symmetric in nature , as seen in a @xmath17 map of the parameter whilst keeping the other parameters fixed ( for example , see @xmath17 maps by @xcite ) , but can be approximated as symmetric at the @xmath18 level .",
    "whatever the distribution , the measurements per unit time will be more valuable the closer they are to the predicted mid - point .",
    "the caveat to this is when the predicted transit duration is larger than the time for which the target is observable during the night , since it is important to observe either ingress or egress for relative photometry .",
    "thus , if the transit duration is greater than the observing window then the optimal approach is to observe at @xmath19 .",
    "the coverage of the transit window can be increased through the use of telescopes adequately separated in longitude .",
    "such networks are already in existence ( e.g. , las cumbres observatory global telescope ( lcogt ) network ) and collaborations for the follow - up of gamma - ray bursts and microlensing events are quite common .",
    "queue scheduling of observations is particularly useful for the rare transit windows of long - period planets .",
    "this kind of observing is available , for instance , to member consortiums who utilise the service time of the observing with small and moderate aperture research telescope system ( smarts ) .    for the especially bright targets which will not only saturate typical 1.0m - class telescopes but",
    "whose field - of - view will also be devoid of comparison stars , a solution is to use the microvariability and oscillations of stars ( most ) satellite @xcite .",
    "the most satellite has demonstrated photometric precision of a few parts per million which is sufficient for detecting transit signatures due to planets orbiting bright giant stars .",
    "since most is space - based , this would also allow complete coverage of the transit window without the need for coordinated ground - based observations using different telescopes ( an additional source of red noise ) .",
    "provided the transit window can be provided with sufficient accuracy , this would be an excellent use of the most satellite s capabilities .",
    "many of the known radial velocity planets have yet to be surveyed for transit signatures .",
    "the detection of a transit for the intermediate to long - period planets would add enormously to our knowledge of planetary structure and , in particular , how the structure varies with semi - major axis and periastron distance .",
    "the advantages of targeting long - period radial velocity planets are the brightness of the host stars and the prior knowledge of the planetary orbital parameters . however , a major challenge of monitoring the host stars at predicted transit times is that many transit windows have deteriorated over time , such that the telescope time required renders attempts to do so impractical .",
    "we have shown through calculations for 245 of the known exoplanets how the size of the transit window varies with period and geometric transit probability .",
    "the large uncertainties associated with the transit mid - point for the long - period planets is dominated by the uncertainties in the period and time of periastron passage estimated from the discovery data",
    ". we demonstrated , using the examples of hd  190228 and hd  231701 , that a handful of carefully timed additional measurements can vastly improve the size of the transit window and thus bring the monitoring of the window into the reach of ground - based programs .",
    "the difficulties involved in the observing schedule largely result from matching transit windows with the observability of the targets , particularly for long - period planets whose transit windows are widely spaced .",
    "we have described a planning strategy which will make optimal use of both pre - allocated and service telescope time , also noting the advantages of both longitude coverage and space - based observations .",
    "it is important to consider for the scheduling that the central part of the transit window can be significantly more valuable than the wings of the window , depending upon the nature of the orbital parameter uncertainties .",
    "the described techniques and science goals are currently being undertaken and investigated by the transit ephemeris refinement and monitoring survey ( terms ) .",
    "note that the observations from this survey will lead to improved exoplanet orbital parameters and ephemerides even without an eventual transit detection for a particular planet .",
    "the results from this survey will provide a complimentary dataset to the fainter magnitude range of the kepler mission @xcite , which is expected to discover many transiting planets including those of intermediate to long - period planets .",
    "the authors would like to thank steven berukoff for several useful suggestions .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac / nexsci star and exoplanet database , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "bakos , g. . ,",
    "lzr , j. , papp , i. , sri , p. , green , e.m . , 2002 , pasp , 114 , 974 barbieri , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 476 , l13 barnes , j.w . , 2007 , pasp , 119 , 986 borucki , w.j . , et al . , 2009 , science , 325 , 709 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , hubeny , i. , 2006 , apj , 650 , 1140 cumming , a. , 2004 , mnras , 354 , 1165 fischer , d.a . , et al . , 2007 , apj , 669 , 1336 fleming , s.w . , kane , s.r . , mccullough , p.r . , chromey , f.r . , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 1503 ford , e.b . , 2005 , apj , 129 , 1706 ford , e.b . , 2008 , apj , 135 , 1008 gillon , m. , 2009 , mnras , submitted ( arxiv:0906.4904 ) kane , s.r . , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1488 kane , s.r . ,",
    "schneider , d.p .",
    ", ge , j. , 2007 , mnras , 377 , 1610 kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2008 , apj , 689 , 492 kane , s.r . , ford , e.b .",
    ", ge , j. , 2008 , iaus , 249 , 115 kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2009 , pasp , in press ( arxiv:0908.0519 ) kane , s.r . , mahadevan , s. , cochran , w.d . , street , r.a . ,",
    "sivarani , t. , henry , g.w . ,",
    "williamson , m.h .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 692 , 290 knutson , h.a . , et al . , 2007 , nature , 447 , 183 laughlin , g. , deming , d. , langton , j. , kasen , d. , vogt , s. , butler , p. , rivera , e. , meschiari , s. , 2009 , nature , 457 , 562 lpez - morales , m. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 716 matthews , j.m .",
    ", kusching , r. , guenther , d.b . ,",
    "walker , g.a.h . ,",
    "moffat , a.f.j . ,",
    "rucinski , s.m . ,",
    "sasselov , d. , weiss , w.w . , 2004 , nature , 430 , 51 moutou et al . , 2009 ,",
    "a&a , 498 , l5 perrier , c. , sivan , j .-",
    "p . , naef , d. , beuzit , j.l . ,",
    "mayor , m. , queloz , d. , udry , s. , 2003 , a&a , 410 , 1039 pollacco , d.l .",
    ", et al . , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1407 pont , f. , zucker , s. , queloz , d. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 231 pont , f. , et al . , 2009 , a&a , 502 , 695 redfield , s. , endl , m. , cochran , w.d . ,",
    "koesterke , l. , 2008 , apj , 673 , l87 snellen , i.a.g . ,",
    "albrecht , s. , de mooij , e.j.w .",
    ", le poole , r.s . , 2008 , a&a , 487 , 357 von braun , k. , kane , s.r . , ciardi , d.r . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , in press ( arxiv:0907.1614 ) walker , g.a.h .",
    ", et al . , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 1023 wright , j.t . , howard , a.w . , 2009 , apjs , 182 , 205"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> transiting planet discoveries have yielded a plethora of information regarding the internal structure and atmospheres of extra - solar planets . </S>",
    "<S> these discoveries have been restricted to the low - periastron distance regime due to the bias inherent in the geometric transit probability . </S>",
    "<S> monitoring known radial velocity planets at predicted transit times is a proven method of detecting transits , and presents an avenue through which to explore the mass - radius relationship of exoplanets in new regions of period / periastron space . here </S>",
    "<S> we describe transit window calculations for known radial velocity planets , techniques for refining their transit ephemerides , target selection criteria , and observational methods for obtaining maximum coverage of transit windows . </S>",
    "<S> these methods are currently being implemented by the transit ephemeris refinement and monitoring survey ( terms ) . </S>"
  ]
}