{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding the nature of the sun s magnetic fields  their structure and variability , their generation mechanisms , and their effects on the heliosphere  is one of the key aims of current research in solar physics .",
    "it is generally believed that the magnetic fields are generated by a cyclic dynamo that operates somewhere in the solar interior . in this paper",
    ", we use helioseismology to study the global scale internal magnetic fields over the course of solar cycle 23 .",
    "helioseismology is the most powerful tool available to solar physicists to study the interior of the sun .",
    "the oscillation frequencies have been used to study the structure and dynamics of the solar interior with great precision .",
    "magnetic fields , however , have proved to be much more challenging .",
    "there are a number of important difficulties in dealing with magnetic fields in a helioseismic context .",
    "the magnitudes of the signatures in the data are quite small , making statistically significant measurements challenging .",
    "secondly , the interpretation of data is very difficult .",
    "the physics of wave propagation in the presence of magnetic fields is far more complex than in the non - magnetic case .",
    "further , the geometry of the underlying field strongly affects the signatures in helioseismic global mode frequencies , meaning different field configurations and strengths can be difficult to distinguish from their helioseismic signatures .",
    "even worse , @xcite showed that because magnetic fields act on mode frequencies both by perturbing the thermal structure of the sun and by changing the wave propagation speeds directly , there is a degeneracy between magnetic field effects and other thermal perturbations which can not be distinguished a priori from helioseismic data .",
    "although helioseismic determinations of magnetic fields are difficult , there have been many attempts to do so .",
    "@xcite suggested that the then observed frequency splittings in the solar acoustic spectrum could be caused by a large scale magnetic field situated in the core .",
    "@xcite used an asymptotic approximation to study the effects of magnetic field on the splitting coefficients , and @xcite argued that a 1 megagauss field at the base of the convection zone was necessary to explain the observed splitting coefficients .",
    "however , @xcite placed a limit of 0.3  mg on the field at the base of the convection zone ; thus the situation was unclear .",
    "a mega - gauss magnetic field is also inconsistent with dynamo theories and constraints from other observations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite developed a formalism to compute the effects of rotation and axisymmetric magnetic fields on the frequency splittings ( discussed in the following section ) , which @xcite used to analyze the first year of michelson doppler imager ( mdi ) data .",
    "they placed limits on the strengths of internal toroidal fields , finding a limit of 20  kg at a depth of 30  mm , and a limit of 300  kg at the base of the convection zone ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "@xcite inverted the mean frequencies and splitting coefficients for changes in temperature , and found that the resulting temperature perturbation could be explained by a change in magnetic field of 60  kg at a depth of 45  mm ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "@xcite found that changes in @xmath7-mode frequencies from solar minimum to solar maximum implied a decrease in solar radius with activity , which they associated with a change between 4 and 8  mm in depth . in explaining this result with changing magnetic fields",
    ", they assumed a tangled field , but even so the magnitude of the change in field strength was strongly dependent on the radial distribution of the field .",
    "the change they required was 7  kg for a uniform field , or substantially less ( 1  kg at 8  mm ) for an inwardly increasing field .",
    "@xcite looked for signatures of a change at the base of the convection zone from low activity to high activity , and found signs of a small change , which they proposed could be due to a change in magnetic field of 170  290  kg .",
    "@xcite , working with an entire solar cycle s worth of helioseismic data , found a change in sound speed between solar maximum and solar minimum at the base of the convection zone , which , if due to a change in magnetic field , could indicate a change in field strength of 290  kg at that depth .    in this work ,",
    "we exploit the fact that we have much more helioseismic data than previous investigators had access to , and try to get a coherent picture of sub - surface solar magnetic fields and their temporal evolution .",
    "we extend the work of @xcite , who considered toroidal magnetic fields , to include poloidal fields .",
    "this means that we can , in principle , consider any axisymmetric magnetic field configuration .",
    "we compute the effects of a wide variety of magnetic field configurations on the @xmath8 splitting coefficients , and compare them to a solar cycle s worth of mdi data .",
    "it is not clear if the solar magnetic field has large scale structure of the form we assume or whether it is in tangled state due to turbulence in the convection zone .",
    "since the effect of magnetic field manifests through a quadratic term in magnetic field , our estimate may also be applicable to tangled field with some degree of approximation .",
    "the frequencies of normal modes of oscillation @xmath9 are degenerate in @xmath10 in the case of a spherically symmetric star .",
    "departures from spherical symmetry lift this degeneracy .",
    "when the departures from spherical symmetry are small , as they are in the case of the sun , the differences in frequency for different values of @xmath10 will be small , and it is natural therefore to express the normal mode frequencies in terms of the mean frequency of the multiplet @xmath11 and splitting coefficients @xmath12 : @xmath13 as is common in the current literature , the polynomials @xmath14 are the ritzwoller - lavely formulation of the clebsch - gordan expansion @xcite .",
    "the odd - order splitting coefficients are caused by the rotation of the sun , and will not be directly considered in this work .",
    "the even - order coefficients are caused by second order effects of rotation , and by the effects of magnetic fields or any other departure from spherical symmetry in the solar structure . in this work ,",
    "we treat rotation and magnetic fields as perturbations on the spherically symmetric case , which allows us to avoid explicitly constructing a model of a rotating , magnetized star .",
    "the formalism was developed by @xcite and @xcite extended the formalism to include the perturbation to the gravitational potential ( i.e. , to relax the cowling approximation ) and to include differential rotation .",
    "the first order correction to the mode frequencies due to rotation affects only the odd - order splitting coefficients .",
    "these effects are due to the perturbation of the mode frequencies by advection of the waves .",
    "the second order correction affects only the even - order splitting coefficients , and is caused by the perturbation to the eigenfunctions and the centrifugal force .",
    "the odd - order coefficients can be used to determine the rotation profile @xmath15 @xcite , which can in turn be used to compute the second order rotation correction @xcite to the even - order coefficients .",
    "this correction needs to be made if the magnetic perturbation is comparable in size to second order rotation effect , which appears to be the case @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we consider two different axisymmetric magnetic field configurations : toroidal and poloidal .",
    "following @xcite , the toroidal field is expressed in the form @xmath16,\\ ] ] where @xmath17 are the legendre polynomials of degree @xmath18 and @xmath19 describes the radial profile of the magnetic field .",
    "we consider only even values of @xmath18 to ensure antisymmetry about the equator , consistent with the observed field at the surface .",
    "the poloidal field is assumed to be of the form @xmath20,\\ ] ] where @xmath21 describes the radial profile of the magnetic field . in this case",
    "we use only odd values of @xmath18 to ensure that the field is antisymmetric about the equator . with appropriate combinations of these two fields",
    "we can , in principal , represent any axisymmetric magnetic field .",
    "the effect of these magnetic field configurations on the frequency splittings of @xmath22-modes is calculated using the formulation of @xcite .",
    "there are two ways in which the magnetic field can affect the frequencies , one is the so - called direct effect due to the additional force , and the second is the distortion effect due to the equilibrium state being distorted from the original spherically symmetric one .",
    "both these effects are included in all calculations .",
    "these formulations treat the effect of these magnetic fields separately .",
    "unfortunately , the effect of magnetic fields is not linear and hence strictly the contributions from two different configurations can not be added . in principle , there will be some cross - terms when the combination of toroidal and poloidal fields have a region of overlap in the solar interior . in this work ,",
    "we neglect these terms and add the contributions from toroidal and poloidal fields to get the total effect .",
    "we expect the cross terms to be small .",
    "the data we use for comparison are 72-day mode parameter sets from the michelson doppler imager ( mdi ) on the solar and heliospheric observatory ( soho ) .",
    "we use mode parameter sets from the corrected pipeline described by @xcite .",
    "the original mdi analysis pipeline @xcite did not take in to account a number of instrumental effects which introduced secular trends in the mode parameter sets .",
    "in particular , the plate scale of the mdi instrument has changed somewhat over soho s mission , and this results in an apparent change in the solar radius if not properly corrected in the analysis .",
    "@xcite found a signature in the mean frequencies which became increasingly significant over the course of the solar cycle .",
    "a repetition of that work with reanalyzed mode parameter sets removed this effect completely @xcite .",
    "the splitting coefficients , which we focus on in this work , suffer from similar instrumental effects as the mean frequencies , and hence we use the reanalyzed data in this work .",
    "we include 56 mode sets which cover solar cycle 23 .",
    "the mode sets are identified by the mdi start day , beginning with set # 1216 ( start day 1 may 1996 ) , and ending with set # 5320 ( start day 27 july 2007 ) .",
    "the coverage begins and ends at low activity , with a 10.7  cm radio flux of 72.7  sfu for the first set and a flux of 69.1  sfu for the last set .",
    "the highest activity set , # 3160 ( start day 27 august 2001 ) , has a 10.7  cm flux of 223.9  sfu .",
    "we fit only the @xmath8 splitting coefficients , as the higher order splitting coefficients have larger errors , and as such did not distinguish well between different field configurations .",
    "the rotation profile determined from the odd - order splitting coefficients @xcite was used to calculate the second - order contribution to the even - order coefficients , and this contribution was subtracted from the data .",
    "in fig .  [ fig : model_pol ] , we show the second splitting coefficient for four different poloidal field configurations . the actual quantities plotted are @xmath23 , both as a function of frequency @xmath24 and as a function of the lower turning radius of the modes , @xmath25 . the radial profile in this case is taken to be @xmath26 where @xmath27 is a constant which determines the peak field strength and @xmath28 is the radial distance measured in units of solar radius .",
    "the models shown in fig .  [ fig : model_pol ] all have a peak strength of @xmath29  g ( note that they do not all have the same value of @xmath27 ) . the most obvious difference between different order poloidal fields is that for the @xmath30 field the splitting coefficients are all positive , whereas for the higher order fields they are largely negative , although the shallow modes have positive @xmath8 .",
    "the toroidal field we employ is similar to that used by @xcite , with a radial profile given by @xmath31 where @xmath22 is the gas pressure , @xmath32 is the ratio of the magnetic to gas pressure at @xmath33 , and @xmath33 and @xmath34 are position and width of the field . as is the case for the poloidal fields , the toroidal field corrections are linear in magnetic field strength squared .",
    "excepting field strength , therefore , our toroidal fields are described by three quantities : the order of the legendre polynomial @xmath18 , which determines the latitudinal distribution of the field , the central radius @xmath33 , which determines the location , and the width @xmath34 . figure [ fig : model_k ] shows the splitting coefficients due to toroidal fields with different values of @xmath18 but the same radial profile ( in this case , @xmath35 , @xmath0 and @xmath36 ) . for the @xmath8 coefficient , the order @xmath18 of the field makes very little difference except to the scale of the perturbation  increasing @xmath18 for the same @xmath32 effectively increases the total amount of flux , but except for this effect , the @xmath8 coefficients are not sensitive to different latitudinal distributions . for the remainder of the work ,",
    "therefore , we restrict ourselves to @xmath37 fields .",
    "figure [ fig : model_grid_nu ] shows the splitting coefficients @xmath23 for near - surface toroidal fields with different central radii @xmath33 and widths @xmath34 as a function of frequency .",
    "figure [ fig : model_grid_rt ] shows the same , but as a function of the lower turning radius , @xmath25 .",
    "the behavior of the splitting coefficients is not surprising . in general , the fields which penetrate below the surface show oscillatory behavior as a function of frequency similar to that seen in mode frequency @xcite and used by @xcite and others to study the convection zone base .",
    "the period of these oscillations is related to the acoustic depth of the perturbation in the structure . decreasing the depth of the perturbation lengthens the period of the oscillatory behavior .",
    "fields which are confined near the surface , on the other hand , do not exhibit oscillatory behavior , but instead resemble the ` surface term ' correction which is removed in structure inversions ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "increasing the width of the perturbation smears out the oscillatory signature , as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : model_grid_nu ] . because all the modes sampled have lower turning radii below the magnetic fields considered here , there are no obvious signatures in the splitting coefficients as a function of @xmath25 .",
    "in addition to fields near the surface , in fig .  [",
    "fig : model_czb ] , we show the splitting coefficients due to some toroidal fields located at the base of the convection zone . the fields shown differ only in the width @xmath34 of the fields . unlike the surface fields shown in previous figures , the deep field signatures show both positive and negative splitting coefficients",
    ". these models are most interesting as a function of lower turning radius @xmath25 .",
    "the splitting coefficients are positive above the center of the magnetic field , and negative below the center of the magnetic field .",
    "further , as the width of the field is increased , the width of the perturbations to the splitting coefficients ( in @xmath25 figure ) increases as well .",
    "the @xmath38 splitting coefficients due to various poloidal and toroidal fields are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : model_a4 ] , which shows the results for two poloidal fields , the @xmath39 and @xmath40 fields , as well as two toroidal fields with different values of @xmath18 ( @xmath37 and @xmath41 ) , each with @xmath0 and @xmath36 .",
    "the @xmath30 field has essentially no effect on the @xmath38 splitting coefficients .      in order to choose the fields which best match the actual data , we have computed the splitting coefficients for a large grid of field configurations , with fields throughout the convection zone . for poloidal fields we varied @xmath18",
    " the form of the radial profile was found not to matter very much for the splitting coefficients , so long as the field penetrated below the surface .",
    "for the toroidal fields , we varied the location @xmath33 , the width of the field @xmath34 , and the latitudinal distribution with @xmath18 .",
    "the range in @xmath33 was between @xmath42 and @xmath43 .",
    "the values for @xmath34 ranged from @xmath44 to @xmath45 . in order to judge goodness - of - fit",
    ", we use the @xmath46 statistic . for both the poloidal and the toroidal fields , the perturbations vary linearly with the square of the field strength , so to fit the field , we allowed the field strength to vary freely , and chose the strength that minimized the @xmath46 . we have computed the @xmath46 for all the field configurations in our grid , as well as for many combinations of two and three different fields .",
    "the results we present below represent the best fits from the entire grid of computed models .",
    "the largest signal - to - noise ratio in @xmath8 is found at peak activity , and so the highest activity set ought to be the easiest to fit .",
    "comparison of different field configurations with the splitting coefficients at high activity are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fit_high ] , and the fits are shown both as a function of frequency and as a function of lower turning radius .",
    "the residuals , normalized by the errors in the data , are also shown .",
    "a fit to a @xmath30 poloidal field is shown in panel ( a ) .",
    "the reduced @xmath46 for this fit is 16 , and it is evident that the field does a poor job of reproducing the observed splitting coefficients .",
    "higher order poloidal fields are considerably worse , as an examination of fig .",
    "[ fig : model_pol ] will show  these fields perturb all the splitting coefficients negatively , whereas the observed splittings are all positive .",
    "panel ( b ) shows the effect of a toroidal field situated near the surface .",
    "although we attempted to fit toroidal fields throughout the convection zone , fields not located very near the surface were extremely poor fits to the data .",
    "the field shown in panel ( b ) is the best fit for a single toroidal field , with @xmath0 and @xmath36 .",
    "the reduced @xmath46 is 5 .",
    "the residuals are mostly without structure in @xmath25 , but are oscillatory in frequency , a hint that there could be a second , somewhat deeper field .",
    "the splitting coefficients at peak solar activity can not be well fit by either a toroidal field or a poloidal field of the form considered by us .",
    "the third field configuration shown ( panel c ) is a combination of a @xmath30 poloidal field and a near - surface toroidal field ( @xmath0 , @xmath47  the same field from panel ( b ) ) .",
    "this combination of fields yields a much better fit to this data set , with a reduced @xmath46 of 2.8 .",
    "using a surface toroidal field instead of a poloidal field does not fit the data as well , although it is an improvement over the fit in ( b ) , with a @xmath46 value of 3.5 .",
    "like the toroidal - only fit , the residuals are more or less without structure in @xmath25 , but show oscillatory behavior in frequency .",
    "the peak field strengths of the two fields are 133  g and 368  g for the poloidal and toroidal fields , respectively .",
    "the residuals from this fit can be fit by a toroidal field centered at @xmath48 , so in panel ( d ) we show the best fit to the data : a @xmath30 poloidal field with two toroidal fields , one centered at @xmath0 and another centered at @xmath48 .",
    "both toroidal fields are @xmath37 fields and have widths @xmath36 .",
    "the poloidal field has a peak field strength at the surface of @xmath49  g , while the toroidal fields have peak field strengths of @xmath3  g and @xmath50  kg , respectively .",
    "the reduced @xmath46 of this fit is 1.7 .",
    "attempts to fit the data with a single toroidal field which occupies the same region as the two field in this fit did not yield a good fit  the data seem to require a double peaked field .",
    "figure [ fig : fit_a2_a4 ] shows the @xmath38 splitting coefficients for two different data sets ( # 2224 and # 3160 ) , and the same models shown in fig .  [ fig : fit_high ] panel ( d ) .",
    "the errors on the data are large compared to the signal  thus the normalized residuals are comparable to those for the @xmath8 coefficients , but some other field configurations also fit the @xmath38 coefficients equally well , so we do not use them to constrain the field configurations or determine the field strengths .",
    "having fit the high activity set , we repeat the fits for all 56 sets in our study . figure [ fig : fit_all ] shows fits of the same @xmath30 poloidal plus toroidal field combination to six representative mode sets , covering the rise and fall of solar cycle 23 .",
    "the first set , # 1216 , is the first 72-day mode set from the mdi program , and is a low activity set .",
    "two rising phase sets are shown , # 2224 and # 2728 , with 10.7  cm fluxes of 131.4  sfu and 187.3  sfu , respectively .",
    "the high activity set from fig .",
    "[ fig : fit_high ] is shown , and a declining phase set ( # 3952 , @xmath51 ) and a set from the current minimum ( # 4744 ) . for all sets , the same combination of poloidal and toroidal fields",
    " but with differing field strengths  was found to be the best fit .",
    "the residuals show the same structure with frequency .",
    "no mode set in our study is well fit by any magnetic field at the base of the convection zone . for low activity sets ( 10.7  cm flux of less than 100  sfu )",
    ", we can find an upper bound on the field that could be present in the data .",
    "for a field centered at the base of the convection zone with @xmath37 and @xmath52 , we find that a fields of up to 300  kg can be fit to the data , although this is an upper limit , not a detection , since the models of that field strength or lower give the same @xmath46 as a zero field strength model . at high activity ,",
    "the dominant signal is from the surface , which we have attempted to explain with magnetic fields located in those layers .",
    "the field strengths of the poloidal and shallow toroidal field fits to all 56 sets used in this study are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : strength ] . also shown in this figure is the ratio of the poloidal field strength to the @xmath0 toroidal field strength . with the exception of the low activity sets at the beginning and end of the solar cycle , where the uncertainty in the fits is relatively large",
    ", the ratio between the poloidal and toroidal field strengths is roughly constant .",
    "the field strengths from fig .",
    "[ fig : strength ] are correlated with global activity indices from solar cycle 23 .",
    "the correlation coefficients are 0.90 , 0.93 , and 0.92 for the poloidal and two toroidal field components , respectively . in fig .",
    "[ fig : activity ] , we plot the toroidal and poloidal field strengths as a function of one such global index , the 10.7  cm radio flux .",
    "the field strengths prove to be highly correlated with activity , although there is a hysteresis - like effect evident in the toroidal field strengths  the rising phase ( shown in blue ) is weaker than the declining phase fields .",
    "the same effect may also be present at low activity in the poloidal field strengths .",
    "the poloidal field strengths do seem to saturate at high activity .",
    "the strengths of the two toroidal fields are extremely well correlated .",
    "we have attempted to use the first even order splitting coefficient ( @xmath8 ) to infer the configuration and strength of the sun s internal magnetic fields over the course of solar cycle 23 , assuming that the entire signature in @xmath8 after correction for rotation effects is magnetic and that the fields are axisymmetric .",
    "the field that we have found is a combination of poloidal field and a double - peaked near - surface toroidal field .",
    "the strengths of the poloidal and toroidal components , at least for high activity period , are well correlated .",
    "the relative strengths of the two toroidal fields are also extremely well correlated .",
    "although the fits we have shown are the best fit to the data from the grid of models that we have computed , we can say nothing about the uniqueness of these fits over the set of all possible magnetic field configurations in the solar interior . in particular",
    ", the choice of radial profile of the toroidal fields is virtually limitless , and by restricting our work to profiles of the form ( [ tor ] ) , we have limited our search to a restricted class of fields .",
    "it is possible that there are fields we did not consider with quite different radial and latitudinal distributions which fit the data as well as the fields we have presented as best fits . in addition , as noted above , it is not strictly correct to add the splitting coefficient perturbations together as we have done without explicitly accounting for the perturbations arising from the cross terms .",
    "we do not expect , however , these corrections to be significant , and a full treatment of these corrections would be considered in a future work .    our inferred magnetic field does not change its latitudinal distribution over the course of the solar cycle .",
    "this is in part due to the fact that we are only fitting the @xmath8 coefficient ( as noted above , the higher order splittings had large errors ) , so our sampling of the interior is not really latitudinally sensitive .",
    "thus , we do not see a butterfly diagram in our magnetic fields .",
    "@xcite measured the surface toroidal component of the solar magnetic field over almost an entire 22-year cycle .",
    "the field they measure is roughly a tenth of the peak strength of our toroidal field . strictly speaking , however , we see no toroidal field at all at the surface",
    ", since in our inferred field , the field strength becomes zero precisely at @xmath53 .",
    "the peak strength that we measure , however , is only 700  km below the surface , and the field could penetrate the surface somewhat .",
    "@xcite find a field which gives a @xmath54 at the surface at high activity , and drops to nothing at low activity , while we find a field that changes from @xmath55 at low activity to @xmath56 at high activity at a radius of @xmath57 ( a depth of approximately 700  km ) .",
    "recently , attention has been focused on the strength and configuration of the quiet sun surface magnetic field .",
    "@xcite reported the presence of a ` seething ' horizontal magnetic field with an rms field strength of 1.7  g. with the launch of hinode ( solar b ) , the high spatial resolution of the onboard spectropolarimeter has been used to study the horizontal fields of the solar photosphere . @xcite",
    "have measured the horizontal flux , which they find to be 55  g , compared to the average vertical flux of 11  g. @xcite found that the zonal component ( component in the east - west direction ) was much smaller than the radial component , reporting an inclination angle of less than @xmath58 from vertical in the east - west direction .",
    "the fields being studied in the aforementioned works are generally very tangled fields which thread through the intergranular lanes and so they are not axisymmetric fields .",
    "it is worthwhile to compare our results with theirs , since tangled fields on local scales can organize into roughly axisymmetric fields on global scales .",
    "however , the contribution to splittings are more sensitive to @xmath59 rather than @xmath60 and hence tangled field may also contribute to it , even when the average @xmath61 is very small .",
    "further , considering the general behavior of the perturbation to the mode frequencies , our inference about the location of required magnetic field is more robust as a different location will yield a very different behavior of splitting coefficients .",
    "the exact magnitude of the field may depend on the assumption of geometry and on it being tangled or large scale .",
    "nevertheless , we believe that our estimate is of the right order , though the statistical errorbars obtained by us may not be realistic .",
    "the systematic errors in these estimates would be certainly larger .",
    "the dominance of poloidal field orientation at the surface found by @xcite is found in our own results  at the surface , the toroidal field is weak or vanishing , but the poloidal field remains . in the period analyzed by @xcite",
    ", we find a poloidal field strength of 40  g , and a toroidal field of 90  g at a depth of 700  km . the vertical flux they find ( 11  g ) is weaker than what we detect , but their 55  g horizontal flux may be roughly consistent with our toroidal field .",
    "@xcite found that the dipole moment of the surface magnetic field , measured from mdi magnetograms , was half the strength in 2008 that it was in 1997 , during the last solar minimum .",
    "we do not see such a difference from the beginning of our period to the end  in fact , we find the poloidal field strength is slightly higher during the current minimum , although the level of the difference is within the errors , and our data sets end in 2007 , so the comparison is not contemporaneous .",
    "hysteresis in the relations between activity indices has been observed before , for example in the relation between low degree @xcite and intermediate degree @xcite acoustic modes and global magnetic indices .",
    "it should be noted that an analysis of a full solar cycle s worth of intermediate degree @xmath22-modes data does not show any hysteresis in mean frequencies as a function of 10.7  cm flux @xcite .",
    "@xcite noted that , among the global mode indices , the relation between global line - of - sight magnetic flux and 10.7  cm radio flux showed a hysteresis effect , but the relation between the radiative indices and 10.7  cm flux did not .",
    "@xcite argued that the observed hysteresis could be almost entirely due to the latitudinal distribution of magnetic flux on the surface of the sun .",
    "we believe that this is a compelling explanation for the hysteresis that we find .",
    "the 10.7  cm flux is the integrated flux received at the earth and does not contain any information about the latitudinal variation , while the @xmath8 splitting coefficient is associated with definite latitudinal variation , given by @xmath62 @xcite , and hence the two would not be the same .",
    "more importantly , we expect the actual magnetic fields in the near surface layers to drift equatorward  as the surface fields do .",
    "few conclusions can really be drawn from this work with respect to dynamo theory since the fields we have inferred are predominantly shallow fields , whereas most dynamo models operate much deeper down , in the shear layer at and below the base of the convection zone .",
    "( some useful recent reviews include * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the upper limits that we place on fields at that depth are consistent with earlier helioseismic results ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "many deep - seated dynamo mechanisms predict an anticorrelation between the poloidal and toroidal field components , as the dynamo converts poloidal to toroidal field and toroidal field back to poloidal .",
    "we do not see any evidence of such conversion .",
    "some dynamo mechanisms , however , operate in the near - surface shear layer ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "although the fields generated in these models are generally extremely tangled , on global scales these fields can have toroidal and poloidal components ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in particular , although they were considering a more rapidly rotating star than the sun , @xcite noted that their field contained both a poloidal and a toroidal component , and that the toroidal component was much the stronger of the two .",
    "this work utilizes data from the solar oscillations investigation/ michelson doppler imager ( soi / mdi ) on the solar and heliospheric observatory ( soho ) .",
    "soho is a project of international cooperation between esa and nasa .",
    "mdi is supported by nasa grants nag5 - 8878 and nag5 - 10483 to stanford university .",
    "this work was partially supported by nsf grants atm 0348837 and atm 0737770 to sb .",
    "cb is supported by a nasa earth and space sciences fellowship nnx08ay41h .",
    "baldner , c.  s. , basu , s. , & larson , t.  p.  2008 , in asp conf .",
    "ser .  gong 2008/soho xxi meeting on solar - stellar dynamos as revealed by helio - and asteroseismology , ed .",
    "dikpati , m. , gonzalez - hernandez , i. , arentoft , t. , & hill , f. , in press          brown , b.  p. , browning , m.  k. , brun , a.  s. , miesch , m.  s. , nelson , n.  j. , & toomre , j.  2007 , in aip conf .",
    "948 , unsolved problems in stellar physics : a conference in honor of douglas gough , ed .",
    "stancliffe , r.  j. , houdek , g. , martin , r.  g. , & tout , c.  a. , 271"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> normal modes of oscillation of the sun are useful probes of the solar interior . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we use the even - order splitting coefficients to study the evolution of magnetic fields in the convection zone over solar cycle 23 , assuming that the frequency splitting is only due to rotation and a large scale magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the data are best fit by a combination of a poloidal field and a double - peaked near - surface toroidal field . </S>",
    "<S> the toroidal fields are centered at @xmath0 and @xmath1 and are confined to the near - surface layers . </S>",
    "<S> the poloidal field is a dipole field . </S>",
    "<S> the peak strength of the poloidal field is @xmath2  g. the toroidal field peaks at @xmath3  g and @xmath4  kg for the shallower and deeper fields respectively . </S>",
    "<S> the field strengths are highly correlated with surface activity . </S>",
    "<S> the toroidal field strength shows a hysteresis - like effect when compared to the global 10.7 cm radio flux . </S>",
    "<S> the poloidal field strength shows evidence of saturation at high activity . </S>"
  ]
}