{
  "article_text": [
    "it is not yet established what is the dominant process that disperses the gaseous component of the discs around young stars .",
    "what is clear observationally is that evidence of gas accretion onto stars , together with infrared / submm diagnostics associated with small dust grains entrained in the gas , disappear in young stars at an average age of a few myr ( haisch , lada & lada 2001 ) .",
    "this figure needs to be interpreted as an _ average _ figure since clearly individual stars may lose their discs on timescales that differ from this by at least a factor three ( armitage , clarke & palla 2003 ) .",
    "it is equally clear , based on the relatively few systems observed in a state of transition between disc possessing and discless status , that the timescale for disc dispersal ( specifically the timescale over which regions of the disc are optically thin in the infrared ) is much shorter than the overall disc lifetime ( skrutskie et al .",
    "1990 , kenyon & hartmann 1995 , duvert et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the fact that transition discs are relatively rare ( constituting around @xmath4 of the population of young stars with discs ) is however an observational hindrance when it comes to establishing the mechanism for disc clearing : transition discs appear to be a rather heterogeneous class of objects and it is hard to classify their diversity when the number of well studied objects in nearby star forming regions is still in single figures . an important feature of many transition discs , however , is that their spectral energy distributions are best fit by inner holes in the disc ( these holes are not necessarily devoid of dust , but there is a large contrast in surface density between the outer disc and inner cavity ) .",
    "although an obvious mechanism for the disappearance of dust diagnostics in discs is the simple coagulation of grains into entities that are large compared with the wavelength of observation ( dullemond & dominik 2005 ) , this scenario does not of itself explain why , in general , there is a correlation between the disappearance of dust and gas accretion diagnostics .",
    "moreover , it is not obvious why dust coagulation should create a well defined inner hole structure rather than homogeneous depletion at all radii ( although models combining grain growth with photophoresis - once the inner disc is optically thin to visible light in the radial direction - are promising in this regard ; krauss et al . 2007 ) .",
    "the two leading disc dispersal mechanisms that satisfy these considerations are the formation of giant planets and photoevaporation .",
    "both these mechanisms create an inner hole in the disc and also disrupt the accretion flow onto the star to some extent . in the case of photoevaporation",
    ", inner hole creation is succeeded by the rapid clearing of the outer disc thereafter . in the case of planet formation",
    ", clearing of the outer disc requires further planet formation at larger radii , i.e. the relative scarcity of transition discs argues that planet formation at one radius is rather rapidly followed by a wave of successive planet formation events in the outer disc ( armitage & hansen 1999 ) .",
    "some attempts have been made to classify whether individual transition discs are likely to be generated by planet formation or photoevaporation ( najita et al .",
    "2007 , alexander & armitage 2007 , alexander 2008 , cieza et al .",
    "2008 , kim et al .",
    "2009 ) based on estimates of the accretion rate and disc mass .",
    "these analyses are however based on extreme ultraviolet ( euv ) photoevaporation models ( hollenbach et al .",
    "1994 , clarke et al .",
    "2001 , alexander , clarke & pringle 2006a , b ) which predict low accretion rates and disc masses in transition objects , in contrast to many of the observed systems .",
    "more recent models based on x - ray photoevaporation ( ercolano et al 2008 , 2009 , owen et al .",
    "2009 ) predict higher accretion rates and disc masses during transition and thus somewhat muddy the observational distinction between the two classes of disc dispersal mechanism .",
    "nevertheless it would appear clear that no single mechanism can explain all observed inner hole systems : for example , photoevaporation is incompatible with the predominantly high accretion rates in the sample of kim et al .",
    "( 2009 ) whereas a planet is perhaps an unlikely candidate for many of the objects contained in cieza et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , which have very large holes and low accretion rates .",
    "at this point it is perhaps worth noting - despite the obvious interest of observed transition objects - that they do not _ necessarily _ hold the key to the process that disperses the _ majority _ of discs around young stars .",
    "this is because objects observed in transition can in principle be a mixture of stars that spend a significant time in this state ( and must therefore be a minority of all young stars on statistical grounds ) and a general population of ` typical ' young stars that must pass through such a transition quickly .",
    "( the argument that some fairly abrupt end to a disc s lifetime is required is well illustrated by considering what would happen if a disc merely continued to accrete onto the central star as a result of viscous evolution - the observed accretion rates , ages and disc masses of t tauri stars would imply that integrated forward in time they would remain optically thick for @xmath5myr and then would linger for a comparable period as partially cleared systems ) .",
    "therefore - regardless of what process explains the bulk of observed transition discs - we also need to decide what is the mechanism that terminates the lifetime of the majority of disc bearing young stars .    in this paper",
    "we therefore take a different approach to discriminating between planet formation and photoevaporation as the prime disc dispersal mechanism , by instead considering the _ metallicity dependence _ of these two processes .",
    "although most studies of circumstellar discs have currently been undertaken in regions with a rather low range of metallicities , the advent of the herschel space observatory and later the james webb space telescope raises the prospect of being able to conduct disc censuses in more distant regions whose metallicity differs considerably from that of star forming regions in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "such studies are already possible in the extreme outer galaxy ( eog ) with current instrumentation as demonstrated by the recent work of yasui et al .",
    "( 2009 ) which we will discuss in more detail later .",
    "our focus here will not be on the nature of the ( in any case rare ) transition objects , but will instead centre on how the _ mean disc lifetime is expected to vary with metallicity in these two scenarios_. to this end we combine simple models for disc viscous evolution with ( metallicity dependent ) photoevaporation and also with semi - analytic prescriptions for planet formation ( section 2 ) .",
    "we will show that in the photoevaporation model the disc lifetime is a mildly increasing function of metallicity , resulting from the rather higher photoevaporation rates in the case of low metallicity gas for which opacities are lower and line cooling less efficient . on the other hand ,",
    "the disc lifetime is a strongly decreasing function of metallicity in the case that disc clearing is initiated by planet formation .",
    "this is simply because at higher metallicity the assumed higher surface density of planetesimals in the disc encourages the more rapid formation of a gas giant planet , specifically because it accelerates the formation of a rocky core of the critical mass required to initiate the accretion of a gaseous envelope .",
    "this is borne out , for example , by the hydrodynamical models of gas giant formation of pollack et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and hubickyj et al .",
    "this positive link between metallicity and planet formation has been noted by a number of authors ( e.g. ida & lin 2004b ) as a possible explanation of the observed increase in the frequency of giant planets as a function of metallicity ( santos , israelian & mayor 2000 , 2001 , 2004 ; gonzalez et al .",
    "2001 ; sadakane et al .",
    "2002 ; heiter & luck 2003 ; laws et al . 2003",
    "; fischer & valenti 2005 ; santos et al . 2002 and references therein ) but has not been previously linked to the issue of disc lifetimes . in section 3",
    ", we revisit the connection between the frequency of giant planets and metallicity in the case of a hybrid model where planet formation takes place in the context of a nebula that is subject to metallicity dependent photoevaporation of the disc gas . since photoevaporation is more effective at low metallicities and thus reduces the disc lifetime , this strengthens the conclusion that planet formation is favoured at high metallicity .",
    "nevertheless , the additional ingredient of metallicity dependent photoevaporation is found to be a second order effect in determining the positive correlation between planet frequency and metallicity .",
    "we present our conclusions in section 4 .",
    "we consider the case where the gas in the disc ( initially with mass @xmath6 ) undergoes viscous accretion onto the central star . as a result of this secular evolution",
    ", the disc radius grows while the disc mass and the accretion rate onto the star decline with time .",
    "we here parameterise this process according to the similarity solutions that pertain in the case that the kinematic viscosity in the disc is a simple power law function of radius ( @xmath7 ; lynden - bell & pringle 1974 , hartmann et al 1998 ) .",
    "this is not likely to be a good description in detail since even in a simple @xmath8 disc model the viscosity is a function of both surface density and radius , depending on the dominant local opacity source ; yet further complications are introduced when more realistic prescriptions for angular momentum transport  involving the action of the magnetorotational instability or of self - gravitating torques are included ( e.g. armitage et al .",
    "2001 , clarke 2009 , rice & armitage 2009 , zhu et al 2009 , cossins et al .",
    "the prescription we use here however has the advantage of providing a simple analytic form such that the value of @xmath9 is linked to the power law index of the surface density profile ( i.e. over much of the radial range of the similarity solution , the disc s surface density is a power law @xmath10 ) .",
    "our choice of @xmath9 ( which fixes the power law exponents for the evolution of disc quantities ) is therefore observationally motivated by fits to the infrared spectral / submm energy distributions of young stars , which suggest @xmath11 ( andrews et al 2009 , kitamura et al 2002 , isella et al 2009 )        the appendix contains a heuristic derivation of the asymptotic form of the similarity solutions ; according to equation [ mdott ] the accretion rate declines as :    @xmath12    where @xmath13 is the initial disc scaling radius .",
    "such a power law decline obviously does not enable one to define a disc lifetime , since the timescale on which disc properties change by order unity is always of order the present age .",
    "we therefore need to introduce a further condition for disc dispersal . in the case",
    "that we invoke ( metallicity dependent ) photoevaporation , at a constant rate @xmath14 , then the disc disperses rapidly at the point that the accretion rate through the disc falls to @xmath15 .",
    "thus the disc lifetime against photoevaporation can be written :    @xmath16    at this point it becomes necessary to specify the source of the photoevaporative flow .",
    "until very recently it has been widely assumed that such a flow is mainly driven by the extreme ultraviolet ( euv ) photons from the central star .",
    "however we have recently shown that soft ( 0.1 - 1kev ) x - ray irradiation can drive powerful winds with typical mass loss rates of 10@xmath17 - 10@xmath18 m@xmath19/yr ( ercolano et al . , 2008b , 2009 ecd09 , owen et al . , 2009 ) .",
    "in the hydrostatic equilibrium model of ecd09 , x - rays from the central pre - main - sequence star ionise and heat the gas in the disc atmosphere ; the photoevaporation rate is estimated by assuming that gas that becomes hotter than the local escape temperature becomes unbound and escapes at the sound speed . in reality ,",
    "pressure gradients within the disc are such that a photoevaporative flow can in fact be initiated subsonically in deeper layers where the temperature is less than the escape speed .",
    "this produces even larger winds ( owen et al .",
    "2009 ) which exceed photoevaporation rates from euv radiation by two orders of magnitude .",
    "in fact , for strong x - ray emitters ( i.e. with @xmath20 erg s@xmath21 ) , these large flow rates are similar to the median accretion rates measured in t tauri stars ( natta et al .",
    "when one also takes account of the dispersion in x - ray luminosities among young stars ( preibisch et al .",
    "2005 , albacete - colombo et al .",
    "2007 ) and the associated range of expected photoevaporation rates , it then becomes plausible that - in the absence of competing disc dispersal mechanisms - the lifetime of gas discs in t tauri stars is terminated by x - ray powered photoevaporation .    with this in mind",
    ", we therefore use the metallicity dependence of the photoevaporation rate derived from our x - ray photoevaporation models .",
    "these employ the modeling strategy described by ercolano et al .",
    "( 2008b ) and ecd09 to obtain the temperature structure and photoevaporation rates for gaseous discs with a range of metallicities , spanning from 0.01 solar to twice solar .",
    "briefly , this involves the coupling of the 3d photoionisation and dust radiative transfer code mocassin ( ercolano et al .",
    "2003 , 2005 , 2006 , 2008a ) with an iterative solution of the hydrostatic equilibrium structure of the irradiated disc .",
    "our initial guess at the density distribution is the disc model of dalessio et al ( 2001 ) for a 4000  k 0.7  m@xmath19 pre - main sequence star surrounded by an optically thick flared circumstellar disc with an outer radius of 500  au and a total mass of 0.027  m@xmath19 .",
    "this structure is irradiated by an unscreened euv+x - ray spectrum ( see description in ecd09 ) .",
    "we refer to ecd09 for further details including the dust model and the irradiating spectrum .",
    "our solar abundance set is that of asplund et al .",
    "( 2005 ) depleted according to savage & sembach ( 1996 ) .",
    "the dust to gas ratio for the solar abundance case was set to 6.5@xmath2210@xmath23 ( see discussion in ecd09 ) . for models of different metallicity ,",
    "the dust to gas ratio and the abundances of metals were multiplied by ( z / z@xmath19 ) .",
    "as noted above , we estimate the photoevaporation rates by assuming that a sonic flow is launched from regions where the temperature exceeds the local escape temperature . our preliminary hydrodynamic calculations ( owen et al .",
    "2009 ) suggest that this may under - estimate the total mass flow rates , although we do not expect this to have a large effect on the relative scaling with metallicity .",
    "the left panel of figure  [ f : mods ] shows the dependance of the total photoevaporation rates on metallicity , m@xmath24 , which can be approximated by a power - law of index -0.77 .",
    "the model data points shown in the left panel of this figure were obtained using the approach described above , which involved rerunning model fs0h2lx1 from the set described by ecd09 for the appropriate metallicities and dust - to - gas ratios .",
    "the corresponding photoevapoaration timescales , shown in the right panel , were then obtained by substituting these numerical values of m@xmath25 in equation a10 .",
    "the resulting timescales were then normalised such that a lifetime of 2  myr is obtained at solar metallicities .",
    "the increasing x - ray photoevaporation rates at lower metallicity can be readily understood by looking at the gas temperature distributions in the disc for the different metallicity cases that are shown in figure  [ f : temps ] .",
    "the reduced extinction in the low metallicity cases allows high density gas at larger columns to be ionised and heated to temperatures sufficiently high for the gas to be entrained into a photoevaporative flow .",
    "other metallicity - dependent effects are also present and work in the same direction ( i.e. lower metallicity = higher gas temperatures ) , but they play a secondary role . these effects are listed here for completeness : a low metallicity implies a reduced cooling by fine structure lines of ions and neutrals ( such as [ o  i ] and [ c  ii ] , e.g. ercolano et al .",
    "2008b ) , which leads to higher temperatures in the x - ray heated disc atmosphere , as particularly evident in the right panel of figure  [ f : temps ] .",
    "also a lower dust to gas ratio means that the gas experiences a reduced competition from the dust grains for the absorption of the energetic photons and that the dust - gas collisional cooling term , which may provide a significant contribution at the base of the photoevaporative envelope , is reduced at lower metallicities .",
    "we emphasise however that by far the dominant mechanism here is the reduced opacity which increases the penetration column of the ionising radiation .",
    "it is worth noting at this point that such a large effect is not expected to occur for gas ionised by euv only .",
    "x - ray photons are mainly absorbed by the inner shells of the more abundant heavy elements in the gas and dust ( e.g. oxygen , carbon etc . ) while for euv photons by far the largest source of opacity is hydrogen , which is not affected by changes in metallicity ( although a reduction in the dust - to - gas ratio would still reduce the total euv opacity ) .",
    "we also note that a photoevaporation process based on far - ultraviolet ( fuv ) irradiation , would also follow a different dependance on metallicity ( gorti & hollenbach 2009 ) .",
    "therefore _ the predicted metallicity dependance shown here pertains only to x - ray photoevaporated discs_.    when this metallicity dependent wind mass loss rate is combined with equation [ tphot ] one obtains the result that    @xmath26    since we do not expect the distribution of initial disc gas properties ( @xmath27 and @xmath13 ) to depend on metallicity , we thus deduce that the distribution of disc lifetimes in regions of different metallicity should scale with a z dependent factor , i.e.    @xmath28    this z dependence is rather weak , with a power law exponent of @xmath29 ( for @xmath30 ) and @xmath31 ( for @xmath32 ) .",
    "the right hand panel of figure [ f : mods ] is an illustrative example of the dependence on metallicity of the mean disc lifetime of a population of discs ( with @xmath30 ) that is normalised such that the mean disc lifetime for discs of solar metallicity is @xmath33myr .",
    "we emphasise that this normalisation is set by our assumptions about the disc s secular evolution timescale , as controlled by its equivalent viscous ` @xmath8 ' parameter ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) .",
    "we can readily adjust this quantity within a plausible range in order to reproduce an observationally reasonable mean disc lifetime .",
    "an increase in metallicity from solar to twice solar causes the disc lifetime to increase from @xmath32 to @xmath33.1  myr , and a decrease from solar to -0.7 dex solar , as in cloud 2 in the eog observations of yasui et al .",
    "2009 , produces a decrease in the disc lifetime from @xmath32 to @xmath30.7  myr , which is roughly consistent with the observed disc fractions .",
    "we now assume that disc dispersal is instead initiated by the formation of the first gas giant planet , as is a common interpretation of observed transition discs ( rice et al .",
    "2003 , setiawan et al .",
    "according to the core accretion model , the formation of a gas giant involves first the accumulation of a solid core of critical mass ( of order @xmath34 earth masses ) followed by the hydrodynamic accretion of gas from the surrounding disc ( pollack et al .",
    "this latter occurs on the kelvin helmholtz timescale of the planet , which is @xmath3 a myr for a @xmath35 earth mass planet and decreases strongly with increasing planet mass . for the purpose of our analytic estimates",
    "( following ida & lin 2004a ) we therefore assume that the limiting timescale in the creation of a gas giant planet ( i.e. a roughly jupiter mass planet which can clear a gap in the disc ) is the time required to accumulate a core containing a critical mass of solids .",
    "in fact hydrodynamic calculations of planet formation paint a more complex picture in which the majority of the formation process is instead spent in a phase ( ` phase 2';hubickyj et al .",
    "2005 ) where the planet accretes a mixture of gas and planetesimals and where , depending on the properties of the background nebula , gas giants can form , albeit more slowly , with a core mass somewhat below the critical value mentioned above ( we discuss below how such considerations affect our conclusions ) .",
    "proceeding for now with our simple analytic estimate we evaluate the timescale needed to achieve a fixed critical core mass ( together with its scaling with metallicity ) , by using the analytic expression for the growth of solid core mass ( @xmath36 ) given in ida & lin ( 2004a , il04 ) :    @xmath37    where @xmath38 is the surface density of rocky planetesimals , and @xmath39 is the instantaneous local value of the gas surface density .",
    "we follow il04 by assuming that the planetesimal distribution is decoupled from the evolutionary processes that control the evolution of @xmath39 .",
    "we thus assume that a fixed fraction of the initial solid content of the disc forms a planetesimal disc whose radial profile follows the initial radial profile of the gas and that @xmath38 is then constant in time ( we thus neglect the depletion in @xmath38 due to the accretion of planetesimals during core growth ; this is acceptable to first order provided that the core is not close to achieving its isolation mass , an issue to which we return below . )",
    "we however ( see appendix ) differ from il04 in that we use the viscous similarity solutions to determine the time dependence of @xmath39 rather than adopting an ad hoc exponential reduction in the gas surface density . solving equation [ mct2 ] and requiring that the core mass attains a fixed value for runaway gas accretion ( see appendix ) then implies a formation timescale :    @xmath40    since this timescale is an increasing function of radius , it follows that planet formation is first favoured at small radius .",
    "however this effect is counteracted by two effects that favour core growth at larger radius .",
    "firstly , the sticking efficiency of planetesimals increases once the radius at which ice sublimes ( @xmath41 ) is exceeded ( hayashi 1981 , pollack et al 1994 ) .",
    "secondly , it is necessary that a critical core mass can form without consuming all the planetesimals in its ` feeding zone ' .",
    "this latter is often assumed to be an annular region around the core with width related to the hill radius of the core ( i.e. of width that scales linearly with orbital radius ) .",
    "thus the radius ( @xmath42 ) at which a core of critical mass just consumes all the planetesimals in its feeding zone obeys a scaling of the form    @xmath43    i.e. @xmath44    therefore if @xmath45 ( i.e. if the minimum radius for planet formation is set by ice sublimation rather than feeding zone considerations ) we have :    @xmath46    alternatively , if @xmath47 we substitute [ atg2_p ] into [ tform_p ] and obtain    @xmath48    we thus see that these planet formation timescales are highly z dependent , in the sense that planet formation is faster in discs with higher metallicity . for @xmath30 and @xmath32 equation [ tformmin1_p ] implies that the planet formation timescale scales either with @xmath49 or @xmath50 , while [ tformmin2_p ] implies scaling either with @xmath51 or @xmath52 ! \" .",
    "this extreme level of z dependence is almost certainly an artifact of the fact that we have assumed that the timescale for giant planet formation is completely controlled by the timescale for solid core growth .",
    "it is also worth mentioning that this very steep scaling stems from the fact that the prescription for core growth ( ida & lin 2004a ; equation  5 above ) involves a dependence on gas density ; physically , this accounts for the fact that gas drag reduces the velocity dispersion of the planetesimals and hence increases the core s accretion cross section due to gravitational focusing ( kokubo & ida 2002 ) .",
    "we assume that the disc gas surface density declines as a power law due to viscous evolution and thus the core grows as a low power of time .",
    "thus the time required to achieve a given core mass is a strong function of the normalisation of the solid mass .",
    "this is not necessarily incorrect and is in this respect probably more realistic than models of core accretion which adopt a temporally constant background gas surface density ( to date such models either keep this quantity constant or introduce a linear decline to zero over @xmath53 myr ; lissauer et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "we now turn to the results of hydrodynamic models of planet formation and see to what degree the limited range of available models in fact support our estimates above .",
    "these models demonstrate two effects : increasing the surface density of solids decreases the timescale for planet formation , in qualitative agreement with the arguments above .",
    "another factor in the opposite direction is that at higher metallicity the opacity of the accreting gaseous envelope is increased ; this slows the contraction of the envelope and thus slows down gas accretion .",
    "( note that our simple model above only considers the time needed to acquire a critical solid core mass and does not consider the subsequent time spent in acquiring a similar mass in gas which is considerable in the hydrodynamic calculations ; hubickyj et al .",
    "nevertheless , it is found that the acceleration of planet formation due to enhanced planetesimal surface density is a much stronger effect than the retarding effect of increased opacity .",
    "for example , hubickyj et al . found that the time to form a gas giant increases by around a factor three if the dust opacity is boosted by a factor fifty ( see also ayliffe & bate 2009 ) ; on the other hand a modest increase of the planetesimals surface density by a factor @xmath54 reduces the formation timescale by a factor six .",
    "thus the simulations support our qualitative conclusion that the net effect of increasing the metallicity is to strongly decrease the formation timescale of giant planets    more detailed comparison is not really warranted given the fact that the choice of simulations performed was motivated by different scientific questions than the one we ask here .",
    "we are interested in the time required to form a planet at given metallicity _ anywhere _ in the disc . since we have imposed a hard requirement that the growing protoplanet should achieve a fixed core mass , we exclude planet formation in inner regions of the disc where the isolation mass is less than this critical value ; in our prescription we first form a planet at a larger radius where the formation timescale is longer .",
    "evidently this slows down planet formation at low metallicity .",
    "the hydrodynamical calculations are instead motivated by creating jupiter at a particular radial location . in low",
    "metallicity runs planet formation takes longer because the forming protoplanet has to ` make do ' with a lower core mass and this then greatly increases the timescale for accreting a comparable mass of gas . in a real disc both",
    "these effects would come into play and it is not clear whether , under these circumstances , the first planet to form is at larger radius ( where the core mass is higher but the core accumulation timescale is longer ) or at smaller radius where the bottleneck is instead the slow accumulation of gas onto a smaller mass rock core .",
    "what is important to our discussion is that both effects are in the same direction and imply a strong ( negative ) dependence of planet formation timescale on planetesimal surface density ( and thus implicitly metallicity ) .    if the majority of protoplanetary discs dispersed due to planet formation then a disc census in a lower metallicity region , such as cloud 2 in the eog , would yield much longer disc lifetimes than those derived in the solar neighbourhood",
    "this is in contradiction with the recent observations of yasui et al .",
    "( 2009 ) who find disc lifetimes shorter than 1  myr , compared to the few myr found in the solar neighbourhood ( e.g. haisch et al .",
    "as the list of exoplanets discovered in the solar neighbourhood continues to grow , statistical significance is lent to the observation that solar type stars hosting giant planets are on average more metal - rich than field stars ( santos , israelian & mayor 2000 , 2001 , 2004 ; gonzalez et al . 2001 ; sadakane et al .",
    "2002 ; heiter & luck 2003 ; laws et al .",
    "2003 ; fischer & valenti 2005 ; santos et al . 2002 and references therein ) .",
    "while the origin of this metallicity excess has been the object of much debate in the literature , with the two main scenarios being `` primordial '' or `` external '' enrichment , there is a growing consensus that metal rich gaseous discs are a more favourable environment for the formation of the rocky cores required by core accretion models ( e.g. ida & lin , 2004a ) .    the phenomenological simulations of gas giant planet formation of il04 ( whose assumptions imply , as we showed above , a strong reduction in planet formation timescale with metallicity ) demonstrated a statistical preference for planet formation and survival in discs with a high ratio of solids to gas",
    ". if one ignores the possibility of stellar surface contamination then the solid to gas ratio simply scales with the metallicity of the central star .",
    "such simulations therefore reproduce the observed positive correlation between the incidence of planets and stellar metallicity .",
    "indeed , to zeroth order , the result results of il04 can be understood by adopting their prescription for core growth ( equation [ mct ] ) and deriving the region of parameter space of initial conditions , at given z , that lead to the creation of a critical mass core .",
    "wyatt , clarke & greaves ( 2007 ) showed that this is roughly equivalent to thresholding the disc mass distribution at a fixed mass in solids ; they showed that , using the _ observed _ disc mass distribution ( andrews & williams 2005 ) one can reproduce the observed dependence of planet frequency on metallicity under this simple assumption .",
    "as noted above , the models of il04 omitted viscous evolution of the disc gas and instead depleted the gas on an adjustable global e - folding timescale .",
    "moreover , they included no hard cut - off in disc gas lifetimes as would result from photoevaporation .",
    "we here therefore revisit this issue under the assumption that the lifetime of the disc gas is terminated by ( metallicity dependent ) photoevaporation . in the context of our analysis in section 2",
    ", we can readily establish which sets of disc initial parameters should lead to giant planet formation by looking at the subset of models for which @xmath55 ( equations [ tphot2 ] , [ tformmin1_p ] , [ tformmin2_p ] ) .",
    "we then obtain the criteria :    @xmath56    if @xmath45 and    @xmath57    if @xmath58 .",
    "@xmath59 and @xmath60 are constants .",
    "we thus obtain the expected result that a higher threshold gas mass is required at low metallicities ; therefore if we make the reasonable assumption that the disc gas _ mass _ distribution should be independent of metallicity one recovers the qualitative result that the incidence of giant planets should increase with metallicity . in order to quantify this ,",
    "one of course has to make specific assumptions about the form of the distributions of initial disc masses and radii ( wyatt et al .",
    "2007 ) . here",
    ", however , our interest lies elsewhere : we just want to discover whether the particular aspect of metallicity dependent photoevaporation rates is an important factor in driving this relationship . to this end",
    "we compare the powers of z in equations [ pform1_p ] and [ pform2_p ] that would result from the case that the photoevaporation rate was independent of z ( i.e. @xmath15 = constant ) with the power of z in the case that we employ our x - ray derived value @xmath61 .",
    "for @xmath30 we find that this changes the power of z in equation [ pform1_p ] from @xmath62 to @xmath63 and in equation [ pform2_p ] from @xmath64 to @xmath65 .",
    "this therefore implies that the metallicity dependence of the photoevaporation rate has a rather minor part to play in explaining the observed positive correlation between planet frequency and stellar metallicity .",
    "this can be readily understood inasmuch as we have already seen ( equation [ tphot ] ) that the disc lifetime is not expected to be a strong function of metallicity in this case and thus this does not in itself have a large impact on the planet producing capacity of a disc .",
    "we have shown that the study of disc lifetimes in regions of different metallicities can be used as a powerful discriminant between the two currently leading models of disc dispersal ",
    "photoevaporation and planet formation . by means of detailed thermal and photoionisation calculations",
    "we have determined that a disc s lifetime against photoevaporation is a shallow positive power of metallicity , @xmath2 .",
    "this metallicity dependance is specific to a photoevaporation mechanism driven mainly by x - ray radiation as it relies on the significant reduction of the gas opacities with metallicity .",
    "we have also shown that , on the contrary , a disc dispersal mechanism based on planet formation yields disc lifetimes that are a strong negative power of @xmath0 .",
    "therefore , a census of disc fractions in regions of lower metallicities compared to the solar neighbourhood will be crucial to determine which is the dominant mechanism responsible for the rapid demise of protoplanetary discs .",
    "recent observations of embedded clusters in cloud 2 of the extreme outer galaxy ( eog ) presented by yasui et al .",
    "( 2009 , ys09 ) indeed find shorter disc lifetimes for this metal poor environment ( [ o / h]@xmath3 - 0.7 dex ) , compared to the solar neighbourhood .",
    "these results are in agreement with the predictions of an x - ray+euv photoevaporation model , and argue against planet formation as the dominant dispersal mechanism .    ys09 quote a mass detection limit of 0.1  m@xmath19 for cloud2 in the eog using the 8.2 m _",
    "telescope , similar to values obtained for embedded clusters in the solar neighborhood with smaller ( 2 - 4 m class ) telescopes , and thus argue that a comparison of the disc fractions in embedded clusters in the eog with those of clusters in the solar neighbourhood is justified .",
    "further observations aimed at determining disc fractions in low metallicity regions of various ages would be very useful to confirm these important results .",
    "we finally show that , in the context of giant planet formation in the core accretion scenario , the effect of metallicity dependent photoevaporation is to strengthen the conclusion that planet formation is favoured in high metallicity environments since the lifetime of the disc against photoevaporation ( @xmath1 ) is a positive function of z. this effect , however , only plays a secondary role : the main process that favours planet formation at high metallicity is simply the faster core growth in the case of a high surface density of solids in the disc .",
    "we thank the reviewer , jane greaves , for helpful suggestions that improved the clarity of this paper .",
    "we also thank mike meyers and stephane udry for helpful discussions .",
    "be was supported by a science and technology facility council advanced fellowship .",
    "this work was performed using the darwin supercomputer of the university of cambridge high performance computing service ( http://www.hpc.cam.ac.uk/ ) , provided by dell inc . using strategic research infrastructure funding from the higher education funding council for england .",
    "albacete colombo , j.  f. , flaccomio , e. , micela , g. , sciortino , s. , & damiani , f.  2007 , a&a , 464 , 211    alexander , r.  d. , clarke , c.  j. , & pringle , j.  e.  2006a , mnras , 369 , 216    alexander , r.  d. , clarke , c.  j. , & pringle , j.  e.  2006b , mnras , 369 , 229    alexander , r.  d. , & armitage , p.  j.  2007 , mnras , 375 , 500    alexander , r.  2008 , new astronomy review , 52 , 60    andrews , s.  m. , & williams , j.  p.  2005 , apj , 631 , 1134    andrews , s. , wilner , d. , hughes , a. , qi , c. , dullemond , c. , 2009 , apj700,1502    armitage , p.  j. , clarke , c.  j. , & palla , f.  2003 , mnras , 342 , 1139    armitage , p. & hansen , b. , 1999 , nature 402,633    armitage , p.  j. , livio , m. , & pringle , j.  e.  2001 , mnras , 324 , 705    asplund , m. , grevesse , n. , & sauval , a.  j.  2005 , cosmic abundances as records of stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis , 336 , 25    ayliffe , b. , bate , m. 2009 , mnras393,49 cieza , l.  a. , swift , j.  j. , mathews , g.  s. , & williams , j.  p.  2008 ,",
    "apjl , 686 , l115    clarke , c.  j. , gendrin , a. , & sotomayor , m.  2001 , mnras , 328 , 485    clarke , c.  j.  2009 , mnras , 396 , 1066    cossins , p. , lodato , g. , & clarke , c.  j.  2009 , mnras , 393 , 1157    currie , t. , lada , c.  j. , plavchan , p. , robitaille , t.  p. , irwin , j. , & kenyon , s.  j.  2009 , apj , 698 , 1    drake , j.  j. , ercolano , b. , flaccomio , e. , & micela , g.  2009 , apjl , 699 , l35    dullemond , c.  p. , & dominik , c.  2005 , a&a , 434 , 971    duvert , g. , guilloteau , s. , mnard , f. , simon , m. , & dutrey , a.  2000 , a&a , 355 , 165    ercolano , b. , barlow , m.  j. , storey , p.  j. , & liu , x .- w .  2003 , mnras , 340 , 1136    ercolano , b. , barlow , m.  j. , & storey , p.  j.  2005 , mnras , 362 , 1038    ercolano , b. , & storey , p.  j.  2006 , mnras , 372 , 1875    ercolano , b. , young , p.  r. , drake , j.  j. , & raymond , j.  c.  2008a , apjs , 175 , 534    ercolano , b. , drake , j.  j. , raymond , j.  c. , & clarke , c.  c.  2008b , apj , 688 , 398    ercolano , b. , clarke , c.  j. , & drake , j.  j.  2009 , apj , 699 , 1639    fischer , d.  a. , & valenti , j.  2005 , apj , 622 , 1102    gonzalez , a.  h. , zaritsky , d. , dalcanton , j.  j. , & nelson , a.  2001 , aps , 137 , 117    gorti , u. , & hollenbach , d.  2009 , apj , 690 , 1539    haisch , k.  e. , jr . , lada , e.  a. , & lada , c.  j.  2001 , apjl , 553 , l153    hartmann , l. , calvet , n. , gullbring , e. , & dalessio , p.  1998",
    ", apj , 495 , 385    hayashi , c. , 1981 , prog .",
    "theor . physics .",
    "suppl . , 70,35    heiter , u. , & luck , r.  e.  2003 , aj , 126 , 2015    hollenbach , d. , johnstone , d. , lizano , s. , & shu , f.  1994 , apj , 428 , 654    hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. , & lissauer , j.  j.  2005 , icarus , 179 , 415    ida , s. , & lin , d.  n.  c.  2004a , apj , 604 , 388    ida , s. , & lin , d.  n.  c.  2004b , apj , 616 , 567    isella , a. , carpenter , j. , sargent , a. , 2009 , apj701,260    johansen , a. , youdin , a. & mac low , m .- m .",
    "arxiv:0909.0259    kenyon , s.  j. , & hartmann , l.  1995 , aps , 101 , 117    kim , k.  h. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 700 , 1017    kitamura , y. , momose , m. , yokogawa , s. , kawabe , r. , tamura , m. , ida , s. , 2002 , apj , 581,357    kokubo , e , ida , s. , 2002 , apj , 581,666    krauss , o. , wurm , g. , mousis , o. , petit , j .-",
    "horner , j. , & alibert , y.  2007 , a&a , 462 , 977    laws , c. , gonzalez , g. , walker , k.  m. , tyagi , s. , dodsworth , j. , snider , k. , & suntzeff , n.  b.  2003 , aj , 125 , 2664    lissauer , j.  j. , hubickyj , o. , dangelo , g. , & bodenheimer , p.  2009 , icarus , 199 , 338    lubow , s.  h. , seibert , m. , & artymowicz , p.  1999",
    ", apj , 526 , 1001    lynden - bell , d. , & pringle , j.  e.  1974 , mnras , 168 , 603    najita , j.  r. , strom , s.  e. , & muzerolle , j.  2007 , mnras , 378 , 369    natta , a. , testi , l. , & randich , s.  2006 , a&a , 452 , 245    owen , j.  e. , ercolano , b. , clarke , c.  j. , & alexander , r.  d. 2009 , mnras , in press , arxiv:0909.4309    pollack , j. , hollenbach , d. , beckwith , s. , simonelli , d. , roush , t. , fong , w. , 1994 , apj421,615    pollack , j.  b. , hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. , lissauer , j.  j. , podolak , m. , & greenzweig , y.  1996 , icarus , 124 , 62    preibisch , t. , et al .",
    "2005 , aps , 160 , 401    pringle , j.  e.  1981 , annreva&a , 19 , 137    rice , w. & armitage , p. , 2009",
    ", mnras396,2228    rice , w.  k.  m. , wood , k. , armitage , p.  j. , whitney , b.  a. , & bjorkman , j.  e.  2003 , mnras , 342 , 79    sadakane , k. , ohkubo , m. , takeda , y. , sato , b. , kambe , e. , & aoki , w.  2002 , pasj , 54 , 911    santos , n.  c. , garca lpez , r.  j. , israelian , g. , mayor , m. , rebolo , r. , garca - gil , a. , prez de taoro , m.  r. , & randich , s.  2002 , a&a , 386 , 1028    santos , n.  c. , israelian , g. , & mayor , m.  2004 , a&a , 415 , 1153    santos , n.  c. , israelian , g. , & mayor , m.  2001 , a&a , 373 , 1019    santos , n.  c. , israelian , g. , & mayor , m.  2000 , a&a , 363 , 228    savage , b.  d. , & sembach , k.  r.  1996 , apj , 470 , 893    setiawan , j. , weise , p. , henning , t. , launhardt , r. , mller , a. , & rodmann , j.  2007 , apjl , 660 , l145    shakura , n.  i. , & sunyaev , r.  a.  1973 , a&a , 24 , 337    skrutskie , m.  f. , dutkevitch , d. , strom , s.  e. , edwards , s. , strom , k.  m. , & shure , m.  a.  1990 , aj , 99 , 1187    wyatt , m.  c. , clarke , c.  j. , & greaves , j.  s.  2007 , mnras , 380 , 1737    yasui , c. , kobayashi , n. , tokunaga , a.  t. , saito , m. , & tokoku , c.  2009 , arxiv:0908.4026    zhu , z. , hartmann , l. , & gammie , c.  2009 , apj , 694 , 1045",
    "in order to evaluate the metallicity dependence of giant planet formation , we need to establish how the background nebula evolves as a function of the initial conditions , i.e. the initial total disc mass in gas , @xmath27 , and the initial disc outer radius , @xmath13 .",
    "we assume that the evolution of the disc gas is governed by viscous evolution provided that the accretion rate through the disc exceeds the photoevaporation rate , @xmath15 , and that at this point the disc gas is dispersed , thus ruling out subsequent gas giant planet formation .",
    "we start by providing a heuristic derivation of the asymptotic evolution of a viscous disc ( see lynden - bell & pringle 1974 , hartmann et al 1998 ) in which the kinematic viscosity is a power law function of radius , i.e.      we first note that such a disc evolves through a sequence of discs with increasing radius , @xmath67 , and decreasing gas mass , @xmath68 , such that the total disc angular momentum is to first order conserved ( since the fraction of the total disc angular momentum that is advected onto the star is small ) .",
    "thus , since most of the disc s angular momentum resides at large radius , we have :      furthermore , the disc evolves on the viscous timescale at @xmath67 ; since this is long compared with the viscous timescale at radii @xmath70 , it follows that the disc at radii @xmath70 is in an approximately steady state , i.e. the accretion rate , @xmath71 , is independent of r. in this case , accretion disc theory ( e.g. pringle 1981 ) relates this ( at radii well away from the disc s inner edge ) to the kinematic viscosity and surface density , @xmath72 , via      it thus follows that the asymptotic form of the viscously evolving disc over much of its radial extent is in this case given by the power law @xmath74 .",
    "if we normalise this power law by the instantaneous values of the disc mass and radius we then obtain                                @xmath38 is the surface density of rocky planetesimals .",
    "we follow il04 by assuming that this distribution is decoupled from the evolutionary processes that control the evolution of @xmath39 .",
    "we thus assume that a fixed fraction of the initial solid content of the disc forms a disc whose radial profile follows the initial radial profile of the gas and that @xmath38 is then constant in time ( we thus neglect the depletion in @xmath38 due to the accretion of planetesimals during core growth ; this is acceptable to first order provided that the core is not close to achieving its isolation mass , an issue that we consider further below ) .",
    "thus              equation [ tform ] demonstrates that the formation timescale increases with increasing radius , as expected given the lower surface density and larger orbital timescale at larger radius .",
    "thus planet formation occurs first at the minimum radius that is allowed according to two further criteria .",
    "first of all , it is necessary that this radius is at least as large as the ice sublimation radius ( @xmath41 ) since the sticking efficiency of planetesimals is much lower in regions devoid of solid ice .",
    "secondly , it is necessary that a critical core mass can form without consuming all the planetesimals in its ` feeding zone ' .",
    "this latter is a region whose width is related to the hill radius of the core , and thus is a linear function of orbital radius .",
    "thus the radius ( @xmath42 ) at which a core of critical mass just consumes all the planetesimals in its feeding zone obeys a scaling of the form"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the lifetime of protoplanetary discs is intimately linked to the mechanism responsible for their dispersal . </S>",
    "<S> since the formation of planets within a disc must operate within the time frame of disc dispersal it is crucial to establish what is the dominant process that disperses the gaseous component of discs around young stars . </S>",
    "<S> planet formation itself as well as photoevaporation by energetic radiation from the central young stellar object have been proposed as plausible dispersal mechanisms . </S>",
    "<S> there is however still no consensus as what the dominant process may be . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we use the different metallicity dependance of x - ray photoevaporation and planet formation to discriminate between these two processes . </S>",
    "<S> we study the effects of metallicity , @xmath0 , on the dispersal timescale , @xmath1 , in the context of a photoevaporation model , by means of detailed thermal calculations of a disc in hydrostatic equilibrium irradiated by euv and x - ray radiation from the central source . </S>",
    "<S> our models show @xmath2 for a pure photoevaporation model . by means of analytical estimates </S>",
    "<S> we derive instead a much stronger _ negative _ power dependance on metallicity of the disc lifetime for a dispersal model based on planet formation </S>",
    "<S> .    a census of disc fractions in lower metallicity regions should therefore be able to distinguish between the two models . a recent study by yasui et al . </S>",
    "<S> in low metallicity clusters of the extreme outer galaxy ( [ o / h]@xmath3 - 0.7dex and dust to gas ratio of @xmath30.001 ) provides preliminary observational evidence for shorter disc lifetimes at lower metallicities , in agreement with the predictions of a pure photoevaporation model . while we do not exclude that planet formation may indeed be the cause of some of the observed discs with inner holes , these observational findings and the models and analysis presented in this work are consistent with x - ray photoevaporation as the dominant disc dispersal mechanism .    </S>",
    "<S> we finally develop an analytical framework to study the effects of metallicity dependent photoevaporation on the formation of gas giants in the core accretion scenario . </S>",
    "<S> we show that accounting for this effect strengthens the conclusion that planet formation is favoured at higher metallicity . </S>",
    "<S> we find however that the metallicity dependance of photoevaporation only plays a secondary role in this scenario , with the strongest effect being the positive correlation between the rate of core formation and the density of solids in the disc .    </S>",
    "<S> 9grs  1915 + 105 [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion discs : circumstellar matter- planetary systems : protoplanetary discs - stars : pre - main sequence </S>"
  ]
}