{
  "article_text": [
    "the innermost regions of accreting black holes and the underlying physics of the accretion process can be successfully studied using the x - ray spectra of black hole binaries . over the past years",
    ", such studies have revealed that galactic black hole binaries ( gbhbs ) radiate in various distinct spectral states characterised by the relative strength of their soft and hard x - ray emission ( mcclintock & remillard 2006 ) .",
    "the x - ray spectrum of black hole binary systems in their low - hard state is dominated by a powerlaw with relatively low luminosity ( @xmath50.05@xmath6 ; maccarone 2003 ) , a photon index @xmath7 in the range @xmath11.42 and an exponential cut - off at about 100 .",
    "this is in contrast with the high - soft state , where the spectrum is dominated by a quasi - black body component with a characteristic temperature of @xmath81 , and the highly luminous very  high state ( @xmath9@xmath1@xmath6 ) with a powerlaw component having a flux comparable to that of the soft blackbody . in the latter cases , the powerlaw does not show evidence for a high  energy roll - over .",
    "superimposed on the continuum is the presence of various reflection features ( ross & fabian 1993 ; miller 2007 ) with the dominant component being the fe-  emission line . in the inner regions of the accretion flow",
    "the reflection spectrum appears blurred due to the combination of various relativistic effects .",
    "the degree of gravitational blurring is strongly dependent on the inner radius of the reflecting material ( fabian et al .",
    "1989 ; laor 1991 ) .",
    "theoretically , the soft , quasi - black body component observed in the high - soft and very - high state is generally agreed to originate in a standard , optically thick , geometrically thin accretion disk ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) extending to the innermost stable circular orbit ( isco ) . for a non - rotating , schwarzschild , black hole",
    "this radius is equal to 6  where , and decreases to @xmath11.2  for a maximally - rotating , kerr black hole ( thorne 1974 ) .",
    "the powerlaw component dominating the x - ray spectra in the low - hard state , on the other hand , is believed to be produced by the inverse compton scattering of soft photons in a thermal , optically thin region ( shapiro et al .",
    "1976 ; sunyaev & titarchuk 1980 ) . however , there is no general consensus on the geometry of this optical  thin region . in the accretion disk - corona model",
    "the hard powerlaw comes from either a patchy corona , possibly powered by magnetic flares ( di matteo , celotti & fabian 1999 ; beloborodov 1999 ; merloni , di matteo & fabian 2000 ; merloni & fabian 2001 ) or the base of a centrally located jet ( merloni & fabian 2002 ; markoff & nowak 2004 ; markoff , nowak & wilms 2005 ) . in both cases",
    "the thin accretion disk extends close to the isco .",
    "an alternative model has the thin disk truncated at large distances from the black hole ( narayan & yi 1995 ; esin et al .",
    "1997 ) with the central region replaced by an advection - dominated accretion flow ( adaf ) .",
    "in both interpretations for the geometry of the accretion disk in the low - hard state it is expected that the thermal - disk component will have a low effective temperature .",
    "the low mass accretion rates , and corresponding low luminosity , observed in systems in the low - hard state implies a peak disk temperature @xmath10 . in the case of a geometrically thin disk extending close to the isco",
    ", this temperature closely follows the @xmath11 relation .",
    "the expected temperature departs dramatically from this relation when the disk is truncated at the distances predicted by the adaf models ( see e.g. mcclintock et al .",
    "a thermal component has been observed in a number of sources in the low - hard state . in particular",
    ", /  observations of  ( miller et al . 2006 ; reis et al .",
    "2008 ) and swift j1753.5 - 0.127 ( miller , homan & miniutti 2006 ; reis et al .",
    "2009b ) as well as  observation of xte j1118 + 480 ( reis , miller & fabian 2009 ) have shown that the accretion disk in these sources are consistent with extending close to the isco .",
    "evidence for the disappearance of this component has usually been the result of observations made with  which lacks the low energy coverage .",
    "as mentioned above , a further feature in the x - ray spectra of bhbs are the various reflection signatures associated with the reprocessing of hard radiation by the cool accretion disk .",
    "the most prominent of these features is often the broad , skewed fe-  line observed in a number of bhbs ( miller 2007 , 2009 ) , seyfert galaxies ( tanaka et al . 1995 ; fabian et al .",
    "2009 ) and accreting neutron stars ( cackett et al . 2008 ; reis , fabian & young 2009 ) .",
    "new fits to some ultra - luminous x - ray sources ( ulxs ; caballero - garcia & fabian 2009 ) spectra suggest that a disk reflection may also be observed , though more sensitive spectra are needed to confirm this possibility .",
    "the strength of the reflection features can be typified by the equivalent width of the iron - line , @xmath12 which is expected to correlate linearly with the reflection fraction @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is defined as the solid angle covered by the accretion disk as viewed from the hard x - ray source .",
    "george & fabian ( 1991 ) have shown that for a neutral accretion disk with solar abundances the reflection fraction closely follows @xmath15 . for stellar mass black holes in the low - hard state , @xmath16",
    "is observed to be below @xmath17 .",
    "this `` weak '' reflection can be interpreted as either a recession in the accretion disk , as in the adaf interpretation ( esin et al .",
    "1997 ) , a highly ionised inner disk ( ross , fabian & young 1999 ) or mildly relativistic motion of the hot corona away from the disk ( beloborodov 1999 ) . using the latter model",
    ", beloborodov showed that reflection fractions as low as @xmath18 can be be obtained in the low - hard state without invoking disk truncation .    in the following chapters we will present a systematic analysis of a sample of eight stellar mass black hole binaries in the low - hard state with the goal of better understanding the accretion disk and flow geometry of such systems .",
    "we find that for the sources observed in this work the accretion disks are consistent with extending close to the isco and suggest a set of observational criteria for the support of disk truncation .",
    "we start in  [ observation ] with an introduction to the various systems investigated .",
    "this is then followed by a detailed analyses of the property of the thermal component (   [ analyses_mcd][innerrad_diskpn ] ) and the reflection component (  [ innerrad_reflection ] ) .",
    "our results are summarised in  [ discussion ] .",
    "our aim is to present a selection of high quality spectra of various x - ray binaries in the low - hard state . in such a state",
    "the temperature of the accretion disk is usually observed to be below @xmath10.4and for this reason a strong requirement of our selection is that the data extends to a similar energy range .",
    "observations made _ solely _ with the _ rossi x - ray timing explores _ ( rxte ) are thus not used in this work due to its low energy cut - off of approximately 3 . the bulk of the work presented here utilises observations made with either  or , with two further sources observed with  and . in what follows",
    "we introduce the various sources which meet this criterion and describe the observations and data reduction in detail .",
    "gx339 - 4 is a dynamically constrained black hole binary located at a distance of @xmath19  ( zdziarski et al .",
    "although its mass is not yet known , it is likely that is amongst the more massive of the stellar mass black hole sources .",
    "the mass function of the system has been constrained to @xmath16@xmath20 ( hynes et al .",
    "2003 and munoz - darias et al . 2008 ) and results derived from radio observations suggests a low ( @xmath21 ) inclination for the inner disk ( gallo et al .",
    "similar low inclinations have also been found when modelling the reflection features present in the spectrum of  in outburst ( miller et al . 2004 ) .",
    "the apparent low inner disk inclination mentioned above does not necessarily imply a massive ( @xmath22 ) stellar mass black hole since it is possible that the inner disk is warped similarly to that observed in groj1655 - 40 ( martin , tout & pringle 2008 ) and v4641sgr ( martin , reis & pringle 2008 ) .",
    "for the purpose of this work we assume a black hole mass in the range of 1020@xmath20 and an inner disk inclination between 1030 degrees .",
    "we note here that throughout this paper we will adopt the largest range for the physical parameters ( mass , distance and inclination ) available in the literature for the various sources , unless the parameters have been well constrained .",
    "prior analyses of  in both the very - high ( miller et al .",
    "2004 ) and intermediate ( miller et al . 2008 ) state have shown that the accretion disk extends close to 2  in those states .",
    "a similar conclusion has been reached by jointly fitting the reflection features present in the  spectra of both the low - hard and the very - high state ( reis et al . 2008 ) . in this work , the low - hard state spectrum of  described in miller et al .",
    "( 2004 ) is re - analysed using the more stringent reduction procedure detailed in reis et al .",
    "we restrict our spectral analyses of the  data to the 0.510.0energy range .",
    "the simultaneous  pca spectrum is fit in the standard 3.025.0  energy range with 0.6 per cent systematic error and an edge at 4.78  ( @xmath23 ) to account for a strong xel absorption feature .",
    "the hxte spectrum is fit in the 25.0100  range .",
    "when fitting the rxte spectra along with that of , a joint fit is achieved by allowing a normalisation constant to float between the various spectra .",
    "all parameters were tied between observations unless stated otherwise .",
    "( arnaud 1996 ) was used to analyse all spectra presented in this paper .",
    "the quoted errors correspond to a 90 per cent confidence level for one parameter of interest unless stated otherwise .",
    "optical observations have constrained the mass function of xtej1650 - 500 ( hereafter j1650 ) to @xmath24 ( orosz et al .",
    "2004 ) . together with a lower limit on the inclination of 50@xmath25  this sets an upper limit to the mass of the central source of approximately 7.3@xmath20 .",
    "a recent analysis made by shaposhnikov & titarchuk ( 2009 ) has placed a strong constraint on the mass of the central black hole of @xmath26 based on the scaling properties of quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) .",
    "the discrepancy between their results and that of orosz et al .",
    "( 2004 ) are attributed to a possible mis - classification of the spectral class of the optical companion . due to the uncertainty in the mass of j1650",
    "we conservatively assume that it lies between 5.3 and 11.3@xmath20 .",
    "the distance to j1650 has recently been estimated at @xmath27(homan et al .",
    "2006 ) .    observed j1650 during the transition from the low - hard to the very - high state in 2001 ( miller et al .",
    "the source was mistakenly identified as being in the very - high state due to the presence of an unusually strong ( at the time ) iron line emission .",
    "however , the cold ( @xmath10.3 ) thermal component and low luminosity likely place the observation in a rising phase of the low - hard state ( see e.g. rossi et al .",
    "the presence of a broad , asymmetric fe emission line led miller et al . to suggest that the black hole in j1650 is rapidly rotating .",
    "this was later confirmed by miniutti , fabian & miller ( 2004 ) using  observations taken both before and after that of .",
    "contrary to this interpretation , done & gierlinski ( 2006 ) showed that the bright , low - hard state ,  observation is also consistent with a disk truncated at @xmath81020  if there is resonance iron - k absorption from an outflow disk wind with a velocity of @xmath10.15c .    here , we analyse the same  observation described in miller et al .",
    "the source was observed in the `` burst '' mode with the `` thin '' optical filter in place .",
    "the spectrum was extracted using a box region centred on the source with a 20 pixel width .",
    "background events were extracted from a 10 pixel wide box adjacent to the source .",
    "single and double events were included in the analysis .",
    "response files were created in the standard way using the tools rmfgen and arfgen .",
    "the  was used to require at least 20 counts per bin in all  observations presented in this paper .",
    "we restrict our study of the  data to the 0.610.0  energy range .      cygnusx-1 ( hereafter cygx-1 )",
    "is amongst the better known and studied stellar mass black holes .",
    "having been the first object generally recognised as a black hole ( tananbaum et al .",
    "1972 ) it has received considerable attention .",
    "the distance to the source was very early estimated at 2  ( murdin & webster 1971 ) .",
    "this has been confirmed more recently by massey et al .",
    "( 1995 ) where a distance of @xmath28  is found",
    ". the orbital inclination of the system is thought to be in the range of 2550 degrees ( gierlinski et al .",
    "the uncertainty in this value follows the fact that the accretion disk in cygnusx-1 is thought to be precessing ( stirling et al .",
    "2001 ; romero et al .",
    "2002 ) with an average angle to the line of sight of @xmath830  ( fender 2001 ) .",
    "the mass of the black hole is also highly uncertain , partially due to the uncertainty in the inclination .",
    "although it is generally assumed to be close to 10 , its value has been found by various authors to range from 725@xmath20 ( e.g. ziolkowski 2005 ; shaposhnikov & titarchuk 2009 ) .",
    "young et al .",
    "( 2001 ) showed that the various spectra of cygnusx-1 in both the low - hard and the high - soft state are consistent with the relativistic blurring of a thin , ionised accretion disk extending close to the isco .",
    "this interpretation was later challenged by barrio , done & nayakshin ( 2003 ) . using the high energy coverage of  the authors",
    "were unsuccessful in measuring the high energy break assumed to be characteristic of the ionised accretion disk model , and thus argued for a truncated disk interpretation of the spectra .",
    "makishima et al .",
    "( 2008 ) observed the low - hard state of cygnusx-1 in 2005 october with .",
    "although the data suffered heavily from both pile up and telemetry saturation , the authors found the presence of a strong soft component with a temperature of @xmath10.19  which was associated with an accretion disk extending to within @xmath1250 km . assuming a mass of 10@xmath20 this is approximately 16 .",
    "we report on two recent  observations where the effect of pile - up is less prominent .",
    "cygnusx-1 was observed with  on two occasions on 2009 april 8 ( obs i d 404075020 ; hereafter obs 1 ) and april 14 ( obs i d 404075030 ; hereafter obs 2 ) for approximately 50 and 33respectively .",
    "the three operating detectors constituting the x - ray imaging spectrometer ( xis ; koyama et al .",
    "2007 ) were operated in the `` burst '' clock mode in both observations and employed the `` 1/4 window '' mode .",
    "the front illuminated detectors ( fi ; xis0 and xis3 ) were operated in the 2x2 and 3x3 editing mode , whereas the back illuminated detector ( bi ; xis1 ) was operated in the 3x3 editing mode only .",
    "a total fi exposure of @xmath110.7 and @xmath18.6  for obs 1 and 2 respectively were available for each xis camera .",
    "the corresponding bi exposures were 5.3 and 4.4 . using the latest  software package we reprocessed the data from the version 2 processing following the suzaku data reduction guide .",
    "we started by creating new cleaned event files using the tool `` xispi '' and the script `` xisrepro '' as well as the associated screening criteria files .",
    "was then used to extract spectral products .",
    "in both observations , source events were extracted from a region composed of the intersection of a rectangle of size 150x1024 pixels with an annulus having 30 and 200 pixels inner and outer radius respectively .",
    "background events were extracted from a circular region with a radius of 90 pixels away from the source .",
    "we used the script `` xisresp '' with the `` medium '' input to obtain individual ancillary response files ( arfs ) and redistribution matrix files ( rmfs ) .",
    "`` xisresp '' calls the tools `` xisrmfgen '' and `` xissimarfgen '' . finally , we combined the spectra and response files from the two front - illuminated instruments ( xis0 and xis3 ) using the  .",
    "this procedure was repeated for each observation resulting in a total of four xis spectra .",
    "the  was used to give at least 500 counts per spectral bin in every  observation mentioned in this paper .",
    "the hard x - ray detector ( hxd ) observations of cygx-1 will not be used in this work .",
    "the fi - xis spectra were fit in the 0.710.0  energy range .",
    "the results obtained with the bi spectra are not presented in this work as it is not expected to be different to that of the fi . in all fits to  data presented in this paper",
    "the 1.92.5  energy range was ignored due to the possible presence of unmodelled instrumental features .",
    "using multiwavelength observations , cadolle - bel et al .",
    "( 2007 ) estimated the distance to swiftj1753.5 - 0127 ( hereafter j1753 ) to be in the range of 48 .",
    "this was based on the derived hydrogen column density along the line of sight to the source and its known latitude . from estimated bolometric flux and the assumption that the source is radiating at less than 5 percent the eddington luminosity , the authors constrained the mass of j1753 to approximately 416@xmath20 .",
    "this range is in agreement with the value of 12@xmath20 estimated by zurita et al .",
    "( 2008 ) based on the orbital period of j1753 . in the same work zurita et al . estimated a lower limit for the distance of 7.2 .",
    "for the purpose of our work we will assume a conservative range of 416@xmath20 and 7.210  for the mass and distance respectively .",
    "the inner disk inclination was found from the reflection features in the  x - ray spectrum to be @xmath29 degrees ( reis et al .",
    "2009b ) .",
    "using rxte and xmm - newton data , miller , homan & miniutti ( 2006 ) showed the presence of a cool ( kt @xmath10.2 ) accretion disk extending close to the isco in the low - hard state of j1753 .",
    "the presence of this cool accretion disk was later confirmed with observations during its 2005 outburst ( ramadevi & seetha 2007 ) .",
    "reis et al .",
    "( 2009b ) have recently re - analysed the  and  spectra of j1753 in the low - hard state and found that the disk likely extends to @xmath30 .",
    "this strong constraint was based on the self - consistent modelling of both the reflection features and the soft thermal - disk component . in this work",
    "we further explore the spectra described in reis et al .",
    "( 2009b ) in the 0.510.0  energy range .",
    "groj1655 - 40 ( hereafter j1655 ) has a compact object with a mass constrained to @xmath31 and orbital inclination of 70.2@xmath321.9  ( greene , bailyn & orosz 2001 ) .",
    "using radio observations , hjellming & rupen ( 1995 ) found a distance of @xmath33  and an inner disk inclination of 85@xmath322 . in this work",
    "we use an inclination of 70.2  with a lower and upper limit of 68.3 and 87  respectively .    using archival asca data of j1655 in outburst , miller et al .",
    "( 2005 ) showed evidence of a highly skewed , relativistic line , and suggested an inner accretion disk radius of @xmath11.4 , indicative of a rapidly spinning black hole .",
    "this was later confirmed by diaz - trigo et al .",
    "( 2007 ) using simultaneous  and integral observations of j1655 during the 2005 outburst .",
    "brocksopp et al .",
    "( 2006 ) followed the spectral evolution during the 2005 outburst using the x - ray telescope ( xrt ) .",
    "they note the presence of a strong iron line at @xmath16.4  in the single observation of the low - hard state , however they find no evidence of a thermal component .",
    "it is interesting that the neutral hydrogen column density ( ) remains at an average of @xmath16.9@xmath34 for all observations reported by brocksopp et al .",
    "other than the single low - hard state observation where the value of  drops to @xmath15.9@xmath34 ( see their tables 4 and 5 ) . it is plausible that a lower value of  can act to mask the presence of a weak soft component when the signal to noise level is low ( see  [ analysis ] ) .",
    "takahashi et al . (",
    "2008 ) have recently reported on the observation of j1655 in the low - hard state where they find strong evidence for both a broad iron line and a soft disk component with a temperature of @xmath10.2 .  observed j1655 in 2005 september 22 , 07:32 ut for approximately 35  ( obs i d 100029010 ) .",
    "the xiss were operated in the 3x3 and 2x2 editing mode with the `` 1/8 window '' employed .",
    "xis0 was not operational during the observation .",
    "the data were reduced in the standard way as described above for cygx-1 .",
    "source events were extracted from a circular region 70 pixels in radius centred on the source . the background is taken from a source - free region 50 pixels in radius towards the edge of the chip .",
    "the hxd was operated in its normal mode .",
    "the appropriate response and background files for xis - nominal pointing were downloaded and the hxd / pin data were reprocessed in accordance with the suzaku data reduction guide .",
    "the xis and pin data were fit in the 0.79.0 and 12.070.0  energy range respectively .",
    "a normalisation constant of 1.16 was applied to the pin data in accordance with the latest  calibration report .",
    "dynamical measurements of xte j1118 + 480 ( hereafter j1118 ) have set a strong constraint on the mass - function of @xmath35 ( wagner et al .",
    "2001 ; mcclintock et al .",
    "frontera et al .",
    "( 2001 ) suggests that the black hole in j1118 has a mass of 710@xmath20 with an orbital inclination in the range of 6080 degrees . a recent study by gelino et al .",
    "( 2006 ) places a more stringent constraint of @xmath36 and 68@xmath322  for the mass and inclination respectively .",
    "the authors find a distance of @xmath37  to the system . to our knowledge",
    "the broadest constraint on the distance to j1118 was that imposed by mcclintock et al .",
    "( 2001 ) of @xmath38 . since this range encompass all the latest predictions we employ this value in the work that follows .",
    "the inclination and mass is hereafter assumed to lie in the range 6083 degrees and 710@xmath20 respectively .",
    "j1118 was observed in its lhs by , , ukirt , euve , and the hst in 2000 as part of a multiwavelength , multi - epoch observing campaign .",
    "based on these observation , mcclintock et al .",
    "( 2001 ) reported an apparent cool thermal component at @xmath124  which was interpreted as originating in an accretion disk truncated at a radius greater than 70 .",
    "reis , miller & fabian ( 2009 ) have recently re - analysed the  and  data and shown that the accretion disk is consistent with extending close to the isco , contrary to previous results . the  and  spectrum of j1118 in the low - hard state , as described in reis , miller & fabian ( 2009 ) is used in the analyses that follows .      [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      in the previous section we have shown using two well known multicolour disk models that when the physical parameters of the systems are used in conjunction with continuum modelling , the accretion disk likely extends close to the isco in all sources investigated .    as previously mentioned , the adaf model for accretion flow in the low - hard state has two distinct zones , with the inner part being modelled as a hot , optically thin advection dominated region while the outer part consists of a standard shakura - sunyaev disk .",
    "the transition radius is usually assumed to be @xmath39_o_(@xmath40 )  ( esin et al . 1997 ) , however wilms et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and esin et al .",
    "( 2001 ) have shown that for  and j1118 this radius is more likely to be 200400  and @xmath1110  respectively . in the work that follows we will systematically investigate the possibility of having a disk truncated at 100  in the sample of systems in the low - hard state presented here .",
    "the model  ( gierlinski et al . 1999 ) is a further development of the  model taking into account the torque - free inner boundary condition .",
    "this model has three parameters : the maximum colour temperature of the disk ( @xmath41 ) in units of the inner disk radius , , and the normalisation which is defined as @xmath42 , where @xmath43 is the distance to the source in  and all other symbols are similar to that of  and .",
    "given that the inner radius is now a parameter of the model , we perform fits where this value is fixed at both 6 and 100 .",
    "as can be seen from table 5 , models with and without disk truncation give equally satisfactory fits . the temperature obtained in both cases",
    "are in remarkable agreement and only the normalisation differ significantly .",
    "the normalisation of , as well as of any other multicolour disk model , conveys important physical information and can be used to set apart different , often contradictory , interpretations . using the constraints on the masses and distances to the various sources ( table 1 ) together with the  normalisations for both = 6 and 100  we plot the inclination as a function of the colour correction factor for each source ( fig.8 ) .",
    "this factor is usually assumed to be a constant close to 1.7 for a wide range in luminosity ( shimura & takahara 1995 ) .",
    "davis et al .",
    "( 2005 ) showed that below a colour temperature of @xmath81  the colour correction factor is indeed a constant close to 1.7 .",
    "above this temperature disk ionisation leads to a slight increase in @xmath44 however it is found to be consistently below @xmath45 ( davis , done & blaes 2006 ; done & davis 2008 ) .",
    "contrary to this , it was suggested by merloni , fabian & ross ( 2000 ) that @xmath44 is a relatively strong function of accretion rates varying from @xmath11.73 .",
    "the solid red and green curves in ( fig.8 ) shows the dependence of the inclination on the colour correction factor for an accretion disk at 100 and 6  respectively .",
    "the errors , shown by the shaded regions , are the 3@xmath46 errors estimated by monte carlo simulations assuming a uniform distribution of the mass and distance to the various sources ( see table 1 ) and the  normalisation shown in table 5 .",
    "it can be seen that for most sources a disk truncated at 100  requires a high colour correction factor which is , in most cases , inconsistent with the upper limit of three ( solid vertical line ) set by merloni , fabian & ross ( 2000 ) .",
    "we show in  [ discussion_diskbb ] that this value is in fact likely to be below @xmath47 and the value of 3 used here is a conservative upper limit .",
    "j17497 and j1817 are the only sources where a truncated accretion disk is not ruled out due to the weak constraints on their masses , distances and inclinations .",
    "however , we have seen from the previous section that the data for these sources are suggestive of a disk extending to within 10 .",
    "so far , we have only focused on the thermal component which in the low - hard state is predominant below @xmath82 . in the following section",
    "we will divert our attention to the reflection features present in five of the sources in our sample . to this end",
    "we will ignore the energies below 3  in all spectra and , where possible , extend the high energy using either  or  pin data .",
    "a detailed analyses of each individual source is presented below .",
    "we have initially added the  pca data up the 12  to the  spectrum in order to have a clearer view of the continuum .",
    "the absorbing column density was fixed at the value quoted on table 3 .",
    "an absorbed powerlaw does not provide a satisfactory fit ( @xmath48 ) , with the bulk of the residuals coming from the iron line region .",
    "the standard and most generally used model for a relativistic line profile around a rotating black hole is the  model in ( laor 1991 ) .",
    "it describes a broad line from an accretion disc surrounding a rotating kerr black hole , with an emissivity profile described by a power - law of the form @xmath49 .",
    "we use this model to account for the broad residuals seen at the iron line region .",
    "the  model is calculated with the presumption of a maximally rotating black hole .",
    "relativistic line models in which the black hole spin is a free parameter are now available ( kyrline and kerrdisk models ; dovciak , karas & yaqoob 2004 and brenneman & reynolds 2006 respectively ) however we choose to use the well established  model as we are not interested in the precise value of the inner radius / spin and to allow for a more direct comparison with previous work .",
    "the outer disk radius in the  model was fixed at the maximum allowed value of 400  and the inclination was constrained to the values shown in table 1 ( 4770 degrees ) for j1650 .",
    "the line energy was constrained to 6.46.97 .",
    "this resulted in a marked improvement over the previous fit with @xmath50 .",
    "a better fit is achieved when we allow the photon indices of the  and  observations to differ by @xmath51 .",
    "miller ( 2009 ) has shown that small differences in the value of @xmath7 between various x - ray instruments are expected and we allow such deviations in all combined analyses .",
    "the best fit ( @xmath52 ) in the 312range is shown in fig . 9 ( top - left ) and",
    "detailed in table 6 . fig .",
    "9 ( top - right ) shows a plot @xmath53 versus inner radius obtained with the command  in .",
    "based on this analyses , the accretion disk in j1650 is found to be within 6  at more than the 5@xmath46 level of confidence ( fig .",
    "figure 9 ( bottom ) shows the best fit mentioned above extended to 100  after the addition of hxte data .",
    "the powerlaw indices of both  instruments are tied to each other . to make this figure we have normalised the hxte data so that the flux at 25  matches that of the pca .",
    "the large excess peaking at @xmath830  is the `` compton hump '' associated with reflection of hard x - rays by a cool accretion disk . in order to model the full spectra",
    "we will use the reflection model  ( ross & fabian 2005 ) blurred with the same kernel used in the  model (  in ) .",
    "the best  fit covering the full energy band is shown in fig .",
    "10 ( left ) and detailed in table7 .",
    "when using the reflection model  the fe - line , as well as the compton hump are modelled self - consistently .",
    "it should be noted that the refection component can not account for the soft - excess explored in the previous chapters in any of the sources investigated here .",
    "to emphasise this point we show in fig .",
    "10 ( right ) the data / model ratio of the best fit reflection model of j1650 extrapolated to the soft energy range .",
    "it is clear from this figure that a soft disk component is still required .",
    "the presence of strong iron line emission in the  spectrum of  was previously seen in fig .",
    "1 . a powerlaw fit over the 312  range results in a poor fit with @xmath54 .",
    "this is dramatically improved by the addition of the  line model resulting in @xmath55 with an inner radius approaching that expected for a maximally rotating black hole ( fig .",
    "figure 11 ( top - left ) shows the best fit model over the 312  energy range .",
    "the fit extended to the full 3100  range is shown in fig .",
    "11 ( top - right ) with the hxte flux normalised to match that of the pca at 25 .",
    "similarly to the spectra of j1650 this source shows the presence of a strong compton reflection hump as expected from a source with strong fluorescence emission . replacing the component with the blurred - reflection model results in an acceptable fit to the full energy range ( fig .",
    "11 bottom ) with the inner radius again implying a maximally rotating black hole . based on",
    "the extent of the gravitational blurring of the reflection features in , an accretion disk with an inner edge at a distance greater than 6  is excluded at more than the 5@xmath46 confidence level .",
    "the value for the inner radius found using the full spectra ( @xmath56 ) is similar to that obtained in the narrower ( 312 ) range from the iron - line shape alone ( @xmath57 ; fig 12 ) .",
    "this emphasises the robustness of spin measurements made from the shape of such strong reflection features .",
    "the result presented for the innermost extent of the accretion disk in the low - hard state is similar to that found for  in both the intermediate state ( 2.02.2 ; miller et al .",
    "2008 ) and the joint fitting of the low - hard and very - high state ( 2.02.1 ; reis et al .",
    "2008 ) which confirms that the disk remains stable during these three spectral states .",
    "the profile around the iron-  region in cygx-1 can not be modelled with a single relativistic line ( fig 13 ; left ) .",
    "however , satisfactory fits are obtained for both observations by the addition of a narrow gaussian at 6.4  together with the  line .",
    "this resulted in @xmath58 and @xmath59 for observations 1 and 2 respectively .",
    "the gaussian is required at more than the 5@xmath46 level of confidence ( f - value = 28.0 and prob .",
    "= 1.7@xmath60 ) . in both observations",
    "the inner radii and the emissivity indices are well constrained , and it can be seen from fig .",
    "14 that the subtle correlation between these parameters does not provide a satisfactory solution with large radii for any physical values of emissivity .",
    "table 6 details the various parameters in the model .",
    "the inner radii are constrained to @xmath61 and @xmath62  ( 90% confidence ) in obs . 1 and 2 respectively , as shown in fig .",
    "figure 16 shows the best fit model consisting of a powerlaw and the  line profile for both j1655 ( left ) in the 320  energy range and j1753 ( right ) in the full range .",
    "the relatively weak reflection features in j1753 does not allow for a strong constraint on the inner radius using simple phenomenological models , with a disk at greater than 20  only being ruled out at the 3@xmath46 level ( fig .",
    "18 ; right ) .",
    "however , reis et al . ( 2009b ) showed using a self - consistent reflection model that when the full energy range ( 0.5100.0 ) is considered , the value of the inner radius is constrained at approximately 2.55.0   rg  in agreement with the value found in section 3.1 ( table 3 ) .",
    "extending the fit in j1655 to the full 3.070.0  range again shows the presence of a compton hump ( fig .",
    "17 ; left ) which is successfully modelled with the reflection model  ( fig .",
    "17 ; right ) .",
    "the inner accretion disk radius in j1655 is constrained to less than 6  at more than 5@xmath46 confidence ( fig .",
    "18 ; left ) .",
    "table 7 details the parameters found for the fit over the full energy range using .    in all sources investigated in this section the equivalent widths of the fe-  line as modelled with the  line profile have been found to be consistently above 70  at the 90 per cent confidence level .",
    "the only exception to this was j1753 where the equivalent width is found to be approximately 50 . in the following chapter",
    "we consolidate our results and discuss the implication they have on models for accretion flow .",
    "in this work we have systematically analysed a sample of eight high quality , stellar mass black hole spectra obtained with various ccd and grating instruments .",
    "we show observational evidence for the possible presence of an optically - thick accretion disk extending close to the isco in all eight sources in the low - hard state . in half of the sources the evidence comes from _ both _ the highly significant thermal component as well as blurred reflection features",
    ".      in all the objects studied the presence of a low - energy soft excess is seen when the spectra are fit with an absorbed powerlaw ( fig.[fig_ratio_topl ] ) .",
    "this excess is traditionally modelled assuming thermal emission from an accretion disk where the flux , and hence normalisation , is related to the disk inner radius according to @xmath63 @xmath64 . in   [ innerrad_diskbb ] and [ innerrad_diskpn ] we have used this information along with constraints on the inclinations , masses and distances to the sources found in the literature to obtain the inner radius of accretion for the various sources .",
    "the results are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig_rin_lumin][fig_rin_kt ] . for six out of the eight sources investigated the 3@xmath46 upper limit on their inner radii are found to be below @xmath110  and in all cases they are consistent with extending to the inner - most stable circular orbit down to luminosities of @xmath65 .",
    "the lack of constraints in the physical parameters ( mass , distance and inclination ) of j17497 and j1817 results in a large uncertainty in the derived inner radii , however even when extreme values are used for these parameters , the results are still consistent with lack of disk truncation further than @xmath8100  for these sources .",
    "all results presented above are robust to the choice of multi - colour disk component used .",
    "we emphasise here that throughout this work we have used the largest range in the physical parameters for the various sources obtained from the literature .",
    "even with this conservative choice we have shown that the 3@xmath46 upper limit on the disk radius , as obtained from the flux of the thermal component , does not require large disk truncation .",
    "it is interesting to note that in all sources presented here the disk temperature are found to be below @xmath10.3 , with the majority clustered at @xmath10.2 .",
    "the disk flux found at these low accretion rates results in an insignificant amount of flux visible to , with its effective low energy cut - off of @xmath13 .",
    "zdziarski et al .",
    "( 2004 ) investigated the state transition of  using .",
    "their figure 10 shows a sharp change in the inner radius - obtained via the disk flux methodology - during the change to the low - hard state .",
    "similar conclusions based on the apparent change in the normalisation of the  model have been presented by belloni et al .",
    "( 1997 ) for the black hole binary grs j1915 + 105 again using  data above 2.5 .",
    "using a further multi - colour disk model where the inner radius is a free parameter we investigated in  [ innerrad_diskpn ] the possibility that the thermal component originates further than 100  as expected from adaf models .",
    "figure [ fig_inc_vs_beta ] shows that this conviction was excluded for all sources other than j17497 and j1817 .",
    "our conclusions depends on the maximum plausible value for the spectral hardening factor @xmath44 .",
    "hardening arise at higher photon energies where the opacity of the disk atmosphere is lower and photons emerge from deeper layers where gas is hotter .",
    "approximately , @xmath66 , where @xmath67 is the thomson depth of the layer from which the photons emerge ( ross , fabian & mineshige 1992 ; davis , done & blaes 2006 in the high @xmath67 limit ) . the photons then need to scatter out through the outer layers which are cooler than where they formed .",
    "this introduces a compton down - scattering break in the spectrum at an energy @xmath68 .",
    "there are therefore two competing effects : seeing to deeper layers making the spectrum harder and compton down - scattering by intervening material making it softer .",
    "the maximum value of @xmath44 occurs before the effects balance , which is at @xmath69 . therefore if we take @xmath70  to mark the harder part of the thermal emission , @xmath71 .",
    "an absolute limit will depend on exactly which part of the spectrum is being fitted .",
    "we consider that @xmath72 is a conservative upper limit .",
    "the high significance of the thermal component in the various sources studied here , coupled with the total flux and temperature range ( @xmath73 ) obtained from multi - colour disk models such as , strongly argue for the presence of a standard optically - thick accretion disk extending close to the isco .",
    "further evidence for an optically - thick disk extending to the isco in the low - hard state comes from the presence of a broad , skewed fe - line and strong reflection hump observed in five out of the eight sources presented .",
    "these reflection features arise due to reprocessing of hard x - ray by the cooler accretion disk ( ross & fabian 1993 ) . in the region surrounding a black hole",
    "the strong gravitational potential causes these reflection features to become highly distorted , with the degree of distortion depending on how far from the black hole the emitting region is located .",
    "therefore , the shape of the prominent iron-  line can give a direct indication of the radius of the reflection material from the black hole ( fabian et al .",
    "1989 , 2000 ; laor 1991 ) .",
    "section [ innerrad_reflection ] shows the reflection signatures of five sources .",
    "it is clear from figs 9 to 18 that in all cases investigated the inner radius of emission , as obtained from the degree of gravitational blurring of these features , is consistent with the isco down to luminosities of @xmath74 . for , j1650 , j1655 and j1753",
    "the results further imply that the central source is a rotating , kerr black hole with the disk extending to less than 6  at 5@xmath46 confidence in most cases .",
    "this is in agreement with results found from prior studies in various states (: reis et al .",
    "2008 ; miller et al . 2008 .",
    "j1650 : miller et al .",
    "2002 ; miniutti et al . 2004 .",
    "j1655 : diaz - trigo et al . 2007 ;",
    "reis et al .",
    "j1753 : miller et al .",
    "2006 ; reis et al .",
    "2009b ) which supports the idea that the emitting area is not changing between these states .",
    "a non - rotating , schwarzschild black hole is not ruled out for cygx-1 , however a disk with an edge at greater than 20  is excluded at over 5@xmath46 .    for four out of the five sources where an iron-  emission line is seen , the equivalent width , as measured from the  line component ,",
    "is found to be greater than 70   at the 90 per cent level of confidence .",
    "it was shown by george & fabian ( 1991 ) that for a neutral , optically thick accretion disk extending to the isco the reflection fraction @xmath75 .",
    "beloborodov ( 1999 ) later showed that reflection fractions as low as @xmath10.3 can be achieved by the mild relativistic bulk motion of a corona away from an accretion disk .",
    "based on these arguments it can be seen that @xmath76 is still consistent with originating in an accretion disk extending to the isco .      the sample investigated here covers a large range of luminosities from @xmath10.05 to 1.5% of the eddington limit , however this is still an order of magnitude larger than the predicted quiescent transition value of @xmath14@xmath77 ( gallo et al .",
    "2003 ) below which the black holes are thought to be jet - dominated .",
    "the presence of radio - jets is usually associated with systems in the low - hard state ( see e.g. fender 2001 , 2006 ) , and it has at times been attributed to a receding ( ejected ? ) inner disk ( see e.g. belloni et al .",
    "1997 ) . in this scenario",
    "the inner part of the accretion flow in the low - hard state is advection dominated . the radio jet",
    "is then quenched when the inner region is filled by an accretion disk , as is the case in the high - soft state .",
    "our findings suggests that jet production is not initiated at the point where the accretion disk starts to recede . another possibility for",
    "the production of jets could be due to a change in the ratio of the energy dissipated in a corona to that dissipated in the disk between the various states , an intrinsic change in the mass accretion rate through the disk or even changes in the vertical scale - height close to the central black hole .",
    "it is still possible that below the luminosities studied here , an advection flow might be present at which point the disk could be truncated .",
    "this adaf solution is usually agreed to be the dominant emission process in the galactic center source sgr a@xmath78 ( narayan , yi & mahadevan 1995 ; narayan et al .",
    "1998 ) as well as various low - luminosity agns ( llagns ; di matteo et al . 2000 , 2003 ) . however , an alternative , jet - dominated accretion flow explanation has also been successfully applied to these sources ( sgr a@xmath78 : falcke & biermann 1999 ; falcke & markoff 2000 ; llagns : falcke et al .",
    "2000 ) . in order to test whether the accretion disk recedes at luminosities below those observed here , as well as the profound connection between accretion disk and jets , we strongly encourage deeper observations of black holes in the low - hard and quiescent states from instruments such as , , and in the future",
    "in this paper we have investigated a sample of stellar mass black holes in the canonical low - hard state . by systematically analysing their x - ray spectrum",
    "we have found that in all cases the accretion disk is consistent with being at the inner - most stable circular orbit down to luminosities as low as @xmath79 .",
    "the main points and implication of this paper are summarised as follows .    1",
    ".   in all sources investigated the presence of an accretion disk is required at the 5@xmath46 level of confidence .",
    "the temperature and flux of this thermal component is consistent with the @xmath11 relation and with a geometrically thin , optically thick accretion disk extending to the isco .",
    "the presence of reflection features and predominantly an iron-  emission line with an equivalent width greater than @xmath870  is detected in half of the sample . in all these cases",
    ", the broadness of the reflection features further suggest that the accretion disk is not highly truncated .",
    "our findings suggest that transition to the low - hard state are driven by changes in the corona ( perhaps related to jet formation ) and not changes in the accretion disk , and 4 .",
    "jet production is not initiated at the point where the disk recedes .",
    "furthermore , we suggest the following strong and weak observation criteria for disk truncation : * the data must be able to rule - out both a broad iron-  line with an equivalent width @xmath8060  and an effective disk temperature consistent with @xmath11 or * the data must be able to rule - out either a broad iron-  line with an equivalent width @xmath8060  or an effective disk temperature consistent with @xmath11 .    whilst the number of sources presented here is small , there is a general trend that when the accretion disk is statistically required the data suggests that the disk in the low - hard state can remain at the isco .",
    "this result is contrary to the lore that the accretion disk in the low - hard state is truncated at hundreds of gravitational radii , as required in the strong - advection dominated interpretation .",
    "we would like to thank mike nowak , joern wilms and katja pottschmidt for the use of cygnus x-1 data .",
    "we would further like to thank katja pottschmidt for scheduling the suzaku observations of the same source .",
    "rcr acknowledges helpful comments from ed cackett , abdu zoghbi and greg salvesen which greatly improved this work , as well as stfc for financial support .",
    "acf thanks the royal society .",
    "cadolle bel , m. , rib , m. , rodriguez , j. , chaty , s. , corbel , s. , goldwurm , a. , frontera , f. , farinelli , r. , davanzo , p. , tarana , a. , ubertini , p. , laurent , p. , goldoni , p. , mirabel , i.  f. , 2007 , apj , 659 , 549c                                fabian a. c. , zoghbi a. , ross r. r. , uttley p. , gallo l. c. , brandt w. n. , blustin a. j. , boller t. , caballero - garcia m. d. , larsson j. , miller j. m. , miniutti g. , ponti g. , reis r. c. , reynolds c. s. , tanaka y. , young , a. j. , 2009 , nature , 459 , 540f"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> stellar - mass black holes in the low - hard state may hold clues to jet formation and basic accretion disk physics , but the nature of the accretion flow remains uncertain . </S>",
    "<S> a standard thin disk can extend close to the innermost stable circular orbit , but the inner disk may evaporate when the mass accretion rate is reduced . </S>",
    "<S> blackbody - like continuum emission and dynamically - broadened iron emission lines provide independent means of probing the radial extent of the inner disk . here </S>",
    "<S> , we present an x - ray study of eight black holes in the low - hard state . a thermal disk continuum with a colour temperature consistent with @xmath0 </S>",
    "<S> is clearly detected in all eight sources , down to @xmath15@xmath2 . in six sources , </S>",
    "<S> disk models exclude a truncation radius larger than 10 . </S>",
    "<S> iron-  fluorescence line emission is observed in half of the sample , down to luminosities of @xmath11.5@xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> detailed fits to the line profiles exclude a truncated disk in each case . </S>",
    "<S> if strong evidence of truncation is defined as ( 1 ) a non - detection of a broad iron line , _ and _ ( 2 ) an inner disk temperature much cooler than expected from the @xmath4 relation , none of the spectra in this sample offer strong evidence of disk truncation . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the inner disk may evaporate at or below @xmath11.5@xmath3 .    </S>",
    "<S> x - rays :  accretion disk </S>"
  ]
}