{
  "article_text": [
    "it is generally agreed that the observed emission from fanaroff - riley class i ( fri ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) radio jets is due to the synchrotron process at all wavelengths , with similar jet structure observed from the radio through the optical into the x - ray ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the jets of fri radio galaxies are thought to decelerate as they move away from the core , entraining material and expanding into a plume of diffuse matter ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "one of the most significant implications of the synchrotron emission model is reflected in the characteristic loss timescales : in a stable environment , the x - ray emitting electrons have lifetimes of the order of tens of years , tracing regions of current , in situ particle acceleration , while the radio emitting electrons last for hundreds of thousands of years , showing the history of particle acceleration in the jet .    in order to investigate these regions of particle acceleration",
    "we need data with sensitivity and resolution sufficient to detect jet substructure on spatial scales comparable to the synchrotron loss scales .",
    "this prompts us to look to the two closest bright fri radio jets : m87 and centaurus a ( ngc5128 , hereafter cen a ) .",
    "both of these jets have been detected in multiple frequencies from the radio through to the x - ray ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the proximity of these radio galaxies , 16.7mpc and 3.7mpc respectively @xcite , make them unique jet laboratories with spatial scales of 77pc and 17pc per arcsec respectively .",
    "the details revealed in the structure of these jets have been the focus of many recent studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . within the smooth surface brightness observed in both of these jets",
    "are clumps of bright material  the knots  embedded in diffuse material , all emitting via synchrotron emission .",
    "the precise mechanisms causing the particle acceleration responsible for the diffuse structure and the knots are still unknown .",
    "the most surprising result of recent observations of these two systems was the radio - to - x - ray synchrotron flare of hst-1 in m87 . in 2002 , the x - ray flux of hst-1 increased by a factor of 2 in only 116 days @xcite , implying a change within an emitting volume with a characteristic size less than 0.1pc for a stationary source ( much less than the size of hst-1 , @xmath0pc ) .",
    "the x - ray brightness then faded in the following months only to flare again , peaking in 2005 . at its brightest ,",
    "this flare was higher than its 2001 level by a factor of @xmath1 .",
    "the uv and radio light - curves were found to vary in step with the x - ray up to this peak @xcite , but the subsequent decrease appeared to drop off faster in the x - ray than in either the optical or the uv , which drop off in step @xcite . in additional to this spectral variability , it was established with the _ hubble space telescope ( hst ) _ and the nrao very long baseline array ( vlba ) that some of the knots in m87 move superluminally , including subregions of the hst-1 knot @xcite . together , this suggests that we are observing synchrotron losses in addition to either beaming or compression / rarefaction of the fluid .",
    "cen a is a factor of 4.5 closer than m87 so we can resolve more details in the complicated fine structure of the jet .",
    "the originally identified features , named a - g by @xcite , have since been resolved into at least 40 individual knots @xcite with additional emission from diffuse material .",
    "some of the diffuse emission has been described as downstream ` tails ' of emission from the knots @xcite or as evidence for limb - brightening of the jet @xcite . in 2003 , hardcastle et al .",
    "presented 8.4ghz radio observations from the nrao very large array ( vla ) of cen a. that work used archival data from 1991 and new observations from 2002 to study the jet knots and investigated the offsets and relationships between the radio knots and their x - ray counterparts and vice versa .",
    "they found that only some of the radio knots appeared to have x - ray counterparts , leaving many as ` radio - only ' knots and ` x - ray - only ' knots .",
    "they also considered the temporal changes in the radio knots , specifically their proper motions , finding that some of the radio knots were moving .",
    "these moving knots had comparatively little x - ray emission suggesting that high - energy particle acceleration is less efficient in these regions than in the jet as a whole .",
    "some of the current models explaining the presence of knots within the generally smooth diffuse material of the jet include compressions in the fluid flow , collisions with obstacles in the galaxy causing local shocks , reconfinement of the jet or some other jet - wide process , and magnetic reconnection . @xcite ruled out simple compression of the fluid as a mechanism for producing x - ray bright , radio faint compact knots in favor of in situ particle acceleration associated with local shocks ; however , compression could still play a part in the other knots .",
    "they concluded that the most likely model to describe the majority of these knots is an interaction between the jet fluid and an obstacle such as a molecular cloud or a high mass - loss star . by exploring the temporal behavior of the x - ray and radio emission",
    ", we can understand the evolution of the knots and constrain the various models of particle acceleration used to describe the jet features .    in this work we use chandra and vla data spread over almost 20 years to measure the x - ray and radio spectral indices knots , flux density variations , polarization variations , and the proper motions of the jet knots in cen a. our aims are to detect variability in the radio and x - ray properties of the knots , either extreme variability similar to that of hst-1 in m87 or more subtle changes , and to compare these properties . which will allow us to constrain the knot formation processes at work in the jet of cen a. the details of our radio and x - ray data reduction are discussed in section  [ sec : data ] . in section  [ sec",
    ": res ] we discuss the details of our analysis methods and the global results for the knot population , highlighting particularly interesting features . in section  [ sec : dis ] , we compare these knot properties with the predictions of various models for the formation of knots , their particle acceleration and the jet structure .",
    "finally we outline the most likely processes for forming knots in cen a in section  [ sec : con ] .",
    "in this work we use both new and archival vla radio data at 4.8ghz , 8.4ghz and 22ghz observed over almost 20 years .",
    "cen a has been observed at 4.8ghz with the vla since 1983 and at 8.4ghz since 1991 , including 6 monitoring observations taken by us since 2002 at roughly 18 month intervals .",
    "we also present new 22ghz data taken in 2007 as part of a multi - frequency program ( ag0754 ) where quasi - simultaneous observations of the jet knots were taken in these three radio frequencies timed to coincide with _ chandra _ x - ray observations .",
    "the details of these radio data are shown in table  [ tab : obsjlg ] .",
    "all these data were observed with two ifs with beamwidths of 50mhz .",
    "the radio frequencies used in this paper and in table  [ tab : obsjlg ] are the average values for the two ifs .",
    "all the radio data were reduced in aips using the standard method .",
    "the data were phase- , flux- and polarization - calibrated before being split into a single source file . as our flux calibrator , 3c286 , is resolved we followed the recommended method of using a model during the flux calibration . for an initial approximation ,",
    "the cen a data were calibrated with a point source model before being self calibrated in phase to the point where no further improvement was noticed .",
    "the data were then amplitude and phase self - calibrated and baseline calibrated using the same method as @xcite .",
    "the radio data were translated to the published coordinates for the core of cen a @xcite in the uv plane using _ uvfix _ and _ puthead_. the radio jet with all the radio knots labelled is shown in figure  [ fig : radiojlg ] ; this image is the combination of all the 8.4ghz radio images , individually scaled by the weighted mean of the rms background .",
    "cen a has also been observed in the x - ray with _",
    "chandra _ 10 times since 1999 ( observations summarized in table  [ tab : obsxray ] ) .",
    "these x - ray data span 8 years and were taken in such a way that the jet is unaffected by the chip gaps or the read - out streak of the core . with the high resolution provided by _",
    ", these well sampled data give us a unique opportunity to study the temporal properties of the jet and its knots .",
    "the most recent data , taken in 2007 , were part of a _ chandra _ very large program ( vlp : p.i .",
    "r.p . kraft ) , consisting of @xmath2ks observations , giving us a combined livetime of 719ks when merged with the earlier data .",
    "a summary of the reduction processes is given in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "these vlp data have been used thus far to study the x - ray binaries in cen a @xcite , the properties of its hot gas @xcite and of its jet @xcite .",
    "the merged x - ray data set , in the energy range 0.4  2.5kev , is shown in figure  [ fig : xrayjlg ] with the x - ray knots labeled .",
    "x - ray spectra were extracted for each of the jet knots ( see section  [ sec : res ] ) and the diffuse regions in the jet , using the ciao task _ specextract _ , which also calculated the response files , while _ psextract _ was used to extract the spectra of all the point sources in the field for a comparative sample ( section  [ sec : flux - var ] ) .",
    "as some of the jet knots are clearly extended in the x - ray data ( and we wanted to compare with other more extended jet features ) , we used _ specextract _",
    "( appropriate for extended sources ) for all of the jet knots for consistency ; however , we used _",
    "psextract _ for the comparison sample , as it consisted entirely of unresolved point sources .",
    "as the jet knots are compact sources embedded in the diffuse jet and lobe material , local , on - source annular regions were used for the background subtraction .",
    "the spectra were then binned to 20 counts per channel after background subtraction , ignoring the first 28 channels that correspond to energies below 0.4kev .",
    "the x - ray fitting was carried out using xspec 11.3 in the energy range 0.4  7.0kev where the _ chandra _ response is well calibrated . in this analysis , _ chandra _ data processing was done using ciao version 3.4 and caldb version 3.3.0.1 .",
    "we define the spectral index such that flux density , @xmath3 and the photon index as @xmath4 .",
    "the errors in this work are @xmath5 errors unless otherwise stated .",
    "[ cols=\"^,<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ , > \" , ]     [ tab : featuresjlg ]      we detect the inner hundred - parsec - scale jet in both our radio and x - ray data as a very well collimated feature extending from the core to the a1 base knots , @xmath6pc downstream of the nucleus .",
    "we used a rectangular region to isolate the emission from this inner jet carefully positioned to include as much jet emission as possible without contamination from the core or the knots ; it extends from 6.7 to 12.1arcsec ( 114  204pc ) from the core as shown in figure  [ fig : tiny ] .",
    "the background emission was estimated from two regions , positioned such that they extend radially from the nucleus at the same distances as the jet region , avoiding x - ray point sources .",
    "we measured the x - ray flux densities for each observation and jointly fitted a power - law with a spectral index of @xmath7 and a galactic absorption of @xmath8@xmath9 ( @xmath10 for 133d.o.f . ) .",
    "this spectral index is consistent with the spectral indices of the knots downstream ; however , the galactic absorption is higher in the knots farther downstream than in this hundred - parsec - scale jet , as expected since the jet is located within the optical dust lane .",
    "we find that the x - ray to radio spectral index , @xmath11 , is higher but consistent with that of the base knots while the x - ray / radio flux density ratio ( @xmath12 ) is lower than those of the radio knots with x - ray counterparts but higher than the value for diffuse emission in the center jet ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see section  [ sec : counters ] ) .",
    "we detect no significant variability in the x - ray flux density ; the apparent fluctuations appear only minor with no obvious trends .",
    "however , the radio 4.8ghz flux density increased by a factor of 2 from 1991 and shows the first indication of decreasing again in our 2008 data .",
    "we are unable to measure the radio spectral index for this region of the jet due to artifacts around the bright core .",
    "although we detect a factor of two change in the radio flux density , we can not make any firm conclusions on this behavior as this section of the jet is greatly affected by artifacts from the core .",
    "these results will be discussed in section  [ sec : dis - tiny ] .",
    "with all of these data we can begin to shed light on the complicated behavior of the jet : why and where knots are formed , why we can see them and how they evolve . in this section",
    "we start by examining the many knot formation models and consider if the behavior of any of the knots in cen a supports them .",
    "not one of these models can explain all of the observed properties of the knots in cen a ; however , some knots behave in a way that can be explained by one model or another .",
    "we are particularly interested to see if the different populations of knots  those with counterparts , the radio - only and the x - ray - only knots  can all be explained by these models .",
    "we then discuss the effect of relativistic beaming on the knot emission , which may explain the observed flux variability , and investigate whether the properties of the knots can be explained by a spine - sheath model of the jet .",
    "we also discuss the hundred - parsec - scale jet comparing it to the knots and to other similar jets .      to determine whether the current models can explain the knots observed in cen a , here we compare the observed properties of the knots with the predicted behavior due to changes in the fluid , namely compression or rarefaction , or changes in the particle acceleration due to processes such as reconfinement of the jet , magnetic field reconnection , or collisions with objects such as molecular clouds and high mass - loss stars .",
    "if a section of the jet s diffuse material underwent adiabatic compression , the magnetic field , which is frozen into the jet plasma , would increase in strength as would the number density and energies of the emitting particles .",
    "this would be reflected in an increase in the flux density and the break frequency of the synchrotron spectrum , so we would observe a flatter x - ray to radio spectrum if compression was responsible for the knots .",
    "@xcite calculated the required one - dimensional compression factors , @xmath13 , from the observed x - ray / radio spectrum using the break frequency ( @xmath14 for a tangled field geometry ) and considered whether this level of compression , when applied to the surrounding diffuse material , is consistent with the observed emission properties .",
    "they found that this level of compression would cause an increase in the radio volume emissivity of the diffuse material by a factor of @xmath15 compared to the observed factor of @xmath16 , effectively ruling out compression as a creation model for the x - ray - only knots in cen a. compression in more than one dimension may reduce the effect to a change in break frequency of @xmath17 ; however , the change in volume emissivity is still much higher than the observed factor .",
    "lesser amounts of compression may still explain the radio - only knots where the x - ray / radio flux density ratio of the diffuse material is suppressed , resulting in a x - ray counterpart too faint to be detected above the diffuse emission , but they can not explain any knot with an x - ray counterpart . in what follows ,",
    "we therefore consider only particle acceleration models as causes for radio knots with x - ray counterparts and x - ray - only knots in cen a. it seems very likely that more than one of these particle acceleration processes is responsible ; here we examine in detail the predictions of the models and the observed behavior of the knots to identify those models which are dominant in the jet .",
    "if the knots seen in cen a are the result of impulsive particle acceleration across the entire knot region , due to a short - lived processes such as small scale magnetic field reconnection , they would fade due to synchrotron losses while others would presumably appear in order to maintain a steady state . using the equipartition value of the magnetic field strength in the a1a knot ( section  [ sec : em ] )",
    ", we would expect a complete change in the appearance of the 1kev x - ray jet emission in @xmath18 years ; this is not seen .",
    "the x - ray synchrotron lifetimes of some of the knots that are resolved in the radio are shown in table  [ tab : synch ] .",
    "consequently , the particle acceleration processes must be in general long - lived .",
    "the knot hst-1 in m87 may be an impulsive event as it flared and faded to approximately its original flux in a decade .",
    "the observed fading is consistent with synchrotron losses ; in addition to a general decrease in all frequencies ( x - ray , uv and radio ) consistent with changes in the beaming factor , the x - ray falls - off faster than the uv or radio @xcite",
    ". however , no knot in cen a appears to behave like hst-1 ; the largest increase in flux is only a factor of 3 over the last 16 years ( sj1 ) , much slower than the flaring of hst-1 , and it has not yet begun to fade .",
    "sj1 is better described by a collision model ( section  [ sec : dis - moving ] ) .",
    "a collision between the jet and an obstacle @xcite would result in a local shock complex and is therefore commonly invoked to explain jet knots . in this scenario , during the initial interaction , we would see a steady increase in the luminosity of the knot relative to the diffuse background .",
    "this is a fast process relative to the lifetime of the knots , but for plausible obstacle sizes and speeds is much longer than the period of our observations and would therefore only be seen as a slight increase in flux .",
    "once the obstacle is firmly in the path of the jet , we expect to see a prolonged period of stable particle acceleration .",
    "eventually , the obstacle may be annihilated by the constant impact from the jet fluid ; it could move transversely out of the jet , continuing on its original path ; or it could be carried along the jet , which would cause a reduction in the shock strength as the obstacle accelerates .",
    "all these would result in a gradual decrease in the flux and , eventually , to the complete disappearance of the knot .    in cen a s jet we can therefore expect to see a range of behaviors for local shocks in the jet",
    ", but the vast majority of knots in this model are expected to be in a phase of stability with x - ray and radio emission of a constant flux .",
    "the knots a1a / ax1a and a1c / ax1c are possibly local shocks due in some part to the reconfinement of the jet ( see section  [ sec : recol ] ) ; however , there are many other instances where there is an x - ray compact source associated with a stationary compact radio knot : a2a / ax2 , a5a",
    "/ ax5 , b1a / bx2 , and b2/bx4 in the jet and sj3/sjx1b , s2a / sx2a and s2b / sx2b in the counterjet .",
    "there are some slight changes in the x - ray , radio or polarization in these systems , but these are not steady , broad - band increases or decreases which could be attributed to beaming ( section [ sec : beam ] ) .",
    "their variability may be described as short - term flaring and may be due to the evolution of the interaction between the jet and the obstacle , to fluctuations in the jet s fluid flow , or to their shock being curved , which would be naturally unsteady under small perturbations of the driving flow .",
    "the majority of the x - ray knots have no detected radio counterparts and only five of these x - ray - only knots have variability detected in the x - ray flux density , of which two are probably lmxbs ( section  [ sec : ps ] ) . of the three probable jet knots",
    ", fx1a has a significant flaring event ( x - ray increases by a factor of 2 in the 2002 observation ) , ex1 shows evidence of a steady decrease in the 2007 vlp observations , which is consistent with predictions of synchrotron losses , and gx5 , a very faint knot , is only detected in 3 of the 10 observations so that we can not characterize its variability in detail . despite these exceptions , the vast majority of these stationary , x - ray only , compact knots",
    "are consistent with a period of stability in the shock model where the radio counterpart is too faint to be detected in our data ; the range of x - ray / radio ratios we have measured means we can not dismiss the possibility of faint radio counterparts , and in fact there is diffuse material emitting in the radio at many of these positions .",
    "it is still possible that the x - ray - only knots are a separate population of knots that have flatter spectra than the radio knots with x - ray counterparts ; however , these knots and those with detected counterparts are consistent with collisions and shock models although we do not see any knots at a stage where the knots are fading away , which would be a very short period in the lifetime of the knot compared to their stable stage .",
    "we do see one knot , ax2a , appearing in the x - ray during our 2007 , @xmath2ks observations but we do not observe a gradual brightening as there is a four - year gap in the observations prior to the 2007 observations when this may have occurred , so we can not say for certain whether this is a new knot or a lmxb ( section  [ sec : ps ] ) .",
    "the radio - only stationary knots may be explained in this scenario by a weaker shock such as would occur if the obstacle is moving downstream .",
    "as the obstacle is sped up to match the fluid flow , the shock would weaken until it was too weak to accelerate particles to x - ray emitting energies . in this model",
    ", the ratio of the numbers of radio and x - ray knots would be related to their respective lifetimes , but as the lifetime of the knots also depends on the birth rates , the times taken for the knots to move along , through or out of the jet , and the obstacle ablation or acceleration timescales , the relationship would not be a simple one .",
    "this model explains stationary and very slow moving knots but those moving at close to the mean jet speed ( @xmath19 ) can not be explained by weak shocks , and the limits on the proper motions of the radio - only knots suggest that many knots may not be consistent with this model .",
    "a1d is an example of this with an upper limit speed of @xmath20 .",
    "other models for the radio - only knots are discussed further in section  [ sec : dis - moving ] .",
    "recent 2.3ghz very long baseline interferometry ( vlbi ) observations by @xcite of the bright a - group knots do not detect our moving radio knots , a1b and a1e , or a1d while the compact cores of a1a , a1c and a2a are all resolved .",
    "these results strongly support a collision model for , at least , the stationary radio knots with x - ray counterparts , and also argue that there is an intrinsic difference between the stationary and moving knots . if the stationary knots were due to collisions with an obstacle , we would expect to detect a compact region where the interaction is occuring ; whereas if the moving knots were due to a non - localized process such as compression of the fluid flow , we would not expect to detect a compact central region in the knot .    if we consider the limits on the proper motions of the stationary knots ( a1a ; @xmath21 , a1c ; @xmath22 and",
    "a2a ; @xmath23 ) it is reasonable to consider a3a , with a limit of @xmath21 , to also be stationary and therefore we can predict that in principle it should be detectable with vlbi .",
    "the limits on the other knots are all significantly higher and in two cases , unconfined ( a4 and b2 ) so if these knots have compact cores that can be detected with vlbi they could be independently identified as either moving or stationary knots .",
    "this is particularly interesting in the case of sj1 as it has a measured velocity of @xmath24 , but this apparent velocity due to the effect of artefacts on the observed shape of the knot .",
    "we can not resolve a x - ray counterpart due to its proximity to the core ( 0.95arcsec = 17pc ) , so detecting a compact peak in the radio with vlbi might give us an independent method of constraining its motion and therefore the reason for its development .",
    "@xcite also detect sub - structure in the knots a1a and possibly a2a .",
    "( the larger - scale structure of these knots is not detected by the vlbi observations due to the lack of short baselines . ) if we consider a1a , which @xcite divide into two compact sources a1aa and a1ab , we find that @xcite only detect approximately half of the flux at 2.3ghz ( from both of these substructures ) that we would expect based on our observations and assuming a power - law spectrum .",
    "we must assume that the remaining half of the emission is coming from more diffuse material on the scale of 0.10.2arcsec .",
    "however , the observations of a compact core reduce the possible size of the obstacle to an area comparable to the size of the region detected ( 0.5  2.5pc ) , which suggests an obstacle such as o / b stars , which are much more common , rather than more extreme systems such as wolf - rayet stars as suggested by @xcite .    as discussed in section  [ sec : res ] , we find that many of the x - ray knots with radio counterparts , and all of the radio - only knots , lie within the inner arcmin ( @xmath25kpc ) , while beyond this we find a complete absence of compact radio knots , even though there is diffuse radio emission extending to the north inner lobe at @xmath26arcsec .",
    "it is at @xmath25arcmin that we also detect a change in the absorbing column as the jet emerges from the dust lane . given the constraints on the geometry of the dust features seen in emission at @xmath27 m with _ spitzer _ irac @xcite , it seems unlikely that the jet is interacting with the dust disk directly beyond the a1 group of knots .",
    "it remains plausible that there are a greater number of knots in this inner region due to collisions with high - mass - loss stars or clumps of cold gas , both of which will be more common in the central regions of the galaxy .",
    "if we consider the distribution of stars in cen a @xcite and compare this with the decreasing number of knots with distance from the core , we find that the number of stars per unit length in the jet steadily increases with distance from the nucleus .",
    "this argues that the obstacles are not distributed like normal stars in the galaxy , but does not rule out the model in which the obstacles are high mass - loss stars or gas clouds associated with the central regions of the galaxy .",
    "farther out , we see a decrease in the spatial density of knots which is consistent with a predominantly diffuse particle acceleration mechanism and at @xmath28arcsec the environment may change again , as the radio emission expands into a lobe and there is an x - ray surface brightness discontinuity @xcite .",
    "we conclude that describe the majority of knots in the jet of cen a as due to the interaction between the jet and an obstacle , including knots with no detected x - ray or radio counterparts , the exceptions being those radio - only knots which are moving ( section  [ sec : dis - moving ] ) ; however , this assumes that the missing counterparts exist below the noise level .",
    "if there are really no counterparts , we require another model to explain the existence of x - ray - only knots .      it has been suggested ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that where the jet moves from a well - collimated hundred - parsec - scale jet to a complex , knotty kpc - scale jet , the supersonic fluid encounters a less dense environment .",
    "it expands into this ambient material and is therefore likely to cause a reconfinement shock near the boundary of the jet",
    ". this could also be the case if there is a change in the internal pressure or state of the gas , or because of a change in the external sound speed or density with no change in the external pressure , which could occur if the jet is within a relativistic bubble .    at",
    "@xmath6pc the inner jet expands from a well - collimated beam to a diffuse cone of material .",
    "this is indicative of a change in the ambient pressure which would be consistent with the conditions for a reconfinement shock .",
    "the base knots a1a / ax1a and a1c / ax1c are therefore prime candidates for reconfinement shocks .",
    "they are also stationary in the jet , and a1c is evolving downstream consistent with this model . unfortunately , the presence of the moving knot , a1b , between two base knots is difficult to explain in a simple reconfinement model ; it would require a unstable knot complex , possibly ringed , with a shock region that could have been disrupted by a1b as it moves along the jet .",
    "the knot hst-1 in m87 has also been investigated in terms of a reconfinement shock model by @xcite and has many traits similar to a1a and a1c .",
    "it is believed that the stationary , compact , variable and overpressured flaring region is located immediately downstream of the point where the reconfinement shock reaches the jet axis .",
    "@xcite also associate the downstream , superluminal features of hst-1 with a diverging reflected shock . if we compare this to cen a s a1 grouping , then a1a and a1c are consistent with the flaring region of hst-1 and the fainter downstream components a1d and a1e , which are moving down the jet , can be compared to the reflection components .    to summarize , the location of these knots at the point where the jet widens and the fact that , collectively , they span the width of the jet are in favor of a reconfinement shock model ; however , the fact that there are two of them and that a1b is apparently moving between them makes this model harder to accept .",
    "the moving radio knots fit into none of the models discussed previously ( see section  [ sec : dis - col ] ) as all these models describe a situation in which the fluid undergoes a change at a stationary point in the jet .",
    "we also have to consider that there are no compact x - ray counterparts to the moving radio knots , a1b and a1e , as well as the diffuse radio emission downstream of a2a ; a2b ( @xmath29 ) , a2c ( @xmath30 ) and a2d ( @xmath31 ) .",
    "the remaining moving knot , a3b is associated with a clumpy region in the radio jet rather than a single compact radio knot and has x - ray emission associated with it , although this could be a projection effect or emission from a nearby stationary x - ray knot unrelated to the radio knot .",
    "we must also note that all of the radio - only knots have either well - established or inconclusive proper motions so it may be that all of the radio - only knots are moving .",
    "knots that are moving at speeds comparable to the bulk jet flow speed can not be due to collisions with a stationary or slow - moving obstacle , and , as we have argued above ( section  [ sec : dis - col ] ) there is independent evidence from vlbi observations that there is an intrinsic difference between the moving and stationary knots in the a group . to describe the moving knots we require a scenario in which the jet undergoes a change resulting in a knot of either higher particle density , higher particle energy , or higher magnetic field , which moves freely along the jet with the fluid flow .",
    "this would be provided by moderate compression of the jet fluid , as discussed in section  [ sec : compression ] .",
    "information on x - ray motions of the other knots in the jet will be invaluable to this problem as the radio - only moving knots may not be as different as this work suggests , but x - ray proper motions will not be available for some time .",
    "our current data spans a sufficient time frame for motions to be detected ; however , the signal - to - noise of the earlier observations is not good enough to accurately measure the position of the knots , so that our _ chandra _ data do not provide useful constraints .      in models in which the x - ray emission from the knots is synchrotron emission produced as a result of the interaction between the jet and an obstacle",
    ", the x - ray luminosity places some constraints on the efficiency of high - energy particle acceleration . using the constraints on the knot sizes provided by the vlbi observations ( [ sec : dis - col ] )",
    "we can calculate the fraction of the jet power intercepted by the knots .",
    "some fraction of this ( which can not exceed 100% ) goes to power the emission at x - ray and other bands .",
    "if we assume that the knots are in a steady state and that the incident energy produces electrons with a power - law energy spectrum that balances the radiative losses , then we can form an inequality : the ratio of the energy in the x - ray - emitting electrons to that in the whole electron population must be greater than the ratio of the energy emitted in the x - rays to the fraction of jet energy intercepted by the knot .",
    "the unrealistic assumption of 100% efficient energy transfer of the absorbed jet energy to relativistic electrons , we find that the electron energy spectrum has an index , @xmath32 when we consider the lowest energy electrons to have @xmath33 .",
    "if we assume that the energy transfer to the electrons is 10% efficient , then the minimum index decreases , @xmath34 and at 1% the spectrum is constrained to have @xmath35 .",
    "however , if the minimum @xmath36 is increased to @xmath37 , these indices steepen so , for example , 1% efficient energy transfer has a minimum index of @xmath38 .",
    "these calculations use the cross - section and x - ray emission of the knot ax1a as its size is well constrained @xcite .",
    "these minimum indices put some constraints on the nature of the particle acceleration in the jet ; we note that @xmath39 , the value expected for standard acceleration at a non - relativistic strong shock , is possible unless the efficiency of energy transfer to the electron population falls below @xmath25% .",
    "if there are changes in the beaming factor in the knots , due to a change in the velocity or direction of the fluid flow , we would observe in - step changes in the x - ray and radio flux densities , assuming all the emission is synchrotron , as beaming to first order is independent of frequency .",
    "this may occur in stationary or moving knots as the movement of the fluid through the knot is responsible for changes in the beaming factor , not the motion of the knot itself . although the flaring of hst-1 may be explained as a reconfinement shock or the result of impulsive particle acceleration , it fades in a manner best described by beaming combined with synchrotron losses @xcite ; the emission fades slowly in all frequencies , but appears to drop - off faster in the x - ray compared to the uv and radio .",
    "compared to the factor 50 increase in x - ray emission of m87 s hst-1 , we observe no flaring events of similar intensity in either our radio or x - ray data .",
    "the largest increase we observe is in the radio knot sj1 , which increases in radio emission by a factor of 3.5 over the last 17 years .",
    "this is the only knot showing variability in the inner hundred - parsec - scale jet region suggesting it has different physics from the knots farther down the jet and it is better described by a collision and shock model .",
    "smaller increases are seen in other stationary radio knots , increasing in step in the radio and x - ray although only a1c / ax1c shows a significant change in both . in the radio ,",
    "a1c increases steadily while in the x - ray we see short - term variability with a dip in the flux density in the middle of 2007 ( figure  [ fig : rlc1 ] ) .",
    "this is consistent with the short - term variability observed in hst-1 , which also show slight dips in the x - ray flux density during an overall increase .",
    "the knots a1a / ax1a and s1/sx1a also fit these conditions ; however , the subtle increase in flux ( @xmath40 ) is below the significance limit described in section  [ sec : flux - var ] .",
    "we conclude that although we see in - step changes in the radio and x - ray flux densities in several of the knots , beaming is not the dominant effect as other mechanisms can explain the observed behaviors .",
    "current models of fri jets @xcite propose that the jets have a non - uniform radial velocity profile in which the speed decreases with increasing radius . because of early polarization results that seemed to point to a two - fluid structure , this is often discussed in the literature in terms of a fast - moving ` spine ' and slower ` sheath ' of the jet . the almost entirely parallel magnetic field seen in this work and in polarization maps by @xcite",
    "provides no evidence in itself either for or against ` spine - sheath ' models , since modern versions of models with velocity structure do not predict a transition to a central perpendicular field in all cases .",
    "some evidence for models with velocity structure might be provided by the observed localized edge - brightening in the diffuse material @xcite , if this is predominantly due to variations in the doppler enhancement of different layers of the jet material . however , this limb - brightening is not seen along the entire jet ; where it is seen , it lies downstream of a compact knot and could be described as a knot tail .",
    "similar structures are seen behind many of the knots , for example a2a , and are consistent with a shock model with downstream advection @xcite .",
    "@xcite also suggest that at the edges there is a slight hardening of the x - ray emission suggesting the spectrum changes .    to investigate if this is seen in our deeper x - ray data , @xcite fitted a joint spectrum to all the x - ray knots that reside in the ` inner - spine ' and ` inner - sheath ' regions ( at a distance of 21 to 66arcsec from the core with position angles of @xmath41 ",
    "@xmath42 for the spine and @xmath43  @xmath41 and @xmath42 ",
    "@xmath44 for the sheath ) . as described in section  [ sec : spine ] , we have spectral fits for 6 of the 7 x - ray knots in the inner - spine and 3 of the 5 x - ray knots in the inner - sheath regions defined by @xcite .",
    "the weighted mean of the spectral indices we measure for the x - ray knots in these regions are @xmath45 and @xmath46 respectively , which are consistent with the results of worrall et al . but",
    "not with each other . on closer inspection of the individual knot spectral indices , we find that the inner - spine spectral index is dominated by the bright x - ray knot bx2 ( @xmath47 ) .",
    "given the small number statistics and the dominance of individual knots , it is difficult to draw conclusions about the behavior of either knot population .    as discussed in section  [ sec : pm ] , we see no dependence of the velocities on the angular position of the knots , nor on the distance of the knots from the core , although our sample is too small for a statistical analysis .",
    "we have considered the directions of motion and find that they are consistent with following the fluid flow , appearing to move toward the downstream regions of bright material .",
    "the directions of motion are not consistent with moving exactly parallel to the jet axis but we argue that the ridge line through the jet is not at a constant positional angle and that the fluid flow is complicated and not a simple laminar flow directed away from the core .",
    "we therefore can not comment further on the possibility of a faster moving spine in the jet of cen a nor on the possible migration of the knots towards or away from the jet axis .",
    ", from the core to 60arcsec ( solid line ) , from 60  190arcsec ( dashed line ) and farther than 190arcsec from the core ( dotted line).,scaledwidth=35.0% ]      we found that the spectrum of the inner hundred - parsec - scale jet of cen a is flatter in the x - ray than the base knots and the diffuse material @xcite but consistent in the radio to x - ray spectral index .",
    "these measurements are also consistent with the values for knots farther along the jet .",
    "the x - ray / radio flux density ratio is lower for the inner hundred - parsec - scale jet than for any of the knots , except s1/sx1a ; however , it is higher than the x - ray / radio flux density ratio of the diffuse material farther down the jet suggesting that the inner jet is more efficient at making x - rays for a given amount of radio than the diffuse emission farther up the jet .",
    "this is consistent with what is seen in other fri jets such as that in 3c66b @xcite .",
    "our results can be summarized as follows :    * we rule out impulsive particle acceleration in the knots of cen a as we detect no extreme variability in the x - ray knots , in contrast to what is seen in knot hst-1 in m87 .",
    "we see essentially the same distribution of x - ray knots in our most recent observation as was seen in the earliest _ chandra _ observations in 1999",
    ". this would not be the case if the knots were impulsive as they would fade due to synchrotron losses indicating long - lived particle acceleration in the knots of cen a. * for those radio knots with x - ray counterparts , the most likely formation mechanism is a collision between the jet and an obstacle , resulting in a local shock .",
    "we see no significant variability in many of these knots , suggesting a long - lived , stable stage of particle acceleration during the interaction between the jet and the obstacle . *",
    "the formation of knots at the point where the inner hundred - parsec - scale jet broadens abruptly suggests that these base knots ( a1a and a1c ) may be reconfinement shocks ; however , this is complicated by the presence of a radio - only knot ( a1b ) moving downstream between the possible confinement - shock knots . *",
    "we detect a factor of 3 increase in radio flux density of the counterjet knot sj1 .",
    "this knot lies only 17pc from the nucleus so is unresolved in the x - ray ; however , it was still increasing in flux in the most recent observation ( dec 2008 ) so we plan to continue to monitor its radio behavior with the vla . * we detect proper motions in three of our radio knots ; two of which have no compact x - ray counterparts and a third which has only diffuse x - ray emission associated with it .",
    "studies of the distribution of the moving knots are inconclusive due to the low number of well - established proper motions ; however , that the direction of motion of the knots may not be directly parallel to the jet axis which appears to varies along the jet .",
    "their motions are all downstream and they show no dependence on the position of the knot within the jet .",
    "the most likely cause of knots in the jet is collisions ; if the x - ray - only knots have faint radio counterparts and the radio - only knots are seen only during the latter stages of the collision when the interaction is weaker , then only the moving knots are a separate population",
    ". these may include all the radio - only knots but our proper motion measurements are inconclusive for many of these .",
    "we argue that these moving knots are due to compressions in the fluid flow that do not result in particle acceleration to x - ray emitting energies .",
    "it is possible , however , that the x - ray - only knots are also a separate population with flatter x - ray to radio spectra than those with counterparts , in which case we currently have no model for their formation .",
    "compared to other fri jets , cen a is atypical , with an obscuring dust lane extending out to 1kpc from the core which greatly affect the jet and its knots .",
    "other galaxies where dust has been detected , such as 3c31 and 3c449 , have much smaller disks , which can not affect even the innermost regions of the observed x - ray jet .",
    "if we can attribute the knot dominated particle acceleration of the inner kpc to the presence of this disk then we can postulate that the x - ray jet emission seen in other fri galaxies should be comparable to the dominant diffuse particle acceleration that dominates farther out in the cen a jet .",
    "we would then predict that knot - dominated structure will not be seen in other fri galaxies .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge financial support for this work from the stfc ( research studentship for jlg ) , the royal society ( research fellowship for mjh ) , and nasa ( grant go7 - 8105x to rpk ) .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "we acknowledge helpful comments from an anonymous referee .",
    "_ facilities : _ ,    biretta , j.a . , sparks , w.b .",
    "& macchetto , f.  1999 , apj 520 , 621 bicknell , g.v .",
    "1984 , apj 286 , 68 blakeslee et al .",
    "2009 apj , 694 , 556 blandford , r.d .",
    "& knigl  1979 ,",
    "apl 20 , 15 brookes , m.h . ,",
    "lawrance , c.r . , stern , d. , werner , m.  2006 , apj 646 , l41 cheung , c.c . ,",
    "harris , d.e . & stawarz   2007 , apj 663 , l65 clarke , d.a . , burns , j.o .",
    "& norman , m.l .",
    "1992 , apj 395 , 444 croston , j.h . , hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "birkinshaw , m . ,",
    "worrall , d.m . ,",
    "laing , r.a .",
    "2008 , mnras 386 , 1709 croston et al .  2009 ,",
    "mnras 395 , 1999 fabbiano , g.  2006 , ara&a 44 , 323 fanaroff , b.l . &",
    "riley , j.m .",
    "1974 , mnras 167 , 31p feigelson , e.d .",
    ", schreier e.j . ,",
    "delvaille , j.p .",
    ", giacconi , r. , grindlay , j.e . & lightman , a.p .",
    "1981 , apj 251 , 31 farrarese , l. , mould , j.r . ,",
    "stetson , p.b . ,",
    "tonry , j.l . ,",
    "blakeslee , j.p .",
    ", & ajhar , e.a .  2007 ,",
    "apj 654 , 186 harris , d.e . & krawczynski , h.  2002 , apj 565 , 244 harris , d.e . , biretta , j. , junor , w. , perlman , e.s . , sparks , w.b . &",
    "wilson , a.s .",
    "2003 , apj 586 , l41 harris , d.e . ,",
    "cheung , c.c . , biretta , j. , sparks , w.b . ,",
    "junor , w. , perlman , e.s .",
    "& wilson , a.s .",
    "2006 apj 640 , 211 harris , d.e . ,",
    "cheung , c.c . ,",
    "stawarz ,  , biretta , j.a . & perlman , e.s .",
    "2009 , apj in press hardcastle , m.j .",
    ", birkinshaw , m. & worrall , d.m .",
    "2001 , mnras 326 , 1499 hardcastle , m.j . , worrall , d.m .",
    ", birkinshaw , m. , laing , r.a . & bridle , a.h .",
    "2002 , mnras 334 , 134 hardcastle , m.j . , worrall , d.m . , kraft , r.p . ,",
    "forman , c.j .",
    "& murray , s.s .  2003 , apj 593 , 169 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "harris , d.e . , worrall , d.m .",
    "& birkinshaw , m.  2004 , apj 612 , 729 hardcastle , m.j . , kraft , r.p . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    "2006 , mnras 368 , l15 hardcastle et al .",
    "2007 , apj 670 , l81 hines , d.c . ,",
    "eilek , j.a .",
    "& owen , f.n .  1989 , apj 347 , 713 jordn et al .",
    "2007 , apj 671 , l117 kataoka , j. & stawarz ,  .",
    "2005 , apj 622 , 797 kataoka , j. , stawarz ,  .",
    ", aharonian f. , takahara , f. , ostrowski , m. & edwards , p.g .",
    "2006 , apj 641 , 158 kraft et al .",
    "2000 , apj 531 , l9 kraft , r.p . , forman , c.j . ,",
    "jones , c. , murray , s.s .",
    ", hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    "2002 , apj 569 , 54 kraft et al .",
    "2003 , apj 592 , 129 kraft et al .",
    "2008 , apj 677 , l97 laing , r.a .",
    "1996 , in asp conf .",
    "100 , energy transport in radio galaxies and quasars , ed .",
    "hardee , a.h .",
    "bridle & j.a .",
    "zensus ( san francisco : asp ) , 241 laing , r.a . & bridle , a.h .",
    "2002 , mnras 336 , 328 ma , c. , arias , e.f . ,",
    "eubanks , t.m . , fey , a.l .",
    ", gontier , a .- m . , jacobs , c.s . , sovers , o.j .",
    ", archinal , b.a . & charlot , p.  1998",
    ", apj 116 , 516 mainieri , v. et al .",
    "2007 , apjs 172 , 368 mei , s. et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 655 , 144 ) mellier , y. & mathez , g.  1987 a&a 175 , 1 moretti , a. , campana , s. , lazzati , d. , & tagliaferri , g.  2003 , apj 588 , 696 perlman , e.s . ,",
    "harris , d.e . , biretta , j. , sparks , w.b . & macchetto , f.d .  2003 , apj 599 , l65 quillen , a.c . ,",
    "brookes , m.h . , keene , j. , stern , d. , lawrence , c.r . & werner , m.w .  2006 apj 645 , 1092 quillen , a.c .",
    "2008 , mnras 384 , 1469 posson - brown , j. , raychaudhury , s. , forman , w. , donnelly , r.  h. , & jones , c.  2009 , apj , 695 , 1094 sanders , r.h .",
    "1983 apj 266 , 73 sivakoff , g.r .",
    "2008 , apj 677 , l27 stawarz ,  . ,",
    "aharonian , f. , kataoka , j. , ostrowski , m. , siemiginowska , a. & sikora , m.  2006 , mnras 370 , 981 tingay et al .",
    "1998 , aj 115 , 960 tingay , s.j . & lenc , e.  2009 , aj in press ( arxiv:0906.3606v1 [ astro-ph.co ] ) tonry , j.l .",
    "1991 , apj 382 , l109 turner , t.j . ,",
    "george , i.m . ,",
    "mushotzky , r.f . & nandra , k. , 1997 , apj 475 , 118 van den bergh , s.  1976 , apj 208 , 673 voss , r. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj 701 , 471 walker , r.c .",
    "1997 , apj 488 , 675 woodley et al .",
    "2008 , apj 682 , 199 worrall , d.m .",
    "2008 , apj 673 , l135"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new and archival multi - frequency radio and x - ray data for centaurus a obtained over almost 20 years at the vla and with _ chandra _ , with which we measure the x - ray and radio spectral indices of jet knots , flux density variations in the jet knots , polarization variations , and proper motions . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the observed properties with current knot formation models and particle acceleration mechanisms . </S>",
    "<S> we rule out impulsive particle acceleration as a formation mechanism for all of the knots as we detect the same population of knots in all of the observations and we find no evidence of extreme variability in the x - ray knots . </S>",
    "<S> we find the most likely mechanism for all the stationary knots is a collision resulting in a local shock followed by a steady state of prolonged , stable particle acceleration and x - ray synchrotron emission . in this scenario , </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray - only knots have radio counterparts that are too faint to be detected , while the radio - only knots are due to weak shocks where no particles are accelerated to x - ray emitting energies . although the base knots are prime candidates for reconfinement shocks , the presence of a moving knot in this vicinity and the fact that there are two base knots are hard to explain in this model . </S>",
    "<S> we detect apparent motion in three knots ; however , their velocities and locations provide no conclusive evidence for or against a faster moving ` spine ' within the jet </S>",
    "<S> . the radio - only knots , both stationary and moving , may be due to compression of the fluid . </S>"
  ]
}