{
  "article_text": [
    "mgo is a major component of the earth s mantle and so its thermodynamic properties at high pressures ( p ) and temperatures ( t ) are crucial to our understanding of its composition and evolution .",
    "it is arguably the simplest oxide@xcite , being stable in the nacl cubic structure at pressures up to at least 227 gpa at ambient temperature@xcite , and its simplicity and abundance make it a natural starting point for attempts to understand and model oxides of geophysical relevance  @xcite .",
    "computer simulations based either on quantum mechanics or on atomistic force - fields are playing an increasingly important role in geophysical research because the experimental difficulties at the extreme temperatures and pressures relevant to the earth s mantle are considerable .",
    "however , for simulations to be of use , it is important to be able to rely on the accuracy of theoretical descriptions of interactions between atoms and to understand their limitations .",
    "when bonding can be described accurately and efficiently , simulations allow many physical properties of materials to be calculated at arbitrary temperatures and pressures . on the other hand , an inability to accurately calculate the properties of an oxide as simple as mgo would cast serious doubt on the suitability of computer simulations for quantitative studies of more complicated oxides such as ( mg , fe)sio@xmath0-perovskite and ( mg , fe)o magnesiowstite , which together make up about 90% of the lower mantle .",
    "both mgo and mgsio@xmath0 are known to melt at temperatures substantially above the geothermal profile , however , a quantitative determination of their melting temperatures ( @xmath1 ) at high pressures is a crucial parameter in rheological , geodynamical , and chemical differentiation models of the lower mantle  @xcite .",
    "viscosity models , for example , scale with the `` homologous '' temperature ( @xmath2 ) , @xmath3 being the actual temperature along the geotherm  @xcite .",
    "chemical differentiation in the early , partially molten state of the mantle must have occurred at temperatures above the mgsio@xmath0/mgo solidus , which is in turn determined by @xmath1 of the end - members .    until recently , only one experimental measurement of the melting temperature of mgo at high pressure existed@xcite and this extrapolated to a rather low value of 5000 k for the melting temperature of mgo at core - mantle boundary pressures ( 130 gpa ) .",
    "if correct , this would imply that viscosity in the lower mantle is dominated by atomic diffusion in mgo  @xcite and suggest that partial melting may be the cause of the seismic anomalies at the bottom of the mantle  @xcite .",
    "however , atomistic modeling has consistently yielded a much steeper increase ( @xmath4 ) of the melting temperature of mgo with pressure @xcite the theoretical estimates of @xmath4 range from 88 k / gpa @xcite to 270 k / gpa @xcite , while zerr and boehler found a value of 36 k / gpa  @xcite .",
    "because the melting slope is related through the clapeyron relation ( @xmath5 ) to fundamental physical properties of the material such as the change in molar volume upon melting ( @xmath6 ) and the latent heat @xmath7 , if the results of zerr and boehler were correct , it would point to a dramatic failure of atomistic models .",
    "however , even at low pressures , there are considerable difficulties associated with experimental measurements of the mgo melting point@xcite .",
    "ronchi and sheindlin have reported a zero pressure melting point of @xmath8 k@xcite which differs significantly from the value of @xmath9 measured by zerr and boehler . further doubt has been cast on zerr and boehler s measurements by a very recent experiment in which zhang and fei have extrapolated a value of @xmath10 k / gpa from measurements of melting of ( mg , fe)o solid solutions at high pressure@xcite .    here",
    "we combine molecular dynamics simulations with density functional theory ( dft ) to determine the melting slope of mgo .",
    "there have been two previous calculations of the melting slope that relied heavily on dft - one by alf@xcite and one by aguado and madden@xcite .",
    "our calculations are intended to complement these studies and to demonstrate that , relative to the large discrepancy between the calculated melting slope and that measured by zerr and boehler , there is agreement between values of the melting slope calculated by different groups using dft .",
    "the calculations are also in better agreement with the work of zhang and fei .",
    "we pay particular attention to analysing possible sources of error in our calculations and in previous calculations .",
    "our calculations indicate that the rate of increase of the melting temperature with pressure is between three and five times steeper than reported experimentally by zerr and boehler .",
    "furthermore , this discrepancy does not appear to be explainable by statistical uncertainties in our calculations or by differences in the description of interatomic forces between the model potentials that we use for efficient statistical sampling and dft .",
    "we are forced to conclude that either the local and generalised - gradient approximations to dft fail spectacularly for solid and/or liquid mgo , or there are problems with the experimental results of zerr and boehler . such a dramatic failure of density functionals for a material as simple as mgo would be very surprising and , to our knowledge , unprecedented .",
    "therefore , given that the experiment of zhang and fei casts doubt on the results of zerr and boehler , it seems likely that current models of viscosity for the earth s mantle which rely on these results need to be revised .",
    "many of the early calculations of the melting slope were performed using empirical atomistic models .",
    "these are energy functions of the atomic coordinates that were parametrized using low - temperature experimental or dft data for crystalline mgo .",
    "there are several potential problems with these calculations .",
    "one potential problem is that many of these atomistic models do not adequately describe electronic effects , such as ionic polarization , that may have a significant impact on thermodynamics .",
    "this is of particular concern for pairwise - additive force - fields which do not contain any phenomenological representation of the response of electrons on an ion to changes in the ion s environment .",
    "a second potential problem is that the data to which these atomistic models were fit does not relate directly to the relevant thermodynamic @xmath11 conditions and it does nt relate directly to the liquid state .",
    "this means that one can be less confident of the models applicability under these conditions where disorder and changes in volume may alter the electronic structure . finally , if the quantity of data to which a model is fit is small it is relatively easy to achieve a good fit .",
    "however , one can never be sure that this fit results in a good underlying description of the forces on the ions . for these reasons , it is difficult to assess the reliability of calculations of the melting slope that are based on these purely - empirical atomistic models .",
    "parameter - free ( or first - principles ) approaches based on density functional theory and on the full description of the quantum electronic ground state have proven to be much more accurate and reliable than conventional force - fields for the calculation of the static and vibrational properties of crystalline mgo at low temperature@xcite .",
    "a serious drawback of first - principles approaches , however , is their computational expense , which limits simulations to short time and length scales .",
    "therefore , statistical sampling is usually poor and the precision with which thermodynamic properties can be calculated is low .",
    "nevertheless , recent methodological advances and increasing computational resources have allowed the study of high - t thermodynamic properties of minerals in a few cases , including melting  @xcite and thermoelasticity  @xcite . to find the reason for the discrepancy between theory and experiment on the melting slope of mgo , we will attempt to rule out as many of the possible reasons for this discrepancy as we can . because simulations that rely solely on empirical or semi - empirical atomistic force - fields yield calculated melting slopes that differ by up to a factor of three and because their accuracy is very difficult to assess , we must assume , for the sake of the present argument , that they are untrustworthy .",
    "therefore , we consider only the more recent calculations of @xmath4 that have been performed with substantial help from first - principles calculations .",
    "alf has calculated the melting slope of mgo without any reliance on atomistic force - fields by performing first principles molecular dynamics .",
    "he found a value for the melting slope of @xmath12 k / gpa@xcite .",
    "however , we can not rule out the possibility that his results are affected by uncertainties arising from short equilibration times and production runs . aguado and madden , on the other hand , have substantially reduced the probability of poor equilibration and substantially increased the precision with which thermodynamic properties are calculated by using a highly - accurate atomistic potential that has been parametrized using dft @xcite .",
    "equilibration and statistical sampling have been performed with this relatively - efficient force - field and they have used dft to check the accuracy of the calculated energy differences between solid and liquid .",
    "they find a melting slope of @xmath13 k / gpa .",
    "although the force - field that they use is very good , the configurations that they generate to calculate energy and volume differences can not be trusted as much as those that would be calculated if dynamics had been performed on the dft potential energy surface .",
    "for example , they have parametrized their potential by fitting to dft calculations of configurations from a number of different solid phases .",
    "there is no guarantee that their force - field would be transferable to the liquid if the liquid structure differed strongly from these crystals .    in this work , we calculate the melting slope using a similar approach to that of aguado and madden . we minimise finite - size effects and maximise the lengths of equilibration and production simulations by performing molecular dynamics with a highly - accurate and sophisticated atomistic force - field@xcite .",
    "we use perturbation theory to correct the small differences between our force - field s description of the potential energy surface and that of dft .",
    "we also take precautions to ensure that the configurations generated by our force - field are very close to those that would be generated directly from the dft potential energy surface : we parametrize this model by fitting to dft forces , stresses , and energies calculated on the hot solid _ and the liquid _ ; we also perform a first principles molecular dynamics simulation of liquid mgo to verify that we get a liquid structure that is very similar to that produced by our force - field .",
    "an important conclusion of the present work is that , on the scale of the discrepancy between theory and experiment , there is relative agreement between calculations of the dft melting slope .",
    "it is important to note that there have been dft - based calculations whose results differ strongly from those of alf , aguado and madden , and us .",
    "however , we draw a distinction between dft - based calculations that simply use models that rely to some extent on dft , and calculations of the dft melting slope .",
    "the latter are calculations which arrive at a close approximation of the melting slope that would be obtained from large scale molecular dynamics simulations on the dft potential energy surface . as an example of the former kind of calculation we consider the study by strachan _",
    "et al . _ who calculated the melting curve using a model that was fit to the dft equations of state ( equilibrium volumes , bulk moduli , etc .. ) of the b1 and the high pressure b2 phases of mgo as well as the shear stresses along the transformation path between them . therefore ,",
    "this fit was to a very small amount of _ zero temperature _ dft data and the resulting force - field was used directly to compute the melting line .",
    "the fit of our models is to high temperature solid and liquid dft data and we converge this fit with respect to the quantity of dft data ( @xmath14 numbers are typically required ) .",
    "the closeness of the fit@xcite and the effectively - infinite amount of data used in the fit allows us to be confident that the force - field provides a very accurate description of the forces on the ions .",
    "however , the crucial point , as explained below , is that the role of our model is only to provide us with realistic statistically - independent hot solid and liquid configurations .",
    "the melting slope is computed by performing dft calculations directly on these configurations so that , by first - order perturbation theory , we arrive at a close approximation to the dft melting slope .",
    "furthermore , we estimate the closeness of this approximation below .",
    "so , despite the fact that we have a very accurate dft - parameterised model , our goal is not to calculate this model s melting slope but to use it as a stepping stone to calculate the dft melting slope .",
    "semi - empirical dft calculations were performed by cohen and gong@xcite , however , their potential - induced - breathing ( pib ) model imposes unphysical constraints on the density .",
    "for example , it is known that oxygen ions are highly polarisable but , within their approach , they remain spherically - symmetric .",
    "this results , among other effects , in a vast over - estimation of longitudinal optical phonon frequencies @xcite .",
    "it is not known how oxygen polarisation affects the structure of liquid mgo , for example , but it is clear both from our classical and from our _ ab initio _ molecular dynamics simulations that oxygen ions acquire large dipoles in the disordered solid and in the liquid .",
    "we determine the melting slope @xmath4 of mgo at zero pressure by using the clapeyron relation .",
    "we calculate @xmath6 and @xmath7 with classical molecular dynamics and apply corrections to them using dft .",
    "dft calculations were carried out within the local density approximation ( lda ) using norm - conserving pseudopotentials with and without core corrections  @xcite for mg and o , respectively , and a plane wave basis set with 120 ry energy cut off .",
    "simulation cells contained 64 atoms and the brillouin zone was sampled with the @xmath15-point .",
    "tests with 8 k - points yielded negligible ( @xmath16% ) differences on solid - liquid energy differences , with respect to @xmath15-point sampling .    in spite of their lower accuracy , model potentials can speed up considerably the task of calculating @xmath6 and @xmath7 from first principles if they are used as a `` reference '' model for the first - principles potential  @xcite .",
    "the model potential is used to generate statistically significant atomic configurations at the p - t conditions of interest and the first - principles values of @xmath6 and @xmath7 are then obtained by performing dft calculations on those configurations only .",
    "we will show that , thanks to the quality of the model potential used in this work , the errors introduced by this procedure are significantly smaller than those intrinsic to the standard approximations to dft , which therefore remains the main source of uncertainty in our calculations . in order to achieve such a level of precision we use a model potential for mgo recently developed by us , which accounts for arbitrary aspherical distortions of the oxygen valence shell  @xcite .",
    "its parameters are obtained by best fit to dft forces , stresses and energy in atomic configurations which are representative of the physical conditions of interest  @xcite . for this study",
    "we have used one potential ( @xmath17 ) which was optimized in the liquid at 3000 k and @xmath18 gpa , and another ( @xmath19 ) which was optimized at the same p - t conditions in the solid .",
    "average energies were set to be identical to the dft values ( this can trivially be imposed through an arbitrary additive constant ) . for both potentials , phonons , thermal expansion , and",
    "equations of state across a wide range of temperatures and pressures , are in very good agreement with experiments and with independent dft calculations@xcite .",
    "1 shows @xmath6 and @xmath7 as extracted from long ( @xmath20 ps ) molecular dynamics simulations of the solid ( with @xmath19 ) and the liquid ( with @xmath17 ) in a range of temperatures close to the experimental values for @xmath1 ( @xmath9 k @xcite or @xmath21 k @xcite ) .",
    "simulations were performed in cells containing @xmath22 atoms under periodic boundary conditions .",
    "we verified that finite size effects on volume , compressibility , and thermal expansivity were negligible with this cell size .",
    "the first - principles values of @xmath6 and @xmath7 can be obtained by series expansion in the difference between the reference potential and the first - principles potential * @xcite * .",
    "the first - principles energy can be obtained as @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the model potential ( @xmath19 or @xmath17 ) , @xmath25 the first - principles potential , @xmath26 ( @xmath27 is the boltzmann constant ) , and statistical averages on the model or first - principles potential are indicated with @xmath28 and @xmath29 , respectively .",
    "similarly , for the first - principles value of the molar volume we have , to lowest order in @xmath30 and @xmath6 : @xmath31 , where @xmath32 is the pressure calculated from first - principles or with the model potential , and @xmath33 is the isothermal compressibility . the first - principles value of @xmath7 ( @xmath6 ) is then obtained as the difference between the values of @xmath34 ( @xmath35 ) in the liquid and in the solid .",
    "we computed @xmath34 and @xmath35 at 3070 k and @xmath18 gpa both in the liquid and in the solid by using twenty statistically independent configurations extracted from a long molecular dynamics run with the model potential .",
    "each configuration was separated from the previous one by tens of picoseconds . because the potentials have been arbitrarily given an energy offset so that @xmath36 at 3000 k , the first significant term of the series expansion for the energy is the linear term in @xmath30 .",
    "we verified that this term is indeed very small ( -4.3 k in the liquid and -2.6 k in the solid ) , which implies that higher terms can be safely neglected .",
    "the same holds true for the volume , where we find that @xmath37 gpa , with a mean square deviation of 0.4 gpa , which means that uncertainties in the determination of the first - principles volumes are of the order of 1% .",
    "the very good performance of our model potential on the thermal expansion for the solid phase @xcite suggests that the agreement on @xmath6 between dft and the potentials in fig .",
    "1 can be extended to all temperatures in the vicinity of 3070 k. a similar conclusion can be reached for the energy difference , based on the fact that energy fluctuations , and therefore heat capacities @xcite , are correct to within @xmath38 @xcite .",
    "we can summarize the above considerations by saying that the data of fig . 1",
    "represent the first - principles values of @xmath7 within 10% and of @xmath6 within 2 % .",
    "what is clear from fig .",
    "1 is that neither @xmath6 or @xmath7 is strongly temperature dependent and that the melting slope , therefore , depends approximately linearly on the melting temperature .",
    "the uncertainty in @xmath39 ( and therefore @xmath4 ) is of the order of @xmath40 which is much less than the discrepancy with experiment on @xmath4 ( @xmath41 ) which we want to address in this work .",
    "fits of straight lines to the data of fig .",
    "1 yield @xmath42 from this we can calculate melting slopes ranging from @xmath43 k / gpa if @xmath44k to @xmath45 if @xmath46 k    for the sake of completeness , we have attempted a determination of @xmath1 .",
    "this was achieved by first calculating the melting temperature of @xmath17 by means of the two - phase method@xcite , and then correcting the results using perturbation theory @xcite .",
    "a simulation cell containing @xmath47 atoms was used for the two - phase method .",
    "previous investigations@xcite have concluded that the finite size effects are negligible with this size .",
    "we find that @xmath48 k for @xmath17 , the error reflecting only statistical uncertainties related to the two - phase method , and not other systematic errors due to the optimization procedure or to approximations to dft .",
    "however , we caution that , in this simulation , potential @xmath17 is used to describe both the liquid and the solid phases , at variance with the calculations of @xmath6 and @xmath7 where two different potentials were employed to describe the liquid and the solid and which therefore resulted in a much more accurate calculation . from [ onlyeqn ] , therefore , we find that the value of the melting slope calculated with our model potential , before dft corrections have been applied , is @xmath49 k / gpa",
    ". we can calculate dft corrections to the gibbs free energy difference between solid and liquid using the method described in ref .  .",
    "if we do so , we find that the dft gibbs free energy differences are @xmath50 larger than those calculated with the model potential , indicating that the model potential overstabilizes the liquid with respect to the dft potential .",
    "this brings about a similar correction for @xmath1 @xcite , so that the `` dft '' value of @xmath1 is estimated to be about 3500 k , and the melting slope 156 k / gpa .",
    "we have used dft to correct the values of @xmath6 and @xmath7 obtained with our model potential and , as a result , can be confident that we have calculated the free energy difference between the solid and the liquid generated from @xmath17 with very close to dft accuracy .",
    "however , there remains the possibility that the structure of the liquid generated by @xmath17 is not realistic .",
    "given the accuracy of this potential and that it has been parameterized from dft calculations of the liquid , this possibility would appear to require a liquid - liquid phase transformation that involves changes in the electronic structure of the ions that can not be captured by our model s phenomenological representation of the electrons .",
    "it is important to consider this possibility , therefore , we have performed car - parrinello molecular dynamics ( cpmd ) simulations@xcite of @xmath51 atoms of liquid mgo at @xmath52 k. these simulations were performed at zero pressure using variable cell dynamics@xcite . a small fictitious mass of @xmath53 a.u .",
    "was used and temperature and pressure were corrected as described in ref .. the cpmd simulation was a continuation of a very long simulation using potential @xmath17 .",
    "after @xmath54 ps of equilibration with cpmd , a @xmath55 ps production run was used to compute the radial distribution functions of the liquid .",
    "the results are plotted in fig.[fig : fig2 ] and compared with the results of born - oppenheimer molecular dynamics simulations carried out by karki , bhattarai , and stixrude@xcite .",
    "there is near - perfect agreement on the pair - distribution functions between the two independent first - principles simulations and our simulations of a @xmath22-atom supercell using our model potential , @xmath17 .",
    "the agreement between the first principles simulations seems to rule out major structural artefacts of the starting configuration in both simulations .",
    "the agreement with the structure of the liquid generated with @xmath17 confirms the reliability of this potential and also appears to rule out large finite - size effects on the pair - distribution functions .",
    "the results presented in fig.[fig : fig2 ] are strong evidence that realistic liquid structures have been used to calculate dft corrections to @xmath6 and @xmath7 and , therefore , that we have calculated these quantities with very close to dft accuracy .",
    "it is important to note at this point that our reported dft results have been obtained within the lda , as this approximation has proven to be very accurate in describing low temperature properties .",
    "however , non local corrections to the lda , such as those contained in generalized gradient approximation theories ( gga ) , are known to have a significant effect on melting temperatures@xcite therefore , as a test of the importance of exchange and correlation effects we repeated the analysis of energy differences with a gga functional @xcite .",
    "we find that average gga energy fluctuations at @xmath56 k are within 12% of those calculated with the model potential .",
    "moreover , we find that the correction to the gibbs liquid - solid free energy difference is only 2.7% , which implies a value for the gga @xmath1 of 3090 k. this improves dramatically the agreement of @xmath1 with experiment , with respect to the lda , and confirms that exchange and correlation effects are indeed important in the determination of @xmath1 .",
    "we caution , however , that the potential was constructed by fitting lda quantities , so it is possible that the atomic configurations chosen for the comparison were not fully representative of the gga potential .",
    "we did not attempt a determination of @xmath6 with gga as this would require a very expensive equilibration with the gga functional .",
    "@xmath6 would have to be an order of magnitude larger than the lda value to resolve the discrepancy with experiment on the melting slope , which is highly unlikely .",
    "alf has pointed out@xcite that , because the energy gap between occupied and unoccupied electronic states is significantly smaller in the liquid than in the solid , it is more appropriate to perform dft calculations with a finite electronic temperature .",
    "this results in a lowering of @xmath1 by approximately @xmath57k .",
    "consideration of this correction brings our lda and gga values of @xmath1 into very good agreement with those of alf .",
    "alf reports that the correction to @xmath7 from this effect is almost @xmath58 a.u . per molecular unit .",
    "because energy gaps calculated within lda are generally too small ( by as much as @xmath59 ) , the error incurred in @xmath7 is likely to be significantly smaller than this . in any case , for a fixed value of @xmath1 , the reduction of @xmath7 by inclusion of the electronic entropy contribution to the free energy should _ increase _ the calculated melting slope thereby bringing the calculated value even further from the experimental value of zerr and boehler .",
    "to summarize , we find that that the dft / lda value for the melting slope of mgo ranges from @xmath60 k / gpa to @xmath61 k / gpa , depending primarily on the value chosen for @xmath1 and with an overall uncertainty of about 10 - 15% due to the model potential and to statistical sampling . we can safely conclude that the dft / lda result is a factor of 3 to 4 larger than the value of @xmath62 k / gpa found in zerr and boehler s experiment .",
    "there remains a small difference in the melting slopes calculated here and by alf .",
    "the source of this difference is unknown , but may be due to differences in the details of the dft calculations such as our different pseudopotential representations of the inert core electrons .",
    "the important point is that this difference is substantially smaller than the discrepancy with the experimental results of zerr and boehler .",
    "the present work , when taken together with the results of alf and aguado and madden , shows that on the scale of the discrepancy between calculations and experiment , there appears now to be a convergence of the results of calculations of the melting slope .",
    "the only major source of error that would effect all of these calculations is the approximation to the exchange - correlation energy .",
    "however , tests with a gga exchange - correlation functional show that , although the choice of functional changes the values of @xmath1 and @xmath4 , these changes are relatively small",
    ". therefore it seems highly unlikely that inadequacies of the dft approximations used can fully explain the historical discrepancy between theory and experiment .",
    "the possibility of problems with the experiment of zerr and boehler@xcite have previously been suggested@xcite and the fact that there is a large disagreement between experimental measurements of both the melting temperature@xcite and the melting slope@xcite suggests that more experimental work is necessary .",
    "a determination of the density change and latent heat at zero pressure are crucial to resolve the issue .",
    "the disagreement between _ our _ dft results and experiment could also be explained by assuming that the slope of the melting curve is initially very steep , but that it flattens out very quickly , perhaps due to a liquid structure which changes rapidly under pressure to being much more similar to the solid .",
    "however , this explanation would not be compatible with the findings of alf , or aguado and madden , who explicitly computed the melting temperature at high pressures . therefore , we must discount this possibility .",
    "we note that the suggestion by aguado and madden that the discrepancy between theory and experiment can be explained by the existence of a solid phase with a lower free energy than the rocksalt structure can not be correct .",
    "this is because , among possible solid phases , the one with the lowest gibbs free energy has the highest melting temperature .",
    "therefore , the melting curve for a more stable solid phase should lie above the rocksalt melting curve , i.e. it should have a higher @xmath1 at every pressure @xmath63 .",
    "the geophysical implications of a steep melting slope for mgo are manyfold @xcite .",
    "a steep melting slope implies that the melting temperature of ( mg , fe)o , of which mgo is an end - member , is likely to be substantially higher than the geotherm and comparable to the melting temperature of ( mg , fe)sio@xmath0 at lower mantle conditions .",
    "this suggests , among other consequences , that large scale melting may never have occurred in the mantle  @xcite .",
    "p.t . acknowledges support from the european commission within the marie curie support for training and development of researchers programme under contract no .",
    "mirg - ct-2007 - 208858 .",
    "cohen , r. e. ( 2000 ) , _ mgo - the simplest oxide .",
    "_ in _ physics meets mineralogy _ , edited by h. aoki and y. s. r. j. hemley .",
    "cambridge univ .",
    "press 2000 .",
    "p. 95 - 123 .",
    "t. s. duffy , r. j. hemley , and h .- k .",
    "lett . * 74 * , 1371 - 1374 ( 1995 ) .",
    "r. e. cohen and j. weitz , _ high pressure - temperature research : properties of earth and planetary minerals _ , edited by m. h. manghnani and t. yagi ( agu , washington , d. c. 1998 ) ,",
    "d. yamazaki and s .-",
    "karato , am . mineral . * 86 * , 385 - 391 ( 2001 ) r. boehler , rev . geophys . * 38 * , 221 - 245 ( 2000 ) . j. weertman and j.r .",
    "weertman , annu .",
    ". geophys . * 3 * , 293 - 315 ( 1975 ) a. zerr and r. boehler , nature * 371 * , 506 ( 1994 ) .",
    "r. e. cohen and z. gong , phys .",
    "b * 50 * , 12301 ( 1994 ) . a. b. belonoshko and l. s. dubrovinsky , am . mineral . * 81 * , 303 ( 1996 ) .",
    "l. vocadlo and g. d. price , phys .",
    "minerals , * 23 * , 42 ( 1996 ) .",
    "a. strachan , t. cagin and w. a. goddard iii , phys . rev .",
    "b bf 60 , 15084 ( 1999 ) .",
    "d. alf , phys .",
    "lett . * 94 * , 235701 ( 2005 ) .",
    "a. aguado and p. a. madden , phys .",
    "lett . * 94 * 068501 ( 2005 ) . c. ronchi and m. sheindlin , j. app",
    "* 90 * , 3325 ( 2001 ) , and references therein .",
    "l. zhang and y. fei , geophys .",
    "* 35 * , l13302 ( 2008 ) .",
    "b. b. karki , r. m. wentzcovitch , s. de gironcoli and s. baroni , phys .",
    "b * 61 * , 8793 ( 2000 ) ; b. b. karki , r. m. wentzcovitch , s. de gironcoli and s. baroni , science * 286 * , 1705 ( 1999 ) .",
    "d. alf , m. j. gillan , and g. d. price , nature , * 401 * , 462 - 464 ( 1999 ) a.r .",
    "oganov , j.p .",
    "brodholt , and g.d .",
    "price , nature , * 411 * , 934 - 937 ( 2001 ) p. tangney and s. scandolo , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 119 * , 9673 ( 2003 ) a. chizmeshya , f. m. zimmermann , r. a. laviolette , and g. h. wolf , phys .",
    "b * 50 * , 15559 ( 1994 )",
    ". s. g. louie , s. froyen , and m. l. cohen , phys .",
    "b * 26 * , 1738 ( 1982 ) .",
    "d. alf , m. j. gillan , and g. d. price , j. chem . phys . *",
    "116 * , 6170 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. laio , s. bernard , g. l. chiarotti , s. scandolo , e. tosatti , science * 287 * , 1027 ( 2000 ) m.p . allen and d.j .",
    "tildesley , _ computer simulation of liquids _ ( oxford university press ; 1989 ) .",
    "b. b. karki , d. bhattarai , and l. stixrude , phys .",
    "b * 73 * , 174208 ( 2006 ) .",
    "r. car and m. parrinello , phys .",
    ". lett . * 55 * , 2471 ( 1985 ) .",
    "m. parrinello and a. rahman , phys .",
    "* 45 * , 1196 ( 1980 ) ; p. focher , g. l. chiarotti , m. bernasconi , e. tosatti , and m. parrinello , europhys .",
    "* 26 * , 345 ( 1994 ) .",
    "p. tangney and s. scandolo , j. chem . phys . *",
    "116 * , 14 ( 2002 ) ; p. tangney j. chem . phys . * 124 * , 044111 ( 2006 ) .",
    "d. alf and m. j. gillan , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 205212 ( 2003 ) j. p.",
    "perdew , k. burke , and m. ernzerhof phys .",
    "lett . * 77 * , 3865 ( 1996 ) .",
    "d. alf , personal communication .",
    "b. belonoshko , r. ahuja , b. johansson , phys .",
    "b * 61 * , 11928 ( 2000 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we combine density functional theory ( dft ) with molecular dynamics simulations based on an accurate atomistic force - field to calculate the pressure derivative of the melting temperature of magnesium oxide at ambient pressure - a quantity for which a serious disagreement between theory and experiment has existed for almost 15 years . </S>",
    "<S> we find reasonable agreement with previous dft results and with a very recent experimental determination of the slope . </S>",
    "<S> we pay particular attention to areas of possible weakness in theoretical calculations and conclude that the longstanding discrepancy with experiment could only be explained by a dramatic failure of existing density functionals or by flaws in the original experiment . </S>"
  ]
}