{
  "article_text": [
    "eruptive and explosive events in the solar corona exhibit a tendency for self - similar behavior that expresses itself in power - law distributions of frequency versus , e.g. , size , total energy , or peak brightness ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) . in the case of solar flares",
    ", there is a remarkable scaling from small flares observed in the euv to large flares seen in hard x - rays , with essentially the same power - law index describing quiet - sun nanoflares , active - region transient brightenings , and hard x - ray flares over eight orders of magnitude in estimated flare energy @xcite . a similar power - law behavior , albeit observable over a much smaller range in total energies , has been reported on for the energy distribution of large stellar flares @xcite .",
    "a power law is also a good approximation to , for example , the distribution of area or flux in recently emerged active regions @xcite , extending relatively smoothly into the domain of ephemeral regions @xcite over almost five orders of magnitude in absolute magnetic flux .    in a study of soho / lasco coronagraphic observations of the inner heliosphere , @xcite present evidence that the angular width of coronal mass ejections ( cmes ) exhibits a scale - free power - law distribution that extends from about 20@xmath1 up to 120@xmath1 , i.e. over a range of a factor of about six in opening angle .",
    "this result is based on the use of an automated feature detection method , cactus , applied to lasco observations from september 1997 through january 2007 .",
    "earlier visual inspection of the lasco data had suggested that the cme distribution peaks at an angular width of about 30@xmath1 , but the cactus software also identifies many smaller structures . on visual inspection by @xcite these are seen to fall into several categories , including visually - identified events that are broken up by the cactus algorithm , trailing outflows , wavelike phenomena , slowly rising loop - like structures , opening field , and some false detections. it is unclear whether most of these features should be classified as true cmes , but the present study puts these results in a perspective that suggests that perhaps these relatively narrow events identified by cactus ( or at least many of them ) may well be part of a scale - free continuous distribution of eruptive events .",
    "the apparently scale - free cme frequency distribution function over a factor of about 6 in angular width as found by the cactus software begs the question as to what happens on even smaller scales . here ,",
    "not only the spatio - temporal resolution of the available telescopes comes into play , but also the very real possibility that small - scale , and generally less - energetic , eruptive events may not be able to escape through the overlying coronal field , and thus never develop into a proper cme while possibly having comparable properties for their associated field eruptions lower down ( but see , e.g. , mandrini et al .",
    "( 2005 ) for an example of a very small eruption that they argue did make it into the heliosphere ,    in order to investigate the statistics of small - scale coronal eruptions that are characteristically , but not uniquely , associated with ephemeral bipolar regions in the solar photosphere , i investige a sample of ten data sets obtained by the trace telescope between 2000 and 2008 , and compare the results to the cme statistics as derived by @xcite .",
    "the observations of the small - scale coronal eruptions were obtained with the transition region and coronal explorer ( trace ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in its 171  passband , which has a peak sensitivity around 1mk . from the mission archive from 1998/04/01 through 2009/09/30 , i selected all data sets pointing at quiet sun , within 500arcsec of disk center , extending over at least one day , with 171  images as the primary observing passband , and with exposures mostly exceeding 42s in duration in order to ensure an adequate signal to noise ratio .",
    "the initial selection of potentially suitable data sets was facilitated by a visual mission summary made publically available via the trace mission home page .",
    "these candidate data sets were then inspected for data quality , selecting only those sets with generally good exposures with acceptable background levels and radiation damage , that as a set have few or only short interruptions , and with a field of view between @xmath2 and the full @xmath3 arcminutes squared ( thus , for example , generally excluding observations in the november ",
    "january orbital eclipse season because of the frequent transits of the earth and the relatively high instrumental background level owing to a raised detector temperature in that phase of the year ) .",
    "the remaining ten data sets , with a total of 17133 exposures , are listed in table  [ tab : statistics ] .",
    "the effective duty cycle ( estimated by identifying intervals with useful observations with interruptions of 30min .  or less ) for each of these data sets exceeds 89% .    the image sequences were analyzed visually by displaying the series with normalized intensity scalings , corrected for particle hits on the detector ( despiked ) , and by tracking the region for solar rotation , while offsetting for instrumental pointing changes .",
    "events were selected that resembled small equivalents of active - region eruptions associated with cmes , specifically looking for ( a ) erupting dark fibrils ( like erupting filaments ) , ( b ) rapid dimmings around a compact ephemeral region ( equivalents of large - scale coronal dimmings ) , or ( c ) very rapid reconfigurations of a mix of dark and bright coronal structures above ephemeral regions often linking to one or more neighboring regions .",
    "many other events occur within the complex , dynamic quiet - sun corona    figure  1 shows select examples of the types of events studied in here .",
    "rows _ a _ and _ b _ show very small , bubble - like eruptions ( marked by arrowheads in one of the frames for each case ) , in which a one - sided dimming suddenly appears ; the size of the coronal dimming for case _ a _ in the image taken at 21:56ut corresponds to 10 , which puts it at the limit of what can be reliably interpreted as an eruption based on the trace data . row _",
    "c _ shows a much larger example of such an event , with a clear coronal dimming extending over approximately 100arcsec",
    "d _ and _ e _ show eruptions in which a two - sided dimming is seen ( marked by the arrow heads ) , as sometimes observed in association with an active - region eruption . row _",
    "f _ shows an event with a dimming as well as a small , dark fibril ( indicated in the 15:50ut frame by the arrowhead ) . row _",
    "g _ shows an example of a very compact eruption in association with a flare that is so bright that the diffraction pattern caused by the filter support grid shows up , as seen in the 2nd and 3rd panels .",
    "h _ shows an eruption in which the ephemeral region field connects to two relatively distant neighboring flux concentrations , extending in fact beyond the shown cutout of the full field of view of the observations .",
    "the examples shown in figure  1 are characteristic in their appearance , although they were selected from image sets that are well exposed with little damage by background radiation by energetic particles or by a high readout noise associated with relatively high detector temperatures in some phases of the orbits ( depending on the season in which the observations are obtained ) .",
    "the diversity of phenomena , the frequent short - term interruptions of good observing conditions by energetic - particle impacts or earth - atmospheric absorption , and the fact that we are evaluating pattern evolution rather than curves ( such as flare brightness curves ) severely hamper the ready application of an automated feature finding algorithm , instead requiring a visual identification of the events with the associated subjectivity of such a procedure .",
    "the set of all images , covering 570h of observing , yielded 80 events that resembled small - scale active - region eruptions as defined above ( see table  [ tab : statistics ] ) .",
    "most of these events originate in the bright corona over ephemeral regions , but some occur in the connections between such regions , while two occur within the largely unstructured regions over very quiet sun .",
    "the estimated event duration ranges from 3min .  to 104min .",
    ", with an average and standard deviation of @xmath4min . for each eruption",
    "a characteristic length scale was estimated using the maximum extent of the event in any direction as measured on the images ; these length scales range from 6 mm to 160 mm , with an average and standard deviation of @xmath5 mm .",
    "the average histogram of the event size distribution , normalized to events per day on the sun under the assumption of a homogeneous surface distribution , is shown in fig .  2 , binned into intervals with a width of a factor of two .",
    "the distribution of size scales for eruptive disturbances in the quiet - sun corona ( fig .",
    "2 ) shows a pronounced decrease in frequency with increasing size above the interval for the smallest selected events .",
    "the apparent turnover at the smallest scales is likely an artefact of the instrumental resolution : events smaller than about 10 resolution elements are difficult to assess , and identifying an erupting small filament or a coronal dimming for such compact features is problematic , so that these small events are likely significantly underrepresented in the sample .",
    "the interval for the largest eruptions contains only two events , both from the same region , so that the uncertainty on its frequency is substantial .    the statistics for the individual time intervals for the three remaining size intervals do not suffice by themselves to say much about the shape of the distribution function as a function of the phase of the solar cycle .",
    "even with all data combined , the slope of the size distribution is rather poorly constrained based on the trace data by themselves .    .",
    "although the distribution of ephemeral region eruptions lies somewhat above the average best fit to the cactus cme distribution , they extend that distribution within the range of fits seen in the period of 2000 to 2006 .",
    "the cactus cme distribution does not differentiate between events originating in association with active regions or with quiet sun , but    the results in figure  2 suggest that the eruption frequency in large bipolar regions ( for cmes associated with bipolar regions ) and in their ( quiet - sun ) surroundings is a scale - free quantity that extends over a factor of almost 100 ( but perhaps more ) , from the largest coronal mass ejections to eruptions near the resolvable limit of order 10 arcseconds for the highest - resolution euv telescope .",
    "our knowledge about what happens on even smaller length scales is , for obvious reasons , rather limited . in a recent study , @xcite",
    "discuss what they call quiet sun mini - cmes. they analyze a sequence of 171  images obtained by the stereo - a spacecraft , with 150s cadence ( comparable to the average cadence in the data set discussed here ) and 1.6arcsec pixels ( 3.1 times larger than the trace pixels ) .",
    "they estimate a total number of events of 1400 per day for the entire sun when assuming a uniform surface distribution .",
    "they do not specifically count events equivalent to those reported on here that look like eruptions of small active - regions , but look for `` emission or absorption trains by eye in series of time - distance 171  images '' and make `` sensible choices for selecting events . ''",
    "they do not provide a size distribution , or an average size , of their events , but do note that `` only events seen over 6@xmath6 ( 3 consecutive pixels ) were kept . ''",
    "assuming that the steep power law found here continues to the smallest scales that they include , the number of smallest events will dominate the total count .",
    "if we assume that these events all reside in an interval with a width of a factor of two , as used for the trace data in fig .",
    "2 , extending from 6 to 12 arcseconds , then the equivalent position of the results by @xcite is shown by the gray bar in fig .",
    "as their count includes flare - like brightenings , rapid coronal configurations , as well as the small eruptions counted in the trace data analyzed here , the position of the @xcite results is compatible with the trace results , though the mix of event types in their study does not provide a strong constraint on the extension of the power law to very small scales .",
    "altogether , the data from soho / lasco , trace , and stereo suggest an essentially scale - free frequency distribution for sizes of magnetically driven eruptions in the sun that extends from the smallest scales that can be observed by present - day high - resolution instruments up to large - scale coronal mass ejections .",
    "the grey dashed - dotted line in figure  2 suggests that this frequency distribution may be approximated to first order by a power - law distribution with an index of about @xmath7 ( to be compared to the equivalent power - law index for length scales of loops involved in small - scale quiet - sun flaring of @xmath8 reported by aschwanden et al . , 2000 ) .    although the trace data sets studied here span a large part of the past sunspot cycle , the number of events detected per data set is too small to make significant statements about the possible dependence of the number of events on the phase of the sunspot cycle .",
    "data sets at latitudes other than near disk center are even rarer in the trace records . in time ,",
    "the atmospheric imaging assembly on the future solar dynamics observatory should enable a more comprehensive study of the statistics of erupting bipolar regions from ephemeral to active regions both as a function of latitude and cycle phase .",
    "i thank m.  aschwanden , b.  de pontieu , and n.  nitta for comments on the manuscript , and the referee for stimulating comments leading to an improved presentation of the methods and findings and an expanded interpretation of the result .",
    "this work was supported by nasa under the trace contract nas5 - 38099 with nasa goddard space flight center .",
    "handy , b.  n. , acton , l.  w. , kankelborg , c.  c. , wolfson , c.  j. , akin , d.  j. , bruner , m.  e. , carvalho , r. , catura , r.  c. , chevalier , r. , duncan , d.  w. , edwards , c.  g. , feinstein , c.  n. , freeland , s.  l. , friedlander , f.  m. , hoffman , c.  h. , hurlburt , n.  e. , jurcevich , b.  k. , katz , n.  l. , kelly , g.  a. , lemen , j.  r. , levay , m. , lindgren , r.  w. , mathur , d.  p. , meyer , s.  b. , morrison , s.  j. , morrison , m.  d. , nightingale , r.  w. , pope , t.  p. , rehse , r.  a. , schrijver , c.  j. , shine , r.  a. , shing , l. , strong , k.  t. , tarbell , t.  d. , title , a.  m. , torgerson , d.  d. , golub , l. , bookbinder , j.  a. , caldwell , d. , cheimets , p.  n. , davis , w.  n. , deluca , e.  e. , mcmullen , r.  a. , amato , d. , fisher , r. , maldonado , h. , & parkinson , c. 1999 , solar phys ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of the quiet solar corona in the 171  ( @xmath0mk ) passband of the transition region and coronal explorer ( trace ) often show disruptions of the coronal part of small - scale ephemeral bipolar regions that resemble the phenomena associated with coronal mass ejections on much larger scales : ephemeral regions exhibit flare - like brightenings , rapidly rising filaments carrying absorbing material at chromospheric temperatures , or the temporary dimming of the surrounding corona . </S>",
    "<S> i analyze all available trace observing sequences between 1998/04/01 and 2009/09/30 with full - resolution 171  image sequences spanning a day or more within 500arcsec of disk center , observing essentially quiet sun with good exposures and relatively low background . </S>",
    "<S> ten such data sets are identified between 2000 and 2008 , spanning 570h of observing with a total of 17133 exposures . </S>",
    "<S> eighty small - scale coronal eruptions are identified . </S>",
    "<S> their size distribution forms a smooth extension of the distribution of angular widths of coronal mass ejections , suggesting that the eruption frequency for bipolar magnetic regions is essentially scale free over at least two orders of magnitude , from eruptions near the arcsecond resolution limit of trace to the largest coronal mass ejections observed in the inner heliosphere . </S>"
  ]
}