{
  "article_text": [
    "supernova ( sn ) 2008 ha has the lowest peak luminosity and ejecta velocity of any sn  ia yet observed ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper i and v09 , respectively ) .",
    "it peaked at @xmath0  mag , had an ejecta velocity a week after maximum of @xmath1  2000  kms@xmath2 , and had a rise time of @xmath1  10  days ; these values are @xmath1  5 magnitudes fainter , 8000  kms@xmath2  slower , and 10  days shorter than that of normal sne  ia , respectively .",
    "together , these observations indicate a very low kinetic energy of @xmath1  @xmath3  ergs and an ejecta mass of 0.15  m@xmath4 .",
    "although sn  2008 ha resembles sn  2002cx , the prototype of a class of peculiar sne  ia with lower than normal luminosity and ejecta velocity ( see @xcite for a review of the class ) , the similar energetics and spectra of sn  2008 ha and some peculiar core - collapse sne led to suggest that the progenitor of sn  2008 ha was a massive star .",
    "in we considered several progenitor and explosion models : ( 1 ) the collapse of a massive star to a black hole with most of the star `` falling back '' ; ( 2 ) a runaway nuclear reaction caused by electron capture on a white dwarf ( wd ) ; ( 3 ) the failed deflagration of a wd ; and ( 4 ) nuclear burning of a massive he shell on the surface of a wd in an am cvn system ( a `` sn  .ia '' ; @xcite ) .",
    "delicate balancing of the energetics and the detection of a sn  2002cx - like object in an s0 galaxy makes the fallback model unfavorable for sn  2008 ha and the class , respectively .",
    "the electron - capture scenario predicts complete burning to @xmath5ni with no intermediate - mass elements ( imes ) .",
    "the observations of sn  2008 ha and other members of the sn  2002cx - like class are all consistent with a deflagration ( with sn  2008 ha being a failed deflagration ; ) .",
    "the .ia model fits sn  2008 ha , but can not currently reproduce the luminosity required for other members of the class .",
    "nucleosynthetic models provides additional information to distinguish between these models .",
    "explosive c / o burning produces a significant amount of s while he burning produces more ca ( see @xcite for a recent examination of explosions with different fractions of each process ) .",
    "furthermore , it is expected that s is contained in the inner layers of a core - collapse explosion , while it is predominantly in the outer layers of a thermonuclear explosion ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "argued that the lack of s in their first spectrum was most consistent with a massive star origin .",
    "a strong detection of s at early times would give support for c / o burning and a wd progenitor .",
    "the sn  2008 ha spectra presented in and spanned the phases of 6.5 to 68.1  days past maximum light in the @xmath6 band ( 2008 november 12.7 ut ; ; ut dates will be used throughout this paper ) .",
    "here we present two spectra which extend this range in both directions , with phases of @xmath7 and 231  days relative to @xmath6 maximum .",
    "we also present late - time photometry which constrains the amount of generated @xmath5ni . these observations , including the detection of strong s lines in the maximum - light spectrum , further constrain the possible progenitor and explosion models for sn  2008 ha , and highly favor a wd progenitor .",
    "we have obtained two new spectra of sn  2008 ha .",
    "the early - time spectrum was obtained on 2008 november 11 ( 1  day before @xmath6 maximum ) with the hobby - eberly telescope using the low resolution spectrograph @xcite .",
    "the spectrum is the combination of four 450-second exposures .",
    "the late - time spectrum was obtained on 2009 july 1/2 ( 231  days after @xmath6 maximum ) with gemini - north using gmos in nod and shuffle ( n&s ) mode @xcite .",
    "the gmos spectrum is the combination of six 1280-second ( after accounting for nod time ) exposures , producing 12 spectra with effective exposure times of 640  seconds and a total exposure time of 7680  seconds .",
    "the gmos spectra were obtained with three slightly different central wavelengths to compensate for chip gaps .",
    "five of the six exposures were obtained on july 1 , with the remaining exposure obtained on july 2 .",
    "standard ccd processing and spectrum extraction were accomplished with iraf .",
    "the gmos data were reduced using the gemini iraf n&s package .",
    "low - order polynomial fits to calibration - lamp spectra were used to establish the wavelength scale , and small adjustments derived from night - sky lines in the object frames were applied .",
    "we employed our own idl routines to flux calibrate the data and remove telluric lines using the well - exposed continua of spectrophotometric standards @xcite .",
    "two epochs of @xmath8-band images were obtained on 2009 june 23 and 2009 july 1/2 with ldss3 on the magellan clay telescope and with gmos on the gemini - north telescope , respectively .",
    "these images were reduced using standard techniques .",
    "the flux of the sn was determined by fitting a psf profile in the flattened images using the dophot photometry package @xcite .",
    "since all of our images presumably have some sn flux , difference imaging is not yet possible .",
    "the presence of an underlying region causes our flux measurements to be upper limits to the true sn flux .",
    "we convert the @xmath8-band instrumental magnitudes into @xmath9-band magnitudes using the @xmath9-band catalog magnitudes of local standard stars .",
    "no instrumental color corrections were applied .",
    "the maximum - light spectrum ( shown in figure  [ f : spec_early ] ) consists almost exclusively of imes with low ejecta velocities .",
    "the minima of the @xmath10 and @xmath11 features are blueshifted by @xmath1  3700 and 5100  kms@xmath2 , respectively .",
    "the feature was much weaker a week later ( the first spectrum from ) and could not be directly measured , but the characteristic photospheric velocity of @xmath1  2000  kms@xmath2  for the 6  day spectrum is approximately half that of in the maximum - light spectrum .",
    "similarly the velocity is 2.5 times larger at maximum brightness than it is at @xmath12  days .",
    "the identification of imes is confirmed by fitting the spectrum with the sn spectrum - synthesis code synow @xcite .",
    "although synow has a simple , parametric approach to creating synthetic spectra , it is a powerful tool to aid line identifications ( see for details ) . in the early - time spectrum ,",
    "synow unambiguously identifies the presence of o , na , si , s , ca , and fe , all common features in maximum - light sn  ia spectra , as well c , which is rarely seen .",
    "although strong is the hallmark feature of sne  ia , there are examples of sne  ic with strong si features @xcite ; however , those objects did not have strong features",
    ".    the synow fit of sn  2008 ha is similar to those of the @xmath7 and @xmath13  day spectra of sne  2002cx @xcite and 2005hk ( a sn  2002cx - like object ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , respectively .",
    "the differences are primarily a lower expansion velocity and the presence of for sn  2008 ha ( @xcite did fit the sn  2005hk spectrum with , but the identification was ambiguous ) . sn  2008 ha appears to have weaker fe lines than the other objects , signaling a lower @xmath5ni yield relative to that of imes .",
    "we compare the maximum - light spectra of sn  2008 ha to sne  ia and sne  ic finding that sn  2008 ha most closely resembles a sn  ia .",
    "our comparison spectra ( see figure  [ f : spec_early ] ) include sn  2005hk , a sn  ia similar to sn  2002cx @xcite , sn  1999aa , a slightly over - luminous sn  ia @xcite , sn  2006gz , a luminous sn  ia with c features in its pre - maximum spectra @xcite , sn  2004aw , a sn  ic that was originally classified as a sn  ia ( its true nature was only realized with nebular spectra ; @xcite ) , and sn  2007gr , a well - observed sn  ic with a spectrum somewhat similar to sn  2004aw @xcite .",
    "the maximum - light spectrum of sn  2008 ha is generally similar to all five comparison spectra after correcting for velocity differences .",
    "but the sne  ic have weaker than that seen in sn  2008 ha and lack obvious lines . the sne  ia ( and particularly sn  2006gz ) have spectra that are more similar to the spectrum of sn  2008 ha , strengthening the classification of sn  ia for sn  2008 ha ; however , the spectra still have differences , and it is difficult to definitively place sn  2008 ha in this class .",
    "the spectrum of sn  2008 ha unambiguously contains the signature of c in its ejecta , showing strong absorption corresponding to @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "carbon lines have been seen in the spectra of some sne  ia ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) and in some sne  ic ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "although it is rare for sne  ia to show strong c absorption near maximum light , there is an example in the small sample @xcite .",
    "it is worth noting that there are also sne  ic with c features at this phase .",
    "if sn  2008 ha was the result of a wd explosion , a significant amount of c extends further into the ejecta than most sne  ia .",
    "if the progenitor of sn  2008 ha was a massive star , then the strong c lines at maximum light may indicate a large c layer or significant mixing in the progenitor .      the late - time ( @xmath16  days )",
    "spectrum of sn  2008 ha is shown in figure  [ f : spec_late ] along with the 227-day spectrum of sn  2002cx .",
    "we compensate for the contamination of an underlying region by subtracting a linear continuum fit from each sn spectrum and compare the residual spectra .",
    "the lower panels of figure  [ f : spec_late ] present the continuum - subtracted spectrum of sn  2008 ha on an expanded wavelength scale .",
    "the low s / n of the spectrum prevents us from detecting any individual feature in a sn  2002cx - like spectrum other than possibly [ ] @xmath17 , 7324 or the nir triplet ( 8498 , 8542 , and 8662   ) .",
    "the late - time spectrum of sn  2008 ha exhibits no obvious emission from [ ] ( which is expected for sne  ic and predicted for deflagration models ; @xcite ) , [ ] , or . in fact , there appears to be absorption at the position that we would expect emission .",
    "as the observations were performed in n&s mode , there was no local background subtraction performed and these features are not an artifact of having sn light in a background region .",
    "this wavelength range has significant night sky emission , and imperfect sky - line subtraction may cause such features .",
    "regardless , there are no definitive detections of strong , broad features corresponding to .    between @xmath18 and 227  days ,",
    "the velocity width of the [ ] feature in sn  2002cx decreased from fwhm@xmath19  kms@xmath2  to @xmath1  900  kms@xmath2 . in the 62  day spectrum of sn  2008 ha , [ ] had fwhm@xmath20  kms@xmath2 .",
    "if the width of the feature decreases at the same rate in both object , we expect the feature to have fwhm@xmath21  kms@xmath2 in the late - time spectrum of sn  2008 ha .",
    "all narrow lines have a similar redshift and velocity width ( @xmath1  200  kms@xmath2  fwhm , equivalent to the instrumental resolution ) .",
    "it is possible that the velocity width is below our instrumental resolution , and in that case we could mistake lines from the sn as lines from the region ( such as [ ] ) .",
    "there are no intermediate - width emission lines ( such as h or he ) that one would expect if the sn ejecta were interacting with a dense circumstellar medium associated with a massive star progenitor .",
    "the ratio of [ ] @xmath22 and h@xmath23 lines from the region is 0.046 , corresponding to a metallicity ( as determined by the n2 method of @xcite ) of @xmath24 ( stat ) .",
    "this is consistent with that of a nearby region and indicative of no significant h emission from circumstellar interaction .",
    "we reproduce the early - time light curves of sn  2008 ha from and in figure  [ f : lc ] along with our two late - time photometric upper limits .",
    "our late - time imaging resulted in @xmath9-band measurements of @xmath25 and @xmath26  mag 222 and 231  days after @xmath6 maximum , respectively .",
    "however , these images have had no template subtraction , so the photometry reflects the brightness of the combination of the sn and the underlying region , and therefore , these numbers are upper limits on the brightness of the sn .",
    "the differences in two measurements may indicate real fading between the two epochs , but can also be explained as systematic differences in the instrument / filter responses .    found that the light curves of sne  2005hk and 2008 ha were well matched if the light curve of sn  2005hk was `` stretched '' by a factor of 0.73 . in figure",
    "[ f : lc ] , we compare the @xmath9-band light curve of sn  2008 ha to that of sn  2005hk @xcite both with and without this stretching . the stretched light curve is a good approximation of the early - time behavior because the seds are similar .",
    "but the light curves exhibit different decline rates because the sne had different opacities , amounts of ejecta/@xmath5ni , and kinetic energies .",
    "the ejecta of sn  2002cx - like objects appear to be optically thick at very late times @xcite , so opacity effects may still dominate at @xmath27  days .",
    "regardless , the sn  2005hk light curves should give an indication of the expected decay rate at late times if sn  2008 ha evolves in a similar fashion .",
    "if the peak luminosity is powered by @xmath5ni decay , then the luminosity at late times should be powered by @xmath5co ( the decay product of @xmath5ni ) decay .",
    "the brightness at late times is therefore directly related to the @xmath5ni mass . assuming the relationship between @xmath5ni mass and bolometric luminosity @xcite , a solar sed for bolometric corrections , and full @xmath28-ray trapping , the late - time photometry places a limit of @xmath29 ( see figure  [ f : lc ] ) .",
    "this value is also consistent with the brightness of sn  2008 ha at @xmath30  days .",
    "considering the uncertainty of the sed , this is consistent with the estimate from the early - time light curve of @xmath31 .",
    "the maximum - light spectrum provides key information for understanding the nature of sn  2008 ha .",
    "the spectrum has strong lines from imes , including si and s. nucleosynthetic models suggest that strong s features are indicative of c / o burning ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , no core - collapse sn has been observed to have strong s lines at maximum light , and having these features in the maximum - light spectrum indicates that a non - negligible amount of s is in the outer ejecta , suggesting a wd progenitor ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "one of the points adduced by in favor of the core - collapse interpretation of this event was the absence of and the weak seen in their earliest spectrum , 8  days after maximum brightness .",
    "the new data presented here show that is present and is significantly stronger than in those data . although peculiar abundances in the outer layers of a massive star may be the cause of the s lines , the data currently favor the idea of a wd progenitor .",
    "sn  2008 ha shares many similarities ( luminosity , spectral features , etc ) with sn  2005e , a low - luminosity sn  ib with strong ca lines at late times (; @xcite .",
    "there have been several sn  2005e - like objects discovered , but they exist predominantly in early - type galaxies , in contrast to the primarily late - type hosts of sn  2002cx - like objects ( sn  2008 ha was discovered in an dwarf irregular galaxy ) , and suggestive that they have old progenitors .",
    "@xcite found that by changing the amount of he and c / o burning , the ratio of s - to - ca in the ejecta of a sn can be manipulated .",
    "sne  2005e and 2008 ha may have similar progenitors and/or explosion mechanisms .",
    "the different host - galaxy populations of these classes may indicate that progenitor age or metallicity has an affect on the resulting explosion , similar to sn  1991 t and sn  1991bg - like objects .    to derive the previous estimates of the ejecta mass and kinetic energy , the velocity at 6 days past maximum brightness",
    "was extrapolated to the time of maximum assuming a velocity gradient similar to that of a normal sn  ia . with these new data ,",
    "the extrapolation is not necessary , and the systematic uncertainty related to these measurements can be reduced .",
    "the velocity of the maximum - light spectrum is twice that of the adopted value from , increasing the kinetic energy and ejecta mass by factors of 8 ( @xmath32 ) and 2 ( @xmath33 ) , respectively .",
    "we therefore revise our estimates of the kinetic energy to be @xmath34  ergs and @xmath35 .",
    "we note that this analysis assumes that the composition and opacity of the ejecta of sn  2008 ha are similar to those of a normal sn  ia , which may cause systematic uncertainty of order a factor of two ( see for details ) .",
    "the late - time photometry is consistent with the production of a few times @xmath36 of @xmath5ni , similar to estimates from the early - time light curve .",
    "the late - time spectrum shows that there are no extremely strong emission lines from the sn ; however , the relatively low s / n spectrum places weak limits on such features .",
    "the strong c lines in the maximum - light spectrum indicates that there is unburned material far into the ejecta , consistent with a deflagration @xcite .",
    "the low ejecta and @xmath5ni mass are consistent with a failed deflagration of a wd that did not disrupt the progenitor , but are perhaps also explained by a sub - chandrasekhar mass or more exotic wd explosion .",
    "pre - maximum data is critical for understanding the nature of sn  2008ha - like objects .",
    "although our observations are all consistent with a failed deflagration of a wd , we can not completely rule out other models .",
    "if the progenitor of sn  2008 ha was a very massive star , one might expect a brightening in x - rays or radio if the progenitor had a wind or pre - explosion outbursts .",
    "future early - time x - ray and radio observations will help constrain the nature of similar events .",
    "eventually we will detect a sn  2008ha - like object with deep pre - imaging data and either detect or highly constrain the properties of the progenitor .",
    "is supported by a clay fellowship . r.j.f .",
    "would like to thank g.  narayan and b.  stalder for managing the imaging data , and the magellan and gemini staffs for being extremely accommodating .",
    "discussions during the kitp conference `` stellar death and supernovae '' were beneficial to this study .",
    "supernova research at harvard is supported by nsf grant ast0907903 .    based in part on observations obtained at the gemini observatory , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under a cooperative agreement with the us national science foundation on behalf of the gemini partnership : the nsf ( united states ) , the science and technology facilities council ( united kingdom ) , the national research council ( canada ) , conicyt ( chile ) , the australian research council ( australia ) , ministrio da cincia e tecnologia ( brazil ) and ministerio de ciencia , tecnologa e innovacin productiva ( argentina ) .",
    "the het is a joint project of the university of texas at austin , the pennsylvania state university , stanford university , ludwig - maximilians - universitt mnchen , and georg - august - universitt gttingen .",
    "the het is named in honor of its principal benefactors , william p. hobby and robert e. eberly .",
    "the marcario lrs is named for mike marcario of high lonesome optics who fabricated several optics for the instrument but died before its completion .",
    "the lrs is a joint project of the het partnership and the instituto de astronoma de la universidad nacional autnoma de mxico .                            , g.  j. , nicklas , h.  e. , macqueen , p.  j. , tejada , c. , cobos duenas , f.  j. , & mitsch , w. 1998 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol .",
    "3355 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "s.  dodorico , 375386"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new maximum - light optical spectrum of the the extremely low luminosity and exceptionally low energy type ia supernova ( sn  ia ) 2008 ha , obtained one week before the earliest published spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> previous observations of sn  2008 ha were unable to distinguish between a massive star and white dwarf origin for the sn . </S>",
    "<S> the new maximum - light spectrum , obtained one week before the earliest previously published spectrum , unambiguously shows features corresponding to intermediate mass elements , including silicon , sulfur , and carbon . </S>",
    "<S> although strong silicon features are seen in some core - collapse sne , sulfur features , which are a signature of carbon / oxygen burning , have always been observed to be weak in such events . </S>",
    "<S> it is therefore likely that sn  2008 ha was the result of a thermonuclear explosion of a carbon - oxygen white dwarf . </S>",
    "<S> carbon features at maximum light show that unburned material is present to significant depths in the sn ejecta , strengthening the case that sn  2008 ha was a failed deflagration . </S>",
    "<S> we also present late - time imaging and spectroscopy that are consistent with this scenario . </S>"
  ]
}