{
  "article_text": [
    "within the framework of the blue - dots team ( bdt ) initiative ( http://www.blue-dots.net/ ) , the primary goal of the transits working group ( twg ) is to gauge the potential and limitations of transit photometry ( and follow - up measurements ) as a tool to detect and characterize extrasolar planets , while emphasizing its complementarity with other techniques .",
    "following the ` grid approach ' agreed upon within the bdt , the mapping is to be performed as a function of depth of the science investigation , project scale , and detectable exoplanet class . in this review of the twg activities ,",
    "we first describe the main observables accessible by means of photometric transits .",
    "we then focus on the host of follow - up techniques that can be utilized to deepen our understanding and characterization of transiting systems , and briefly touch upon some key science highlights , while keeping in mind the primary difficulties and limitations inherent to the transit technique when applied to planet detection .",
    "next , a summary of the present - day and future projects devoted to detection and characterization of transiting planets , both from the ground and in space , is presented .",
    "finally , we use a ` grid approach ' to properly gauge how the scientific prospects of photometric transits and follow - up techniques fit within the bdt perspective .",
    "the primary observable of the transit technique is the periodic decrease of stellar brightness of a target , when a planet moves across the stellar disk .",
    "the magnitude of the eclipse depth is defined as @xmath0 , where @xmath1 is the measured out - of - transit flux , and @xmath2 and @xmath3 are the planet s and primary radius , respectively .",
    "transits require a stringent condition of observability , i.e. the planetary orbit must be ( almost ) perpendicular to the plane of the sky . the geometric probability of a transit , assuming random orientation of the planetary orbit , is : @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the orbital semi - major axis , @xmath6 the eccentricity , and @xmath7 the argument of periastron passage ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the duration of a central transit is @xmath8 hr , with a reduction for non - central transits by a factor @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the impact parameter for orbital inclination @xmath11 ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the transit method allows to determine parameters that are not accessible to doppler spectroscopy , such as the ratio of radii , the orbital inclination , and the stellar limb darkening .",
    "when combined with available radial - velocity ( rv ) observations , actual mass and radius estimates for the planet can be derived , provided reasonable guesses for the primary mass and radius can be obtained .",
    "the typical transiting system configurations known to - date ( for a comprehensive list see for example http://exoplanet.eu ) encompass jovian planets orbiting solar - type stars on a few - day orbits , resulting in eclipse depths of @xmath12 and transit durations of @xmath13 hr . a great variety of stellar systems can reproduce such signals in terms of depth and duration .",
    "these include grazing eclipsing binaries , large stars eclipsed by small stars , and ` blends ' consisting of faint eclipsing binaries whose light is diluted by a third , brighter star ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) . typically , such impostors constitute over 95% of the detected transit - like signals in wide - field photometric surveys datasets .",
    "extensive campaigns of follow - up observations of transit candidates must then be undertaken in order to ascertain the likely nature of the system .",
    "high - quality light curves and moderate precision ( @xmath14 km s@xmath15 ) , low signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) spectroscopic measurements are usually gathered to deepen the understanding of the primary , the consistency of the transit shape with that produced by a planet , and , via detailed modeling of the combined datasets ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) , to rule out often subtle blend configurations . only if the candidate passes all the above tests , does one resort to use 10-m class telescopes and high - resolution , high - precision doppler measurements to determine the actual spectroscopic orbit ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the plague of false positives contamination is however rather diminished for ground - based transit surveys targeting cool , nearby m - dwarf stars  @xcite .",
    "this holds true also for space - borne transit programs , with very high photometric precision which allows to reveal many of the stellar companions via very shallow secondary eclipses , and/or ellipsoidal variations out of transit .",
    "giant stars can be excluded beforehand by using a target catalog , such as the kepler input catalog or gaia data ( as it s envisioned for plato ) .",
    "background eclipsing binaries can be instead identified efficiently if precision astrometry can be performed on the photometric times series themselves , to measure centroid shifts due to variability - induced movers  @xcite .",
    "this technique is currently being applied with considerable success to kepler data ( latham et al .",
    ", this volume ) .",
    "sixty two transiting planets of main - sequence stars are known today .",
    "the direct measure of their masses and radii , and thus densities and surface gravities , puts fundamental constraints on proposed models of their physical structure ( @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "figure  [ mrrel ] shows the @xmath16-@xmath2 relation for the known transiting systems .",
    "strongly irradiated planets cover a range of almost three orders of magnitude in mass and more than one order of magnitude in radius .",
    "the variety of inferred structural properties is posing a great challenge to evolutionary models of their interiors ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) . among the most interesting systems found by photometric transit surveys ,",
    "are @xmath17 those containing super - massive ( @xmath18 @xmath19 ) hot jupiters such as hat - p-2b  @xcite , wasp-14b  @xcite , xo-3b  @xcite , and particularly wasp-18b  @xcite , the first planet to be likely tidally disrupted on a short timescale , @xmath20 very inflated ( @xmath21 @xmath22 ) jovian planets such as wasp-12b  @xcite , tres-4  @xcite , and wasp-17b  @xcite , @xmath23 the tilted , most eccentric planet , hd 80606b ( @xcite , and references therein ) , @xmath24 the first transiting planet in a multiple system , hat - p-13b  @xcite , @xmath25 the first transiting low - mass brown dwarf , corot-3b  @xcite , and @xmath26 the first transiting super earth , corot-7b  @xcite , itself a member of a multiple - planet system  @xcite .",
    "when the primary is sufficiently bright ( see below ) , a host of follow - up photometric and spectroscopic measurements can be carried out over a large range of wavelengths , to deepen the characterization of the physical and dynamical properties of transiting systems  @xcite . at visible wavelengths , long - term , high - cadence , high - precision photometric monitoring can allow to detect additional components in a system ( not necessarily transiting ) via the transit time variation method  @xcite , while rv measurements collected during transit offer the opportunity to determine the degree of alignment between the stellar spin and the orbital axis of the planet ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "these data are powerful diagnostics for models of orbital migration and tidal evolution of planetary systems ( e.g. ,  @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "the technique of transmission spectroscopy opens the way to measurements of specific elements seen in absorption in the planet s atmosphere  @xcite , including water  @xcite . at infrared wavelengths ,",
    "mostly thanks to the spitzer space telescope , the photometric and spectroscopic monitoring over a wide range of planetary phases , and particularly during secondary eclipse , has allowed to study in detail the strongly - irradiated atmospheres of a few planets , with successful detection of the planet s thermal emission  @xcite and characterization of the longitudinal temperature distribution ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the direct measurements of exoplanets atmospheric compositions and temperature profiles , atmospheric dynamics , and phase light curves are key inputs for models of atmospheric physics , chemistry , and dynamics  @xcite .",
    "the success of ( wide - field ) ground - based photometric transit surveys bears upon two distinct approaches , the first adopting moderate - size telescopes to search relatively faint stars , the second utilizing small - size instrumentation for searches around brighter targets ( see figure  [ groundtab ] ) .",
    "most of the projects have focused on high - cadence , visible - band photometry of tens of thousands of stars , and only recently near - infrared filters have started being contemplated .",
    "solar - type stars have been so far the main focus of all searches , but in recent times the mearth project ( @xcite ; but see also damasso et al .",
    ", this volume ) and the ukirt wfcam transit survey ( wts ) program ( star.herts.ac.uk/ropacs/ ) have identified as targets nearby , bright m dwarfs and fainter , more distant low - mass stars , respectively .",
    "transit discovery programs typically achieve photometric precisions of 3 - 5 mmag .",
    "the best - case performances of @xmath27 1 - 2 mmag are mostly obtained with dedicated follow - up programs at 1 - 2 m class telescopes .",
    "a photometric precision of @xmath28 mmag is enough to detect jupiter- and saturn - sized companions in transit across the disk of solar - type stars , or @xmath29 @xmath30 planets transiting m dwarfs ( see the definition of @xmath31 above ) .",
    "if the goal becomes the detection of transits of earth - sized planets around solar - type primaries , it is necessary to go to space , in order to achieve @xmath32 mag photometric accuracy .",
    "the corot satellite  @xcite , the kepler mission ( @xcite ; latham et al .",
    ", this volume ) , and the plato mission , currently under study by esa ( @xcite ; catala et al . , this volume ) , have been designed to reach the above performances ( we direct the reader to the above contributions for details on the science ) .",
    "the first transiting super - earth of a solar - type star was recently announced by the corot team ( @xcite ; see also rouan et al .",
    ", this volume ) .",
    "as mentioned above , the spectroscopic characterization of transiting systems has been carried out primarily from space , by hst and spitzer . in the future",
    ", the prospects for detailed atmospheric characterization of transiting planets will rely on the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) , the spica satellite , and the proposed thesis concept .",
    "we refer to the contributions by clampin , enya , and swain in this volume for details on these projects and their potential .",
    "it is not uncommon to believe that main - sequence , solar - type stars astrophysics is a solved problem , for practical purposes . in reality ,",
    "when it comes to transiting planetary systems , the knowledge of the central star is oftentimes the limit for the accurate determination of the most sensitive planetary parameters .",
    "the precise characterization of transiting planets is intimately connected to the accurate determination of a large set of stellar properties ( activity levels , age , rotation , mass , radius , limb darkening , and composition ) .",
    "some of them ( activity , rotation ) can critically limit the possibility to successfully determine the spectroscopic orbit of the detected planets .",
    "others ( mass , radius , age ) are strongly model - dependent quantities , and the correct evaluation of their uncertainties is not trivial ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) . furthermore , precise measurements of the stellar characteristics become increasingly more challenging for fainter targets .",
    "as discussed in section  [ followup ] , follow - up observations of transiting planet candidates can be very time - consuming ( the rv campaign for corot-7 required over 100 spectra , a total of more than 70 hrs of observing time distributed over 4 months ) .",
    "for corot , kepler , and plato confirmation via rv measurements may not even be feasible below a certain radius size , depending on spectral type ( for reference , the semi - amplitude of the rv motion induced by the earth at 1 au on the sun is @xmath33 cm s@xmath15 , way below the currently best - achievable precision of 50 - 100 cm s@xmath15 with the harps spectrograph ) .",
    "devices for ultra - stable wavelength calibration such as laser combs can in principle allow to push towards @xmath34 cm s@xmath15 precision  @xcite , provided the star cooperates  @xcite .",
    "achievable snr for a given host s spectral type make also complicated the problem of atmospheric characterization of transiting rocky planets via transmission spectroscopic or secondary - eclipse observations  @xcite .",
    "given the above issues , it is clear that bright ( @xmath35 ) stars are the privileged targets for transit searches .",
    "the challenge is then designing a survey capable of covering large areas of the sky to maximize the yield of good targets .",
    "this is planned for plato , thanks to its step & stare mode ( catala et al .",
    ", this volume ) and , in all - sky fashion , by tess  @xcite .",
    "as discussed in detail by coud du foresto et al .",
    "( this volume ) , the bdt has devised a strategy to gauge the interplay between families of techniques , project scale , scientific potential , and detectable exoplanet class within the context of the multi - step approach recognized necessary in order to reach the final goal of detection and characterization of terrestrial , habitable planets . following the ` grid methodology ' agreed upon within the bdt , and outlined in detail by coud du foresto et al .",
    "( this volume ) , the twg has attempted to gauge the potential and limitations of transit photometry ( and follow - up measurements ) as a tool to detect and characterize extrasolar planets , while emphasizing its complementarity with other techniques .",
    "overall , our preliminary conclusion is that transit - discovery observations can crucially contribute to statistical studies of planetary systems ( science potential 1 ) and to identify systems suitable for follow - up ( science potential 2 ) .",
    "follow - up observations of known transiting systems have the potential to achieve their full spectroscopic characterization ( science potential 3 ) .",
    "however , the full potential of the technique might not be realized for all classes of extrasolar planets encompassed in this exercise . in particular ( see figure  [ trpot ] ) :    * hot giant planets * : ground - based , wide - field transit surveys with typical photometric accuracy @xmath36 mag , have allowed to detect several tens of hot jupiters .",
    "the ongoing corot mission is also providing many detections of close - in giants , and the prospects with kepler are very encouraging too .",
    "the spitzer and hubble space telescopes have been utilized as follow - up tools for the ( broad - band ) spectral characterization of several hot jupiters at visible , near , and mid ir wavelengths , with several molecules identified ) .    * giant planets at large orbital radii * : corot and kepler are capable to achieve an accuracy of @xmath37 mag , respectively , in the visible .",
    "they will provide a census of transiting giant planets out to 1 au based on @xmath38 targets .",
    "the proposed tess all - sky survey ( @xmath39 ) could achieve a photometric precision similar to that of corot , and could provide a census of transiting giants with periods up to several tens of days around bright stars . while not a truly all - sky survey , the plato mission ( @xmath40 ) ) could achieve , on a statistically significant sample of bright stars , a photometric precision exceeding kepler s .",
    "it will be sensitive to jupiters on orbital periods similar to those accessible by kepler .",
    "statistical information on the rate of occurrence of longer - period giant planets will also be collected by ongoing and upcoming large - scale ground - based surveys , such as lsst and panstarrs ( see figure  [ groundtab ] ) . for the sample of relatively bright stars , several very efficient space- and ground - based facilities will become available in the near future for characterizing spectroscopically the discovered planets .",
    "these include jwst and spica ( and possibly thesis ) for infrared photometry and spectroscopy , and the elts for high - resolution spectroscopy in the optical and near ir .    * telluric planets in and out of the habitable zone of m dwarfs and solar - type stars : * corot and tess have the potential to detect super - earth planets around all targets , and at a range of orbital radii , including the habitable zone of low - mass stars ( corot has recently announced its first detection ) .",
    "kepler has the potential to provide the first statistically sound estimate of @xmath41 .",
    "the ultra - high - precision photometry delivered by plato will also allow the detection of earth - sized planets in the habitable zone of f - g - k targets .",
    "as for low - mass stars , the ongoing ground - based mearth cluster of telescopes is optimized to search for transiting super - earths in the habitable zone of nearby m dwarfs , while the wts survey will target a large sample of low - mass stars , searching for transiting rocky planets with periods of a few days .",
    "theoretical studies are now maturing , which can predict the range , and strength , of spectral fingerprints of terrestrial , habitable planets ( e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the proposed spica mission , jwst , and the thesis concept will be capable to perform spectral characterization ( broad bands , spectra ) in the near- and mid - ir possibly down to telluric planets in the hz of bright m dwarfs .",
    "the proposed simple instrument for the e - elt would also be able to perform transmission spectroscopy of low - mass planets transiting m dwarfs .",
    "on the ` bright ' side , transit photometry allows to characterize the bulk composition of a planet , and it identifies systems suitable for atmospheric characterization .",
    "such studies are more difficult to undertake for non - transiting systems . in order to fully exploit the potential of this technique ( and follow - up measurements ) , there does not seem to be a clear need for a facility devoted to planetary transits which would require investments on the order of an esa s flagship ( l - class ) mission . on the other side , this technique requires large amounts of follow - up work , and the stellar host can often be the limiting factor in the precision with which the crucial physical parameters of the planets are determined .",
    "the relevant technology for transit detection of terrestrial - type planets is already available .",
    "ongoing and future programs have the potential to nail the occurrence rate of habitable planets around main - sequence stellar hosts , and , provided some degree of further technological development , characterize those around stars with favorable spectral type .",
    "anderson , d. r. , et al .",
    "2009 , submitted ( arxiv:0908.1553 ) baglin , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , proc .",
    "253 , 71 bakos , g.a . ,",
    "2007 , , 670 , 826 bakos , g.a . ,",
    "2009 , , in press ( arxiv:0907.3525 ) baraffe , i. , chabrier , g. , & barman , t. 2008 , , 482 , 315 borucki , w. , et al .",
    "2009 , proc .",
    "253 , 289 brown , t.m . 2003 , , 593 , l125 brown , t.m .",
    "2009 , submitted burrows , a. , budaj , j. , & hubeny , i. 2008 , , 678 , 1436 catala , c. 2009 , experimental astronomy , 23 , 329 charbonneau , d. , brown , t.m . , noyes , r.w . , & gilliland , r.l .",
    "2002 , , 568 , 377 charbonneau , d. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 626 , 523 charbonneau , d. , et al .",
    "2007 , in protostars and planets v , b. reipurth , d. jewitt , and k. keil ( eds . ) , university of arizona press , tucson , 701 deleuil , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 491 , 889 deming , d. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 121 , 952 fabrycky , d.c . , &",
    "winn , j.n .",
    "2009 , , 696 , 1230 grenfell , j.l .",
    "2007 , pss , 55 , 661 hebb , l. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 693 , 1920 hellier , c. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 460 , 1098 holman , m.j . , &",
    "murray , n.w .",
    "2005 , , 307 , 1288 joshi , y.c , et al .",
    "2009 , , 392 , 1532 johns - krull , c.m . ,",
    "2008 , , 677 , 657 kaltenegger , l. , et al .",
    "2009 , astrobiology , in press ( arxiv:0906.2263 ) kaltenegger , l. , & traub , w.a .",
    "2009 , , 698 , 519 knutson , h.a . ,",
    "2007 , , 447 , 183 lger , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 506 , 287 li , c .- h . ,",
    "2008 , , 452 , 610 makarov , v.v .",
    ", et al . 2009 , , 707 , l73 mandushev , g. , et al . 2005 , , 621 , 1061 mandushev , g. , et al . 2007 , , 667 , l195 miller , n. , fortney , j.j . , &",
    "jackson , b. 2009 , , 702 , 1413 nutzman , p. , & charbonneau , d. 2008 , , 120 , 317 queloz , d. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 506 , 303 seager , s. , & malln - ornelas , g. 2003 , , 585 , 1038 tinetti , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 448 , 169 torres , g. , konacki , m. , sasselov , d.d . , & jha , s. 2004 , , 614 , 979 valencia , d. , sasselov , d.d . , & oconnell , r.j .",
    "2007 , , 665 , 1413 walker , g. 2008 , , 452 , 538 wielen , r. 1996 , , 314 , 679 winn , j.n . ,",
    "2009 , , 703 , 2091"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> transiting planet systems offer an unique opportunity to observationally constrain proposed models of the interiors ( radius , composition ) and atmospheres ( chemistry , dynamics ) of extrasolar planets . </S>",
    "<S> the spectacular successes of ground - based transit surveys ( more than 60 transiting systems known to - date ) and the host of multi - wavelength , spectro - photometric follow - up studies , carried out in particular by hst and spitzer , have paved the way to the next generation of transit search projects , which are currently ongoing ( corot , kepler ) , or planned . </S>",
    "<S> the possibility of detecting and characterizing transiting earth - sized planets in the habitable zone of their parent stars appears tantalizingly close . in this contribution we briefly review the power of the transit technique for characterization of extrasolar planets , summarize the state of the art of </S>",
    "<S> both ground - based and space - borne transit search programs , and illustrate how the science of planetary transits fits within the blue dots perspective . </S>"
  ]
}