{
  "article_text": [
    "`` winged '' and @xmath0-shaped radio galaxies ( xrgs ) are centro - symmetric subclasses of fanaroff - riley  ( fr ) type i and ii radio galaxies @xcite which exhibit a second , fainter pair of wings lacking terminal hot spots in addition to the symmetric double lobe structure seen in ordinary fr  ii galaxies @xcite .",
    "these galaxies comprise up to 10% of radio galaxies , although the galaxies in which the length of the wings exceeds 80% of that of the primary lobes ( `` classical '' xrgs ) are a very small subset of radio galaxies @xcite .",
    "the primary lobes of these galaxies , as in other radio galaxies , are produced by a jet emanating from an active galactic nucleus ( agn ) which becomes decollimated as it propagates into and interacts with the surrounding medium . in fr",
    "ii radio galaxies , the terminal shock where the jet rams into its environment is characterized by a radio hot spot ( also often seen in the x - ray band , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) which produces the so - called `` edge - brightened '' morphology .",
    "the absence of these hot spots in the fainter wings of xrgs implies that they do not harbor an active jet , although @xcite argue in favor of a dual - agn origin in which the pairs of lobes emanate from separate , unresolved agn .",
    "the @xmath0-shaped morphology is of interest because two remarkably disparate classes of models have been invoked to explain it .",
    "the first class is predicated on the reorientation of the jets either by realignment of the supermassive black hole ( smbh ) spin or the accretion disk , whereas the second purports to explain the distorted morphology as the result of hydrodynamic interaction between the radio lobe and its surrounding gaseous environment on kiloparsec scales .    in the first case ,",
    "the most common explanation for the @xmath0-shaped morphology is that the smbh has its spin axis realigned , either via merger or precession .",
    "the possibility that xrg morphology is produced by a smbh merger is of considerable interest as a potential estimate of merger rates and hence source rates for the _ laser interferometer space antenna _ ; because fossil lobes will quickly decay due to adiabatic expansion , an xrg would be a sign of a recent merger . in this scenario ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a smbh binary formed by galactic merger and dynamical friction hardens for an unknown length of time via three - body interactions until gravitational radiation becomes effective at radiating orbital energy . at this point ,",
    "the binary quickly coalesces , and the radio jets realign along the direction of the angular momentum of the final merged black hole .",
    "the jet begins propagating in the new direction , leaving a decaying pair of radio lobes along the old spin axis .",
    "a significant objection to the merger model @xcite is that the linear momentum `` kick '' imparted to the coalesced smbh can exceed several times @xmath2 km s@xmath3 if the spins of the black holes are random at the time of merger , sufficient to escape the galaxy .",
    "coaligned spins reduce the magnitude of the kick , but would not result in an @xmath0-shaped source .",
    "although not a problem for rapid reorientation models which rely on precession or other realigning mechanisms @xcite , an additional objection to the `` fossil '' lobe scenario is that the secondary lobe lengths in some xrgs are inconsistent with the fast lobe decay expected when a jet changes alignment ( * ? ?",
    "* hereafter s09 ) .",
    "in contrast to the rapid - realignment models , hydrodynamic models propose that the wings of xrgs were never directly inflated by a jet .",
    "these models argue that xrgs form due to backflow ( plasma flowing back towards the agn from the hot spot shocks ) that interacts with the surrounding gas .",
    "as presently conceived , backflow models require fr  ii morphlogy to drive the strong backflows .",
    "the existence of fr  i xrgs challenges these hypotheses , but s09 argue that , since several of the fr  i xrgs appear to be restarted agn with inner fr  ii morphology , the fr  i xrgs could have had edge - brightened morphology when the wings were inflated , implying an evolution of fr  ii to fr  i sources @xcite . in this paper",
    ", we consider the backflow models as a unified class .",
    "the two most prominent backflow scenarios include the `` buoyant backflow '' model @xcite and the `` overpressured cocoon '' model ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter c02 ) .",
    "the buoyant backflow model supposes that the buoyancy of the relativistic plasma cocoon in the interstellar or intragroup / intracluster medium ( ism or igm / icm ) produces the additional wings . because of the collimation seen in the more dramatic xrg wings , we refer to them hereafter as `` secondary lobes '' even though , if the hydrodynamic premise is correct , they are not of the same character as the primary lobes .    c02 propose a variant model in which backflowing plasma confined by an envelope of hot gas continues to aggregate until the cocoon of radio plasma is significantly overpressured , at which point it blows out of the confining medium at its weakest point .",
    "supposing that the confining medium is the ism of an elliptical galaxy , if the jet is aligned along the _ major _ axis of the galaxy , then the cocoon may become overpressured before the jet bores through the ism , and the radio plasma will blow out along the _ minor _ axis of the galaxy , forming the secondary lobes .",
    "conversely , if the jet is oriented along the minor axis of the galaxy , then backflow will either escape along the same axis or the jet will escape the ism before the cocoon can become overpressured .",
    "c02 cite an intriguing correlation between the orientation of the secondary lobes in xrgs and the minor axis of the host galaxy as evidence for their model , which they further support with two - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations . in",
    "a follow - up study including `` normal '' radio galaxies , s09 find that the primary lobes of giant radio galaxies are preferentially aligned along the minor axis of the host , whereas they extend the original c02 result to a larger xrg sample .",
    "although the observed geometric correlation is strong , much of the potentially relevant physics is absent in the c02 simulations , and @xcite note that the buoyant backflow model can explain the observed correlation by assuming an anisotropic medium to divert the backflow .",
    "moreover , it is unclear whether real radio lobes are actually overpressured .",
    "@xcite argue that an overpressured cocoon is inflated early on , but in the buoyant backflow model , the secondary lobes are formed later . in either case , the geometric correlation favors a hydrodynamic origin for the secondary lobes in the absence of an explanation for a relationship between the angular momenta of two merging smbhs and large - scale structure of the galaxy . for the remainder of this paper",
    ", we refer to the `` c02 geometry '' to describe the correlation noted in xrgs and the proposed geometry of jet alignment that would produce them .",
    "there are additional xrg formation models which are similar to the ones presented above in that they rely solely on either the black hole(s ) involved or jet  gas interaction .",
    "these include the hypothesis that @xmath0- and @xmath4-shaped distortions arise via gravitational interaction with another galaxy @xcite , the idea that the jets are diverted by the ism of a smaller merging galaxy @xcite , and the aforementioned @xcite proposal that both lobes are powered by active jets . because these models are not as easily probed by the hot gas , we focus on the backflow models hereafter .    in this paper",
    ", we seek to characterize the properties of the hot gas in these systems and determine whether the c02 optical  radio geometric correlation also exists in the x - ray band .",
    "one assumption of the c02 proposal is that the stellar distribution traces the hot gas which makes up the confining medium .",
    "we will test this assumption directly by determining the extent to which optical and x - ray morphology are correlated . as a parallel study",
    ", we present the results from new and archival _ chandra x - ray observatory _ observations of xrgs and investigate whether the hot gas in xrg systems differs from that in a comparison sample of archival _ chandra _ observations of `` normal '' fr  i and ii galaxies ( taken largely from the 3crr catalog ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    any observational study of xrgs is necessarily limited by the small number of known and candidate sources .",
    "our study is further limited by two important factors : ( 1 ) the hot gas surrounding radio galaxies becomes increasingly difficult to characterize at higher redshift , and ( 2 ) useful x - ray data do not exist for most xrgs .",
    "these considerations strongly constrain our conclusions .",
    "we therefore discuss in detail our target selection criteria in  2 , as well as the observational parameters and reduction techniques applied to the data . in ",
    "3 we discuss our primary analysis of the morphology of the hot gas , and in  4 we discuss the x - ray spectra of the agn . in ",
    "5 we summarize our results and interpretations .    throughout this paper ,",
    "we adopt the _ wilkinson microwave anisotropy probe _ ( wmap ) values of @xmath5 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 , @xmath6 , and @xmath7 with flat geometry .",
    "we calculate equivalent angular scale and distances at redshift using the online calculator provided by @xcite , and for galactic absorption , we use the online heasarc @xmath8 calculator with values from the leiden / argentine / bonn survey @xcite .",
    "_ chandra _ is well suited to a study of the hot environments of radio galaxies thanks to its high sensitivity , 0.5@xmath9 spatial resolution , and 0.3 - 10 kev bandwidth . _",
    "chandra _ has also been able to resolve x - ray emission associated with the radio lobes into hot spots and jets @xcite ; distinguishing this emission from the gaseous halos is especially important for our purposes .    our analysis sample of _ chandra _ data consists of eighteen comparison sample galaxies and eight xrgs ( fig . 1 [ online - only ] & 2 with observational parameters in table 1 ) .",
    "in this section , we describe how we arrived at this sample , starting with the preliminary selection criteria for the xrg and comparison samples from radio data and availability in the _ chandra _ archive (  2.1 ) . after reducing these data",
    ", we rejected a number of galaxies due to low quality or pile - up (  2.2 ) , then used spectral fitting to find those galaxies where the diffuse gas dominates the photon count in the relevant regions (  2.3 ) .",
    "these are the galaxies we include in our final sample ( table 1 ) ; figs .",
    "1 ( online - only ) & 2 are discussed along with the radio and optical data we use in  2.4 .",
    "we note that many of the archival data sets have been published , and references are provided in table [ obsparams ] where available .",
    "our goal is not to exhaustively study any individual source .",
    "notes on individual sources are found in appendix a.      the most complete compilation of known and candidate @xmath0-shaped sources in the literature is that of @xcite , who used the nrao _ very large array _",
    "( vla ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) faint images of the radio sky at twenty cm ( first ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) data to identify the candidate xrgs . for this paper , we define xrgs as comprising all radio galaxies in @xcite that have a wing length exceeding 80% of the active lobes",
    "* the  classical  xrgs ) and those `` winged '' sources in @xcite which have obvious @xmath0-shaped morphology in the angle between the active lobes and the wings . assuming the projected lengths on the sky are the real lengths of the wings , in the backflow models these may be `` classical '' xrgs at an earlier stage .",
    "we wish to study the hot gas surrounding the radio galaxy .",
    "the rapid decline in surface brightness and reduction in angular size with increased redshift makes a cutoff redshift of @xmath10 practical for typical _ chandra _ exposure times ( even in this scheme , our sample is biased towards high pressure systems ) .",
    "nineteen xrgs fall within this cutoff ; the highest redshift in this group is @xmath11 .",
    "however , we have _ chandra _ data for only thirteen of these sources , and these comprise our preliminary sample .",
    "these sources include 3c  315 , 3c  223.1 , ngc  326 , pks  1422 + 26 , 3c  433 , 3c  403 , 3c  192 , b2  1040 + 31a , abell  1145 , 4c  + 00.58 , 3c  136.1 , 4c  + 32.25 , and 4c  + 48.29 .",
    "this sample is heterogenous in its radio properties and morphology .",
    "a few of the galaxies may be described as @xmath4-shaped @xcite .",
    "ngc  326 , for instance , has long secondary lobes that do not seem to meet at a common center .",
    "others ( e.g. b2  1040 + 31a ) have obviously @xmath0-shaped lobe axes , but the lobes are not as well collimated as in ngc  326 or 3c  315 .",
    "lastly , pks  1422 + 26 , b2  1040 + 31a and 3c  433 appear to be hybrid fr  i / ii radio galaxies with one fr  i lobe and one fr  ii lobe ( a  hymor  ; see * ? ? ?",
    "it is unknown whether these distinctions are signatures of any formation model , and we note that xrgs tend to lie close to the fr  i / ii break in other observables @xcite . in this paper",
    "we use the definitions of @xcite and so consider the xrg sample as a unified whole , and we caution that our results are interpreted within this framework .",
    "in particular , there is no consensus in the literature on what constitutes an `` @xmath0''-shaped galaxy . in their optical study , for example , s09 classify 3c  76.1 ( @xmath12 ) as an xrg , whereas we do not .",
    "they also classify several higher redshift galaxies as xrgs which do not appear in the @xcite list ( e.g. 3c  401 or 3c  438 ) ; in this respect our sample is conservative .",
    "at least one high redshift xrg from the @xcite list3c  52 ( @xmath13)has a _ chandra _ exposure , and 3c  197.1 ( @xmath14 ) may be an xrg and is also in the _ chandra _ archive . we choose not to use these exposures , although we note them in appendix a.3 .    within the same redshift cutoff",
    ", we identify normal fr i and ii galaxies in the _ chandra _ archive as a comparison sample .",
    "the aim of this sample is to determine whether xrgs systematically differ in x - ray properties from normal radio galaxies . it is not obvious what constitutes an appropriate comparison sample because although fr  ii lobes are deemed necessary to produce @xmath0-shaped morphology in the backflow scenario , fr  i xrgs exist ( s09 ) . in the s09 interpretation of fr",
    "i xrgs , the fr  i lobes must have had fr  ii morphology at the time the wings were generated .",
    "supposing that both the c02 model and s09 interpretation are correct , the `` old '' fr  i lobes must obey the same geometry as their `` active '' fr  ii counterparts .",
    "a comparison of the xrg sample to both types is therefore useful .",
    "the combined sample also provides a larger reservoir of sources for measuring the correlation between optical and x - ray isophotes in the ism .",
    "we adopt a preliminary comparison sample consisting of ( 1 ) all fr  ii galaxies within @xmath10 with data in the _ chandra _ archive and ( 2 ) fr  i galaxies from the dragn catalog with the same conditions .",
    "there are 41 sources meeting these criteria .",
    "thirteen xrgs and 41 normal radio galaxies comprise our preliminary samples , but the data for many of these are not of sufficient quality for our analysis .",
    "both the archival data and our new data use advanced ccd imaging spectrometer ( acis ) chips with no transmission grating in place ; we immediately rejected sources which have only grating spectrometer observations due to severe pile - up in the zeroth order image ( only the brightest sources have grating data ) .",
    "most of the data sets use the nominal aim point on the acis - s3 chip , but we consider several acis - i archival observations .    we reprocessed the _",
    "chandra _ data sets to generate 0.310  kev level=2 files using the _ chandra _ interactive analysis of observations ( ciao v4.0 ) data processing recipes ( `` threads '' ) with the most recent caldb release ( 3.5.0 ) .",
    "times with noticeable background flares were excised by inspecting 0.310  kev lightcurves .",
    "a few comparison sample data sets contained the readout streak produced by bright sources , which we replaced , following the ciao thread , with a strip of nearby background on either side of the central point source .",
    "the bright sources ngc  6251 and 3c  264 were observed in a 1/8-size subarray mode of the acis - s3 chip , but still produced a readout streak .",
    "exposure - corrected final images were then produced from the energy - filtered level=2 files following the standard ciao thread , using the aspect solution file associated with each observation .",
    "the core agn x - ray emission was identified by matching the position of the x - ray source with the optical counterpart on the sky .",
    "more accurate positions were determined by binning the x - ray image and calculating the centroid .",
    "our analysis (  3 ) is based on the properties and morphology of the ism and igm / icm .",
    "therefore , we reject galaxies from our preliminary sample where we do not detect strong extended thermal plasma .",
    "we determine the final sample in two steps : ( 1 ) we use radial profile fitting to reject sources with no extended emission and distinguish between multiple components of extended emission in the remainder .",
    "we extract spectra from regions corresponding to these extended components , then ( 2 ) reject sources whose extended emission is not fit well by strong thermal components .",
    "we describe the first step presently and the second in  2.4 .",
    "extended emission on the chip may be made up of multiple sources .",
    "we use surface brightness profile fitting to distinguish between these sources , and based on these fits , define regions for spectral extraction to isolate each source as much as possible .",
    "we excised point sources from the level=2 file , then extracted and fit radial profiles from annuli surrounding the agn out to many kpc ( scale depends on @xmath15 ) . in many cases ,",
    "no diffuse emission was detected above background . where multiple components were found , we defined spectral extraction apertures based on the characteristic radii ( @xmath16 from a @xmath17 model ) for each region . compact emission centered on the agn with @xmath16 smaller than the host galaxy we identified as `` ism '' , whereas very broad emission which declines slowly in surface brightness we identified with the `` igm / icm '' .",
    "these are the labels used in table [ thermalspecparams ] ; we note that the only sources included in table [ thermalspecparams ] are those in which thermal emission has been verified . at the present stage ,",
    "the purpose of these regions is solely to isolate different sources for spectral fitting .    for the larger , dimmer extended sources , the fits ( and hence @xmath16 )",
    "were less reliable .",
    "however , the slow decline of the `` igm '' surface brightness means the spectra we extract are relatively insensitive to the size and shape of the region .",
    "crucially , the spectral extraction apertures are _ not _ the same as those we use for our analysis in  3 and are defined only to isolate different sources .",
    "spectra were extracted from these regions and were binned to at least 15 photons / bin to ensure the reliability of the @xmath18 statistic ; in high - quality spectra , the binning was as high as 100 .",
    "in addition , we extract spectra for the unresolved agn emission from detection cells using the 90% encircled energy radius as determined by the ciao _ mkpsf _ tool .",
    "we return to the agn spectra in  4 .",
    "we fit models to the spectra we extracted (  2.3 ) to determine whether the emission is dominated by thermal plasma .",
    "specifically , our sample consists of those galaxies in which the thermal emission surrounding the agn appears dominant in number of photons , a point we return to below .",
    "we first ascertain the presence of hot gas by fitting the spectra extracted from each source using xspec v.12.5.0j @xcite . in this paper",
    "we exclusively use the apec model .",
    "this step is required since extended emission need not be thermal in origin ",
    "plausible nonthermal sources include power law emission from the boundary shock of the cocoon inflated by the radio jets or from x - ray binaries ( xrbs ) in the host galaxy .",
    "our fits all use a frozen galactic @xmath8 absorption component . after thermal emission",
    "is established , we then require the thermal component to be dominant at low energies .",
    "this ensures that the main contribution to the ( energy - filtered ) surface brightness is the thermal plasma .",
    "of course , the hot atmospheres of many galaxies in our sample have been well studied ( e.g. by _ chandra _ ; table [ obsparams ] ) , but we wish to apply a uniform standard to all our sources including ones which have low signal .    for each spectrum , we first determine whether a single power law or thermal model is a better baseline fit based on the @xmath18 statistic , then add complexity as the degrees of freedom allow . in the case of thermal models",
    "we begin by freezing the abundances with an isothermal model ( there exists an abundance  normalization degeneracy in the absence of strong emission lines ) .",
    "2-temperature ( 2-t ) or multi - t models are invoked if an isothermal model is insufficient to fit the spectrum and the additional thermal component produces a better fit than a power law component .",
    "it is worth asking whether a spectrum fit well by a single thermal model is better fit by a blend of power law and thermal components .",
    "the answer is almost invariably `` no '' . in very low signal spectra with few degrees of freedom we conclude hot gas is present if a thermal model with reasonable parameters ( @xmath19 and @xmath20 ) is a better fit than a power law model .",
    "we justify this assumption by the slopes of soft spectra : unabsorbed power law emission tends not to fall off at the lowest energies , whereas thermal emission peaks near 1.0  kev .",
    "a `` peaky '' spectrum , even a low - signal one , is fit better by a thermal model .",
    "as described in  2.3 , we have attempted to isolate different sources , but we see the ism and igm in projection .",
    "we usually lack the signal for a deprojection analysis , so we first extract and fit a spectrum from the larger igm region , then add the resultant models as frozen components in the ism spectrum ( keeping the normalization thawed ) .",
    "we find this produces better results than using a ring of igm as background for the ism spectra .",
    "it is possible that the power law models are in fact describing thermal continua , but the thermal models which fit these spectra have inordinately high temperatures and often require suspiciously low abundances .",
    "for a galaxy to be included in our final sample we required the thermal component to be dominant between @xmath21  kev . due to _",
    "chandra _ s energy - dependent effective area , even components with higher _ luminosity _",
    "( e.g. an absorbed power law ) may have many fewer photons in this range .",
    "this criterion allows us to characterize the morphology of only the hot plasma .    up to this point",
    "we have treated our sources as uniformly as possible .",
    "our analysis sample consists of the galaxies whose extended emission is dominated by thermal plasma , but we also reject sources with very complex morphology ( 3c  321 , m84 , m87 , and 3c  305 ; cyg  a was retained after excising the inner cocoon ) .",
    "we remind the reader that we began with an xrg sample comprising those 13 galaxies within @xmath10 with data in the _ chandra _ archive . of these",
    ", we have 8 in our analysis sample .",
    "the preliminary comparison sample included 41 normal radio galaxies within the same cutoff , and of these we retain 18 ( ten of which are fr  ii galaxies ) .",
    "unfortunately , in many of the shorter xrg observations , we failed to detect significant diffuse emission .",
    "notes on individual galaxies are in appendix a , including those xrgs not included in our analysis sample ( appendix a.3 ) .",
    "sources we considered but rejected are listed in table [ rejectedobs ] .",
    "for those galaxies in our analysis sample we provide the model fit parameters in table [ thermalspecparams ] .",
    "we also present the emission - weighted density @xmath22 and average pressure @xmath23 .",
    "@xmath22 was computed by assuming the minor axis of the extraction region on the sky is the true minor axis and that the ellipsoid is axisymmetric in the minor axis ( i.e. the axis along the line of sight is the minor axis ) .",
    "we report errors in table [ thermalspecparams ] for one parameter of interest at @xmath24 ( 90% ) , but we do not report errors on @xmath22 or @xmath25 since there are unquantifiable sources of systematic error from our assumptions on the volume .",
    "the average densities and pressures are not particularly useful for studying any one system because profile information has been discarded ; for most of our sources we can not use deprojection .",
    "our spectra with folded model fits are shown in their entirety in the online edition in fig .",
    "3 ( ism ) , fig .  4 ( igm ) , and fig .  5 ( agn ) .",
    "we require high signal and high resolution radio data in order to study the interaction between the radio lobes and the x - ray emitting gas . as the secondary lobes of xrgs and zrgs are typically much fainter than the hot spots demarcating the terminal shocks of the active lobes , deep radio observations are often required to accurately determine their extent and angular offset from the active pair .",
    "the vla is ideal for continuum band observations .",
    "reduced vla data for many of the sources are available through the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) ; references are provided in table [ obsparams ] where available . in some cases , we have reprocessed archival vla data ourselves , and these are noted in table [ obsparams ] .",
    "in contrast to the requirement for high quality radio data ( needed to constrain the orientation of the radio jets and lobes ) , images from the ( palomar or uk schmidt telescope ) digitized sky survey ( dss ) are usually sufficient for comparing the extent and alignment of the diffuse x - ray emitting gas to the distribution of optical light . except in the case of b2  1040 + 31a , a close triple system , the optical emission on the relevant scales does not have significant contamination from companion sources .",
    "we note that the dss spans our entire sample , whereas the higher resolution sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) data are available for fewer than half of our sources .",
    "however , we compare the dss images to the sdss images where available , and note that good agreement is found in most cases for our model parameters (  3.2 ; table [ eccentricitytable ] ) .",
    "we also use published _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst ) images , in particular those of @xcite for 3cr galaxies within @xmath26 . however",
    ", this survey is not sufficiently complete to replace the dss data .    the images in fig .",
    "1 ( available online ) & 2 show the data , using the higher quality sdss images for the optical band where possible . because of the differences in scale between radio galaxies and the different media which are important for lobe ",
    "gas interaction , the chip images we show are all processed slightly differently . in most cases , they have been smoothed with a gaussian kernel of fixed @xmath27 ( per galaxy ) to enhance diffuse emission .",
    "adaptive smoothing sometimes produces artificial structure in our images and is not used . overlaid on the images of the acis chips",
    "are radio contours , and accompanying each x - ray image of the optical field on the same spatial scale .",
    "figures 1 & 2 have been processed to represent the appearance of the sources and distribution of surface brightness on the sky , but we did not use these images directly in our analysis .",
    "in addition , the varying signal - to - noise ratios ( s / n ) in x - ray images do not necessarily correspond to real variation in source luminosity because the data sets come from observations of varying depth and redshift . because some of the observations are shallow ( @xmath28  ks ) or",
    "use the acis - i array , a non - detection of diffuse emission is not conclusive .",
    "the models which assert that xrgs result from the interaction of the radio lobes with anisotropic gaseous environments @xcite must ultimately be tested by direct observations of these environments .",
    "in particular , we wish to know whether the correlation described in c02 exists in the x - ray band , i.e. whether xrgs are preferentially found in systems where the jets are directed along the major axis of the gas distribution .",
    "this objective can be distilled into two distinct questions .",
    "first , the observed correlation between the xrg secondary lobes and the minor axis of the host galaxy was taken by c02 to imply that the minor axis of the ism in these galaxies was similarly aligned .",
    "but how well does the x - ray gas trace the optical isophotes ?",
    "second , is there a systematic difference between the orientation of the radio lobes and the x - ray gas distribution in xrgs and normal radio galaxies ?",
    "in other words , does the c02 correlation exist in the media which interact with the radio lobes ?",
    "these questions are distinct in part because the medium responsible for shaping the xrgs in the backflow models is not necessarily the inter_stellar _ medium , but may be the igm / icm .",
    "because these questions rely on our measurement of gas morphology , we first describe our image fitting method , which consists of fitting ellipses to measure ellipticity ( @xmath29 ) and position angle ( pa ) of the x - ray emission on the sky .",
    "we determine the gross morphology of the hot gas by fitting ellipses to the x - ray emission and finding the characteristic @xmath30 and pa  gross elongation and orientation  of the surface brightness .",
    "we treat the surface brightness as a two - dimensional `` mass '' distribution and compute the moment of inertia tensor within an aperture chosen by the scale of the medium ( a point we return to below ) . from this",
    "we measure the principal axes corresponding to the characteristic major and minor axes of the distribution .",
    "of course , the gas distribution may well have complexity beyond that captured by a simple elliptical model  however",
    ", most of our data do not justify higher - order models .",
    "we describe our method presently .",
    "our generic ellipse - fitting routine takes as input a processed surface brightness distribution on the chip ( see below ) . to determine the principal axes",
    ", we use the ql method with implicit shifts @xcite to find the eigenvalues of the tensor , whereas the position angle is determined by the orientation of one of the eigenvectors .",
    "we use the _ interactive data language _ eigenql function realization of this method .",
    "the ql method with implicit shifts is a method for finding the eigenvalues of a matrix by decomposing it into a rotation matrix `` q '' and a lower triangular matrix `` l '' ; by virtue of the decomposition , the eigenvalues of the original matrix appear on the diagonal of the lower triangular matrix at the end . to determine the 2@xmath27 error bars reported in table [ eccentricitytable ]",
    ", we use the bootstrap resampling method over @xmath31 iterations @xcite .",
    "we adopt this method since it is better suited to low count rate images than the standard _ sherpa _ 2d fitting routines .",
    "our treatment of the surface brightness prior to the fitting described above differs slightly between the bright and compact ism and the faint , extended igm / icm . within each regime",
    "we attempt to treat each data set uniformly ; any additional processing is noted in appendix a.    1 .   _ interstellar medium _",
    "+ for the ism , we use no additional binning beyond the _ chandra _ resolution ( and thus can not subtract a constant background ) .",
    "this choice is motivated by the desire to minimize artificial smoothing due to the relatively small scales of the ism .",
    "however , we do apply the exposure correction across the medium as an adjustment to the brightness of each pixel , and we energy filter the image based on the spectrum .",
    "the radius of the ( circular ) aperture we use is straightforwardly determined from a 1d radial profile extracted from annuli centered on the agn .",
    "we excise the agn emission through energy filtering and masking a point spread function ( psf ) we created at the location of the agn using the ciao tool _",
    "mkpsf_. we mask the region corresponding to the 95% encircled energy ellipse .",
    "one might worry that ( especially with very bright agn ) this procedure would bias our measured @xmath30 or pa , but this appears not to be the case ; the agn is also usually centered on the nominal aim point , so @xmath32 is usually small .",
    "the remaining counts within the aperture are fed into our ellipse - fitting routine . because background is not subtracted",
    ", the bootstrap method is likely more accurate , but our measured @xmath30 values are systematically low ( though not _ very _ low thanks to the high contrast of the compact ism ) .",
    "we note that toggling pixel randomization appears to have no effect on our results .",
    "2 .   _ intragroup / intracluster medium _   + because the igm is typically quite faint and extended , we must bin the chip quite coarsely to see the enhanced surface brightness .",
    "we mask the ism and all other point sources , then bin to @xmath33 pixels and apply a similarly binned exposure correction .",
    "energy filtering is applied based on the spectrum .",
    "finally , we smooth the image with a gaussian kernel ( @xmath34 coarsely binned pixels ) . we subtract background levels using either empty regions on the chip ( if the visible extent of the igm is small ) or blank sky files if the medium fills the chip .",
    "the background files are similarly energy filtered and binned / smoothed .",
    "we choose circular apertures motivated by the idea that all our radio galaxies have escaped the ism , but only some have escaped the `` local '' igm (  3.3 ) . by `` local '' igm",
    "we specifically mean we use an aperture guided by the characteristic radius @xmath16 determined in 1d radial profile fitting centered on the radio galaxy . where @xmath16 is not well constrained , we take an aperture roughly bounding the `` 2@xmath27 '' isophote ( where `` 1@xmath27 '' is taken to be the background level in the binned , smoothed image ) .",
    "we then fit the igm assuming it is a smooth ellipsoid on the scales of interest ( i.e. no internal structure ) so the range in plate scale is not important between galaxies .",
    "a brief inspection of the isophotes indicates that this is a good first - order description on large scales , but wrong near the center . inside our chosen aperture",
    ", the bootstrap method essentially tracks the contrast of structure against noise , so the uncertainty is also a function of the background level we subtract .",
    "nonetheless , the position angles are reasonably constrained .",
    "notably , there are a few cases where there is strong igm / icm not centered on the galaxy ( ngc  326 and 3c  83.1b ) , but we ignore the emission that can not be `` seen '' by the radio galaxy .",
    "additionally , in b2  1040 + 31a , the most significant igm is a smaller structure centered on the radio galaxy s host system enveloped in a larger , much dimmer atmosphere with a different pa . using the methods above",
    ", we take the smaller structure to be the local igm .",
    "we treat the optical dss data similarly .",
    "we do not further bin the images and we measure the background near the host galaxy ( but away from companions , which we mask ) .",
    "we use an aperture corresponding to the extent of the hot ism emission .",
    "we wish to use similar apertures in the x - ray and optical images because @xmath30 may ( physically ) vary with @xmath35 . in the inner optical isophotes , both @xmath30 and pa may be ( artificially ) radially dependent due to convolution with the psf and viewing a triaxial object ( isophotal `` twists '' ) respectively @xcite .",
    "inner isophotes have dramatically lower values of @xmath30 than the outer `` real '' values ( as in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . the isophotal twists , on the other hand , are a consequence of viewing a triaxial object at a viewing angle not aligned with any of its axes .",
    "either is potentially a problem for our optical fitting when the x - ray ism aperture is small , but usually the x - ray emission is extended sufficiently that most of the optical light in our aperture comes from regions where @xmath36 is small ; isophotal twists are only seen in the very central regions of a few nearby galaxies in our dss data .",
    "none of our sources are quasars or appear to be saturated .",
    "because long ( @xmath37  ks ) exposures are often required to see the diffuse x - ray gas even in nearby galaxies , it is plainly attractive to adopt the optical light as a proxy for the hot ism . to zeroth order the stars and ism should coincide , but the ism may not be in hydrostatic equilibrium with the host @xcite , and may be disturbed by recent mergers presumed to power the agn .",
    "in fact , @xcite find ( in an analysis of 54 _ chandra _ detections of hot ism ) that the gas ellipticity and morphology differs significantly from the starlight , although their sample only overlaps our own by a small amount . acknowledging that a detailed view of the inner ism shows significant differences from the starlight",
    ", we ask whether the starlight is a sufficient proxy for the ism in gross morphology ( i.e. we are interested in the outer x - ray `` isophotes '' ) or whether it is of such different character that it weakens the @xcite and @xcite analyses .",
    "in fact , our work supports the identification of the optical light as an appropriate proxy for the hot ism .",
    "however , in contrast to c02 , we do not find that xrgs are preferentially in galaxies with higher @xmath30 , although we note that our x - ray @xmath30 values are probably underestimated .",
    "for the subset of our combined sample with strong ism emission ( 19 of 26 galaxies ) , we find a correlation coefficient of @xmath38 ( fig .",
    "6 ) between the ellipticity of the x - ray light ( @xmath39 ) and the ellipticity of the host galaxy in the dss images ( @xmath40 ) .",
    "the correlation between the position angles of the best - fit ellipses is even stronger ( @xmath41 ) , but this is not meaningful because we expect a positive correlation even if the ellipses are misaligned . this is because an ellipse may have a pa anywhere between @xmath42 , but when considering the angular separation of the pas of two superimposed ellipses , one of the angles of separation must be acute",
    "therefore , a better measurement of the agreement between the optical and x - ray position angles is shown in fig .  6 where the distribution of @xmath43 is shown . the values in fig .",
    "6 are presented in table [ eccentricitytable ] .",
    "the uncertainties are given at the 2@xmath27 level from the bootstrap method .",
    "for @xmath44 our results are significant at the 95% level .",
    "the values we use are given in table [ eccentricitytable ] along with a comparison of dss to sdss values ( and our ism values to the best - fit agn psf values ) .",
    "we check our results for the optical values against the literature , where profile and isophotal fitting is standard .",
    "our distribution of optical @xmath30 peaks slightly below @xmath45 and falls off quickly at higher values .",
    "this is in agreement with the _ hst _ study by @xcite , but is slightly rounder than the reported distributions in the ground - based studies of radio galaxies by @xcite and @xcite , whose distributions peak at @xmath45 and 0.25 respectively .",
    "the small excess of very round hosts may be real ( it persists even when @xmath30 is measured at larger radii than reported ) but our method may also underestimate @xmath30 .",
    "the @xmath30 measurement has been made for far fewer sources in the x - ray band so a systematic comparison is difficult .",
    "in addition , we compare our optical @xmath30 and pa values for the xrg sample specifically to any matching sources in the c02 and s09 studies ( table [ opticalcomparison ] ) and find generally good agreement .",
    "in other words , in the x - ray band we ( to some extent ) reproduce the c02 and s09 results .",
    "additionally , we note here a few caveats .",
    "first , we do not take into account the possible xrb contamination of the ism .",
    "we do not consider this a significant problem based on our spectroscopic analysis  even though lmxb spectra are often stronger at lower energies , the thermal models are much better able to fit the peaks in the ism spectra , and are often sufficient for an adequate fit without requiring a power law .",
    "this is consistent with @xcite who demonstrate that the xrb contribution to the emission is usually less than 10% of the luminosity ; in many of our spectra we lack the signal to distinguish a @xmath46% contribution .",
    "second , as noted in  3.1 , our x - ray @xmath30 values tend to be systematically underestimated .",
    "this makes a comparison with , for example , the @xcite work difficult .",
    "notably there is one strong outlier in 3c  403 , whose @xmath47 is much higher than its optical ellipticity .",
    "@xcite find an even higher value of @xmath48 using a profile fitting technique ( they also compare @xmath39 to _ hst _",
    "@xmath49 ) , so it appears likely that the 3c  403 ism is indeed out of equilibrium .",
    "however , the case of 3c  403 is noteworthy in that the small extent of the ism relative to the agn emission makes energy filtering a more effective way to remove the agn prior to fitting .",
    "@xcite use a @xmath50  kev window , but it is difficult to conclude with certainty that this emission is `` dominated '' by the hot gas because it is possible to obtain a good fit to the spectrum ( shown online in fig .  5 ) using an unabsorbed power law between @xmath51  kev .",
    "if 3c  403 is indeed badly out of equilibrium , it appears to be an isolated case in our sample .",
    "we now measure the correlation between the position angles of the x - ray media and the radio jets by asking whether the quantity @xmath52 is uniformly distributed for the xrgs and normal radio galaxies .",
    "a uniform distribution means that for a given sample there is no preferred alignment between the radio jets and the pa of the surrounding hot gas .",
    "the radio jets are highly collimated and their orientation is determined `` by eye '' ; we believe the values are accurate to within 10@xmath53 .",
    "the ellipticity and pa of the x - ray emission are determined as described in  3.1 , but to which medium shall we compare the alignment of the jets ?",
    "our goal is to determine whether xrgs reside preferentially in media elongated along the jet axis . in the overpressured cocoon model , this medium",
    "is assumed to be the ism , but there are a few xrgs ( ngc  326 and pks  1422 + 26 ) for which the ism can not be the `` confining '' medium because the wings are produced outside the ism .",
    "therefore we must consider how to deal with the igm / icm .",
    "we describe the process of igm / icm aperture selection after our ism comparison . in our discussion , the `` relevant '' medium is the one which could potentially confine the radio galaxy .    1 .   _ interstellar medium _   + all of our radio galaxies have escaped the ism , but it must have been the relevant medium for all of them at early stages . assuming that the jet orientation relative to the ism has not changed over the life of the radio galaxy , it is straightforward to compare @xmath54pa for the normal radio galaxies and the xrgs using the ism . in the c02 model , we expect that the xrgs would have a small angular separation between the ism major axis and the radio jets , i.e. @xmath54pa @xmath55 . fig .",
    "7 bears this expectation out ( values reported in table [ eccentricitytable ] ) .",
    "the aperture for the ism was the same as described in  3.2 and we exclude the same five galaxies .",
    "7 includes 6 xrgs and shows the distributions of both the active and secondary lobes . as noted in  3.2 , the agreement between the gas and the starlight is good .",
    "neither xrg distribution is consistent with a uniform distribution ( @xmath56 for the primary lobes and @xmath57 for the secondary lobes ) despite the small sample size , whereas the normal radio galaxies are consistent with uniform distributions ( @xmath58% ) .",
    "the normal fr  i @xmath54pa distribution is only marginally consistent with uniform ( although dramatically different from the xrgs ) and may be influenced by the giant radio galaxies which s09 noted tend to have jets aligned along the _ minor _ axis of the host .",
    "this result is , in our view , strong evidence for the c02 model , although it was anticipated from  3.2 .",
    "the igm may be the confining medium for several xrgs , but the strong agreement with the c02 geometry in the ism suggests that the ism  jet orientation may be intrinsically important .",
    "the overpressured cocoon model put forth to explain this geometry should not be confused with the observed result .",
    "2 .   _ intragroup / intracluster medium _   + because the xrgs exist whose wings could not have been produced by the ism in the c02 model , we want to see if the c02 geometry exists among igm atmospheres as well .",
    "we thus have to consider how to choose apertures in the igm / icm for the comparison sample as well .",
    "there is no obvious way to compare these media for various radio galaxies , especially since some of our control sample radio sources extend far beyond the chip boundaries .",
    "+ however , using the same logic as above , we can measure the elongation and orientation of the `` local '' igm / icm (  3.1 ) .",
    "all sources larger than the local igm / icm must have passed through it at one point , and it is the relevant medium for all sources enclosed by it and outside the ism . as mentioned in  3.1 , we assume that the igm / icm is described by a smooth ellipsoid so the position angles are comparable between sources of vastly different scale ( the gradients are more important ) .",
    "we therefore expect the @xmath54pa values to be uniformly distributed in the control sample .",
    "+ we detect igm / icm emission in fewer galaxies , but we include the five galaxies with igm / icm but no clearly distinguishable ism ( 3c  338 , 3c  388 , 3c  445 , 3c  452 , and cyg  a ) .",
    "we thus have 5 normal fr  i galaxies , 7 normal fr  ii galaxies , and 5 xrgs . of the xrgs",
    ", the igm / icm is the relevant medium for ngc  326 and pks  1422 + 26 , and may be the relevant medium in 3c  315 , 4c  + 00.58 and b2  1040 + 31a .",
    "although the sample sizes are smaller , the @xmath54pa distributions for the fr  i and ii galaxies are consistent with uniform ( @xmath59 and @xmath60 respectively ; fig .",
    "the xrg sample , on the other hand , is not consistent with a uniform distribution ( @xmath61 for both the primary and secondary lobes ) .",
    "our values are found in table [ igmeccentricity ] .",
    "+ in 3c  452 , the x - ray emission traces the radio emission so well that the geometry of the extended emission probably represents the radio galaxy cocoon or a bounding shock and not the actual igm ( even when a purely `` thermal '' image is reconstructed ; appendix a.1 ) .",
    "similarly , the radio lobes of 3c  388 may be responsible for the geometry of the surrounding medium and the inner isophotes of the surrounding icm are elongated perpendicular to the jet . if we exclude 3c  452 and use a smaller aperture in 3c  388 as the `` local '' icm , our results for the igm / icm comparison outlined above are unchanged ( the normal fr  ii galaxies still look uniformly distributed ) .",
    "we can not easily compare a mix of ism and igm / icm relevant media in the xrg sample to the comparison sample .",
    "however , we can do this for the xrg sample because we have the additional spatial information of the secondary lobes .",
    "when we use the igm values for ngc  326 and pks  1422 + 26 , the distribution of @xmath54pa obeys the c02 correlation even more strongly than for the ism or igm alone .",
    "the probability that the @xmath54pa distribution for this `` best guess '' sample is @xmath62 for the primary lobes and @xmath63 for the secondary ones .",
    "regardless , the samples individually are distinguishable from normal radio galaxies by their jet  medium geometry .    does this geometry necessarily implicate the overpressured cocoon model ?",
    "ngc  326 , 3c  433 , and 4c  + 00.58 obey the c02 geometry but would be difficult to form in the overpressured cocoon model alone .",
    "ngc  326 , for example , is a well studied xrg which has longer secondary lobes than primary ones .",
    "this poses a problem for the overpressured cocoon model , since we expect the jets to expand supersonically and the wings to be ( at most ) transonic . the long secondary lobes may therefore imply buoyant evolution of the backflow @xcite , although subsonic expansion of the primary lobes is possible .",
    "3c  433 is an especially odd case since the southern radio lobes are of qualitatively different character than the northern counterparts .",
    "@xcite argue that the difference between the northern ( fr  i ) and southern ( fr  ii ) lobes is due to propagating into a very asymmetric medium .",
    "the secondary lobes are close to the ism , so it is ambiguous which medium is relevant for xrg formation .",
    "lastly , 4c  + 00.58 appears to violate the c02 geometry as the jet appears to come out of the minor axis of the ism .",
    "4c  + 00.58 almost certainly disagrees with the c02 geometry in the optical image ( due to the high @xmath30 the major axis is likely to be close to the plane of the sky ) and we detect an x - ray jet cospatial with the northern radio jet .",
    "however , it is unclear that the extended x - ray emission comes entirely from the ism .",
    "deeper followup observations are required to assess the role of the igm in this source and establish whether it is actually a counterexample to the c02 geometry .",
    "3c  192 is an ambiguous case because although it obeys the c02 geometry , the eccentricity of the ism is small . for 3c  192 to be produced in the overpressured cocoon model , small differences in pressure gradients must be important",
    "in the backflow models , fr  ii morphology is thought to be necessary to drive strong backflows .",
    "although the backflows begin at the hot spots , edge - brightened fr  ii morphology is strongly associated with absorbed power law agn emission .",
    "we note that several galaxies in our xrg sample are not unambiguously fr type ii ( some of the galaxies with poor data are fr  i ) , so we attempt to characterize the xrg sample in terms of absorbed or unabsorbed agn spectra .",
    "highly absorbed spectra tend to have higher @xmath64 for a given flux than unabsorbed spectra owing to the large amount of `` absorption '' blocking the low - energy photons , whereas unabsorbed spectra tend to be lower energy with small x - ray luminosities above @xmath65  kev .",
    "our model fitting of the agn spectra started by fitting a single power law ( either absorbed or unabsorbed depending on the appearance of the spectrum ) .",
    "additional complexity was added as the degrees of freedom allowed until an acceptable fit was achieved .",
    "we note that @xmath8 and @xmath66 are often degenerate and require one of the two to be frozen ( to values ranging from @xmath67 ; table [ agnspecparams ] ) .",
    "all the fits also incorporated galactic @xmath8 .",
    "our model parameters and luminosities are given in table [ agnspecparams ] and are largely in accordance with previous studies of the 3crr _ chandra _ sample @xcite .",
    "these papers have also conducted a more exhaustive study of the agn x - ray emission , whereas our purpose is to determine whether this emission lends insight to the xrg sample .",
    "in fact , the xrg sample can not neatly be classified in terms of asorbed or unabsorbed spectra ( fig .",
    "this is in agreement with other evidence ( e.g. optical data from * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , although the highly absorbed xrgs do not tend to have a smaller @xmath64 than the normal fr  ii galaxies . indeed , the xrg sample , while small , is consistent with the distribution of @xmath64 between @xmath68 and @xmath69 erg s@xmath3 for the full comparison sample , and not with either the normal fr  i or ii galaxies by themselves .",
    "we note that we detect x - ray jets in some of our systems , but we find no evidence for misaligned jets in any of the xrgs .",
    "the sample size is too small to rule out the @xcite model on this basis , but we might expect to see misaligned jets in their scheme .",
    "we present new and archival _ chandra _ data of xrgs alongside normal fr  i and ii galaxies within @xmath70 .",
    "we extend the @xcite and @xcite geometric correlation between the orientation of the secondary lobes in xrgs and the minor axis of the interacting medium to the x - ray band , including the intragroup / intracluster medium .",
    "we find that this geometry strongly distinguishes the xrgs from normal radio galaxies ( although we are unable to strongly distinguish between xrgs and normal radio galaxies using only the local igm / icm values ) , and that xrgs may be produced in galaxies with both absorbed and unabsorbed agn .",
    "our results in the x - ray band are consistent with @xcite who find that xrgs lie close to the fr  i / ii division in a comparison of radio  optical luminosity .",
    "we note that in properties of the hot atmospheres ( temperature , density , and pressure ) , the xrg sample appears indistinguishable from the comparison sample ( table [ thermalspecparams ] ) but that these parameters are spatial averages of profiles and may not be directly comparable",
    ".    the remarkable geometric distinction between the normal and @xmath0-shaped radio galaxies may be an important clue to the genesis of the secondary lobes .",
    "we can not rigorously examine the formation models in our data , but identify potential problems for the backflow models in several galaxies .",
    "the backflow schemes naturally explain the observed geometry , but also have yet to explain other features of xrgs in detailed modeling ( e.g. the flat spectral indices of the secondary lobes * ? ? ?",
    "however , the models are presently immature : the c02 overpressured cocoon model has only been modeled in a highly elliptical 2d ism , whereas the @xcite suggestion that the buoyant backflow mechanism can produce @xmath0-shaped wings in the presence of an anisotropic buoyant medium has not been modeled .",
    "3d modeling and deeper observations of the relevant media in xrgs are required to make a convincing case for either of these models .",
    "notably , the rapid reorientation models have yet to present a reason for the c02 correlation . any successful model must account for it .",
    "lastly , deeper observations of the xrgs in our sample for which no diffuse emission was detected are required .",
    "the total sample of nearby xrgs is quite small , so every member is important .",
    "c.  s.  r. and e.  h .- k .",
    "thank the support of the _ chandra _ guest observer program under grant go89109x .",
    "e.  h .- k .",
    "thanks a.",
    "i.  harris for useful discussion of the ellipse - fitting method . c.  c.  c. was supported by an appointment to the nasa postdoctoral program at goddard space flight center , administered by oak ridge associated universities through a contract with nasa .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the digitized sky surveys were produced at the space telescope science institute under u.s .",
    "government grant nag w-2166 .",
    "the images of these surveys are based on photographic data obtained using the oschin schmidt telescope on palomar mountain and the uk schmidt telescope .",
    "the plates were processed into the present compressed digital form with the permission of these institutions .",
    "_ facilities : _ ,    adelman - mccarthy , j. , agueros , m.a . ,",
    "allam , s.s . , et al .",
    "2008 , apjs , 175 , 297 alexander , p. & leahy , j.p .",
    "1987 , , 225 , 1 allen , s.w . , dunn , r.j.h . ,",
    "fabian , a.c . ,",
    "taylor , g.b .",
    ", reynolds , c.s .",
    "2006 , , 372 , 21 arnaud , k.a .",
    "1996 in asp .",
    "ser . 101 , astronomical data analysis software and systems v , ed .",
    "jacoby & j. barnes ( san francisco : asp ) , 17 ayres , t.r .",
    "2004 , , 608 , 957 balmaverde , b. , capetti , a. & grandi , p. 2006",
    ", , 451 , 35 baum , s.a . , heckman , t. , bridle , a. , van breugel , w. & miley , g. 1988 , , 68 , 643 becker , r.h . , white , r.l .",
    "& helfand , d.j .",
    "1995 , , 450 , 559 binney , j. & merrifield , m. 1998 , _ galactic astronomy _ , princeton series in astrophysics black , a.r.s . ,",
    "baum , s.a . ,",
    "leahy , j.p .",
    ", perley , r.a . ,",
    "riley , j.m .",
    "& scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1992 , , 256 , 186 bogdanovi , t. , reynolds , c.s . &",
    "miller , m.c .",
    "2007 , , 661 , l147 canosa , c.m . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", hardcastle , m.j . & birkinshaw , m. 1999 , , 310 , 30 capetti , a. , zamfir , s. , rossi , p. , bodo , g. , zanni , c. & massaglia , s. 2002 , , 394 , 39 cheung , c.c .",
    "2007 , , 133 , 2097 cheung , c.c . & springmann , a. 2007 in asp conf .",
    "373 , the central engine of active galactic nuclei , ed . l.c . ho & j",
    "wang ( san francisco : asp ) , 259 cheung , c.c . ,",
    "healey , s.e .",
    ", landt , h. , kleijn , g.v . & jordn , a. 2009 , , 181 , 548 condon , j.j . , frayer , d.t & broderick , j.j .",
    "1991 , , 101 , 362 croston , j.h .",
    ", hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "birkinshaw , m. & worrall , d.m .",
    "2003 , , 346 , 1041 dennett - thorpe , j. , scheuer , p.a.g . , laing , r.a . , bridle , a.h . ,",
    "pooley , g.g .",
    "& reich , w. 2002 , , 330 , 609 diehl , s. & statler , t. 2007 , , 668 , 150 donato , d. , sambruna , r.m . & gliozzi , m. 2004 , , 617 , 915 efron , b. 1982 , cbms - nsf regional conf . ser . in applied mathematics , the jackknife , the bootstrap and other resampling plans ( philadelphia : soc . for industrial & applied mathematics )",
    "ekers , r.d .",
    ", fanti , r. , lari , c. & parma , p. 1978",
    ", nature , 276 , 588 evans , d.a . ,",
    "hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "croston , j.h . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    "& birkinshaw , m. 2005 , , 359 , 363 evans , d.a . , worrall , d.m .",
    ", hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "kraft , r.p . & birkinshaw , m. 2006 , , 642 , 96 evans , d.a . ,",
    "fong , w.f . ,",
    "hardcastle , m.j . , kraft , r.p .",
    ", lee , j.c . , worrall , d.m .",
    ", birkinshaw , m. , croston , j.h . & muxlow , t.w.b .",
    "2008 , , 675 , 1057 fanaroff , b.l . & riley , j.m . 1974 , , 167 , 31p fanti , c. , fanti , r. , gioia , i.m . , lari , c. , parma , p. & ulrich , m .- h . 1977 , a&as , 29 , 279 fosbury , r.a.e . ,",
    "morganti , r. , wilson , w , ekers , r.d . , di serego alighieri , s. & tadhunter , c.n .",
    "1998 , , 296 , 701 ge , j. & owen , f.n .",
    "1994 , , 108 , 1523 gopal - krishna & wiita , p.j .",
    "2000 , , 363 , 507 gopal - krishna , biermann , p.l . &",
    "wiita , p.j .",
    "2003 , , 594 , l103 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "alexander , p. , pooley , g.g . & riley , j.m .",
    "1996 , , 278 , 273 hardcastle , m.j . , birkinshaw , m. & worrall , d.m .",
    "2001 , , 326 , 1499 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "worrall , d. m. , birkinshaw , m. , laing , r. a. & bridle , a. h. 2002 , , 334 , 182 hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "harris , d.e . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    "& birkinshaw , m. 2004 , , 612 , 729 hardcastle , m.j .",
    ", sakelliou , i. & worrall , d.m .",
    "2005 , , 359 , 1007 hardcastle , m.j",
    ". , evans , d.a . &",
    "croston , j.h .",
    "2006 , , 370 , 1893 hardcastle , m.j . , kraft , r.p . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    ", croston , j.h . ,",
    "evans , d.a . , birkinshaw , m. & murray , s.s .",
    "2007 , , 662 , 166 hardcastle , m.j .",
    ", croston , j.h . & kraft , r.p .",
    "2007 , , 669 , 893 heckman , t. , illingworth , g. , miley , g. , van breugel , w. 1985 , , 299 , 41 isobe , n. , tashiro , m. , makishima , k. , iyomoto , n. , suzuki , m. , murakami , m.m . , mori , m. & abe , k. 2002 , , 580 , l111 jackson , n. , beswick , r. , pedlar , a. , cole , g.h . , sparks , w.b . , leahy , j.p .",
    ", axon , d.j . &",
    "holloway , a.j .",
    "2003 , , 338 , 643 jeltema , t.e . ,",
    "binder , b. & mulchaey , j.s .",
    "2008 , , 679 , 1162 johnstone , r.m . ,",
    "allen , s.w . ,",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    "& sanders , j.s .",
    "2002 , , 336 , 299 kalberla , p.m.w . , burton , w.b . , hartmann , d. , arnal , e.m . , bajaja , e. , morras , r. , pppel , w.g.l .",
    "2005 , , 440 , 775 klein , u. , mack , k .- h . , gregorini , l. & parma , p. 1995",
    ", , 303 , 427 kraft , r.p . , hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "worrall , d.m .",
    "& murray , s.s .",
    "2005 , , 622 , 149 kraft , r.p . , azcona , j. , forman , w.r . ,",
    "hardcastle , m.j . ,",
    "jones , c. & murray , s.s .",
    "2006 , , 639 , 753 laing , r.a . ,",
    "riley , j.m .",
    "& longair , m.s .",
    "1983 , , 204 , 151 lal , d.v . &",
    "rao , a.p .",
    "2004 , bull .",
    "india , 32 , 247 lal , d.v . & rao , a.p .",
    "2005 , , 356 , 232 lal , d.v . &",
    "rao , a.p .",
    "2007 , , 374 , 1085 lal , d.v . ,",
    "hardcastle , m.j . & kraft , r.p .",
    "2008 , , 390 , 1105 lambas , d.g . ,",
    "maddox , s.j .",
    "& loveday , j. 1992 , , 258 404 leahy , j.p . & williams , a.g .",
    "1984 , , 210 , 929 leahy , j.p . &",
    "perley , r.a .",
    "1991 , , 102 , 537 leahy , j.p . & parma , p. 1992 , in extragalactic radio sources : from beams to jets , ed .",
    "j. roland , h. sol , & g. pelletier ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 307 leahy , j.p . , black , a.r.s .",
    ", dennett - thorpe , j. , hardcastle , m.j . , komissarov , s. , perley , r.a . ,",
    "riley , j.m .",
    "& scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1997 , , 291 , 20 ly , c. , de young , d.s . & bechtold , j. 2005 , , 618 , 609 magdziarz , p. & zdziarski , a.a .",
    "1995 , , 273 , 837 martel , a.r .",
    "et al . 1999 , , 122 , 81 massaro , f. et al .",
    "2008 in american astronomical society , head meeting # 10 , 26.19 massaro , f. , harris , d.e . ,",
    "chiaberge , m. , grandi , p. , macchetto , f.d . ,",
    "baum , s.a . ,",
    "odea , c.p . & capetti , a. 2009 , , 696 , 980 merritt , d. & ekers , r.d .",
    "2002 , science , 297 , 1310 miller , b.p . & brandt , w.n .",
    "2009 , , 695 , 755 murgia , m. , parma , p. , de ruiter , h.r . , bondi , m. , ekers , r.d . ,",
    "fanti , r. & fomalont , e.b .",
    "2001 , , 380 , 102 neff , s.g . , roberts , l. & hutchings , j.b . , 1995 , , 99 , 349 parma , p. , de ruiter , h.r . , fanti , c. & fanti , r. 1986 , , 64 , 135 perley , r.a . , dreher , j.w . & cowan , j.j .",
    "1984 , , 285 , l35 perlman , e.  s. , georganopolous , m. , may , e.  m. & kazanas , d. 2009 , , in press ( arxiv:0910.3021v1 ) press , w.h . ,",
    "teukolsky , s.a .",
    ", vetterling , w.t . &",
    "flannery , b.p .",
    "1992 in _ numerical recipes in c : the art of scientific computing _",
    "( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) rees , m. 1978 , nature , 275 , 516 reynolds , c.s . , heinz , s. & begelman , m.c .",
    "2001 , , 549 , l179 roettiger , k. , burns , j. , clarke , d.a . & christiansen , w.a .",
    "1994 , , 421 , l23 rottmann , h. 2001 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "bonn sambruna , r.  m. , gliozzi , m. , donato , d. , tavecchio , f. , cheung , c.  c. & mushotzky , r.  f. 2004 , , 414 , 885 sanderson , a.j.r .",
    ", ponman , t.j . &",
    "osullivan , e. 2006 , , 372 , 1496 saripalli , l. & subrahmanyan , r. 2009 , , 695 , 156 scheuer , p.a.g .",
    "1974 , , 166 , 513 silk , j. & rees , m. 1998 , , 331 , l1 smith , e.p . &",
    "heckman , t.m .",
    "1989 , , 341 , 685 smith , d.a . ,",
    "wilson , a.s . ,",
    "arnaud , k.a . ,",
    "terashima , y. & young , a.j .",
    "2002 , , 565 , 195 sun , m. , jerius , d. & jones , c. 2005 , , 633 , 165 sun , m. , voit , g.m . , donahue , m. , jones , c. , forman , w. & vikhlinin , a. 2009 , , 693 , 1142 thompson , a.r . , clark , b.g . , wade ,",
    "c.m . & napier , p.j .",
    "1980 , , 44 , 151 tremblay , g.r . ,",
    "chiaberge , m. , donzelli , c.j . ,",
    "quillen , a.c . ,",
    "capetti , a. sparks , w.b . & maccheto , f.d .",
    "2007 , , 666 , 109 van breugel , w. & jagers , w. 1982 , a&as , 49 , 529 van breugel , w. balick , b. , heckman , t. , miley , g. & helfand , d. 1983 , , 88 , 1 wan , l. & daly , r. 1996 , , 467 , 145 werner , p.n . , worrall , d.m . & birkinshaw , m. 1999 , , 207 , 722 wirth , a. , smarr , l. & gallagher , j.s .",
    "1982 , , 87 , 602 worrall , d.m .",
    ", birkinshaw , m. & cameron , r.a .",
    "1995 , , 449 , 93 worrall , d.m . ,",
    "birkinshaw , m. 2000 , , 530 , 719 wright , e.l .",
    "2006 , pasp , 118 , 1711 young , a.j . ,",
    "wilson , a.s . ,",
    "terashima , y. , arnaud , k.a .",
    "& smith , d.a .",
    "2002 , , 564 , 176 young , a.j . , wilson , a.s . , tingay , s.j . & heinz , s. 2005 , , 622 , 830 zier , c. & biermann , p.l .",
    "2001 , , 377 , 23 zier , c. 2005 , , 364 , 583                                                 [ xrg_images ]                       [ ism_spectra ]        ) .",
    "the xrg sample is shown with galaxy names in green and the total model fit has been plotted over the data in red .",
    "the values can be found in table [ thermalspecparams ] .",
    "note that 3c  403 is shown in fig .  5 since the ism is small compared to the psf and is isolated via energy filtering @xcite .",
    "this image is available in the online edition of the journal ]     [ igm_spectra ]        ) .",
    "the xrg sample is shown with galaxy names in green and the total model fit has been plotted over the data in red .",
    "the values can be found in table [ thermalspecparams ] .",
    "this figure is available in the online edition of the journal . ]",
    "[ agn_spectra ]                 in each case has been generated by our ellipse - fitting method (  3.1 ) .",
    "the dashed line represents a 1:1 correlation rather than a best - fit line .",
    "right : comparison of the position angles of the best - fit ellipses for the diffuse ism to those of the optical light where the values are determined by our ellipse - fitting method (  3.1).,title=\"fig : \" ]   in each case has been generated by our ellipse - fitting method (  3.1 ) . the dashed line represents a 1:1 correlation rather than a best - fit line .",
    "right : comparison of the position angles of the best - fit ellipses for the diffuse ism to those of the optical light where the values are determined by our ellipse - fitting method (  3.1).,title=\"fig : \" ]    pa is the acute angle between the major axes of the best - fit ellipses (  3.1 ) and the orientation of the radio jets .",
    "@xmath54pa @xmath71 indicates alignment of the _ major _ axis of the medium with the radio lobes , whereas @xmath54pa @xmath72 indicates alignment with the _ minor _ axis .",
    "note not all galaxies are represented here . ]",
    "pa is the acute angle between the major axes of the best - fit ellipses (  3.1 ) and the orientation of the radio jets .",
    "@xmath54pa @xmath71 indicates alignment of the _ major _ axis of the medium with the radio lobes , whereas @xmath54pa @xmath72 indicates alignment with the _ minor _ axis .",
    "not all galaxies are represented here . ]",
    "llccccclll    b2 1040 + 31a & j1043 + 3131 & 0.036 & 0.706 & 9272 & 10 & acis - s & i / ii & this work & am221+am222 + pks 1422 + 26 & j1424 + 2637 & 0.037 & 0.725 & 3983 & 10 & acis - s &",
    "i / ii & this work & am364 + ngc 326 & j0058 + 2651 & 0.048 & 0.928 & 6830 & 94 & acis - s &",
    "i / ii & 1,2,9,10 & a + 3c 403 & j1952 + 0230 & 0.059 & 1.127 & 2968 & 49 & acis - s & ii & 3,4,5 & b + 4c + 00.58 & j1606 + 0000 & 0.059 & 1.127 & 9274 & 10 & acis - s & ii & this work & ac818 + 3c 192 & j0805 + 2409 & 0.060 & 1.144 & 9270 & 10 & acis - s & ii & 6 & c + 3c 433 & j2123 + 2504 & 0.102 & 1.855 & 7881 & 38 & acis - s & i / ii & 7 & b + 3c 315 & j1513 + 2607 & 0.108 & 1.951 & 9313 & 10 & acis - s & i & this work & am364 + 3c 449 & j2229 + 3921 & 0.017 & 0.341 & 4057 & 30 & acis - s & i & 4,5,8,9,10,26 & ak319 + 3c 31 & j0107 + 3224 & 0.017 & 0.341 & 2147 & 45 & acis - s & i & 4,5,9,11,26 & a + 3c 83.1b & j0318 + 4151 & 0.018 & 0.361 & 3237 & 95 & acis - s & i & 4,5,12 & ak403 + 3c 264 & j1145 + 1936 & 0.021 & 0.419 & 4916 & 38 & acis - s & i & 4,8 & d + 3c 66b & j0223 + 4259 & 0.022 & 0.439 & 828 & 45 & acis - s & i & 4,5,8,13 & e + 3c 296 & j1417 + 1048 & 0.024 & 0.477 & 3968 & 50 & acis - s & i & 4,5 & f + ngc 6251 & j1632 + 8232 & 0.024 & 0.477 & 4130 & 50 & acis - s &",
    "i / ii & 4,14 & g + pks 2153@xmath7369 & j2157@xmath736941 & 0.028 & 0.554 & 1627 & 14 & acis - s & ii & 15,16 & h + 3c 338 & j1628 + 3933 & 0.030 & 0.593 & 497 + 498 & 20 + 20 & acis - s & i & 4,5,8,9,14,17 & i + 3c 98 & j0358 + 1026 & 0.030 & 0.593 & 10234 & 32 &",
    "acis - i & ii & this work & j + 3c 465 & j2338 + 2702 & 0.031 & 0.612 & 4816 & 50 & acis - s & i & 4,8,9,27 & a + 3c 293 & j1352 + 3126 & 0.045 & 0.873 & 9310 & 8 & acis - s & ii & 25 & k + cyg a & j1959 + 5044 & 0.056 & 1.073 & 360 + 5831 & 35 + 51 & acis - s & ii & 18,19 & j + 3c 445 & j2223@xmath730206 & 0.056 & 1.073 & 7869 & 46 &",
    "acis - s & ii & 26 & l + 3c 285 & j1321 + 4235 & 0.079 & 1.474 & 6911 & 40 & acis - s & ii & 20 & k + 3c 452 & j2245 + 3941 & 0.081 & 1.508 & 2195 & 81 & acis - s & ii & 4,21 & b + 3c 227 & j0947 + 0725 & 0.087 & 1.609 & 6842 + 7265 & 30 + 20 & acis - s & ii & 22 & b + 3c 388 & j1844 + 4533 & 0.091 & 1.675 & 4756 + 5295 & 8 + 31 & acis - i & ii & 23 & m +    lcccll 4c + 32.25 & 0.052 & 9271 & 10 & acis - s & a + 4c + 48.29 & 0.053 & 9327 & 10 & acis - s & a + 3c 136.1 & 0.064 & 9326 & 10 & acis - s & a + j1101 + 1640 & 0.068 & 9273 & 10 & acis - s & mispointing + 3c 223.1 & 0.107 & 9308 & 8 & acis - s & a + m84 & 0.003 & 803 + 5908 + 6131 & 29 + 47 + 41 & acis - s & b + m87 & 0.004 & 352 + 1808 & 38 + 14 & acis - s & b + 3c 84 & 0.018 & 333 + 428 & 27 + 25 & hetgs & b+pileup + 3c 442a & 0.026 & 5635 + 6353 + 6359 + 6392 & 29 + 14 + 20 + 33 & acis - i & b + 3c 353 & 0.030 & 7886 + 8565 & 72 + 18 & acis - s & c + 3c 120 & 0.033 & 3015 + 5693 & 58 + 67 & hetgs+acis - i & c + da 240 & 0.036 & 10237 & 24 & acis - i & a + 3c 305 & 0.042 & 9330 & 8 & acis - s & b + 3c 390.3 & 0.056 & 830 & 34 & acis - s & c + 3c 382 & 0.058 & 4910 + 6151 & 55 + 65 & hetgs & c+pileup + 3c 33 & 0.059 & 6910 + 7200 & 20 + 20 & acis - s & c + 3c 35 & 0.067 & 10240 & 26 & acis - i & a + 0313 - 192 & 0.067 & 4874 & 19 & acis - s & c + 3c 105 & 0.089 & 9299 & 8 & acis - s & a + 3c 326 & 0.090 & 10242 + 10908 & 19 + 28 & acis - i & target not on chip + 3c 321 & 0.096 & 3138 & 48 & acis - s & b + 3c 236 & 0.099 & 10246 + 10249 & 30 + 41 & acis - i & c + 3c 327 & 0.104 & 6841 & 40 & acis - s & c + 4c + 74.26 & 0.104 & 4000 + 5195 & 38 + 32 & hetgs & c + 3c 184.1 & 0.118 & 9305 & 8 & acis - s & a +    lccccccccclcc b2 1040 + 31a & ism & 5 & 5 & 0.036 & 1.67 & 1.6 @xmath74 0.4 & 0.3 ( f ) & 38 . & 9.7 & apec & 1.6 & 4.66/5 + @xmath75 & igm ( s ) & 25 & 25 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 1.8 @xmath74 0.2 & 1.0 ( f ) & 3.8 & 1.1 & apec & 3.2 & 10.9/11 + @xmath75 & igm ( l ) & 75 & 75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 1.3@xmath76 & 0.3@xmath77 & 1.1 & 0.24 & apec & 4.7 & 20.2/23 + pks 1422 + 26 & igm & 85 & 40 & 0.037 & 1.54 & 0.89 @xmath74 0.09 & 0.3@xmath78 & 2.0 & 0.29 & apec+pl & 5.2 & 23.1/20 + ngc 326 & ism & 6 & 6 & 0.048 & 5.86 & 0.68 @xmath74 0.05 & 1.0 ( f ) & 28 . & 3.0 & apec(+igm ) & 5.4 & 13.3/17 + @xmath75 & igm & 166 & 94 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 3.6 @xmath74 0.4 & 0.8 ( f ) & 1.9 & 1.1 & apec & 10 . & 94.1/100 + 3c 403 & ism & 9 & 6 & 0.059 & 12.2 & 0.24 @xmath74 0.03 & 1.0 ( f ) & 23 . &",
    "0.89 & apec+pl+@xmath8(gauss+pl ) & 1.0 & 100.7/94 + @xmath75 & igm & 97 & 40 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 0.6 @xmath74 0.2 & 1.0 ( f ) & 0.37 & 0.04 & apec & 0.9 & 34.3/36 + 4c + 00.58 & ism & 17 & 17 & 0.059 & 7.14 & 1.2 @xmath74 0.2 & 1.0 ( f ) & 7.3 & 2.0 & apec & 3.0 & 5.8/6 + 3c 192 & ism+igm & 19 & 19 & 0.060 & 4.08 & 1.0@xmath79 & 1.0 ( f ) & 4.9 & 0.79 & apec+@xmath8(pl ) & 2.5 & 3.9/5 + 3c 433 & ism+igm & 44 & 26 & 0.102 & 7.77 & 0.96 @xmath74 0.1 & 1.0 ( f ) & 2.8 & 1.1 & apec+pl+gauss & 4.0 & 16.2/12 + 3c 315 & igm & 200 & 110 & 0.108 & 4.28 & 0.6@xmath80 & 1.0 ( f ) & 1.0 & 0.1 & apec+pl & 8.2 & 4.5/10 + 3c 449 & ism & 5 & 5 & 0.017 & 8.99 & 0.77 @xmath74 0.09 & 1.0 ( f ) & 15 . &",
    "1.9 & apec(+igm ) & 0.22 & 21.1/19 + @xmath75 & igm & 32 & 32 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 1.58 @xmath74 0.06 & 0.8 @xmath74 0.2 & 2.9 & 0.73 & apec & 3.9 & 179.8/169 + 3c 31 & ism & 4 & 4 & 0.017 & 5.36 & 0.68@xmath81 & 1.0 ( f ) & 22 . & 2.4 & apec(+igm ) & 0.34 & 47.0/58 + @xmath75 & igm & 30 & 30 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 2.0@xmath82 & 0.4@xmath78 & 2.0 & 0.69 & apec & 1.3 & 143.1/138 + 3c 83.1b & ism & 3 & 3 & 0.018 & 13.4 & 0.65 @xmath74 0.04 & 1.0 ( f ) & 34 .",
    "& 3.6 & apec(+igm ) & 0.13 & 30.1/35 + @xmath75 & icm & 56 & 30 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 8.@xmath83 & 1.0 ( f ) & 1.2 & 1.6 & apec & 1.7 & 80.9/86 + 3c 264 & ism & 5 & 5 & 0.021 & 1.83 & 0.34 @xmath74 0.04 & 1.0 ( f ) & 6.6 & 0.37 & apec(+igm ) & 0.18 & 19.7/30 + 3c 66b & ism & 9 & 9 & 0.022 & 7.67 & 0.61@xmath84 & 0.3@xmath85 & 7.2 & 0.71 & apec(+igm ) & 0.36 & 49.8/42 + 3c 296 & ism & 9 & 7 & 0.024 & 1.92 & 0.76 @xmath74 0.02 & 1.0 ( f ) & 9.0 & 1.1 & apec(+igm ) & 1.3 & 49.0/46 + @xmath75 & igm & 75 & 75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 4.@xmath86 & 1.0 ( f ) & 0.8 & 0.5 & apec & 0.8 & 18.2/19 + ngc 6251 & ism & 6 & 6 & 0.024 & 5.59 & 0.66 @xmath74 0.03 & 1.0 ( f ) & 14 . & 1.5 & apec(+igm ) & 1.0 & 110./111 + pks 2153 - 69 & ism & 7 & 7 & 0.028 & 5.59 & 0.77 @xmath74 0.07 & 1.0 ( f ) & 10 . &",
    "1.2 & apec(+hot igm ) & 1.4 & 26.0/24 + @xmath75 & igm & 32 & 32 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath87 & 1.0 ( f ) & 2.6 & 1.3 & apec+apec & 6.8 & 41.8/42 + @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath88 & 1.0 ( f ) & & & & & + 3c 338 & icm & 30 & 30 & 0.030 & 0.89 & @xmath89 & 0.7@xmath740.05 & 28 . &",
    "apec+apec & 434 . & 432.5/390 + @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath90 & 0.7@xmath740.05 & & & & & + 3c 98 & igm & 46 & 31 & 0.030 & 10.8 & 1.1@xmath91 & 0.2@xmath80 & 1.8 & 0.32 & apec & 0.8 & 8.5/11 + 3c 465 & ism & 6 & 6 & 0.031 & 4.82 & 1.12@xmath740.08 & 1.0 ( f ) & 20 . & 3.6 & apec(+igm ) & 1.4 & 30.4/32 + @xmath75 & igm & 80 & 56 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 4.2@xmath92 & 1.0 ( f ) & 2.3 & 1.6 & apec+gauss & 25 . &",
    "176.8/164 + 3c 293 & ism & 8 & 5 & 0.045 & 1.27 & 1.0 @xmath74 0.3 & 0.2 ( f ) & 28 . & 4.4 & apec(+igm ) & 1.6 & 0.7/4 + cyg a & icm & 140 & 140 & 0.056 & 30.2 & @xmath93 & 0.6 ( f ) & 4.8 & 6.0 & cflow & 1600 & 433.1/403 + @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath94 & & & & & + 3c 445 & igm & 73 & 54 & 0.056 & 4.51 & 0.7@xmath95 & 1.0 ( f ) & 0.26 & 0.03 & apec+pl & 0.6 & 9.38/14 + 3c 285 & ism+igm & 30 & 30 & 0.079 & 1.27 & @xmath96 & 1.0 ( f ) & 2.3 & 0.13 & apec+apec & 2.9 & 6.9/7 + @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath97 & 1.0 ( f ) & & & & & + 3c 452 & igm & 201 & 82 & 0.081 & 9.64 & 3.8 @xmath74 0.1 & 1.0 ( f ) & 1.3 & 0.79 & apec+pl & 5.0 & 148.7/155 .",
    "+ 3c 227 & ism+igm & 28 & 28 & 0.087 & 2.11 & @xmath98 ( f ) & 1.0 ( f ) & 5.9 & 1.0 & apec+apec+gauss & 7.4 & 12.7/29 + @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & @xmath99 & 1.0 ( f ) & & & & & + 3c 388 & icm(bar ) & 16 & 16 & 0.091 & 5.58 & 2.4 @xmath74 0.2 & 1.0 ( f ) & 24 . & 9.2 & apec & 41 . & 38.9/40 + @xmath75 & icm(big ) & 130 & 130 & @xmath75 & @xmath75 & 3.3 @xmath74 0.1 & 1.0 ( f ) & 3.1 & 1.7 & apec & 425 . &",
    "174.9/200 +    lccccccccc b2 1040 + 31a & 0.15 & - & - & 153 & - & - & 159 & - & - + pks 1422 + 26 & 0.16 & - & - & 118 & - & - & 92 & - & - + ngc 326 & 0.04 & - & 0 & 153 & - & b & 120 & - & 135 + 3c 403 & 0.27 & a & 0.25 & 39 & 35 & 39 & 72 & 85 & 79 + 4c + 00.58 & 0.51 & - & - & 139 & - & - & 65 & - & - + 3c 192 & 0.02 & a & 0 & 119 & 95 & b & 123 & 125 & 123 + 3c 433 & 0.30 & - & 0.47 & 167 & - & 145 & 169 & - & 164 + 3c 315 & 0.37 & a & 0.46 & 44 & 35 & 33 & 12 & 10 & 8 + 4c + 32.25 & 0.12 & a & 0.15 & 90 & 90 & 84 & 61 & 60 & 64 + 4c + 48.29 & 0.03 & - & 0 & 127 & - & b & 179 & - & 170 + 3c 136.1 & 0.39 & a & 0.37 & 101 & 100 & 117 & 106 & 110 & 139 + j1101 + 1640 & 0.34 & - & 0.29 & 62 & - & 64 & 113 & - & 114 + 3c 223.1 & 0.42 & a & 0.45 & 43 & 40 & 40 & 7 & 15 & 15 +    llccccccccc b2 1040 + 31a & 0.21@xmath740.07 & 158@xmath7411 & 0.07 & 58 & - & - & 0.15@xmath740.02 & 153@xmath7422 & 159 & 58 + ngc 326 & 0.084@xmath740.009 & 130@xmath7437 & 0.09 & 134 & 0.037@xmath740.004 & 153@xmath7433 & - & - & 120 & 42 + 3c 403 & 0.47@xmath740.03 & 35@xmath745 & 0.11 & 108 & 0.27@xmath740.09 & 39@xmath7435 & - & - & 72 & 133 + 4c + 00.58 & 0.15@xmath740.02 & 138@xmath7417 & 0.07 & 161 & 0.51@xmath740.08 & 139@xmath746 & 0.44@xmath740.02 & 138@xmath743 & 65 & 14 + 3c 192 & 0.04@xmath740.01 & 126@xmath7422 & 0.06 & 146 & 0.018@xmath740.005 & 119@xmath7440 & 0.018@xmath740.002 & 132@xmath7438 & 123 & 54 + 3c 433 & 0.09@xmath740.02 & 156@xmath7440 & 0.04 & 172 & 0.3@xmath740.1 & 172@xmath7421 & - & - & 169 & 84 + 3c 449 & 0.14@xmath740.02 & 6@xmath7415 & 0.16 & 30 & 0.21@xmath740.03 & 8@xmath746 & - & - & 9 & + 3c 31 & 0.087@xmath740.003 & 112@xmath7416 & 0.18 & 159 & 0.10@xmath740.01 & 142@xmath7412 & - & - & 160 & + 3c 83.1b & 0.17@xmath740.01 & 166@xmath7416 & 0.12 & 1 & 0.19@xmath740.02 & 161@xmath7417 & - & - & 96 & + 3c 264 & 0.042@xmath740.002 & 129@xmath7427 & 0.17 & 148 & 0.044@xmath740.003 & 129@xmath7427 & 0.011@xmath740.005 & 160@xmath7432 & 30 & + 3c 66b & 0.15@xmath740.01 & 128@xmath749 & 0.15 & 13 & 0.13@xmath740.01 & 131@xmath7415 & - & - & 60 & + 3c 296 & 0.15@xmath740.02 & 137@xmath746 & 0.17 & 147 & 0.19@xmath740.02 & 151@xmath7413 & 0.23@xmath740.01 & 147@xmath746 & 35 & + pks 2153 - 69 & 0.22@xmath740.03 & 106@xmath748 & 0.17 & 34 & 0.25@xmath740.04 & 126@xmath7412 & - & - & 136 & + ngc 6251 & 0.047@xmath740.002 & 25@xmath7423 & 0.15 & 72 & 0.11@xmath740.01 & 24@xmath7413 & - & - & 115 & + 3c 98 & 0.19@xmath740.04 & 92@xmath7424 & 0.13 & 90 & 0.10@xmath740.03 & 62@xmath7420 & - & - & 10 & + 3c 465 & 0.061@xmath740.003 & 51@xmath7429 & 0.17 & 74 & 0.17@xmath740.08 & 33@xmath7425 & - & - & 126 & + 3c 293 & 0.30@xmath740.07 & 84@xmath7418 & 0.05 & 110 & 0.50@xmath740.06 & 64@xmath747 & 0.29@xmath740.05 & 60@xmath7410 & 126 & + 3c 285 & 0.21@xmath740.03 & 141@xmath7418 & 0.19 & 96 & 0.36@xmath740.06 & 133@xmath7413 & 0.36@xmath740.05 & 125@xmath749 & 73 & + 3c 227 & 0.11@xmath740.01 & 19@xmath7420 & 0.33 & 98 & 0.09@xmath740.02 & 27@xmath7417 & - & - & 65 & +    lcccc b2 1040 + 31a & 0.18@xmath740.08 & 130@xmath7430 & 159 & 58 + pks 1422 + 26 & 0.13@xmath740.03 & 88@xmath7414 & 92 & 179 + ngc 326 & 0.20@xmath740.04 & 128@xmath7420 & 120 & 42 + 4c + 00.58 & 0.15@xmath740.02 & 138@xmath7417 & 65 & 14 + 3c 315 & 0.38@xmath740.06 & 23@xmath74 7 & 12 & 120 + 3c 449 & 0.3@xmath740.1 & 41@xmath7412 & 9 & - + 3c 31 & 0.18@xmath740.01 & 123@xmath744 & 160 & - + 3c 296 & 0.23@xmath740.04 & 121@xmath748 & 35 & - + pks 2153 - 69 & 0.13@xmath740.03 & 140@xmath7410 & 136 & - + 3c 338 & 0.243@xmath740.002 & 65@xmath746 & 90 & - + 3c 465 & 0.37@xmath740.02 & 53@xmath743 & 126 & - + cyg a & 0.2@xmath740.1 & 22@xmath744 & 115 & - + 3c 445 & 0.3@xmath740.1 & 77@xmath748 & 169 & - + 3c 285 & 0.28@xmath740.06 & 163@xmath749 & 73 & - + 3c 452 & 0.43@xmath740.03 & 83@xmath742 & 78 & - + 3c 388 ( l ) & 0.13@xmath740.02 & 65@xmath746 & 55 & - + 3c 388 ( s ) & 0.088@xmath740.005 & 133@xmath7418 & 55 & - +    lcclclccc    pks 1422 + 26 & 0.037 & 1.54 & @xmath8(pl+gauss ) & 4 .",
    "@xmath74 1 . & 0.5 @xmath74 0.4 & - & 3.8 & 8.2/16 + ngc 326 & 0.048 & 5.86 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 0.5 ( f ) & 1.3 @xmath74 0.4 & 0.68 @xmath74 0.06 & 0.15 & 11.1/16 + 3c 403 & 0.059 & 12.2 & @xmath8(pl+gauss)+pl+apec & 46.@xmath74 5 . &",
    "@xmath100 & 0.24 @xmath74 0.03 & 16.6 & 100.7/94 + & & & & & @xmath101 ( f ) & & & + 4c + 00.58 & 0.059 & 7.14 & pl & - & 1.3 @xmath74 0.6 & - & 1.1 & 1.6/4 + 3c 192 & 0.060 & 4.08 & @xmath8(pl ) & 16 ( f ) & 2.0 ( f ) & - & 3.1 & 0.9/2 + 3c 433 & 0.102 & 7.77 & @xmath8(pl+gauss)+apec & 8 .",
    "@xmath74 1 . &",
    "1.1 @xmath74 0.1 & 1.0 @xmath74 0.2 & 59 & 72.5/77 + 3c 449 & 0.017 & 8.99 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 0.5 ( f ) & 1.6 @xmath74 0.2 & 0.59 @xmath74 0.08 & 0.05 & 7.6/14 + 3c 31 & 0.017 & 5.36 & pl+apec & - & 1.9 @xmath74 0.1 & 0.70 @xmath74 0.03 & 0.13 & 81./83 + 3c 83.1b & 0.018 & 13.4 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 2.2@xmath74 0.9 & 2.0 @xmath74 0.3 & 0.48 @xmath74 0.08 & 0.05 & 22.7/36 + 3c 264 & 0.021 & 1.83 & pl+apec & - & 2.13@xmath74 0.03 & 0.34 @xmath74 0.06 & 1.7 & 152.7/154 + 3c 66b & 0.022 & 7.67 & pl+apec & - & 2.17@xmath74 0.06 & 0.52 @xmath74 0.08 & 0.33 & 90.6/114 + 3c 296 & 0.026 & 1.92 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 0.10 ( f ) & 1.1 @xmath74 0.1 & 0.68 @xmath74 0.02 & 0.38 & 91.8/81 + ngc 6251 & 0.024 & 5.59 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 0.05@xmath740.01 & 1.5 @xmath74 0.03 & 0.35 @xmath74 0.05 & 8.0 & 391/386 + pks 2153 - 69 & 0.028 & 2.67 & pileup(pl)+apec & - & 1.49@xmath74 0.05 & 0.4 @xmath74 0.2 & 12.2 & 73.1/86 + 3c 98 & 0.030 & 10.8 & @xmath8(pl)+gauss+pl & 9 .",
    "@xmath74 1 . &",
    "@xmath102 ( f ) & - & 3.1 & 47.4/35 + & & & & & @xmath103 ( f ) & & & + 3c 465 & 0.031 & 4.82 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 0.3 ( f ) & 2.4 @xmath74 0.2 & 0.83 @xmath74 0.06 & 0.31 & 62.0/62 + 3c 293 & 0.045 & 1.27 & @xmath8(pl)+apec & 11 @xmath74 4 & 1.5 ( f ) & 1.55 ( f ) & 4.5 & 9.3/10 + cyg a & 0.056 & 30.2 & pileup(@xmath8(pl))+gauss+cflow & 25 @xmath74 2 & 2.0 ( f ) & - & 87.6 & 294.3/217 + 3c 445 & 0.056 & 4.51 & pileup(@xmath8(pl))+gauss & 16 @xmath74 1 & 1.7 ( f ) & - & 47 . &",
    "62.4/44 + 3c 285 & 0.079 & 1.27 & @xmath8(pl)+gauss & 28 @xmath74 4 & 1.2 ( f ) & - & 8.7 & 12.6/9 + 3c 452 & 0.081 & 9.64 & @xmath8(pl)+gauss+apec+pexrav & 38 @xmath74 9 & 1.65 ( f ) & 0.8 @xmath74 0.2 & 25 & 156.6/145 + 3c 227 & 0.087 & 2.11 & pileup(@xmath8(pl))+pl & 3.3 @xmath74 0.1 & @xmath104 ( f ) & - & 155 & 248.9/167 + & & & & & @xmath105 & & & + 3c 388 & 0.091 & 5.58 & pl+apec & - & 2.3 @xmath74 0.3 & 1.2 @xmath74 0.2 & 1.9 & 14.1/16 +",
    "the radio galaxy emanates from the largest galaxy in a close triple system @xcite which itself is contained within a large region of intragroup medium . the larger igm is in agreement with @xcite , but for the relevant medium we use a smaller region of igm which is bright against the large region and centered on the system . in the dss image the host galaxy can not be isolated from its companions , so we use the sdss image alone . in the x - ray band ,",
    "the host galaxy is bright ; whether it is agn emission is unclear based on the spectrum . because the character of the emission does not change much outside the psf , we assume we are seeing primarily thermal emission",
    ".      this galaxy has striking wings and `` warm '' spots which occur about 50% of the distance between the lobe edge and the radio core .",
    "the radio galaxy defies easy fanaroff - riley classification and is here considered a hybrid fr  i / ii galaxy .",
    "@xcite found radial asymmetry in the rosat image of the igm which the _ chandra _ image confirms .",
    "the radio hot spots coincide well with decrements in the x - ray image which must be cavities blown in the gas by the radio lobes .",
    "the surface brightness of the `` ridge '' this leaves in the middle is consistent with the hypothesis that the actual orientation of the igm is elongated in the direction of the radio lobes .",
    "this is in contrast to 3c  285 or 3c  388 , where cavities alone can not explain the `` excess '' emission near the core .",
    "in addition , the spectrum of the agn has a highly significant emission line - like feature at 4.0  kev which is presently unexplained .",
    "ngc  326 is a double galaxy with the radio lobes emanating from the northern component ; both galaxies show diffuse x - ray ism emission , and the x - ray emission from the southern galaxy is exclusively thermal .",
    "the extent of the _ chandra _ diffuse emission agrees well with the rosat data where there is overlap @xcite .",
    "the long tails in the radio map appear to follow empty channels in the _ chandra _ data , and the length of the tails relative to the active lobes provides constraints on backflow formation mechanisms @xcite .",
    "the ism emission for the northern component is extracted excluding the central point source ; the temperature of @xmath109  kev agrees precisely with the temperature of the thermal model included in the agn emission , where a pl component is also required .",
    "this dataset was previously studied in detail by @xcite who attempted to isolate the ism emission from the nucleus by performing a spectral analysis in which the soft part of the spectrum was fit by an absorbed power law between @xmath111  kev , with a line - dominated thermal fit between @xmath50  kev .",
    "they then fit an elliptical profile to these thermal events .",
    "this line of reasoning is supported by the absence of a bright core corresponding to the psf at @xmath50  kev .",
    "however , we find an acceptable fit in which an unabsorbed power law dominates between @xmath51  kev .",
    "this analysis is also complicated by the presence of a feature at @xmath112  kev which is not fit by either @xcite or ourselves . since this",
    "feature accounts for @xmath113% of counts between @xmath50  kev ( fig .",
    "5 ; available online , we can not distinguish between the thermal and power law models .",
    "it should be noted that the pa of the soft emission agrees well with the host galaxy ; we are doubtless seeing _ some _ ism .",
    "however , we do not know if it is the dominant component .",
    "4c  + 00.58 was classified as a candidate xrg @xcite due to faint wings in the first image .",
    "a new , higher resolution radio map reveals that the jet to the east of the core is bent toward the northwest and enclosed in a more symmetric radio lobe .",
    "we detect the inner part of this jet in the x - ray band ( confirmed by line - fitting to determine the pa using the bootstrap resampling method ) .",
    "the pa of the jet was determined very well , so we masked it from our fit .",
    "it is unclear whether the diffuse emission represents the ism or the igm .",
    "@xmath39 does not agree well with the host galaxy , but the pa does .",
    "there is likely some of both media represented in the image , and deeper observations are required to separate the components .",
    "notably , the jet appears to pass through the _ minor _ axis of the host galaxy .",
    "we include this galaxy in both the ism and igm x - ray ",
    "radio comparisons due to the ambiguity .",
    "3c  192 is formally a `` winged '' galaxy @xcite , but the morphology is otherwise very similar to @xmath0-shaped radio galaxies .",
    "enhanced emission is detected in an elliptical region encompassing the primary radio lobes , but a smaller enhancement we identify with the ism exists near the agn .",
    "it is also possible that this is the central region of the igm , but it appears compact .",
    "moreover , the `` igm '' is consistent with being fit only by a power law ( @xmath115 ) and is in good spatial agreement with the primary lobes .",
    "it may also be fit by a thermal model with @xmath116 and @xmath117 ; if it is indeed thermal emission , the igm is in perfect agreement with @xcite .",
    "however , a close inspection of the radio galaxy suggests that the x - ray emission may come from a bounding shock or otherwise have been influenced by the radio galaxy rather than a pre - existing highly eccentric igm .",
    "in particular , even though the bright x - ray emission is not as large as the active lobes , the southwestern lobe appears to track enhanced x - ray emission to its hot spot .",
    "notably , 3c  192 is in a very round host @xcite . @xcite",
    "found xrgs typically occur in galaxies with high projected @xmath30 , so the existence of similar morphology in round hosts bears investigation .",
    "the northern secondary lobe of 3c  433 is strikingly bent compared to the southern secondary @xcite .",
    "@xcite argue that the hybrid fr  i / ii lobe morphology is due to interaction with the surrounding igm . in this scenario ,",
    "the galaxy is a typical fr  ii source propagating into a very asymmetric environment .",
    "@xcite also include in their paper a _ hst _ image of the host galaxy",
    "whose pa is in good agreement with the parameters we derive from the dss image .",
    "the x - ray emission near the southern lobe is consistent with either thermal emission @xcite or power law emission .",
    "we assume the ism is the relevant medium and attempt to isolate it , but we may also be incorporating some local igm emission in the spectrum .",
    "the agn is detected at a significance of @xmath120 ( see appendix a.3 for methods ) , but there are too few counts to make a spectrum .",
    "the diffuse igm stands out against the background on large scales and is fit well by thermal models and not by power law models .",
    "no ism is detected , but we can use the galaxy for comparison to the igm independently .",
    "it is possible that this is not real igm , as we suspect in 3c  192 , but the alignment of the radio galaxy and the hot atmosphere is not as good as in 3c  192 , nor is it quite as eccentric .",
    "thus , there is no strong evidence that the radio galaxy created the observed x - ray morphology , but the exposure is very short .        both the ism and igm are bright in this 30 ks exposure , but the chip is somewhat smaller than the extent of the radio lobes .",
    "notably , these lobes decollimate and show the characteristic fr  i plumed structure near the edge of the intragroup medium ; this structure and the hot atmospheres have been studied with _",
    "xmm - newton _ in detail by @xcite .",
    "@xcite find that the jet is parallel to a warped nuclear disk .",
    "the agn was fit with the xspec models @xmath8(pl)+apec , but the an acceptable fit was also found for a pl+apec fit with no absorption and a smaller @xmath66 .",
    "the x - ray jet @xcite is quite bright in the acis - s3 image and is readily distinguishable from other core x - ray emission , so we mask it in the analysis of the diffuse ism .",
    "a weaker , nearby source to the southwest ( visible in the optical light ) may contaminate the ism with a small amount of diffuse emission , but appears very weak in the x - ray .",
    "the _ chandra _ data from this head - tail galaxy was published by @xcite who argue that there is a distinct southern edge to the x - ray emission which otherwise shares the ellipticity and position angle of the optical isophotes .",
    "they apply a deprojection analysis to the ism data and find that the central ism has a temperature of @xmath123  kev , in agreement with our non - deprojected fit to the central psf emission with @xmath124  kev .",
    "@xcite also find that the lmxb contribution to the diffuse gas is on the order of @xmath125% and they show that the southern edge in the x - ray data can not be produced by icm pressure , but argue that the edge is a sign of ism / icm interaction and that if the galaxy is moving south very rapidly , the long twin tails to the north are naturally explained . the radio emission is likewise curtailed to the south .",
    "3c 264 is a head - tail galaxy whose radio lobes both extend to the northeast , but there is a large envelope of radio emission around the agn which is larger than the extent of the @xmath127 dss optical isophotes .",
    "this data set is subarrayed to 1/8 of the acis - s3 area and suffers from a readout streak .",
    "we subtracted the streak and this removed a relatively small number of photons from the diffuse ism .",
    "both the host galaxy and the diffuse x - ray emission appear almost circular on the sky such that the position angle of the ellipses we fit ( table [ eccentricitytable ] ) are not well constrained .",
    "we detect strong ism emission and the x - ray jet in this _ chandra _ exposure .",
    "the igm is detected and studied ( with regards to its interaction with the radio lobes ) using _ xmm - newton _",
    "data by @xcite . in the _",
    "chandra _ exposure , however , the igm is very weak and we can not measure the morphology . the different character of the two lobes is attributed to interaction with the hot gas by @xcite , with the western lobe being more confined .",
    "there is a small unresolved source to the southeast in the x - ray image which has an optical counterpart , but it is far enough from the ism emission that our ellipse fitting is unaffected .      before fitting an ellipse",
    "we subtract a small companion to the northwest as well as the x - ray jet .",
    "the ism is clearly detected ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ngc 5532 in their paper ) and the lobes begin expanding outside the igm .",
    "the igm has a similar shape and orientation to the ism , but it is clearly distinct in temperature and where it is centered ( in between 3c  296 and a companion to the southwest ) even though it is relatively compact .",
    "the very large ( mpc - scale ) radio lobes of this radio galaxy dwarf the entire acis array , and the 1/8-size s3 subarray contains emission only from the central core and along the jet @xcite .",
    "we detect some emission associated with the jet to the northwest of the galaxy along the chip",
    ". a bright readout streak has been removed , and we correct the spectrum of the central psf for pileup .",
    "the spectrum of the agn is fit well by either a power law with @xmath130 and a thermal model or a slightly absorbed power law with @xmath131 and a thermal model .",
    "this data has been published before with regard to interaction of the radio jet with a cloud of gas @xcite .",
    "the gross morphology agrees well with the c02 geometric relation , although the surface brightness decrement to the north and south of the galaxy is due to the cavities blown out by the radio lobes , as is evident from the visible shocked bubbles of gas in the intragroup medium . despite these cavities ,",
    "the morphology of the larger igm is easily measurable on larger scales , assuming the internal structure is entirely due to the radio galaxy activity .      unlike other extended sources for which deprojection is possible but which can be fit by an isothermal model to find an average temperature ( most of the other galaxies in our sample ) , 3c  338 has sufficient signal to require at least a 2-t model to find average temperatures ( signifying the presence of hotter and cooler gas ) and these temperatures are roughly in line with the outer and inner temperatures of the @xcite deprojection analysis which also agrees with our own ( we report the 2-t fit for consistency ) .",
    "although the cluster gas is interacting with the radio galaxy , it is otherwise smooth and we take it to be a single large ellipsoid for the purpose of measuring ellipticity and position angle of the icm .",
    "notably , we do not detect the agn or the ism amidst the very bright icm .",
    "this observation is studied more thoroughly in @xcite , including the unusual radio bridge parallel to the jets .",
    "the ism of the galaxy in this acis - i observation is very close to the chip boundaries .",
    "however , it has clear ellipticity and is not contaminated by any companions , so we are able to fit an ellipse .",
    "there is diffuse thermal emission associated with the northern radio lobe that is similar to the ism , but we see no evidence for such gas in the southern lobe .",
    "notably , the orientation of the major axis of the hst image in @xcite disagrees with our dss ellipse by @xmath134 .",
    "the hst image is more reliable , meaning that the radio jet is aligned close to the _ major _ axis of the host .",
    "3c 465 is a wide - angle tail fr  i radio galaxy located in cluster gas that has been well studied ( both with _ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ by * ? ? ?",
    "the icm covers most of the chip and is centered on the host of 3c 465 .",
    "the icm has clear ellipticity and the bright extended emission is comparable to the size of entire radio galaxy we fit ellipses to both the ism and `` local '' icm on a scale slightly smaller than half the size of the chip . @xcite",
    "also present a radial profile which is in agreement with our average temperature for the cluster gas .",
    "the spectrum of the agn can be fit well either by a power law with @xmath130 and a thermal model or a slightly absorbed power law with @xmath136 and a thermal model .",
    "the x - ray emission associated with the radio galaxy is quite weak , but the hot spots are distinct and there is a small amount of extended ism emission .",
    "unfortunately , the spatial extent of this diffuse emission is small compared to the optical isophotes , so the disagreement between the @xmath39 and @xmath138 ( measured at a somewhat larger radius ) is not especially surprising .",
    "notably , the host galaxy has two nuclei and is in the process of merging @xcite .",
    "cygnus a has been extensively studied in the x - rays thanks to its exceptionally bright filamentary structure and evident shock cocoon tracing the radio galaxy .",
    "this structure makes it impossible to measure the ellipse parameters of the ism , but the larger icm appears to have little structure beyond the cocoon and filaments ( * ? ? ?",
    "* show that the host galaxy has complex morphology as well ) .",
    "therefore , we believe the directions of pressure and density gradients on large scales are likely to be similar to the ones the radio galaxy encounters .      the bright nucleus of 3c  445 is far off - axis in this exposure ; its brightness and high ellipticity make it impossible to measure the ellipse parameters of the diffuse ism .",
    "moreover , the @xcite _ hst _ image is dominated by the unresolved nucleus , so our dss parameters may not be accurate . however , we include the galaxy in our sample because of the hot igm surrounding the host .",
    "3c  285 is currently experiencing a major merger , and instead of a well - defined ism , we fit an ellipse to the `` ridge '' structure described in @xcite .",
    "the ridge appears to be a unified structure ( its x - ray properties do not differ along its length ) and @xcite argue that it is _ not _ produced by the interaction of the radio galaxy with its environment .",
    "they reason that the agreement with the starlight ( and , in 3c 442a , the flow of material from tidal tails into a similar ridge ) could not be generally predicted by the interaction of the radio galaxy with its environment .",
    "this is in agreement with our ism  optical light correlation .",
    "this data set was studied in detail by @xcite who find that the thermal and power law emission is well mixed throughout the region covered by the radio lobes .",
    "we attempt to isolate the two components using an analysis similar to @xcite in which the image is broken into hard and soft components .",
    "the thermal and power law emission each make up a certain percentage of the luminosity in each component , so a synthesized image of the thermal emission can be constructed by adding the correct percentage of each component to the final image .",
    "although clearly the method will not be able to identify individual counts as thermal or nonthermal in origin , if the spatial distribution of nonthermal counts is significantly different from that of thermal ones , we would expect to see a difference in the synthesized images .",
    "in fact , we find general agreement with @xcite , although the nonthermal emission is dominant near the hot spots of the radio galaxy . if the thermal x - ray emission traces the physical boundaries of the igm , then we would expect to see either an @xmath0- or @xmath4-shaped galaxy , but the extremely good coincidence between x - ray and radio emission argues that this is instead a cocoon inside a larger ( unseen ) igm .",
    "3c  227 exhibits both core ism and dimmer igm emission near the host galaxy .",
    "the igm morphology is difficult to study due to the chip boundary .",
    "the radio lobes appear to be ragged and bend around the major axis of the host galaxy , suggesting that strong backflows similar to those in the hydrodynamic xrg formation models are at work , but the igm is too weak near these mini - wings to assess this hypothesis .",
    "the galaxy was included in the @xcite study of particle acceleration in hot spots .",
    "3c  388 is a radio galaxy oriented along the major axis of its host , but we detect no ism in the x - ray exposure due to the strength of the surrounding icm .",
    "the radio galaxy is comparable to the size of x - ray icm isophotes elongated in its direction , which @xcite attribute to the influence of the radio galaxy on its surroundings .",
    "the radio lobes have blown cavities in the x - ray emission , but near the core of the radio galaxy , the x - ray isophotes are elongated in a direction perpendicular to the radio lobes .",
    "although much of this asymmetry is likely due to the cavities eating out the sides of a spheroid where the radio galaxy overlaps the core region ( i.e. it is a physical structure but may not precede the radio galaxy ) , the western radio lobe seems to bend arounnd the ridge .",
    "since the fainter portions of the radio lobes may be older plasma evolving buoyantly in the icm ( the jet in the western lobe is farther to the south ) , the ridge may also be influencing the shape of the radio galaxy .",
    "short observations of the more distant xrgs produced mixed results , with a number of sources exhibiting little - to - no diffuse emission . where we can not determine whether any diffuse emission is dominated by thermal emission or measure morphology , or where no diffuse emission corresponding to the relevant medium is detected",
    ", we can not use the galaxy in our analysis . in the following short observations ,",
    "the central point source is detected in all cases ( with the weakest detection having a significance barely exceeding @xmath144 ) , and upper limits are given for the thermal luminosity .",
    "we use the methods of @xcite ( equations 3 , 13 , and 14 in his paper ) to measure the detection significance and flux confidence limits .",
    "the measured number of counts is given by @xmath145 where @xmath146 is the detected number of counts in the cell , @xmath147 is the expected background in the cell based on a much larger area elsewhere on the chip , and @xmath148 is the significance ; we choose @xmath149 for 95% confidence intervals .",
    "the quantity @xmath150 is given by @xmath151 + 1}\\ ] ] the detect cells we used were uniformly chosen to be circles with 3@xmath9 in radius to enclose the _",
    "psf at most energies .",
    "the significance of the detection @xmath148 was determined by solving the quadratic equation ( equation 3 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : @xmath152}{7 } s^2 + \\sqrt{b } s +   \\biggl[b - n - \\frac{2\\cdot\\text{min}[b^{0.1 } , 1]}{7}\\biggr ] = 0\\ ] ] these values are reported for each galaxy .",
    "the thermal luminosity upper limits were computed by extracting a spectrum from a ( large ) region around the point source and increasing the strength of a thermal model in xspec until it was no longer a good fit . the temperature can not be constrained and was thus fixed at @xmath153  kev .",
    "the unabsorbed luminosity was then computed at the upper bound of the model normalization and reported below .",
    "the point source is detected with a significance of @xmath155 with @xmath156 counts in the detect cell .",
    "the diffuse emission within a @xmath157 region ( much larger than the ism ) has an upper limit unabsorbed thermal luminosity of @xmath158 erg s@xmath3 at @xmath159  kev , but it does not appear to be centrally concentrated on the chip .",
    "our geometric analysis is not possible in this case , especially since the ism is the medium of interest given the scale of the radio emission .",
    "we detect 19 counts in the detect cell ( positioned around the core of radio emission ) and detect the agn with a significance of @xmath161 and @xmath162 counts in a 95% confidence interval .",
    "the diffuse emission in a @xmath157 region is barely distinguishable from the background and we measure an unabsorbed thermal luminosity upper limit of @xmath163 erg s@xmath3 . we attribute this to the faint igm as opposed to the ism due to the scale and lack of central concentration .",
    "this source has relatively high background , so we detect the agn at a significance of only @xmath165 despite finding 11 counts in the detect cell .",
    "the number of counts is @xmath166 .",
    "any diffuse emission is similarly buried in the background , and we measure an unabsorbed thermal luminosity upper limit of @xmath167 erg s@xmath3 for a region with @xmath168 .      unfortunately , this xrg was not positioned on any acis chip during the observation .",
    "the galaxy lies in a cluster ( abell 1145 ) and the radio lobes just extend onto part of the s3 chip , but no significant diffuse gas from the cluster is detected on the chip .",
    "the observation was mispointed due to an error in the primary literature and so can not be used .",
    "3c  223.1 actually has a bright agn core where spectroscopy is possible , revealing a highly absorbed power law .",
    "the detection significance is @xmath171 and the number of counts detected @xmath172 .",
    "however , any diffuse emission is extremely faint , with an upper limit to unabsorbed thermal luminosity of @xmath173 erg s@xmath3 in a region with @xmath168 .",
    "we are therefore unable to use this galaxy in our xrg sample .",
    "we also choose not to use the two _ chandra _ observations of xrgs at higher redshift ( @xmath174 ) because of the requirement to simultaneously expand the comparison sample ( and 3c  197.1 is not included in the compilation of @xcite ) .",
    "we address these here :      3c  197.1 has a long northern wing which is comparable in spatial extent to the active lobe in a 1.5  ghz image @xcite , but there is no obvious southern wing which could be described as symmetric about the central agn . in the 5  ghz image of @xcite extensions in the southern lobe",
    "appear to be essentially symmetric about the jet axis .",
    "3c  197.1 is included in the @xcite list of xrgs , but its inclusion in our sample is questionable .",
    "we discuss it here because of the other `` xrgs '' listed in @xcite and not in @xcite , 3c  197.1 bears the most similarity to the classical xrgs listed in @xcite .",
    "we do not include it in our sample due to its relatively high redshift and ambiguity of classification .",
    "exposure is a short 8  ks snapshot which clearly detects the agn and some diffuse emission which may be the ism or the igm , but has insufficient counts to claim a spectroscopic detection of hot gas .",
    "3c  52 is a classical xrg with highly collimated secondary lobes in the 1.5  ghz image @xcite and excluded from our sample on the basis of much higher redshift than our other sources .",
    "image is an 8  ks snapshot which clearly detects the central point source and also a diffuse atmosphere larger than the radio galaxy itself ( with a radius of about 50 arcsec centered on the galaxy ) .",
    "this atmosphere is in good agreement geometrically with the @xcite relation ( i.e. the major axis of the ellipsoidal atmosphere is coaligned with the active lobes ) , but proving the presence of a hot atmosphere spectroscopically is difficult .",
    "an isothermal apec model requires @xmath176  kev and is otherwise poorly constrained ; a power law with @xmath131 fits the spectrum well .",
    "since the emission region is large compared to the radio galaxy , it seems likely this is hot gas , but a much deeper observation is necessary to establish this ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new and archival _ chandra x - ray observatory _ observations of @xmath0-shaped radio galaxies within @xmath1 alongside a comparison sample of normal double - lobed fr  i and ii radio galaxies . by fitting elliptical distributions to the observed diffuse hot x - ray emitting atmospheres ( either the interstellar or intragroup medium ) , we find that the ellipticity and the position angle of the hot gas follows that of the stellar light distribution for radio galaxy hosts in general . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , compared to the control sample , we find a strong tendency for @xmath0-shaped morphology to be associated with wings directed along the minor axis of the hot gas distribution . </S>",
    "<S> taken at face value , this result favors the hydrodynamic backflow models for the formation of @xmath0-shaped radio galaxies which naturally explain the geometry ; the merger - induced rapid reorientation models make no obvious prediction about orientation . </S>"
  ]
}