{
  "article_text": [
    "the current galaxy formation model is embedded in a cosmology dominated by dark matter and dark energy ( commonly referred to as the @xmath0cdm cosmology ) . in this model , quantum fluctuations in the very early universe are amplified by gravitational instability dominated by cold dark matter .",
    "further structure formation then follows an hierarchical manner in which large structures are formed by the agglomeration of smaller structures .",
    "baryons can further condense within nonlinear dark matter haloes to form visible galaxies .",
    "the model has had a high degree of success in the description of large - scale structures in the universe ( e.g. percival et al .",
    "2001 ; tegmark et al .",
    "2004 ; cole et al . 2005 ; eisenstein et al . 2005 ; spergel et al . 2007 ) . .",
    "recently , the resolution of numerical simulations has allowed us to address the question of the predicted structure on smaller , galaxy - length , scales ( gao et al .",
    "2004 ; diemand et al .",
    "these simulations are difficult for two reasons ; firstly , the length scales are small enough that high resolution , and consequently large numbers of particles , are required . secondly ,",
    "in the central few kiloparsecs of galaxies , baryonic matter begins to dominate , because it is able to lose energy non - gravitationally and cool into the centre of the gravitational potential wells produced by the dark matter .",
    "this complicates simulations because additional non - gravitational physics must be introduced , and this is typically done using either hydrodynamical simulations or semi - analytic models .",
    "it is important to confront the theoretical predictions with observational evidence , because doing so effectively tests our understanding of how galaxies form .",
    "two lines of evidence are now available .    the first body of evidence is provided by studies of our own galaxy .",
    "high - resolution simulations of a milky - way type halo ( moore et al . 1999 ,",
    "klypin et al",
    ". 1999 , gao et al .",
    "2004 , diemand et al . 2007 ) predict that the milky way should be surrounded by hundreds of dark matter satellites down to circular velocities @xmath1 . until recently this was thought not to be the case , and efforts concentrated on finding mechanisms by which the satellites might have their star formation suppressed ( e.g. efstathiou 1992 ; thoul & weinberg 1996 ; gnedin 2000 ; bullock et al .",
    "2000 ) and thus not be observable . in the last few years evidence of faint satellites ,",
    "many from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , york et al .",
    "2000 ) has surfaced ( e.g. willman et al . 2005 , zucker et al .",
    "2006 , zucker et al .",
    "2006 , belokurov et al .",
    "2006 , belokurov et al . 2007 ) and the numbers are within a factor of a few of the predicted number .",
    "however , recent ultra - high resolution simulations indicate the number of subhaloes can reach tens of thousands down to @xmath2 ( e.g. madau et al . 2008 ; springel et al . 2008 ) , and thus it is far from clear whether the predictions and observations are consistent with each other .",
    "the second avenue of attack is to use gravitational lensing of distant galaxies and quasars , typically by foreground galaxies at @xmath3 .",
    "the effect of gravitational lensing is to produce multiple images of the background object , and importantly , in a way that depends only on the mass distribution of the lens and not on whether the mass is luminous or not . in general , we can use constraints , usually in the form of lensed image positions and fluxes , to solve an inverse problem and recover the mass distribution of the lensing galaxy .    in the first instance , the usual procedure is to fit a smooth model for the lens galaxy mass distribution . in some cases",
    "such a model fails to fit the image positions , and in many cases it fails to fit the fluxes ( kochanek 1991 ) , of well - constrained lens systems .",
    "this problem was highlighted by mao & schneider ( 1998 ) who attributed the failure to perturbations in the smooth potential due to dark matter substructure at the level of a few percent . since then , the problem has been studied both for individual cases and statistically for ensembles of lenses ( dalal & kochanek 2002 ; metcalf 2002 ; chiba 2002 ; kochanek & dalal 2004 ; biggs et al .",
    "the most secure evidence is obtained from lens systems with a radio - loud source , since the image fluxes are not subject to microlensing effects and ( differential ) dust extinction in this case , and systems with four images which provide relatively large numbers of constraints .",
    "dalal & kochanek ( 2002 ) and kochanek & dalal ( 2004 ) studied a sample of seven radio - loud lenses , mostly those discovered in the complete radio survey class ( myers et al .",
    "2003 , browne et al .",
    "2003 ) and concluded that the image flux anomalies when compared to smooth models required a contribution of between 0.6% and 7% ( 90% confidence limit ) from substructures , roughly as predicted by cdm simulations .    in comparison ,",
    "the cdm simulations predict that typically 5 - 10% of the total halo mass is in substructures ( e.g. klypin et al .",
    "1999 ; moore et al .",
    "1999 ; ghigna 2000 ) .",
    "so far , so good ; but there are indications that gravitational lens flux anomalies do not provide a watertight vindication of cdm expectations .",
    "first , the substructures are in the wrong place ; the lenses constrain matter distributions typically in the 510  kpc range , whereas the cdm substructures are predicted mostly to lie in the dark - matter dominated region further out ( e.g. mao et al .",
    "2004 ; xu et al . 2009 ) . secondly ,",
    "when the radio flux anomaly lenses are inspected more closely , it is often found that `` substructure '' is visible , _ and _ luminous .",
    "explicitly , bright satellite galaxies which help to explain flux anomalies have been found in mg0414 + 0534 ( schechter & moore 1993 ) , 2016 + 112 ( schneider et al .",
    "1985 ; lawrence , neugebauer & matthews 1993 ; more et al .",
    "2009 ) and class  2045 + 265 ( mckean et al .",
    "2007 )  that is , in roughly half of the known sample of four - image , radio loud lenses studied by dalal & kochanek ( 2002 ) . in addition , the lens system class  1608 + 656 contains a complex lensing galaxy that is probably two galaxies in the process of interaction ( jackson et al .",
    "1998 ) . in a previous paper , bryan ,",
    "mao & kay ( 2008 ) studied the millennium simulation ( springel et al .",
    "2005 ) together with semi - analytical models to predict the baryon distribution , and found that only 10% of haloes with masses larger than @xmath4 were predicted to have bright satellite galaxies within 14  kpc , and only 5% within 7  kpc=70  kms@xmath5mpc@xmath5 , together with a matter density @xmath6 , and a cosmological constant @xmath7 . ] .",
    "shin & evans ( 2008 ) also addressed this problem by simulation of satellites within galaxy - mass haloes , and found that the required total mass in satellites to cause flux ratio anomalies , together with the distribution of satellite masses , considerably underpredict the observed incidence of large , luminous substructures .",
    "both investigations thus paint a consistent picture , the solution of which may be that luminous substructures are more concentrated and hence more effective at causing flux anomalies , or that the observed luminous substructures are chance projections ( shin & evans 2008 ) .    in this paper",
    "we extend this work to ask the following two questions .",
    "firstly , what is the incidence of bright satellites around field elliptical galaxies which are _ not _ lenses ? are lens galaxies somehow untypical of the general population , a hypothesis for which there is currently no evidence or obvious explanation ? or does the explanation of some of the flux anomalies by bright substructure indicate that flux anomalies are not telling us about cdm substructure , which mostly lies at larger radius ? in this case we might expect to see that non - lens galaxies should have bright substructure at the same rate as the lens galaxies . for this work ,",
    "we use the cosmos survey ( scoville et al .",
    "2007 ) which has hst imaging of comparable quality of objects at comparable redshifts to the class lenses ( section 2 ) .",
    "secondly , we compare the class sample s incidence of satellites with that in the largest lens sample to date , the slacs sample ( bolton et al .",
    "2006 , 2008 ) .",
    "this sample , of generally lower - redshift lenses , is obtained by spectroscopic selection of luminous red galaxies from the sdss which display more than one redshift system in their spectra , and has currently more than 80 reasonably certain lens systems . in addition",
    ", we also check the predicted fraction of field galaxies with satellites in the sdss data in similar redshifts as slacs lenses to see whether the slacs optical lens sample is compatible with field galaxies ( section 3 ) . in section 4",
    "we briefly discuss the results from these comparisons .",
    "for this investigation , it is important to use images at similar resolution to those which were used to image the lens galaxies  that is , the 50-mas resolution of the hubble space telescope ( hst ) , corresponding to about 300  pc at a redshift of 0.5 .",
    "previous work on the sdss database ( e.g. chen et al .",
    "2006 ) yields information on scales of @xmath814 , the sdss median resolution , which corresponds to about 10  kpc ; this scale is larger than the typical separation of observed class satellites from the lensing galaxy . a large sample of galaxies is also needed for reasonable statistics ; such a large , high - resolution sample has recently become available in the form of the cosmos survey of about 2 square degrees with the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) on the hst ( scoville et al . 2007 ;",
    "capak et al .",
    "we therefore use the cosmos data for this investigation , noting that its image quality has already been proven to be useful in identifying lens systems ( faure et al .",
    "2008 ; jackson 2008 ) , and that its distribution of redshift and magnitude is broadly similar to the lens galaxies in the class sample ( fig .",
    "1 ) .    we use the acs images in the f814w filter of the cosmos field , which are available from the cosmos website ( http://irsa.ipac.caltech.edu ) as reduced by koekemoer et al .",
    "early - type galaxies , similar to the lens galaxies in gravitational lens systems , were selected either by imposing a colour cut using the @xmath9 and @xmath10 photometry in the cosmos catalogue , or by using the tphot parameter in the image header to select those objects identified as elliptical galaxies by requiring that 0@xmath11tphot@xmath112 .",
    "only objects listed as good detections , not flagged as stars , with a photometric redshift greater than 0.1 and with an @xmath12 magnitude greater than 24.9 , corresponding to about 1 magnitude fainter than the lmc at @xmath13=0.5 , were included for each object , an image with radius of 1114 ( corresponding to 20  kpc at @xmath14 ) was initially extracted .    for each image ,",
    "the sextractor program ( bertin & arnouts 1996 ) was used to identify secondary objects in the aperture , and record any objects with @xmath1120  kpc distance from the primary and with a magnitude brighter than @xmath15 .",
    "secondaries were rejected if they were considered to be cosmic rays , using a criterion based on the area of the object as fitted by sextractor , and were also rejected if they were brighter than the primary .",
    "images of potential satellites were examined by eye and rejected if they contained obvious artefacts , the usual reason being proximity to the edges of the chips .",
    "the flux scale was based on the published acs / f814w magnitude zero - points and the calculations of capak et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , and we checked that the fluxes we recovered matched those in the cosmos catalogue where these overlapped , using a small adjustment from a linear fit to measured and catalogue fluxes to improve agreement with the cosmos catalogue . because the catalogue is based on objects detected in multi - colour ground - based imaging , we could not use it directly for detecting secondaries because close secondaries would not be detectable given the poorer ground - based seeing .",
    "we could , however , regard it as reasonable to assume that all primaries would be detected in the multi - colour catalogue .",
    "we must consider the possibility , for each detected secondary , that it is a chance coincidence along the line of sight . to do this ,",
    "10000 random positions within the cosmos area were adopted .",
    "for each position , a cutout was made in the same way as for the primary sample , and a centred , 3@xmath16-wide cutout of a random cosmos object was added .",
    "this was done in order to reproduce the difficulty encountered in real images of detecting faint satellites close to the primary cosmos object .",
    "all objects within 111 ( the angular distance corresponding to 20  kpc at a redshift of 0.1 ) were measured using the sextractor software and were visually inspected , in the case of objects close to the central position , to check that they had not been introduced by the insertion of the small cutout of the random cosmos object .",
    "38715 secondaries were detected down to an i magnitude of 24.9 .",
    "the results were then used to generate a grid of probability of detecting a random secondary , brighter than a certain magnitude and closer than a certain angular distance from a point ( fig .",
    "2 ) . fig .",
    "2 also shows the secondaries found in the class lens systems ( table 1 ) .",
    "examination of archival hst images of these objects using exposures of similar depths to cosmos and extraction in the same way with sextractor yields the result that six secondaries ( mg0414 + 0534=class b0411 + 054 , class b0631 + 519 , class b1359 + 154 , class b1608 + 656 , class b2045 + 265 and class b2108 + 213 ) would have been detected had they lain within the cosmos field , the remainder being too faint , too close to the primary , or both .",
    "although acs images are not available for some of the radio lens systems with satellites , existing wfpc2 and other images ( mckean et al . 2007 ;",
    "schechter et al . 1993",
    "; schneider et al .",
    "1985 ) show that many of the satellites detected in images of class radio lens systems lie above the @xmath15 threshold , and therefore above the detection threshold of cosmos .        in order to estimate the number of associated satellites in cosmos objects , we need to correct the counts around cosmos images , to be discussed below , for this possibility of chance coincidences along the line of sight .",
    "chen et al . ( 2006 ) and chen ( 2009 ) comment on this problem of rejection of `` interlopers '' .",
    "their analysis in the wider , shallower sdss survey shows that using random positions can potentially underestimate the number of interlopers , because due to clustering of galaxies , random points are more biased towards voids than the sample of primary galaxies . in their simulations ,",
    "a more accurate estimate of the numbers of interlopers can be achieved by a number of methods , including the estimation of the background using points relatively near to primary galaxies .",
    "the distance required is typically 400 - 500  kpc , corresponding to about 70  at a typical cosmos galaxy redshift .",
    "however , the median separation of the relatively fainter cosmos galaxies is about 50 , and it is hence likely that the random - point estimation of interlopers gives a good estimate of the background .",
    "( incidentally , we note that underestimation of the background would worsen the discrepancy between cosmos and class which is the major result of this paper ) .",
    "we first examine the statistics for the entire @xmath14 sample , using the tphot statistic to select the early - type galaxies as outlined above . in fig .",
    "3 we show some examples of satellite objects found using this process .    in the entire sample , 10974 early - type objects were examined and 46853 satellites identified before background subtraction , of which 4709 are within 20  kpc of the primary .",
    "the overall detection rate corresponds to a signal of approximately 10@xmath17 over background .",
    "4 shows the results of this first attempt .",
    "we describe the basic procedure , together with some of the selection effects , before considering the results in more detail .",
    "we first calculated the background - subtracted cumulative counts as a function of @xmath18-magnitude and angular distance .",
    "this was done at each grid point ( @xmath19 ) by calculating the fraction of primary objects which have an observed satellite brighter than @xmath20 and closer than @xmath21 , together with the fraction of random background points which have observed satellites brighter and closer than these limits , and subtracting the two fractions .",
    "we also calculated the probability , at each grid - point , of a detected satellite being associated with the primary and not an interloper ; this probability is smoothed in fig .",
    "4 with a box size of 2  and 1 magnitude . the probability grid suffers severely from small - number statistics at low angular distances .",
    "after background subtraction , we converted angular to linear distances using the photometric redshift in the cosmos catalogue , and magnitudes to flux ratios between detected satellites and primaries .",
    "we also used the smoothed fractional probability described above to weight the grid , finally deriving cumulative satellite counts as a function of brightness and separation ( fig .",
    "this process is not unambiguous , because of the different ways that one can treat the detection limit .",
    "we approach this problem by adopting both a `` maximalist '' and `` minimalist '' algorithm , which will detect the greatest and smallest possible number of satellites from the given data . to illustrate this ,",
    "suppose that we have six primary objects , three of which have a flux of 10 units and three of which have a flux of 5 units .",
    "a survey for satellites is done with a detection threshold of 1 unit . in one of the 10-unit primaries ,",
    "no satellite is detected , in the second a 1-unit satellite is detected and in the third a 2-unit satellite is detected .",
    "a similar arrangement is seen in the three 5-unit primaries .",
    "the question is then : what is the fraction of objects which have satellites brighter than 15% of the primary flux ?",
    "the `` minimalist '' approach would be to consider only the three primaries of flux 10 units , in which a 15% satellite could be seen , and to conclude that the answer is 1/3 .",
    "this , however , ignores the two 5-unit primary objects which obviously have satellites brighter than 15% ; a `` maximalist '' approach would then indicate a fraction of 3/5 .",
    "a more strictly correct approach would be to use any prior information about the distribution of galaxies in a bayesian analysis to find the most probable value . in practice",
    ", what we do instead is to calculate fractions using the minimalist and maximalist approaches . in any case where the results agree",
    ", we can be sure of getting the correct answer . not surprisingly , the results diverge at small secondary : primary flux ratios where many secondaries approach the @xmath15 detection threshold , and this typically limits our analysis to flux ratios of about 2 - 2.5 magnitudes .",
    "both minimalist and maximalist approaches are plotted in fig .",
    "4 , and areas of the grid in which the two methods agree can be assigned an unambiguous value for the satellite rate .",
    "4 shows that the statistics are robust at flux ratios of @xmath220.1 , or about 2.5 magnitudes . in fig .",
    "4 we also plot the class satellites . having established that they are unlikely to be chance background objects ,",
    "this shows also that they are not representative of the incidence of satellites in the cosmos field galaxies . in particular , three class lens galaxy satellites with",
    "@xmath23 lie below the 0.1% probability contour on either algorithm .",
    "we now estimate more formally the potential discrepancies between class and cosmos satellites .",
    "there are two approaches we can take , depending on whether or not we believe that the satellite in any particular class object is associated or not . if it is not associated , we need to calculate the probability that a random pointing in the cosmos field has an interloper at the same ( or greater ) brightness and the same ( or closer ) distance from the pointing centre .",
    "if it is associated , we need to use the background - subtracted cosmos satellite probabilities , described in the last section .    in class b0631 + 519",
    "we know that the satellite is not associated with the primary , and in class b1608 + 656 and class b1359 + 154 we strongly suspect on morphological grounds that the satellites are associated .",
    "for the remainder of the class objects with satellites , we do not know if the satellite is associated .",
    "table 2 shows the probability , for each class object with a satellite _ that is detected by the setting of sextractor used for the cosmos images _ , of its occurring by chance , on the assumption of non - association and on the assumption that it is associated .",
    "5 shows the six objects with satellites detected by sextractor , together with three objects from the cosmos database closely matched to them in flux density and photometric redshift .",
    "there appears to be no statistically significant difference in the incidence of satellites between class double and four - image lenses ( cf .",
    "cohn & kochanek 2004 ) but the sample is currently very small .    we conservatively include class b2114 + 022 as an object `` without '' satellites , and take the more conservative probabilities of table 2 where necessary .",
    "we obtain the result that the six objects of table 2 , out of the 22 class objects , lie within a part of the distribution which has @xmath112.1% probability of occurring by chance .",
    "the binomial probability @xmath24 is about @xmath25 .",
    "if we instead use the fact that five satellites have a probability @xmath110.007 of being background objects , or that they would have been associated to a cosmos object after background subtraction , we obtain @xmath26 .",
    "there are a number of possible problems with the comparison of the class and cosmos data :    1 .   the overall resolution limit of the survey , which is different in linear units for objects of different redshift . for comparison with the class surveys",
    ", this does not matter because class data is taken using hst images , provided that we measure the hst images in the same way .",
    "the subtraction of the background is subject to small - sample statistics at low distance from the primary .",
    "the quasi - bayesian problem of the detection limits , overcome as described in the previous section .",
    "4 .   the criterion 0@xmath11tphot@xmath112 may not be the best way of selecting early - type galaxies to compare with class data .",
    "the background statistics may affect the result .",
    "we show that in practice , these problems do not affect the result .",
    "this is done by using only fainter objects , to assess effect ii ) ; using a colour cut ( @xmath27 ) to assess effect iv ) ; and using a different realisation of the background to assess effect v ) .",
    "the results are presented in fig . 6 from which it is apparent that the effect of these corrections is less than a factor of 2 in each case .",
    "cc &   +   +    [ cols=\"^,^,^ , < \" , ]     it is also interesting to compare these results with simulations and to investigate whether the fraction of satellite galaxies varies with redshift .",
    "we can do this easily by considering two samples of galaxies , 0.4 @xmath11 z @xmath11 0.6 and 0.9 @xmath11 z @xmath11 1.1 , obtaining two separate results for low- and high redshift galaxies which are shown in fig .",
    "7 .    for comparison",
    ", we have ( as in bryan et al . 2008 ) used the de lucia and blaizot ( 2007 ) semi - analytic models run on the millennium simulation .",
    "haloes were selected from the galaxy catalogue by imposing a minimum mass cut of @xmath28 m@xmath29 .",
    "all galaxies satisfying the same cutoffs in brightness and colour selection ( discussed before ) were considered .",
    "we search within the virial radius of each halo for a companion galaxy . while bryan et al .",
    "( 2008 ) considered only central galaxies , we have included all galaxies satisfying the imposed cuts .",
    "the sample is however , still dominated by central objects due to the small number of satellites satisfying the mass cuts .",
    "it can be seen ( fig . 8)",
    "that , for the mass range considered , the simulations give typical satellite fractions of about 8 times that of the cosmos values , but even then underpredict the satellite frequency observed in the class samples .",
    "however , the satellite population consists of exclusively `` orphan '' galaxies which have been stripped of their dark matter haloes ( see bryan et al .",
    "2008 for further discussion ) .",
    "the fraction found in simulations does however depend on the lower mass limit imposed when selecting host haloes ; higher mass haloes are more likely to host a companion galaxy . increasing the mass cut to @xmath30",
    "m@xmath29 increases the fraction by a factor of @xmath31 2 .",
    "we find we are able to reproduce the number density of the cosmos sample by imposing a minimum mass cut of @xmath32 m@xmath29 ( on non - central galaxies ) , in doing so our fraction of galaxies found to host a companion is reduced by less than a factor of two ( i.e. the fractions are comparable within the level of uncertainty of the observations ) .",
    "in this section , we study the fraction of galaxies with satellites for both field and lens galaxies selected from sdss . both sets of galaxies are selected from redshift 0.05 to 0.4 .      for comparison , we have performed a similar analysis on a sample of galaxies in the low - redshift universe drawn from the sdss . for this",
    "we take data from sample dr72 of the new york university value added catalogue ( nyu - vagc ) .",
    "this is an update of the catalogue constructed by blanton et al .",
    "( 2005b ) , is based on the seventh data release of the sdss ( dr7 ; adelman - mccarthy et al .",
    "2009 ) , and is publicly available on the nyu - vagc website . starting from sample dr72 , we select all galaxies with @xmath33 and spectroscopically measured redshifts @xmath34 . here",
    "@xmath35 is the @xmath35-band petrosian apparent magnitude , corrected for galactic extinction .",
    "we then trim this sample so that it has roughly the same distribution in both redshift and stellar mass as the slacs sample .",
    "this gives rise to a final sample of 75839 galaxies .",
    "detailed description of the nyu - vagc can be found in blanton et al .",
    "( 2005b ) and the methodology of estimating the stellar mass for sdss galaxies is described in blanton & roweis ( 2007 ) .    in order to count the companions around these galaxies ,",
    "we first construct a _",
    "reference sample , from datasweep of the nyu - vagc ( version dr7 , see the nyu - vagc website ) , by selecting all galaxies with @xmath36 .",
    "the resulting sample includes @xmath3126 million galaxies .",
    "we then construct a set of 10 random samples that have the same selection effects as the reference sample ( a detailed account of the observational selection effects accompanies the nyu - vagc release ) .",
    "for each object in our sample , we count the number of companions in the reference sample , and in each of the random samples , within a given value of the projected radius @xmath37 and with a minimum value of luminosity ratio @xmath38 , determined by the difference in the @xmath35-band apparent magnitude between the companions and the galaxy in question .",
    "the average correlated neighbour counts @xmath39 per galaxy , as functions of @xmath37 and @xmath38 , are then given by the difference between the result from the reference sample and the average one from the random samples . by evaluating and subtracting the counts in the random samples , we can make a statistical correction for chance projections of foreground and background galaxies that lie along the line - of - sight .",
    "this method is similar to that used in li et al ( 2006 ) , li et al .",
    "( 2008a , b ) , where the authors computed neighbour counts around active galaxy nuclei ( agn ) and star - forming galaxies ( sfgs ) from sdss and examined the connections of star formation and agn activity with tidal interactions .",
    "the reader is referred to those papers for detailed description and tests of this method .",
    "the result is shown in fig .",
    "9 , where we plot the contours of the average correlated neighbour counts around our early - type galaxies in the plane of @xmath37 and @xmath40 .",
    "it can be seen from the figure that the sdss fractions are comparable to those seen in slacs ( and cosmos ) , within the statistical noise .",
    "the major satellite anomaly detected to date has been the excess of light substructure in class lenses compared to normal elliptical galaxies .",
    "however , the largest survey for gravitational lenses to date has been the slacs survey ( bolton et al .",
    "2006 ) which targets luminous red galaxies in the sdss and examines the sdss data for systems which contain more than one spectroscopic redshift within a @xmath41 fibre .",
    "the intrinsic efficiency of this procedure has resulted in the discovery of nearly 100 lens systems .",
    "all of these are systems in which a background galaxy is imaged by a foreground galaxy ; because of the slacs selection of bright objects , most of the systems have a lens redshift of 0.10.3 , somewhat lower than that of class .",
    "fields of the 64 most certain slacs lenses from the most recent compilation ( bolton et al . 2008 ; lens category yes ) have been examined ; in most cases these fields extend to 20  kpc , or nearly 20  kpc , from the centre of the lens galaxy .",
    "sextractor has again been used to detect all satellites out to a 7  radius , with the exception of objects in the regions covered by source structure ; these regions are identified by slacs mask images and can be blanked out .",
    "they do not significantly affect the statistics , as most such regions are within about 5  kpc of the lens galaxy ( fig .",
    "11 shows the satellites in the slacs images as a function of linear and angular distance .         over most of the range of brightness and angular distance , the distribution of slacs satellites is statistically indistinguishable from background ( for example , 29 satellites are expected with @xmath42 , @xmath43 and 34 are observed , with a further 3 - 4 probably missed due to limited sensitivity ) .",
    "a few satellites are likely to be genuinely associated with the primary , including for example the satellite of slacs  0808 + 4706 ; this object lies at a cumulative probability of 0.005 , implying that only 0.3 satellites of this brightness and distance should occur in the slacs sample . nevertheless , these satellites do not lie in the region of flux ratio - linear distance space that is strongly discrepant with the cosmos statistics ( right hand side of fig .",
    "11 ) as we see in the class images .",
    "the current work sharpens the problem which arises from the presence of excess satellites around lensing galaxies in the class survey .",
    "it appears that the frequency of satellite galaxies , predicted by current simulations based on cdm / semi - analytic models are in excess of the actual frequency of satellites observed in the cosmos survey and also in the wider but shallower sdss survey , given the limits imposed by resolution and depth",
    ". though the sample statistics are still small , lensing galaxies in the slacs survey are also consistent with early - type , non - lensing galaxies in cosmos .",
    "this is interesting as the slacs survey lens - galaxy sample has a much lower median redshift ( z=0.20 ) than the cosmos survey galaxies .",
    "this leaves the class lens galaxies as the anomalies , containing significantly higher rates of luminous substructure than either simulations or field galaxies in sdss and cosmos .",
    "the major significant difference between class and slacs lenses is that the redshift of lens ( and source ) is typically larger in the class lenses .",
    "however , the difficulty then becomes the difference between lensing galaxies ( class ) and non - lensing galaxies ( cosmos ) in broadly similar redshift ranges .",
    "one possibility is that , although the incidence of satellites in the class lens systems appears anomalously high , the effect may still be due to small - sample statistics .",
    "an obvious priority is the acquisition of larger samples of high - redshift lenses .",
    "although existing radio surveys can be done more efficiently ( jackson & browne 2007 ) major progress probably awaits future instruments such as lofar and the ska ( koopmans , browne & jackson 2004 ) . optical surveys capable of detecting large numbers of high - redshift galaxy lens systems are a few years in the future using telescopes such as pan - starrs and particularly the lsst .    in semi - analytic models , the satellites which are found within @xmath3110",
    "kpc of the central galaxy correspond to sub - haloes which are tidally stripped of their dark halo during repeated orbits around the primary galaxy .",
    "it is natural to ascribe the close satellites in class lens systems to these `` orphan '' galaxies , but there are still problems with this approach and recent simulations using millenium - ii may reproduce the observed clustering without orphans ( guo et al .",
    ". there would need to be a redshift dependence ( bryan et al .",
    "2008 ) which allowed us to see them in the high - redshift class lenses but not the low - redshift slacs lenses , and they would need to increase the lensing cross section sufficiently to bias the lensing statistics .",
    "it is hard to imagine how this happens ; many studies ( e.g. chen et al . 2003 ,",
    "metcalf & zhao 2002 ) have addressed the question of how satellites could produce flux ratio anomalies , but it seems unlikely that the extra magnifications produced would account for the anomalous statistics in the class lens systems .",
    "alternatively , the fact that the typical class galaxy is brighter than the typical cosmos object by just over a magnitude ( fig .",
    "1 ) could be a reflection of class galaxies being hosted by more massive dark matter haloes .",
    "the simulations ( section 2.4 ) imply that a difference of a factor 10 in dark matter halo is needed to change the incidence of close satellites by a factor of 2 - 3 , so such an effect , while present , may not be enough to account for the full difference between class and cosmos .    the comparison with simulations would benefit a great deal from the use of higher resolution simulations involving a realistic treatment of the gas processes , but we highlight the fact that studying the central regions of haloes may provide important additional constraints to theoretical models .",
    "this is because the models may reproduce the overall luminosity function of ( more numerous ) satellite galaxies , but fail for the small fraction of projected central galaxies which are most sensitive to numerical effects ( e.g. resolutions ) and physical processes such as tidal stripping .",
    "this research was supported by the eu framework 6 marie curie early stage training programme under contract number mest - ct-2005 - 19669 `` estrela '' .",
    "we thank the slacs team , especially leon koopmans and adam bolton , for the provision of images of slacs lenses , together with mask images , which were used in this work ; and leon koopmans for useful discussions .",
    "we thank gerard lemson for providing simulated galaxy catalogues used in this work .",
    "in addition , we thank the referee for useful comments . the millennium simulation databases used in this paper and the web application providing online access to them were constructed as part of the activities of the german astrophysical virtual observatory .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/. the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "= 0.15 cm        belokurov v. , zucker d.b . , evans n.w . ,",
    "wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m . , irwin j.m . , gilmore g. , willman b.,et al . 2006 , apj , 647 , l111",
    "belokurov v. , zucker d.b .",
    ", evans n.w .",
    ", kleyna j.t . , koposov s. , hodgkin s.t . , irwin m.j . , gilmore g. , wilkinson m.i . , fellhauer m.,et al",
    "2007 , apj , 654 , 897 .",
    "bertin e. , arnouts s. 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393 .",
    "biggs a.d . ,",
    "browne i.w.a . , jackson n.j . , york t. , norbury m.a . , mckean j.p . , phillips p.m. 2004 , mnras , 350 , 949",
    "blanton m.r . , et al . , 2005 , aj 129 , 2562              bullock j.s . ,",
    "kravtsov a.v . , weinberg d.h .",
    "2000 , apj , 539 , 517 .",
    "capak p. , aussel h. , ajiki m. , mccracken h.j .",
    ", mobasher b. , scoville n. , shopbell p. , taniguchi y. , thompson d. , tribiano s.,et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 172 , 99 .",
    "chen j. 2009 , a&a 494 , 867                                      klypin a. , kravtsov a.v . , valenzuela o. , prada f. 1999 , apj , 522 , 82 .",
    "kochanek c.  s. , 1991 , apj , 373 , 354 kochanek c.s .",
    ", dalal n. 2004 , apj , 610 , 69 .",
    "koekemoer a.m. , aussel h. , calzetti d. , capak p. , giavalisco m. , kneib j.p .",
    ", leauthaud a. , lefvre o. , mccracken h.j . , massey r.,et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 172 , 196 .",
    "koopmans l.v.e . , et al . , 1999 , mnras 303 , 727            madau p. , diemand j. , kuhlen m. 2008 , apj , 679 , 1260 .",
    "mao s. , schneider p. 1998",
    ", mnras , 295 , 587 .",
    "mao s. , jing y. , ostriker j.  p. , weller j. , 2004 , apj , 604 , l5 mckean j.p . ,",
    "koopmans , l.v.e . , browne , i.w.a . ,",
    "fassnacht , c.d . ,",
    "blandford r.d . , lubin , l.m .",
    ", readhead , a.c.s . , 2004 ,",
    "mnras 350 , 167    mckean j.p . , koopmans l.v.e . , flack c.e . ,",
    "fassnacht c.d . , thompson d. , matthews k. , blandford r.d . , readhead a.c.s . ,",
    "soifer b.t .",
    "2007 , mnras , 378 , 109 .",
    "metcalf r.b .",
    "2002 , apj , 580 , 696 .",
    "metcalf r.b . , zhao h. , 2002 , apj 567 , l5              schechter p.l . ,",
    "moore c.b .",
    "1993 , aj , 105 , 1 .",
    "schneider d.p . ,",
    "lawrence c.r . , schmidt m. , gunn j.e . , turner e.l . ,",
    "burke b.f .",
    ", dhawan v. 1985 , apj , 294 , 66 .",
    "scoville n. , abraham r.g .",
    ", aussel h. , barnes j.e .",
    ", benson a. , blain a.w . , calzetti d. , comastri a. , capak p. , carilli c.,et al . 2007 , apjs , 172 , 38 .",
    "shin e.m . , evans n.w .",
    "2008 , mnras , 385 , 2107 .",
    "spergel d.n . ,",
    "2007 , apjs , 170 , 377 .",
    "springel v. , et al . ,",
    "nature 435 , 629              york d.g .",
    ", adelman j. , anderson j.e .",
    "j. , anderson s.f . , annis j. , bahcall n.a . , bakken j.a .",
    ", barkhouser r. , bastian s. , berman e.,et al .",
    "2000 , aj , 120 , 1579 .",
    "york t. , jackson n. , browne i.w.a .",
    ", wucknitz o. , skelton j.e . , 2005 ,",
    "mnras 357 , 124      zucker d.b .",
    ", belokurov v. , evans n.w .",
    ", kleyna j.t . , irwin m.j . ,",
    "wilkinson m.i .",
    ", fellhauer m. , bramich d.m . , gilmore g. , newberg h.j.,et al . 2006 , apj , 650 , l41 .",
    "zucker d.b . , belokurov v. , evans n.w . , wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , sivarani t. , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m . , irwin j.m . , gilmore g.,et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 643 , l103 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the incidence of sub - galactic level substructures is an important quantity , as it is a generic prediction of high - resolution cold dark matter ( cdm ) models which is susceptible to observational test . </S>",
    "<S> confrontation of theory with observations is currently in an uncertain state . in particular , </S>",
    "<S> gravitational lens systems appear to show evidence for flux ratio anomalies , which are expected from cdm substructures although not necessarily in the same range of radius as observed . however , the current small samples of lenses suggest that the lens galaxies in these systems are unusually often accompanied by luminous galaxies . here </S>",
    "<S> we investigate a large sample of unlensed elliptical galaxies from the cosmos survey , and determine the fraction of objects with satellites , in excess of background counts , as a function of satellite brightness and separation from the primary object . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the incidence of luminous satellites within 20  kpc is typically a few tenths of one percent for satellites of a few tenths of the primary flux , comparable to what is observed for the wider but shallower sdss survey . </S>",
    "<S> although the environments of lenses in the slacs survey are compatible with this observation , the class radio survey lenses are significantly in excess of this .    </S>",
    "<S> gravitational lensing - cosmology : galaxy formation </S>"
  ]
}