{
  "article_text": [
    "extragalactic surveys are powerful for studying the growing supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) in agns for several reasons .",
    "first , emission is empirically found to be nearly universal from luminous agns ; the accretion disk and its `` corona '' are robust even if their details remain somewhat mysterious .",
    "second , emission is penetrating and has reduced absorption bias compared to , e.g. , optical and uv emission .",
    "this is critically important since it is now known that the majority of agns suffer from significant intrinsic obscuration .",
    "furthermore , the level of absorption bias drops toward high redshift , since increasingly penetrating rest - frame are observed .",
    "finally , observations maximize the contrast between smbh - related light and host - galaxy starlight . having such high contrast is crucial when studying high - redshift objects that can not be resolved spatially .",
    "surveys thus provide the `` purest '' agn samples ; most ( @xmath0% ) of the sources even in the deepest observations are agns , while few ( @xmath1% ) of the sources in the deepest optical and infrared observations are agns .",
    "the unmatched angular resolution , low background , broad bandpass , and respectable field of view of  have provided dramatic advances in our ability to survey the emission from agns over most of the history of the universe .",
    "the deepest  observations are times more sensitive than those of previous missions ( the exact factor depending upon the bandpass considered ) , detecting sources with photon fluxes as low as one count per 5  days .",
    "source positions measured by  are typically reliable to within ; this is essential for robust identifications and follow - up work at faint fluxes .",
    "the surveys executed by  have each detected hundreds - to - thousands of sources , allowing statistically meaningful studies of source populations .",
    "finally , the well - maintained data archive allows the effective federation of  surveys by any astronomer to address specific scientific questions of interest .",
    "currently about 35  and  surveys have been performed that cover most of the practically accessible `` discovery space '' of sensitivity vs.solid-angle .",
    "these include contiguous surveys , many of which are shown in fig .  1 , as well as the equally important non - contiguous and often serendipitous surveys ( e.g. , champ , hellas2xmm , sexsi , the  ssc surveys ) .",
    "enormous progress has been made over the past decade in obtaining identification spectra for large , representative samples of the detected sources ; this work has often utilized the largest ground - based telescopes on earth ( e.g. , gemini , keck , subaru , vlt ) . however , spectroscopic identification remains a persistent challenge and bottleneck , especially at faint fluxes , and serves as one important driver for future extremely large telescopes ( elts ) .",
    "multiwavelength observations of the  survey sources , from the radio to the uv , have also been critical for advancing understanding , as expected given the broad - band nature of agn emission .",
    "these have improved the reliability of the source identifications , allowed the derivation of high - quality photometric redshifts , constrained agn accretion physics , measured host - galaxy properties , assessed the relative importance of smbh vs.stellar power , and even discovered agns that were missed by  ( e.g. , due to extreme obscuration ) .    below we will briefly highlight some of the exciting discoveries from  surveys about the tightly related topics of agn demography , physics , and ecology .",
    "our focus will be on  results from the past decade , as befits this 10th birthday symposium for , implicitly also recognizing the fundamental advances made by extragalactic surveys with .",
    "comparisons will sometimes be made with the community s understanding at around the time of the  launch in mid-1999 , since these illustrate just how dramatic the advances have been over  first decade of discovery .",
    "furthermore , due to limited space , our references to the literature will necessarily be limited , highly selective , and incomplete ; our humble apologies in advance .",
    "from the 1960 s to the 1990 s , the study of agn evolution was dominated by wide - field optical surveys of rare , luminous quasars ( e.g. , boyle 2001 ; osmer 2004 ) .",
    "these were found to peak in comoving number density at and showed evolution consistent with pure luminosity evolution models .",
    "these surveys left open a major question : how does the _ numerically dominant _ population of moderate - luminosity agns evolve ?",
    "many astronomers expected , prior to the launch of , that moderate - luminosity agns would evolve in the same manner as luminous quasars .",
    "however , even from the  soft extragalactic surveys , hints were emerging that agn evolution is significantly luminosity dependent ( e.g. , miyaji et  al .",
    "these surveys also hinted , independently , that the selected quasar space density at @xmath2 might not decline in the manner seen for optically and radio selected quasars .",
    "the observational constraints , at the time of the  launch , admitted the possibility that luminous agns dominated cosmic reionization .",
    "there were even widely discussed claims ( haiman & loeb 1999 ) that  might detect @xmath3 quasars at @xmath4 in a single deep - field observation !",
    "observations allow the effective selection of agns , both obscured and unobscured , that are up to @xmath3 times less luminous than those from wide - field optical surveys .",
    "these agns are @xmath5 times more numerous . as a result ,",
    "the agn number counts from the deepest  surveys have reached @xmath6  deg@xmath7 ( e.g. , bauer et  al .",
    "2004 ; versus @xmath8  deg@xmath7 from the sloan digital sky survey and @xmath9  deg@xmath7 from the deepest  surveys ) . at a basic level",
    ", this is the key demographic `` discovery space '' that was opened by  surveys .",
    "the moderate - luminosity agns discovered in the   surveys are not measured to evolve in the same manner as luminous quasars , indicating that agn evolution is luminosity dependent ( e.g. , hasinger et  al .",
    "2005 ; la  franca et  al .",
    "2005 ; silverman et  al .  2008b ; yencho et  al .  2009 ; aird et  al .",
    "lower luminosity agns are found to peak in comoving number density at later cosmic times ; this general behavior is sometimes referred to as `` cosmic downsizing '' or `` anti - hierarchical growth '' .",
    "the details of this behavior are still somewhat uncertain owing to multiple thorny observational ( e.g. , detection incompleteness , source identification , follow - up incompleteness , spectral complexity ) and statistical issues .",
    "thus , the workers in this field often have strong , inconsistent opinions ! however , the general consensus is that total smbh power production peaks at significantly lower redshifts ( ) than expected based upon evolution studies solely of luminous quasars ( ) . at high redshift , the demographic constraints now show that there is indeed a decline in the space density of detected agns at @xmath2 ( e.g. , fontanot et  al .  2007 ; silverman et  al .",
    "2008b ; brusa et  al .",
    "this decline has a roughly exponential form , similar to what is found for optically selected quasars .",
    "luminous agns are unlikely to have dominated cosmic reionization , leaving stars as the most likely agents .",
    "m@xmath10 gained most of their final mass by @xmath11 , while lower mass black holes still grew substantially at lower redshifts . ]",
    "the luminosity functions delivered by the agn demographers have been used with versions of the elegant sotan ( 1982 ) argument to predict the masses of remnant smbhs in galactic centers as well as the typical growth histories of smbhs of various masses ( e.g. , marconi et  al .",
    "2004 , 2006 ; merloni & heinz 2008 ; shankar et  al .",
    "the most robust points generally emerging from this elaborate work are that standard radiatively efficient accretion can plausibly drive most smbh growth , and that more massive smbhs generally grew earlier in cosmic time ( e.g. , see fig .  2 ) .",
    "significant uncertainties still remain , however , in the luminosity functions themselves , the local smbh mass function , bolometric corrections , eddington ratios , and the efficiency of smbh accretion . together",
    "these limit the strength of some of the constraints that can be derived from sotan - type arguments .",
    "what has been the relative production of cosmic power by smbhs vs.stars ?",
    "shortly before the  launch , it was claimed that smbhs may have supplied up to 50% of the universe s total energy output since the formation of galaxies ( fabian & iwasawa 1999 ) .",
    "the  agn demographic results , however , now show that smbh accretion has likely only supplied about of this energy output ; the remaining majority comes from nuclear fusion in stars .",
    "we appear to live in a remarkably economical universe , in that the observed cosmic background ( cxrb ) is produced with almost the least cosmic effort possible .",
    "it is not dominated by luminous obscured quasars thundering out huge amounts of power at , but rather by moderate - luminosity , obscured agns at .",
    "the work of the demographers is not finished .",
    "there is strong evidence that a large population of intrinsically luminous but heavily obscured ( ) agns , comprising a significant fraction of cosmic smbh growth , is still not detected in the  surveys .",
    "this is not surprising , given expectations from the low - redshift universe .",
    "for example , many local compton - thick ( ) agns that are intrinsically luminous ( e.g. , ngc  1068 , ngc  6240 , mrk  231 ) would remain undetected even in the  deep fields if placed at .",
    "direct evidence for missed distant agns comes in several forms .",
    "for example , stacking analyses show that only of the cxrb is resolved even in the deepest observations ; the corresponding undetected source population plausibly has a sky density of with at ( e.g. , worsley et  al .",
    "many compelling undetected agn candidates have been found within the deepest  observations via  surveys , radio surveys , optical - to - mid - infrared spectroscopy , and optical - variability studies ( e.g. , alonso - herrero et  al .  2006 ; daddi et  al .  2007 ; donley et  al .",
    "2007 , 2008 ; alexander et  al .  2008a",
    "; fiore et  al .  2008 , 2009 ;",
    "treister et  al .",
    "these objects now require better characterization , at and other wavelengths , so that the contribution from smbh accretion to their total luminosities can be determined reliably .",
    "extragalactic  surveys have also provided insights into the processes shaping the observed emission from agns , ranging from accretion - disk ( down to light minutes ) to `` torus '' (  light years ) physical scales .",
    "they have served as an essential complement to detailed studies of bright and usually nearby agns , often by providing powerful statistical constraints upon the basic emission properties of moderate - luminosity , typical agns in the distant universe .",
    "when combined with multiwavelength agn samples ,  surveys have been important in tightening empirical constraints upon the universality of emission from smbh accretion disks and their so - called coronae ( e.g. , mushotzky 2004 ; brandt & hasinger 2005 ; gibson et  al .",
    "this central dogma of universal emission ( cf . avni & tananbaum 1986 ) , still on embarrassingly shaky ground from an _ ab initio _ physics point - of - view , underlies the utility of all  surveys for finding agns throughout the universe .",
    "the broad coverage of the luminosity - redshift plane provided by agn samples in  extragalactic surveys has allowed substantially improved constraints to be set upon -to - optical / uv spectral energy distributions ( seds ; e.g. , steffen et  al .",
    "2006 ; just et  al .  2007 ; kelly et  al .  2007 , 2008 ; gibson et  al .  2008",
    "; green et  al .  2009 ; young et  al .  2010 ) .",
    "this is the spectral region where the direct accretion emission is dominant for relatively unobscured agns , and -to - optical / uv sed studies thus probe the inner gravitational radii ( e.g. , the relative amounts of power emitted by the corona vs.the underlying disk ) .",
    "while there are still some discrepancies among published results ( e.g. , where fitted parameters from different samples disagree by much more than is allowed by their statistical uncertainties ) , some general points of consensus have emerged .",
    "first , there is a clear luminosity dependence of -to - optical / uv seds for the majority population of radio - quiet agns , such that the ratio of vs.optical/uv emission declines with rising optical / uv luminosity ( e.g. , see fig .  3 ) .",
    "this result , initially found in the 1980 s with limited samples ( e.g. , avni & tananbaum 1986 ) , has now been established to hold out to and over a range of @xmath12 in luminosity .",
    "the form of the luminosity dependence is likely nonlinear , being stronger at high luminosities than low luminosities .",
    "further work to constrain this nonlinearity is required , as are _ ab initio _ physics - based calculations capable of predicting the luminosity dependence of -to - optical / uv seds ( see , e.g. , noble & krolik 2009 and references therein ) .",
    "the majority of current studies indicate that , after controlling for the luminosity dependence of -to - optical / uv seds , there is no remaining detectable redshift dependence .",
    "for example , steffen et  al .",
    "( 2006 ) and just et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) show that , at a fixed luminosity , the ratio of -to - optical / uv luminosity is constrained to change with redshift by @xmath13% out to .",
    "it appears that , in spite of the large demographic changes in the agn population over cosmic time , the individual agn unit is remarkably stable on the scale of the inner accretion disk .    , and the rest - frame 2500    monochromatic luminosity for radio - quiet agns ; large negative values of  correspond to relatively weak emission .",
    "the different plotted symbols denote the agn samples utilized in the correlation analyses , ranging from local seyfert galaxies to the most - luminous quasars in the universe ( the small number of downward - pointing arrows denote upper limits ) .",
    "the -@xmath14 relations from steffen et  al .",
    "( 2006 ) and just et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) are shown as dotted and solid lines , respectively , and the functional form of the dotted line is given at the bottom of the top panel .",
    "the bottom panel shows residuals about the dotted line .",
    "the overlaid black error bars show , in @xmath14 bins , the mean of the residuals and the @xmath15 standard deviation of the mean . adapted from steffen et  al .",
    "( 2006 ) and just et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) , where details of the samples and fitting analyses are provided . ]",
    "obscuration - based unification models have also been refined using the large agn samples from  extragalactic surveys ( e.g. , ueda et  al .  2003 ;",
    "barger et  al .",
    "2005 ; la  franca et  al .  2005 ; treister & urry 2006 ; hasinger 2008 ) . here",
    "again the broad coverage of the luminosity - redshift plane has been essential , allowing obscuration dependences upon luminosity and redshift to be constrained in much greater detail than was previously possible .",
    "the improved data confirm longstanding expectations ( e.g. , lawrence & elvis 1982 ; lawrence 1991 ) that the fraction of obscured agns drops with increasing luminosity ; i.e. , the covering factor of the torus is luminosity dependent , perhaps because more luminous agns can evacuate their environments better .",
    "the obscured agn fraction drops in a roughly linear manner as a function of logarithmic luminosity , falling from @xmath16% at @xmath17  erg  s@xmath18 to @xmath19% at @xmath20  erg  s@xmath18 . of course",
    ", the exact numerical values for these fractions depend upon how obscured agns are defined ( , optical , and sed - based classification schemes do not consistently agree , especially at low luminosities ) and still have non - negligible systematic uncertainties owing to spectral complexity and missed agns .    after controlling for luminosity effects , the fraction of obscured agns is found to rise with redshift as @xmath21 ( e.g. , la  franca et  al .",
    "2005 ; treister & urry 2006 ; hasinger 2008 ) .",
    "this behavior appears to hold at least up to @xmath22 where uncertainties become large ( systematic uncertainties , as mentioned above for the luminosity dependence of the obscured fraction , are also relevant here ) .",
    "the processes ultimately shaping the torus thus appear to evolve over cosmic time , in notable contrast to what is found for the inner accretion disk .",
    "the increase in the covering factor of the torus with redshift is plausibly driven by the greater availability of gas and dust in galaxies at earlier cosmic epochs .",
    "since the launch of it has become well established that agns play a role in the evolution of galaxies .",
    "the finding that many massive galaxies in the local universe host a smbh with a mass broadly proportional to that of the galaxy spheroid hints at concordant smbh - spheroid growth ( e.g. , tremaine et  al .",
    "2002 ; hring & rix 2004 ) , suggesting a close connection between agn activity and star formation . the optical - to - near - infrared emission from most of the distant agns detected in agn surveys prior to",
    "was dominated by the active nucleus , restricting the constraints that could be set upon host galaxies . since the optical - to - near - infrared emission from a large fraction of the -selected agns",
    "is dominated by starlight , it is now possible to measure directly the host - galaxy properties ( e.g. , morphology , color , luminosity , and stellar mass ) . by combining the data with infrared - to - radio observations , the relative power from agn vs.star-formation activity",
    "can also be assessed .",
    "high - resolution  imaging of @xmath23 selected agns in deep  ( and ) surveys has shown that their host galaxies often have concentrated optical - light profiles , consistent with expectations for galaxy spheroids ( e.g. , grogin et  al .",
    "2005 ; pierce et  al .  2007 ; gabor et  al .",
    "2009 ; georgakakis et  al .",
    "2009 ) ; appear to be early - type galaxies , appear to be late - type galaxies , and the rest are peculiar or point - like systems .",
    "agn host galaxies are also optically luminous , indicating that they are massive [ ; e.g. , babi et  al .  2007 ;",
    "alonso - herrero et  al .",
    "2008 ; brusa et  al .",
    "first - order constraints therefore suggest that the smbhs are comparatively massive and slow growing ( typically @xmath24  @xmath25 and @xmath26 ; e.g. , babi et  al .  2007 ; ballo et  al .  2007 ;",
    "alonso - herrero et  al .",
    "2008 ; hickox et  al .",
    "2009 ) , implying that they accreted the bulk of their mass at @xmath27 .",
    "current constraints on the host - galaxy properties and smbh masses of @xmath27 agns are , however , poor due to the faintness ( at optical - to - near - infrared wavelengths ) of the majority of the population , and deeper imaging and spectroscopy are required for significant results ( see , e.g. , alexander et  al .  2008b , brusa et  al .",
    "2009b , and yamada et  al .",
    "2009 for some constraints ) .",
    "small rapidly growing smbhs ( @xmath28  @xmath25 ; @xmath29 ) at @xmath30 are detected in deep x - ray surveys but appear to be comparatively rare ( e.g. , ballo et  al .",
    "2007 ; shi et  al .  2008 ) .",
    "similar to the normal - galaxy population at @xmath31 , agn host galaxies have a broad range of optical colors .",
    "however , while the optical - color distribution of normal galaxies is clearly bimodal , with a `` red sequence '' and `` blue cloud '' , agns preferentially reside in the red sequence , the top of the blue cloud , and the `` green valley '' in between ( e.g. , nandra et  al .  2007",
    "; silverman et  al.2008a ; hickox et  al .",
    "the green valley is the expected location for galaxies transitioning between the blue cloud and the red sequence due to the quenching of star formation ( predicted by most galaxy formation models to be caused by large - scale outflows ) ; however , bulge - dominated systems rejuvenated by the accretion of fresh gas from their environments could also lie in the green valley ( e.g. ,  hasinger 2008 ) .",
    "sensitive spectroscopic observations could distinguish between these scenarios by revealing the presence / absence of outflow signatures and cold accreted gas .",
    "the agn host galaxies show no strong asymmetry when compared to non - agn systems , indicating that they reside in relatively undisturbed systems .",
    "contrary to some early expectations , there also does not appear to be a connection between recent strong galaxy mergers and moderate - luminosity agn activity , suggesting that smbh growth is typically initiated by secular host - galaxy processes and/or galaxy interactions ( e.g. , grogin et  al.2005 ; pierce et  al .  2007 ; gabor et  al .",
    "2009 ; georgakakis et  al .",
    "these results contrast with those found for rare , optically luminous quasars ( times more luminous than the typical agns in  blank - field surveys ) , which often appear to be associated with galaxy major mergers ( e.g. , canalizo & stockton 2001 ) .",
    "these differences imply a change in the catalyst that drives the fueling of luminous quasars and moderate - luminosity agns , as predicted by some models ( e.g. , hopkins & hernquist 2009 )",
    ". however , the fraction of @xmath32 galaxies hosting agn activity appears to be enhanced in redshift filaments ( slightly overdense regions ) when compared to field - galaxy regions , suggesting that large - scale environment may help drive smbh growth ( e.g. , gilli et  al .  2003 ;",
    "silverman et  al .",
    "2008a ; but see georgakakis et  al .",
    "2007 for potential host - galaxy mass dependence ) .",
    "differences in the agn fraction between field galaxies and galaxies in distant are also significant and show that the bulk of smbh growth in the densest regions occurred at @xmath33 ( e.g. , lehmer et  al .",
    "2009 ; martini et  al .  2009 ) .",
    "erg  s@xmath18 ; the dark - purple curve shows the best - estimated fraction , while the light - purple region indicates the estimated uncertainty . the approximate agn fraction for submm galaxies , from alexander et  al .",
    "( 2005b ) , is shown with the black data point .",
    "approximate sfr ranges for starburst galaxies , luminous infrared galaxies ( lirgs ) , and ultraluminous infrared galaxies ( ulirgs ) are shown along the top . a `` sliding bin '' with a minimum of 10 agns",
    "was used to construct this plot ; the mean width of this bin is shown in the lower right - hand corner .",
    "the minimum agn luminosity sampled at the minimum and maximum sfr values is also indicated . from rafferty",
    "et  al .",
    "( 2010 ) . ]",
    "the star - formation and smbh - accretion histories broadly track each other at least out to @xmath22 ( with an overall offset of a factor of @xmath34 ) , as expected if the volume - averaged growth of galaxies and smbhs was concordant ( e.g. , merloni et  al .",
    "2004 ; silverman et  al .",
    "star formation in galaxies also `` downsizes '' in a qualitatively similar manner to what is seen for agns ( e.g. , damen et  al .  2009 and references therein ) .",
    "the majority of individual selected agns have star - formation signatures with implied star - formation rates ( sfrs ) of @xmath35  11000  @xmath25  yr@xmath18 ( e.g. , alexander et  al.2005ab ; pope et  al .",
    "2008 ; murphy et  al .  2009 ; silverman et  al.2009 ) , although the sfr vs.smbh-accretion ratios for individual agns can vary by several orders of magnitude . using 70  @xmath36 m data , rafferty et  al .",
    "( 2010 ) have studied the agn fraction as a function of dust - obscured sfr for systems at with .",
    "they find that the fraction of galaxies hosting moderate - to - luminous agn activity increases as a function of sfr , with an agn fraction for sfrs of ( see fig .",
    "4 ) , showing directly that the duty cycle of moderate - luminosity agn activity relates to the sfr of the host galaxy .",
    "the average agn vs.star-formation luminosity ratios for agns are found to be broadly consistent with those expected from the local smbh - spheroid mass relationships , indicating a close connection between agn activity and star formation across a broad range of sfr .",
    "however , it is currently unclear whether the agn - star formation connection is caused by regulatory feedback due to outflows ( as adopted by some galaxy - evolution models ) or some other process .",
    "this concise review has provided a sampling of some of the significant discoveries obtained by  on the growth of smbhs over cosmic time . however , many important questions remain unanswered . below",
    "we outline several of these along with prospects for future progress .",
    "* demography : * how many obscured agns are missed even in the deepest surveys , and what is their contribution to the growth of smbhs ?",
    "the current multiwavelength investigations have made great advances in identifying undetected obscured agns , but all suffer from significant uncertainties ( e.g. , potential agn misidentifications , poorly constrained intrinsic agn luminosities , small numbers of reliable identifications ) .",
    "ultradeep  and  exposures , such as the upcoming 4  ms  deep field - south , will help to provide improved agn characterization .",
    "future sensitive observations ( e.g. , with , , , and ) , particularly when allied with improved data from multiwavelength facilities ( e.g. , elts , , ) , will significantly extend the current census of smbh growth in the most obscured systems .",
    "how do moderate - luminosity ( @xmath37  erg  s@xmath18 ) agns evolve over the important redshift interval of and beyond ?",
    "existing deep surveys already have the ability to detect high - redshift moderate - luminosity agns , provided their level of obscuration is not too strong , but it is often challenging to obtain accurate spectroscopic and/or photometric redshifts for these optically faint sources .",
    "significant advances in redshift determination can be made , e.g. , with ultradeep ( i.e. , @xmath38  hr ) optical spectroscopy using the largest ground - based telescopes and with future large - area -to - millimeter observatories ( e.g. , , elts , , alma ) .",
    "larger survey areas at sensitive flux levels ( e.g. , from , , and  observations ) will also be essential for setting statistically powerful evolution constraints at the highest redshifts .",
    "* physics : * are there significant exceptions to the rule of universal emission from luminous agns ?",
    "most of the  agn survey results are ultimately built upon the idea that strong underlying emission is universally present",
    ". however , there are a small number of apparent weak exceptions to this rule that may be indicative of broader problems ( e.g. , leighly et  al .  2007 ; gibson et  al .  2008 ; and references therein )",
    "surveys for further exceptions are important so that any foundational cracks may be identified and patched .",
    "these surveys may also lead to insights about accretion disks and their coronae .",
    "strange objects , which persist in showing a type of spectrum entirely out of keeping with their luminosity , may ultimately teach us more than a host which radiates according to rule ( cf .",
    "eddington 1922 ) !    what is the nature of the luminosity dependence of the -to - optical / uv seds of agns ?",
    "this ( likely nonlinear ) luminosity dependence still needs to be determined more reliably , since the current measurements of it quantitatively disagree and thus can not effectively guide the development of physical disk - corona models . a key aspect of future work must be the reduction and realistic quantification of systematic errors including agn misclassification , detection - fraction effects , absorption effects , host - galaxy light contamination , agn variability , and luminosity dispersion .",
    "it is also critical to investigate further what practicable observables of agn seds in the -to - optical / uv bandpass provide the most insight into their accretion processes , the roles of smbh mass and eddington fraction , and possible residual dependences of -to - optical / uv seds upon redshift .",
    "* ecology : * what are the host - galaxy properties of typical agns at @xmath39 ?",
    "although much has been revealed about the hosts of @xmath40 selected agns , comparatively little is known about the ( potentially more rapidly growing ) hosts of @xmath39 agns .",
    "currently , the biggest hindrance to addressing this question is the lack of rest - frame optical - to - near - infrared observations with the requisite combination of high sensitivity and angular resolution .",
    "this situation should significantly improve with  wfc3 and  rest - frame optical - to - near - infrared observations in the future .",
    "what is the physical meaning of the color - magnitude diagram results for agn host galaxies ?",
    "it is currently unclear the extent to which the green - valley and red - sequence colors for typical agns at @xmath40 are due to the quenching of star formation , the rejuvenation of bulge - dominated systems , dust extinction , biases in sample construction , or something else .",
    "spatially resolved spectroscopy of individual sources can be used to search for the large - scale outflow signatures expected to quench star formation ( e.g. , nesvadba et  al .",
    "2008 ; alexander et  al.2010 ) , and millimeter spectroscopy ( e.g. , with existing facilities or alma in the future ) can provide constraints on the presence of cold molecular gas .",
    "what are the effects of cosmic environment , from voids to superclusters , on the growth of smbhs ? given the different evolution of agns in from those detected in blank - field surveys ( e.g. , lehmer et  al .",
    "2009 ; martini et  al .",
    "2009 ) , it is clear that environment must play some role in the growth of smbhs . surveys are required with sufficient areal coverage _ and _ sensitivity to identify the agns that dominate the luminosity function across the full range of redshifts _ and _ environments .",
    "this can be accomplished with large investments of  and  time as well as future facilities ( e.g. , , ) .",
    "we thank all of our collaborators on chandra extragalactic surveys for educational interactions over the past decade .",
    "we thank m. brusa and an anonymous referee for helpful feedback on this paper .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge support from chandra award sp8 - 9003a ( wnb ) , nasa adp grant nnx10ac99 g ( wnb ) , the royal society ( dma ) , and a philip leverhulme prize ( dma ) .",
    "alexander , d.m . ,",
    "swinbank , a.m. , smail , i. , mcdermid , r. , and nesvadba , n. ( 2010 ) searching for evidence of energetic feedback in distant galaxies : a galaxy wide outflow in a @xmath41 ultraluminous infrared galaxy .",
    "_ mon . not .",
    "_ , in press ( arxiv:0911.0014 ) .",
    "alonso - herrero , a. , prez - gonzlez , p.g . ,",
    "rieke , g.h . ,",
    "alexander , d.m . ,",
    "rigby , j.r .",
    ", papovich , c. , donley , j.l . , and rigopoulou , d. ( 2008 ) the host galaxies and black holes of typical agns .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 677 * _ , 127136 .",
    "bauer , f.e . ,",
    "alexander , d.m . ,",
    "brandt , w.n . ,",
    "schneider , d.p . ,",
    "treister , e. , hornschemeier , a.e . , and garmire , g.p .",
    "( 2004 ) the fall of active galactic nuclei and the rise of star - forming galaxies : a close look at the  deep field number counts .",
    "j. * 128 * _ , 20482065 .",
    "daddi , e. , et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) multiwavelength study of massive galaxies at @xmath22 .",
    "widespread compton - thick active galactic nuclei and the concurrent growth of black holes and bulges .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 670 * _ , 173189 .",
    "damen , m. , labb , i. , franx , m. , van  dokkum , p.g . , taylor , e.n . , and gawiser , e.j .",
    "( 2009 ) the evolution of the specific star formation rate of massive galaxies to @xmath44 in the extended chandra deep field - south .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 690 * _ , 937943 .",
    "donley , j.l . ,",
    "rieke , g.h .",
    ", prez - gonzlez , p.g . , rigby , j.r . , and alonso - herrero , a. ( 2007 ) spitzer power - law active galactic nucleus candidates in the  deep field - north .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 660 * _ , 167190 .",
    "fontanot , f. , cristiani , s. , monaco , p. , nonino , m. , vanzella , e. , brandt , w.n . , grazian , a. , and mao , j. ( 2007 ) the luminosity function of high - redshift quasi - stellar objects . a combined analysis of goods and sdss . _ astron . astrophys . * 461 * _ , 3948 .",
    "georgakakis , a. , et  al .",
    "( 2009 ) host - galaxy morphologies of x - ray selected agn : assessing the significance of different black - hole fuelling mechanisms to the accretion density of the universe at @xmath46 . _",
    "mon . not .",
    "* 397 * _ , 623633 .",
    "gibson , r.r . , brandt , w.n . , and schneider , d.p .",
    "( 2008 ) are optically selected quasars universally x - ray luminous ?",
    "x - ray - uv relations in sloan digital sky survey quasars . _",
    "j. * 685 * _ , 773786 .",
    "just , d.w . ,",
    "brandt , w.n .",
    ", shemmer , o. , steffen , a.t . ,",
    "schneider , d.p . ,",
    "chartas , g. , and garmire , g.p .",
    "( 2007 ) the x - ray properties of the most luminous quasars from the sloan digital sky survey .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 665 * _ , 10041022 .",
    "kelly , b.c . ,",
    "bechtold , j. , trump , j.r . , vestergaard , m. , and siemiginowska , a. ( 2008 ) observational constraints on the dependence of radio - quiet quasar x - ray emission on black - hole mass and accretion rate .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "* 176 * _ , 355373",
    ".    la  franca , f. , et  al .",
    "( 2005 ) the hellas2xmm survey .",
    "the hard x - ray luminosity function of agns up to @xmath47 : more absorbed agns at low luminosities and high redshifts .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 635 * _ , 864879 .",
    "marconi , a. , risaliti , g. , gilli , r. , hunt , l.k . ,",
    "maiolino , r. , and salvati , m. ( 2004 ) local supermassive black holes , relics of active galactic nuclei , and the x - ray background .",
    "_ mon . not .",
    "351 * _ , 169185 .",
    "marconi , a. , comastri , a. , gilli , r. , hasinger , g. , hunt , l.k . ,",
    "maiolino , r. , risaliti , g. , and salvati , m. ( 2006 ) local supermassive black holes and relics of active galactic nuclei .",
    ". ital . * 77 * _ , 742749 .",
    "murphy , e.j . ,",
    "chary , r .-",
    "r . , alexander , d.m . ,",
    "dickinson , m. , magnelli , b. , morrison , g. , pope , a. , and teplitz , h.i .",
    "( 2009 ) balancing the energy budget between star formation and active galactic nuclei in high - redshift infrared luminous galaxies .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 698 * _ , 13801397 .",
    "nesvadba , n.p.h . ,",
    "lehnert , m.d . , de breuck , c. , gilbert , a.m. , and van  breugel , w. ( 2008 ) evidence for powerful agn winds at high redshift : dynamics of galactic outflows in radio galaxies during the `` quasar era '' . _",
    ". astrophys . * 491 * _ , 407424 .",
    "shankar , f. , weinberg , d.h . , and miralda - escud , j. ( 2009 ) self - consistent models of the agn and black - hole populations : duty cycles , accretion rates , and the mean radiative efficiency .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 690 * _ , 2041 .",
    "steffen , a.t . ,",
    "strateva , i. , brandt , w.n . , alexander , d.m . ,",
    "koekemoer , a.m. , lehmer , b.d . ,",
    "schneider , d.p . , and vignali , c. ( 2006 ) the x - ray - to - optical properties of optically selected active galaxies over wide luminosity and redshift ranges . _ astrophys .",
    "j. * 131 * _ , 28262842 .",
    "ueda , y. , akiyama , m. , ohta , k. , and miyaji , t. ( 2003 ) cosmological evolution of the hard x - ray active galactic nucleus luminosity function and the origin of the hard x - ray background .",
    "_ astrophys .",
    "j. * 598 * _ , 886908 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> extragalactic surveys over the past decade have dramatically improved understanding of the majority populations of active galactic nuclei ( agns ) over most of the history of the universe . here </S>",
    "<S> we briefly highlight some of the exciting discoveries about agn demography , physics , and ecology with a focus on results from . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss some key unresolved questions and future prospects . </S>"
  ]
}