{
  "article_text": [
    "the groundbreaking achievements in experiments with ultracold fermi gases @xcite have opened up unprecedented possibilities to study new regimes of strongly interacting quantum matter .",
    "ultracold gases represent well - controllable model systems for the exploration of many - body regimes in a way not possible in conventional condensed - matter systems  @xcite .",
    "a new frontier in the field is currently being explored in experiments on ultracold fermi - fermi mixtures of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k  atoms @xcite . because of the mass imbalance and the possibility to apply species - specific optical potentials , such systems promise manifold intriguing applications both in many - body physics @xcite and few - body physics @xcite .    to prepare degenerate fermi gases ,",
    "all - optical approaches have proven to be simple and robust and they facilitate highly efficient evaporative cooling",
    ". therefore they are routinely applied in many present experiments ; see ref .",
    "@xcite for a review of earlier work and refs .",
    "@xcite for more recent examples .",
    "spin mixtures of @xmath0li atoms near a broad feshbach resonance are particularly well suited for this cooling approach because of their exceptional collision properties , which offer extremely large cross sections for elastic collisions in combination with very weak inelastic decay .",
    "this favorable situation motivates the general idea of using the strongly interacting @xmath0li  gas as a cooling agent for sympathetic cooling of another species .",
    "following this idea in ref .",
    "@xcite , we recently demonstrated the sympathetic cooling of @xmath1k  atoms by an evaporatively cooled , optically trapped spin mixture of @xmath0li , reaching the double - degenerate regime .    in this article , we first present more details on our all - optical approach of preparing a double - degenerate fermi - fermi mixture of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k .",
    "we then show new results related to interactions and molecule formation near interspecies feshbach resonances . in sec .",
    "[ sec : trapping ] , we discuss our dual - species cooling and trapping setup and the special loading procedures used for the optical traps . in sec .",
    "[ sec : spinrelax ] , we present an important preparation step where spin relaxation in the mixture brings the k atoms into their lowest internal state . in sec .  [",
    "sec : evaporation ] , we describe the combined evaporative and sympathetic cooling process . in sec .",
    "[ sec : stateprep ] , we show how the mixture can be prepared near interspecies feshbach resonances . in sec .",
    "[ sec : molecules ] , we finally demonstrate the creation of ultracold heteronuclear fermi - fermi molecules by feshbach association methods .",
    "li  and @xmath1k  versus magnetic field . ]    here , we outline the basic concept of our dual - species setup ( sec .  [ sec : setup ] ) , and we present the special procedures applied to prepare the optically trapped mixture . in sec .",
    "[ sec : mot ] we describe how we operate a dual - species magneto - optical trap ( mot ) . in sec .",
    "[ sec : odt ] we present the optical dipole traps ( odt ) used in the experiments . in sec .  [",
    "sec : transfer ] we discuss the special loading procedure for the odt .",
    "the whole scheme is optimized for a large number of @xmath0li  atoms , as this species is used as the cooling agent for sympathetic cooling of @xmath1k  into degeneracy @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : levelscheme ] shows the atomic ground state energy structure of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k .",
    "we label the energy levels li@xmath2 and k@xmath3 , counting the states with rising energy .",
    "the hyperfine splitting of @xmath0li  is 228.2mhz . for @xmath1k ,",
    "the hyperfine structure is inverted and the splitting amounts to 1285.8mhz @xcite . for the low - lying states with @xmath4 and @xmath5 , the projection quantum numbers are given by @xmath6 and @xmath7 .",
    "for the cooling and trapping of li and k we apply standard laser cooling and trapping techniques @xcite combining a zeeman - slowed atomic beam and a dual - species mot for initial collection of atoms in the vacuum chamber .",
    "a detailed description of the experimental setup and the laser systems can be found in ref .",
    "a dual - species oven , which is connected to the main chamber via a differential pumping section , delivers a well - collimated atomic beam .",
    "we operate the oven with isotopically enriched samples containing 80% of @xmath0li  and 7% of @xmath1k .",
    "the zeeman slower can cool both species individually with the respective settings of the magnetic field gradients .",
    "the central element of our vacuum chamber is a glass cell that allows for very good optical access .",
    "we achieve excellent vacuum conditions with a pressure on the order of 10@xmath8 mbar .    for both species we use diode laser systems with",
    "one grating stabilized master oscillator in combination with tapered amplifiers .",
    "the li ( k ) laser system provides 11mw ( 12mw ) per mot beam and 80mw ( 100mw ) for the zeeman slower beam .",
    "figure  [ fig : optpump ] shows a schematic drawing of the atomic energy levels and optical transitions used for cooling and trapping of li and k. the li mot laser beams contain two frequency parts tuned to the cooling ( @xmath9 ) and repumping ( @xmath10 ) transitions and having equal power . for k the cooling ( @xmath11 ) to repumper ( @xmath12 ) ratio is three to two .",
    "the initial collection and cooling of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k  is achieved by conventional laser - cooling and trapping techniques .",
    "as loading of both species requires different settings of the zeeman slower magnetic field , we use a sequential mot - loading scheme .",
    "the basic idea is to first load li and then add k in the presence of the li mot .",
    "the li mot is operated with a field gradient of 26g / cm along the symmetry axis of the field coils and a laser detuning of @xmath13mhz , for both , cooling and repumping transition . after a loading time of about 15s",
    ", a few @xmath14 li atoms are accumulated in the mot . at this point",
    "we increase the magnetic field gradient to 38g / cm , where the k mot works optimally . in 5s , about @xmath15 k atoms are added to the trap .",
    "the k mot is operated with a laser detuning of @xmath16mhz .    during the k loading phase we operate the li mot with a relatively large detuning of @xmath17mhz in order to compensate for the effect of the higher magnetic field gradient on volume and density .",
    "this avoids increased losses by inelastic interspecies collisions , enabling the efficient sequential loading of both species .    in order to reduce shot - to - shot fluctuations of the number of atoms in the trap , we control the li and k mot loading by monitoring their fluorescence independently .",
    "when the fluorescence of the li mot reaches its threshold value , li loading is stopped and loading of the k mot is initiated .",
    "once the k mot fluorescence reaches its threshold , the k loading is turned off . at this point",
    "the odt is ramped on in 100ms , and the magnetic fields of the zeeman slower are ramped to zero in 10ms .      for further storage and cooling of the atomic cloud ,",
    "we use a trapping scheme that employs the optical dipole force of an intense infrared laser beam @xcite and the magnetic force in the curvature of the magnetic field @xcite .",
    "the latter becomes important when the optical trap is operated with low laser power .",
    "a schematic drawing of this hybrid trapping scheme is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : traps ] .",
    "the principal odt is formed by a single beam ( beam  1 ) delivered by a 200-w fiber laser that emits light at a central wavelength of 1070 nm ( ipg ylr-200sm - lp ) .",
    "the beam is focused down to a waist of 38@xmath18 m at the center of the mot . during loading",
    ", the trap is operated with an optical power of 96w , which results in a depth of 2.6mk for li . for k",
    "the trap depth is larger by a factor of 2.1 and thus amounts to about 5.5mk .",
    "two sets of magnetic field coils are used in our setup to control the bias and curvature field independently ; the coils setup is described in more detail in appendix  [ apx : magnets ] . for",
    "small bias fields the magnetic confinement is very small in the axial direction ; here additional axial confinement can be obtained from another infrared beam ( beam  2 ) delivered by a 5-w fiber laser with a central wavelength of 1065 nm ( ipg ylp-5-lp ) .",
    "the single beam is focused to a waist of 97@xmath18 m and intersects beam  1 at an angle of @xmath19 .",
    "loading cold atoms of a single species from a mot into a dipole trap is a standard procedure in many experiments .",
    "sub - doppler cooling and mot compression are common methods to enhance transfer into the optical trap .",
    "the optimized loading of two species , however , needs special procedures .",
    "here we describe the sequential loading scheme that gives us excellent starting conditions for the evaporation of li and k in a common optical trap . a schematic illustration of the loading and transfer sequence is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : sequence ] .",
    "we found that an optimum is achieved by first transferring k into the optical trap while keeping li stored in the large - volume , low - density mot and then performing the li transfer .",
    "after switching on the odt , in a first step the k mot is compressed by ramping up the magnetic field gradient within 50ms to 96g / cm and bringing the frequencies of the k lasers closer to resonance to a detuning of a few mhz with an intensity lowered to 70% . at the same time",
    "the detuning of the li mot is increased to @xmath20mhz to avoid compression of the li mot . at this point",
    "the k mot light is extinguished and the k atoms are confined in the dipole trap while li is stored practically undisturbed in a mot at a reduced magnetic field gradient of 64g / cm . with the k mot",
    "beams off , untrapped atoms are allowed to escape for 50ms .",
    "potassium has ten zeeman sublevels in the lowest hyperfine ground state ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : levelscheme ] . in order to produce a spin - polarized sample of k in its lowest internal state",
    ", we apply an optical pumping scheme that not only transfers the atoms to the lower hyperfine state , but also pumps the atoms to the lowest @xmath21 state .    for optical pumping the quadrupole field",
    "is switched off for 2ms and only a small guiding field is kept on .",
    "parallel to the field we shine in a @xmath22-polarized laser beam for 10@xmath18s , which optically pumps the k atoms into state @xmath23 .",
    "the optical pumping beam contains two frequency components , one for zeeman pumping tuned to the ( @xmath24 ) transition and another one for hyperfine pumping tuned to the ( @xmath12 ) transition as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : optpump ] .",
    "each frequency component has about 50 times the saturation intensity . during the optical pumping stage ,",
    "the cloud of li atoms remains trapped in an optical molasses and can be recaptured without significant losses .",
    "the high - power trapping laser induces a large light - shift on the optical cooling and pumping transitions .",
    "potassium has two optical transitions between the excited 4@xmath25p@xmath26 state and the 5@xmath25s@xmath27 and 3@xmath25d@xmath28 states with wavelengths of 1252 nm and 1177 nm , respectively . at high intensities of the odt",
    "these two transitions shift the 4@xmath25p@xmath26 level by several 100mhz .",
    "therefore optical pumping can not be performed in the trap and we have to switch it off for a short time . after the 10@xmath18s off - time of the odt needed for the optical pumping , essentially all k atoms are recaptured into the odt .    at this point",
    "we have a sample of a few 10@xmath29 polarized @xmath1k  atoms in the odt , surrounded by a magneto - optically trapped cloud of @xmath0li  atoms .",
    "we finally apply a compressed mot stage for li in order to efficiently load this species into the dipole trap . for this",
    ", the quadrupole field is ramped back up to 64g / cm and the mot lasers are operated at a very small detuning of @xmath30mhz from resonance while the power is lowered to 180@xmath18w per beam for a duration of 15ms .",
    "hyperfine pumping of li to the lower state is performed by switching the repumping laser off during the last 50@xmath18s of the pulse . with this sequence",
    "we obtain a few 10@xmath31 li atoms in the lowest two spin states in the odt at a temperature of about 300@xmath18k .",
    "a li@xmath2k@xmath3 mixture can undergo rapid decay via spin relaxation if exoergic two - body collisions can take place that preserve the total projection quantum number @xmath32 .",
    "in such a process , @xmath33 the energy @xmath34 is released .",
    "whenever one of the species is in the absolute ground state , and the other one is in a low - lying state ( @xmath35 and @xmath5 or @xmath36 and @xmath4 ) , spin relaxation is strongly suppressed @xcite .",
    "since optical zeeman pumping does not lead to a perfect transfer of all k atoms into the lowest spin state , we exploit spin relaxation to fully spin polarize k into state @xmath23 .",
    "we investigated the conditions under which spin relaxation can be used for this purpose . in these measurements",
    "we apply only hyperfine pumping , but no zeeman pumping .",
    "we start with an almost equal mixture of li in its lowest two hyperfine states , @xmath23  and @xmath37 , trapped together with a population of k in all zeeman substates @xmath38 .",
    "( @xmath23 ) atom number , the filled circles are k@xmath23 .",
    "the two pronounced features that are visible at 40 g and 207 g are fitted by lorentzians to determine their positions and widths . ]",
    "we investigate the magnetic field dependence of the spin relaxation by holding the sample for 500ms at a variable magnetic field .",
    "the trap is operated under the same conditions as during trap loading , i.e. with a trap depth of 2.6mk for li and 5.5mk for k. the atom numbers are measured using spin - selective absorption images , which are always taken at a bias field of 1190 g @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : spinrelaxbfield ] shows the resulting atom numbers of li in states @xmath23  ( open squares ) and @xmath37  ( filled squares ) as well as k in state @xmath23  ( filled circles ) .",
    "two distinct peaks in the k@xmath23  atom number are visible at 40 g and 207 g and coincide with dips in the li@xmath37  atom number .",
    "these features are fitted with lorentzians to determine their positions and widths .",
    "the release energy @xmath34 at 40 g ( 207 g ) corresponds to 2.1mk ( 5.8mk ) . for an inelastic collision between two atoms with different masses , the resulting kinetic energy contributions are inversely proportional to the mass . for the @xmath0li-@xmath1k  combination , 87% of the released energy",
    "is transferred to the lighter li atoms ( mass @xmath39 ) and only 13% to the heavier k ( mass @xmath40 ) .",
    "a necessary condition for the trap depth @xmath41 under which a k atom stays confined is @xmath42 and analogously for @xmath43 .",
    "the mass factor along with the about two times larger trap depth for k explains why we observe loss of li atoms during the spin relaxation while k stays trapped .",
    "furthermore , a k atom in a zeeman level higher than @xmath37  will need multiple collisions with li@xmath37  in order to fully polarize .",
    "that explains why much more li@xmath37  is lost than k@xmath23  is gained during this process .    and k@xmath44 @xcite .",
    "also plotted is the lorentzian fit to the li@xmath37  loss feature from fig .",
    "[ fig : spinrelaxbfield ] for comparison . ]",
    "we interpret our data by comparing the position of the two spin relaxation features with the location of known interspecies feshbach resonances , since we expect enhanced inelastic loss close to a feshbach resonance  @xcite . as fig .",
    "[ fig : li2kswave ] shows , there is a series of @xmath45-wave feshbach resonances between li@xmath37  and k@xmath44 near the 207 g feature .",
    "the distribution of feshbach resonances coincides with the width of the observed spin relaxation feature .",
    "note that the experiment is performed at relatively high temperature causing considerable broadening of the feshbach resonances",
    ". therefore individual resonances can not be resolved .    for the feature of enhanced spin relaxation at 40 g",
    ", there are no interspecies @xmath45- or @xmath46-wave feshbach resonances and thus we can not explain it by means of scattering resonances .",
    "however , at low magnetic fields @xmath47 the release energy @xmath34 increases @xmath48 , which leads to a corresponding increase in the density of continuum states in the decay channel .",
    "we speculate that the corresponding threshold behavior may explain the increase at lower fields .",
    "then , already at a few ten gauss the nuclear spin of li decouples from the electron spin , which may lead to a reduction of loss .    in a second set of experiments",
    "we investigate the time scale on which spin relaxation occurs at the two relevant magnetic fields 40 g and 207 g . for both fields",
    "we find that the time scale for the process is 150ms and a steady state is essentially reached after 500ms .",
    "spin relaxation is a very efficient process that allows us to fully polarize our k sample without loss of k atoms . since initially much more li atoms are present in the trap , the li loss is a minor problem .",
    "the resulting imbalance of the two li spin states can be removed by driving radio - frequency ( rf ) transitions between the two states .",
    "a spin - mixture of li@xmath23  and li@xmath37  near the broad 834-g feshbach resonance  facilitates highly efficient evaporative cooling , as it is well known in the field of strongly interacting fermi gases @xcite .",
    "the efficiency of the cooling process is due to the very favorable combination of a large elastic scattering cross section with very low losses . in ref .",
    "@xcite we have already demonstrated the possibility of using the @xmath0li  spin - mixture as an efficient cooling agent to sympathetically cool another species . in this way we have demonstrated the attainment of a double - degenerate fermi - fermi mixture of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k .",
    "here we present additional information on the experimental procedures , and the combined evaporative and sympathetic cooling process .",
    "let us first summarize our main findings of ref .",
    "@xcite on the collisional stability of the three - component fermi gas of li in the lowest two spin states together with k in the lowest spin state .",
    "interspecies collisional loss is negligible on the bcs side of the broad li resonance ( @xmath49 g ) and quite weak even exactly on resonance ( 834 g ) . substantial loss , however , occurs on the bec side of the resonance in a range between about 650 and 800 g .",
    "the latter is a result of inelastic collisions between k atoms with weakly bound li dimers .",
    "consequently , the combined evaporation and sympathetic cooling process needs to be performed on the bcs side of the li resonance . for our experiments",
    "we choose a field of 1190 g . here",
    "the li scattering length is @xmath50 and the interspecies scattering length is about @xmath51 .        before starting the evaporation process , we carefully balance the population of the two spin states li@xmath23  and li@xmath37 .",
    "this is particularly important in cases when the spin relaxation stage has caused considerable losses in @xmath37 .",
    "the spin balance is accomplished by driving the rf transition @xmath52 using a series of 20 ramps over 10khz with a duration of 50ms each @xcite .",
    "this procedure is performed at 1190 g , where the li spin mixture is outside of the strongly interacting regime and interaction - induced rf line shifts are relatively small .",
    "note that the evaporation process is much more sensitive to a spin imbalance on the bcs side of the resonance than on the bec side of the resonance .",
    "the reason is that in the latter case the molecule formation can lead to a self - balancing of the spin population during evaporation @xcite .",
    "evaporation of the mixture is performed in the principal odt , beam 1 .",
    "the evaporation ramp consists of two stages , technically implemented in different ways . in the first stage ,",
    "we use a digital input of the laser control unit to reduce the odt power to about 15w .",
    "this ramp is linear and takes 1.5s . in a second stage , an acousto - optical modulator ( aom )",
    "is used to decrease the power in a nearly exponential ramp .",
    "the evaporation ramp is typically stopped after 6s when the laser power is 60mw . at this point",
    "the trap frequencies in the radial directions are 394hz for li and 219hz for k. in the axial direction the trap frequency is dominated by the magnetic confinement and is 27hz for li and 11hz for k.    the experimental data in fig .",
    "[ fig : evapbfield ] show the number of atoms remaining after the complete evaporation ramp for a magnetic field varied across the full tuning range offered by the li feshbach resonance .",
    "the data correspond to the observations of ref .",
    "@xcite , showing pronounced loss on the bec side of the li feshbach resonance  and large stability on its bcs side . in the high - field region between 950 g and 1250 g , where the li scattering length varies between @xmath53 and @xmath54",
    ", the magnetic field has no significant influence .        in order to analyze the cooling process",
    ", we stop the evaporation ramp at a variable endpoint and measure the number of li and k atoms .",
    "the measurements are performed by recapture into the mot and subsequent detection of the fluorescence intensity or , at lower power , by absorption imaging after release from the odt into free space .",
    "figure  [ fig : evaporationpower ] shows that the li atom number steadily decreases while the k cooling proceeds essentially without losses .",
    "note that the trap depth for k is a factor of 2.1 larger than for li .",
    "this changes at about 100mw , as the gravitational sag of k reduces the trap depth and we begin to see significant loss of k when further lowering the power of the odt .",
    "figure  [ fig : temp ] shows the temperature evolution of li and k in the last part of the evaporation ramp .",
    "we extract the li temperature by fitting a thomas - fermi profile to absorption images of the atomic cloud after time - of - flight .",
    "the k temperature is determined using a simple gaussian fit , as the sample here remains in the non - degenerate regime . throughout the whole evaporation the temperature of k lags behind the temperature of li .    at the end of an extended evaporation ramp , at a trap power of 40mw ,",
    "the radial trap frequencies for li ( k ) amounts to 320hz ( 160hz ) . in the axial direction the trap frequency is dominated by the magnetic confinement and is 27hz for li and 11hz for k. the fermi temperatures are calculated to be @xmath55nk for li and @xmath56nk for k. following the scheme we have presented in ref .",
    "@xcite , we continue cooling of the mixture by holding it in this shallow trap for 5s . this way we achieve a final k temperature of 50nk corresponding to a degeneracy of @xmath57 while li is deeply degenerate with @xmath58 .",
    "since li is the coolant of our evaporation scheme , we adjust the amount of k with which evaporation starts such that at the end of evaporation we have about ten times more atoms of li in each spin state than atoms in k@xmath23 .",
    "in this situation k can be used as a probe for the li mixture .",
    "one example of this idea has already been presented in ref .",
    "the measurement of the k temperature was used in order to get a firm upper bound for the temperature of the li bath even in the strongly interacting regime .",
    "this method was recently adopted to using @xmath59li as a probe in ref .",
    "the @xmath0li-@xmath1k  mixture offers several @xmath45-wave feshbach resonances in the range between 150 g and 200 g @xcite .",
    "all of them tend to be quite narrow , which is a common situation in cases of moderate values of the background scattering length @xcite .",
    "the broadest resonances were found for the channels li@xmath23k@xmath60 with widths between 1 g and 2 g @xcite .",
    "the energetically lowest channel li@xmath23k@xmath23 , which is of particular interest because of the energetic suppression of any two - body decay , features two resonances with calculated widths around 100 mg . in this work ,",
    "we focus on the resonance near 168 g .",
    "we show how a degenerate two - component li - k mixture can be prepared near this resonance after sympathetic cooling at high magnetic field and present measurements on inelastic and elastic properties of the mixture .",
    "-wave ( @xmath46-wave ) interspecies resonances .",
    "the li@xmath23  and li@xmath37  intraspecies @xmath46-wave resonances ( not shown ) are located at 160 g and 215 g respectively @xcite and nearly coincide with interspecies resonances . for the @xmath45-wave resonances ,",
    "the relative widths are indicated by the size of the symbols .",
    "state transfer , indicated by vertical dashed lines , is achieved by rf transitions .",
    "after the evaporation at 1190 g , the li@xmath37  population is removed by a resonant laser pulse , as indicated by the * x*. ]    when ramping down the magnetic field from its evaporation setting ( 1190 g ) to the interspecies resonances , one has to cross the region of the broad 834-g li@xmath23@xmath37  feshbach resonance .",
    "if this spin channel is populated , the formation of @xmath0li dimers inevitably leads to strong losses from the atomic sample . to avoid this problem",
    ", we remove one of the li spin components by the light pressure of a resonant laser pulse @xcite before starting the ramp .",
    "note that already the momentum kick from one photon is sufficient to push a li atom out of the shallow trap after evaporation .",
    "the pulse is applied for 10@xmath18s with a few times the saturation intensity .",
    "we find that at 1190 g the interaction between the two spin components is weak enough to avoid any significant effect on the population in the remaining spin state . in this way , we reduce the three - component fermi - fermi gas to a two - component mixture .    to approach a specific interspecies resonance ,",
    "it is also important to avoid the effect of other inter- and intraspecies resonances .",
    "we find that our ramps are fast enough ( ramp speed up to 20g / ms ) to cross all the @xmath46-wave resonances without any problem .",
    "however , we find substantial losses on the interspecies @xmath45-wave resonances , even on the weaker ones .",
    "this already points to efficient molecule association @xcite as we will discuss in sec .",
    "[ sec : molecules ] .    figure  [ fig : ramp2fbr ] illustrates the procedures applied to reach specific interspecies feshbach resonances . while it is straightforward to reach the 168-g resonance in the li@xmath23k@xmath23  channel by a fast ramp after removal of the state li@xmath37 , other resonances require more elaborate methods . as an example , we discuss the 155-g resonance in the li@xmath23k@xmath61  channel , which is of interest as one of the broadest resonances ( width between 0.5 and 1 g ) in the low - lying spin channels . here a possible way is to transfer the li atoms from @xmath23 to @xmath37 after ramping down the field to @xmath62200 g , thus converting the sample into a li@xmath37k@xmath23 mixture .",
    "this can be done with very high efficiency using rf transfer methods .",
    "then the ramp is continued down to a value close to 155 g and three subsequent rf transfers are applied to convert the population from li@xmath37k@xmath23  to li@xmath23k@xmath61 .",
    "this procedure avoids all detrimental resonances .",
    "analogous schemes can be applied to reach any other desired resonance .        in a set of experiments performed at the 168-g interspecies feshbach resonance  in the li@xmath23k@xmath23  channel",
    ", we investigate aspects of inelastic and elastic collisions .",
    "initially , we prepare about @xmath63 li atoms together with about @xmath64 k atoms at a temperature of about 300nk",
    ". the power of the trapping beam ( beam 1 ) is 170mw , corresponding to a radial ( axial ) trap frequency of 660hz ( 14hz ) for li . for",
    "k the trap frequencies are 375hz and 6hz respectively .",
    "the peak densities of the clouds are @xmath65@xmath66 and @xmath67@xmath66 and the degeneracies are @xmath68 and @xmath69 . note that these conditions are deliberately prepared with an incomplete evaporation ramp , stopped at 170mw instead of the usual final power of 60mw ( sec .",
    "[ sec : evaporation ] ) .    in the first series of measurements ,",
    "we ramp the magnetic field to a variable value and study the loss of atoms after a hold time of 5s . for detection",
    ", the remaining atoms are recaptured into the two - species mot and their fluorescence is recorded .",
    "the k atom number , normalized to the background value away from resonance , is plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : likfbrevap ] ( open squares ) .",
    "we observe a loss feature centered at 168.22 g .",
    "ramping across the feshbach resonance  does not lead to loss , indicating that the phase - space density used in these experiments is insufficient for adiabatic molecule creation during the magnetic field ramp .    in the second series of measurements , we investigate whether an effect of enhanced elastic collisions can be observed in evaporative cooling near the interspecies resonance .",
    "here we lower the power of beam 1 to 55mw within 3s , which results in a radial ( axial ) trap frequency of 375hz ( 14hz ) for li and 210hz ( 5hz ) for k. as before , the number of remaining atoms is determined by recapture into a mot and fluorescence detection .",
    "the corresponding data , plotted in fig .  [ fig : likfbrevap ] ( filled circles ) , show a pronounced asymmetry and thus a different behavior on the two sides of the feshbach resonance . on its high - field side ,",
    "corresponding to large negative scattering length , we observe a maximum in the recaptured atom number at 168.26 g .",
    "this signifies evaporative cooling with an enhanced elastic scattering cross section as compared to the background value . at lower fields",
    ", however , loss enhanced by the resonance dominates and leads to a minimum in atom number at 168.18 g .",
    "the loss properties on the two sides of the feshbach resonance are thus found to be strikingly different with more favorable conditions on the side of negative scattering length , where no weakly bound molecular state exists .",
    "-width of the loss feature ( indicated by the dotted lines ) is determined by fitting a gaussian to the experimental data and amounts to 33 mg . ]    to determine the resonance position more precisely , we prepare a sample with higher phase - space density than used for the previous sets of experiments . now both beams of the odt are used .",
    "beam 2 is held at a constant power of 250mw , corresponding to a trap depth of 1@xmath18k for li and 2.1@xmath18k for k. its purpose is to add confinement along the weak direction of beam 1 at the very end of evaporation .",
    "evaporation at 1190 g and the ramp to low magnetic field proceed as described above . for further cooling",
    ", we create a balanced mixture of li@xmath23  and @xmath37  at 170.5 g , using a sequence of rf sweeps .",
    "afterwards , beam 1 is ramped from a li trap depth of 1.9@xmath18k to 1.5@xmath18k during one second and the sample is left to thermalize for another second .",
    "then li@xmath37  is removed by a short pulse of resonant light . at this point",
    "the sample has a temperature of @xmath62200nk and contains about @xmath70 k atoms and @xmath71 li atoms . with the trap oscillation frequencies of axially 90hz ( 50hz ) , and radially 390hz",
    "( 210hz ) for li ( k ) , we calculate fermi temperatures of about 900nk for li and 270nk for k , corresponding to @xmath72 and @xmath73 .",
    "the k cloud has less than half the size of the li cloud . for both components the density in the center of the trap is about @xmath74@xmath66 .    under these deep cooling conditions ,",
    "we detect the fast atom loss as a function of the magnetic field . in order to approach the magnetic field value of interest without forming molecules ,",
    "k is transferred into state @xmath37  by an rf @xmath75-pulse prior to the magnetic field ramp . at the final field",
    ", k is transferred back to state @xmath23  by another @xmath75-pulse .",
    "after a hold time of 10ms , the remaining k atom number is measured .",
    "figure  [ fig : fastloss ] shows the corresponding data .",
    "we observe maximum loss of atoms centered at 168.217 g , with an estimated calibration uncertainty of 10 mg .",
    "here , we describe our basic methodology for molecule creation and detection ( sec .  [ sec : creationanddetectionschemes ] ) , present experimental results ( sec .  [ sec : experimentalresults ] ) and discuss our findings ( sec .",
    "[ sec : discussion ] ) .",
    ", across a feshbach resonance .",
    "transitions to higher atomic spin states are driven by rf pulses .",
    "atoms bound in a molecule are not affected because of the binding energy @xmath76 . ]",
    "the creation of the molecules starts with a li@xmath23k@xmath23  mixture under the same conditions as prepared for fig .",
    "[ fig : fastloss ] .",
    "the molecules are associated by a magnetic field ramp from 170.5 g to 168.19 g within 10ms , crossing the li@xmath23k@xmath23 168-g feshbach resonance  ( ramp speed 0.23g / ms ) .",
    "instantly after the ramp , the sample is released from the odt .",
    "selective imaging of molecules and remaining unpaired atoms is possible after transfer of the unpaired atoms to the states li@xmath37  and k@xmath37 .",
    "an rf @xmath75-pulse , tuned to the atomic @xmath23@xmath77@xmath37  transition , is used for this purpose @xcite ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : imagerf ] . atoms bound in lik molecules are not transferred to state @xmath37  if the molecular binding energy detunes the transition far enough from the free atom transition to be outside of the fourier spectrum of the rf pulse .",
    "this condition requires a detuning of 23khz for k , which is reached 9 mg below resonance according to the relative magnetic moment of the molecular state @xcite .",
    "the rf pulses are applied one after the other during the 0.4ms free expansion of the sample .",
    "state - selective absorption images are taken simultaneously on cycling transitions starting from the li@xmath23  and k@xmath23  states . this way , molecules are imaged directly .",
    "the resulting pictures are shown in the left - hand column of fig .",
    "[ fig : likmolecules ] @xcite . a second pair of images , this time of the unpaired atoms , which have been transferred to the @xmath37  states , is taken 1ms later and shown in the right - hand column of fig .",
    "[ fig : likmolecules ] @xcite .",
    "absorption imaging of the molecules gives lower boundaries @xmath78 and @xmath79 for the real molecule numbers @xmath80 and @xmath81 since the absorption cross section of atoms bound in lik molecules is somewhat smaller than the one of unpaired atoms .",
    "close to the feshbach resonance  the cross section is similar to the one of free atoms and decreases for increasing binding energy . the number of remaining unpaired atoms @xmath82 and @xmath83 can be obtained from the second pair of absorption images .    from k images ( top row of fig .  [",
    "fig : likmolecules ] ) we obtain @xmath84 and @xmath85 and from li images ( bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig : likmolecules ] ) @xmath86 and @xmath87 .",
    "the small cloud of k is immersed in a much larger degenerate li bath .",
    "the molecule conversion efficiency is therefore best characterized by the k conversion efficiency .",
    "a lower bound for the molecule fraction can be determined from k absorption images as @xmath88 ) . from the images shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : likmolecules ] we obtain @xmath89 .       in dependence of the final magnetic field value of the molecule association magnetic field ramp .",
    "molecules are detected for fields below 168.218 g .",
    "this field corresponds to the center of the loss feature shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fastloss ] , which is marked by the vertical solid line here .",
    "the dashed vertical lines mark the @xmath90-width of the loss feature and the horizontal dashed line marks a systematic offset . ]",
    "we now examine the molecule creation process and properties of the molecules in more detail .",
    "first , we determine the magnetic field value of the onset of molecule creation . for this , we perform experiments as the one just described , but we vary the endpoint of the magnetic field ramp , keeping the ramp duration fixed .",
    "the frequency of the rf pulse for the separation of free k atoms and lik molecules and the probe beam frequencies are adapted accordingly .",
    "the li rf pulse was not used in these experiments .",
    "figure  [ fig : conveff ] shows the lower bound for the molecule fraction @xmath91 .",
    "imperfect rf pulses lead to a 3% systematic offset in the data , indicated by the horizontal dashed line @xcite .",
    "it is found that the detected molecule fraction depends strongly on the endpoint of the magnetic field ramp .",
    "no molecules are detected down to a final field of 168.217 g .",
    "only 13 mg lower the maximum molecule fraction is observed .",
    "this magnetic field range corresponds well to the required detuning from resonance for our atom - molecule separation method to work , as discussed above . for lower fields the molecular signal drops again , first steeply down to about 168.19 g and then much slower . at about 167.5 g ( outside the range of the plotted data ) it becomes indiscernible from the background noise .",
    "the dependence of the detected molecule fraction on the field may have several reasons .",
    "it might be caused by the change in absorption cross section of the molecules with the magnetic field .",
    "the slow decrease away from resonance comes from loss of molecules as more time is spent between molecule association and detection .     in dependence on the hold time after the fast magnetic field ramp .",
    "the solid line is an exponential fit to the data , yielding a lifetime of 1.7ms . ]    within the measurement precision of a few mg the onset of molecule detection coincides with the center of the loss feature from fig .  [ fig : fastloss ] , marked by the solid vertical line in fig .",
    "[ fig : conveff ] .",
    "this observation is in accordance with the standard picture of molecule formation close to a feshbach resonance  @xcite .",
    "the maximum k molecule conversion efficiency extracted from this data is reached at 168.204 g and amounts to about 40% . a different method to determine",
    "the k molecule conversion efficiency is to examine the number of free k atoms at a magnetic field just above the onset of molecule production and just below 168.19 g . assuming all missing atoms have formed molecules , the molecule conversion efficiency is also determined to be 40% .",
    "the assumption that no molecules are lost is well justified since the time spent in the feshbach resonance  region during the magnetic field ramp to 168.19 g ( 120@xmath18s ) is short compared to the lifetime of the molecules .",
    "the lifetime of the lik molecules is determined by holding the sample after molecule creation for a varying time in the odt at a constant magnetic field of 168.204 g and measuring the molecule number afterwards .",
    "a fit to the decay of the molecule number gives a lifetime of 1.7ms ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : likdecay ] . this lifetime does not change if the remaining free li atoms are removed just after molecule creation by a resonant flash of light , indicating that the dominant loss mechanism does not involve free li atoms .",
    "we did not investigate the effect of unpaired k atoms on the molecule lifetime .",
    "-width of gaussian fits to integrated density profiles . ]    a striking manifestation of molecule formation can be observed by comparing the expansion behavior of clouds of lik molecules with the one of clouds of unpaired li atoms in imaging with li light . for this comparison",
    ", we record the expansion of the molecules and the remaining unpaired li atoms after a molecule association magnetic field ramp to 168.196 g ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : likmoltof ] .",
    "we find the average expansion velocity of molecules to be slower by a factor of 3.3 , as determined by fits to the expansion .",
    "we interpret this difference mainly as a result of the higher mass of the molecules compared to unpaired li atoms .",
    "it corresponds well to the expected velocity ratio of @xmath92 in the approximation of thermal clouds of equal temperature .",
    "this observation tells us that li atoms that remain in state @xmath23  after the @xmath75-pulse are bound to k atoms .      in our experiment ,",
    "molecule association is achieved in basically the same way as demonstrated in many other cold atom experiments before @xcite and our results agree well with the standard picture of molecule formation close to a feshbach resonance  @xcite .",
    "we observe that molecule association is most efficient in samples of high phase - space density and obtain a maximum molecular conversion efficiency for k of 40% .",
    "this conversion efficiency is typical for experiments employing the feshbach ramp technique . a monte carlo simulation based on the method presented in ref .",
    "@xcite agrees with our results , giving a conversion efficiency of about 50% for k.",
    "the lifetime of our molecules is quite short , only 1.7ms .",
    "because of this , it would be technically challenging to observe the standard signature of molecule association , which is the reduction of the absorption imaging signal when ramping to the molecular side of the feshbach resonance  and the recovery of the signal after ramping back .",
    "our rf state separation detection technique , which allows to obtain images of molecules less than 0.1ms after molecule association , overcomes this detection problem .",
    "the li@xmath23k@xmath23 molecule lifetime that we measure is much shorter than typical lifetimes of li@xmath23k@xmath61 molecules that were measured by the munich group @xcite .",
    "presently , we do not know whether the different spin channels and therefore the different feshbach resonances used for molecule association can explain the different lifetimes .",
    "there are also other possible , more technical reasons , which we presently can not rule out .",
    "one possibility , which needs further investigation , is the loss of molecules because of the absorption of photons from the broad spectrum of the multi - mode fiber laser used for the odt @xcite .",
    "we have presented an all - optical evaporative and sympathetic cooling scheme for the preparation of a double degenerate @xmath0li-@xmath1k fermi - fermi mixture .",
    "we have also shown the general methodology to prepare the sample close to specific interspecies feshbach resonances . as a first application",
    ", we have demonstrated the formation of fermi - fermi heteronuclear molecules and we have examined the molecule association process and some properties of the molecules .    with the basic tools at hand , we are now in the position for the next steps towards our main goal of realizing strongly interacting regimes in the fermi - fermi mixture .",
    "since the available feshbach resonances are quite narrow this requires precise knowledge of the exact resonance position and the magnetic - field dependent elastic and inelastic interaction properties . we are currently inspecting the relatively broad 155-g resonance in the li|1>-k|3 > channel as a promising candidate , for which we experimentally find a width of about 800 mg @xcite .",
    "strongly interacting conditions generally require a scattering length exceeding the interparticle spacing . under our typical experimental conditions",
    "this would be realized with a magnetic detuning below 10 mg , which is experimentally feasible .",
    "we want to thank paul julienne for fruitful discussions and support on the theoretical understanding of the interspecies scattering properties , tobias tiecke for the calculated feshbach resonance positions displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : li2kswave ] , christoph kohstall for useful comments on the manuscript , and clarice aiello for contributions to the experimental set - up .",
    "this work is supported by the austrian science fund ( fwf ) and the european science foundation ( esf ) within the euroquam / fermix project and by the fwf through the sfb foqus .",
    "three pairs of magnetic field coils are present in the setup : a pair of high - current , large - diameter coils , which we call feshbach coils , a smaller - diameter pair of high - current coils , which we call curvature coils , and a third , low - current , low inductance pair of coils , which we call fast coils . normally , the currents in all coils circulate in the same direction . to achieve a quadrupole field configuration for mot operation",
    ", the direction of current in one coil of the feshbach coil pair and one coil of the curvature coil pair can be reversed using mechanical relays . in the normal configuration ,",
    "the feshbach coils are in helmholtz configuration and give a very homogeneous bias field near the trap center of up to 3000 g . the curvature coils exhibit a magnetic field curvature , which gives rise to an additional contribution to the trapping potential @xcite . with the current used during evaporation , the curvature coils give a homogeneous bias field of 600 g and a magnetic field curvature of 27g / cm@xmath25 along the axial direction of the dipole trap beams ( perpendicular to the symmetry axis of the coils ) .",
    "this curvature gives rise to a magnetic confinement corresponding to trap frequencies of 27hz for li and 10hz for k. when working at bias fields between 150 g and 170 g , where the interspecies feshbach resonances are , the curvature coils provide a magnetic confinement corresponding to 13hz for li and 5hz for k.    when high magnetic field - stability is needed , we make use of a battery - powered current supply . since the interspecies feshbach resonances are very narrow , it is necessary to control the magnetic field with very high precision . passive stabilization methods ,",
    "not employing any shielding , lead to a stability of about 10 mg peak - to - peak over a 50hz cycle . by synchronizing the experimental sequence to line , we achieve a magnetic field stability of a few mg for times on the order of one ms , which is much larger than the typical duration of rf @xmath75-pulses we use for internal state transfer .",
    "magnetic field values are calibrated using rf transitions .    for probing the interspecies resonances we make use of the fast coils , which have helmholtz configuration .",
    "using these coils we make precise magnetic field ramps of up to 3 g in about 0.1ms .",
    "this response time of the magnetic field was characterized by measuring the change in frequency of an atomic rf transition with time after a step change of the current . the response time is not limited by the speed of change of the current through the coil , but by eddy currents ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the essential experimental steps of our all - optical approach to prepare a double - degenerate fermi - fermi mixture of @xmath0li  and @xmath1k  atoms , which then serves as a starting point for molecule formation . </S>",
    "<S> we first describe the optimized trap loading procedures , the internal - state preparation of the sample , and the combined evaporative and sympathetic cooling process . </S>",
    "<S> we then discuss the preparation of the sample near an interspecies feshbach resonance , and we demonstrate the formation of heteronuclear molecules by a magnetic field ramp across the resonance . </S>"
  ]
}