{
  "article_text": [
    "despite a significant progress in theoretical and computational homogenization methods , material characterization techniques and computational resources , the determination of overall response of structural textile composites still remains an active research topic in engineering materials science  @xcite . from a myriad of modeling techniques developed in the last decades  ( see e.g. review papers  @xcite ) , it is generally accepted that detailed discretization techniques , and the finite element method  ( fem ) in particular , remain the most powerful and flexible tools available .",
    "the major weakness of these methods , however , is the fact that their accuracy crucially depends on a detailed specification of the complex microstructure of a three - dimensional composite , usually based on two - dimensional micrographs of material samples , e.g.  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and reference therein ) .",
    "such a step is to a great extent complicated by _ random _ imperfections resulting from technological operations  @xcite , which are difficult to be incorporated to a computational model in a well - defined way .",
    "if only the overall , or macroscopic , response is the important physical variable , it is sufficient to introduce structural imperfections in a cumulative sense using available averaging schemes such as voight / reuss bounds  @xcite or the mori - tanaka method  @xcite .",
    "when , on the other hand , details of local stress and strain fields are required , it is convenient to characterize the mesoscopic material heterogeneity by introducing the concept of a periodic unit cell  ( puc ) .",
    "while application of pucs in problems of strictly periodic media has a rich history , their introduction in the field of random or imperfect microstructures is still very much on the frontier , despite the fact that the roots for incorporating basic features of random microstructures into the formulation of a puc were planted already in mid 1990s in  @xcite .",
    "additional extension presented in  @xcite , see also our work  @xcite for an overview , gave then rise to what we now call the concept of statistically equivalent periodic unit cell  ( sepuc ) .",
    "in contrast with traditional approaches , where parameters of the unit cell model are directly measured from available material samples , the sepuc approach is based on their statistical characterization . in particular , the procedure involves three basic steps  @xcite :    * to capture the essential features of the heterogeneity pattern , the microstructure is characterized using appropriate statistical descriptors .",
    "such data are essentially the only input needed for the determination of a unit cell . * a geometrical model of a unit cell",
    "is formulated and its key parameters are postulated .",
    "definition of a suitable unit cell model is a modeling assumption made by a user , which sets the predictive capacities of sepuc for an analyzed material system .",
    "* parameters of the unit cell model are determined by matching the statistics of the complex microstructure and an idealized model , respectively . due to multi - modal character of the objective function ,",
    "soft - computing global optimization algorithms are usually employed to solve the associated problem .",
    "it should be emphasized that the introduced concept is strictly based on geometrical description of random media and as such it is closely related to previous works on random media reconstruction , in particular to the yeong - torquato algorithm presented in  @xcite .",
    "such an approach is fully generic , i.e. independent of a physical theory used to model the material response .",
    "if needed , additional details related to the simulation goals can be incorporated into the procedure without major difficulties , e.g.  @xcite , but of course at the expense of computational complexity and the loss of its generality .    in the previous work",
    "@xcite , the authors studied the applicability of the sepuc concept for the construction of a single - layer unit cell reflecting selected imperfections typical of textile composites . a detailed numerical studies , based on both microstructural criteria and homogenized properties , revealed that while a single - ply unit cell can take into account non - uniform layer widths and tow undulation , it fails to characterize inter - layer shift and nesting . here ,",
    "we propose an extension of the original model allowing us to address such imperfections , which have a strong influence on the overall response of textile composites  @xcite .",
    "a brief summary of the procedure for the determination of the two - ply sepuc for woven composites is given in  section  [ sec : sepuc ] .",
    "such extensions , however , are hardly sufficient particularly in view of a relatively high intrinsic porosity of carbon - carbon  ( c / c ) composites , which are in the center of our current research efforts .",
    "it has been demonstrated in our previous work  @xcite that unless this subject is properly addressed inadequate results are obtained , regardless of how `` exact '' the geometrical details of the meso - structure are represented by the computational model .",
    "unfortunately , the complexity of the porous phase seen also in  [ fig : meso_porosity ] requires some approximations .",
    "while densely packed transverse cracks affect the homogenized properties of the fiber tow through a hierarchical application of the mori - tanaka averaging scheme  @xcite , large inter - tow vacuoles ( crimp voids ) , attributed to both insufficient impregnation and thermal treatment , are introduced directly into the originally void - free sepuc in a discrete manner .",
    "not only microstructural details but also properties of individual composite constituents have a direct impact on the quality of numerical predictions .",
    "information supplied by manufacturers are , however , often insufficient . moreover , the carbon matrix of the composite has properties dependent on particular manufacturing parameters such as the magnitude and durations of the applied temperature and pressure .",
    "experimental derivation of some of the parameters is therefore needed . in connection with the elastic properties of the fiber and matrix ,",
    "the nanoindentation tests performed directly on the composite are discussed in  section  [ sec : experiment ] together with the determination of the necessary microstructural parameters mentioned already in the previous paragraphs .    still , most of the work presented in this paper is computational .",
    "in particular , a brief summary of the procedure for the determination of the two - ply sepuc for woven composites is given in  section  [ sec : sepuc ] .",
    "section  [ sec : examples ] is then reserved for the validation of the extracted geometrical and material parameters . to that end",
    ", the heat conduction and classical elasticity homogenization problems are validated against available experimental measurements .",
    "the concluding remarks and future extensions are presented in  section  [ sec : conclusion ] .",
    "as already stated in the introductory part , much of the considered here is primarily computational .",
    "however , no numerical predictions can be certified if not supported by proper experimental data  @xcite .",
    "the objective of the experimental program in the context of the present study is twofold .",
    "first , reliable geometrical data for the construction of the unit cell and material parameters of both the carbon fibers and carbon matrix for the prediction of effective properties are needed . since still derived on the basis of various assumptions , these results must be next confirmed experimentally to acquire real predictive power .    considering the mesoscopic complexity of c / c composites , the supportive role of experiments is assumed to have the following four components :    * two - dimensional image analysis providing binary bitmaps of the composite further exploited in the derivation of two - layer sepuc * x - ray tomography yielding a three - dimensional map of distribution , shape and volume fraction of major pores to be introduced into a void - free sepuc .",
    "* nanoindentation tests supplying the local material parameters which either depend on the manufacturing process or are not disclosed by the producer .    for the above purposes a carbon - polymer  ( c / p ) laminated plate was first manufactured by molding together eight layers of carbon fabric hexcel g  1169 composed of carbon multifilament torayca t 800 hb and impregnated by phenolic resin umaform le .",
    "a set of twenty specimens having dimensions @xmath0  mm were then cut out of the laminate and subjected to further treatment ( carbonization @xmath1 at 1000@xmath2c , reimpregnation @xmath3 , recarbonization , second reimpregnation and final graphitization @xmath4 at 2200@xmath5c @xmath6 ) to create the c / c composite , see  [ fig : scanned_structure ] for an illustration and @xcite for more details .",
    "the reported specimens were then fixed into the epoxy resin and subject to curing procedure . in the last step ,",
    "the specimen was subjected to final surface grounding and polishing using standard metallographic techniques .    [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "the financial support provided by the gar grants no .",
    "106/07/1244 and no .",
    "106/08/1379 and partially also by the research project cez  msm  6840770003 is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "we extend our personal thanks to dr .",
    "dieter h. pahr from the technical university of vienna for providing the x - ray images and to dr .",
    "ji nmeek from the czech technical university in prague for providing the results from nanoindentation tests .",
    "j.  zeman , m.  ejnoha , homogenization of balanced plain weave composites with imperfect microstructure : part i  theoretical formulation , international journal of solids and structures 41  ( 22 - 23 ) ( 2004 ) 65496571 .          s.  v. lomov , d.  s. ivanov , i.  verpoest , m.  zako , t.  kurashiki , h.  nakai , s.  hirosawa , meso - fe modelling of textile composites : road map , data flow and algorithms , composites science and technology 67  ( 9 ) ( 2007 ) 18701891 .",
    "g.  hivet , p.  boisse , consistent 3d geometrical model of fabric elementary cell .",
    "application to a meshing preprocessor for 3d finite element analysis , finite elements in analysis and design 42  ( 1 ) ( 2005 ) 2549 .",
    "j.  skoek , j.  zeman , m.  ejnoha , effective properties of textile composites : application of the mori - tanaka method , modelling and simulation in materials science and engineering 16  ( 8) ( 2008 ) 085002 ( 15pp ) . http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4166 [ ] .",
    "h.  kumar , c.  briant , w.  curtin , using microstructure reconstruction to model mechanical behavior in complex microstructures , mechanics of materials 38  ( 810 ) ( 2006 ) 818832 , special issue on `` advances in disordered materials '' .",
    "b.  tomkov , m.  ejnoha , j.  novk , j.  zeman , evaluation of effective thermal conductivities of porous textile composites , international journal for multiscale computational engineering 6(2 ) ( 2008 ) 153168 . http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3028 [ ] .",
    "j.  vorel , m.  ejnoha , evaluation of homogenized thermal conductivities of imperfect carbon - carbon textile composites using the mori - tanaka method , structural engineering and mechanics 33  ( 4 ) ( 2009 ) 429446 . http://arxiv.org/abs/0809.5162 [ ] .",
    "l.  p. djukic , i.  herszberg , w.  r. walsh , g.  a. schoeppner , b.  gangadhara  prusty , d.  w. kelly , contrast enhancement in visualisation of woven composite tow architecture using a microct scanner .",
    "part 1 : fabric coating and resin additives , composites part a : applied science and manufacturing 40  ( 5 ) ( 2009 ) 553565 .",
    "l.  p. djukic , i.  herszberg , w.  r. walsh , g.  a. schoeppner , b.  gangadhara  prusty , contrast enhancement in visualisation of woven composite architecture using a microct scanner .",
    "part 2 : tow and preform coatings , composites part a : applied science and manufacturing 40  ( 12 ) ( 2009 ) 18701879 .",
    "b.  collins , k.  matou , d.  rypl , three - dimensional reconstruction of statistically optimal unit cells of multimodal particulate composites , international journal for multiscale computational engineering , in presshttp://www.nd.edu/~kmatous / papers / ijmce_recon3d.pdf .",
    "k.  matou , m.  lep , j.  zeman , m.  ejnoha , applying genetic algorithms to selected topics commonly encountered in engineering practice , computer methods in applied mechanics and engineering 190  ( 1314 ) ( 2000 ) 16291650 .",
    "m.  s. talukdar , o.  torsaeter , reconstruction of chalk pore networks from 2d backscatter electron micrographs using a simulated annealing technique , journal of petroleum science and engineering 33  ( 4 ) ( 2002 ) 265282 .",
    "j.  c. michel , h.  moulinec , p.  suquet , effective properties of composite materials with periodic microstructure : a computational approach , computer methods in applied mechanics and engineering 172 ( 1999 ) 109143 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a two - layer statistically equivalent periodic unit cell is offered to predict a macroscopic response of plain weave multilayer carbon - carbon textile composites . </S>",
    "<S> falling - short in describing the most typical geometrical imperfections of these material systems the original formulation presented in  @xcite is substantially modified , now allowing for nesting and mutual shift of individual layers of textile fabric in all three directions . yet </S>",
    "<S> , the most valuable asset of the present formulation is seen in the possibility of reflecting the influence of negligible meso - scale porosity through a system of oblate spheroidal voids introduced in between the two layers of the unit cell . </S>",
    "<S> numerical predictions of both the effective thermal conductivities and elastic stiffnesses and their comparison with available laboratory data and the results derived using the mori - tanaka  ( mt ) averaging scheme support credibility of the present approach , about as much as the reliability of local mechanical properties found from nanoindentation tests performed directly on the analyzed composite samples .    balanced woven composites , material imperfections , statistically equivalent periodic unit cell , image processing , x - ray microtomography , nanoindentation , soft computing , numerical homogenization , steady - state heat conduction </S>"
  ]
}