{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , strong gravitational lensing by galaxy clusters has been used to investigate cosmological problems and to improve our understanding of cluster physics .",
    "strong lensing can manifest itself as highly non - linear distortions of light from background galaxies ( giant arcs ) and observational searches have revealed many spectacular examples around both optically - selected and x - ray - selected clusters ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "it has been found that the strong lensing properties of clusters depend on myriad physics - including the cosmological parameters , halo substructure and baryonic physics .",
    "strong lensing is hence a good technique to investigate both cosmology and cluster physics .",
    "the frequency of giant arcs around galaxy clusters is sensitive to the cosmological model .",
    "using dark matter simulations , @xcite ( henceforth b98 ) found that in @xmath3cdm the number of giant arcs is a factor of 5 - 10 lower than in observations .",
    "this disparity arises either because our cosmological model is incorrect or , more likely , that some aspects of the modeling of the source or lens populations are incorrect , for example that we are missing crucial physics from our cluster simulations .",
    "a substantial body of work has investigated this latter point , using increasingly sophisticated simulations in order to reconcile predictions with observations .",
    "there have been a number of papers investigating the strong - lensing properties of dark matter - only clusters ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the earliest analytic work focused on spherically symmetric cluster models , but it has been demonstrated that halo triaxiality has a strong impact on arc production e.g. by @xcite , who used semi - analytic models , and in a complementary analysis by @xcite who analysed a simulated cluster sample .",
    "other papers have also considered the impact of baryonic physics , in particular models including gas with cooling and star formation , and cluster galaxies .",
    "baryons can have a significant impact on the central regions of galaxy clusters , and since it is precisely this region that is important in arc production , one would expect the abundance of giant arcs to be sensitive to the baryonic physics of the cluster .",
    "@xcite , @xcite and @xcite found that the addition of baryons to cluster simulations increases the lensing cross - section by factors of a few .",
    "of the cluster galaxies , only the central cd galaxy makes a non - negligible contribution to the strong lensing properties , increasing cross - section by up to 50% @xcite .",
    "the baryonic cluster simulations which have been used to date in the prediction of lensing cross - sections suffer from significant over - cooling , with much higher stellar fractions than observed ( see the discussion in e.g. @xcite , @xcite and @xcite ) . in the absence of heating , the central regions of clusters cool faster than the outer regions , causing gas to flow inward in a quasi - hydrostatic cooling flow ; this would result in a large quantity of cold gas in the central regions of clusters , a high star formation rate , and extremely luminous central galaxies .",
    "however , this is at odds with both observations of clusters , which do not show such strong cooling flows , and also of brightest cluster galaxies ( bcgs ) that tend to have evolved , red , stellar populations .",
    "there is compelling evidence from observational and theoretical work that the agn feedback processes that accompany the accretion of gas onto supermassive black holes - residing in most galaxies - provide a heating mechanism that prevents over - cooling , bringing physical models of clusters more into line with observations ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "it is well established that strong lensing cross - sections can be used to probe the central density profiles of clusters - steeper slopes of inner density profiles enhance arc production capability , e.g. @xcite .",
    "@xcite investigated the effects of cluster mergers on the strong lensing cross - section , finding that during a merger the cross - section can be amplified by up to an order of magnitude .",
    "the cross - section for strong lensing can also be boosted by as much as 50% for lower mass clusters by line - of - sight structure @xcite .",
    "an additional factor that can affect the cross - section are the properties of the background galaxies themselves , such as their redshift distribution , size , shape and clustering , e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite .",
    "departures from @xmath3cdm have also been invoked to reconcile the observed abundance of arcs with the value of @xmath4 ( @xmath5 ) consistent with cosmic shear surveys and cmb observations from wmap .",
    "for example , @xcite consider early dark energy ( ede ) cosmologies , where there is significant dark energy even at very early epochs , unlike the case of @xmath3cdm or many simple quintessence models .",
    "their analytic predictions suggest that non - linear structure formation can be substantially enhanced beyond that of @xmath3cdm .",
    "@xcite suggest that ede has a significant impact on the statistics of giant arcs , bringing predictions and observations into closer agreement .",
    "more recently , @xcite and @xcite carried out the first studies of non - linear structure formation in ede models using n - body simulations , finding its impact to be much more difficult to detect observationally than implied by analytic models .",
    "there has also been interest in the effects of baryonic physics on the weak lensing properties of clusters .",
    "future large surveys , such as the dark energy survey ( des ; https://www.darkenergysurvey.org/ ) will measure the matter power spectrum with unprecedented precision , also allowing stringent constraints to be placed on the properties of dark energy @xcite .",
    "studies by , for example , @xcite and @xcite , have indicated that the inclusion of baryonic physics can have a significant effect on the weak lensing properties of clusters , and hence would significantly alter the predictions for the matter power spectrum relative to those simulations which include only dark matter .",
    "it is essential to understand the impact that baryonic physics and agn feedback might have on the gravitational lensing properties of galaxy clusters in order to calibrate constraints on their physical properties , and fully exploit their potential as cosmological probes .",
    "this is important both for the interpretation of existing data , and to prepare for upcoming large surveys such as des . in this paper",
    "we seek to extend the picture of cluster lensing by investigating the influence of agn feedback on the lensing properties of numerically simulated clusters .",
    "we use recent state - of - the - art simulations from @xcite that incorporate the growth of black holes ( bhs ) and corresponding feedback processes using the prescription detailed in @xcite .",
    "these are the first cosmological simulations of clusters to incorporate agn feedback self - consistently .",
    "we use these simulations to demonstrate the impact that realistic modelling of agn physics can have on cluster lensing results .    throughout this paper a @xmath3cdm cosmology with parameters @xmath6 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 is adopted .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "the cluster simulations that are used are described .",
    "the numerical methods for the creation of synthetic arcs using strong lensing ray - tracing through the simulated clusters , and the generation of weak lensing catalogues are outlined in section 3 .",
    "the impact of baryonic physics on the strong - lensing and weak - lensing properties of the clusters are presented in section 4 and in section 5 respectively . finally , in section 6 the significance of our findings in the context of previous work is discussed .",
    "we consider the gravitational lensing properties of five galaxy clusters at @xmath9 with virial masses in the range @xmath10 , each with three types of physics : dark - matter only ( dm ) , dark matter with gas , cooling and star formation ( csf ) and the latter with added agn feedback ( csfbh ) .",
    "the mass range was chosen to be large enough to investigate any strong mass dependence of lensing properties on baryonic physics .",
    "the virial masses and radii of these clusters are summarised in table [ clustertable ] . the virial mass and radius",
    "are taken to be equivalent to @xmath11 and @xmath12 , defined by the mass enclosed inside the radius within which the mass density is 200 times that of the critical density of the universe at the redshift of the cluster . note that in table 1 , clusters are designated c1-c5 in order of increasing @xmath11 with respect to the background density .",
    "the cluster sample is taken from @xcite , in which the simulations are based on the numerical prescription described in @xcite .",
    "@xcite selected clusters from the dark - matter - only millennium simulation @xcite , and performed a number of re - simulations that incorporated baryonic physics with and without agn feedback .",
    "dm clusters that are used in this paper were not already available at as high a resolution as the csf and csfbh runs , so these were re - simulated using the same process as in @xcite ( summarised in section [ resim ] ) . in section [ code ]",
    "we recap on the numerical code , and in section [ bhmodel ] the black hole model is discussed in more depth .",
    "c c c cluster & @xmath11 & @xmath12 + & @xmath13 & ( mpc ) + [ 0.5ex ] c1 & 1.5 & 0.88 + c2 & 2.1 & 1.00 + c3 & 4.2 & 1.25 + c4 & 3.1 & 1.13 + c5 & 7.4 & 1.50 + [ 1ex ]    [ clustertable ]      the re - simulations were performed by selecting the lagrangian region of the target halo and then populating it with a larger number of lower mass particles , adding small - scale power up to the new nyquist frequency . at larger distances outside this high - resolution region ,",
    "increasingly more massive particles were used , ensuring that the gravitational tidal field acting on the high resolution region is accurately represented . for the simulations with gas , each high - resolution dark matter particle is split into a dark matter particle and a gas particle , displacing them by half of the original mean inter - particle separation .",
    "the centre of mass of each pair is fixed .",
    "the simulation of the cluster sample in @xcite follows the same prescription as in @xcite and readers are referred to this paper for more details on the simulation and black hole ( bh ) model .",
    "the tree - sph code gadget-3 is used ( based on @xcite ) , which includes gravity and non - radiative hydrodynamics of dark matter and gas components , and also follows radiative cooling and heating of an optically thin plasma of hydrogen and helium . a sub - resolution multiphase model for star formation and",
    "the associated supernova feedback was adopted @xcite . the growth and feedback processes of a population of bhs embedded in the simulations were self - consistently followed , and this process is described in section [ bhmodel ] .",
    "in the simulations , bhs are represented as collisionless sink particles which can accrete gas from their surroundings .",
    "any halo above a threshold mass of @xmath14 is seeded with a bh of mass @xmath15 , if it does not contain a bh already .",
    "the growth of this bh population through accretion is then followed .",
    "the accretion rate of the bh particles follows the spherically symmetric bondi - hoyle - lyttleton model ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) :    @xmath16    where @xmath17 is a dimensionless parameter ( @xmath18 in the simulations we use ) , @xmath19 is the density , @xmath20 is the sound speed of the gas and @xmath21 is the velocity of the bh relative to the gas . in the model ,",
    "the upper limit of the bh accretion rate is given by the eddington rate .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     the concentrations and virial radii resulting from this analysis are given in table [ table : nfwparams ] . in clusters",
    "c1 and c3 , the effect of agn feedback is to significantly reduce the concentration from the csf case . in the other clusters ,",
    "the concentration has still been reduced by the inclusion of agn feedback , but not as significantly ( insofar as the error bars on @xmath22 for the two types of physics overlap ) . in contrast , in all the clusters",
    ", the concentrations of the dm clusters are only just below those of the csfbh clusters .",
    "the high concentrations observed for the csf case are due to the very steep inner density profile of csf clusters - galaxies closer to the cluster centre contribute comparatively more to the likelihood and thus the mcmc algorithm attempts to fit an nfw to this very steep inner density region which leads to inflated concentrations .",
    "as shown in fig.[nfwfit ] , as is to be expected , the nfw profile is a very poor fit to csf clusters , due to the large central density spike .",
    "the nfw is a better fit to the csfbh clusters but is still unable to reproduce the density profile in the inner regions of the cluster . at larger radii ,",
    "the csfbh and dm profiles converge , at a location dependent on the properties of the cluster . for the more massive clusters that would in practice be studied individually with weak gravitational lensing , that the @xmath22 and @xmath12 values are comparable for the csfbh and dm simulations bodes well for the study of such dark matter profiles using weak lensing .    in general",
    ", we expect the concentration of the halo to rise as halo mass decreases , and this general trend is observed , with the exception of cluster c3 . as noted earlier , in this cluster several dark matter clumps are merging at the cluster centre , and this will reduce the concentration measured using a weak - lensing analysis when fitting a single nfw profile to the entire mass profile .      the nfw models that we fit to the shear data above are circularly symmetric , and it is clear from fig .",
    "[ kappamaps ] that this assumption of symmetry does not hold for many of the projections .",
    "it is also possible to use the simulated weak lensing data to perform non - parametric mass reconstructions of the clusters , which provides complementary information on the detailed structure of the clusters .",
    "non - parametric mass reconstructions use a statistical analysis of many weakly lensed galaxies to identify over - densities in the mass distribution . in this paper",
    ", we perform finite - field reconstructions using the algorithm of @xcite .    in fig.[massrecs ]",
    "we show mass reconstructions of c5 simulated with csf , csfbh and dm . from the figure",
    "we see that the csfbh and dm clusters are virtually indistinguishable in the mass reconstructions .",
    "the csf cluster shows a higher central density peak in the reconstruction , as expected .",
    "in this paper we have investigated the impact of baryonic physics , in particular agn feedback , on the strong - lensing cross - section of a sample of five simulated clusters .",
    "we have also briefly considered their weak - lensing properties .    using the cluster simulations of @xcite , the first high - resolution cosmological simulations to include a self - consistent prescription of bh formation and agn feedback , we have simulated gravitational lensing by clusters with three different physical prescriptions ,    * dark - matter only ( dm ) * cooling and star formation ( csf ) * the above plus agn feedback ( csfbh )    we have demonstrated that the inclusion of agn physics can have a large impact on the lensing properties of clusters by both reducing the strong - lensing cross - section relative to csf physics , and altering the concentrations measured in a weak - lensing analysis .",
    "the principle conclusions of this paper are as follows :    * inclusion of baryonic physics can have a dramatic impact on the strong lensing properties of simulated clusters . in csf simulations",
    "we find that the boost in cross - section relative to dm clusters can be significant - our most massive cluster is boosted by a factor of 2 - 3 .",
    "the boost is caused by the steepening of the density profile , due to an excess of stars at the cluster centre .",
    "* we have demonstrated that with the inclusion of agn feedback , the boost in the cross - section over dm clusters is significantly attenuated relative to those simulations which include only cooling and star formation ( csf ) . for all but the most massive cluster ( c5 ) , where it should be noted that feedback is likely under - predicted , the csfbh and dm cross - sections are similar . even for cluster c5 ,",
    "the csfbh cross - section is @xmath23 times greater than the dm cross - section . *",
    "the agn feedback suppresses the build - up of stars and gas in the central regions of clusters , ensuring that the csfbh inner density slope is shallower than in csf haloes - this leads to a reduction in the cross - section .",
    "the results show some indication for mass dependence of the effect - in more massive clusters the csf cross - section exceeds the csfbh cross - section by more , whilst the ratio of csfbh to dm is approximately constant . to fully investigate this interesting result",
    ", a larger sample of clusters is required .",
    "* we have shown that baryonic physics can have a measurable effect on weak lensing results .",
    "the nfw profile is , as expected , a poor fit to csf clusters and is not an ideal fit to csfbh clusters either . due to the large central density spike of the csf clusters , measured concentrations",
    "can be higher than for the csfbh and dm clusters .",
    "in the mass reconstructions a similar effect is encountered - we see evidence for a prominent central density ` spike ' in the csf case .",
    "this work has direct implications for the use of clusters in cosmological parameter estimation .",
    "arc abundance is highly sensitive to baryonic physics , making small samples of clusters difficult to use as a tool for precision cosmology .",
    "rather , for small samples , using lensing to probe cluster properties is a much more fruitful endeavour . in this paper",
    "we have demonstrated the sensitivity of cluster lensing properties to the baryonic physics of the cluster , and so if we wish to compare observed arc abundances to those in simulations , we must ensure that the baryons are simulated as accurately as possible .",
    "this has important consequences for the interpretation of data from large upcoming surveys .",
    "the observational prospects for studies of galaxy clusters are bright : for example des will contain @xmath24 clusters with mass in excess of @xmath25m@xmath26 , up to @xmath27 of which could contain strongly lensed arcs .",
    "this will also allow for much larger , homogeneously selected , samples of arcs to be obtained .    aside from the giant arc cross - section considered here , as can be seen from fig.[clumag ] the dm - only clusters show less substructure than the clusters with baryons , in particular those without agn feedback .",
    "this will influence the appearance of giant arcs that are formed , but also increase the cross - section for the production of smaller separation multiple images by structure outside the critical region of the cluster itself @xcite .",
    "our key finding is that with the inclusion of agn feedback , the addition of baryons to dark - matter haloes boosts the cross - section for the production of arcs by less than previously thought .",
    "clusters simulated with agn feedback have strong lensing cross - sections that are comparable to those simulated with dark matter only .",
    "the inclusion of baryonic physics alone can not be invoked as a means to increase the arc abundance much beyond that predicted in dm simulations .",
    "however , baryonic physics is just one part of a larger physical picture , and a realistic comparison with observed arc abundances would require not only simulation of agn feedback , but also a realistic source population and the inclusion of large scale structure .",
    "this is a topic for future work .",
    "jmgm thanks stfc for a postgraduate award , ljk thanks the royal society for a university research fellowship , ds thanks stfc for a postdoctoral fellowship , i m thanks the kavli foundation for a fellowship and al thanks stfc for a dorothy hodgkin postgraduate award .",
    "part of the cluster simulations were performed on the cambridge high performance computing cluster darwin in cambridge ( http://www.hpc.cam.ac.uk ) .",
    "we would like to thank antony lewis for many helpful discussions , and volker springel for reading the manuscript .",
    "we would like to thank the referee for helpful suggestions that have greatly improved this manuscript .",
    "we would also like to thank stuart rankin for his assistance with darwin .",
    "the convergence can be written in terms of a dimensionless radial coordinate @xmath28 thus ,                      99 albrecht a. et al . , 2006 , astro - ph/0609591 balogh m.l . , pearce f.r .",
    ", bower r.g . ,",
    "kay s.t . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 326 , 1228 bartelmann m. , 1996 , a&a , 313 , 697 bartelmann m. , doran m. , wetterich c. , 2006 , a&a , 454 , 27 bartelmann m. , huss a. , colberg j.m . , jenkins a. , pearce f.r . , 1998 , a&a , 330 , 1 , 27 bartelmann m. , schneider p. , 2001",
    "rept . , 340 , 291 bertin e. , arnouts s. , 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393 blumenthal g.r . ,",
    "faber s.m . , flores r. , primack j.r . , 1986 , apj , 301 , 27 bondi h. , 1952 , mnras , 112 , 195 bondi h. , hoyle f. , 1944 , mnras , 104 , 273 bower r.g .",
    ", benson a.j . ,",
    "lacey c.g . ,",
    "baugh c.m . , cole s. , frenk c.s .",
    ", 2001 , mnras , 325 , 497 croton d.j . , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 dalal n. , holder g. , hennawi j.f . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 609 , 50 di matteo t. , colberg j. , springel v. , hernquist l. , sijacki d. , 2008 , apj , 676 , 33 fedeli c. , bartelmann m. , meneghetti m. , moscardini l. , 2008 , a&a , 486 , 35 francis m. , lewis g. , linder e. , 2009 , a&a , 394 , 605 gao g.j , jing y.p . , mao s. , li g.l . , kong x. , 2009 , apj , 707 , 472 gladders m.d . , hoekstra h. , yee h.k.c . ,",
    "hall p.b . ,",
    "barrientos l.f . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 593 , 48 gnedin o.y .",
    ", kravtsov a.v .",
    ", klypin a.a . , nagai d. , 2004 , apj , 616 , 16 grossi m. , springel v. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 1559 hilbert s. , white s.d.m . , hartlap j. , schneider p. , 2007",
    ", mnras , 382 , 121 horesh a. , ofek e.o . , maoz d. , bartelmann m. , meneghetti m. , rix h. , 2005 , apj , 633 , 768 kauffmann g. , colberg j.m . , diaferio a. , white s.d.m . , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 188 king l.j . , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 308 lewis a. , bridle s.l . , 2002 ,",
    "d , 66 , 103511 hastings w.k .",
    ", 1970 , biometrika , 57 , 97 hennawi j.f . , dalal n. , bode p. , 2007",
    ", apj , 654 , 93 ho s. , white m. , 2005 , apartphys , 24 , 257 hoyle f. , lyttleton r.a .",
    ", 1939 , proc .",
    "soc . , 34 , 405 leonard a. , king l.j . ,",
    "wilkins s.m . , 2009 ,",
    "mnras , 395 , 1438 lewis a. , king l.j . , 2006 , phys",
    "d , 73 , 063006 li g .-",
    "l . , mao s. , jing y.p . , bartelmann m. , kang x. , meneghetti m. , 2005 , apj , 635 , 795 mccarthy i.g .",
    "et al . , 2009 , astro - ph:0911.2641 mcnamara b.r . , nulsen p.e.j . , 2007 ,",
    "ara&a , 45 , 117 meneghetti m. , bartelmann m. , moscardini l. , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 67 meneghetti m. , bartelmann m. , jenkins a. , frenk c. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 171 metropolis n. , rosenbluth a.w . , rosenbluth m.n . , teller m. , teller e.,1953 , j. chem .",
    ", 21 , 1087 miralda - escud j. , 1993 , apj , 403 , 509 navarro j.f . , frenk c.s . , white s.d.m , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 oguri m. , lee m. , suto y. , 2003 , apj , 599 , 7 puchwein e. , bartelmann m. , dolag k. , meneghetti m. , 2005 , a&a , 442 , 405 puchwein e. , hilbert s. , 2009 , mnras , 398 , 1298 puchwein e. , sijacki d. , springel v. , 2008 , apj , 687 , l53 puchwein e. , springel v. , sijacki d. , dolag k. , 2010 , arxiv:1001.3018 rozo e. , nagai d. , keeton c. , kravtsov a. , 2008 , apj , 687 , 22 rudd d.h .",
    ", zentner a.r . , kravtsov a.v . , 2007 , apj , 672 , 19 seitz s. , schneider p. , 1996",
    ", a&a , 305 , 383 sijacki d. , springel v. , di matteo t. , hernquist l. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 877 sijacki d. , springel v. , haehnelt m.g . , 2009 , mnras , 400 , 100 smith g.p . ,",
    ", smail i. , mazzotta p. , ebeling h. , czoske o. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 417 springel v. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 1105 springel v. , di matteo t. , hernquist l. , 2005a , mnras , 361 , 776 springel v. et al . , 2005b , nat , 435 , 629 springel v. , hernquist l. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 289 torri e. , meneghetti m. , bartelmann m , , moscardini l. , rasia e. , tormen g. , 2004 , mnras , 349 , 476 valageas p. , silk j. , 1999 , a&a , 350 , 715 wambsganss j. , bode p. , ostriker j.p . , 2004 , apj , 606 , l93 wambsganss j. , ostriker j.p .",
    ", bode p. , 2007 ,",
    "apj , 676 , 753 white m. , 2004 , astropart .",
    "phys . , 22 , 211 zaritsky d. , gonzalez a.h .",
    ", 2003 , apj , 584 , 691"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the impact of agn feedback on the gravitational lensing properties of a sample of galaxy clusters with masses in the range @xmath0 - @xmath1 , using state - of - the - art simulations . adopting a ray - tracing algorithm </S>",
    "<S> , we compute the cross - section of giant arcs from clusters simulated with dark - matter only physics ( dm ) , dark matter plus gas with cooling and star formation ( csf ) , and dark matter plus gas with cooling , star formation and agn feedback ( csfbh ) . </S>",
    "<S> once agn feedback is included , baryonic physics boosts the strong lensing cross - section by much less than previously estimated using clusters simulated with only cooling and star formation . for a cluster with a virial mass of @xmath2 , inclusion of baryonic physics without feedback can boost the cross - section by as much as a factor of 3 , in agreement with previous studies , </S>",
    "<S> whereas once agn feedback is included this maximal figure falls to a factor of 2 at most . </S>",
    "<S> typically , clusters simulated with dm and csfbh physics have similar cross - sections for the production of giant arcs . </S>",
    "<S> we also investigate how baryonic physics affects the weak lensing properties of the simulated clusters by fitting nfw profiles to synthetic weak lensing data sets using a markov chain monte carlo approach , and by performing non - parametric mass reconstructions . without the inclusion of agn feedback , </S>",
    "<S> measured concentration parameters can be much larger than those obtained with agn feedback , which are similar to the dark - matter only case .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    cosmology : observations - cosmology : theory - galaxies : clusters : general - gravitational lensing : numerical </S>"
  ]
}