{
  "article_text": [
    "the direct observational signature of the newtonian virial theorem in elliptical galaxies emerged two decades ago with the discovery of the  fundamental plane \" ( djorgovski & davis 1987 , dressler et al .",
    "1987 ) . assuming that ellipticals are reasonably homologous newtonian pressure supported systems",
    ", then they will comprise a two - parameter set : if luminosity is proportional to mass then the virial theorem implies that @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the effective radius and @xmath4 is the line - of - sight velocity dispersion .",
    "this is essentially the observed fundamental plane relation .",
    "although the connection between the fundamental plane ( hereafter fp ) and the virial theorem was originally obscured by the fact that the observationally inferred exponents in the above relation were not precisely as expected , it is now established that this deviation is primarily due to a systematic variation in the mass - to - light ratio of ellipticals : m / l appears to slowly increase with luminosity ( see faber et al .",
    "1987 for an early realization of the relevance of the virial theorem ) . that the fp is the observational manifestation of the virial theorem",
    "has become indisputable with the determination , via gravitational lensing , of the mass - based fp , the  more fundamental plane\"(bolton et al .",
    "2007 ) . here",
    "surface density , @xmath5 , replaces surface brightness , @xmath6 , in the equivalent fp relation , @xmath7 , and thereby removes the effects of systematic and random variations in m / l .",
    "the striking aspect of the traditional fp is the small scatter about the expected relation .",
    "such a precise relation surely reflects the facts that elliptical galaxies comprise a rather homologous class of objects with a fairly isotropic velocity distribution ( at least in the inner regions ) and that the random fluctuation in m / l is relatively small .",
    "this small fluctuation in dynamical m / l is puzzling given the current view of a galaxy as a luminous baryonic component immersed in a more massive and extensive dark halo composed of non - baryonic particles .",
    "ellipticals are presumably assembled over a hubble timescale via mergers   wet \" or  dry \" ,  major \" or ",
    "minor \"  of smaller mass aggregates ; it is not evident that such a fixed proportion of dark and baryon matter within the visible object should survive what must be a rather chaotic process .",
    "the second scaling relation for elliptical galaxies was actually discovered long before the fp  that is the relation between luminosity and line - of - sight velocity dispersion of the form @xmath8 where @xmath9 .",
    "this correlation was first described in a qualitative way by morgan & mayall ( 1957 ) who remarked that  for progressively fainter virgo cluster ellipticals the spectral lines tend to become narrower , as if there were a line width - absolute magnitude effect for the brighter members . \"",
    "this effect was given its definite and quantitive form by faber & jackson ( 1976 ) and has become known as the faber - jackson relation ( hereafter fj ) .",
    "the fj relation implies that ellipticals comprise a one parameter family : given the velocity dispersion , the luminosity ( or luminous mass ) follows .",
    "the observed fj relation does have a much larger dispersion about its mean than does the fp , and this has led to the often - heard assertion that the fp has superseded the fj  that the fj represents a non - orthogonal projection of the fp onto a lower dimensional parameter space ( franx & de zeeuw 1991 ) .    while it is certainly true that the fp , because of its much smaller scatter , is superior to the fj as a distance indicator for elliptical galaxies , it is not evident that the fj is a simple projection of the fp ; nothing like faber - jackson is required by the virial relation .",
    "fj implies that the mass of a pressure - supported system is correlated to the velocity dispersion more - or - less independently of the size of the object .",
    "i have argued ( sanders 1994 ) that this same correlation extends to the great clusters of galaxies in the form of the gas mass - temperature relation ( @xmath10 ) .",
    "indeed , the relation @xmath11 appears to broadly apply to all near - isothermal pressure supported astronomical systems from globular star clusters to clusters of galaxies .    in the context of the standard cdm - based cosmology ,",
    "this correlation must arise from aspects of structure formation . in the standard scenario , galaxies , or pre - galactic bound objects , form at a definite epoch which implies that there is , more or less , a characteristic density for protogalactic objects .",
    "the existence of a characteristic density combined with the virial theorem yields a mass - velocity dispersion relation for halos of the form @xmath12 which seems to be borne out by cosmological n - body simulations ( e.g. , frenk et al . 1988 ) .",
    "however , such a relatively shallow power law can not be extrapolated from globular cluster scale objects to clusters of galaxies .",
    "in addition , globular clusters and clusters of galaxies form at different epochs via different processes ; the emergence of this apparently universal correlation is not obviously implied .",
    "milgrom s modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) does give rise to a mass - velocity dispersion relation the form @xmath11 as an aspect of existent dynamics rather than the contingencies of structure formation ( milgrom 1983a ) .",
    "this was an early prediction of the hypothesis ( milgrom 1983b ) .",
    "mond does not , however , inevitably predict existence of the fundamental plane ; in fact , one might ask if the fp as a manifestation of the _ newtonian _ virial theorem is consistent with mond . here",
    "i consider this question and discuss how the fp arises in the context of mond .",
    "i review these two global scaling relations and their extension to the wide class of pressure supported , near isothermal objects , and i compare the universality of the fundamental plane to that of faber - jackson .",
    "i point out that objects which define the fp should have high surface brightness ( and thus be essentially newtonian ) within an effective radius , and i highlight a mond prediction that such objects must deviate from an isothermal state with an observed velocity dispersion that declines with radius .",
    "further , very low surface brightness objects , such as the dwarf spheroidal galaxies , might not be expected to lie on the fp defined by ellipticals and globular clusters .",
    "i compare these expectations with the observations .",
    "one of the original motivations for mond as an acceleration - based modification of newtonian dynamics was to subsume the tully - fisher relation for spiral galaxies ( sanders & mcgaugh 2002 ) .",
    "this is the observed correlation between the luminosity and asymptotic constant rotation velocity in spiral galaxies , but has since been more accurately described as an exact relation between baryonic mass and rotation velocity ( mcgaugh , et al .",
    "2000 ) , @xmath13 .",
    "milgrom ( 1983b ) pointed out that a similar correlation should exist for pressure supported systems such as elliptical galaxies : the total ( baryonic ) mass is roughly proportional to the fourth power of the velocity dispersion , but non - homology as well as variations in the degree of anisotropy of the velocity field introduce much more scatter than is evident in tully - fisher .",
    "milgrom ( 1984 ) explored this further in his paper on mondian isothermal spheres . solving the spherically symmetric jeans equation with the mond expression for the effective gravitational acceleration he was able to draw several powerful conclusions :    \\1 .",
    "mond isothermal spheres , unlike their newtonian counterparts , have finite mass .",
    "asymptotically the density falls as power law , @xmath14 where @xmath15 .",
    "the ratio of the total mass to the fourth power of the radial velocity dispersion , @xmath16 depends primarily upon the anisotropy parameter @xmath17 ( @xmath18 is the tangential velocity dispersion ) ; specifically , @xmath19 where @xmath1 ( approximately @xmath20 cm / s@xmath21 ) is the fundamental new parameter of the theory .",
    "this forms the basis for the faber - jackson relation .",
    "\\4 . for all",
    " deep mond \" objects ( having internal acceleration everywhere less than the @xmath1 ) it is the case that @xmath22 independently of @xmath23 , where @xmath4 is the three dimensional velocity dispersion ( as an aside i mention that the deep mond analytic solution for @xmath24 corresponds exactly to the hernquist ( 1991 ) model for spherical systems , a model which projects to a surface density distribution similar to that observed for elliptical galaxies ) .",
    "none of these conclusions anticipated the fundamental plane because it was not then fully appreciated that luminous elliptical galaxies are essentially newtonian systems within an effective radius ; whereas , mondian isothermal spheres are in transition between newton and mond at @xmath3 .",
    "that is to say , isothermal spheres are not good representations of actual elliptical galaxies ; they are too mondian",
    ". we may characterize the degree to which an object is newtonian within the bright inner regions ( within @xmath3 ) by the parameter @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the gravitational acceleration at @xmath3 . by this criterion @xmath27 for mondian isotropic isothermal spheres whereas @xmath28 typically for real ellipticals .",
    "this means actual luminous elliptical galaxies should show little evidence for dark matter within an effective radius , as was borne out when detailed kinematic data became available for several of these objects ( romanowsky et al .",
    "this result is completely consistent with the expectations of mond for such high surface brightness systems ( milgrom & sanders 2003 ) .",
    "viewed in terms of mond , the newtonian nature of elliptical galaxies requires that these objects are not isothermal ; the velocity dispersion should be observed to decrease with radius .",
    "an implication is that such systems should be consistent with the newtonian virial theorem within the effective radius ; that is to say , they will define a fp relation . on the other hand , deep mond ( low surface brightness ) objects",
    "might be expected to deviate from this fp while being generally consistent with the universal fj relation .",
    "mondian isotropic , isothermal spheres possess a fixed relation between effective radius and central line - of - sight velocity dispersion of the form @xmath29 where @xmath4 is in km / s and @xmath3 is in kpc",
    ". however , actual elliptical galaxies exhibit a fairly broad distribution by effective radius and velocity dispersion ( jgensen et al .",
    "1995 , sanders 2000 ) , and , for a given velocity dispersion , all are much more compact ( smaller @xmath3 ) than the isothermal sphere .    in order to reproduce the observed distribution of elliptical galaxies by @xmath3 and @xmath4 in the context of mond i previously considered non - isothermal non - isotropic models",
    ": specifically , high order polytropic spheres with an increasing radial orbit anisotropy in the outer regions ( sanders 2000 ) . to be consistent with the observed scatter in these two quantities it was necessary to consider a range of polytropic indices ( n=12 - 16",
    "where @xmath30 ) and anisotropy radii ( scaled in terms of the effective radius ) ; i.e. , the models must deviate from strict homology . matching the observed joint distribution of @xmath3 and @xmath4 with this range of models , i found that the observed fp is reproduced .",
    "in particular , the implied high surface brightness means that the models are essentially newtonian within an effective radius , and this yields a small scatter about the mean ( virial ) relation .",
    "a weak systematic increase of m / l with luminosity is also required , but the ensemble provides a good representation of the lensing ( mass - based ) fp discovered by bolton et al .",
    "( see sanders & land 2008 for a discussion of the lensing- based fp in the context of mond ) .",
    "the fj relation is also present in this ensemble of polytropic models but with much larger scatter because the relation is more sensitive to the necessary deviations from homology .",
    "the reliance upon such specific polytropic models somewhat obscures the dynamics underlying the appearance of a fp in the context of mond ; that is to say , the polytropic assumption is in no sense necessary for matching the fp .",
    "the necessary ingredient is a deviation from an isothermal state .",
    "this becomes more evident when considering a specific model for the mass distribution in elliptical galaxies , i.e. , the spherically symmetric jaffe model ( jaffe 1983 ) with a radial dependence of density given by @xmath31 where @xmath32 is the characteristic length scale of the model and @xmath33 is the characteristic density ( @xmath34 being the total mass ) .",
    "the jaffe model projects very nearly into the empirically fitted surface density of elliptical galaxies ( de vaucouleurs 1958 ) where the @xmath35 .    given this density distribution ,",
    "i numerically solve the jeans equation for the run of radial velocity dispersion : @xmath36 where i have assumed that the velocity field is isotropic ( @xmath37 ) .",
    "here @xmath38 is the true gravitational force which , in terms of mond , is given by @xmath39 with @xmath40 being the usual newtonian force . the interpolating function is taken to be @xmath41 with @xmath42 cms@xmath43 as implied by the rotation curves of spiral galaxies ( bottema et al .",
    "2001 ) .    in fig .",
    "1 i show the results of such an integration for three different values of the parameter @xmath44 .",
    "this is the mean intensity weighted line - of - sight velocity dispersion within a circular aperture , @xmath45 , scaled to its value within one - half an effective radius plotted as a function of radius in units of the effective radius .",
    "three cases are shown : @xmath46 which is highly newtonian within an effective radius ( labelled n ) ; @xmath47 which is in transition between newton and mond at an effective radius ( t ) ; and @xmath48 which is in the deep mond limit ( m ) . in all cases , for an isotropic velocity distribution",
    ", the velocity dispersion approaches a constant value at large radii .",
    "1 illustrates the point that newtonian objects must deviate from isothermal with a velocity dispersion that declines within an effective radius .",
    "transitional jaffe models are almost isothermal ; the mond isothermal sphere is such a transitional object .",
    "deep mond objects exhibit a velocity dispersion rising to an almost constant value if the velocity field is isotropic ; indeed , for small values of @xmath49 this form of the velocity dispersion profile becomes independent of @xmath49 .",
    "this is all reminiscent of the form of rotation curves in high to low surface brightness disk galaxies .",
    "we would expect objects which define the fp ( i.e. , consistent with the newtonian virial theorem ) to be well into the newtonian regime , i.e. , @xmath50 .",
    "this is apparently the case as is shown by the dashed curve in fig .  1 , which is a power law fit by cappellari et al .",
    "( 2006 ) to the mean observed run of @xmath45 ( @xmath51 ) for 25 early type galaxies .",
    "that is to say , these observations are consistent with the mond expectation of a declining velocity dispersion profile for high surface brightness elliptical galaxies defining the fp .    the galaxies in the sample of cappellari et al .",
    "are plotted as a fundamental plane relation in fig .  2 .",
    "the crosses show the luminosity vs. the virial quantity @xmath52 where @xmath53 is the intensity weighted mean line - of - sight velocity dispersion within an effective radius .",
    "units are @xmath54 l@xmath55 and m@xmath55 .",
    "the expectation from the virial theorem is @xmath56 where @xmath57 is the structure constant which depends upon the mond parameter @xmath49 , or , alternatively , upon the contribution of dark matter to the total mass within an effective radius .",
    "the two parallel lines in fig .",
    "2 show this relation for two different values of @xmath58 for the upper curve , labelled @xmath59 , the structure constant , @xmath60 , is that appropriate for the newtonian jaffe model ( @xmath61 ) or an equivalent dark matter fraction within an effective radius of about 0.1 .",
    "if all systems were represented perfectly by isotropic newtonian jaffe models with @xmath62 then they would lie on this line .",
    "for the lower line labelled @xmath34 , the structure constant , @xmath63 , corresponds to a deep mond jaffe model ( @xmath64 ) or an equivalent dark matter fraction within @xmath3 of 0.9 .",
    "note that deep mond jaffe models with a fixed value of @xmath49 will also define a virial fp relation because they correspond to homologous objects with a fixed fraction of dark matter within the effective radius . because lower accelerations ( lower @xmath49 ) corresponds to more dark matter ( higher effective",
    "m / l ) the mond line lies to the right of the newtonian line in this figure .",
    "the solid points in fig .",
    "2 are the same systems but with stellar _ mass _ plotted against the virial quantity .",
    "the masses are estimated from the luminosity multiplied by @xmath65 derived from population synthesis models ( cappellari et al .",
    "now we see that the points lie very near the virial relation for pure newtonian jaffe models ( small discrepancy or little dark matter within an effective radius ) . with mond ,",
    "this is the expected result for high surface brightness galaxies .",
    "there are other classes of high surface brightness objects with a radially declining velocity dispersion which , apart from small shifts due to variations in homology , should lie on the same fp : specifically , dwarf elliptical galaxies , the ultra - compact dwarfs , and the globular star clusters .    in fig .",
    "3 a wide range of objects is plotted on a virial representation of the fp . here again the logarithm of the luminosity ( @xmath54 @xmath66 ) , a proxy for the mass , is plotted against the logarithm of the virial quantity @xmath67 ( @xmath54 @xmath68 ) . if the objects are newtonian ( satisfying the newtonian virial theorem ) and homologous with constant m / l they should lie on the fp defined by the elliptical galaxies . on this plot the ellipticals drawn from the larger sample of jrgensen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) are shown as crosses ; the globular clusters are solid points , the triangles are dwarf elliptical ; the open points are ultra - compact dwarfs ; and the stars are the dwarf spheroidal companions of the milky way .",
    "the open squares are x - ray emitting clusters of galaxies but with gas mass plotted rather than the luminosity .",
    "the references for these observations are given in the figure caption .",
    "points significantly below the parallel lines have a large newtonian dynamical m / l , the conventional explanation being the presence of dark matter .",
    "for example , the galaxy clusters are well below the newtonian line reflecting the classical virial discrepancy in these objects .",
    "the essential feature of this plot is that the high surface brightness objects ranging from ellipticals to globular clusters define a fairly narrow fundamental plane which is consistent with the virial theorem .",
    "there are , of course , deviations due to non - homology and , more seriously , to the heterogeneity of the data samples .",
    "but the point is that the same fp is delineated by all high surface brightness ( i.e. , high internal acceleration ) objects .",
    "the low - surface - brightness dwarf spheroidals , as expected , lie significantly below this fp defined by the high surface brightness elliptical galaxies .",
    "the conventional explanation is that these object are dominated by dark matter in the inner regions .",
    "with mond , this is precisely the expectation for low surface brightness objects where a large discrepancy is predicted and the size has disappeared as a parameter .",
    "fig .  4 is the fj relation for the early - type galaxies shown in fig .  2 ( from cappellari et al . 2006 ) . here",
    "the luminosity is plotted against @xmath69 ; the parallel lines are the relation @xmath70 the upper line ( labelled m ) , with @xmath71 , is relevant to the deep mond limit , or equivalently the complete dominance of dark matter .",
    "the lower curve , with @xmath72 , applies to highly newtonian objects ( @xmath73 ) or a jaffe model with a very low dark matter content within @xmath3 .",
    "objects with a fixed value of @xmath49 correspond to homologous structures having a fixed mean surface density , @xmath5 , within an effective radius . constant surface density and the virial theorem yield @xmath74 or a @xmath11 relation even for the newtonian systems",
    ". large internal acceleration ( high @xmath49 ) implies a large @xmath5 which implies that the newtonian line , for the fj relation , lies to the right of the mond line , opposite to the fp relation .",
    "again , the solid points are the same objects with luminosity multiplied by m / l from the population synthesis models .",
    "although the scatter is larger than for the fp relation , most of these points lie near the the relation for newtonian jaffe models ( low discrepancy ) .",
    "the faber - jackson relation for the wider class of objects , globular clusters to clusters of galaxies , is shown in fig .",
    "most objects , ranging from newtonian to deep mond , in so far as they can be approximated by the isotropic jaffe model , should lie in the range between the two parallel lines if m / l is near unity .",
    "the predicted scatter , due to a variation of @xmath49 only , is a factor of four larger than for the fp relation . as in fig .  3 , for the clusters of galaxies ( open squares )",
    ", it is the gas mass that is plotted against the mond parameter ( @xmath75 ) . as has been pointed out elsewhere ( e.g.",
    ", sanders 2003 ) the cluster masses calculated with mond still require about three times more matter than is directly observed in stars and hot gas .",
    "including this  missing mass \" would move the cluster points up by about 0.5 in the logarithm in this plot .    broadly speaking ,",
    "this wide range of objects is consistent with the fj relation implied by mond ; that is to say , there exists a universal faber - jackson relation applying to all near - isothermal pressure supported objects . in particular , the dwarf spheroidal systems , deep mond objects , do not exhibit such a large and systematic off - set from the mean relation as they do in the case of the fp relation .",
    "the significance of this off - set is assessed in final two figures which are alternative representations of the fp and fj relations over the range of luminosity where dwarf spheroidals overlap the more compact objects .",
    "6 is a plot of the quantity @xmath76 against @xmath77 for dwarf spheroidals , globular clusters and ultra - compact dwarfs from @xmath78 to @xmath79 l@xmath55 .",
    "the plotted quantity is proportional to m / l as estimated from the fp ( virial theorem ) .",
    "the points with error bars are the average and dispersion of this quantity  the triangular point for the dwarf spheroidals and the square point for the globulars and ucds taken together .",
    "the dwarf spheroidals deviate by about two sigma from those systems lying on the fp ( this probably understates the significance as the offset becomes more pronounced at lower luminosities ) .",
    "7 is a plot of @xmath80 vs. @xmath77 for these same systems .",
    "this is proportional to m / l as determined from the fj relation ( mond ) .",
    "again the two points with error bars are the mean and dispersion of this quantity for the dwarf spheroidals ( triangle ) and separately the globulars and ucds ( square ) . here",
    "we see that there is no significant difference between these classes of objects ; the dwarf spheroidals lie on the universal faber - jackson relation defined by the more compact pressure - supported objects .",
    "luminous elliptical galaxies , dwarf elliptical galaxies , ultra - compact dwarfs , and globular star clusters are high surface brightness objects .",
    "high surface brightness implies high internal acceleration ; i.e. , the gravitational acceleration at @xmath3 is roughly ten times larger than @xmath1 , the fundamental mond acceleration parameter .",
    "this means that , in the context of mond , such objects should be described essentially by newtonian dynamics within an effective radius , in that respect , it is not surprising that this wide range of gravitationally bound pressure - supported structures fall on a fp that reflects the newtonian virial relation .",
    "of course there are variations : the globular clusters do not lie precisely upon the same fp as the ellipticals , but then the the data shown here is heterogeneous , and the various classes of objects are probably not homologous .",
    "but the fact that the dwarf spheroidal galaxies deviate significantly from this fp is consistent with mond .",
    "these are deep mond low - surface - brightness objects with a large discrepancy ; in this deep mond limit the length scale has dropped out as a parameter , and the mass is related only to the velocity dispersion .",
    "the high surface brightness objects defining the newtonian fp must deviate from an isothermal state , as they do in the case of the bright ellipticals and the globular clusters ; both classes of objects exhibit a line - of - sight velocity dispersion that declines with radius , at least within 1.5 @xmath3 . at larger radii ,",
    "the radial profile of the @xmath4 is highly dependent upon the form of the anisotropy parameter @xmath23 , but a continuing decline is consistent with a trend toward more radial orbits in the outer regions .    in order to produce a high surface density newtonian object ,",
    "the required deviation from an isothermal state is relatively small . typically , the jaffe models which are newtonian within an effective radius are equivalent to polytropes of index 12 to 16 ; thus the density changes by many orders of magnitude while the velocity dispersion changes by a factor of two .",
    "in other words , the requirements for producing objects which obey the newtonian virial relation are that they should have high internal accelerations ( @xmath81 ) and be near - isothermal with a radially declining velocity dispersion .",
    "one might argue that this again begs the question : why are ellipticals and globular clusters near - isothermal objects with high internal accelerations ? does this not push the existence of the fp back to contingencies of structure formation ? to some extent , this is the case , but the requirement of a near - isothermal state is rather mild .",
    "violent relaxation , even in spherical collapse , typically produces a near - isothermal virialized structure . for example , with modified dynamics just such objects with high internal accelerations do result from the spherically symmetric dissipationless collapse out of a medium initially expanding with the hubble flow ( sanders 2008 ) . in non - spherical mondian dissipationless collapse calculations , the final virialized objects with low internal accelerations ( @xmath82 ) are essentially isothermal , but also those with higher internal accelerations are near - isothermal with a radial velocity dispersion which",
    ", compared with density , declines slowly with radius ( nipoti , londrillo & ciotti 2007 ) .",
    "viewed in this context , the dwarf spheroidal galaxies become the anomalous objects requiring an alternative formation scenario .",
    "it is the fj relation , in spite of its large scatter , that emerges as the more fundamental and more universal scaling relation for hot systems , embodying both high and low surface brightness systems .",
    "the amplitude of the relation is even more significant than its slope because this is related directly to the magnitude of @xmath1 .",
    "it is easily demonstrated that pure newtonian systems ( obeying the newtonian virial theorem ) with a constant mean surface density will also fall on a @xmath11 relation .",
    "the essential point is that @xmath1 sets this characteristic value of the surface density ( @xmath83 ) for all near - isothermal systems .",
    "the appearance of a universal mass - velocity dispersion relation as an aspect of dynamics directly reflects the presence of this new dimensional constant in the structure equation .",
    "the fact that the magnitude of this constant ( @xmath84 cm / s@xmath21 ) is the same as that required by the scale of spiral galaxy rotation curves ( the tully - fisher relation ) is one more powerful indication that such a fundamental acceleration scale exists in the universe and is operative in gravitational physics .",
    "i am grateful to moti milgrom and joe wolf for useful comments and to scott trager for a critical reading of the paper .",
    "this paper , in content and presentation , has benefitted from the comments of an anonymous referee .",
    "bender r. , burstein d. , faber s.m .",
    ", 1992 , apj , 399 , 462 bolton a.s . , burles s. , treu t. , koopmans l.v.e . , moustakas l.a . , 2007 , apj , 665 , l105 bottema r. , pestaa j.l.g . ,",
    "rothberg b. , sanders r.h . , 2002 , a&a , 393 , 453 cappellari m. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 366 , 1126 croston j.h . , et al . , 2008 , a&a , 487 , 431 de vaucouleurs g. , 1958 , in handbuch der physik , ed .",
    "s. fugge , springer - verlag , berlin , 53 , 311 .",
    "djorgovski s. , davis m. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 39 dressler a. , lynden - bell d. burstein d. , davies r.l . ,",
    "faber s.m . , terlevich r. , wegner g. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 42 faber s.m . ,",
    "jackson , r.e .",
    ", 1976 , apj , 204 , 668 faber s.m .",
    "dressler a. , davies r.l .",
    ", burstein d. , lynden - bell d. , 1987 , in nearly normal galaxies , proc .",
    "8th santa cruz summer workshop , new york , springer - verlag , p. 175 franx m. , de zeeuw t. , 1991 , ann.rev.astron.astrophys .",
    ", 29 , 239 frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m . , davis m. , efstathiou g. , 1988 , apj , 327 , 507 hernquist l. , 1990 , apj , 356 , 359 jaffe , w. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 995 jrgensen i. , franx m. , kjrgaard p. , 1996 ,",
    "mnras , 280 , 167 mcgaugh s.s .",
    ", schombert j.m . ,",
    "bothun g.d .",
    ", de blok w.j.g . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 533 , 99 mieske s. et al .",
    "2008 , a&a , 487 , 921 milgrom m. , 1983a , apj , 270 , 365 milgrom m. , 1983b , apj , 270 , 371 milgrom m. , 1984 , apj , 287 , 571 milgrom m. , sanders r.h . , 2003 , apj , 678 , 131 morgan w.w .",
    ", mayall n.u . , 1957 ,",
    "pasp , 409 , 291 nipoti c. , londrillo p. , ciotti l. , 2007 , apj , 660 , 256 pryor c. , meylan g. , 1993 , in structure and dynamics of globular clusters , aps conf .",
    "djorgovski , g. meylan , san francisco , astron.soc.pac . , p.  357 romanowsky a.j .",
    ", douglas n.g . , arnaboldi m. , kuijken k. , merrifield m.r .",
    ", napolitano n.r . , capaccioli m. , freeman k.c . , 2003 , sci , 301 , 1696 sanders r.h . , 1994 ,",
    "a&a , 284 , l31 sanders r.h . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 512 , l26 sanders r.h . , 2000 , mnras , 313 , 767 sanders r.h . , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 901 sanders r.h . , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 1588 sanders r.h . , mcgaugh s.s . , 2002 ,",
    "ann.rev.astron.astrophys . , 40 , 263 sanders r.h . , land d.d . , 2008 , mnras , 389 , 701 trager s.c .",
    ", djorgovski s. , king i.r .",
    ", 1993 , in structure and dynamics of globular clusters , aps conf .",
    "djorgovski , g. meylan , san francisco , astron.soc.pac . , p.  347",
    "walker m.g . , mateo m. , olszewski e.w .",
    ", pearrubia j. , evans n.w . , gilmore g. , 2009 , apj , 704 , 1274 walker m.g . , mateo m. , olszewski e.w . , pearrubia j. , evans n.w . , gilmore g. , 2010 , apj , 710 , 886"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in the context of modified newtonian dynamics , the fundamental plane , as the observational signature of the newtonian virial theorem , is defined by high surface brightness objects that deviate from being purely isothermal : the line - of - sight velocity dispersion should slowly decline with radius as observed in luminous elliptical galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> all high surface brightness objects ( e.g. globular clusters , ultra - compact dwarfs ) will lie , more or less , on the fundamental plane defined by elliptical galaxies , but low surface brightness objects ( dwarf spheroidals ) would be expected to deviate from this relation . </S>",
    "<S> this is borne out by observations . </S>",
    "<S> with mond , the faber - jackson relation ( @xmath0 ) , ranging from globular clusters to clusters of galaxies and including both high and low surface brightness objects , is the more fundamental and universal scaling relation in spite of its larger scatter . </S>",
    "<S> faber - jackson reflects the presence of an additional dimensional constant ( the mond acceleration @xmath1 ) in the structure equation . </S>"
  ]
}