{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding how galaxies formed and how they become the complex systems we observe in the local universe is a major theoretical and observational effort , mainly pursued using multi - wavelength surveys . we know today that tight links must exist between super - massive black holes ( smbhs ) found at the centre of bulgy galaxies and their host galaxies .",
    "we also know that most smbh growth is due to accretion of matter during their active phases , implying that most bulges went through a strong agn phase to produce the smbh / galaxy mass ratio of @xmath1 observed today .",
    "the co - evolution of galaxies and their smbh depends on some physical mechanism ( feedback hereafter ) linking accretion and ejection occurring on sub - parsec scale in galaxy nuclei to the rest of the galaxy .",
    "agn feedback is often invoked to explain the observed galaxy colors . in the smbh - galaxy co - evolutionary sequence",
    "the phase when a galaxy is found in a passive status is preceded by a powerful active phase , when cold gas is available for both star - formation and nuclear accretion .",
    "the same cold gas and dust can intercept the line of sight to the nucleus , and therefore a natural expectation of this scenario is that the early , powerful agn phase is also highly obscured .",
    "once a smbh reaches masses @xmath2m@xmath3 , the agn can heat efficiently the interstellar matter through winds , shocks , and high - energy radiation , thus inhibiting further accretion and star - formation and making the galaxy colors redder . at the end of this phase an unobscured , type 1",
    "agn shines , while its host galaxy becomes progressively red .",
    "once most of the original cold gas is expelled from the system , nuclear accretion and sf can occur only thanks to gas and dust in stellar winds and/or accretion of fresh gas cooling from haloes , and we are left with a passive or low star - forming galaxy , hosting a relic smbh or a low luminosity nucleus . while most known systems are observed at the end of feedback processes , i.e. in the two latter phases , the investigation of the coeval phase of obscured black hole accretion and star - formation at z@xmath0 , the peak of nuclear and stellar activity(@xcite and references therein ) , can give crucial information on agn feedback when it is in action .",
    "current x - ray surveys can select efficiently moderately obscured agn up to z=2 - 3 .",
    "highly obscured agn at the same redshifts can be recovered thanks to the dust reprocessing of the agn uv emission in the infrared , by selecting sources with mid - ir ( and/or radio ) agn luminosities but faint , host galaxy dominated , near - ir and optical emission @xcite .",
    "all these studies are based on spitzer data , and were able to discover a population of highly obscured agn up to z@xmath4 .",
    "we summarize in section 2 the latest results on this topic .",
    "pushing this research up to the epoch of formation of the first galaxies / smbh at z@xmath5 is clearly the next step .",
    "this may allow one to assess the role of nuclear activity and agn feedback in the assembling of the first structures , and consequently to attack the following fundamental problems .",
    "first , optical surveys have discovered luminous qsos at z@xmath6 with smbhs of m@xmath7m@xmath3 , which would imply bulges of @xmath8m@xmath3 already formed less than 1 gyr after the big bang , if the local smbh / galaxy mass ratio should hold at those epochs .",
    "it is likely that the local smbh / galaxy relationship breaks down at some redshift , and indeed some indications of this do exist@xcite .",
    "but when ? and how ?",
    "second , early agn activity can contribute to the reionization and can heat the intergalactic medium , therefore affecting further structure formation .",
    "obtaining a complete agn census at high - z is crucial to tackle these issues .",
    "high - z agn can however play a crucial role also in other issues .",
    "structure formation and evolution at high - z is naturally affected by the expansion rate of the universe at that epoch .",
    "for example , a fast expansion rate at high - z may leave too little time to form large structures , while a slow expansion rate may imply a large amount of high - z galaxies and smbhs .",
    "therefore , sensitive surveys of high - z galaxies and agn may provide strong constraints to the expansion rate of the universe at early times .",
    "the obvious problem is how to disentangle subtle cosmological effects from complex baryon physics .",
    "the best strategy is to target quickly growing structures , in particular structures growing exponentially , so that little differences in the time of expansion of the universe can be significantly emphasized .",
    "smbhs are the cosmic structures with the fastest growth rate and this suggests using them to constrain agn feeding and accretion physics at high - z and to test and/or constrain cosmological scenarios .",
    "we present in section 3 preliminary results on the search for high - z agn in x - rays and discuss the perspectives of this line of research .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     we combined this high - z sample to the chandra - cosmos sample@xcite to compute the high - z agn number density and lf shown in fig .",
    "3 . we plot in the same fig .",
    "three optically selected agn lf , after converting the optical / uv luminosities to x - ray luminosities following@xcite .",
    "we note that first most of the cdfs and cosmos z@xmath10 agn are moderately obscured , based on a hardness ratio analysis .",
    "they may well be missed in optical surveys .",
    "second , the x - ray lf extends the sdss determination by @xmath11 decades toward lower luminosities , reaching the regime of seyfert - like agn at z=5 .",
    "third , our detemination at low luminosity is nominally a factor @xmath12 higher than that of fontanot et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , although consistent with it within the large error - bars . reducing these error - bars",
    "is therefore mandatory .",
    "doubling the present cdfs and cosmos exposure times would produce error - bars comparable to those of optically selected surveys ( fig.3 , right panel ) .",
    "optical spectroscopy of cosmos mips - bright dogs with f(24@xmath13m)/f(r)@xmath14 and a rest frame stacking analysis of their faint chandra counterparts confirm that @xmath15 do host a highly obscured active nucleus , in agreement with@xcite .",
    "dogs are massive , star - forming galaxies at z=1 - 3 .",
    "they represent a class of high - z galaxies where star - formation and nuclear accretion are coeval , i.e. objects where agn feedback is in action , and it has not yet significantly quenched star - formation .",
    "sub - millimiter galaxies share the same characteristics@xcite and have similar space densities@xcite .",
    "dogs observations at mm wavelength with present and future ( alma ) facilities may be able to find the observational signature of outflows on galaxy scales , and therefore of on going agn feedback , through spectroscopy of molecular lines .",
    "we are starting to push the search for moderately and highly obscured agn up to the epoch of formation of the the first galaxies / smbh , i.e. up to z=6 .",
    "aggressive multiband data analysis strategies , fully exploiting the synergies between optical / infrared and x - ray deep surveys , can significantly increase the number of x - ray selected agn at high - z .",
    "our pilot program on the cdfs 2 msec observation nearly doubled the number of @xmath16 agn detected in x - rays in the goods - music area .",
    "doubling the current chandra exposure times on the cdfs and cosmos area will allow us to nearly triple the current sample of high - z agn in these surveys , which in turn will produce error bars comparable to those of the z@xmath6 qso in the sdss ( see fig .",
    "a program to double the chandra exposure of the cdfs has been recently approved by the cxo director , and these data will be available in the next few years . by joining the x - ray and sdss selected high - z agn will allow us to constrain both the z@xmath17 normalization of the agn lf and its slope over a wide luminosity interval ( more than 3 decades ) .",
    "at z=5 - 6 the smbh mass growth is an extremely steep function of the efficiency of conversion of gravitational potential into radiation @xmath18 .",
    "since at such high - z it is reasonable to assume that nuclear accretion proceeds at its eddington value , this means that also the agn luminosity is a steep function of @xmath18 .",
    "this suggests that the slope of the agn lf at high - z can be used to constrain the @xmath18 and thus the black hole spin@xcite .",
    "once fixed the bh spin distribution through the measure of the slope of the agn lf , the normalization of the agn lf may be used to constrain the expansion rate of the universe at early times , and therefore distinguish between competing cosmological scenarios ( lamastra et al . in preparation ) .",
    "ff acknowledges support from asi - inaf contract i/088/06/0 and prin - mur 2006025203 .",
    "this work would not had been possible without the help of a large group a people including the goods - music and cosmos teams .",
    "i would like to thank in particular s. puccetti , c. feruglio , a. lamastra , n. menci , m. brusa , f. civano , a. comastri , c. vignali , m. elvis , a. fontana , p. santini , m. pirone , g. lanzuisi , e. piconcelli and m. salvato ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> discovering and studying obscured agn at z@xmath0 is important not only to complete the agn census , but also because they can pinpoint galaxies where nuclear accretion and star - formation are coeval , and mark the onset of agn feedback . </S>",
    "<S> we present the latest results on the characterization of z=1 - 3 galaxies selected for their high mid - infrared to optical flux ratio , showing that they are massive and strongly star - forming galaxies , and that many do host highly obscured agn . </S>",
    "<S> we present a pilot program to push the search of moderately obscured agn up to z=5 - 6 and discuss the perspectives of this line of research .     </S>",
    "<S> address = osservatorio astronomico di roma , via frascati 33 , monteporzio , italy </S>"
  ]
}