{
  "article_text": [
    "emission - line spectroscopy of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) provides a wealth of information on the gaseous components in galaxy cores , and has been employed since the beginning of the twentieth century ( e.g. , fath 1909 ) .",
    "it allows us to study the physical conditions , gas kinematics , metal abundances , and their redshift evolution , provides us with means of estimating black hole masses in agn , and has enabled us to study the evolution of galaxy  black hole scaling relations out to high redshift .",
    "apart from the classical broad - line region ( blr ) at small core distances , and the extended classical narrow - line region ( nlr ) , a subset of agn spectra show lines from very highly ionised atoms , known as `` coronal lines '' ( cls ) because they were first observed in the solar corona .",
    "these lines are collisionally excited forbidden transitions within low - lying levels of highly ionised species with ionisation potentials @xmath1  ev . in agns , the cls are emitted in the so - called coronal line region ( clr ) , likely located outside the bulk of the blr , and inside the bulk of the nlr .",
    "cls have been detected in the optical and infrared spectra of all types of seyfert galaxies , including type 1s , type 2s , and narrow - line seyfert 1 galaxies ( e.g. , seyfert 1943 ; penston et al .",
    "1984 ; marconi et al .",
    "1994 ; nagao , taniguchi & murayama 2000 ; sturm et al . 2002 ; rodrguez - ardila et al .",
    "2002 , 2006 ; deo et al . 2007 ; mullaney & ward 2008 ; komossa et al .",
    "2008 ; gelbord , mullaney & ward 2009 ) and also radio galaxies ( e.g. , best , rttgering & lehnert 1999 ; holt , tadhunter & morganti 2006 ) , and represent one of the key gaseous components of the active nucleus .",
    "they appear to be approximately equally abundant in type 1 and type 2 agn ( rodriguez - ardila et al .",
    ", in prep ) .",
    "since the mid 70s , some evidence has been reported that optical cls tend to be broader than low - ionisation forbidden lines ( phillips & osterbrock 1975 ; cooke et al .",
    "1976 ) and that their centroid position is blueshifted with respect to the systemic velocity of the galaxy ( grandi 1978 ; penston et al .",
    "this has been interpreted as evidence for a location of the clr closer to central engine than the classical nlr and probably associated with outflows ( e.g. , ward & morris 1984 ; mullaney et al .",
    "consistent with this scenario is the correlation found between the ionisation potential necessary to create the ionised species and the line width , seen in some ( but not in all ) seyfert galaxies ( wilson 1979 ; pelat , alloin & fosbury 1981 ; evans 1988 ; erkens , appenzeller & wagner 1997 ) .",
    "so far , the precise nature and origin of cls remained uncertain .",
    "several models have been considered in explaining the cls , including winds from the molecular torus ( e.g. , pier & voit 1995 ; nagao et al .",
    "2000 ; mullaney et al . 2009 ) , an origin within the ( x - ray ) ionised absorbers ( e.g. , komossa & fink 1997a , b ; porquet et al .",
    "1999 ) , a high - ionisation component of the inner nlr ( e.g. , komossa & schulz 1997 ; ferguson , korista & ferland 1997b ; binette et al . 1997 ) , and a low - density component of the ism ( korista & ferland 1989 ) .    in most observational studies ,",
    "the cls are not directly spatially resolved , due to the fact that the clr is more compact than the classical nlr .",
    "one indirect way to obtain spatial information is by variability studies .",
    "very few galaxies have ever shown dramatic variability of their cls [ ic3599 ( brandt , pounds & fink 1995 ; grupe et al .",
    "1995 ; komossa & bade 1999 ) and sdssj0952 + 2143 ( komossa et al .",
    "2009 ) ] , likely a response to a rare high - amplitude outburst in the ionising radiation from a temporary accretion event .",
    "mild cl variability is occasionally seen ( e.g. , netzer 1974 ; veilleux 1988 ) , but as a class , cls do not vary very much at all @xcite .    a more direct way to resolve the clr",
    "has become possible only recently by means of hubble space telescope ( hst ) and ground - based integral - field spectroscopy .",
    "recent advances in the understanding of the clr include the determination of the size and morphology of high - ionisation gas by means of infrared hst and ground - based ao infrared imaging / spectroscopy in a few objects ( e.g. , thompson et al .",
    "2001 ; prieto , marco & gallimore 2005 ; snchez et al .",
    "2006 ; riffel et al .",
    "2008 ; bedregal et al . 2009 ; storchi - bergmann et al .",
    "the results indicate clrs with sizes varying from compact ( @xmath230  pc ) to extended ( @xmath2200  pc ) and the clr is aligned preferentially with the direction of the lower ionisation cones seen in these sources .",
    "moreover , the most highly ionised species show the smallest sizes of the emitting regions . in the optical regime ,",
    "hst spectroscopy was employed to study spatially resolved emission - line ratios of nearby seyfert galaxies , including in the measurements and models the lowest - ionisation coronal lines  and   ( e.g. , nelson et al . 2000 ; kraemer & crenshaw 2000a ; kraemer et al .",
    "2000 ; whittle et al . 2005 ;",
    "collins et al . 2005 , 2009 ) .",
    "the study of cls is important for several reasons .",
    "firstly , cls with their high - ionisation potentials trace an important part of the ionising continuum in the euv to soft x - ray regime , which is not always directly accessible from observations .",
    "secondly , the cl 3426 is often the only forbidden line identified in high - redshift spectra of agn and is therefore used to identify agn in deep and wide multi - wavelength surveys . in the future , the line properties ( flux and profile ) may be further used as a diagnostic of the agn properties , potentially including a measurement of host galaxy velocity dispersion .",
    "a better understanding of the site and conditions of formation of this line is therefore of great interest . in several galaxies , there is strong evidence that the bulk of the clr is in outflow ( e.g. , erkens et al . 1997 ; mullaney et al . 2009 ) .",
    "if this is a global property of clrs in all agn , their study provides us with new constraints on the formation and driving mechanism ( e.g. , radiation pressure versus lateral flows around nuclear radio jets ) of such outflows in the very cores of agn .",
    "observations of high - spatial resolution are thus essential in spatially resolving the scales close to where these outflows might form .",
    "the widths , profiles , and wavelength shifts of the cls constitute important diagnostics of these energetic processes ( such as outflows , or also shocks ) in regions close to the central engine .    given that most previous clr studies were based on seeing - limited ground - based spectroscopy , key to making further progress in understanding the clr , and to testing clr models is spatially resolved spectroscopy , which directly zooms into the central tenths of parsecs of the nearby seyfert galaxies . the highest possible spatial resolution to date",
    "can only be achieved with observations above the atmosphere , as they are possible with the hst . here",
    ", we present space telescope imaging spectrograph ( stis ) optical spectroscopy of a selected sample of local agns with the goals of studying the structure and physical properties of the clr .",
    "the spectra , described in section 2 , allow us for the first time the simultaneous study of coronal lines with @xmath3  ev in a spatially resolved fashion .",
    "questions that we will address are the extent of the clr ( section 3 ) , its kinematics and how it compares to that of the low - ionisation gas ( section 4 ) , and the role of shocks and photoionisation in determining the strengths of cls ( section 5 ) .",
    "the main conclusions of this work are summarised in section 6 .",
    "we retrieved archival optical hst / stis spectra of 10 seyfert galaxies listed in column 1 of table  [ properties ] .",
    "the original sample was composed of 101 seyfert galaxies observed with stis and published by spinelli et al .",
    "our selection was based on two criteria : first , we chose galaxies with previous coronal line detections and second , we restricted the sample to relatively nearby objects ( @xmath4 ) in order to obtain high - spatial resolution in physical scales . in all cases ,",
    "the detector consisted of a 1024 x 1024 ccd with a spatial scale of 0.051 arcsec / pixel , giving spatial resolutions ranging from 3 to 17  pc ( for an assumed value of h@xmath5  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 ) .    since the galaxies of our sample",
    "were observed in different stis observing programs , the spectra were obtained in different instrumental configurations . in table  [ observations ] we present a log of these observations .",
    "the spectral region around the h@xmath7 emission line was covered by the g430l grating ( 29005700   , hereafter blue spectra ) , with a spectral resolution of 2.73   / pix .",
    "when available , the region around the h@xmath8 emission line was covered either by the g750l ( 525010300   ) or the g750 m",
    "( 63006850   ) grating ( hereafter red spectra ) , with spectral resolutions of 4.92   / pix and 0.56   / pix , respectively .",
    "the retrieved 2d spectra were already rectified and wavelength and flux calibrated .",
    "the images were converted from surface brightness per angstrom ( in erg  @xmath9  sec@xmath6  @xmath6  arcsec@xmath10 ) to flux per angstrom ( in erg  @xmath9  sec@xmath6  @xmath6 ) following the procedure described in section 5.4.1 of the stis data handbook .",
    "some of the galaxies included multiple exposures , dithering the target along the slit ( see table  [ observations ] ) .",
    "we shifted and combined these images using the imshift and imcombine tasks of iraf , respectively .",
    ".properties of the galaxies in the sample . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]      + @xmath11 this was measured from the line [ fevii]3586 . +      this almost face - on barred spiral ( morris et al .",
    "1985 ) shows a clear dust lane running along the southern leading edge of the bar to the east .",
    "schmitt , storchi - bergmann & baldwin ( 1994 ) presented [ oiii ] and h@xmath8 images , as well as optical spectra of ngc  5643 .",
    "the images show the [ oiii ] gas to be extended along the east - west direction by  20 .",
    "east of the nucleus the radio jet ( pa @xmath287@xmath12 ) lies along the southern edge of the ionisation cone ( simpson et al .",
    "1997 ) .",
    "the hst / stis optical spectrum of ngc  5643 shows [ nev ] and [ fex ] in the nucleus .",
    "the latter feature is , however , very weak .",
    "[ fevii ] is not detected at the 3@xmath13 level in the blue region , while the red spectrum does not include [ fevii]6086 .",
    "however , morris & ward ( 1988 ) report its detection in the optical spectrum of this source .",
    "overall , the coronal line emission is quite compact and asymmetric .",
    "[ nev ] , for instance , is found up to 30  pc ne while to the sw it is restricted to the unresolved nucleus .",
    "[ oiii]5007 , in contrast , is significantly more extended to both ne and sw , observed out to nearly 400  pc .",
    "ngc  7682 is a seyfert 2 galaxy ( huchra & burg 1992 ) in interaction with ngc  7683 ( arp 1966 ) .",
    "ionised gas in h@xmath8+[nii ] and [ oiii ] is detected on scales of kiloparsecs in this galaxy ( brodie et al .",
    "1987 ; durret 1994 ) . in the nir ,",
    "only k - band spectroscopy was previously reported by imanishi & alonso - herrero ( 2004 ) .",
    "the only optical coronal line observed in the stis spectrum of ngc  7682 is [ nev ] .",
    "no iron lines or previous reports in the literature of higher ionisation lines in this wavelength interval were found . in the nir , however , ngc  7682 shows",
    "[ sivi ]  1.963  @xmath14 m and [ sviii ]  0.991  @xmath14 m ( riffel et al . 2007 ) , whose ionisation potential is 167 and 281  ev , respectively . though weak",
    ", the presence of these latter features indicates that , in a photoionisation scenario , high - energy photons reach the nlr .",
    "in addition to the unresolved nuclear [ nev ] emission , this coronal line displays a highly asymmetric extended morphology , observed up to 150  pc ne and 50  pc sw . due to the low s",
    "/ n , even for the nuclear spectrum , little can be said regarding the emission line profile .",
    "however , nuclear low - ionisation lines are strongly asymmetric , displaying a prominent extended red wing . beyond the nucleus , the red wing is not observed .",
    "the superb spatial resolution of the stis spectra allows us to study the kinematics of the coronal - line gas at scales down to a few parsecs , and to compare it with that of lower ionisation gas .",
    "we are interested , for instance , in studying if the coronal - line gas is kinematically perturbed and enhanced in regions where the jet interacts with the nlr gas , if it is compatible with disk rotation or if it is associated instead with outflows . to this purpose we constructed radial velocity maps for those objects that display extended clrs , with more than one line detected at sufficient s / n .",
    "in figures  [ mrk573_vel][ngc3081_vel ] we show the variation of line centroid velocities and fwhms of the lines as a function of the distance to the nucleus .",
    "the velocity curves measured for [ oii ] and  lines are very similar to the ones of , hence we did not include them in the plots .",
    "the velocities are given with respect to the systemic velocities of the galaxies derived from their redshifts .",
    "notice that these redshifts , taken from the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , were derived using emission lines , and may have small deviations from the true redshift of the galaxy . in the cases",
    "were a line was fitted by two gaussian components , the velocities of the more blueshifted line is represented by a filled symbol and the other component by an open symbol .",
    "if only one component was detected in a line , the velocity is represented by an open symbol .",
    "when combining high and low spectral resolution data , the fwhm of the lines derived from the former were not used due to the large difference in the spectral resolutions of both gratings .    in the following subsections",
    "we discuss the results obtained for a subset of galaxies of our sample .",
    "[ mrk573_vel ] shows the variation along the slit of both the fwhm of the most conspicuous lines studied ( upper panel ) and the radial velocity for the same set of lines ( bottom panel ) for this object .",
    "note that the fwhms of [ fex ] were not included in the plot because of the large difference in instrumental resolution between the blue and red spectra .",
    "data for that line , however , was employed to study the radial velocity along the spatial direction of the high - ionisation gas .",
    "it can be seen that the radial velocity for [ oiii ] is in perfect agreement with the results presented by schlesinger et al .",
    "( 2009 , cf .",
    "their fig .",
    "4 ) using the same data for [ oiii ] .",
    "the region plotted in fig .",
    "[ mrk573_vel ] maps the high velocity component of the biconical outflow suggested by these authors .",
    "our results show that [ nev ] and probably [ fevii ] , the two coronal lines with the lowest ionisation potential , follow a similar behaviour as [ oiii ] , except that the former two are associated with the inner region of the outflow .",
    "[ nev ] is seen up to only 150  pc to the nw and 120  pc to the se .",
    "the data for [ fevii ] are less conclusive as only weak  lines in the blue spectra were available .",
    "kinematically , [ nev ] displays a similar rotation curve than [ oiii ] to the se .",
    "in contrast , at @xmath15  pc nw of the centre , both lines appear to diverge : the coronal - line gas is shifted to the blue relative to [ oiii ] .",
    "this is consistent with the broadening observed in [ nev ] at this position . at 85  pc nw a spike",
    "is observed at the position of the  line , and while this line is clearly present , no accurate determination of its shift and fwhm was possible .",
    "this scenario contrasts to what is seen in [ fex ] : it displays a prominent double - peak structure in the region where it is detected ) ] .",
    "moreover , the radial velocity implies that it is not part of the biconical outflow , even though spatially , the region emitting [ fex ] coincides with that of [ nev ] . a similar conclusion regarding the rotation pattern",
    "can be drawn for [ fexiv ] , which shows a completely different behaviour than the lower ionisation lines . at every distance from the nucleus ,",
    "the  line is redshifted with respect to the other lines and the systemic velocity of the galaxy .",
    "one possible explanation for this unusual behaviour is that [ fexiv ] shows similar , but more extreme , line splitting as .",
    "we however , only detect one peak .",
    "another possibility is some contamination in the red wing of  by [ cav ]  5309 .",
    "the fwhm of the coronal lines varies significantly from point to point . for [ nev ] , at the unresolved nucleus , we measured a fwhm of 750  kms@xmath6 while at 50  pc to the nw it has doubled this value , with a fwhm of 1200  km  s@xmath6 , broader than any other nlr feature .      , but for ngc  1068 . here",
    "the magenta four - pointed stars represents  and the green five - pointed stars [ sxii ] .",
    "the labels in the lower panel indicate the position of the radio knots intersected by the slit . ]",
    "many models have been proposed to explain the kinematics of the inner regions of ngc  1068 , mainly based on observations of the 5007 emission line with high - spatial resolution .",
    "axon et al .",
    "( 1998 ) suggested that the kinematics of the nlr is governed by the interaction between the nlr gas and the radio outflow observed in this galaxy .",
    "crenshaw & kraemer ( 2000 ) , based on the same set of stis observations presented here , concluded that a simple kinematic model of a biconical hollowed outflow gives a reasonable explanation for the velocity field of the  gas .",
    "this model assumes a constant acceleration of the clouds in the inner 140  pc and constant deceleration farther out .",
    "more recently , das et al .",
    "2006 re - analysed the radial outflow models and the possible dynamical effects of the radio jet .",
    "the models were capable of explaining the large - scale pattern of the  emission . however , lateral expansion due to the radio knots ( as proposed by axon et al .",
    "1998 ) was required to explain the fainter nlr clouds .",
    "they concluded that an interaction between the radio jet and the  emitting gas is possible , but that these interactions are modest .",
    "the stis slit used to observe ngc  1068 was positioned along the small scale radio jet displayed by this galaxy . in fig .",
    "[ ngc1068_vel ] we show the rotation curve ( lower panel ) and fwhm ( upper panel ) of the coronal lines and  measured in ngc  1068 spectra as a function of the distance to the nucleus .",
    "the labels indicate the positions where the slit intersects the radio jet knots ( see fig . 2 of gallimore et al .",
    "1996 ) .    in fig .",
    "[ ngc1068_vel ] we can see the extreme complexity of the velocity field of this galaxy . while the  line is double peaked in the inner 140  pc , with one component redshifted and another blueshifted , the  and  lines are mostly single peaked , following the redshifted  component towards the sw of the nucleus and the blueshifted  component towards the ne .",
    "exceptions to this are the more external  emission regions ( from 125  pc to 140  pc ne ) where the lines show a second component redshifted by about 1000  km  s@xmath6 , almost coincident with the redshifted component of , and a high velocity cloud ( @xmath16  km  s@xmath6 ) located near the nucleus at 25  pc ne . despite these differences ,",
    "the overall behaviour of , , and  is rather similar , showing a nice symmetric pattern .",
    "moreover , the  line also seems to follow the blueshifted component of the  line at the ne side of the nucleus . at the nucleus and 10  pc sw",
    "the  is blueshifted with respect to the lower ionisation emission lines , with @xmath17  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "on the other hand , the higher ionisation  and [ sxii ] lines are slightly blueshifted with respect to lower ionisation emission lines , and seem to share the same overall kinematics .",
    "this blueshift is about 500  km  s@xmath6 with respect to the systemic velocity of the galaxy , except for the  line emitted at 40  pc and 50  pc ne which has almost the same velocity as the galaxy , as is the case for the  and  lines .    in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ ngc1068_vel ] we show the variation of fwhm with the distance from the nucleus .",
    "these values cover a wide range of velocities , from about 300  to @xmath18 .",
    "no clear correlation between the fwhm and ip of the lines is observed .",
    "we can see in fig .",
    "[ ngc1068_vel ] a strong similarity between the velocity curves of the cls and , suggesting a common origin .",
    "moreover , the velocity curves and fwhms of the lines are not especially perturbed at the positions of the radio knots .",
    "this implies that the radio jet does not have a significant local influence over the coronal and  emission - line gas kinematics .      , but for mrk  3 .",
    "the labels indicate the position of the radio knots intersected by the slit . ]",
    "the stis slit used in the observations of mrk  3 coincides with the position of the radio jet reported by kukula et al .",
    "therefore , it is another excellent opportunity to study the small scale relation between the radio and the coronal line emission and its influence on the kinematics of the gas . in fig .",
    "[ mrk3_vel ] we present the radial velocities ( lower panel ) and fwhms ( upper panel ) of the principal lines detected in this galaxy as a function of the distance to the nucleus .",
    "the labels in the lower panel indicate the position of the radio features intersected by the slit ( see fig .  2 of kukula et al .",
    "1999 ) .    in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ mrk3_vel ] we can see that the inner regions of mrk  3 display line profiles splitted into two distinct velocity systems , one redshifted and the other blueshifted with respect to the systemic velocity of the galaxy . outwards ( more than 120  pc sw and 100  pc ne ) only the redshifted component is observed .",
    "there is a general trend of the line - emitting gas to accelerate as one moves away from the nucleus , it reaches a maximum velocity at about 100  pc from the centre , and then decelerates back to the systemic velocity of the galaxy 100  pc farther out .",
    "the maximum redshift of the [ nev ] and [ fevii ] lines , @xmath19  km  s@xmath6 , is achieved at 70  pc sw and 90  pc sw , respectively .",
    "the maximum blueshift of these lines is reached at 65  pc ne from the nucleus and is slightly higher than the redshift ( @xmath20  km  s@xmath6 ) . as in the case of ngc  1068",
    ", the velocity structure and fwhm of the lines do not seem to be correlated with the positions of the radio jet knots .",
    "however , the line splitting is observed almost all along the fraction of the jet probed by the slit .",
    "moreover , no trend is observed in the fwhms of the lines , which strongly vary with the distance from the nucleus , from @xmath21  km  s@xmath6 up to the extreme value of the 3425 line of @xmath22  km  s@xmath6 in the nucleus and 40  pc to the sw .",
    "previous kinematic models for the [ oiii]5007 emitting gas of mrk  3 were analysed by ruiz et al .",
    "( 2001 ) based on the same set of data used in this work together with [ oiii ] slitless spectra .",
    "the best fit model indicates that the nlr gas is located in a partially filled bicone and is accelerated radially away from the nucleus and then decelerates at a constant rate .",
    "another kinematic model was proposed by cappeti et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , in which the gas forms part of an expanding coocon of gas circumscribing the radio jet .",
    "the similar behaviour presented by the cls and [ oiii ] suggests that the [ nev ] and [ fevii ] gas is also part of the same outflow that governs the lower ionisation gas in the central 400  pc of mrk  3 .",
    "however , some deviations from the  emission - line gas are present , mainly towards the ne . at a distance of 70",
    "pc and 90  pc ne from the nucleus , the  lines are blueshifted with respect to the  lines by an amount of @xmath23  km  s@xmath6 , whereas further out the trend reverses and the  lines are redshifted with respect to the lower ionisation lines .",
    "high - resolution spectroscopy based on hst data has been employed by several authors to study ngc  4151 .",
    "the kinematics derived from hst long slit observations of   ( nelson et al .",
    "2000 ; crenshaw et al .",
    "2000 ) show evidence of three components : a low velocity system , consistent with normal disk rotation , a high velocity system in radial outflow at a few hundred , and an additional high velocity system with velocities up to 1400 , as previously found from stis slitless spectroscopy ( hutchings et al .",
    "1998 , 1999 ; kaiser et al .",
    "the general consensus points to signatures of a radial outflow in the form of a wind , with no interaction with the radio jet .",
    "overall , the rotation curves found for [ oiii ] , shown in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ ngc4151_vel ] and fig .",
    "[ ngc4151_vel_70 ] , are consistent with that derived by crenshaw et al . 2000 . along pa=@xmath24 ,",
    "a velocity gradient of over 500  km  s@xmath6 in the inner 50  pc ne of the nucleus is detected , with all lines being redshifted .",
    "the gas first accelerates to a maximum velocity of 500  relative to the systemic velocity of the galaxy .",
    "it then decelerates back to about 100  at @xmath2100  pc . towards the sw , at @xmath230  pc from the centre ,",
    "a double - peak structure is detected , with the red peak accompanying the systemic velocity of the galaxy and the blue peak shifted by @xmath2700  to the blue from the former .",
    "the relative separation between both peaks decreases in the next few parsecs outwards . at @xmath245  pc from the centre , only the red peak is detected . from that point",
    ", it suffers a slight acceleration to the blue , reaching 250  at 70  pc , and then decelerates to 200  at 100  pc . along pa=@xmath25",
    "the velocity curve is more flat , deviating very little from the systemic velocity of the galaxy . at @xmath26  pc sw",
    "the lines reach a maximum blueshift of @xmath21 . further out , at about 65  pc sw ,",
    "a second peak in the  lines is measured , with a blueshift of @xmath27 , not seen in the cls .",
    "this splitting of the lines coincides with the component c2 of the radio jet .",
    "the highest ionisation line detected in ngc  4151 is [ fex]6374 .",
    "when detected , this line has the same velocity as the lower ionisation gas mapped by , , and . in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ ngc4151_vel_70 ] we marked the positions where the slit intersects the radio knots .",
    "from this , it is clear that there is no correlation between the radio emission and the cl kinematics , suggesting that the radio jet has no significant influence on the overall kinematics of the gas emitting the cls .    , but for ngc  4151 at pa = 221@xmath28 . ]    , but for ngc  4151 at pa = 70@xmath28 .",
    "the labels in the lower panel indicate the position of the radio knots intersected by the slit . ]",
    "the variation of fwhm with the distance from the nucleus is plotted in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ ngc4151_vel ] and fig .",
    "[ ngc4151_vel_70 ] .",
    "it is easy to see that there is a large scatter in fwhm from point to point , both for lines of the same element and among lines of different species .",
    "overall , the scatter in fwhm among the different ions is the largest in the region where double - peaked lines were detected .",
    "this may imply that a number of lines are actually double - peaked , but no longer spectroscopically resolved .",
    "our radial velocity curves derived from the stis data which includes , for the first time , the coronal lines [ nev ] , [ fevii ] , and   ( see fig .  [ ngc4151_vel ] and fig .  [ ngc4151_vel_70 ] ) show that these cls follow the kinematics traced by [ oiii ] .",
    "this implies that they follow the same velocity field and originate from the outflow itself , with no important influence of the radio jet .",
    "[ ngc4507_vel ] shows the radial velocity field ( lower panel ) and fwhm ( upper panel ) of the principal lines measured for ngc  4507 along the slit .",
    "the velocity curve of this galaxy is very different to the ones studied in the previous sections , showing a rather flat pattern with velocity shifts closer to the systemic velocity of the galaxy . at the nucleus",
    ", the  line displays a double - peaked profile , with one component redshifted by @xmath29  km  s@xmath6 and another blueshifted by @xmath30  km  s@xmath6 . at this point the coronal lines of  and  show a small blue asymmetry , but the two components are not resolved .",
    "the centre of these lines coincides with the red component of .",
    "the maximum of this asymmetry is reached at @xmath31  pc nw , where the strongest lines ( i.e.  and ) can be characterised by the sum of two gaussians separated by @xmath32  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "one component describes a strong narrow core ( @xmath33  km  s@xmath6 ) and the second component represents a blueshifted wider ( @xmath34  km  s@xmath6 ) part .",
    "notice that the  velocity at this point coincides with the ones of the blueshifted components of  and .",
    "the blue asymmetry smoothly vanishes as one moves away from the nucleus and a tenuous red wing appears in the emission lines emitted in the outer regions .",
    "further out , where no coronal lines are observed , the  lines in the nw side of the nucleus are double peaked , showing a strong blueshift that reaches 750  km  s@xmath6 . in general , we can see that the  and  emitting gas share the same kinematics with the  gas , with a weak tendency of the  lines to be redshifted with respect to the other two lines . on the other hand ,",
    "the  line is redshifted with respect to the lower ionisation lines , with a maximum shift of 500  km  s@xmath6 at the nucleus . as we mentioned in section  [ mrk573_kinematics ] , the possible presence of weak [ cav ]  5309 on the  red wing can be , in part , the reason for the measured shift .    the higher resolution red spectra show lines with much more complex structures .",
    "as this spectrum was taken with the slit positioned in a different angle than the blue spectrum , we do not include the  line in fig .",
    "[ ngc4507_vel ] .",
    "as we mentioned in section  [ results_4507 ] , two components were required to describe the nuclear  line : one low velocity , broad component ( @xmath35  km  s@xmath6 , @xmath36  km  s@xmath6 ) and a narrow component ( @xmath37  km  s@xmath6 ) redshifted by 350  km  s@xmath6 with respect to the systemic velocity of the galaxy .",
    "these components are consistent with the velocity - shifts and fwhms measured for the higher velocity [ oi ] lines , the latter being slightly broader than the former .",
    "no counterpart for the more intense [ oi ] component was detected in . at both sides of the nucleus",
    ", the  line profiles were described by one gaussian component with velocities redshifted by 250  km  s@xmath6 and @xmath38  km  s@xmath6 .    , but for ngc  4507 . ]      , but for ngc  3081 . ]",
    "very little information exists in the literature on the kinematics of the spatially resolved nlr gas of ngc  3081 ( ruiz et al . 2005 ) . here",
    ", we used the stis spectra to map the kinematics of the , , , , and  emission - line gas in the inner 200  pc of this galaxy .",
    "as in the case of ngc  4507 , the rotation curve of ngc  3081 ( lower panel of fig .  [ ngc3081_vel ] )",
    "is fairly flat .",
    "the velocity of the  emitting gas is no greater than a few kilometres per second , with a maximum of @xmath39  km  s@xmath6 at the nucleus .",
    "the fwhms of the  line are very similar , with little variation along the spatial direction .",
    "the velocity dispersion of the coronal emission lines is slightly higher , with the lines either blueshifted or redshifted with respect to the systemic velocity of the galaxy . at the nucleus ,",
    "all lines but  have the same shift of the line peak , corresponding to the systemic velocity of the galaxy . at this point , the  line shows a receding velocity of @xmath21  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "next to the nucleus ( @xmath26  pc ne and sw ) , the gas producing lines with @xmath40  ev is redshifted by more than @xmath41  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "the maximum velocity is achieved by the  emitting gas , which presents a @xmath42  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "further out , at @xmath43 and 55  pc ne , the  lines are blueshifted by @xmath41  km  s@xmath6 .",
    "if we take into account that ngc  3081 is a galaxy observed nearly face - on , gas in a rotating disk aligned with the equatorial plane of the galaxy will be observed with the same systemic velocity of the galaxy .",
    "this seems to be the case of the  emission - line gas . on the other hand ,",
    "the higher dispersion of velocity and fwhm shown by the coronal - line gas suggest that it is governed by different kinematics than the  emitting gas .",
    "the clr of this agn is rather turbulent and chaotic .",
    "moreover , no coincidence in the fwhm or peak velocity between coronal lines of similar ionisation potential is found , indicating that they are produced in different regions along the line of sight .",
    "the high - spatial resolution achieved with stis allowed us to study not only the global characteristics of the optical coronal line emitting gas but also , for the first time , its small scale properties as a function of the distance to the active nucleus . in this section",
    "we discuss the general results that are obtained from the analysis of these data , including the location of the coronal line emitting region , the origin of this emission , and its relation with the radio jets .",
    "the spectra analysed in this work revealed multi - component and very complex clrs , showing a clumpy morphology similar to the one displayed by the low - ionisation lines .",
    "the most extended cls ,  and , are observed from a few parsecs up to hundreds of parsecs from the nucleus .",
    "the _ most compact _ clr is observed in ngc  3227 , where the  and  extent is restricted to the central @xmath215  pc . on the other hand",
    ", mrk  3 exhibits the _",
    "largest _  and  emission regions , with a total extent of 375  pc and 300  pc , respectively",
    ". the higher ionisation lines ( with @xmath44  ev ) , , , , and [ sxii ] , are emitted in more compact regions .",
    "is the most extended of this group of lines , varying from 15  pc up to 200  pc , while the other lines are always observed much closer to the nucleus , in regions of less than 100  pc diameter .",
    "broadly speaking , a stratification is observed , in the sense that lines with higher ionisation potentials are more concentrated towards the centre .",
    "one interesting aspect is that some objects show a lack of coronal lines with ip larger than 100  ev even though they display strong and extended soft x - ray emission .    from the analysis of the kinematics of the emission - line gas",
    ", we found that the cls tend to follow the same velocity distribution as , in particular the  and  lines .",
    "line splitting is sometimes observed in coronal and lower ionisation lines ( e.g. , , , and ) . in those cases where",
    "was observed , the line centre was redshifted with respect to the lower ionisation lines .",
    "this means that no universal trend between line shift and ip is observed when high - spatial resolution is employed .",
    "this is in contrast with previous reports from low - spatial resolution spectroscopy , usually integrating the _ whole _",
    "nlr , where the peak of the cls tend to be more blueshifted than lower ionisation lines ( e.g. , de robertis & osterbrock 1984 ; appenzeller & streicher 1988 ; de robertis & shaw 1990 ; marconi et al .",
    "1996 ; reunanen et al .",
    "2003 ) . in order to check if the same trend is also apparent in our particular galaxies , we integrated the light distribution along the slit mimicking a seeing - limited observation .",
    "we then measured the shift of the central peak of the lines and plotted them as a function of ip as shown in fig .",
    "[ ip_corr ] .",
    "it can be seen that in mrk  573 and ngc  3081 no correlation is present at all , while in ngc  4507 the shift of the lines increases with the ip .",
    "the trend shown by the latter was previously reported by appenzeller & streicher ( 1988 ) . only in ngc  1068 a tendency for high - ionisation lines to be more blueshifted than lower ionisation ones can be confirmed .",
    "three of the galaxies in the sample ( ngc  4151 , ngc  1068 , and mrk  3 ) were observed with the slit along the nuclear radio jets they exhibit . from the comparison of the radio and line emission we generally found no enhancement of the coronal line emission , or perturbations of its kinematics , at the positions of the radio knots .",
    "two key types of models might explain the coronal lines and their properties : either photoionisation by the central continuum source ( e.g. , korista & ferland 1989 ; oliva et al .",
    "1994 ; ferguson et al . 1997a ; binette et al . 1997 ; nagao et al .",
    "2003 ; mullaney et al .",
    "2009 ) , or shock ionisation or other processes directly or indirectly linked to the presence of radio jets ( e.g. , tadhunter et al . 1988 ; viegas - aldrovandi & contini 1989 ; morse , raymond & wilson 1996 ; axon et al . 1998 ) .",
    "we discuss these possibilities in turn . in the context of photoionisation , important parameters which would affect the measured coronal line spectrum are the shape and strength of the ionising continuum [ either from a central `` point source '' and/or including spatially extended emission as it has been observed in several nearby seyfert galaxies ( e.g. , ngc  1068 : young et al .",
    "2001 ; ngc  4151 : ogle et al . 2000 ) ] , the gas density , the cloud column densities ( matter - bounded versus ionisation - bounded ) , and the metal abundances , which however , should have no strong local variations .",
    "the presence of radio jets could affect the emission - line ratios and kinematics in several major ways : firstly , by collisional ionisation from local shocks directly originating from jet - cloud interactions .",
    "in this scenario gas is heated up to temperatures of several @xmath45  k and a close spatial coincidence between jets and gas clouds is expected .",
    "secondly , shocks can compress the gas which in turn is photoionised by the central source ( viegas - aldrovandi & contini 1989 ) . in this case a close link between the jet and the morphology and kinematics of the emission - line gas is expected .",
    "thirdly , jet - cloud interactions could lead to fast auto - ionising shocks ( dopita & sutherland 1995 , 1996 ) , photoionising surrounding gas .",
    "a grid of models taking into account ionisation by the central source , the diffuse radiation of shocked and ionised gas , and collisional ionisation were presented by contini & viegas ( 2001 ) .",
    "the application of these models to agns shows that indeed , fast shocks could be responsible for a fraction of the observed line flux .",
    "finally , jet - gas interaction might produce cocoons and lateral flows , affecting gas at larger distances than directly at the loci of the jet axis ( taylor , dyson & axon 1992 ; steffen et al .",
    "1997 ) .",
    "the physics of jets and their interaction with the surrounding medium is highly complex .",
    "moreover , this scenario is even more complicated when we also consider the additional effect of ionising photons from the central continuum source .",
    "jets might have indirect effects on the local gas physics , even if photoionisation is the dominant ionisation source ; e.g. by locally enhancing the gas density .",
    "such a case is difficult to rule out , since the presence of the jet would mostly add to the spectral complexity of the line emission , without directly accounting for all its features .      the tendency of photoionisation models to underpredict the highest - ionisation cls , and the spatial coincidence between the radio and high - ionisation emission , led several authors to suggest that fast shocks driven by radio jets can play an important role in the formation of cls ( e.g. , axon et al",
    ". 1998 ) . in order to address this point we selected from the initial sample of objects three galaxies , mrk  3 , ngc",
    "1068 , and ngc  4151 , which show a strong , highly collimated small - scale radio jet .",
    "the hst / stis data of these galaxies are particularly suitable to test the hypothesis of shocks as precursors of the cls since the slits used in the observations were nearly aligned with the radio jets .    in sections",
    "[ ngc1068_results ] , [ mrk3_results ] , and [ ngc4151_results ] we described the main properties of ngc  1068 , mrk  3 , and ngc  4151 , and the results obtained from the measurements of their coronal - line fluxes .",
    "we showed that , in spite of the similarities in the radio emission displayed by these galaxies , there is a notable difference between them : while ngc  1068 displays cls with a wide range of ionisation potentials , from 99  ev up to 505  ev , ngc  4151 only shows coronal lines of ip @xmath46  ev .",
    "the case of mrk  3 is even more critical as the only coronal lines detected are those of ip  @xmath47  ev .",
    "moreover , the intensity distribution of these lines shows a similar morphology than the lower ionisation lines of  and .",
    "furthermore , there is no enhanced emission at the positions where the radio knots are observed . in particular ,",
    "ngc  4151 was observed at two position angles , one along the radio jet and the other 30 deg away from the radio axis .",
    "the line intensities and line ratios are remarkably similar at these two positions , not showing any signs of increased emission along the position of the radio jet , as noticed by nelson et al .",
    "additionally , the kinematics of the cls ( section  [ ngc1068_kinematics ] for ngc  1068 , section  [ mrk3_kinematics ] for mrk  3 , and section  [ ngc4151_kinematics ] for ngc  4151 ) do not seem to be locally affected by the radio jet . in none of the three cases we see a correlation between the position of the radio knots and the velocity field or the fwhm of the lines .",
    "although several models have been proposed to explain the velocity curves of these galaxies , including models involving jet - cloud interaction , the simple model of a radial outflow ( nelson et al .",
    "2000 ; crenshaw & kraemer 2000 ; ruiz et al . 2001 ; crenshaw et al .",
    "2000 ) was able to successfully reproduce the kinematics of  for the three galaxies and , therefore , also the kinematics of the cls .",
    "additional information about the jet - cl interaction is provided by the galaxy mrk  573 .",
    "this galaxy also harbours a strong radio jet in its nucleus , but unfortunately the stis slit was positioned in another direction and does not intersect the radio knots .",
    "however , it can still give us useful information .",
    "mrk  573 represents an extreme case of  emission .",
    "the coronal line emission is strongly peaked , with the maximum in the nucleus and no relation at all with the knots and arcs seen in the wfpc2 f606w filter image by pogge & martini ( 2002 ) .",
    "this scenario is reinforced by whittle et al .",
    "( 2005 ) and schlesinger et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , who presented detailed calculations of the radio jet energetics and its modest impact on the gas ionisation .",
    "they both showed , for mrk  78 and mrk  573 respectively , that the central source is the main driver for the observed luminosity , while the mechanical luminosity associated to the outflow accounts only for a few percent of the estimated bolometric luminosity .",
    "as we mentioned above , in some cases , shocks can lead to very high temperatures in the line - emitting gas . in order to check the temperatures",
    ", we employed the standard diagnostic  ( 4958 + 5006)/4363 line ratio to determinate the temperature of the o@xmath48 gas as a function of the distance to the nucleus ( fig .  [ temperature ] ) .",
    "we found temperatures ranging from @xmath49  k at most for the positions where the ratio could be determined .",
    "the temperatures derived for the inner regions of ngc  4151 are probably overestimated due to a strong blend of the 4363 line with the broad line of h@xmath50 .",
    "temperatures lower than 20000  k are typical of photoionised gas , and do not indicate any additional energy input source , as would be the case of shocks strongly interacting with the gas .",
    "although these temperatures were measured for the  region , the similarity between the cls and lower ionisation gas suggests a common origin and therefore no important contribution of shocks to the cls .        from all the above",
    ", we see that there is no clear evidence of a _ local _ influence of the radio jet on the coronal - line gas . however , there is the possibility of the presence of hot cocoons generated by the radio jet that affect the gas located at larger distances from it . in this scenario ,",
    "the velocity curves are expected to form a broken ellipsoid , with the approaching gas strongly blueshifted and the receding gas strongly redshifted , independent of the observation angle .",
    "we can discard the presence of an expanding cocoon in the case of ngc  4151 , since the lines displayed by this galaxy have only one component .",
    "for ngc  1068 and mrk  3 this scenario can not be tested with the data presented here .",
    "however , integrated emission - line fluxes from long slit spectroscopy ( koski 1978 ) show that , in the case of mrk  3 , the ratio of /  is very similar to that measured from the stis data , implying that if cocoons have any impact on the coronal line emission it should be quite small .",
    "although we can not completely discard the contributions of shocks to the formation of the cls , the lack of correlation between the positions of the radio knots and the flux distribution and kinematics of the cls in these galaxies , and the different ionisation ranges displayed by them , suggest that the interaction of the radio jet with the surrounding gas does not have a major effect in the emission of the cls locally .",
    "however , with the data presented here , we can not exclude the presence of expanding cocoons formed by the radio jet in ngc  1068 and mrk  3 .",
    "further progress can be achieved from the analysis of 3d spectroscopy , mapping the emission - line gas not only along the radio jet but also the gas located a larger distances from it .                  in this section ,",
    "we compare the observed emission - line ratios with photoionisation models . in a first step ,",
    "we compare model predictions for the low - ionisation line ratio [ oii]/  versus that of [ neiii]/. in a second step , we focus on the higher ionisation cls , for which fewer model predictions are available .",
    "two model approaches have been followed in the past .",
    "on the one hand , authors have attempted to match cl strengths in _",
    "samples _ of seyfert galaxies , with an eye on the highest observed line ratios of cls relative to low - ionisation lines ( e.g. , erkens et al .",
    "1997 ; komossa & schulz 1997 ; binette 1998 ; rodrguez - ardila et al . 2002 ; nagao et al .",
    "2003 ; rodrgue - ardila et al .",
    "on the other hand , attention has focused on individual well - studied seyfert galaxies which have spatially resolved nlrs , and photoionisation models have been presented which successfully reproduce the emission line ratios ( with focus on low - ionisation lines , but including  and ) of individual clouds . for the stis spectra",
    "analysed here , this was done for ngc  4151 ( nelson et al .",
    "2000 ; kraemer et al .",
    "2000 ) , mrk  3 ( collins et al . 2005 , 2009 ) , and ngc  1068 ( kraemer & crenshaw 2000a ) .",
    "these photoionisation models assume two or three different components of ionised gas ( at each distance from the nucleus ) , photoionised directly by a power - law continuum and by an absorbed continuum in the case of the low - ionisation component .",
    "similar models were used to reproduce high- and low - ionisation lines detected in the nuclei of mrk  573 ( kraemer et al .",
    "2009 ) and ngc  1068 ( kraemer & crenshaw 2000b ) .    a selection of different models , including photoionisation models with a mix of matter- and ionisation - bounded clouds ( binette et al . 1996 ) , standard power - law photoionisation models , and shock models ( dopita & sutherland 1996 ) , are shown in fig .",
    "[ models ] , together with the /[neiii ] and [ oii]/  line ratios measured for the galaxies in the sample .",
    "we have included the line ratios of ngc  4151 , ngc  1068 , and mrk  3 for comparison purposes , but notice that these lines have already been modeleded by nelson et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , kraemer et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , collins et al .",
    "( 2005 , 2009 ) , and kraemer & crenshaw ( 2000a ) .",
    "the models included in fig .  [ models ] were taken from fig .  4 of tadhunter ( 2002 ) .",
    "we also included a fiducial point from the dust - free models of ferguson et al .",
    "( 1997a ) and those corresponding to the pb50 and bb20 models of komossa & schulz ( 1997 ) .",
    "these multi - component models are described in more detail below .",
    "note that the photoionisation models shown in fig .",
    "[ models ] do not aim at a detailed modelling of every single emission line , like , of every galaxy , but rather at presenting global trends . from this diagnostic diagram",
    "we can see that the photoionisation models of ferguson et al .",
    "( 1997a ) and komossa & schulz ( 1997 ) reproduce the bulk of the line ratios fairly well . however , in some cases ( e.g. , mrk  573 and ngc  1068 ) they underpredict the /[neiii ] ratio . in a small parameter space , the shock plus precursor and photoionisation models overlap , and within a very narrow parameter space shock plus precursor models also match the data ( mrk  3 , ngc  4151 , and ngc  7682 ) ; while the bulk of these particular models are off - set from the data - they systematically overpredict [ oii]/  and underpredict [ neiii]/[nev ] .",
    "a similar result was obtained by nelson et al .",
    "2000 for ngc  4151 .",
    "both , the pure shock models and the models including matter - bounded clouds overestimate the [ oii]/  line ratios , giving a poor description of the measured ratios in these galaxies .",
    "although the line ratios presented here were not corrected for extinction , an extreme correction would be required for the [ oii]/  intrinsic ratio to lie in the regions predicted by these models .",
    "it is interesting to note that the line ratios from these galaxies do not vary very much , neither from galaxy to galaxy nor within each object , occupying a small zone in the diagrams .",
    "this can be better seen in fig .",
    "[ u ] , where we plot the [ neiii]/[nev ] and [ oii]/  ratios as a function of the distance to the nucleus of the galaxies . for most of the objects in our sample",
    "these ratios do not vary strongly with the distance and show very similar values . since these ratios are usually interpreted as a measure of the ionisation parameter ( e.g. , penston et al . 1990 ; komossa & schulz 1997 ) , their constancy would imply that the gas density in these galaxies decreases proportional to the square of the distance .",
    "extra information concerning the extinction affecting the gas can be derived from these plots .",
    "as it was mentioned above , the line ratios were not corrected for extinction .",
    "however , the closeness in wavelength between the  and [ neiii ] lines makes its ratio almost independent of reddening . on the other hand ,",
    "the [ oii]/  ratio is more affected by dust extinction .",
    "we can see in fig .",
    "[ u ] that , in most cases , both ratios show a very similar behaviour with respect to the distance to the nucleus , suggesting that the emission - line gas is not strongly affected by dust extinction .",
    "next , we focus on just the cls for which not all models shown in fig .  [ models ] are available .",
    "given large uncertainties in the collision strengths of the iron coronal lines ( see , especially , the cautious comments by ferguson et al .",
    "1997a ) , we limit any comparison between data and models to order of magnitude estimates .",
    "ferguson et al . ( 1997b ) carried out photoionisation calculations to identify the optimal conditions and locations in which the coronal lines form . assuming that radiation from the central agn is the only excitation mechanism , and using plane - parallel , constant density slabs of gas , they determined the distances from the ionising source in which the coronal lines are emitted as a function of density .",
    "they provide line equivalent widths in the density - distance plane , indicating where the bulk of the emission occurs for each line , and allowing rough comparisons between observed and predicted emission - line flux ratios .",
    "the [ nev ] , [ fevii ] , [ fex ] , [ fexi ] and [ fexiv ] lines observed here are included in their calculations .",
    "they assumed an ionising euv continuum similar to that of a typical seyfert galaxy , with @xmath51  erg  s@xmath6 , where @xmath52 is the ionising luminosity of the central source .",
    "these models predict that , under optimal conditions(h ) = @xmath53 , @xmath54 , @xmath55 , 0 and range of log @xmath56(h ) = 2.07.0 , 3.07.5 , 3.08.25 , 5.06.5 for , , , and , respectively . ] , the radius of the region emitting the [ nev ] and [ fevii ] lines is between 0.4130  pc and 0.6100  pc , respectively . for [ fex ]",
    ", they show that it is restricted to the inner 20  pc while for  the emission region is not larger than one parsec .",
    "these values agree with the size of the clrs derived in this work in all objects but mrk  3 , ngc  1068 , and mrk  573 , where moderate to large discrepancies are found . in the former , both fe@xmath57 and ne@xmath58 extend to distances of about 200  pc .",
    "for the latter two objects , the greatest discrepancy is for the lines of high ip , that is , [ fex ] and , which are detected to scales of @xmath47  pc and 60  pc , respectively . for ngc  1068 , pier et al .",
    "( 1994 ) and bland - hawthorn et al .",
    "( 1997 ) estimate ionising luminosities 12 orders of magnitude higher than used by ferguson et al .",
    "( 1997b ) .",
    "if we take into account that the size of the emission region scales as @xmath59 , adopting @xmath60  erg  s@xmath6 and leaving the other parameters of the model constant , the sizes of the emission regions for the different lines are increased by a factor of up to 4 .",
    "the size of the region emitting is now in good agreement , but we now overestimate the size of the  region , which should now be visible to scales of several hundred parsecs . furthermore , the region emitting  continues to be strongly underestimated .",
    "a similar argument can be applied to mrk  573 , although in that source the region containing  was not covered by stis .    from a large grid of photoionisation models , and assuming a `` locally optimally emitting clouds '' ( loc ) scenario , ferguson et al .",
    "( 1997a ) predicted integrated spectra for different distributions of cloud covering fraction and density .",
    "the integrated spectrum that best reproduces the [ oii]/  and /h@xmath7 ratios of a mean seyfert  2 spectrum also predicts /  and /  ratios of 0.3 and 12.6 , respectively .",
    "these values can be compared with the ones measured in the galaxies of the sample , although keeping in mind that ferguson et al.s values are integrated over the whole nlr .",
    "the upper - left panel of fig .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] shows the distribution of the /  line ratio found in ngc  1068 , ngc  4151 , and ngc  3227 ; the only galaxies where it could be measured .",
    "this ratio varies from about 0.11.2 , with the largest values found at the nuclear positions . in the lower - left panel of fig .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] we show the /  ratio , which varies from about 115 . additionally , we included in fig .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] the ratios of the cls over . in general",
    ", the line ratios tend to be higher at the nuclear positions , where the bulk of the cls are emitted .",
    "we also added in fig .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] the predicted ratios from the photoionisation models of komossa & schulz ( 1997 ) . among their multi - component models ,",
    "we representatively show two .",
    "these were computed for a mixture of gas densities and radii , varying the ionising euv continuum : one continuum represented by a blackbody with @xmath61  k ( bb20 ; for comparison purposes ) and the other was described by a combination of a power law ( @xmath62 ) and bb20 , each contributing 50% ( pb50 ) .",
    "it can be seen that the models of both , ferguson et al .",
    "( 1997a ) and komossa & schulz ( 1997 ) , do a relatively good job in reproducing the observed ratios , although they tend to underpredict the cls measured at the most central regions of the galaxies .",
    "this is naturally expected , since the models included a mix over a range of radii , while at the smallest nuclear distances the highest ionisation lines are enhanced relative to the lower ionisation lines . especially , given their high critical densities , coronal lines can be selectively boosted when adding a high - density component ( e.g. , table  3 of komossa & bade 1999 ) .",
    "excluding the nuclear regions , models and observations typically agree within a factor of a few .",
    "since cls sensitively depend on the euv - sed , employing higher - temperature euv bump components will naturally increase the strengths of the cls with respect to the most lower ionisation lines ( komossa & schulz 1997 ) .",
    "keeping further in mind the possibility of a contribution of matter - bounded clouds ( which have a relatively smaller contribution from low - ionisation lines ; e.g. , binette et al .",
    "1997 , binette 1998 ) and the remaining uncertainties in the collisional strengths of the iron cls ( e.g. , ferguson et al .",
    "1997b ) , we conclude that the consistency between photoionisation models and observations is gratifying",
    ".    in summary , the observational evidence presented in this section shows that photoionisation by a central source can account remarkably well for most of the coronal and low - ionisation line ratios measured in the galaxies of the sample .",
    "several lines of evidence suggest that strong extinction , at distances towards the sw of the nucleus of ngc  1068 , is playing an important role in the shape of its nlr : optical and nir emission lines and continuum emission are weaker towards the sw ( e.g. , machetto et al .",
    "1994 ; kraemer & crenshaw 2000a ; thompson et al .",
    "2001 ; geballe et al .",
    "2009 ) ; polarised light in the nir towards the sw from the nucleus is not visible at optical wavelengths ( packham et al .",
    "1997 ) ; and the silicate optical depth is strongly asymmetric , with a maximum at ssw position from the nucleus ( mason et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "the stis observations analysed here also points to strong extinction affecting the emission at sw distances from the nucleus ( see section  [ ngc1068_results ] ) . a close examination of fig .  [ ngc1068_flux ] shows that toward the sw most cls are suppressed ,  being the only one that can be observed at some positions in that direction . only , the brightest of all optical lines , is visible at all apertures but its strength , compared to that of the ne side , is strongly suppressed , by up to a factor of 10 .",
    "this suggests that indeed , strong extinction is present to the sw .",
    "the nucleus itself seems to be strongly attenuated too , as can be observed from the distribution of the ratio /  along the spatial direction measured in ngc  1068 shown in fig .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] .",
    "this ratio is strongly sensitive to reddening because of the large difference in wavelength of the lines involved .",
    "it is independent of the form of the ionising continuum and likely of chemical abundances ( except if metallicity shows a strong gradient along the slit ) .",
    "[ fe7fe10 ] shows that from about 20  pc ne of the nucleus and outwards , the ratio /  is relatively constant , with an average value of @xmath63 . in contrast , from 20  pc ne to the sw , it drops sharply , reaching 0.5 at only 25  pc to the sw",
    ". moreover , fig .",
    "[ ngc1068_flux ] tells us that  follows exactly the same spatial distribution as .",
    "no  is detected at 50  pc sw , where a minimum in the  distribution is observed . a few positions outwards , where the  emission increases again ,  also does , becoming visible up to @xmath2120  pc , where it is no longer detected .",
    "note that to the ne , the maximum distance where we detect  is 140  pc .",
    "we therefore confirm that the size of the  emission region measured to the ne is very similar to that towards the sw .",
    "we conclude , therefore , that it is the strong extinction to the sw that blocks the detection of cls in this direction .",
    "note that the dust blocking the coronal lines is not spatially uniform .",
    "rodrguez - ardila et al . ( 2006 ) report the detection of  up to 120  pc south of the nucleus . in their observations",
    ", these authors employed a 1@xmath64 slit aligned in the north - south direction .",
    "it calls the attention that the coronal lines that seem to be strongly extinguished along the stis slit in ngc  1068 are those coming from ions that are usually locked up into grains : iron and silicon . therefore , in summary , dust extinction , and the gas phase depletion of refractory elementens , very plausibly explain the observations of ngc  1068 .",
    "we have presented a study of the clr of a sample of ten seyfert galaxies based on optical stis / hst spectra .",
    "these spectra allowed us to resolve the regions emitting cls , and to analyse the properties of the cls as a function of the distance to the nucleus .",
    "our main results can be summarised as follows :    1 .",
    "cls display very similar flux distributions than low - ionisation lines , showing a clumpy morphology .",
    "the clrs extent from less than 10  pc up to 230  pc in radius ; the most compact one is observed in ngc  3227 , the most extended one in mrk  3 .",
    "we confirm , that high - ionisation cls arise from more compact regions than the lower ionisation cls .",
    "the compactness of the clr is consistent with an origin of the bulk of the cls between blr and nlr , and extending well into the nlr ( up to 100s of pc ) in  and .",
    "moreover , the distribution of the ratios between cls and  shows its maximum at the nucleus .",
    "2 .   the two ( ionisation - parameter sensitive ) line ratios , [ oii]/  and [ neiii/ , generally show very similar radial dependencies . 3 .   the highest ionisation clrs appear to be the ones in ngc  4151 and ngc  3227 , in terms of the /  line ratio .",
    "however , only in ngc  1068 we observed [ sixii ] , the highest ionisation line observed in the galaxies of the sample .",
    "4 .   in general , the cl profiles show strong asymmetries , that vary with the distance to the nucleus . in some cases",
    "we observe line splitting in the core , sometimes locally complex with several components contributing .",
    "in particular , a remarkable double - peak structure was observed in the  lines of mrk  573 and ngc  4507 . in the case of mrk  573 ,",
    "the relative separation between the two peaks increases when going from nw to se .",
    "this signals the presence of a highly energetic outflow , not detected in lower ionisation lines .",
    "patterns of rotation curves in  are generally followed by cls .",
    "local deviations occur , occasionally .",
    "maximal @xmath65v of cls reach up to typically 500  ( 1000  in case of ngc  1068 ) with both , red- and blueshifts occurring .",
    "variation in width and peak position of the lines occurs from point to point without any particular universal trend with respect to the ip of the lines .",
    "the presence or absence of cls , their strengths , and kinematics , does not scale in any obvious and strong way with the radio properties ( position of radio knots in jets ) .",
    "several lines of evidence point towards photoionisation as major ionisation mechanism : the generally close spatial dependencies between cls and low - ionisation lines , the low inferred gas temperatures of order 1000020000  k typical of photoionised gas , and the fact that available photoionisation models are generally successful in matching observed line ratios , within a factor of a few .",
    "our work demonstrated the power of spatially resolved spectroscopy to provide information of the inner parts of agns , where the bulk of cls arise .",
    "a full comprehension of these lines is very important in order to improve our knowledge about energetic processes , such as outflows and shocks , occurring in the very galaxy cores .",
    "xm acknowledges scholarships from the deutscher akademischer austausch dienst ( daad ) and from the consejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas ( conicet ) .",
    "a.r.a acknowledges support of the brazilian funding agency cnpq under grant 311476/2006 - 6 .",
    "99 antonucci r. , hurt t. , miller j. , 1994 , apj , 430 , 210 appenzeller , i. , streicher , r. , 1988 , aj , 95 , 45 arp h. , 1966 , apjs , 14 , 1 axon , d. j. , marconi , a. , capetti , a. , maccetto , f. d. , schreier , e. , robinson , a. , 1998 , apj , 496l , 75 bedregal a. g. , colina l. , alonso - herrero a. , arribas s. , 2009 , apj , 698 , 1852 best p. n. , rttgering h. j. a. , lehnert m. d. , 1999 , mnras , 310 , 223 binette l. , 1998 , mnras , 294l , 47 binette l. , wilson a. s. , storchi - bergmann t. , 1996 , a&a , 312 , 365 binette l. , wilson a. s. , raga a. , storchi - bergmann t. , 1997 , a&a , 327 , 909 bland - hawthorn j. , lumsden s. l. , voit g. m. , cecil g. n. , weisheit j. c. , 1997 , ap&ss , 248 , 177 brandt w. n. , pounds k. , fink h. h. , 1995 , mnras , 273 , l47 brodie j. , willick j. a. , bowyer s. , henry j. p. , 1987",
    ", aj , 93 , 1054 buta r. , 1990 , apj , 351 , 62 capetti a. , axon d. j. , macchetto f. , sparks w. b. , boksenberg a. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 554 capetti a. , macchetto f. , axon d. j. , sparks w. b. , boksenberg a. , 1995 , apj , 448 , 600 capetti a. , axon d. j. , macchetto f. d. , marconi a. , winge c. , 1999 , apj , 516 , 187 collins n. r. , kraemer s. b. , crenshaw d. m. , ruiz j. , deo r. , bruhweiler f. c. , 2005 , apj , 619 , 116 collins n. r. , kraemer s. b. , crenshaw d. m. , bruhweiler f. c. melndez m. , 2009 , apj , 694 , 765 contini m. , viegas s. m. , 2001 , apjs , 132 , 211 cooke b. a. , elvis m. , ward m. j. , fosbury r. a. e. , penston m. v. , maccacaro t. , 1976 , mnras , 177p , 121 crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , 2000 , apj , 532l , 101 crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , hutchings j. b. et al . , 2000 , aj , 120 , 1731 cruz - gonzlez i. , carrasco l. , serrano a. , guichard j. , dultzin - hacyan d. , bisiacchi g. f. , 1994 , apjs , 94 , 47 das v. , crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , deo r. p. , 2006",
    ", aj , 132 , 620 deo r. p. , crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , dietrich m. , elitzur m. , teplitz h. , turner t. j. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 124 de robertis m. m. , osterbrock d. e. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 171 de robertis m. m. , shaw r. a. , 1990 , apj , 348 , 421 dopita m. a. , sutherland r. s. , 1995 , apj , 455 , 468 dopita m. a. , sutherland r. s. , 1996 , apjs , 102 , 161 durret f. , 1994 , a&as , 105 , 57 durret f. , bergeron j. , 1986 , a&a , 156 , 51 evans i. n. , 1988 , apjs , 67 , 373 evans i. n. , ford h. c. , kinney a. l. , antonucci r. r. j. , armus l. , caganoff s. , 1991 , apj , 369l , 27 erkens u. , appenzeller i. , wagner s. , 1997 , a&a , 323 , 707 falcke h. , wilson a. s. , simpson c. , 1998 , apj , 502 , 199 fath e.a . , 1909 , licob , 5 , 71 ferguson j. w. , korista k. t. , baldwin j. a. , ferland g. j. , 1997a , apj , 487 , 122 ferguson j. w. , korista k. t. , ferland g. j. , 1997b , apjs , 110 , 287 ferruit p. , wilson a. s. , falcke h. , simpson c. , pcontal e. , durret f. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 1 gallimore j. f. , baum s. a. , odea c. p. , pedlar a. , 1996 , apj , 458 , 136 geballe t. r. , mason r. e. , rodrguez - ardila a. , axon d. j. , 2009 , apj , 701 , 1710 gelbord j. m. , mullaney j. r. , ward m. j. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 172 gorjian v. , cleary k. , werner m. w. , lawrence c. r. , 2007 , apj , 655l , 73 grandi s. a. , 1978 , apj , 221 , 501 grupe d. , beuermann k. , mannheim k. , bade n. , thomas h .- c . , de martino d. , schwope a. , 1995 , a&a , 299 , l5 haniff c. a. , wilson , a. s. , ward m. j. , 1988 , apj , 334 , 104 heisler c. a. , de robertis m. m. , 1999 , aj , 118 , 2038 holt j. , tadhunter c. n. , morganti r. , 2006 , an , 327 , 147 huchra j. , burg r. , 1992 , apj , 393 , 90 hutchings j. b. , crenshaw d. m. , kaiser m. e. et al . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 492l , 115 hutchings j. b. , crenshaw d. m. , danks a. c. et al .",
    ", 1999 , aj , 118 , 2101 imanishi m. , alonso - herrero a. , 2004 , apj , 614 , 122 jaffe w. , balbi a. , bond j. r. et al . , 2004 , natur , 429 , 47 kaiser m. e. , bradley l. d. ii , hutchings j. b. et al . , 1999 , ap&ss , 269 , 431 keenan f. p. , norrington p. h. , 1987 , a&a , 181 , 370 kinkhabwala a. , sako m. , behar e. et al . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 575 , 732 knop r. a. , armus l. , matthews k. , murphy t. w. , soifer b. t. , 2001 , aj , 122 , 764 komossa s. , bade n. , 1999 , a&a , 343 , 775 komossa s. , fink h. , 1997a , a&a , 322 , 719 komossa s. , fink h. , 1997b , a&a , 327 , 483 komossa s. , schulz h. , 1997 , a&a , 323 , 31 komossa s. , xu d. , zhou h. , storchi - bergmann t. , binette l. , 2008 , apj , 680 , 926 komossa s. , zhou h. , rau a. et al . , 2009 , apj , 701 , 105 korista k. t. , ferland g. j. , 1989 , apj , 343 , 678 koski a. t. , 1978 , apj , 223 , 56 kraemer s. b. , crenshaw d. m. , 2000b , apj , 532 , 256 kraemer s. b. , crenshaw d. m. , 2000a , apj , 544 , 763 kraemer s. b. , trippe m. l. , crenshaw d. m. , melndez m. , schmitt h. r. , fischer t. c. , 2009 , apj , 698 , 106 kukula m. j. , ghosh t. , pedlar a. , schilizzi r. t. , miley g. k. , de bruyn a. g. , saikia d. j. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 893 kukula m. j. , ghosh t. , pedlar a. , schilizzi r. t. , 1999 , apj , 518 , 117 lutz d. , maiolino r. , moorwood a. f. m. , netzer h. , wagner s. j. , sturm e. , genzel r. , 2002 , a&a , 396 , 439 macchetto f. , capetti a. , sparks w. b. , axon d. j. , boksenberg a. , 1994 , apj , 435l , 15 malkan m. a. , 1986 , apj , 310 , 679 marconi a. , moorwood a. f. m. , salvati m. , oliva e. , 1994 , a&a , 291 , 18 marconi a. , van der werf p. p. , moorwood a. f. m. , oliva e. , 1996 , a&a , 315 , 335 mason r. e. , geballe t. r. , packham c. , levenson n. a. , elitzur m. , fisher r. s. , perlman e. , 2006 , apj , 640 , 612 miller j. s. , goodrich r. w. , 1990 , apj , 355 , 456 miller j. s. , goodrich r. w. , mathews w. g. , 1991 , apj , 378 , 47 moran e. c. , barth a. j. , kay l. e. , filippenko a. v. , 2000 , apj , 540l , 73 morris s. , ward m. , whittle m. , wilson a. s. , taylor k. , 1985 , mnras , 216 , 193 morris s. l. , ward m. j. , 1988 , mnras , 230 , 639 morse j. a. , raymond j. c. , wilson a. s. , 1996 , pasp , 108 , 426 mullaney j. r. , ward m. j. , 2008 , mnras , 385 , 53 mullaney j. r. , ward m. j. , done c. , ferland g. j. , schurch n. , 2009 , mnras , 394l , 16 mundell c. g. , holloway a. j. , pedlar a. , meabur j. , kukula m. j. , axon d. j. , 1995 , mnras , 275 , 67 nagao t. , murayama t. , shioya y. , taniguchi y. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 1729 nagao t. , taniguchi y. , murayama t. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 2605 nagao t. , kawabata k. s. , murayama t. , ohyama y. , taniguchi y. , shioya y. , sumiya r. , sasaki s. s. , 2004 , aj , 128 , 2066 nagar n. m. , wilson a. s. , mulchaey j. s. , gallimore j. f. , 1999 , apjs , 120 , 209 neff s. g. , de bruyn a. g. , 1983 , a&a , 128 , 318 nelson c. h. , weistrop d. , hutchings j. b. , crenshaw d. m. , gull t. r. , kaiser m. e. , kraemer s. b. , lindler d. , 2000 , apj , 531 , 257 netzer h. , 1974 , mnras , 169 , 579 ogle p. m. , marshall h. l. , lee j. c. , canizares c. r. , 2000 , apj , 545l , 81 oliva e. , moorwood a. f. m. , 1990 , apj , 348l , 5 oliva e. , salvati m. , moorwood a. f. m. , marconi a. , 1994 , a&a , 288 , 457 osterbrock d. e. , 1989 , astrophysics of gaseous nebulae and active galactic nuclei , university science books , mill valley , ca osterbrock d. e. , shaw r. a. , veilleux s. , 1990 , apj , 352 , 561 packham c. , young s. , hough j. h. , axon d. j. , bailey j. a. , 1997 , mnras , 288 , 375 pelat d. , alloin d. , fosbury r. a. e. , 1981 , mnras , 195 , 787 penston m. v. , fosbury r. a. e. , boksenberg a. , ward m. j. , wilson a. s. , 1984 , mnras , 208 , 347 penston m. , robinson a. , alloin d. et al . , 1990 , a&a , 236 , 53 prez e. , gonzalez - delgado r. , tadhunter c. , tsvetanov z. , 1989 , mnras , 241p , 31 pier e. a. , antonucci r. , hurt t. , kriss g. , krolik j. , 1994 , apj , 428 , 124 pier e. a. , voit g. m. , 1995 , apj , 450 , 628 phillips m. m. , osterbrock d. e. , 1975 , pasp , 87 , 949 pogge r. w. , 1989 , apj , 345 , 730 pogge r. w. , de robertis m. m. , 1993 , apj , 404 , 563 pogge r. w. , de robertis m. m. , 1995 , apj , 451 , 585 pogge r. w. , martini p. , 2002",
    ", apj , 569 , 624 pogge r. w. , owen j. m. , 1993 , osu internal report 93 - 01 porquet d. , dumont a .-",
    ", collin s. , mouchet m. , 1999 , a&a , 341 , 58 pounds k. a. , page k. l. , 2005 , mnras , 360 , 1123 prieto a. m. , marco o. , gallimore j. , 2005 , mnras , 364l , 28 prieto m. a. , meisenheimer k. , marco , o. et al . , 2004 , apj , 614 , 135 quillen a. c. , alonso - herrero a. , rieke m. j. , mcdonald c. , falcke h. , rieke g. h. , 1999 , apj , 525 , 685 ramos almeida c. , prez garca a. m. , acosta - pulido j. a. , gonzlez - martn o. , 2008 , apj , 680l , 17 regan m. w. , mulchaey j. s. , 1999 , aj , 117 , 2676 reunanen j. , kotilainen j. k. , prieto m. a. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 192 riffel r. , pastoriza m. g. , rodrguez - ardila a. , maraston c. , 2007 , apj , 659l , 103 riffel r. , rodrguez - ardila a. , pastoriza m. g. , 2006 , a&a , 457 , 61 riffel r. a. , storchi - bergmann t. , winge c. , mcgregor p. j. , beck t. , schmitt h. , 2008 , mnras , 385 , 1129 rodrguez - ardila a. , prieto m. a. , viegas s. , gruenwald r. , 2006 , apj , 653 , 1098 rodrguez - ardila a. , viegas s. m. , pastoriza m. g. , prato l. , 2002 , apj , 579 , 214 ruiz j. r. , crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , bower g. a. , gull t. r. , hutchings j. b. , kaiser m. e. , weistrop d. et al . , 2001 ,",
    "aj , 122 , 2961 ruiz , j. r. , crenshaw d. m. , kraemer s. b. , bower g. a. , gull t. r. , hutchings j. b. , kaiser m. e. , weistrop d. , 2005 , aj , 129 , 73 sako m. , kahn s. m. , paerels f. , liedahl d. a. , 2000 , apj , 543l , 115 snchez f. m. , davies r. i. , eisenhauer f. , tacconi l. j. , genzel r. , sternberg , a. , 2006 , a&a , 454 , 481 schlesinger k. , pogge r. w. , martini p. , shields j. c. , fields d. , 2009 , apj , 699 , 857 schmitt h. r. , storchi - bergmann t. , baldwin j. a. , 1994 , apj , 423 , 237 schmitt h. r. , donley j. l. , antonucci r. r. j. , hutchings j. b. , kinney a. l. , 2003 , apjs , 148 , 327 schulz h. , 1988 , a&a , 203 , 233 schulz h. , 1995 , habilitationsschrift , ruhr - universitt bochum seyfert c. k. , 1943 , apj , 97 , 28 simpson c. , wilson a. s. , bower g. , heckman t. m. , krolik j. h. , miley g. k. , 1997 , apj , 474 , 121 spinelli p. f. , storchi - bergmann t. , brandt c. h. , calzetti d. , 2006 , apjs , 166 , 498 steffen w. , gomez j. l. , williams r. j. r. , raga a. c. , pedlar a. , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 1032 storchi - bermann t. , mcgregor p. j. , riffel r. a. , simes lopes r. , beck t. , dopita m. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 1148 storchi - bergmann t. , wilson a. s. , mulchaey j. s. , binette l. , 1996 , a&a , 312 , 357 sturm e. , alexander t. , lutz d. , sternberg a. , netzer h. , genzel , r. , 1997 , apj , 512 , 197 sturm e. , lutz d. , verma a. , netzer h. , sternberg a. , moorwood a. f. m. , oliva e. , genzel r. , 2002 , a&a , 393 , 821 tadhunter c. n. , 2002 , rmxac , 13 , 213 tadhunter c. n. , fosbury r. a. e. , di serego alighieri s. , bland j. , danziger i. j. , goss w. m. , mcadam w. b. , snijders m. a. j. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 403 taylor d. , dyson j. e. , axon d. j. , 1992 , mnras , 255 , 351 thompson r. i. , chary ranga - ram , corbin m. r. , epps h. , 2001 , apj , 558l , 97 tsvetanov z. , walsh j. r. , 1992 , apj , 386 , 485 ulrich m. h. , 1973 , apj , 181 , 51 ulrich m. h. , 2000 , a&arv , 10 , 135 ulvestad j. s. , wilson a. s. , 1989 , apj , 343 , 659 ulvestad j. s. , wilson a. s. , sramek r. a. , 1981 , apj , 247 , 419 veilleux s. , 1988 , aj , 95 , 1695 veron - cetty m. p. , veron p. , 1998",
    ", a catalogue of quasars and active nuclei , eso sci rep .",
    "18 ( 8th ed . ;",
    "garching : eso ) viegas - aldrovandi s. m. , contini m. , 1989 , a&a , 215 , 253 ward m. , morris s. , 1984 , mnras , 207 , 867 whittle m. , rosario d. j. , silverman j. d. , nelson c. h. , wilson a. s. , 2005 , aj , 129 , 104 wilson a. s. , 1979 , rspsa , 366 , 461 wilson a. s. , nath b. , 1990 , apjs , 74 , 731 wilson a. s. , ulvestad j. s. , 1983 , apj , 275 , 8 winge c. , axon d. j. , macchetto f. d. , capetti a. , 1997 , apj , 487l , 121 young s. , hough j. h. , axon d. j. , bailey j. a. , ward m. j. , 1995 , mnras , 272 , 513 young a. j. , wilson a. s. , shopbell p. l. , 2001 , apj , 556 , 6"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an analysis of stis / hst optical spectra of a sample of ten seyfert galaxies aimed at studying the structure and physical properties of the coronal - line region ( clr ) . </S>",
    "<S> the high - spatial resolution provided by stis allowed us to resolve the clr and obtain key information about the kinematics of the coronal - line gas , measure directly its spatial scale , and study the mechanisms that drive the high - ionisation lines . </S>",
    "<S> we find clrs extending from just a few parsecs ( @xmath0  pc ) up to 230  pc in radius , consistent with the bulk of the coronal lines ( cls ) originating between the blr and nlr , and extending into the nlr in the case of  and  lines . </S>",
    "<S> the cl profiles strongly vary with the distance to the nucleus . </S>",
    "<S> we observed line splitting in the core of some of the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> line peak shifts , both red- and blue - shifts , typically reached 500 , and even higher velocities ( 1000 ) in some of the galaxies . in general , cls follow the same pattern of rotation curves as low - ionisation lines like . from a direct comparison between the radio and the cl emission we find that neither the strength nor the kinematics of the cls scale in any obvious and strong way with the radio jets . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , the similarity of the flux distributions and kinematics of the cls and low - ionisation lines , the low temperatures derived for the gas , and the success of photoionisation models to reproduce , within a factor of few , the observed line ratios , point towards photoionisation as the main driving mechanism of cls .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  galaxies : nuclei  galaxies : seyfert  line : profiles  line : formation  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics </S>"
  ]
}