{
  "article_text": [
    "the summits of the internal antarctic plateau might be among the best sites in the world for astronomical facilities .",
    "the free atmosphere has low amounts of water vapour and the turbulence is concentrated to a thin surface layer .",
    "the largest source of the turbulence in the surface layer is the near surface winds , that are triggered by the sloping terrain in combination with the temperature inversion . for a more extensive analysis",
    "we refer the reader to hagelin _",
    "( @xcite ) , in this contribution we briefly summarize the results .",
    "the scientific goals of this study were :    \\1 ) to perform a detailed comparison of the ecmwf - analysis data with radiosoundings and aws - data ( automatic weather station ) of the wind speed and the temperature , near the surface as well as in the free atmosphere .",
    "\\2 ) using radiosoundings to estimate the median values of the wind speed in the first tens of meters at the south pole and dome c.    \\3 ) studying the wind speed in the free atmosphere we intend to quantify which site is the best for astronomical applications .",
    "\\4 ) we extend the analysis of the richardson number done by geissler & masciardri ( @xcite ) at dome c to the three sites ( south pole , dome c and dome a ) in order to quantify the regions and periods that are more likely to trigger turbulence .",
    "as shown by hagelin _ et al . _",
    "( @xcite ) there is an excellent agreement between the ecmwf analysis and the radiosoundings at both dome c and the south pole .",
    "however , during the winter , there is also a large offset in the first vertical grid - point .",
    "the dynamic instabilities are described by the wind shear and the thermal stability is represented by the gradient of the potential temperature .",
    "a positive potential temperature gradient is defined as stable conditions , the vertical displacement of the air is suppressed and so is the production of dynamic turbulence .",
    "the monthly median of the potential temperature , see fig .  4 of hagelin _ et al .",
    "( @xcite ) , shows that during most of the year a temperature inversion is present .",
    "in the central months of the winter ( june , july and august ) dome a shows the most stable conditions with a very sharp temperature inversion near the surface .",
    "the difference in ( @xmath1 is much less evident , see fig .  5 in hagelin _ et al .",
    "( @xcite ) , but dome a has a slightly larger gradient than the other two sites during most months .      above the summits of the internal antarctic plateau the surface winds are expected to be weaker than elsewhere on the plateau .",
    "fig .  6 in hagelin _",
    "( @xcite ) shows the median wind speed at the south pole and dome c from april to november . while it is true that the wind speed at the lowest level is weaker at the summit ( dome c ) than at the slope ( south pole ) , it is clearly visible a sharp wind shear in the first 10/20 m at dome c. above this height the wind speed at dome c is either stronger or comparable to that of the south pole",
    ".    in the core of the winter ( june , july and august ) the wind speed above dome c reaches 8 m / s at 20 m and 9 m / s at 30 m. the sharp change in the wind speed in the first 10/20 m matches our expectations of a large wind speed gradient .",
    "this is a necessary condition to justify the presence of optical turbulence in the surface layer ( agabi _ et al . _",
    "@xcite , trinquet _ et al . _",
    "@xcite ) in spite of very stable thermal conditions .",
    "such a strong wind speed , 8 - 9 m / s at 10 m , might be a source of vibrations produced by the impact of the atmospheric flow on a telescope structure and should therefore be taken into account in the design of astronomical facilities .",
    "the wind speed in the free atmosphere during the summer is quite weak and is almost constant with height ( see fig .",
    "7 in hagelin _",
    "( @xcite ) ) . the median wind speed from december to march",
    "never exceeds 15 m / s at any height for any site . as the winter approaches the wind speed above 10 km increases monotonically",
    ". the rate at which the wind speed increases is not the same above the different sites .",
    "the smallest increase rate is seen at the south pole whereas the largest increase rate is found above dome c. these differences are far from being negligible since at these heights the median wind speed at dome c is almost twice that of the other sites .",
    "this effect can be explained by the polar vortex , that forms above antarctica during the winter .",
    "the increase rate of the wind speed is proportional to the distance of the site to the centre of the polar vortex .",
    "this is the reason why the wind speed above dome c is particularly large above 10 km in winter . at 15 km a.s.l",
    ". the wind speed of dome c can easily be almost twice the wind speed of dome a or f and even thrice the wind speed of the south pole .",
    "the wind speed at the south pole is the weakest of the four in all seasons and at all heights .",
    "the richardson number is an indicator of the stability of the atmosphere , @xmath2 , where g is the gravitational acceleration ( 9.8 m / s@xmath3 ) , @xmath4 is the potential temperature and v is the horizontal wind speed .",
    "the atmosphere is considered to be stable if the richardson number is larger than the critical value , typically 0.25 .",
    "the smaller the richardson number is the higher is the probability to trigger turbulence .",
    "comparing the richardson number gives a relative estimate of the probability of the triggering of turbulence .",
    "the method proposed by geissler & masciadri ( @xcite ) , to calculate the inverse of the richardson number to rank different sites qualitatively , has been definitely proved by comparing an antarctic site ( dome c ) with a mid - latitude one ( mt .  graham ) .",
    "indeed , as seen in fig .  9 in hagelin _",
    "@xcite , dome c is always more stable than mt .",
    "graham , except the high part of the atmosphere in september and october when the polar vortex creates strong high altitude winds at dome c. as discussed in hagelin _",
    "@xcite this proves that the probability to trigger turbulence above mid - latitude sites is larger than above dome c.    comparing the three antarctic sites with each other , see fig .",
    "10 of hagelin",
    "_ et al . _",
    "@xcite , it appears that the most stable conditions are found above the south pole .",
    "dome a is less stable than the south pole and the least stable conditions are found at dome c. this is most likey due to the polar vortex that produces a strong wind shear at this site .",
    "this study allowed us to draw a first comprehensive picture of the atmospheric properties above the internal antarctic plateau . in spite of the generally good conditions for astronomical applications",
    ", dome c does not appear to be the best site with respect to the wind speed , in the free atmosphere as well as in the surface layer .",
    "all the other sites show a weaker wind speed in the free atmosphere .    above dome",
    "a the gradient of the potential temperature is particularly large near the surface , indicating extreme thermal stability associated to a strong optical turbulence when a thermodynamic instability occurs .",
    "it is even possible that the optical turbulence here is larger than at dome c. however , to predict the thickness of such a layer it is necessary to have either measurements or simulations with a mesoscale model with a higher spatial resolution .    at present ,",
    "the best argument that makes dome c a better place for astronomical applications than the south pole is the extreme thinness of the turbulent surface layer .",
    "dome a probably has comparable or larger values of the optical turbulence with respect to dome c in the surface layer .",
    "we can not conclude whether the surface layer at dome a is thinner than what is observed at dome c. our study clearly indicates that dome c is not the best site on the internal antarctic plateau with respect to the wind speed ( both in the surface layer and in the free atmosphere ) nor is it the site with the most stable conditions in the free atmosphere .",
    "both the south pole and dome a show more stable values of 1/ri .",
    "this study has been carried out using radiosoundings from the amrc ( antarctic meteorological research center ) , university of wisconsin , madison and from the progetto di ricerca osservatorio meteo climatologico of the pnra ( programma nazionale di ricerche in antartide ) .",
    "ecmwf products are extracted from the mars - catalogue .",
    "this study has been funded by the marie curie excellence grant ( forot ) mext - ct 2005 - 023878 , fp6 .",
    "agabi , a. , aristidi , e. , azouit , m. , fossat , e. , martin , f. , sadibekova , t. , vernin , j. & ziad , a. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 344 geissler , k. & masciadri , e. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1048 hagelin , s. , masciadri , e. , lascaux f. , & stoesz , j. , 2008a , mnras , 387 , 1499 hagelin , s. , masciadri , e. , lascaux f. , & stoesz , j. , 2008b , proc . of spie ,",
    "7012 , 70124a trinquet , h. , agabi , k. , vernin , j. , azouit , m. , aristidi , e. & fossat , e. , 2008 , pasp , 120 , 203"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the atmospheric properties above three sites ( dome a , dome c and the south pole ) are investigated for astronomical applications using the monthly median of the analyses from the ecmwf ( european centre for medium - range weather forecasts ) . </S>",
    "<S> radiosoundings extended on a yearly time - scale at the south pole and dome c are used to quantify the reliability of the ecmwf analyses in the free atmosphere as well as in the boundary and surface layers , and to characterize the median wind speed in the first 100 m above the two sites . </S>",
    "<S> thermodynamic instabilities in the free atmosphere above the three sites are quantified with monthly median values of the richardson number . </S>",
    "<S> we will present a ranking of the sites with respect to the thermodynamic stability , using the richardson number , and with respect to the wind speed , in the free atmosphere ( using ecmwf analyses ) as well as in the surface layer ( using radiosoundings ) . </S>"
  ]
}