{
  "article_text": [
    "social networking systems like facebook and systems for content organization and sharing such as flickr and delicious have created information - rich ecosystems where the cognitive , behavioral and social aspects of a user community are entangled with the underlying technological platform .",
    "this opens up new ways to monitor and investigate a variety of processes involving the interaction of users with one another , as well as the interaction of users with the information they process .",
    "social media supporting tagging  @xcite are especially interesting in this respect because they stimulate users to provide light - weight semantic annotations in the form of freely chosen terms .",
    "usage patterns of tags can be employed to monitor interest , track user attention , and investigate the co - evolution of social and semantic networks .",
    "while the emergence of conventions and shared conceptualizations has attracted considerable interest  @xcite , little attention has been devoted so far to relating , at the microscopic level , the usage of shared tags with the social links existing between users .",
    "the present paper aims at filling this gap . to this end",
    "we focus on flickr and last.fm , as to our knowledge they are currently the only popular social media system where : ( 1 ) a significant fraction of the users provide tag metadata for their content ( photographs or songs ) , and ( 2 ) an explicit representation of the social links between users is readily available .    the main question that we address in this study is the following : given two randomly chosen users , how does the alignment of their tag vocabularies relate to their proximity on the social network ? that is , does lexical alignment exist between neighboring users , and if so , how does this alignment fade when considering users lying at an increasing distance on the social graph ? and",
    "if indeed such a relationship exists , does it allow us to predict social links from analysis of the semantic similarity among users , extracted from their annotations ?",
    "the main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows :    * in   [ sec : hetero ] we show that strong correlations exist across several measures of user activity , and characterize the mixing patterns that involve user activity and user centrality in the social network . * in   [ sec : alignment ] we develop sound measures of tag overlap .",
    "we further introduce appropriate null models to disentangle the actual local alignment between users from statistical effects due to the mixing properties of user activity and centrality in the social network .",
    "we apply these measures to the flickr and last.fm data sets .",
    "the resulting analysis shows that , despite neither flickr nor last.fm support globally - shared tag vocabularies , a substantial level of local lexical ( shared tags ) and topical ( shared groups ) alignment is observable among users who are close to each other in the social network .",
    "we also find that some observables are more adequate than others to measure lexical and topical alignment , in the sense that they are less sensitive to purely statistical effects . * in ",
    "[ sec : predict ] we inquire if the observed correlations between annotation metadata and social proximity allow to use semantic similarity between user annotations as statistical predictors of friendship links .",
    "we evaluate a number of semantic similarity measures from the literature , based on last.fm metadata .",
    "we find that when we consider the annotations of the most active users , almost all of the semantic similarity measures considered outperform the neighbor suggestions from the last.fm system at predicting actual friendship relations .",
    "scalable semantic similarity measures such as maximum information path , proposed by some of the authors , are among those achieving the best predictive performance .",
    "one of the first quantitative studies on flickr is presented by marlow _ et al . _",
    "@xcite , who discuss the heterogeneity of tagging patterns and perform a preliminary analysis of vocabulary overlap between pairs of users .",
    "the analysis suggests that users who are linked in the flickr social network have on average a higher vocabulary overlap , but no assessment is made of biases and other correlations that could be responsible for the reported observation .",
    "the structure and the temporal evolution of the flickr social network are investigated in several papers  @xcite .",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite place a special emphasis on the local mechanisms driving the microscopic evolution of the network .",
    "the role of social contacts in shaping browsing patterns on flickr has also been explored  @xcite , providing insights into the behavior and activity patterns of flickr users .",
    "prieur _ et al . _",
    "@xcite investigate the role of flickr groups as coordination tools , and explore the relation between the density of the social network and the density of the network of tag co - usage among the group members .",
    "liben - nowell and kleinberg  @xcite explore several notions of node similarity for link prediction in social networks . in our own prior work",
    "we performed a systematic analysis of a broad range of semantic similarity measures based on folksonomies , that can be applied directly to build networks of users , tags , or resources  @xcite . here",
    "we build upon this evaluation framework .",
    "li _ et al . _",
    "@xcite propose a system to discover common user interests and cluster users and their saved urls by different interest topics .",
    "they use a delicious data set to define implicit links between users based on the similarity of their tags .",
    "however they do not correlate the interest clusters with social connections .",
    "perhaps the work that most directly relates to our approach is by santos - neto _ et al . _",
    "@xcite , who explore the question of whether tag - based or resource - based interest sharing in tagging systems relate to other indicators of social behavior .",
    "the authors analyze the citeulike and connotea systems , which deal with scientific publication and lack explicit social network components .",
    "therefore they are unable to directly explore social friendship between two users , and instead look at participation in the same discussion group , with mixed results .",
    "they do not find a statistical correlation between the intensity of interest sharing and the collaboration levels .",
    "our present results are both more explicit ( we deal with pairs of users rather than groups ) and more conclusive .",
    "furthermore we are able to evaluate our interest - based predictions against external suggestions based on independent data , quantifying the applicative value of our findings .",
    "flickr makes available most of its public data by means of api methods ( flickr.com/api ) .",
    "the data used for the present study were obtained by using the public flickr api to perform a distributed crawl of the content uploaded to flickr between january 2004 and january 2006 .",
    "the system was crawled during the first half of 2007 .",
    "the crawling task was distributed by dividing the above interval of time into work units consisting of smaller time windows , and crawling each time window separately .",
    "each crawler was programmed to issue search queries for every known tag , limited to its temporal window of competence , as well as to issue search queries for photos uploaded in the same interval .",
    "as new tags were discovered , they were added to a global table shared by all the crawlers .",
    "separate crawls were performed to explore the flickr social network ( in flickr jargon , the `` contacts '' of a given user are her nearest neighbors in the social network , as represented in the system ) , as well as group membership information .",
    "overall , the data set we analyzed comprises @xmath0 users for whom we have tagging information , and @xmath1 users for whom we also have group membership information .",
    "our analysis will focus on two networks .",
    "the first one , @xmath2 , comprises the flickr users for whom we have tag , group and contact information .",
    "it consists of @xmath1 nodes ( users ) and @xmath3 edges ( contacts between users ) .",
    "the second network , @xmath4 , is obtained by extending @xmath2 to include all the neighbors of its nodes , neighbors for whom we may not have tagging , group membership , or complete contact information .",
    "@xmath4 comprises @xmath5 nodes and @xmath6 edges and will be used to check the robustness of analyses involving the distance among users in the flickr social network .    similarly , we constructed our last.fm data set using public api methods ( last.fm/api ) , in particular for collecting neighbor and friend relations . in last.fm jargon , friends are contacts in the social networks , while neighbors are users recommended by the system as potential contacts , based on their music playing histories .",
    "last.fm also allows users to annotate various items ( songs , artists , or albums ) with tags .",
    "however , the last.fm api does not allow to retrieve the complete user annotation activity .",
    "therefore , with permission , we developed a crawler that extracts all the triples ( _ user , item , tag _ ) and group membership information by visiting and parsing user profile web pages .",
    "the crawls took place over a period of a few months in the first half of 2009 .",
    "the resulting data set comprises of @xmath7 users , of which @xmath8 are active , i.e. , have at least one annotation .",
    "the @xmath9 triples annotate @xmath10 items with @xmath11 tags .",
    "the users belong to @xmath12 groups .",
    "no filters were applied to our data set collections .",
    "in this section we present an analysis of the data .",
    "the very same analysis was carried out for both flickr and last.fm data sets .",
    "however , due to space limitations , we report below mainly on the results of the flickr analysis . unless otherwise specified our analysis refers to @xmath2 but we checked that the results do not change for @xmath4 .",
    "the analysis of last.fm yielded analogous results , both qualitatively and quantitatively .",
    "therefore we believe our conclusions to be robust .       of neighbors of a user ,",
    "( b ) the number @xmath13 of groups of which a user is a member , ( c ) the number @xmath14 of distinct tags per user , and ( d ) the number @xmath15 of tag assignments per user . ]    let us first focus on the activity of users as measured by a number of indicators , and investigate the correlations between these indicators .",
    "the activity of a flickr user has indeed various aspects , among which the most important are uploading photos , tagging them , participating in groups , commenting on other users photos , and other social networking activities .",
    "[ fig : distr ] displays the probability distributions of the number @xmath16 of neighbors in the social network ( the degree @xmath16 of a node ) , and the probability of finding a user with a given number @xmath14 of distinct tags in her vocabulary .",
    "the breadth of a user s tag vocabulary can be regarded as a proxy for the breadth of her interests .",
    "we also show in fig .",
    "[ fig : distr ] the distribution of the number of groups @xmath13 to which a user belongs , and of the total number @xmath15 of tags assignments submitted by a user ( in this case , a tag used twice by a user is counted twice ) .",
    "more precisely , if @xmath17 is the number of times that a tag @xmath18 has been used by user @xmath19 , then the total number of tag assignments of user @xmath19 is @xmath20 .",
    "all these distributions are broad , showing that the activity patterns of users are highly heterogeneous . for reference ,",
    "table  [ table1 ] reports the averages and variances of these quantities .",
    ".averages and fluctuations of flickr user activity [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the best results are obtained by sampling the most active users .",
    "this is not surprising , as the topical similarity measures have more evidence at their disposal from the users metadata . in fig .",
    "[ fig : roc ] we show roc plots for the mip measures , which perform consistently well ( among the top 3 measures ) in all conditions .",
    "while last.fm neighbor recommendations do perform better than the random baseline , topical similarity is much more accurate than music taste in predicting friends for the most active users .",
    "the highest accuracy is achieved by aggregating across items , i.e. representing users as vectors of tags . for the most connected users as well as randomly selected users ,",
    "the topical similarity measures still perform significantly better than the random baseline , but only marginally better than last.fm neighbor recommendations .",
    "let us therefore focus on the most active users to evaluate the predictions of additional measures .",
    "since it is difficult to compare 25 roc plots , let us summarize our results as follows .",
    "for each of the 24 topical similarity measures , @xmath21 , we compare the area under the roc curve with that obtained by the last.fm neighbor recommendations .",
    "we measure the relative improvement @xmath22 .",
    "a positive number indicates higher accuracy than last.fm in the sense of a larger number of true positives for the same number of false positives .",
    "[ fig : auc ] shows that all topical similarity measures outperform the last.fm neighbor recommendations .",
    "the lonely exception is distributional item overlap , for which the improvement is not significant . for distributional measures , aggregation across items ( focusing on shared tags )",
    "yields better predictions .",
    "overall , the best accuracy is achieved by distributional mip based on shared tags ( 37% improvement ) .",
    "however , if scalability is important , predictions of comparable accuracy can be obtained by projecting over each tag , and then aggregating the similarities across tags .",
    "collaborative matching yields the best predictions in this case ( 35% improvement ) , followed closely by collaborative mip ( 33% ) and overlap ( 32% ) .    in summary , these results confirm that the social network constructed from semantic similarity based on user annotations captures actual friendship more accurately than last.fms recommendations based on listening patterns .",
    "this suggests that the last.fm neighbourhood selection could be improved by adopting tag - based similarity measures , especially for active users .",
    "the results are qualitatively similar for the other sampling methods , but the differences in accuracy are less significant , with the best predictions outperforming last.fm by at most 34% in auc for the most connected users and by 15% for random users .",
    "in this paper we exploited one peculiarity of flickr and last.fm , namely the availability of both tagging data and the explicit social links between users , to investigate the interplay of the social and semantic aspects of web 2.0 applications .",
    "we showed that strong correlations exist between user activity in the social context ( user degree centrality and group participation ) and the tagging activity of the same user , and that a strong assortative mixing exists in the social network ; more active nodes tend to have as neighbors other active nodes .",
    "we also found that a local alignment of users tag vocabularies is clearly visible between nearby users in the social network , even for social tagging systems that lack a notion of globally shared tag vocabulary , such as flickr .",
    "we investigated the dependence of the number of shared tags and the number of shared groups of two users , as a function of their shortest - path distance on the social network .",
    "we introduced a null model and we used it to show that part of the similarity between users who are close on the social network is due to the aforementioned correlations between user activity and user degree centrality in the social network . that is , assortativity and heterogeneity alone can yield a comparatively higher overlap of tag usage and group membership for neighboring users . in this context",
    ", our work highlights the importance of backing up the data analysis with carefully designed null models , which are necessary  as is the case here  to disentangle the actual signal we are looking for from effects arising purely from correlations and mixing properties .",
    "armed with the null model methodology , we showed that it is possible to define measures of tag vocabulary and group membership overlap that are robust with respect to the above biases .",
    "we investigated the average similarity of two users , according to such measures , as a function of the distance in the social network , finding that a clear signal of local lexical and topical alignment can be detected in flickr and last.fm .",
    "the observed local alignment between lexical ( tag ) features on the social network led us to investigate the question of whether topical similarity measures based on social annotations can be applied to the prediction ( or recommendation ) of friend relations in a social network .",
    "last.fm provided us with an ideal opportunity to explore this question thanks to the simultaneous availability of social link recommendations based on music listening patterns , along with the annotation metadata and social network .",
    "we were able to evaluate the predictive power of a large number of social topical similarity measures from the literature , spanning multiple aggregation / projection schemes .",
    "the results were very encouraging ; using any of the tested social similarity measures we were able to improve on the accuracy of the social link predictions provided by last.fm , and the improvements were especially significant for users who are active taggers . equally encouraging is the fact that accurate predictions are afforded even by incremental measures , pointing to scalable algorithms to compute social link recommendations or improve existing methods .    among the various measures we evaluated ,",
    "maximum information path has proven very accurate across aggregation schemes , data sets , and sampling methodologies . when predicting social links between active taggers , mip is the best measure among those based on distributional aggregation ( regardless of whether we aggregate across items or tags ) , and either the best or a close second among the scalable measures based on collaborative aggregation , across items or tags respectively .",
    "as expected , the last.fm neighborhood relation seems to be independent of the tagging activity of users ; we obtain very close auc values for both the most active and most connected sampling strategies",
    ". therefore the number of annotations considered does not affect the estimation of user affinity based on listening patterns .",
    "accordingly , the present results suggest that the last.fm neighborhood recommendation could benefit considerably from social similarity measures  especially for active users .",
    "our results have important implications for the design of social media .",
    "as social networks and social tagging continue to become increasingly popular and integrated in the web 2.0 , our techniques can be directly applied to improve the synergies between social and semantic networks  specifically , to help users find friends with similar topical interests as well as facilitate the formation of topical communities .",
    "we plan to further validate our findings via user studies .",
    "we will pursue this direction by integrating a `` suggest friend '' functionality into givealink.org , a social bookmarking system developed by our group at indiana university for research purposes .    on the more theoretical side , future work will consider the present analysis performed longitudinally in time , to move from assessing correlations to assessing causality .",
    "we will investigate whether the activation of a social link induces a local alignment of tags and group membership , or conversely a similarity in interests triggers the creation of a social link .",
    "both processes probably play an important role in different situations , and adding a temporal dimension to the analysis presented here will provide new insight for modeling the structure and evolution of user - driven systems .",
    "the authors acknowledge stimulating discussion with a.  baldassarri , a.  capocci , v.  loreto , and v.  d.  p.  servedio .",
    "we are grateful to flickr and last.fm for making their data available",
    ". this work has been partly supported by the _",
    "tagora _ project ( ` fp6-ist5 - 34721 ` ) funded by the fet program of the european commission and by the project _ social integration of semantic annotation networks for web applications _ funded by national science foundation award ` iis-0811994 ` .",
    "r.  schifanella was supported by the world wide style project ( wws ) of the university of turin .      c.  cattuto , d.  benz , a.  hotho , and g.  stumme .",
    "semantic grounding of tag relatedness in social bookmarking systems . in _ proceedings of the 7th international semantic web conference ( iswc08 ) _ ,",
    "volume 5318 of _ lncs _ , pages 615631 .",
    "springer - verlag , 2008 .",
    "r.  kumar , j.  novak , and a.  tomkins .",
    "structure and evolution of online social networks . in _",
    "kdd 06 : proceedings of the 12th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , pages 611617 , new york , ny , usa , 2006 .",
    "acm press .",
    "j.  leskovec , l.  backstrom , r.  kumar , and a.  tomkins . microscopic evolution of social networks . in _",
    "kdd 08 : proceeding of the 14th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , pages 462470 , new york , ny , usa , 2008 .",
    "d.  liben - nowell and j.  kleinberg .",
    "the link prediction problem for social networks . in _ proc .",
    "12th intl .",
    "conf . on information and knowledge management ( cikm ) _ , pages 556559 , new york , ny , usa , 2003 .",
    "an information - theoretic definition of similarity . in j.",
    "w. shavlik , editor , _ proceedings of the fifteenth international conference on machine learning ( icml ) _ , pages 296304 .",
    "morgan kaufmann , 1998 .",
    "b.  markines , c.  cattuto , f.  menczer , d.  benz , a.  hotho , and g.  stumme . evaluating similarity measures for emergent semantics of social tagging . in _ proc .",
    "18th intl .",
    "world wide web conference ( www ) _ , 2009 .",
    "c.  marlow , m.  naaman , d.  boyd , and m.  davis .",
    "ht06 , tagging paper , taxonomy , flickr , academic article , to read . in _ proc",
    "17th acm conference on hypertext and hypermedia ( ht ) _ , pages 3140 , new york , ny , usa , 2006 . acm press .",
    "a.  mislove , h.  s. koppula , k.  p. gummadi , p.  druschel , and b.  bhattacharjee .",
    "growth of the flickr social network . in _ proceedings of the 1st acm sigcomm workshop on social networks ( wosn08 ) _ , august 2008 .",
    "a.  mislove , m.  marcon , k.  p. gummadi , p.  druschel , and b.  bhattacharjee .",
    "measurement and analysis of online social networks . in _ proceedings of the 5th acm",
    "/ usenix internet measurement conference ( imc07 ) _ , october 2007 .",
    "e.  santos - neto , d.  condon , n.  andrade , a.  iamnitchi , and m.  ripeanu .",
    "individual and social behavior in tagging systems . in c.  cattuto , g.  ruffo , and f.  menczer ,",
    "editors , _ proceedings of the 20th acm conference on hypertext and hypermedia ( ht ) _ , pages 183192 , new york , ny , usa , 2009 . acm ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> web 2.0 applications have attracted a considerable amount of attention because their open - ended nature allows users to create light - weight semantic scaffolding to organize and share content . to date </S>",
    "<S> , the interplay of the social and semantic components of social media has been only partially explored . here </S>",
    "<S> we focus on flickr and last.fm , two social media systems in which we can relate the tagging activity of the users with an explicit representation of their social network . </S>",
    "<S> we show that a substantial level of local lexical and topical alignment is observable among users who lie close to each other in the social network . </S>",
    "<S> we introduce a null model that preserves user activity while removing local correlations , allowing us to disentangle the actual local alignment between users from statistical effects due to the assortative mixing of user activity and centrality in the social network . </S>",
    "<S> this analysis suggests that users with similar topical interests are more likely to be friends , and therefore semantic similarity measures among users based solely on their annotation metadata should be predictive of social links . </S>",
    "<S> we test this hypothesis on the last.fm data set , confirming that the social network constructed from semantic similarity captures actual friendship more accurately than last.fms suggestions based on listening patterns .    </S>",
    "<S> [ human information processing ] [ web - based services ] [ collaborative computing , web - based interaction ] </S>"
  ]
}