{
  "article_text": [
    "interferometric observations have gained much popularity in the study of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) anisotropy ( white et al .",
    "1999 ; carlstrom et al . 2002 ; padin et al .",
    "2002 ; leitch et al .",
    "2002 ; scaife et al .",
    "2008 ) , due to their advantage in stability and phase preserving characteristic via the heterodyne scheme for correlation and polarization observations .",
    "the cross correlations used in an interferometric array can effectively suppress many systematics . to achieve high brightness sensitivity , broadband low noise receivers and matching correlators are the two most important components for a continuum interferometer .",
    "the advance in millimeter and microwave detector technologies in recent years has produced very broadband components .",
    "low - noise amplifiers ( lnas ) with bandwidths of 10 ghz or more are easily accessible with noise performance comparable to bolometric direct detectors , e.g. acbar ( runyan et al . 2003 ) with bandwidths of 30 - 40 ghz and an equivalent noise temperature or rj temperature loading @xmath0 between 40 k and 70 k. the cmb interferometers are therefore very competitive at millimeter wavelengths as compared to bolometers which are usually preferred at shorter wavelengths .    the yuan - tseh lee array for microwave background anisotropy ( amiba ) ( lo et al .",
    "2001 ; ho et al .",
    "2009 ) is a radio interferometric array for the study of the cmb at 3 mm wavelength .",
    "amiba detects the minute deviations of the nearly constant cmb temperature over the sky , and can study the spatial variation of this temperature fluctuation",
    ". in particular , amiba is imaging galaxy clusters via the sunyaev - zeldovich effect ( sze ) ( sunyaev and zeldovich 1970 , 1972 ; birkinshaw 1999 ) for the first time at 3 mm wavelength .",
    "the array presently consists of 13 elements of 1.2 m reflectors distributed on a 6-m diameter platform .",
    "the receiver attached to each reflector is dual - polarization , and equipped with cryogenically cooled lnas operating in the 84 to 104 ghz frequency range .",
    "the intermediate frequency ( if ) is from 2 to 18 ghz , and is matched with a wide - band analog correlator .",
    "the strong interest in cmb observations has motivated the development of very broadband correlators with a limited spectral resolution . utilizing a filter bank and complex correlators ,",
    "padin et al ( 2002 ) built an analog correlator with 10 ghz bandwidth .",
    "harris and zmuidzinas ( 2001 ) worked on a different approach toward broadband operations by adopting an analog lag correlation scheme to build an auto correlator with a 4 ghz bandwidth .",
    "the amiba correlator is also based on the concept of the lag correlator , and is designed to correlate the entire 16 ghz bandwidth .",
    "recently holler et al .",
    "( 2007 ) also reported a lag correlator for ami with a 6 ghz bandwidth .    in principle",
    ", analog correlators can achieve better sensitivity over their digital counterparts due to the absence of the digitization process .",
    "analog multipliers can easily achieve high sensitivity over multi - octave frequency ranges . in comparison",
    "the use of analog - to - digital converters ( adcs ) is expensive and has limited bandwidth .",
    "thus the analog approach is preferred for observations which require high sensitivity but modest spectral resolution .",
    "however , the major difficulty in making a broadband system lies in the distribution and processing of the multi - octave signals coming from the antennas .",
    "broadband impedance matching between components presents a major technical challenge for integrating a large scale microwave system . due to the non - linear responses of an analog system , applying appropriate drive power levels and modulation / demodulation techniques to minimize the effects of the spurious terms are also very important .",
    "the amiba correlator is our attempt to address these technical issues .",
    "the 4-lag analog correlator has a nominal 16 ghz bandwidth .",
    "this is currently the only correlator in operation with an effective correlation bandwidth of around 10 ghz .",
    "the scientific goals and design philosophy of amiba are presented in ho et al .",
    "a broader description of the amiba detection system is given in chen et al .",
    "( 2009 ) while a detailed description of the amiba hexapod mount can be found in koch et al .",
    "( 2009 ) . from 2007 to 2008",
    ", observations were carried out with the 7-element array equipped with 60 cm dishes ( koch et al .",
    "details on the observations and analysis of six massive galaxy clusters are presented in wu et al .",
    "subaru weak lensing data of 4 galaxy clusters were analyzed with the sze data to derive the baryon fraction ( umetsu et al .",
    "this paper describes in detail the instrumental design and testing of the amiba correlator .",
    "we provide a system overview in section 2 and major components of the system are described in sections 3 to 7 . in particular , we discuss various aspects of the correlator module in section 4 .",
    "in section 8 , we outline the testing and data processing .",
    "finally , a conclusion on the system is given in section 9 .",
    "as shown in fig .",
    "1 , the amiba correlator consists of 5 parts , namely the if distribution , correlation , readout , data acquisition , and control . for the 13-element array , there would be a total of @xmath1 correlations between the 2 polarizations of each receiver in order to obtain the 4 stokes parameters for polarization measurements . in amiba correlator",
    ", the number of correlator modules required is reduced by a factor of two by introducing 2-way switches which choose between the two parallel - hand products , xx and yy , or the cross polarization products , xy and yx .",
    "for example , observations of the cmb spatial intensity variations require measurement of the xx and yy products only .",
    "the network to distribute the 2 to 18 ghz if from the receivers to the correlators is implemented by cascading 3 sections of 4-way power dividers .",
    "the broadband analog lag correlator modules were designed using double - balanced diode mixers as the multipliers .",
    "the subsequent amplifier provides low - pass filtering with a 3 db cut - off frequency at around 10 khz .    in the readout electronics , we use voltage - to - frequency converters ( vfcs ) and",
    "counters to provide integrating analogue to digital conversion of the multiplier outputs .",
    "this style of adc has a slow response but a high dynamic range , making them well suited to this application .",
    "the data acquisition electronics serve as a memory buffer between the readout electronics and the correlator control computer ( ccc ) . in response to timed event signals from the ccc",
    ", it also generates control signals for phase switching , demodulation , and the readout process .",
    "the ccc coordinates all the activities in the correlator , as well as archiving the data .",
    "equipped with 3 special purpose cards from the australia telescope national facility ( atnf ) , the ccc provides timing , data interface , and event signals for correlator operations .",
    "further processing of the archived data is performed offline .",
    "this includes the processing required to transform the four lag domain measurements from each lag correlator into two complex channels in the frequency domain . in a digital lag correlator ,",
    "the conversion from the lag domain to the frequency domain is a simple discrete fourier transform . in the analogue lag correlator , variations in gain and bandpass of the individual multipliers complicate the transform process considerably .",
    "calibration with strong point sources such as planets becomes necessary . by observing a strong point source ,",
    "the expected signal from each frequency bin of each baseline can be calculated .",
    "correction to the transformation can then be extracted and applied to the following observations .",
    "a brief description of the relevant data processing and demonstration are presented in section 8 .",
    "an if from 1 ghz to 21 ghz was proposed in the beginning of the project ( lo et al .",
    "2001 ) , but was subsequently changed to 2 ghz to 18 ghz after taking into consideration the available commercial microwave components , the complexity of the multi - octave circuit design , and the physical sizes of components .",
    "the if signal distribution uses a mixture of off - the - shelf and specially designed microwave components .    after passing through the rf lnas and sub - harmonically pumped mixers ( shms ) , which have a conversion loss of around 12 db , the faint signals from the receiver inputs reach a level of -45 to -40 dbm . at this point , the noise figure of the subsequent components has a negligible contribution to the overall noise temperature , as long as the if power level can be kept well above the thermal noise of about - 71 dbm .",
    "multiple broadband if amplifiers are used along the if chain to compensate for the divider loss .",
    "attenuators are inserted along the if paths to adjust the if power level in order not to saturate the amplifiers , and also to improve the matching between components .",
    "the input power level to the correlator modules is chosen to optimize the output signal - to - noise ( s / n ) ratio .",
    "the diagram of if power level settings from receiver to correlator is shown in fig .",
    "2 .    another issue is to keep the if power stable over a period greater than the integration time of each data point .",
    "it was found that most of the gain variations can be attributed to ambient temperature changes ( nishioka et al .",
    "a ventilation system using fans and a feedback proportional - integral - derivative ( pid ) control was installed to minimize the temperature variations within the electronic cabinets ( jiang et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "the following sections provide a description of each if section .",
    "schematics of the amiba receiver and correlator if sections are shown in figs . 3 and 4 respectively for reference .      in the @xmath2 section , an if amplifier with a gain of 34 db and output 1db compression point ( p1db ) of 20 dbm is used in conjunction with a 4-way power divider .",
    "a directional coupler sends part of the if signal into a total power detector to monitor the if power after the receiver .",
    "the reading can be used to adjust the variable gain amplifier ( vga ) in the receiver if to maintain the power level from the receiver .",
    "in addition to monitoring the receiver gain variations , the total power reading can also be used for sky dip or hot / cold load experiments to determine the sky and receiver noise temperature .",
    "the input of the total power readout electronics is switched between the signal and ground for alternating data .",
    "common mode noise such as ground noise section is either terminated with a 50 ohm resistor or connected to a stable if signal . ]",
    "are reduced after subtracting the ground reference from the signal .",
    "an 18 ghz lowpass filter determines the overall system bandwidth and also filters out the 21 ghz lo leakage from the mixer .",
    "a 13-db negative slope equalizer compensates for the gain slope arising from the following components .",
    "there are two versions of the @xmath3 section - one with a 2-way switch , a delay trimmer , an if amplifier , and a 4-way power divider ; the other with an if amplifier , a power divider , and a delay compensation cable . during polarization observations ,",
    "the 2-way switches can be utilized to obtain 4 cross correlations .",
    "the delay trimmer has a range of + /-",
    "90 pico - seconds for fine delay tuning .",
    "the coarse delay adjustment is done by installing delay compensation cables of designated lengths .",
    "more details about delay trimming can be found in lin et al .",
    "( 2009 ) .",
    "the @xmath4 section consists of a 4-way power divider with built - in amplifiers in front .",
    "their dimensions are custom designed in order to feed the wideband if signals into an array of correlator modules in a compact way as shown in fig .",
    "the two stages of the mmic if amplifiers with a cascaded gain of 14 db are placed in front of the power divider to compensate for the loss in the power divider .",
    "a millimeter - wave dc - blocking capacitor required for bias is placed in front of the @xmath2 mmic and rejects signals below 0.5 ghz .",
    "the power divider utilizes a cu - clad substrate with an embedded resistive layer which allows thin - film resistors to be etched into the circuit as part of the fabrication process .",
    "however , the same resistive layer causes significant loss and gain slope along a long transmission line . for cavity resonance suppression ,",
    "metallic irises were extended down from the cover to confine the circuits into small channels .",
    "a picture of the custom power divider is shown in fig .",
    "the component layout of the amplification stage and layouts of the two types of power dividers are also shown in fig . 7 and 8 , respectively , for illustration .",
    "details on the circuit design and test results can be found in li et al .",
    "in a lag correlator system as for amiba , a number of multipliers are used to measure the correlation as a function of the time offset or `` lag '' between two signals , namely @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the lag between the two signals .",
    "the cross correlation is represented by the pentagram symbol ( @xmath7 ) , and @xmath8 denotes the complex conjugate of @xmath9 .",
    "the cross power spectrum of @xmath10 and @xmath11 can be derived via fourier transforming the cross correlation @xmath12 in a lag correlator of the type described here , the correlation function is measured at discrete values of lags .",
    "the bandwidth of the correlator , @xmath13 , is determined by the delay increment @xmath14 between measurements according to the nyquist sampling theorem ( harris et al .",
    "the frequency resolution , @xmath15 , is determined by the number of lag measurements , @xmath16 , such that @xmath17 .    to limit the gain loss from bandwidth smearing to an acceptable level , for an efficiency of @xmath18 at the primary beam half power points",
    ", the fractional bandwidth must be at most @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the baseline length and @xmath21 is the dish diameter . given the final configuration of the array ( 1.2 m dishes with longest baselines of about 6 m ) , a frequency resolution of 8 ghz is chosen . with a bandwidth of 16 ghz , the number of lags in the lag correlator is then set to 4 to provide 2 frequency channels .",
    "correlator modules with more ( e.g. 8) lags would not furnish much more information but would minimize the bandwidth smearing for the case of smaller diameter dishes . to examine the bandwidth smearing from another persepctive ,",
    "9 shows the calculated bandwidth patterns of the 4 lag outputs with an effective bandwidth of 16 ghz .",
    "the lag span is between + /-",
    "60 ps , enough to cover the delay for 1.2 m dishes with 6 m baselines .    for the amiba correlator",
    ", it is important to have a very wide bandwidth for cmb observations . to obtain the wide bandwidth , analog multipliers in the form of balanced mixers",
    "were employed .",
    "the use of passive multipliers circumvents the problem of 1/f noise and other noise from the bias circuitry usually associated with active multipliers .",
    "a flat amplitude response and a linear phase response ( non - dispersive ) are essential to achieve a large effective bandwidth . from tests with a translating noise source",
    ", the entire signal path with the 4-lag correlator module has an effective bandwidth of around 10 ghz ( lin et al . 2009 ) .",
    "a brief list of the amiba correlator specifications is given in table 1 .",
    "within each correlator module , two stages of 2-way power dividers are cascaded to split the if signals to feed four multipliers .",
    "the lags for each multiplier are specified to be 37.5 , 12.5 , -12.5 , and -37.5 pico - seconds , respectively .",
    "the 25 pico - second lag spacing is designed to provide nyquist sampling of the if up to 20 ghz .",
    "the output voltages from the 4 lags are transformed into 2 complex data points in the cross power spectrum .",
    "the double - balanced mixers comprise of low - barrier silicon schottky diode ring quads mounted between two wideband baluns . to avoid reflections due to discontinuities such as wire bonding between circuits , the entire circuit , including power dividers and baluns ,",
    "is manufactured on a single microwave substrate . a picture of the 4-lag correlator module manufactured by marki microwave inc .",
    "is shown in fig . 10 .    regarding the channel isolation , for an ideal 4-lag correlator",
    ", the recovered spectrum is @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the correlation measurement at each lag , and @xmath24 is the nominal lag . if the input signals are continuous - wave ( cw ) signals at the center of each channel , namely 6 ghz and 14 ghz in our case , the recovered spectrum is shown in fig . 9 with a fwhm of about 12 ghz for each cw signal .",
    "therefore , the leakage between channels is quite severe for the 4-lag correlators . for comparison ,",
    "the recovered spectrum of an ideal 8-lag correlator with input cw signals at the center of its 4 channels is also shown .",
    "although the leakage between adjacent channels is still severe for an 8-lag module , the isolation between non - adjacent channels is acceptable . to improve on the channel isolation ,",
    "one possibility is to apply a window function during the lag - to - visibility transformation .",
    "however , constrained by the small number of lags that we have , another possibility might be to apply bandpass filtering or a filter bank before correlation .",
    "the filter bank might also reduce the bandpass variation within each channel and maximize the effective bandwidth .      during observations ,",
    "the correlator input signals consist of large un - correlated noise signals from the receivers and tiny correlated signals from the sky .",
    "these large un - correlated noise signals tend to pump the correlator diodes in much the same way as the local oscillator signal in a mixer application .",
    "this can lead to non - linearity of the correlator multipliers and an excess of noise .",
    "we adjust the correlator input power level to reduce this degradation .    in a simulation of a double - balanced mixer with four tones ( two with large power and two with 28 db smaller power ) as shown in fig .",
    "11 , when the large signals have a power below a certain level , the product of the two small signals drops dramatically .",
    "as the input power of the large signals increases above the threshold , the products of both small signals and large signals increase linearly , i.e. @xmath25 proportional to @xmath26 .",
    "as the input power keeps increasing , eventually both small - signal and large - signal products become compressed .",
    "we can refer the large signals in the simulation to the un - correlated noise from the receivers , and their product as the output fluctuations of the correlator , as the output fluctuation of the correlator is indeed due to the beating or mixing of un - correlated signals ( kraus , j. d. 1986 ) .",
    "the small signals in the simulation are regarded as the correlated signals in the system .",
    "the simulation defines three regimes of operation , namely , under - pumped , linear and compressed . from experiments ,",
    "our correlator modules have a linear range for input power from -20 dbm to -12 dbm , corresponding to output fluctuations with a root - mean - square ( rms ) from around 100 to 700 counts , including the backend noise , as shown in fig .",
    "as the correlators are operated in the linear regime , it is seen that the correlator output fluctuations are proportional to @xmath27 , where @xmath28 are the input power of each baseline ( wrobel et al .",
    "since there is no total power detector at the correlator module inputs , the input power can not be measured directly , but can be inferred from the measured rms of each baseline . in the compressed regime ,",
    "the output rms grows monotonically , although not linearly , as the input power increases .",
    "the rms serves as an indicator of which regime we are operating in .",
    "the gain can then be adjusted to optimize the s / n .",
    "an ideal double - balanced mixer used as a multiplier can suppress even harmonics of both input signals and their products , i.e. @xmath29 , @xmath30 , and @xmath31 , where either n or m is even and @xmath32 is the input voltage ( maas 1993 ) . from simulations , it has been found that with a double - balanced mixer , the spurious terms such as @xmath33 , @xmath34 , @xmath35 are suppressed by over 40 db below the desired product @xmath36 .",
    "experiments show that residuals of these spurious terms can still be seen .",
    "they can be further suppressed by the use of a phase switching / demodulation process which allows the introduction of a dc blocking capacitor at the input of the low frequency amplifier following the correlator module .",
    "phase switching is achieved by switching a suitable delay into the lo path . however , as the lo signal is switched through different paths , a small amplitude modulation of the if power level is introduced .",
    "this modulation survives the demodulation process and appears as an offset in the @xmath35 term .",
    "to minimize offset , variable attenuators are used to adjust the 42 ghz lo power to the shm to minimize the if power modulation .",
    "s / n is optimized by operating the correlator in a slightly compressed regime , thereby ensuring that front - end noise dominates backend noise from the dc amplifier and readout electronics .",
    "12 shows the output s / n estimated from the jupiter fringes as the input power were varied .",
    "most of lag outputs shows an increase in s /",
    "n as the input power ( infered from the output rms ) increases , even when some of them were driven into the compressed regime .",
    "a correlation interferometer where a multiplier is employed , the minimum detectable temperature or sensitivity is @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the system noise temperature , @xmath39 is the bandwidth , and @xmath6 is the integration time , assuming 100@xmath40 efficiency .",
    "( kraus , j. d. 1986 ) . from the correlator",
    "output fluctuations , we can estimate the noise contributions from each part of the system , namely the front - end ( @xmath41 , @xmath42 , and @xmath43 terms , where @xmath44 and @xmath45 are integers , @xmath46 and @xmath47 represent the large un - correlated noises . ) and backend ( fig .",
    "11 ) , assuming all noises are un - correlated , i.e. their variances are additive .",
    "typical correlator output fluctuations measured under different conditions are listed in table 2 to illustrate how the output noise might increase due to the spurious terms . as a result ,",
    "noise contributions from the backend , as well as the spurious @xmath41 , @xmath42 terms can be estimated .",
    "currently these spurious terms and the backend noise reduce the s / n by 20@xmath40 . an analysis of the system efficiency based on the observations with the 7-element array can be found in lin et al .",
    "( 2009 ) .      for the low - frequency low - noise amplifier following the lag correlator module ,",
    "because of the high output impedance of the mixers , low noise current amplifiers were chosen to minimize the backend noise .",
    "the bandwidth of the amplifier is limited in the feedback loop in order to reduce the output noise . due to the phase switching , the correlated signals are square waves , at the phase switching frequency . a dc blocking capacitor is used in front of the amplifier to remove any dc term from the mixer output . as a result , the `` dc '' amplifier has a 3 db passband from 0.1 to 9 khz .",
    "the schematic of the dc amplifier is shown in fig . 13 .",
    "the correlator readout circuit uses a vfc plus a 24-bit counter as the adc .",
    "the vfc generates pulse sequences at a frequency linearly proportional to the analog signal from the dc amplifier output .",
    "the up / down counter accumulates the pulses , acting as a long - term integrator as well as a phase - switching demodulator .",
    "the up / down function is controlled by the demodulation signal .",
    "in amiba correlator there are four layers of processes used to remove systematics .",
    "the correlation process suppresses the uncorrelated receiver noise and gain fluctuations .",
    "the phase switching and demodulation process reduces the offsets or gain drifts that do not have the characteristics of the demodulation signals .",
    "one additional phase switching layer is implemented by inverting the sign of the demodulation signals for every other integration .",
    "every two data points are then subtracted with respect to each other offline in the ccc . from analysis ,",
    "the correlator output spectra show a white noise signature between @xmath48 and 1 hz , with an increase in power at lower frequency due to slow gain drifting ( nishioka et al .",
    "for the remaining offsets or false signals due to ground pick up , a two - patch scheme ( padin et al .",
    "2002 ) is adopted .",
    "observations are taken with , for our case , 3-minute tracking on the main field , and another 3-minute tracking on a trailing or leading field at the same declination , separated by few minutes in right ascension .",
    "the main and the trailing / leading fields then share the same azimuth - elevation track with identical ground contamination of the data .    at the end of an integration interval , the contents of the counters are dumped into shift registers and serially scanned out by the data acquisition electronics . for the 13-element array , instead of the custom readout ics",
    "used previously in the 7-element array ( li et al .",
    "2004 ) , discrete vfc components are used . the digital section ( counters / shift registers ) is implemented in a field programmable gate array ( fpga ) .",
    "the new vfc is synchronous , and has better linearity than the previous readout ics .",
    "a schematic of the readout electronics with the timing diagram of the control signals is shown in fig .",
    "the data acquisition circuit is used to store data from the readout circuits before they are transferred to the ccc via a direct memory access ( dma ) process .",
    "control signals , such as readout control signals and phase switching / demodulation signals are also generated here .",
    "ram blocks configured as @xmath49 bit rams within the fpgas are allocated to store the correlation and total power data .",
    "there are two steps involved in transferring the data from the readout circuits to the ccc , scan and dma .",
    "each step is triggered by events originating from the event generator ( eg ) in the ccc .",
    "the dma process is ideal for transferring large volumes of data but is more efficient if the data are stored in consecutive addresses .    for the 7-element array ,",
    "walsh functions of 64 intervals per cycle are used as the phase switching signals .",
    "currently there are 5 cycles in each integration of 0.226 second .",
    "this corresponds to a fastest switching frequency of around 700 hz . for the 13-element array ,",
    "walsh functions of 128 intervals per cycle are used .",
    "since the corner frequency of the 1/f noise from the passive diode multiplier we use is low , phase switching at rather low frequencies is feasible .",
    "the operation of the amiba correlator is controlled by the ccc - an industrial grade pc running linux .",
    "the ccc is equipped with 3 special cards - event generator ( eg ) , australia telescope distributed clock ( atdc ) , and pci correlator data bus interface ( pciif ) from atnf . the function of the eg is to generate events with precise timing .",
    "the pciif acts as an interface between the data acquisition circuit and the ccc to receive the dma data .",
    "the interface appears as a 256k byte block of memory on the pci bus while the pciif also assigns memory addresses and several control signals for the dma process .",
    "interrupts from the eg are relayed to the pciif for dma timing .",
    "the atdc provides precise timing for all the correlator operations and also generates an 8 mhz reference clock for digital processing in the data acquisition and readout circuits .",
    "the atdc can phase - lock to both a 5(or 10 ) mhz sine wave and a 1 pulse - per - second ( pps ) signal from a gps receiver and is scheduled to synchronize the system clock of the ccc periodically .",
    "an alternative is to synchronize the system clock of the ccc to the gps receiver via the network time protocol ( ntp ) . a block diagram of correlator control components and signals is shown in fig .",
    "to test the response of each baseline , a w - band noise source is set up to translate between the 2 receiver inputs .",
    "the data of lag sequence can be fourier transformed to obtain the bandpass response .",
    "the bandpass shows a two - hump gain response and some scatter from a linear phase response . from the bandpass response",
    ", we can estimate the effective bandwidth @xmath50 as @xmath51 where @xmath52 is the complex bandpass response .",
    "the baselines of the 7-element array were estimated to have effective bandwidths ranging from 9 to 13 ghz ( lin et al .",
    "2009 ) .    with the derived bandpass responses ,",
    "a transform matrix @xmath53 can be created so that @xmath54 [ s ] = [ r],\\ ] ] where @xmath55 is the complex column vector representing the input spectrum , and @xmath56 is the real column vector for the correlator output . @xmath53 and @xmath55 include both positive frequency terms and their complex conjugate at negative frequencies to yield real correlation products ( li et al .",
    "2004 ) .    with the correlation outputs from each baseline",
    ", we can invert @xmath53 and then derive the spectra of the input signals or visibilities @xmath55 via @xmath57 = [ k]^{-1 } [ r].\\ ] ] however , since the 4 lag outputs only give us 2 independent complex data points in the frequency spectrum , @xmath53 is rather singular due to degeneracy .",
    "the singular value decomposition ( svd ) method can be used to invert @xmath53 .",
    "once @xmath58 is obtained , the spectra of @xmath45 @xmath59 channels can be obtained .",
    "eventually we have to consolidate those @xmath45 channels into 2 bands .",
    "another approach would be to integrate the complex response matrix @xmath53 in frequency into two bands first .",
    "the integrated matrix @xmath60 can be easily inverted , and the 2-band visibility output can be written as @xmath61=[\\bar{k}]^{-1}[r]$ ] .    from simulations ,",
    "lin et al . ( 2009 ) showed that given an accurate and high spectral resolution measurement of @xmath53 , the visibility can be recovered regardless of the source offset from the phase center . on the other hand , inaccurate estimate of @xmath53 results in errors in the recovered visibility .",
    "the error varies with the source offset and can be calibrated at any given offset by observing a point source at the same offset from the phase center .",
    "the calibration is strictly valid only in a small region ( a small fraction of the synthesized beam ) around the location at which the calibration source is observed . at other locations within the field of view , there are gain and phase errors set by uncertainties in the lag - to - visibility transformation that affect the quality of the image reconstruction , although further calibration should reduce these errors .",
    "however , further simulations show that applying the calibration to the entire field of view only contributes about @xmath62 in rms to the recovered point source flux after combining data from all baselines ( lin et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "although using a translating noise source at the receiver inputs to create artificial fringes is a useful method to measure the transfer function of the correlator , it is hard to run the test inline with observations .",
    "the spectral resolution obtained with our current setup was not sufficient .",
    "this approach becomes more tedious as the number of baselines increases and we would still need to use the planet data to calibrate the gain and phase of each baseline .",
    "an alternative would be to derive the response matrix @xmath53 in two bands , assuming nominal responses of an ideal lag correlator .",
    "data from tracking of strong point sources such as jupiter , saturn , or mars , performed regularly at an interval of approximately 3 hours during the observations , can be used for calibration . all data analysis and",
    "calibrations were restricted to observations made at the phase center at the moment .",
    "16 shows the images of jupiter from visibilities with and without calibration .",
    "the calibrator was another set of data of jupiter taken several minutes apart .",
    "the uncalibrated visibilities suffer from errors in the transformation as mentioned above .",
    "forming an image directly results in very strong cancellation .",
    "after calibration , the visibilities add up coherently and form a strong point source at the phase center .",
    "the images have been deconvolved using the clean algorithm ( hogbom 1974 ) and plotted with the same dynamical range .",
    "more details about data processing can be found in wu et al .",
    "( 2009 ) and lin et al .",
    "from observations , the amiba correlator has proven to have the sensitivity required for cmb detection .",
    "the analog multipliers used in the lag correlators provide the wide bandwidth required for high sensitivity .",
    "the inherent noise rejection of the interferometer is also very beneficial .",
    "compared with the filterbank scheme used by cbi ( padin et al .",
    "2002 ) , the lag correlator design is simpler and more compact .",
    "large bandwidth with a small number of lags does not present a significant challenge for the lag - to - visibility transformation after proper calibrations . at the moment , the effective bandwidth we can achieve",
    "is limited by bandpass variations due to wideband impedance matching .",
    "however , a significant portion ( @xmath63 ) of the nominal bandwidth has been achieved . to improve on the bandpass variations ,",
    "it is possible to operate the correlator at a higher if , since the response of the analog multipliers is not limited to frequencies of few ghz .",
    "thus , with a similar fractional bandwidth , a larger bandwidth could be achieved .",
    "wideband complex correlators in conjunction with bandpass filters can also be considered . for amiba ,",
    "complex correlators with a bandwidth of 8 ghz are suitable . by interleaving a number of them in frequency ,",
    "a large bandwidth is feasible .",
    "the filters would also improve the isolation between channels .",
    "similar analog interferometric systems can be constructed for high sensitivity , high angular resolution , and moderate frequency resolution observations .                           and",
    "@xmath47 as the large un - correlated noises , the output from a multiplier can be represented as the summation of various possible terms @xmath41 , @xmath42 , and @xmath43 , where @xmath44 and @xmath45 are integers .",
    "each output terms can contribute to correlator output fluctuations .",
    "on the other hand , @xmath64 and @xmath65 present the small correlated signals , and @xmath66 is the expected product .",
    "a current noise source is used to represent the backend noise from the dc amplifier and the vfc adc at the input of the dc amplifier . _",
    "bottom _ : in the simulation of a double - balanced mixer with 4 tones , when the large signals have power below a certain level ( -2 dbm ) , the product of 2 small signals ( red curve ) drops dramatically . as the input power of the large signals increase above the threshold , products of both small signals and large signals ( black curve )",
    "increase linearly . as the input power keeps increasing ( above 8 dbm ) , eventually both small - signal and large - signal products get compressed . since a standard diode model is used during the simulations , the input power levels of the large signals where the diodes are sufficiently pumped or compressed are different from our measurements .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=4 ]   and @xmath47 as the large un - correlated noises , the output from a multiplier can be represented as the summation of various possible terms @xmath41 , @xmath42 , and @xmath43 , where @xmath44 and @xmath45 are integers .",
    "each output terms can contribute to correlator output fluctuations .",
    "on the other hand , @xmath64 and @xmath65 present the small correlated signals , and @xmath66 is the expected product .",
    "a current noise source is used to represent the backend noise from the dc amplifier and the vfc adc at the input of the dc amplifier . _",
    "bottom _ : in the simulation of a double - balanced mixer with 4 tones , when the large signals have power below a certain level ( -2 dbm ) , the product of 2 small signals ( red curve ) drops dramatically .",
    "as the input power of the large signals increase above the threshold , products of both small signals and large signals ( black curve ) increase linearly . as the input power keeps increasing ( above 8 dbm ) , eventually both small - signal and large - signal products get compressed . since a standard diode model is used during the simulations , the input power levels of the large signals where the diodes are sufficiently pumped or compressed are different from our measurements .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=4 ]              * acknowledgments . *",
    "we thank the administrative staff for their support over the years .",
    "we thank a. harris for useful discussions and notes .",
    "we thank the ministry of education , the national science council , and the academia sinica for their support of this project .",
    "we thank the noaa for accomodating the amiba project on their site on mauna loa .",
    "we thank the hawaiian people for allowing astronomers to work on their mountains in order to study the universe .",
    "100 birkinshaw , m. 1999 , phys .",
    ", 310 , 97 carlstrom , j. e. et al .",
    "2002 , ara&a , 40 , 643 chen , m .-",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1664 harris , a. i. & zmuidzinas , j. 2001 , rev .",
    "instruments , 77 , 1531 ho , p. t. p.",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1610 hogbom , j. a. 1974 , a&as , 15 , 147 holler , c. m. et al .",
    "2007 , a&a , 464 , 795 jiang , h. et al .",
    "2009 , i2mtc 09 .",
    "ieee koch , p. et al .",
    "2006 , proc .",
    "eucap , ed .",
    "h. lacoste @xmath67 l. ouwehand ( esa sp-626 ) , 668.1 koch , p. et al .",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1670 kraus , j. d. 1986 , radio astronomy ( 2nd ed .",
    "; cygnus - quasar ) leitch , e. m. et al .",
    "2002 , , 568 , l28 li , c. -t .",
    "2004 , spie , 5498 , 455 lin , k .- y .",
    "2008 , proc .",
    "spie , 7012 , 701207 lin , k. -y .",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1629 lo , k. y. et al .",
    "2001 , aip conference proceedings , 586 , 172 maas , s. a. 1993 , microwave mixers ( 2nd ed . ; artech house ) nishioka , h. et al .",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1637 padin , s. et al .",
    "2002 , asp , 114 , 83 runyun , m. c. et al .",
    "2003 , , 149 , 265 scaife , a. m. m. et al .",
    "2008 , , 385 , 809 sunyaev , r. a. & zeldovich , y. b. 1970 , comments astrophys .",
    "space phys . , 2 , 66 sunyaev , r. a. & zeldovich , y. b. 1972 , comments astrophys .",
    "space phys .",
    ", 4 , 173 wrobel , j. m. and walker , r. c. , 1999 , in synthesis imaging in radio astronomy ii , asp conference sereis vol .",
    "g. b. taylor , c. l. carilli , and r. a. perley , 171 umetsu , k. et al .",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1643 white , m. et al .",
    "1999 , , 514 , 12 wu , j. -h .",
    "2009 , , 694 , 1619"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a wideband analog correlator has been constructed for the yuan - tseh lee array for microwave background anisotropy . </S>",
    "<S> lag correlators using analog multipliers provide large bandwidth and moderate frequency resolution . </S>",
    "<S> broadband if distribution , backend signal processing and control are described . </S>",
    "<S> operating conditions for optimum sensitivity and linearity are discussed . from observations , a large effective bandwidth of around 10 </S>",
    "<S> ghz has been shown to provide sufficient sensitivity for detecting cosmic microwave background variations . </S>"
  ]
}