{
  "article_text": [
    "the outer disks of galaxies are increasingly being recognized as a diverse environment whose properties may aid us in understanding the formation of galaxies . since the radio observations of the 1950s @xcite",
    ", we have known that the baryonic component of spiral galaxies , as traced by neutral hydrogen , is significantly larger than suggested by classical size indicators such as @xmath1 ( the radius where the surface brightness drops to 25 mag arcsec@xmath3 ; we use measurements of the @xmath4-band surface brightness obtained from the literature throughout this analysis ) .",
    "optical studies , however , have focused on the inner parts of galaxies , where , among other aspects , the radial distribution of h@xmath0 emission has been subject of intense scrutiny for many years .",
    "for example , @xcite used narrow - band imaging of nearby galaxies to construct h@xmath0 surface brightness profiles .",
    "such profiles usually exhibit a  truncation \" in the h@xmath0 surface brightness at relatively large radii , although usually still within the optical radius @xmath1 .",
    "this truncation is also reflected in the scarcity of h@xmath0 rotation curves that extend to radii much beyond @xmath5 in comprehensive long - slit surveys ( e.g. , @xcite , being one of the deepest such surveys , observe no rotation curves beyond @xmath1 in a sample of 329 ) . a widely accepted hypothesis for such a truncation is the existence of a threshold in the surface gas density , below which star formation becomes inefficient @xcite .",
    "alternate explanations include the hypothesis that the truncation is indicative of an actual break in the mass distribution that is related to the initial formation conditions of the disk @xcite .    however ,",
    " truncation \" may be too strong a descriptive statement because it is now known that low - level star formation occurs at large galactocentric radii , well beyond the radius corresponding to the critical threshold . @xcite have detected individual h@xmath0 emission regions in the outer disks of spiral galaxies as far as 2 @xmath1 , and uv emission appears relatively common in outer disks @xcite .",
    "furthermore , in a study of ngc 3814 using deep two - band optical imaging , @xcite have found statistically significant overdensities of marginally resolved sources in the outer disk that are likely to be star clusters .",
    "this outer - disk star formation has raised new interest in the hypothesis of a star formation threshold .",
    "the absence of evidence for a break in the surface brightness profiles of uv emission , which is also a star formation indicator , led @xcite to suggest that the star formation rate does not exhibit a break , and that the h@xmath0 truncation is a stochastic effect . as the expectation number of star formation regions with stars massive enough to generate a stroemgren sphere drops below unity",
    ", the h@xmath0 emission profile goes to zero , while low level(mass ) sf continues as measured with the uv .",
    "other , perhaps more exciting , possible explanations include a change in the initial mass function @xcite .",
    "these arguments depend critically on reliable measures of h@xmath0 and continuum profiles out to large radii .    at the same time",
    ", studies of faint optical continuum emission have shown that stellar disks can also be traced far into the outer disk .",
    "while some galaxies exhibit a single exponential surface brightness profile to the largest measurable radii @xcite , others are more accurately described by broken exponential profiles with a characteristic break radius , beyond which the stellar surface brightness profile may be shallower or steeper than in the inner disk @xcite .",
    "these profiles are sometimes described as exponential , sub - exponential , and super - exponential @xcite ; the exponential and sub - exponential types are also variously referred to as freeman types i and ii @xcite , and the designation  type iii \" has come into usage to describe the super - exponential ( up - bending ) shape .",
    "how these outer stellar structures are related to possible structures in the gaseous disk , and in particular , h@xmath0 emission , is a crucial question in understanding the origin of the outer disk stellar populations . is",
    "the truncation in h@xmath0 emission a real indicator of a truncation in star formation , or , as @xcite suggest , merely a stochastic effect ?",
    "if , on the other hand , the break in the star formation surface density is real , is it also responsible for the characteristic break in the stellar continuum profile ? in that case , is there significant star formation beyond the break , and is it enough to have created the outer disk stellar content in situ ? or must other processes be invoked to populate the outer disks with stars ?    to answer these questions , a systematic and quantitative study of the distribution of h@xmath0 emission at large radii is required .",
    "the traditional technique of narrow - band imaging with subsequent subtraction of broad - band continuum emission is generally insufficiently sensitive to probe to large radii .",
    "the limitation lies not only in the achievable signal - to - noise ratio ( which is limited because typical narrow - band filters are much wider than the h@xmath0 emission line ) , but also in the stellar continuum subtraction . at large radii , because the spectral flux density at the peak of the h@xmath0 line is of the same order of magnitude as the stellar continuum , the wavelength dependence of the stellar continuum spectral energy is sufficient to significantly degrade the subtraction .",
    "for example , absorption troughs , which the h@xmath0 emission line is often embedded in , can render it undetectable .",
    "the way around these problems is to use higher spectral resolution .",
    "this can involve very narrow filter bandpasses , which is now possible over a wide range of redshifts due to the increasing availability of tunable filters @xcite , or traditional spectroscopy . in a pioneering effort in the study of gaseous outer disks , @xcite detected h@xmath0 emission at @xmath6 r@xmath7 , beyond the truncation radius of the neutral hydrogen disk , using the fabry - perot staring technique .",
    "however , true spectroscopic observations provide improvements in the subtraction of the stellar continuum , of the [ nii ] emission lines , and of h@xmath0 absorption troughs , allowing one to reach sensitivity limits fainter than 10@xmath8 erg s@xmath9 cm@xmath3 arcsec@xmath3 ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "we have observed late - type , edge - on disk galaxies with multi - hour , long - slit spectroscopy . the long - slit technique , although suffering from the much lower throughput in comparison to the fabry - perot technique , allows us , for edge - on geometry , to take advantage of fields of view that cover the entire galaxy and greatly facilitates sky and continuum subtraction .",
    "we typically detect h@xmath0 emission to galactocentric radii of 1.5 r@xmath7 , and in certain cases up to 2 r@xmath7 . in a previous paper @xcite",
    ", we discuss the kinematic properties of these outer h@xmath0 disks and find the kinematics to be disk - like , with generally no indication of kinematic anomalies or higher velocity dispersions as one approaches the outer edge of the disk .",
    "a subsample of galaxies with known optical warps has been studied separately @xcite to determine if kinematic anomalies , such as breaks in the rotation curve , were associated with the onset of warps that could indicate ongoing accretion processes of compact hi clouds or satellite galaxies as causes of the warp .",
    "we use data from both of these samples in this paper .",
    "we now turn our attention to the surface brightness profile of h@xmath0 emission in the outer disk .",
    "our aim is to measure the distribution of h@xmath0 emission in the outer disk and determine if the h@xmath0 emission profiles can be categorized as done for the stellar continua .",
    "we will determine whether there is indeed a break in the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile , and if so , whether this break can be associated with that in the stellar surface brightness . if there is a break , is it steep enough to constitute a truncation ? and",
    "how is the stellar continuum , a measure of integrated star formation , distributed in comparison to the current star formation , as indicated by h@xmath0 ?",
    "we describe our sample in ",
    "[ sec_data ] . in ",
    "[ sec_composite ] , we discuss and compare the properties of h@xmath0 and stellar continuum emission based on a composite of our 15 individual galaxy spectra , while in  [ sec_individual ] , we discuss what constraints we can place on the profile shapes of individual galaxies .",
    "our sample comes from three observing runs : a three - night run using fors1 at the vlt in november 2004 , a three - night run with gmos at gemini - south in april 2005 , and a three - night run using fors2 at the vlt in september 2007 .",
    "target selection was , in all cases , for isolated , edge - on , late - type galaxies of several arcminutes in diameter , preferentially at a redshift of several thousand km / s , which places the h@xmath0 line in a relatively quiet window of the sky background .",
    "an important difference among the runs is that the targets for the first two runs were chosen to be as morphologically undisturbed and regular as possible , whereas targets for the third run deliberately included several objects with optical warps , mostly taken from the catalog by @xcite . at first",
    ", it may seem incongruous to include a set of warped galaxies in a long - slit experiment , because the disk material is eventually going to curve away from the slit at the onset of the warp .",
    "however , given that nearly all galaxies might be warped to some extend @xcite , even if they appear  normal \" in the available imaging , it is useful to include a subsample of known warped galaxies to provide the internal control against which to view our results . furthermore , warps typically set in around the @xmath1 radius @xcite , so that several important results from the undisturbed sample within this radial distance may still be verified with the warped sample .",
    "all 15 targets are listed in table [ tab_sample ] .",
    "the table lists the r@xmath7 radii adopted for this analysis , summarizes which telescope and instrument were used , and identifies whether the galaxy is known to be warped or not .",
    "values of r@xmath7 are drawn from @xcite for all objects from the fors1 and gmos - s runs and from the third reference catalogue of bright galaxies @xcite for all objects from the fors2 run .",
    "the projected optical diameter , @xmath11 , of all galaxies is at most half the slit length , so that each object is covered completely by the slit in a single observation , along with a substantial sky sample . in our analysis , we group the galaxies into an undisturbed and a warped sample .",
    "two of the `` unwarped '' galaxies ( eso 340-g026 , mcg -01 - 10 - 035 ) were observed during the september 2007 run , which was primarily targeting warped objects .",
    "we describe the surface brightness profile as a function of projected radial distance from the galaxy center in units of the r@xmath7 radius so as to permit a comparison between galaxies of different physical sizes .",
    "other characteristic size measures , such as the half - light radius , @xmath12 , and the radius containing 90% of the total light , @xmath13 , were also considered .",
    "however , all of these are generally strongly correlated ( for all galaxies in our sample and in @xcite , r@xmath14r@xmath15 with a scatter of 15@xmath16 , and with the exception of a single galaxy , r@xmath17r@xmath18 to within 15@xmath16 ) .",
    "we choose to use r@xmath7 because it is the only such quantity available in the literature for all of our galaxies and because it is a robust measure for the `` edge '' of the disk in this sample where inner - disk size measures can be heavily affected by dust .    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      +    we now discuss the results in terms of specific questions .",
    "hypothesis @xmath19 is that of an exponential profile with a sharp truncation .",
    "most galaxies in our sample , whether warped or not , are inconsistent with the truncated profile shape .",
    "the two cases that are marginally consistent with a sharp truncation are eso 478-g011 and ic 2058 .",
    "visual inspection supports this for ic 2058 ; in the case of eso 478-g011 , the best - fit truncation radius is at the very large radius of @xmath20 , so that the truncated profile is essentially indistinguishable from a single exponential shape .",
    "we now restrict this hypothesis . in many of our sample galaxies , h@xmath0 is observed to large radii , as table [ tab_outermost ] shows .",
    "such detections are formally inconsistent with an exponential profile truncated at smaller radii . therefore , we impose the additional constraint that the truncation radius be located just beyond the radius of the outermost h@xmath0 detection and choose @xmath21 for this purpose . in table",
    "[ tab_indresults ] , the results of this analysis are shown in column @xmath22 .",
    "none of the galaxies in our sample are described well by a profile truncated at the last significant h@xmath0 detection .",
    "lastly , perhaps a sharply truncated profile is ruled out by this analysis only because the truncation is softened in projection due to the nearly - edge - on configuration .",
    "simple simulations of the projected profiles that would be obtained from such a configuration show that , even for an almost perfectly edge - on geometry , the softening effect towards the edge of the h@xmath0 disk would be fairly subtle and unlikely to exceed the surface brightness fluctuations observed in the real spectra .",
    "therefore , this analysis confirms that a broken - exponential profile with a finite outer - disk slope provides a significantly better fit to the individual galaxy profiles than a sharply truncated single exponential law .",
    "next , we consider @xmath23 , the hypothesis that the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile is described by a single , unbroken exponential .",
    "this model corresponds to the freeman type i profile , which is observed to hold for the stellar continuum of some galaxies @xcite out to extremely large radii .",
    "our sample is dominated by galaxies with broken exponential profiles in the stellar continuum ( figures [ fig_profiles1 ] to [ fig_profiles3 ] ) , where visual inspection identifies only few objects as being consistent with a single exponential profile .",
    "for about half of the h@xmath0 profiles in our sample , whether they represent normal or warped galaxies , we also rule out the unbroken exponential profile shape ( @xmath23 ) , as table [ tab_indresults ] shows .",
    "the exceptions among the unwarped galaxies may be of particular interest because the existence of a critical threshold surface gas density beyond which the specific star formation rate in a galaxy changes abruptly or even drops to zero has been suggested repeatedly in the literature @xcite .",
    "the objects for which we can not conclusively rule out an unbroken exponential law are eso 299-g018 , eso 385-g008 , eso 478-g011 , ic2058 , mcg -01 - 10 - 035 , ngc 259 , and ugc 12423 . in some cases ,",
    "this can be attributed to the strong fluctuations , which lower the quality of even the broken - exponential fit and reduce our ability to discriminate between different hypotheses .",
    "visual inspection does single out two of these objects , eso 478-g011 and ngc 259 , as the best candidates for an unbroken exponential profile ; these are also the two objects best fitted under @xmath23 .",
    "this is surprising for ngc 259 , which is listed as a warped galaxy ; however , within our warped sample , this object is the least - inclined , and the classification as a warped object may be due to a prominent spiral arm , rather than to an actual vertical bending of the disk , which may explain why we can trace a regular , possibly unbroken h@xmath0 profile out to @xmath24 .",
    "we conclude that , just like the composite profile , the individual galaxy h@xmath0 profiles are generally inconsistent with unbroken exponentials out to large radii , but that a significant number of exceptions might exist in our sample .      the third question we address is whether the individual galaxies might all share a common break radius , @xmath25 , as measured in the composite profile .",
    "is this radius a universal property of late - type galaxies , or simply an average for a population with an intrinsically large scatter ?",
    "we address this question by starting with h@xmath26 , and then fixing the break radius at @xmath27 , but leaving @xmath28 , @xmath29 , and @xmath30 as free parameters .",
    "we refer to this model as h@xmath31 .",
    "the result , presented in the @xmath32 column of table [ tab_indresults ] , shows that all but one ( eso 323-g033 ) of our galaxy profiles are consistent ( @xmath33 discrepant ) with broken exponential profiles with a break radius of @xmath27 .",
    "eso 323-g033 bears the distinction of being consistent with neither of the four alternative profile shapes we are considering here . because a single inconsistency at the 2@xmath34 level in a sample of 15 is within statistical expectations ,",
    "we conclude that the hypothesis of a  universal \" break radius for late - type galaxies like we have selected is consistent with these data .      extending the previous analysis",
    ", we now examine whether the composite profile calculated in  [ sec_composite ] is itself an acceptable representation of all individual galaxies in the sample .",
    "again , we create mock profiles , this time with the composite spectrum for which we allow a renormalization . the results ( table [ tab_indresults ] )",
    "show that the h@xmath0 profiles of most of our galaxies are inconsistent with the composite ; there are only four exceptions : one from the undisturbed sample ( eso 299-g018 ) and three from the warped sample ( eso 340-g026 , mcg -01 - 10 - 035 , ugca 23 ) .",
    "we conclude that there are real variations among the galaxies and that the composite spectrum is not necessarily a good representation of a galaxy chosen at random , with the exception of the break radius at @xmath35 .",
    "we find that more than half of our galaxies do not have a freeman type i h@xmath0 surface brightness profile ( a single , unbroken exponential ) .",
    "visual inspection demonstrates that the profiles are rather of the downbending ( sub - exponential ) type ii class , and are thus qualitatively following the behaviour of the stellar continuum , i.e. , their surface brightness profiles may be described as broken exponential profiles with a characteristic break radius and a steeper slope in the outer disk than in the inner disk .",
    "the h@xmath0 break radius at @xmath36 r@xmath7 appears surprisingly well - constrained and is observable both in the unperturbed and the warped subsamples .",
    "observations of a break in the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile are not new .",
    "breaks or truncations in the h@xmath0 profile have been noted for many years ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and a star formation threshold , i.e. , a critical gas surface sensitivity below which star formation can not proceed or proceed only very inefficiently has often been suggested as the most likely explanation . other breaks or truncations are expected at very large radii , where ionization by the cosmic ultraviolet background may become a significant contributor to outer - disk h@xmath0 emission and where the baryonic disk ends ; however , both of these effects are likely occur at or beyond 1.5 @xmath1 , which is a typical outer radius of hi disks , and at surface brightness levels fainter than what we can reliably probe with these data .",
    "what is new here is that we quantify the radial behavior of the emission beyond this break radius and out to large radii , @xmath37 .",
    "it is tempting to identify the clear break in h@xmath0 with the h@xmath0 , and possibly star formation , threshold well - known from the literature @xcite , but if so , then this  threshold \" is clearly not the end of star formation because h@xmath0 emission continues with some regularity beyond .",
    "furthermore , if the threshold position depends on local physical conditions , it is remarkable how well - defined the location of @xmath38 is with respect to @xmath1 .",
    "it is also tempting to identify the break radius in the stellar continuum that we observe with that observed by @xcite , and then further associate it with our observed h@xmath0 break radius because the two are consistent within 2@xmath34 in our data .",
    "however , the outer - disk exponential slopes are different for the two components , with the stellar continuum being more extended , suggesting that there is not a 1:1 correspondence between the surface brightness profiles of the two components .",
    "the physics determining the two are therefore more complex than a simple relationship between star formation and stellar populations .",
    "if h@xmath0 is a linear tracer of star formation , the current stellar continuum surface brightness distribution can not have been produced by in - situ star formation , unless star formation was more extended in the past . because the currently favored paradigm is that galaxies form  inside - out \" @xcite , we consider it more likely that either the outer - disk stellar population has resulted from a redistribution of stellar mass ( for example , as a result of tidal interactions with other galaxies @xcite or secular dynamical evolution @xcite ) , or that h@xmath0 is an increasingly biased tracer of star formation towards large radii .",
    "no less important than the observation of a break in the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile between the inner and the outer disk is the complementary observation that h@xmath0 emission is not sharply truncated",
    ". we observe h@xmath0 emission as far out as @xmath39 , and find its surface brightness profile to continue with some regularity , possibly even following an exponential law , but with a steeper slope .",
    "the observation of such extended emission is consistent with observations in recent years of extended uv emission around several galaxies @xcite .",
    "it demonstrates that star formation can occur even in the extreme outer - disk regime , where gas surface densities are presumably very low . at the same time",
    ", the presence of the break in the h@xmath0 profile suggests that , even if star formation is not completely suppressed in the outer disk , it appears to proceed under different physical conditions .",
    "the finding that the outer disk uv emission , which is also an indicator of recent star formation , does not exhibit a break @xcite , has given rise to the suggestion that the star formation rate profile is also unbroken .",
    "a possible explanation of the divergent behaviour between the h@xmath0 and uv profiles is that the truncation of h@xmath0 emission is a stochastic effect due to the number of star formation regions with sufficiently massive , ionizing stars dropping below unity @xcite .",
    "however , in our observations , which reach much higher sensitivies than narrow - band imaging studies and superpose multiple galaxies , we detect emission at extremely high levels of confidence , at and beyond the hypothetical truncation radius . therefore , there are numerous ionizing sources in the outer disk .",
    "nonetheless , we see a clearly - defined break in the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile both in individual galaxies and in the composite ; we conclude that the break in the h@xmath0 profile is real , but that it does not mark the end of star formation or the end of the formation of sufficiently massive stars .    the apparent disagreement with the uv surface brightness profile is thus puzzling .",
    "if we interpret the uv observations to mean that star formation is not subject to a sudden break , then h@xmath0 must be a biased tracer of star formation and suppressed at large radii .",
    "the ratio of uv to h@xmath0 emission must change continuously with radius .",
    "one potential cause of such an effect is an increasingly bottom - heavy initial mass function with radius , either as a result of a real change in the functional form or from statistical effects related to the increasingly poorer sampling of the upper stellar masses as total mass decreases .",
    "a scenario in which the _ integrated galactic _ imf ( which is probed here ) may vary with environment as a result of variations of the mass function of molecular clouds across the galaxy , while the shape of the imf itself would be preserved , has been presented by @xcite .",
    "another potential cause is a transition from ionization - bounded to density - bounded hii regions .",
    "if a larger fraction of ionizing photons escape without being converted to h@xmath0 at larger radii the uv to h@xmath0 ratio would change . within inner galaxy disks",
    "the effect seems to go the other way , with high - luminosity star - forming regions , rather than low - luminosity ones , appearing to be density bounded @xcite , but the situation in the outer disk could be quite different .",
    "a final explanation for the increasing bias between stellar continuum and h@xmath0 emission in the outer disk is that outer - disk star formation may be an intermittent phenomenon , and short , but correlated , episodes of star formation in the past may have created the present extended stellar population before returning to the low - level state that we observe in our sample .",
    "a similar scenario , involving bursts of star formation across the entire disk , has been proposed by @xcite based on galex observations of uv colors of outer galaxy disks . however",
    ", this scenario does not appear to readily explain why the uv surface brightness profile would not exhibit a truncation , unless the galaxy was observed shortly after such a burst , so that the uv outer disk would still be dominated by stars formed during the recent star formation episode , while h@xmath0 emission , which traces star formation only over very short timescales , has already abated .",
    "@xcite find that the stellar surface mass density also exhibits a much less pronounced break than the optical light of the stellar continuum .",
    "they suggest that a change in the composition of the stellar population , rather than an actual break in the mass distribution , is responsible for the observed break in the optical continuum surface brightness . in this context",
    ", it is surprising that both the stellar surface mass density and the integrated , recent star formation rate ( as measured by uv emission ) supposedly show no or only weak breaks , but both stellar continuum and h@xmath0 do .    as exceptions to the rule ,",
    "those galaxies where we find no evidence for a truncation or break in the h@xmath0 emission deserve particular attention , as any theory attempting to explain the presence of a break in the h@xmath0 profile  for example , by invoking a critical gas surface density threshold below which star formation is inefficient  must also be able to provide an explanation for objects that apparently violate the rule . of the objects that are formally consistent with an unbroken exponential profile , ngc 259 and",
    "eso 478-g011 may be interesting cases for follow - up studies .",
    "a final consideration must be given to the effect of dust on the h@xmath0 surface brightness profiles , and , in particular , to the question whether dust absorption could influence our measurement of the characteristic break radius and possibly even our classification of the composite h@xmath0 profile as a ( sub - exponential ) type ii , rather than a ( single exponential ) type i. if dust extinction sets in around this radius and increases continuously towards the galaxy center , absorbing an increasing fraction of h@xmath0 flux , it may artificially flatten the profile slope and possibly even create the false impression of a broken exponential shape .",
    "this scenario , however would imply that the unabsorbed h@xmath0 profile could be recreated by extrapolating the outer - disk h@xmath0 profile back towards the center , implying that the real h@xmath0 surface brightness in the inner regions would be more than an order of magnitude higher than observed here .",
    "as dust shielding is unlikely to be uniform ( even in cases of nearly perfect edge - on alignment , the slit intercepts regions both on and off the central dust lane ) , at least some sight lines should permit glimpses of these substantially higher surface brightness levels , leading to a larger dynamic range in the fluctuations of the inner - disk surface brightness profile .",
    "this is not the case ; even the highest h@xmath0 peaks remain far below the levels expected from interpolating the outer - disk profile , confirming that the break is indeed real .",
    "dust shielding may , however , plausibly modify the measured value of the inner - disk profile slope by smaller amounts .    an additional argument against dust obscuring a large fraction of the h@xmath0 flux comes from the rotation curves .",
    "if dust played a significant role up to the break radius of 0.7 @xmath1 , contributions to the observed h@xmath0 flux would be weighted towards gas on the outskirts of the galaxy along the edge closer to the observer .",
    "we would therefore expect the rotation curve to rise very slowly in the inner disk and not flatten before it reaches this point .",
    "however , most rotation curves in this sample are already flat or close to flat well before reaching 0.7 @xmath1 @xcite , indicating that the h@xmath0 emission at this point already samples the kinematics of the gas along the entire sight line , and that the observed kinematics and flux can not be strongly biased by internal dust extinction .",
    "we have presented a study of h@xmath0 emission and stellar continuum in 15 low - redshift , late - type , edge - on galaxies .",
    "the use of deep long - slit spectroscopy , rather than narrow - band imaging , allows us to probe h@xmath0 emission to very faint levels , @xmath4010@xmath8 erg s@xmath9 cm@xmath3 arcsec@xmath3 .",
    "h@xmath0 emission is traced out to 50% beyond the r@xmath7 radius , roughly twice as far as typical h@xmath0 rotation curves in the literature .",
    "it is thus possible to probe the outer galactic disks , which have hitherto primarily been a domain of radio astronomy , in h@xmath0 emission , and thus simultaneously gain information about kinematics , star formation , metallicity , and stellar continuum with arcsecond - scale spatial resolution .    in the present paper , we have focused on the properties of the surface brightness profile of h@xmath0 emission and compared them to those of the stellar continuum .",
    "our conclusions are :    * in this sample , which is dominated by freeman type ii (  sub - exponential \" ) profiles in the stellar continuum ( a broken exponential profile with a steeper slope in the outer than the inner disk ) , h@xmath0 emission in the composite profile also follows a type ii profile .",
    "for the h@xmath0 composite profile , we can rule out both an unbroken single exponential profile as well as a truncated profile , for which the flux drops to zero at a given break radius .",
    "* there is a well - defined break radius in the composite h@xmath0 surface brightness profile at @xmath25 r@xmath7 . *",
    "the h@xmath0 and stellar continuum distributions may be consistent with a single break radius @xmath38 , but the stellar continuum profile drops more slowly in the outer disk . * the presence of a clearly defined break in the h@xmath0 surface brightness profile , despite the fact that our observations of the outer disk slope are clearly not limited by poisson noise , indicates that any apparent deficit of h@xmath0 emission in the outer disk is not , in general , a stochastic effect arising from low number statistics .",
    "the break in h@xmath0 is real , but it is not a truncation , as evidenced by the common presence of low - level outer - disk h@xmath0 emission to @xmath41 . * for most objects in our sample , a truncated exponential as well as an unbroken exponential can be ruled out even on an individual basis , thereby requiring a broken exponential profile .",
    "all but one of our galaxies are individually consistent with a broken exponential profile , with a fixed h@xmath0 break radius at @xmath35 , showing that the conclusions drawn from the composite profile describe not just a meaningless average , but are representative of at least a significant fraction of individual galaxies .",
    "based on observations obtained at the gemini observatory ( program i d gs-2005a - c-4 ) , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under a cooperative agreement with the nsf on behalf of the gemini partnership : the national science foundation ( united states ) , the particle physics and astronomy research council ( united kingdom ) , the national research council ( canada ) , conicyt ( chile ) , the australian research council ( australia ) , cnpq ( brazil ) and conicet ( argentina ) .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "d.c . gratefully acknowledges financial support from the fundacin andes .",
    "dz acknowledges that this research was supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "phy99 - 07949 during his visit to kitp , a guggenheim fellowship , generous support from the nyu physics department and center for cosmology and particle physics during his sabbatical there , nasa ltsa grant nng05ge82 g , nsf ast-0307482 , and the david and lucile packard foundation .",
    "jbh is funded by a federation fellowship from the australian research council .",
    "bakos , j. ; trujillo , i. ; pohlen , m. , 2008 apjl 683 , 103 beckman , j. e. ; rozas , m. ; zurita , a. ; watson , r. a. ; knapen , j. h. ; 2000 aj 119 ,",
    "2728 bland - hawthorn , j. , freeman , k. c. , quinn , p. j. , 1997 apj 490 , 143 bland - hawthorn , j. ; jones , d. h. ; 1998 pasa 15 , 44 bland - hawthorn , j. ; 1998 aspc 136 , 113 bland - hawthorn , j. , vlajic , m. , freeman , k. c. , draine , b. t. , 2005 apj 629 , 239 bochkarev , n. g. ; sunyaev , r. a. ; 1977 sva 21 , 542 boissier , s. , 2007a iaus 235 , 303 boissier , s. , et al . , 2007b apjs 173 , 524 boissier , s. , gil de paz , a. ; boselli , a. ; buat , v. ; madore , b. ; chemin , l. ; balkowski , c. ; amram , p. ; carignan , c. ; van driel , w. ; 2008 apj 681 , 244 briggs , f. h. , 1990 apj 352 , 15 christlein , d. , zaritsky , d. , 2008 apj 680 , 1053 christlein , d. ; bland - hawthorn , j. , 2008 arxiv 0808.3878 cepa , j. ; 1998 ap&ss 263 , 369 dieter , n. h. , 1962 aj 67 , 217 erwin , p. ; pohlen , m. ; beckman , j. e. , 2008 aj 135 , 20 erwin , p. ; pohlen , m. ; gutierrez , l. ; beckman , j. e. , 2007 arxiv0712.1473 ferguson , a. m. n. , wyse , r. f. g. , gallagher , j. s. , hunter , d. a. , 1998 apj 506 , 19 ferguson , a. m. n. , gallagher , j. s. , wyse , r. f. g. , 1998 aj 116 , 673 freeman , k. c. , 1970 apj 160 , 811 herbert - fort , s. ; zaritsky , d. ; moustakas , j. ; christlein , d. ; wilcots , e. ; baruffolo , a. ; di paola , a. ; fontana , a. ; giallongo , e. ; pogge , r. w. ; ragazzoni , r. ; smareglia , r. , 2009 apj 700 , 1977 van de hulst , h. c. , raimond , e. , van woerden , h. , 1957 ban 14,1 kazantzidis , s. , bullock , j.s . , zentner , a.r . , kravtsov , a.v . ,",
    "moustakas , l.a .",
    ", 2008 , apj , 688 , 254 kennicutt , r. , 1989 apj 344 , 685 kroupa , p. , 2007",
    ", astro.ph/0703124 van der kruit , p. c. , 1987 a&a 173 , 59 lauberts , a. ; valentijn , e. a. , 1989 , european southern observatory madsen , g. j. ; reynolds , r. j. ; haffner , l. m. ; tufte , s. l. ; maloney , p. r. , 2001 apjl 560 , 135 maloney , p. ; 1993 apj 414 , 41 martin , c. , kennicutt , r. , 2001 apj 555 , 301 meurer , gerhardt r. ; wong , o. i. ; kim , j. h. ; hanish , d. j. ; heckman , t. m. ; werk , j. ; bland - hawthorn , j. ; dopita , m. a. ; zwaan , m. a. ; koribalski , b. ; seibert , m. ; thilker , d. a. ; ferguson , h. c. ; webster , r. l. ; putman , m. e. ; knezek , p. m. ; doyle , m. t. ; drinkwater , m. j. ; hoopes , c. g. ; kilborn , v. a. ; meyer , m. ; ryan - weber , e. v. ; smith , r. c. ; staveley - smith , l. ; 2009 arxiv 0902.0384 moustakas , j. ; kennicutt , r .- c . ,",
    "jr . 2006 , apjs , 164 , 81 pohlen , m. , dettmar , r .- j . , ltticke , r. , aronica , g. , 2002 a&a 392 , 807 pohlen , m. , trujillo , i. , 2006 , aa , 454 , 759 roskar , rok ; debattista , victor p. ; quinn , thomas r. ; stinson , gregory s. ; wadsley , j. ; 2008 apjl 684 , 79 sanchez - saavedra , m. l. , battaner , e. , guijarro , a. , lopez - correidora , m. , castro - rodrguez , n. , 2003 a&a 399 , 457 sellwood , j. a. ; binney , j. j. ; 2002 mnras 336 , 785 trujillo , i. , pohlen , m. , 2005 apjl 630 , 17 thilker , d. a. , et al . ,",
    "2005 apj 619 , 79 thilker , d. a. , et al .",
    "2007 apjs 173 , 538 de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin jr . ,",
    "buta , r. j. paturel , g. , fouque , p. , 3rd reference catalogue of bright galaxies v3.9 vlajc , m. ; bland - hawthorn , j. ; freeman , k. c. ; 2009arxiv0903.185 vogt , n. p. ; haynes , m. p. ; herter , t. ; giovanelli , r. ; 2004 aj 127 , 3273 williams , b.f . , dalcanton , j.j . , dolphin , a.e . ,",
    "holtzman , j. , and sarajedini , a. 2009 apjl 695 , 15 zaritsky , d. , christlein , d. , 2007 aj 134,135"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the surface brightness profile of h@xmath0 emission in galaxies is generally thought to be confined by a sharp truncation , sometimes speculated to coincide with a star formation threshold . over the past years </S>",
    "<S> , observational evidence for both old and young stellar populations , as well as individual h ii regions , has demonstrated that the outer disk is an actively evolving part of a galaxy . to provide constraints on the origin of the aforementioned h@xmath0 truncation and the relation of h@xmath0 emission in the outer disk to the underlying stellar population , we measure the shape of the outer h@xmath0 surface brightness profile of 15 isolated , edge - on late - type disk galaxies using deep , long - slit spectroscopy . </S>",
    "<S> tracing h@xmath0 emission up to 50% beyond the optical radius , @xmath1 , we find a composite h@xmath0 surface brightness profile , well described by a broken - exponential law , that drops more steeply in the outer disk , but which is not truncated . the stellar continuum and h@xmath0 surface brightness both exhibit a break at @xmath2 , but the h@xmath0 emission drops more steeply than the stellar continuum beyond that break . </S>",
    "<S> although profiles with truncations or single exponential laws correctly describe the h@xmath0 surface brightness profiles of some individual galaxies , flexible broken - exponentials are required in most cases and are therefore the more appropriate generic description . </S>",
    "<S> the common existence of a significant second surface brightness component beyond the h@xmath0 break radius disfavors the hypothesis that this break is a purely stochastic effect .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : kinematics and dynamics  galaxies : formation  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : spiral  galaxies : structure </S>"
  ]
}