{
  "article_text": [
    "social network analysis provides a useful perspective on a range of social computing applications .",
    "the structure of networks arising in such applications offers insights into patterns of interactions , and reveals global phenomena at scales that may be hard to identify when looking at a finer - grained resolution . at the same time",
    ", there is an ongoing challenge in adapting such network approaches to the study of social computing : users develop rich relationships with one another in these settings , while network analyses generally reduce these complex relationship to the existence of simple pairwise links .",
    "it is a fundamental research problem to bridge the gap between the richness of the existing relationships and the stylized nature of network representations of these relationships .",
    "the main focus of our work here is to examine the interplay between positive and negative links in social media  a dimension of on - line social network analysis that has been largely unexplored .",
    "with relatively few exceptions ( e.g. , @xcite ) , research in on - line social networks has focused on contexts in which the interactions have largely only positive interpretations  that is , connecting people to their friends , fans , followers , and collaborators .",
    "but in many settings it is important to also explicitly take negative relations into consideration , especially when studying interactions in social media : discussion lists are filled with controversy and disagreement , and social - networking sites harbor antagonism alongside amity .",
    "the richness of a social network in such cases generally consists of a mixture of both positive and negative interactions , co - existing in a single structure .",
    "we aim to develop a better understanding of the role that network structure plays when some links between people are positive while others are negative .",
    "for instance , in on - line rating sites such as epinions , people can give both positive and negative ratings not only to items but also to other raters . in on - line",
    "discussion sites such as slashdot , users can tag other users as `` friends '' and `` foes '' .",
    "our approach here is to adapt and extend theories from social psychology to analyze these types of signed networks as they arise in social computing applications .",
    "these theories enable us to characterize the differences between the observed and predicted configurations of positive and negative links in on - line social networks .",
    "we also use contrasts between the theories to draw inferences about how links are being used in particular social computing applications .",
    "in addition to insights into the applications themselves , our studies provide , to the best of our knowledge , some of the first large - scale evaluations of these social - psychological theories via on - line datasets .    * positive and negative links in on - line data . * to carry out such an investigation , we need two fundamental ingredients : ( i ) large - scale datasets from social applications where the _ sign _ of each link  whether it is positive or negative  can be reliably determined , and ( ii ) theories of signed networks that help us reason about how different patterns of positive and negative links provide evidence for the expression of different kinds of relationships across these applications .    we investigate social network structures from three widely - used web sites .",
    "the first is the trust network of epinions , where users create signed directed relations to each other indicating trust or distrust .",
    "the second is the social network of the technology blog slashdot , where users designate others as `` friends '' or `` foes . ''",
    "the third is the network defined by votes for wikipedia admin candidates .",
    "when a wikipedia user is considered for a promotion to the status of an admin , the community is able to cast public votes in favor of or against the promotion of this admin candidate .",
    "we view a positive vote as corresponding to a positive link from the voter to the candidate , and a negative vote as a negative link .",
    "the epinions and slashdot networks are explicitly presented to users as social networking features of the sites , whereas in the case of wikipedia the network interpretation is implicit .",
    "the meanings of positive and negative signs are different across these settings , and this is precisely the point : we wish to use theories of signed edges to evaluate how the positive and negative edges are being used in each setting , and to identify commonalities and differences in the underlying networks in relatively different application contexts . moreover , while the current work focuses on domains in which the signs of edges are overtly denoted ( either explicitly by direct linking , or implicitly through actions such as voting on wikipedia ) , we believe the underlying issues reach more broadly into any application where positive and negative attitudes between users can be conveyed , such as through sentiment in text @xcite .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : plusminus ]    table  [ tab : plusminus ] summarizes several structural properties of these networks and their randomized variants .",
    "first , we consider the amount of _ clustering _ , defined as the fraction of @xmath0-@xmath1-@xmath2 paths in which the @xmath0-@xmath2 edge is also present ( thus forming a `` closed''triad @xmath0-@xmath1-@xmath2 ) . in all three datasets",
    ", we find that the all - positive networks have significantly higher clustering than their randomized counterparts , and the all - negative networks have significantly lower clustering .",
    "this further reinforces the observation that positive edges tend to occur in clumps , while negative edges tend to span clusters .",
    "interestingly , both the all - positive and all - negative networks are less well - connected than expected , in the sense that their largest connected components are smaller than those of their randomized counterparts .",
    "while this may seem initially counter - intuitive , one possible interpretation is as follows .",
    "the giant components of real social networks are believed to consist of densely connected clusters linked by less embedded ties @xcite .",
    "the all - positive and all - negative networks in the real ( rather than randomized ) datasets are each biased toward one side of this balance : the all - positive networks have dense clusters without the bridging provided by less embedded ties , while the all - negative networks lack a sufficient abundance of dense clusters to sustain a large component .",
    "we also consider the fraction of nodes that are outliers with respect to in- and out - degree in the all - positive and all - negative networks  with degrees exceeding twice the mean for the network .",
    "( for reasons of space , these numerical results are not shown in the table . )",
    "these outlier fractions remain largely unchanged when the edge signs are randomized , with two exceptions that each hint at interesting conclusions for the effects of displaying signed edges to users .",
    "first , the fraction of outliers for positive in - degree is higher than expected on wikipedia , where edge signs are more public .",
    "this suggests a possible tendency for an excess of users to conform to already positive voting outcomes .",
    "second , the fraction of outliers for negative out - degree is lower than expected on epinions and slashdot , where edge signs are less public .",
    "this is a bit more surprising ; it suggests that despite the less public nature of the signs , there are fewer people who are prolific in their negative evaluations  either because the dynamics of these sites suppresses this type of people , or because they are not attracting people who engage in it .",
    "social networks underlying current social media sites often reflect a mixture of positive and negative links . here",
    "we have investigated two theories of signed social networks  _ balance _ and _ status_. balance is a classical theory from social psychology , which in its strongest form postulates that when considering the relationships between three people , either only one or all three of the relations should be positive .",
    "status is a theory of _ directed _ signed networks which postulates that when person @xmath0 makes a positive link to person @xmath1 , then @xmath0 is asserting that @xmath1 has higher status  with a negative link from @xmath0 analogously implying that @xmath0 believes @xmath1 has lower status .",
    "these two theories make different predictions for the frequency of different patterns of signed links in a social network . on networks derived from epinions , slashdot , and wikipedia",
    ", we find that each model predicts certain kinds of social relationships , and that there is strong consistency in how the models fit the data across these three relatively different settings .",
    "moreover , differences in results between the datasets highlight some interesting aspects of how the sites present information .    we have discussed the central interpretations of our findings , and here we briefly review some of the most salient .",
    "when the networks are viewed as undirected graphs , we find strong evidence for a weak form of structural balance , observing that in all three datasets triangles with exactly two positive signs are massively underrepresented in the data relative to chance , while triangles with three positive edges are overrepresented .",
    "we further find that a link is significantly more likely to be positive when its two endpoints have multiple neighbors ( of either sign ) in common  a finding that connects balance with notions from the theory of social capital .",
    "this is particular pronounced for wikipedia , where the signs of edges are also the most publicly prominent .",
    "when the networks are viewed as directed graphs , on the other hand , incorporating the fact that each link is created by one individual to point to another , we find that many of the basic predictions of balance theory no longer apply . instead , the signs of directed links closely follow the predictions of the theory of status we develop , in which inferences about the sign of a link from @xmath0 to @xmath1 can be drawn from the mutual relationships that @xmath0 and @xmath1 have to third parties @xmath3 . the signs and directions of these relationships to @xmath3 provide information about the status levels of @xmath0 and @xmath1 , which in turn accurately predict the deviations in the sign of their interaction from broader background distributions .",
    "investigating different contexts for links , and the differences between one - way and reciprocated links , sheds further light on the subtle ways in which users of these systems draw on behaviors rooted in both balance and status when they link to one another .",
    "d.  cartwright , f.  harary .",
    "structure balance : a generalization of heider s theory .",
    "63(1956 ) . j.  s. coleman . social capital in the creation of human capital . , 94(1988 ) .",
    "d. cosley , d. frankowski , s. kiesler , l. terveen , j. riedl .",
    "how oversight improves member - maintained communities .",
    ", 2005 .",
    "j.  kunegis , a.  lommatzsch , c.  bauckhage .",
    "the slashdot zoo : mining a social network with negative edges . ,",
    "2009 . c. lampe , e. johnston , p. resnick .",
    "follow the reader : filtering comments on slashdot .",
    "chi _ , 2007 .",
    "onnela , j.  saramaki , j.  hyvonen , g.  szabo , d.  lazer , k.  kaski , j.  kertesz , and a .-",
    "barabasi . structure and tie strengths in mobile communication networks . , 104(2007 ) .",
    "b.  pang and l.  lee . .",
    "now publishers , 2008 .",
    "s.  wasserman , k.  faust . .",
    "u.  press , 1994 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> relations between users on social media sites often reflect a mixture of positive ( friendly ) and negative ( antagonistic ) interactions . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast to the bulk of research on social networks that has focused almost exclusively on positive interpretations of links between people , we study how the interplay between positive and negative relationships affects the structure of on - line social networks . </S>",
    "<S> we connect our analyses to theories of signed networks from social psychology . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the classical theory of structural balance tends to capture certain common patterns of interaction , but that it is also at odds with some of the fundamental phenomena we observe  particularly related to the evolving , directed nature of these on - line networks . </S>",
    "<S> we then develop an alternate theory of status that better explains the observed edge signs and provides insights into the underlying social mechanisms . </S>",
    "<S> our work provides one of the first large - scale evaluations of theories of signed networks using on - line datasets , as well as providing a perspective for reasoning about social media sites .    </S>",
    "<S> [ web - based interaction ] . </S>"
  ]
}