{
  "article_text": [
    "the understanding of the lyman-@xmath2  forest has dramatically improved in the recent decade , both on the theoretical and the observational side .",
    "semi - analytical and hydro - dynamical simulations have outlined a new picture where the lyman-@xmath2  forest is due to the fluctuations of the intermediate and low - density intergalactic medium ( igm ) , arising naturally in the hierarchical process of structure formation .",
    "relatively simple physical processes impact on the thermal state of the gas , which , on scales larger than the jeans length , effectively traces the underlying distribution of dark matter .",
    "support for this scenario is given by the satisfactory reproduction by semi - analytical and hydro - simulations of many properties of the lyman-@xmath2  forest ( from the column density and the doppler parameter distribution to the number density and effective opacity evolution ) derived from the analysis of high resolution , high signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) qso spectra obtained at 8 - 10 m class telescopes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . a step forward in the study of the igm with qso absorption spectra is represented by the use of multiple  at close angular separations , which allows information about the transverse direction to be obtained .",
    "common absorption features observed in the spectra of multiply lensed quasars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and of close quasar pairs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have provided evidence that the lyman-@xmath2  absorbers have dimensions of a few hundred kpc , in agreement with the predictions of simulations .",
    "recently , lensed and more widely separated qso pairs have been used to recover the kinematics of the gaseous cosmic web @xcite , confirming that the hubble expansion and gravitational instability are the main processes influencing the lyman-@xmath2  forest gas .",
    "a critical test of the nature of the lyman-@xmath2  absorbers , as proposed by simulations , comes from the determination of their spatial distribution properties .",
    "this has been done by analysing a great number of uncorrelated qso lines of sight and computing the flux correlation function by averaging over many spectra ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this observational approach ,",
    "however , the three - dimensional information is convolved with distortions in redshift space , due to peculiar motions and thermal broadening .",
    "multiple  at small angular separations offer an invaluable alternative to address the spatial distribution of the absorbers , enabling a more direct interpretation of the observed correlations .",
    "the final goal of this work is to investigate the distribution properties of matter in the igm applying the modern interpretation of the lyman-@xmath2  forest to a sample of close qso groups .",
    "the computation and comparison of the flux correlation function along and across the lines of sight was carried out in a previous paper ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper i ) . in this paper",
    ", we update the previous results using higher snr spectra and , in particular , we investigate the coincidences of absorbers among three or more close lines of sight in order to detect cosmological structures extending to large scales . finally , we look for extended under - dense regions in the igm using multiple lines of sight .",
    "note that tomographic studies based on lyman - alpha lines similar to those presented here will be of great importance in the near future due to the large numbers of quasar spectra that will be collected using low and medium resolution spectrographs ( boss survey and the x - shooter instrument for example ) that aim at constraining spatial matter correlations in the transverse and longitudinal directions to ultimately measure baryonic acoustic oscillations and perform the alcock - paczyinski test at high redshift .",
    "the paper structure is the following : in section 2 we describe the observed data sample , the reduction procedure and the simulated spectra .",
    "section 3 is devoted to the computation of the auto- and cross - correlation functions and the cross correlation coefficients of both the observed and simulated spectra and to their comparison . in section 4",
    ", we analyze the coincidences in redshift space of the  and  absorbers in order to detect structures extending over several comoving mpc , while the under - dense regions common to multiple lines of sight are studied in section 5 .",
    "the conclusions are then drawn in section 6 . throughout this paper",
    "we adopt @xmath7 , and @xmath8 km s@xmath4 mpc@xmath9 .",
    ".characteristics of the observed qso spectra . [ cols=\">,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "the qso pairs and groups forming our sample are the same as paper i and are described in table  [ obs : qso ] . the patterns on the sky of the two qso groups called the sextet and the triplet are reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : sextet ] .",
    "we were allocated 17 hours with uves at the vlt in order to increase the snr of the spectra of objects t1 and t2 of the triplet and s1 , s2 , s5 and s6 of the sextet .",
    "the new observations were reduced with the uves pipeline following a standard procedure @xcite .",
    "a pre - filtering of the cosmic rays of the blue band frames was necessary for the faintest spectra to carry out the optimal extraction properly .",
    "then , the heliocentric and vacuum wavelength corrections were performed and the new spectra were combined with the old ones .",
    "the final spectra have resolution @xmath10 , while the snr per pixel varies on average between 3 and 12 in the lyman-@xmath2  forest and between 6 and 20 in the  forest ( see tab .",
    "[ obs : qso ] for details ) .",
    "the estimate of the continuum level , in particular in the lyman-@xmath2  forest region , is a very delicate step in the process of spectra reduction .",
    "procedures realized up to now in order to determine the continuum position through automatic algorithms do not give satisfactory results .",
    "following the same procedure adopted in paper i , we fitted the regions free from clear absorption with a spline polynomial of third order .",
    "the limitations introduced by the uncertainty in the true continuum level should play a minor role in the computation of the cross - correlation function with respect to the the case of single line of sight analysis .",
    "this is because the power on scales of the continuum fluctuations is uncorrelated between the different lines of sight .",
    "thus , probing the transverse direction could potentially allow to measure the matter distribution at scales larger than those probed along the  ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion in the case of power spectra ) .",
    "all the lines falling in the lyman-@xmath2  forest have been fitted with a voigt profile via @xmath11 minimization .",
    "the lines with an equivalent width ( ew ) lower than three times the related ew uncertainty have been removed from the list of fitted lines .",
    "the metal lines have been identified first looking for the most common doublets ( e.g. , , , and ) .",
    "then , we have searched for other common transitions ( e.g. , , , ) at the redshift of the previously determined systems .",
    "our sample provides 21 qso pairs with angular separations uniformly distributed between @xmath1 and 14 arcmin , corresponding to comoving spatial separations between @xmath12 and 21.6 h@xmath4 mpc .",
    "the median redshift of the lyman-@xmath2  forest is @xmath13 .",
    "this is the largest sample of high - resolution spectra of qso pairs ever collected , unique both for the number density - we have six qsos in a region of @xmath14 deg@xmath15 - and the variety of  separations investigated .      in order to both assess the nature of the lyman-@xmath2  forest inferred from simulations and to constrain the cosmological scenario of the same simulations",
    ", we compared the results obtained for our sample of observed qso spectra with analogous results for a sample of mock lyman-@xmath2  forests .",
    "the details of the adopted simulations can be found in paper i , here we provide only the basic information .",
    "we used simulations run with the parallel hydro - dynamical ( treesph ) code @xcite .",
    "the simulations were performed with periodic boundary conditions with an equal number of dark matter and gas particles and used the conservative ` entropy - formulation ' of sph proposed by @xcite .",
    "radiative cooling and heating processes were followed for a primordial mix of hydrogen and helium .",
    "we assumed a mean uv background produced by quasars and galaxies as given by @xcite with helium heating rates multiplied by a factor 3.3 in order to fit observational constraints on the temperature evolution of the igm .",
    "more details can be found in @xcite .",
    "the cosmological model corresponds to a ` fiducial ' @xmath16cdm universe with parameters @xmath17 and @xmath18 km s@xmath4 mpc@xmath4 ( the b2 series of @xcite ) .",
    "we have used @xmath19 dark matter and gas particles in a @xmath20 comoving mpc box .",
    "the gravitational softening was set to 5 @xmath5 kpc in comoving units for all particles .",
    "we note that the parameters chosen here , including the thermal history of the igm , are in perfect agreement with observational constraints including recent results on the cmb and other results obtained by the lyman-@xmath2  forest community ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the @xmath21 output of the simulated box was pierced by three   in order to obtain 50 triplets of spectra carefully reproducing the observed triplet mutual separations and spectral properties .",
    "the same was done for 50 sextets of  reproducing the observed sextet and 50 pairs of  at the same angular separation as pair u. 50 different realizations of pair a spectra and of pair q were obtained from the output box at redshift @xmath22 .    finally , we added to the simulated spectra both instrumental broadening and a gaussian noise in order to reproduce the observed average snr ( per pixel ) : @xmath23 for the triplet , the sextet and pair a ; @xmath24 for pair u and @xmath25 for pair q.",
    "in this section , we discuss the flux correlations in the absorption spectra of our sample of qso pairs .",
    "the statistical quantities are the same as those already computed in paper i , here we verify the effect of having an increased snr .    on the basis of the interpretation of the lyman-@xmath2  forest as due to a continuous density field with a one - to - one correspondence between density and transmitted flux , we computed the correlation properties of the transmitted flux in qso  and regarded them as indicators of the correlation properties of matter in the igm .",
    "we selected in each normalized spectrum the region between the lyman-@xmath26  emission ( or the shortest observed wavelength , when the lyman-@xmath26  was not included in the spectrum ) and 5000 km  s@xmath4  from the lyman-@xmath2  emission ( to avoid proximity effect due to the qso ) .",
    "absorption lines due to ions of elements heavier than hydrogen contaminate the lyman-@xmath2  forest and can give spurious contributions to the clustering signal ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion in the case of single lines of sight ) .",
    "we flagged and removed the spectral regions where metal lines and lyman-@xmath2  absorptions of damped and sub - damped systems occurred inside the lyman-@xmath2  forest .",
    "given the normalized transmitted flux , @xmath27 , as a function of the velocity @xmath28 along the  and the angular position @xmath29 on the sky , we define @xmath30 , where the average flux , @xmath31 , is computed for every spectrum as the mean of the transmitted flux over all the considered pixels in that spectrum .",
    "we neglected the redshift evolution of the average transmitted flux in the lyman-@xmath2  forest of the individual spectra , which translates into the redshift evolution of the mean  opacity of the universe @xcite , because we verified that its effect on the correlation function is negligible . by means of this new field , @xmath32",
    ", we could then define and compute three useful tools for the investigation of the lyman-@xmath2  correlation properties : the auto and cross correlation function and the set of the cross correlation coefficients .",
    "the unnormalized auto correlation function ( auto cf ) of the flux along the is defined as :    @xmath33    following previous studies on the same subject ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the auto cf for our sample of qso spectra was obtained by averaging over all the pixels of all the qsos .",
    "the results were binned in 50 km  s@xmath4  velocity bins .",
    "the auto cf for the simulated spectra was computed as the arithmetic mean of the correlation functions obtained for 50 realizations of the observed sample and the error is the corresponding standard deviation .",
    "it is important to recognize that the computed error bars for the simulated @xmath34 are strongly correlated .",
    "this is due to the fact that every pixel contributes to the correlation function in several velocity bins .        in fig .",
    "[ fig : auto_cf ] we show the comparison of the observed and simulated auto cf in velocity space . with the improved snr with respect to paper i ,",
    "the agreement between the two correlation functions has increased , weakening any evidence for extra clustering in the regions occupied by qso pairs .      in this section",
    "we exploit the capabilities of our sample of qso pairs by determining the clustering properties of the igm across the . the great advantage with respect to the correlation function along the , in particular for a sample like ours showing a large variety of pair separations",
    ", is that we have the guarantee of sampling true spatial separations between the pixels , the effect of peculiar velocities being negligible or absent . as a first approach , we computed the cross - correlation function ( cross cf ) extending in a natural way the procedure adopted for the auto cf .",
    "every pixel along the  is considered as an element of the density field at the qso angular position in the sky and at a distance from the observer ( comoving along the ) corresponding to the redshift of the pixel :    @xmath35    where @xmath36 describes the evolution of the hubble parameter as a function of the redshift ] .    in the definition of the comoving distance",
    "there is the implicit hypothesis that peculiar velocities give a negligible contribution to the measured redshift in the lyman-@xmath2  forest ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper i ) .",
    "the cross cf of the transmitted flux between two lines of sight at angular separation @xmath37 is defined as    @xmath38    where , @xmath39 is the spatial separation between pixel 1 at @xmath40 along one  and pixel 2 at @xmath41 along the paired .",
    "we also computed the cross cf for the sample of mock spectra .",
    "the simulated spectra are characterized by the redshift of the output box and a velocity extent . in order to assign a redshift value to every pixel",
    ", we gave the central pixel of every spectrum the redshift of the corresponding output box , then we numbered the pixels one by one , transforming the velocity size of the pixel into a redshift size .",
    "once the redshifts were determined pixel by pixel , we followed the same procedure adopted for the observed spectra for the 50 simulated samples and computed the average cross cf and its 1  @xmath42 standard deviation .",
    "the result of our computation is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cross_cf ] compared with the observed cross cf of the pairs .",
    "the two functions show very good agreement ( at the 1  @xmath42 level ) and a significant clustering signal up to comoving separations of @xmath43 comoving mpc .",
    "we also compared the cross cf with the previously computed auto cf .",
    "as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : auto - cross ] the two data series show a consistency at the 1  @xmath42 level , supporting the hypothesis that the peculiar velocity along the is negligible .",
    "a measure of the transverse clustering properties of the igm which is less affected by peculiar velocities is the set of the flux cross correlation coefficients ( ccc ) ,    @xmath44    where , every pixel along one  is correlated with the one face - to - face in redshift space along the paired  and the result is averaged over all the pixels in the common redshift interval .",
    "every pair of qsos at angular separation @xmath37 gives one value of @xmath45 , and a sample with several pairs at different separations , as in our sample , gives an estimate of the correlation function . at a given redshift",
    ", the angular separation @xmath37 corresponds to a velocity separation @xmath46 , where @xmath47 denotes the speed of light , and @xmath48 is a dimensionless function of redshift that includes all the dependence on the global cosmological metric . in the cosmological model that we have adopted :    @xmath49}{(1+z)}.\\ ] ]    where @xmath50 is the mean redshift of the overlapping lyman-@xmath2  region from a pair .",
    "we computed the range of velocity separations covered by each of our pairs of spectra then we grouped the pairs in velocity bins of variable width and computed the average ccc for every group .",
    "given the small number of pairs in each group ( a maximum of three qso pairs ) the uncertainties associated with these determinations can be only computed by applying a simple error propagation .",
    "however , these uncertainties would account only for the pixel statistics and the noise associated with the transmitted flux , but would be not representative of the true error due to the cosmic variance . in the case of the simulated spectra , we had 50 realizations of each of our qso pairs , so we could obtain in every velocity interval defined for the observed pairs an average ccc with its error , that in this case is the standard deviation of the distribution of values .",
    ", corresponding to the angular separation , @xmath37 , of the qso pairs .",
    "simulated data are slightly shifted in velocity for clarity .",
    "error bars on the observed values along the x - axis represent the velocity range covered by the considered pairs . ]",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ccc ] .",
    "the ccc computed from the observations are in excellent agreement , at the @xmath51 confidence level , with the simulations .",
    "a comparison can be done with the same results obtained in paper i : thanks to the increased snr for some of the spectra in the present sample , in particular the s1-s3 pair , the enhanced clustering signal measured in paper i with the cross correlation coefficient at a transverse velocity separation @xmath52 km  s@xmath4  is no longer significant .",
    ", for our sample of pairs and groups of qsos ( empty triangle , slightly shifted in @xmath53 ) compared with the observed cross correlation coefficients , @xmath54 ( squares ) , as a function of spatial separation ( see text ) .",
    "error bars both on @xmath54 and @xmath55 have been determined from simulations . ]",
    "we conclude this section by comparing the ccc with the cross cf .",
    "both estimators measure the clustering properties of the igm in the transverse direction with respect to the .",
    "however , the cross cf could be affected by the peculiar velocities in the @xmath50-direction while their effect should be negligible for the ccc .    concerning the ccc ,",
    "the angular separation @xmath37 between two qso  was transformed into a comoving spatial separation , @xmath53 , with the formula    @xmath56    where @xmath36 was defined above and here @xmath50 is the mean redshift of the lyman-@xmath2   interval considered for each pair . assigning , at both the ccc and the cross cf observed data points , the error bars computed from the simulations , there is an agreement within @xmath57 between the two series of points ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : ccc - cross ] ) , confirming the hypothesis that the peculiar velocity along the  are negligible .",
    "the large variations from one data point to the other in the ccc should be due mainly to the small number of qso pairs ( between one and three ) contributing to each point .",
    "on the other hand , the smoothness of @xmath55 is artificially increased by the fact that the values in the different bins are not independent .",
    "all the results reported in this section are in agreement with the same quantities derived from other larger sample of qso pairs ( see for e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the cross cf and the ccc are two powerful tools which allow us to measure the statistical properties of the igm distribution in the real 3d comoving space . by definition",
    ", they account for the correlation between pairs of lyman-@xmath2  forests in close qso spectra .",
    "what we want to study now is the simultaneous correlation among three or more lyman-@xmath2  forests . a natural way to extend the cross cf of the transmitted flux to more than two",
    "is the addition of a third parameter , related to the third qso at angular separation @xmath37 with respect to the first .",
    "this operation leads to a function of three variables , the three reciprocal comoving distances between the three considered pixels , which is computation time demanding and difficult to interpret .    in the previous section ,",
    "we have taken advantage of the interpretation of the lyman-@xmath2  forest which allows us to map directly the transmitted flux along the  into the igm density field .",
    "a boost in the signal of the cross cf between two  is due to the presence in redshift space of two aligned , or very close , lyman-@xmath2  lines belonging to the two considered spectra . on this basis",
    ", we can provide a measure of the cross correlation between three lyman-@xmath2  forests by searching for triplets of lyman-@xmath2  lines , belonging to three different spectra , aligned in redshift space within a given velocity window .",
    "this kind of analysis has been applied to the triplet and to all the combinations of 3 qsos that could be formed with the sextet .",
    "the adopted procedure has been the following :    \\1",
    ". the lists of  lyman-@xmath2  lines compiled for the qsos in our sample were considered in the redshift range between the lyman-@xmath26  emission ( or the shortest observed wavelength , when the lyman-@xmath26  was not included in the spectrum ) and 5000 km  s@xmath4  from the lyman-@xmath2  emission ( to avoid proximity effect due to the qso ) .",
    "each pair of lines with a velocity separation @xmath58 km  s@xmath4  has been replaced by a single line with central wavelength equal to the average value of the parent lines weighted on the ew .",
    "this velocity threshold has been chosen on the basis of the characteristic width of lyman-@xmath2  lines , @xmath59 km / s ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , this is also the velocity scale corresponding to the jeans length , which sets the characteristic dimension of  absorbers .",
    "triplets of lines , each one belonging to a different , have been considered and the velocity difference between the largest and smallest redshift has been computed .",
    "this operation has been done for the lyman-@xmath2  lines in the three  of the triplet and in all the triplets of  ( 20 possible combinations ) provided by the sextet .",
    "then , all the measures of velocity difference lower than 1000 km  s@xmath4  have been divided into velocity bins of 100 km  s@xmath4  and the related histogram with the number of occurrences for each bin has been computed .",
    "next , the previous three steps have been repeated for a sample of @xmath60 mock lists of lines built in the following way . in order to take into account the varying number density of detectable lines along the lyman-@xmath2  forests , due to the varying snr",
    ", each forest has been simulated in chunks of about 200  . in each mock chunk",
    ", the number of simulated lines has been determined from a poissonian distribution centred on the number of observed lines in that chunk , while the positions of the mock lines have been randomly generated following a uniform distribution within the related wavelength range of each chunk .",
    "the redshift intervals masked in the observed spectra were masked also in the simulated ones .",
    "the ews of the mock lines have been randomly chosen among all the ews measured by the fit of the lines in the observed spectra . in this way it has been possible , for each velocity bin , to compute the mean and the standard deviation of the number of occurrences for synthetic lists of lines .",
    "finally , we have defined the three point probability excess ( pe3 ) as a function of the velocity difference , @xmath61 , according to the following formula :    @xmath62    the resulting pe3 is reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : pe3 ] , together with the 1 , 2 and 3  @xmath42 confidence levels .",
    "the pe3 is non - zero at a 2  @xmath42 level up to a velocity difference of @xmath63 km  s@xmath4 .",
    "most of the signal of the pe3 is due to the large number ( 26 ) of coincidences produced by the s3-s5-s6 qsos triplet which is also the closest triplet ( mean angular separation of 2.02 arcmin corresponding to @xmath64 @xmath5 comoving mpc ) .",
    "lines ( dots ) .",
    "values referring to a significancy level of 1 , 2 and 3  @xmath42 levels are reported too ( dashed , dot - dashed and dot lines respectively ) . ]",
    "lines ( dots ) .",
    "values referring to a significancy level of 1 , 2 and 3  @xmath42 levels are reported too ( dashed , dot - dashed and dot lines respectively ) . ]",
    "[ fig : pe4 ] shows the probability excess considering quadruplets of lyman-@xmath2  lines .",
    "a significant signal at more than 3  @xmath42 level is measured up to a velocity difference of @xmath63 km  s@xmath4 . besides , one group of five coincident lines within 100 km  s@xmath4  in the s2-s3-s4-s5-s6 qsos is observed at a mean redshift of 1.825 , an occurrence that has a probability p=0.013 to arise from a random distribution of lines .",
    "the portion of spectra where these five lines fall are reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : filament ] .    lines . ]    in particular , it is possible to observe in the spectrum of the s3 qso the presence of a damped lyman-@xmath2  system ( dla ) : the fitted voigt profile gives a column density value of @xmath65 = 20.6 .",
    "this dla is associated with several metallic ion absorption lines found in the redder part of the spectrum .",
    "indeed at the same redshift we have found evidence of , , , , ,  and .",
    "this correlated  absorption across  separated by @xmath66 @xmath5 comoving mpc could be interpreted as due to a gas filament , but other explanations are possible such as detected  halos of clustered galaxies .",
    "we have also looked for correlation across two  for  absorbers . given the characteristics of our sample , which allow us to investigate comoving scales larger than @xmath67 comoving mpc , we do not expect   coincidences due to the same  cloud , whose typical size should be of the order of tens of kpc @xcite .",
    "our  could pierce  gas connected with different galaxies in groups or clusters @xcite .",
    "the procedure to identify  coincidences is similar but simpler than that previously employed for the lyman-@xmath2  lines .",
    "the first two steps are the same , with the difference that here lines closer than 500 km  s@xmath4  have been merged together .",
    "then , we searched for coincidences of  merged absorbers lying along the redshift space in windows smaller than 500 km  s@xmath4 . according to @xcite this velocity scale corresponds to the characteristic size of coherent  structures .    in order to establish the significance of our observation",
    ", we have applied our algorithm for coincidences to @xmath68 groups of synthetic list of lines .",
    "the method for creating the synthetic list of lines is the same as adopted before in the case of the mock list of lyman-@xmath2  lines . with the total set of simulated results",
    ", we could find the number @xmath69 of cases in which , in a random distribution of  absorbers along the , the number of chance coincidences @xmath70 is equal to or greater than the number of coincidences observed in our sample , @xmath71 . then the related probability @xmath72 was simply computed using the ratio between @xmath69 and the total number of simulations , that is @xmath68 .",
    "finally , we computed the cl of our observation simply with the formula @xmath73 .",
    "we have found only two coincidences , in the t1-t2 and s3-s6 pairs , at a redshift of 2.062 and 1.486 respectively and separated by a comoving distance of 4.4 and 2.8 h@xmath4 comoving mpc .",
    "the statistical significance of these detections are 90% and 85% respectively .",
    "coincidences have also been found between the t2 qso redshift and a t3 absorber ( with a separation of 9.6 h@xmath4 comoving mpc ) and between the s6 qso redshift and a s3 absorber ( with a separation of 2.8 h@xmath4 comoving mpc ) .",
    "these coincidences are in agreement with the fact that qsos reside in over - dense regions of the universe ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "no coincidences among absorbers have been found considering three or more .",
    "the portions of spectra showing the two coincidences are reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : civ_coinc ] .",
    "the two groups of qsos in our sample are well suited to search for large under - dense regions in the igm .",
    "previous attempts to detect under - dense regions in the lyman-@xmath2  forest have searched for regions without absorption lines along a single .",
    "they looked for portions of spectra where the observed number of absorption lines was significantly smaller then the expected number from synthetic spectra @xcite .",
    "a strong improvement of the statistical significance of each detection can be provided by the simultaneous presence of an under - dense region along several close .",
    "this would allow the detection of smaller under - dense regions maintaining a high confidence level .",
    "as done in the previous section , we focused our attention on searching for common under - dense regions among the  of the triplet and among all the possible groups of  provided by the sextet .",
    "following @xcite , we can define an under - dense region along a single  as a portion of the spectrum between @xmath74 and @xmath75 , where the normalized flux @xmath76 is higher than the specific threshold @xmath77 , where @xmath31 is the average flux in the lyman-@xmath2  forest and @xmath78 is the value of the flux uncertainty .",
    "note also that at @xmath79 regions above the mean density correspond on average to regions below the mean flux level of high resolution spectra @xcite . since the snr of the spectra analyzed by @xcite is much larger than that of our spectra ( @xmath80 vs. @xmath81 respectively ) , this simple procedure for the detection of under - dense regions can not be adopted in the present case .",
    "indeed , the fluctuations due to the flux noise cause the splitting of single large under - dense regions into several smaller regions , preventing their detection .    in order to reveal the presence of under - dense regions in our spectra , we have developed the following method .",
    "the spectra are smoothed with a median filter characterized by a very short kernel length , only three pixels .",
    "after the smoothing , common under - dense regions are looked for with the method described above ( always adopting the same average flux and flux uncertainty ) .",
    "then , the spectra are smoothed again and again searched for common voids .",
    "this process is iterated several times .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : smooth ] where we have reported the size of the bigger common under - dense region found in the triplet and in the s3-s5-s6 group of sextet qsos as a function of the number of times the spectra have been smoothed .",
    "we report only the result concerning the s3-s5-s6 group because it is the only one in which a significant under - dense region has been detected .",
    "of times the spectra have been smoothed . ]",
    "we can see how , after an initial linear growth of the size of the common under - dense region , a step behaviour occurs in both the series of data .",
    "steps occur whenever two separate under - dense regions are merged together , that is when the absorption line ( both real or spurious ) lying between them is smoothed out by the n - th action of the median filter .",
    "we can notice also how , after @xmath82 smoothings , the size of the under - dense regions in both the triplet and the s3-s5-s6 group reaches an ",
    "asymptotic  value .",
    "each asymptotic rate corresponds to the size of a common under - dense region enclosed between two strong lines ( not necessarily belonging to the same spectrum ) requiring a large number of smoothings to be cancelled .",
    "a series of simulations has been carried out in order to evaluate the minimum value of the column density @xmath83@xmath84 of the lyman-@xmath2  lines surviving after 6 and 8 smoothing processes in the triplet and the s3-s5-s6 group , respectively .",
    "first , a mock spectrum has been created placing several lines characterized by an increasing @xmath85@xmath84 , from 12 to 15 by steps of 0.05 , and central wavelengths separated by 10  .",
    "line profiles have been modeled with a gaussian , since we were interested only in the centre of the lines and not in reproducing correctly their wings .",
    "the doppler parameter @xmath86 was set to a value of 20 km  s@xmath4@xcite ; the dependence of the simulation results from this parameter is negligible .",
    "white noise has been added to the spectrum in order to obtain @xmath87 , roughly consistent with the observed snr values of the triplet , and of the s3 , s5 and s6 spectra in the segments where the common under - dense regions are situated .",
    "then , the length of the void has been measured , namely the portion of mock spectrum where @xmath88 , after each smoothing .",
    "since the lines are ordered by increasing column density and separated by 10  , each increase in void length of @xmath82   corresponds to the vanishing of a specific line with known value of @xmath83@xmath84 . repeating this procedure @xmath60 times ,",
    "we have computed the values , and the related uncertainties , of the column density of the lines washed away after a given number of smoothings .",
    "the effect of having different snr in the qsos spectra ( fig .",
    "[ fig : voids ] ) instead of a fixed value of @xmath87 is smaller than the error bars reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : n - smooth ] .    the same kind of simulations have been used to compare the action of the short scale filter iterated @xmath70 times with respect to that of a median filter of length ( 2@xmath70 + 1 ) pixel employed once .",
    "both the series of data are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : n - smooth ] , with the related error bar , as a function of @xmath70 .",
    "the trend followed by the two series at large @xmath70 is different : for the short scale filter iterated @xmath70 times the smoothing effect is relatively lower and the growth of the column density of the lines smoothed away is flatter .",
    "furthermore , the related uncertainties are much smaller .",
    "this behaviour helps us to estimate more accurately the lower column density of the surviving lines , because the range of @xmath85@xmath84 between 12.5 and 13 is sampled more accurately with respect to the upper curve .",
    "[ fig : n - smooth ] ( filled circles ) shows that the asymptotic size of the voids observed in the triplet and in the s3-s5-s6 group are referred to spectra where the absorption lines characterized by @xmath85@xmath89 have been smoothed away .",
    "lines left after a given number @xmath70 of smoothing with a three pixel long filter ( circle ) and after one smoothing with a ( 2@xmath70 + 1 ) pixel wide filter ( square , slightly shifted along the @xmath90-axis for clarity ) . ]",
    "the two largest under - dense regions common to the s3 , s5 and s6  and to the triplet  are 12.8   ( corresponding to 10.7 @xmath5 comoving mpc ) and 10.6    ( or 8.8 @xmath5 comoving mpc ) in size , respectively .",
    "they are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : voids ] . the sizes of the related under - dense regions along the single lines of sight are : 13.4 , 19.8 and 15.2   for the s3 , s5 and s6 ; 10.6 , 12.4 and 14.2    for the  of the triplet . as already said ,",
    "no common under - dense regions have been found considering any other combination of  in the sextet .",
    "assuming that the under - dense regions have a spherical geometry ( again following * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a void is then defined as the largest sphere that may be included inside one connected region .",
    "we searched for the largest spherical region included in the three individual under - dense regions .",
    "this is equivalent to the requirement that the surface of the under - dense region matches the six edges of the three segments .",
    "we allow an uncertainty of few   in the position of the surface along each .",
    "this takes into account the fact that observations are in redshift space , so that the border of the under - dense region may have a peculiar velocity that shifts its position in wavelength , and that a real under - dense region probably does not have a simple boundary surface .",
    "this set of equations can constrain a sphere that has four degrees of freedom .",
    "inside the sphere , the igm will be under - dense along each  and on its surface it will be over - dense at six positions identifying the edges of the individual under - dense regions .",
    "when we applied this procedure to the s3-s5-s6 group , the under - dense region can be parametrized with a sphere of 6.75 @xmath5 comoving mpc radius . on the other hand , due to the positions of the members of triplet in the sky ,",
    "a spherical parametrisation of the void is not possible in this case .    in order to assign a significance level to the detection of these two under - dense regions",
    ", we performed @xmath60 simulations of mock spectra reproducing the two triplets of qso spectra .",
    "first , the lists of central wavelengths were created following the same procedure as defined in section .",
    "then , the line profiles were created with the observed column density and doppler parameter distribution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "random white noise was added , according to the observed snr of each spectrum in each chunk , and then the spectra were smoothed 8 times by the median filter .",
    "we verified that the results of the simulations do not change significantly for a number of iterations larger than six .",
    "finally , we computed the distribution function of the probability of having one common under - dense region of given dimension along three .",
    "computing the random probability of having a common under - dense regions of size equal to or greater than ours , we obtained that the final significance levels of our detections are 91% and 86% for the triplet and for the s3-s5-s6 group respectively .",
    "these two values are smaller than the significance levels of the common under - dense region detected by @xcite .",
    "we expect that this is due to the fact that we are dealing with only three  and that our spectra have a lower snr .",
    "in this paper , we exploited the capabilities of high resolution uves spectra of qso pairs to study the 3-dimensional distribution properties of baryonic matter in the igm as traced by the transmitted flux in the qso lyman-@xmath2  forests .",
    "our sample is formed by 21 qso pairs evenly distributed between angular separations of @xmath1 and 14 arcmin , with lyman-@xmath2  forests at a median redshift @xmath91 . by calculating the correlation functions we compared the observed sample with a set of mock spectra drawn from a cosmological hydro - simulation run in a box of @xmath20 comoving mpc , adopting the cosmological parameters of the concordance model .",
    "the simulated sample reproduces 50 different realizations of the observed sample ( see section 2 for details ) .",
    "furthermore , particular emphasis has been given to the search for alignments and other particular features of the lyman-@xmath2  forests in the two qso groups present in our sample .",
    "in the following , we summarize our main results :    _ two - point statistics _    1 .",
    "the computed correlation functions are in substantial agreement with those obtained in our previous paper ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper i ) . there is consistency between the clustering properties of matter in the igm calculated in the direction parallel and transverse to the line of sight using the parameters of the concordance cosmology to map the angular distance into velocity separation .",
    "this is also due to the relatively large error bars of the computed quantities . as an implication ,",
    "peculiar velocities in the absorbing gas are likely to be smaller than @xmath92 km  s@xmath4 .",
    "matter in the igm is clustered on scales smaller than @xmath3 km  s@xmath4  or about @xmath93 comoving mpc .",
    "the simulated correlation functions are consistent with the observed analogous quantities at the @xmath94 level for this particular sample .",
    "thanks to the increased snr for some of the spectra in our sample the enhanced clustering signal measured in paper i with the cross correlation coefficient at a transverse velocity separation @xmath52 km  s@xmath4  is no longer significant .",
    "+ _ three or more point statistics _ 3 .   significant coincidences of lyman-@xmath2  absorptions have been detected among the  forming the sextet implying the presence of coherent gas structures extending @xmath95 comoving mpc .",
    "in particular an excess of triplets and quadruplets of lines within @xmath96 km  s@xmath4  has been measured at a significance of 16 and 9 @xmath42 . besides , one group of five coincident lines in the s2-s3-s4-s5-s6 qsos is observed , an occurrence that has a probability p=0.013 to arise from a random distribution of lines .",
    "a method for the detection of under - dense regions in relatively low snr spectra has been developed .",
    "one cosmic common under - dense region has been detected in each qso group ; in the sextet the under - dense region has a dimension of 10.7 @xmath5 comoving mpc and a significance level of 91% , while in the triplet it has a dimension of 8.8 @xmath5 comoving mpc and a significance level of 86% .",
    "these values are significantly smaller than those typical of under - dense regions detected along single lines of sight .",
    "the under - dense region common to the lines of sight of the sextet can be parametrized by a sphere of radius @xmath97 comoving mpc .",
    "this study of the cosmic web environment at @xmath79 will soon be extended with many more qso spectra either at medium resolution with the x - shooter spectrograph @xcite or / and with the @xmath98 qso spectra provided by sdss - iii @xcite .",
    "the ultimate goal is the characterization of the topology of the igm in real space in a variety of environments by using lyman-@xmath2  and metal lines . on this basis ,",
    "both hydrodynamical simulations of structure formation and high - resolution spectroscopic samples , like the one presented here , will provide the link between observational quantities and the underlying density field and shed light on the impact of systematic effects .",
    "mc is grateful to prof .",
    "r. rui for the stimulating discussion on the right statistical approach and interpretation to be adopted for this work .",
    "simulations were performed at the cosmos uk national cosmology supercomputer , sponsored by sgi , intel and hefce .",
    "this research has been partially supported by asi contract no .",
    "i/016/07/0 cofis , infn pd51 grant and prin miur `` diffuse baryons in the universe '' ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the three - dimensional distribution of matter at @xmath0 using high resolution spectra of qso pairs and simulated spectra drawn from cosmological hydro - dynamical simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we present a sample of 15 qsos , corresponding to 21 baselines of angular separations evenly distributed between @xmath1 and 14 arcmin , observed with the ultraviolet and visual echelle spectrograph ( uves ) at the european southern observatory - very large telescope ( eso - vlt ) . </S>",
    "<S> the observed correlation functions of the transmitted flux in the  lyman-@xmath2  forest transverse to and along the  are in agreement , implying that the distortions in redshift space due to peculiar velocities are relatively small and - within the relatively large error bars - not significant . </S>",
    "<S> the clustering signal is significant up to velocity separations of @xmath3 km  s@xmath4 , corresponding to about 5 @xmath5 comoving mpc . </S>",
    "<S> compatibility at the @xmath6 level has been found both for the auto- and cross - correlation functions and for the set of the cross correlation coefficients . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis focuses in particular on two qso groups of the sample , the sextet and the triplet . </S>",
    "<S> searching for alignments in the redshift space between lyman-@xmath2  absorption lines belonging to different , it has been possible to discover the presence of a wide structures extending over about ten mpc in comoving space , and give constraints on the sizes of two cosmic under - dense regions in the intergalactic medium , which have been detected with a 91% and 86% significance level , respectively in the sextet and in the triplet .    [ firstpage ]    intergalactic medium , quasars : absorption lines , cosmology : observations , large - scale structure of universe </S>"
  ]
}