{
  "article_text": [
    "the hinode spacecraft is a stable platform from which unique high resolution , seeing - free images of the sun can be acquired @xcite .",
    "the bfi instrument , fed by the solar optical telescope ( sot ) on hinode @xcite , can observe a 3  wide spectral bandpass centered at the h line of ca  ii . over this bandpass , the line forms in both the photosphere in the wings , and chromosphere in the core .",
    "movies of such ca ii images have revealed a remarkably dynamic , spicule - dominated limb .",
    "the observed spicules have smaller diameters , higher apparent velocities and smaller lifetimes @xcite than was previously thought @xcite .",
    "figure  fig : snapshot shows a typical snapshot from a series of ca  ii bfi images acquired on 7 november 2007 , in the northern polar coronal hole .",
    "we selected a coronal hole because spicules there are longer than elsewhere , thereby providing a broad background of spicule emission against which a stratified atmosphere might easily be identified .",
    "a smooth radial gradient has been divided out of the data to enhance the emission high above the limb .",
    "the zero point of the height scale @xmath0 ( along @xmath1 ) corresponds to the standard formation height of the 5000  continuum , when observed vertically , as derived by @xcite .",
    "henceforth we will refer to heights on this standard scale .",
    "bjlseth found that the ca  ii limb lies @xmath2 mm above the blue limb .",
    "since the continuum at the limb forms about 0.375 mm higher than at disk center , ( e.g. , @xcite ) , the ca ii limb forms near heights of 0.825 mm .    curiously , such limb images show little or no signature of a bulk , stratified chromosphere emitting plasma seen during eclipse flashes , but all the material lying between the quiet photosphere , with densities above @xmath3 g  @xmath4 , and the corona with densities below @xmath5 g  @xmath4 . ]",
    "which , as we discuss below , should have a thickness between 1 and 2 mm .",
    "the bfi instrument s resolution ( @xmath6 ) is ample to resolve structure on scales of 1 - 2 mm ( @xmath7 mm ) . yet",
    "a striking feature of these images is the continuous emission seen along each spicule all the way down to , and sometimes across , the limb . where then is the stratified chromosphere , and why are spicules so obviously dominant that one might conclude that the chromosphere itself consists of little more than a collection of spicules ? in this paper we explore what these observations imply in terms of the structure of the chromosphere .",
    "the complex dynamic behavior of the ca  ii spicules , their unknown origin and other difficulties preclude the possibility of meaningful ab - initio or other detailed modeling efforts . to address the above questions , a far simpler calculation is appropriate .",
    "we model the chromosphere as a stratified atmosphere from which spicules emanate .",
    "formal solutions to the transfer equation along rays tangential to the solar limb are performed for prescribed source functions , densities and atomic parameters applicable to the ca  ii h line .",
    "our adopted stratified medium is simply the 1d atmosphere of @xcite .",
    "as suggested by the hinode bfi observations , this medium does not emit as much as the embedded spicules , so it serves primarily to scatter photons .",
    "the exact stratification of the bulk chromosphere is not critical , all that is required is that it span the range of densities from photosphere to corona in @xmath8 mm .",
    "the mean stratifications of hydrodynamic or mhd models , such as by @xcite , are similar to the stratification used here .",
    "the stratified atmosphere was assigned source functions of @xmath9 where @xmath10 is taken from the atmospheric model , as a function of radial distance from sun center @xmath11 .",
    "@xmath12 is the planck function at frequency @xmath13 and temperature @xmath14 . the function ( @xmath15 ) and @xmath16 where @xmath17 , @xmath18 mm being a typical pressure scale height in the photosphere . ]",
    "@xmath19 mimics well - known non - lte effects in which source functions fall below their lte values .",
    "figure  fig : s shows the source functions used in our calculations .",
    "the spicules were treated statistically , both in their spatial distributions and thermodynamic properties .",
    "they were randomly distributed along the boundaries of circular supergranules into 200 small bushes with a common `` root '' , 8 spicules in each bush .",
    "1600 spicules per supergranule , each with a diameter of 0.1 mm , leads to a filling factor by area of 0.015 , and a total of @xmath20 such spicules on the sun at any time .",
    "( the latter is some 20 times larger than the value derived by beckers 1972 , based upon data of far lower angular resolution than those from the hinode bfi instrument ) .",
    "these numbers produce synthetic spicule images similar to those from hinode .",
    "the roots of individual spicules are set at @xmath21 mm above the continuum photosphere , with a base density @xmath22 g  @xmath4 . below the @xmath23",
    "there are no spicules in our calculations- the atmosphere is 100% `` stratified '' .",
    "the spicules are modeled simply as longer extensions of the atmosphere from this base .",
    "the spicule densities are @xmath24 with @xmath25 mm for @xmath26 .",
    "the scale height @xmath27 was chosen to match intensity scale heights of @xmath28 mm found for polar coronal holes by @xcite , in order to compare calculations with figure  fig : snapshot .",
    "the calculated intensities depend only weakly on the gas densities , because our source functions are fixed and the spicules have optical depths of order @xmath29 in the line cores .",
    "the assumed spicule properties will be revisited in the section sec : discussion .",
    "spicule orientations were randomized relative to the local vertical in azimuth , and their source functions specified along each one s length but randomly varied between spicules .",
    "the source functions are not individually known , being determined locally by collisional excitation and scattering of radiation from the bright underlying photosphere .",
    "@xcite shows source functions below 4 mm with black body temperatures near 4300k . here",
    ", each spicule s base source function was chosen from a randomly distributed sample about a mean of @xmath30 with an arbitrary distribution width one tenth of this . along each spicule",
    "the source function drops with height along with the density .",
    "fig : s shows the mean value as a function of height . for the line opacity , all calculations use a calcium logarithmic abundance of 6.3 ( where h=12 ) , all calcium is assumed to be in ca  ii ( a good approximation below the transition region ) an absorption oscillator strength of 0.33 , a microturbulence of 10 km  s@xmath31 ( except where specified below ) and a radiatively damped voigt profile .",
    "standard continuum opacity was added to the line opacity from @xcite .",
    "figure  fig : profiles shows intensity profiles of the h line as a function of wavelength and height in a `` standard '' model .",
    "the computed intensities are similar to observations both above and below the limb .",
    "the chosen ca ii line parameters produce results not incompatible with typical profiles seen on the disk @xcite , and with ca  ii observations obtained both during and outside eclipses @xcite .",
    "figure  fig : standard shows emergent intensities at various monochromatic wavelengths and integrated over the bfi filter bandpass . in the `` standard '' calculation ( left panels ) , the spicule line profiles are assumed to be the same as in the stratified atmosphere .",
    "the latter leads to absorption at wavelengths within 0.1  of line center and below heights of @xmath32 mm .",
    "the path lengths and line opacity of the stratified material are sufficient to produce absorption , unless a spicule happens to lie physically closer to the observer .",
    "the limb in the simulated bfi data ( see the panel labeled `` hinode bfi ca  ii '' ) is close to the @xmath33 mm value derived observationally by @xcite . in the lowest panels ,",
    "the same radial function was applied to the simulated data as the observations shown in figure  fig : snapshot , to enhance the visibility of spicule emission over the limb . in the broad bfi bandpass ,",
    "a significant and observable fraction of spicule emission is absorbed by the stratified atmosphere below 2 - 3 mm .",
    "this behavior is inconsistent with the appearance of hinode data .",
    "real spicules are dynamic , as seen both through linewidths and physical motions @xcite",
    ". therefore we made two further calculations : one using broad spicule emission line profiles , and another using spicule - aligned flows .",
    "both calculations shift the spicule emission outside of the absorption profiles of the stratified atmosphere when the doppler speeds exceed @xmath34 , where @xmath35 is the chromospheric microturbulence ( @xmath36 , the sound speed , @xmath37 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 , e.g. , @xcite ) , and @xmath39 is the line center optical depth tangential to the limb . for values of @xmath40 varying between 10 and",
    "@xmath41 the required shifts are a few times @xmath42 .",
    "the right hand panels of figure  fig : standard present calculations including a spicule line broadening microturbulent parameter drawn from a distribution with a mean of 30 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 and a standard deviation of 10 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 .",
    "this supersonic microturbulence is compatible with linewidths measured from eclipse data below about 4 mm ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "( in the dynamic calculation , not shown , spicule - aligned outflows were drawn from a distribution with a mean of 120 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 and a standard deviation of 40 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 . ) in this calculation , the spicules can be seen down to and crossing the limb , as observed , and the dark absorption band resulting from the stratified atmospheric absorption is less pronounced .",
    "figure  fig : compare shows intensities in the bfi bandpass averaged along the direction tangential to the limb , normalized to limb values , as a function of height , from the three calculations and from observations .",
    "the filter - integrated emission from broad spicule line profiles is larger than from the standard calculation , because the computed individual spicules are optically thick across their axes , at least for heights below 4 mm .",
    "the differences in the broad dips in intensity between heights of 1 and 2.5 mm shows our main result- dynamical calculations are needed to avoid such a large dip in bfi ca  ii intensities across the limb .",
    "it seems that the absence of the stratified chromosphere in the images obtained with the hinode bfi ca  ii filter may be explained , at least in part , simply by large doppler shifts resulting from spicule dynamics .",
    "the computations ( figure  fig : standard ) resemble observations ( figure  fig : snapshot ) when spicule emission is doppler shifted out of the dark core of the h line in the stratified chromosphere .",
    "the solar atmosphere does not end at the visible photosphere- there must exist material as the upwardly stratified extension of the photosphere .",
    "this material must , on average , be highly stratified because quiet sun coronal pressures are close to 0.1 @xmath38dyn@xmath38@xmath43 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , yet photospheric pressures are orders of magnitude higher .",
    "the only question of interest here is if this material is expected to be able to scatter the ca ii resonance lines .",
    "even if the chromosphere were in hydrostatic and radiative equilibrium , and hence maximally stratified , almost all of the calcium would be in the ca ii ground state , and the stratified layer would span @xmath44 mm before coronal conditions were reached . in semi - empirical 1d models",
    "the transition from photosphere to corona spans 1.5 mm ( measured from temperature minimum to corona , @xcite ) .    this transition must , on average , be stratified close to hydrostatic equilibrium , because motions observed in spectral lines formed in the photosphere and chromosphere are , statistically speaking , sub - sonic .",
    "indeed one has to look hard to find the on - disk counterparts of the highly supersonic type ii spicules @xcite , for example .",
    "more directly observable signatures of the stratified chromospheric medium are found , for example , in the `` flash spectrum '' seen during eclipses ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) , or in the upward extension of photospheric wave motions seen on the solar disk .",
    "while the observationally - defined `` chromospheric extent '' inferred by flash spectra exceeds hydrostatic values , it is also compatible with a hydrostatic stratification in the first 1 - 1.5 mm .",
    "the large extent arises primarily from the data seen high above the limb which are dominated by spicules . these and other issues are reviewed by , e.g. , @xcite .",
    "the _ ad - hoc _ parameters in our calculations clearly limit their usefulness .",
    "but our essential result- the need to doppler shift spicule material out of the absorbing stratified chromosphere in order to reproduce qualitatively hinode ca ii data- is relatively insensitive to such details .",
    "the result simply requires spicules to originate close to the base of the chromosphere , and have different source functions and/or opacities from the stratified atmosphere .",
    "given these conditions , and spicule lengths which exceed the thickness of the stratified atmosphere , our result appears robust .",
    "our particular choice of parameters were taken from observed properties discussed by @xcite . for a given density ,",
    "the opacity in the ca ii h line follows from atomic data , ion abundance , and thermal and non - thermal motions .",
    "average densities of the stratified medium are , as we argued above , approximately in hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "however , our spicule densities and their height dependence were chosen simply to produce computations qualitatively similar to the particular coronal hole data shown in figure  fig : snapshot .",
    "physical considerations suggest that @xmath45 can not greatly exceed @xmath46 g  @xmath4 .",
    "@xcite find these spicules to be highly supersonic , @xmath47 km  s@xmath31 .",
    "such high speeds require magnetic forces in plasma where the sound speed is certainly @xmath48 km  s@xmath31 . while the mechanism driving spicules is not known , the characteristic alfvn speed @xmath49 must exceed 100 km  s@xmath31 . using an upper limit of 1 kg for field strengths in the low chromospheric network ( 1 kg is characteristic of network photospheric fields ) , @xmath50 km  s@xmath31",
    ", we find @xmath51 g  @xmath4 .",
    "but this is an unrealistically large estimate , since chromospheric magnetic fields are weaker due to geometric expansion of network fields , and not all of the local magnetic energy is free to be converted to kinetic energy .",
    "strong network magnetic fields tend also to be largely unipolar , thus only tangential components associated with magnetic shear or with weaker neighboring opposite polarity fields contain the free energy . adopting field strengths nearer to 0.1 kg , as an order of magnitude estimate , the observed spicule speeds require @xmath52 g  @xmath4 , as used above .",
    "it is difficult to see how this estimate can be significantly larger .",
    "spicules in coronal holes are longer , as seen in ground based data @xcite and in hinode data @xcite .",
    "our scale height of 3.5 mm for coronal hole densities and source functions is twice the value derived for the numbers of spicules observed as a function of height for the sun in general by @xcite .",
    "@xcite shows in her fig .",
    "4.10 that the hinode ca ii data of equatorial regions have scale heights closer to 2 mm .",
    "the relationship between the spicules observed by the hinode bfi instrument and earlier work has not yet been clarified .",
    "we simply note that our calculations are not unrealistic parameterizations of the conditions needed to describe radiative transfer in the chromosphere of a coronal hole .",
    "our computations are not in qualitative disagreement with the 1.5 mm wide dip in h@xmath53 line center intensities discovered by @xcite .",
    "the cores of h@xmath53 and neutral helium lines routinely show a dip in intensity surrounded by a shell of emission ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and much later work ) . however , dips seen in visible lines of hydrogen and helium may result more from the well - known lack of opacity in the low to mid chromosphere , and extra opacity due to fibrils which appear to over - arch the stratified chromosphere .",
    "resolving the issue would require detailed calculations of h@xmath53 and he lines with models taking into account the fibril structure and excitation mechanisms populating these excited atomic levels , which are not currently feasible .",
    "lastly , there remains an interesting discrepancy between the hinode bfi data and flash spectra , in that the 2 mm ca ii scale height is twice the median value derived from flash spectra of ca ii lines ( * ? ? ?",
    "* his table 2 , see also our fig .",
    "fig : compare ) .",
    "importantly we also note that our calculations never remove the off - limb dip entirely , even in the dynamic and broad line calculations , yet at least some of the hinode bfi images appear to show no hint of a dip .      both observations and simple physical arguments require that spicules be a consequence of some plasma or magnetohydrodynamic processes occurring within the chromosphere .",
    "spicules can not arise fully fledged from the photosphere for several reasons , not least because photospheric and spicular densities and gas pressures differ by many orders of magnitude .",
    "our result suggests that the hinode bfi ca ii images can be used as speedometers in the sense that spicules , when visible down to the limb , must have components that are doppler shifted supersonically , say by more that say 20 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 .",
    "while the limb chromosphere appears in the hinode bfi ca  ii data to be made entirely of spicules , this broad bandpass appears to be almost blind to much of the stratified , inter - spicule chromosphere .",
    "the hinode bfi ca ii filter probably misses populations of the short `` type - i '' spicules also associated with the magnetic network , whose line widths and doppler shifts are insufficient to avoid the absorption by the intervening material .",
    "in fact , these hinode data miss the bulk of the mass of the chromosphere , including the internetwork .",
    "standard chromospheric models give on average 0.03 g  @xmath43 as the total chromospheric surface mass density ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . the mass density per unit area of the spicules ,",
    "averaged over the surface , is @xmath54 where @xmath55 , @xmath27 and @xmath56 are their typical mass density , length and surface filling factor . using @xmath57 g  @xmath4 , @xmath58 cm , @xmath59",
    ", we find an average mass density of only @xmath60 g  @xmath43 .",
    "the spicules observed by the hinode ca  ii bfi instrument comprise less than 0.3% of the entire chromospheric mass . the energy flux density needed to support the network chromosphere against radiation losses",
    "is estimated to be a few times @xmath61 erg  @xmath43  s@xmath31 @xcite .",
    "the enthalpy flux density of individual spicules with speeds of 100 @xmath38km@xmath38s@xmath31 is @xmath62 erg  @xmath43  s@xmath31 , which is thus comparable .",
    "perhaps then these hinode spicules are intrinsically related to the chromospheric heating that is observed ?",
    "hinode bfi ca  ii images obtained at the solar limb are consistent with the presence of the stratified chromosphere when spicular emission is doppler shifted relative to the stratified material .",
    "this can be achieved most naturally using broad and/or doppler shifted spicule line profiles of magnitudes compatible with observed motions .",
    "the picture presented here can be tested directly using very stable spectra at the solar limb , to see for example if the behavior modeled in figure  fig : standard is qualitatively correct .",
    "this is a very challenging observation to make from the ground , but should be possible under conditions of outstandingly good seeing and with modern adaptive optics systems .",
    "the calculations reinforce a commonly known problem regarding broad band spectral imagers : one must be very careful taking care of physical effects such as doppler motions which are not spectrally resolved by the instrument .",
    "bfi ca ii limb observations are largely blind to the bulk of the chromosphere itself .",
    "this fact is a sobering reminder that the absence of a signature can be as significant as its presence .                  , b. , mcintosh , s. , hansteen , v.  h. , carlsson , m. , schrijver , c.  j. , tarbell , t.  d. , title , a.  m. , shine , r.  a. , suematsu , y. , tsuneta , s. , katsukawa , y. , ichimoto , k. , shimizu , t. , and nagata , s. : 2007 , , 655        , p. : 2006",
    ", in j. leibacher , r.  f. stein , and h. uitenbroek ( eds . ) , _ solar mhd theory and observations : a high spatial resolution perspective _ , vol .",
    "354 of _ astronomical society of the pacific conference series _ , 259    , t. , matsuzaki , k. , sakao , t. , shimizu , t. , sone , y. , tachikawa , s. , hashimoto , t. , minesugi , k. , ohnishi , a. , yamada , t. , tsuneta , s. , hara , h. , ichimoto , k. , suematsu , y. , shimojo , m. , watanabe , t. , shimada , s. , davis , j.  m. , hill , l.  d. , owens , j.  k. , title , a.  m. , culhane , j.  l. , harra , l.  k. , doschek , g.  a. , and golub , l. : 2007 , , 3                , s. , ichimoto , k. , katsukawa , y. , nagata , s. , otsubo , m. , shimizu , t. , suematsu , y. , nakagiri , m. , noguchi , m. , tarbell , t. , title , a. , shine , r. , rosenberg , w. , hoffmann , c. , jurcevich , b. , kushner , g. , levay , m. , lites , b. , elmore , d. , matsushita , t. , kawaguchi , n. , saito , h. , mikami , i. , hill , l.  d. , and owens , j.  k. : 2008 , , 167"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> broad - band images in the ca  ii h line , from the bfi instrument on the hinode spacecraft , show emission from spicules emerging from and visible right down to the observed limb . </S>",
    "<S> surprisingly , little absorption of spicule light is seen along their lengths . </S>",
    "<S> we present formal solutions to the transfer equation for given ( ad - hoc ) source functions , including a stratified chromosphere from which spicules emanate . </S>",
    "<S> the model parameters are broadly compatible with earlier studies of spicules . </S>",
    "<S> the visibility of ca  ii spicules down to the limb in hinode data seems to require that spicule emission be doppler shifted relative to the stratified atmosphere , either by supersonic turbulent or organized spicular motion . </S>",
    "<S> the non - spicule component of the chromosphere is almost invisible in the broad band bfi data , but we predict that it will be clearly visible in high spectral resolution data . </S>",
    "<S> broad band ca ii h limb images give the false impression that the chromosphere is dominated by spicules . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis serves as a reminder that the absence of a signature can be as significant as its presence .    , </S>"
  ]
}