{
  "article_text": [
    "the ultraviolet / optical telescope ( uvot ; * ? ? ? * ) is one of three instruments which make up the _ swift _ observatory @xcite along with the 15150  kev burst alert telescope ( bat ; * ? ? ? * ) and the 0.210  kev x - ray telescope ( xrt ; * ? ? ?",
    "_ swift _ is primarily a gamma - ray burst ( grb ) observatory , but is increasingly being used to look at a wide range of targets including active galactic nuclei , supernovae and x - ray transients .",
    "the uvot obtains ultraviolet and optical data in parallel with the bat and the xrt .",
    "it incorporates a modified ritchey ",
    "chrtien telescope with a @xmath0 arcmin field - of - view and covers the wavelength range 16008000 .",
    "a filter wheel carries seven broadband filters : three in the optical range ( _ v , b _ and _ u _ ) , three in the uv ( _ uvw1 , uvm2 _ and _ uvw2 _ ) and one clear filter ( _ white _ ) covering the whole wavelength range .",
    "in addition there are two grisms , a magnifier and a blocked filter in the filter wheel .",
    "the uvot uses a fast readout , micro - channel - plate ( mcp ) intensified , photon - counting ccd detector with @xmath1 active pixels .",
    "each pixel is subdivided by use of an onboard centroiding algorithm into @xmath2 subpixels , giving a full field of @xmath3 subpixels , each of which subtends 0.502 arcsec on the sky after correcting for distortion . throughout this paper",
    "the word ` pixel ' refers to one of these 0.5 arcsec subpixels , unless it is specifically called a ccd pixel .",
    "the full field is read out in 11.0329 ms and each photon may be time - tagged with this timing resolution ; this is known as event mode .",
    "alternatively , and more usually , image mode is used , where the photons are built up into an image on board to reduce telemetry .",
    "the uvot is suitable for viewing sources from @xmath4 to @xmath5 mag , depending on the filter used and the nature of the source .",
    "further details on the uvot detector may be found in section 2 of poole et al .",
    "( 2008 , hereafter paper i ) .",
    "the swift data center at goddard space flight center is responsible for processing raw telemetry data from the _ swift _ satellite and making them available to the heasarc for distribution to the public as reduced data products .",
    "the standard processing is known as ` the pipeline ' ; the current release is 3.13.17 ( august 3rd , 2009 ) .",
    "the swift science center provides a suite of software tools to the heasarc suitable for analysing or reprocessing the data and applying the calibration ( uvot specific ` ftools ` are released as part of heasoft _ swift _ software package ) , as well as maintaining the calibration database ( caldb ; the current release of the uvot caldb is version 20090930 ) .",
    "the preliminary in - orbit calibration of uvot was described in @xcite and @xcite . with this",
    "paper and paper i we present a more detailed analysis supported by more data and superceding the earlier work . in paper",
    "i we presented the photometry calibration . here in paper",
    "ii we include the following : measurements of the point spread function and the effect of the orbit ( section  [ secpsf ] ) ; a model of how coincidence loss is affected by high backgrounds ( section  [ seccoi ] ) ; mod-8 noise and how it can be removed from images ( section  [ secmod8 ] ) ; small and large scale positional uniformity ( sections  [ secsss ] and [ seclss ] ) ; the accuracy of uvot astrometry both relative and absolute ( section  [ secastrometry ] ) and background count rates ( section  [ secbackground ] ) , including scattered light . in each case",
    "we assess any impact on uvot science , describe any correction that is applied in the standard pipeline data processing ( and how good this correction is ) , or whether further steps are recommended under certain circumstances .",
    "the grism calibration will be published in a separate paper .",
    "each broad band filter is associated with its own characteristic point spread function ( psf ) with the uv filters tending to broader psfs ; this is due to higher energy photons producing higher energy electrons in the detector photocathode , which then travel further laterally through the detector .",
    "the uvot psf narrows with high count rates due to the effect of coincidence ; at very high count rates the psf is highly distorted .",
    "thus , the stars used for the measurement of the psf are of moderate or low count rates",
    ". the geometric distortion , as described in section  [ secdistortion ] , would affect the psf especially if measured away from the centre of an image .",
    "all the psf measurements have therefore been performed on images corrected for distortion .",
    "there are several other factors that affect the shape of an individual psf , ( see sections  [ secpsfvar ] and [ secmod8 ] ) , thus the psfs described here are representative examples for each filter .    since the aperture used to determine the zero - points in paper i was 5 arcsec in radius , we have retained the normalization as equal to 1.0 at 5 arcsec to agree with the photometric calibration ; 5 arcsec contains approximately 85 per cent of the total flux .",
    "the psf measurement was done in two stages : the core ( up to 5 arcsec ) and the wings ( from 5 to 30 arcsec ) . for the cores it was relatively easy to find single exposures of moderate count rate stars with sufficient signal to noise , thus avoiding any need to sum up exposures , which could have blurred the psfs . however , to obtain sufficient signal to noise in the wings it was necessary to sum many exposures . when measuring the psfs , we used unbinned images to maintain full spatial resolution .    for the cores",
    "a number of single exposures with long exposure times were acquired from the uvot archive for each filter . within these fields we identified point - like sources with count rates ranging from 1020  s@xmath6 .",
    "from these we chose 620 relatively isolated sources with which to calculate the psf . for the wings of the psfs , we used summed observations of grb fields for _ b , v _ and _ white _ , while observations of the chandra deep field south ( cdf - s , @xcite ) provided deep exposures in each of the _ u , uvw1 , uvm2 _ and _ uvw2 _ filters .",
    "the depth of the combined exposures allows the detail in the wings to be significant above the background out to a radius of 30 arcsec . for each filter we identified one isolated source with a count rate of between 0.1 and 5  s@xmath6 .",
    "nearby neighbours to the psf objects would lead to difficulties in estimating the background level .    for both the core and the wings the daophot package @xcite within iraf was used for the psf fitting .",
    "an analytical moffat model plus look up table psf was created from the selected sources using a 15 or 30 arcsec radius for the cores and wings , respectively .",
    "the temporary psf was then subtracted from nearby sources to improve the field , and the psf was recalculated .",
    "this final analytical psf was then subtracted from other stars in the field to test the goodness via the residuals .",
    "we assume that the psf is radially symmetric ( the ellipticity is less than 10 per cent ) and calculate the full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) from the average sigma parameter of the moffat fit to the cores , converted to arcsec ( see table  [ tabpsf ] ) .",
    "the psfs of both the cores and the wings were integrated over their radii to convert to curves of growth ( cogs ) and these cogs were normalised to 1.0 at 5 arcsec .",
    "the measured wing cogs were fitted with a sum of two gaussians centred at zero radius .",
    "the renormalised , fitted wing cogs were combined with those of the cores , to give the final cog from 0 to 30 arcsec ( see fig .  [ fignormcog ] ) .",
    ".the fwhm of the point spread function for the uvot filters . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]          as the earth limb angle changes from 150 to 100 degrees .",
    "this is the most extreme case so far seen .",
    "above 192,000  s@xmath6 events are discarded by the camera leaving part of the image blank.,width=317 ]    the actual background measured in an individual image depends on a number of factors apart from the filter , including the galactic latitude , the ecliptic latitude and the earth limb angle . to measure the effect of the galactic latitude we searched the uvot data archive for observations with at least 1000 seconds in all optical and uv filters and selected a number of fields at various galactic latitudes .",
    "we summed the images in each filter , histogrammed the count rates in each pixel , and fitted them with a gaussian profile .",
    "no attempt was made here to filter out the effects of bright earth shine ( see below ) .    fig .",
    "[ figallsky ] shows the relationship between the measured backgrounds and the galactic latitude for each filter .",
    "the uv data show a marked dependence on the galactic latitude ; the optical less so .",
    "the sky background was predicted pre - launch for each filter using a model of zodiacal and galactic light recorded in the caldb ( @xcite and @xcite ) . comparing these measurements with our predictions we find fairly good agreement ( within a factor of 3 ) in all filters , even though the model does not include scattered light or dark current .",
    "the bright earth can significantly increase the background of individual images as the angle of the line of sight to the earth reduces .",
    "[ figvsky ] shows an example of this for the _ v _ filter and fig .  [ figphilwhite ] shows the most extreme case seen so far in the _ white _ filter . to minimize the effect of the bright earth limb the uvot can be used in `` earth limb protection mode '' , where the exposure is broken into multiple exposures , with short exposures when",
    "swift s _ pointing will be near the earth s limb , allowing high background exposures to be discarded if necessary .",
    "scattered light within the detector causes additional low level background , as well as some image artifacts .",
    "the scattered light has two causes : the first of these is due to starlight internally reflecting within the detector window causing two faint , out - of - focus ghost images of any bright star , one inside and one outside the primary image in the radial direction .",
    "the second effect is due to reflection of off - axis diffuse sky background light into the image from part of the detector housing which produces one or two very faint rings of enhanced background .",
    "both these features are also seen in _ xmm - om newton _ @xcite but the diffuse background scattered light is much reduced in the uvot because of changes in the housing coating .",
    "the scattered light ring is at such a low level that it can not be seen in individual images , and provided the background is measured close to the source , it should have no effect on photometry .",
    "we have created images of the diffuse scattered light by taking full frame images from the uvot archive and masking out all sources , ghost images , readout streaks etc . , to leave just the background .",
    "unbinned raw images for each filter were summed together using the background level and mask maps to normalise the values in each pixel .",
    "[ figscat ] shows the diffuse scattered light for each filter . for the optical filters there are two rings : the outer one is centred on the middle of the image , but varies in radius from filter to filter , the inner one is offset from the centre at different positions for each filter .",
    "the outer rings have between 1.2 and 2.2 per cent more counts per pixel compared with the region between the rings .",
    "the inner ring enhancement can be as much as 4 per cent .",
    "[ figradial ] shows the radial profiles of these scattered light images .",
    "the number of counts in each radial ring , 1 pixel wide , is divided by the number of pixels in that ring .",
    "the plots show that for all filters the scattered light reduces towards the edges .",
    "the rings show up as small undulations on an otherwise smooth slope .",
    "the dips at a radius of 1024 pixels are due to the radius meeting the edge of the image where there are narrow strips , about 20 pixels wide , with reduced counts .",
    "these are caused by the onboard tracking , where uvot autonomously determines the spacecraft drift using guide stars in the field of view and shifts the image to compensate .",
    "these narrow strips can be seen in the scattered light images ( particularly the _ white _ ) in fig .",
    "[ figscat ] .",
    "the _ white _ and _ uvm2 _ scattered light images do not show the distinct rings like the other filters .",
    "it is not clear why this should be the case : possibly any features in the _ white _ filter are drowned by the high background count rate , while in the _",
    "filter , the total background measured is lower than for any other filter .",
    "the _ white _ filter is rarely used in full frame mode because of telemetry restrictions , therefore there were only 36 _ white _ images contributing to this study .",
    "there are also visible some dark patches which are in identical positions for each filter .",
    "these patches do not appear on the flat fields made with the led ( see section  [ secsss ] ) , and therefore must be due to an optical element in the light path , such as the beam steering mirror .",
    "these could have a detrimental effect on photometry if a source were to land at these positions .",
    "we are investigating this further and results will be documented on the _ swift _ website .",
    "the dark current has been monitored since pre - launch .",
    "it is very low ( the most recent measurement being a count rate of @xmath7 s@xmath6  pix@xmath6 ) and has not changed throughout the mission . to enable direct comparison with the count rates given in table  [ tabsky ]",
    "this is equivalent to a count rate of 0.02 in a 5 arcsec aperture .",
    "it can therefore be considered to be negligible compared with the other sources of background counts , except in the _",
    "uvm2 _ filter .",
    "this paper substantially improves the calibration of the uvot and compliments the photometric calibration already covered in paper  i. this paper also discusses more fully some issues raised in that paper .",
    "we have measured the point spread function out to a large radius ( 30 arcsec ) for each filter to enable , for example , reliable surface photometry .",
    "we have also described how binning , rotation and orbital variations affect the psf fwhm , and that photometry is not affected by the variations provided a big enough aperture is used .",
    "coincidence loss was described for a point source in paper  i. here we have extended the study to extended sources , and sources in regions of high background , presenting a model which not only shows us the limitations of the current coincidence correction , but also gives us the tools to improve it in the future .",
    "we also described the effect of mod-8 noise and how it can be removed without degrading photometric accuracy .",
    "we have measured the sensitivity variation over the detector and have constructed an effective correction for each filter that enables us to achieve a photometric response uniform to 12 per cent over the entire detector area .",
    "the positional accuracy of uvot astrometry ( after aspect correction ) and distortion has been compared with the international celestial reference system and shown to be accurate to better than 0.42 arcsec ( 90 per cent confidence ) including systematic and random errors .",
    "lastly , we have measured the range of observed background count rates in all filters and the dependencies on the earth limb and galactic latitude .",
    "we have discussed the sources of the background from both astrophysical and instrumental causes .",
    "this extended calibration enables a more consistent use of uvot data over the whole field of view .",
    "the work on the psf , coincidence loss and astrometry are of particular use in the analysis of extended objects .",
    "_ swift _ uvot was designed and built in collaboration between mssl , psu , swri , swales aerospace and gsfc , and was launched by nasa .",
    "we would like to thank all those involved in the continued operation of uvot at psu , mssl and gsfc and those involved in the data processing and the writing of the analysis software .",
    "this work is supported at mssl by funding from stfc and at psu by nasa s office of space science through grant nag5 - 8401 and nas5 - 00136 .",
    "we acknowledge the use of public data from the _ swift _ archive",
    ".    99 barthelmy s.  d. , barbier l.  m. , cummings j.  r. et  al . , 2005 , space sci .",
    ", 120 , 143 bertin e. , arnouts s. , 1996 , a&as 117 , 393 breeveld a.  a. , poole t.  s. , james c.  j. et  al . , 2005 ,",
    "spie , 5898 , 391 brown p.  j. , holland s.  t. , immler s. et al .",
    ", 2009 , aj , 137 , 4517 burrows d.  n. , romano p. , falcone a. et  al . , 2005 , space sci .",
    ", 120 , 165 feissel m. , mignard f. , 1998 , a&a , 331 , l33 fey a.  l. , ma c. , arias e.  f. et  al . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 127 , 3587 fordham j.  l.  a. , moorhead c.  f. , galbraith r.  f. , 2000 , mnras , 312 , 83 fricke w. , schwan h. , lederle t. et  al . , 1988 , verf .",
    "rechen - institut , no .",
    "32 gehrels n. , chincarini g. , giommi p. et  al .",
    ", 2004 , apj , 611 , 1005 hoversten e.  a. gronwall c. , vanden berk d.  e. et  al . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 705 , 1462 ivanushkina m. , breeveld a.  a. , poole t.  s. et  al . , 2005 , proc .",
    "spie , 5898 , 371 ivezic z. , allyn smith j. , miknaitis g. et  al .",
    ", 2007 , aj , 134 , 973 james c. , september 2007 , xmm document : retrieval of lost spectral information , fixed pattern noise and co - incidence loss simulations kawakami h. , bone d. , fordham j. , michel r. , 1994 , nucl .",
    "methods phys .",
    "a , 348 , 707 kuin n.  p.  m , rosen s.  r. , 2008 , mnras , 383 , 383 landsman w. , 2009 , swift - uvot - caldb-09-r03 : large scale sensitivity mason k.  o. , breeveld a.  a. , much r. et  al . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , l36 michel r. , fordham j. , kawakami h. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 611 mignard f. , frschl m. , 2000 , a&a , 354 , 732 monet d.  g. , levine s.  e. , canzian b. et  al . , 2003 , aj , 125 , 984 moretti a. , perri m. , capalbi m. et  al . , 2007 , proc .",
    "spie , 6688 , 14 poole t.  s. , breeveld a.  a. , page m.  j. et  al .",
    ", 2008 , mnras , 383 , 627 - 645 ( paper  i ) poole t.  s. , 2007a , swift - uvot - caldb-10-r03 : zodiacal light poole t.  s. , 2007b , swift - uvot - caldb-07-r03 : galactic diffuse light roming p.  w.  a. , kennedy t.  e. , mason k.  o. et  al . , 2005 , space sci .",
    ", 120 , 95 roming p.  w.  a. , koch t.  s. , oates s.  r. et  al .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 690 , 163 stetson p.  b. , 1987 , pasp , 99 , 191 stetson p.  b. , 2000 , pasp , 112 , 925 stetson p.  b. , mcclure r.  d. , vandenberg d.  a. , 2004 , pasp , 116 , 1012 zaritsky d. , harris j. , thompson i.  b. , grebel e.  k. , massey p. , 2002",
    ", aj , 123 , 855 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the ultraviolet / optical telescope ( uvot ) is one of three instruments onboard the _ swift _ observatory </S>",
    "<S> . the photometric calibration has been published , and this paper follows up with details on other aspects of the calibration including a measurement of the point spread function with an assessment of the orbital variation and the effect on photometry . a correction for large scale variations in sensitivity over the field of view </S>",
    "<S> is described , as well as a model of the coincidence loss which is used to assess the coincidence correction in extended regions . </S>",
    "<S> we have provided a correction for the detector distortion and measured the resulting internal astrometric accuracy of the uvot , also giving the absolute accuracy with respect to the international celestial reference system . </S>",
    "<S> we have compiled statistics on the background count rates , and discuss the sources of the background , including instrumental scattered light . in each case </S>",
    "<S> we describe any impact on uvot measurements , whether any correction is applied in the standard pipeline data processing or whether further steps are recommended .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    instrumentation : photometers  instrumentation : detectors  astrometry </S>"
  ]
}