{
  "article_text": [
    "the sun is the only star that we can spatially resolve .",
    "observations suggest that many phenomena such as flares , particle acceleration , and collimated outflows not only occur in the solar atmosphere , but also occur in other astrophysical systems in similar forms ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus , the sun can be regarded as a fundamental plasma laboratory of astrophysics .",
    "the solar transition region ( tr ) , the temperature regime from @xmath010@xmath1  k to 10@xmath2  k , is traditionally believed to be a very thin layer between the solar chromosphere and corona .",
    "figure  [ fig.1 ] illustrates the structure of the solar interior and solar atmosphere , and shows the height variations of the temperature and density of the average solar atmosphere following the model of @xcite .",
    "abrupt changes of the temperature and density are clearly present through the tr . as an interface between the cool chromosphere and the hot corona , the tr plays an important role in coronal heating and solar wind origin ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .",
    "most of the tr emission falls into the fuv / euv range ( @xmath050  -2000   ) .",
    "and thus spectroscopic observations in this spectral range are the most important way to obtain information about the physics of the tr .",
    "since the plasma is optically thin for most fuv / euv emission lines , we can extract information about the physical conditions prevailing in their source regions from the line profiles ( see reviews by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "wavelengths and associated ions of several typical tr emission lines ( the mg  625   line is formed in the lower corona ) are marked in figure  [ fig.1 ] according to the formation temperatures of the ions ( temperature of maximum fractional ionization ) .",
    "the tr can be divided into three parts according to the temperature : lower tr ( @xmath3  k-@xmath4  k ) , middle tr ( @xmath4  k-@xmath5  k ) , and upper tr ( @xmath5  k-@xmath6  k ) .",
    "the lines of  1216   , he  584   and si  1533   are all typical emission lines formed in the lower tr .",
    "the ne  770   line is a typical upper - tr line and has been widely used in observations in the last decade . in the middle tr ,",
    "thousands of emission lines such as c  1037   and c  1548   have been identified @xcite , and many of them have been used in observations to probe the physical properties of the tr .",
    "early observations made by instruments such as the s082b euv spectrograph onboard the skylab space station @xcite , the uv spectrometer onboard the oso 8 ( orbiting solar observatory ) satellite @xcite , and the high - resolution telescope spectrograph ( hrts ) flown on some rockets and spacelab 2 @xcite have provided much valuable information about the solar tr .",
    "early instruments and results of these early observations have been reviewed by @xcite and @xcite , respectively .",
    "however , our knowledge of the tr was limited due to the lack of long - duration high - resolution observations before middle 1990s .    with the launch of soho ( solar and heliospheric observatory ) , trace ( transition region and coronal explorer ) , and hinode , our understanding of the tr has been significantly improved since 1996 .",
    "huge amount of data acquired by these missions reveal clearly that the tr is a highly dynamic and nonuniform layer .",
    "high spatial ( @xmath01@xmath7 ) , temporal ( @xmath01  s ) , and spectral ( 1st order @xmath044  m / pixel , 2nd order @xmath022  m / pixel ) observations of the sumer ( solar ultraviolet measurements of emitted radiation ) instrument @xcite onboard soho have greatly enhanced our knowledge of the tr .",
    "thousands of emission lines with wavelengths from 660   to 1610   and formation temperatures from @xmath3  k to @xmath8  k have been identified and used in extensive studies of the upper solar atmosphere @xcite . moreover ,",
    "the doppler shifts of these fuv / euv spectral lines could be measured with an accuracy of about 1 - 2  km / s @xcite , and thus the flow velocities in the tr could be determined with a high accuracy . besides , the coronal diagnostic spectrometer ( cds ) onboard soho @xcite and the euv imaging spectrometer ( eis ) onboard hinode @xcite have the capability of simultaneous multi - wavelength observations using a number of tr and coronal lines , which are very suitable for plasma diagnostics in the upper solar atmosphere .",
    "disk observations reveal that the bright network pattern is the dominant emission structure in intensity images of tr lines ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the tr network is cospatial with the underlying chromospheric network , and is believed to be the upward extension of the supergranular boundary to higher layers ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite found that in the quiet sun the contrast between the network and internetwork emission is largest for lines formed at @xmath02@xmath910@xmath10  k and decreases at higher and lower temperatures .",
    "@xcite investigated the height variation of the network size ( width of the network lane ) in the upper atmosphere of the quiet sun , and found that the network size is almost constant in the middle tr and increases strongly at the upper tr .",
    "the tr is a low-@xmath11 plasma region and the magnetic field largely controls the distribution of the plasma .",
    "the first magnetic network model was proposed by @xcite . in this model , magnetic fields concentrated in the supergranular boundary",
    "expand with height and open into the corona .",
    "the tr radiation is balanced by the downward thermal conduction .",
    "however , the emission measure reproduced by this model is far less than the observed value at temperatures below @xmath12  k @xcite .",
    "ten years later , @xcite proposed a modified model in which only part of the network magnetic fields open into the corona as a funnel shape , while the rest of the network is occupied by a population of low - lying loops with lengths less than 10  mm ( 1  mm=10@xmath13  m ) . in this model",
    ", the small loops are heated internally . @xcite",
    "further pointed out that magnetic funnels originating from the network could be connected to the solar wind or be legs of large - scale coronal loops .",
    "it might also be possible that the fundamental structure of the tr has not yet been resolved due to limitations of current instruments @xcite .",
    "the tr materials are often flowing . by analyzing the spectra obtained by the s082b instrument",
    ", @xcite found that tr lines are often redshifted .",
    "the persistent redshifts of emission lines formed in the middle tr were confirmed in later observations . with sumer observations ,",
    "@xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite studied the variation of the average doppler shift with the line formation temperature .",
    "they found that the redshift is most significant ( @xmath010  km  s@xmath14 ) at @xmath02@xmath910@xmath10  k and decreases at lower and higher temperatures .",
    "emission lines formed in the lower tr reveal no obvious doppler shift on average , while emission lines formed in the upper tr are clearly blue shifted .",
    "the temperature variation of the tr line shift shows a similar trend in both the quiet sun and coronal holes . in both regions ,",
    "the value of the redshift is positively correlated with the line radiance , and is more prominent in the network than in cell interiors ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the blue shifts of upper tr lines are predominant in coronal holes and are suggested to be signatures of the fast solar wind @xcite , while blue shifts are localized at network junctions in the upper tr of the quiet sun @xcite . in active regions , the redshifts of middle tr lines are about two times larger than those in the quiet sun ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "different mechanisms such as spicule activities ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , siphon flows from one loop leg to the other ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , downward propagating mhd waves produced by nano - flares ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and solar wind related reconnections in the network @xcite have been suggested to explain these prominent doppler shifts of tr lines ( see reviews and discussions in * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "small - scale transient phenomena such as explosive events , coronal bright points , blinkers and macrospicules are frequently observed in the tr .",
    "explosive events ( ees ) , which were first identified through hrts observations @xcite , are characterized by a small spatial scale of about 1800 km , a short lifetime of about 60  s , and non - gaussian line profiles showing doppler shifts of @xmath0100  km  s@xmath14 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "ees tend to occur along boundaries of the magnetic network , where weak mixed - polarity magnetic features are present ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "they are believed to be produced by magnetic reconnections in the tr @xcite .",
    "coronal bright points ( bps ) , which are characterized by locally enhanced emission in x - ray and euv , are associated with the underlying bipolar magnetic field at network boundaries ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a bp consists of several miniature dynamic loops ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and is typically @xmath15 in size .",
    "the average lifetime of bps is 20 hours in euv @xcite and 8 hours in x - ray observations @xcite .",
    "the energization of bps may be associated with the interaction between two magnetic fragments of opposite polarities @xcite , magnetic reconnection along separator field lines @xcite , or current sheets induced by photospheric motion @xcite .",
    "blinkers are transient tr network brightenings with a typical duration of 5 to 30 minutes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "macrospicules are jet - like structures extending from the chromosphere into the corona , which could be regarded as the euv counterpart of the h@xmath16 spicules ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the hydrogen lyman lines , especially the  line , play a dominant role in the radiative energy transport in the lower tr @xcite . due to the effect of radiative transfer , a central reversal is usually present in  and  line profiles .",
    "the lyman line profiles can be used to reveal information on fine structures and physical properties of quiescent prominences ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "they can also be used to diagnose nonthermal effects in solar flares @xcite .",
    "full  and  line profiles were acquired through early observations more than two decades ago ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these observations revealed valuable information on the stratification of the solar upper atmosphere , although the obtained lyman line profiles were hampered by the geocoronal absorption at the center .",
    "the sumer observations at the first lagrangian point are free from geocoronal absorptions . by analyzing spectra obtained by sumer",
    ", @xcite found that the average profiles for  through ly@xmath17 are all reversed at the center and stronger in the red wing .",
    "it has been suggested that the asymmetries of lyman line profiles are related to the differential flows in the upper solar atmosphere @xcite .",
    "@xcite also found larger peak separations of the profiles at limb than at disk center .",
    "the full high - quality  line profiles were not recorded on the detectors of sumer for a long time , because the high radiance of the line usually leads to a saturation of the detector microchannel plates .",
    "attempts have been made to record  on the bare part of detector a. however , the signal determination turned out to be highly uncertain due to the local - gain depression correction @xcite .",
    "although much has been known about the emission and structures of the tr , there are still many important things that have not or rarely been investigated . for example , almost all studies of the tr network structures are concentrated on the average sun or quiet sun ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "but the tr is in fact highly nonuniform ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) so that differences between different solar regions ( quiet sun , coronal holes , active regions ) should be expected .",
    "another aspect is concerning the nature of the flow field in the tr .",
    "high - cadence observations reveal that the tr is highly dynamic and transient flows are often detected ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while quasi - steady flows lasting from several hours to several days are also observed to be present in the tr ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it is hard to imagine how these two kinds of flows could coexist in the tr .",
    "moreover , upflows in the upper tr outside coronal holes are not well understood @xcite .",
    "the tr above sunspots is also an interesting topic .",
    "although sunspots and plage have been intensively studied in the photosphere and chromosphere @xcite , their possible different properties in the tr are not well understood .",
    "finally , the lower tr line  has been suggested to be used in proposed future solar missions such as solar orbiter @xcite , kuafu @xcite and smese @xcite . despite its importance",
    ", high - quality undisturbed  profiles have not been obtained , and signatures of tr flows and transient phenomena in lyman line profiles have not been identified in observations before 2008 .",
    "these open questions are summarized below :    \\(1 ) are there any differences between the tr properties in coronal holes and in the quiet sun ?",
    "\\(2 ) why are quasi - steady flows frequently observed in the tr and corona ?",
    "\\(3 ) are there any differences between the tr properties above sunspots and the surrounding plage regions ?",
    "\\(4 ) what are the characteristics of the origin and initial acceleration of the solar wind in the tr and corona ?",
    "\\(5 ) what does the genuine solar hydrogen  radiance profile ( that unaffected by the atmosphere of the earth ) look like ?    in the past several years",
    ", a lot of work has been done to understand the problems mentioned above .",
    "the magnetically structured tr was found to have different properties in different regions through a combination of spectroscopic observations and magnetic field extrapolations . with the help of magnetic field extrapolations ,",
    "the tr flows in different regions were better explained , and the persistent and transient flows can now be understood in a unified picture .",
    "comprehensive comparisons of tr properties between sunspots and plage regions have also been done in the recent past , and distinct differences were found . a new technique of recording  profiles has been employed by the sumer team since june 2008 , and high - quality  profiles without geocoronal absorption were obtained for the first time . it has been found that tr flows and ees can modify the observed lyman line profiles .",
    "this article reviews these recent progresses and provides a new view on the tr emission and structures .",
    "the quiet sun usually occupies most of the disk area , and thus its properties often represent the average properties of the sun .",
    "both transient and quasi - steady flows are observed to be present in the quiet - sun tr .",
    "it is well known that emission lines formed in the middle tr are redshifted by several km  s@xmath14 on average ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with increasing temperature , the average redshift of tr lines decreases , and finally turns into blue shift above @xmath05@xmath910@xmath10  k @xcite .    within the sumer spectral range ,",
    "the strong ne  770   line formed in the upper tr is of particular value because of its important role in the study of solar wind origin .",
    "the average blue shift of this line has been established since 1999 , when @xcite derived a very accurate rest wavelength of @xmath18  @xmath19 for it .",
    "blue shifts are found almost everywhere on the dopplergrams of ne   in polar coronal holes @xcite .",
    "and patches of significant ne   blue shift are also found within equatorial coronal holes @xcite .",
    "these blue shifts are usually interpreted as signatures of the nascent fast solar wind , and found to be associated with the chromospheric network @xcite where magnetic funnels anchor and expand with height @xcite .    in the quiet sun ,",
    "significant blue shifts of ne   were also found at network junctions and considered to be possible sources of the solar wind @xcite .",
    "however , the magnetic field lines of the quiet sun are usually closed so that it is difficult to imagine how the materials escape into the interplanetary space .    as a low-@xmath11 plasma region ,",
    "the tr should be magnetically structured and the flows of tr plasmas should be largely guided or controlled by the strong magnetic fields . since currently the magnetic field of the upper solar atmosphere can not be measured directly , magnetic field extrapolation is often adopted by the solar community to study the magnetic coupling of different coronal structures and processes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the validity of potential - field coronal magnetic field models has been tested and confirmed with recent development of coronal magnetic field measurements @xcite . with the assumption that the magnetic field is almost force - free at heights of about 400 km above the photosphere @xcite ,",
    "the force - free model proposed by @xcite has been applied successfully in the studies of long - lasting and quasi - steady phenomena and structures in the tr @xcite .",
    "@xcite mentioned that it is the global magnetic topology that dictates whether the released plasma just provides thermal input to the quiet solar corona or finally feeds the solar wind . in order to investigate the possible source region of the solar wind and the physical meaning of the prominent ne   blue shift in the quiet sun",
    ", @xcite and @xcite applied the @xcite solution to reconstruct the 3-dimensional ( 3-d ) potential magnetic - field structure in a quiet - sun region .",
    "@xcite found that a sub - region corresponding to relatively weak emission in the eit ( extreme ultraviolet imaging telescope ) 195   image is associated with open field lines .",
    "@xcite further pointed out that these open fields correspond to a magnetic funnel structure in the quiet sun .",
    "figure  [ fig.2 ] shows this structure .",
    "it can be seen that the funnel structure consists of two parts : below @xmath020  mm , several small funnels originating from different supergranular boundaries expand with height ; above @xmath020  mm , these small funnels merge into a single wide open - field region .",
    "one may speculate that coronal funnel structures in coronal holes should be of a similar form , yet the merging height might be different @xcite .",
    "the existence of the funnel structure , which may result from the local opening of large - scale coronal loops through magnetic reconnections , suggests that the solar wind could also form in the quiet sun .",
    "however , figure  [ fig.2 ] reveals clearly that most of the patches with significant ne   blue shifts do not coincide with the funnel legs .",
    "thus , as argued by @xcite and @xcite , these blue - shift sites may not be sources of the solar wind .",
    "if the solar wind could actually form in the quiet sun , it may start at a layer higher than the source region of the ne   emission .",
    "if this is the case , significant outflows could perhaps be found in the dopplergram of another line with a higher formation temperature than that of ne  .",
    "in fact , @xcite found that the patches with significant blue shift located mainly in network junctions are often associated with legs of large coronal loops .",
    "thus , these blue shifts are more likely to be signatures of mass supply to coronal loops rather than solar wind outflows .",
    "the correspondence between the significant blue shift of ne   and loop legs was further investigated by @xcite .",
    "it can be seen from figure  [ fig.3 ] that in this quiet - sun region almost all of the patches with significant blue shift on the dopplergram of ne   coincide with legs of magnetic loops originating from strong - field regions .",
    "the loop legs generally exhibit funnel - like shapes , supporting the argument made by @xcite that magnetic funnels can either be connected to the solar wind or form the legs of large coronal loops .",
    "figure  [ fig.3 ] also reveals that some blue - shift patches are even associated with the common leg of several joint loops with different spatial scales and orientations .",
    "thus , the mass and energy flowing into a single funnel can then be spread and supplied to multiple loops .    under the assumption that the doppler shift of ne   can be used as a proxy for the plasma bulk flow ( i.e. , of the proton flow ) @xcite ,",
    "@xcite calculated the rate of mass supply to coronal loops for each funnel - like loop leg .",
    "they found an anti - correlation between the mass flux and the expansion factor of the loop leg from the photosphere to 4  mm ( formation height of ne  , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) above the photosphere .",
    "it is known that the expansion rate of the large - scale magnetic field structures largely determines the speed of the solar wind ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite argued that the expansion rate of the loop leg could possibly be related to the observed mass flux . in a strongly diverging funnel - like loop leg ,",
    "most of the energy that is brought in by the cool plasma and produced in heating processes may be deposited in the lower layer of the loop leg ( below the formation height of ne  ) , and therefore the energy used to drive the upflow in the upper tr will be reduced . in contrast , if the expansion of the loop leg is weak , more energy will be used to accelerate the upflow , and thus the upward mass flux will be increased .",
    "transient flows lasting from several seconds to several minutes are often detected in the tr .",
    "for example , transient siphon flows have been observed to be present along small - scale cold loops in the quiet sun @xcite . the transient siphon flow reported by @xcite occurred in a weak mixed - polarity field region located outside the adjacent funnel - like loop leg .",
    "thus , it should not be related to the long - lasting upflow in the loop leg . in the tr structure proposed by @xcite , siphon flow is the dominant type of flow in coronal loops .",
    "however , observations seem to suggest that siphon flows rarely exist in quiet - sun coronal loops with sizes comparable to or larger than supergranules .",
    "thus , the dominant flows at upper - tr temperatures in quiet - sun coronal loops are the long - lasting upflows rather than siphon flows @xcite .",
    "both the downflows in the middle tr and upflows in the upper tr are almost steady on the time scale of one day , comparable to the life time of the network .",
    "figure  [ fig.4 ] illustrates the spatial relationship between prominent redshifts of a middle tr line c   and patches of the most significant blue shift of ne  .",
    "the figure reveals clearly that the redshifts of c   are usually very strong along the network , and that prominent blue shifts of ne   are concentrated in network junctions where several cells converge .",
    "as pointed out by @xcite , the locations of strong upflows in the upper tr are often cospatial with strong downflows in the middle tr .",
    "however , in some cases the prominent blue shifts of ne   do not fully coincide with but slightly deviate from the strongest red shifts of c  , which might be related to the height variation of the network magnetic field @xcite .",
    "the relationship between the persistent redshifts of cool lines and blue shifts of lines formed at higher temperatures is not well understood . in coronal holes ,",
    "the blue and redshifts were explained by @xcite and @xcite as the upflow and downflow after magnetic reconnection between open field lines in coronal funnels and cool loops on the sides . in the quiet sun ,",
    "magnetic reconnections might also occur if the magnetic polarities of side loops are opposite to those of funnel - like loop legs .",
    "thus , the scenario of continuous magnetic reconnection might also be the mechanism responsible for the bi - directional flows in the tr , @xcite .",
    "@xcite proposed a tr structure which involves reconnections between the strong network magnetic field and continuously advected weak field from the supergranular cell interior for both the quiet sun and coronal holes .",
    "the resulting downflows and upflows are then observed to be the redshifts of emission lines formed in the middle tr and the blue shifts of upper - tr lines , respectively .    as an alternative explanation",
    ", the redshifts of middle - tr lines might also correspond to the downward cooling plasma after the velocity of the upflows decreases to zero . as mentioned by @xcite ,",
    "cool photospheric and chromospheric plasmas can continuously enter loop legs through processes such as magnetic reconnection and diffusion from outside .",
    "these plasmas may then flow up and speed up along the loop legs when the heating is switched on , leading to significant blue shifts of lines formed in the upper tr .",
    "due to the onset of possible ( radiative ) cooling effects , the flows might decelerate above a certain height ( perhaps in the lower corona ) and finally turn downwards and accelerate under gravity , leading to emission by the dense plasma at lower temperatures and causing the redshifts of middle - tr lines .",
    "the steadiness of the observed shifts suggests that all these processes should occur continuously and persistently .",
    "occasionally , part of the large - scale quiet - sun coronal loops could locally be opened through processes such as magnetic reconnection . due to the decrease of the magnetic tension",
    ", the upflowing materials might speed up and reach higher layers along the magnetic field lines , and could finally be released into the solar wind after further acceleration .    based on many observations of long - lasting flows in the tr and corona",
    ", @xcite proposed the concept of `` coronal circulation '' , or `` coronal convection '' , to emphasize that the plasma in the tr and corona is flowing all the time , leading to quasi - steady average flows which are strongly guided by the dominant magnetic field .",
    "in fact , a similar idea was suggested more than three decades ago by @xcite . the quasi - steady flow field can be regarded as the background flow field in the tr and corona . while occasionally small - scale transient flows could locally occur and superpose on the background field .",
    "coronal bright points are small - scale bipolar features indicating local heating in the tr and lower corona . it is believed that a bp consists of several miniature loops ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and that the emission of a bp is usually highly dynamic ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the relationship between the dynamic emission of bps and the evolution of the underlying photospheric magnetic field has been intensively studied ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . while the plasma diagnostics as well as the flow field of bps have only been investigated recently .",
    "the electron density of bps , which is vital to determine the radiative losses in models of coronal heating , was derived at coronal temperatures @xcite and tr temperatures @xcite in the last several years . the differential emission measure ( dem ) of bps",
    "was found to peak around @xmath20 @xcite .",
    "@xcite and @xcite determined the volumetric plasma filling factor of bps , which varies from @xmath21 to 0.3 .",
    "the flow field of bps has rarely been investigated .",
    "@xcite noticed that the doppler shift of s   in a bp is in the range of @xmath22 to 10  km  s@xmath14 .",
    "@xcite reported small blue shift of ne   associated with bps in an equatorial coronal hole and concluded that bps are not directly related to the solar wind outflow . through an analysis of the spectroscopic data obtained by the extreme ultraviolet normal incidence spectrograph ( eunis ) sounding rocket instrument , both strong upflow and downflow in a bp",
    "were found by @xcite . in that observation ,",
    "doppler shifts on opposite sides of a bp were found to be about @xmath2315  km  s@xmath14 in emission lines formed in the tr and up to @xmath2335  km  s@xmath14 in coronal lines .",
    "these bi - directional high - speed flows were interpreted to be the result of magnetic reconnections , which is possible since magnetic reconnections are involved in most proposed energization mechanisms of bps ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the observation made by @xcite could only provide the distribution of doppler shift along the slit .",
    "two - dimensional ( 2-d ) flow field of a bp was investigated by @xcite . in a coordinated observation of sumer and eis , 12 euv lines with formation temperatures from @xmath24 to 6.3",
    "were used to derive the 2-d flow field of the bp at different temperatures .",
    "figure  [ fig.5 ] shows the spatial distribution of the doppler shift of each line .",
    "patches of red and blue shift are both found in the bp with comparable sizes .",
    "the absolute shift is largest in middle - tr lines ( @xmath25 ) and can reach more than 10  km  s@xmath14 .",
    "the figure also reveals clearly that the doppler shifts in the bp are quite different in different lines , e.g. , the boundary between up / down flows in the bp is almost perpendicular at lower and higher temperatures , with the transition occurring at a temperature of about @xmath26 .",
    "this temperature - dependent doppler shift in the bp might be the result of a syphon flow along the associated loop system which twists or spirals at its upper segment .",
    "considerable magnetic helicity seems to be present in such a loop system .",
    "the different doppler - shift pattern of the bp at lower and higher temperatures may also imply a different powering mechanism of the bp at different heights .",
    "@xcite proposed a two - stage heating mechanism of bps , in which magnetoconvection - driven reconnection occurs in , and supplies energy to , the relatively cool component of the bps .",
    "the increased energy supply then leads to an expansion of the associated loop system , which interacts with the overlying coronal magnetic field through fast separator reconnection and produces hot plasmas of the bps .",
    "signatures of magnetic flux cancelation and separator reconnection were indeed found by @xcite , thus favoring the two - stage powering mechanism mentioned above .",
    "in fact , significant downflows and upflows on opposite sides of bps are found not only in the quiet sun @xcite , but also in coronal holes @xcite . this kind of flow field seems to be common for bps in both regions .",
    "there are also some bps revealing blue shifts of upper - tr lines in both legs of the associated loop system @xcite .",
    "these bps are usually associated with relatively large - scale magnetic loop systems , and thus have a flow pattern similar to those of large - scale coronal loops in the quiet sun .    from figure  [ fig.5 ]",
    "it is also clear that the tr flow fields of the bp at different times could have a similar pattern , which indicates the steadiness of the flows on a time scale of @xmath02 hours .",
    "thus , the flow field of the bps also has a quasi - steady component , although the emission of the bps is believed to be highly dynamic and fluctuating .",
    "hydrogen is the most abundant element in the solar atmosphere and its resonance lines , especially the  line , play a key role in the overall energy transport in the solar atmosphere .",
    "the  line is in fact the strongest emission line in the fuv / euv spectral range and the energy loss through its emission is the most important radiative loss in the lower tr @xcite .",
    "sumer observations of the hydrogen lyman lines have several advantages over observations made by earlier instruments .",
    "first , sumer observations at the l1 point do not have the problem of geocoronal absorption .",
    "second , the spectral range of sumer covers the whole hydrogen lyman series as well as the lyman continuum @xcite .",
    "third , sumer observations can provide full lyman line profiles in very high spatial , temporal , and spectral resolutions @xcite .    a complete description of the radiances and profiles of higher lyman series lines ( from  to ly@xmath27 ; @xmath28 )",
    "was presented by @xcite .",
    "they found that : ( 1 ) the average quiet - sun profiles for  through ly@xmath17 are self - reversed , and the remaining lines are flat - topped ; ( 2 ) the network profiles show a strong enhancement in the red wings , while the internetwork profiles are nearly symmetric ; ( 3 ) the radiative transfer effect is much more significant at the limb than at disk center ; ( 4 ) the lyman - line limb brightening is weak compared to that of optically thin tr emission lines .    higher order lyman lines ( from ly@xmath17 to ly@xmath27 ) obtained above the polar limb were found to be nearly gaussian , and thus could be used to diagnose the variation of the hydrogen temperature with height in the solar atmosphere @xcite .",
    "the authors found that the line width of the lyman lines increases with decreasing main quantum number .",
    "they also found that the hydrogen temperature only slightly increases from @xmath0@xmath29  k at the height of 12  mm to @xmath0@xmath30  k at 18  mm .",
    "it was concluded that the temperature gradient of the tr is very small and does not reveal a steep jump expected from models of the solar atmosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the smooth temperature change across the tr was suggested to be the result of a mixing of various sub - structures in which the abrupt temperature jumps are located at different heights @xcite .    since the enormous radiance of the  line could lead to a saturation of the detector microchannel plates , high - quality full  profiles without geocoronal absorption had not been acquired by sumer before 2008 . in june 2008 ,",
    "the sumer team began to use an unconventional method , partly closing the aperture door to reduce the incoming photon flux by @xmath080% , and obtained high - quality undisturbed  profiles for the first time .",
    "spectra of a typical middle - tr line si  1206   was also obtained quasi - simultaneously . as an unexpected result ,",
    "most  profiles are strongly reversed and have a stronger blue peak @xcite .",
    "this asymmetry is opposite to those of most  profiles .",
    "moreover , the profile is almost symmetric when the doppler shift is small , while the profile asymmetry becomes stronger with the enhancement of the downflow in the middle tr .",
    "@xcite suggested that the asymmetries of lyman line profiles are probably related to large - scale motions of the solar atmosphere . @xcite and @xcite further concluded through numerical simulations that plasma motions could indeed modify the lyman line asymmetries .",
    "results presented in @xcite and @xcite , which demonstrated that the tr flows play an important role in shaping the  profiles , are the first observational evidence of the close relationship between plasma motions and lyman line profile asymmetries .",
    "one could assume that the profiles of the  radiation from the upper chromosphere and lower tr are nearly symmetric @xcite .",
    "when the  emission goes upwards through the middle tr , the red wings ( mainly between the line center and the red peak ) of the  profiles will be absorbed by the hydrogen atoms in the downflowing plasma . with the enhancement of the downflow , the spectral position where the absorption is strongest moves towards the red peak , leading to a weakening of the red peak and a strong asymmetry of the profiles .",
    "the red tracing lines in figure  [ fig.6 ] clearly show this trend .",
    "the spatial distribution of  profiles with different self - reversal depths was studied by @xcite . from figure  [ fig.7 ]",
    "it is clear that locations of the profiles with shallow self - reversals tend to cluster in and around the network , while strongly reversed profiles are often observed in internetwork regions .",
    "these different tendencies may result from the different magnetic structures between the two regions . in the network ,",
    "magnetic loops of different sizes and funnels are omnipresent in the chromosphere and tr .",
    "the  emission originates from the outskirts of these structures , experiencing a relatively weak radiative transfer .",
    "in contrast , in the cell interiors , only low - lying cool loops are present and the  emission sources are mainly located at a much lower height compared to the network .",
    "thus , in the internetwork region the opacity is enhanced and the  radiation penetrating the upper layers will be absorbed more strongly .",
    "the  profiles in quiescent prominences , which were found to be only slightly self - reversed , were presented by @xcite .",
    "they also found that the  profile is more reversed when seen across the magnetic field lines ( prominence axes ) than along the field lines , consistent with the prediction made by @xcite and complementing a similar finding for higher order lyman lines @xcite .",
    "the /  radiance ratio is also of great interest since it is very sensitive to the local physical and geometrical properties of many solar structures such as the quiescent prominence @xcite .",
    "calculations by @xcite suggested a value between 90 and 400 for this ratio ( energy unit ) .",
    "however , early observations made by skylab and oso 8 yielded a value of only 35 - 90 @xcite .",
    "these low values of the ratio might be problematic due to the relatively low measurement accuracy of the instruments and the error induced by the correction of the geocoronal absorption .",
    "the error of the radiometric calibration is only 15%-20% for most emission lines in sumer observations @xcite . by collecting the scattered light",
    ", @xcite reconstructed the full - disk  and  profiles through sumer observations and obtained a value of about 130 for the ratio .",
    "the median value of the /  ratios in two recent quiet - sun observations of sumer was found to be 160 and 190 , respectively @xcite .",
    "so the sumer observations are consistent with the prediction of @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig.8 ] further reveals that the radiance of  is highly correlated with that of  in the quiet sun .",
    "possible signatures of tr dynamic events in lyman line profiles have been investigated by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite found that profiles through ly@xmath31 to ly@xmath27 reveal central depressions during ees .",
    "the authors suggested that an emission increase in the wings of the lyman line profiles might be responsible for the observed central depressions .",
    "a recent study of searching for signatures of ees in  profiles has been performed by @xcite , who found that the central parts of the  profiles are obviously more reversed and the distance of the two peaks increases during ees .",
    "the authors suggested that the bi - directional jets produced by ees emit doppler - shifted  photons and cause enhanced emission at the positions of the  profile peaks .    at the end of this section , we have to mention that here we only considered the impacts of tr structures , flows , and dynamic events on the lyman line profiles .",
    "in fact , many factors such as the temperature , density , and flows in different layers of the upper solar atmosphere could all influence the production and propagation of the lyman line emission .",
    "the roles of the density and temperature in shaping the lyman line profiles are difficult to investigate with the current observations , and they should be considered in future models including calculations of non - lte ( local thermodynamic equilibrium ) radiative transfer .",
    "the tr is a highly nonuniform layer , and the magnetic structures and plasma distributions are largely different in coronal holes and in the quiet sun . in this section ,",
    "recent progress in comparative studies of the tr properties between the two regions , as well as the spectroscopic observations of the initial acceleration of the fast solar wind in coronal holes , are reviewed .      in classical models of the solar atmosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the tr is described as a thin layer , with a height of about 500  km .",
    "the scenario of a thin tr might be true in local regions .",
    "for instance , when making the assumption that the height where the radiance of an euv / fuv emission line maximizes above the limb can be regarded as the main source region of the line , we can expect the various tr lines with different formation temperatures to be emitted from approximately the same height , thus indicating the existence of a very thin tr  @xcite .",
    "however , the tr is in fact highly nonuniform in horizontal directions so that the spatial extension ( in the radial direction ) of the tr is likely to be different in various regions .    in order to determine the formation heights of emission lines in disk observations",
    ", @xcite invented the method of correlation height analysis .",
    "first the force - free solution of @xcite was used to calculate the magnetic field vector at every grid point inside a cubic volume .",
    "the correlation coefficient between the 2-d distribution of the line radiance ( usually for emission lines formed in the lower and middle tr ) or the doppler shift ( usually for emission lines formed in the upper tr ) , and the 2-d distribution of the vertical component of the extrapolated magnetic field , was calculated at each height .",
    "then the concept of emission height was introduced , which was assigned to the height at which the correlation coefficient reaches its maximum ( see figure  [ fig.9 ] ) .",
    "the correlation height could be regarded as a rough estimate of the real height of the emission source , or some kind of average emission height if the emission source is widely spread in height . as mentioned in @xcite , in the low-@xmath11 tr region , with the magnetic field being frozen into the plasma flow , the 2-d ( horizontal ) density distribution and vertical motion of the emitting ions should be largely controlled by the vertical component of the magnetic field at the line emission height .",
    "thus , a correlation of the two should be expected , and the height at which their correlation maximizes should approximately represent the real height of the emission source . a possible correlation between the magnetic field and plasma density ( expressed as the square root of a line radiance as a first order approximation )",
    "may also be expected from the theoretical point of view that the heating energy flux ( being proportional to the density ) entering loops is proportional to the magnetic field strength @xcite .",
    "@xcite applied the method of correlation analysis mentioned above to a polar coronal hole .",
    "they found a correlation height of @xmath020  mm for the upper - tr line ne  , and 4 - 5  mm for the lower - tr line si   and middle - tr line c  . based on this result",
    ", @xcite concluded that the nascent fast solar wind originates at a height range between 5 and 20  mm in magnetic funnels .",
    "the correlation heights of the same emission lines were determined in a high - latitude quiet - sun region by @xcite , who found a correlation height of @xmath04  mm for ne   and @xmath02 mm for the other two lines .",
    "@xcite determined the correlation heights of 12 emission lines with formation temperatures ranging from @xmath32 k to @xmath33 k in a polar coronal hole .",
    "they found a correlation height of 2 - 3 mm for these lines in a bright subregion , and 9 - 12 mm in a weak - emission subregion .",
    "this result suggests that the tr is highly structured and plasma at different temperatures can coexist locally at almost the same height in the tr .",
    "the ambiguity caused by the projection effect usually can not be neglected in high - latitude observations .",
    "thus , it would be necessary to check if the same results can be obtained at disk center .",
    "the method of correlation analysis was applied by @xcite to a low - latitude region consisting of an equatorial coronal hole and the surrounding quiet sun .",
    "the result was summarized in figure  [ fig.10 ] .",
    "the emission heights of all the middle - tr lines were found to be very close in either the coronal hole or the quiet - sun region , confirming the conclusion that plasma at different temperatures can coexist locally at almost the same height in the tr @xcite . in the coronal hole ,",
    "the correlation heights of the middle - tr lines are 4 - 5 mm , while in the quiet - sun region the heights are around 2 mm , indicating a higher location of the tr in the coronal hole .",
    "the correlation height of the upper - tr line ne   is even more different in both regions . in the quiet sun",
    ", it is similar to those of the middle - tr lines . while the correlation height of ne   in the coronal hole is 9.8 mm , which is systematically higher than that of a middle - tr line . with the assumption that the difference between the correlation height of a middle - tr line and that of an upper - tr line approximately represents the thickness of the tr , it is clear from figure  [ fig.10 ] that the tr is much thicker , or more extended in altitude , in the coronal hole than in the quiet sun .      in the chromosphere",
    "most of the magnetic fluxes are concentrated in the supergranular boundaries .",
    "the magnetic field structures expand with height through the tr , leading to a much more uniform corona ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the bright network emission of the tr is associated with the strong magnetic field .",
    "the variation of the network size with temperature was investigated by @xcite through a fourier - based two - dimensional autocorrelation technique .",
    "they first calculated the 2-d autocorrelation function ( acf ) of each tr radiance image ( obtained with the cds instrument ) by shifting it in both spatial dimensions , and then took its angular average in rings of integer radius and derived a curve of the correlation coefficient against radial distance .",
    "the hwhm of the acf was used to determine the network size .",
    "a sharper central peak of the acf generally corresponds to a smaller size of the bright feature . by using this method",
    ", @xcite found that the network size is almost constant from @xmath24 to @xmath34 , but increases dramatically above @xmath35 .",
    "they compared the observed temperature variation of the network size with the expansion of the network width predicted by the model of @xcite , and found a reasonable agreement .",
    "@xcite further studied the sizes of structures in images of doppler shift and line width , but only for three lines in a quiet - sun region .",
    "they found that the size of bright radiance features is always larger than that of structures in the maps of the doppler shift and line width , and attributed it to the fact that the observed doppler shift and non - thermal motion correspond to the line - of - sight components , which are usually more prominent in loop legs than at loop apex .",
    "@xcite also used the autocorrelation technique , as well as the so - called structure function , to study the life time and length scale of the tr network cells seen in the he   ( 304  ) filtergrams obtained by the extreme - ultraviolet imaging telescope ( eit ) .",
    "the magnetic network was also studied by applying their methods to the extrapolated magnetic field at different heights .",
    "they found that the magnetic network element equals the size of the he   network element at a height of 3 mm above the photosphere .",
    "the possible difference between the expansion of tr structures in coronal holes and the quiet sun was investigated by @xcite .",
    "they calculated the acf for each image of intensity , doppler shift , and non - thermal width of euv lines obtained by sumer , as well as the corresponding extrapolated magnetic field at different heights .",
    "similar to @xcite , the hwhm of the acf was considered to be the characteristic size of the feature .",
    "as noticed by @xcite , a larger size of the radiance feature in comparison to those of the doppler shift and non - thermal with was also found at all temperatures .",
    "figure  [ fig.11 ] shows that the sizes of all the three features are rather constant for lines with different formation temperatures formed in the middle tr .",
    "but in the upper tr , there clearly is a different behavior between the coronal hole and the quiet sun .",
    "although the sizes of the ne   structures are larger than those present in the middle tr , in both the coronal hole and quiet sun , the increase in the size of the radiance feature from the middle to the upper tr is apparently much larger in the coronal hole .",
    "this indicates that the tr network expands much more strongly with height in the coronal hole than in the quiet - sun region .",
    "the height variation of the sizes of the extrapolated magnetic field parameters @xmath36 , @xmath37 and @xmath38 was also investigated by @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig.11 ] reveals that the hwhm of @xmath39 and @xmath36 increase linearly with height in the lower layer of the coronal hole .",
    "the sizes ( in terms of hwhm ) of the two features are equal to each other at 10 mm , implying that small loops only reside below 10  mm , and that the magnetic field is entirely open above 10  mm .",
    "this result is consistent with the previous conclusion that high loops rarely exist in coronal holes @xcite . while the curve of the hwhm of @xmath37 is always lower than that of @xmath36 , indicating the presence of magnetic loops with different heights up to 40  mm in the quiet - sun region .",
    "the height variation of the size of @xmath40 can provide information on the expansion of magnetic structures .",
    "@xcite found that below 10  mm the size of @xmath40 increases strongly with height , which indicates a much larger expansion of the magnetic field structures in the coronal hole than in the quiet sun .",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , tr structures consisting of various types of magnetic features have been proposed by @xcite and @xcite . however , these studies only concentrated on the quiet or average sun , and did not point out the possible differences between coronal holes and the quiet sun .",
    "based on several recent observations @xcite , @xcite proposed a new sketch of the tr structure , with obvious differences between the coronal hole and quiet sun ( see figure  [ fig.12 ] ) .",
    "the tr has a height extension of approximately 4 - 10  mm in coronal holes and only 2 - 4  mm in the quiet sun . in coronal holes , open",
    "magnetic funnels guiding the fast solar wind are the dominant magnetic structures .",
    "most of the magnetic loops reside only in the lower part of the atmosphere , and large - scale loops are rarely present .",
    "thus , in coronal holes magnetic funnels can expand strongly in the tr . in the quiet sun ,",
    "magnetic loops with different sizes are crowded , which only permits a weak expansion of the legs of large loops and possible open funnels .",
    "upflows in the network of these local open - field regions can possibly work their way up to higher layers , finally merge and form the solar wind .",
    "although it is well known that the lyman line emission is obviously reduced in coronal holes compared to the quiet sun , the coronal - hole lyman line profiles have rarely been investigated through observations .",
    "@xcite noticed that the red peak of the average  profile in equatorial coronal holes is stronger than the blue peak , which is similar to that in the quiet sun .",
    "however , he found a weaker profile asymmetry and more profiles with blue - peak dominance in coronal holes than in quiet - sun regions .",
    "profiles in coronal holes were recently obtained through sumer observations @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig.13 ] demonstrates that in both coronal holes and quiet - sun regions the peak separation of the  profile increases towards the limb , which might be due to the enhancement of the radiative transfer effect resulting from the longer integration path in the line - of - sight direction at the limb .",
    "this result complements the previous finding by @xcite for  through ly@xmath17 .",
    "@xcite also found a larger peak separation of the  profile which is indicative of a larger opacity in coronal holes than in the quiet sun .",
    "note that the small values of the peak separation at small distances ( further away from the pole ) are due to a contamination of some quiet - sun structures at the boundary of the coronal - hole region scanned on 26 june 2008 .",
    "@xcite argued that the nearly perpendicular orientations between the line of sight and the magnetic field lines , and/or a weaker ionizing radiation field in the upper tr and corona , might be responsible for the larger opacity in coronal holes . in the latter case ,",
    "the reduced radiative ionization leads to more atomic hydrogen in the upper tr and corona , causing a stronger absorption of the profiles .",
    "the asymmetry of the  profiles is not so different in coronal holes and in the quiet sun . while this is not the case for the  line which has a much smaller opacity compared to   @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig.14 ] reveals clearly that most  profiles in a polar coronal hole are stronger in the blue peak , distinctly different from the well - known red - peak dominance of the  profiles in the quiet sun @xcite .",
    "since the asymmetries of lyman line profiles are believed to be at least partly determined by flows in the upper solar atmosphere @xcite , @xcite suggested that the prevailing solar wind outflow might be responsible for the blue - peak asymmetry of the  profiles in the polar coronal hole .",
    "an alternative explanation is to start with the fact that the  line behaves more or less similar to typical tr lines in the quiet sun . in polar coronal holes ,",
    "the opacity is so large that the  line now behaves more similar to  and shows a stronger blue peak in its profile @xcite .",
    "the /  radiance ratio in coronal holes has also been investigated by @xcite , who found that the ratio decreases from the quiet - sun level ( @xmath0190 ) at disk center to about 130 at the limb .",
    "this decreasing trend could be explained by the fact that the  and  lines show no and weak limb brightening , respectively .",
    "@xcite suggested that the solar wind may be produced by small - scale magnetic reconnection in the network .",
    "this viewpoint has been supported by @xcite , who found upflowing and downflowing plasma ( that is possibly related with reconnection ) at a height of about 20  mm and 5  mm , respectively .",
    "modeling work also supports the idea that magnetic reconnections between open funnels and cool loops aside in the chromospheric and tr network can give rise to the nascent solar wind outflow and corresponding downflows @xcite .    in the reconnection - driven model of the solar wind origin",
    ", the nascent solar wind outflow appears first in the upper tr of the coronal hole @xcite .",
    "two - dimensional images of the doppler shift of ne   obtained by the sumer instrument revealed predominant blue shifts of the ne   line , with the most prominent shifts occurring along the network lanes in polar coronal holes @xcite .",
    "these blue shifts are widely believed to be signatures of the initial outflow of the solar wind @xcite .    due to the lack of strong hot lines , two - dimensional dopplergrams of emission lines with a higher formation temperature than that of ne",
    "could not be reliably derived through sumer observations . yet",
    "the temperature - dependent outflow , which is expected from a reconnection - driven solar wind model , was recently identified by @xcite through eis observations .",
    "@xcite produced two - dimensional dopplergrams of several emission lines formed in the upper tr and lower corona of a polar coronal hole .",
    "they found that patches of significant blue shift are clearly present on the dopplergrams of emission lines with formation temperatures higher than @xmath415.8 .",
    "these patches are isolated at the upper - tr temperature , but expand in size with increasing temperature and finally merge in the corona .",
    "this result is consistent with the scenario of solar wind outflow being guided by expanding magnetic funnels @xcite .",
    "the temperature dependence of the outflow shown in figure  [ fig.15 ] reveals that the doppler shift of the quiet - sun materials is very small and independent of the temperature , while inside the coronal hole a clear enhancement of the blue shift with increasing temperature is present in the upper tr and corona @xcite . under a simple assumption that emission lines with a higher formation temperature are formed in higher layers of the solar atmosphere ,",
    "@xcite concluded that the observed temperature - dependent outflow corresponds to the initial acceleration of the fast solar wind .",
    "the steady enhancement of the blue shift with temperature suggests a nearly steady acceleration process .",
    "the temperature variation of the difference of doppler shift between the coronal hole and quiet sun was investigated by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the absolute difference was found to increase with temperature from about @xmath42 to @xmath43 . a significant blue shift in coronal holes with respect to the quiet sun was clearly present even at low temperature of @xmath44 @xcite , probably indicating that an upward trend of the flows in open funnels compared to the quiet - sun loops is already present in the middle tr .",
    "active regions ( ars ) are strong - field regions on the sun and are the main sources of hazardous space weather events .",
    "their emission patterns , flow fields , and plasma properties are largely different from those in the quiet sun .",
    "large - scale loop - like emission structures outlining the strong magnetic field are the dominant visible features in ars .",
    "the loop legs are usually associated with persistent redshifts of emission lines formed in the tr and lower corona @xcite .",
    "steady blue shifts lasting for several days have been observed at the edges of some ars @xcite .",
    "these flows seem to be guided by the dominant magnetic field structures and their quasi - steadyness indicates the presence of coronal convection / circulation in ars @xcite .",
    "the redshifts associated with loop legs are considered to have an origin similar to the prominent redshifts in network lanes of the quiet sun , although their values often reach as high as 30  km  s@xmath14 @xcite . in the quiet sun and coronal holes , the redshifts in network lanes",
    "are only present in middle - tr lines . while in ars ,",
    "the redshifts in loop legs are generally present in emission lines formed at middle tr to lower coronal temperatures .",
    "observations show that the doppler shift turns from redshift to blue shift at a temperature of @xmath456.2 @xcite .",
    "the stronger magnetic field in ars compared to the quiet sun may result in more efficient heating of the loop legs , leading to a hotter upflowing plasma and subsequently a cooler downflowing plasma with a wider temperature range .",
    "the blue shifts of tr and coronal lines at boundaries of some ars , which are usually 20 - 50  km  s@xmath14 in magnitude , have been interpreted as possible signatures of the nascent slow solar wind @xcite .",
    "these blue shifts revealed through spectroscopic observations are consistent with the outflows revealed through x - ray imaging observations @xcite .",
    "@xcite investigated the temperature dependence of the outflow and found a steady enhancement of the blue shift with increasing temperature .",
    "this temperature - dependent blue shift is very similar to that found by @xcite in a polar coronal hole , and could be the spectroscopic signature of the initial acceleration of the slow solar wind .",
    "the temperature dependences of flare and cme - related outflows , which show dramatic changes at @xmath01  mk , were found by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the dramatic changes are consistent with the impulsive nature of these explosive phenomena ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus , the behavior of the solar wind at its origin and of the cme or flare during their initiations are distinctly different .",
    "sunspots are solar features which have been studied for thousands of years ( see a review by * ? ? ?",
    "studies of sunspots and their surrounding plage regions are usually concentrated on their magnetic field and plasma properties in the convection zone , photosphere and chromosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in contrast , the tr properties of sunspots and plage have been less investigated .",
    "the most prominent structures in images of emission lines formed in the middle and upper - tr are sunspot plumes ( see figure  [ fig.16 ] ) which exhibit significantly enhanced radiation at locations overlying sunspot umbrae @xcite .",
    "the strongly enhanced line emission at tr temperatures and the reduced continuum even lead to the sticking out of many normally very weak tr lines in sunspot plumes @xcite .",
    "a sunspot plume might be the common footpoint of several long - reaching loops , and its two end points are usually anchored respectively in the umbra and somewhere far from the sunspot ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite and @xcite performed a dem analysis to compare the temperature structure between sunspot plumes and other features by using the cds and sumer spectra , respectively .",
    "the results are consistent with the fact that sunspot plumes have greatly enhanced emission compared to the surrounding regions in the temperature range between @xmath415.0 and @xmath416.0 .",
    "the reason of the strong emission of sunspot plumes at these temperatures was investigated by @xcite , who attributed it to a large filling factor of the plume .",
    "the average lyman line profiles in sunspots and plage regions were presented by @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig.17 ] shows clearly that profiles of the lower - order lyman lines also exhibit central reversals and stronger red peaks , which are similar to those in the quiet sun @xcite .",
    "however , the lyman line profiles are almost not reversed in sunspots , especially in the sunspot plume and umbra .",
    "although  spectra have not been observed by sumer in sunspots yet , a  profile obtained by the ultraviolet spectrometer and polarimeter onboard the _ smm _ ( solar maximum mission ) spacecraft seems to be flat - topped and not obviously reversed @xcite .",
    "these results imply a much smaller opacity in sunspots compared to the plage regions , and is consistent with the conclusion of @xcite and @xcite that the observed strong emission of the molecular hydrogen in sunspots is caused by the excitation of the enhanced backward radiation of  and o  1031.93   due to the greatly reduced opacity .    the smaller opacity in sunspots and larger opacity in plage regions are likely related to the varying lyman emission from the chromosphere and tr .",
    "in either the plage region or quiet - sun region , the lyman line emission originates by a large fraction in the chromosphere and is strongly absorbed by the dense hydrogen atoms in upper layers , causing a strong central reversal of the lower order lyman line profiles . while in sunspots , due to possibly less chromospheric material or a more extended tr , the ratio of the chromospheric to tr contributions of the lyman line radiation is much lower .",
    "thus , the absorption of the lyman line emission is very weak since the density of the solar atmosphere decreases dramatically above the tr .",
    "sunspot plumes are mainly tr features , so that the tr contribution to the lyman line emission should dominate over the chromospheric contribution .",
    "moreover , the loops associated with sunspot plumes are usually far reaching and large in size .",
    "the overlying corona is thus insufficiently dense to cause an obvious dip at the center of the lyman line profiles .",
    "the electron density of sunspot plumes has been derived by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , through observations made by the s-055 euv spectrometer onboard _ skylab _ , the sumer and cds instruments , respectively .",
    "the plume density was found to be about @xmath46 or lower by using o   and o   line pairs .",
    "@xcite compared the electron densities of sunspots with that of the plage , and found that the densities of the umbra and plume regions are @xmath47 , which is not so different from the tr density of the quiet sun @xcite and is one order of magnitude smaller than in the plage and penumbra regions .",
    "the lower density in sunspots compared to the surrounding plage may indicate that the sunspot plasma emitting at tr temperatures is located higher up than the plasma in the surrounding plage region , since the density of the solar atmosphere decreases almost exponentially with height above the photosphere .",
    "the possibly higher tr above sunspots is consistent with the result of an independent study , showing that euv emission lines in regions of stronger magnetic field have higher formation heights @xcite .",
    "this scenario also supports the temperature structure of sunspots proposed by @xcite , in which the sunspot tr temperature is much lower than the surrounding temperature at the same height .",
    "since the magnetic loops associated with sunspot plumes usually have one footpoint anchored in the umbra and the other in the plage region , the much lower density in the umbra compared to the plage could probably establish a sufficient pressure difference to initiate siphon flows along the loops and result in the persistent prominent redshifts of tr lines in sunspot plumes @xcite .",
    "the different temperature structures in sunspots and the surrounding plage regions are summarized in figure  [ fig.18 ] .",
    "the iso - temperature lines are used to mark the boundaries between two layers . a higher and more extended tr is clearly present above the sunspot than above the plage regions . in sunspot regions ,",
    "the dominant flows in the photosphere and chromosphere are opposite in their directions , which are known as the evershed flow and inverse evershed flow @xcite .",
    "downflows are usually observed to be associated with sunspot plumes at tr temperatures .",
    "it is still unclear whether these downflows are the leakage of the inverse evershed flow into the tr @xcite , or resulting from syphon flows along far - reaching loops ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "recent advances in the investigation of the solar tr , resulting especially from spectroscopic observations in the fuv / euv spectral range , have been reviewed in this article .",
    "significant progress was achieved in many aspects of the tr research , concerning the magnetic field structures and plasma properties , behaviors of the nascent solar wind and other systematic flows , and characteristics of the hydrogen lyman line profiles in different parts of the sun ( the quiet sun , coronal holes , and ars ) .    based on studies combining spectroscopic observations with magnetic field extrapolations , a new scenario of the tr consisting of different magnetic field and emission structures in the quiet sun and",
    "coronal holes has been proposed . in this new picture ( shown in figure  [ fig.12 ] )",
    ", the tr is higher and more extended in coronal holes than in the quiet sun .",
    "the dominant magnetic field structures in chs are open magnetic funnels which are related to the fast solar wind , whereas there are only low - lying magnetic loops in coronal holes .",
    "in contrast , in the quiet sun magnetic loops with different spatial scales are crowded .",
    "occasionally , some large loops might become locally open through magnetic reconnection , and then possibly release material to the solar wind .",
    "these different scenarios naturally lead to a strong expansion of the magnetic funnels in coronal holes and a relatively weak expansion of magnetic field structures in the quiet sun through the upper tr .",
    "although the tr is believed to be a dynamic layer , quasi - steady tr flows lasting from several hours to several days have also been observed to be present in the quiet sun , coronal holes , and ars . in coronal holes ,",
    "the predominant blue shift of emission lines was found to increase steadily from the upper tr to the lower corona , indicating the steady acceleration of the nascent fast solar wind , while in the quiet sun the blue shifts of upper - tr lines are localized in network junctions and considered to be signatures of mass supply to large coronal loops .",
    "the persistent redshift of middle - tr lines in the network could correspond to the downflowing plasma occurring after continuous magnetic reconnections or cooling of the upflows .",
    "persistent redshifts of emission lines formed in the tr and lower corona are usually found in the legs of ar loops , and steady blue shifts lasting for several days are often present at the boundaries of some ars .",
    "all these flows seem to be guided by the dominant magnetic field structures , and their quasi - steadyness suggests the presence of some kind of convection / circulation in the tr and corona .",
    "sporadically , small - scale transient flows will locally occur and be superposed on the background quasi - steady flow field .    based on spectroscopic observations in euv / fuv , properties of the tr above sunspots and the surrounding plage regions",
    "have also been comprehensively investigated . by comparing the lyman line profiles , electron densities , dem curves , and filling factors of the sunspot plume , umbra , penumbra , and the surrounding plage regions ,",
    "the tr above sunspots was found to be higher and probably more extended ( shown in figure  [ fig.18 ] ) .",
    "the opacity of the hydrogen lines is apparently much smaller above sunspots than above plage regions .",
    "theoretical calculations and observational inferences also indicate that the enhanced tr emission of the sunspot plume is probably caused by a large filling factor .    as the dominant emission line in the lower tr",
    ", the hydrogen  line provides a good tool to diagnose through its profile the coupling between the lower - tr emission and the flows in upper - tr layers . with sumer observations , high - quality solar  profiles without geocoronal absorption",
    "were recently obtained for the first time . as an unexpected result , this strongly self - reversed line is often asymmetric with a stronger blue peak , and there is a clear correspondence between this asymmetry and downflows in the middle tr",
    ". profiles with deeper self - reversals were found statistically in the internetwork rather than the network .",
    "a larger peak separation indicative of a larger opacity was found in coronal holes than in the quiet sun .",
    "the  line is also a useful line to study the coupling between the lower tr and higher layer , because of its opposite asymmetry in the quiet sun and polar coronal holes .",
    "signatures of tr explosive events are often clearly present in the  line .",
    "the tr is a key region to understand the mechanisms of solar wind origin and coronal heating .",
    "although our understanding of the tr was greatly improved due to many new observations and theoretical work in the past decade , some open questions remain and need to be answered by future observations and models .",
    "the possible solar wind origin from quiet - sun regions is poorly understood .",
    "the opening of the magnetic loops has not been directly observed in the quiet sun . on the other hand , although signatures of outflows are identified through tr and coronal observations and interpreted as solar wind origin in both the coronal hole and active region edges , the detailed observational evidence of the driving mechanism for the solar wind is still missing .",
    "high - cadence observations of the magnetic field structures in both the photosphere and higher layers are required to investigate the mechanisms of solar wind origin in different regions .",
    "the planned coronal solar magnetism observatory ( cosmo ) will provide unprecedented routine and high - cadence measurements of the magnetic fields above the photosphere , which is likely to unveil the driving mechanisms of solar wind origin in the tr and corona .",
    "although we know that the tr is the interface between the cool chromosphere and hot corona , the detailed link between the chromosphere and corona is in fact not well understood .",
    "this is partly because of the moderate spatial and temporal resolutions of euv / fuv observations made by current instruments .",
    "recent observations seem to suggest that the intermittent dynamics in the upper chromosphere could drive mass ejections at tr and coronal temperatures , and thus could perhaps provide information on the missing link between the cool chromosphere and hot corona @xcite .",
    "such jets and spicules are small - scale transient phenomena , and current euv / fuv observations are difficult to fully resolve them .",
    "the iris ( interface region imaging spectrograph ) mission which will be launched at the end of 2012 can provide uv spectra and images with very high spatial resolution ( @xmath48 ) in very high time cadence ( @xmath01 s ) , and thus will undoubtedly make a great contribution to the studies of the dynamics in the chromosphere and tr .",
    "our new observations of the relationship between the lyman line asymmetries and tr flows or dynamics also need to be physically understood .",
    "moreover , the newly observed genuine  radiance profiles provide new constraints to models of the solar atmosphere .",
    "thus , new atmospheric models including calculations of non - lte ( local thermodynamic equilibrium ) radiative transfer should be developed and compared with the new observations .",
    "in addition , our understanding of the  line characteristics and its role in the energy transport of the solar atmosphere will be further improved through observations by future missions such as solar orbiter .",
    "finally , since the sun is the only star that we can spatially resolve , detailed observations of the solar tr and corona could help us understand observational results of solar - like stars and other astrophysical systems .",
    "it has been demonstrated that the structure of accretion disks around stellar - mass black holes is similar to that of the solar atmosphere @xcite .",
    "many phenomena such as collimated outflows and flares which are often observed in the solar tr and corona also occur in other astrophysical systems ( see a review by * ? ? ?",
    "the potential value of the observed high quality full - sun fuv / euv spectra for the stellar studies has also been discussed by @xcite . in the future , we hope that our new views on the emission and structure of the solar tr could also be used for reference when investigating stellar coronae and other ultraviolet emitting astrophysical plasmas .",
    "sumer and mdi are instruments onboard soho , an esa and nasa mission .",
    "the sumer project is financially supported by dlr , cnes , nasa , and the esa prodex programme ( swiss contribution ) .",
    "eis is an instrument onboard _",
    ", a japanese mission developed and launched by isas / jaxa , with naoj as domestic partner and nasa and stfc ( uk ) as international partners .",
    "it is operated by these agencies in cooperation with esa and nsc ( norway ) .",
    "we appreciate the fruitful collaborations with dr .",
    "l. teriaca , dr .",
    "e. landi , dr . u. schhle , prof .",
    "p. lemaire , prof .",
    "b. n. dwivedi , prof .",
    "vial , and dr .",
    "hui tian thanks the long - lasting support from the graduate school of peking university ( especially from mr .",
    "feng he ) and from the imprs research school ( especially from dr .",
    "dieter schmitt and prof .",
    "sami solanki ) run jointly by the max planck society and the universities of gttingen and braunschweig .",
    "the support by china scholarship council for hui tian s stay at max - planck - institut fr sonnensystemforschung from september 2007 to september 2008 is also acknowledged .",
    "chuanyi tu s group at peking university are supported by the national natural science foundation of china under contracts 40874090 , 40931055 , and 40890162 .",
    "they are also supported by the beijing education project xk100010404 , the fundamental research funds for the central universities , and the national basic research program of china under grant g2006cb806305 .",
    "aiouaz , t. , peter , h. , & lemaire p. 2008 , a&a , 435 , 713 aiouaz , t. 2008 , apj , 674 , 1144 athay , r. g. 1982 , apj , 263 , 982 athay , r. g. 1984 , apj , 287 , 412 axford , w. i. , mckenzie , j. f. , & sukhorukova , g. v. 1999 , space science reviews , 87 , 25 bartoe , j .- d . f. , & brueckner , g. e. , 1975 , journal of the optical society of america , 65 , 13 bartoe , j .- d . f. , brueckner , g. e. , purcell , j. d. , & tousey , r. 1977 , appl . opt . , 16 , 879 bartoe , j .- d . f. , brueckner , g. e. , nicolas , k. r. , et al .",
    "1979 , mnras , 187 , 463 basri ,  g.  s. , linsky ,  j.  l. , bartoe ,  j .- d .",
    "f. , et al .",
    "1979 , apj 230 , 924 bocchialini , k. , & vial , j .- c .",
    "1996 , sol .",
    "168 , 37 bohlin , j. d. , vogel , s. n. , purcell , j. d. , et al .",
    "1975 , apj , 197 , l133 bonnet , r. m. 1981 , space .",
    ", 29 , 131 brekke , p. , hassler , d. m. , & wilhelm , k. 1997 , sol .",
    ", 175 , 349 brosius , j. w. , & landi , e. 2005 , apj , 632 , 1196 brosius , j. w. , rabin , d. m. , & thomas , r. j. 2007 , apj , 656 , l41 brosius , j. w. , rabin , d. m. , thomas , r. j. , & landi , e. 2008 , apj , 677 , 781 brown , d. s. , parnell , c. e. , deluca , e. e. , golub l. , & mcmullen , r. a. 2001 , sol .",
    "phys . , 201 , 305 brueckner , g. e. , & bartoe , j .- d . f. , 1974 , sol .",
    "phys . , 38 , 133 brueckner , g .",
    "e. , & bartoe , j .- d .",
    "f. , 1983 , apj , 272 , 329 brueckner , g. e. , bartoe , j .- d . f. , cook , j. w. , dere , k. p. , & socker , d. g. 1986 , adv .",
    "space res . ,",
    "6 , 263 brynildsen , n. , maltby , p. , fredvik , t. , et al .",
    "2001 , sol .",
    "phys . , 198 , 89 bchner , j. , & nikutowski , b. 2005 , esa sp-592 , 141 bchner , j. 2006 , space science reviews , 122 , 149 chae , j. , wang , h. , lee , c. y. , et al .",
    "1998a , apj , 497 , l109 chae , j. , schhle , u. , lemaire , p. 1998b",
    ", apj , 505 , 957 chae , j. , yun , h. s. , & poland , a. i. 1998c , apjs , 114 , 151 chen , p. f. , & shibata , k. 2000 , apj , 545 , 524 chen , p. f. , & priest , e. r. 2006 , sol .",
    "phys . , 238 , 313 chen , y. , hu , y. q. , & sun , s. j. 2007 , apj , 665 , 1421 culhane , j. l. , et al .",
    "2007 , sol .",
    ", 243 , 19 curdt , w. , dwivedi , b. n , & feldman , u. 2000 , j. astrophys . astr .",
    "21 , 397 curdt , w. , brekke , p. , feldman , u. , wilhelm , k. , dwivedi , b. n. , schhle , u. , & lemaire , p. 2001 , a&a 375 , 591 .",
    "curdt , w. , landi , e. , & feldman , u. 2004 , a&a , 427,1045 curdt , w. , tian , h. , dwivedi , b. n. , & marsch , e. 2008a , a&a , 491 , l13 curdt , w. , tian , h. , teriaca , l. , schhle , u. , & lemaire , p. 2008b ,",
    "a&a , 492 , l9 curdt , w. , tian , h. , teriaca , l. , & schhle , u. 2010 , a&a , 511 , l4 curdt , w. , & tian , h. , proceedings of soho-23 , 2010 , in press dammasch , i. e. , wilhelm , k. , curdt , w. , & hassler , d. m. 1999 , a&a , 346 , 285 dammasch , i. e. , curdt , w. , dwivedi , b. n. , & parenti , s. 2008 , annales geophysicae , 26 , 2955 del zanna , g. 2008 , a&a , 481 , l49 de pontieu , b. , mcintosh , s. w. , hansteen , v. h. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 701 , l1 dere , k. p. , bartoe , j .- d .",
    "f. , brueckner , g. e. 1989 , sol .",
    "phys . , 123 , 41 dere , k. p. 2008 , a&a , 491 , 561 dere , k. p. 2009 , a&a , 497 , 287 doschek , g. a. , bohlin , j. d. , & feldman , u. 1976 , apj , 205 , l177 doschek , g. a. , mariska , j. t. , & akiyama , s. 2004 , apj , 609 , 1153 doschek , g. a. , landi , e. , warren , h. p. , & harra , l. k. 2010 , apj , 710 , 1806 dowdy , j. f. , jr . ,",
    "rabin , d. , & moore , r. l. 1986 , sol .",
    "phys . , 105 , 35 doyle , j. g. , raymond , j. c. , noyes , r. w. , & kingston , a. e. 1985 , apj , 297 , 816 doyle , j. g. , & madjarska , m. s. 2003 , a&a , 407 , l29 doyle , j. g. , roussev , i. i. , & madjarska , m. s. 2004 , a&a , 418 , l9 doyle , j. g. , popescu , m. d. , & taroyan , y. 2006 , a&a . , 446 , 327 evershed , j. 1909a , mnras , 69 , 454 evershed , j. 1909b , the observatory , 32 , 291 falconer , d. a. , moore , r. l. , porter , j. g. , & hathaway , d. h. 1998 , apj , 501 , 386 fang , c. , feautrier , n. , & hnoux , j .- c .",
    "1995 , a&a , 297 , 854 feldman , u. 1983 , apj , 275 , 367 feldman , u. 1987 , apj , 320 , 426 feldman , u. , & laming , j. m. 1994 , apj , 434 , 370 fontenla ,  j.  m. , reichmann ,  e.  j. , & tandberg - hanssen ,  e. 1988 , apj 329 , 464 fontenla ,  j.  m. , avrett ,  e.  h. , & loeser ,  e. 2002 , apj 572 , 636 foukal , p. v. , huber , m. c. e. , noyes , r. w. , et al .",
    "1974 , apj , 193 , l143 foukal , p. v. 1976 , apj , 210 , 575 foukal , p. , 1978 ,",
    "apj , 223 , 1046 gabriel , a. h. 1976 , philos .",
    "london a , 28l , 575 golub , l. , krieger , a. s. , silk , j. k. , timothy , a. f. , & vaiana , g. s. 1974 , apj , 189 , l93 gontikakis , c. , peter , h. , dara , h. c. 2003 , a&a,408,743 gouttebroze , p. , lemaire , p. , vial , j .- c . , & artzner , g. 1978 , apj , 225 , 655 gouttebroze , p. , heinzel , p. , & vial , j. c. 1993 , a&as , 99 , 513 griffiths , n. w. , fisher , g. h. , woods , d. t. , & siegmund , o. h. w. 1999 , apj , 512,992 gunr , s. , heinzel , p. , anzer , u . ,",
    "& schmieder , b. , 2008 , a&a , 490 , 307 guo , y. , ding , m. d. , jin , m. , & wiegelmann , t. 2009 , apj , 696 , 1526 habbal",
    ". s. r. , dowdy , j. f. jr .",
    ", & withbroe , g. l. 1990 , apj , 352 , 333 hansteen , v. 1993 , apj , 402 , 741 hansteen , v. , maltby , p. , & malagoli , a. 1997 , astronomical society of the pacific conference series , 111 , 116 harra , l. k. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 676 , l147 harrison , r. a. , et al .",
    "1995 , sol .",
    "phys . , 162 , 233 harrison , r. a. 1997 , sol .",
    "phys . , 175 , 467 hassler , d. m. , dammasch , i. e. , lemaire , p. , brekke , p. , curdt , w. , mason , h. e. , vial , j .- c .",
    ", & wilhelm , k. 1999 , science , 283 , 810 he , j .- s . ,",
    "tu , c .- y . , & marsch , e. 2007 , a&a , 468 , 307 he , j .- s . , tu , c .- y . , & marsch , e. 2008 , sol .",
    "phys . , 250 , 147 he , j .- s . , tu , c .- y . ,",
    "tian , h. , & marsch , e. 2009 , advances in space research , 45 , 303 he , j .- s . , marsch , e. , tu , c .- y . ,",
    "guo , l .- j .",
    ", & tian , h. 2010 , a&a , in press heinzel , p. , anzer , u. , & gunr , s. 2005 , a&a , 442 , 331 hnoux , j .- c . , fang , c. , & gan , w .- q . , 1995 , a&a , 297 , 574 .",
    "ichimoto , k. , et al .",
    "2007 , science , 318 , 1597 imada , s. , et al .",
    "2007 , pasj , 59 , s793 innes , d. e. , brekke , p. , germerott , d. , et al . 1997a , sol .",
    "phys . , 175 , 341 innes , d. e. , inhester , b. , axford , w. i. , et al .",
    "1997b , nature , 386 jin , m. , ding , m. d. , chen , p. f. , fang , c. , & imada , s. 2009 , apj , 702 , 27 jordan , c. , brueckner , g. e. , bartoe , j .- d .",
    "f. , et al .",
    "1978 , apj , 226 , 687 katsukawa , y. , et al . 2007 ,",
    "science , 318 , 1594 kneer , f. , et al .",
    "1981 , sol .",
    "phys . , 69 , 289 lemaire ,  p. , charra ,  j. , jouchoux ,  a. , et al .",
    "1978 , apj , 223 , l55 lemaire p. , et al .",
    "1997 , sol .",
    ", 170 , 105 lemaire ,  p. , emerich ,  c. , vial ,  j .- c . , curdt ,  w. , schhle ,  u. , & wilhelm ,  k. 2005 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    ", 35 , 384 li , l .- p .",
    ", & zhang , j. 2009 , apj , 706 , l17 liu , y. , & lin , h. 2008 , apj , 680 , 1496 longcope , d. w. 1998 , apj , 507 , 433 madjarska , m. s. , & doyle , j. g. 2002 , a&a , 382 , 319 madjarska , m. s. , doyle , j. g. , teriaca , l. , & banerjee , d. 2003 , a&a , 398 , 775 magara , t , & tsuneta , s. 2008 , pasj , 60 , 1181 mariska , j. t. 1988 , apj , 334 , 489 mariska , j. t. 1992 , the solar transition region , cambridge university press marsch ,  e. , tu ,  c .- y . , heinzel ,  p. , wilhelm ,  k. , & curdt ,  w. 1999 , a&a , 347 , 676 marsch ,  e. , tu , c .- y . , & wilhelm ,  k. 2000 , a&a , 359 , 381 marsch , e. , antonucci , e. , bochsler , p. , et al . 2002 , advances in space research , 29 , 2027 marsch , e. , wiegelmann , t. , & xia , l. d. 2004 , a&a , 428 , 629 marsch , e. , zhou , g .- q . , he , j .- s . ,",
    "& tu , c .- y .",
    "2006 , a&a , 457 , 699 marsch , e. , tian , h. , sun , j. , curdt , w. , & wiegelmann , t. 2008 , apj , 684 , 1262 mcateer , r. t. j. 2004 , ph.d . thesis ( belfast : queen s university of belfast ) mcclymont , a. n. , & craig , i. j. d. 1987 , apj , 312 , 402 mcintosh , s. w. 2007a , apj , 670 , 1401 mcintosh , s. w. , et al . 2007b , apj , 654 , 650 mcintosh , s. w. , & de pontieu , b. 2009a , apj , 706 , l80 mcintosh , s. w. , & de pontieu , b. 2009b , apj , 707 , 524 metcalf , t. r. , jiao , l. , mcclymont , a. n. , & canfield , r. c. 1995 , apj , 439 , 474 nicolas , k. r. , kjeldseth moe , o. , & tousey , r. 1976 , jgr , 81(19 ) , 3465 nicolas , k. r. , kjeldseth - moe , o. , bartoe , j .- d .",
    "f. , & brueckner , g. e. 1982 , sol .",
    "phys . , 81 , 253 parnell , c. e. , priest , eric r. , & titov , v. s. 1994 , sol .",
    ", 153 , 217 patsourakos , s. , vial , j .- c . , gabriel , a. h. , & bellamine , n. 1999 , apj , 522 , 540 peter , h. , & judge , p. g. 1999 , apj , 522 , 1148 peter , h. 2001 , a&a , 374 , 1108 peter , h. , & vocks , c. 2003 , a&a , 411 , l481 peter , h. 2004 , reviews in modern astronomy , 17 , 87 peter , h. 2006 , a&a , 449 , 759 popescu , m. d. , doyle , j. g. , & xia , l. d. 2004 , a&a , 421,339 priest , e. r. , parnell , c. e. , & martin , s. f. 1994 , apj , 427 , 459 raju , k. p. 2009 , sol .",
    "phys . , 255 , 119 ravindra , b. , & venkatakrishnan , p. 2003 , sol .",
    "phys . , 215 , 239 reeves , e. m. 1976 , sol .",
    "phys . , 46 , 53 santos , j. c. , & bchner , j. 2007 , astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    "trans . , 3 , 29 sakao , t. , et al .",
    "2007 , science , 318 , 1585 schrijver , c. j. , sandman , a. w. , aschwanden , m. j. , & derosa , m. l. 2004 , apj , 615 , 512 schmieder , b. , gunr , s. , heinzel , p. , anzer , u. 2007 , sol .",
    "241 , 53 seehafer , n. 1978 , sol .",
    "phys . , 58 , 215 sheeley , n. r. jr . , & golub , l. 1979 , sol .",
    "phys . , 63 , 119 solanki , s. k. 2003 , astron .",
    ", 11 , 153 stucki , k. , solanki , s. k. , & schhle , u. , et al .",
    "2000 , a&a , 363 , 1145 teriaca , l. , banerjee , d. , & doyle , j. g. 1999 , a&a , 349 , 636 teriaca , l. , banerjee , d. , falchi , a. , et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 427 , 1065 teriaca ,  l. , schhle ,  u. , solanki ,  s.  k. , et al .",
    "2005a , esa sp-596 , 66 teriaca ,  l. , schhle ,  u. , solanki ,  s.  k. , et al . 2005b , esa sp-600 , 100 teriaca ,  l. , schhle ,  u. , solanki ,  s.  k. , et al .",
    "2006 , esa sp-617 , 77 teriaca , l. , curdt , w. , & solanki , s. k. 2008 , a&a , 491 , l5 tian , h. , tu , c .- y .",
    ", he , j .- s . , & marsch , e. 2007 , adv .",
    "space res . , 39 , 1853 tian , h. , tu , c .- y . ,",
    "marsch , e. , he , j .- s .",
    ", zhou , g .- q .",
    "2008a , a&a , 478 , 915 tian , h. , marsch , e. , tu , c .- y . , xia , l .- d .",
    ", & he , j .- s .",
    "2008b , a&a , 482 , 267 tian , h. , xia , l .- d . , he , j .- s . , tan , b. , & yao , s. 2008c , chin",
    ". j. astron .",
    "astrophys . , 8 , 732 tian , h. , curdt , w. , marsch , e. , & he , j .- s .",
    "2008d , apj , 681 , l121 tian , h. , tu , c .- y . , xia , l .- d .",
    ", & he , j .- s .",
    "2008e , a&a , 489 , 1297 tian , h. , marsch , e. , curdt , w. , & he , j .- s .",
    "2009a , apj , 704 , 883 tian , h. , teriaca , l. , curdt , w. , & vial , j .- c .",
    "2009b , apj , 703 , l152 tian , h. , curdt ,  w. , teriaca ,  l. , landi , e. , & marsch ,  e. 2009c , a&a , 505 , 307 tian , h. , curdt ,  w. , marsch ,  e. , & schhle , u. 2009d , a&a , 504 , 239 tian , h. , tu , c .- y . , marsch , e. , he , j .- s . , & kamio , s. 2010a , apj , 709 , l88 tian , h. , tu , c .- y .",
    ", marsch , e. , he , j .- s . , zhou , c. , & zhao , l. 2010b , solar wind 12 proceedings , aip , 1216 , 36 tu , c .- y . , zhou , c. , marsch , e. , xia , l .- d . ,",
    "zhao , l. , wang , j .- x . , & wilhelm , k. 2005a , science , 308 , 519 tu , c .- y .",
    ", zhou , c. , marsch , e. , wilhelm , k. , zhao , l. , xia , l .- d . , &",
    "wang , j .- x .",
    "2005b , apj , 624 , l133 tu , c .- y . , schwenn , r. , donovan , e. , et al .",
    "2008 , advances in space research , 41 , 190 ugarte - urra , i. , doyle , j. g. , madjarska , m. s. , & o@xmath49shea , e. 2004a , a&a , 418 , 313 ugarte - urra , i. , doyle , j. g. , madjarska , m. s. , & foley , c. r. 2004b , a&a , 425 , 1083 ugarte - urra , i. , doyle , j. g. , & del zanna g. 2005 , a&a , 435 , 1169 vernazza ,  j.  e. , & reeves ,  e.  m. 1978 , apjs , 37 , 485 vernazza , j. e. , avrett , e. h. , & loeser , r. 1981 , apjs , 45 , 635 vial , j .- c .",
    "1982 , apj , 253 , 330 vial , j .- c .",
    ", ebadi , h. , & ajabshirizadeh , a. 2007 , sol .",
    "246 , 327 vial , j .- c . ,",
    "auchre , f. , chang , j. , fang , c. , et al .",
    "2008 , advances in space research , 41 , 183 wang , y .- m . , sheeley , n. r. , jr . , & nash , a. g. 1990 , nature , 347 , 439 wang , y .- m .",
    "2009 , space sci .",
    ", 144 , 383 warren ,  h.  p. , mariska ,  j.  t. , & wilhelm ,  k. 1998 , apjs 119 , 105 watanabe , h. , kitai , r. , & ichimoto , k. 2009 , apj , 702 , 1048 webb , d. f. , martin , s. f. , moses , d. , & harvey , j. w. 1993 , sol .",
    "phys . , 144 , 15 wiegelmann , t. , neukirch , t. 2002 , sol .",
    "phys . , 208 , 233 wiegelmann , t. and solanki , s. k. 2004 , sol .",
    "phys . , 225 , 227 wiegelmann , t. , xia , l. d. , & marsch , e. 2005 , a&a , 432 , l1 wilhelm ,  k. , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "162 , 189 wilhelm ,  k. , lemaire ,  p. , dammasch ,  i.  e. , et al .",
    "1998 , a&a , 334 , 685 wilhelm , k. , dammasch , i. e. , marsch , e. , & hassler d. m. 2000 , a&a , 353 , 749 wilhelm , k. , dwivedi , b.n .",
    ", marsch , e. , & feldman , u. 2004 , space .",
    ", 111 , 415 wilhelm , k. , marsch , e. , dwivedi , b. n. , & feldman , u. 2007 , space .",
    ", 133 , 103 xia , l .- d .",
    "2003 , ph.d . thesis ( gttingen : georg - august - univ . ) xia , l .- d . , marsch , e. , & curdt , w. 2003 , a&a , 399 , l5 xia , l .- d . ,",
    "marsch , e. , & wilhelm , k. 2004 , a&a , 424 , 1025 xia , l .- d . , popescu , m. d. , doyle , j. g. , & giannikakis , j. 2005 , a&a , 438 , 1115 xu , z. , fang , c. , & gan , w. 2005 , chin . j. astron .",
    "astrophys . , 5 , 519 zhang , j. , kundu , m. r. , & white , s. m. 2001 , sol .",
    ", 198 , 347 zhang , j. , ma , j. , & wang , h. 2006 , apj , 649 , 464 zhang , m. , & low , b. c. 2005 , annu .",
    "astron . astrophys . ,",
    "43 , 103 zhang , m. , xia , l .- d . , tian , h. , & chen , y. 2010 , a&a , submitted zhang , s .- n . , et al .",
    "2000 , science , 287 , 1239 zhang , s .-",
    "n . 2007 , highlights of astronomy , 14 , 41 zhang , y. z. , wang , j. x. , & hu , y. q. 2006 , apj , 641 , 572"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the sun is the only star that we can spatially resolve and it can be regarded as a fundamental plasma laboratory of astrophysics . </S>",
    "<S> the solar transition region ( tr ) , the layer between the solar chromosphere and corona , plays an important role in solar wind origin and coronal heating . </S>",
    "<S> recent high - resolution observations made by _ </S>",
    "<S> soho _ , _ trace _ , and _ hinode _ indicate that the tr is highly nonuniform and magnetically structured . through a combination of spectroscopic observations and magnetic field extrapolations , </S>",
    "<S> the tr magnetic structures and plasma properties have been found to be different in coronal holes and in the quiet sun . in active regions , </S>",
    "<S> the tr density and temperature structures also differ in sunspots and the surrounding plage regions . </S>",
    "<S> although the tr is believed to be a dynamic layer , quasi - steady flows lasting from several hours to several days are often present in the quiet sun , coronal holes , and active regions , indicating some kind of plasma circulation / convection in the tr and corona . </S>",
    "<S> the emission of hydrogen lyman lines , which originates from the lower tr , has also been intensively investigated in the recent past . </S>",
    "<S> observations show clearly that the flows and dynamics in the middle and upper tr can greatly modify the lyman line profiles .    </S>",
    "<S> solar transition region , coronal hole , solar wind , uv radiation , sunspots </S>"
  ]
}