{
  "article_text": [
    "the statistical and individual properties of galaxies selected at different wavelengths , and at different redshifts must be explained in a self - consistent manner by any successful model of galaxy formation and evolution .    driven by multi - wavelength surveys of ever increasing scale ,",
    "recent years have seen substantial advances in our understanding of the basic demographics of different galaxy populations such as lyman - break galaxies ( e.g. bouwens et al .",
    "2007 ) , radio galaxies ( e.g. rigby et al . 2010 ) and sub - millimetre galaxies ( e.g. coppin et al . 2006 ; weiss et al . 2009 ; austermann et al . 2010 ) .",
    "the resulting improving information in , for example , number counts and redshift distributions , has been fed back to modify / refine models of galaxy formation .",
    "however , important uncertainties and degeneracies in the basic physics generally remain .",
    "for example , sub - millimetre galaxies in particular were not a natural prediction of early semi - analytic models ( baugh et al . 2005 ) , and there remains controversy over whether this can be fixed by the adoption of a top - heavy stellar intial mass function ( imf ) , or whether this tension is symptomatic of a basic inability of current semi - analytic models to produce enough star - formation activity in the young universe ( bower et al .",
    "2006 ; swinbank et al . 2008 ; cirasuolo & dunlop 2008 ) .    to remove such uncertainties",
    "requires higher - level information .",
    "specifically , different galaxy formation models make rather different predictions for galaxy masses , sizes and morphologies . for example",
    ", the models of baugh et al .",
    "( 2005 ) predict that sub - millimetre galaxies result from mergers of sub-@xmath17 galaxies ( with their apparent star - formation rates boosted by a top - heavy imf ) .",
    "in contrast , the recent cosmological hydrodynamic simulations of dav et al .",
    "( 2010 ) predict that sub - millimetre galaxies are massive galaxies fed by smooth infall , are not typically involved in major mergers , and are simply the most extreme examples of normal star - forming galaxies ( see also finlator et al . 2006 ; fardal et al . 2007 ; dekel et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "the estimation of galaxy stellar masses at high reshift has therefore become a major industry in recent years , boosted by the provision of rest - frame near - infrared photometry provided by the _",
    "spitzer space telescope_. the sensitivity of mass - to - light ratio on star - formation history is minimized at such wavelengths , but uncertainties due to choice of imf or the relative importance of asymptotic giant branch stars have motivated attempts to obtain independent confirmation of galaxy masses at @xmath1 via velocity dispersion measurements derived from emission - line spectroscopy at both millimetre and infrared wavelengths ( e.g. taconni et al .",
    "2006 , 2008 ; van dokkum , kriek & franx 2009 ) . while acknowledging the uncertainties , the available photometric and dynamical evidence suggests that , by the epoch of peak sub - millimetre emission at @xmath18 , sub - millimetre galaxies were already massive galaxies with estimated stellar masses @xmath19 ( greve et al . 2004 ; tacconi et al . 2006 ; borys et al . 2005 ; clements et al 2008 ; dye et al .",
    "2008 ; schael et al .",
    "this suggests that sub - millimetre galaxies represent an important phase in the formation of massive galaxies , and the challenge now is to establish their role in cosmic star - formation history , and the nature of their present - day descendents .",
    "here we attempt to move this subject forward by measuring the basic sizes and morphologies of sub - millimetre galaxies at @xmath1 , performing such measurements at the longest possible wavelength ( 2.2@xmath20 ) in order to trace the mass dominant stellar population , and to minimize the potentially confusing effects of dust obscuration at rest - frame ultraviolet wavelengths .",
    "the measurement of galaxy sizes and morphologies at redshifts @xmath21 has also been the subject of many studies in recent years , and has yielded some surprising and still controversial results .",
    "specifically , a number of studies have now found that massive , passive galaxies at @xmath22 are much more compact than present - day galaxies of comparable mass ( trujillo et al . 2006 , 2007 ;",
    "longhetti et al . 2007 ; cimatti et al . 2008 ; van dokkum et al . 2008 ) .",
    "the resulting inferred high stellar mass densities have been taken to imply that such objects can not continue to evolve by purely passive evolution into any known type of present - day galaxy .",
    "these results are consistent with those of toft et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and zirm et al .",
    "( 2007 ) who , with the aid of _ spitzer _ mips photometry , were in addition able to show that , while passive high - redshift galaxies are surprisingly compact , star - forming galaxies at high redshift appear morphologically similar to normal star - forming disk galaxies .",
    "recently buitrago et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , from a _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst ) nicmos study of 82 massive galaxies in goods north concluded that , for a given stellar mass , disc - like galaxies at @xmath23 were a factor 2.6 @xmath24 0.3 smaller than present - day systems , while spheroid - like galaxies were a factor 4.3 @xmath24 0.7 smaller .",
    "they also noted that this evolution is at least in qualitative agreement with some hierarchical semi - analytic predictions ( e.g. khochfar & silk 2006 ) .",
    "however , there is now growing evidence that not all high - mass galaxies at @xmath21 follow this trend , with some at least appearing to be fully formed ( saracco , longhetti & gargiulo 2010 ) .    at present",
    "it is unclear where sub - millimetre galaxies fit into this picture . as star - forming galaxies",
    "they might be expected to be extended discs , like lyman - break galaxies and present - day star - forming galaxies . on the other hand , if they are the progenitors of today s massive ellipticals , their apparently high - density starbursts ( tacconi et al .",
    "2006 ) might be related to the high stellar densities reported in red , passive galaxies at high redshift ( @xmath25 , comparable to present - day globular clusters ) .    to date , genuinely deep , @xmath0-band imaging has only been obtained for a small number of sub - millimetre galaxies ( e.g. smail et al .",
    "2003 ) , and generally with inadequate resolution for the reliable extraction of basic morphological parameters . very recently ,",
    "swinbank et al . (",
    "2010 ) reported the results of hst nicmos+acs imaging of a sub - sample of sub - millimetre galaxies .",
    "however , they did not report reliable measurement of , for example ssic indices for individual galaxies , and the wavelength limit of hst prevented them from undertaking observations in the @xmath0-band , which ensures imaging longward of the 4000 / balmer break out to @xmath26 .",
    "a high - quality , systematic , deep , @xmath0-band imaging study of a well defined sample of sub - millimetre galaxies is thus desirable , and has the potential to clarify several fundamental issues . in this paper",
    "we attempt to take a step towards better quantifying the sizes , morphologies and stellar mass densities of sub - millimetre galaxies via a deep , and high - quality @xmath0-band imaging study of a well - defined sample of luminous smgs at @xmath1 . to aid the interpretation of our results we have taken the somewhat unusual step of obtaining images of equivalent depth and resolution for a complete comparison sample of the most luminous radio galaxies known at comparable redshifts ( @xmath1 ) .",
    "the radio galaxy sample is a useful control sample because , given the now - well - established proportionality of black hole and spheroid mass ( e.g. mclure & dunlop 2002 ) , we can be very confident that these galaxies will end up as massive ellipticals at the present - day .",
    "however , given the above - mentioned evidence that many massive galaxies at @xmath21 are more compact than comparably massive present - day objects , a study of radio galaxy sizes at @xmath1 is also clearly of interest in its own right .",
    "rather surprisingly , while deep near - infrared imaging of 3cr radio galaxies has been undertaken at @xmath27 ( e.g. dunlop & peacock 1993 ; best et al .",
    "1998 ) very deep , high - quality @xmath0-band imaging of the most powerful 3cr radio galaxies at @xmath1 has not in fact been undertaken before ( although nicmos @xmath28-band images of a sample of even higher redshift radio galaxies were obtained by penterrici et al .",
    "2001 ) . consequently , while the morphologies of radio galaxies out to @xmath27 are rather well defined ( mclure & dunlop 2000 ; mclure et al .",
    "2004 ) , their rest - frame optical morphologies and sizes at @xmath1 have yet to be clarified .    to undertake this study",
    "we have used niri on gemini north to image the sub - millimetre galaxies , and ufti on ukirt to image the radio galaxies .",
    "we have taken great care to ensure that all images are as well matched as possible in @xmath0-band surface - brightness limit , designing integration times to compensate for the difference in telescope aperture between gemini north and ukirt , and for cosmological surface - brightness dimming within our samples . also crucial to this study",
    "has been our ability ( due to the queue - based scheduling system in operation at both telescopes ) to demand the very best seeing conditions for all of our observations ( @xmath29 arcsec ) .",
    "it is only with this powerful combination of consistent high - quality seeing and long exposure times ( typically 90 mins on gemini ) that it has proved possible to determine the sizes ( i.e. half - light radii ) and basic morphologies ( i.e. srsic index ) of these massive @xmath1 galaxies via ground - based imaging .",
    "the paper is structured as follows . in section 2",
    "we summarize the radio galaxy and sub - millimetre galaxy samples , and the existing supporting information . in section 3",
    "we present the ukirt and gemini @xmath0-band imaging observations , and in section 4 we explain how these data were reduced .",
    "then in section 5 we describe how we modelled these new images to extract the basic morphological properties of the galaxies .",
    "the results of the individual model fits are presented , summarized and discussed in section 6 , with the images , model fits and residual images provided in appendix a. we also explore the robustness of our results , through simulations , non parametric tests of galaxy size , and the analysis of radio galaxy and sub - millimetre galaxy image stacks . finally , in section 7 we attempt to place our results in the context of studies of other galaxy populations at both high and low redshift .",
    "our main conculsions are summarized in section 8 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present deep , high - quality @xmath0-band images of complete subsamples of powerful radio and sub - millimetre galaxies at redshifts @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the data were obtained in the very best available seeing via queue - based observations at the united kingdom infrared telescope and gemini north , with integration times scaled to ensure that comparable rest - frame surface brightness levels are reached for all of the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we fit two - dimensional axi - symmetric galaxy models to these images to determine basic galaxy morphological parameters at rest - frame optical wavelengths @xmath2 , varying luminosity , axial ratio , half - light radius @xmath3 , and srsic index @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , while a minority of the images show some evidence of galaxy interactions , @xmath5% of the rest - frame optical light in all the galaxies is well - described by these simple axi - symmetric models . </S>",
    "<S> we also find evidence for a clear difference in morphology between these two classes of galaxy ; fits to the individual images and to the image stacks reveal that the radio galaxies are moderately large ( @xmath6kpc ; median @xmath7 ) , de vaucouleurs spheroids ( @xmath8 ; median @xmath9 ) , while the sub - millimetre galaxies appear to be moderately compact ( @xmath10kpc ; median @xmath11kpc ) exponential discs ( @xmath12 ; median @xmath13 ) . </S>",
    "<S> model fits to the stacked images yield very similar results . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the @xmath1 radio galaxies display a well - defined kormendy ( @xmath14 ) relation but that , while larger than other recently - studied massive galaxy populations at comparable redshifts , they are still a factor @xmath15 times smaller than their local counterparts . the scalelengths of the starlight in the sub - millimetre galaxies are comparable to those reported for the molecular gas , suggesting that the two may be co - located . </S>",
    "<S> their sizes are also similar to those of comparably massive quiescent galaxies at @xmath16 , allowing the possibility of an evolutionary connection following cessation / quenching of the observed star - formation activity . in terms of stellar mass surface density , </S>",
    "<S> the majority of the radio galaxies lie within the locus defined by local ellipticals of comparable stellar mass . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast , while best modelled as discs at the epoch of bright dust - enshrouded star formation , most of the sub - millimetre galaxies have higher stellar mass densities than local galaxies , and appear destined to evolve into present - day massive ellipticals .    </S>",
    "<S> = 6truein    galaxies : active - galaxies : starburst - galaxies : photometry - galaxies : fundamental parameters - infrared : galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}