{
  "article_text": [
    "currently , there are slightly over 440 known exoplanets ( the extrasolar planets encyclopaedia ; exoplanet.edu ) . about 60 of these have orbital planes aligned with our line of sight so that the planets transit their parent stars causing small dips in brightness repeating at the planet s orbital period .",
    "most of the known exoplanetary systems have gas giant planets in small , very short - period orbits , dubbed  hot jupiters \" due to their large sizes and proximities to their parent stars .",
    "dynamical models @xcite predict that some of these hot jupiters may be accompanied in their orbits by swarms of trojan asteroids at the l4 and l5 lagrangian points , like those in resonance with jupiter in our own solar system @xcite .",
    "the detection and characterization of trojan asteroids in an exoplanetary system would provide important constraints on the dynamical evolution of giant exoplanets .",
    "only a few years ago , the prospect of being sensitive to even a lunar mass of asteroids around another star would have seemed like science fiction .",
    "the new detection limits made possible by space - based photometry missions like most , corot , and kepler mean for the first time that planetary scientists can seriously explore limits on the formation and evolution of possible exotrojan swarms .",
    "one way of detecting exoplanetary trojans is through transit timing by combining radial velocity observations and photometric observations of a transiting planet . through this approach",
    "a trojan swarm can be detected via a time lag between the radial velocity null and the time of the central transit . using this method",
    ", @xcite ruled out trojan companions to hd 209458b of total mass greater than @xmath2 13 m@xmath7 at a 99.9% confidence level .    in this paper , we present a more direct and more sensitive approach , by searching directly for the transit signal of trojan swarms with precise spacebased photometry .",
    "our target for this study was the hd 209458 system , which contains a hot jupiter ( designated hd 209458b ) .",
    "the planet was discovered in radial velocity measurements by @xcite and the transits were first reported by @xcite .",
    "hd209458b has a circular orbit of semimajor axis @xmath8 au and period @xmath9 days @xcite .",
    "the primary hd 209458 is a relatively - bright ( @xmath10 ) g0 star with @xmath11 k , luminosity @xmath12 l@xmath13 @xcite , mass @xmath14 0.07 m@xmath13 , and radius @xmath15 0.02 r@xmath13 @xcite .",
    "although quite uncertain , @xcite give an estimate of 3 gyr for the age of the system .",
    "hd 209458 is a good starting point for the steps to compare the dynamical state of asteroids in an exoplanetary system with the current state of our solar system : the host star is sun - like , and it is one of the brightest transiting systems available for study .",
    "it is widely accepted that hot jupiters formed at orbital distances greater than their current locations and then migrated inward .",
    "we explore trojan survival in such a system . to be visible today",
    ", the trojan populations would have first had to survive a migration from about 5 au down to about 0.05 au .",
    "once they arrived at this distance , both self - collisions and radiation effects ( such as the yarkovsky effect , which can cause small objects to undergo orbital changes ) may be important for these hypothetical `` hot trojans '' over times scales comparable to the system s age .",
    "we explore these effects through numerical simulations and discuss the results .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe how the photometric data were collected . in section 3",
    ", we describe the data analysis , methods , and results .",
    "section 4 is an estimate of the photometric cross section of the trojan clouds in the hd 209458 system based on the solar system trojan size distribution .",
    "section 5 presents numerical calculations regarding dynamical and collisional evolution , as well as the yarkovsky effect in this system .",
    "finally , section 6 provides conclusions based on these results .",
    "the @xmath16 microsatellite @xcite houses a 15 cm rumak - maksutov telescope feeding a ccd photometer through a single custom broadband filter covering roughly the visible part of the spectrum ( @xmath17 nm ) .",
    "most was launched in 2003 june into an 820 km high circular sun - synchronous polar orbit with a period of approximately 101.4 minutes . from this vantage point",
    ", it can monitor stars which lie in a roughly equatorial band ( continuous viewing zone or cvz ) about 54@xmath18 wide for up to 2 months without interruption .",
    "photometry of very bright stars ( visual magnitudes @xmath19 ) is obtained in fabry imaging mode in which a fabry microlens projects an extended image of the telescope pupil illuminated by the target starlight to achieve the highest precision @xcite .",
    "fainter stars ( down to about @xmath20 ) can be observed in direct imaging mode , where defocused images of stars are monitored in subrasters on the ccd @xcite , similar to ground - based ccd photometry .",
    "most monitored the transiting exoplanet system hd 209458 nearly continuously for 13.5 days in 2004 august ( a trial run ) , 42.9 days in 2005 august to september , and 28.6 days in 2007 august to september .",
    "these data were used for several purposes : to measure the eclipse ( and hence , albedo ) of the  hot jupiter \" @xcite ; to perform transit timing of the known exoplanet to search for lower - mass planets in the system @xcite ; and to search for planets in the system approaching earth - size through sensitive transit searches @xcite .",
    "hd 209458 was observed in direct imaging mode with exposures of 1.5 s sampled every 10 s ( rowe et al . 2008 ) .",
    "the point - to - point precision for these observations ranges from as low as 3 mmag to as high as 20 mmag , depending on the level of stray light scattered into the instrument @xcite .",
    "we rejected exposures with high cosmic - ray fluxes that occur when most passes through the south atlantic anomaly ( saa ) , as well as data with background illumination values greater than 3000 detector counts due to scattered earthshine modulated at the satellite s orbital period .",
    "the raw and reduced data are available in the most public data archive ( www.astro.ubc.ca/most/data/data.html ) .",
    "the time series photometry is presented in figure 1 , and the data phased according to the orbital period ( @xmath21 d ) of the exoplanet hd 209458b is shown in figure 2 .",
    "since trojan asteroids are expected to concentrate around the l4 and l5 lagrangian points of the hd 209458 star - exoplanet system , they will share an orbit with the exoplanet .",
    "the l4 and l5 points themselves transit the star 1/6th of an orbital period behind and ahead of the exoplanet , with the clouds occupying a confined range of angles surrounding these points .",
    "it is expected that these clouds will occupy a fairly wide area ( at least @xmath22 about the l4/l5 point , as in the case of jupiter s trojan clouds ) and will therefore have a wide signature in the light curve , each occupying @xmath23 of the orbital phase .",
    "the multitude of small asteroids would block a small fraction of the stellar light during the period in which the cloud occupies the line of sight .",
    "thus in the simplest case scenario this would look like a box - function dip centered on the l4/l5 point extending about 30@xmath24 in each direction .",
    "more complicated models ( covering a larger angular range , or having a maxwellian profile , for example ) are possible , but are not currently justified by the non - detection from the present data set .",
    "we first examined in more detail the particular phases in the phase diagram shown in figure 2 where trojan swarm transits are expected .",
    "the exoplanet transits and other obvious outliers were excised from the light curve before our analysis . as a first step , we divided the phased data into six non - overlapping bins , ensuring that the centers of two of those bins would correspond to the expected center phases of the two possible trojan swarms .",
    "we calculated the mean relative flux value of each of the six bins .",
    "this accentuates any possible trojan signals , as well as having the highest practical signal - to - noise ratio .",
    "this exercise , however , did not reveal a significant dip in the binned phase diagram at either the l4 or l5 points .",
    "we then generated running means of the phased data with the width of the phase bins and the bin shift interval as input parameters .",
    "a representative result is shown in figure 3 , where the phase bin width is 0.05 cycle and the sampling interval is 0.001 cycle . since in this case , @xmath25 of the data in adjacent bins are the same , the resulting means are highly correlated .",
    "figure 3 shows that there are local minima near both trojan points ; however , they are not unique , nor is their extent wide enough to signal trojan transits .",
    "we tested our sensitivity to trojan transits in the data by inserting synthetic transits of known duration and depth .",
    "a trojan swarm may have an irregular spatial distribution and hence a more complex transit signature , but for simplicity , we inserted transits of uniform depth @xmath26 30@xmath18 in size , and decided if we could detect these transits in a diagram like figure 3 .",
    "these tests indicated that our detection limit for trojan transit depths corresponds to a relative magnitude drop of order @xmath27 .",
    "we then tackled our detection limits in a more quantitative way via cross - correlation .",
    "the time series data were split into a first half and second half of our available time series .",
    "the two halves were phased and binned in non - overlapping bins to ensure that there was only one flux value for each phase value .",
    "the two sets were also filtered with a low - pass digital butterworth filter to eliminate any excess ringing in the data that could potentially hide trojan signals .",
    "then the two data halves were cross - correlated with each other .",
    "figure 4(a ) shows the two filtered data halves , while figure 4(b ) shows the cross - correlation .",
    "the mean parametric confidence limits were calculated using the matlab code  xcorrc \" @xcite .",
    "confidence limits are obtained by performing the cross - correlation in the fourier domain .",
    "the code takes the discrete fourier transform of both data sets , complex conjugates one of them , and then to find the confidence intervals , it introduces chance by randomly replacing the phase values of this second data set .",
    "this is then multiplied by the first data set . this procedure is repeated @xmath28 times , thereby creating a distribution of cross - correlations for each lag value .",
    "for example , to set the @xmath29 confidence interval , xcorrc finds at what level for each lag @xmath29 of the correlations are below that level ( i.e. , the level beyond which only @xmath30 of the peaks are greater strictly by chance ) .",
    "any real signal at constant phase with the planet s orbit should have a strong self - correlation at zero relative cross - correlation lag .",
    "in addition , if the phases around both l4 and l5 were to generate dimming , there should also be ( weaker ) cross - correlation centered close to phase lags of @xmath31 and @xmath32 ( we will illustrate this with artificial signals below ) .",
    "no feature is present in figure 4 at a correlation lag of zero , nor are broad features centered on @xmath31 and @xmath32 visible .",
    "the weak signal at a phase lag of @xmath33 is not significantly stronger than what we expect due to random chance and can not be a trojan signal in any case .",
    "we repeated the cross - correlation analysis with artificial transits of known depth inserted into the most photometry .",
    "the artificial transits were again simple box functions of widths @xmath34 centered on the l4 and l5 points . by varying the depth of the artificial transits and calculating the @xmath35 , @xmath29 , and @xmath36 confidence intervals",
    ", we estimate the effective trojan detection limit of our data .    to set a number for our detection limit , we calculated what percentage of the correlation peaks in the original data and each synthetic transit scenario were above the 99@xmath37 confidence line . since for each cross - correlation only @xmath38 of the coefficients should be above the 99@xmath37 strictly by chance ; if this percentage is significantly higher , we can conclude that we are detecting genuine signal in the data .",
    "in addition , for it to be a trojan signal we also require that a strong signal exists near zero phase , and possibly that there are peaks confined around the lags where the trojans are expected .",
    "( the trojans are expected at lags of approximately @xmath39 and @xmath40 , since the l4 and l5 points are 1/3 in phase from each other ; these peaks occur when lagged data points at l4 line up with points at l5 , and vice versa ) .",
    "figure 5 shows a few sample cross - correlation results for three artificial trojan transit tests . for an artificial transit of depth @xmath41 ( figures 5(a ) and ( b ) )",
    ", we recover very strong correlation at zero phase lag , and marginally - significant signals peaking at the expected @xmath260.33 lags .",
    "if only one trojan point were populated , the side lobes would disappear but the strong zero - lag signal would remain . an acceptable signal from artificial trojans with dips of @xmath42 is shown in figures 5(c ) and ( d ) . the zero - phase correlation is strong but , as expected , the @xmath43 peaks have become less pronounced for shallower depths of transit ( in fact , one of them is only barely significant ) .",
    "for a transit depth of @xmath44 ( figures 5(e ) and ( f ) ) , only very weak correlations remain , due to the much reduced signal to noise , and we judge this a non - detection since the zero - phase signal is no stronger than the @xmath32 feature . from this analysis",
    ", we conclude that our detection limit is @xmath45 , the same as from our eyeball analysis of the data .",
    "to estimate the flux reduction due to possible trojan clouds in the hd 209458 system , the known properties of jupiter s trojan swarms in our solar system were applied to the hd 209458 system . in this way , we estimate the expected transit depth if the trojans in the hd 209458 system had the same size distribution .",
    "we first calculated the cross - sectional area of the trojan clouds given this size distribution , as well as the mass of the swarms , and from there the transit depth was established .",
    "we estimated the cross - sectional area of a single trojan cloud by integrating the relation @xmath47 where the differential size distribution @xmath48 measures with one power law for radii in the range 2.2 km @xmath49 km and another for @xmath50 km @xcite .",
    "for radii smaller than @xmath51 km , we calculated a differential size distribution by matching the jewitt et al .",
    "result with that of @xcite ( see figure 6 ) . for",
    "@xmath50 km , @xcite give @xmath52 in the range 2.2 km @xmath49 km , jewitt et al .",
    "give @xmath53 which matches at the 42 km break .",
    "@xcite find a cumulative power - law slope of 1.3 for trojans with radii between 1 km @xmath54 km . here",
    "we force a match at @xmath55 km , adopting @xmath56 , from which we calculate the third power - law @xmath57 as @xmath58 where @xmath59 km@xmath60 . to find the total cross - sectional area of the trojans , we substitute these distributions into equation ( 1 ) and integrate to find the total cross - sectional area @xmath61 . using the best estimates for the slopes , the cross sections from the three distributions are @xmath62 @xmath63 and @xmath64    while the asteroids smaller than 2.2 km do not contribute significantly to the mass of the trojan clouds ( see below ) , they do contribute significantly to the cross - sectional area and therefore the depth of transit .",
    "our estimate of the total cross - sectional area of a trojan cloud is @xmath65 km@xmath66 .",
    "although it is conceivable that our trojan cloud s optical depth could be governed by a large population of @xmath67  km particles which are currently unobservable , given the lack of evidence for this hypothesis we shall use @xmath68  km@xmath69 as our estimate of the total trojan cross - section . beyond this concern ,",
    "the dominant source of uncertainty is the power - law indices in the size distribution , producing a variation of a factor of a few in the total cross section if we instead adopted a size distribution similar to @xcite .",
    "we calculate the total mass of trojans by integrating the three differential size distributions and assuming a mean asteroid density of @xmath70 kg m@xmath71 . in this way , @xcite estimated the total mass of solar system trojans with @xmath72 km as @xmath73 kg .",
    "we extend this result by including the third differential size distribution @xmath74 .",
    "the total mass of trojans is then @xmath75    this yields @xmath76  kg , containing ( as expected ) negligible additional mass in the distribution tail with @xmath77 km .",
    "expressed in lunar masses ( m@xmath78  kg ) , this is about 0.008 m@xmath79 .",
    "this mass estimate should be halved if the measured density of @xmath801000  kg m@xmath71 for the trojan patroclus is common @xcite .      to estimate the drop in measured flux of the star due to a population of trojans as described above",
    ", we assume that trojans with that size distribution are orbiting the star hd 209458a surrounding the l4 and l5 points of hd 209458b .",
    "given our null detection , we believe only order - of - magnitude estimates are warranted at this time .",
    "we take the star s radius to be @xmath81 km , and assume trojans to be evenly distributed around the l4 and l5 points .",
    "if all the l4 trojans , or all the l5 trojans ( whose populations we take to be equal and thus half the total ) , were in front of the star at the same time , the drop in light output would be    @xmath82    where we are neglecting the effects of limb darkening .",
    "however , we need to account for the fact that the longitudinal extent of the trojan cloud at either of the lagrangian points will most likely be larger than the angular size of the star . very roughly , the longitudinal extent of jupiter s trojans around one lagrangian point is about @xmath26 @xmath83 .",
    "the projected stellar diameter , expressed in terms of the exoplanet s orbit , is the fraction of that orbit covered by the planet s transit , which is 0.035 in phase ( @xmath84 ) .",
    "this means that a trojan cloud like that of jupiter in the hd 209458 system has only about a fifth of its trojans in front of the star during transit .",
    "therefore , we divided our drop in magnitude by a factor of 5 giving @xmath85 .",
    "another issue that may affect the star s brightness is that jupiter s trojans have a large dispersion above and below the ecliptic plane . from @xcite , the average trojan inclination is @xmath86 , and we take the putative exoplanet trojan system to be @xmath87 ( where section  [ sec : mig ] motivates the factor of 3 increase ) . knowing that the trojan semi - major axis is @xmath8 au and that the star s radius is @xmath88 au , the  height \" of the trojan cloud is @xmath25 stellar diameters above and below the orbital plane .",
    "thus we divide our @xmath89 by 5 , although this effect will not occur if the hd 209458b trojan orbits have inclinations significantly @xmath90 .",
    "our final estimate for the drop in the star s flux due to the transit of a jovian - type trojan cloud is @xmath91 . to detect such",
    "a transit requires a photometric precision of order @xmath92 assuming the trojans obey the solar system size and angular distributions .",
    "based on the above calculations , we estimate the mass of the hypothetical trojan cloud in the hd 209458 system that would be required for most to have a detection . since our detection limit for a trojan transit is a drop in the light output of 1@xmath1 , we would not be able to detect the @xmath92 drop caused by a trojan population of the size of jupiter s trojan clouds .",
    "however , for @xmath93 so we find that the trojan cross - sectional area is @xmath94km@xmath66 , which is a factor of @xmath2100 times the optical depth of jupiter s trojan cloud",
    ". therefore most could detect a trojan cloud in front of hd 209458a if the number of asteroids in each size bin ( assuming the size distribution of jupiter s trojans ) were increased by a factor of 100 .",
    "this would increase the mass of the entire cloud by this factor , thus bringing the minimum exotrojan mass that we could detect to @xmath21 lunar mass .",
    "in this section we discuss the relationship between the upper limit on the hd  209458b trojan population given by our non - detection and what one might expect to exist in the exoplanet system . in order to have some concreteness ( in what is an otherwise large and unconstrained parameter space ) , we will mostly concentrate on the scenario in which hd  209458b forms at @xmath25  au from its star along with a trojan population equivalent to some multiple of jupiter s current population , after which it migrates to its current position and then the trojans and planet remain at the current stellar distance",
    ".    the efficient mechanisms for planet migration , in which the planet couples to the gas disk , would require that the planet migrated to its current position within the first @xmath2310 myr of the system s lifetime , before the circumplanetary gas was dissipated . since hd",
    "209458 is @xmath23  gyr old , the time that the system has been at its current orbital distance is 23 orders of magnitude longer than the migration phase .      as the planet migrated in toward the star the 1:1 resonant trojans also spiraled inward , remaining trapped in the resonance although their libration amplitudes grew .",
    "( the libration amplitude @xmath95 measures the total amplitude of the angular variation of a given particle away from the trojan point in the reference frame co - rotating with the planet ) .",
    "we have conducted straightforward numerical simulations to confirm the result of @xcite that the libration amplitude slowly grows as the planet migrates inward according to : @xmath96    where @xmath97 is the semimajor axis of the planet s orbit and subscripts @xmath98 and @xmath99 indicate the initial and final values of the variables ( before and after migration ) .",
    "@xcite show that the eccentricity and inclination of the trojan orbits grow by the same factor . assuming hd 209458b began about 5  au from the star , its current semimajor axis results in trojan libration amplitudes growing by a factor of @xmath100 while migrating , which is confirmed in our numerical simulations .",
    "this results in a large fraction of the trojan phase space having libration amplitudes that grow beyond the maximum possible stable value ( of about @xmath101 ) and leave the resonance , after which they will interact with the planet and be accreted or ejected . using a uniformly - filled initial trojan phase space results in @xmath102 of the trojans ( those with initial libration amplitudes @xmath103 ) surviving migration , where the resultant stable co - orbitals have libration amplitudes that have grown to fill the stable libration region .",
    "given what follows below , improved precision on these estimates is not currently warranted .      a small - body population , like our asteroid belt , will have its population and size distribution evolve collisionally if the spatial density is sufficiently high and relative speeds are large enough that collisions are frequent and cause net erosion . in the case of a hypothetical hd 209458b cloud , collisions could be occurring in the pre - migration phase , during the planetary migration , and then in the post - migration period . since the final stage is both much longer and has the highest relative speeds and spatial density ( since the trojans occupy much less volume when they surround the trojan point at 0.045  au than at @xmath25  au ) , we will neglect the collisional evolution except during the post - migration phase .",
    "this collisional evolution will result in collisional fragmentation of trojans , which will move mass from large objects in a size distribution down to smaller diameters ; when collisions produce particles small enough that radiation - pressure effects become important , they are quickly eliminated from the system .",
    "collisions will thus grind down the total mass of the system on some time scale . in our solar system",
    "the internal collisional cross section is low enough that the main asteroid belt s mass has not significantly been reduced by grinding over the last 4 billion years @xcite .",
    "we posed the questions : if a trojan cloud survives migration down to 0.045  au , how would it evolve ? if collisions are important , can we postulate an increased initial mass in order to obtain enough trojans today to have an observable signal ? recall that jupiter s trojan cloud has a mass @xmath104 lunar masses , so we will use order - of - magnitude multiples of this for hypothetical populations .",
    "trojan clouds with initial orbital eccentricities and inclinations similar to our solar system trojans were used , which determines the collision speeds to be @xmath105 km s@xmath60 , where @xmath106 is mean orbital speed of the trojans . if migration results in even higher typical @xmath107 s and @xmath98 s , then these speeds would grow by a factor of 34 .",
    "this enormous mutual velocity means that collisions are very destructive when compared to those occurring in our asteroid belt , where mean speeds are only about 5  km s@xmath60 @xcite .",
    "although this mutual speed could be decreased if the mutual @xmath107 s and @xmath98 s were dropped , the mutual collisional cross section increases under this change because the volume occupied by the cloud decreases .",
    "the trojan swarm was evolved collisionally using an algorithm very similar to that described in @xcite , which keeps track of the evolving size distribution of the collisional swarm .",
    "figure 7 shows the evolution of the size distribution between 0.1 and 1000 km at various times in the evolution for an initial 1 lunar - mass population , with an initial differential power - law size index of @xmath108 .",
    "the population is rapidly decimated by mutual collisions , which by 10 myr leaves almost all the mass in a single 35 km ( radius ) object while reducing the number of 1 km objects ( where most of the cross section is ) by more than 8 orders of magnitude .",
    "thus , even if an initial trojan swarm of 1000 times that of jupiter started at 5  au and then arrived at 0.045  au in a migration that reduced it by an order of magnitude , in only 10 myr the light - blocking cross section is reduced by more than a factor of a million , making detection today many orders of magnitude below current or projected flux limits for hd 209458b .",
    "a few million years into the simulations , the total trojan cross - sectional area is @xmath109 that of the star , and continues to decrease .",
    "neither increasing nor decreasing the mass of the cloud that arrives at 0.045  au helps .",
    "additional simulations with 1 , 2 , or 3 orders of magnitude more or less initial mass arrive at about the same final state after 10 myr of collisions , due to the simple fact that the collision rate is proportional to the number of objects .",
    "in fact , the total amount of mass after 10 myr is comparable to the 0.01 myr state ( see figure 8) since the system grinds itself down to the point where the collisions ` turn off ' because the remaining objects have so little mutual cross section",
    ".    experiments with @xmath110 power - law indices gave similar results .",
    "our conclusion is that , unless the collisional modeling is wrong by many orders of magnitude , trojan clouds with detectably large cross - sectional area will not survive for even a million years after the planet migrates to hot jupiter distances .",
    "hiding the mass in a smaller number of large bodies would prevent collisions from destroying the mass , but these bodies have such small cross - section / mass ratios that such a population would have negligible optical depths and can not be detected via light - curve technology in the foreseeable future .",
    "+      the trojan population which initially arrives with the planet at 0.045  au at the end of the migration phase is initially modified by collisions .",
    "the collisional cascade fragments larger bodies and populates the smaller - diameter bins , whose bodies in turn are destroyed by collisions among smaller particles . in our asteroid belt",
    "this process stops when particles are ground down to sub - millimeter size at which point radiation forces eliminate them , or when bodies of 0.011 km scale have their semimajor axes slightly modified by yarkovsky drift which moves them into a resonance at which point they can rapidly leave the belt ( reviewed in @xcite ) .",
    "the migration rates induced by these processes and migration direction ( toward or away from the star ) depends on the particle s size , spin rate , obliquity , and the thermal properties of the surface .    in the case of exoplanet trojans ,",
    "these forces do not cause a gradual monotonic semimajor axis drift ( which would be @xmath111  mm s@xmath60 for a 1 m diameter rocky object ) .",
    "a straightforward analysis of the circular restricted three - body problem shows that the additional constant acceleration , which would produce a slow semimajor axis change outside the resonance , instead causes a tiny change ( @xmath112 part in @xmath113 ) in the positions of the lagrange points .",
    "this effect is analogous to how a small damping force added to a driven harmonic oscillator only produces a phase shift .",
    "this shift in the location of the libration centers is not in itself a source of instability , and thus the radiation damping would not cause the particles to leave the trojan points .",
    "however , because the libration center moves if the object suffers a collision which changes its spin rate and direction , the libration amplitude will random walk toward larger values and result in the eventual destabilization of the trojan ; we estimate this time scale to be @xmath114  gyr for metre - scale trojans of hd 209458b .",
    "we showed above that the rapid collisional grinding efficiently transfers mass from larger objects ( @xmath115  km ) down to the regime where radiation effects can then lead them to be destabilized and pulled down to the star . in particular , once free of the resonance , metre - scale objects at these distances will spiral into the star from poynting - robertson drag in only 2 myr , with the time scale proportional to the object size @xcite . as a result of these processes",
    ", there may be a period during the system evolution where a large amount of mass has moved into the diameter region just above where radiation - pressure effects are efficient at eliminating small particles .",
    "this will be the size regime with the best optical depth to mass ratio , and it is possible that a nearly - opaque cloud in one or both trojan points could be temporarily produced .",
    "such a cloud would have a very strong photometric signature ( essentially blocking the stellar light for the portion of the disk that is eclipsed , for the portion of rotational phase that it is in front of the star ) .",
    "our collisional simulations above indicate that this would be a brief ( certainly @xmath4 1  myr ) phase that would most likely occur in a very young system during the grinding phase before the mass is eliminated .",
    "( in fact it is possible that it might occur during the migration phase itself ) .",
    "this could also occur in older systems if a large body manages to survive in a trojan point but is then broken up , beginning a similar rapid collisional cascade at that time .",
    "in this paper , photometric data on hd 209458 from the most space telescope were analyzed with the intent of finding trojan asteroids swarms in 1:1 mean motion resonance with the known planet hd 209458b . using cross - correlation techniques on data with synthetic trojan cloud transits , we were able to set an upper limit on the trojan transit depth of 1@xmath1 , which corresponds to an upper limit in asteroid swarm mass to @xmath2 1 lunar mass .",
    "* during the migration of the trojan swarm ( as they migrate with the planet from @xmath2 5 au to 0.045 au ) , the libration amplitudes grow by a factor of @xmath2 3.3 leaving @xmath102 of the trojans surviving migration . *",
    "the collisional evolution of the cloud grinds it down to below 100 m size objects in @xmath11610 myr and reduces its surface area 10,000 fold .",
    "neither increasing nor decreasing the initial mass of the cloud changes the results significantly .",
    "after only a few myr the total cross section remaining in the trojan swarm ( in bodies larger than tens of meters ) has dropped to @xmath117 that of the star .",
    "based on the initial photometric performance of kepler long cadence data @xcite , for a solar - type star of v @xmath2 10 with trojan asteroid swarms in a 3.5 day orbit , the light curve would reach a sensitivity to transit depth of @xmath5 . in a young system",
    ", this would be sufficient to detect the exotrojan swarms based on our model predictions .",
    "* radiation forces do not cause a semimajor axis drift of the leftover small objects , only a shift in the location of their libration centers .",
    "further collisions between these small objects could then cause a random walk in their libration amplitudes , eventually destabilizing the trojans and eliminating them on a time scale of 2 myr .",
    "* a nearly opaque cloud might result from the collisionally ground asteroid population just before the radiation forces take effect .",
    "such a cloud would have a very strong photometric signature for a brief time period ( @xmath4 1 myr ) due to the dense population of small particles .",
    "this would occur during the collisional phase of the cloud evolution , and since this is a fast process , this could only be observed in a very young system ( @xmath116100 myr ) .",
    "thus , the best chance of detecting trojan asteroid swarms in another solar system in the foreseeable future would be in very young systems , where either the collisional depletion has not yet reduced the surface area significantly , or where the cloud turned opaque for a short time due to the high density of centimeter - sized objects before elimination by poynting - robertson drag .",
    "detection in an older system would require a recent breakup of a large body that generated a collisional cascade of smaller objects .",
    "our simulations do rely on the assumption of simple migration of the gas giant planet .",
    "other processes , involving planet - planet interactions and later tidal circularization of the exoplanet s small orbit , could lead to different scenarios of exotrojan migration and evolution . however , we note that most of the observations of the rossiter - mclaughlin effect in exoplanet systems , including hd 209458 @xcite , have pointed to only small levels of spin - orbit misalignment in systems with close - in giant planets @xcite .",
    "there is no reason to strongly suspect planet - planet interactions in the case of hd 209458 and other hot jupiter systems with small , nearly circular orbits .",
    "what about exoplanets in orbits with much larger semi - major axes ?",
    "for exo - jupiters with relatively large semi - major axes , the prospects of detecting transits in the existing sample are limited .",
    "the kepler mission will expand the sample and should change that situation in the coming years .",
    "many of the known exoplanets with larger semi - major axes also have high eccentricities . in these systems",
    ", there could have been dynamical interactions with other planets earlier in the histories of the systems .",
    "we argue that these are not systems where it would be fruitful to search for trojans in resonant orbits , and for that reason , we did not explore this broader range of parameter space in the numerical simulations presented in this paper .",
    "our analysis of ultra - precise most photometry provides the most sensitive upper limit yet published on the amount of trojan asteroidal material in an exoplanetary system .",
    "this upper limit inspired us to perform numerical simulations to show what trojan optical depth might be present . by estimating the expected optical depth of an exoplanetary asteroid cloud",
    ", we have set meaningful limits on future photometric searches for exotrojan swarms by missions such as kepler , and focus attention in particular on very young systems .",
    "bottke , w.f . ,",
    "durda , d.d . ,",
    "nesvorny , d. , jedicke , r. , morbidelli , a. , vokrouhlicky , d. , @xmath118 levison , h. f. 2005 , icarus 179 , 63 bottke , w.f . ,",
    "nolan , m.c . ,",
    "kolvoord , r.a . , @xmath118 greenberg , r. 1994 , icarus 107 , 255 bottke , w.f . ,",
    "vokrouhlicky , d. , rubincam , d.p .",
    ", @xmath118 nesvorny , d. 2006 , ann .  rev .",
    "earth planet .",
    ", 34 157 charbonneau , d. , brown , t.m . , latham , d.w . , mayor , m. 2000 , apj , 529 , l45 cresswell , p. , @xmath118 nelson , r.p .",
    "2006 , a@xmath118a , 450 , 833 croll , b. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 658 , 1328 fernandez , y. , jewitt , d. , ziffer , j. 2009 , aj , 138 , 240 .",
    "fleming , h. j. , @xmath118 hamilton , d.p .",
    "2000 , icarus , 148 , 479 ford , e.b . , @xmath118 gaudi , b.s .",
    "2006 , apj , 652 , l137 gladman , b. @xmath118 coffey , j. 2009 , meteorit .",
    ", 44 , 285 guenther , d.b . , et al . 2008 , commun . asteroseismol . , 157 , 64 jenkins , j.m .",
    "2010 , apjl , 713 , l120 jewitt , d.c . , trujillo , c.a .",
    ", @xmath118 luu , j. x. 2000 , aj , 120 , 1140 knutson , h.a . , charbonneau , d. , noyes , r.w . ,",
    "brown , t.m . , @xmath118 gilliland , r.l .",
    "2007 , apj , 655 , 564 laughlin , g. , @xmath118 chambers , j.e .",
    "2002 , aj , 124 , 592 lyra , w. , johansen , a. , klahr , h. , @xmath118 piskunov , n. 2009 , a@xmath118a , 493 , 1125 marchis , f. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 439 , 565 matthews , j. m. , kuschnig , r. , guenther , d. b. , walker , g.a.h .",
    ", moffat , a.f.j . , rucinski , s.m . , sasselov , d. , @xmath118 weiss , w.w .",
    "2004 , nature , 430 , 51 mazeh , t. , et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 532 , l55 melo , c. , santos , n.c . , pont , f. , guillot , t. , israelian , g. , mayor , m. , queloz , d. , udry , s. 2006 , a@xmath118a , 460 , 251 miller - ricci , e. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 682 , 586 morbidelli , a. , bottke , w.f . , nesvorny , d. , @xmath118 levison , h.f .",
    "2009 , icarus , 204 , 558 narita , n. , et al .",
    "2009 , pasj , 61 , 991 rowe , j. f. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 646 , 1241 rowe , j.f .",
    ", et al . 2008 , apj , 689 , 1345 saar , m.o .",
    "@xmath118 manga , m. 2004 , j. geophys .",
    "res . , 109 , b04204 stacey , r. g. , @xmath118 connors , m. 2007 , planet .",
    "space sci .",
    ", 56 , 358 thommes , e. w. 2005 , apj , 626 , 1033 walker , g.a.h . , et al . 2003 , pasp , 115 , 1023 winn , j.n . ,",
    "et al . 2005 , apj , 631 , 1215 winn , j.n .",
    "2007 , in asp conf .",
    "366 , transiting extrasolar planets workshop , ed . c. afonso",
    ", d. weldrake , @xmath118 th . henning ( san fransico , ca : asp ) 170 yoshida , f. , @xmath118 nakamura , t. 2005 , aj , 130 , 2900            in phase ) signal due to a transit",
    ", it would be apparent in the figure .",
    "orbital phases corresponding to the exoplanet transit ( near 0.6 ) and the transit of the precise l4 and l5 points are indicated by vertical lines . ]    , the 95@xmath37 , and the 99@xmath37 confidence limits , respectively , using 1000 repetitions .",
    "a real signal should have @xmath31% of the bins centered around zero lag above the 99% confidence level ; no such signal is present . ]",
    "50  m ) of the cloud decreases with time independent of the initial starting mass .",
    "after @xmath2 1 myr , the surface areas for the different initial masses are the same within a factor of 3 of each other . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have searched @xmath0 ( most ) satellite photometry obtained in 2004 , 2005 , and 2007 of the solar - type star hd 209458 for trojan asteroid swarms dynamically coupled with the system s transiting `` hot jupiter '' hd 209458b . </S>",
    "<S> observations of the presence and nature of asteroids around other stars would provide unique constraints on migration models of exoplanetary systems . </S>",
    "<S> our results set an upper limit on the optical depth of trojans in the hd 209458 system that can be used to guide current and future searches of similar systems by upcoming missions . using cross - correlation methods with artificial signals implanted in the data </S>",
    "<S> , we find that our detection limit corresponds to a relative trojan transit depth of 1@xmath1 , equivalent to @xmath21 lunar mass of asteroids , assuming power - law trojan size distributions similar to jupiter s trojans in our solar system . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm with dynamical interpretations that some asteroids could have migrated inward with the planet to its current orbit at 0.045 au , and that the yarkovsky effect is ineffective at eliminating objects of @xmath3 1 m in size . </S>",
    "<S> however , using numerical models of collisional evolution we find that , due to high relative speeds in this confined trojan environment , collisions destroy the vast majority of the asteroids in @xmath410 myr . </S>",
    "<S> our modeling indicates that the best candidates to search for exotrojan swarms in 1:1 mean resonance orbits with  hot jupiters \" are young systems ( ages of about 1 myr or less ) . </S>",
    "<S> years of kepler satellite monitoring of such a system could detect an asteroid swarm with a predicted transit depth of @xmath5 .    </S>",
    "<S> @xmath6 , 714:315 - 323 , 2010 june 10 + doi:10.1088/0004 - 637x/716/1/315 </S>"
  ]
}