{
  "article_text": [
    "the characterization of the wind speed above an astronomical site is extremely important for several different reasons .",
    "firstly , because the wind speed is strictly correlated to the optical turbulence : strong wind speed and sharp wind speed gradients are indicators of a turbulent atmosphere , which in combination with a stable stratification of the atmosphere ( a positive gradient of the potential temperature ) creates optical turbulence that limits the resolution of the telescopes . secondly , because the stronger the wind speed , the higher is the speed at which the turbulence layers cross the pupil of the telescope and the higher is the frequency at which adaptive optics systems are forced to work to correct the turbulence perturbations above the wavefront .",
    "thirdly , because a too strong wind speed near the ground can introduce vibrations of the telescope structures .    at mid - latitudes ,",
    "the wind speed varies with height showing a maximum at the jet stream level , usually 10 - 12 km ( or @xmath3200 hpa ) above sea level .",
    "the strength of the wind speed at high altitudes varies according to season , with the strongest values during ( the local ) winter and early spring @xcite .",
    "it has been observed that seasonal variations at the jet stream level are more pronounced at higher latitudes than at low latitudes in proximity of the equator @xcite because of the general circulation of the wind speed at synoptic scale .    at extreme latitudes , i.e. in proximity of the poles ,",
    "the wind speed is characterized by a completely different feature in the free atmosphere @xcite .",
    "it is rather weak up to 10 km and then increases monotonically above this height with a rate that increases with the distance of the site from the centre of the polar vortex @xcite .",
    "this assumption has been confirmed by @xcite .",
    "apart from the fact that a windy atmosphere more easily triggers optical turbulence , the astroclimatic parameter that directly depends not only on the optical turbulence but also on the wind speed is the wavefront coherence time : @xmath4 also equivalent to : @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the fried s parameter and v@xmath7 is the equivalent velocity : @xmath8    @xmath9 depends , therefore , on the vertical distribution of the wind speed v(h ) and the optical turbulence @xmath10(h ) . to simplify the calculation of the wavefront coherence time sarazin & tokovinin ( 2002 ) proposed a method to calculate @xmath9 using only the wind speed estimated at 200 hpa instead of the whole profile using an empirical relationship between @xmath11 and @xmath2 : firstly they used @xmath12 and , in a second time , the expression has been modified in @xmath13 .",
    "however , a few years ago @xcite , in a study done above san pedro mrtir , it has been observed that the value of the constant 0.4 was not universal .",
    "the authors found the value 0.56 above san pedro mrtir .",
    "however , they also proved that the relative error introduced in @xmath9 with the method of @xcite , that does not consider the vertical distribution of the wind speed but just the wind speed in two precise regions of the atmosphere ( near the ground and at 200 hpa ) , could be as great as 20@xmath14 - 50@xmath14 , even using the appropriated constant .",
    "in other words , they proved that the proportionality between v@xmath7 and v@xmath15 is poorly reliable if one wishes precise estimates of @xmath9 ( even if we select an appropriated constant ) above the teide observatory and they found a third different value of the constant .",
    "however , we think they misunderstood the @xcite thesis because they stated that the @xcite method needs to be calibrated to be used . ] .",
    "@xcite concluded therefore that , for the calculation of the @xmath9 , the vertical distribution of the wind speed on the whole troposphere is fundamental and necessary and the method suggested by @xcite can provide only some qualitative ( but not accurate ) estimates because it presents some intrinsic weak points .",
    "it appears therefore absolutely important in the field of the site characterization of an astronomical site , at least in cases such as the calculation of @xmath9 , to characterize the wind speed vertical distribution . how to do that ?",
    "the estimate of the wind speed vertical distribution up to 20 km at an astronomical site ( usually placed on the top of mountains ) is not trivial .",
    "the generalized scidar , an optical instrument based on a remote sensing principle , can measure the wind speed @xcite at all the heights in which turbulent layers are present i.e. it can reconstruct a sort of vertical profile .",
    "some estimates have been done in the past above different sites @xcite .",
    "however , this method requires the employment of an instrument that has to be placed at the focus of a telescope with a pupil size of at least 1.5 m and it can be performed for short periods ( typically some tens of nights ) related to dedicated experiments .",
    "such an instrument is not suitable for routinely monitoring the wind speed or climatological studies .",
    "alternatively wind speed profiles are routinely calculated by the general circulation models ( gcm ) ( mainly from the ecmwf and noaa / ncep ) and data - set can be retrieved in any site in the world with a horizontal resolution of 0.25 degrees ( operational analyses ) and 2.5 degrees ( re - analyses ) . both have been used for astronomical applications .",
    "more precisely , the ecmwf analyses have been used at mid - latitude sites @xcite as well as at extreme latitudes @xcite .",
    "noaa / ncep re - analyses ( vertical profiles ) have been used at mid - latitude sites @xcite and era - reanalyses of the ecmwf have been used at extreme latitudes @xcite .",
    "model outputs showed good correlations with measurements in all cases in which this has been calculated .",
    "the unique problem with analyses and re - analyses is that these estimates are representative of the wind speed above the astronomical site but not in the the surface and boundary layer where the local orographic effects have a major effect on the wind speed . above roughly 1 - 2 km from the ground ,",
    "the wind speed is almost horizontally homogeneous and the vertical distribution is basically the same with respect to a horizontal extension of some tens of kilometers . below this height",
    "the analyses from the gcms are less representative of the wind speed because their horizontal resolution is too low to give an accurate description of the interaction of the atmospheric flow with the topography near the surface .",
    "however , in the surface ( lowest few tens of meters ) and boundary layers ( typically the first kilometer above the surface ) it has been proved @xcite that mesoscale models , with a horizontal resolution of 1 km , can provide much better estimates than what analyses from the gcms do above mid - latitude astronomical sites .",
    "in that paper the author proved that mesoscale models can provide estimates better correlated to measurements than analyses from gcm .",
    "it has also been proved that mesoscale models are able , contrary to the analyses from the gcms , to discriminate the wind speed near the ground between two astronomical sites ( paranal and maidanak ) characterized by a median wind speeds that differ for 4 - 5 ms@xmath16 .",
    "this study lets us think that mesoscale models could be a useful tool to reconstruct the wind speed vertical profile all along the 20 km from the ground .",
    "they are supposed to be comparable in performances to the ecmwf models above 1 - 2 km from the ground and they are supposed to provide better performances of the wind speed in the first 1 - 2 km from the ground .    in this paper",
    "we provide a climatological characterization of the wind speed above 1 km from the ground on the time scale of ten years using analyses from the ecmwf general circulation models and we investigate the possibility to use a mesoscale model to systematically reconstruct a complete wind speed vertical profile extended on the whole 20 km above mt.graham ( arizona , us ) the site of the large binocular telescope ( lbt ) .",
    "in section 2 we use the operational ecmwf analyses over 10 years , 1998 - 2007 , to present a climatological estimate of the median monthly wind speed .",
    "the operational data was chosen because of their higher resolution ( 0.25 degrees ) with respect to the re - analyses .",
    "we will first prove the reliability of the ecmwf analyses in these regions of the world comparing analyses with radiosoundings launched in from tucson international airport ( @xmath3120 km from mt .",
    "graham ) .    in section 3",
    "we investigate the reliability of the wind speed vertical profiles retrieved from simulations with a mesoscale model ( meso - nh ) in the high as well as in the low part of the atmosphere .",
    "the mesoscale model is run in a grid - nesting configuration covering a total surface of 800 km x 800 km and three imbricated models with 10 , 2.5 and 0.5 km horizontal resolution ( table [ tab1 ] ) .",
    "the innermost model covering a surface of 60 km x 60 km .",
    "to estimate the model reliability we use measurements of the wind speed done by a generalized scidar run at the focus of the vatican advanced technology telescope ( vatt ) as well as by an anemometer located on the roof of the same telescope .",
    "this section aims to evaluate the possibility to use a mesoscale model to characterize the vertical distribution of the wind speed extending from the ground up to 20 km above astronomical sites .",
    "this should certainly represent an extremely valuable tool to provide an exhaustive monitoring of the wind speed above an astronomical site .",
    ".meso - nh model configuration . in the second column",
    "the horizontal resolution @xmath17x , in the third column the number of grid points and in the fourth column the horizontal surface covered by the model domain . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]             20 m ( dashed line and stars ) and the generalized scidar ( thin solid line and circles).,width=283 ]    we have calculated the average wind speed vertical profile in the first kilometer for all 39 nights for which there are measurements of the wind speed from the generalized scidar ( fig .  [ wind_gs ] - blue line ) and compare the resulting profile with the average wind speed simulated by the meso - nh for the same nights ( fig .",
    "[ wind_gs ] - green line ) .",
    "we remind that the gs is placed at the focus of the vatt therefore the first measurement ( on the vertical grid ) for the gs is at @xmath3 20 m from the ground .",
    "looking at fig.[wind_gs ] we observe that , almost everywhere the two profiles are very well correlated , with the generalized scidar estimating wind speed that differs from the meso - nh model for not more than 1 ms@xmath16 all along the first kilometer from the ground . at 20 m",
    "the gs wind is slightly stronger than the wind calculated by the model .",
    "this is probably due to the fact that the gs measurements have a vertical error bar of the order of 25 - 30 m ( see masciadri et al .",
    "2010 ) and the wind shear is particularly strong at this height",
    ". therefore it might be that the higher wind speed detected by the gs at h = 20 m can be originated by thin layers flowing at slightly higher distance from the dome and not resolved by the instrument .",
    "figure [ wind_surf ] shows the average wind speed near the ground for every night reported in table [ tab2 ] in chronological order as measured by the generalized scidar and reconstructed by meso - nh at around 20 m i.e. at the height of the dome of the telescope . in the same figure",
    "is also reported the wind speed measured in the same nights by the anemometer mounted on the top of the vatt . from a qualitative point of view , in fig .",
    "[ wind_surf ] we observe that the temporal evolution of the wind speed reconstructed by the model during the 39 nights is very well correlated to the anemometer trend .",
    "the wind speed reconstructed by the model decreases and increases following the wind speed evolution measured by the anemometer in the same nights .",
    "only a small off - set is present between the two estimates . from a quantitative point of view the mean wind speed from the gs at h",
    "= 20 m is 7.37 ms@xmath16 , the mean wind speed reconstructed by the meso - nh model is 5.21 ms@xmath16 , the mean wind speed measured by the anemometer is 2.44 ms@xmath16 .",
    "the wind speed reconstructed by the model is well included in the range of the wind speed measurements and this certainly proves the reliability of the calculated wind speed .",
    "the weaker wind speed from the anemometer is probably due to the fact that the anemometer is an in situ measurement that is done well below the top of the trees .",
    "it has been observed in the past that the friction of the atmospheric flow with the trees causes a sharp and drastic decreasing of the wind speed below this height ( something that is confirmed in the profile reconstructed by the model below 20 m ) .",
    "we conclude therefore that the model provides reliable estimates all along the whole 20 km . in the future",
    "it would be good to be able to equip the observatory with anemometers located at different heights below and above the top of the trees preferably in open space environment so that the wind speed is not affected by the presence of buildings .",
    "this should permit us to better monitor the particular sharp change of wind speed in this region .",
    "in this paper we aimed to give a complete characterization of the wind speed vertical distribution at mt .",
    "graham ( arizona , us ) for astronomical applications .",
    "the simplest way of retrieving a complete characterization of the wind speed profile ( with exception of the surface and boundary layer ) is using the data from general circulation models ( gcms ) . in this study",
    "we use the operational analyses from the ecmwf extracted from the grid point closest to the peak of mt .",
    "graham , with a 0.25 degrees resolution , to study the vertical wind speed distribution over 10 years ( 1998 - 2007 ) .",
    "we have verified that the wind speed profile retrieved from the operational analyses of the ecmwf model is consistent with what is obtained by the radiosoundings from the nearby tucson international airport .",
    "we also proved that the wind speed in this region is homogeneous with respect to horizontal spatial scales of the order of some tens of kilometers above @xmath34 km from the sea level .    having proved that the ecmwf analyses are reliable",
    ", we presented the monthly median wind speed extended on a 10 years time scale .",
    "the wind speed profiles are rather typical of a mid - latitude site with a pronounced wind speed maximum at the jet stream level ( 10 - 12 km above sea level ) during most of the year . on the contrary , during the summer the maximum wind speed is located well into the stratosphere . the strongest variability ( from different years ) in the monthly median wind speed is found during spring and autumn .",
    "for the same period we also provided the monthly mean wind speed values at 200 hpa , corresponding to the maximum wind speed values at the jet - stream height .",
    "the month with the strongest wind speed at 200 hpa is february ( 37.21 ms@xmath16 ) , while the weakest wind speed is observed in july ( 11.17 ms@xmath16 ) .",
    "results indicate that the wind speed at the jet - stream level is very similar to what has been observed above the observatory in san pedro mrtir ( baja california ) and it is consistent with the values observed above the best astronomical sites in the world .",
    "besides , we proved the reliability of a mesoscale model ( meso - nh ) in reconstructing the wind speed on the whole 20 km just above the summit of mt .",
    "graham included the boundary layer and the surface layer .",
    "we proved that the wind speed reconstructed by the model is very well correlated to the ecmwf analyses and it is also able to provide realistic profiles in the first kilometer from the ground .",
    "the wind speed estimates from the mesoscale model have been compared to measurements from a generalized scidar and an anemometer located at 20 m from the ground on a sample of 39 nights . above 50 m the wind speed profiles reconstructed by the model match in a very satisfactory way ( @xmath17v @xmath18 1 ms@xmath16 ) with respect to the measured wind speed profiles .",
    "closer to the surface , just in proximity of the top of the trees , the wind speed estimated by the model is included in the range of values given by the anemometer and the generalized scidar and for this reason can be considered satisfactory",
    ". however , the dispersion between the anemometer and the gs measurements seems a little too large .",
    "this difference is highly probably due to the fact the anemometer measures a wind speed that is not completely in free air ( the anemometer is placed beside the dome of the vatt ) and below the top of the trees . on the other side , the gs is probably affected by the wind speed just above the top of the trees because of its finite vertical resolution .",
    "the qualitative trend of the wind speed observed all along the sample of 39 nights is however very well reconstructed by the model and in agreement with measurements .",
    "the model appears to reconstruct very well the wind speed behavior above and below 20 m.    this paper therefore validates the meso - nh model as a tool to predict the wind speed vertical profile v(h ) from the ground up to 20 km above mt .",
    "graham for each night and , at present time , it appears as the unique method to systematically estimate the whole wind speed vertical profile above an astronomical observatory .",
    "we remind that it has been proved ( masciadri et al .",
    "1999a , masciadri & jabouille , 2001 , masciadri et al .",
    "2004 , lascaux et al . 2010 ) that meso - nh can provide reliable @xmath10 profiles above an astronomical site and it appears therefore as an extremely useful tool for @xmath9 estimates .",
    "besides there are evidences that it would be very useful to supply the mt .",
    "graham observatory with anemometers located at different heights below and above the top of the trees ( @xmath3 20 m ) because this should permit to provide a better constraints of the model for dedicated and more detailed applications .",
    "ecmwf products are extracted from the catalogue mars , http://www.ecmwf.int , access to these data was authorized by the meteorologic service of the italian air force .",
    "radiosoundings are obtained from the university of wyoming - site http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html .",
    "this study has been funded by the marie curie excellence grant ( forot ) - mext - ct-2005 - 023878 .",
    "avila , r. , vernin , j. , sanchez , l. , 2001 , a&a , 369 , 364 avila , r. , carrasco , e. , ibaez , f. , vernin , j. , prieur , j - l , cruz , d. x. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 503 bounhir , a. , benkhaldoun , z. , carrasco , e. , sarazin , m , 2009 , mnras , 398 , 862 carrasco , e. , avila , r. & carramiana , 2005 , pasp , 117 , 104 egner , s. , masciadri e. , mckenna d , 2007 , pasp , 119 , 669 garca - lorenzo , b. , fuensalida , j. j , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 1483 garca - lorenzo , b. , fuensalida , j. j. , muoz - tuon , c. , mendizalbal e. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 849 garca - lorenzo , b. , eff - darwich , a. , fuensalida , j. j. , castro - almazn , j. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 1633 geissler , k. , masciadri , e. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1048 hagelin s. , masciadri e. , lascaux , f. , stoesz , j. , 2008 , mnras , 387 , 1499 lafore , j .-",
    "p . , stein , j. , asencio , n. , bougeault , p. , ducrocq , v. , duron , j. , fischer , c. , hereil , p. , mascart , p. , masson , v. , pinty , j .- p . ,",
    "redelsperger , j .- l . , richard , e. , vil - guerau de arellano , j. , 1998 , annales geophysicae , 16 , 90 lascaux , f. , masciadri , e. , hagelin , s. , stoesz , j. , 2009 , in masciadri , e. & sarazin , m .. eds . , optical turbulence - astronomy meets meteorology , imperial college press , p. 366",
    "lascaux , f. , masciadri , e. , hagelin , s. , 2010 , mnras , 403 , 1714 masciadri , e. , vernin , j. , bougeault , p. 1999a",
    "a&ass , 137 , 185 masciadri , e. & jabouille , p. , 2001",
    ", a&a , 376 , 727 masciadri , e. , avila , r. , sanchez , l.j . , 2004 ,",
    "rmxaa , 40 , 3 masciadri , e. , 2003 , rmxaa , 36 , 249 masciadri , e. , egner , s. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1604 masciadri , e. , garfias t. , a&a , 2001 , 366 , 708 masciadri , e. , stoesz , j. , hagelin , s. , lascaux , f. , 2010 , mnras , 404 , 144 sadibekova , t. , fossat , e. , genthon , c. , krinner , g. , aristidi , e. , agabi , k. , azouit , m. , 2006 , antarct .",
    "sci.,18 , 437 sarazin , m. , tokovinin , a. , 2002 , in vernet , e. , ragazzoni , r. , esposito , s. , hubin , n. , eds , proc .",
    "58th eso conf .",
    "workshop , beyond conventional adaptive optics , eso publications , garching , p. 321",
    "the horizontal resolution of the operational analyses of the ecmwf has changed during the ten year - period studied in this paper .",
    "this implies that the position of the closest grid points to mt .",
    "graham changes .",
    "the data in this study are downloaded from the 0.25@xmath19 resolution where the closest grid point to mt .",
    "graham is located east northeast of the mountain peak ( fig .",
    "[ map ] - point ( a ) ) at 32.75@xmath19n , 110.00@xmath19w . using the 0.5@xmath19 resolution the closest grid point",
    "is located 32.50@xmath19n , 110.00@xmath19w , southwest of the mountain ( fig .",
    "[ map ] - point ( b ) ) .    to closer examine which impact the different resolutions have on the vertical wind speed profile we have downloaded the data from both of these grid points for the entire year 2002 .",
    "the monthly median wind speed profile is presented in fig .",
    "[ wind2002 ] , where the data from the grid point using the higher resolution ( 32.75@xmath19n , 110.00@xmath19w ) is plotted with a solid line and the data from the 0.5@xmath19 resolution ( 32.50@xmath19n , 110.00@xmath19w ) is plotted using a dashed line .",
    "the difference between the two data - sets is very small . during",
    "all months the lines overlap each other almost entirely .",
    "some smaller offsets exist , but they are generally minor .",
    "the largest difference found , near the jet stream - level in october , is 2.8 ms@xmath16 .",
    "we conclude therefore that the change in horizontal resolution in ecmwf - analyses during the 10 years did not introduce any biases in our calculation ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the characterization of the wind speed vertical distribution v(h ) is fundamental for an astronomical site for many different reasons : ( 1 ) the wind speed shear contributes to trigger optical turbulence in the whole troposphere , ( 2 ) a few of the astroclimatic parameters such as the wavefront coherence time ( @xmath0 ) depends directly on v(h ) , ( 3 ) the equivalent velocity @xmath1 , controlling the frequency at which the adaptive optics systems have to run to work properly , depends on the vertical distribution of the wind speed and optical turbulence . </S>",
    "<S> also , a too strong wind speed near the ground can introduce vibrations in the telescope structures . </S>",
    "<S> the wind speed at a precise pressure ( 200 hpa ) has frequently been used to retrieve indications concerning the @xmath0 and the frequency limits imposed to all instrumentation based on adaptive optics systems , but more recently it has been proved that @xmath2 ( wind speed at 200 hpa ) alone is not sufficient to provide exhaustive elements concerning this topic and that the vertical distribution of the wind speed is necessary . in this paper a complete characterization of the vertical distribution of wind speed strength </S>",
    "<S> is done above mt.graham ( arizona , us ) , site of the large binocular telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a climatological study extended over 10 years using the operational analyses from the european centre for medium - range weather forecasts ( ecmwf ) , we prove that this is representative of the wind speed vertical distribution at mt . </S>",
    "<S> graham with exception of the boundary layer and we prove that a mesoscale model can provide reliable nightly estimates of v(h ) above this astronomical site from the ground up to the top of the atmosphere ( @xmath3 20 km ) .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    site testing  atmospheric effects  turbulence  methods : data analysis </S>"
  ]
}