{
  "article_text": [
    "discovered on 1892 november 9 by edwin holmes , comet 17p / holmes ( hereafter , 17p ) is a dynamically ordinary jupiter - family comet , with a semimajor axis of @xmath6  au , an eccentricity of @xmath7 , an inclination of @xmath8 , an orbital period of @xmath9  years , and a tisserand parameter ( with respect to jupiter ) of @xmath10 . on 2007 october 24.1 , it was discovered by j. a. henrquez santana to be undergoing a substantial outburst .",
    "starting from an initially observed magnitude of @xmath11 ( compared to a pre - outburst brightness of @xmath12 measured on 2007 october 23.1 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it brightened by approximately 0.5 mag  hr@xmath3 over the course of 6 hours @xcite .",
    "the comet reached @xmath13 by 2007 october 25.1 @xcite , representing a million - fold increase in brightness over only 2 days .",
    "this outburst of 17p mirrored a similar outburst that led to the comet s initial discovery in 1892 , and continued to be monitored by both amateur and professional astronomers as it progressed .",
    "spectroscopic analyses indicated that the coma was largely dominated by dust grains @xcite , but evidence of cometary volatiles and sublimation byproducts , including oh , h@xmath14o , nh , cn , hcn , hnc , c@xmath14 , c@xmath15 , c@xmath14h@xmath14 , c@xmath14h@xmath16 , cs , ch@xmath15cn , and ch@xmath15oh , were also detected during the outburst @xcite .",
    "negative polarisation was found for the dust coma by @xcite , consistent with measurements made for other comets .",
    "a delay in the appearance of cn , c@xmath14 , and [ oi ] emission lines between 2007 october 24.58 and october 25.46 led @xcite to speculate that their observations could be at least partially explained by the delayed sublimation of icy grains ejected at the time of the outburst .",
    "this hypothesis is supported by @xcite who found evidence of a distributed source of sublimation products , consistent with the ejection and subsequent delayed sublimation of icy grains in the coma .",
    "the total mass loss due to this outburst has been estimated to be @xmath17 kg or a few percent of the comet s total mass @xcite .",
    "the wide angle search for planets ( wasp ) operates two facilities : superwasp - n , located in the northern hemisphere on la palma , and wasp - s , located in the southern hemisphere at the south african astronomical observatory .",
    "these two facilities , comprising eight cameras each , provide fully robotic , high time - resolution , and ultra - wide angle imaging of selected star fields for the primary purpose of detecting transiting extrasolar planets .",
    "each camera employs 200 mm f/1.8 canon lenses with apertures of 11.1  cm and a broadband filter defining a custom passband from 400 to 700  nm .",
    "the detectors are @xmath18 thinned e2v ccds with an image scale of @xmath19  pixel@xmath3 for a total field of view of @xmath20 by @xmath20 per camera .",
    "images are processed by an automated reduction pipeline that performs bias and thermal dark frame subtraction and flatfield reduction @xcite .",
    "superwasp - n ( hereafter , superwasp ) serendipitously observed 17p in one camera on numerous nights during the comet s 2007 outburst , starting on the night of 2007 october 23 - 24 and continuing through 2007 december 2 - 3 , providing us with a well - sampled , long - baseline data set for analysing the comet s evolving brightness and morphology .",
    "we list details of these observations in table  [ obslog ] and show typical images of the comet obtained on each night of observations in figure  [ images_all ] .",
    "data from the night prior to the outburst ( 2007 october 22 - 23 ) is also available .",
    "inspection of these data shows no evidence of the comet at its expected position , indicating that the comet remained below superwasp s detection threshold ( @xmath5  mag ) until at least 2007 october 23.3 .    on the first night of 17p s outburst , a total of 84 images , comprising 30 seconds of exposure time each , were obtained from 2007 oct 23.9851 ( ut 23:38 ) to oct 24.2681 ( ut 06:26 ) .",
    "images were obtained in consecutive pairs approximately every 10 to 12 minutes .",
    "the steadily - brightening comet was visible from the start of the observations but became saturated on the ccd from approximately oct 24.1496 onwards , leaving 44 images from which reliable photometry could be obtained .",
    "the fwhm measured for field star surface brightness profiles during the period of observations was approximately @xmath21 .",
    "aperture photometry was performed on the comet using apertures with radii of @xmath22 .",
    "the background sky flux was measured at several nearby locations on the sky where field star contamination was minimal .",
    "five nearby field stars ( within 30 arcmin of the comet ) were also measured using the same apertures and used to make differential photometric corrections to our measured comet fluxes to ensure a consistent photometric baseline throughout the observation period .    because superwasp employs a non - standard wide filter optimised for its primary function as a transit detector @xcite , precise absolute photometry of 17p in a standard passband is difficult to obtain from this data set .",
    "we estimate apparent magnitudes by assuming the spectrum of 17p to be approximately solar and performing differential photometry using nearby fgk - type field stars whose magnitudes and spectral types are known ( table  [ fieldstars ] ) .",
    "we assign a combined systematic and measurement uncertainty of @xmath230.2  mag to these measurements .",
    "these magnitudes are computed for comparison to other published results only .",
    "all analysis discussed hereafter is performed using differentially - calibrated instrumental fluxes ( as described above ) unless otherwise specified , and as such is unaffected by uncertainties in these magnitude calibration calculations .",
    "all photometry results are shown in table  [ photometry ] .",
    "if we assume that the coma of 17p is dominated by dust grains and is optically thick on the first night of the comet s outburst ( 2007  october 23 - 24 ) , we would expect its brightness ( @xmath24 ) to vary linearly with the surface area of the coma as projected on the sky .",
    "if the coma radius increases at a linear rate , its surface area will vary as the square of elapsed time , @xmath25 , since the outburst , giving the following expression for the brightness : @xmath26 where @xmath27 and @xmath28 is a scaling constant . assuming an effective initial brightness , @xmath29  adu ( equivalent to a @xmath230.05@xmath30 signal in our data ) , consistent with reported pre - outburst magnitudes of 17p of @xmath31 @xcite and fitting only to the first @xmath232 hours of superwasp data , we find best - fit values of @xmath32 and @xmath33 , as reported in @xcite .",
    "this value for @xmath34 is consistent with the outburst time initially estimated by @xcite .",
    "while this early photometry initially appears to be consistent with a linearly expanding , optically thick coma , combining these data with our analysis of the coma s expansion velocity ( described below in  [ comaexp ] ) shows that this is likely not the case .",
    "we can estimate the total scattering cross - section , @xmath35 , of the particles in the coma from @xmath36}\\ ] ] where @xmath37 is the geometric @xmath38-band albedo , assumed here to be @xmath39 , and @xmath40 is used for the absolute solar @xmath38-band magnitude . assuming a phase coefficient of @xmath41  mag  deg@xmath3",
    ", we obtain starting and ending absolute magnitudes of @xmath42 and @xmath43 for the period of observations for which the comet s brightening appears to follow a square law , giving starting and ending total scattering cross - sections of @xmath44  km@xmath45 and @xmath46  km@xmath45 .",
    "if the coma is optically thick , meaning that the observed scattering cross - section is equal to the total area of the coma , @xmath47 , we obtain starting and ending coma radii of @xmath48  km and @xmath49  km , assuming a circular coma .",
    "our first and last photometry measurements are separated by 6487  seconds , so the assumption of an optically thick coma yields a coma expansion velocity of only 0.01  km  s@xmath3 .",
    "this velocity is far slower than our calculated coma expansion velocity and all other reported expansion velocities ( _ cf . _  [ comaexp ] ) . using a smaller assumed albedo value for the coma dust particles has the effect of increasing the total effective scattering cross - section , therefore increasing the implied expansion velocity .",
    "an implausibly low assumed albedo of @xmath50 is required , however , to produce an expansion velocity of 0.5  km  s@xmath3 ( where @xmath51  km and @xmath52  km ) .",
    "assuming a larger phase coefficient value also increases the implied expansion velocity by increasing the implied brightness of the coma at @xmath53 , but again , an implausible value for the phase coefficient ( @xmath54  mag  deg@xmath3 ) is required to produce an expansion velocity of 0.5  km  s@xmath3 , assuming @xmath39 . in fact , as shown in figure  [ betaalbedo ] , given the range of cometary phase coefficients ( @xmath55 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and albedos ( @xmath56 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) measured to date , no plausible combination of @xmath57 and @xmath37 is able to account for our photometry data given the assumption of an optically - thick coma with an outer edge expanding at 0.5  km  s@xmath3 .",
    "the implausible conditions necessary for 17p s coma to be optically thick strongly suggest that the coma is optically thin even in our earliest observations of the outburst , confirming the results of @xcite .",
    "this conclusion is supported by our coma expansion analysis (  [ comaexp ] ) which suggests that the radius of the outer edge of the coma should have already been @xmath58  km at the time of superwasp s first image of the comet on the first night of the outburst , making it approximately 200 times larger than an optically - thick coma would be ( assuming typical cometary albedo and phase coefficient values of @xmath39 and @xmath59  mag  deg@xmath3 ) . we therefore find that the rapid brightening we observed for the comet on 2007 october 23 - 24 must have been caused by a process other than the expansion of an optically thick coma .",
    "if we assume that 17p s coma was already optically thin by the time of our first observation , it is possible that most of the observed material could have been emitted on a very short timescale around the time of the outburst , and that the brightening of the coma was primarily due to the fragmentation of the dust grains into smaller particles leading to an increase in reflecting surface area .",
    "this scenario was also suggested by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "fragmentation of dust particles has also been inferred from in - situ measurements at other comets such as 1p / halley @xcite and 81p / wild 2 @xcite , as well as many ground - based observations of comets such as c / hale - bopp @xcite .    if a dust grain breaks into two daughter grains when it fragments , the original visible cross - sectional area of the dust increases by a factor @xmath60 . as long as the fragmentation timescale , @xmath61 , and",
    "the albedo are roughly size - invariant ( _ i.e. _ they do not change as fragmentation progresses ) , the dust s total visible cross - section , and hence its brightness , will increase exponentially with the form @xmath62 where @xmath63 is the brightness of the dust at an initial time @xmath34 .",
    "the dust grain fragmentation timescale @xmath61 is related by the brightness exponent @xmath28 by @xmath64 for splitting into two daughter fragments , the maximum value of @xmath60 is when the daughter grains have equal mass , giving @xmath65 . for splitting into more than two daughter fragments ,",
    "@xmath61 will be larger by a factor @xmath66 , where @xmath67 is the number of simultaneously produced daughter particles and we assume that all daughter particles have equal mass .",
    "analysing our data in the context of this fragmentation model , we fit 17p s early lightcurve to the following function : @xmath68 mathematically , @xmath69 and @xmath34 in this function can not be fit simultaneously , meaning that equation  [ expfunction ] can not be used to derive a unique outburst time .",
    "thus , for this analysis , we assume an outburst time of @xmath70 as determined from the expansion of the coma ( discussed below in  [ comaexp ] ) .",
    "fitting the entire @xmath234 hours of unsaturated 17p data , we find best - fit parameters of @xmath71  adu , @xmath72  days@xmath3 , and @xmath73  adu ( corresponding to @xmath74  mag ) .",
    "an exponential function using these best - fit parameters ( where fluxes have been converted to equivalent @xmath38-band magnitudes ) , along with the square law discussed above , is plotted in figure  [ fluxplot ] .",
    "overlaying on figure  [ fluxplot ] other published photometry ( table  [ otherphotometry ] ) from the spanish meteor and fireball network ( spmn ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and from j. a. henrquez santana and g. muler @xcite , we find slight discrepancies between our computed magnitudes and these other data .",
    "however given the unknown calibration methods of henrquez santana and muler and the uncertain absolute calibration of both superwasp and spmn data ( stemming from the use of non - standard filters at both facilities ) , we judge our data and our derived best - fit exponential brightening function to be approximately consistent with these other data .",
    "this result implies that dust particles in 17p s coma had average fragmentation lifetimes of @xmath75 sec , assuming bilateral splitting .",
    "however , we note that when fitting this exponential function to our data , the fit is noticeably poorer to the first half of the data set compared to the second half . functionally , this discrepancy can be accounted for if @xmath28 increases over our observing period . in fig .",
    "[ fluxplot ] , a second exponential function is also shown fitted only to the first 2 hours of data with @xmath76  days@xmath3 , @xmath70 , @xmath77  adu , and @xmath78  adu corresponding to @xmath79  mag .",
    "this gives a fragmentation timescale ( assuming two daughter grains per splitting event ) of @xmath80  s. the improved accuracy of such a two - exponential fit implies that as the outburst progressed , the rate of fragmentation increased .",
    "this behaviour could physically correspond to a situation in which the outburst ejected clumps of dust bound together by ice . as the ice sublimated and became progressively unable to bind those clumps together ,",
    "increasingly rapid disintegration could have followed .",
    "using data taken from 2007 october 31 onward ( when at least a portion of the coma had expanded beyond the central saturated core of the comet in our data ) , we can measure the size of the dust coma on successive nights and thus determine its expansion rate and , in principle , the time of the outburst s onset .",
    "two complications in this method as noted by @xcite are the presence of an extended gas coma with poorly - defined edges that obscures the extent of the relatively more well - defined dust coma ( _ cf_.  [ gasmodel ] ) , and the non - sphericity of the coma after approximately 2007",
    "november 3 .",
    "additionally , we note that as the coma expands and fades , successive portions of the outer coma are rendered unobservable as they approach the signal - to - noise detection limit of the background sky .",
    "this process complicates measurements of the size and expansion rate of the coma since it means that the visually - determined `` edge '' of the coma does not correspond to the same parcels of coma dust at all times , but instead simply represents the locus of points at which the coma s surface brightness is detectable against the sky . even assuming the sky brightness to be approximately constant from night to night ( which it is not , due to the changing proximity and phase of the moon and the altitude of observation ) ,",
    "since the surface brightness of a given parcel of dust decreases as the coma expands and becomes more diffuse , following a point of constant brightness will actually lead steadily inward in the expanding reference frame of the coma .",
    "thus , over time , simply measuring the coma s observable edge will lead to increasing underestimates of the coma s true size , leading to an underestimate of its true expansion velocity .    with these concerns in mind , we prepare our data for the measurement of the coma size and expansion rate by rotating comet images from each night to align the central axis ( as projected in the image plane ) of the comet s elongated coma with each image s vertical axis .",
    "this procedure is a straightforward matter for data obtained on 2007 november 13 onwards , in which the coma is visibly elongated , and the position angle of the central axis is clear ( table  [ obslog ] ) .",
    "for data obtained on 2007",
    "november 6 or earlier , the coma is largely circular , making it difficult to discern the orientation of its central axis .",
    "for these data , we simply adopt the antisolar vector ( as projected in the plane of the sky ) as the coma s central axis , and apply image rotations accordingly .    for each rotated image",
    ", we measure the flux in the coma along a horizontal three - pixel - wide strip passing through the comet nucleus , where the nucleus is assumed to be at the centre of the nearly circular coma in data obtained prior to 2007 november 5 - 6 .",
    "we then average the fluxes contained in pairs of pixels which are equidistant from the nucleus on each side of that axis .",
    "finally , we normalise the results to the flux of the photometry aperture centred on the nucleus and plot these normalised fluxes as a function of distance from the comet s nucleus for each image ( fig .",
    "[ lsbprofiles ] ) . by constructing profiles in this way",
    ", we aim to minimise the effects on our results of the coma s non - sphericity and highly - projected orientation in the sky .",
    "we note immediately that the surface brightness profiles we obtain are of approximately the same form from night to night ( with the exception of the profile on 2007 november 22 - 23 whose anomalous appearance we attribute to the close proximity of the nearly - full moon on that night ) .",
    "this stability of our surface brightness profiles gives us confidence that we are able to achieve consistent results despite the large spatial scale of the coma and widely - varying stellar backgrounds .",
    "significantly , we also note that these linear surface brightness profiles do not match the @xmath81 radial surface brightness profile of a canonical spherically symmetric , steady - state cometary dust coma .",
    "instead , profiles from 2007 october 31-november 1 through 2007",
    "november 5 - 6 ( fig .",
    "[ lsbprofiles]a - [ lsbprofiles]f ) consist of saturated pixels near the nucleus , followed by a region of moderate slope ( @xmath82 to @xmath83 ; hereafter `` region 1 '' ) leading into an extremely steep section ( @xmath84 to @xmath85 ; hereafter `` region 2 '' ) .",
    "region 2 then transitions into another region of moderate slope ( @xmath86 to @xmath83 ; hereafter `` region 3 '' ) which finally becomes essentially horizontal ( @xmath87 ; hereafter `` region 4 '' ) far from the nucleus where the surface brightness profile becomes dominated by the background sky . for data from 2007 november 13 - 14 onwards ( fig .",
    "[ lsbprofiles]g - [ lsbprofiles]m ) , the central portion of the coma is no longer saturated , while region 2 of each profile transitions directly into region 4 without passing through region 3 .",
    "where possible , we compute best - fit linear functions for each of these regions in each profile ( fig .",
    "[ lsbprofiles ] , table  [ lsbparams ] ) .",
    "region 1 parameters are not calculated for 2007 october 31-november 3 due to extensive inner coma saturation on these dates .",
    "the observed evolution of 17p s coma profile is consistent with a growing coma which maintains an approximately constant morphology as it expands and fades .",
    "we interpret region 1 as the dust - dominated portion of the coma , and region 2 as the edge of the dust coma , with its steep slope likely indicating a sharp cutoff at the small end of the size distribution of visible grains .",
    "the inconsistency with the slope of region 1 ( @xmath88 , declining to @xmath89 ) with that of a canonical steady - state dust coma under radiation pressure ( @xmath90 to @xmath91 ) indicates that the coma is not in fact steady - state .",
    "such a steadily decreasing slope would in fact be expected if a single outburst is assumed to account for the majority of the observed dust coma , as faster , smaller dust grains in the outer coma will expand at a higher velocity than slower - moving , large particles in the inner coma .",
    "we hypothesise that the transient region 3 could be due to gas extending beyond the outermost edge of the dust that otherwise dominates the coma profile .",
    "we discuss this hypothesis at length below (  [ gasmodel ] ) .",
    "the fluctuating length of region 2 after the disappearance of region 3 confirms our concern that the intersection of the outer coma and the sky is an unreliable determinant of coma size .    with the above issues in mind",
    ", we suggest that a more precise measure of the expansion rate of 17p s coma can be achieved by tracking the motion of reference points _ within _ the coma .",
    "specifically , we suggest that the relatively well - defined transitions between the various surface brightness profile regions described above could be useful reference points .",
    "we note that uncertainty is not entirely eliminated by the use of this method as the shape of the coma profile does evolve slightly over time ( _ cf . _ table  [ lsbparams ] ) meaning that our chosen reference points likely shift slightly within the expanding reference frame of the coma .",
    "nonetheless , given the fundamentally problematic nature described above of measuring the expansion of a progressively fading coma using brightness - dependent reference points , we believe tracking morphology - dependent reference points to be the most reliable method at our disposal .",
    "we define the transition point between two regions of the coma s surface brightness profile as the intersection of the best - fit linear functions ( in log - log space ) of those regions . as we seek to avoid being affected by fluctuations in sky brightnesses and the steady fading of the outer coma , we first only concern ourselves with the positions of the intersections of regions 1 and 2 and regions 2 and 3 ( table  [ expansion ] ) , ignoring intersections of those regions with region 4 ( the sky ) . plotting the distances of these intersection points from the nucleus as a function of time ( fig .",
    "[ comaexpansion ] ) , we find best - fit linear solutions corresponding to an expansion velocity of @xmath92  km  s@xmath3 and a start date of @xmath93 ( very close to the time of the final superwasp observation of the comet on the night prior to the outburst s discovery ) for the intersection point between regions 1 and 2 .",
    "an expansion velocity of @xmath2  km  s@xmath3 and a start date of @xmath94 ) is found for the intersection point between regions 2 and 3 .",
    "the latter expansion rate is consistent with previously reported values ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) we believe @xmath95 to be the more reliable extrapolated value as it is derived using a reference point within the dust coma itself .",
    "by contrast , @xmath96 is derived using the intersection of the dust - dominated and gas - dominated components of the coma .",
    "for the solution for the outburst time using the intersection between regions 1 and 2 , we use data up to november 17 only . beyond this date",
    ", the location of this reference point within the expanding frame of the coma appears to have shifted as expected ( discussed above ) , and as such , we omit these data in this portion of our analysis .    for completeness",
    ", we also consider the intersections of region 2 and region 3 with the sky ( region 4 ) .",
    "plotting the distances of these points ( table  [ expansion ] ) as a function of time and omitting data points from 2007 oct 31-nov 1 ( due to the moderately high sky background on that night ) and from 2007 nov 5 - 6 onwards ( due to the notable deviation of points from those nights from the trend exhibited by points prior to 2007 nov 5 - 6 ) , we find best - fit linear solutions corresponding to an expansion velocity of @xmath97  km  s@xmath3 and a start date of @xmath98 for the intersection point between region 2 and the sky .",
    "for the intersection point between region 3 and the sky we measure an expansion velocity of @xmath99  km  s@xmath3 and a start date of @xmath100 .",
    "these derived expansion start dates for these reference points are significantly earlier than plausible from reported observations , which is the expected result of using a method that underestimates the coma s expansion velocity .      in  [ comaexp ] , we find that outburst times , @xmath95 and @xmath96 , as derived from tracking material at two different locations in 17p s outer coma were coincident , strongly suggesting that this part of the coma is dominated by material ejected in a near - instantaneous explosive manner , rather than over an extended period of time . specifically , by fitting the projected velocity @xmath101 of material in the outer coma at a given projected distance @xmath102 from the nucleus on a given date @xmath103",
    ", we find the following relationship : @xmath104    this velocity gradient is most likely a particle size effect , where smaller particles have larger velocities imparted to them by gas drag during their initial ejection due to their smaller ratio of mass to surface area .",
    "the observed projected velocity of an ejected dust particle also depends on the angle of its ejection from the nucleus with respect to the plane of the sky , where dust particles with velocity vectors perpendicular to the line of sight ( _ i.e. _ , parallel to the plane of the sky ) will have the greatest apparent velocities .",
    "thus , while all material observed at a given point in the coma is moving at the same projected velocity from the nucleus , that material actually consists of a range of highly - projected , small , fast - moving particles , and less - projected , larger , more slowly - moving particles .",
    "these particles are additionally affected by solar radiation pressure which eventually causes particles having identical projected ejection velocities but different sizes to diverge , as can be seen by the evolution of the shape of 17p s coma profile ( _ cf_. table  [ lsbparams ] ; fig .",
    "[ lsbprofiles ] ) . given the large ejection speeds of particles in the outer coma relative to the acceleration due to solar radiation , the overall effect remains relatively small over the short time interval that we consider here .",
    "given the low spatial resolution and saturation in much of our superwasp data , we are unable to probe the comet s inner coma in sufficient detail to rule out the possibility of later emission from the nucleus .",
    "@xcite did however perform an analysis of the inner coma , fitting a bidimensional gaussian to the innermost portion of the dust cloud ( @xmath105  arcsec ) , centred on the dust cloud s brightness peak ( instead of on the nucleus as in our analysis ) , and plotting the mean of the @xmath106 and @xmath107 of their best - fit solutions as a function of jd .",
    "they derived an average expansion velocity of @xmath108  km  s@xmath3 for material located approximately @xmath109  km from the cloud centre on 2007",
    "november 02 , and a radial velocity gradient of @xmath110  s@xmath3 on the same date .",
    "given the stated uncertainties , their derived velocity gradient is consistent with the velocity gradient we expect from equation  [ comavelocity ] ( @xmath111  s@xmath3 ) , although their derived velocity ( @xmath108  km  s@xmath3 ) for material at @xmath109  km from the cloud centre is not consistent ( @xmath112  km  s@xmath3 , according to equation  [ comavelocity ] ) .",
    "the large plate scale of superwasp s ccds means that we can not probe the central 30  arcsec of 17p s coma . beyond this distance ,",
    "the coma deviates significantly from a gaussian profile ( as also noted by * ? ? ?",
    "as such , we are unable to repeat and verify the analysis described above using our data .",
    "we do note , however , that the large amount of scatter in their data and the lack of actual convergence at a single start time of their plots showing the expansion of the coma in four different filters suggests that their value for the velocity gradient in the inner coma may be unreliable .",
    "we also note that their computed expansion velocity and extrapolation of their coma expansion plots imply ejection of the material on 2007 october @xmath113 , significantly later than the actual observed start of the outburst on the night of 2007 october 23 - 24 .",
    "this large discrepancy between implied ejection times , even accounting for uncertainties , strongly suggests that the material in the inner coma at the time of their observations was not in fact ejected during the initial outburst . in turn , this suggests the existence of some continued emission from the nucleus as late as 2.5 days following the initial outburst .",
    "as noted by many observers of 17p , the comet s coma actually exhibited two brightness peaks , one of which was the comet s nucleus and another which we hereafter refer to as the `` false nucleus . '' this second brightness peak was also referred to in observation reports as a `` chunk '' or `` blob '' , and was hypothesised by some to be due to a large nuclear fragment that had detached from the primary comet nucleus and was slowly drifting away ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "arai et al .",
    "( using data from 2007 october 27 and october 30 ) and montalto et al .",
    "( using data from 2007 october 27 and october 31 ) , measured projected drift velocities of 150  m  s@xmath3 and 127  m  s@xmath3 , respectively @xcite .",
    "montalto et al .",
    "additionally derived a separation time of 2007 oct @xmath114 , and later reported a revised drift velocity of @xmath115  m  s@xmath3 @xcite .",
    "subsequent analysis of 17p images by investigators such as lecacheux et al .",
    "( in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xcite , and @xcite revealed the false nucleus to be concentrations of material in a series of dust trails receding from the nucleus .    to test reported velocity measurements of the densest concentration of material in these dust trails , we measure projected distances between the true nucleus and false nucleus in our own data taken between 2007 nov 5 and 2007 dec 3 ( table  [ fragmotion ] ) and plot these as a function of time ( fig .",
    "[ chunkdist ] ) . assuming a constant drift velocity , we find a best - fit projected linear velocity of @xmath116  m  s@xmath3 and an initial separation time of @xmath117 , roughly consistent with other derived outburst times .",
    "the estimated uncertainties primarily reflect the difficulty of precisely determining the position of the rather ill - defined false nucleus on each night .",
    "one key to understanding the nature of 17p s outburst is determining whether the comet s nucleus is a plausible primary emission source , as we have assumed thus far , or if the coma could be dominated by dust ejected from another source , perhaps a separated fragment , as others ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , have suggested as a possibility . with this question in mind ,",
    "we construct a simple dust model aimed at constraining the possible source ( or sources ) of emission .",
    "we make several simplifying assumptions , as in any model , and do not seek a complete analytical description of the outburst event .",
    "instead , we simply aim to determine whether 17p s nucleus is a plausible origin of the dust in the outer coma , given its significant offset from the coma centre ( and the approximate location of the false nucleus ) in observations two weeks after the initial outburst and later .",
    "we define the plane of the sky as the @xmath118-@xmath119 plane , where the comet nucleus is located at the origin and the @xmath118-axis is perpendicular to the projection of the sunward vector ( the positive @xmath119-axis ) in the plane of the sky .",
    "the @xmath28-axis is taken to be aligned with the line of sight , with the positive axis extending towards the observer .    assuming a simplistic model of isotropic emission in which particles are ejected at terminal ejection velocities of @xmath120 in all directions , we expect the coma to be initially spherical and then become paraboloidal as solar radiation pressure applies a uniformly - directed acceleration , @xmath121 , to each coma particle ( _ cf_.",
    "* ) , following convention , we parametrize particle size by the dimensionless parameter , @xmath57 , which is defined as the ratio of a particle s acceleration due to radiation pressure to its acceleration due to solar gravity .",
    "formally , @xmath57 is a complicated function of the size , composition , and shape of a given dust grain @xcite , though in practice , it can be approximated by @xmath122 , where @xmath123 is the radius of a given dust particle in @xmath124 m .    using the @xmath57 parametrization ,",
    "the acceleration of a particle due to solar radiation pressure is then approximately given by @xmath125 where @xmath126  m  s@xmath127 is the gravitational acceleration to the sun at 1 au and @xmath128 is the heliocentric distance in au .    we adopt a typical particle size - velocity relationship of @xmath129 where @xmath130 is the reference ejection velocity in m  s@xmath3 of a particle with @xmath131 ( _ cf_. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "noting the short distance that the comet traveled around its orbit ( from @xmath132 to @xmath133 ; table  [ obslog ] ) during the first 15 days of the outburst ( from 2007 october 23.6 to 2007 november 5 - 6 ; the period to which we confine our modelling analysis ) , we make the simplifying approximation of treating the orientation of the solar radiation pressure acceleration vector as constant during this period .",
    "the @xmath134 coordinates of a dust particle , as viewed at opposition , ejected from the nucleus at an elevation angle of @xmath135 and azimuth angle of @xmath136 , are then given by @xmath137 @xmath138 @xmath139 which we calculate for @xmath140 and @xmath141 in @xmath142 intervals for both @xmath135 and @xmath136 .",
    "then , rotating our coordinate system to account for a non - zero phase angle , @xmath143 , at the time of observation , we obtain @xmath144 @xmath145 for the @xmath146 coordinates ( in physical distance ) of our test dust particles in the plane of the sky .",
    "these coordinates are then divided by the apparent pixel scale to obtain our final @xmath146 coordinates in pixels .    in this modelling study , our focus is on the fastest - moving particles in the outer envelope of the dust coma , and we are therefore only concerned with the minimum observed particle size in the coma , or @xmath147 .",
    "thus , using the geometric circumstances of 17p on 2007 november 5 - 6 , we generate a series of model dust clouds using various values for @xmath57 and @xmath130 that satisfy @xmath148  m  s@xmath3 ( _ i.e. _ , the velocity we derive for particles on the outermost edge of the dust coma ) .",
    "we find that each of our parameter sets selected in this way produces a nearly circular dust cloud ( as projected in the plane of the sky ) with a diameter of about @xmath149 , consistent with the actual size of the dust envelope on 2007 november 5 - 6 ( as expected , given the constraints we applied to our initial parameters ) . as larger @xmath57 and smaller @xmath130 values",
    "are used , the dust cloud remains fixed in size but becomes increasingly offset from the point of emission .",
    "physically , the fixed size of the cloud results from our constraint on @xmath120 described above , while the shifting position of the cloud as @xmath57 increases corresponds to smaller particles experiencing larger accelerations due to solar radiation pressure .",
    "the cloud therefore `` drifts '' more quickly relative to the nucleus . in the limiting case of particles with very small @xmath57 values (",
    "_ i.e. _ , very large particles ) , solar radiation pressure would not cause the dust to drift at all , and the nucleus would therefore appear to be at the exact centre of the dust cloud .    assuming 17p s nucleus to be the primary origin point of the particles in the outer dust coma , we find that the model dust cloud that best approximates the relative positions of the nucleus and the observed outer edge of the coma is produced by particles with @xmath150 ( or @xmath151 m ) and @xmath152  m  s@xmath3 ( fig .",
    "[ modeloverlay ] ) .",
    "we note that these model parameters are selected to match our observed expansion rate , and as such , model coma sizes and measured coma sizes agree by definition .",
    "the model dust envelopes plotted in figure  [ modeloverlay ] are produced by isotropic emission as described above , but we also note that identical dust envelopes can also be produced by semi - isotropic ( _ i.e. _ , hemispherical ) emission solely from either the sun - facing hemisphere or the non - sun - facing hemisphere .",
    "this finding is consistent with @xcite who found that the outer shell of the dust coma could be fit by emission from the entire sun - facing hemisphere of 17p .    as stated above",
    ", the simplicity of our model does not allow us to comprehensively explain all aspects of 17p s dust morphology .",
    "nonetheless , we show that , for reasonable dust particle sizes ( @xmath153 m ) , the position of 17p s dust coma relative to the nucleus in the two weeks after the start of the outburst can be accounted for by a single isotropic ( or semi - isotropic ) emission event where 17p s nucleus is the source of emission . in contrast , particles in a dust cloud for which , for example , a large separated fragment with the same motion as the false nucleus ( _ cf_.  [ nuclfrag ] ) is the emission origin ( _ i.e. _ , where the cloud shows minimal drift relative to its source ) would have to have @xmath154 ( @xmath155 m ; where @xmath156  m  s@xmath3 ) .    in terms of particle size constraints ,",
    "both scenarios are essentially equally plausible , though we note that a more powerful ejection mechanism ( to account for the larger value of @xmath130 ) is required in the second scenario where emission originates from the false nucleus .",
    "admittedly , even the relatively more modest @xmath152  m  s@xmath3 value required for the true nucleus to be the emission source is high , though it is at least not unprecedented ; the 1836 outburst of 1p / halley was characterised by a coma expansion rate of 575  m  s@xmath3 @xcite . in terms of outburst mechanics , however , the former scenario is must be considered more likely as it only requires a single explosive outburst taking place on 17p s nucleus , whereas the latter scenario requires a two - part event where a large fragment first detaches at high speed ( projected velocity of @xmath23120  m  s@xmath3 ;  [ nuclfrag ] ) from the primary nucleus and then subsequently explosively disintegrates .",
    "@xcite and others have cautioned that 17p s dust coma could be significantly contaminated by the gas coma . @xcite observed gas emission bands on 2007 october 25.46 , but not on 2007 october 24.58 , suggesting that ice grains ejected in the initial outburst did not sublimate until some point in the interim period between their observations .",
    "wagner et al . were able to trace cn ( 0 - 0 ) emission as far as @xmath157 from the photocentre of the dust cloud in observations taken on 2007 october 25.181 and 25.465 @xcite , implying an average velocity of 1.6  km  s@xmath3 to 1.9  km  s@xmath3 , consistent with our estimated gas coma expansion velocity of @xmath1581.7  km  s@xmath3 (  [ comaexp ] ) .",
    "@xcite observed steadily decreasing production rates of several gas species between 2007 november 1 and 2008 march 5 .    in terms of our data",
    ", it is possible that the portion of 17p s coma surface brightness profile designated region 3 in our analysis simply fades below the background detection limit .",
    "however , we hypothesise that this region in fact corresponds to the comet s gas coma , and that by 2007",
    "november 13 - 14 , this region had disappeared from the coma surface brightness profile because most of the gas molecules initially released had photodissociated or ionised and the remaining coma was below our detection limit .    to test this hypothesis",
    ", we construct a simple model of 17p s gas coma based on the monte - carlo model of @xcite but with additional modifications .",
    "first , we assume that the parents have an isotropic maxwellian velocity distribution with a mean velocity of @xmath159 km / sec .",
    "this would be expected for a normal comet undergoing steady - state sublimation @xcite , though it is possible that this velocity is an underestimate since an explosive release of material could result in higher acceleration of gas from the nucleus than usual .",
    "in addition , we have adapted the model to assume either a single outburst in terms of a delta function for the production of gas , or an outburst where the production of parent molecules instantaneously starts at a maximum value and thereafter falls off exponentially .",
    "neither scheme may be accurate in detail , but they allow us to conduct a basic analysis of gross gas coma morphology .",
    "gas emission in the superwasp images was likely dominated by the commonly observed ( 0 - 0 ) band of c@xmath14 .",
    "the production of this species has been investigated by many investigators due to its domination of the optical emission spectrum of comets .",
    "a recent in - depth study of c@xmath14 chemistry in comet hale - bopp by @xcite concluded that c@xmath14h@xmath14 was the primary parent molecule , but that c@xmath14h@xmath16 was an additional minor parent and electron impact dissociation is important to consider as well as photodissociation .",
    "a model including multiple production and destruction mechanisms that properly accounts for relative reaction rates is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "instead , we adopt a simple two - step single parent photodissociation model as used in the past for other comets .",
    "although @xcite show such a model is not physically accurate , previous authors have been able to fit c@xmath14 coma profiles with such a scheme by using suitable parameters .",
    "here we assume the photodissociation values found by @xcite of a parent lifetime of @xmath160 s , a c@xmath14 daughter lifetime of @xmath161 s , and an excess c@xmath14 velocity from dissociation of 1.2  km  s@xmath3 .    in the model we generated @xmath162 molecules and calculated the resulting surface brightness profiles for a pulse outburst , one with a two - day exponential decay time , and one with a 12-day lifetime as suggested from latetime gas measurements by @xcite ( we note that schleicher found a faster rate of decay in activity than an exponential ) . in figure  [ gasplot ] , we overplot these model profiles on 17p s observed surface brightness profile for the night of 2007 october 31 - november 1 , scaling the model plots vertically ( i.e. , varying the column density of the modelled gas emission ) in order to produce the best possible fit to the observed surface brightness profile in the gas - dominated region .",
    "as can be seen , we find that the single pulse model offers an excellent fit to the region 3 portion of the coma surface brightness profile . by contrast , the suitability of the two - day pulse model is considerably worse as it produces a profile that is too steep , regardless of scaling , to match the observed profile .",
    "the 12-day pulse model produces an even steeper profile and , therefore , an even worse fit .    taking the single - pulse model as best fitting the outer coma as observed in our images",
    ", we note that the expected lifetime of the c@xmath14 coma generated in the initial outburst event is @xmath163  s or @xmath164 days .",
    "this expected lifetime is consistent with an outer gas coma that is visible as region 3 in our images up to 2007 nov 5 - 6 ( 14 days after outburst ) , but is absent in images obtained from 2007 nov 13 - 14 onwards ( 22 days after outburst ) .",
    "wide - field imaging of the 2007 outburst of 17p / holmes was serendipitously obtained by the superwasp - north facility on 17 nights over a 42-night period beginning on the night ( 2007 october 22 - 23 ) immediately prior to the outburst .",
    "we report the following key findings :    * the comet was not detected in data from the night before the outburst s discovery on the night of 2007 october 22 - 23 , indicating that it remained below the superwasp detection threshold of @xmath5  mag ( consistent with pre - outburst reports placing the comet s brightness at @xmath12  mag ) until at least 2007 october 23.3 . *",
    "the unresolved coma ( as seen by superwasp ) was likely optically thin during our observations on the first night of the outburst .",
    "the comet s lightcurve during these observations is consistent with an exponential function , suggesting that its rapid brightening could have been driven by the progressive fragmentation of ejected material produced on a very short timescale at the time of the initial outburst .",
    "our best - fit functions to the data imply an initial fragmentation timescale of @xmath0  s , decreasing to @xmath1  s , and a near - instantaneous leap in brightness from a magnitude of @xmath12  mag to @xmath165  mag at the moment of the initial outburst .",
    "* analysis of coma surface brightness profiles reveals a velocity gradient consistent with the outer coma being dominated by material ejected in an explosive manner ( i.e. , at a single instant ) , rather than over an extended period of time . near the outer edge of the visible coma , where the coma likely transitions from being dust - dominated to gas - dominated",
    ", this velocity gradient corresponds to an expansion velocity of @xmath166  km  s@xmath3 , consistent with previous reported measurements . from this analysis",
    ", we find a most likely outburst date of @xmath4 .",
    "this finding of explosively ejected material dominating the outer coma does not rule out the possibility of subsequent sustained mass ejection supplying the inner coma at later times .",
    "* we measure the rate of motion ( relative to the nucleus ) of the secondary brightness peak in 17p s coma , which we refer to as the `` false nucleus '' , and find a projected drift velocity of @xmath116  m  s@xmath3 , consistent with previously reported measurements . *",
    "dust modelling shows that 17p s nucleus is a plausible primary emission source of outer coma material , and that a secondary source such as a separated nucleus fragment is not required to explain the motion of the coma relative to the nucleus .",
    "we show instead that the drifting of the coma relative to the nucleus can be explained as the consequence of radiation pressure alone .",
    "* modelling of 17p s gas coma indicates that the morphology of the portion of the observed coma profile hypothesised to be gas extending past the outer dust coma is best explained by a single , instantaneous outburst of gas production , rather than extended gas production that persists over several days .",
    "this result is consistent with our conclusion that the outer dust coma is likely dominated by material ejected instantaneously , and not over an extended period of time .",
    "we also note that c@xmath14 is likely to be the dominant observed component of the gas coma , and find that its decay time is consistent with superwasp observations of the disappearance of the observed coma profile region attributed to gas .      to date",
    ", no consensus has emerged to explain the physical origin of 17p s spectacular outbursts in 1892 and 2007 .",
    "a primary difficulty lies in reconciling the occurrence of such an apparently catastrophic event at least twice in the recent past with a lack of comparable outbursts in almost all other comets , although @xcite has noted that 1p / halley exhibited a similarly powerful outburst in 1836 .",
    "@xcite suggested that a grazing encounter and eventual impact by a small satellite with the nucleus could have been responsible for the 1892 outburst , but such an explanation was rendered highly implausible with a second episode of outburst activity in 2007 .",
    "furthermore , any model formulated to explain 17p s behaviour must also account for the lack of outburst activity in the 115 years between 1892 and 2007 @xcite .",
    "@xcite has proposed a scenario in which an inwardly - diffusing thermal wave gradually penetrated a large , weakly - cemented pancake - shaped layer of the nucleus ( analogous to those observed for 9p / tempel 1 ; _",
    "cf_. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) over numerous orbits until it finally reached a large reservoir of amorphous water ice at the layer s base .",
    "upon being heated to the necessary transition temperature , this amorphous ice layer underwent an exothermic transformation to crystalline ice , leading to rapid sublimation and causing the pancake - shaped layer to separate from the nucleus and almost immediately explosively disintegrate .",
    "this two - part outburst scenario is invoked by sekanina to explain the appearance of the false nucleus as the central source of 17p s dust coma , as well as its apparent motion relative to the true nucleus .",
    "we note , however , that our dust modelling (  [ dustmodel ] ) shows that it is not necessary for the false nucleus to be the source of emission to explain the position of the outer dust coma relative to the true nucleus .",
    "thus a model where a large surface fragment first violently separates from the nucleus ( with a projected velocity exceeding 100  m  s@xmath3 ) and then explosively disintegrates , requiring two non - simultaneous catastrophic events , may be needlessly complicated .",
    "the false nucleus could still be a concentration of material related to a large fragment ejected in the initial outburst that then disintegrated , but may be better characterised as a byproduct , rather than a key component , of the outburst .",
    "@xcite propose an alternate hypothesis in which a particularly close perihelion passage by 17p on 2007 may 4 substantially raised the sublimation rate of subsurface water ice relative to previous perihelion passages .",
    "this increased production of subsurface water vapour , coupled with an `` airtight '' layer of surface regolith , ultimately led to an explosive disintegration of 17p s dust mantle 172 days later , causing the observed outburst .",
    "while it is true that 17p s perihelion passage just 2.05  au from the sun was its closest approach to the sun in over a century ( according to jpl s horizons ephemeris generator at http://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/horizons.cgi ) , we note that 17p s perihelion distance immediately prior to its 1892 outburst was a more modest 2.14  au from the sun , a distance comparable to perihelion passage distances in 1864 , 1871 , 1878 , 1885 , 1899 , 1906 , 1972 , 1979 , 1986 , 1993 , and 2000 , all of which were reached without any recorded reports of behaviour comparable to the comet s 1892 or 2007 outbursts .",
    "most recently , @xcite propose a scenario in which trapped gases released by the crystallisation of amorphous ice , as well as sublimation of other ices driven by the exothermic crystallisation process , cause a buildup of gas pressure in a subsurface cavity on the comet .",
    "the outburst of 17p then occurred when the pressure built up within this cavity exceeded the strength of the surrounding material ( found to be relatively high  @xmath167  kpa  based on the nucleus s survival of the outburst ) , causing the cavity to rupture violently and energetically , creating the observed explosive ejection of nuclear material .",
    "we note that while @xcite report that the crystallisation of amorphous water ice is unlikely to have caused 17p s outburst , they reach this conclusion based on a simple model in which the ice being crystallised is present in a sub - surface layer just below a dust mantle . the hypothesis presented by reach _",
    "is based on a different physical scenario where ice crystallisation occurs in a subsurface void in which gas pressure is able to build up , and as such , we believe that it remains plausible and , of the hypotheses proposed thus far , is the most consistent with our own findings .",
    "we note , however , that it then raises questions as to why 17p is the only comet known thus far with the apparently unique combination of high - tensile - strength nuclear material , subsurface cavities , and amorphous ice capable of driving two of the largest cometary outbursts observed in modern astronomy .",
    "@xcite reported that observations they made between 2007 october 24 to 2007 november 4 with the pic du midi 1  m telescope show multiple dust streams with well - defined origin points , four of which were measured to recede from 17p s nucleus at roughly constant velocities ( as projected on the sky ) ranging from 50 to 100  m  s@xmath3 , implying the presence of unresolved , steadily disintegrating nucleus fragments in the coma .",
    "these fragments were also calculated to have separated from the nucleus between 2007 october 23.7 and 2007 october 24.8 .",
    "additionally , @xcite observed at least sixteen 10-m- to 100-m - scale fragments receding from the nucleus that showed evidence of ongoing sublimation and disintegration . coupled with our finding of dust fragmentation in the first hours after outburst",
    ", these observations point to a scenario of continued fragmentation of cometary material following the outburst .",
    "we certainly still have far from a complete picture of 17p s 2007 outburst .",
    "we suggest that detailed dust modelling and analysis of images of the comet s inner coma using data with higher spatial resolution than superwasp would be useful for clarifying the temporal and kinematic nature of the outburst , in particular whether significant dust production continued from the nucleus after the initial outburst event and , if so , whether ejection velocities were comparable to those in the initial outburst event .",
    "more detailed discussions of spectroscopy would also help constrain the spatial and temporal nature of the contribution of gaseous species to the 17p s appearance , such as whether sublimation of nucleus - bound ices or ice particles in the coma was significant , and whether there was any appreciable delay in the sublimation of icy material in the coma that could be linked to hierarchical fragmentation of macroscopic nucleus particles .",
    "we appreciate support of this work through stfc fellowship grant st / f011016/1 to hhh .",
    "the wasp consortium comprises scientists primarily from the university of cambridge ( wide field astronomy unit ) , the instituto de astrofsica de canarias , the isaac newton group of telescopes , the university of keele , the university of leicester , the open university , queen s university of belfast , and the university of st .",
    "the superwasp cameras were constructed and are operated with funds made available from the consortium universities and the uk s science and technology facilities council .",
    "we also thank an anonymous referee for helpful comments that improved this manuscript .",
    "this research has made use of the vizier catalogue access tool , cds , strasbourg , france .",
    "bockele - morvan , d. , biver , n. , jehin , e. , cochran , a. l. , wiesemeyer , h. , manfroid , j. , hutsemkers , d. , arpigny , c. , boissier , j.,cochran , w. , colom , p. , crovisier , j. , milutinovic , n. , moreno , r. , prochaska , j. x. , ramirez , i. , schulz , r. , zucconi , j .-",
    "2008 , apj letters , 679 , l49                                                        pollacco , d.  l. , skillen , i. ; cameron , a. collier ; christian , d. j. ; hellier , c. ; irwin , j. ; lister , t. a. ; street , r. a. ; west , r. g. ; anderson , d. ; clarkson , w. i. ; deeg , h. ; enoch , b. ; evans , a. ; fitzsimmons , a. ; haswell , c. a. ; hodgkin , s. ; horne , k. ; kane , s. r. ; keenan , f. p. ; maxted , p. f. l. ; norton , a. j. ; osborne , j. ; parley , n. r. ; ryans , r. s. i. ; smalley , b. ; wheatley , p. j. ; wilson , d. m. 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1407                  snodgrass , c. , fitzsimmons , a. , boehnhardt , h. , lister , t. , naylor , t. , bell , c. , colas , f. , lecacheux , j. , sostero , g. , guido , e. , young , j. , & mcgaha , j.  2007 , central bureau electronic telegrams , 1111 , 1          thomas , p.  c. , veverka , j. , belton , m. j. s. , hidy , a. , ahearn , m. f. , farnham , t. l. , groussin , o. , li , j .- y . , mcfadden , l. a. , sunshine , j. , wellnitz , d. , lisse , c. , schultz , p. , meech , k. j. , delamere , w. a. 2007 , icarus , 187 , 4    trigo - rodriguez , j. m. , abraham , p. , konkoly , a. , barrena , r. , montanes - rodriguez , p. , nunez , m. f. , lecacheux , j. , colas , f. , gaillard , b. , arai , a. , uemura , m. , sasada , m. , kawabata , k. s. , yamashita , t. , yasuda , t. , matsui , r. , tanaka , h. , nagae , o. , isogai , m. , ohsugi , t. , furusho , r. , watanabe , j. , kino , m. , sato , s. , montalto , m. , riffeser , a. , wilke , s. , hopp , u. , sekanina , z. , kadota , k. 2007 , central bureau electronic telegrams , 1118 , 1                  by 1@xmath168 in size .",
    "arrows indicate north ( n ) , east ( e ) , the direction towards the sun ( @xmath169 ) , and the negative heliocentric velocity vector ( -v ) .",
    "solid lines intersecting various images are saturated ccd columns from the comet itself or nearby bright field stars . ,",
    "width=528 ]    -band magnitudes ( solid circles ) measured for the nucleus of 17p with the best - fit square - law function and best - fit exponential function plotted as a dashed line and a solid line , respectively . ,",
    "width=528 ]             value ejected in a single impulsive event .",
    "the origin point of modelled dust emission is marked with an `` x '' and coincides with the image of 17p s nucleus in the observed data .",
    "the modelled dust envelope was generated using @xmath150 , @xmath152  m  s@xmath3 , @xmath170  au , @xmath171  au , @xmath172 , and a pixel scale conversion of @xmath173  km  pix@xmath3 ( corresponding to the superwasp pixel scale of @xmath19  pix@xmath3 ) , and is coincident with the outer envelope of the observed dust coma .",
    "the image shown is approximately @xmath174 by @xmath174 and is oriented such that the sunward vector ( as projected in the sky ) corresponds to the positive vertical axis . ,",
    "width=528 ]    a ) , and plots of modelled c@xmath14 column density .",
    "the point where the observed coma transitions from dust - dominated to gas - dominated is marked by `` x '' .",
    "large - dashed line : precursor molecules are all released from the nucleus in a single pulse on 2007 october 23.6 . small - dashed line : the release of precursor molecules begins on 2007 october 23.6 but then exponentially decreases with a 48-hour timescale .",
    "dotted line : as above with the gas production exponentially decreasing with a 12-day timescale .",
    "model profiles have been scaled vertically to produce the best possible fit to the observed coma profile . ,",
    "width=528 ]     and albedo required for the particles in an optically - thick coma with an outer edge expanding at 0.5  km  s@xmath3 in order to account for the observed lightcurve in figure  [ fluxplot ] .",
    "the shaded area indicates the range of cometary @xmath57 and albedo values measured to date .",
    ", width=528 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present wide - field imaging of the 2007 outburst of comet 17p / holmes obtained serendipitously by superwasp - north on 17 nights over a 42-night period beginning on the night ( 2007 october 22 - 23 ) immediately prior to the outburst . </S>",
    "<S> photometry of 17p s unresolved coma in superwasp data taken on the first night of the outburst is consistent with exponential brightening , suggesting that the rapid increase in the scattering cross - section of the coma could be largely due to the progressive fragmentation of ejected material produced on a very short timescale at the time of the initial outburst , with fragmentation timescales decreasing from @xmath0  s to @xmath1  s over our observing period . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of the expansion of 17p s coma reveals a velocity gradient suggesting that the outer coma was dominated by material ejected in an instantaneous , explosive manner . </S>",
    "<S> we find an expansion velocity at the edge of the dust coma of @xmath2  km  s@xmath3 and a likely outburst date of @xmath4 , consistent with our finding that the comet remained below superwasp s detection limit of @xmath5  mag until at least 2007 october 23.3 . </S>",
    "<S> modelling of 17p s gas coma indicates that its outer edge , which was observed to extend past the outer dust coma , is best explained with a single pulse of gas production , consistent with our conclusions concerning the production of the outer dust coma .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    comets : general  comets : individual ( 17p / holmes ) </S>"
  ]
}