{
  "article_text": [
    "soft x - ray emission of hot gas in and around galaxies depends heavily on the properties of metals ( i.e. , elements heavier than helium ) . due to the concentrated enrichment of type ia supernovae ( ia sne ) , the primary iron provider of the universe , hot gas in galactic stellar spheroids ( galactic bulges and elliptical galaxies ) , in particular ,",
    "is expected to have a super - solar iron abundance .",
    "away from such a stellar spheroid , the iron - rich hot gas might be diluted by in - falling low - abundance gas .",
    "thus a monotonically decreasing iron abundance profile as a function of galactic radius is also expected ( e.g. , @xcite ) and is indeed observed on scales of the intragroup and intracluster media .    on smaller scales ( within individual stellar spheroids and their immediate vicinity ) , however , x - ray - inferred iron abundances of the hot gas seem to be at odds with the predictions . the abundances are typically sub - solar for low- and intermediate - mass spheroids with log(@xmath0 to about solar for more massive ones ( e.g. , @xcite ) , substantially less than what are expected from the ia sn enrichment .",
    "furthermore , a number of galaxies show a significant iron abundance drop toward their central regions , where the stellar feedback should be the strongest . examples of this abundance drop include m87 @xcite , ngc 4472 , ngc 5846 @xcite , and ngc 5044 @xcite .",
    "the inward drop of the iron abundance and its low value in general are so far not understood , which may indicate that only a small portion of metals produced by ia sne is observed , while the rest is either expelled or in a state that the present x - ray data are not sensitive to .",
    "@xcite have explored the possibility that the iron produced by ia sne may have radiatively cooled and may then have avoided the detection . based on a 1-d modeling of ia sn remnant ( snr ) evolution",
    ", they have demonstrated that the iron - rich ejecta may cool rapidly to low temperatures because of its large radiative emissivity .",
    "this scenario assumes that the cooling occurs within a critical time scale for the ejecta to be mixed microscopically with the ambient medium to an iron abundance below about 100 solar .",
    "this critical time scale is not determined , but should partly depend on the uncertain magnetic field strength and configuration , which can substantially affect the effectiveness of the iron diffusion .",
    "the mixing , of course , can also be dynamic in the violent environment of galactic stellar spheroids .",
    "we have studied the ia snr evolution in a more realist setting .",
    "we have conducted 3-d hydrodynamic simulations of hot gas in a typical galactic stellar spheroid of an intermediate - mass ( i.e. , a galactic halo mass @xmath1 ) in a relatively isolated environment .",
    "the hot gas is expected to be in a galaxy - wide outflow , either supersonic or subsonic , depending largely on the feedback history of the galaxy @xcite .",
    "@xcite have presented simulations for the supersonic outflow case and have discussed several important 3-d effects : ( 1 ) sn ejecta is not well mixed with the ambient medium , and soft x - ray emission arises primarily from relatively low temperature gas shells associated with sn blastwaves ; ( 2 ) the inhomogeneity in the gas temperature substantially alters the emission spectral shape , which can lead to an artificially lower iron abundance ( by a factor of 2 - 3 ) in a spectral fit with a simplistic thermal plasma model ; ( 3 ) the average 1-d and 3-d simulations give substantially different radial temperature profiles ( e.g. , the inner temperature gradient in the 3-d simulation is positive , mimicking a `` cooling flow '' ) ; ( 4 ) the inhomogeneity also enhances the diffuse x - ray luminosity by a factor of a few .    in the present work , we focus on the evolution of sn ejecta and its effect on the average iron abundance measurements of the hot gas in both supersonic and subsonic outflow cases .",
    "we use the 3-d simulations to study the dilution of ia sn iron ejecta by the stellar mass loss and the dynamic mixing with the ambient medium as well as the bulk radial outflows at abundance - dependent velocities .",
    "we demonstrate that the dropout of the iron ejecta is unlikely to be important because of the effective dynamic mixing and dilution .",
    "but the differential outflows and their gradual mixing can naturally result in an iron abundance profile qualitatively similar to what is observed .",
    "the non - uniformity of the iron abundance in the flow could also lead to an underestimate of the globally averaged iron abundance in x - ray spectral measurements .",
    "these effects are in addition to the bias that is caused by the broad temperature distribution of the hot gas considered in @xcite , where only supersonic outflows are simulated and a uniform solar abundance is assumed for mock x - ray spectral analysis .    the rest of the paper is organized as follows : we first describe in   2 our model inputs and simulation setups and then present in   3 our new results ; we give simple explanations for a few key phenomena in   4 and",
    "summarize the work in   5 . throughout of the paper",
    ", we adopt the solar metal abundances as listed in @xcite ; in particular , our quoted iron mass abundances ( i.e. , , ) are relative to the solar value @xmath2 .",
    "lr present mass loss rate ( @xmath3 ) & 0.075 + present energy input rate ( @xmath4 ) & @xmath5 + bulge stellar mass @xmath6 ( m@xmath7 ) & @xmath8 + bulge scale @xmath9 ( kpc ) & 0.7 + halo mass @xmath10 ( m@xmath7 ) & @xmath11 + [ tab : model ]    the present investigation is based primarily on two 3-d simulations of hot gas in galaxy - wide outflows driven by ia sne in galactic stellar spheroids .",
    "the supersonic case corresponds to the bulk outflow that reaches a sonic point ( at radius @xmath12 kpc ) , whereas the subsonic one does not .",
    "the basic setup for these two cases is the same ; the model parameters are listed in table  [ tab : model ] . the only difference between the two is the setup of the initial conditions : the supersonic case starts from the 1-d solution , similar to what is presented in @xcite , whereas the subsonic case starts from the final output of a 1-d simulation , which includes the evolution of the circum - galactic medium in a more realistic context of galaxy evolution ( model ve ; @xcite ) . by comparing results from the two cases , we intend to illustrate the dependence of the iron ejecta evolution on the global outflow speed .",
    "both the gas mass and the mechanical energy injections are assumed to follow the same smooth distribution as the stars , which is a hernquist profile @xcite with the characteristic radius of @xmath9 .",
    "the uncertainties in the mass and energy injection rates are a factor of @xmath13 , depending on specific empirical calibrations , potential mass - loading from cool gas , etc .",
    "( e.g. , @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "our chosen energy rate is on the lower side of the uncertainty range , whereas the mass rate is on the higher side .",
    "these choices result in on average a lower gas temperature , a greater soft x - ray emissivity , and a lower iron abundance , which are more close to what are directly inferred from x - ray observations .",
    "the 1-d models also assume an instantaneous mixing between the ejecta and stellar mass injection and hence a uniform iron abundance of 2.7 solar .",
    "we have ignored any feedback from the supermassive black hole expected to be present at the center of a spheroid .",
    "this feedback , likely occurring in bursts with certain preferential directions ( e.g. , in form of jets ) , can occasionally result in significant disturbances in global hot gas distributions , as reflected by the asymmetric x - ray morphologies observed in some elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "but , averaged over the time , ia sne are energetically more important for a low- or intermediate - mass spheroid with @xmath14 @xcite .",
    "the simulations are performed with flash @xcite , an eulerian astrophysical hydrodynamics code with the adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) capability .",
    "the 3-d simulated box , 128 kpc on a side , is centered on the spheroid and has the so - called outflow ( sometimes called zero - gradient ) boundary condition . as in @xcite , only one octant of the box",
    "is simulated at full resolution ( down to about 4 pc ) , while the resolution is degraded by a factor of four in the rest of the grid , except for regions where snrs seeds have just been embedded .",
    "the difference in the resolution between the regions of the same simulation allows us to check the resolution effect ( e.g. , on the x - ray luminosity ) , which appears to be rather small . in the 3-d simulations ,",
    "the ia sn injection follows the star distribution only statistically @xcite . for each `` randomly '' generated sn ,",
    "its remnant seed is extracted from a library of 1-d simulated radial density , temperature , and velocity profiles and is scaled appropriately before being planted into the 3-d simulations @xcite .",
    "we evolve the two simulations till the averaged radial profiles of the density , pressure , and abundance have reached a statistically steady state inside the galactic radius of 10 kpc . for any quantitative analysis , we will use only the data within this radius to avoid any potential artifacts introduced by the chosen boundary condition , in the high - resolution octant , and during the final stabled period .    for the calculation of the x - ray emission and the cooling of the hot gas",
    ", we use the mekal plasma model @xcite , extracted from the xspec package .",
    "the cooling function of the gas is divided into the iron - free part @xmath15 and the pure iron rate @xmath16 , which are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : coolfuns ] ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "[ f : global ] shows a sample snapshot of our simulated subsonic outflow , with perspectives on the density , temperature , pressure , and iron mass fraction distributions across one plane cutting through the simulated box .",
    "the highly structured distributions of the hot gas are similar to those seen in the supersonic case (   1 ; @xcite ) , although features in the subsonic case tend to be more compact because of its higher average gas density .",
    "time - sequenced close - ups of a region near the center of the subsonic outflow is presented in fig .",
    "[ f : ironejecta ] , demonstrating the evolution of several snrs as well as the bulk motion .",
    "the feature labeled with `` a '' in the upper left panel , for example , represents the iron core of a newly embedded snr .",
    "as indicated in subsequent panels , the iron core is gradually diluted by the local mass injection from evolved stars . in the mean time , the shapes of the core as well as the outer shell are strongly affected by the impacts of nearby snrs ( lower row ) . because of both the dilution and the mixing with the surrounding medium , the iron abundance of the core is reduced to about 10 solar after about 1.5myr ( right panel ) .",
    "this time scale is much too short to allow for significant cooling of the ejecta .",
    "[ f : zfegas ] shows various averaged number density , temperature , and pressure profiles extracted from the two simulations . as expected , the profiles for the subsonic outflow are much flatter than those for the supersonic ones .",
    "the difference in the density , for example , is about one order of magnitude at large radii .",
    "the profiles of the hot gas components in four iron abundance ranges show interesting differences and similarities . in general , the higher the abundance of a gas component is , the smaller the number density or the higher the temperature is . except for the component with the highest abundance ,",
    "the other components all have similar pressure profiles .",
    "this means that the bulk of the gas is approximately in a pressure equilibrium , although the temperature and density distributions may still be highly structured .",
    "similar phenomena are also reported for simulations of the sn dominated interstellar medium in the galaxy @xcite and in starburst regions @xcite .",
    "[ f : zfegas_vr ] demonstrates that gas with higher iron abundance generally has a larger net outward radial velocity .",
    "the velocity of the gas component with @xmath17 fluctuates greatly , because it represents young snrs which may or may not have been fully accelerated by the buoyancy ( see   4.2 ) .",
    "the gas component with @xmath18 , representing fully - accelerated and evolved snrs with moderate dilution , has the largest velocity .",
    "[ f : ironfractions ] shows the iron mass fractions of the individual gas components in the different abundance ranges .",
    "the fractions in iron - rich components decrease considerably faster with increasing radius in the subsonic case than in the supersonic one .",
    "this is because the outflow velocity is much slower in the former case , leading to more dilution and mixing of the iron ejecta before moving to large galactic radii .",
    "[ f : zfegradient ] presents the radial profiles of the averaged iron abundance , weighted by three means . the mass - weighted iron abundance , defined as @xmath19 where @xmath20 and @xmath21 is the and mass density in a simulated sub - volume @xmath22 , while the sum is over an interested region ( e.g. , a shell ) .",
    "@xmath23 is thus directly proportional to the iron mass in the region .",
    "similarly , we can define the emission measure - weighted iron abundance as @xmath24 where the electron number density @xmath25 is related to the hydrogen number density @xmath26 ( hence @xmath21 ) and the @xmath27 in the same way as described by @xcite .",
    "@xmath28 probably represents the simplest way to estimate the equivalent abundance that can be compared with an actual measurement based on x - ray emission .",
    "an alternative model proxy to the x - ray emission - inferred value is the emission - weighted iron abundance , @xmath29 in our simulations , the @xmath30 might be overestimated at large radii because sn iron cores are not adequately resolved ( i.e. , the spatial resolution in regions of @xmath31kpc is reduced by a factor of four ) , which numerically mixes the iron ejecta over a larger volume and effectively results in a higher @xmath32 ( hence stronger emission ) .",
    "[ f : zfegradient ] shows that the radial trends of these differently weighted iron abundances are qualitatively the same : a positive gradient with a minimum value at the center !",
    "the lower limit of the abundance is solar , assumed for the stellar mass loss .",
    "here we attempt to give a physical account of several key phenomena observed in the simulations presented above .",
    "we find no evidence for significant cooling of the hot gas , especially the iron ejecta , in our simulated region . to have a better understanding of this issue , it is instructive to first consider a simple 1-d simulation of a typical snr in a hot gas environment , as in @xcite , but in the context of an intermediate - mass spheroid considered here @xcite . as mentioned in   2 , the 1-d simulated snr is also used to generate the seeds for the 3-d simulations .",
    "[ f : snejecta ] demonstrates the simulated snr evolution in a uniform ambient medium of temperature @xmath33k and electron density @xmath34 , appropriate for a region near the center of the spheroid .",
    "the core that encloses 0.7@xmath35 reaches a size of 15pc at the age of @xmath36 years and increases only slightly after that .",
    "this is also roughly the time scale for the ejecta to be fully thermalized by the converging reverse shock .",
    "then the core turns into a tenuous hot bubble , with a very low density and high temperature . outside",
    "the iron core is an envelope of the rest of the sn ejecta ( assumed to be 0.7m@xmath7 ) .",
    "the swept - up material can also be heated to more than @xmath37k only initially by the strong forward blastwave ; the averaged temperature of the swept - up material is considerably lower because of the quick weakening of the expanding blastwave and the adiabatic cooling of the snr . the radiative cooling time scale ( fig .",
    "[ f : snr_cooltime ] ) for such an snr is much too long to be important , compared to the outflow time of the hot gas from a spheroid ( @xmath38 yrs ) . in particular , the x - ray emission from the ejecta is largely undetectable .",
    "we now consider additional processes that an snr should experience in a spheroid .",
    "one is the dilution due to mass injection from evolved stars ( or evaporation of cloud - lets ) .",
    "as the dilution takes place , @xmath32 increases while @xmath16 drops .",
    "the net result is that the cooling rate peaks when the iron abundance drops to @xmath39 solar @xcite .",
    "further dilution tends to decrease the cooling rate .",
    "take the above 1-d snr as an example .",
    "it takes about 2.7myr for the snr core to accumulate an additional 5.4 @xmath40 , which dilutes the ejecta to an iron abundance of 100 solar , the value to avoid rapid radiative cooling @xcite . in comparison ,",
    "the time for the snr to flow this radius to 2kpc is about 5myr .",
    "thus the dilution is important , although the core should still have a high iron abundance when being transported out of the spheroid .",
    "another process is the mixing of the iron ejecta with the ambient medium .",
    "the density of bulk of the snr interior is always smaller than the surrounding medium , as demonstrated in the 1-d modeling , and is likely subjected to the rayleigh - taylor instability ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the passage of blastwaves produced by nearby sne also tends to accelerate the mixing process , especially in the inner spheroid region where the stellar density is very high .",
    "our euler - based hydrodynamical simulations account for this cooling rate effect as well as the dilution and mixing processes .",
    "we conclude that the radiative cooling of the iron ejecta is unlikely to be important in the type of spheroids we have considered .",
    "but we can not rule out the possibility that ia sn ejecta may cool and drop off from hot gas in a more quiescent environment . in a giant elliptical galaxy considered by @xcite",
    ", hot gas density can be rather high , substantially increasing the cooling , and the bulk motion may not be significant .",
    "unfortunately , a 3-d simulation of the hot gas in such an environment is still very difficult to conduct , because of both the large dynamic range over a big volume and the difficulty to handle the boundary condition .",
    "one of our findings is that the differential radial outflows play an important role in determining the iron abundance profile of the hot gas .",
    "the relatively large outflow speed of the iron - rich gas is apparently caused by the presence of the buoyancy force . a reverse - shock heated sn ejecta bubble , with a density that is one to two orders of magnitude less than that of the ambient medium , is subject to a buoyancy - driven acceleration as @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the gravitational acceleration while @xmath43 and @xmath44 are the average densities of the bubble and its ambient medium .",
    "for our adopted model spheroid , @xmath45 at 0.5kpc , for example , and is larger near the galactic center . assuming a typical @xmath46 , the hot bubble can be accelerated over a period of 0.2myr to about 150 @xmath47 , a typical velocity difference between the iron - rich gas and the bulk of the outflow .",
    "this velocity is also about the equilibrium value that can be reached when the buoyancy force is balanced by a drag : @xmath48 where @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 are the maximum cross - section area , mass , and velocity of the hot bubble , respectively .",
    "the coefficient @xmath52 is suggested to be @xmath53 ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the above crude estimates are consistent with the results from our detailed examination of individual hot bubbles in the simulations , which naturally account for such complications as the changing sizes and shapes as well as the decreasing density contrasts relative to the ambient medium .",
    "we find that the positive radial gradient of the iron abundance shown in fig .",
    "[ f : zfegradient ] is due largely to the differential outward velocities of the gas ( fig .",
    "[ f : zfegas_vr ] ) .",
    "the relative fast outward motion of the iron - rich gas naturally leads to a reduced iron mass fraction in the bulk outflow . for an illustration ,",
    "suppose that a model hot gas contains only two components : the first one ( sub - scripted with 1 hereafter ) is iron - free , whereas the second one ( sub - scripted with 2 ) is pure iron .",
    "these two components have outward mass fluxes at radius @xmath54 : @xmath55 where @xmath56 and @xmath57 represent the average mass fraction and outward velocity of each component , while @xmath58 is the total mass density of the gas .",
    "the iron abundance is then @xmath59 where @xmath60 is adopted because the total iron mass is no more than a few percent of the total gas mass .",
    "the ratio @xmath61/@xmath62 is the same as the iron mass fraction of the injection from the stellar mass loss , independent of the spatial lumpiness in the iron distribution .",
    "[ eq : feabundef ] thus illustrates that the faster the iron - rich gas component moves relative to the rest of the outflow , the lower its mean iron abundance should be .",
    "we have examined the evolution of ia sn iron ejecta in the hot gas undergoing outflows from a typical intermediate - mass galactic stellar spheroid .",
    "3-d hydrodynamic simulations of this hot gas are conducted for both supersonic and subsonic cases .",
    "these simulations show no evidence for the iron ejecta to significantly cool and drop out of the hot gas . the largely inhomogeneous enrichment and heating , inherited from sporadic ia sne , can significantly affect the x - ray measurement of the mean iron abundance of the hot gas in two ways :    1 .",
    "hot and low - density iron bubbles , generated by ia sne , tend to move outward substantially faster than the ambient medium .",
    "this differential motion , produced mainly in the inner galactic region under the strong buoyancy force , effectively reduces the mean iron abundance of the hot gas .",
    "the reduction decreases with the increasing galactic radius as the iron bubbles are gradually mixed with the ambient medium and are diluted by fresh mass injection from evolved stars .",
    "because of their high temperature and low density , the iron - rich bubbles hardly radiate , contributing little to the x - ray emission of the hot gas @xcite .",
    "the bulk of the emission arises from the ambient medium swept up by snr forward blastwaves , which has higher densities and lower temperatures .",
    "this iron segregation as well as the density and temperature distributions , most apparent again in the inner galactic region , can lead to a significant underestimate of the actual mean iron abundance of the hot gas , when characterized with a simplistic plasma model ( e.g. , with one- or two - temperature components ) .",
    "these two effects together provide a natural explanation for the low iron abundance and its positive radial gradient , as inferred from existing x - ray measurements of hot gas in various galactic stellar spheroids .",
    "this work together with those presented in @xcite demonstrates that x - ray observations of hot gas in and around spheroids can potentially be used as a unique tool to probe the dynamics of the feedback from evolved stars as well as smbhs , which represents a very poorly understood part of galaxy formation and evolution theories . to reach this goal ,",
    "more work is clearly needed to understand the hot gas , both theoretically and observationally .",
    "particularly useful will be spatially - resolved high - resolution spectroscopy of the hot gas , as could be provided by the future international x - ray observatory , as well as careful analysis of existing high - quality x - ray imaging data . but",
    "a large parameter space of the modeling also needs to be explored to facilitate quantitative comparisons with the existing and future observations .",
    "we thank the referee for useful comments . the software used in this work was in part developed by the doe - supported asc / alliance center for astrophysical thermonuclear flashes at the university of chicago .",
    "simulations were performed at the pittsburgh supercomputing center supported by the nsf .",
    "we also acknowledge the support by nasa through grants nnx06ai18 g and tm7 - 8005x ( via sao / cxc ) .",
    "anders e. , & grevesse n. , 1989 , geochimica et cosmochimica acta , 53 , 197 borgani s. , fabian d. , tornatore l. , schindler s. , dolag k. , diaferio a. , 2008 , space sci .",
    "review , 134 , 379 brighenti fabrizio , & mathews william g. , 2005 , apj , 630 , 864 buote d. a. , 2000a , apj , 539 , 172 buote d. a. , 2000b , mnras , 311 , 176 buote d. a. , lewis a. d. , brighenti f. , & mathews w. g. 2003 , apj , 595 , 151 cioffi , d. f. , mckee , c. f. , & bertschinger , e. 1988 , apj , 334 , 252 david l. p. , jones c. , forman w. , vargas i. m. , nulsen p. , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 653 , 207 de avillez m. a. , & breitschwerdt d. , 2005 , a&a , 436 , 585 diehl , s , & statler , t. s. 2008 , apj , 680 , 897 fabian d. , tornatore l. , borgani s. , saro a. , dolag k. , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 1265 fryxell b. , et al . , 2000 , apjs , 131 , 273 gastaldello f. , & molendi s. 2002 , apj , 572 , 160 hernquist l. , 1990 , apj , 356 , 359 humphrey p. j. , & buote d. a. , 2006 , apj , 639 , 136 ji j. , irwin j. a. , athey a. , bregman j. n. , & lloyd - davies e. j. 2009 , apj , 696 , 2252 jones t. w. , ryu d. , & tregillis i. l. , 1996 , apj , 473 , 365 joung m. k. , mac low m .- m . , bryan g. l. , 2008 , apj , 704 , 137 joung m. k. , & mac low m .- m . , 2006 , apj , 653 , 1266 liedahl d. a. , osterheld a. l. , & goldstein w. h. , 1995 , apj , 438 , l115 loewenstein m. , mathews w. g. , 1987 , apj , 319 , 614 mac low m .- m . , balsara d. s. , kim j. , de avillez m. a. , 2005 , apj , 626 , 864 mathews , w. g. , & brighenti , f. 2003 , ara&a , 41 , 191 mewe r. , gronenschild e. h. b. m. , & van den oord g. h. j. 1985 , a&as , 62 , 197 raley e. a. , shelton r. l. , plewa t. , 2007 , apj , 661 , 222 sedov l. i 1959 , similarity and dimensional methods in mechanics , translation from 4th russian edition , academic press new york and london strickland d. k. , & stevens i. r. , 1998 , mnras , 297 , 747 sutherland r. s. , dopita m. a. , 1993 , apjs , 88 , 253 tang s. , & wang q. d. 2005 , apj , 628 , 205 tang , s , & wang , q. d. 2009 , mnras , 397 , 2106 tang s. , wang q. d. , lu y. , mo h. j. , 2009a , mnras , 392 , 77 tang s. , wang q. d. , mac low m .-",
    "joung m. r. 2009b , mnras , 398 , 1468 trinchieri , g. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 688 , 1000 wang c. , & chevalier r. a. , 2001 , apj , 549 , 1119"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> type ia supernovae ( ia sne ) provide a rich source of iron for hot gas in galactic stellar spheroids . </S>",
    "<S> however , the expected super - solar iron abundance of the hot gas is not observed . instead </S>",
    "<S> , x - ray observations often show decreasing iron abundance toward galactic central regions , where the ia sn enrichment is expected to be the highest . </S>",
    "<S> we examine the cause of this missing iron problem by studying the enrichment process and its effect on x - ray abundance measurements of the hot gas . </S>",
    "<S> the evolution of ia sn iron ejecta is simulated in the context of galaxy - wide hot gas outflows , in both supersonic and subsonic cases , as may be expected for hot gas in galactic bulges or elliptical galaxies of intermediate masses . </S>",
    "<S> sn reverse - shock heated iron ejecta is typically found to have a very high temperature and low density , hence producing little x - ray emission . </S>",
    "<S> such hot ejecta , driven by its large buoyancy , can quickly reach a substantially higher outward velocity than the ambient medium , which is dominated by mass loss from evolved stars . </S>",
    "<S> the ejecta is gradually and dynamically mixed with the medium at large galactic radii . </S>",
    "<S> the ejecta is also slowly diluted and cooled by _ </S>",
    "<S> insitu _ </S>",
    "<S> mass injection from evolved stars . </S>",
    "<S> these processes together naturally result in the observed positive gradient in the average radial iron abundance distribution of the hot gas , even if mass - weighted . </S>",
    "<S> this trend is in addition to the x - ray measurement bias that tends to underestimate the iron abundance for the hot gas with a temperature distribution . </S>"
  ]
}