{
  "article_text": [
    "in a global geometry optimization one has to search over many local minima until one finds the global minimum .",
    "moves  @xcite are necessary to jump from the catchment basin of the current local minimum into another catchment basin .",
    "the types of moves that are chosen for this hopping from one catchment basin into another has an important effect on the efficiency of the method .",
    "the majority of the moves used by researches in this field , fall into the following five categories .    * random moves : the atoms are displaced randomly from the current positions . if the amplitude of the random displacement is large enough , the system will relax into another local minimum during a standard local geometry optimization .",
    "random moves are widely used both within random search methods  @xcite and within basin hopping  @xcite .",
    "* molecular dynamics moves : one of the oldest global optimization methods , simulated annealing  @xcite is based on a modified molecular dynamics scheme where the temperature is lowered continuously .",
    "molecular dynamics is also used as a move in the minima hopping method  @xcite as well as in various other schemes  @xcite .",
    "* library based moves : for systems such as proteins , where one knows in advance which kind of moves are important , non - physical moves , based on a library of moves can be used  @xcite .",
    "* transition state search based moves : starting from a given local minimum one searches for a neighbouring saddle point .",
    "the system is then moved over the saddle point and afterwards relaxed into the local minimum across this saddle point .",
    "this kind of move is used in the art method  @xcite , which is primarily a method to explore potential energy landscapes , but which will also visit the global minimum if run long enough .",
    "saddle points are also determined in the tad method  @xcite which allows to determine rates of rare events .",
    "* genetic algorithms  @xcite use mutation and crossover operations which can also be considered as moves .",
    "these moves are typically strongly system dependent and the moves for clusters  @xcite are for instance different to the moves used for crystal structure prediction  @xcite .",
    "the density of configurations is increasing exponentially with increasing energy .",
    "it is therefore important to search only over an energy interval above ( and including ) the global minimum which is not too large .",
    "otherwise the number of configurations in this interval is so large that one will miss most likely the global minimum .",
    "this means that one should use moves that will never or only rarely lead into high energy structures .",
    "if moves with this property are not used , the majority of the configurations has to be discarded in an acceptance / rejectance step which can be found in most global optimization algorithms .",
    "a large rejectance ratio is however also highly inefficient .",
    "if one considers moves that lead from one minimum into a neighbouring one , it has been shown that molecular dynamics based moves are very efficient  @xcite . since a molecular dynamics trajectory has a fixed and limited kinetic energy it follows from energy conservation that it can not go over barriers that are higher than this kinetic energy .",
    "since the bell evans polanyi principle  @xcite tells us that minima behind low energy barriers are on average also low in energy , molecular dynamics based moves do not lead into high energy structures if their kinetic energy is chosen such that they can only overcome low energy barriers .    in this paper",
    "we will first compare two classes of moves that both are able to find low energy escape paths from a current minimum , namely molecular dynamics based moves with moves that are saddle point based . in the second part of the paper we will discuss moves for binary systems .",
    "we will in particular discuss under which circumstances moves that exchange the identity of two atoms are efficient . in the third part we will apply our resulting global optimization scheme to the benchmark set of binary lennard jones ( blj ) clusters  @xcite and show that many global minimum structures had been overlooked in previous studies .",
    "the lj potential poses the same kind of problems for global geometry optimization methods as other more realistic potentials  @xcite and the efficiency of an algorithm for an lj system is therefore indicative of the success for other potentials .",
    "we will now compare the efficiency of various moves within the minima hopping method .",
    "the original mh method consists of a sequence of short molecular dynamics trajectories followed by local geometry optimizations  @xcite .",
    "the molecular dynamics trajectory allows to cross barriers to hop from one catchment basin into another and the local geometry optimization will then bring the system to the bottom of the catchment basin .",
    "the other kind of moves are based on saddle point searches .",
    "starting from a local minimum , the system is propagated towards a saddle point . after reaching such a transition state and barely crossing it",
    ", a local geometry optimization brings the system again down to a new minimum .",
    "we use the dimer method  @xcite with a few modifications to search the saddle points and to identify the transition states in this modified version of the mh method .",
    "the dimer consists of two points @xmath0 and @xmath1 in the high dimensional space in which one wants to locate the transition state .",
    "if the dimer midpoint is labelled as @xmath2 , then these two points are formed according to @xmath3 and @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the normalized dimer direction .",
    "the dimer method consists of basically two steps . in the first one , the dimer is rotated into a position which gives a small torsional force and which aligns it with an eigenmode of the hessian .",
    "this torsional force is given by @xmath6 , with @xmath7 and @xmath8 being the forces at @xmath0 and @xmath1 , respectively .",
    "since the dimer midpoint remains constant during the rotation , the force acting on @xmath1 can be approximated by @xmath9 in order to reduce the total number of force evaluations , @xmath10 denoting the force at the dimer midpoint . in the second step",
    "the dimer is translated along @xmath11 , where this modified force is given by @xmath12 if the curvature along the dimer axis is negative and by @xmath13 otherwise .",
    "whereas the translation is always done in a straightforward way , there exist several different ways how the rotation can be carried out .",
    "since the rotation part requires considerably more force evaluations than the translation part , choosing a good rotation method is important .",
    "most methods have the tendency to align the dimer along the lowest curvature mode .",
    "this is due to the fact that only the lowest curvature mode is a minimum with respect to the curvature ; all other low curvature modes are saddle points . whereas this circumstance does not cause any problem",
    "if one is interested in finding only one saddle point leading out of a given minimum , it is a severe shortcoming in our case . due to this behaviour",
    "it is very likely that the dimer aligns itself with the lowest curvature mode after a few iterations even if it was initially aligned along another than the lowest mode and , as a consequence , several searches will lead to the same saddle point , even if they were originally started in different orthogonal directions .",
    "this is a serious problem since we are interested in finding many different saddle points leading out of a given minimum and need therefore a rotation method which keeps the dimer on the initially selected mode , thus leading to distinct saddle points .",
    "one possibility that was already mentioned in the original paper  @xcite is to impose the restriction that the dimer is orthogonal to all previous dimer directions at the minimum until the dimer is aligned along the lowest mode itself  which will happen as we approach the saddle point  since then there is no more tendency for the dimer to switch to another mode .",
    "this procedure requires however the knowledge of all lower lying modes if one is interested to follow a higher mode . since in our new method",
    "we are interested in finding systematically all low lying saddle points around a local minimum this condition is automatically fulfilled .",
    "however , we also develop another method where it is necessary to directly follow a higher mode and this orthogonalization procedure is as a consequence not suited , and we therefore will look for another way to stay on the initially selected mode .",
    "tests with several rotation methods show that using direct inversion in iterative subspace ( diis )  @xcite is most suitable for our purpose , since diis has the tendency to catch the nearest lying stationary point , regardless of whether it is a minimum , maximum or saddle point .",
    "this allows us to stay on the initially selected mode with high reliability . approximating the error vectors by @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is a constant , we move @xmath0 according to the standard diis procedure with the modification that @xmath0 has to be adjusted after each step to retain the fixed dimer separation",
    "however , it turns out that it is for reasons of stability not good to stay on the initially selected mode at any cost , but to follow the lowest mode at some point instead",
    ". this can easily be achieved by abandoning the diis rotation and using the lanczos method thenceforth .",
    "this switch to the lanczos method was done as soon as the second derivative of the energy with respect to the number of iterations became negative .    in the present implementation of our saddle point searches we put the focus on reliability and not on speed , since we are only interested in understanding the principle of the various types of moves .",
    "therefore about 1000 force evaluations are required if we want to have a success rate of some 99 percent .",
    "further tuning might still bring down the number of force evaluations , but it seems unlikely that it can be reduced by one order of magnitude , which would be necessary to compete with molecular dynamics based moves .",
    "so it is clear that saddle point based moves are only of interest in practice if the global minimum can be found much faster with respect to the number of minima that have to be visited until the global one is found .    with the exception of the moves , whose details",
    "will be explained below , the standard mh algorithm was used , i.e. new minima are accepted if they are not higher than @xmath16 in energy and the value of @xmath16 is adjusted by a feedback mechanism such that on average half of the new configurations are accepted .",
    "we use the lennard - jones clusters @xmath17 and @xmath18 as test systems because they behave very differently .",
    "the @xmath17 is a structure seeker for which it is very easy to find the global minimum .",
    "@xmath18 on the other hand is a two funnel system for which it is surprisingly difficult to find its global minimum in view of its small size .",
    "100 global optimization runs are done in all cases to get well defined average values .      the first saddle point based type of move is conceptually simple .",
    "according to the bell evans polanyi principle , the ideal move would be a move which escapes from the current catchment basin by going over the lowest barrier .",
    "there are however two problems using this type of move . in case a minimum is visited a second time , the sequence of minima that are visited would repeat itself ad infinitum and no new minima would be visited . the system would not be ergodic in a certain sense .",
    "this problem can easily be overcome by a small modification of the method . if a minimum is visited for the first time one escapes over the lowest barrier , if it is visited a second time one escapes over the second lowest barrier and so on .",
    "the second problem is that such a type of move would be incredibly expensive numerically . doing a one",
    "sided search for a single saddle point requires typically already a few hundred force evaluations and exploring more or less all the saddle points around a local minimum to find out which is the lowest one is even much more expensive . at this stage",
    "we are however only interested in understanding the efficiency of a certain type of move and we will for the moment not care about the cost of a single move .",
    "we will measure the efficiency of the moves by counting how many local minima will be visited on average in this modified saddle point search based version of the minima hopping algorithm before the global minimum is found and we will ignore the fact that the cpu time can be very long due to the cost of the moves . in our implementation of this method",
    "we perform 50 saddle point searches starting from the current local minimum . out of these",
    "we choose the one exhibiting the lowest barrier .",
    "since the saddle point searches sometimes give saddle points which are not connected to the initial minimum ( meaning that a local geometry optimization starting at that saddle point would not lead back to the initial minimum ) , these barriers may be meaningless .",
    "however , we do not care about this fact and simply choose that saddle point with the lowest value .",
    "an overview of the performance with this method , which we denote as lowest barrier ( lb ) , is given in table  [ tab : comp38and55 ] .",
    "we compare the performance of the lb method to that of the standard molecular dynamics ( md ) version and to that of the saddle point based lowest mode ( lm ) method which will be discussed in section [ following the lowest mode ] . as usual  @xcite",
    "we start our molecular dynamics trajectory in a soft direction , i.e. in a direction with low curvature in order to overcome a low barrier with a small number of molecular dynamics steps .",
    "this direction should however not exactly be identical to the direction of the lowest curvature , i.e. the lowest eigenvector of the hessian matrix , because we would again loose ergodicity in this way .",
    "we need enough randomness in the initial direction of the velocity vector to be able to jump into different catchment basins when we escape repeatedly from a certain minimum .",
    "as one sees , the lb method is somewhat more efficient than md in terms of the number of distinct local minima that are visited before finding the global minimum for @xmath18 . in terms of the total number of minima the md based escapes are however more efficient",
    "this comes from the fact that the md based escapes are more ergodic than the lb based escapes and repeated visits of the same minimum are therefore less likely .",
    "[ fig : curvaturebarrier.eps ] shows that a md trajectory has a large choice for crossing very low barriers , i.e. there are many low lying saddle point around a local minimum . in the case of @xmath17",
    "the md based escapes are more efficient according to both criteria . the surprising result that md is more efficient than lb comes from the fact that the molecular dynamics trajectory can cross several barriers whereas in the lb based moves one crosses by definition only one barrier . in the case of the @xmath17 cluster crossings of several barriers are frequently encountered since the whole energy landscape is strongly tilted in the direction of the global minimum .",
    "l r r m.25 cm r r & & & + & & & & & + sp lm & @xmath19 & @xmath20 & & @xmath21 & @xmath22 + md & @xmath23 & @xmath24 & & @xmath25 & @xmath26 + sp lb & @xmath27 & @xmath28 & & @xmath29 & @xmath30 +      even though the results for the lb case are already discouraging , we present a second scheme which is more realistic since it does not require to find all the barriers around a local minimum to make a single move . in this scheme",
    "we exploit the fact that there is a correlation between the curvature of the direction into which we start our saddle point search and the height of the saddle point found .",
    "this correlation is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : curvaturebarrier.eps ] and it is the same correlation that is also exploited when we start our molecular dynamics trajectories in soft directions . in this scheme , which we denote by lowest mode ( lm ) , we search for the saddle point in the softest direction if the minimum is visited for the first time , in the second softest direction if it is visited for the second time and so on . using diis for the dimer rotation",
    "ensures that these searches will lead to distinct saddle points with high probability .",
    "if we find a saddle point we will move the system over this saddle point and perform a local geometry optimization .",
    "each mode gives us two degenerate directions , namely the direction of the positive and negative eigenvector of this mode , and we can therefore perform two saddle point searches for each mode .    the results in table  [ tab : comp38and55 ] show that this approach is in all cases much less efficient than the molecular dynamics based moves .",
    "it is due to the fact that even if we start our saddle point search in a soft direction we can frequently obtain very high saddle points , whereas in the molecular dynamics based moves energy conservation will prevent the crossing of such high barriers .",
    "the energy of the molecular dynamics trajectory is usually much larger than needed to cross a barrier , and one would therefore not expect that there is a correlation between the energy of the trajectory crossing from one catchment basin into another one and the height of the saddle point that connects the minima of the two catchment basins .",
    "however , we found that such a correlation does indeed exist , as shown in fig  [ fig : barriersmdminhop.eps ] .",
    "in the case of binary systems one might think that molecular dynamics based moves are inefficient since atoms of a certain type will only move by some slow diffusive motion to their right place . a process which can bring atoms potentially faster to their right place is an identity exchange where the identity of two atoms that are possibly far apart is exchanged . in a binary lennard - jones ( blj ) cluster the identities will be denoted by a and b. on the other hand we know that the efficiency of the molecular dynamics based moves in minima hopping is due to the fact that high energy configurations are rarely visited which leads to small values of @xmath16 .",
    "table  [ ediff ] shows these values for several blj systems which have different size - mismatch values @xmath31 .",
    "the @xmath16 value is always the value which gives on average an acceptance ratio of 0.5 in the standard md based version of mh .",
    "@xmath32 is the size of the larger type - b atom in a blj - cluster where the smaller type - a atoms are chosen to have size 1 .",
    "the interaction potential is then given by @xmath33\\ ] ] where @xmath15 and @xmath34 are the types of atoms @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "@xmath37{2 } \\sigma_{\\alpha \\beta}$ ] is the equilibrium pair separation and @xmath38 is the well depth of the pair potential from atoms @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "we set @xmath39 and @xmath40 . with these settings ,",
    "the only free parameter besides the number of type - a atoms @xmath41 is @xmath31 which is chosen to be @xmath42",
    ".    .acceptance / rejectance ratio for identity exchange moves with fixed @xmath16 .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "molecular dynamics based moves were found to be optimal in the context of global optimization . according to the bell evans polyani principle",
    "one should escape over low barriers .",
    "even though moves that escape over the lowest saddle point around a local minima are consequently expected to perform better , if the number of visited minima is taken as the success criterion , it turns out that molecular dynamics based moves are more efficient for energy landscapes which have a strong funnel like structure , since in this case the md trajectory can cross over several saddle points . for other energy landscapes",
    "md based escapes are about equally efficient in terms of the number of distinct visited minima , but are more efficient in terms of the total number of visited minima , i.e. in terms of the number of local geometry optimizations . in practice moves that escape over the lowest saddle point are too expensive since they require a complete exploration of the potential energy surface around the local minimum from which one wants to escape . in practice the only saddle point escape moves that are affordable would be moves where one searches for a single saddle point in a soft direction .",
    "it turns out that these saddle points can sometimes be very high and the approach is therefore much less efficient that an approach using molecular dynamics based moves in soft directions .",
    "the important difference is that by energy conservation the md based trajectory can not cross over energetically high saddle points whereas saddle point searches in soft directions can give very high saddle points .",
    "in addition md based escapes require significantly less force evaluations ( of the order of 100 ) than even a single saddle point search .",
    "the value of the parameter @xmath16 in the minima hopping method is a good measure of the quality of the moves .",
    "if moves lead on average in other low energy configurations @xmath16 will be small and one has to search only over low energy structures .",
    "one has therefore to search only over a number of local minima which is much smaller than in the case where one has to search in a larger energy window above the global minimum .",
    "according to this criterion identity exchange moves are in general worse than md based moves except for very small values of @xmath31 . if identity exchange moves are however added as some kind of post processing step to a md based move without the need of an additional geometry optimization for each exchange trial , the efficiency of the minima hopping method can be improved .",
    "with such an improved version of the minima hopping method we were able to find several new global minima structures for binary lennard jones clusters with up to 100 atoms and size ratios of @xmath43 . for large values of @xmath31",
    "the ordinary minima hopping method without identity exchanges was used and turned out to be powerful enough to find new global minima structures for size rations of @xmath44 1.2 , 1.25 and 1.3 .",
    "99 riccardo ferrando , alessandro fortunelli and roy l. johnston , phys.chem.chem.phys , 2008,*10 * , 640 - 649 g.rossi and r.ferrando , j.phys.:condens .",
    "21*(2009 ) m. a. neumann , j. phys . chem .",
    "b * 112 * 9810 ( 2008 ) a.j .",
    "morris , c.j .",
    "pickard , and r.j .",
    "needs phys .",
    "b 80 , 144112 ( 2009 ) z. li and h. a. scheraga , proc . natl .",
    "usa , * 84 * 6611 ( 1987 ) kirkpatrick , s. ; c. d. gelatt , m. p. vecchi , science * 220 * 671 ( 1983 ) s. goedecker , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 120 * , 9911 ( 2004 ) .",
    "d. a. richie , j. kim , s. a. barr , k. r. a. hazzard , r. g. hennig , and j. w. wilkins .",
    "physical review letters 92 , 45501 ( 2004 ) j. rogan , g. garca , c. loyola , w. orellana , r. ramrez , and m. kiwi j. chem .",
    "* 125 * , 214708 ( 2006 ) michael c. prentiss , david j. wales , and peter g. wolynes j. chem .",
    "phys . * 128 * , 225106 ( 2008 ) normand mousseau and g. t. barkema phys .",
    "e 57 , 2419 ( 1998 ) j. chem .",
    "112 , 9599 ( 2000 ) ; doi:10.1063/1.481576 ( 8 pages ) temperature - accelerated dynamics for simulation of infrequent events mads r. srensen and arthur f. voter hartke , b. , j. of comp",
    ". chem . * 20 * 1752 ( 1999 ) deaven , d.m .",
    ", ho , k.m . , physical review letters * 75 * 288 ( 1995 ) oganov a.r . ,",
    "glass c.w . ,",
    "j. chem . phys . * 124 * 244704 ( 2006 ) s. roy , s. goedecker , and v. hellmann , phys .",
    "e * 77 * , 056707 ( 2008 ) .",
    "f. jensen , _ introduction to computational chemistry _ , wiley , new york ( 1999 ) .",
    "francesca balleto and riccardo ferrando , review of modern physics , * 77 * , ( 2005 ) g. henkelman and h. jnsson , j. chem . phys . * 111 * , 7010 ( 1999 ) p.",
    "pulay , chem .",
    "lett . , * 73 * , 393 , ( 1980 ) sandro schoenborn , stefan goedecker , shantanu roy and artem oganov , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 130 * 144108 ( 2009 ) j. jellinek and e. b. krissinel , chem . phys .",
    "* 258 * 283 ( 1996 ) jonathan p. k. doye and lars meyer , the structure of binary lennard - jones clusters : the effects of atomic size ratio ( 2006 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that molecular dynamics based moves in the minima hopping ( mh ) method are more efficient than saddle point crossing moves which select the lowest possible saddle point . for binary systems we incorporate identity exchange moves in a way that allows to avoid the generation of high energy configurations . using this modified minima hopping method </S>",
    "<S> we reexamine the binary lennard jones ( blj ) benchmark system with up to 100 atoms and we find a large number of new putative global minima structures . </S>"
  ]
}