{
  "article_text": [
    "the evolution of white dwarf stars is a relatively well - understood process that can be basically described as a simple cooling problem ( mestel 1952 ) in which the decrease in the thermal heat content of the ions constitutes the main source of luminosity . because of this",
    ", white dwarfs can be used as independent reliable cosmics clocks to date a wide variety of stellar populations .",
    "this fact has attracted the attention of numerous researchers over the years , who have devoted large efforts to study in detail the evolutionary properties of these stars . in particular , it is important to realize that an accurate determination of the rate at which white dwarfs cool down constitutes a fundamental issue .",
    "detailed evolutionary models for these stars , based on increasing degrees of sophistication of their constitutive physics and energy sources , have proved to be valuable at determining interesting properties of many galactic populations , including the disk ( winget et al .",
    "1987 ; garca  berro et al .",
    "1988a ; hernanz et al . 1994 ; garca  berro et al .",
    "1999 ) , the halo ( isern et al . 1998 ; torres et al . 2002 ) and globular and open clusters ( richer et al . 1997 ; von hippel & gilmore 2000 ; hansen et al . 2002 ; von hippel et al .",
    "2006 , hansen et al . 2007 ;",
    "winget et al .",
    "this important application of white dwarf stars has also been possible thanks to a parallel effort devoted to the empirical determination of the observed white dwarf cooling sequences in stellar clusters , as well as the determination of the luminosity function of field white dwarfs , which also provides a measure of the white dwarf cooling rate .",
    "detailed models of white dwarfs require a complete treatment of the energy sources resulting from the core cyrstallization .",
    "in particular , the release of both latent heat ( van horn 1968 ; lamb & van horn 1975 ) and gravitational energy due to the change in chemical composition induced by crystallization ( stevenson 1980 ; garca  berro et al .",
    "1988b ; segretain et al .",
    "1994 ; isern et al .",
    "1997 , 2000 ) affect considerably the cooling of white dwarfs .",
    "in particular , compositional separation at crystallization markedly slows down the cooling .",
    "this , in turn , influences , for instance , the position of the cut - off of the disk white dwarf luminosity function ( hernanz et al .",
    "1994 ) , which is essential in obtaining an independent determination of the age of the galactic disk .    however , a new observational determination of the white dwarf luminosity function of the cluser ngc 6791 by bedin et al .",
    "( 2008 ) casts serious doubts on the reliability of existing white dwarf evolutionary models and their use as accurate clocks .",
    "ngc 6791 is a very old ( 8 gyr ) and very metal - rich ( [ fe / h ] @xmath3 ) open cluster , for which bedin et al .",
    "( 2008 ) have uncovered the faint end of the white dwarf cooling track , and have convincingly demonstrated the existence of a peak and a subsequent cut - off in the white dwarf luminosity function at @xmath4 .",
    "additionally , bedin et al . (",
    "2008 ) have found that the age of the cluster derived from the main sequence turn - off technique ( 8 gyr ) is in serious conflict with the age derived from the termination of the cooling sequence ( 6 gyr ) .",
    "this discrepancy has strong implications for the theory of white dwarf evolution , and points out at a missing piece of physics in the conventional modeling of white dwarfs .",
    "in particular , bedin et al .",
    "( 2008 ) have concluded that the white dwarfs in ngc 6791 have to cool markedly more slowly than believed in order to reproduce the faint peak and measured cut - off in the observed white dwarf luminosity function at the age of the cluster derived from the well - established main - sequence turn - off technique .    in view of the high metallicity characterizing ngc 6791 ( @xmath5 ) , a viable physical process that can decrease the cooling rate of white dwarfs appreciably is the slow gravitational settling of @xmath0ne in the liquid phase .",
    "@xmath0ne is the most abundant impurity expected in the carbon - oxygen interiors of typical white dwarfs .",
    "its abundance by mass reaches @xmath6 , and it is the result of helium burning on @xmath7n  built up during the cno cycle of hydrogen burning . as first noted by bravo et al .",
    "( 1992 ) , the two extra neutrons present in the @xmath0ne nucleus ( relative to @xmath8 nuclei , being @xmath9 the atomic mass number and @xmath10 the charge ) results in a net downward gravitational force of magnitude @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the local gravitational acceleration and @xmath13 is the proton mass .",
    "this leads to a slow , diffusive settling of @xmath0ne in the liquid regions towards the center of the white dwarf .",
    "the role of @xmath0ne sedimentation in the energetics of crystallizing white dwarfs was first addressed by isern et al .",
    "( 1991 ) and more recently quantitatively explored by deloye & bildsten ( 2002 ) and garca  berro et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , who concluded that @xmath0ne sedimentation releases sufficient energy to affect appreciably the cooling of massive white dwarfs , making them appear bright for very long periods of time , of the order of @xmath14 yr .",
    "deloye & bildsten ( 2002 ) predicted that the possible impact of @xmath0ne sedimentation on white dwarf cooling could be better seen in metal - rich clusters , such as ngc 6791 , where the neon abundance expected in the cores of white dwarfs could be as high as @xmath15 by mass .",
    "the effect of @xmath0ne sedimentation is not included in any of the existing grids of white dwarf evolutionary calculations , and its effect on the evolution of white dwarfs resulting from supersolar metallicity progenitors has not been addressed .",
    "the only study of the effects of @xmath0ne sedimentation in the cooling of white dwarfs using a complete stellar evolutionary code is that of garca  berro et al .",
    "( 2008 ) for the case of solar metallicity . in this paper , we present the first grid of full white dwarf evolutionary models resulting from metal - rich progenitors with masses ranging from 1 to @xmath16",
    "that includes both @xmath0ne sedimentation and carbon - oxygen phase separation .",
    "this grid incorporates a much more elaborated and improved treatment of the physical processes relevant for the white dwarf evolution than that we considered in garca ",
    "berro et al . ( 2008 ) .",
    "these improvements include , in addition to an update in the microphysics content , the derivation of starting white dwarf configurations obtained from a full calculation of the progenitor evolution , as well as a precise and self - consistent treatment of the energy released by the redistribution of carbon and oxygen due to phase separation during cystallization , which was lacking in our previous study .",
    "we find that the energy released by @xmath0ne sedimentation markedly impacts the evolution of white dwarfs populating metal - rich clusters , and that this source of energy must be taken into account in deriving stellar ages from the white dwarf cooling sequence of such clusters . in particular , at the evolutionary stages where the faint peak and cut - off of the white dwarf luminosity function of ngc 6791 are observed , we find that the release of energy from both phase separation and @xmath0ne sedimentation substantially slows down the cooling of white dwarfs .",
    "the occurrence of these physical separation processes in the core of cool white dwarfs and the associated slow down of the cooling rate has recently been demonstrated by garca ",
    "berro et al . ( 2010 ) to be a fundamental aspect to reconcile the age discrepancy in ngc 6791 .",
    "in this study there are three distinctive characteristics that allow us to obtain absolute ages for white dwarfs in metal - rich clusters .",
    "first , as already mentioned , the inclusion of the energy released from both @xmath0ne sedimentation and carbon - oxygen phase separation is done self - consistently and locally coupled to the full set of equations of stellar evolution .",
    "in addition , realistic carbon - oxygen profiles expected in the cores of white dwarfs , of relevance for an accurate evaluation of the energy released by phase separation , are derived form the full computation of the evolution of progenitor stars .",
    "finally , detailed non - gray model atmospheres are used to derive the outer boundary conditions of our evolving sequences .",
    "all these facts allow us to obtain accurate ages .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in sect .",
    "2 we give a full account of the input physics of our evolutionary code , particularly the treatment of the energy sources . in sect .",
    "3 we present our results , and finally in sect .",
    "4 we summarize our findings and we draw our conclusions .",
    "evolutionary calculations for both the white dwarfs and the progenitor stars were done with an updated version of the lpcode stellar evolutionary code  see althaus et al .",
    "( 2005a ) and references therein .",
    "this code has recently been employed to study different aspects of the evolution of low - mass stars , such as the formation and evolution of h - deficient white dwarfs , pg 1159 and extreme horizontal branch stars ( althaus et al .",
    "2005a ; miller bertolami & althaus 2006 ; miller bertolami et al .",
    "2008 ; althaus et al .",
    "2009a ) , as well as the evolution of he - core white dwarfs with high metallicity progenitors ( althaus et al .",
    "it has also been used to study the initial - final - mass relation in salaris et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , where a test and comparison of lpcode with other evolutionary codes has also been made .",
    "details of lpcode can be found in these works . in what follows , we comment on the main input physics that are relevant for the evolutionary calculations presented in this work .",
    "the lpcode evolutionary code considers a simultaneous treatment of non - instantaneous mixing ( or extra - mixing if present ) and burning of elements ( althaus et al .",
    "the nuclear network accounts explicitly for 16 chemical elements , and the thermonuclear reaction rates are those described in althaus et al .",
    "( 2005a ) , with the exception of @xmath17c@xmath18p@xmath19n + @xmath20c + e@xmath21 and @xmath22c(p , @xmath23n , which are taken from angulo et al .",
    "the @xmath17c(@xmath24o reaction rate is taken from angulo et al .",
    "( 1999 ) as well , and is about twice as large as that of caughlan & fowler ( 1988 ) .",
    "the final carbon - oxygen composition is a relevant issue , as a proper computation of the energy released by phase separation markedly depends on the chemical profile of the core . the standard mixing length theory for convection  with the free parameter @xmath25",
    " has been adopted . with this value , the present luminosity and effective temperature of the sun , at an age of 4570 myr ,",
    "are reproduced by lpcode when @xmath26 and @xmath27 are adopted  in agreement with the @xmath28 value of grevesse & sauval ( 1998 ) .    except for the evolutionary stages corresponding to the thermally - pulsing asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) phase",
    ", we considered the occurrence of extra - mixing episodes beyond each convective boundary following the prescription of herwig et al .",
    "extra - mixing episodes largely determine the final chemical profile of white dwarfs .",
    "we treated extra - mixing as a diffusion process by assuming that mixing velocities decay exponentially beyond each convective boundary .",
    "specifically , we assumed a diffusion coefficient given by @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is the pressure scale height at the convective boundary , @xmath31 is the diffusion coefficient of unstable regions close to the convective boundary , and @xmath32 is the geometric distance from the edge of the convective boundary ( herwig et al .",
    "we adopted @xmath33 in all of our sequences , a value inferred from the width of the upper main sequence .",
    "other physical ingredients considered in lpcode are the radiative opacities from the opal project ( iglesias & rogers 1996 ) , including c- and o - rich composition , supplemented at low temperatures with the molecular opacities of alexander & ferguson ( 1994 ) . during the white dwarf regime , the metal mass fraction @xmath34 in the envelope",
    "is not assumed to be fixed .",
    "instead , it is specified consistently according to the prediction of element diffusion . to account for this",
    ", we have considered radiative opacities tables from opal for arbitrary metallicities . for effective temperatures less than 10,000 k we have included the effects of molecular opacitiy by assuming pure hydrogen composition from the computations of marigo & aringer ( 2009 ) .",
    "this assumption is justified because element diffusion leads to pure hydrogen envelopes in cool white dwarfs .",
    "it is worth noting that these opacity calculations do not cover the high - density regime characteristic of the envelopes of cool white dwarfs .",
    "nevertheless , because the derivation of the outer boundary conditions for our evolving models involves the integration of detailed non - gray model atmospheres down to very large optical depths ( @xmath35 ) these opacities are only required at large @xmath36 and low effective temperatures . however , at the high densities reached at the end of the atmospheric integration , energy transfer is mainly by convection , which at such depths is essentially adiabatic .",
    "indeed , we find that at @xmath35 , the radiative flux amounts to @xmath37 at most .",
    "consequently , the temperature stratification characterizing these deep layers becomes strongly tied to the equation of state , so a detailed knowledge of the radiative opacity becomes almost irrelevant .",
    "the conductive opacities are those of cassisi et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , and the neutrino emission rates are taken from itoh et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and haft et al .",
    "for the high density regime characteristics of white dwarfs , we have used the equation of state of segretain et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , which accounts for all the important contributions for both the liquid and solid phases  see althaus et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and references therein .",
    "we have also considered the abundance changes resulting from element diffusion in the outer layers of white dwarfs . as a result , our sequences develop pure hydrogen envelopes , the thickness of which gradually increases as evolution proceeds . we have considered gravitational settling and thermal and chemical diffusion , see althaus et al .",
    "( 2003 ) for details . in lpcode",
    ", diffusion becomes operative once the wind limit is reached at high effective temperatures ( unglaub & bues 2000 ) .",
    "chemical rehomogenization of the inner carbon - oxygen profile induced by rayleigh - taylor instabilities has been considered following salaris et al .",
    "these instabilities arise because the positive molecular weight gradients that remain above the flat chemical profile left by convection during helium core burning .",
    "finally , we employ outer boundary conditions for our evolving white dwarf models as provided by detailed non - gray model atmospheres that include non - ideal effects in the gas equation of state and chemical equilibrium based on the occupation probability formalism .",
    "the level occupation probabilities are self - consistently incorporated in the calculation of the line and continuum opacities .",
    "model atmospheres also consider collision - induced absorption due to h@xmath38-h@xmath38 , h@xmath38-he , and h - he pairs , and the ly@xmath39 quasi - molecular opacity that result from perturbations of hydrogen atoms by interactions with other particles , mainly h and h@xmath38 . these model atmospheres have been developed by rohrmann et al .",
    "( 2002 , 2010 ) , and we refer the reader to those works and to renedo et al .",
    "( 2010 ) for a full description of them . in the interest of reducing computing time ,",
    "we have computed from these models a grid of pressure , temperature , radial thickness and outer mass fraction values at an optical depth @xmath35 from which we derive the outer boundary conditions . at advanced stages of white dwarf evolution ,",
    "the central temperature becomes strongly tied to the temperature stratification of the very outer layers , thus the employment of non - gray model atmospheres is highly desired for an accurate assessment of cooling times of cool white dwarfs ( prada moroni & straniero 2007 ) .",
    "our model atmoshperes also provide detailed colors and magnitudes for effective temperatures lower than 60,000k for a pure hydrogen composition and for the hst acs filters ( vega - mag system ) and @xmath40 photometry .",
    "the energy contribution resulting from the gravitational settling of @xmath0ne is treated in a similar way as it was done in garca ",
    "berro et al . ( 2008 ) , except that now we have assumed that the liquid behaves as a single backgroung one - component plasma consisting of the average by number of carbon and oxygen  the inner chemical composition expected in a real white dwarf  plus traces of @xmath0ne .",
    "this allows us to treat the problem of @xmath0ne diffusion in a simple and realistic way .",
    "the slow change in the @xmath0ne chemical profile and the associated local contribution to the luminosity equation is provided by an accurate treatment of time - dependent @xmath0ne diffusion  see garca  berro et al .",
    "( 2008 ) for details .",
    "in particular , the diffusion coefficient @xmath41 in the liquid interior is given by ( deloye & bildsten 2002 ) :    @xmath42    where we have considered a mean charge @xmath43 of the background plasma .",
    "for those regions of the white dwarf that have crystallized , diffusion is expected to be no longer efficient due to the abrupt increase in viscosity expected in the solid phase .",
    "thus , we set @xmath44 in the crystallized regions .    in a subsequent phase we have also considered the energy sources resulting from the crystallization of the white dwarf core , i.e. , the release of latent heat and the release of gravitational energy associated with carbon - oxygen phase separation induced by crystallization . in lpcode , these energy sources are included self - consistently and are locally coupled to the full set of equations of stellar evolution . in particular , the standard luminosity equation    @xmath45    had to be modified . in eq .",
    "( [ lumistandard ] ) , @xmath46 and @xmath47 denote , respectively , the energy per unit mass per second due to nuclear burning and neutrino losses , and the third and fourth terms are the well - known contributions of the heat capacity and pressure changes to the local luminosity of the star ( kippenhahn & weigert 1990 ) .",
    "we have simplified the treatment of phase separation , by ignoring the presence of @xmath0ne . as shown by segretain ( 1996 ) ,",
    "@xmath0ne influences the phase diagram at the late stages of crystallization , and the impact on the cooling time is moderate and much smaller than that resulting from carbon - oxygen phase separation .",
    "thus , to compute the energy resulting from phase separation , we assume that the white dwarf interior is made only of carbon and oxygen with abundance by mass @xmath48 and @xmath49 respectively ( @xmath50 ) . then , it can be shown ( garca  berro et al .",
    "2008 ) that    @xmath51    where @xmath52 is given by    @xmath53    being @xmath54 the internal energy per gram .",
    "the fifth term in eq . ( [ lumifin ] ) is the local contribution of latent heat : @xmath55 is the latent heat of crystallization and @xmath56 is the rate at which the solid core grows .",
    "the delta function indicates that the latent heat is released at the solidification front . the last term in eq .",
    "( [ lumifin ] ) represents the energy released by chemical abundance changes .",
    "although this term is usually small in normal stars , since it is much smaller than the energy released by nuclear reactions , it plays a major role in crystallizing white dwarfs , with important energetic consequences due to carbon - oxygen phase separation . in the case of carbon - oxygen mixtures , @xmath57 is domintated by the ionic contributions , and is negative . hence , the last term in eq .",
    "( [ lumifin ] ) will be a source ( sink ) of energy in those regions where the oxygen abundance increases ( decreases ) . during the crystallization of a carbon - oxygen white dwarf",
    ", the oxygen abundance in the crystallizing region increases , and the overlying liquid mantle becomes carbon - enriched as a result of a mixing process induced by a rayleigh - taylor instability at the region above the crystallized core .",
    "thus , according to eq .",
    "( [ lumifin ] ) , phase separation will lead to a source of energy in those layers that are crystallizing , and to a sink of energy in the overlying layers .",
    "we computed the resulting chemical rehomogenization following the prescription by salaris et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , see also montgomery et al .",
    "( 1999 ) .    to implement the energy release by phase separation in our code in a suitable formalism , and to avoid numerical difficulties when integrating the full set of equations of stellar structure and evolution , we have considered the _",
    "net _ energy released by the process of carbon - oxygen phase separation over a time interval @xmath58 , by integrating the last term in eq .",
    "( [ lumifin ] ) over the whole star .",
    "because cooling is a slow process , it can be shown that ( isern et al . 1997 ) :    @xmath59\\frac{dm_{\\rm s}}{dt } \\label{total}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    where @xmath60 is evaluated at the boundary of the solid core and    @xmath61    the first term in the square bracket in eq .",
    "( [ total ] ) represents the energy released in the crystallizing layer , and the second term , given by eq .",
    "( [ prom ] ) , is the energy absorbed on average in the convective region ( @xmath62 ) driven by the rayleigh - taylor instability above the cyrstallization front . since @xmath63 is negative and essentially depends on the density ( which decreases outwards ) , the square bracket is negative , and thus the process of phase separation results in a net release of energy during the time interval @xmath58 .",
    "it is clear that the energy released by this process will depend on the intial oxygen profile at the beginning of the white dwarf phase , resulting in a smaller contribution in the case of initially higher oxygen abundances .",
    "note that the shape of the initial chemical profile may also affect the degree of mixing in the liquid layers and thus the energy absorbed there , hence altering the net energy released by the process .    for computational purposes ,",
    "we proceed as follows . at each evolutionary time step , we compute the change of chemical composition resulting from carbon - oxygen phase separation using the spindle - type phase diagram for a carbon - oxygen mixture of segretain & chabrier ( 1993 ) .",
    "then , we evaluate the net energy released by this process during the time step from eq .",
    "( [ total ] ) .",
    "this energy is added to the , usually smaller , latent heat contribution , of the order of @xmath64 per ion .",
    "the resulting energy is distributed over a small mass range around the crystallization front , and the resulting local contribution is added to the luminosity equation , eq .",
    "[ lumistandard ] .",
    "finally , we also add to this equation the contribution from @xmath0ne sedimentation in the same way as in garca ",
    "berro et al .",
    "the lpcode stellar evolutionary code solves iteratively the full set of equations for the white dwarf evolution with the luminosity equation modified as previously explained .",
    "we mention that the magnitude of these energy sources is calculated at each iteration during the convergence of the model . in our calculations ,",
    "crystallization sets in when the ion coupling constant reaches @xmath65 , where @xmath66 and @xmath67 is the interelectronic distance .    finally , we want to mention that our treatment is not entirely consistent in the sense that the energy resulting from @xmath0ne sedimentation is evaluated separately and independently of the @xmath0ne abundances changes induced by crystallization .",
    "however , as shown by segretain ( 1996 ) , the neon concentration is expected to change appreciably only when @xmath68 of the white dwarf has crystallized . because the luminosity contribution from @xmath0ne sedimentation strongly declines by the time a large fraction of the mass of the white dwarf has crystallized , we expect that this inconsistency in our treatment is not relevant . in any case , it should be noted that this picture could change appreciably for the case of larger initial neon abundances than that considered in segretain ( 1996 ) .",
    "as we mentioned , initial models for our white dwarf sequences have been derived from full evolutionary calculations of progenitor stars for solar metallicity ( renedo et al . 2010 ) .",
    "all the sequences have been computed from the zams through the thermally - pulsing and mass - loss phases on the agb and , finally , to the domain of planetary nebulae .",
    "extra - mixing episodes beyond the pulse - driven convection zone have been disregarded during the thermally - pulsing agb phase , as suggested by different and recent studies  see salaris et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , weiss & ferguson ( 2009 ) and references therein . as a result",
    ", the efficiency of the third dredge - up episode is strongly reduced for the low - mass sequences ( but not for the massive ones ) , and thus the mass of the hydrogen - free core of our less massive sequences gradually grows as evolution proceeds through this stage .",
    "a strong reduction of extra - mixing during the agb phase and the resulting reduction in the efficiency of third dredge - up episodes in low - mass stars is in agreement with observational inferences of agb carbon stars , the luminosities of which , in turn , are in good agreement with those predicted by stellar models using the schwarzschild s criterion for convection ( guandalini et al .",
    "the breathing pulse instability occurring towards the end of core helium burning was suppressed  see straniero et al .",
    "( 2003 ) for a thorough discussion on this issue .",
    "we considered mass - loss episodes during the stages of core helium burning and red giant branch following schrder & cuntz ( 2005 ) , whereas during the agb and thermally - pulsing agb phases we used the mass - loss prescription of vassiliadis & wood ( 1993 ) . in the case of a strong reduction of the third dredge - up efficiency ,",
    "as occurs in our less massive sequences , mass loss plays a major role in determining the final mass of the hydrogen - free core at the end of the tp - agb evolution , and thus the initial - final mass relation ( weiss & ferguson 2009 ) .",
    "however , we stress that the initial - final mass relation obtained from our sequences ( renedo et al .",
    "2010 ) is in very good agreement with the semi - empirical determination of this relation of salaris et al .",
    "( 2009 ) and with that of cataln et al .",
    "( 2008 ) . finally , we mention that the hydrogen envelope massses of our sequences should be considered as upper limits to the maximum mass of hydrogen left in a white dwarf resulting from the evolution of single star progenitors .",
    "this stems from the fact that the occurrence of a late thermal pulse after departure from the tp - agb may reduce the hydrogen mass considerably , see althaus et al .",
    "( 2005b ) .",
    "hence , this could alter the quantitative effect of @xmath0ne sedimentation on the white dwarf cooling .",
    "the computation of the progenitor evolution provides realistic initial models and , more importantly , detailed carbon - oxygen chemical profiles , which are relevant for a proper computation of the energy released by carbon - oxygen phase separation . in fig .",
    "[ quimiini ] we show the mass abundances of @xmath69h , @xmath70he , @xmath17c and @xmath71o throughout the deep interior of a selected @xmath72 white dwarf model at an evolutionary stage where element diffusion has already strongly modified the initial outer layer chemical stratification , leading to the formation of a thick pure hydrogen envelope plus an extended inner tail . below the hydrogen envelope",
    "there is the helium buffer and an intershell rich in helium , carbon and oxygen .",
    "finally , the innermost region is composed mainly of carbon and oxygen , plus traces of heavier element of which @xmath0ne is the most abundant one . as previously mentioned , @xmath0ne is the result of helium burning on @xmath7n via the reactions .",
    "the core chemical profile of our model is typical of situations in which extra mixing episodes beyond the fully convective core during the core he burning are allowed  see straniero et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and also prada moroni & straniero ( 2007 ) for the consequences on white dwarf evolution .",
    "the flat chemical profile towards the center is the result of the chemical rehomogenization induced by rayleigh - taylor instabilities .",
    ".initial and final stellar mass ( in solar units ) , and the central oxygen abundance ( mass fraction ) of our starting white dwarf sequences .",
    "the progenitor metallicity is @xmath73 . [",
    "cols=\"<,<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ delay ]    from the preceeding paragraphs , we conclude that , in the case of white dwarfs that result from progenitor stars with super - solar metallicity , the occurrence of @xmath0ne sedimentation releases enough energy to produce appreciable delays in the rate of cooling at relevant stellar luminosities .",
    "we can obtain a more quantitative idea of this assertion examining fig .",
    "[ comparo ]  see also table [ delay ]  which shows the age difference between sequences that incorporte the energy released from @xmath0ne sedimentation and the sequence that considers only latent heat , for two masses and the two metallicities adopted in this study .",
    "it is clear that both carbon - oxygen phase separation and @xmath0ne sedimentation lead to substantial delays in the cooling times .",
    "note that , at very low surface luminosities and for metallicity @xmath74 , the inclusion of both carbon - oxygen phase separation and @xmath0ne sedimentation produces age differences between @xmath75 and 3.3 gry , depending on the value of the stellar mass .",
    "these differences range from 2.7 to 5.3 gyr for the case of progenitor stars with @xmath76 .",
    "note also that the magnitude of the delay resulting from the @xmath0ne sedimentation is comparable or even larger than that induced by carbon - oxygen phase separation . in particular , by @xmath77 , the luminosity at which the faint peak of the white dwarf luminosity function in ngc 6791 is located , the release of energy from @xmath0ne sedimentation markedly slows down the cooling rate of the more massive white dwarfs , which , because of their short pre - white dwarf times , populate the faint end of the white dwarf luminosity function of the cluster . for our more massive sequences and at the metallicity of the cluster ( @xmath78 ) , we find that the delays from @xmath0ne sedimentation alone range from 1.10 to 1.50 gyr and @xmath79 1.80 gyr at @xmath80 and @xmath81 , respectively .",
    "these delays together with the delays resulting from carbon - oxygen phase separation , are of the order of what is required to solve the age discrepancy in ngc 6791 ( garca  berro et al .",
    "the delay in the cooling rate of white dwarfs resulting from @xmath0ne sedimentation is important and points out the necessity of incorporating this energy source in the calculation of detailed white dwarf cooling sequences , particularly in the case of white dwarfs populating metal - rich clusters .    because of the relevance of the @xmath0ne sedimentation for the cooling of white dwarfs , we find instructive to estimate the lowest metallicity for which @xmath0ne sedimentation starts to affect significantly the cooling times of white dwarfs . to this end",
    ", we compute additional cooling sequences for initial @xmath0ne abundances of 0.01 and 0.005 . for the case of an initial @xmath0ne abundance of 0.01 ,",
    "@xmath0ne sedimentation increases the cooling time of our @xmath82 sequence that considers latent heat and carbon - oxygen phase separation by at most 12@xmath83 .",
    "the magnitude of the delays are larger for more massive white dwarfs , reaching 36@xmath83 and 48@xmath83 for the 0.7051 and @xmath84 sequences , respectively .",
    "for these two stellar masses , the resulting delays are 1.53@xmath83 and 24@xmath83 for a @xmath0ne abundances of 0.005 .",
    "we conclude that , for initial @xmath0ne abundances smaller than @xmath85 , @xmath0ne sedimentation has a minor impact on white dwarf cooling times , except for rather massive white dwarfs for which non - negligible delays ( but smaller than @xmath86 ) are found even for @xmath0ne abundances of 0.005 .    finally , to account for possible uncertainties in the actual value of the diffusion coefficient of @xmath0ne ( deloye & bildsten 2002 )",
    ", we compute additional cooling sequences for which we multiply and divide the diffusion coefficient by a factor of 2 .",
    "the resulting impacts on the cooling time for the case in which @xmath74 can be seen in fig .",
    "[ edad_003 ] for the 0.7051 and the @xmath87 sequences that consider latent heat , carbon - oxygen phase separation and @xmath0ne sedimentation .",
    "the gray region shows the extent to which the cooling curves vary when the diffusion coefficient is changed within this range of values . for the more massive sequence and at @xmath88 and @xmath89 , the cooling times change by less than @xmath86 and @xmath90 , and by @xmath91 and @xmath92 , respectively . for the less massive sequence ,",
    "the changes remain below @xmath93 . in the case of the @xmath94 sequence , an increase in @xmath95 by a factor of 2",
    "causes a maximum age difference of @xmath96 in the luminosity range from @xmath97 to @xmath98 .",
    "it is clear that uncertainties in the diffusion coefficient larger than a factor of 2 will affect the cooling time considerably , particularly for our most massive white dwarf sequences .",
    "the use of white dwarfs as reliable cosmic clocks to date galactic stellar populations has been recently thrown into doubt by a new observational determination of the white dwarf luminosity function in the old , metal - rich open cluster ngc 6791 ( bedin et al .",
    "2008 ) , the age of which as derived from the main sequence turn - off technique ( 8 gyr ) markedly disagrees with the age derived from the termination of the white dwarf cooling sequence ( 6 gyr ) .",
    "this discrepancy points out at a missing physical process in the standard treatment of white dwarf evolution . in view of the high metallicity",
    "characterizing ngc 6791 ( @xmath99 ) , the gravitational settling of @xmath0ne constitutes the most viable process that can decrease the cooling rate of cool white dwarfs .",
    "indeed , as first shown by isern et al .",
    "( 1991 ) and later by deloye & bildsten ( 2002 ) and garca  berro et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , the slow gravitational settling of @xmath0ne in the liquid phase releases enough energy as to appreciably slow down the cooling rate of white dwarfs in metal - rich clusters like ngc 6791 .    motivated by these considerations",
    ", we have presented a grid of white dwarf evolutionary sequences that incorporates for the first time the energy contributions arising from both @xmath0ne sedimentation and carbon - oxygen phase separation .",
    "the grid covers the entire mass range expected for carbon - oxygen white dwarfs , from 0.52 to @xmath100 , and it is based on a detailed and self - consistent treatment of these energy sources . except for the @xmath101 sequence , the history of progenitor stars has been taken into account by evolving initial stellar configurations in the mass range 1 to @xmath102 from the zams all the way through the thermally pulsing agb and mass loss phases .",
    "because of the full calculation of the evolution of progenitor stars , the white dwarf sequences incorporates realistic and consistent carbon - oxygen profiles  of relevance for an accurate computation of the energy released by carbon - oxygen phase separation .",
    "in addition , detailed non - gray model atmospheres are used to derive the outer boundary condition for the evolving sequences . at the low luminosities where the process of @xmath0ne sedimentation becomes relevant , the outer boundary conditions influence the cooling times .",
    "we find that @xmath0ne sedimentation has notable consequences for the cooling times of cool white dwarfs characterized by a high metal content in their interiors .",
    "the related energy release strongly delays their cooling .",
    "the precise value of the delays depends on the mass of the white dwarf , its luminosity and on the metal content .",
    "for instance , because of their larger gravities , the impact of @xmath0ne sedimentation starts earlier in more massive white dwarfs .",
    "in particular , appreciable delays in the cooling rates start to manifest themselves at luminosities of @xmath103 to @xmath81 . in general",
    ", the magnitude of the delays in the cooling rates resulting from @xmath0ne sedimentation is comparable ( or even larger in the case of @xmath76 ) to the delays induced by carbon - oxygen phase separation . at the approximate location of the faint peak in the white dwarf luminosity function of ngc 6791",
    ", delays between 1 and 1.5 gyr are expected as a result of @xmath0ne sedimentation only . as recently shown in garca ",
    "berro et al ( 2010 ) , the occurrence of this process in the interior of cool white dwarfs is a key factor in solving the longstanding age discrepancy of ngc 6791 .    in summary , we find that the evolution of cool white dwarfs stemming from progenitor stars with super - solar metallicity , is strongly modified by the energy released from @xmath0ne sedimentation .",
    "the resulting delays in cooling times of such white dwarfs are important and have to be taken into account in age determinations of metal - rich clusters from the cooling sequence of their white dwarfs .",
    "the grid of evolutionary sequences we have presented here is the first one intented for such a purpose , and incorporates the effects carbon - oxygen phase separation and @xmath0ne sedimentation in the evolution of these stars .",
    "we acknowledge the comments and suggestions of our referee , which help us to improve the original version of this paper .",
    "this research was supported by agaur , by mcinn grants aya200804211c0201 and aya08 - 1839/esp , by the european union feder funds , by agencia : programa de modernizacin tecnolgica bid 1728/oc - ar , and by pip 2008 - 00940 from conicet .",
    "lga also acknowledges a piv grant of the agaur of the generalitat de catalunya .",
    "alexander , d. r. , & ferguson , j. w. , 1994 , apj , 437 , 879 althaus , l. g. , garca  berro , e. , isern , j. , & crsico , a. h. , 2005a , a&a , 441 , 689 althaus , l.  g. , serenelli , a.  m. , crsico , a.  h. , & montgomery , m.  h. , 2003 , , 404 , 593 althaus , l. g. , garca  berro , e. , isern , j. , crsico , a. h. , & rohrmann , r. d. , 2007 , a&a , 465 , 249 althaus , l.  g. , miller bertolami , m. m. , crsico , a.  h. , garca  berro , e. , & gil - pons , p. , 2005b",
    ", , 440 , l1 althaus , l.  g. , panei , j.  a. , & miller bertolami , m.  m. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , crsico , a.  h. , romero , a.  d. , kepler , s. o. , & rohrmann , r.  d. , 2009a , apj , 704 , 1605 althaus , l.  g. , panei , j.  a. , romero , a.  d. , rohrmann , r.  d. , crsico , a.  h. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , & miller bertolami , m.  m. , 2009b , , 502 , 207 angulo , c. , et al .",
    ", 1999 , nuclear physics a , 656 , 3 bedin , l. r. , king , i. r. , anderson , j. , piotto , g. , salaris , m. , cassisi , s. , & serenelli , a. , 2008 , apj , 678 , 1279 bravo , e. , isern , j. , canal , r. , & labay , j. , 1992 , a&a , 257 , 534 cassisi , s. , potekhin , a.  y. , pietrinferni , a. , catelan , m. , & salaris , m. , 2007 , , 661 , 1094 cataln , s. , isern , j. , garca - berro , e. , & ribas , i. , 2008 , , 387 , 1693 caughlan , g.  r. , & fowler , w.  a. , 1988 , atomic data and nuclear data tables , 40 , 283 deloye , c. j. , & bildsten , l. , 2002 , apj , 580 , 1077 fontaine , g. , brassard , p. , & bergeron , p. , 2001 ,",
    "pasp , 113 , 409 garca  berro , e. , althaus , l. g. , crsico , a. h. , & isern , j. , 2008 , apj , 677 , 473 garca  berro , e. , hernanz , m. , isern , j. , & mochkovitch , r. , 1988a , nature , 333 , 642 garca  berro , e. , hernanz , m. , isern , j. , & mochkovitch , r. , 1988a , , 193 , 141 garca  berro , e. , torres , s. , isern , j. , & burkert , a.  1999 , , 302 , 173 garca  berro , e. , torres , s. , althaus , l. g. , renedo , i. , lorn  aguilar , p. , crsico , a. h. , rohrmann , r. , salaris , m. , & isern , j. , 2010 , nature , 465 , 194 grevesse , n. , & sauval , a. j. , 1998 , space sci .",
    ", 85 , 161 guandalini , r. , busso , m. , ciprini , s. , silvestro g. , & persi , p. , 2006 ,",
    "a&a , 445 , 1069 haft , m. , raffelt , g. , & weiss , a. , 1994 , , 425 , 222 hansen , b. m. s. , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 574 , l155 hansen , b. m. s. , et al . , 2007 , apj 671 , 380 hernanz , m. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , isern , j. , mochkovitch , r. , segretain , l. , & chabrier , g. , 1994 , apj , 434 , 652 herwig , f. , blcker , t. , schnberner , d. , & el eid , m. , 1997 , a&a , 324 , l81 iglesias , c.  a. , rogers , f.  j. , 1996 , apj , 464 , 943 isern , j. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , hernanz , m. , & chabrier , g. , 2000 , apj , 528 , 397 isern , j. , mochkovitch , r. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , & hernanz , m. , 1991 , a&a , 241 , l29 isern , j. , mochkovitch , r. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , & hernanz , m. , 1997 , apj , 485 , 308 isern , j. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , hernanz , m. , mochkovitch , r. , & torres , s. , 1998 , , 503 , 239 itoh , n. , hayashi , h. , nishikawa , a. , & kohyama , y. , 1996 , , 102 , 411 kippenhahn , r. , & weigert , a. , 1990 , _ `` stellar structure and evolution '' _ , ( heidelberg : springer - verlag ) lamb , d. q. , & van horn , h. m. , 1975 , apj , 200 , 306 marigo , p. , & aringer , b. , 2009 , , 508 , 1539 mestel , l. , 1952 , mnras , 112 , 583 miller bertolami , m.  m. , & althaus , l.  g. , 2006 , , 454 , 845 miller bertolami , m.  m. , althaus , l.  g. , unglaub , k. , & weiss , a. , 2008 , , 491 , 253 montgomery , m. h. , klumpe , e. w. , winget , d. e. , & wood , m. a. , 1999 , apj , 525 , 482 prada moroni , p. g. , & straniero , o. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 585 prada moroni , p. g. , & straniero , o. , 2007 , a&a , 466 , 1043 renedo , i. , althaus , l. g. , miller bertolami , m. m. , romero , a. d. , crsico , a. h. , rohrmann , r. , & garca  berro , e. , 2010 , , 717 , 183 richer , h. b. , et al . , 1997 , apj , 484 , 741 rohrmann , r.  d. , althaus , l. g. , & kepler , s. o. , 2010 , , submitted rohrmann , r.  d. , serenelli , a.  m. , althaus , l.  g. , & benvenuto , o.  g. , 2002 , , 335 , 499 salaris , m. , serenelli , a. , weiss , a. , & miller bertolami , m. m. , 2009 , apj , 692 , 1013 salaris , m. , cassisi , s. , pietrinferni , a. , kowalski , p. m. , & isern , j. , 2010 , , 716 , 1241 salaris , m. , domnguez , i , garca  berro , e. , hernanz , m. , isern , j. , & mochkovitch , r. , 1997 , apj , 486 , 413 schrder , k .- p . , & cuntz , m. , 2005 , apj , 630 , l73 segretain , l. , 1996 , a&a , 310 , 485 segretain , l. , & chabrier , g. 1993 , a&a , 271 , l13 segretain , l. , chabrier , g. , hernanz , m. , garca - berro , e. , & isern , j. , 1994 , apj , 434 , 641 stevenson , d. j. , 1980 , j. phys .",
    ", 41 , c61 straniero , o. , domnguez , i. , imbriani , g. , & piersanti l. , 2003 , apj , 583 , 878 torres , s. , garca ",
    "berro , e. , burkert , a. , & isern , j. , 2002 , , 336 , 971 unglaub , k. , & bues , i. , 2000 , , 359 , 1042 van horn , h. m. , 1968 , apj , 151 , 227 vassiliadis , e. , & wood , p. r. , 1993 , apj , 413 , 641 von hippel , t. , & gilmore , g. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 1384 von hippel , t. , jefferys , w. h. , scott , j. , stein , n. , winget , d. e. , degennaro , s. , dam , a. , & jeffery , e. j. , 2006 , apj , 645 , 1436 weiss , a. , & ferguson , j. w. , 2009 , a&a , 508 , 1343 winget , d. e. , kepler , s. o. , campos , f. , montgomery , m. h. , girardi , l. , bergeron , p. , & williams , k. , 2009 , apj , 693 , l6 winget , d. e. , hansen , c. j. , liebert , j. , van horn , h. m. , fontaine , g. , nather , r. e. , kepler , s. o. , & lamb , d. q. , 1987 , apj , 315 , l77"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> motivated by the strong discrepancy between the main sequence turn - off age and the white dwarf cooling age in the metal - rich open cluster ngc 6791 , we compute a grid of white dwarf evolutionary sequences that incorporates for the first time the energy released by the processes of @xmath0ne sedimentation and of carbon / oxygen phase separation upon crystallization . </S>",
    "<S> the grid covers the mass range from 0.52 to @xmath1 , and it is appropriate for the study of white dwarfs in metal - rich clusters . </S>",
    "<S> the evolutionary calculations are based on a detailed and self - consistent treatment of the energy released from these two processes , as well as on the employment of realistic carbon / oxygen profiles , of relevance for an accurate evaluation of the energy released by carbon / oxygen phase separation . </S>",
    "<S> we find that @xmath0ne sedimentation strongly delays the cooling rate of white dwarfs stemming from progenitors with high metallicities at moderate luminosities , whilst carbon / oxygen phase separation adds considerable delays at low luminosities . </S>",
    "<S> cooling times are sensitive to possible uncertainties in the actual value of the diffusion coefficient of @xmath0ne . </S>",
    "<S> changing the diffusion coefficient by a factor of 2 , leads to maximum age differences of @xmath2 depending on the stellar mass . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the magnitude of the delays resulting from chemical changes in the core is consistent with the slow down in the white dwarf cooling rate that is required to solve the age discrepancy in ngc 6791 . </S>"
  ]
}