{
  "article_text": [
    "the detection of exoplanetary transits has revolutionized the way we view giant planets , both in their variety of structures @xcite and their formation processes @xcite .",
    "even so , this view is mostly restricted to planets in short - period circular orbits around their host stars .",
    "the ground - based transit detection of the planets hd  17156b @xcite and hd  80606b @xcite , enabled by their high eccentricities @xcite ,",
    "provided the first insights into the structures of longer - period planets .",
    "further discoveries of long - period planetary transits around bright stars are vital to understanding the dependence of planetary structure / evolution on the periastron distance of the planet @xcite . provided",
    "the orbital parameters can be determined with sufficient precision , monitoring planets detected via the radial velocity technique at predicted transit times provides a means to increase the sample of long - period transiting planets .",
    "efforts to detect transits of the known radial velocity planets are currently being undertaken by the transit ephemeris refinement and monitoring survey ( terms ) .    amongst the radial velocity planet discoveries ,",
    "a substantial number have been found to orbit giant stars .",
    "recent examples of such discoveries include the planetary companions of 11 ursae minoris and hd  32518 @xcite and hd  102272 @xcite .",
    "these detections are in good agreement with predictions of their frequency and dependence on host star mass @xcite . in particular , planets orbiting giants stars tend to have large transit probabilities due to the size of the host stars @xcite .",
    "giant stars present significant challenges , however , to those who intend to monitor those stars for the purpose of detecting exoplanetary transits .",
    "a good example is the planet orbiting hd  122430 @xcite , for which the combination of the 22.9 @xmath0 host star @xcite and the high eccentricity of the planetary orbit lead to a transit probability of @xmath1% . however , assuming a jupiter radius for the planet requires the unambiguous detection of a @xmath2 transit depth .",
    "additionally , the uncertainty in the orbital parameters of the planet means that a large transit window will need to be continuously monitored @xcite .",
    "finally , a photometric survey of giant stars by @xcite found that almost half of their sample exhibited low - level photometric variability that would further complicate transit detection .",
    "the planet orbiting iota draconis ( hereafter @xmath3 dra ) presents a particularly interesting case .",
    "the host star is a k2 giant , is very bright ( @xmath4 ) , and is frequently referred to by its other common aliases of hd  137759 and hip  75458 .",
    "a thorough spectral analysis of this star was undertaken by @xcite , who found a metallicity of [ fe / h ] @xmath5 .",
    "the planetary companion was discovered by @xcite , and the orbit was further refined by @xcite , whose radial velocity data revealed a linear trend over time .",
    "in addition to the large stellar radius , the planetary orbit is highly eccentric and the argument of periastron ( @xmath6 ) ensures that the periastron passage occurs approximately in the observer - star plane perpendicular to the line - of - sight .    here",
    "we present new radial velocity data for @xmath3 dra b and an analysis of the photometric stability of the host star .",
    "these data are used to provide a well - constrained transit ephemeris for the next 10 years and an assessment of the feasibility of detecting a transit for the planetary companion .",
    "this analysis and discussion may be used as a model for how to consider the transit detection potential for each of the planets orbiting giant stars . in section 2",
    "we present the new radial velocity data and revised orbital solution .",
    "section 3 discusses the geometric transit probability of the planet and the predicted transit depth , and in section 4 we calculate the transit ephemeris for the planet .",
    "section 5 presents the photometric analysis of the host star , and in section 6 we discuss the potential for detecting a transit of the planet .",
    "the initial orbital solution provided by @xcite had relatively large uncertainties associated with the orbital parameters because they had only a single cycle of the planetary orbit .",
    "the revised solution by @xcite is a significant improvement , mostly due to the large increase in time baseline leading to a much better - constrained period .",
    "here we combine the lick observatory data published by @xcite with further data covering almost two additional cycles of the orbit .",
    "the additional data were also acquired with the 0.6 m coud auxillary telescope and the hamilton echelle spectrograph at lick observatory with the same techniques described by @xcite .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "the size of the new predicted transit window is 73.56 days based upon the orbital parameters of @xcite and 6.05 days based upon the orbital parameters of @xcite . with the improved orbital parameters described in this paper , the next predicted transit window has been reduced in size to 4.35 days . by the time the 2020 transit prediction arrives ,",
    "the size of the transit window will have grown to 5.33 days .",
    "it should be noted that , despite the remaining large size of the transit window , it is now largely dominated by the transit duration , which is expected to be @xmath7 days as shown in table [ probdepdur ] .",
    "even so , attempts to obtain full coverage of the transit window from the ground will require a multi - longitudinal campaign during which one can only hope for cooperative weather .",
    "the complete observation of an ingress or egress during a single night is a substantially more achievable goal under such circumstances .",
    "however , one still must contend with the challenge of meeting the photometric precision requirements for a successful detection .",
    "simbad refers to @xmath3  dra as a variable star based on its citation as nsv  7077 in the _ new catalogue of suspected variable stars _ @xcite .",
    "the nsv entry is based on the photometric study of @xcite , who reported a magnitude range of 0.09 mag .",
    "later , @xcite included @xmath3  dra in his search for photometric variability in k giants chosen from the _ bright star catalogue _ @xcite and found the star to be constant to a limit of 0.01 mag .",
    "we investigated the photometric stability of @xmath3  dra using newer observations .",
    "the _ hipparcos _",
    "satellite observed the star during its three - year mission and acquired a photometric data set consisting of 104 measurements spanning a period of 1160 days @xcite .",
    "the scatter of the 104 @xmath3  dra measurements is 0.005 mag , while the range of the observations , defined in terms of the 5th and 95th percentiles of their distribution , is 0.02 mag .",
    "the scatter is roughly consistent with the expected uncertainty of a single observation , but the range is roughly twice that expected from a constant star .",
    "consequently , the _ hipparcos _ catalogue @xcite lists the variability type for @xmath3  dra as a blank , indicating that the star `` could not be classified as variable or constant . ''",
    "we performed a fourier analysis of the _ hipparcos _ data , plotted in figure [ phot_hip ] , and confirmed the absence of any significant periodic variability .",
    "dra from the hipparcos mission.,width=309 ]    we also acquired new johnson @xmath8 and @xmath9 observations with the t3 0.4  m automatic photoelectric telescope ( apt ) located at fairborn observatory in the patagonia mountains of southern arizona . between 2010 january and may , t3 observed @xmath3  dra differentially with respect to a nearby comparison star in the following sequence , termed a group observation : _ s , c , v , c , v , c , v , c , s _ , where @xmath10 is a sky reading , @xmath11 is the comparison star hd 144284 = @xmath12  dra ( @xmath13 , @xmath14 , f8  iv ) , and @xmath9 is the program ( variable ? ) star @xmath3  dra ( @xmath15 , @xmath16 , k2  iii ) .",
    "a 2.3 mag neutral - density filter was used in combination with the @xmath8 and @xmath9 filters to attenuate the signal and so minimize the deadtime correction for the two bright stars .",
    "three @xmath17 differential magnitudes in both @xmath8 and @xmath9 were computed from each sequence and averaged to create @xmath8 and @xmath9 group means .",
    "group mean differential magnitudes with internal standard deviations greater than 0.01 mag were rejected to eliminate observations taken under non - photometric conditions .",
    "the surviving group means were corrected for differential extinction with nightly extinction coefficients , transformed to the johnson system with yearly - mean transformation coefficients , and treated as single observations thereafter .",
    "the typical precision of a single group - mean observation from t3 , as measured for pairs of constant stars , is @xmath180.0040.005 mag @xcite .",
    "the apt acquired one or two group observations each clear night except for three full nights when the star was observed at a much higher cadence of @xmath19 group observations per hour .",
    "the apt collected a total of 224 @xmath8 and 220 @xmath9 group observations .",
    "further details on the automatic operation of this telescope , the observing procedures , and the data reduction process can be found in @xcite and references therein .",
    "photometry of @xmath3 dra obtained using the t3 0.4  m apt at fairborn observatory showing long - term ( top panel ) and short - term ( bottom panel ) stability of @xmath20.,width=309 ]    the complete , reduced johnson @xmath8 data set is plotted in the top panel of figure [ phot_apt ] ; the bottom panel presents just the high - cadence @xmath8 photometry from one of the three monitoring nights .",
    "the data in both panels scatter about their means with a standard deviation of 0.0041 mag , after a half dozen outliers are removed in each case .",
    "results for the @xmath9 observations are essentially identical ( 0.0043 mag ) .",
    "thus , our observations suggest that @xmath3  dra , as well as its comparison star @xmath21  dra , are both constant to a limit of approximately 0.004 mag .",
    "we note , however , that the first half of the complete @xmath8 and @xmath9 light curves suggest possible very - low - amplitude variability on a timescale of @xmath22 days .",
    "the variation then seems to damp out during the second half of the light curve .",
    "we performed fourier analyses of the complete @xmath8 and @xmath9 data sets and found no significant periodic variability in either case ( see figure [ phot_pgram ] for the @xmath8 data ) .",
    "these results are somewhat reminiscent of the light curves and period analyses of the k giants presented in the survey of @xcite .",
    "further observations will be required to determine if the apparent low - amplitude variability is real . for now , we claim only that @xmath3  dra is constant to @xmath23 mag .",
    "we also conclude that the photometric variability reported by @xcite is spurious and that @xmath24  dra has yet to prove its status as a variable star .",
    "observations acquired with the t3 apt .",
    "no strong periodicity is seen , but the highest peak at 32 days is consistent with inspection of the first half of the light curve.,width=309 ]    in addition to improving the radial velocity orbit of @xmath3  dra  b and detecting a linear trend in the residuals , @xcite also found evidence for short - period radial velocity variations in the range 0.250.33 days ( we note that corresponding short - period photometric variations are _ not _ seen in our three nights of high - cadence observations ) . using the radius measured by @xcite of @xmath25 and the rotational velocity measured by @xcite of 1.5 km / s , we estimate the expected rotation period of @xmath3 dra to be @xmath26 days .",
    "thus , the possible low - amplitude variability seen in our photometry and the short - period , low - amplitude radial velocity variability found by @xcite can not be caused by the rotation of the star .",
    "@xcite note that their short - period radial velocity variations may be similar to solar - type oscillations .",
    "likewise , @xcite concluded that the low - amplitude , short - period photometric variability found in their sample of k giants could not be due to rotational modulation but had timescales consistent with radial pulsation .",
    "the prospects for successful detection of a transit of @xmath3  dra  b rely upon achieving the necessary photometric precision .",
    "the brightness of the star makes it a difficult target to observe with traditional ccd photometry due to saturation .",
    "ground - based observations with photoelectric photometers , such as the apts , mitigate this problem but are still challenged by the @xmath27 mag transit depth . @xcite",
    "suggest observing the star during the transit window using narrowband filters which would isolate the ca ii h and k chromospheric emission at the stellar limb , the effect of which will be to increase the depth of the transit .    while we did not definitely detect photometric variability in @xmath3  dra , the amplitude and timescale of possible photometric variations are significantly larger than the predicted transit duration .",
    "hence , two possibilities present themselves for detection of the transit in the face of these potential variations .",
    "if the periodic variation is well - defined over long time periods then it could be accurately modeled and subtracted from the data .",
    "regardless , the transit window is shorter such that the variation is not expected to impact the transit detection on those timescales .",
    "although the long transit duration prevents the monitoring of a complete transit within a single night , ground - based observations of a complete transit window of hd  80606b have been accomplished by @xcite by obtaining multi - longitudinal coverage .",
    "in addition , the required cadence is much lower than for a typical hot jupiter which allows greater flexibility in binning the measurements for greater precision .",
    "another possibility is to attempt complete monitoring of the transit window from a space - based observatory . consider the case of hd  209458b , for which the host star is a @xmath28 main sequence star .",
    "transits of this planet have been observed by both hubble space telescope ( hst ) and the microvariability and oscillations of stars ( most ) satellite at very high precision .",
    "the hst observations by @xcite achieved a precision of @xmath29 and the most observations by @xcite achieved a precision of @xmath30 . assuming a precision which is dominated by photon noise , these values convert to @xmath3 dra precisions of @xmath31 and @xmath32 for hst and most respectively .",
    "these predicted precisions bring the detection of a transit of @xmath3 dra b within reach since the necessarily high cadence of these observations will require binning of the data over the long transit duration .",
    "it should be noted however that observations of @xmath3 dra with most are difficult because it is significantly north of the continous viewing zone ( cvz ) .",
    "the rossiter - mclaughlin ( rm ) effect @xcite provides a means whereby an exoplanet may be detected and indeed discovered spectroscopically .",
    "the first precedent for discovering a planet through this method occurred with the well - known planet orbiting hd  189733 @xcite .",
    "the application of the rm effect to transiting exoplanets has been described in detail by @xcite .",
    "the amplitude of the rm effect , @xmath33 is @xmath34 where @xmath35 is the rotational velocity of the star and @xmath36 is the transit depth .",
    "the proportionality of the rm amplitude with the rotational velocity of the star presents an immediate large bias against giant stars due to their relatively slow rotation rate . for @xmath3 dra",
    ", the rotational velocity has been measured by @xcite to be 1.5 km / s .",
    "using the estimated transit depth of @xmath37 from table [ probdepdur ] , the amplitude of the rm effect as the planet transits is predicted to be only 12 cm / s !",
    "any attempt to measure such a spectroscopic transit signature will undoubtedly require awaiting the next generation of radial velocity instruments .",
    "inadequate precision of orbital parameters presents a major hinderance to testing the transit hypothesis of planets discovered using the radial velocity technique .",
    "the challenge of improving transit ephemerides and monitoring transit windows is currently being met by such groups as the transit ephemeris refinement and monitoring survey ( terms ) .",
    "the value of such a survey includes an improved understanding of planetary orbits and the potential for gaining insight into the exoplanet mass - radius relationship for the brightest host stars .    for giant stars ,",
    "this regime is largely unexplored even though giant stars have the highest transit probabilities since @xmath38 .",
    "eccentric orbits of planets around giant stars are relatively rare , with only a handful exceeding an eccentricity of 0.5 , including hd  122430b and @xmath3 dra b. the planet orbiting hd  13189 @xcite has an eccentricity of 0.28 but this is more than compensated for by the host ; a k2 ii star with an estimated radius exceeding 50 @xmath0 .    the case of @xmath3 dra b is particularly interesting since the stellar radius and orbital elements create a transit probability exceeding that of a hot jupiter ( @xmath39 days ) , despite having an orbital period of more than 500 days .",
    "our refined orbital solution produces a transit window that is accessible to a concerted ground - based effort or modest space - based effort with potentially high return for a successful transit detection .",
    "in addition , our photometry shows the short - term stability of @xmath3 dra to be comparatively favourable for typical late - type giant stars . a fourier analysis of the photometry reveals a periodic signal at @xmath1 days ,",
    "although the weakness of the signal makes its presence inconclusive and we conclude that @xmath3  dra is constant at the @xmath40 mag level . however , the challenge of achieving the needed photometric precision required to achieve an unambiguous detection for the transit will likely require spaced - based observations during the transit window .",
    "the authors would like to thank david ciardi and andrew howard for several useful suggestions .",
    "we thank the many cat observers who have observed @xmath3 dra over the years , especially david mitchell and saskia hekker .",
    "contributions of andreas quirrenbach to the k giants radial velocity monitoring program at lick observatory are gratefully acknowledged .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac / nexsci star and exoplanet database , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "allende prieto , c. , lambert , d.l . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 352 , 555 assef , r.j . ,",
    "gaudi , b.s . ,",
    "stanek , k.z .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 701 , 1616 barbieri , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 476 , l13 barnes , j.w .",
    ", 2007 , pasp , 119 , 986 batygin , k. , bodenheimer , p. , laughlin , g. , 2009 , apj , 704 , l49 bodenheimer , p. , laughlin , g. , lin , d.n.c . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 592 , 555 bouchy , f. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 444 , l15 brown , t.m . , charbonneau , d. , gilliland , r.l .",
    ", noyes , r.w . ,",
    "burrows , a. , 2001 , apj , 552 , 699 croll , b. , et al . , 2007 , apj , 658 , 1328 da silva , l. , et al . , 2006 , a&a , 458 , 609 de medeiros , j.r . , mayor , m. , 1999 , a&as , 139 , 433 dllinger , m.p . ,",
    "hatzes , a.p . , pasquini , l. , guenther , e.w . ,",
    "hartmann , m. , 2009 , a&a , 505 , 1311 frink , s. , mitchell , d.s . , quirrenbach , a. , fischer , d.a . ,",
    "marcy , g.w . ,",
    "butler , r.p .",
    ", 2002 , apj , 576 , 478 gaudi , b.s . , winn , j.n . , 2007 , apj , 655 , 550 hatzes , a.p . ,",
    "guenther , e.w . ,",
    "endl , m. , cochran , w.d . ,",
    "dllinger , m.p . ,",
    "bedalov , a. , 2005 , a&a , 437 , 743 henry , g.w . ,",
    "fekel , f.c . ,",
    "henry , s.m . , hall , d.s .",
    ", 2000 , apjs , 130 , 201 hidas , m.g . , et al . , 2010 , mnras , 406 , 1146 hoffleit , d. , jaschek , c.v . , 1991 , the bright star catalogue , 5th edition ( new haven : yale univ . obs . )",
    "ida , s. , lin , d.n.c .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 626 , 1045 jackisch , g. , 1963 , veroeffentlichungen der sternwarte in sonneberg ( publications of sonneberg observatory ) , bd . 5 , heft , 5 . , p. 232",
    "kane , s.r .",
    ", von braun , k. , 2008 , apj , 689 , 492 kane , s.r .",
    ", von braun , k. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1096 kane , s.r . , mahadevan , s. , von braun , k. , laughlin , g. , ciardi , d.r .",
    ", 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1386 kennedy , g.m . ,",
    "kenyon , s.j .",
    ", 2008 , apj , 673 , 502 kukarkin , b.v .",
    ", et al . , 1982 , new catalogue of suspected variable stars , moscow : academy of sciences laughlin , g. , deming , d. , langton , j. , kasen , d. , vogt , s. , butler , p. , rivera , e. , meschiari , s. , 2009 , nature , 457 , 562 mclaughlin , p.r .",
    ", 1924 , apj , 60 , 22 moutou et al . , 2009 , a&a , 498 , l5 niedzielski , a. , godziewski , k. , wolszczan , a. , konacki , m. , nowak , g. , zieliski , p. , 2009",
    ", apj , 693 , 276 percy , j.r . , 1993 , pasp , 105 , 1422 perryman , m.a.c . , et al . , 1997 , a&a , 323 , l49 rossiter , r.a . , 1924 , apj , 60 , 15 sadakane , k. , ohnishi , t. , ohkubo , m. , takeda , y. , 2005 , pasj , 57 , 127 setiawan , j. , pasquini , l. , da silva , l. , hatzes , a.p . , von der lhe , o. , girardi , l. , de medeiros , j.r . ,",
    "guenther , e. , 2004 , a&a , 421 , 241 veras , d. , crepp , j.r . ,",
    "ford , e.b . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 696 , 1600 wright , j.t . , 2005 ,",
    "pasp , 117 , 657 zechmeister , m. , reffert , s. , hatzes , a.p . ,",
    "endl , m. , quirrenbach , a. , 2008 , a&a , 491 , 531"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most of the known transiting exoplanets are in short - period orbits , largely due to the bias inherent in detecting planets through the transit technique . however , the eccentricity distribution of the known radial velocity planets results in many of those planets having a non - negligible transit probability . </S>",
    "<S> one such case is the massive planet orbiting the giant star iota draconis , a situation where both the orientation of the planet s eccentric orbit and the size of the host star inflate the transit probability to a much higher value than for a typical hot jupiter . </S>",
    "<S> here we present a revised fit of the radial velocity data with new measurements and a photometric analysis of the stellar variability . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a revised transit probability , an improved transit ephemeris , and discuss the prospects for observing a transit of this planet from both the ground and space . </S>"
  ]
}