{
  "article_text": [
    "[ intro ] the mccook - sion white dwarf catalog contains more than 150 white dwarf stars with molecular or atomic carbon lines in their spectra ( dq white dwarfs ; @xcite and online updates ) .",
    "these lines often dominate dq spectra , yet they are typically modeled by atmospheres containing mostly helium @xcite .",
    "recently , however , calculations by @xcite revealed that a small number of the hottest dq white dwarf stars have spectra that are fit best by carbon - dominated model atmospheres .",
    "these hot dq white dwarf stars have shown themselves to be intriguing in other regards as well .",
    "it is not , for instance , clear where they came from , though recent theoretical work suggests a scenario in which they descended from the hydrogen - deficient pg 1159 stars @xcite .",
    "adding to their intrigue and also promising to shed light on their origin and nature , recent observations have uncovered variables among the hot dq white dwarf stars .",
    "compelled by the idea that carbon - atmosphere white dwarf stars might be pulsationally unstable , @xcite observed six hot dq white dwarfs to look for photometric variability and discovered significant periodic luminosity variations in sdss j1426 + 5752 .",
    "@xcite then found variability in two more hot dq white dwarfs ( sdss j22000741  and sdss j23480942 ) . @xcite and @xcite present follow - up observations of these three stars .    we here introduce a fourth hot dq variable , sdss j133710.19002643.6 ( hereafter sdss j13370026 ) , a star first identified as a dq white dwarf by @xcite and one of the nine hot dq stars discussed by @xcite .",
    "sdss j13370026  is the fastest , smallest - amplitude variable of the four .",
    "we detect two harmonically - related frequencies : a 339 s fundamental and a 169 s first harmonic of comparable amplitude ( @xmath0 0.3% ) .",
    "their phase relationship is like those of sdss j1426 + 5752  and sdss j22000741  and leads to both a deep primary minimum and a secondary minimum at the location of the fundamental maximum .",
    "we observed sdss j13370026  ( g=18.7 , u-g= -0.46 ) using two different instruments on the 4.1-m soar telescope on cerro pachon in chile . for the first two sets of observations , we used the goodman spectrograph @xcite , an imaging spectrograph mounted at one of the soar nasmyth ports .",
    "the spectrograph s collimator and camera optics produce an image on a 4k @xmath1 4k fairchild 486 back - illuminated ccd .",
    "the plate scale at the detector is 0.15 arcsec pixel@xmath2 .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ table : fit2 ]    by folding the light curves at the period of the fundamental , we get a picture of these quantitative results ( fig . [",
    "fig : flcs ] ) .",
    "the pulse shape is like those of sdss j1426 + 5752  and sdss j22000741 .",
    "there is some suggestion that the phase relationship between the fundamental and harmonic might not be exactly zero , but the errors in phase are large making this hard to determine .",
    "similarly , there is no statistically significant change in amplitude or phase difference among the nights .",
    "the discovery of a fourth variable among the hot dq white dwarf stars means the variable fraction of the known hot dqs is at least 36% .",
    "this is a high percentage compared with the hydrogen- and helium - atmosphere white dwarf variables .",
    "thus , as we get to know the hot dq stars better , we find them disinclined to be photometrically constant .",
    "further , there is no obvious observational characteristic that serves as a predictor of whether a given hot dq is variable .",
    "of the four reported variables , sdss j1426 + 5752  has a spectral feature identified with helium @xcite ; sdss j13370026  has a spectral feature identified with hydrogen @xcite ; two ( sdss j1426 + 5752  and sdss j22000741 ) have broadened spectral lines @xcite possibly resulting from a magnetic field @xcite ; the other two exhibit no such spectral distortions .",
    "thus , hydrogen , helium , and magnetic fields do not discourage variability , and none of them appears necessary to encourage it .",
    "indeed , so far , the best predictor of a hot dq star s variability is that it is a hot dq star .    not only do we not know the reason one hot dq varies and another does nt , we do not know why their pulse shapes differ . based on suggestions of @xcite , @xcite predict a connection between magnetic field and pulse shape .",
    "sdss j1426 + 5752  and sdss j22000741  both have relatively large first harmonics whose minima coincide with the maxima and minima of the fundamental .",
    "sdss j23480942  has no apparent harmonic . @xcite and @xcite suggest that a magnetic field might account for this difference , but sdss j13370026  calls this into question .",
    "it has a pulse shape like that of sdss j1426 + 5752  and sdss j22000741 , but unlike them its high s / n spectrum @xcite shows no signs of a magnetic field .",
    "other connections between the variables spectroscopic properties and their variable properties are also not forthcoming .",
    "the preliminary temperature fits of @xcite indicate that sdss j13370026  is the hottest of the four variables ; it is also the fastest and smallest in amplitude .",
    "however , no obvious temperature - period trend emerges when considering the other three .",
    "such a relationship is observed and predicted in the zz ceti pulsators @xcite .",
    "similarly , there is no straight - forward correlation between period and amplitude , a relationship also present in the zz cetis @xcite .",
    "we do know that all four variables have remained relatively stable in frequency and amplitude over the course of months to a year .",
    "the variations observed in the present data set  the possible existence of a low - frequency peak in the 2008 july amplitude spectrum and the differences in best - fit phase difference and amplitude  are not conclusive .",
    "resolving these questions will require more observations .",
    "high s / n photometry of the other hot dq stars is required before any theoretical study can address which stars are variable and which are not .",
    "sdss j13370026  was observed in the original study of @xcite but not found to be variable on account of its small ( @xmath0 0.3% ) amplitude .",
    "a mean amplitude spectrum noise level of even 0.1% would not permit a convincing detection of such small - amplitude variability .",
    "we also note that the 2009 june data show the harmonic at 4.1 times the mean noise in the amplitude spectrum while the fundamental is roughly half its size ; thus , it seems possible that small - amplitude variable hot dqs with large harmonics could have fundamentals hidden in the noise .",
    "in addition to high s / n time - series photometry , we need high s / n time - series spectroscopy . with higher s",
    "/ n spectroscopy , we might study line profile variations , which are a diagnostic of non - radial g - mode pulsations ( e.g. , @xcite ) , the leading mechanism for explaining hot dq variability @xcite . as with the zz ceti pulsators , multi - color photometry will also be an important tool for demonstrating that the variability arises primarily from temperature variations @xcite and for determining the spherical harmonics of pulsational modes .",
    "unless more than one mode can be detected in each star , the prospects for seismology seem dim . however , that was also the case for zz ceti stars shortly after their discovery , and it is likely that aggressive campaigns to detect and observe more hot dq variables will yield fruitful avenues of exploration that are richer and more interesting than we could have guessed .",
    "we acknowledge the support of the national science foundation under award ast-0707381 and are grateful to the abraham goodman family for providing the financial support that made the spectrograph possible .",
    "we thank the delaware asteroseismic research center for providing the s8612 filter used in these observations .",
    "we also recognize the observational support provided by the soar operators alberto pasten , patricio ugarte , sergio pizarro , and daniel maturana .",
    "bnb acknowledges support from a gaann fellowship through grant number p200a090135 from the dept . of education .",
    "bhd thanks gcc and the melchior family for their role in this work .",
    "finally , we thank the referee for an enjoyable and helpful review process .",
    "+            , j.  c. , crain , j.  a. , & anderson , r. 2004 , in presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference , vol . 5492 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "a.  f.  m.  moorwood & m.  iye , 331340                              , j. , harris , h.  c. , dahn , c.  c. , schmidt , g.  d. , kleinman , s.  j. , nitta , a. , krzesiski , j. , eisenstein , d. , smith , j.  a. , szkody , p. , hawley , s. , anderson , s.  f. , brinkmann , j. , collinge , m.  j. , fan , x. , hall , p.  b. , knapp , g.  r. , lamb , d.  q. , margon , b. , schneider , d.  p. , & silvestri , n. 2003 , , 126 , 2521                    , h.  e. , ashe , m.  c. , boccas , m. , bonati , m. , delgado , f. , gavez , r. , martinez , m. , schurter , p. , schmidt , r. , tighe , r. , & walker , a.  r. 2004 , in presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference , vol .",
    "5492 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "a.  f.  m.  moorwood & m.  iye , 564573              , a.  r. , boccas , m. , bonati , m. , galvez , r. , martinez , m. , schurter , p. , schmidt , r.  e. , ashe , m.  c. , delgado , f. , & tighe , r. 2003 , in presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference , vol .",
    "4841 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "m.  iye & a.  f.  m.  moorwood , 286294"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the discovery of photometric variations in the carbon - dominated atmosphere ( hot dq ) white dwarf star sdss j133710.19002643.6 . </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence for two low - amplitude , harmonically - related periodicities at 169 s and 339 s , making it the fastest and smallest amplitude of the four known hot dq variables and the only variable whose spectrum suggests the presence of hydrogen . the star s fundamental and harmonic amplitudes are roughly equal , and its pulse shape is similar to the other two members of the class with detected harmonics . like the other variables </S>",
    "<S> , it appears relatively stable in frequency and amplitude . </S>"
  ]
}