{
  "article_text": [
    "simulation of the energy deposited by protons in matter is relevant to various experimental applications ; radiotherapeutical applications exploit its peculiar pattern prior to stopping , exhibiting the characteristic `` bragg peak '' , to deliver a well localized dose to the tumor area @xcite .    several applications of general purpose monte carlo systems , like mcnp @xcite , geant 3 @xcite , geant4 @xcite , shield - hit @xcite , fluka @xcite and phits @xcite are documented in the literature concerning this topic , in hadron therapy as well as in other fields .",
    "a variety of physics options - theoretical models , evaluated data compilations and values of relevant physical parameters - is available in these monte carlo codes to model the electromagnetic and nuclear interactions of protons , and of their secondary products .",
    "while the software implementations are specific to each monte carlo code , the underlying physics modeling approaches and data compilations are often common to various simulation systems .",
    "some of the physics models and parameters used in the simulation of proton interactions with matter are affected by epistemic uncertainties @xcite , i.e uncertainties due to lack of knowledge .",
    "they may originate from various sources @xcite , such as incomplete understanding of fundamental physics processes , or practical inability to treat them thoroughly , non - existent or conflicting experimental data for a physical parameter or model , or the application of a physics model beyond the experimental conditions in which its validity has been demonstrated ( e.g. at lower or higher energies , or with different target materials ) .",
    "the role of epistemic uncertainties in the software verification and validation process has been the object of research in the context of simulation based on deterministic methods @xcite ; these investigations are motivated by the rigorous risk analysis required by some sensitive applications .",
    "limited attention has been devoted so far to the role of epistemic uncertainties in monte carlo simulation in particle and nuclear physics , and related experimental fields .",
    "this paper addresses this topic by illustrating it in a concrete experimental use case : the simulation of proton depth dose to water for radiotherapy applications .",
    "the simulation configuration involves a realistic model of a therapeutical proton beam line and beam energies of approximately 65 mev ; this use case is representative of experimental environments for the treatment of ocular melanoma @xcite .    due to their intrinsic nature ,",
    "related to lack of knowledge , epistemic uncertainties are difficult to quantify @xcite . although the characterization of epistemic uncertainty contributions is needed for many of the issues that feed the reliability model of complex systems , there is no generally accepted method of measuring epistemic uncertainties and their contribution to reliability estimations .",
    "a variety of mathematical formalisms @xcite has been developed for this purpose ; nevertheless , some of the techniques adopted in the context of deterministic simulations , like interval analysis and applications of dempster - shafer theory of evidence @xcite , are not always directly applicable in identical form to the treatment of epistemic uncertainties in monte carlo simulations .",
    "sensitivity analysis @xcite is a tool for exploring how different uncertainties , including epistemic ones , influence the model output @xcite .",
    "this approach is adopted in the study described here : the paper identifies a set of epistemic uncertainties in physics modeling pertinent to the problem domain , documents their impact on the simulation results , and discusses their potentiality to produce systematic effects in relation to the characteristics of the application environment .",
    "typically , in statistical analyses epistemic uncertainty is represented as a set of discrete possible or plausible choices ( e.g. model choices ) @xcite .",
    "the environment for this kind of study has been realized in the context of a geant4-based application ; the characteristic of geant4 as a toolkit , encompassing a wide variety of physics models , along with the feature of polymorphism characterizing the object oriented programming paradigm , allow the configuration of the simulation with a large number of different physics options in the same software environment .",
    "this versatility makes geant4 a convenient playground to evaluate the effects of a number of physics alternatives on the experimental use case under study . the sensitivity analysis documented in this paper , which examines the response of the system to a wide set of modeling approaches , plays a conceptually similar role to the interval analysis method applied in deterministic simulation , where parameters subject to epistemic uncertainties are varied within bounds . as mentioned in the previous paragraph , sensitivity analysis as applied to the context described in the following sections contributes to identify and quantify possible systematic effects in the simulation ; it can not infer anything about the validity of any of the physics models , for which experimental data would be needed .",
    "the physics modeling options available in geant4 for the use case under study are broadly representative of the body of knowledge in the problem domain ; the analysis described in this paper , albeit performed in the context of a specific monte carlo system , provides elements of interest for other simulation environments as well .",
    "epistemic uncertainties are in principle reducible @xcite ; the analysis documented in this paper identifies areas where experimental measurements could reduce them , and highlights their requirements of accuracy and other features to improve the knowledge embedded in the current simulation models .",
    "preliminary assessments relevant to this study were reported in @xcite .",
    "the geant4 toolkit includes various physics modelling options relevant to the application domain considered in this paper ; they concern stopping powers , multiple scattering , cross sections and final state models of elastic and inelastic nuclear interactions of the primary protons , as well as a variety of electromagnetic and hadronic models for the secondary particles resulting from proton interactions with matter .",
    "several geant4-based simulations of proton therapy set - ups , like @xcite-@xcite , have documented satisfactory agreement with experimental depth dose measurements in various configurations of beam lines and detectors .",
    "some open issues remain , which are generally shared by simulations based on other monte carlo systems as well , due to common physics modeling approaches in the codes and similar practices in the experimental domain .",
    "there is evidence in the literature of different features produced by geant4 physics models in the energy range below 100 mev @xcite ; the discrimination of their accuracy is made difficult by the still incomplete software validation , which is often hindered by the limited availability of experimental data , or their controversial characteristics .",
    "the same problem affects other monte carlo codes as well .",
    "furthermore , some shortcomings are present in the comparisons of proton therapy simulations with experimental data .",
    "the physics configuration used in the simulation and the monte carlo kernel version are either undocumented , or incompletely documented , in a number of references ; therefore it is not always possible to relate the results documented in the literature to the physics options and software implementations which produced them , thus hindering the reproducibility of the results .",
    "the comparison between simulated and experimental data is limited to qualitative appraisal in most cases ; the lack of statistical analysis in many articles prevents the reader from appraising the significance of the compatibility between simulation and experimental data , and the relative merits of the simulation models in comparison to measurements taken in different experimental configurations and characterized by different uncertainties .",
    "it is a feature of proton therapy simulations that the beam parameters , namely the beam energy and energy spread , are not known in typical experimental set - ups of this domain with sufficient accuracy to base the simulation on their nominal values @xcite .",
    "the precise knowledge of the beam energy is not critical to clinical applications ; in that context what is of interest is the proton range , which can be measured very accurately . in common practice , the beam parameters input to the simulation",
    "are adjusted so that the simulation results best fit the measured depth dose profile @xcite ; this procedure affects the significance of further comparisons between simulated and experimental data .",
    "experimental techniques have been developed to measure the energy of a proton beam from radiotherapy accelerators with greater precision @xcite , but they are not commonly exploited in connection with simulation validation studies .",
    "the comparison of simulated and experimental bragg peak profiles is also sensitive to the normalization procedures , which are often applied in experimental practice to relate simulated and measured data ; this topic is discussed in detail in @xcite .",
    "these shortcomings do not severely affect current clinical practice , where monte carlo simulation plays a role of verification and optimization .",
    "more demanding requirements about the predictive capabilities of the simulation may derive from new perspectives , such as the use of monte carlo simulation in treatment planning , which is the object of ongoing research @xcite , or other disciplines , like radiation protection .",
    "epistemic uncertainties undermine the predictive role of simulation software ; by identifying and quantifying them , the analysis described in the following sections is propaedeutic to further experimental and theoretical efforts to reduce them , or at least to control their effects .",
    "a brief overview of the geant4 physics models relevant to the use case addressed in this paper is given below to facilitate the understanding of the results presented in the following sections .",
    "in the context of geant4 , particle interactions with matter are represented by processes , which can be implemented through different models @xcite .",
    "similarities with the modeling approaches in other monte carlo codes are discussed ; they show that the body of knowledge , as well as knowledge gaps , are largely shared across a variety of simulation systems .",
    "the information summarized in this section is necessarily succinct ; further details can be found in the cited references .",
    "geant4 electromagnetic package @xcite includes two packages relevant to the experimental use case considered : _ standard _ and _ low energy_.    the proton ionisation process in the _ low energy _",
    "electromagnetic package @xcite is articulated through models @xcite based on the free electron gas model @xcite at lower energy ( @xmath01 kev ) , on parameterisations at intermediate energy , and on the bethe - bloch equation at higher energy .",
    "alternative parameterisation models , identified in the following as _ icru49 _ , _ ziegler77 _ , _ ziegler85 _ and _ ziegler2000 _ implement electronic and nuclear stopping powers based on @xcite ; their different energy ranges of applicability are documented in the respective references .",
    "the configuration of the hadron ionisation process is identified in the following sections through the selected parameterisation model .",
    "the process also deals with the emission of @xmath1-rays .",
    "the geant4 _ low energy _ electromagnetic package includes processes @xcite to handle the secondary particles resulting from proton interactions : electrons , photons and ions . models for electrons and photons are based on data libraries ( eedl @xcite and epdl97 @xcite ) and on analytical formulations originally developed for the penelope @xcite monte carlo code ; both options account for the atomic relaxation @xcite following the primary processes .",
    "models based on the parameterisations in @xcite , @xcite , and on @xcite are available for ions .",
    "the main features of the geant4 _ standard _ electromagnetic package are documented in @xcite .",
    "more recently a model @xcite for proton ionisation based on @xcite was implemented in this package ; this physical approach is the same as the one already present in the _ low energy _ package .",
    "the handling of energy loss fluctuations is implemented in this package ; it is based on the model adopted in geant 3 @xcite and was updated in geant4 8.3 @xcite .",
    "an assessment of geant4 electromagnetic processes against the nist ( united states national institute of standards ) reference data can be found in @xcite . the validation of geant4 low energy electromagnetic processes against precision measurements of electron energy deposition is documented in @xcite .    the _ standard _ package includes implementations @xcite of the multiple scattering process . in the early geant4 versions a generic process ( _ g4multiplescattering _ ) , based on the lewis @xcite theory ,",
    "was applicable to any charged particles ; it has been complemented by a process specialized for hadrons ( _ g4hmultiplescattering _ ) in geant4 8.2 , and one specific to electrons ( _ g4emultiplescattering _ ) in geant4 9.3 .",
    "the specialized multiple scattering processes are intended to replace the generic one in future geant4 releases @xcite .",
    "these processes can be configured with various models ( e.g. _ g4urbanmscmodel90 _ , _ g4urbanmscmodel92 _ and _ g4urbanmscmodel93 _ ) , which involve some empirical parameters @xcite .",
    "early implementations of geant4 multiple scattering were validated against experimental muon data at low @xcite and high @xcite energy ; @xcite showed better accuracy of geant4 multiple scattering model ( as implemented in geant4 1.0 ) with respect to the geant 3 model based on molire theory .",
    "recent studies , like @xcite , have highlighted issues in the evolution of energy deposition patterns involving electron - photon interactions simulated with different geant4 versions ; the observed effects have been ascribed to modifications to geant4 multiple scattering algorithm .",
    "the literature concerning recent evolutions of geant4 multiple scattering is focused on issues related to the dependence of the simulation on transport step size and parameters of the algorithm @xcite .",
    "io the best of the authors knowledge , the validation of geant4 proton multiple scattering is not documented in literature yet for the energy range relevant to this study .",
    "the geant4 _ standard _ and _ low energy _ electromagnetic packages",
    "are concerned by the same epistemic uncertainties affecting electromagnetic physics modeling relevant to the use case studied in this paper , which are analyzed in sections [ sec_ionipot ] and [ sec_stopping ] .",
    "differences in the outcome of simulations using the two packages may derive from features specific to each package , which are not associated with epistemic uncertainties in the physics domain pertinent to the use case examined in this paper ; they could be due to numerical features , like the number of bins in the look - up tables used in the simulation and their interpolation , or algorithms and modelling choices specific to each package . a complete documentation and analysis of different features of geant4 _ standard _ and _ low energy _",
    "electromagnetic packages is outside the scope of this paper .",
    "other monte carlo codes used for hadron therapy simulation adopt similar approaches for stopping power calculation at high and low energies . at intermediate energies , stopping powers based on icru 49 report are implemented in shield - hit ; an improvement to include them in fluka is documented in @xcite , but it does not appear to be released yet in the current version of fluka ( fluka-2008 ) at the time of writing this paper .",
    "phits handles proton ionization according to the spar code @xcite , while mcnp uses an energy weighted average between the high and low energy calculations @xcite , which adopt the same methodology as in spar .",
    "phits @xcite , shield - hit @xcite and mcnpx do not model @xmath1-ray emission .",
    "geant development was frozen with the 3.21 version in 1994 ; the code is no longer supported , but it is still used for hadron therapy developments @xcite .",
    "geant 3 simulated proton energy loss based on the bethe - bloch equation and dealt with @xmath1-ray production from ionization .",
    "mcnp multiple coulomb scattering treats soft and hard interactions separately @xcite : soft collisions are described using a continuous scattering approximation ; a small number of hard collisions are simulated directly .",
    "multiple scattering is based on molire theory in fluka and phits @xcite ; details of the algorithm in fluka are described in @xcite .",
    "shield - hit simulates multiple scattering on the basis of a gaussian model @xcite , which gives the correlated value of the angular deviation and lateral displacement of the scattered particle .",
    "geant 3 provided two options for multiple scattering simulation , respectively based on a gaussian approximation and on molire theory @xcite .      the geant4",
    "hadronic package addresses the complexity of nuclear interactions through a software framework @xcite .",
    "the baseline design can accommodate multiple implementations of cross sections and final state models associated with a process , which are either complementary in their energy range coverage or alternative in their modelling approach ; processes and models are meant to be handled polymorphically through their respective base classes .",
    "geant4 includes various elastic scattering processes : _ g4hadronelasticprocess _ , _ g4uhadronelasticprocess _ , _",
    "g4qelastic _ and _ g4whadronelasticprocess _ ; the latter was released in geant4 9.3 with the purpose @xcite of allowing models for elastic scattering to be treated in a similar way to inelastic models .",
    "@xcite process was also released in geant4 9.3 ; the energy range of its applicability is not explicitly specified in @xcite , but , since this process appears applied at energies of 1 gev and above in the associated reference , one is led to assume that it is pertinent to higher energies than those relevant to the use case studied in this paper .",
    "this inference manifests an epistemic uncertainty in the applicability domain of this process .",
    "the _ g4hadronelasticprocess _ class of the hadronic _ processes _ package handles cross section and final state calculation according to the software design of @xcite .    it can be configured with the _ g4hadronelasticdataset _ class , derived from _",
    "g4vcrosssectiondataset _ and included in the geant4 hadronic _",
    "cross_sections _ package , which implements total elastic scattering cross sections derived from gheisha @xcite .    the scattering can be configured through several models , such as _ g4lelastic _ , _",
    "g4elasticcascadeinterface _ and _ g4hadronelastic_. _ g4lelastic _ , included in the hadronic _ models _",
    "package , is based on gheisha algorithms reengineered in geant4 ; it is not meant to conserve energy and momentum on an event - by - event basis , but only on average .",
    "_ g4elasticcascadeinterface _ , identified in the following as `` bertini elastic '' , is included in the _ cascade _ package of the _ cascade _ package of hadronic _ models _ ; it derives from _ g4intranucleartransportmodel _ and implements a model based on the inucl @xcite code .",
    "the _ g4cascadeelasticinterface _ class in the same package activates both elastic and inelastic interactions .",
    "_ g4hadronelastic _ @xcite , included in the _",
    "coherent_elastic _ package of hadronic _ models _ , combines elements originally developed for chips ( chiral invariant phase space ) @xcite with other modelling approaches ; it aggregates a _",
    "_ object belonging to chips and a _",
    "g4elastichadrnucleushe _ model .",
    "the _ g4qelastic _ process , known as `` chips elastic '' , delegates the calculation of cross sections to the _ g4qelasticcrosssection _ class , derived from _",
    "g4vqcrosssection _ , and implements its own scattering algorithm .",
    "all the related classes are included in the",
    "_ chiral_inv_phase_space _ package of hadronic _",
    "the _ g4uhadronelasticprocess _",
    "process @xcite , included in the _",
    "coherent_elastic _ package of hadronic _ models _ , is meant to be configured with the dedicated _ g4hadronelastic _ model ; this configuration is referred to in the following as `` u - elastic '' .    the limited documentation in the literature of geant4 elastic scattering models and other codes",
    "does not facilitate the appreciation of their characteristics , nor the identification of the experimental data with respect to which some of the simulation models , especially those implementing parameterisations , may have been calibrated .",
    "although improvements to geant4 elastic scattering modeling are mentioned in @xcite , hardly any validation of the available models is documented in the literature in the energy range relevant to the use case under study .",
    "the use of these models in the simulation is a source of epistemic uncertainty , due to the lack of knowledge of their accuracy in the energy range pertinent to this study .",
    "inelastic hadron - nucleus scattering is handled in geant4 through processes specific to each particle type .",
    "processes for protons , neutrons , deuteron , triton and @xmath2 particles are relevant to this study .",
    "total inelastic cross sections derived from gheisha @xcite are available in geant4 through _ g4hadroninelasticdataset _ for all hadrons , @xmath2 particles , deuteron and triton ; alternative implementations based on @xcite , @xcite are available for some energy ranges and target materials .",
    "cross sections describing neutron - nucleus scattering with higher precision below 20  mev are available in _ g4neutronhpinelasticdata_. specialized cross sections , based on @xcite-@xcite , are available for ions .",
    "parameterised and theory - driven @xcite models of nuclear inelastic scattering are available in geant4 for protons and other particles , concerning the energy range pertinent to this study .",
    "geant4 low energy parameterised models ( lep ) , originating from gheisha @xcite , handle protons , neutrons , pions , @xmath2 particles , deuterons and tritons .    the chips _ g4qinelastic _ inelastic process @xcite implemented in geant4 is applicable to hadron inelastic scattering in the energy range pertinent to this study .",
    "various options of theory - driven models describe the phases of intranuclear transport , preequilibrium and nuclear deexcitation in geant4 .",
    "other monte carlo codes used in proton therapy applications use a similar multi - stage approach to simulate proton inelastic interactions .",
    "the primary proton energy in this study lies at the edge of what is commonly considered as the range of transition between intranuclear cascade and preequilibrium models .",
    "geant4 includes three cascade models , each one with further associated models describing the lower energy phases : they are known as binary @xcite , bertini @xcite and lige @xcite cascade models .",
    "the binary cascade model @xcite adopts a hybrid approach between a classical cascade code and a quantum molecular dynamics model .",
    "it handles the preequilibrium phase through the precompound model ( _ g4precompoundmodel _ ) @xcite , whose implementation is based on griffin s exciton model @xcite ; this model can be activated in a simulation application either through the binary cascade model or as an independent model .",
    "the nuclear deexcitation associated with the precompound model can be configured with various options : they include an evaporation model based on weisskopf - ewing s @xcite theory , exploiting dostrovsky s computational approach @xcite , the generalized evaporation model ( gem ) @xcite ( also used by phits ) , and the optional activation of the fermi break - up @xcite .",
    "a similar approach is adopted in shield - hit , whose default model considers a fast cascade stage , which brings the interaction between the projectile and target to a sequence of binary collisions @xcite ; this stage is followed by preequilibrium @xcite and deexcitation of residual nuclei , with fermi break up of light nuclei and evaporation .",
    "the geant4 bertini cascade implementation @xcite is a reengineering of the inucl code @xcite , which is based on bertini s approach @xcite to intranuclear transport ; it handles the preequilibrium phase based on griffin s exciton model and the evaporation phase based on weisskopf s and dostrovsky s approach .",
    "the preequilibrium part of inucl is based on the cascade exciton model ( cem ) @xcite , which is one of the options of mcnpx for proton transport and is also implemented in shield ( as well as in other codes ) @xcite .",
    "a cascade model based on bertini s scheme , derived from the hetc @xcite implementation in lahet @xcite , is available in mcnpx to handle protons , besides the isabel @xcite and cem options .",
    "the hetc model was also interfaced to geant 3 through calor @xcite .",
    "the incl intranuclear cascade @xcite model , better known as lige cascade , has been reengineered in geant4 together with the associated abla evaporation model @xcite ; it was first released in geant4 version 9.1 @xcite and further improved in geant4 9.3 .",
    "incl is included @xcite in the lahet @xcite code system used by mcnpx .",
    "although , according to @xcite , incl is meant for energies above 200 mev , satisfactory applications at energies of a few tens mev are reported in the literature @xcite .",
    "the simulation of low energy proton interactions in phits is based @xcite on the mcnp4c and nmtc @xcite codes ; the latter incorporates bertini s cascade model @xcite for nucleon and meson transport .",
    "fluka handles inelastic scattering through peanut @xcite in the energy range relevant to the use case under study ; it involves a sequence of intranuclear cascade followed by preequilibrium and deexcitation .",
    "the preequilibrium model is based on the formalism developed by blann @xcite with some modifications @xcite ; the evaporation model is based on weisskopf - ewing s approach @xcite ; fermi break - up is modeled for light nuclei @xcite .",
    "hadronic interactions were not handled by geant 3 ; their treatment was delegated to external packages ( gheisha , calor and an early version of fluka ) interfaced to it .",
    "limited documentation regarding the validation of geant4 inelastic scattering models relevant to the use case of this study is available in the literature .",
    "some comparisons with experimental data are reported in @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite,@xcite , @xcite , @xcite : although most of the results shown in these references are not directly related to the use case investigated in this paper , they demonstrate the ongoing validation efforts in this domain .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     based on table [ tab_cpu ] , one can observe that the hadronic elastic scattering models exhibit similar computational performance , with the exception of the chips model , which is significantly slower ; among the hadronic inelastic models , the lige cascade and the lep ones are faster than the other options .",
    "a number of epistemic uncertainties have been identified in a survey of geant4 physics models pertinent to the simulation of proton depth dose , which broadly represent the variety of approaches to describe proton interactions with matter in the energy range up to approximately 100 mev .    in the electromagnetic domain ,",
    "the epistemic uncertainties affecting the value of the water mean ionization potential and proton stopping powers derive from lack of consensus among various theoretical and experimental references documented in the literature ; they generate significant systematic effects on the longitudinal pattern of energy deposit in the sensitive volume , namely on the depth of the bragg peak .",
    "the epistemic uncertainties affecting the hadronic components of the simulation are related to the intrinsic differences of the modeling approaches and empirical parameters they contain ; the limited validation of the models , and the unclear distinction between the processes of calibration and validation in the few published comparisons with experimental data , are the main sources of such uncertainties .",
    "their effects on the longitudinal energy deposit are comparable with experimental uncertainties typical of proton therapy ; the largest differences concern secondary particle spectra . a significant effect was observed in relation to the mode of nuclear deexcitation ; in this respect , there is a consensus towards modeling it through fermi break - up for light nuclei and evaporation for heavier ones .",
    "this approach is implemented in some monte carlo codes ( e.g. mcnp and fluka ) , while it is not adopted by default in geant4 ; users of this code would benefit from implementing appropriate settings in their geant4-based applications to activate fermi break - up for the deexcitation of light nuclei , if their simulation use cases are prone to be affected by the systematic effects highlighted in this study .    the analysis shows how the sensitivity of the simulation to epistemic uncertainties can not be determined in absolute terms , rather it depends on the experimental application environment .",
    "the relatively large differences in the bragg peak profile associated with the set of electromagnetic options are practically irrelevant in clinical practice , which tolerates adjustments of the beam parameters to reproduce a reference proton range . however , these differences are relevant to applications where a predictive role is expected from the simulation , such as monte carlo based treatment planning systems , currently the object of active research , or radiation protection .",
    "the different secondary particle spectra deriving from the range of available hadronic options do not affect the main parameter of clinical interest , i.e. the depth dose distribution , but they are relevant to other aspects of radiation exposure .",
    "by far the largest effects of physics - related epistemic uncertainties in the simulation of proton depth dose are observed in relation to modeling multiple scattering in the beam line . however , even these effects are relevant only to use cases where the simulation is invested with predictive role regarding the absolute dose released to the target ; otherwise , common practices , like the normalization of the simulated dose to a reference value , would mask the epistemic uncertainty associated with the empirical parameters used to model this process .",
    "the analysis also highlights the importance of a knowledge of the whole simulation system regarding the effects visible in the sensitive volume .",
    "interactions in the beam line affect the spectrum of the protons reaching the sensitive volume and the dose released to it ; lack of knowledge of construction details of the beam line , or epistemic uncertainties in modeling particle interactions in the passive components of the system , are prone to bias the simulation outcome .",
    "the results documented in this paper about the different observables produced by geant4 physics options identify some experimental requirements for the discrimination of their features and their validation .",
    "experimental measurements of adequate accuracy could reduce the epistemic uncertainties evidenced in the electromagnetic domain ; relevant data could derive either from a thorough survey of the existing literature , or from new , dedicated measurements . in this respect , it is worthwhile to recall the valuable reference role for the validation of electron simulation played by the high precision measurements of @xcite and @xcite , which were originally motivated by the validation of the its ( integrated tiger series ) @xcite monte carlo code ; similar measurements concerning protons would be useful to reduce epistemic uncertainties .",
    "the sensitivity analysis documented in the previous sections also provides guidance to design meaningful test cases for inclusion in the test process of monte carlo systems .",
    "the identification of distributions which expose distinctive features of the physics models , as well as of others , which are prone to hide them , is especially useful to designing test cases relevant to monitoring the effects of changes in some critical parts of the code .",
    "the analysis presented in this paper is a first attempt at estimating quantitatively the impact of epistemic uncertainties on the considered use case ; further refinements would contribute to better understanding the problem .",
    "so far , the analysis has considered each source of epistemic uncertainty individually ; nevertheless , it would be worthwhile to evaluate their combinations , since several systematic contributions could accumulate their effects to bias the final simulation result .",
    "more refined treatments , e.g. based on the theory of evidence , could shed additional light on the problem ; these methods would be especially useful if practical constraints hinder the availability of further experimental measurements to reduce the current uncertainties .",
    "the identification of the epistemic uncertainties embedded in a large - scale simulation code is far from trivial ; design methods facilitating their identification at early stages of the software development , and their management in sensitivity analyses , would be beneficial .",
    "to the best of the authors knowledge , this issue has not been studied yet in the context of monte carlo simulation ; techniques like aspect oriented programming could provide useful paradigms to address it , and the inclusion of epistemic uncertainties in the traceability process , in the context of a rigorous software process discipline , would effectively support their handling in complex software systems .    although this paper illustrates the problem of epistemic uncertainties in a specific simulation use case , the issue it addresses goes beyond the limited application domain considered in this initial study . regarding the simulation of low energy proton interactions , the epistemic uncertainties discussed in this paper and their effects are likely to affect other experimental domains as well : from the exposure of electronic components and astronauts to the space radiation environment , to the problem of radiation monitoring at particle accelerators .",
    "more generally , the issue of identifying and quantifying epistemic uncertainties , and their contribution to the overall reliability of simulation systems , permeates all monte carlo application domains .",
    "monte carlo simulation - not only for particle transport in detectors , but also for event generators - is expected to play a critical role in the physics analysis of lhc data , which involves energies not yet covered by any experimental measurements in controlled laboratory environments ; the development of sound methods and tools to deal with the epistemic uncertainties embedded in lhc simulation software appears a major task for the coming years in support of lhc physics results .",
    "the authors thank andreas pfeiffer for his significant help with data analysis tools throughout the project ; katsuya amako , sergio bertolucci , luciano catani , gloria corti , andrea dotti , gunter folger , simone giani , vladimir grichine , aatos heikkinen , alexander howard , vladimir ivanchenko , mikhail kossov , vicente lara , katia parodi , alberto ribon , takashi sasaki , vladimir uzhinsky and hans - peter wellisch for valuable discussions , and anita hollier for proofreading the manuscript .",
    "i. gudowska , p. andreo , and n. m .sobolevsky , `` secondary particle production in tissue - like and shielding materials for light and heavy ions calculated with the monte - carlo code shield - hit '' , _",
    "j. radiat .",
    "93 - 97 , 2002 .",
    "g. battistoni et al . ,  the fluka code : description and benchmarking \" , _ aip conf .",
    "31 - 49 , 2007 .",
    "a.  ferrari et al .",
    ", `` fluka : a multi - particle transport code '' , report cern-2005 - 010 , infn / tc-05/11 , slac - r-773 , geneva , oct . 2005 .",
    "g. a. p. cirrone et al . , `` a 62 mev proton beam for the treatment of ocular melanoma at laboratori nazionali del sud - infn ( catania ) '' , in _ ieee trans .",
    "860 - 865 , 2004 .",
    "t. g. trucano , l. p. swiler , t. igusa , w. l. oberkampf , and m. pilch ,  calibration , validation , and sensitivity analysis : what s what \" , _ reliab .",
    "syst . safety _ ,",
    "10 - 11 , pp .",
    "1331 - 1357 , 2006 .",
    "k. diegert , s. klenke , g. novotny , r. paulsen , m. pilch , and t. trucano ,  toward a more rigorous application of margins and uncertainties within the nuclear weapons life cycle - a sandia perspective \" , sandia national laboratories report no .",
    "sand2007 - 6219 , albuquerque , 2007 .",
    "h. paganetti , h. jiang , s .- y .",
    "lee , and h. m. kooy , `` accurate monte carlo simulations for nozzle design , commissioning and quality assurance for a proton radiation therapy facility '' _ med .",
    "31 , no . 7 , pp .",
    "2107 - 2118 , 2004 .",
    "a. b. rosenfeld , a. j. wroe , i. m. cornelius , m. reinhard , and d. alexiev , `` analysis of inelastic interactions for therapeutic proton beams using monte carlo simulation '' , _ ieee trans .",
    "51 , no . 6 , pp . 3019 - 3025 , 2004 .",
    "a. j. wroe , i. m. cornelius , and a. b. rosenfeld , `` the role of nonelastic reactions in absorbed dose distributions from therapeutic proton beams in different medium '' , _ med .",
    "37 - 41 , 2005 .",
    "g. a. p. cirrone et al .",
    ", `` implementation of a new monte carlo geant4 simulation tool for the development of a proton therapy beam line and verification of the related dose distributions '' , _ ieee trans .",
    "262 - 265 , 2005 .",
    "c. baker , d. shipley , h. palmans , and a. kacperek , `` monte carlo modelling of a clinical proton beam - line for the treatment of ocular tumours '' , _ nucl . instrum . meth .",
    "a _ , vol .",
    "1005 - 1008 , 2006 .",
    "m. p. w. chin and n. m. spyrou , non - convergence of geant4 hadronic models for 10 and 30 mev protons in 18o and 14n applied radiation and isotopes volume 67 , issue 3 , march 2009 , pages 406 - 414 proceedings of the first international conference on biomedical applications of high energy ion beams          w. newhauser , n. koch , s. hummel , m. ziegler , and u. titt , `` monte carlo simulations of a nozzle for the treatment of ocular tumours with high - energy proton beams '' , _ phys",
    "5229 - 5249 , 2005 .",
    "s. chauvie , g. depaola , v. ivanchenko , f. longo , p. nieminen and m. g. pia , `` geant4 low energy electromagnetic physics '' , in _ proc .",
    "computing in high energy and nuclear physics _ ,",
    "beijing , china , pp .",
    "337 - 340 , 2001 .                j. f. ziegler , `` srim-2000 '' , [ online ] .",
    "available : http://www.research.ibm.com/ionbeams/srim/srimlegl.htm .",
    "j. apostolakis , s. giani , m. maire , p. nieminen , m.g .",
    "pia , l. urban , `` geant4 low energy electromagnetic models for electrons and photons '' _ infn / ae-99/18 _ , frascati , 1999 .",
    "j.  baro , j.  sempau , j. m.  fernndez - varea , and f.  salvat , `` penelope , an algorithm for monte carlo simulation of the penetration and energy loss of electrons and positrons in matter '' , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol . 100 , no .",
    "31 - 46 , 1995 .",
    "a. lechner , m.g .",
    "pia , m. sudhakar `` validation of geant4 low energy electromagnetic processes against precision measurements of electron energy deposit '' , _ ieee trans .",
    "398 - 416 , 2009 .",
    "a. ferrari , p. r. sala , r. guaraldi and f. padoani ,  an improved multiple scattering model for charged particle transport \" , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol .",
    "4 , pp . 412 - 426 , 2002 .",
    "j. p. wellisch , `` hadronic shower models in geant4 - the frameworks '' , _ comp .",
    "65 - 75 , 2001 .",
    "g. a. lobov , n. v. stepanov , a. a. sibirtsev , and yu .",
    "v. trebukhovskii , `` statistical simulation of hadron and light - nuclei interactions with nuclei .",
    "intranuclear cascade model '' , itep preprint no .",
    "itep-91 , moscow , 1983 .",
    "a. heikkinen , `` implementing the bertini intra - nuclear - cascade in the geant4 hadronic framework '' , in _ the monte carlo method : versatility unbounded in a dynamic computing world _ , on cd - rom , am .",
    "soc . , 2005 .",
    "s. g. mashnik and v. d. toneev ,  modex - the program for calculation of the energy spectra of particles emitted in the reactions of pre - equilibrium and equilibrium statistical decays \" , _ comm .",
    "jinr , p4 - 8417 _ , dubna , 1974 .",
    "t. sato , l. sihver , h. iwase , h. nakashima and k. niita ,  simulations of an accelerator - based shielding experiment using the particle and heavy - ion transport code system phits \" , _ adv .",
    "space res .",
    "208 - 213 , 2003 .",
    "a. fass , a. ferrari , j. ranft and p. r. sala ,  fluka : performances and applications in the intermediate energy range \" , in : _ proc .",
    "aen / nea specialists meeting on shielding aspects of accelerators , targets and irradiation facilities _ , oecd documents , paris , pp . 287 - 304 , 1995 .",
    "g. barrand , p. binko , m. donszelmann , a. johnson , and a. pfeiffer , `` abstract interfaces for data analysis : component architecture for data analysis tools '' , in _ proc . of chep int .",
    "conf . on computing in high energy and nucl .",
    "_ , pp . 215 - 218 , science press , beijing , 2001 .",
    "f. sommerer , k. parodi , a ferrari , k. poljanc , w. enghardt , and h. aiginger , `` investigating the accuracy of the fluka code for transport of therapeutic ion beams in matter '' , _ phys .",
    "med . biol .",
    "51 , pp . 4385 - 4398 , 2006 .",
    "h. paganetti , h. jiang , k. parodi , r. slopsema , and m. engelsman , `` clinical implementation of full monte carlo dose calculation in proton beam therapy '' , _ phys .",
    "biol _ , vol .",
    "4825 - 4853 , 2008 .",
    "i. pshenichnov , a. botvina , i. mishustin , and w. greiner , `` nuclear fragmentation reactions in extended media studied with geant4 toolkit '' , submitted to _ nucl .",
    "b _ , online . available :",
    "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0911.2017 .",
    "h. paul , `` a comparison of recent stopping power tables for light and medium - heavy ions with experimental data , and applications to radiotherapy dosimetry '' , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol . 247 , 167 - 172 , 2006 .",
    "b. gottschalk , r. platais and h. paganetti , `` nuclear interactions of for 160 mev protons stopping in copper : a test of monte carlo nuclear models '' , _ med .",
    "12 , pp . 2597 - 2601 , dec .",
    "1999 .    c. zacharatou jarlskog and h. paganetti , `` risk of developing second cancer from neutron dose in proton therapy as function of field characteristics , organ , and patient age '' , _ int .",
    "j. radiat .",
    "biol.phys._ , vol .",
    "228 - 235 , 2008 .",
    "g. j.  lockwood et al .",
    ", `` calorimetric measurement of electron energy deposition in extented media - theory vs experiment '' , sandia national laboratories , report s and79 - 0414 , albuquerque , 1980 .",
    "g. j.  lockwood et al . , `` electron energy and charge albedos - calorimetric measurement vs monte carlo theory '' , sandia national laboratories report sand80 - 1968 , albuquerque , 1981 .",
    "j. a. halbleib and t. a. mehlhorn , `` its : the integrated tiger series of coupled electron / photon monte carlo transport codes '' , sandia national laboratories report no .",
    "sand84 - 0573 , albuquerque , november 1984 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a set of physics models and parameters pertaining to the simulation of proton energy deposition in matter are evaluated in the energy range up to approximately 65 mev , based on their implementations in the geant4 toolkit . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis assesses several features of the models and the impact of their associated epistemic uncertainties , i.e. uncertainties due to lack of knowledge , on the simulation results . </S>",
    "<S> possible systematic effects deriving from uncertainties of this kind are highlighted ; their relevance in relation to the application environment and different experimental requirements are discussed , with emphasis on the simulation of radiotherapy set - ups . by documenting quantitatively the features of a wide set of simulation models and the related intrinsic uncertainties affecting the simulation results </S>",
    "<S> , this analysis provides guidance regarding the use of the concerned simulation tools in experimental applications ; it also provides indications for further experimental measurements addressing the sources of such uncertainties .    </S>",
    "<S> monte carlo , simulation , geant4 , hadron therapy . </S>"
  ]
}