{
  "article_text": [
    "despite optical refraction being one of the oldest topics of scientific investigation , interest in the phenomenon of negative refraction has been widespread only for the past ten years .",
    "this interest stemmed from experimental reports of negative refraction , at microwave frequencies , in certain carefully engineered metamaterials helby .",
    "more recently , negative refraction in metamaterials has been reported at higher frequencies , with the visible frequency range now almost attained halaev .",
    "research on negative refraction has been largely fuelled by the prospect of manufacturing planar lenses from negatively refracting materials pendry .",
    "while these lenses would not be ` perfect ' ziolkowski , lakh2002 , they may have a very high resolving power .",
    "the present  day scientific literature on optics abounds with descriptions of purported negative refraction in a variety of complex scenarios .",
    "however , some inconsistencies are apparent between reports over what exactly constitutes negative refraction .",
    "sometimes what is actually being described is not negative refraction _ per se _ , but an associated phenomenon such as negative phase velocity , counterposition or negative deflection of energy flux jen2009,ml2009_prb . while these phenomenons can  and often do  arise in conjunction with negative refraction , it is important to bear in mind that these are independent phenomenons which should be distinguished from negative refraction , especially so in complex materials and in relativistic scenarios .",
    "we highlight here the distinctions between negative refraction and the associated phenomenons of negative phase velocity , counterposition and negative deflection of energy flux .",
    "these distinctions are apparent in both relativistic and non - relativistic scenarios .",
    "suppose a plane wave propagates in medium i with wavevector @xmath4 , towards a planar interface separating medium i and medium ii , such that @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the unit vector normal to the interface directed into medium ii . in keeping with snel s law of refraction jackson ,",
    "the plane wave is said to be negatively refracted at the planar interface between mediums i and ii , if the dot product @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the wave vector in medium ii .",
    "conversely , if @xmath9 then the plane wave is said to be positively refracted .",
    "a schematic illustration is provided in fig .",
    "[ schematic_nr ] .    in the case of uniform plane waves propagating in passive isotropic dielectric ",
    "magnetic materials , negative refraction is synonymous with negative phase velocity .",
    "however , the correspondence between negative refraction and negative phase velocity breaks down if the materials are active lmg2009_motl , or if nonuniform plane waves are considered ml2009_prb , or if anisotropic or bianisotropic materials are involved ml2009_prb .    furthermore , whether a plane wave is refracted positively or negatively , depends upon the inertial frame of reference of the observer , as was recently demonstrated using a pseudochiral omega material moving at uniform velocity ml2009_pla .",
    "the sign associated with a plane wave s velocity refers to the direction of the phase velocity vector relative to the corresponding time  averaged poynting vector . a plane wave with phase velocity @xmath10 and time ",
    "averaged poynting vector @xmath11 has negative phase velocity if @xmath12 and positive phase velocity if @xmath13 .",
    "we note that orthogonal phase velocity , i.e. , @xmath14 , is also a possibility ml2009_prb .",
    "although negative phase velocity and negative refraction often accompany each other , they need not . the schematic fig .",
    "[ schematic_npv ] shows how negative phase velocity can arise with or without negative refraction .",
    "+    while the simplest material that can support negative refraction is an isotropic dielectric  magnetic material , it is notable that even an isotropic dielectric material can support negative phase velocity ( in conjunction with positive refraction ) ml2009_prb .",
    "however , there is greater scope for negative phase velocity in more complex materials such as isotropic chiral m05_motl , ml2010_spie_rev and bianisotropic ml04_pre , ml2005_njp materials .    as is the case for refraction , the sign of a plane wave s phase velocity is not lorentz covariant ml2009_jpa",
    ". has been derived , where @xmath15 is a real  valued wavevector mccall_prl .",
    "however , the physical basis for this is unclear because there is no _ a priori _ reason for the quantity @xmath16 to be covariant . ] a noncovariant formalism ",
    "wherein vacuum in curved spacetime is formally represented by a fictitious nonhomogeneous bianisotropic medium in flat spacetime chleich  has been widely used to investigate the prospects of negative phase velocity in vacuum under the influence of strong gravitational fields lm2004_jpa , lms2005_pla , mls2005_njp .",
    "the metrics associated with de sitter msl2005_epjc , kerr komissarov , sharif , kerr  newman optik , reissner  nordstrm ali_hasan , schwarzschild harif_grg , and schwarzschild  de sitter mls2005_epl spacetimes have been found to support negative phase velocity .",
    "let us note that negative phase velocity in such general relativistic scenarios is quite distinct from superradiance , although both phenomenons involve negative energy densities uperradiance .",
    "consider a plane wave , propagating in medium i towards a planar interface between mediums i and ii .",
    "the real part of the wavevector and the time  averaged poynting vector of the resulting plane wave which is launched in medium ii are said to be counterposed if these two vectors lie on opposite sides of the unit vector normal to the interface between mediums i and ii . a schematic illustration of two different manifestations of counterposition  one arising in conjunction with negative refraction and the other not  is provided in fig  [ schematic_cp ] .",
    "+    counterposition can not occur in isotropic dielectric  magnetic materials ( at rest ) , but it can in anisotropic materials lm04_optik where it is sometimes referred to as amphoteric refraction zhang .",
    "indeed , counterposition has also been referred to as negative refraction kong . similarly to negative refraction and negative phase velocity , counterposition can be induced by motion at constant velocity in materials which do not support counterposition at rest ml2009_jpa , kong , ml2007_motl .",
    "although there is no equivalent of snel s law for energy flux , the notion of negative deflection of energy flux has been adopted by some in the negative refraction community zhang , belov , shen , hoffman , yao . the energy flux associated with a plane wave  as represented by the time  averaged poynting vector ",
    "is negatively deflected at a planar boundary between mediums i and ii if the time  averaged poynting vectors in mediums i and ii lie on opposite sides of the unit vector normal to the interface . a schematic illustration of negative and positive energy flux deflection is provided in fig .  [ schematic_pvector ] .",
    "for uniform plane waves in isotropic dielectric ",
    "magnetic materials , the direction of energy flux is parallel or anti  parallel to the wavevector , but for more complex materials and/or nonuniform plane waves this is not the case ml2009_prb .",
    "thus , the energy flux can deflected negatively even if though the plane wave is refracted positively , and vice versa . furthermore , whether or not the energy flux is deflected negatively depends upon the inertial reference frame of the observer ml2009_jpa .    from a practical point of view ,",
    "the direction of energy flow associated with a beam is likely to be of greater significance than the energy flow associated with a plane wave . of course",
    ", many standard optical devices can be straightforwardly implemented to deflect beams in any direction , without the need for complex materials or metamaterials , and it is also possible to suppress beam deflection hifrin , bohren .",
    "a recent theoretical study involving beam propagation through uniformly moving slabs has demonstrated that whether a beam is negatively or positively deflected depends upon the motion of the slab relative to an observer ml2009_jpa .",
    "this result could be harnessed to achieve a degree of concealment : if a slab moves at a certain specific velocity relative to an observer , a beam can propagate through the slab with no deflection at all ml2007_concealment .",
    "negative refraction is already the focus of considerable research efforts and it may well play significant roles in future optical technologies .",
    "it is therefore important to unambiguously establish exactly what is negative refraction , and to distinguish it from the associated but independent phenomenons of negative phase velocity , counterposition and negative deflection of energy flux .",
    "these distinctions are of particular importance when more complex materials and metamaterials are considered , and in relativistic scenarios .",
    "tgm is supported by a royal academy of engineering / leverhulme trust senior research fellowship .",
    "al thanks the charles godfrey binder endowment at penn state for partial financial support of his research activities .",
    "a. lakhtakia , t. g. mackay , and j. b. geddes iii ,  on the inapplicability of a negative  phase  velocity condition as a negative  refraction condition for active materials , \" _ microw .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "51 , p.  1230 , 2009 .",
    "a. lakhtakia , t. g. mackay , and s. setiawan ,  global and local perspectives of gravitationally assisted negative  phase ",
    "velocity propagation of electromagnetic waves in vacuum , \" _ phys .",
    "a _ , vol .",
    "336 , pp .  8996 , 2005 .",
    "s. setiawan , t. g. mackay , and a. lakhtakia ,  a comparison of superradiance and negative  phase  velocity phenomenons in the ergosphere of a rotating black hole , \" _ phys .",
    "a _ , vol .",
    "341 , pp .  1521 , 2005 .",
    "erratum vol .",
    "361 , p.  534",
    ", 2007 .",
    "p. a. belov , ",
    "backward waves and negative refraction in uniaxial dielectrics with negative dielectric permittivity along the anisotropy axis , \" _ microw .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "37 , pp .  259263 , 2003 .",
    "a. j. hoffman , l. alekseyev , s. s. howard , k. j. franz , d. wasserman , v. a. podolskiy , e. e. narimanov , d. l. sivco , and c. gmachl ,  negative refraction in semiconductor metamaterials , \" _ nature mater .",
    "_ , vol .  6 , pp .",
    "946950 , 2007 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in accordance with snel s law of refraction , whether a plane wave is refracted in the negative sense or positive sense at a planar boundary between two homogenous mediums is determined solely by the orientation of the real parts of the wavevectors involved . </S>",
    "<S> thus , negative refraction should be distinguished from the associated but independent phenomenons of negative phase velocity , counterposition and negative deflection of energy flux . </S>",
    "<S> none of these phenomenons is lorentz covariant .    * a plethora of negative - refraction phenomenons in relativistic and non - relativistic scenarios *    * tom g. mackay@xmath0 and akhlesh lakhtakia@xmath1 * +    @xmath2school of mathematics and maxwell institute for mathematical sciences , + university of edinburgh , edinburgh eh9 3jz , uk + @xmath3nanomm  nanoengineered metamaterials group , department of engineering science and mechanics , + pennsylvania state university , university park , pa 16802 - 6812 , usa </S>"
  ]
}