{
  "article_text": [
    "the mons project is a collaboration between professional and amateur astronomers , which was primarily set up to monitor the periastron passage of the colliding - wind binary system wr 140 centred on january 12 , 2009 ( fahed et al .",
    ", this volume ) .",
    "a dedicated spectroscopic campaign was organised from december 2008 to march 2009 using the 50-cm mons telescope at teide observatory .",
    "time - resolved observations of the h@xmath0 line ( 63606950  , 0.34   pix@xmath1 ) were also obtained for a small sample of early b - type supergiants and oe stars to investigate the properties of their large - scale wind structures and circumstellar material , respectively .",
    "the b1b3 supergiants were selected from ( * ? ? ?",
    "* morel et al . ( 2004 ) ) based on previous indication of cyclical changes ( hd 14134 and hd 42087 ) or strong variations ( hd 43384 and hd 52382 ) .",
    "here we present an overview of the variations exhibited by these objects ( the data for the oe stars hd 45314 and hd 60848 are still being reduced ) and briefly discuss forthcoming developments in the data analysis .",
    "variability studies in the uv domain have shown that the winds of ob stars are likely made up of large - scale streams ( the ` co - rotating interaction regions ' ; cirs ) whose formation may be triggered by the existence of non - uniform physical conditions at the stellar surface ( due , e.g. , to magnetic structures or pulsations ; ( * ? ? ?",
    "* cranmer & owocki 1996 ) ) .",
    "optical wind lines can also be used to probe the physical properties of these structures . in particular , revealing rotational modulation in these features would provide evidence that the cirs extend relatively close to the star and are possibly directly emerging from the photosphere .",
    "strong , daily line - profile variations are observed in all the targets , as illustrated in the case of hd 14134 in fig.[fig1 ] by the great variety of profiles observed ( strong emission / absorption , double peaked , classical or even inverse p - cygni profile ) .",
    "this star is of particular interest because of the previous detection of a 12.8-d periodic signal both in photometry and in spectroscopy ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* morel et al . 2004 ) ) .",
    "our efforts will now be directed towards the detection of a periodic behaviour that could allow us to identify the physical processes that drive the variations .",
    "for instance , a dipole magnetic field tilted with respect to the rotational axis in the oe stars is expected to induce changes modulated by the rotational period , whereas the variations should take place on much longer timescales if they arise from some kind of disk instability . on the other hand , high - resolution spectroscopic observations of the b3 supergiant hd 14134 are scheduled in november 2010 at ohp ( france ) to examine the existence of pulsations and to eventually link the variations taking place in the photosphere to those in the wind ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present preliminary results of a 3-month campaign carried out in the framework of the mons project , where time - resolved h@xmath0 observations are used to study the wind and circumstellar properties of a number of ob stars . </S>"
  ]
}