{
  "article_text": [
    "satellite galaxies are likely to play an important rle in the evolution of galaxies . in recent years",
    "the search for representative samples of satellite galaxies has gathered momentum , in a quest to understand their rle in the evolution of the present - day galaxy population . in subsequent papers , following the validation tests presented here we will present a study of the luminosities , spatial distributions and star formation ( sf ) properties of the satellites of nearby bright spiral galaxies , to address two main questions : how many satellites do bright field galaxies have at the current epoch , and can such satellites supply significant amounts of gas to their central galaxies ?",
    "these questions are motivated by the influential hierarchical models of galaxy formation and evolution @xcite , which are a central component of the lambda cold dark matter ( @xmath3cdm ) cosmological model .",
    "the accumulation of matter through the merger of galaxies in hierarchical galaxy formation continues over the age of the universe @xcite and results in massive galaxies continually accreting gas , stars and dark matter .    within this picture",
    ", the merging of small satellites with large central galaxies is an important process , as the gas thus supplied may provide the replenishment required for ongoing sf @xcite without disk destruction , and may explain the chemical composition observed in the milky way @xcite . the merging of gas - rich satellites either fully or by being stripped of their gas could contribute to the ongoing star forming activity , with or without the disruption of the disk @xcite . such minor mergers may also play a rle in producing ` thick disk ' components @xcite , and could contribute to the growth of bulge mass @xcite . particularly problematic are the large numbers of field spiral galaxies with little or no bulge component and strong ongoing sf ; if these are being built up and supplied with gas through mergers , the infalling galaxies must be small , to avoid disk disruption , and quite numerous . to address these problems , and",
    "the general ` missing satellites ' problem of @xmath3cdm @xcite , it is important to have large samples of true satellites , extending to the faintest possible luminosities .",
    "the identification and classification of satellite galaxies was first undertaken using wide - field photographic plates by @xcite . in this study ,",
    "a statistical correction was utilised for background galaxies as redshifts were not available .",
    "@xcite used multifibre spectroscopic observations to measure the redshifts and quantify the numbers of satellites of field spirals . whether satellite galaxy mergers can provide gas replenishment of the host galaxies has been investigated through hi observations @xcite concluding that the current rate of sf in our galaxy could not be sustained through infall of gas rich satellites alone . however , modelling by @xcite suggests that minor mergers contribute more to galaxy growth than major mergers .",
    "the morphology and chemical abundances of satellites have been studied through broadband photometry @xcite and spectroscopy @xcite .",
    "h@xmath0 observations have been utilised to determine sf rates of 0.01 - 3.7  m@xmath4  yr@xmath2 , mean value 0.7  m@xmath4  yr@xmath2 , in satellite galaxies @xcite selected from zaritsky s catalogue @xcite .",
    "the highest sf rates appear to be linked to tidal disturbance of the satellites concerned .",
    "further investigation of numbers , spatial distributions , sf and morphology of bright satellites has been undertaken using the sdss data @xcite , and observational predictions modelled using the millennium simulation @xcite .",
    "these studies show indications of morphological transformation of satellites from late- to early - types resulting from their proximity to central galaxies , and the consequent removal of gas reservoirs ( ` strangulation ' ) .",
    "in addition to the rle satellite galaxies may play in the gas replenishment of their host galaxies , they are also important to the investigation of mass distributions at large radii in dark matter haloes @xcite .",
    "there have been many dwarf galaxies observed in the extended galactic halo , the most massive and gas - rich being the large and small magellanic clouds , from which the magellanic stream emanates .",
    "this stream would indicate the early stages of gas exchange @xcite .",
    "for the infall of gas from satellite galaxies to be a realistic resolution to the gas replenishment problem , gas - rich and hence star - forming satellites should be common near bright star - forming disk galaxies ( @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "-band ( top ) and continuum - subtracted h@xmath0 ( bottom ) @xmath54@xmath65 arcmin images .",
    "the satellite galaxy is circled , title=\"fig:\",width=309 ] -band ( top ) and continuum - subtracted h@xmath0 ( bottom ) @xmath54@xmath65 arcmin images .",
    "the satellite galaxy is circled , title=\"fig:\",width=309 ]    .",
    "[ imagefig ]    h@xmath0 imaging as a method for satellite detection has the advantage that a wide area is covered with one observation , and any objects detected must have significant line emission within the appropriate passband , which excludes most of the projected line of sight companions . additionally , hii emission tends to have a high surface brightness even in low surface brightness regions of massive spiral galaxies and dwarf galaxies , and therefore faint companions can be observed with moderate integration times and moderate - aperture telescopes .",
    "thus , this is potentially a sensitive and quick method for detecting even the very low - mass star - forming satellites of low - redshift galaxies .",
    "the h@xmath0 narrow - band imaging technique has been extensively employed to study sf in individually targeted bright field galaxies e.g. @xcite , as reviewed by @xcite , and galaxies in low - redshift clusters @xcite . in addition",
    ", h@xmath0 emission has been used to search for emission line galaxies in objective prism based searches for galaxies in both the cluster environment @xcite and over field areas @xcite . however",
    ", none of these studies has either searched for , or analysed the properties of , satellite or companion galaxies .",
    "thus our programme is , to the best of our knowledge , the first of its type .",
    "the measurement of h@xmath0 narrow band emission in optical imaging requires the removal of continuum emission , which can be done through the subtraction of appropriately - scaled @xmath7-band images .",
    "there are uncertainties in this process which may lead the observer to question whether there is h@xmath0 emission , or whether the apparent emission is a result of poor continuum subtraction , particularly from poorly subtracted stars or other image artifacts .",
    "most of these can be rejected from visual inspection of the continuum - subtracted h@xmath0 image ( an example of a stellar residual is shown towards the lower - right hand corner of the example image presented in fig .",
    "[ imagefig ] , with characteristic positive and negative zones ) , and through their low equivalent widths . however , at faint magnitudes and for stars with very extreme colours this process is less clear - cut .",
    "there is also the possibility of other , shorter wavelength emission lines from intermediate - redshift galaxies , for example the [ oiii]@xmath85007 line , being redshifted into the passband of the h@xmath0 filter .",
    "additionally , the narrow - band filter widths , typically 1@xmath9 , allow h@xmath0 emission to be detected in a range which is much wider than the velocities of the satellites with reference to their hosts .",
    "this means that even if the line detected is truly h@xmath0 , any apparent satellites could easily be separated by @xmath10 kms@xmath2 from the central galaxy , and thus not be truly associated companions .",
    "the aims of this paper are to analyse spectroscopically the potential satellites detected through h@xmath0 imaging , to quantify the above uncertainties and ascertain the reliability of the h@xmath0 imaging method for detecting true companions of field spiral galaxies .    from an original imaging data set of 262 field spiral galaxies ,",
    "73 candidate satellites associated with 56 host galaxies were discovered of which 11 hosts and 12 candidate satellites are to be spectroscopically tested and results presented in the present paper .",
    "the complete set of imaging data are to be analysed to determine the integrated properties and spatial distribution of sf , the sf rates and timescales , and their @xmath7-band and h@xmath0 luminosities .",
    "these properties of the central galaxies , and analyis of the numbers and properties of their satellites , will be studied in a series of separate papers .",
    "the original imaging data set of nearby spiral galaxies was observed with the jacobus kapteyn telescope ( jkt ) for the h@xmath0 galaxy survey , h@xmath0gs @xcite .",
    "additional galaxies were observed with the isaac newton telescope ( int ) for a study of supernova - hosting galaxies @xcite .",
    "the recession velocities obtained from the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) for the central galaxies discussed in the present paper lie in the range 1500 - 6000 kms@xmath2 , and all had candidate satellites that were apparent in the continuum - subtracted h@xmath0 images . an example galaxy and satellite from this imaging data set",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "[ imagefig ] ; here the satellite can been seen in the bottom left hand corner of both the @xmath7-band and h@xmath0 images .",
    "the optical galaxy spectra presented in this paper were observed between the 4th and 8th january 2009 with the int on la palma .",
    "the observations were made using the intermediate dispersion spectrograph ( ids ) , with the r600r grating , the 235-mm camera and the eev10 ccd .",
    "the spectral range was 5900 - 8600 to ensure the h@xmath0 emission line lies within the central unvignetted region of the ccd .",
    "the slit width used was 2.0 arcseconds and was positioned centrally on the visual peak of each central and satellite galaxy observed , using the image on the int acquisition tv screen , with a slit position angle of 0@xmath11 ( n - s orientation ) for all spectra .",
    "wavelength calibration was achieved by taking neon lamp spectra throughout the night after each galaxy observation .",
    "eleven host galaxies and twelve candidate satellites were observed .",
    "flux calibrations were not required and therefore standard stars were not observed .",
    "integration times varied between 300 and 1200 seconds .",
    "the frames were debiased and flat - fielded , cosmic rays and sky lines were removed , and the extracted spectra were wavelength - calibrated , using @xmath12 software .",
    "the galaxy host and satellite spectrum pairs are shown in fig .",
    "[ specfig ] . in each case , the satellite spectrum is shown as the solid line , and the satellite spectrum is offset vertically by an arbitrary amount for ease of comparison . the purpose of these spectra is to confirm the strongest line as h@xmath0 by identifying other lines in the spectra , where available ; and to get recession velocities from accurate determination of wavelengths of emission lines .",
    "the latter were measured by fitting a gaussian profile to each wavelength - calibrated spectrum .",
    "these were converted to recession velocities assuming the rest wavelength of h@xmath0 to be 6562.8 .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ satssfr ]    observing time and weather limitations restricted us to spectroscopic observations of only a small subset of our potential satellite galaxies .",
    "it is important to establish how representative a subset this is , and to quantify the range of satellite luminosities and star - formation rates to which the validation provided by the present paper applies . in terms of recession velocity ,",
    "the 11 host galaxies sample almost the full range of our main satellite search , from 1500 - 6000  km  s@xmath2 .",
    "the main parameters of the 12 satellite galaxies are shown in table  [ satssfr ] ( the satellite of ngc 4303 was only partially on the ccd field for the h@xmath0 imaging , so the tabulated quantities are extrapolated and thus less secure than the rest , as indicated by the brackets ) .",
    "overall these galaxies appear to resemble typical star - forming field irregular galaxies , or indeed the magellanic clouds , in terms of both their @xmath7-band and their h@xmath0 luminosities .",
    "the @xmath7-band and h@xmath0 luminosity ranges extend from values consistent with small spiral galaxies down to significantly fainter than the smc .",
    "the range of sf rates of our satellites is similar to that of the sample studied by @xcite ( 0.01 - 3.7  m@xmath4  yr@xmath2 ) .",
    "the most important parameter regarding the reliable detectability of the satellites is their h@xmath0 equivalent width ( ew ) , since this dictates the strength of the remaining source in the continuum - subtracted image .",
    "the ew values given in table  [ satssfr ] are global values , obtained from total @xmath7-band magnitudes and line fluxes for each satellite ; local values on h@xmath0 peaks within the galaxies will be higher than this .",
    "the median ew value is about 16 ; this is entirely typical of late - type star - forming galaxies , and indeed is somewhat lower than the median values for late - type field galaxies ( 30 - 38   ) found by james et al .",
    "( 2004 ) . @xcite",
    "detected significant h@xmath0 emission from 29 satellite galaxies from the catalogue of @xcite , with h@xmath0 ew values ranging from 4 to 441   , and a median value of 23   , which again is slightly larger than that found for our sample .",
    "thus the imaging method clearly has the sensitivity to detect typical star - forming galaxies over the distance range of interest , and there is no evidence of any bias to , for example , starbursting galaxies with anomalously strong h@xmath0 emission .",
    "one obvious limitation of the method is that , while it finds genuine companions of the host galaxies , it only detects strongly star - forming satellites with detectable h@xmath0 emission .",
    "while this may restrict the usefulness of the approach for some applications , it can be argued that , in searching for satellites that may be a source of gas replenishment of the host , the selection of the gas - rich companions is not a disadvantage .",
    "the aim of this project using the h@xmath0 imaging data is to quantify the gas reservoir in satellites available for the replenishment of host galaxy gas content .",
    "gas - rich satellites are most likely to contribute to this reservoir and these are very likely to be star - forming due to tidal interactions with the host or the extended host galaxy hi halo . the results of this project will be presented in a subsequent paper .",
    "we have obtained optical spectroscopy of 12 faint , apparent emission - line sources , which lie adjacent to nearby spiral galaxies .",
    "these 12 possible companions were initially discovered by imaging through narrow - band h@xmath0 filters .",
    "the spectroscopy reveals that in every case , the sources detected have genuine line emission , that the line emission detected was h@xmath0 plus , in most cases , the nearby [ nii ] and/or sii lines , and that the velocity differences indicate genuine association between the faint sources and their adjacent spiral galaxies . indeed , most and quite possibly all are likely to be bound companions .",
    "narrow - band imaging thus appears to be an effective method of getting virtually complete samples of at least the star - forming satellite populations of large numbers of galaxies , extending substantially fainter than current surveys based on targeted spectroscopy .",
    "subsequent papers will analyse the luminosities , radial distributions and star - formation properties of a larger sample of satellites selected using this narrow - band imaging technique .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the isaac newton telescope ( int ) is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofisica de canarias .",
    "cfi and paj are happy to acknowledge the uk science and technology facilities council for research studentship and research grant support , respectively .",
    "j.  e. , casuso e. , zurita a. , relao m. , 2004 , in block d.  l. , puerari i. , freeman k.  c. , groess r. , block e.  k. , eds , penetrating bars through masks of cosmic dust vol .",
    "319 of astrophysics and space science library , gas flows , star formation and galaxy evolution .",
    "pp 119+                                  j.  a. , hoffman g.  l. , spekkens k. , haynes m.  p. , giovanelli r. , linder s.  m. , catinella b. , momjian e. , koribalski b.  s. , davies j. , brinks e. , de blok w.  j.  g. , putman m.  e. , van driel w. , 2009 , apj , 692 , 1447        p.  a. , shane n.  s. , beckman j.  e. , cardwell a. , collins c.  a. , etherton j. , de jong r.  s. , fathi k. , knapen j.  h. , peletier r.  f. , percival s.  m. , pollacco d.  l. , seigar m.  s. , stedman s. , steele i.  a. , 2004 , a&a , 414 , 23                                f. , vitvitska m. , klypin a. , holtzman j. , schlegel d. , grebel e.  k. , rix h .- w . , brinkmann j. , mckay t.  a. , csabai i. , 2004 , in prada f. , martinez delgado d. , mahoney t.  j. , eds , satellites and tidal streams vol .",
    "327 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , observing the dark matter density profiles of isolated galaxies from sdss satellite dynamics ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a spectroscopic test confirming the potential of narrow - band optical imaging as a method for detecting star - forming satellites around nearby galaxies . to date </S>",
    "<S> the efficiency of such methods , and particularly the fraction of false detections resulting from its use , has not been tested . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we use optical spectroscopy to verify the nature of objects that are apparently emission - line satellites , taken from imaging presented elsewhere . </S>",
    "<S> observations of 12 probable satellites around 11 host galaxies are presented and used to compare the recession velocities of the host and satellite . </S>",
    "<S> this test confirms , in all cases , that there is genuine line emission , that the detected line is h@xmath0 , and that the satellites have similar recession velocities to their hosts with a maximum difference of @xmath1 kms@xmath2 , consistent with their being gravitationally bound companions . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the spectroscopy has confirmed that narrow - band imaging through h@xmath0 filters is a reliable method for detecting genuine , star - forming satellites with low contamination from galaxies seen in projection along the line - of - sight .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : general galaxies : spiral galaxies : dwarf galaxies </S>"
  ]
}