{
  "article_text": [
    "solar surface convection is driven by localized downdrafts that collect the cold plasma returning to the solar interior after releasing internal energy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "angular momentum conservation forces the plasma to spin up as it approaches the sinkhole , and vortices are formed at the downdrafts .",
    "such convectively driven vortices were theoretically predicted and sought for long ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but their observational discovery is fairly recent .",
    "in addition to supporting numerical models of solar surface convection , the photospheric vortices may be of importance as heating sources for the outer solar atmosphere .",
    "the downdrafts not only advect vorticity but also magnetic fields , which are intensified to kg field strengths in and around them .",
    "buoyancy and the vertical geometry of the downdraft tend to align the magnetic field lines with the vertical , so that the spinning motions at photospheric levels can be propagated upward using the field lines as guides ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "waves thus excited transport photospheric energy that can be deposited in higher layers of the atmosphere .",
    "moreover , downdrafts often trap structures of mixed polarity , so that the swirling motions wind up opposite polarity field lines , facilitating magnetic reconnection and the ensuing energy release .    these convectively driven vortex flows",
    "are a recently discovered phenomenon poorly characterized from an observational point of view .",
    "so far , we only know that the vortices are quite common , have no preferred sense of rotation at the solar equator , and last ( at least ) minutes @xcite .",
    "they are also visible in the chromosphere , where they seem to be associated with significant blueshifts @xcite .",
    "most of them are small - scale ( @xmath6 mm * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but some have a much larger radius of influence ( up to 20 mm , * ? ? ?",
    "lifetimes can be longer than 20min , and several observables ( such as circular polarization and g - band intensity ) simultaneously indicate the presence of vortical motions @xcite . in terms of global properties rather than individual eddies ,",
    "the vertical vorticity inferred from proper motions seems to be higher in downflow regions , suggesting excess vorticity in intergranular lanes @xcite .",
    "@xcite searched for evidence of vorticity in the motions of isolated g - band bright points .",
    "sunrise is a 1-m balloon - borne solar telescope @xcite which , together with its imaging magnetograph experiment ( imax , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , provides time series with state - of - the - art high spatial resolution images and magnetograms .",
    "the dataset is ideal for a systematic characterization of the poorly known physical properties of the vortices .",
    "thus this letter presents a comprehensive observational characterization of the vortices in the photosphere .",
    "the actual data set and the procedure to detect vortices are described in   [ description ] .",
    "the main results are summarized in   [ results ] .",
    "based on such results , we compare the observed properties with the predictions of the numerical simulations of solar surface convection (   [ discussion ] ) .",
    "the data were gathered with imax near the solar disk center on june 9 , 2009 ( ut 01:31 - 02:02 ; although the exact location is not known ) during the first science flight of sunrise @xcite . the imax magnetograph uses a linbo@xmath7 etalon operating in double pass , liquid crystal variable retarders as the polarization modulator , and a beam splitter as the polarization analyzer .",
    "we use here data recorded in the so - called v5 - 6 observing mode ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) where images of the four stokes parameters were taken at five wavelengths along the profile of the magnetic - sensitive line fe  i@xmath85250.2   ( @xmath9m  from line center , plus continuum at + 227m ) . after the science observing run a calibration set consisting of 30 in - focus and out - of - focus image - pairs was recorded for post - facto retrieval of the point spread function ( psf ) using phase diversity @xcite .",
    "the science images were reconstructed by deconvolution using a modified wiener filter and the calibrated psf of the optical system .",
    "imax provides 85m  spectral resolution and between 015 and 018 angular resolution in the reconstructed images .",
    "dopplergrams and magnetograms are derived from the stokes parameters by using the approach described in @xcite .",
    "all in all , the reduction procedure renders time series of images , magnetograms , and dopplergrams with a cadence of 33sec , a spatial sampling of 0055 , and an effective field - of - view ( fov ) of 45@xmath1045 . as inferred from the standard deviation of the polarization signals at the continuum wavelength , the circular polarization noise is @xmath11 in units of the continuum intensity .",
    "the observing material analyzed here consists of a time series lasting 31.6 min .",
    "movies were generated after rigid alignment and @xmath12-mode subsonic filtering @xcite .",
    "@xcite found the small - scale vortex flows by visual feature tracking of magnetic g - band bright points ( bps ) .",
    "the same downdrafts producing vortices also advect and concentrate magnetic flux ( see   [ intro ] ) , which often appears as bps when the field strength is in the kg regime ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "as bonet and colleagues acknowledge , the technique is rather limited since whirlpools without bps are expected , and they escape from detection . taking advantage of the combined high spatial resolution and high polarimetric sensitivity of imax / sunrise data , we tried to detect and study vortices in longitudinal magnetograms , which are sensitive not only to kgs fields , but to plasmas with the full range of field strengths .",
    "in addition , we broaden the study using continuum intensity , line minimum intensity , line - of - sight ( los ) velocity , and line width ( the last three parameters obtained from a gaussian fit to the five sampled wavelengths ) .",
    "individual vortices are identified and characterized through the following steps :    \\(1 ) the detection is based on a visual inspection of longitudinal - magnetogram movies . playing back and forth these movies , we identify those locations and time intervals where structures seem to rotate .",
    "( 2 ) once a vortex candidate is thus located , it is isolated in a 55@xmath1055 sub - field , where the corresponding sub - fields in the other four physical parameters are visually inspected for swirling motions ( see fig .  [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "( 3 ) horizontal velocity maps of the event in all the five parameters are created from proper motions .",
    "the horizontal motions are measured in these reduced sub - fields employing the local correlation tracking ( lct ) algorithm of @xcite , as implemented by @xcite , and with a gaussian tracking window of about 04 fwhm . in order to help the algorithm",
    ", the original images are interpolated in time and space so as to have a pixel of 0028 and a cadence of 11sec .",
    "the horizontal velocities obtained by comparing successive images are time averaged the duration of the event .",
    "examples of such velocity maps are shown in fig .",
    "the size of the tracking window was chosen as a trade off to be large enough for the lct algorithm to have structures to track , yet small enough to minimize the presence of several structures with different velocities .",
    "if the velocity maps do not show a regular closed shape in at least two physical parameters , then we discard the vortex candidate and start from step 1 .",
    "\\(4 ) we compute the vertical vorticity , the divergence , and the curvature corresponding to the lct horizontal velocities .",
    "given the velocity * u * , the vertical vorticity @xmath13 can be interpreted in terms of the local angular velocity since a plasma in pure rotational motion has @xmath14 , with @xmath15 the angular velocity .",
    "similarly , the curvature of such motion is @xmath16 , with @xmath17 the radius of curvature .",
    "examples of vorticity and curvature maps are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig3 ] ,  [ fig4 ] .",
    "\\(5 ) using the lct horizontal velocities , we track the evolution of passively advected tracers ( _ corks _ ) spread out all over the sub - field @xcite .",
    "as time goes by , the corks end up in the sinkhole , revealing the position of the sink according to different physical parameters ( see the white points in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) .",
    "if the sinkhole positions inferred from the different physical parameters do not agree within 04 , then the vortex is discarded and we return to step 1 .",
    "we find the curvature maps to be an efficient complementary tool for vortex center detection . in most cases",
    "these maps show up the sinkholes as conspicuous point - like features ( see fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ) with positions that agree well with the centers determined as the final destination of the corks in the corresponding movie ( c.f . figs .",
    "[ fig3 ] ,  [ fig4 ] ) .",
    "the above list outlines the general procedure , but we do not disregard casual detections , e.g. , when a second vortex was observed in any of the subfields corresponding to another vortex .",
    "thus we find by chance some vortices which do not show up in the magnetogram signals .",
    "in addition to the lct velocity maps of the individual vortices , we also computed the flow field for the full fov during the full duration of the sequence .",
    "isolated point - like features in the corresponding curvature map suggest the presence of vortices , and their existence motivates further inspection of magnetograms for swirling motions . as one can image from this cumbersome procedure , the fov has been unequally searched .",
    "we focused on those regions were the magnetograph signals were largest , so that the _ effective _ fov of our research is only 285 @xmath10 285 .",
    "this area is used in the estimates below unless otherwise stated .",
    "two animations , one showing the event in figs .  [ fig1]-[fig4 ] and another with a different one , are given in the on - line material in the electronic edition of the journal .",
    "the 1 -mm radius circles centered in the sinkhole are included for reference .",
    "following the procedure outlined above , we detected 42 vortices with proper velocity maps .",
    "they imply a space - time - density of @xmath18  vortices  mm@xmath1min@xmath2 .",
    "in addition , 31 structures showing vortical motion were discarded because they did not fullfill our strict selection criteria .",
    "the selected events are used here to characterize the observational properties of vortices .",
    "we have assigned a duration to each vortex , computed as the time interval in which the vortex motions are clearest .",
    "these durations span from 5min to 20min with a mean of @xmath19 @xmath20 7.9min and a standard deviation of 3.2min .",
    "the interpretation of these intervals as life - times is not devoid of uncertainty , though .",
    "often we shorten the interval to assure a most pure swirling motion .",
    "in addition , some vortices appear in the mean flow field corresponding to the full time series , indicating that they probably last longer than the time span of the series itself .",
    "these long lasting vortices often involve a complex behavior : several short - lived vortices appear and disappear in the same location , giving rise to recurrent vortices .",
    "the position of their vortex centers may be static or drift with time .",
    "the recurrent vortices may or may not keep the same sense of rotation . in the latter case , however , we can not consider the vortices to be strictly recurrent .",
    "we even find cases where the presence of a vortex is hinted as a clear pointlike feature in the curvature image , but we failed to identify any vortex at that position during the sequence .",
    "the largest surprise of our analysis is the finding of a preferred sense of rotation : 27 counterclockwise vs. 15 clockwise .",
    "this is a big difference with respect to @xcite , where the two senses of rotation were observed equally .",
    "we analyze this issue in   [ discussion ] .",
    "is produced by the vortices .",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]    figure  [ histograms ] shows histograms of vertical vorticities to characterize our measurements .",
    "the solid line corresponds to the vorticity in a region 2  mm wide around a number of well defined vortices .",
    "the histogram considering only 0.5  mm is shown as the dotted - dashed line .",
    "these histograms reveal the signature of the vortices , which turn out to have vorticities up to 0.006  sec@xmath2 , corresponding to a period of rotation of some 35min .",
    "these are vorticities inferred from the magnetograms , which are systematically smaller than those obtained from the other observables .",
    "the difference can be pinned down to the proper motion velocity field , which tends to zero outside the large magnetic concentrations , where the polarization signals are low .",
    "the proper motions inferred from the other parameters extend throughout ( fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) , so that the histograms of vorticities have less contribution at low values and show extended tails ( cf .",
    "the dashed line and the dotted line in fig .  [ histograms ] , which represent the histograms of vorticities for the full fov inferred from the magnetogram and the continuum intensity , respectively ) .",
    "if a vortex has its axis tilted with respect to the los , it should produce a characteristic doppler signal similar to the rotation curve of a galaxy , with a close pair redshift - blueshift centered at the sinkhole .",
    "the expected signals are of the order of a few hundred ms@xmath2 for moderate - high inclinations ( 30 ) , which are at the limit of our observation .",
    "we unsuccessfully seek for such signals in the doppler maps , meaning that the vortex motions are not highly tilted with respect to the horizontal plane .",
    "moreover , we note the discovery of horizontal vortex flows near the edges of granules reported by @xcite using the same sunrise / imax data and that are likely to be of a different nature to those analyzed here .",
    "small - scale vortex flows in quiet sun are detected using five different observational parameters : magnetogram , continuum intensity , line core intensity , los velocity , and line width .",
    "the fact that in most cases the detection is consistent in three or more of these observables ( showing different morphology ) reinforces the reliability of the events found .",
    "the number density of vortices is @xmath31.7 times larger than that found by @xcite , even though we have been far more strict here .",
    "the increase can be ascribed to the use of a larger variety of physical parameters to detect the swirls .",
    "most of the vortices are shortlived events observed during less than 10 min , but some of them last longer than the full time series , with recurrent vortices appearing in roughly the same place .",
    "vortices have a typical vorticity smaller than 6@xmath1010@xmath5sec@xmath2 , which corresponds to a period of rotation of some 35min . for reference ,",
    "the large maelstrom found by @xcite had a vorticity ten times smaller , with an associated period of some 6 hours .",
    "the measured vorticities are generally much smaller than those predicted by the numerical simulations of magneto convection ( * ? ? ?",
    "* stein 2010 private communication ) .",
    "we think that the bulk of this difference can be attributed to the limited spatial - temporal resolution of the observations .",
    "we are unable to identify vortices smaller than the tracking window , and/or lasting less than 8 - 10 frames , which sets an upper limit to the vorticity of some 0.04  sec@xmath2 .",
    "simulations indicate that the highest vorticities occur at the smallest resolvable scales and , thus , the predicted distribution critically depends on the numerical resolution of the simulation ( see fig .  31 in * ?",
    "the curvature maps ( i.e. , maps of the inverse radius of curvature ) show the presence of vortices much better than the vorticity maps ( see figs .",
    "[ fig3 ] ,  [ fig4 ] ) .",
    "the vorticity is sensitive to the flow speeds , which are large outside vortices , creating spurious vorticity signals .",
    "the curvature , however , only enhances areas where the swirling motions occur at small scales , independently of the velocity .",
    "the sinkholes show up conspicuously as local extremes in the curvature maps , and this new property should be employed when devising automatic algorithms to detect vortices .",
    "we find a preferred sense of rotation for the vortices ( 27 counterclockwise vs 15 clockwise ) .",
    "if the two senses of rotation were equally - probable then our observation would be highly unlikely ( the probability is 4.4% assuming a binomial distribution ) .",
    "nevertheless , the statistics is not large enough to provide a firm conclusion .",
    "the role of coriolis forces on setting up this difference can also be discarded since the vortex motions involve time scales much too short to be affected by the solar rotation .",
    "the preferred sense of rotation may have to do with the solar differential rotation .",
    "the plasma poleward from the sink tends to lag behind , whereas the plasma equatorward from the sink moves forward .",
    "such a difference impinges a preferred counterclockwise sense of rotation in the northern hemisphere , and a clockwise sense in the southern hemisphere .",
    "back - of - the - envelope estimates indicate that the effect produces the right order of magnitude vorticity.assume plasma separated by 40 mm ( i.e. , the size of a supergranule ) and converging to a sinkhole in the middle .",
    "then the difference of differential rotations at latitude 30  deg produces a difference of velocities of some 35  msec@xmath2 . if the circulation is approximately conserved during the convergence , a vortex 0.5  mm wide would have a vorticity of 0.01  sec@xmath2 .",
    "] if this conjecture turns out to be correct , it naturally explains the difference with respect to @xcite , whose observations correspond to the solar equator where there is no preferred sense of rotation . in our case",
    "the dominant counterclockwise rotation is consistent with an observed fov in the northern hemisphere .",
    "thanks are due to r. stein for discussions on the comparison with numerical simulations , and to c. pastor for her support during the data interpretation .",
    "the german contribution to sunrise is funded by the bundesministerium fr wirtschaft und technologie through deutsches zentrum fr luft- und raumfahrt e.v .",
    "( dlr ) , grant no .",
    "50 ou 0401 , and by the innovationsfond of the president of the max planck society ( mpg ) .",
    "the spanish contribution has been funded by the spanish micinn under projects esp2006 - 13030-c06 , aya2009 - 14105-c06",
    "( including european feder funds ) , aya2007 - 66502 , aya2007 - 63881 and by the ec ( solaire network ",
    "mtrn - ct-2006 - 035484 ) .",
    "the hao contribution was partly funded through nasa grant number nnx08ah38 g .",
    "this work has been partly supported by the wcu grant ( no r31 - 10016 ) funded by the korean ministry of education , science & technology _ facilities : _"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we characterize the observational properties of the convectively driven vortex flows recently discovered on the quiet sun , using magnetograms , dopplergrams and images obtained with the 1-m balloon - borne sunrise telescope . by visual inspection of time series , we find some @xmath0  vortices  mm@xmath1min@xmath2 , which is a factor of @xmath31.7 larger than previous estimates . the mean duration of the individual events turns out to be 7.9min , with a standard deviation of 3.2min . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we find several events appearing at the same locations along the duration of the time series ( 31.6min ) . </S>",
    "<S> such recurrent vortices show up in the proper motion flow field map averaged over the time series . </S>",
    "<S> the typical vertical vorticities are @xmath410@xmath5sec@xmath2 , which corresponds to a period of rotation of some 35min . </S>",
    "<S> the vortices show a preferred counterclockwise sense of rotation , which we conjecture may have to do with the preferred vorticity impinged by the solar differential rotation . </S>"
  ]
}