{
  "article_text": [
    "the apollo  11 astronauts that landed on the moon in july , 1969 deployed a retro - reflector intended for lunar laser ranging ( llr ) . shortly thereafter , several ground stations , including the lunar ranging experiment ( lure ) at the mcdonald observatory 2.7  m telescope , ranged to the reflector . in november , 1970 , the soviets landed the lunokhod  1 robotic rover that carried a french - built reflector with a different design but a comparable expected reflection efficiency .",
    "the soviets @xcite and the french @xcite both ranged to the reflector during its first lunar night in december of 1970 , followed by another success in february , 1971 .",
    "the lure team tried to locate the lunokhod  1 reflector , and may have seen glimpses of it a time or two , but never enough to pin down its position .",
    "kokurin relates in 1975 that the lunokhod  1 reflector was seen again in may of 1974 , but no details are provided , and the data are not available .",
    "the lunokhod  1 reflector was followed by the the apollo  14 , apollo  15 , and lunokhod  2 reflectors , arriving in that order .",
    "we denote these reflectors as a11 , l1 , a14 , a15 , and l2 , respectively .",
    "the arrival of other reflectors whose coordinates were well known , and which in the case of a15 had much larger effective area , reduced the motivation for spending valuable telescope time on continued searches for l1 .    the position of the lunokhod  1 rover was known to within approximately 5  km @xcite .",
    "this large uncertainty was a problem for llr , which typically uses a narrow time window to reduce the inevitable background .",
    "for example , the apache point observatory lunar laser - ranging operation ( apollo : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) normally employs a 100  ns detector gate , translating to a one - way range window with a depth of 15  m. because the lunar surface normal at l1 is angled 50@xmath0 to the line of sight from earth , the range window maps to a 20  m wide band on the lunar surface .",
    "positional uncertainty of a few kilometers translates into a vast search space so that detecting the reflector is unlikely .",
    "nonetheless , apollo spent a small fraction of its telescope time on favorable nights unsuccessfully exploring the space around the best - guess coordinates of @xcite .",
    "a breakthrough occurred in 2010 march , when the lunar reconnaissance orbiter camera ( lroc : * ? ? ? * ) obtained a high - resolution image of the luna  17 landing area that clearly revealed the lander , rover , and rover tracks .",
    "the coordinates obtained by the lroc team had an uncertainty of about 100  m @xcite and were centered on a region almost 5  km from the previous best estimate .",
    "additionally , laser altimetry from the lunar orbiter laser altimeter ( lola : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on board lro determined the site radius to better than 5  m @xcite .",
    "but it was not possible to know if l1 was correctly oriented toward the earth .",
    "a few unsuccessful ranging attempts were made in late march in unfavorable observing conditions .",
    "the first available favorable observing time on 2010 april 22 yielded immediate results , revealing a return that appeared 270  ns later than our prediction .",
    "the initial return was surprisingly bright , far surpassing the best - ever return signal from the twin reflector on lunokhod  2 .",
    "following the initial discovery on april 22 , we continued to successfully range to l1 even when seeing conditions were not optimal or when the reflector was illuminated by the sun .",
    "we were surprised that l1 remained visible during lunar daylight because , unlike the apollo reflectors that are usable in lunar daylight , l2 ( l1 s twin ) can not be seen when the sun shines on the reflector , even in excellent observing conditions .",
    ".observation summary[tab : obs ] [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the l1 reflector is nominally about twice as sensitive to libration as any of the apollo reflectors .",
    "furthermore , it has a high photon return rate , often greater than of the a11 and a14 reflectors .",
    "we therefore expect l1 to become apollo s highest priority reflector following signal acquisition on the largest of the reflectors , a15 .",
    "we have , for the first time in over three decades , obtained unambiguous llr returns from the lunokhod  1 reflector and determined its position with an uncertainty of a few centimeters .",
    "we found , to our surprise , that l1 is a much better reflector than its twin l2 , so the process that degraded l2 has not had a big effect on l1 .",
    "l1 s location on the moon makes it the most sensitive reflector to moon s orientation in latitude and longitude .",
    "because of l1 s strategic location and high reflection efficiency that degrades only modestly when it is illuminated by the sun , ranging to this reflector will significantly advance the precision of llr and the resulting gravitational and lunar science .",
    "thanks jim williams for alerting him to the new lro images on 2010 march 18 , and for providing historical details of l1 ranging efforts .",
    "eric silverberg related the history of the attempts to locate l1 by the mcdonald observatory .",
    "apollo is supported by the national science foundation ( grant phy-0602507 ) and the national aeronautical and space administration ( nasa ; grant nnx-07ah04 g ) .",
    "is also supported by the nasa lunar science institute as part of the lunar consortium ( nna09db30a ) .",
    "results in this paper are based on observations obtained with the apache point observatory 3.5  m telescope , which is owned and operated by the astrophysical research consortium .",
    "khan , a. , mosegaard , k. , williams , j. g. , & lognonne , p. , 2004 . does the moon posses a molten core ? probing the deep interior using results from llr and lunar prospector .",
    "j. of geophys .",
    "res.planets , 109 , e09007 .",
    "stooke , p. j. , 2005 .",
    "lunar laser ranging and the location of lunokhod 1 .",
    "lunar and planetary inst .",
    "technical rep .",
    "36 , 36th annual lunar and planetary science conference , ed .",
    "s. mackwell & e. stansbery , paper 1194 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in 1970 , the soviet lunokhod  1 rover delivered a french - built laser reflector to the moon . </S>",
    "<S> although a few range measurements were made within three months of its landing , these measurements  and any that may have followed  are unpublished and unavailable . </S>",
    "<S> the lunokhod  1 reflector was , therefore , effectively lost until march of 2010 when images from the lunar reconnaissance orbiter ( lro ) provided a positive identification of the rover and determined its coordinates with uncertainties of about 100  m. this allowed the apache point observatory lunar laser - ranging operation ( apollo ) to quickly acquire a laser signal . the reflector appears to be in excellent condition , delivering a signal roughly four times stronger than its twin reflector on the lunokhod  2 rover . </S>",
    "<S> the lunokhod  1 reflector is especially valuable for science because it is closer to the moon s limb than any of the other reflectors and , unlike the lunokhod  2 reflector , we find that it is usable during the lunar day . </S>",
    "<S> we report the selenographic position of the reflector to few - centimeter accuracy , comment on the health of the reflector , and illustrate the value of this reflector for achieving science goals . </S>"
  ]
}