{
  "article_text": [
    "astronomy between 100 gev and a few tens of tev has been possible for many years now thanks to imaging atmospheric cherenkov telescopes ( iacts ) .",
    "the field has benefited immensely from the advent of the current generation of telescope systems , such as h.e.s.s .",
    "@xcite , veritas @xcite , magic @xcite , and cangaroo iii @xcite .",
    "since 2002 , the number of gamma - ray sources known to emit above 100 gev has increased from a handful to over 100 @xcite,@xcite .",
    "these sources fall into two broad categories : those which produce a constant flux of gamma - rays ( e.g. supernova remnants , pulsar wind nebulae ) , and variable sources , which produce either a periodically changing flux of gamma - rays ( pulsar wind binary systems ) or a highly irregular flux ( active galactic nuclei ) .",
    "precise flux and energy spectra calculations for these discoveries can suffer from one major potential problem .",
    "the fact is that the atmosphere itself is the detector ; it is where the particle shower is initiated by the incident gamma - ray and the medium through which the cherenkov photons must travel .",
    "the energy estimation of an individual gamma - ray is based around calorimetry of the shower , which in turn is based on cherenkov photon deposition , therefore any change in atmospheric quality can affect the signal detected .    unfolding the effect of a varying atmosphere from the lightcurve of variable sources is a particularly tricky task , as it is vital to distinguish flux variations at the source from variations induced due to atmospheric changes . under normal operations ,",
    "most iacts utilise the uniform rate of background cosmic - ray initiated showers as a measurement of atmospheric clarity . in addition , some experiments also operate atmospheric monitoring equipment such as infrared radiometers ( to measure sky temperature ) , weather stations , and equipment for measuring the optical properties of the atmosphere such as lidars , transmissometers , and starlight monitors .",
    "usually , the information from these instruments is applied alongside the cosmic - ray rate as a selection parameter to identify good data , meaning that the data are just discarded if they fail predefined weather quality cuts .",
    "more sophisticated techniques aim to resurrect otherwise unusable data .",
    "such methods involve the scaling of the gamma - ray image brightness before application of the standard energy reconstruction and flux determination scheme @xcite , or scaling of the gamma - ray rate itself to obtain corrected flux values @xcite .",
    "these relative corrections have been applied successfully in the literature , but both methods have their specific shortcomings .",
    "rate scaling does not restore the original energy scale and strictly speaking only works for power - law gamma - ray spectra ( of known photon index ) .",
    "image brightness scaling restores the original event energy but the loss of non - triggered events near detector threshold needs to be compensated .",
    "the latter issue is particularly tricky for cherenkov telescopes , since events close to * detector * threshold at large distance from the telescope contribute a sizable fraction to spectral bins well above the * energy * threshold of the instrument .",
    "ultimately , the entire energy and flux reconstruction scheme of an instrument can be recalibrated using atmospheric transmission tables that are adapted to the atmospheric conditions during data taking .",
    "this approach is pursued for the first time for cherenkov telescopes in the work presented here .",
    "a drawback of the method is that it is very computationally intensive , because for each atmospheric condition a completely new set of simulations and detector calibration needs to be produced .",
    "the ultimate advantage of the method is that , in principle , data taken under arbitrary atmospheric conditions could be analyzed , if the atmospheric conditions were continuously monitored with sufficiently high precision .",
    "the work presented in this paper aims to completely restore an extensive data set taken with the h.e.s.s .",
    "telescope array in august and september 2004 .",
    "the array was observing the active galactic nucleus pks 2155 - 304 in the context of a multiwavelength campaign at that time .",
    "already by eye , the observers noted a large population of low - level aerosols during data taking .",
    "more quantitatively , we use the data from a commercially manufactured ceilometer located at the h.e.s.s .",
    "site to constrain the planetary boundary layer and help modeling the atmospheric transmission between the site and this layer . as ultimate indicator of the atmospheric condition of each observing run ,",
    "the cosmic - ray induced background trigger rate is invoked , which is a measure of the ( relative ) energy threshold of the instrument .",
    "we use the match of simulated and observed cosmic - ray background trigger rate as figure of merit to see whether the aerosol content used in the simulation is correctly adapted to the data .",
    "once a match is arrived at , the transmission tables are then folded with gamma - ray simulations to produce recalibrated , atmosphere - corrected lookup tables for energy and effective area .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section 2 , we will discuss the influence of varying atmospheric conditions on the air shower images , and present the ceilometer data that are used to constrain the low - level aerosols that dominate the conditions of the presented h.e.s.s .",
    "data set . in section 3 , the required atmospheric modeling is briefly introduced . in section 4 , we demonstrate that the hypothetic existence of high - level aerosols or clouds in the data can effectively be excluded by looking at the reconstructed shower height of the air shower data themselves . section 5 describes how the gamma - ray reconstruction is affected by the adapted low - level aerosol contents . in section 6 ,",
    "some key results of the restored pks 2155 - 304 data set are discussed ; the complete set of results will be presented in a forthcoming h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration paper . in section 7",
    ", we compare the results to a small set of similarly affected crab data , and discuss possible improvements of the technique , before concluding in section 8 .",
    "while the analysis presented in this paper is limited to a specific case and does not aim at establishing a universally adaptable restoration scheme for any data affected by arbitrary bad weather , it could present the first step towards such a machinery .",
    "the atmosphere affects the atmospheric conversion of a primary gamma - ray to cherenkov photons at the telescopes location in several ways .",
    "the ( molecular ) density profile of the atmosphere determines at which height a shower develops , and is also directly related to the refractive index of air , which controls both the angle under which cherenkov light is emitted and the quanitity of cherenkov photon emission .",
    "last but not least , the transmission of cherenkov photons from the shower to the telescopes is determined by the density profile of molecules ( rayleigh scattering , with a crucial impact of h2o ) and aerosols ( mie scattering ) .",
    "regular simulations of the h.e.s.s .",
    "array are based on standard desert atmospheric conditions , as represented by the modtran 4 desert aerosol model , with a default windspeed of 10 metres per second . for the work presented here ,",
    "it was important to see if relative changes in the molecular density profile might be expected .",
    "this would lead to changes in the cosmic ray rate ( again through a change of the energy threshold of the detector ) , which would in the suggested approach then be misinterpreted as a change of atmospheric transparency .",
    "a check on the seasonal stability of the molecular profile of the atmosphere was therefore performed .",
    "this was done using british atmospheric data centre radiosonde data taken from launches conducted at windhoek airport , located approximately 70 kilometres north east from the h.e.s.s .",
    "site @xcite . by performing cosmic - ray simulations using radiosonde data for the namibian summer and winter , a difference in simulated cosmic - ray trigger rate for the h.e.s.s .",
    "telescope system of @xmath0 was seen , due to the changing density ( and hence refractive index ) profile of the atmosphere . given the relative stability of the molecular profile for namibia within a given season , its effect on the work presented in this paper is deemed negligible .",
    "a population of scattering particles can affect the data in two ways , as shown schematically in figure [ 3figs ] .",
    "aerosols near ground - level lower the yield of cherenkov light from a shower of given energy and impact parameter , thus making the telescopes trigger less frequently and the camera images dimmer .",
    "the image shape is however not affected . as an array of iacts such as h.e.s.s . performs a trigonometric reconstruction of the impact parameter of the primary gamma - ray , the event will still be reconstructed as coming from the source direction , but will ( if uncorrected ) be systematically misidentified with a lower reconstructed energy than its true energy ( see section 5).in the context of the presented analysis , it was important to verify that all aerosols are below the cherenkov emission height , to make sure that cosmic - ray and gamma - ray showers ( having different penetration depths ) are similarly affected .",
    "for this purpose , we exploited the fact that if a significant aerosol population occurs at ( or near ) shower maximum , then not only the brightness but also the shape of the camera images will be affected .",
    "this is then seen mainly in the reconstructed shower height , for which the result of a simulated data - set will be presented in section 4 .",
    "we note in passing that , as has been noted by others @xcite , for a limited field of view instrument such as a cherenkov telescope , the importance of multiple scattering is negligble , given that any scattered light will be lost from the field of view .",
    "the h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration operates several lidar devices at their namibian site . in this paper",
    "we will focus on data derived from the commercially built vaisala ct25k ceilometer , which was the first to be installed at the telescope site ; its specifications are given in table [ tab1 ] and detailed documentation can be found in @xcite .",
    ".[tab1]specifications of the ct25k ceilometer @xcite . [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     although the technique presented in this paper appears to be a viable method for resurrecting data affected by increased low - level aerosol density , there are a few shortcomings .",
    "firstly , the atmospheric model is selected based upon a comparison of cosmic - ray simulation and background data from the telescope . given uncertainties in the cosmic - ray flux at 1 tev ,",
    "simulated fluxes have a systematic uncertainty of @xmath110@xmath2 .",
    "an independant measurement of the atmospheric transmission profile would overcome this reliance on cosmic - ray data .",
    "secondly , due to the large number of shower and telescope simulations required , the method is highly computationally intensive , with over 16 cpu years spent on the data - set discussed in this paper ( 67 cpu days per hour of exposure ) .",
    "thirdly , given the seasonal dependence of the low - level aerosol densities , there are only parts of the year when sources visible at the h.e.s.s .",
    "site are affected by this form of low - level haze .",
    "this method is therefore not routinely applied to h.e.s.s .",
    "instead any data affected by measured adverse atmospheric conditions is removed from the analysis .            a clear step forward when tackling the problem of low - level aerosol populations is to place lidars at the telescope sites from which atmospheric transmission can be extracted directly .",
    "for this purpose two high power lidars were installed in ( 2007/2008 ) at the h.e.s.s .",
    "these systems allow comparisons between simulations of cosmic rays , gamma - rays and real data , which will be used as an independent cross check of the inferred atmospheric model .",
    "cross comparisons between the two systems will serve as a further check of atmospheric assumptions .",
    "a detailed discussion of the effects of low - level aerosol density on the h.e.s.s .",
    "system has been presented , and a method to correct for these effects in energy and flux has been demonstrated to be successful on observational data of the agn pks 2155 - 304 . without correction , if data with significant low - level aerosol densities are used , substantially too low fluxes are reconstructed , and a systematic softening of the reconstructed spectra is observed .",
    "this work , for the first time , combines direct measurements of the profile of low - level atmospheric aerosols with simulation and accounts for atmospheric aerosol population during flux derivation , allowing the resurrection of nearly 100 hours of otherwise unusable data , a significant fraction of the observation season for 2004 . a follow up paper combining corrected h.e.s.s .",
    "data with contemporaneous multi - wavelength observations of pks 2155 - 304 during 2004 is currently in preparation .",
    "two new lidar instruments recently placed on the h.e.s.s .",
    "site will further improve our knowledge of the atmosphere and serve to both reduce systematic errors on measured flux and increase the active lifetime of the experiment .",
    "_ acknowledgements _ the authors would like to acknowledge the support of their host institutions , and in addition we are grateful to werner hofmann , michael punch , paula chadwick & michael daniel for their helpful comments .",
    "s.n . and c.r .",
    "acknowledge support from the science and technology facilities council of the uk .",
    "g.p . acknowledges support by the german ministry for education and research ( bmbf ) through desy grant 05ch5vh1/0 and dlr grant 50or0502 .",
    "99 hinton , j. a. , new astron .",
    ", 48 ( 2004 ) 331 holder , j. et al .",
    ", astropart .",
    "phys . , 25 ( 2006 ) 391 cortina , j. , astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    ", 297 ( 2005 ) 245 kubo , h. et al .",
    ", new astron .",
    ", 48 ( 2004 ) 323 chadwick , p.m. et al . , j. phys .",
    "g 35 ( 3 ) ( 2008 ) 033201 .",
    "hinton , j.a . & hofmann , w. annu .",
    "47 ( 2009 ) 523 - 565 dorner , d. et al . ,",
    "a. & a , 493 ( 2009 ) 721 le .",
    "bohec , s. & holder , j. , astropart .",
    "( 2003 ) 221 aharonian , f. et al . ,",
    "a. & a. ( 457 ) ( 2006 ) 899 uk meteorological office . met office - global radiosonde data , [ internet ] .",
    "british atmospheric data centre , 2006 .",
    "available from http://badc.nerc.ac.uk/data/radiosglobehttp://www.kurasc.kyoto-u.ac.jp/ear/ceilometer/ct25k.pdf , last accessed 12/2009 eresmaa , n. et al . , atmos .",
    "( 2006 ) 1485 - 1493 wagner , r. , journal of physics : conference series 203 ( 2010 ) 012121 kneizys f.x .",
    ", et al . ,",
    "the modtran 2/3 report and lowtran 7 model , ( 1996 ) , phillips laboratory , hanscom afb , ma 01731 , usa wiebel - sooth , b. et al .",
    "cosmic ray conf . ,",
    "rome , 2 ( 1995 ) 656 bernlhr k. , astropart .",
    "phys . 30 ( 2008 )",
    "149 hess , m. et al , bulletin of the american meteorological society 79 ( 1998 ) 831 - 844 bernlhr k. , astropart .",
    "12 ( 2000 ) 255"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the current generation of imaging atmospheric cherenkov telescopes are allowing the sky to be probed with greater sensitivity than ever before in the energy range around and above 100 gev . to minimise the systematic errors on derived fluxes </S>",
    "<S> a full calibration of the atmospheric properties is important given the calorimetric nature of the technique . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we discuss an approach to address this problem by using a ceilometer co - pointed with the h.e.s.s . </S>",
    "<S> telescopes and present the results of the application of this method to a set of observational data taken on the active galactic nucleus ( agn ) pks 2155 - 304 in 2004 .    gamma - ray , iact , cherenkov , h.e.s.s.,atmospheric calibration </S>"
  ]
}