{
  "article_text": [
    "strongly asymmetric planetary nebulae ( pne ) have been shown to be common .",
    "the research into their shaping processes has become a fundamental part of our attempts to further the understanding of the return of processed material into the ism by low- and intermediate - mass stars at the end of their evolution . whereas the standard interacting winds scenario",
    "@xcite can explain a number of the pn properties , an important discovery has been that the collimated outflows of the pre - pne ( p - pne ) , where such outflows are common , have a momentum that exceeds that which can be supplied by radiation pressure alone @xcite .",
    "the source of this momentum excess has been heavily debated during the past several years , with the most commonly invoked cause being magnetic fields , binary or disk interaction or a combination of these ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "due to a number of similarities with the jets and outflows produces by young stellar objects , the study of p - pne outflows provides further research opportunities into a potentially universal mechanism of jet launching .    here",
    "i will review the observational evidence for strong magnetic fields in pne as well as around their agb and post - agb progenitors .",
    "i will give an overview of the methods that can be used to study magnetic fields , especially in light of the plethora of new instruments that will be available shortly .",
    "finally , i will discuss a number of questions related this topic that we can expect to be answered with the new instruments in the next few years .",
    "with the exception of observations where the magnetic field strength is estimated assuming forms of energy equilibrium , such as synchrotron observations , the magnetic field strength and structure is typically determined from polarization observations .",
    "circular polarization , generated through zeeman splitting , can be used to measure the magnetic field strength .",
    "it measures the total field strength when the splitting is large and the line - of - sight component of the field when the splitting is small .",
    "the predominant source of magnetic field strength information during the late stages of stellar evolution comes from maser circular polarization observations , and particularly the common sio , h@xmath0o and oh masers .",
    "these can show circular polarization fractions ranging from @xmath1% ( h@xmath0o ) up to @xmath2% ( oh ) and are , because of their compactness and strength , excellent sources to be observed with high angular resolution .",
    "unfortunately , the analysis of maser polarization is not straightforward ( for a review , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and it has taken a long time before maser observations were acknowledged to provide accurate magnetic field measurements .",
    "more recently , the first attempts have been made to detect the zeeman splitting of non - maser molecular lines in circumstellar envelopes , such as cn @xcite .",
    "as many of these occur at shorter wavelength in the ( sub-)mm regime , the advent of the atacama large ( sub-)millimeter array will further enhance these types of studies .",
    "linear polarization , probing the structure of the plane - of - the - sky component of the magnetic field , can be observed both in the dust ( through aligned grains ) and molecular lines ( through radiation anisotropy - the goldreich - kylafis effect ) .",
    "typical percentages of linear polarization range from up to a few percent ( e.g. dust , co , h@xmath0o masers ) to several tens of percent ( oh and sio masers ) . again",
    "the interpretation of maser polarization depends on a number of intrinsic maser properties , but in specific instances maser linear polarization can even be used to determine the full 3-dimensional field morphology .",
    "in addition to the geometry , the linear polarization of most notably dust , can also be used to obtain a value for the strength of the plane - of - the - sky component of the magnetic field .",
    "this is done using the chandrasekhar - fermi method , which refers to the relation between the turbulence induced scatter of polarization vectors and the magnetic field strength .",
    "most agb magnetic field measurements come from maser polarization observations ( sio , h@xmath0o and oh ) . these have revealed a strong magnetic field throughout the circumstellar envelope . in figure",
    "[ bvsr ] , i have indicated the magnetic field strength in the regions of the envelope traced by the maser measurements throughout agb envelopes .",
    "while a clear trend with increasing distance from the star is seen , the lack of accurate information on the location of the maser with respect to the central stars makes it difficult to constrain this relation beyond stating that it seems to vary between @xmath3 ( solar - type ) and @xmath4 ( toroidal ) .",
    "future observations of co polarization might be able to provide further constraints .",
    "as the masers used for these studies are mostly found in oxygen - rich agb stars , it has to be considered that the sample is biased .",
    "however , recent cn zeeman splitting observations @xcite seem to indicate that similar strength fields are found around carbon - rich stars .    beyond determining the magnetic field strength ,",
    "the large scale structure of the magnetic field is more difficult to determine , predominantly because the maser observations often probe only limited line - of - sights .",
    "even though specifically oh observations seem to indicate a systematic field structure , it has often been suggested that there might not be a large scale component to the field that would be necessary to shape the outflow @xcite .",
    "so far the only shape constraints throughout the envelope have been determined for the field around the supergiant star vx  sgr ( fig.[vxsgr ] ) , where maser observations spanning 3 orders of magnitude in distance are all consistent with a large scale , possibly dipole shaped , magnetic field .",
    "similar to the agb stars , masers are the major source of magnetic field information of post - agb and p - pne , with the majority of observations focused on oh masers .",
    "these have revealed magnetic field strengths similar to those of agb stars ( few mg ) and a clear large scale magnetic field structure ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the most promising results have come after the detection of the so - called water - fountain sources .",
    "these sources exhibit fast and highly collimated h@xmath0o maser jets that often extend beyond even the regular oh maser shell . with the dynamical age of the jet of order",
    "100 years , they potentially are the progenitors of the bipolar ( p-)pne .",
    "although the masers are often too weak for a detection of the magnetic field , observations of the arch - type of the water - fountains , w43a , have revealed a strong toroidal magnetic field that is collimating the jet ( fig .",
    "[ w43a ] and * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .      during the pn phase , masers are rare and weak and until now only the pn k3 - 35 has had a few mg magnetic field measured in its oh masers @xcite .",
    "fortunately , there are a few other methods of measuring pn magnetic fields . the field orientation in the dust of the nebula",
    "can be determined using dust continuum polarization observations and current observations seem to indicate toroidal fields , with the dust alignment likely occurring close to the dust formation zone @xcite .",
    "faraday rotation studies are potentially also able to study the magnetic field in the interaction region between the interstellar medium and the stellar outflow .",
    "in contrast to agb stars , the central stars of pne also show atomic lines that can be used to directly probe the magnetic fields on the surface of these stars .",
    "while measurements are still rare , observations of for example the central star of ngc  1360 , indicate a field of order several kg @xcite .",
    "despite the strong observational evidence for evolved star magnetic fields , the origin of these fields is still unclear . in single stars , differential rotation between the agb star core and the envelope",
    "could potentially result in sufficiently strong magnetic field @xcite .",
    "however , as the energy loss due to a rotating magnetic field drag drains the rotation needed to maintain the field within several tens of years , an additional source of energy is needed ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "if agb stars would be able to have a sun - like convective dynamo , magnetically dominated explosions could indeed result from single stars .",
    "alternatively , the energy could be provided by the interaction with a circumstellar disk , although the origin of the disk is then another puzzle .",
    "another explanation for maintaining a magnetic field is the interaction between a binary companion or potentially a heavy planet , with common - envelope evolution providing paths to both magnetically as well as thermally driven outflows @xcite .",
    "a companion could be the cause of the precession seen in a number of water - fountain and ( p-)pne jets .",
    "however , to date , the majority of the stars with measured magnetic fields do not show any other indication of binarity .",
    ".energy densities in agb envelopes [ cols=\"<,<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ energy ]",
    "until a more complete sample of magnetically active agb stars , post - agb stars and ( p-)pne is known , it is hard to observationally determine the effect of the magnetic field on these late stages of evolution . starting with the agb phase ,",
    "a number of theoretical works have described the potential of magnetic fields in ( at least partly ) driving the stellar mass - loss through alfvn waves(e.g . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or through the creation of cool spots on the surface above with dust can form easier @xcite .",
    "as current models of dust and radiation driven winds are still unable to explain especially the mass - loss of oxygen - rich stars , magnetic fields might provide the missing component of this problem , with tentative evidence already pointing to a relation between the magnetic field strength and mass - loss rate .",
    "other theoretical works have focused on the magnetic shaping of the stellar winds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "but to properly determine the possible effect of the magnetic fields , it is illustrative to study the approximate ratios of the magnetic , thermal and kinematic energies contained in the stellar wind . in table.[energy ] i list these energies along with the alfvn velocities and typical temperature , velocity and temperature parameters in the envelope of agb stars .",
    "while many values are quite uncertain , as the masers that are used to probe them can exist in a fairly large range of conditions , it seems that the magnetic energy dominates out to @xmath5  au in the circumstellar envelope .",
    "this would correspond to the so - called launch region of magneto - hydrodynamic ( mhd ) outflows , which typically extend to no more than @xmath6 , with @xmath7 the inner - most radial scale of launch engine ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a rough constraint on @xmath7 thus seems to be @xmath8  au , close to the surface of the star .",
    "while progress in studying the magnetic fields of evolved stars has been significant , a number of crucial questions remain to be answered .",
    "several of these can be addressed with the new and upgraded telescopes in the near future .",
    "for example , the upgraded evla and emerlin will uniquely be able to determine the location of the masers in the envelope with respect to the central star , giving us , together with polarization observations , crucial information on the shape and structure of the magnetic field throughout the envelopes .",
    "alma will be able to add further probes of magnetic fields with for example high frequency masers and co polarization observations , significantly expanding our sample of stars with magnetic field measurements . with the alma sensitivity",
    ", polarization will be easily detectable even in short observations and thus , even if not the primary goal , polarization calibration should be done .",
    "the new low - frequency arrays can potentially be used to determine magnetic fields in the interface between the ism and pne envelopes through faraday rotation observations .",
    "* under what conditions does the magnetic field dominate over e.g. binary interaction when shaping outflows ?",
    "* are magnetic fields as widespread in evolved stars as they seem ? * what is the origin of the agb magnetic field - can we find the binaries / heavy planets that might be needed ? * is there a relation between agb mass - loss and magnetic field strength ?    wv acknowledges the support by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) through the emmy noether research grant vl 61/3 - 1 , and the work by the various researchers that have been crucial in the development of the area of evolved star magnetic field research ( including those that i neglected to reference in this review ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observational evidence for strong magnetic fields throughout the envelopes of evolved stars is increasing . </S>",
    "<S> many of the instruments coming on line in the near - future will be able to make further contributions to this field . specifically , maser polarization observations and dust / line polarization in the sub - mm regime has the potential to finally provide a definite picture of the magnetic field strength and configuration from the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) all the way to the planetary nebula phase . while current observations are limited in sample size , </S>",
    "<S> strong magnetic fields appear ubiquitous at all stages of ( post-)agb evolution . </S>",
    "<S> recent observations also strongly support a field structure that is maintained from close to the star to several thousands of au distance . </S>",
    "<S> while its origin is still unclear , the magnetic field is thus a strong candidate for shaping the stellar outflows on the path to the planetary nebula phase and might even play a role in determining the stellar mass - loss . + * keywords.*planetary nebulae  stars : agb and post - agb  magnetic fields </S>"
  ]
}