{
  "article_text": [
    "to detect and characterize extrasolar planets various techniques have been employed , including the radial velocity technique @xcite , the transit method @xcite , direct imaging @xcite , pulsar timing analysis @xcite , and microlensing @xcite .",
    "compared to other techniques , the microlensing method has an important advantage of being applicable to planets to which other methods are generally insensitive ; the microlensing technique is sensitive to detecting low - mass planets and cool planets , or even free - floating planets @xcite .",
    "this sensitivity is so important for testing the core accretion theory of planet formation which predicts that the dominant planets in any planetary system should form in the vicinity of the ` snow line ' , which is located at a few au from the host star @xcite .",
    "when a microlensing event occurs by a planetary system , the planetary signal appears as a short - duration perturbation to the standard light curve induced by the lens star @xcite .",
    "the planetary lensing signal induced by a planet with a mass of jupiter lasts for a duration of @xmath0 day and of @xmath1 hours for a mass of earth .",
    "therefore , the discovery of a terrestrial planet would only be possible by high - cadence anomaly monitoring .",
    "in fact , the detection of a significant number of terrestrial extra - solar planets requires well - coordinated efforts involving a network ( e.g. , moa - ii : sumi et al .",
    "2010 ; ogle - iv : udalski et al . 2005 ) .",
    "moa - ii has reported two low - mass planets with their survey , moa-2007-blg-192 lb ( bennett et al .",
    "2008 ) and ogle-2007-blg-368 lb ( sumi et al . 2010 ) , and is preparing one , moa-2009-blg-266 lb ( in preparation ) .",
    "the planetary perturbation occurs when the source star crosses the caustic or passes close to it .",
    "caustic - crossing events cause conspicuous double - peaks over the smooth light curve induced by a lensing star . however , the perturbations due to caustic - crossing occur without any prior warning so that current microlensing follow - up observations are focusing on high magnification events for the sake of practicality . for high - magnification events ,",
    "the source trajectories always pass close to the perturbation region around the central caustic induced by the planet and thus timing can be predicted fairly accurately @xcite . @xcite",
    "have shown that planets with masses as low as @xmath2 could be detected with significant probability in events with magnifications @xmath3 by monitoring the peaks of the events with a photometric precision of @xmath0 per cent .",
    "rhie et al.(2000 ) have first showed that high magnification events are sensitive to low - mass ( earth - mass ) planets ( for the lower limit of the planet mass most recently reported , see yee et al .",
    "2009 ) .    since the discovery of the first extra solar planet orbiting a solar - type star @xcite , the extra - solar planet encyclopedia lists 429 entries , including 45 multiple planetary systems , as of the 09th of february in 2010 .",
    "the detectable mass of exo - planets is extending below the @xmath2 regime , with the discoveries of gliese 876d at a mass of @xmath4 @xcite , three planets around hd 40307 with masses of @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 @xcite , and gliese 581e with a mass of @xmath8 @xcite using the radial - velocity technique , as well as ogle 2005-blg-390 lb detected by microlensing at a mass of @xmath9 @xcite .",
    "many of the discovered ` super - earth ' planets have been revealed through the close re - examination of planetary signals that already proved the existence of their big brother . considering that a planetary system is likely to be composed of more than one planet , this kind of strategy to find low - mass planets in the multiple planet systems may become an efficient way to search for terrestrial planets in the sense that it is easier to detect subtle signals when one knows where to look for .",
    "the magnification pattern due to the triple - lens systems is known to be well approximated by the superposition of the magnifications due to individual planets for planetary caustics ( han et al .",
    "2001 ) and for central caustics ( han 2005 ) .",
    "therefore , we may expect that the detection probability of low - mass planets in a triple system with a jovian mass planet plus a low - mass planet should be quite similar to the detection probability in a binary system with only a low - mass planet .",
    "however , this is known only for a limited range of planet mass ratio and separations ( han 2005 ) , and also the effect of the deviation from the superposition approximation to the detection probability is not known .",
    "moreover , it is not clear if the smaller deviation in the magnification due to a low - mass planet superposed on the larger deviation due to a more massive jovian mass planet can be effectively detected in high magnification events when the ` adjusted ' binary lens model is fitted to incorporate the additional deviation from the low - mass planet , possibly removing the signature of the low - mass planet .",
    "so in this paper , we study the triple lens system ( a lens star , a jovian mass planet , and a low - mass planet ) for a broader range of planetary masses and separations than in previous studies , motivated by the fact that all planets in the lensing zone will substantially affect the central caustics and thus the existence of the multiple planets can be inferred by analyzing additionally deformed anomalies in the light curve of high magnification microlensing events @xcite .",
    "we further calculate the probability to detect the low - mass planet in the high - magnification events of a triple lens system and compare that to that of a binary lens system ( a lens star and a low - mass planet ) . since the dependence of the size of the central caustic on the planet / star mass ratio @xmath10 is linear @xcite , detecting signals of earth - mass planets with @xmath11 from the planet - search strategy of monitoring high - magnification event of the binary lens system is observationally challenging ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , it should be crucial and timely to address the question if the detection probability of a low - mass planet for high - magnification events of the triple lens system is comparable to that of the binary lens system .",
    "answers to this question may well have implications on interpretations of the light curve of high - magnification microlensing events .",
    "indeed , recently there have been efforts to re - analyze the observational data along the line of this point . for example",
    ", @xcite have attempted to estimate the detection probability for the secondary planet by re - analyzing the observational data of ogle 2005-blg-390 .",
    "their assumptions may be justified for their purposes in that the impact parameter of ogle 2005-blg-390 is large , i.e. , @xmath12 . on the contrary , in this paper we specifically concentrate on the high magnification microlensing events ( @xmath13 ) .    in  2",
    ", we begin with a brief description of the multiple lens systems . in  3 , we construct the fractional deviation of the magnification map induced by the secondary planet . in  4 , we present the detection probability and compare the triple lens case with the binary lens case . in  5 ,",
    "we conclude with a summary of our results .",
    "when a source star is gravitationally lensed by a point - mass lens , the source is split into two images with the total magnification given as a simple analytic form of @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the lens - source separation normalized by the angular einstein ring radius @xcite .",
    "the angular einstein ring radius is related to the physical parameters of the lens by @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the mass of the lens and @xmath18 and @xmath19 represent the distances from the observer to the lens and source , respectively .",
    "if the lens star accommodates a planetary companion , the latter may further perturb the image and so changes the magnification .",
    "when a lensing event is caused by the multiple lens system , locations of the individual image are obtained by solving the lens equation expressed in complex notations by @xmath20 where @xmath21 s and @xmath22 s represent the mass fractions of individual lenses ( @xmath23 for the central lens star , @xmath24 for the primary planet , and @xmath25 for the secondary planet and so on ) such that @xmath26 and the positions of the lenses , respectively , @xmath27 and @xmath28 are the positions of the source and images , and @xmath29 denotes the complex conjugate of @xmath30 @xcite .",
    "note that all these lengths are normalized by the combined einstein ring radius , which is equivalent to the einstein ring radius of the single lens with a mass equal to the total mass of the system .",
    "the total magnification is the sum of magnifications of the individual images , @xmath31 .",
    "the magnification of each image evaluated at the position of each image @xmath32 , is given by @xmath33 where @xmath34    the fundamental difference in the geometry of the multiple lens system from that of the single point - mass lens system is the formation of caustics .",
    "the caustic refers to the source position on which the magnification of a point source event becomes infinity , i.e. , det @xmath35 . the set of caustics forms closed curves .",
    "for example , for the planetary lensing system composed of a single star and a single planet , there exist two sets of disconnected caustics : one ` central ' caustic is located close to the lens star , while the other ` planetary ' caustic(s ) is ( are ) located away from the lens star .",
    "the number of the planetary caustics is one or two depending on whether the planet lies outside or inside the einstein ring . when the planetary companion is close to the einstein ring , the planetary and central caustics merge into a single ` resonant caustic ' .",
    "the central caustic plays a crucial role in current microlensing planet searches , as stated earlier , in that the central caustic due to the planet has a high probability of perturbing the light curve of high - magnification event , therefore detectable as the planetary signal . for the triple lens case ,",
    "the lens equation becomes a rather complicated tenth order polynomial equation that has 4 , 6 , 8 , or 10 solutions , corresponding to physical images depending on the configuration of the lens system and the location of the source ( rhie 2002 ) . in the triple lens system",
    ", patterns of the planetary caustics may well be described by the superposition of those of the single - planet systems @xcite .",
    "they are barely affected by each other unless the projected positions of the planets are close . on the contrary , in the central region of the magnification map",
    "the anomaly pattern induced by one planet can be significantly affected by the existence of another planet .",
    "in fig .  2 , we show the fractional deviation of the magnification map obtained by fitting the binary lens model to the magnification map induced by triple lens systems , which is defined by @xmath36 where @xmath37 and @xmath38 represent the magnification map generated with the primary plus secondary planets and that obtained by fitting the binary lens model in which the secondary planet is absent , respectively . the inverse ray - shooting technique is used to obtain the magnification map @xcite .",
    "deviation maps are presented in terms of the lens position of the secondary planet both in angles between position vectors of two planets @xmath39 and in separations @xmath40 ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "each map of the fractional deviation is calculated as a function of the source position @xmath41 .",
    "the coordinates are set so that the lens star is at the center .",
    "we concentrate only on regions of @xmath42 and @xmath43 for which high - magnification events are relevant . in generating the magnification map induced by triple lens systems the primary planet",
    "is fixed to be located on the @xmath44 axis , @xmath45 .",
    "we set the mass ratio of the primary planet to the lens star @xmath46 and that of the secondary planet @xmath47 , corresponding to a jupiter - mass and saturn - mass planets orbiting a @xmath48 star , respectively . unless otherwise stated , in all computations throughout this paper we adopt typical values of distances for galactic bulge events : @xmath49 kpc , @xmath50 kpc .",
    "we also assume the source radius @xmath51 to be @xmath52 = 0.001 , which corresponds to a typical main - sequence star .",
    "note that in the fitting procedure parameters of the binary lens model composed of the a lens star and the primary planet are constrained to find their best fit values . to minimize the difference between the epsilon we generated using the triple lens and one we modeled by the binary lens model",
    ", the minimization process has been performed by the least square method with varying the mass ratio of the primary planet , @xmath53 , and its position , @xmath54 .",
    "contours are drawn at the levels of @xmath55 , @xmath56 , @xmath57 , and @xmath58 , and the regions of negative @xmath59 are shown in blue and positive @xmath59 in red . the color changes into light shade as @xmath60 level decreases .",
    "as one may expect , distorted regions due to the secondary planet are confined to the central caustic of the primary planet due to the nonlinear interference between perturbations produced by two planets . on the other hand , it should be noted that when @xmath61 there may exist a degenerate case where two - planet geometries will give rise to exactly the same magnification map with a single planet of a slightly larger mass as previously noted by @xcite . in our particular example",
    "it can be seen in the case of @xmath62 since the primary planet is located at ( -1.3 , 0.0 ) .",
    "we also note that the degeneracy between @xmath40 and @xmath63 can be seen due to the additional planet .",
    "regions deformed by the secondary planet revolve as the angle between two planets varies , and become broader as @xmath40 approaches unity . to explore the effect of @xmath64 , we show deviation maps for several @xmath40 and @xmath64 in fig .  3 .",
    "we set the mass ratio of the primary planet to the lens star @xmath46 and the angle between position vectors of two planets @xmath65 . as in fig .  2 ,",
    "contours are drawn at the levels of @xmath55 , @xmath56 , @xmath57 , and @xmath58 , and the regions of negative @xmath59 are shown in blue and positive @xmath59 in red . from the maps ,",
    "one finds that the lower limit of the mass of the secondary planet that may cause sufficient deformations in the magnification map is between @xmath66 , in which @xmath67 corresponds to a @xmath2 planet orbiting a @xmath48 star . in other words",
    ", an earth - mass planet can only be possibly detectable in a narrow region of the parameter space unless the photometric accuracy allows one to examine the observational data in the levels of @xmath68 .",
    "to ` discover ' a planet , one may demand that @xmath69 between the light curve calculated by the planetary lens model and the observed data should be smaller than a carefully chosen critical value . or , as another way to disclose a planet the @xmath70-based criterion can be translated into so - called gould & loeb criterion , assuming a predetermined photometric accuracy and non - white noise @xcite .",
    "gould & loeb criterion considers deviations as a planetary signal when a few observational points are consecutively deviated from the single - lens light curve . in the current exercise , we are going to follow gould & loeb criterion .",
    "thus , we will count a signal of planetary detection as successful if at least one point in the deviation map has the deviation amplitude larger than a certain threshold .",
    "we have defined the detection probability of the low - mass planet as follows : firstly , for given @xmath64 , @xmath40 and @xmath39 , we calculate the area in which the value of @xmath60 in the deviation map , e.g. , shown in fig .  2 and 3 ,",
    "is greater than 5% .",
    "bearing in mind that monitoring high - magnification events should be an efficient strategy of detecting ` super - earth ' planets in view of practical purposes , we only consider this quantity in the range of @xmath71 as commonly employed .",
    "having done that , we average the obtained area over the position angle in the range of @xmath72 .",
    "then , we normalize the averaged area with the area of @xmath71 . in this way , we obtain the detection probability as a function of @xmath64 and @xmath40 .",
    "note that we repeat the same calculation for the binary lens with a planet that has the same mass as the secondary planet in the triple lens system , except that we construct fractional deviation maps given as @xmath73 where @xmath38 and @xmath74 represent the magnification map generated with the binary lens system having a planet and that obtained by fitting of the single lens model , respectively .    in fig .  4 , we compare the probability of detecting the low - mass planet in triple systems with that in binary systems , provided that the detection threshold is @xmath75 .",
    "the detection probability of the secondary low - mass planet in the triple lens system is presented by grey - scale such that darker shade represents higher probability as shown in the scale - bar .",
    "we note that for a given @xmath64 the probability in detecting the secondary planet becomes higher as @xmath40 approaches unity , as expected in plots such as fig .  2 .",
    "we find that in the triple lens system the detection probabilities of the low - mass planet are @xmath76 , @xmath77 , and @xmath78 for @xmath79 , and @xmath80 , respectively , if we only consider the secondary planet residing in the lensing zone , @xmath81 .",
    "for comparison , we also present as dotted contours the probability of detecting the low - mass planet in binary systems .",
    "the detection probabilities for low - mass planets have been calculated ( gould & loeb 1992 ; bennett & rhie 1996 ; griest & safizadeh 1998 ; gaudi , naber , & sackett 1998 ; rhie et al . 2000 ; bennett & rhie 2002 ; rattenbury et al .",
    "2002 ; kubas et al . 2008 ) .",
    "interestingly enough , for a given @xmath64 and @xmath40 the detection probability of the low - mass planet in the triple lens system is very similar to that in the binary lens system .",
    "it makes sense when recalling that the magnification pattern due to the triple - lens systems is well approximated by the superposition of the magnifications due to the individual planets ( han et al .",
    "2001 ; han 2005 ) . the fundamental reason why the detection probability of low - mass planets in a triple - lens system with a jovian mass planet could be similar to the detection probability in a binary - lens system is that in most cases the binary superposition works well even in the central region .",
    "if the interference between caustics due to two planets destroys its original shapes then there is no reason that we end up with residuals implying a second planet .",
    "having said so , another necessary condition that the detection probability of low - mass planets in a triple - lens system with a jovian mass planet could be similar to the detection probability in a binary - lens system is that the minimization should finds a solution for the jovian planet accurately enough .    in fig .  5 , we present the detection probability for the lower threshold of @xmath82 , provided that photometric uncertainties of @xmath83 are achievable in the future .",
    "it is natural to find that the probability in the traditional lensing zone becomes higher .",
    "that is , we find that in the triple lens system the detection probabilities of the low - mass planet are @xmath84 , @xmath85 , and @xmath86 for @xmath79 , and @xmath80 , respectively , if we only consider the secondary planet residing in the lensing zone .",
    "it is also found that for high - mass planet of @xmath87 corresponding to a @xmath2 planet orbiting a @xmath88 star there exist reasonably high probabilities in the broader range than the lensing zone , i.e. , @xmath89 or @xmath90 .",
    "the detection probability of the low - mass secondary planet in the triple lens system is also comparable to that in the binary lens system , except when @xmath91 corresponding to a @xmath92 planet orbiting a @xmath93 star . in that parameter space",
    "the detection probability in the binary lens system is somewhat higher than that in the triple lens system .",
    "we have computed the detection probability of the low - mass planet specifically for high - magnification events of the triple lens system , motivated by the fact that the central caustic is distorted by any companion to the lens star .",
    "having done that , we have compared the detection probability of the low - mass secondary planet for high - magnification events of the triple lens system with that of the same low - mass planet but in the binary lens system . it should be stressed that the detection probability of the low - mass planet for high - magnification events of the triple lens system given in this paper is a kind of relative probability in the sense that our criteria on the discovery of a planet is actually closer to one of signals of the planet .",
    "the detection of signals of a low - mass planet may not be sufficient for the discovery of such a planet .",
    "having compared results of two cases with the same criteria , however , probabilities given here are still worthy in lending emphasis to the light curves of the triple lens system .",
    "our main findings are as follows :    \\(1 ) in the triple lens case where the secondary planet resides in the lensing zone , the detection probabilities of the low - mass planet for the high magnification events are @xmath76 , @xmath77 , and @xmath78 for @xmath79 , and @xmath80 , respectively , when the detection criterion is @xmath94 5% where @xmath59 is the deviation in magnification .",
    "\\(2 ) when the detection criterion is @xmath95 , those probabilities increase to @xmath84 , @xmath85 , and @xmath86 for @xmath79 , and @xmath80 , respectively . for high - mass planet of @xmath87 , there exist reasonably high probabilities outside the usual lensing zone , @xmath96 or @xmath97 .",
    "\\(3 ) for a given @xmath64 and @xmath40 , the detection probability of the low - mass planet in the triple lens system is comparable to that in the binary lens system .",
    "therefore , it is quite necessary to develop an efficient algorithm search for ` super - earth ' planets in the paradigm of the triple lens model as well as of the binary lens model .",
    "we thank the anonymous referees for critical comments which clarify and improve the original version of the manuscript .",
    "we are also grateful to ki - won lee for many insightful comments and careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "this work is the result of research activities at the astrophysical research center for the structure and evolution of the cosmos ( arcsec ) supported by the korea science & engineering foundation ( kosef ) .",
    "hyc was supported by basic science research program through the national research foundation of korea(nrf ) funded by the ministry of education , science and technology ( 2009 - 0071263 ) .",
    "beaulieu , j .-",
    ", et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 439 , 437 bennett , d. p. , & rhie , s. h. 1996 , apj , 472 , 660 bennett , d. p. , & rhie , s. h. 2002 , apj , 574 , 985 bennett , d.  p. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 684 , 663 bond , i.  a. , et al .",
    "2002 , mnras , 333 , 71 bond , i.  a. , et al .  2004 , apj , 606 , l155 charbonneau , d. , brown , t.  m. , burrows , a. , & laughlin , g.  2007 , protostars and planets v , 701 chauvin , g. , lagrange , a .- m . , dumas , c. , zuckerman , b. , mouillet , d. , song , i. , beuzit , j .- l . , lowrance , p. 2004",
    ", a&a , 425 , l29 chung , s .- j . ,",
    "2005 , apj , 630 , 535 dong , s. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 698 , 1826 gaudi , b. s. , & sackett , p. d. 2000 , apj , 528 , 56 gaudi , b. s. , naber , r.  m. , & sackett , p.  d.  1998 , apj , 502 , l33 gaudi , b.  s. , et al .",
    "2008 , science , 319 , 927 gould , a. , & loeb , a.  1992 , apj , 396 , 104 gould , a. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 644 , l37 griest , k. , & safizadeh , n.  1998 , apj , 500 , 37 han , c.  2005 , apj , 629 , 1102 han , c. 2006 , apj , 638 , 1080 han , c. , & kim , y .- g .",
    "2001 , apj , 546 , 975 han , c. , chang , h .- y . ,",
    "an , j.  h. , & chang , k.  2001 , mnras , 328 , 986 han , c. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 604 , 372 han , c. , gaudi , b. s. , an , j. h. , & gould , a. 2005 , apj , 618 , 962 ida , s. , & lin , d. n. c. 2005 , apj , 626 , 1045 janczak , j. , et al.2010 , apj , 711 , 731 kayser , r. , refsdal , s. , & stabell , r.  1986 , a&a , 166 , 36 kennedy , g. m. , kenyon , s. j. , & bromley , b. c. 2006 , apj , 650 , l139 kubas , d. , et al .",
    "2008 , a&a , 483 , 317 laughlin , g. , bodenheimer , p. , & adams , f. c. 2004 , apj , 612 , l73 mao , s. , & paczynski , b.  1991 , apj , 374 , l37 mayor , m. , & queloz , d. 1995 , nature , 378 , 333 mayor , m. , udry , s. , lovis , c. , pepe , f. , queloz , d. , benz , w. , bertaux , j .- l . , bouchy , f. , mordasini , c. , segransan , d. 2009a , a&a , 493 , 639 mayor , m. , bonfils , x. , forveille , t. , delfosse , x. , udry , s. , bertaux , j .- l . ,",
    "beust , h. , bouchy , f. , lovis , c. , pepe , f. , perrier , c. , queloz , d. , santos , n. c. 2009b , astro - ph/0906.2780 paczyski , b. 1986 , apj , 304 , 1 rattenbury , n.  j. , bond , i.  a. , skuljan , j. , & yock , p.  c.  m.  2002 , mnras , 335 , 159 rhie s.  h.  2002 , arxiv : astro - ph/0202294 rhie s.  h. , et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 533 , 378 rivera , e. j. , lissauer , j. j. , butler , r. p. , marcy , g. w. , vogt , s. s. , fischer , d. a. , brown , t. m. , laughlin , g. , henry , g. w. 2005 , apj , 634 , 625 schneider , p. , & weiss , a.  1986 , a&a , 164 , 237 sumi , t. , et al .  2010,apj , 710 , 1641 udalski , a. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 628 , l109 wambsganss , j.  1997 , mnras , 284 , 172 witt , h.  j.  1990 , a&a , 236 , 311 wolszczan , a. , & frail , d. a. 1992 , naturet , 355 , 145 yee , j. c. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 703 , 2082 yoo , j. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 616 , 1204"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in view of the assumption that any planetary system is likely to be composed of more than one planet , and the multiple planet system with a large mass planet has more chance of detailed follow - up observations , the multiple planet system may be an efficient way to search for sub - jovian planets . </S>",
    "<S> we study the central region of the magnification pattern for the triple lens system composed of a star , a jovian mass planet , and a low - mass planet to answer the question if the low - mass planet can be detected in high magnification events . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the magnification pattern of the triple lens system with that of a best - fitted binary system composed of a star and a jovian mass planet , and check the probability in detecting the low - mass secondary planet whose signature will be superposed on that of the primary jovian mass planet . </S>",
    "<S> detection probabilities of the low - mass planet in the triple lens system are quite similar to the probability in detecting such a low - mass planet in a binary system with a star and only a low - mass planet , which shows that the signature of a low - mass planet can be effectively detected even when it is concurrent with the signature of the more massive planet , implying that the binary superposition approximation works over a relatively broad range of planet mass ratio and separations , and the inaccuracies thereof do not significantly affect the detection probability of the lower mass secondary planet </S>",
    "<S> . since the signature of the jovian mass planet will be larger and lasts longer , thereby warranting more intensive follow - up observations , the actual detection rate of the low - mass planet in a triple system with a jovian mass can be significantly higher than that in a binary system with a low - mass planet only . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that it may be worthwhile to develop an efficient algorithm to search for ` super - earth ' planets in the paradigm of the triple lens model for high - magnification microlensing events .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gravitational lensing  planetary systems  planets and satellites : general </S>"
  ]
}