{
  "article_text": [
    "the icecube neutrino telescope @xcite , currently under construction in the glacial ice at the south pole , is capable of detecting high energy neutrinos of all three flavors . in particular , charged current ( cc ) interactions between @xmath2 or @xmath3 , and nucleons in the ice , produce muons .",
    "icecube detects the cherenkov radiation produced as these muons propagate and undergo radiative losses . by reconstructing the muon s track and energy loss",
    ", the direction and energy of the incident neutrino can be inferred .",
    "atmospheric neutrinos are produced in the decay chains of particles created by the interaction of cosmic rays with the earth s atmosphere @xcite .",
    "icecube has an unprecedented high statistics , high energy reach for these atmospheric neutrinos .",
    "hence , icecube can be used to test predictions for the flux of atmospheric neutrinos at high energies , including the uncertain contribution from charm production above about 100 tev .",
    "the atmospheric neutrino flux can also be used to verify that the icecube detector is performing as expected @xcite . understanding the energy and zenith dependence of the atmospheric neutrino flux in icecube is important since this is an irreducible background for searches for a diffuse flux , or for point sources , of astrophysical neutrinos .    this analysis used data taken from april 2008 , to may 2009 , while icecube was operating in a 40-string configuration .",
    "the signal events were up - going atmospheric @xmath4 and @xmath5 interactions .",
    "the background was down - going atmospheric muons that were mis - reconstructed as up - going .",
    "an as - yet unmeasured but anticipated diffuse flux of astrophysical neutrinos was ignored .",
    "predictions for this flux are negligible compared to predictions for the atmospheric neutrino flux , over most of the energy range for this analysis , and it can readily be accommodated within the reported uncertainties .    boosted decision trees ( bdt ) were used to obtain an event sample with negligible background contamination .",
    "an unfolding of the atmospheric neutrino energy spectrum , over the neutrino energy range 100 gev to 400 tev , was performed .",
    "systematic uncertainties in the unfolded spectrum were estimated and highlight the efforts that are underway to reduce systematic uncertainties in neutrino measurements with icecube .",
    "we will briefly review the production and distribution of atmospheric neutrinos in section  [ atmos ] . in section  [ icecube_det ]",
    ", we will discuss the icecube detector , and the detection of muon neutrino events in icecube .",
    "event reconstruction and event selection specific to this analysis will be discussed in section  [ data ] .",
    "the unfolding analysis and systematic uncertainties will be discussed in section  [ unfolding_result ] .",
    "finally , in section  [ conclusion ] , we will discuss the implications of the unfolded result .",
    "cosmic rays are high energy particles , mostly protons and helium nuclei , but also heavier ionized nuclei , that are believed to be accelerated in various astrophysical phenomena @xcite .",
    "possible cosmic ray production sites include active galactic nuclei , gamma ray bursts , and supernova explosions .",
    "detecting astrophysical neutrinos , produced in conjunction with cosmic rays at point sources such as these , is one of the primary goals of icecube .",
    "the energy spectrum of cosmic rays is rather steep , @xmath6 , and steepens to @xmath7 above the `` knee '' , or about @xmath8 gev @xcite .",
    "a possible second knee is a steepening to about @xmath9 above @xmath10 gev @xcite .",
    "a further kink in the spectrum has been observed at @xmath11  gev , where the spectrum flattens to @xmath12 again .",
    "the event sample for this analysis is primarily the result of interactions of cosmic rays with energies below the first knee .",
    "hadronic interactions between cosmic rays and particles in the earth s atmosphere produce large numbers of mesons , primarily pions and kaons .",
    "hundreds or even thousands of these mesons can be produced in the shower that follows the interaction of a single high energy cosmic ray .",
    "neutrinos are produced in the leptonic or semi - leptonic decays of charged pions or kaons , as well as in the subsequent decay of the muons .",
    "neutrinos from muon decay are important up to a few gev .",
    "pions and kaons that decay in - flight are the primary source of atmospheric muon neutrinos from a few gev up to about 100 tev . with rest - frame lifetimes on the order of @xmath13  s",
    ", these mesons often lose some of their energy in collisions prior to decaying , leading to lower energy neutrinos among the decay products .",
    "hence , the spectral slope of this `` conventional '' atmospheric neutrino flux @xcite asymptotically becomes one power steeper than that of the primary cosmic ray spectrum .",
    "theoretical uncertainties in predictions for the conventional flux are dominated by uncertainties in the normalization and spectral distribution of the cosmic ray flux .",
    "additional uncertainties include the ratio of pions to kaons produced by cosmic ray interactions , which affects the zenith angle distribution , particularly near the horizon .    at sufficiently high energies",
    ", another production mechanism is possible .",
    "the `` prompt '' atmospheric neutrino flux @xcite is made up of neutrinos produced in the semi - leptonic decays of charmed mesons and baryons .",
    "these particles decay almost immediately ( rest - frame lifetimes on the order of @xmath14 s ) , before losing energy in collisions .",
    "hence , the spectrum for the prompt flux more closely follows the cosmic ray spectrum and is about one power harder than the conventional flux at high energy .",
    "the prompt flux has not yet been measured , but is expected to be important above about 100 tev @xcite .",
    "just like the conventional flux , predictions for the prompt flux are impacted by uncertainties in the normalization and spectral distribution of the cosmic ray flux .",
    "additional sources of uncertainty for the prompt flux include charm production cross sections @xcite and fragmentation functions , which have not been measured at these energies in accelerator experiments .",
    "figure  [ gaisf25 ] shows the predicted flux of conventional and prompt atmospheric muon neutrinos @xcite .",
    "flux @xcite , averaged over the zenith range @xmath15 to @xmath16 .",
    "the long - dashed line is the prompt @xmath1 flux @xcite , also averaged over the zenith range @xmath15 to @xmath16 .",
    "the dot - dashed curve is the sum of the conventional and prompt models .",
    "the flux predictions from @xcite were extended to higher energies as discussed in sect .",
    "[ sim ] . for reasons discussed in sect .",
    "[ systematics ] , the zenith region from @xmath15 to @xmath17 was not used in the analysis . the zenith - averaged conventional flux , for the range @xmath17 to @xmath16 ,",
    "is included in the figure as the small - dashed line .",
    "the prediction for the zenith - averaged prompt flux is not affected by this change in angular region.,width=336 ]    although high energy cosmic rays arrive almost isotropically , with deviations less than @xmath18 @xcite , the zenith angle dependence of high energy atmospheric neutrino production is complicated by the direction of the shower through the atmosphere .",
    "the energy spectrum of nearly horizontal conventional atmospheric neutrinos is flatter than that of almost vertical neutrinos because pions and kaons in inclined showers spend more time in the tenuous atmosphere where they are more likely to decay before losing energy in collisions . additionally , attenuation of the neutrino flux by the earth is a function of energy and zenith angle . above about 10 tev ,",
    "attenuation of the neutrino flux in the earth is important , and affects the zenith and energy dependence of the flux at the detector .",
    "icecube @xcite is able to detect neutrinos over a wide energy range , from about @xmath19 gev to more than @xmath20 gev .",
    "the design is a balance between energy resolution , angular resolution , energy range , and cost , and was driven by the goal of detecting astrophysical neutrino point sources , which are believed to be correlated with cosmic ray production sites .",
    "a large detector is required as a result of the extremely small cross - sections for neutrino interactions , as well as the low fluxes expected for astrophysical neutrinos .    when completed in 2011",
    ", icecube will comprise 86 strings , with 5160 photomultiplier tubes ( pmt ) .",
    "each string includes sixty digital optical modules ( dom ) .",
    "a dom is a single pmt and associated electronics in a glass pressure sphere .",
    "the instrumented part of the array extends from 1450 m to 2450 m below the surface of the ice .",
    "horizontally , 78 of the strings are 125 m apart and spread out in a triangular grid over a square kilometer , so that the entire instrumented volume will be 1 @xmath21 of ice .",
    "vertical dom spacing is a uniform 17 m for these 78 strings .",
    "a subset of the detector , known as `` deepcore '' , consists of eight specialized and closely spaced strings of sensors located around the center icecube string .",
    "figure  [ icecube ] shows the icecube observatory and its component arrays .",
    "this analysis used data from 359 days of livetime while operating in a 40-string configuration , from april 2008 , to may 2009 .",
    "figure  [ 40_str ] shows an overhead view of the layout of the 40-string configuration , which was roughly twice as long in one horizontal direction as in the other .            at the heart of each dom",
    "is a 10 inch ( 25 cm ) hamamatsu pmt @xcite ( see fig .",
    "[ dom_photo ] ) .",
    "a single cherenkov photon arriving at a dom and producing a photoelectron is defined as a hit .",
    "dom main board electronics @xcite apply a threshold trigger to the pmt analog output .",
    "this threshold is equivalent to 0.25 of the signal generated by a photoelectron , after amplification by the pmt .",
    "when this threshold is exceeded , local coincidence checks between this dom and nearest neighbor or next - to - nearest neighbor doms on a string are performed to reduce false triggers that result from dark noise .",
    "if a nearest or next - to - nearest neighbor dom also has a detection above threshold within a @xmath22 ns window , the pmt total charge waveforms are digitized , time stamped , and sent to the surface .",
    "the digitized waveform from a dom can contain several pulses , and each pulse can be the result of multiple photoelectrons .",
    "the simple majority trigger for building an event is eight hit doms within a 5000 ns trigger window .",
    "the data rate from the data acquisition system at the south pole far exceeds the amount of data that can be transmitted via satellite .",
    "hence , a significant reduction in the trigger - level data must be accomplished with software - based filtering at the south pole .",
    "a cluster of processors performs a variety of fast reconstructions on the data , and applies multiple software - based filters to the results .",
    "these filters either reject events that are uninteresting background events , or extract particular classes of events .",
    "events are sent to a buffer if they pass one or more of the filters .",
    "the transfer of data from this buffer over a communications satellite is handled by the south pole archival and data exchange ( spade ) system .",
    "the deep glacial ice at the south pole is optically transparent , making it an ideal medium for a large volume cherenkov detector .",
    "the ice sheet is just over 2800 m thick and was created over a period of roughly 165,000 years @xcite .",
    "it serves multiple roles : a stable platform for the doms , the target medium for neutrino interactions , the propagation and detection medium for cherenkov photons produced by charged particles , and an overburden for attenuation of down - going atmospheric muons .",
    "upward moving particles will have had to result from particles that penetrated the earth and can readily be identified as resulting from neutrino interactions .",
    "optical properties of the ice are discussed in @xcite .",
    "scattering and absorption of photons in the ice is caused by bubbles , dust particles , and crystal defects .",
    "below about 1400 m , the ice is essentially free of bubbles , and scattering is dominated by dust .",
    "micron - sized dust grains were carried as wind - borne aerosols during the periods of ice formation , and deposited in the ice .",
    "variations with depth are due to the periodic build up of dust that resulted from the prevailing atmospheric conditions when the layers of ice were being formed .    the depth and wavelength dependence of scattering and absorption as measured in the ice around the amanda detector is discussed in ref .",
    "@xcite . now surrounded by icecube and no longer operating , amanda was the predecessor and prototype for icecube .",
    "ice properties were extrapolated to lower depths using ice core measurements taken at vostok station and dome fuji in antarctica , then scaled to the location of icecube using an age vs.  depth relationship @xcite .",
    "studies are on - going that use leds on flasher boards within each dom to directly measure ice properties in the deepest ice instrumented by icecube .",
    "muon neutrinos undergoing cc interactions in the ice produce muons .",
    "the muons on average carry about @xmath23 of the initial neutrino energy @xcite .",
    "simulation studies indicate that muon angular resolution is typically between @xmath24 and @xmath25 , depending on the angle of incidence and the muon energy .",
    "the energy loss per meter , for a muon propagating through the ice , is related to its energy @xcite : @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the muon energy , @xmath28 gev / m is the ionization energy loss per unit propagation length , and @xmath29 @xmath30 is the radiative energy loss through bremsstrahlung , pair production , and photonuclear scattering , ( @xmath31 and @xmath32 are both weak functions of energy ) . for muon energies less than about a tev , energy loss is dominated by ionization , and the light produced is nearly independent of energy .",
    "however , for higher energy muons , there are many stochastic interactions along the muon s path and there is a linear relationship between the energy loss per meter and the muon energy . most of the cherenkov light emitted along the muon s path comes from the secondary particles produced in radiative losses . an estimation of @xmath33 , based on the amount of detected light , the event geometry , and the ice properties , was used in the energy spectrum unfolding discussed in sect .",
    "[ unfolding_result ] . the energy of individual events was not estimated .",
    "rather , the distribution of neutrino energies was directly inferred from the distribution of reconstructed muon @xmath34 values .",
    "the detection rate for high energy @xmath4 ( @xmath5 ) is aided by the fact that the cc interaction cross section , as well as the range of the resultant muon , are proportional to the neutrino energy .",
    "high energy muons have a significant path - length and can reach the detector even if produced outside of the detector , hence increasing the effective volume .",
    "muons in earth or ice can have a track length from several tens of meters , up to several kilometers , depending on the muon energy and the detection threshold .",
    "the average track length , before the muon energy falls below a detection threshold @xmath35 , is given by : @xmath36,\\ ] ] where @xmath37 is the initial muon energy .",
    "simulation of atmospheric muons and neutrinos was used for determining event selection and background rejection cuts .",
    "simulation was also used for the response matrix ( discussed in section  [ unfolding_result ] ) and the predicted @xmath34 distribution for the unfolding analysis .",
    "several specialized simulated data sets were used for systematics studies and toy monte carlo ( mc ) studies .",
    "muons from air showers were simulated with corsika @xcite .",
    "the primary cosmic ray energy spectrum known as the hrandel poly - gonato model @xcite was used . in this model ,",
    "the spectrum of each component is a combination of two power laws , with the turnover between the two power laws being a function of the nuclear charge @xmath38 of the primary cosmic ray .",
    "corsika propagates cosmic ray primaries ( up to fe ) to their point of interaction with a nucleus in the atmosphere .",
    "hadronic interactions in the atmosphere were modelled using the interaction model sibyll @xcite .",
    "secondary particles were then tracked until they interacted or decayed .",
    "coincident muons in the detector , originating from separate cosmic ray events , were accounted for by combining simulated events and re - weighting them to account for the probability of coincident events occurring .",
    "muon propagation and energy loss within and around the detector was simulated with the program mmc ( muon monte carlo ) @xcite .",
    "mmc accounts for ionization , bremsstrahlung , photo - nuclear interactions , and pair production .",
    "in addition to muon tracks and energies , secondary particles from the stochastic energy losses are included in the output of mmc .",
    "the production and propagation of cherenkov light from the muons and secondary particles was simulated using the program photonics @xcite , which accounts for the depth - dependent scattering and absorption properties of the ice .",
    "direct tracking of cherenkov photons through the layered glacial ice was too computationally intensive for simulation production .",
    "photonics was run beforehand to create lookup tables which were then used during the detector simulation .",
    "the tables included light yield and photon propagation time distributions at a given location in the ice from a given source type and location .",
    "simulation of the detector response to electromagnetic and hadronic showers ( so - called cascade events ) also used pre - tabulated light yield tables and photon propagation time information generated by photonics .",
    "an energy - dependent scaling factor was applied for hadronic cascades , to account for the fact that hadronic cascades produce less cherenkov light than their electromagnetic counterparts @xcite .",
    "neutrino propagation from point of origin in the atmosphere to interaction in or near the detector was simulated with anis @xcite .",
    "anis generates neutrinos of any flavor according to a specified flux , propagates them through the earth , and in a final step simulates neutrino interactions within a specified volume .",
    "all simulated neutrinos were forced to interact , but their probability of interacting was included in the event weight assigned by anis .",
    "anis accounts for cc and neutral current ( nc ) neutrino - nucleon interactions , as well as neutrino regeneration following nc interactions .",
    "also accounted for is the offset between neutrino propagation direction and the direction of the outgoing muon following a cc interaction .",
    "cross sections for @xmath2 and @xmath3 cc and nc interactions were based on the cteq5 parton distributions @xcite .",
    "the density profile in the earth was modeled using the preliminary reference earth model @xcite .",
    "simulated neutrino events were generated with an @xmath39 spectral index , then weighted according to their contribution to the atmospheric neutrino flux .",
    "the flux predictions of honda _",
    "_ @xcite were used for conventional atmospheric muon neutrinos , and those of enberg _ et al . _",
    "@xcite for prompt atmospheric muon neutrinos .",
    "the predictions for muon neutrinos from pions and kaons were extended to higher energies by fitting a physics - motivated analytical equation based on energy and zenith angle ( ref .",
    "@xcite and chapter 7 of ref .",
    "@xcite ) in an overlapping region with the detailed calculations of honda _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite .",
    "since simulated events were generated with a harder spectrum than atmospheric neutrinos , the effective livetime for high energy events was boosted .",
    "additionally , since all events were forced to interact in or near the detector , the effective livetime for low energy events was boosted .",
    "the effective livetime of the neutrino simulation used to train the unfolding algorithm is shown in fig .",
    "[ eff_livetime ] .",
    "a variety of algorithms are used in icecube for event reconstruction , classification , and background rejection , depending on the energy range , the anticipated signal and backgrounds for a particular analysis , as well as the neutrino flavor .",
    "the background for this analysis was down - going atmospheric muons that were mis - reconstructed as up - going . despite the depth of icecube , the ratio of down - going atmospheric muons to muons produced in or near the detector by neutrino interactions is roughly one million to one @xcite . below is a brief summary of the muon track reconstruction algorithms and event selection methods that were used in this analysis .",
    "the linefit reconstruction is a fast , first - guess algorithm based on the assumption that the cherenkov photons from a muon propagate on a wavefront perpendicular to the track .",
    "this assumption leads to a fitting algorithm that is extremely fast , and often estimates the muon track direction within ten degrees .",
    "linefit , and likelihood - based reconstructions ( discussed next ) seeded with the linefit track , were used as part of the software filtering at the south pole .",
    "additionally , the wavefront velocity estimated by linefit is correlated with how well the track hypothesis fits the distribution of recorded light and was used as an event selection cut prior to one of the two bdts .",
    "maximum likelihood reconstruction algorithms account for the geometric dependence of photon arrival times , as well as the stochastic variability in arrival times due to scattering in the ice .",
    "the likelihood function to be maximized is the function @xcite @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the set of parameters characterizing the hypothesized track , i.e.  three coordinates for the vertex location , two angles for the direction , and possibly energy , and @xmath42 is the probability distribution function @xcite for photon hit times , given the track hypothesis .",
    "the product is over all photon hits in the event . in practice ,",
    "the maximum of the likelihood function is found by minimizing the negative of the log of the likelihood , so the product becomes a sum . to further simplify implementation ,",
    "a transformation is made and time residual , @xmath43 , is used in place of hit time , @xmath44 , where @xmath45 the geometric travel time , @xmath46 , is based on a straight photon path with no scattering .",
    "single photoelectron ( spe ) fits are likelihood reconstructions that use only the arrival time of the first photoelectron in all hit doms .",
    "typically , 16 or 32 iterations of the spe fit are performed , with the seed track randomly altered for each iteration .",
    "this helps ensure that a local minimum is not chosen as the final track .",
    "the multiple photoelectron ( mpe ) fit is similar to the spe fit , however , it uses the total number of observed photons to describe the arrival time of the first photon .",
    "when many photons arrive at the same dom , the first photon is scattered less than an average photon .",
    "since more information is used , the directional accuracy of the fit is often improved slightly , as compared to the spe fit .",
    "moreover , using track quality parameters based on the mpe fit rather than on the spe fit provided better event discrimination and improved the signal efficiency of the bdts by about @xmath47 .",
    "in addition to track location and direction , the likelihood reconstructions return several variables that are used to estimate fit quality .",
    "these variables include the log - likelihood ( logl ) and the reduced log - likelihood ( rlogl ) .",
    "@xmath48 , where @xmath49 is the number of degrees of freedom in the minimization , i.e.  the number of hit doms minus the number of parameters to be fit .",
    "rlogl is then ( ideally ) independent of the number of hit doms .",
    "a similar scaled parameter called plogl , equal to logl/(number of hit doms - 2.5 ) , has also been found to provide additional discriminatory power .",
    "figure  [ plogl ] shows the distribution of the plogl variable from the mpe fit , that was used by the bdts .",
    "figure  [ mpe_lf ] shows the distribution of the difference between linefit zenith angle and mpe fit zenith angle , for signal simulation and for data .",
    "this angular difference was used as an input to the bdts .",
    "photorec is a reconstruction algorithm that accounts for spatially variable ice properties @xcite .",
    "it does this by incorporating light propagation tables created by photonics @xcite .",
    "the output of photorec used in this analysis was the estimation of @xmath34 , the average muon energy loss per unit propagation length ( gev / m ) that would produce the detected amount of light .",
    "the reconstructed @xmath34 is proportional to the number of photons detected and hence to the number of photons emitted along the muon s track . to correctly scale the proportionality , changes in the photon intensity due to the distance between the track and the hit doms , and the amount of scattering and absorption between light generation and detection points ,",
    "are accounted for .",
    "the reconstruction algorithm incorporates the detailed ice model , but assumes that stochastic energy losses are uniform along the track . as mentioned in section  [ det ] , the amount of light emitted along the track of a high energy muon ( greater than about a tev ) is linearly correlated with the muon s energy and it is possible to estimate the muon s energy ( near the center of the detected track ) , using @xmath34 , with an accuracy of 0.3 on a log scale .",
    "however , for low energy muons , the amount of light emitted along the track is nearly independent of energy , as discussed in section  [ det ] . additionally ,",
    "the photorec algorithm does not account for the fraction of detected photons that may be from the hadronic shower at the interaction point ( if that occurs inside the detector ) , nor does it account for the length of the muon track inside the detector .",
    "hence , the correlation between @xmath34 and muon energy degrades below a tev .",
    "the paraboloid algorithm @xcite analyzes the value of the likelihood function around a seed track . after transforming the coordinate space to one centered on the direction of the seed track",
    ", it fits a constant likelihood ellipse to the likelihood space around the direction of the track .",
    "the important result is the paraboloid sigma , calculated from the major and minor axes of the constant likelihood ellipse .",
    "paraboloid sigma provides an estimate of the pointing error of the track .    in a bayesian reconstruction , the standard likelihood function",
    "is multiplied by a bias function which depends only on the event hypothesis and not on the actual event data .",
    "the bias is used as a way to include prior knowledge of the characteristics of the data , that mis - reconstructed down - going tracks dominate the signal by about three orders of magnitude at this stage .",
    "the bayesian likelihood ratio is the useful result from this reconstruction , @xmath50 , where spe32 refers to a 32-iteration spe fit .",
    "figure  [ bayes ] shows the distribution of the bayesian likelihood ratio , for simulation and for data .        in a reconstruction algorithm known as the umbrella fit",
    ", the minimizer is constrained to track directions with space angles more than @xmath51 from a seed track .",
    "the likelihood ratio @xmath52 is used as an event selection parameter .",
    "good tracks have a higher spe likelihood than a fit constrained to have a directional component in the opposite direction .",
    "this reconstruction provides discriminating power for certain events that are stuck in a local minimum in the likelihood space , such as down - going or near horizontal events that reconstruct as directly up - going .",
    "split track reconstructions begin by creating four sub - events from the initial event .",
    "two sub - events are created by separating all hit doms into the group hit before the average time , and the group hit after the average time .",
    "two additional sub - events are based on geometry .",
    "all hit doms are projected perpendicularly along the track .",
    "then , the doms are split into two groups based on whether they fall before or after the location of the center of gravity of the pulses .",
    "linefit and spe reconstructions are performed on each of these four subsets . these fits provide discrimination for poorly reconstructed tracks , as well as for tracks that reconstruct as up - going due to the superposition of hits from two separate down - going muons .",
    "a loose cut on zenith angles from the split track reconstructions was used as an event selection cut prior to one of the two bdts .",
    "additionally , the zenith angles were used as input variables for the bdts .",
    "figure  [ splits ] compares the zenith angles from the spe fits for the two sub - events found by the geometric split .",
    "in addition to zenith angles and likelihood ratios , several other measured or reconstructed variables were used for event discrimination .",
    "for example , the likelihood that a track is properly reconstructed is correlated with the number of hit strings ( nstring ) , the more hit strings the better .",
    "photons originating from farther away from the dom are more likely to have been scattered , and their associated distributions of arrival time probabilities are more spread out",
    ". a larger number of direct hits , that is hits that propagate directly to the dom with little or no scattering , has been found to be correlated with better track reconstruction .",
    "the number of direct hits ( ndir ) is defined as the number of doms that have a hit with a residual time difference of @xmath53 the ratio of direct hits to the total number of detected pulses ( ndir / npulses ) in an event was also used as a cut parameter .",
    "the length of the event , ( ldir ) , is determined by projecting hit doms onto the reconstructed track and calculating the distance between the two endpoints of the projection .",
    "larger values indicate a more reliable reconstruction of track direction .",
    "ldir is calculated using direct hits only .",
    "smoothness is a measure of how well the observed hit pattern is explained by the hypothesis of constant light emission along the reconstructed muon track .",
    "high quality tracks have hits equally spaced along the track .",
    "this parameter , called smoothall , is calculated using all hits .      at trigger level ,",
    "mis - reconstructed atmospheric muon events in the zenith region @xmath15 to @xmath16 outnumbered atmospheric neutrinos by a factor of about @xmath54 .",
    "these mis - reconstructed tracks were either individual muon tracks or coincident atmospheric muons that mimicked a single up - going event .    although a variety of filters were deployed at the south pole for the 20082009 physics run , events used for this analysis were only required to pass the muon filter .",
    "the muon filter was the primary filter for rejecting down - going atmospheric muons , and retaining generic @xmath2 events from near or below the horizon .",
    "simple and fast reconstructions were performed in real - time at the south pole .",
    "these initial reconstructions were less accurate than ones performed later , during off - line data processing .",
    "however , they could be accomplished within the time and cpu constraints at the south pole while keeping up with the trigger rate .",
    "zenith angles from linefit and single - iteration spe likelihood fits , as well as the number of hit doms ( nchannel ) and the average number of pulses per dom , were used as selection variables in the muon filter .",
    "after muon filter event selection was applied , background was reduced to a factor of about @xmath55 times the neutrino event rate .",
    "higher level reconstructions included improved likelihood reconstructions for better angular resolution and background rejection , as well as reconstruction of additional parameters , such as energy estimation .",
    "fits to additional track hypotheses were also performed .",
    "some higher level reconstructions incorporated the detailed ice model .",
    "prior to higher - level off - line data processing , events that were uninteresting or unusable , and that clearly were not going to pass final event selection , were removed by applying loose cuts based on the results of an spe fit : zenith angle @xmath56 , rlogl @xmath57 , and plogl @xmath58 .",
    "this reduced the amount of background to roughly a factor of @xmath59 relative to signal .",
    "final event selection was accomplished with bdts that used multiple reconstructed and observed parameters as input .",
    "the toolkit for multivariate data analysis ( tmva ) with root @xcite was used to implement bdt event classification .",
    "bdts outperform straight cuts because the decision trees are able to split the phase space into a large number of hypercubes , each of which is identified as either signal - like or background - like @xcite .",
    "additionally , bdts often out - perform other multivariate techniques because either there are not enough training events available for the other classifiers , or the optimal configuration ( e.g.  how many hidden layers for a neural network , which variables to use , etc . ) is not known and is difficult to determine @xcite . testing with several different multivariate algorithms within tmva indicated that the best results for separating signal from background in this case could be achieved with bdts .",
    "the nodes of a decision tree form what looks like an inverted tree . at each node , the algorithm chose the particular cut variable and cut value that provided the best discrimination between signal and background for the events in that node .",
    "events were then split into additional nodes that made up the next layer of the tree , and the process repeated until a minimum number of events in a node was reached .",
    "variables were used multiple times in a tree , with different cut values each time .",
    "the final nodes were classified as signal or background , depending on the classification of the majority of training events that ended up in each node .",
    "boosting was used to overcome problems associated with statistical fluctuations in the simulation used to train the bdts .",
    "200 trees were derived from the same training ensemble by re - weighting events .",
    "after one tree was created , events that were mis - classified in that tree had their weights increased , and the next tree was created .",
    "this next tree then chose different variables and cut values at each node as a result of the altered weights .",
    "the final classifier used a weighted average of the individual decisions of all 200 trees .",
    "two bdts were used ; one having better efficiency at lower energies , the other having better efficiency at middle and higher energies .",
    "events were accepted if their classification score from either bdt exceeded an optimized threshold .",
    "the function of the bdts was to distinguish between poorly reconstructed background events , and signal events that included some that were well reconstructed and some that were poorly reconstructed . by applying pre - selection cuts prior to training the bdts ,",
    "some of the poorly reconstructed events were removed from the signal event samples , and the overall performance of each bdt was improved .",
    "for the low energy bdt ( bdt 1 ) , the pre - selection cut was based on linefit velocity ( linefit velocity @xmath60 ) . for the other bdt ( bdt 2 ) ,",
    "the pre - selection cut was based on zenith angles from the split track fits ( all four zenith angles @xmath61 ) .",
    "the same cuts were applied to the actual data as were applied to the simulated background and signal event samples used for bdt training and testing .",
    "muon neutrino simulation with an @xmath62 spectrum was used for signal events in the bdt training .",
    "although the true signal spectrum is much steeper than this , testing indicated this spectrum for training produced a bdt that performed better for higher energy events , with no compromise in performance for low energy events .",
    "cosmic ray muon simulation from corsika was used for background events .",
    "following training , the bdts were tested using independent signal and background event simulation .",
    "neutrino simulation weighted to an atmospheric spectrum , as well as single , double , and triple - coincident muon events , weighted to the cosmic ray muon spectrum , were used for testing the bdts .",
    "table  [ bdt_vars ] lists the specific variables used in the bdts .",
    "the nstring variable was only used by bdt 1 .",
    "one additional difference between the two bdts was the source of the split track fits .",
    "for bdt 1 , which was optimized for lower energies , the linefit reconstructions for each of the four split tracks ( two split geometrically and two split in time ) were used .",
    "for bdt 2 , if 16-iteration spe fits were successful for the split tracks , then those results were used , otherwise the linefit results were used .",
    "spe fit results were not available for events in which there were too few hit doms in one or more of the splits to perform a likelihood fit .",
    ".reconstruction variables used in the bdts .",
    "@xmath63 refers to the zenith angle .",
    "see sect .",
    "[ reconstruction ] for explanations . [ cols=\"^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ summary ]",
    "a zenith averaged unfolding of the atmospheric muon neutrino flux ( @xmath4 plus @xmath5 ) , from 100 gev to 400 tev , was performed .",
    "this is the first atmospheric neutrino measurement to such high energies , and the spectrum is consistent with predictions for the atmospheric muon neutrino flux .",
    "however systematic uncertainties will need to be reduced before specific flux models @xcite can be constrained .",
    "in particular , we are as yet unable to confirm the contribution of a prompt flux .",
    "figure  [ compare ] compares the results of this analysis ( ic40 unfolding ) to previous measurements of the atmospheric neutrino energy spectrum . as discussed in sect .",
    "[ systematics ] , the estimate of uncertainties in the icecube result are dominated by dom sensitivity and ice property uncertainties , as well as the zenith - dependent mismath between data and simulation .",
    "these uncertainty estimates are expected to be reduced as our simulation is improved .",
    "a comparison between the unfolded spectrum and various prompt flux models @xcite is shown in fig .  [ prompt ] .",
    "several improvements are anticipated in atmospheric neutrino measurements with icecube .",
    "correlations between variations in atmospheric temperature profiles , and the energy and zenith angle dependence of the atmospheric neutrino flux , are being investigated using in - situ atmospheric temperature measurements .",
    "pulsed led sources installed on each dom are being used to extend the ice description to the deepest ice in the detector with in - situ measurements like those done in amanda for the ice down to 2100 m. studies with cosmic ray muons are being used to reduce the uncertainty in dom sensitivity .",
    "work is also on - going to identify and correct potential problems in simulation that could be contributing to data / simulation mismatch .",
    "perhaps most significantly , this includes improving the simulation of light propagation within the detector , which is anticipated to improve the data to simulation agreement for several measured and reconstructed variables .",
    "these improvements will be discussed in a future paper .",
    "once simulation of light propagation in the ice has been improved , it should be possible to use a more sophisticated and realistic method for estimating the impact of ice model uncertainties .",
    "as data collection continues , and improvements to simulation are implemented , it will be possible to extend the measurement of the atmospheric neutrino energy spectrum with icecube to pev energies , as well as significantly reduce the uncertainties .",
    "we acknowledge the support from the following agencies : u.s",
    ". national science foundation - office of polar programs , u.s .",
    "national science foundation - physics division , university of wisconsin alumni research foundation , the grid laboratory of wisconsin ( glow ) grid infrastructure at the university of wisconsin - madison , the open science grid ( osg ) grid infrastructure ; u.s .",
    "department of energy , and national energy research scientific computing center , the louisiana optical network initiative ( loni ) grid computing resources ; national science and engineering research council of canada ; swedish research council , swedish polar research secretariat , swedish national infrastructure for computing ( snic ) , and knut and alice wallenberg foundation , sweden ; german ministry for education and research ( bmbf ) , deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) , research department of plasmas with complex interactions ( bochum ) , germany ; fund for scientific research ( fnrs - fwo ) , fwo odysseus programme , flanders institute to encourage scientific and technological research in industry ( iwt ) , belgian federal science policy office ( belspo ) ; university of oxford , united kingdom ; marsden fund , new zealand ; japan society for promotion of science ( jsps ) ; the swiss national science foundation ( snsf ) , switzerland ; a.  gro acknowledges support by the eu marie curie oif program ; j.  p.  rodrigues acknowledges support by the capes foundation , ministry of education of brazil .",
    "a. karle for the icecube collaboration , in proc . of the @xmath64 icrc ( lodz ) ,",
    "http://icecube.wisc.edu_. g.d .",
    "barr , t.k gaisser , p. lipari , s. robbins , and t. stanev , phys .",
    "d * 70 * , 023006 ( 2004 ) .",
    "m. honda , t. kajita , k. kasahara , s. midorikawa , and t. sanuki , phys .",
    "d * 75 * , 043006 ( 2007 ) .",
    "gaisser and m. honda , ann . rev .",
    "sci . * 52 * , 153 ( 2002 ) .",
    "f. halzen and s.r .",
    "klein , rev .",
    "instrum . * 81 * , 081101 ( 2010 ) . c. amsler _ et al .",
    "_ , article 24 in ( particle data group ) , phys . lett .",
    "b * 667 * , 1 ( 2008 ) .",
    "gaisser , _ cosmic rays and partcle physics _",
    "( cambridge university , u.k . , 1991 ) .",
    "hrandel , astropart . phys . * 21 * , 241 ( 2004 ) .",
    "r. enberg , m.h .",
    "reno and i. sarcevic , phys .",
    "d * 78 * , 043005 ( 2008 ) .",
    "martin , m.g . ryskin and a.m. stasto ,",
    "acta phys .",
    "b * 34 * , 3273 ( 2003 ) .",
    "g. fiorentini , a. naumov and f.l .",
    "villante , phys .",
    "b * 510 * , 173 ( 2001 ) .",
    "gaisser , nucl . phys .",
    "b , proc . suppl . * 118 * , 109 ( 2003 ) .",
    "costa , astropart . phys .",
    "* 16 * , 193 ( 2001 ) .",
    "r. abbasi _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , ap .",
    "j. * 718 * , l194 ( 2010 ) .",
    "a. achterberg , _ et al .",
    "_ ( icecube collaboration ) , astropart . phys . * 26 * , 155 ( 2006 ) .",
    "r. abbasi _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a * 618 * , 139 ( 2010 ) .",
    "r. abbasi _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , nucl .",
    "instr . and",
    "a * 601 * , 294 ( 2009 ) .",
    "price , k. woschnagg , and d. chirkin , geophys .",
    "* 27 * , ( 14 ) 2129 ( 2000 ) .",
    "m. ackermann _",
    "( amanda collaboration ) , j. of geophys .",
    "111 * , d13203 ( 2006 ) .",
    "price and l. bergstrom , appl . opt . * 36 * , ( 18 ) 4181 ( 1997 ) .",
    "p. askebjer _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "appl . opt . *",
    "36 * , ( 18 ) 4168 ( 1997 ) .",
    "beacom , p. crotty , and e.w .",
    "kolb , phys .",
    "d * 66 * , 021302 ( 2002 ) .",
    "d. heck _ et al .",
    "_ , corsika : a monte carlo code to simulate extensive air showers ( wissenschaftliche berichte fzka 6019 ; karlsruhe : forschungszentrum karlsruhe ) ( 1998 ) .",
    "ahn , r. engel , t.k .",
    "gaisser , p. lipari , and t. stanev , phys .",
    "d * 80 * , 094003 ( 2009 ) .",
    "d. chirkin and w. rhode , arxiv : hep - ph/0407075 .",
    "j. lundberg _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "instr . and meth . a * 581 * , 619 ( 2007 ) .",
    "dagostino , arxiv:0910.2555 .",
    "m kowalski and a. gazizov , arxiv : astro - ph/0312202 .",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "j. c * 12 * , 375 ( 2000 ) .",
    "a. dziewonski in _ the encyclopedia of solid earth geophysics _ , edited by d.e .",
    "james ( van nostrand reinhold , new york , 1989 ) , p. 331 .",
    "j. ahrens _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a * 524 * , 169 ( 2004 ) .",
    "n. van eijndhoven , o. fadiran , and g. japaridze , arxiv:0704.1706 .",
    "s. grullon , d. boersma , and g. hill , photonics - based log - likelihood reconstruction in icecube , icecube internal report 200807001 .",
    "t. neunhoffer , astropart . phys . * 25 * , 220 , ( 2006 ) .",
    "et al . _ , in proc . of the xi international workshop on advanced computing and analysis techniques in physics research ( amsterdam ) , pos(acat ) 040 ( 2007 ) , and a. hoecker _",
    "et al . _ , arxiv : physics/0703039 .",
    "a. hoecker and v. kartvelishvili , nucl .",
    "inst . meth .",
    "a * 372 * , 469 ( 1996 ) .",
    "roounfold : root unfolding framework , _",
    "http:// hepunx.rl.ac.uk/@xmath65adye / software / unfold / roounfold.html_. cern , root , 1994 , _ http://root.cern.ch_. r. abbasi _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , astropart . phys . * 34 * , 48 ( 2010 ) .",
    "m. ackermann and e. bernardini for the icecube collaboration , in proc . of the @xmath66 icrc , pune ( 2005 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/0509330 .",
    "t. sanuki , m. honda , t. kajita , k. kasahara , and s. midorikawa , phys .",
    "d * 75 * , 043005 ( 2007 ) .",
    "a. achterberg , _ et al .",
    "_ ( icecube collaboration ) , phys . rev .",
    "d * 75 * , 102001 ( 2007 ) .",
    "_ , zeitschrift fr physik c * 66 * , 417 ( 1995 ) . c. gonzalez - garcia , m. maltoni , and j. rojo , j. high energy phys . *",
    "10 * , 75 ( 2006 ) .",
    "r. abbasi _ et al . _",
    "( icecube collaboration ) , phys .",
    "d * 79 * , 102005 ( 2009 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a measurement of the atmospheric muon neutrino energy spectrum from 100 gev to 400 tev was performed using a data sample of about 18,000 up - going atmospheric muon neutrino events in icecube . boosted decision trees were used for event selection to reject mis - reconstructed atmospheric muons and obtain a sample of up - going muon neutrino events . </S>",
    "<S> background contamination in the final event sample is less than @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first measurement of atmospheric neutrinos up to 400 tev , and is fundamental to understanding the impact of this neutrino background on astrophysical neutrino observations with icecube . </S>",
    "<S> the measured spectrum is consistent with predictions for the atmospheric @xmath1 flux . </S>"
  ]
}