{
  "article_text": [
    "protoplanetary discs are ubiquitous around young stars , an inevitable consequence of angular momentum conservation during star formation . young stars accrete their mass through discs which then provide the reservoir of material from which planets may form .",
    "any understanding of the processes involved in star and planet formation requires knowledge of how discs evolve and are finally dispersed .",
    "observations of disc evolution have typically focused on thermal emission from the dust grains in the disc through the analysis of their continuum spectral energy distribution ( sed ) at several different wavelengths .",
    "while empirical analysis and numerical modelling of the sed of discs around young stars have proved extremely useful to study this important phase of the star and planet formation process , a number of well known degeneracies conspire to render the interpretation of the data non - unique . to remedy these shortcomings recent",
    "observational efforts are making use of various techniques to obtain spatially resolved information of many sources .    herbig",
    "ae / be stars are more luminous than their lower mass t - tauri counterparts and provide an opportunity to observe large scale morphology in resolved images .",
    "discs observed at nearly edge - on inclinations are particularly useful in studying the large scale structure since the star and inner disc , which are much brighter than any extended emission , are obscured along the line of sight .",
    "several edge - on discs around young stars exhibit extended emission above and below their mid - plane at nir wavelengths ( e.g. padgett et al .",
    "1999 & perrin et al . 2006 ) and some have been further imaged through ao systems providing excellent spatial resolution , as in the case of pds 144n ( perrin et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "photoevaporation ( hollenbach et al . 1994 ) is the mechanism by which high energy photons ( uv - x - rays ) heat the surface layers of the discs to temperatures of order the escape temperature , forming a thermally driven wind from the disc out to large radius .",
    "photoevaporation has been proposed as the dominant disc dispersal mechanism around low - mass stars ( e.g. clarke et al . 2001 ) and has been successful in explaining many of the observational statistics ( owen et al .",
    "however there is only tentative evidence that the photoevaporative wind itself has been detected , through neii and oi emission ( hartigan et al .",
    "1995 ; alexander et al . 2008 ; pascucci et al 2009 ; schisano et al 2010 ; ercolano & owen 2010 ) which probes the wind on a very local scale . in order to test photoevaporation , along with the various different heating mechanisms we need global observational diagnostics to validate the models .",
    "edge - on discs provide the perfect opportunity to detect a disc wind on a global scale through light scattered by the dust grains that will inevitably be entrained by the wind .",
    "the origin of crystalline dust grains detected in protoplanetary discs via infra - red ( ir ) spectroscopy ( e.g. bouwman et al . 2001 ) and directly within our own solar system ( e.g. wooden et al .",
    "1999 ) is still a matter of discussion .",
    "the source of all dust in star formation - the ism - is inferred to be entirely amorphous ( e.g. kemper et al . 2005 ) .",
    "spectroscopy of discs ( van boekel et al . 2005 ; apai et al . 2005 ) indicates a non - negligible level of crystalline dust outside the crystalline radius , where grains are hot enough ( @xmath1k ) to be thermally annealed and converted into crystalline grains .",
    "this discovery has lead to the development of disc models with radial mixing to allow crystalline grains that formed in the hot inner disc to be transported to larger radii ( e.g. morfill & voelk 1984 ; gail 2001 , 2002 ; wehrstedt & gail 2002 ; bockelee - morvan et al .",
    "2002 ; dullemond et al .",
    "2006 ; hughes & armitage 2010 ) .",
    "another suggestion put forward by shu et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , is that crystalline grains could be carried outwards by a x - wind . given that the crystallization radius of @xmath21 - 2au is smaller than the minimum launch radius for a photoevaporative wind @xmath3 around herbig ae / be stars and lower mass stars , the photoevaporative wind can not be the direct source of the crystalline grains at larger radii , but could work in combination with radial mixing to produce the observed enhancement .",
    "furthermore crystallinity around edge - on discs can be used to probe the source of the dust in the extended emission , since a disc origin will give rise to crystalline dust grains in the wind while an in - falling envelope will contain only amorphous grains .    in this paper",
    "we present a simple model to investigate the imprint of photoevaporation on the extended emission observed around edge - on herbig ae / be stars .",
    "we will compare our model to current observations of edge - on discs along with following the fate of crystalline grains in the wind as they are transported to large radius .",
    "in section  [ model ] we describe the model , including the hydrodynamic and radiative transfer methods . in section",
    "[ sec : images ] we present synthetic images obtained from the models . in section",
    "[ sec : cryst ] we describe the results of crystallinity calculations for the wind .",
    "we compare our results to observations of edge - on discs in section  [ sec : compare ] and we summarise our main findings in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "considering the force balance on a dust grain , it is easy to show that small dust particles are entrained in a photoevaporative wind , which carries them out to large distances .",
    "takeuchi et al .",
    "( 2005 ) showed that the drag force on a grain is approximately : @xmath4 where @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 are , respectively ; the mass , the density and the radius of a dust grain ( assumed to be spherical ) and @xmath8 and @xmath9 are the density and velocity of the wind . at large radius to refer to cylindrical co - ordinates and @xmath10 to refer to spherical polar co - ordinates](@xmath11 ) the flow is approximately spherical implying @xmath12 falls off as @xmath13 .",
    "since gravity also falls off as @xmath13 and @xmath9 increases monotonically with radius , then if a grain is still entrained several scale heights above the launching surface , it will be entrained permanently , allowing dust to be carried to very large distance from the star , since the drag force will dominate over gravity .",
    "we build a simplified model to test the possibility of extended emission from dust grains due to a photoevaporative wind , and we choose a set of assumptions that allows us to place an upper limit on this expected level of emission .",
    "namely we assume that the entire dust population is able to reach the launching surface of the wind via some turbulent mechanism and ignore the effects of settling and grain growth .",
    "our simple model ignores the details of the bound regions of the disc ] and thus ignores any emission produced by this region , including _ only _ the wind itself and its contributions to emission .",
    "this simplification means our model will not be accurate near the mid - plane , where emission from dust in the disc s upper atmosphere dominates over the wind emission .",
    "therefore , we are unable to reproduce the observed intensities and optical depths seen at several scale height above and below the mid - plane in an edge - on disc ; however , here we are interested in the extended emission , which , in the absence of an infalling envelope is dominated by the photoevaporative wind .",
    "our model naturally produces a ` wingnut ' morphology similar to that seen in several scattered light images ( e.g. perrin et al .",
    "2006 ) , and produces a spatially variable dust distribution , due to the different maximum grain size that can be entrained along each streamline .",
    "the radial morphology of the streamlines then yields that , at a given cylindrical radius , the maximum grain size increases with height , resulting in a spatial variation of colour in the scattered light images .",
    "furthermore crystalline grains entrained in the wind are transported outwards from regions of the disc with higher crystallinity fractions resulting in an enhancement of crystalline grains in the wind over the disc s underlying distrubtion .",
    "we can split the method for constructing scattered light images into three separate parts : ( i ) hydrodynamic calculations of the photoevaporative wind ; ( ii ) calculation of the dust profile distribution and crystallinity based on the hydrodynamic solution ; ( iii ) radiative transfer modeling of the dust distribution .      as the mass - loss rates are not well known for herbig ae / be stars we have left the ionizing luminosity ( which sets the mass - loss rates ) for an euv driven wind ( hollenbach et al .",
    "1994 ) as a free parameter and consider the effect of changing mass - loss rates on the morphology , colour of the emission and crystallinity distribution in the winds .",
    "we consider an euv wind from a primordial disc around a 2.5m@xmath14 star with a range in ionizing luminosity from @xmath15 to @xmath16 s@xmath17 in steps of 1  dex .",
    "these luminosities correspond to mass - loss rates in the range @xmath18m@xmath14yr@xmath17 and are similar to values calculated by alexander et al .",
    "( 2004 ) . in order to calculate images we compute scattered light images at 1.6 , 2.1 & 3.8@xmath19 m with band passes corresponding to the h , k & l bands . in order to consider the relative contributions of crystalline to amorphous dust we take the calculated crystallinity fractions in the disc of dullemond et al .",
    "( 2006 ) for an evolved herbig ae / be star .",
    "we assume that this disc crystallinity fraction is the same at the base of our photoevaporative wind , such that the crystallinity fraction along the streamline can be calculated by following the thermal evolution of the dust entrained on that streamline .",
    "a photoevaporative disc wind is a thermally driven hydrodynamic wind occuring when the disc s surface is heated to temperatures of order the escape temperature , allowing it to launch a freely expanding wind . while the wind driving source for lower mass ( t - tauri ) stars is likely to be x - rays ( owen et al .",
    "2010a , ercolano & owen 2010 , ercolano & clarke 2010 , owen et al .",
    "2010b ) the wind driving source around intermediate mass stars has not yet been thouroughly investigated .",
    "x - ray photoevaporation may still occur to some degree ; however , the lower @xmath20 ratio of herbig ae / be compared to t - tauri stars and their higher euv fluxes , may reduce the role of x - rays in driving the wind .",
    "we adopt here the euv driven wind of hollenbach et al ( 1994 ) and hydrodynamic solution of font et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , which is a _ simple _ and _ scalable _ hydrodynamic solution , allowing us to consider a wide range of parameter space , something not possible with more complicated fuv models ( gorti & hollenbach 2009 ) or x - ray models ( owen et al .",
    "the simplified euv treatment is suitable for the purpose of this work which aims at being the first approach in studying the qualitative aspects of scattered light emission from a disc wind .",
    "we have repeated the calculation of font et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and alexander ( 2008 ) and we refer the reader to these papers for a detailed description of the model setup , while the basics are summarised below .      in order to determine an accurate kinematic structure of the wind we must compute a numerical solution to the problem .",
    "we use the zeus2d code ( stone & norman 1992 ) ; we employ a spherical grid with @xmath21 $ ] , the radial grid cells are logarithmically spaced , such that we have adequate resolution at small radius to resolve the onset of the flow .",
    "the calculation is an isothermal wind calculation with the sound speed set to @xmath22 km s@xmath17 and the radius scaled to the length scale @xmath23 i.e. the radius at which the internal energy of the gas is enough to unbind the gas from the star .",
    "we use a radial range of @xmath24r_g$ ] with @xmath25 and @xmath26 . the number density at the base ( i.e. the density along the @xmath27 axis ) of the wind was calculated semi - analytically by hollenbach et al . ( 1994 ) and scales as @xmath28 for @xmath29 and as @xmath30 outside @xmath31 , as in font et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and alexander et al .",
    "( 2008 ) we adopt the smooth * base * density profile suggested by @xcite that varies between the two power laws : @xmath32^{1/5}\\ ] ] where @xmath33 is the density at @xmath31 which was determined through the numerical calculations of @xcite to be : @xmath34 where @xmath35 is the ionizing luminosity .",
    "we note that this hydrodynamic calculation does not include a cold bound ` disc ' component , since as discussed above the base density structure of the wind is known a priori .",
    "this base density , along with keplerian rotation is reset at every time - step and the model is allowed to evolve to a steady state launching a wind from the grid s mid - plane ( representing the disc s surface ) .",
    "as expected , we find excellent agreement with the results of the @xcite and @xcite calculations . in figure",
    "[ fig : structure ] we show a plot of the converged wind structure showing that the wind is approximately spherical once it has reached several scale heights , in agreement with our earlier discussion in section  [ model ] .          in order to calculate the dust distribution in the wind , we must make some assumptions about the underlying dust distribution in the disc .",
    "we adopt a dust to gas mass ratio of 0.01 , and a power law grain size distribution of index -3.5 ( mathis , rumpl & nordsiek , 1977 , mrn ) , with grain sizes ranging from @xmath36=5@xmath37 m to @xmath38=1 mm , we assume spherical grains with a density of 1 g  @xmath39 .",
    "we also assume that the dust is fully mixed within the disc up to the transition between the bound cold disc and the hot euv heated flow .",
    "we then calculate streamlines from the base of the flow to the edge of the grid , then along each streamline , compute the force balance between the drag force ( calculated from equation 1 ) , gravity and the centrifugal force .",
    "we take the dust grain as entrained if the net force along the streamline is @xmath40 .",
    "we then obtain the maximum grain size entrained along the entire streamline ( making sure to check that each grain can be entrained the entire length of the streamline ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : amax ] we show the obtained maximum grain size as a function of position in the flow for an ionizing luminosity of @xmath41s@xmath17 .",
    "s@xmath17 , we note that most dust comes from within 1 - 5@xmath42 . ]",
    "we can then compute the dust density from this maximum grain size under the assumption that the dust all comes from the same underlying population described above . in figure",
    "[ fig : ddensity ] we show the obtained dust density , noting that the combination of a photoevaporative wind and a selective dust population naturally reproduces a ` wingnut ' structure .    s@xmath17 calculation . ]",
    "we calculate the radiative transfer as a two step process : first we calculate the temperature structure of the dust using a 3d grid calculated from the 2d dust density calculations .",
    "we have modified the mocassin code ( ercolano et al .",
    "2003 , 2005 , 2008 ) to allow cell - to - cell variations of the grain size distribution .",
    "we interpolate the results from section  [ sec : dust ] onto at 3d cartesian grid with resolution @xmath43 assuming azimuthal symmetry , using the range in the x and y axis of [ -32,32]@xmath42 and in the z axis of [ 0,32]@xmath42 .",
    "the input sed used to irradiate the wind is taken from the model set of robitaille et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , model number:3011099 , corresponding to a 2.51m@xmath14 star with an effective temperature of 9480k and radius of 2.18r@xmath14 , surrounded by an optically thick disc extending into the dust destruction radius .",
    "the irradiating sed is placed at the origin of the cartesian grid ; this approximation is valid in this case where we are mainly interested in scattering of near - ir ( nir ) photons on the much larger scale of the wind i.e. on scale much greater than the scale the disc emission arises from .    in order to calculate images of the dust distribution ,",
    "we have written a simple ray tracing driver for mocassin , which we have called mocassinthinimage .",
    "the standard monte - carlo radiative transfer techniques used to calculate scattered light images in mocassin ( i.e. by capturing scattered photons along the line of sight of interest ) is inappropriate for use in this case .",
    "the wind structure is too optically thin to obtain a converged image with a computationally feasible number of photon packets , since most packets leave the grid without interacting with the distribution .",
    "mocassinthinimage performs a ray tracing calculation throughout the grid in both scattered and thermal emission , under the assumption that the medium is optically thin ( true of the wind always ) .",
    "we note again that since we have not explicitly included the dust in the ` bound ' region of the disc we will not calculate scattered light emission from this region .",
    "we also assume the disc mid - plane is optically thick to all radiation and hence only consider one hemisphere of the wind .      in order to consider the structure of the dust grains in the wind ,",
    "we have built a very simple dust crystallinity model .",
    "we assume that the grains are launched from a disc that is infinitesimally thin and has the crystalline structure calculated by dullemond et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , for a herbig star with a mass of 2.5@xmath44 after 3.3myr of evolution .",
    "any dust that was amorphous and is heated to a temperature @xmath45k while entrained in the wind is then assumed to immediately become totally crystalline .",
    "any dust that starts off crystalline or becomes crystalline at any point in the flow is assumed to be crystalline for the remainder of the flow regardless of the temperature it reaches at any other stage ( we find that no dust in the flow reaches a temperature exceeding the evaporation temperature , which would destroy crystalline dust grains ) .",
    "in order to calculate a radial profile of the fraction of dust in the wind that is crystalline / amorphous we must apply some cut off on the flow since the total mass of the flow is a function of time since it switched on , rather than a converged quantity ( it diverges logarithmically ) .",
    "since much of the information on dust structure comes from the 10@xmath46 m silicate feature a temperature cut - off is most appropriate , thus we calculate the mass - fraction of crystalline grains out to a temperature of 100k ; as such this should provide a reasonable estimate of the observable crystallinity - fraction ( anything colder is extremely unlikely to make much impact on the 10@xmath46 m silicate feature ) . furthermore , since each cylindrical radial region will be cut by many streamlines with different crystallinity fractions , in order to calculate an average crystallinity fraction we perform a number density weighted average out to the temperature cut - off .",
    "in figure  [ fig : images ] we show calculated images of the 5 different models in the h , k & l bands , they all show a ` wingnut ' morphology .",
    "the emission is strongest in the bluer bands with the h band being strongest and the l being the weakest .",
    "as the mass - loss rate increases the emission becomes more extended and reaches larger radii , since the density along a streamline falls to a given value at larger radius .",
    "we also find that all of the emission is scattered light from the central star and inner disc , many orders of magnitude above any thermal emission from the wind itself , in agreement with our assertion that the wind is optically thin .",
    "the fact that the emission is dominated by scattered light allows us to understand the evolution of the color variation and emission morphology as the mass - loss rates change . for high mass - loss rates the emission morphology follows the gas density distribution of the wind ( i.e. essentially spherical with a gap on axis in a region where the wind is negligible ) , while more pronounced ` wingnut ' profiles are clearly visible for lower values of mass - loss rate .",
    "this arises from the fact that scattering at a given wavelength is dominated by dust grains of comparable sizes .",
    "given the bands we are interested in are in the range 1 - 5@xmath46 m then when there is large spatial variation in grains of this size then a profile that differs markedly from the gas density would be expected ( e.g. the wingnut ) . however , for large enough mass - loss rates dust grains with sizes in the 1 - 5@xmath46 m range can be entrained in the flow everywhere and the emission then simply follows the gas density distribution .",
    "we find that all of the synthetic images are dominated by blue light ; this is somewhat expected since the smallest grains can always be entrained in the flow and outnumber the larger grains , thus dominating the opacity for an mrn size distribution as the one considered here .",
    "furthermore , the negative slope with wavelength of the irradiating field , which in the 1 - 5@xmath46 m range is dominated by emission from the disc , means that short wavelength photons are more abundant , contributing to the blue appearance of the synthetic images .",
    ".model luminosities [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ table : table ]",
    "we have used the wind profiles and dust temperature information from the radiative transfer calculation ( section  [ sec : rad ] ) to calculate crystallinity fractions in the wind .",
    "we have assessed the impact of the wind on the observable crystallinity fraction for discs , where the inner disc is both obscured ( edge - on ) and unobscured . in the unobscured case , to observe the disc s crystallinity fraction the wind will also make a contribution along the line of sight .",
    "we compare the disc s emission to the wind s emission at 10@xmath46 m and find that at all radii the disc dominates over the wind , meaning that the observed crystallinity fraction for non - edge on discs is unaffected by the photoevaporative wind .",
    "however , when the disc is observed close to edge - on the disc s contribution will be undetectable and the crystallinity fraction in the wind maybe studied .",
    "it is important to note at this point , that the radial distribution of the crystallinity fraction in a wind is likely to differ from the disc s ` native ' distribution . in figure",
    "[ fig : cryst ] we show radial profiles of the crystallinity fraction obtained from a photoevaporative wind ( solid black line ) and compare it to the input crystallinity distribution of the disc ( dashed blue line ) .",
    "the figure shows that at small radii @xmath47au there is no crystallinity in the wind simply because there is no wind inside this radius to carry the dust grains to large heights . between 2.5 - 200au",
    "there is a falling crystallinity fraction ; however , it is always in excess of the disc s underlying fraction , whereas outside @xmath48au it continues to fall even though the crystallinity fraction in the disc has now risen above the level in the wind .",
    "the crystallinity fraction in the wind remains the same for all ionizing luminosities and is insensitive to the temperature cut - off described in section  [ sec : mcryst ] in the range 150 - 50k .",
    "the observed wind crystallinity profile is a direct consequence of the streamline topology , which implies that the grains in the wind at any given cylindrical radius must have originated in the disc at a smaller radius and hence , in general , with a higher crystallinity fraction .",
    "the rise in the disc crystallinity at a radii @xmath49au is not translated into the wind population , since most of the dust in the wind is entrained inside @xmath50au .",
    "the low wind rates at @xmath49au , coupled with the geometric dilution of the wind , mean that the crystallinity fraction in the wind continues to fall with radius .",
    "the fact that the crystallinity fraction is insensitive to the mass - loss rate is simply a consequence that the number of dust particles at a given point scales approximately as @xmath51 everywhere , the same as the gas , since it is largely unaffected by the change in maximum grain size for the mrn dust distribution chosen .",
    "herbig star ( dashed line ) . ]",
    "there are several objects that show extended emission above and below the dark dust lane indicative of an optically thick disc .",
    "all the objects in the sample presented by padgett et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , which includes the well known ` butterfly star ' , show extended scattered light emission above and below a dark dust lane .",
    "the objects in the padgett et al .",
    "( 1999 ) sample ; however , all are relatively low - mass young stars and the high fluxes detected in scattered light indicate that there is much more mass present than would be expected in a photoevaporative wind .",
    "furthermore the observed structure is much more filamentary than our models predict .",
    "these observations clearly indicate that a photoevaporative wind is too weak to have produced the observed extended emission .",
    "padgett et al .",
    "( 1999 ) suggested that these objects are young ( class i ) objects , with the extended emission arising from an infalling envelope .",
    "wolf et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and stark et al .",
    "( 2006 ) have successfully reproduced these observations using detailed radiative transfer modelling that include the combination of a disc component , an in - falling envelope and an outflow cavity .",
    "pds 144n ( perrin et al . 2006 ) ; however , is a more promising candidate for a photoevaporative wind , with images showing a morphology very similar to the ` wingnut ' shapes predicted for the lower mass - loss rates @xmath52erg s@xmath17 . furthermore adopting the @xmath41erg s@xmath17 , which predicts a surface brightness of 0.01  jy  arcsec@xmath53 in h at a radius and height of @xmath54au",
    ", we can derive a distance to pds 144n . by comparing the observed image to our predicted image",
    "we find a distance of 200 - 400pc , which is in the range of previous estimates . as discussed in perrin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , it is highly unlikely that the morphology arises from foreground extinction as suggested explanation to the morphology of the padgett et al . ( 1999 ) sample .",
    "perrin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) indeed discuss photoevaporation as a possible source for the extended emission .",
    "however , they oversimplify the photoevaporation model by just considering the radial scale @xmath42 , ignoring the fact that , as discussed in section  2 , dust grains can be carried to very large distances in the wind , and that at several flow scale heights from the disc the streamlines are spherical .",
    "our models show that the use of @xmath42 in discussing the characteristic scales of the flow in dust is a poor approximation , since , as shown in figure  [ fig : amax ] , dust entrained at @xmath55 can be easily carried to radii and heights of @xmath56 producing a dust density that varies on scales different to @xmath42 as shown in figure  3 .",
    "perrin et al . (",
    "2006 ) present models of the object in which they construct an in - falling envelope with a jet cavity surrounding an extended passive accretion disc . while their model ( figure  6 of perrin et al .",
    "2006 ) can also reproduce extended emission , it can not reproduce the distinctive ` wingnut ' morphology seen in the observations and in the model presented in this work ( see the top panels of figure  [ fig : images ] ) .    however both the model presented by perrin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) and the ones presented in this work fail to reproduce one important aspect of the observations .",
    "the observed colour of pds 144n is such that the extended regions of the emission become dominated by the redder scattered light .",
    "this is opposite to what is predicted by the perrin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) model which predicts a colour variation of red to blue with height and the blue band dominating the emission at large height .",
    "this is due to a dust population whose maximum grains size decreases with height , as you move from the disc population to the envelope ( ism like ) population . on the contrary , our model _",
    "can _ reproduce the sign of the observed colour variation i.e that the relative strength of the red light increases with height .",
    "this is demonstrated in figure  [ fig : colour ] where we plot the change in h - k and h - l for the @xmath41 s@xmath17 model as a function of height above the mid - plane for the @xmath41 s@xmath17 , where there is variations in the grain population at sizes of a few microns , which dominate the scattering opacity at nir wavelengths .",
    "while our models predict that the colours become redder with height above the disc ( due to the fact that larger grains are entrained at greater height , see figure  [ fig : amax ] , and these scatter red light more efficiently ) , our models predict scattered blue light to remain dominant at large heights ( see figure 4 ) .",
    "as discussed in section  [ sec : images ] , in our model blue light dominates due to the spectral slope of the irradiating sed and the fact that small grains are present in the wind at all heights .",
    "we estimate using figure  3 of perrin et al .",
    "( 2006 ) a change in h - l ( @xmath57(h - l ) ) of @xmath581.5 , at least three times larger than our simple model can predict .",
    "h - x ) as a function of height above the midplane , at a cylindrical radius of 100au .",
    "green line : x = k band colour ; red line : x = l band colour .",
    "the model shown is the @xmath41 s@xmath17 calculation . ]    however , in order to allow the redder bands to dominate over the bluer bands one needs to ( i ) increase the available disc emission at the redder wavelengths so there is more original flux to scatter and/or ( ii ) remove the smaller grains which are currently dominating the scattered light ( iii ) increase the optical depth to the star / disc so the extended region becomes optically thick , resulting in the reddening of photons as they pass through .",
    "grain growth in the disc provides a natural solution to both ( i ) and ( ii ) .",
    "dullemond & dominik ( 2005 ) have shown that the dust grains in a disc easily grow to @xmath59 m reducing the opacity of the disc at shorter wavelengths and resulting in a disc spectrum that falls less steeply or even rises to longer wavelengths in the 1 - 5@xmath46 m range .",
    "furthermore , the removal of small grains from the disc will also result in the removal of small grains from the wind , reducing the scattering efficiency at the shorter bluer radiation .    future observations of the @xmath60 m silicate feature may help disentangle the origin of the dust particles in the extended region around pds 144n since an in - falling envelope would be entirely composed of amorphous ism type grains , while , as shown by our models , a photoevaporative wind origin implies the presence of crystalline silicate grains in the extended regions .",
    "we have considered the fate of dust grains that can be entrained in a photoevaporative wind from the surface of a disc surrounding a herbig ae / be star . for a median mass - loss rate of @xmath61m@xmath14yr@xmath17",
    ", we find that grains up to radii of several microns can be entrained in the wind .",
    "we also show that , once entrained in the wind , the dust grains will remain entrained and be carried out to very large radius .",
    "we have considered the observational imprint of this wind - entrained dust on edge - on discs , showing that the combination of a photoevaporative wind structure and a variable dust grain population resulting from the variable drag force at the base of the wind , can naturally reproduce a ` wingnut ' morphology of the dust density distribution in the wind . using a combination of monte - carlo and ray tracing radiative transfer techniques ,",
    "we calculate scattered light images from the density distribution at near infared wavelengths .",
    "we find our model is not applicable to the well known edge - on discs in the padgett et al .",
    "( 1999 ) sample , which are too young and optically thick to be explained with a photoevaporative origin , but are likely to arise from an infalling envelope as shown in wolf et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and stark et al .",
    "these synthetic images show a wingnut morphology inferred from the dust density distributions , similar to observations of the edge - on disc around pds 144n ( perrin et al .",
    "2006).the synthetic images , however , are dominated by emission from the smallest grains entrained in the flow , hence failing to reproduce the colour gradient of the observations , which show redder emission at larger heights above the disc .",
    "grain growth in the disc , is a natural solution to the colour problem , and we estimate severely depleted abundance of grains with radii smaller than @xmath62 m .    finally we consider the crystallinity of dust grains entrained in the flow : by following the thermal evolution of the grains , we find that crystallinity fraction will remain unchanged when the disc s photosphere can be observed since the observable mass in the wind in much less than the observable mass in the disc .",
    "however when the disc photosphere is obscured ( i.e. for edge - on discs ) the crystallinity fraction in the wind is significantly enhanced above the discs underlying crystallinity fraction . finally , we suggest that detection of crystalline grains in extended emission around an edge on disc is indicative of a photoevaporative wind and argues against an envelope origin for the extended emission .",
    "we wish to thank the referee , barbara whitney for her help with improving this paper .",
    "jeo acknowledges support of a stfc phd studentship an is indebted to the university of exeter astrophysics department for hospitality during the completion of this work .",
    "be is supported by a science and technology facility council advanced fellowship .",
    "some of this work was performed using the darwin supercomputer of the university of cambridge high performance computing service ( http://www.hpc.cam.ac.uk/ ) , provided by dell inc . using strategic research infrastructure funding from the higher education funding council for england .",
    "clarke c.  j. , gendrin a. , sotomayor m. , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 485 dullemond c.  p. , dominik c. , 2005 , a&a , 434 , 971 dullemond c.  p. , apai d. , walch s. , 2006 , apj , 640 , l67 ercolano b. , barlow m.  j. , storey p.  j. , liu x .- w .",
    ", 2003 , mnras , 340 , 1136 ercolano b. , barlow m.  j. , storey p.  j. , 2005 , mnras , 362 , 1038 ercolano b. , young p.  r. , drake j.  j. , raymond j.  c. , 2008 , apjs , 175 , 534 ercolano b. , clarke c.  j. , 2010 , mnras , 402 , 2735 ercolano , b. , & owen , j.  e.  2010 , , 406 , 1553              kemper f. , vriend w.  j. , tielens a.  g.  g.  m. , 2005 , apj , 633 , 534 lucy l.  b. , 1999 , a&a , 344 , 282 mathis j.  s. , rumpl w. , nordsieck k.  h. , 1977 , apj , 217 , 425 morfill g.  e. , voelk h.  j. , 1984 , apj , 287 , 371          perrin m.  d. , duchne g. , kalas p. , graham j.  r. , 2006 , apj , 645 , 1272 robitaille t.  p. , whitney b.  a. , indebetouw r. , wood k. , denzmore p. , 2006 ,",
    "apjs , 167 , 256 schisano e. , ercolano b. , gdel m. , 2010 , mnras , 401 , 1636"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have performed hydrodynamic and radiative transfer calculations of a photoevaporating disc around a herbig ae / be star to determine the evolution and observational impact of dust entrained in the wind . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the wind selectively entrains grains of different sizes at different radii resulting in a dust population that varies spatially and increases with height above the disc at radii @xmath0 au . </S>",
    "<S> this variable grain population results in a ` wingnut ' morphology to the dust density distribution . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate images of this dust distribution at nir wavelengths that also show a wingnut morphology at all wavelengths considered . we have also considered the contribution that crystalline dust grains will have in the wind and show that a photoevaporative wind can result in a significant crystallinity fraction at all radii , when the disc is edge - on . </S>",
    "<S> however , when the disc s photosphere is unobscured , a photoevaporative wind makes no contribution to the observable crystallinity fraction in the disc . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we conclude that the analysis of extended emission around edge - on discs could provide a new and independent method of testing photoevaporation models .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion discs - circumstellar matter - planetary systems :  protoplanetary discs - stars :  pre - main - sequence . </S>"
  ]
}