{
  "article_text": [
    "in solar flares , electrons and ions are accelerated to non - thermal energies .",
    "when these particles interact with the ambient medium , they can produce photons with energies up to the gamma - ray range .",
    "the electrons produce continuum emission via the bremsstrahlung process , while the ions ( protons and heavier nuclei ) can produce excited and radioactive nuclei which , through de - excitation or decay , make emission lines usually @xmath3 7  mev .",
    "ions with energy above @xmath0 200  mev can produce pions by interacting with ambient nuclei . these pions then produce gamma - ray continuum via @xmath4 or @xmath5 .",
    "there is also 511  kev line emission from annihilation of positrons created by the decay of @xmath6-emitting radioactive nuclei or @xmath7 .",
    "whether radioactive nuclei or @xmath7 contribute more to the positron population depends on the hardness of the injected ions @xcite .",
    "positrons may also come from the @xmath8 pair production process of the gamma - ray continuum .",
    "these continua and lines provide information on particle acceleration in solar flares , but we can only observe those photons that reach us . since the accelerated electrons are relativistic , the angular distribution of bremsstrahlung will tend to follow that of the original electrons , so electrons beamed downward along the magnetic field will put most of their radiation into the sun .",
    "photons created deep in the solar atmosphere by any process are less likely to escape than those created in the corona or chromosphere .",
    "these effects will change the relative luminosity of different spectral components , but the location and directionality of the photon production processes will also change the spectral shape of each as well .",
    "bremsstrahlung intrinsically creates different spectra in different directions , with the hardest spectrum in the beam direction .",
    "compton scattering can also affect the observed spectra ( * ? ? ?",
    "* e.g. ) by scattering photons to lower energy .",
    "the importance of this process depends on both the depth where the original photons are produced and their direction relative to the line of sight .",
    "accurate simulations of the location , beaming , reprocessing , and absorption of flare photons are therefore just as important to interpreting spectra as modeling of the original radiation mechanism .",
    "examples of the importance of directionality and location in interpreting observed bremsstrahlung spectra are seen in recent work by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the picture of electrons accelerated directly down field lines into the deep solar atmosphere is seldom found to agree with observations .",
    "strong scattering , as from interactions with magnetohydrodynamic waves , can make the distribution function evolve into one that is more isotropic than when the electrons were injected into the magnetic loop .",
    "@xcite compared different kinds of instabilities that may cause this anisotropy decrease .",
    "the evolution speed of the distribution function is sensitive to the loop magnetic field as described by @xcite .",
    "magnetic mirroring can produce a `` pancake '' distribution moving mostly parallel to the solar surface @xcite .",
    "@xcite proposed a scenario in which the highest energy bremsstrahlung in flares is produced in the magnetic loop top , because they found that the coronal source is harder and becomes dominant above 500  kev in the 2005 january 20 flare . in this picture , the angular distribution of gamma - ray producing electrons is also isotropic because they are trapped by strong scattering .",
    "@xcite concluded that the angular distribution of electrons producing hard x - rays at flare footpoints is isotropic by including the compton - scattered x - ray `` albedo '' surrounding the footpoints in their spectral analysis .    in the present work ,",
    "we perform monte carlo simulations with the toolkit geant4 @xcite to illustrate the effects of beaming and reprocessing on observable gamma - ray components from flare - accelerated electrons and protons .",
    "we focus on electron bremsstrahlung and the secondary radiation from pion production by protons , since we believe that geant4 addresses these components more accurately than it does the nuclear de - excitation lines that dominate between these energy ranges .",
    "in particular , we study the positron - annihilation line and the production of continuum radiation from 815  mev , a range bracketed at the bottom by the energy at which de - excitation lines first become negligible and at the top by the maximum energy observed by the _ reuven ramaty high - energy solar spectroscopic imager ( rhessi ) _",
    "@xcite , which we will use to compare our simulations to a flare observation .",
    "if the 815  mev continuum is taken to be bremsstrahlung from flare - accelerated electrons , we show that there is a strong constraint on the angular distribution of the electrons , an effect discussed also by @xcite .",
    "the positron - annihilation line is always isotropic , because the positrons mostly slow down to thermal speed before they annihilate .",
    "thus , a comparison of the annihilation line and the 815  mev continuum gives us further information on the electron angular distribution , again under the assumption that both components are due to bremsstrahlung and its reprocessing .",
    "we will also discuss the other sources for these energy bands : for the line , @xmath9 decay and positrons from @xmath10 , and for the continuum , bremsstrahlung from electrons and positrons from the decay of charged pions and reprocessing of gamma - rays from the decay of neutral pions in the solar atmosphere and in the instrument .",
    "positrons can annihilate through the 3@xmath2 orthopositronium channel . the resulting continuum , while it has a characteristic shape , can be mistaken for comptonization of the 511  kev line @xcite and can greatly affect the estimation of the ratio between the annihilation line and other spectral components .",
    "for an example both of the capabilities of these simulations and of instrumental effects , we use an observation of the large x - class flare of 2003 october 28 with _",
    "rhessi _ and compare the time integrated spectrum with our simulations .    the models and method are shown in detail in ",
    "[ sec : model ] . in ",
    "[ sec : simu ] we show the simulation results and compare them with the 2003 october 28 flare , and ",
    "[ sec : dis ] provides the summary and discussion .",
    "we used the monte carlo simulation package geant4 @xcite , which is widely used in experimental high - energy physics for simulating the passage of particles through matter .",
    "the physics processes offered cover all the electromagnetic and hadronic processes we are interested in .",
    "geant4 treats individual simulated particles one at a time rather than distributions of particles , and carries them through a mass model of the universe defined by geometrical boundaries between materials rather than a grid . when a particle is `` injected ''",
    ", geant4 calculates the mean free path of all the discrete physics processes implemented , calculates a random distance associated with each process , and chooses that with the shortest distance to be implemented ( unless the distance to the nearest material boundary is closer , in which case the particle is taken to the boundary ) .",
    "it then determines all the physics properties of the particle after the chosen process ( including its new position ) taking account of the continual physics processes ( such as energy loss by electrons ) that happen within this step .",
    "as this goes on , it provides a `` track '' of the particle until it comes to rest , leaves the volume , or reaches a low - energy threshold .",
    "daughter particles , when created , are tracked immediately , with the parent particle put aside to be followed after the daughter particle is finished .",
    "cascades can thus be followed deeply , restricted only by computer memory . in our simulations , we inject electrons or protons into a model of the solar atmosphere and track their interactions with the ambient material , recording the angular and energy distribution of photons leaving the sun .",
    "@xcite used geant4 to simulate electron bremsstrahlung in solar flares , and included the effect of compton scattering on the emerging bremsstrahlung continuum . in this work , we also quantify the positron - annihilation line resulting from bremsstrahlung photons pair - producing in the sun , and simulate the gamma - ray emissions originating from accelerated protons as well , considering the continuum and annihilation - line photons resulting from pion creation .",
    "geant4 allows the user to select the particular physics processes to be used , including alternate versions of some processes .",
    "the following electromagnetic processes are implemented in our simulations : bremsstrahlung , ionization and coulomb scattering for electrons and positrons , and pair - production , compton scattering , and photoelectric absorption for photons ( the latter is not significant at the energies of interest ) . because we focus on very high energies , we treat the chromosphere as a cold target even though its temperature could reach as high as tens of kev when bombarded by flare - accelerated particles .",
    "annihilation is also implemented for positrons , but without the formation of positronium , so the annihilation always produces two gamma - ray photons of 511  kev .",
    "some fraction of positrons in the real solar atmosphere may form parapositronium ( which also decays to two 511  kev photons ) and orthopositronium ( which decays to three continuum photons with maximum energy 511  kev ) , but the orthopositronium continuum can be quenched by collisions at high densities ; see @xcite for extensive recent calculations .",
    "we will return to this problem in section [ sec : oct28 ] while comparing our simulations with a flare observation .",
    "the processes mentioned above , except for coulomb scattering , are implemented through the penelope physics package @xcite , which is valid above @xmath0 250  ev .",
    "bremsstrahlung in penelope includes electron - electron bremsstrahlung , which can be significant above several hundred kev in flares @xcite , using cross sections calculated after @xcite .",
    "coulomb scattering needs special consideration because its mean free path is much smaller than that of any other process and a full treatment would take too much time .",
    "geant4 simulates the effect of multiple coulomb interactions after a given step as a statistical expectation , instead of treating them one by one .",
    "@xcite suggested that because the different geant4 models for proton inelastic collisions are not consistent with each other in the energy range of tens of mev , these models are not ready for problem solving ; our initial simulations using these packages confirm this conclusion for our application .",
    "we found that the proton inelastic process as simulated in the hadronphysicsqgsp_bert_hp physics module produces a continuum - like photon spectrum extending to @xmath0 20 mev . this conflicts with most observations of gamma - ray flares (",
    "* e.g. ) , in which this component falls off dramatically at 8  mev , above the complex of lines from the de - excitation of nitrogen , carbon and oxygen .",
    "the observed spectrum is also more dominated by individual lines and looks less like a continuum .",
    "another package , hadronphysicsqgsp_bic_hp , shows a more realistic cutoff around 8  mev but still produces only a continuum - like shape and not the observed complex of de - excitation lines . in figure",
    "[ fig : modcompare ] we show the difference between these two physics modules for the proton inelastic scattering component and the entire proton - derived flux , including the high - energy component from pion production . for this comparison we injected mono - energetic protons of 1 gev downward into the model sun described in section [ sec : solarmod ] and recorded all the photons coming out at an angle @xmath11 from the solar normal such that @xmath12 .",
    "pion production and decay , on the other hand , are simpler processes and there is agreement among multiple models for their simulation .",
    "as can be seen in figure [ fig : modcompare ] , the two geant4 physics modules agree well as to this photon component ( dominant above 10  mev ) .",
    "we also compared these results from geant4 with the output of the code developed by reuven ramaty , ronald murphy , and others , which has been successfully applied to large flares @xcite . for this comparison , we put mono - energetic protons of 1  gev into a atmosphere of hydrogen and helium with he / h = 0.1 , and recorded all the photons produced .",
    "as shown in figure [ fig : pioncompare ] , the results are consistent with geant4 ; in the energy range 815  mev , the difference is less than 20% .",
    "since we believe we can therefore trust geant4 for pion processes as well as electromagnetic cascades , we will ignore the inelastic process for this work and concentrate on the 815  mev range , which should be dominated by bremsstrahlung both from primary electrons and from secondary electrons and positrons from pion decay .      in the present simulation",
    ", we treat the solar atmosphere as parallel layers .",
    "this is a reasonable approximation because the size of the emission region is always much smaller than the solar radius .",
    "we use the analytical approximation of @xcite to the harvard - smithsonian reference atmosphere @xcite as the solar mass - density profile , which is @xmath13 here @xmath14 is the height measured from photosphere and @xmath15 is the scale height , which is @xmath16 km  for @xmath170 and @xmath18  km for @xmath190 .",
    "the specific vertical structure model will not affect the simulation result , however .",
    "all the processes we care about except decays depend only on the column density along the path .",
    "because our model solar atmosphere is made up of parallel slabs , we can always transform the parameter @xmath14 into column depth without changing our results .",
    "the only exception is decay processes , which depend on time .",
    "however , the longest lifetime we need to consider is that of @xmath20 , which is 2.6@xmath21s . during this short time , the pion travels less than 1  km even if it has an energy of up to 1@xmath22  mev , which is much shorter than the length scale of the system .",
    "so the decay always happens approximately where the short lived particles are produced and the result will not change with different vertical structures .",
    "another consideration is that when the chromosphere is bombarded by the flare accelerated particles , it will evaporate and fill up the magnetic loop .",
    "this will change the vertical structure .",
    "if the particles were to interact high in a narrow column , the pattern of photon escape as a function of solar normal angle would be very different , with tangential escape much easier .",
    "however , @xcite find that the density of evaporation upflow is around 10@xmath23 @xmath24 .",
    "take the longest flare loop with a length of around 10@xmath25 cm , the column density change will be less than 0.01 g@xmath24 .",
    "as we will show in  [ sec : simu ] , all the processes we are interested in happen at a column density greater that 1 g@xmath24 .",
    "therefore , evaporation should not strongly influence our results .",
    "the elemental abundance of our model sun is taken from @xcite , and we assume that the abundances of the photosphere and corona are the same . in future work we will implement more realistic photospheric and coronal abundances , including the enhancement of low first ionization potential ( fip ) elements in the corona .",
    "@xcite used a pure hydrogen atmosphere , which underestimates bremsstrahlung efficiency , since that rises as approximately the square of atomic number @xmath26 , and also underestimates pair production , the cross - section for which increases even dramatically with @xmath26 .",
    "we find that 10  mev photons , for example , produce 12% more positrons in a realistic atmosphere than in a hydrogen atmosphere .",
    "we inject electrons and protons with different energies and angular distributions into our model sun and track them as well as their secondaries .",
    "the tracking stops if the particles leave the sun or if their energy falls below 50  kev .",
    "however , because positrons seldom annihilate until they thermalize , the 50  kev cutoff does not apply to them ; we track them until they annihilate or leave the sun .",
    "we also track pions to their decay .",
    "table [ tab : e ] shows all the different models of injected electrons used in the simulations . for the downward - beamed and downward - isotropic distributions ,",
    "the electrons are initialized just above the model solar atmosphere . for the isotropic and pancake distributions ,",
    "they are injected at an integrated column depth of @xmath27 g @xmath1 .",
    "the results are not sensitive to this parameter as long as it is not very deep in the atmosphere .",
    "as the electrons have to experience mirroring to give these distributions , they are confined in the region and reflected artificially in the simulation .",
    "we do not invoke real magnetic mirroring because the gyration radius is too small compared to other length scales in the simulation and including the magnetic field would make the runs impractically slow .    in table",
    "[ tab : e ] , columns 47 show the ratio between 511  kev line flux and the continuum in two places : the energy flux per kev at 200  kev and the integrated continuum from 815  mev . the simulation marked with dashes gave no photons from 815  mev .",
    "the columns marked `` ( sim . ) '' are the ratios from the direct output of the simulations . to get the ratios marked `` ( cnvlv . )",
    ", '' we convolved our simulated spectra with the instrumental response matrix of _ rhessi _ , so we could compare the simulations with the ratio of counts in a flare observed with that spacecraft .",
    "the last three columns give the production efficiency for photons in each band exiting the sun per input particle in the simulation .",
    "the first half of table [ tab : e ] represents a disk flare ( cosine of the viewing angle @xmath28 ) and the last half represents a limb flare ( cosine of the viewing angle between 0.2 and 0.4 ) .",
    ".flux ratios of photons in three energy bands from simulations of electron injection ( see text ) . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have used the geant4 package to simulate the spectra produced by the interactions of high - energy flare particles in the sun , emphasizing electron bremsstrahlung and pion production by protons .",
    "we find that the angular distribution of primary electrons accelerated in solar flares can greatly affect the shape and production rate of outgoing gamma - ray photons .",
    "in general , the more the injection is downward beamed , the steeper the outgoing spectrum is and the lower the production rate .",
    "@xcite found the same result and suggested that limb flares should therefore have harder spectra than disk flares . extending those results down to lower energies , we find that a downward - biased distribution will cause limb brightening at higher ( @xmath29 0.3 mev ) energy and limb darkening at lower energy",
    ". a isotropic distribution will show no bias and a pancake distribution will produce limb brightening at all energies .",
    "these results are due to the combined effects of bremsstrahlung and compton scattering .",
    "we modeled two classes of mechanism that can produce positrons in flares  the electromagnetic cascade from accelerated electrons and the decay products of pions .",
    "the third source , and perhaps the most important , is radioactive decay , which we postpone until we can further study and perhaps improve the nuclear cross - sections available in geant4 .",
    "we found that the annihilation line resulting from accelerated electrons has only a weak dependence on the angular distribution of the electrons .",
    "since the bremsstrahlung continuum has a strong dependence , the ratio of the annihilation line to the continuum can constrain the electron angular distribution if the electron contribution to the positron population can be isolated . @xcite and @xcite used the time history of the c / o de - excitation lines from 4  mev to 7  mev to estimate the positron production due to decay of spallation products ( i.e. , due to accelerated protons below the pion production threshold ) . such a technique , combined with observations of photons up to 100  mev ( * ? ? ? * e.g. ) to fix the pion contribution to the annihilation line , could allow the electron contribution to be isolated if the three components ( electrons , lower - energy protons , and high - energy protons ) have different time profiles .",
    "if the electron contribution to the annihilation line can be isolated , it becomes a new and valuable diagnostic for the electron spectrum and angular distribution .",
    "future space missions with @xmath0 10  imaging in the gamma - ray range could allow spatial as well as spectral and temporal information to be used to isolate the electron contribution to the annihilation line .    comparing our simulations to _ rhessi _ data from the 2003 october 28 flare , we find that the high ratio of the 511  kev line to the 815  mev continuum implies that either radioactivity , bremsstrahlung from downward - biased electrons , or a combination dominates the positron production in this flare .",
    "we also find that positrons from @xmath7 decay annihilate at a column depth of @xmath0 10 g @xmath1 in the sun and most of the gamma - ray photons they produce experience compton scattering before escaping , producing a continuum that resembles the 3@xmath2 decay of orthopositronium .    in gamma - ray flares , a hardening break around 0.6  mev",
    "is often found for the power - law component of the spectra .",
    "this break may be interpreted as indicating two populations of electrons @xcite , or as electron - electron bremsstrahlung becoming dominant above that energy @xcite . based on our simulation",
    ", it is also possible that the component above 0.6  mev is not caused by primary electrons that are accelerated in the flares but by electrons and positrons from the decay of pions generated by the accelerated protons . to test this possibility",
    ", we will need to compare our simulations with flare data up to @xmath30  mev to fix the normalization of the pion component and see if it is enough to contribute what is usually thought of as the hard tail of the bremsstrahlung spectrum .",
    "the authors thank ronald murphy , gerald share , albert shih , troy porter , and eduard kontar for contributing by explanation and example to this work and our understanding .",
    "this work was supported by nasa grant nng05g189g-004 , nasa contract nas5 - 98033 , and china scholarship council postgraduate scholarship program .",
    "agostinelli , s. , et al .",
    "2003 , nimpa , 506 , 250 arkhangelskaja , i. v. , kotov , yu .",
    "d. , kalmykov , p. a. , & glyanenko , a. s. , 2009 , advances in space research , 43 , 589 aschwanden , m. j. , & benz , a. o. , 1997 , apj , 480 , 825 bret , a. , 2009 , apj , 699 , 990 chin , m. p. w. , & spyrou , n. m. , 2009 , applied radiation and isotopes , 67 , 406 dermer , c. d. , & ramaty , r. , 1986 , apj , 301 , 962 forrest , d. j. , et al .",
    "1980 , sol .",
    "phys . , 65 , 15 gan , w. q. , 2004 , sol .",
    "phys . , 219 , 279 gingerich , o. , noyes , r. w. , kalkofen , w. , & cuny , y. , 1971 , sol .",
    "phys . , 18 , 347 grevesse , n. , asplund , m. , & sauval , a. j. , 2007 , spaces .",
    ", 130 , 105 karlicky , m. , & kasparova , j. , a&a , 506 , 1437 kontar , e. p. , & brown , j. c. , apjl , 653 , l149 kontar , e. p. , emslie , a. g. , massone , a. m. , piana , m. , brown , j. c. , & prato , m. , 2007 , apj , 670 , 857 kotoku , j. , makishima , k. , matsumoto , y. , kohama , m. , terada , y. , & tamagawa , t. , 2007 , pasj , 59 , 1161 krucker , s. , hurford , g. j. , mackinnon , a. l. , shih , a. y. , & lin , r. p. , 2008 ,",
    "apjl , 687 , l63 li , p. , hurley , k. , barat , c. , niel , m. , talon , r. , & kurt , v. , 1994 , apj , 426 , 758 li , p. , 1995 .",
    "apj , 443 , 855 lin , r. p. , et al .",
    "2002 , sol .",
    "phys . , 210 , 3 murphy , r. j. , & ramaty , r. , 1984 , adv . space .",
    "res . , 4 , 127 murphy , r. j. , dermer , c. d. & ramaty , r. , 1987 , apjs , 63 , 721 murphy , r. j. , share , g. h. , skibo , j. g. , & kozlovsky , b. 2005 apjs , 161 , 495 salvat , f. , fernandez - varea , j. m. , & sempau , j. , _ penelope-2006 : a code system for monte carlo simulation of electron and photon transport _ , workshop proceedings barcelona , spain , 4 - 7 july 2006 seltzer , s. m. & berger , m. j. 1985 , nuc .",
    "b. , 12 , 95 share , g. h. & murphy , r. j. 2005 , apj , 452 , 993 share , g. h. , murphy , r. j. , smith , d. m. , schwartz , r. a. , & lin , r. p. , 2004 ,",
    "apjl , 615 , l169 smith , d. m. et al .",
    "2002 , solar phys . , 210 , 33 smith , d. m. , share , g. h. , murphy , r. j. , schwartz , r. a. , shih , a. y. , & lin , r. p. , 2003 ,",
    "apjl , 595 , l81 vestrand , w. t. , forrest , d. j. , chupp , e. l. , rieger , e. , & share , g. h. , 1987 , apj , 322 , 1010         decay .",
    "_ dotted : _ bremsstrahlung of @xmath31 from the decay of @xmath20 . _",
    "dashed : _ positron annihilation . _",
    "thin solid : _ the total spectrum from geant4 . _",
    "thick solid : _ the total spectrum from the nrl code.,scaledwidth=60.0% ]     such that @xmath32 ; ( 3 ) downward - isotropic distribution ; and ( 4 ) downward - beamed distribution .",
    "_ panel d _ : the gamma - ray spectrum from directly downward - beamed electrons with a spectral index 2.2 , with the compton scattering process turned on ( solid ) and off ( dotted ) .",
    "all electron spectra are cut off at 0.1  mev and 100  mev and the outgoing spectra are collected at angles @xmath11 from the solar normal such that @xmath33.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]     from the solar normal .",
    "the solid line is @xmath34 and the dashed line is @xmath35 . _",
    "panel a _ : downward - beamed distribution with spectral index 2.2 .",
    "_ panel b _ : downward - beamed distribution with spectral index 3.2 .",
    "_ panel c _",
    ": downward - isotropic distribution with spectral index 2.2 .",
    "_ panel d _ : downward - isotropic distribution with spectral index 3.2 .",
    "_ panel e _ : isotropic distribution with spectral index 2.2 .",
    "_ panel f _ : pancake distribution with spectral index 2.2 ( isotropic within angle @xmath36 of solar normal such that @xmath37 ) .",
    ", scaledwidth=80.0% ]     decay .",
    "_ dotted _ : bremsstrahlung of @xmath31 from the decay of @xmath20 .",
    "_ dashed _ : positron annihilation . _",
    "thin solid : _ the total spectrum .",
    "_ panels a and b _ : downward - beamed distributions with spectral index 2.2 and 3.2 , respectively .",
    "_ panels d and e _ : downward - isotropic distributions with spectral indices 2.2 and 3.2 , respectively .",
    "the above four panels are for @xmath38 . _ panels c and f _ : downward - beamed and downward - isotropic distributions with spectral index 2.2 , recorded at @xmath39 .",
    "all proton spectra are cut off at 100  mev and 10000  mev.,scaledwidth=90.0% ]          .",
    "_ dashed line _ : photons that experience compton scattering before being detected . _ dotted line _ : photons that do not experience compton scattering .",
    "_ solid line _ : total .",
    "_ panels a and b _ : downward beamed distributions with spectral indices 2.2 and 3.2 , respectively .",
    "_ panels c and d _ : downward isotropic distributions with spectral indices 2.2 and 3.2 , respectively.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> gamma - ray spectroscopy provides diagnostics of particle acceleration in solar flares , but care must be taken when interpreting the spectra due to effects of the angular distribution of the accelerated particles ( such as relativistic beaming ) and compton reprocessing of the radiation in the solar atmosphere . in this paper , we use the geant4 monte carlo package to simulate the interactions of accelerated electrons and protons and study these effects on the gamma - rays resulting from electron bremsstrahlung and pion decay . </S>",
    "<S> we consider the ratio of the 511  kev annihilation - line flux to the continuum at 200  kev and in the energy band just above the nuclear de - excitation lines ( 815  mev ) as a diagnostic of the accelerated particles and a point of comparison with data from the x17 flare of 2003 october 28 . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that pion secondaries from accelerated protons produce a positron annihilation line component at a depth of @xmath0 10 g @xmath1 , and that the subsequent compton scattering of the 511  kev photons produces a continuum that can mimic the spectrum expected from the 3@xmath2 decay of orthopositronium . </S>"
  ]
}