{
  "article_text": [
    "astro - h , which was formerly called next , is an international x - ray satellite that japan plans to launch with the h - ii a rocket in 2014@xcite .",
    "nasa has selected the us participation in astro - h as a mission of opportunity . under this program ,",
    "the nasa / goddard space flight center collaborates with isas / jaxa on the implementation of an x - ray micro - calorimeter spectrometer ( sxs proposal nasa / gsfc , 2007)@xcite .",
    "other international members are from stanford university , sron , geneva university and cea / dsm / irfu . in addition , in early 2009 , nasa , esa and jaxa have selected science working group members to provide scientific guidance to the astro - h project relative to the design / development and operation phases of the mission .",
    "the history and evolution of the universe can be described as a process in which structures of different scales are formed such as stars , galaxies , and clusters of galaxies , but also as matter and energy concentrate to an extreme degree in a form of black holes and neutron stars .",
    "it is a mysery of nature that the overwhelming diversity over tens or orders in spatial and density scales has been produced in the universe following an expansion from a nearly uniform state .",
    "clusters of galaxies are the largest astronomical object in the universe . observing clusters of galaxies and revealing their history",
    "is bound to lead to an understanding of how the structures are formed and evolved in the universe .",
    "equally important is to study how galaxies and supermassive black holes form and develop , and what role they play in forming clusters of galaxies .    about 80% of the observable matter in the universe is thought be in a form of hot gas that can be directly studied only in the x - ray band .",
    "x - ray observations are indispensable for unveiling the mysteries of the universe .",
    "the astro - h mission is equipped with a suite of instruments with the highest energy resolution ever achieved at @xmath2 3 kev and a wide energy range spanning four decades in energy from soft x - rays to gamma - rays .",
    "the mission aims to understand the dynamics of the evolution of the universe and the concentration of the energy including how the most energetic particles , that are still far from thermal equilibrium , are produced .",
    "astro - h has just completed the preliminary design review ( pdr ) which is required before entering the detailed design phase ( phase c ) . in the pdr ,",
    "the validity of various achievements in the basic design phase and the technical feasibility were examined .",
    "the review items included the effectiveness of the mission requirements at the time of the pdr and the validation of the development and verification plans .",
    "it was confirmed that the project is designed to ensure appropriate reliability to fulfill the mission goals as are listed in `` the mission system requirement '' document and that the project is feasible both technically and schedule - wise at the system , sub - systems , and component levels .",
    "based on the results of the pdr , astro - h is now in phase c since may 2010 .    in this paper , we will summarize the scientific requirements , the mission concept and the current baseline configuration of instruments of astro - h .",
    ".astro - h mission [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]          the hard x - ray imaging system onboard astro - h consists of two identical mirror - detector pairs ( hxt and hxi ) . the hxt has conical - foil mirrors with depth - graded multilayer reflecting surfaces that provide a 580  kev energy range@xcite .",
    "the effective area of the hxt is maximized for a long focal length , with current design value of 12  m giving an effective area of @xmath1300  @xmath3 at 30  kev for two hxts .",
    "a depth - graded multilayer mirror reflects x - rays not only by total external reflection but also by bragg reflection . in order to obtain high reflectivity up to 80  kev , the hxts consist of a stack of multilayers with different sets of periodic length and number of layer pairs with a platinum / carbon coating .",
    "the technology of a hard x - ray focusing mirror has already been proved by the balloon programs infoc@xmath4s ( 2001 , 2004)@xcite , heft ( 2004)@xcite and sumit ( 2006)@xcite .",
    "the non - imaging instruments flown so far were essentially limited to studies of sources with 10100  kev fluxes of at best @xmath54 @xmath6 10@xmath710@xmath8",
    "erg  @xmath9s@xmath10 .",
    "this limitation is due to the presence of high un - rejected backgrounds from particle events and cosmic x - ray radiation , which increasingly dominate above 10  kev .",
    "imaging , and especially focusing instruments have two tremendous advantages .",
    "firstly , the volume of the focal plane detector can be made much smaller than for non - focusing instruments , thus reducing the absolute background level since the background flux generally scales with the size of the detector .",
    "secondly , the residual background , often time - variable , can be measured simultaneously with the source , and can be reliably subtracted . for these reasons ,",
    "a focusing hard x - ray telescope in conjunction with an imaging detector sensitive for hard x - ray photons is the appropriate choice to achieve a breakthrough in sensitivity for the field of high energy astronomy .",
    "in addition to the improvement of sensitivity , the hxi provides a  true \" imaging capability which enable us to study spatial distributions of hard x - ray emission .",
    "the hxi consists of four - layers of 0.5  mm thick double - sided silicon strip detectors ( dssd ) and one layer of 0.75  mm thick cdte imaging detector ( fig .",
    "[ fig : hxi])@xcite . in this configuration ,",
    "soft x - ray photons below @xmath11 20 kev are absorbed in the si part ( dssd ) , while hard x - ray photons above @xmath1 20 kev go through the si part and are detected by the newly developed cdte double sided cross - strip detector .",
    "the low energy spectrum , obtained with si , is less contaminated by the background due to activation in heavy material , such as cd and te .",
    "fast timing response of silicon strip detector and cdte strip detector allows us to place the entire detector inside a very deep well of the active shield made of bgo ( bi@xmath12ge@xmath13o@xmath14 ) scintillators .",
    "signal from the bgo shield is used to reject background events .",
    "the dssds cover the energy below 30  kev while the cdte strip detector covers the 2080  kev band .",
    "each dssd has a size of 3.2@xmath63.2  @xmath3 and a thickness of 0.5  mm , resulting in 2  mm in total thickness , the same as that of the pin detector of the hxd onboard suzaku .",
    "a cdte strip detector has a size of 3.2@xmath63.2  @xmath3 and a thickness of 0.75  mm .",
    "in addition to the increase of efficiency , the stack configuration and individual readout provide information on the interaction depth .",
    "this depth information is very useful to reduce the background in space applications , because we can expect that low energy x - rays interact in the upper layers and , therefore , it is possible to reject the low energy events detected in lower layers .",
    "moreover , since the background rate scales with the detector volume , low energy events collected from the first few layers in the stacked detector have a high signal to background ratio , in comparison with events obtained from a monolithic detector with a thickness equal to the sum of all layers .",
    "the soft x - ray spectrometer ( sxs ) consists of the soft x - ray telescope ( sxt - s ) , the x - ray calorimeter spectrometer ( xcs ) and the cooling system@xcite .",
    "the xcs is a 36  pixel system with an energy resolution of @xmath157  ev between 0.312  kev .",
    "micromachined , ion - implanted silicon is the basis of the thermistor array , and 8-micron - thick hgte absorbers provide high quantum efficiency across the 0.312  kev band . with a 5.6-m focal length , the 0.83",
    "mm pixel pitch corresponds to 0.51  arcmin , giving the array a field of view of 3.04  arcmin on a side .",
    "the detector assembly provides electrical , thermal , and mechanical interfaces between the detectors ( calorimeter array and anti - coincidence particle detector ) and the rest of the instrument .",
    "soft x - ray telescope ( sxt ) for xcs is an upgraded version of the suzaku x - ray telescope with an improved angular resolution and a larger area@xcite .",
    "the sxs science objectives require a mirror with larger effective area than those flown on suzaku , especially in the fe k band .",
    "this is attained by the combination of increased focal length and larger diameter .",
    "the sxs effective area at 6  kev is 210  @xmath3 , a 60  % increase over the suzaku xrs , while at 1  kev the sxs has 160  @xmath3 , a 20  % increase .",
    "the required angular resolution is 1.7  arcmin , hpd , comparable to the in - orbit performance of the mirrors on suzaku .",
    "the xcs cooling system must cool the array to 50  mk with sufficient duty cycle to fulfill the sxs scientific objectives : this requires extremely low heat loads . to achieve the necessary gain stability and energy resolution",
    ", the cooling system must regulate the detector temperature to within 2  @xmath4k rms for at least 24  hours per cycle . from the detector stage to room temperature , the cooling chain is composed of a 3-stage adiabatic demagnetization refrigerator ( adr ) , superfluid liquid @xmath16he ( hereafter lhe ) , a @xmath16he joule - thomson ( jt ) cryocooler , and 2-stage stirling cryocoolers . as with suzaku , the array will be cooled using an adr@xcite . an adr has been adopted because it readily meets the requirements for detector temperature , stability , recycle time , reliability in a space environment , and previous flight heritage . the design of stirling cryocoolers is based on coolers developed for space - flight missions in japan ( suzaku , akari , and the smiles instrument deployed on the iss@xcite ) that have achieved excellent performance with respect to cooling power , efficiency and mass . as a heat - sink for the 2-stage adr , 30 l of lhe is used . to reduce the parasitic heat load on the he tank ,",
    "a @xmath16he jt cryocooler is used to cool a 4 k shield . to achieve redundancy for failure ( unexpected loss ) of lhe , another adr ( 3rd stage adr )",
    "is used between the he tank and the jt cryocooler , with two heat - switches on both sides .",
    "this adr is operated if lhe is lost , to cool down the 1 k shield ( he tank ) .",
    "a series of five blocking filters shield the calorimeter array from uv and longer wavelength radiation .",
    "the aluminized polyimide filters are similar to those successfully flown on suzaku .    in combination with a high throughput x - ray telescope ,",
    "the sxs improves on the chandra and xmm - newton grating spectrometers in two important ways . at e @xmath5 2  kev ,",
    "sxs is both more sensitive and has higher resolution ( fig.[fig : xrs ] ) , especially in the fe k band where sxs has 10 times the collecting area and much better energy resolution , giving a net improvement in sensitivity by a factor of 30 over chandra .",
    "the broad bandpass of the sxs encompasses the critical inner - shell emission and absorption lines of fe i - xxvi between 6.4 and 9.1  kev .",
    "fe k lines provide particularly useful diagnostics because of their ( 1 ) strength , due to the high abundance and large fluorescent yield ( 30% ) , ( 2 ) spectral isolation from other lines , and ( 3 ) relative simplicity of the atomic physics .",
    "fe k emission lines reveal conditions in plasmas with temperatures between 10@xmath17 and 10@xmath18 k , which are typical values for stellar accretion disks , snrs , clusters of galaxies , and many stellar coronae . in cooler plasmas , si ,",
    "s , and fe fluorescence and recombination occurs when an x - ray source illuminates nearby neutral material .",
    "fe emission lines provide powerful diagnostics of non - equilibrium ionization due to inner shell k - shell transitions from fe xvii  xxiv@xcite .    using a detector from the xrs program but with a new sample of absorber material ( hgte ) that has lower specific heat , leading to an energy resolution of 3.7  ev ( fwhm ) .",
    "the sxs could have an energy resolution approaching this value @xcite.,title=\"fig:\",height=283 ] using a detector from the xrs program but with a new sample of absorber material ( hgte ) that has lower specific heat , leading to an energy resolution of 3.7  ev ( fwhm ) .",
    "the sxs could have an energy resolution approaching this value @xcite.,title=\"fig:\",height=219 ]    in order to obtain a good performance for bright sources , a filter wheel ( fw ) assembly , which includes a wheel with selectable filters and a set of modulated x - ray sources will be used at a distance of 90 cm from the detector .",
    "the fw is able to rotate a suitable filter into the beam to optimize the quality of the data , depending on the source characteristics@xcite .",
    "in addition to the filters , a set of on - off - switchable x - ray calibration sources , using light sensitive photo - cathode , will be implemented .",
    "these calibration sources will allow proper gain and linearity calibration of the detector in flight .",
    "sxs uniquely performs high - resolution spectroscopy of extended sources .",
    "in contrast to a grating , the spectral resolution of the calorimeter is unaffected by source s angular size because it is non - dispersive . for sources with angular extent larger than 10  arcsec , chandra meg energy resolution is degraded compared with that of a ccd ; the energy resolution of the xmm - newton rgs is similarly degraded for sources with angular extent @xmath192  arcmin .",
    "sxs makes possible high - resolution spectroscopy of sources inaccessible to current grating instruments .",
    "the key properties of sxs are its high spectral resolution for both point and diffuse sources over a broad bandpass ( @xmath157  ev fwhm throughout the 0.312  kev band ) , high sensitivity ( effective area of 160  @xmath20 at 1  kev and 210  @xmath20 at 7  kev ) , and low non - x - ray background ( 1.5@xmath610@xmath21  cts  s@xmath10kev@xmath10 ) .",
    "these properties open up a full range of plasma diagnostics and kinematic studies of x - ray emitting gas for thousands of targets , both galactic and extragalactic .",
    "sxs improves upon and complements the current generation of x - ray missions , including chandra , xmm - newton , suzaku and swift .",
    "x - ray sensitive silicon charge - coupled devices ( ccds ) are a key device for the x - ray astronomy . the low background and high energy resolution achieved with the xis / suzaku",
    "clearly show that the x - ray ccd will also play very important role in the astro - h mission .",
    "soft x - ray imaging system will consist of an imaging mirror and a ccd camera ( soft x - ray telescope ( sxt - i ) and soft x - ray imager ( sxi))@xcite .",
    "[ sxi - outlook ] shows an schematic drawing of sxi .    in order to cover the soft x - ray band below 12  kev ,",
    "the sxi will use next generation hamamatsu ccd chips with a thick depletion layer of 200 @xmath4 m , low noise , and almost no cosmetic defects .",
    "the sxi features a large fov and covers a 38@xmath638  arcmin@xmath22 region on the sky , complementing the smaller fov of the sxs calorimeter .",
    "a mechanical cooler ensures a long operational life at @xmath23120  @xmath24c .",
    "the overall quantum efficiency and spectral resolution is better than the suzaku xis .",
    "the imaging mirror has a 5.6-m focal length , and a diameter of 45  cm .",
    "highly sensitive observations in the energy range above the hxt / hxi bandpass are crucial to study the spectrum of x - rays arising from accelerated particles .",
    "the sgd is a non - focusing soft gamma - ray detector with a 40600  kev energy range and sensitivity at 300  kev of more than 10 times better than the suzaku hxd ( hard x - ray detector ) .",
    "it outperforms previous soft-@xmath25-ray instruments in background rejection capability by adopting a new concept of narrow - fov compton telescope@xcite .    in order to lower the background dramatically and thus to improve the sensitivity as compared to the hxd of suzaku",
    ", the design combines a stack of si and cdte pixel detectors to form a compton camera .",
    "the telescope is then mounted inside the bottom of a well - type active shield . above @xmath140  kev , each valid event is required to interact twice in the stacked detector , once by compton scattering in a stack of si strip detectors , and then by photo - absorption in the cdte part ( compton mode ) . once the locations and energies of the two interactions are measured , the compton kinematics allows the calculation of the energy and direction ( as a cone in the sky ) of the incident @xmath25-ray .    as shown schematically in fig .",
    "[ fig : sgd_concept ] , the telescope consists of 32 layers of 0.6  mm thick si pad detectors and eight layers of cdte pixellated detectors with a thickness of 0.75  mm .",
    "the sides are also surrounded by two layers of cdte pixel detectors .",
    "the opening angle provided by the bgo shield is @xmath110  degrees at 500  kev . as compared to the hxd ,",
    "the shield part is made compact by adopting the newly developed avalanche photo - diode .",
    "an additional pcusn collimator restricts the field of view of the telescope to 30 for photons below 100 kev to minimize the flux due to the cosmic x - ray background in the fov .",
    "these modules are then arrayed to provide the required area .",
    "astro - h will have two sgd detectors , each consisting of four units .",
    "each detector will be mounted separately on two sides of the satellite .",
    "it should be noted that when the compton condition is not used ( photo absorption mode ) , the stacked dssd can be used as a standard photo - absorption type detector with the total thickness @xmath120  mm of silicon .",
    "the detector then covers energies above 10  kev as a collimated - type @xmath25-ray detector .",
    "the effective area of the sgd is @xmath530  @xmath3 at 100  kev in the compton mode .",
    "since the scattering angle of gamma - rays can be measured via reconstruction of the compton scattering in the compton camera , the sgd is capable of measuring polarization of celestial sources brighter than a few @xmath6 1/100 of the crab nebula , polarized above @xmath1 10 % .",
    "this capability is expected to yield polarization measurements in several celestial objects , providing new insights into properties of soft gamma - ray emission processes@xcite .",
    "the astro - h mission objectives are : to study the evolution of yet - unknown obscured supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) in active galactic nuclei ( agn ) ; to trace the growth history of the largest structures in the universe ; to provide insights into the behavior of material in extreme gravitational fields ; to determine the spin of black holes and the equation of state of neutron stars ; to trace particle acceleration structures in clusters of galaxies and snrs ; and to investigate the detailed physics of astrophysical jets .    with astro - h , we expect to achieve an area of about 300@xmath3 at 30kev with a typical angular resolution of 1.7 arcmin ( hpd ) .",
    "[ fig : sensitivity-1 ] shows detection limits of the sxt - i / sxi , hxt / hxi and sgd for point sources and for sources with of @xmath26 deg@xmath22 extension .    1  deg@xmath22 extension ( bottom ) as functions of x - ray energy , where the spectral binning with @xmath27 and 1000  ksec exposure are assumed .",
    "detection limits for the xmm - newton , chandra , suzaku and integral observatories are shown for comparison for the sensitivity for point sources.,title=\"fig:\",width=302 ] 1  deg@xmath22 extension ( bottom ) as functions of x - ray energy , where the spectral binning with @xmath27 and 1000  ksec exposure are assumed .",
    "detection limits for the xmm - newton , chandra , suzaku and integral observatories are shown for comparison for the sensitivity for point sources.,title=\"fig:\",width=302 ]    the imaging capabilities at high x - ray energies open the completely new field of spatial studies of non - thermal emission above 10  kev .",
    "this will enable us to track the evolution of active galaxies with accretion flows which are heavily obscured , in order to accurately assess their contribution to the cosmic x - ray background over cosmic time .",
    "it will also uniquely allow mapping of the spatial extent of the hard x - ray emission in diffuse sources , thus tracing the sites of particle acceleration in structures ranging in size from clusters of galaxies down to supernova remnants@xcite .",
    "those studies will be complementary to the sxs measurements : observing the hard x - ray synchrotron emission will allow a study of the most energetic particles , thus revealing the details of particle acceleration mechanisms in supernova remnants , while the high resolution sxs data on the gas kinematics of the remnant will constrain the energy input into the accelerators .",
    "sxs spectroscopy of extended sources can reveal line broadening and doppler shifts due to turbulent or bulk velocities .",
    "this capability enables the spectral identification of cluster mergers , snr ejecta dispersal patterns , the structure of agn and starburst winds , and the spatially dependent abundance pattern in clusters and elliptical galaxies .",
    "sxs can also measure the optical depths of resonance absorption lines , from which the degree and spatial extent of turbulence can be inferred .",
    "additionally , sxs can reveal the presence of relatively rare elements in snrs and other sources through its high sensitivity to low equivalent width emission lines .",
    "the low sxs background ensures that the observations of almost all line rich objects will be photon limited rather than background limited .",
    "the high resolution x - ray spectroscopy provided by astro - h will be particularly ground - breaking for supernova remnants ( snrs ) because they are extended objects with rich emission - line spectra from a wide range of different elements ( carbon through nickel ) . to determine the element abundances reliably ,",
    "measurements of the relative strengths of a number of lines from each elemental species are required .",
    "accurate element abundances provide constraints to test the explosion mechanisms of supernovae and to explore their environments .",
    "gas motions of the rapidly expanding supernova ejecta and swept - up interstellar / circumstellar medium may also be measured by astro - h via their doppler shifts .",
    "velocity measurements inferred from such doppler shifts are needed to understand how snrs evolve , based on their age and the detailed properties of the explosion , the ejecta , and ambient medium .",
    "particle acceleration is receiving much attention at present , but the origin of cosmic rays is still unclear 100 years after their discovery .",
    "young snrs with shock speeds of several 1000 km / s are among the best candidates to accelerate cosmic rays up to the knee around @xmath28 ev ( the highest energy accessible to galactic accelerators )",
    ". the combination of astro - h s hard x - ray imaging capability and high spectral resolution will provide information to understand crucial aspects of shock acceleration in snrs such as the maximum energy of the accelerated particles , the conditions at the acceleration sites , and the acceleration efficiency ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : snr ] ) .",
    "recent observations imply the existence of a large number of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) that are heavily obscured by the gas and dust surrounding their supermassive black holes@xcite .",
    "some are identified as a `` new type '' of agn , so deeply buried in dense tori of gas that they show little emission in soft x - ray and visible light .",
    "while this has made such objects extremely difficult to detect and observe , this highly obscured activity may in fact represent the dominant phase of supermassive black hole growth . understanding this phase is thus key to understanding the correlated evolution of the black hole and its host galaxy . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : bh ] , the high sensitivity for hard x - rays provided by hxi allows precise spectral studies of even very obscured agn .",
    "astro - h will provide us with a large agn sample to pursue systematic studies of the true agn population , unbiased by obscuration effects , and to measure the co - evolution of supermassive black holes with their host galaxies .    by assuming a background level of @xmath1 1@xmath610@xmath29 counts / s/@xmath3/kev , in which the non x - ray background is dominant , the source detection limit in 1000ksec in the @xmath30 kev band",
    "would be roughly 10@xmath31erg@xmath3s@xmath10 ( for a power - law spectrum with a photon index of 2 ) .",
    "this is about two orders of magnitude better than present instrumentation , and thus will result in a breakthrough in our understanding of hard x - ray spectra . with this sensitivity , 40 - 50  % of hard x - ray cosmic background",
    "would be be resolved@xcite .",
    "in addition to the imaging observations below 80  kev , the sgd will provide a high sensitivity in the soft @xmath25-ray region to match the sensitivity of the hxt / hxi combination .",
    "the extremely low background observations allowed by the new concept of a narrow - fov compton telescope adopted for the sgd will provide sensitive @xmath25-ray spectra up to 600  kev , with moderate sensitivity for polarization measurements .    ) for an exposure of 100 ks .",
    "the continuum is assumed to be a power - law of photon index 1.9 , with an intrinsic 2 - 10 kev flux of 1x10@xmath8 erg/@xmath32 ( based on swift j0601.9 - 8636@xcite ) . scattered component and",
    "fe lines are not included.,height=264 ]      on the smallest scales , many active galactic nuclei ( agn ) show signatures from the innermost accretion disk in the form of broad  relativistic \" fe k emission lines .",
    "these broad lines were discovered using asca in the early 1990s and have been confirmed by xmm - newton and suzaku@xcite .",
    "there is , however , a complex relationship between the fe k line properties , the underlying continuum , and the signatures of cold and/or partially ionized material near the agn .",
    "precise measurements of the complex fe k line and absorption components require high spectral resolution .",
    "the measurement of changes in the x - ray emission and absorption spectral features on the orbital time scale of black holes in agn , will enable characterization of the velocity field and ionization state of the plasma closest to the event horizon .",
    "the optically thick material that produces the broad fluorescent fe k line also creates a compton `` hump '' peaking at @xmath33  kev detectable with hard x - ray and soft gamma - ray detectors , providing multiple insights into the physics of the disk . in order to understand the evolution of environments surrounding supermassive black holes ,",
    "high signal - to - noise measurements of the broad lines of many agn are needed up to , at least , @xmath34@xmath12 .",
    "this requires high spectral resolution and bandpass extending to at least @xmath140  kev .",
    "these observations will provide the first unbiased survey of broad fe k line properties across all agn .",
    "xmm - newton and suzaku spectra frequently show time - variable absorption and emission features in the 510  kev band .",
    "if these features are due to fe , they represent gas moving at very high velocities with both red- and blue - shifted components from material presumably near the event horizon .",
    "ccd resolution is insufficient , and the required grating exposures are too long to properly characterize the velocity field and ionization of this gas and determine whether it is from close to the black hole or from high velocity winds .",
    "sxs , in combination with hxi , provides a dramatic increase in sensitivity over suzaku , enabling measurements that probe the geometry of the central regions of @xmath150 agns on the orbital timescale of the fe producing region ( for an agn with a 3@xmath610@xmath35 black hole , this is @xmath160  @xmath36 = 10  ksec ) .",
    "all studies of the total energy content ( including that of non - thermal particles ) , aimed to draw a more complete picture of the high energy universe , require observations by _ both _ a spectrometer capable of measuring the bulk plasma velocities and/or turbulence with the resolution corresponding to the speed of a few @xmath6 100  km / s _ and _ an arc - min imaging system in the hard x - ray band , with the sensitivity two - orders of magnitude better than previous missions ( see fig .  [ fig : sxs1 ] and fig .",
    "[ fig : sxs2 ] ) . in clusters ,",
    "x - ray emitting hot gas is trapped in the gravitational potential well and shocks and/or turbulence are produced in this gas , as smaller substructures with their own hot gas halos fall into and merge with the dominant cluster .",
    "large scale shocks can also be produced as gas from the intracluster medium falls into the gravitational potential of a cluster . here , there is a strong synergy between the hard x - ray imaging data and the high resolution ( several ev ) soft x - ray spectrometer which allows us to study the gas kinematics ( bulk motion and turbulent velocity ) via the width and energy of the emission lines .",
    "the kinematics of the gas provides unprecedented information about the bulk motion ; the energy of this motion is in turn responsible for acceleration of particles to very high energies at shocks , which is in turn manifested via non - thermal processes , best studied via sensitive hard x - ray measurements .",
    "= 0 , 100 and 200 km / s turbulence .",
    "( right ) wide band spectra obtained with sxs and hxi for hot plasma with three different temperature of 0.6 kev , 2.6 kev and 6.1 kev ( r @xmath37 2 ) , height=264 ]    precision cosmology uses astronomical observations to determine the large - scale structure and content of the universe .",
    "studies of clusters of galaxies have provided independent measurements of the dark energy equation of state and strong evidence for the existence of dark matter . using a variety of techniques ( including the growth of structure",
    ", the baryonic fraction in clusters , and the sunyaev - zeldovich effect ) a well - constructed survey of clusters of galaxies , with the necessary supporting data@xcite , can provide precise measurements of cosmological parameters , including the amount and properties of dark energy and dark matter .",
    "the key step is to connect observables ( such as flux and temperature ) to cluster masses .",
    "currently , large area cluster surveys are being carried out using the sunyaev - zeldovich effect by the atacama cosmology telescope , planck , and the south pole telescope to be joined in the near future by the erosita x - ray mission . to reduce the systematic uncertainties on the masses inferred from the coarser data from these surveys , a training set of precise cluster masses must be obtained .",
    "measurements of bulk motion of cluster of galaxies and amounts of non - thermal energies going to cosmic - ray acceleration could reduce the   substantial uncertainties in the baryonic physics which prevents their use at a high level of precision at the present time \" ( dark energy task force@xcite ) .",
    "line diagnostics with energy resolution of 7  ev greatly reduce the uncertainties in the baryonic physics by determining the velocity field , any deviations from thermal equilibrium , and an accurate temperature for each cluster .",
    "information about the non - thermal particle content of clusters can be determined via measurements of their compton upscattering of the cmb : this is best studied via hard x - ray imaging , providing additional clues about the physical state of the cluster gas .",
    "the authors are deeply grateful for on - going contributions provided by other members in the astro - h team in japan , the us and europe .    99 next satellite proposal , the next working group , submitted to isas / jaxa ( 2005 ) next satellite proposal , the next working group , submitted to isas / jaxa ( 2003 ) h. kunieda ,  hard x - ray telescope mission ( next ) \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 5488 * , p. 187",
    "( 2004 ) t. takahashi , k. mitsuda , & h. kunieda ,  the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 6266 * , p. 62660d",
    "( 2006 ) t. takahashi , et al .",
    ",  the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , 70110o-1 ( 2008 ) sxs proposal ,  high resolution x - ray spectroscopy for the jaxa new exploration x - ray telescope \" , nasa / gsfc , submitted to nasa ( 2007 ) m. kokubun et al .",
    ",  hard x - ray imager for the astro - h mission \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) k. mitsuda et al .  the high - resolution x - ray microcalorimeter spectrometer system for the sxs on astro - h \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) h. tsunemi et al .",
    ",  the sxi : ccd camera onboard astro - h \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) h. tajima .",
    "et al.,soft gamma - ray detector for the astro - h mission \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) h. kunieda , h. awaki et al .",
    ",  hard x - ray telescope to be onboard astro - h \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) p. serlemitsos et al .",
    ", `` foil x - ray mirrors for astronomical observations : still an evolving technology '' , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) y. ogasaka et al .",
    ",  the next x - ray telescope system : status update \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , 70110p-1 ( 2008 ) h. kunieda et al .",
    ",  balloon - borne hard x - ray imaging observation of non - thermal phenomena \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 6266 * , 62660b ( 2006 ) y. ogasaka et al .",
    ", `` thin - foil multilayer - supermirror hard x - ray telescopes for infoc@xmath4s / sumit balloon experiments and next satellite program '' , proc .",
    "spie * 6688 * , pp . 668803 , 2007 .",
    "f. harrison et al . ,  development of the high - energy focusing telescope ( heft ) balloon experiment , \" proc .",
    "spie , * 4012 * , 693 ( 2000 ) t. takahashi et al .",
    ",  wide band x - ray imager ( wxi ) and soft gamma - ray detector ( sgd ) for the next mission , \" proc .",
    "spie , * 5488 * , pp.549 - 560 ( 2004 ) k. nakazawa et al .",
    ",  hard x - ray imager for the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 6266 * , p. 62662h",
    "( 2006 ) m. kokubun et al .",
    ",  hard x - ray imager ( hxi ) for the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , 70110r-1 ( 2008 ) k. mitsuda et al .  the x - ray micro calorimeter on the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , 701102k-1 ( 2008 ) t. okajima et al .",
    ", `` soft x - ray mirrors onboard the next satellite '' , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , 85 ( 2008 ) r. fujimoto et al .",
    ",  cooling system for the soft x - ray spectrometer ( sxs ) onboard astro - h \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) p.j .",
    "shirron et al .",
    " design of a 3-stage adr for the soft x - ray spectrometer instrument on the astro - h mission \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) k. narasaki , et al . ,",
    "`` development of cryogenic system for smiles '' , advances in cryogenic engineering , * 49b * , pp .",
    "1785 - 1794 ( 2004 ) c.p .",
    "de vries et al .",
    ", `` filters and calibration sources for the soft x - ray spectrometer ( sxs ) instrument on astro - h '' , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) r.l .",
    "kelley et al . , ",
    "ion - implanted silicon x - ray calorimeters : present and future \" , j. low temp .",
    "* 151 * , nos . 1 - 2 ( april 2008 ) f. s. porter and et al . ,  the detector subsystem for the sxs instrument on the astro - h observatory \" , proc .",
    "spie * 7732 * , this issue ( 2010 ) pp.91 - 94 ( 2009 ) f. s. porter and et al . , `` the astro - h soft x - ray spectrometer ( sxs ) '' , aip conference proceedings * 1185 * , pp.91 - 94 ( 2009 ) v. decaux et al . ,  high resolution measurement of the k@xmath38 spectrum of fe xxv - xviii : new spectral diagnostics of nonequilibrium astrophysical plasmas , \" , apj . * 482 * , 1076 - 1084 ( 1997 ) t. g. tsuru et al .",
    ",  soft x - ray imager ( sxi ) onboard the next satellite \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 6266 * , p. 62662i",
    "( 2006 ) h. tsunemi et al .",
    ",  the sxi : ccd camera onboard the next mission \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 7011 * , p. 70110q-1",
    "( 2008 ) t. takahashi , t. kamae , and k. makishima ,  future hard x - ray and gamma - ray observations.\"in _ new century of x - ray astronomy _",
    ", asp * 251 * 210 ( 2002 ) t. takahashi , k. nakazawa , t. kamae , h. tajima , y. fukazawa , m. nomachi , and m. kokubun  high resolution cdte detectors for the next generation multi - compton gamma - ray telescope \" , proc .",
    "spie , * 4851 * , pp .",
    "1228 - 1235 , 2003 h. tajima , t. mitani , t. tanaka , h. nakamua , t. nakamoto , k. nakazawa , t. takahashi , y. fukazawa , t. kamae , m. kokubun , g. madejski , d. marlow , m. nomachi , e. do couto e silva ,  gamma - ray polarimetry with compton telescope , \" proc .",
    "spie,*5488 * , pp .",
    "561 - 571 ( 2004 ) k. koyama et al .",
    ",  evidence for shock acceleration of high - energy electrons in the supernova remnant sn:1006 , \" nature , * 378 * , 255 ( 1995 ) y. uchiyama , f. aharonian , t. tanaka , t. takahashi , y. maeda ,",
    " extremely fast acceleration of cosmic rays in a supernova remnant , \" nature , 449 , 576 ( 2007 ) f. a. aharonian , f. , very high energy cosmic gamma radiation : a crucial window on the extreme universe , world scientific ( 2004 ) y. ueda et al.,``suzaku observations of active galactic nuclei detected in the swift bat survey : discovery of a new type of buried supermassive black holes '' , apj , * 664 * , pp .",
    "l79-l82 ( 2007 ) y. ueda et al .",
    ",  cosmological evolution of the hard x - ray active galactic nucleus luminosity function and the origin of the hard x - ray background \" , apj , * 598 * , 886 ( 2003 ) y. tanaka , et al . ,  gravitationally redshifted emission implying an accretion disk and massive black - hole in the active galaxy mcg:-6 - 30 - 15 , \" nature , * 375 * , 659 ( 1995 ) j.n .",
    "reeves et al . ,  revealing the high energy emission from the obscured seyfert galaxy mcg-5 - 23 - 16 with suzaku , \" pasj , * 59s * , 301 ( 2007 ) d. rapetti , s. allen , a. mantz ,  the prospects for constraining dark energy with future x - ray cluster gas mass fraction measurements , \" . mnras , * 388 * , pp .",
    "1265 - 1278 ( 2008 ) a. albrecht et al .",
    ", `` report of the dark energy task force '' , arxiv : astro - ph/0609591v1 ( 2006 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the joint jaxa / nasa astro - h mission is the sixth in a series of highly successful x - ray missions initiated by the institute of space and astronautical science ( isas ) . </S>",
    "<S> astro - h will investigate the physics of the high - energy universe by performing high - resolution , high - throughput spectroscopy with moderate angular resolution . </S>",
    "<S> astro - h covers very wide energy range from 0.3  kev to 600  kev . </S>",
    "<S> astro - h allows a combination of wide band x - ray spectroscopy ( 580  kev ) provided by multilayer coating , focusing hard x - ray mirrors and hard x - ray imaging detectors , and high energy - resolution soft x - ray spectroscopy ( 0.312  kev ) provided by thin - foil x - ray optics and a micro - calorimeter array . </S>",
    "<S> the mission will also carry an x - ray ccd camera as a focal plane detector for a soft x - ray telescope ( 0.412  kev ) and a non - focusing soft gamma - ray detector ( 40600  kev ) . </S>",
    "<S> the micro - calorimeter system is developed by an international collaboration led by isas / jaxa and nasa . </S>",
    "<S> the simultaneous broad bandpass , coupled with high spectral resolution of @xmath0 @xmath17  ev provided by the micro - calorimeter will enable a wide variety of important science themes to be pursued . </S>"
  ]
}