{
  "article_text": [
    "galactic black hole x - ray binary systems ( bhbs ) are often classified as being in one of a small number of ` states ' .",
    "the most common states are the ` hard ' and the ` soft ' states .",
    "the hard state was originally defined as the state where the 2 - 10 kev x - ray flux is low and the x - ray spectrum is hard , and the ` soft ' state , where the 2 - 10 kev x - ray flux is high and the x - ray spectrum is soft @xcite . the hard state is dominated by a power - law component , and the ` soft ' state is characterized by a strong thermal blackbody component .",
    "the main physical parameter driving the states is the accretion rate with that rate being higher in the soft than in the hard state @xcite .",
    "another major observational distinction between the hard and the soft states is that compact , powerful radio - emitting jets are usually present in the hard states @xcite but have not yet been detected in the soft state .",
    "there have been detections of weak radio emission in soft state systems @xcite but this emission is usually thought to represent emission from relic plasma left over from a previous hard - state jet and that no active jet is currently being powered by the black hole @xcite .",
    "ngc  4051 is a relatively nearby ( 15.21 mpc , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) narrow line seyfert 1 ( nls1 ) galaxy .",
    "it is one of the brightest and most variable active galactic nuclei ( agn ) in the x - ray sky and has been extensively observed by a number of x - ray observatories @xcite .",
    "one of the major results to emerge from these studies is that the x - ray variability characteristics of ngc  4051 , as parameterised by the power spectral density ( psd ) , are very similar to those of the galactic black hole x - ray binary ( gbh ) system cyg x-1 when in the ` soft ' state @xcite .",
    "a classification of ngc  4051 as a soft state system is supported by the relatively high accretion rate ( @xmath2 ) @xcite .",
    "if it were identical to a soft state gbh then an active radio - emitting jet would not be expected .",
    "although the x - ray observations of other seyfert galaxies are less extensive , the data are consistent with seyfert galaxies being soft state systems ( e.g. also see @xcite ) .",
    "radio variability has been detected previously in seyfert galaxies but observations are not extensive .",
    "@xcite detect variability of @xmath3% in the seyfert 2 galaxy mkn 348 at 5ghz on @xmath4yearly timescales and @xcite found variability at 8.4ghz in the seyfert 1 ngc  5548 of 33% @xmath5 5% over 41 days and 52% @xmath5 5% over 4 years .",
    "@xcite finds similar variations in most members of a sample of mainly seyfert 2 galaxies and @xcite find the same in most members of samples of radio - quiet and radio - intermediate quasars .",
    "however in none of the above cases were there any quasi - simultaneous x - ray observations .",
    "recently @xcite have studied the x - ray and radio variability of the liner ngc  7213 and find a weakly significant correlation between those bands .",
    "liners have much lower accretion rates than seyfert galaxies , being similar in accretion rate to the hard state gbhs .",
    "liners are also much more radio loud than seyfert galaxies , which is in agreement with the hard state scenario , and so an x - ray / radio correlation is expected . in soft - state gbhs ,",
    "as the radio emission has been scarcely detected , we do not know what the exact relationship to the x - ray emission might be .",
    "correlated radio and x - ray observations of seyfert galaxies may therefore provide us with important hints on the radio properties of the soft state systems    the soft state seyfert galaxy ngc  4051 has been known for some time to host a weak nuclear radio source of unknown origin ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . based on the disappearance of the heii 4686 line from the rms spectrum at low x - ray flux levels , @xcite suggested that the inner part of accretion disc may change from being optically thick to being advective at low accretion rates , leading to the expectation of increased radio emission ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "therefore , over a period of 16 months in 2000 and 2001 , we carried out a joint radio ( with the very large array , vla ) and x - ray ( with the rossi x - ray timing explorer , rxte ) monitoring programme to search for an expected anti - correlation between the radio and x - ray fluxes .    preliminary analysis of the resultant data did not , however , reveal a strong radio / x - ray anticorrelation .",
    "instead the datasets appeared to be positively correlated @xcite .",
    "correlated radio / x - ray variability is commonly seen in hard state , jet - dominated , gbhs , suggesting that the radio emission in ngc  4051 may also come from a jet .",
    "we therefore undertook radio very long baseline interferometry ( vlbi ) observations both with the european vlbi network ( evn ) in 2003 and the global vlbi network in 2004 . a triple structure consisting of a compact core with a barely resolved ( @xmath4 few milliarcsec ) component on each side of the core , separated by @xmath6  arcsec and almost in a straight line ,",
    "was detected @xcite .",
    "this structure is similar to the core and hot spots of an frii radio source and strongly suggests an underlying jet with the hot spots being the places where the jet hits some surrounding medium .",
    "similar evn observations were later performed by @xcite , revealing a broadly similar structure .",
    "a definitive analysis of the x - ray and radio variability of the nucleus of ngc  4051 was , however , hindered by the fact that the vla array configuration changed approximately every 4 months and thus the size of the synthesised beam changed , encompassing greater or lesser amounts of surrounding extended emission ( see fig  [ fig1:4maps ] ) . in this paper",
    "we carefully model the radio emission of ngc  4051 on different spatial scales in order to remove the contribution from extended emission to the flux from the nucleus , which we then compare to the x - ray flux .    in section 2 we present the radio observations and radio analysis . in section 3",
    "we consider the radio variability as observed with the a and b array configurations , in which sensitivity to core radio flux variations is greatest , and compare it with quasi - simultaneous x - ray observations .",
    "we find , at best , only a marginal relationship . in section 4",
    "we discuss how to remove the contribution from extended radio emission in the b , c and d array configurations .",
    "we find that , although the x - ray emission varies by factors of 10 or more over the 16 month observation period , there is no believable long term variation of the radio emission over the same period . in section 5",
    "we show simulations designed to determine the accuracy with which the extended contribution can be measured . in section 6 we consider the implications of our result for radio emission models for radio quiet agn . we include discussion of jet models which underly the so - called ` fundamental plane ' relating black hole mass to radio and x - ray luminosity @xcite and we also discuss coronal models @xcite .",
    "ngc  4051 was observed by the vla 29 times between 2000 16th june and 2001 3rd september with a typical interval between observations of 2 weeks . on each occasion",
    "the source was observed at both 8.4 and 4.8 ghz with a total time on source , in each band , of approximately 12 minutes .",
    "six of our observations were made with the vla in a configuration , 2 in bna , 6 in b , 1 in bnc , 6 in c , 3 in dnc and 5 in d. we observed in 2if mode with 50mhz bandwidth at both frequencies .",
    "the phase calibrator was j1219 + 484 and the flux calibrator was 3c286 . for more information on these observations",
    "see table  [ obs ] .",
    "the data were flagged and calibrated , using aips , in the standard manner .",
    "maps were made using imagr with clean fields set around two fainter neighbouring sources , one approximately 5.5 arcmin to the ne and another approximately 3.5 arcmin to the south . after experimenting with different iterations of cleaning we standardised on 10,000 iterations .",
    "self calibration was not used on the final images .",
    "all early experimentation with self calibration revealed the source to be too faint , and resulting images were not improved by this method .",
    "our aim here is to search for a possible relationship between the x - ray and radio fluxes .",
    "the x - rays vary very rapidly , and hence come from a very small region , tens or hundreds of light seconds across .",
    "if there is any relationship with the radio emission , we must therefore expect the radio emission to come from a region which , although possibly not as small as that of the x - ray emission region , is unlikely to be light years across . at the distance of ngc  4051 ( @xmath7mpc ) , 1  arcsec@xmath8pc and",
    "hence we are concerned here with the core radio flux .",
    "however measurement of that flux accurately for a source with any extended structure is far from trivial and , even for an almost unresolved source , it is not easy , as we discuss further in section  [ aarray ] .",
    "the standard aips task for measuring the peak and integral flux densities is jmfit .",
    "this task fits a gaussian model to the values within a box drawn around the source and outputs the integral flux density ( jy ) values and peak flux density ( jy / beam ) values .",
    "although we are interested in intrinsic core flux , measurements of both peak and intergral flux densities have value for our study and so both are recorded and listed later .",
    "a box was placed around the nuclear core of ngc  4051 in each map using the task cowindow .",
    "the box size was different for each array configuration and was chosen so it included all the nuclear flux .",
    "we kept the box size constant when calculating flux density values within the same array .",
    "jmfit outputs errors depending on the gaussian fitting to the nucleus of the source .",
    "these jmfit errors are then combined in quadrature with the standard 5% error on the flux density value to calculate the error on each of the 29 flux readings .",
    ".observational details of vla data at 4.8 and 8.4 ghz . for both frequencies",
    "the phase calibrator is j1219 + 484 and the flux calibrator 3c286 .",
    "the phase calibrator was generally observed for @xmath95 min and the flux calibrator for @xmath10 min per run .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab2:xray ]    , interpolated to the time of the radio observations .",
    "the exact time of the radio and nearest x - ray observations are given in table 2 .",
    "all radio observations have an x - ray observation within 0.6d and , in 3 cases , within 3 hours . in the bottom panel here",
    "we plot the x - ray fluxes interpolated from the slightly smoothed x - ray fluxes ( third panel of fig .",
    "[ axrlc]).,width=188,height=317 ]            . in the top panel",
    "we interpolate from a slightly smoothed lightcurve of @xmath11 and in the bottom panel we simply interpolate @xmath11 between the nearest observed values . ,",
    "width=188,height=317 ]        we see , from fig .",
    "[ fig1:4maps ] , that in the b configuration observations the core is not resolved from the two close components on either side .",
    "measurement of the core flux therefore becomes more difficult and flux density measurement errors will be larger than for the a configuration observations .",
    "nonetheless it is still possible to measure the peak , and integrated , flux densities .    in fig  [ bxrlc ]",
    "we show the lightcurves during the period of the b configuration observations . here",
    "the radio flux densities used are both the peak core flux densities measured from maps made with the default beamshape and those with a fixed beam . as with the a configuration observations , the values derived from maps made with the same / fixed restoring beam ( i.e. 0.76 @xmath12 0.64 arcsec and position angle of -25.13 degrees ) are quite similar to those made with the default beam .",
    "the x - ray observations are as described for the a configuration observations .",
    "we again see , at most , only marginal radio variability with the 8.4 ghz flux density consistent with being constant .",
    "the relationship between the radio and x - ray fluxes in the b configuration is shown in fig .  [ bjmpk ] , again displaying both the smoothed and unsmoothed x - ray fluxes .",
    "the hint of a positive x - ray / radio correlation seen in the a configuration observations is not seen here . with the possible exception of the highest x - ray flux point",
    ", there is no sign of any variation of the radio flux despite considerable variation in the x - ray flux .",
    "unfortunately that highest x - ray flux point is derived from the largest extrapolation of fluxes as the rxte observation closest to that time had zero useful exposure .",
    "thus we have had to extrapolate between two observations which were 4d apart .",
    "although the errors increase , it is possible to measure peak and integrated flux densities also for the c and d array configurations . in fig  [ rawxray ]",
    "we plot the resultant 8.4 ghz fluxes densities for all configurations together with the observed , and slightly smoothed , x - ray fluxes . within the individual array configurations",
    "there is no evidence of strong variability although , over months timescales , it appears visually as if there is a strong correlation between the radio and x - ray fluxes .",
    "unfortunately , by chance , the period of the lowest x - ray flux occurs during the a configuration observations and the period of largest x - ray flux occurs during the d configuration observations .",
    "however note that here we are plotting the observed radio flux densities and have not yet removed contributions to the core flux density from extended emission .",
    "as the nuclear radio flux will be most contaminated by extended emission during the d configuration observations , it is probable that at least part of the apparent correlation between the radio and x - ray fluxes is actually a consequence of the changing array configuration . in order to properly compare the radio and x - ray variability",
    "we must therefore remove the extended radio flux , as we describe below .",
    "the procedure for removing the contribution to the core flux density from extended emission is carried out in stages , offsetting by one array configuration change at a time .",
    "for example , in offsetting from b configuration to a configuration we first determine , from real observations with b configuration , what the typical beam shape and size is in b configuration .",
    "we then take the a configuration observations and taper the uv datasets , using uvrange within imagr , so that the beam sizes are the same as they would be in b configuration .",
    "we refer to the resulting map as a pseudo b configuration map .",
    "we then measure both the peak and integral flux densities in the pseudo b array map and determine the differences , or offsets , between values measured from the original , untapered , a configuration map .",
    "we repeat the process for all of the a configuration datasets and determine the average offsets to the b configuration , and an rms error thereon , for the peak and integral flux densities .",
    "to offset the real observed b configuration observations to an a configuration observation we remove the offset derived above from each of the observed b configuration flux densities and we combine the rms error on the offset with the observational error on the b configuration flux densities in quadrature .",
    "we perform this offset method on the other configurations to get average offset values for d to c , and c to b. combining these offsets with the offset from b to a allows us to offset all data to an a array configuration . for example , the average peak flux density offset in going from a to b configuration is 0.32@xmath13mjy and in going from c to d configuration it is 2.31@xmath14mjy . in offsetting over more than one array configuration change",
    "we combine the offsets linearly and the errors in quadrature .",
    "thus these average offset values were used to offset all flux density values to those of an equivalent a configuration observation .",
    "the resultant offset peak and integral flux density lightcurves are shown in fig .",
    "[ offset ] . in the intermediate configurations such as bnc",
    "there are few epochs of observation , and the configuration is slightly different in all of them .",
    "it is therefore very difficult to estimate the offset .",
    "these observations give rise to the more deviant peak flux densities .",
    "however even including these points the peak flux densities are consistent with being constant as long as we assume the more realistic larger error .",
    "for the integral flux densities , although the variations are now considerably reducted , there is still some residual variability , which still follows the x - ray variability .",
    "however we note that the changes still mainly follow the changing array configurations . within all configurations",
    "apart from the a configuration , there is no evidence for variability so one must suspect an error in the offsetting procedure for integral flux densities . in the next section",
    "we simulate the offsetting method for integral flux densities to determine its accuracy .",
    "the first step in simulating the offset method was to make a model of the source .",
    "although it is preferable that the model resembles the real source , it is not essential that it is identical to the real source as the aim of the simulations is only to test the offsetting method and could , in principle , be carried out on any extended source .",
    "the rms noise level is  @xmath15 jy / beam and contours are at the following multiples of the noise level -2 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 12 , 15 , 20 , 25 , 30 , 35 , 40 , 45 , 50 , 55 , 60 .",
    ", height=317 ]    to make the model we combined all the uv data sets from the a , b , c & d configurations into one uv data set which we imaged ( fig .  [ fig7:model ] )",
    ". the 28 clean components from this combined image which best represented the structure of the agn were then selected . using uvsub we added the model contribution from these components to the residual uv data sets produced by imagr during our original imaging of the 22 observations in each of the 4 main array configurations .",
    "the resultant data sets represent how our actual observational setups would have seen our model of ngc  4051 .",
    "we then repeated the offsetting procedure , which we described above for the real data , on the simulated data , to produce a simulated integrated flux density offset to the a configuration .",
    "this procedure should result in a constant flux density level equal to the model a configuration values .",
    "the actual simulated offset lightcurve is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig8:simulated_lc ] . the dotted horizontal line in fig .",
    "[ fig8:simulated_lc ] represents the expected a array integral flux density value .",
    "we see that the b configuration data are at the same level as the a configuration data but the c and d configuration data are too high by about 0.5 - 0.6  mjy which therefore represents an approximate systematic error in our process of offsetting the integral c and d configuration flux densities . if this systematic error is subtracted from the original offset integral flux densities ( fig .",
    "[ offset ] ) , then most of the apparent long term variation is removed from the integral flux densities .",
    "it is unfortunate that the array configuration changes follow the approximate changes in long term x - ray flux , and hence that the very small residual variation in the integral flux densities appears to follow the x - ray flux .",
    "however given the particular difficulties of measuring the integral flux densities , the fact that the changes closely follow the array changes and the fact that long term variability is not seen in the peak flux densities , we conclude that the apparent small residual long term variability in the integral flux densities does not represent real variation of the core flux .",
    "we have monitored the radio and x - ray variability of the probable soft state seyfert galaxy ngc  4051 over a period of 16 months in 2000 and 2001 with observations approximately every 2 weeks .",
    "we have carefully subtracted the contributions to the core flux density from the differing amounts of extended flux density which will be detected in the different restoring beams in the different vla configurations .",
    "thus we have produced lightcurves equal to those which would have been produced by observations all with the a array . over that period the core peak flux density which in this context is the best measurement of true core radio luminosity , is consistent with being constant",
    "also , the average peak radio flux density during our observations is , within the errors , the same as during two previous observations in june and september of 1991 .    within the a configuration , which is the only configuration within which the core is resolved from close neighbouring components to the east and west , there is a hint of correlated x - ray and radio variability , with radio ( and x - ray ) spectral variations approximately following the flux variations .",
    "however although the x - ray flux varies by factors of a few , the maximum radio variations are , at most , 25 percent between observations separated by @xmath16 weeks .",
    "however the amplitude of variability is , at most , 0.12mjy . whilst the percentage changes , timescales of change , and spectral hardening during a rise are entirely consistent with the observations of radio variability of another similar seyfert galaxy , ngc  5548 @xcite .",
    "ngc  5548 is approximately ten times brighter than ngc  4051 and so there is no doubt about the credibility of its radio variability .",
    "unfortunately for ngc  4051 the credibility of the variability depends strongly on the error associated with each measurement .",
    "taking the larger of the errors which could be associated with the radio measurements ( discussed earlier ) the radio lightcurve would be consistent with being constant .",
    "thus overall we conclude that there is no strong evidence for any large amplitude variability in the core radio flux of ngc  4051 at 8.4ghz over the course of a year but we can not absolutely rule out very low amplitude ( @xmath17mjy ) variability correlated with the x - ray variability .",
    "del - benz relation , i.e. @xmath18 , for coronally active stars @xcite . , width=302,height=226 ]      in fig .",
    "[ kfcfund ] we plot our values of the radio luminosity and the average x - ray luminosity on the so - called ` fundamental plane ' of black hole accretion activity @xcite . here",
    "we plot a version of the plane using only ` hard state ' black holes from the sample of @xcite .",
    "we note that ngc  4051 , which is almost certainly a ` soft state ' object , lies about a decade below ( in the sense of being more radio quiet ) the best - fit relationship defined by the hard state objects , although it is just about within the scatter of the relationship .",
    "however hard state objects typically show much more radio variability than ngc  4051 and are typically described by @xmath19 where @xmath20 for variations in individual objects @xcite . for ngc  4051 @xmath21 , or possibly @xmath22 during the a configuration observations .",
    "@xcite find a significant correlation between x - ray and radio emission in the liner ngc  7213 with factors of @xmath23 or more variability in both bands .",
    "given its very low accretion rate , ngc  7213 is thought to be a hard state system so correlated radio / x - ray variability is expected .",
    "however although @xcite has demonstrated radio variability in the seyfert galaxy ngc  5548 , which has an accretion rate not far below that of ngc  4051 and so is probably also a soft state system , there have been no previous studies of correlated x - ray / radio variability in similar seyfert galaxies . the x - ray",
    "/ radio relationship has , however , been investigated for samples of objects .",
    "@xcite find @xmath24 at 4.8ghz and @xmath25 at 15ghz for a sample of seyfert galaxies . for a sample of rosat - selected agn , and using 1.4ghz radio observations , @xcite find @xmath26 for radio quiet objects , similar to seyferts , ( and @xmath27 for radio loud objects ) .",
    "thus although there is a wide range in the reported values of @xmath28 , there is good evidence for radio / x - ray correlation within samples of seyferts and radio quiet agn .",
    "however within the only well studied soft state seyfert so far , i.e. ngc  4051 , there is no evidence for a value of @xmath28 much above 0.1 .",
    "one possibility is that even in the vla a configuration 8.4ghz maps , the core still contains substantial contribution from emission which is extended but on scales below that detectable with the vla .",
    "we note that with a beam of @xmath29mas , @xcite find an unresolved source with 5ghz flux density of @xmath30mjy , which is substantially less than our average 4.8ghz measurement of @xmath31mjy .",
    "our tentative observations of @xmath32mjy variability would then provide a value of @xmath28 consistent with the values derived from observations of samples of similar sources , although ngc  4051 would then be even more radio quiet compared to the hard state objects which define the fundamental plane .",
    "the vlbi observations show structure which is strongly indicative of a collimated jet @xcite .",
    "( in a future paper we will present our higher resolution global vlbi observations which confirm this structure . )",
    "thus as first sight the lack of radio variability is surprising .",
    "however if the jet is in the plane of the sky , rather than pointing at the observer as in blazars , radio variability would be slower .",
    "@xcite speculate similarly regarding the lack of strong radio variability in radio - loud quasars although they do not reach any firm conclusions .",
    "another alternative is that the radio emission in seyfert galaxies does not come from a jet , as in hard state sources , but arises in the outer parts of the x - ray emitting corona @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ laor ] we plot our current data onto fig.2 from @xcite and see that ngc  4051 agrees reasonably with the g@xmath33del - benz @xcite relationship for coronally active stars , i.e. @xmath18 . in the coronal model , rapid large amplitude radio variability",
    "is not expected at frequencies where the source is optically thick .",
    "this situation is approximately the case during our a configuration observations which indicate a spectral index of @xmath34 .",
    "such variability is , indeed , not seen .",
    "similar considerations would , of course , also apply to some extent to a side - on jet and the highly collimated co - linear structure of the compact vlbi components is a significant problem for the coronal model .",
    "as jets are generally agreed to arise from the corona , the truth may lie part way between the pure coronal and pure jet models . in this galaxy where an outflow of large solid angle is seen in [ oiii ]",
    "observations @xcite , the compact radio components separated from the nucleus may arise from a central , higher velocity region within the overall outflow . the core radio emission may arise from a combination of a jet and a corona . if there is any long term correlated variations between the radio and x - ray bands , they may simply reflect long term changes in accretion rate , upon which both bands depend , rather than a direct link between the emission processes .",
    "despite factors of 10 x - ray variability , we see no clear evidence for variability of the core of the soft state narrow line seyfert 1 galaxy ngc  4051 at 8.4ghz over a 16 month period of monitoring at 2-weekly intervals , with the possible exception of very low amplitude ( @xmath1mjy ) variations during the a configuration observations where the core is best resolved from surrounding structures .",
    "the latter tentative variations correlate weakly with the much larger amplitude x - ray variations .",
    "our resultant radio and mean x - ray luminosity make ngc  4051 about a decade radio quieter than the hard state objects which define the ` fundamental plane ' for hard state accreting black holes , although the scatter about the plane is almost of the same order .",
    "given the collimated vlbi structure which hints at the presence of an unseen jet , the lack of radio variability is , at first sight , surprising , although a side - on jet , observed at a frequency where it is optically thick , would not vary as rapidly as a face - on blazar jet .",
    "a coronal model agrees well with the radio / x - ray flux ratio , and the lack of radio variability , but the collimated radio structure is then hard to explain .",
    "a mixture of jet and coronal emission may explain the observations but further , more sensitive , radio observations , with high angular resolution and a fixed beamshape , are required to confirm whether the radio emission from ngc  4051 does indeed vary .",
    "+ * acknowledgments * + we thank ari laor , julia riley , tom muxlow , martin bell and an anonymous referee for useful discussions and comments .",
    "we also thank ari laor for providing the supermongo code for producing fig.2 of @xcite .",
    "sj acknowledges support from an stfc research studentship and imch acknowledges support under stfc grant st / g003084/1                        h. , lehr j. , barvainis r. , nagar n.  m. , wilson a.  s. , 2001 , in b.  m.  peterson , r.  w.  pogge , & r.  s.  polidan ed .",
    ", probing the physics of active galactic nuclei vol .  224 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , radio variability in radio - quiet quasars and low - luminosity agn .",
    "pp 265+      r. , 2010 , in t.  belloni ed . , lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag vol .  794 of lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag , ` disc - jet ' coupling in black hole x - ray binaries and active galactic nuclei .",
    "pp 115+                                              b.  m. , mchardy i.  m. , wilkes b.  j. , berlind p. , bertram r. , calkins m. , collier s.  j. , huchra j.  p. , mathur s. , papadakis i. , peters j. , pogge r.  w. , romano p. , tokarz s. , uttley p. , vestergaard m. , wagner r.  m. , 2000 , , 542 , 161    g. , miniutti g. , cappi m. , maraschi l. , fabian a.  c. , iwasawa k. , 2006 , in a.  wilson ed . , the x - ray universe 2005 vol .",
    "604 of esa special publication , a new interpretation of the x - ray spectral variability of ngc 4051 .",
    "pp 479+          y. , gallo l.  c. , inoue h. , markowitz a.  g. , reeves j.  n. , anabuki n. , fabian a.  c. , griffiths r.  e. , hayashida k. , itoh t. , kokubun n. , kubota a. , miniutti g. , takahashi t. , yamauchi m. , yonetoku d. , 2008 , arxiv e - prints"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present intensive quasi - simultaneous x - ray and radio monitoring of the narrow line seyfert 1 galaxy ngc  4051 , over a 16 month period in 2000 - 2001 . </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray observations were made with the proportional counter array on the rossi timing x - ray explorer ( rxte ) and radio observations were made at 8.4 and 4.8 ghz with the very large array ( vla ) . in the x - ray band ngc  4051 behaves very much like the analogue of a galactic black hole binary ( gbh ) system in a ` soft - state ' . in such systems , </S>",
    "<S> there has so far been no firm evidence for an active , radio - emitting jet like those found in ` hard state ' gbhs . </S>",
    "<S> vlbi observations of ngc  4051 show three well separated compact components almost in a line . </S>",
    "<S> this structure resembles the core and outer hot spots seen in powerful , jet - dominated , extragalactic radio sources and , although no jet is visible in ngc  4051 , suggests that a weak jet may exist . </S>",
    "<S> however it has not previously been clear whether the nucleus is currently active in the radio band and whether there is any link between the radio and x - ray emission processes .    </S>",
    "<S> radio monitoring of the core of ngc  4051 is complicated by the presence of surrounding extended emission and by the changing array configurations of the vla . only in the a configuration </S>",
    "<S> is the core reasonably resolved . </S>",
    "<S> we have carefully removed the differing contaminations of the core by extended emission in the various arrays . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting lightcurve shows no sign of large amplitude variability ( i.e. factor 50% ) over the 16 month period and is consistent with being constant . within the 6 a configuration observations where we have greatest sensitivity </S>",
    "<S> we see marginal evidence for radio core variability of @xmath0% ( @xmath1mjy at 8.4ghz ) on a 2-week timescale , correlated with x - ray variations . </S>",
    "<S> these percentage variations are similar to those of the seyfert galaxy ngc  5548 , which is 10 times brighter . </S>",
    "<S> even if the radio variations in ngc  4051 are real , the percentage variability is much less than in the x - ray band . within the b </S>",
    "<S> configuration observations , although sensitivity is somewhat reduced , there is no sign of correlated x - ray / radio variability .    </S>",
    "<S> ngc  4051 is one decade lower in radio luminosity than the radio / x - ray / mass fundamental plane for jet - dominated hard - state black holes , although the scatter around the plane is of the same order . </S>",
    "<S> the lack of radio variability commonly seen in hard state gbhs may be explained by orientation effects . another possibility , consistent with the lack of radio variability , is that the radio emission arises from the x - ray corona although , in that case , the linear structure of the compact radio components is hard to explain . </S>",
    "<S> a combination of corona and jet may explain the observations .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  galaxies : seyfert  x rays : galaxies  radio : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}