{
  "article_text": [
    "while successes of the @xmath0cdm cosmological model @xcite suggest that galaxies formed through the merging of smaller units , this model still can not explain many basic galaxy observables ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , all of which underscore the importance of the thermal and dynamical interplay between baryons , feedback , and dark matter during galaxy formation @xcite . since this interplay involves the processes of star formation ( sf ) and interstellar medium ( ism ) enrichment , study of galaxies stellar populations yields fundamental constraints for galaxy formation models . with this in mind , we present a homogeneous analysis of the stellar populations of virgo cluster galaxies , based on an extensive multi - band photometric database ( * ? ? ?",
    "* roediger et al .",
    "2011 , hereafter paper i ) .",
    "the use of a cluster sample is advantageous as it encompasses all galaxy types within a relatively small angular area and at a common distance . to further motivate our work",
    ", we highlight below the specific unknowns regarding the formation and evolution of basic galaxy types ( gas - poor giants and dwarfs , and spirals ) , and how stellar population data may help .",
    "the initiated reader may skip to .      since the first simulations of binary disk mergers showed that such events produce remnants with spheroidal morphologies @xcite , giant gas - poor galaxies ( e / s0 s ) have come to be regarded as the prototypical byproduct of hierarchical merging in @xmath0cdm cosmology . supporting",
    "evidence for the hierarchical origin of e / s0 s now includes the time evolution of the galaxy merger rate ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the existence of ( ultra-)luminous infrared and sub - millimeter galaxies @xcite , and the photometric , structural , and kinematical properties of local gas - poor giants on both local and global scales ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "whether the mergers which may have created e / s0 s were gas - rich , gas - poor , or some combination thereof remains unknown , but high - redshift observations of galaxy mergers and sizes , as well as input from simulations , suggest that some amount of gas - poor merging is vital to the growth , shapes , and kinematics of massive e / s0 s @xcite .    despite much support for a hierarchical origin of giant gas - poor galaxies , the discovery that stellar ages and @xmath1-enhancements in local e / s0 s decrease to low masses ( i.e.",
    ",  downsizing  ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has been difficult to reconcile within this scenario ( but see @xcite , @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "this stems from the fact that downsizing implies that more massive e / s0 s formed their stars earlier and faster than less massive ones , trends which more readily agree with a monolithic collapse scenario @xcite .",
    "the downsizing phenomenon has thus created an impetus to measure other stellar population diagnostics for gas - poor giants , such as metallicity gradients ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) , to compare with merger @xcite and collapse @xcite simulations .    in monolithic collapse ,",
    "a giant gas cloud undergoes a galaxy - wide starburst as it rapidly collapses to its center , leaving remnants with shallow , positive age gradients , while their metallicity gradients would be steep and negative due to the cumulative enrichment of their central regions by sne @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", the stellar population gradients of merger remnants should span a large range , determined primarily by the progenitors gas fractions .",
    "that is , the central starburst in a gas - rich merger @xcite will create a positive age and negative metallicity gradient within the remnant s innermost kiloparsec @xcite , while violent relaxation will tend to flatten the stellar population gradients within a gas - poor merger remnant @xcite , unless the progenitors gradients are steep @xcite .",
    "comparisons of the above predictions with stellar population gradients measured in e / s0 s has however led to conflicting results @xcite .",
    "given the difficulty of obtaining deep , high signal - to - noise spectra for such galaxies , statistical studies of this sort , based on a photometric approach , are highly desirable ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the formation scenarios for giant gas - poor galaxies would also be relevant to their dwarf counterparts ( de / ds0 ) if the latter simply represented the extension of the former to low luminosities .",
    "although the near - orthogonal structural scaling relations of gas - poor dwarfs and giants have been used as evidence against their common origin ( e.g. , @xcite ; but see @xcite and references therein ) , @xcite have shown that all gas - poor galaxies populate a continuous manifold when these relations are expanded to include the srsic @xmath2 index .",
    "this manifold also explains why light profiles vary between gas - poor dwarfs ( @xmath3 1 ) and giants ( @xmath3 4 ) .",
    "moreover , all gas - poor galaxies follow a single scaling relation between the mass of their central compact objects ( supermassive black holes or nuclear star clusters ) and the velocity dispersion of the galaxy spheroids @xcite . from the cosmological perspective",
    ", a hierarchical formation of dwarf gas - poor galaxies appears plausible as @xmath0cdm merger trees may truncate at low masses @xcite .",
    "a summary of additional evidences that favour a common origin for all gas - poor galaxies is presented in @xcite .",
    "alternatively , gas - poor dwarfs may represent the evolutionary remnants of gas - rich dwarfs which had their gas supply removed .",
    "this scenario is supported by several evidences : ( i ) both dwarf galaxy types exhibit exponential light profiles @xcite , ( ii ) unsharp masking of cluster gas - poor dwarf galaxy images reveals a high frequency of weak stellar disks , spiral arms and bars @xcite , ( iii ) the size - luminosity trends exhibited by dwarf and giant gas - poor virgo cluster galaxies disagree @xcite , ( iv ) many cluster de s possess significant rotational support ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ; but see @xcite ) , ( v ) unlike virgo e / s0 s , de s @xcite had extended star formation histories as gauged by their low stellar @xmath1-enhancements , ( vi ) some virgo de s possess gas disks @xcite , and ( vii ) gas - poor dwarfs are mainly found in high - density environments , as opposed to gas - poor giants ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ".    an evolutionary origin of gas - poor dwarfs would likely be the result of an external ( environmental ) trigger .",
    "supporting evidence of such a trigger includes the segregation of gas - poor dwarfs to the centers of galaxy groups and clusters @xcite and the susceptibility of both the structure and gas content of dwarf galaxies to external influences @xcite .",
    "internal triggers of such an evolution , like gas exhaustion and/or expulsion , may only play secondary roles as suggested by simulations @xcite , simple physical arguments @xcite and the extended star formation histories of local group dwarf galaxies @xcite .",
    "environmental triggers come in one of two broad flavours , tidal @xcite and hydrodynamic @xcite , but the observed stripping of ( more massive ) cluster spirals @xcite and the correlation of cluster gas - rich dwarfs h@xmath1 emission with their gas deficiency but not their cluster - centric location @xcite , both suggest that gas - rich dwarfs would more likely be victims of the latter .",
    "indeed , @xcite have demonstrated that ram - pressure stripping and subsequent fading of gas - rich dwarfs explain the integrated , multi - wavelength seds and structural scaling relations of virgo de / ds0 s .",
    "a study of some of these galaxies stellar populations @xcite yielded a similar conclusion .    despite the compelling similarities between gas - rich and gas - poor dwarfs , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite",
    "have shown that morphological subgroups ( i.e. , `` normal '' , disky , blue center , etc . ) exist amongst virgo de s and that this diversity correlates with their colours , ages , locations , and orbits . these studies all suggest that the young , disk - like dwarfs which reside in the cluster outskirts and move on radial orbits evolved from gas - rich progenitors while the old , nucleated ones which are more centrally - concentrated and follow circular orbits may have formed similarly to the gas - poor giants .",
    "as exampled by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite , a stellar population analysis of virgo gas - poor dwarfs would help elucidate the possible bimodal origins of these galaxies .",
    "since spiral galaxies generally have two principal components , understanding their formation necessarily involves the consideration of both bulges and disks .",
    "large spiral bulges resemble giant gas - poor galaxies in many ways ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter m09 ) , even out to intermediate redshift @xcite , so that the formation of such `` classical '' bulges has long been discussed in terms of monolithic collapse or hierarchical merging @xcite .",
    "alternatively , `` pseudo - bulges '' may be formed through a radial redistribution of disk material due to torques from a bar and/or spiral arms , a process known as secular evolution @xcite .",
    "early studies of spiral bulges failed to provide a consistent picture of their formation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these discrepant results may reflect a morphological trend in bulge formation mechanism @xcite , but this clashes with the existence of exponential bulges across the hubble sequence @xcite .",
    "based on a spectroscopic analysis of late - type bulges , m09 have suggested that no conflict exists between the above studies because the formation signature inferred depends on the means by which bulges are observed .",
    "for instance , since secular evolution induces sf ( see below ) , optical images of bulges would likely be biased to younger stellar populations ( when present ) , while spectra can more fully sample the entire stellar content , thereby revealing any underlying classical nature .",
    "unfortunately , m09 s study was limited to only eight galaxies .",
    "the origin(s ) of spiral bulges should be testable , in principle , through these galaxies stellar populations . in the classical bulge formation scenario ,",
    "a gas disk would accrete around the assembled bulge , thereby making the bulge older and more enriched than the disk ; that is , one expects to find negative age and metallicity gradients within such galaxies .",
    "on the other hand , the redistribution and scattering of disk stars into a pseudo - bulge would make it appear roughly coeval and isometallic with respect to its ( parent ) disk ; that is , one would expect flat stellar population gradients within these galaxies .",
    "although secular evolution also redistributes the gas of the disk and likely turns it into stars , it is unclear what effect ( if any ) this will have on a galaxy s stellar population gradients as the gas should end up spatially confined to a nucleus and rings @xcite . in spite of this , it is clear that important constraints on spiral galaxies formation may be obtained by identifying the relative ages and metallicities of their bulges and disks .",
    "spiral galaxies stellar population gradients also reflect on their disk formation . in the traditional scenario @xcite",
    ", disks form inside - out through the collapse of a rotating gas cloud , such that their resulting age and metallicity gradients should both be negative .",
    "simulations and observations both suggest that an outside - in formation scenario , while physically plausible , ought to be rare @xcite .",
    "a spiral disk stripped of its gas , however , may appear like it formed from outside - in since it should exhibit a positive age gradient ( its metallicity gradient would still be negative though ) @xcite .",
    "the possible evolution of disks due to environment is thus an important element in the analysis of clusters spirals s stellar populations .",
    "this is supported by the relative paucity of star - forming systems in regions of high density @xcite , the existence of red disks at @xmath4 1 @xcite , and the dependence of the star formation histories of virgo spirals on their neutral gas deficiencies @xcite",
    ".    although the possible impact of environment on the evolution of cluster spirals is _ a priori _ unknown , most evidence to date seems to favour hydrodynamic over tidal effects @xcite .",
    "for instance , observations of neutral gas displaced from the disks of many virgo cluster spirals suggest that their gas deficiencies result from ram pressure stripping @xcite . distinguishing between hydrodynamic and tidal effects via",
    "the radially - resolved stellar populations of gas - rich cluster galaxies is however not trivial as both are expected to leave a galaxy with a young central stellar population @xcite . further complicating this issue",
    "is the fact that the popular scenario of sf being quenched within gas - rich galaxies upon their entry into dense environments due to gas removal is not strictly true for cluster galaxies @xcite .",
    "such deviant behaviour may arise if the gas removal mechanism(s ) can actually trigger sf via ism compression . diagnosing the formation and/or evolution of spiral galaxies based on stellar population data alone may thus be challenging .",
    "the study of stellar populations is central to understanding galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "broadband colours remain the most efficient means for studying the stellar populations of large galaxy samples . for this ,",
    "a wide and well - sampled wavelength baseline is optimal for the modeling of galaxy colours ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; the use of optical and near - infrared ( nir ) imaging alone already overcomes the age - metallicity degeneracy at optical wavelengths @xcite . in this paper",
    "we use a large , morphologically complete database of optical and nir photometry for cluster galaxies ( paper i ) , down to @xmath5 -15 mag , to study the stellar populations of virgo cluster galaxies .",
    "this database combines imaging from the sdss @xcite , 2mass @xcite , goldmine database @xcite and our own h - band observations ( paper i ) .",
    "the layout of this paper is as follows : in we discuss our approach to interpreting the colour gradients of virgo galaxies ( paper i ) with stellar population models . in",
    "we extract stellar population profiles and diagnostics for these galaxies to understand their star formation histories ( sfhs ) , chemical evolution , and the parameters that govern them .",
    "we interpret these results in as constraints for the formation and evolution scenarios of basic galaxy types ( gas - poor giants and dwarfs , and spirals ) .",
    "we conclude in with a summary of major results . throughout this paper , we express metallicity , @xmath6 , on a logarithmic scale relative to the solar value ( @xmath7 = 0.02 ) and assume a distance of 16.5 mpc to all virgo cluster galaxies @xcite .",
    "we also refer to both s0 and s0/a galaxy types simply as `` s0 '' .",
    "this study uses the technique of stellar population synthesis to infer the stellar population properties of virgo galaxies based upon their colour profiles ( paper i ) . in so doing ,",
    "we adopt the approach of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter m04 ) , providing references where appropriate for the sake of brevity .",
    "the simplest use of stellar population synthesis involves the comparison of galaxy colours to predictions for the passive evolution of a coeval , isometallic population of stars ( a `` simple stellar population '' , ssp ) to determine light - weighted ssp - equivalent ages and metallicities for the observed stellar populations . of the several public ssp models we prefer those of charlot & bruzual ( 2010 , in preparation ;",
    "hereafter cb10 ) for their revision to the treatment of thermally - pulsating agb ( tp - agb ) stars from the preceding version of their models @xcite .",
    "although efforts to improve the tp - agb treatment in stellar population models , like those of cb10 , may be inadequate @xcite , our results are essentially invariant under either @xcite or the cb10 models , as demonstrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : mdl - comp ] .",
    "other than the tp - agb issue , competing ssp models differ primarily in details which do not result in significant discrepancies in predicted galaxy colours ( m04 ) , though careful examination of the systematic uncertainties in ssp models have only recently begun in earnest ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "rather than assume that the stars in virgo galaxies came from single bursts of sf ( as implicit in the ssp description ) , we model their colours with synthetic populations from an extended sfh .",
    "a single - burst sfh not only conflicts with the idea of hierarchical galaxy growth but there is also much evidence that an ssp is a poor representation of the stellar content of any galaxy , even the reddest spheroids ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; but see @xcite ) .",
    "we opt to model sfhs with simple functional forms , thereby neglecting any possible stochasticity in the sf process @xcite .",
    "while the combination of simple sfhs , observational errors and systematic model uncertainties guarantees that our estimated ages and metallicities are not absolutely accurate , our homogeneous approach to modeling virgo galaxy colours ensures that these estimates are meaningful in a relative sense @xcite .",
    "we compute the colours of a composite , isometallic stellar population model via the convolution of ssp spectra of many different ages with a chosen sfh ( see eq . 5 of m04 ) , assuming that sf began 13 gyr ago .",
    "we do not invoke any chemical evolution in our models as this process involves complicated poorly understood astrophysics @xcite .",
    "instead , we interpolate between the colours from the metallicity basis set of the cb10 models to create a fine metallicity grid .",
    "our models also do not include any treatment of dust attenuation , for reasons discussed in m04 , paper i and the appendix .    in the spirit of m04",
    ", we have explored several stellar population models corresponding to the following sfhs : constant , delayed , exponential , linear , and single - burst .",
    "the essential information for all models is summarized in and ; the formulae representing the star formation rate and mean age in each model are quoted in columns 2 - 3 of the table , while the range in model parameters ( star formation timescale / mean age ) are given in columns 4 - 5 .",
    "the mean age of a given stellar population model is computed from eq .",
    "10 of m04 . despite assuming an extended sfh for virgo galaxies , our modeling is still light - biased , such that the fits we obtain may not be representative of a galaxy s true stellar population if a recent sf burst ( @xmath81 gyr old ) has occurred ( @xcite ; @xcite ; m09 )",
    "however , m04 demonstrated that such a scenario shrinks the colour coverage of the stellar population models so much as to be inconsistent with observations , unless the burst is small by mass ( @xmath910% ) and/or heavily obscured by dust .",
    "since we can only hope to quantify relative differences in the stellar populations of virgo galaxies , we opt for a single sfh in our modeling .",
    "the best choice of sfh is then the one for which the colour coverage is wide enough to match that of as many galaxies in our sample as possible .",
    "the sfh colour coverages shown in are compared against each other in .",
    "while the star formation rates in most models decline with time , the time of peak sf in the delayed and exponential models is variable , such that only they can reproduce the very blue optical colours found in many virgo gas - rich galaxies ( paper i ) . for consistency with m04",
    ", we adopt the exponential sfh model but , as shown in , this choice has little effect on our inferred mean ages and metallicities .",
    "we determine the age and metallicity for the stars of a given radial bin through an explicit grid search for the combination which minimizes the model  data colour residuals .",
    "the @xmath10 estimate for the fit includes error contributions from calibration , sky , and shot noise uncertainties . for each fit",
    ", the model - data normalization is determined from a weighted mean of their differences in the @xmath11 bands ( eq .",
    "16 of m04 ) , while the age and metallicity errors are estimated from the envelope about the 68 most reliable solutions from fits to 100 monte carlo realisations of the measured errors ( assuming a normal distribution for each )",
    ". our error estimates also flag outlier bins , as their fits will correspond to the edge(s ) of the model grid , with zero associated error .",
    "we also compute the @xmath12 1 age - metallicity envelopes about the @xmath10 minima for all fits and use their sizes as weights when determining the age and metallicity gradients of virgo galaxies via linear fits to their stellar population profiles .",
    "we now consider the age and metallicity profiles of virgo galaxies , and scaling relations between diagnostics of their stellar populations ( age , metallicity , and their gradients ) and their structural and environmental parameters .",
    "these data are not only sensitive to the relative formation epochs of different regions in galaxies ( e.g. , bulge versus disk ) but also to the physical mechanisms that control their sfhs and chemical evolution .",
    "we interpret these data in terms of the formation and evolution of basic galaxy types in .",
    "we show in the typical radial age variations for virgo galaxies , binned by morphological type , where the solid and dashed lines represent the median stack and rms dispersion , respectively , of the individual age profiles in each morphological bin .",
    "having radially binned our galaxies light profiles ( paper i ) before applying stellar population models to them , we note that the median age profile for each galaxy type extends to at least 2.0 @xmath13 ( where @xmath13 represents the @xmath14-band effective radius ) at a minimum signal - to - noise ratio of ten .",
    "lists the median age gradient ( columns 2 - 4 ) and central age ( column 5 ) for each morphological bin ( with column 6 providing the number of galaxies in each bin ) , both of which largely reflect our impressions from .",
    "we find from that the most galaxy types ( e@xmath15sd , de / ds0 , ? ) have old central mean ages ( 9 - 10 gyr ) , while gas - rich dwarfs ( sdm+sm , im+bcd ) and peculiars ( s ? ) are considerably younger ( 5 - 7 gyr ) .",
    "a bimodality seems apparent in the age gradient distribution for virgo galaxies , whereby the different galaxy types have either flat ( ds0 , s0 , sa - sb ) or positive ( de , e , sbc+sc , sdm+sm , im+bcd , s?+ ? ) median age gradients ( a negative median age gradient is only found in scd - sd spirals ) ; note that the age gradient distributions for the ds0 , s0 , and sa - sb galaxy types actually encompass both positive and negative values ( ) .",
    "the gas - rich dwarfs and peculiars have the steepest median age gradients of all galaxy types , which we attribute to their ongoing sf , particularly within their central regions .",
    "we speculate that the age upturns in the outskirts of the median age profiles for the sbc - sd galaxy types may represent inner disk stars that were scattered outward by spiral arms @xcite or gas stripped disks . finally , despite having similar median age gradients ( when measured in terms of @xmath16 ) , kolmogorov - smirnov ( ks ) tests reveal that the age gradient distributions of the gas - poor dwarfs and giants are in fact dissimilar .    the median metallicity profiles of virgo galaxies are shown in , while the median metallicity gradients and central metallicities for all morphological bins are listed in ( the structure of which is identical to ) .",
    "the median metallicity profiles of virgo galaxies are more uniform than their age profiles in the sense that all galaxy types , in the median , exhibit a negative metallicity gradient , albeit spread over a considerable range from @xmath170.06 dex @xmath16 for s0 s to @xmath170.68 dex @xmath16 for i m s .",
    "interestingly , the median dlog(@xmath18)/d@xmath19 amongst s0-sd galaxies seems to correlate with morphology , such that later types have more negative gradients , a fact confirmed through ks tests of their gradient distributions . on the other hand , the central metallicities of virgo galaxies appear to segregate the different galaxy types into either metal - rich [ log(@xmath20 ) @xmath21 0.1 dex ; e@xmath15scd ] or metal - poor [ log(@xmath20 ) @xmath8 0.2 dex ; ds0/de , sm , im+bcd , s?+ ? ] groups , consistent with brighter ( more massive ) galaxies tending to be more enriched than the dimmer ( less massive ) ones @xcite .",
    "the latter point is also supported by ks tests which yield a probability less than @xmath1710% that the gas - poor dwarfs and giants have similar metallicity gradient distributions .",
    "however , the low central metallicities of the gas - rich dwarfs , coupled with their steepest of all metallicity gradients , suggests that these galaxies are less enriched than the gas - poor dwarfs , as expected from studies of the local group @xcite .",
    "knowledge of the typical stellar population gradients within galaxies of all types enables an interpretation of the source(s ) of their colour gradients . comparing the median age , metallicity , and colour ( paper i ) profiles of virgo galaxies , we find that the colour gradients of most galaxy types primarily reflect the outward decrease in their metallicities , save for a few notable exceptions .",
    "for one , the negative colour ( bluing outward ) gradients in scd+sd spirals are created by both their negative age and metallicity gradients , while the outward reddening seen in gas - rich peculiar ( s ? ) galaxies is undoubtedly due to their positive age gradients . on the other hand , the positive age and negative metallicity gradients found in e , sdm+sm , and bcd galaxies couple so as to generate their quasi - flat colour profiles .",
    "therefore , the null colour gradients within galaxies should not be taken as a reflection of a stellar population with constant age and metallicity profiles .",
    "as in paper i , we compare our results with similar published studies .",
    "the most studied galaxy types in the context of stellar populations is by far the gas - poor giants .",
    "qualitatively speaking , several studies have reported both positive @xcite and flat @xcite age gradients within giant gas - poor galaxies , similar to what we have found in the median for virgo e s and s0 s , respectively .",
    "in addition , these studies unanimously show that these galaxy types possess negative metallicity gradients , spread over a range from @xmath170.2 to @xmath170.4 dex per decade radius .",
    "our measured median metallicity gradient for virgo giant gas - poor galaxies , 0.33 dex per decade radius , falls nicely within this range . for the remaining galaxy types ( dwarfs and spirals ) ,",
    "the literature appears short of quantitative estimates of their stellar population gradients .",
    "any comparison of with our results must be kept strictly qualitative . despite this limitation",
    ", there exists studies of spiral galaxies that report age and metallicity gradients which span a range of positive to negative values ( @xcite , m04 , @xcite , @xcite , m09 ) , as is the case with our virgo spirals .",
    "age and metallicity gradients have been inferred in dwarf galaxies as well @xcite , in qualitative agreement with our results .",
    "we can also use stellar population gradients of virgo galaxies to investigate the possible role of galaxy structure and environment in setting radial variations in their sfhs and chemical evolution . as probes of structure",
    ", we have used the nir parameters of concentration ( @xmath22 ) , apparent magnitude ( @xmath23 ) , effective surface brightness ( @xmath24 ) and effective radius ( @xmath13 ) . for correlations with environment ,",
    "we have used ( projected ) cluster - centric distance ( @xmath25 ) , local galaxy density ( @xmath26 ) , and gas deficiency ( @xmath27 ) .",
    "the definitions and sources of these parameters are provided in paper i. the age and metallicity gradients of virgo galaxies are plotted in figures  [ fig : maz - c28-h]-[fig : maz - enviro ] against the above parameters . in each figure , the galaxies are separated into basic groups corresponding to gas - poor ( top - left ) , spiral ( top - right ) , and irregular ( lower - left ) types , while the distributions of all three groups are superimposed at lower - right . for each group",
    "we show the median trend and its rms dispersion ( solid and dashed lines , respectively ) , as well as the typical error per point and the pearson correlation coefficient , @xmath19 .",
    "these figures highlight that both structure and environment play little role in the stellar population gradients of virgo galaxies .    a similar set of plots ,",
    "but in terms of the effective ages and metallicities , of virgo galaxies , is presented in figures  [ fig : az - c28-h]-[fig : az - enviro ] . as a tracer of local sfh and chemical evolution",
    ", we define the effective age , @xmath28 , and metallicity , @xmath29 , of a galaxy to be the value of these quantities at its effective radius .",
    "we now discuss the scaling relations of the above stellar population diagnostics for each galaxy group .      as mentioned above",
    ", we do not detect any structural or environmental trends in the stellar population gradients of virgo gas - poor galaxies .",
    "chief amongst these absentee trends is that the metallicity gradients of virgo de / ds0 s are independent of luminosity , since @xcite found a linear relation between these parameters for systems with masses @xmath30 3.5@xmath3110@xmath32 m@xmath33 ( @xmath34 9.5 mag at the distance of virgo ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , the relatively small number of low - mass galaxies in those authors sample ( 13 ) undermines the reliability of their result .",
    "indeed , the existence of this correlation is far from settled in the literature @xcite .",
    "for instance , with a slightly larger sample , @xcite showed that gas - poor dwarfs are highly scattered in the metallicity gradient  velocity dispersion ( luminosity ) plane , not unlike what we find for the virgo de / ds0 s .",
    "the observed scatter in metallicity gradient for virgo de / ds0 s with @xmath35 11.0 mag ( @xmath210.4 dex ) can not be explained by observational errors ( @xmath300.2 dex ) .",
    "the ages of virgo gas - poor galaxies also seem to be independent of their structure or environment ( but see ) .",
    "the most intriguing of these null results are those involving the parameters @xmath23 and @xmath26 .",
    "many studies report that the central ages of e / s0 s correlate with both their central velocity dispersion and local galaxy density @xcite .",
    "further , a similar age trend exists for such galaxies against stellar mass indicators @xcite ( but see @xcite and @xcite ) ; likewise , the integrated ages of virgo e s may increase with their @xmath14-band luminosity @xcite .",
    "the absence of the above trends persists even when we consider individual morphologies of gas - poor galaxies .",
    "we return to this topic in .",
    "the metallicities of virgo gas - poor galaxies exhibit positive correlations against their structural parameters of @xmath22 , @xmath23 , and @xmath24 .",
    "the most statistically significant of these trends , that against @xmath23 , reflects the known metallicity - luminosity relation of galaxies @xcite and corroborates a similar correlation in terms of these galaxies integrated metallicities @xcite .",
    "the steepness of our observed @xmath29-@xmath23 trend , and the contribution of all gas - poor types to it , suggest that the chemical enrichment of these galaxies depends principally on their stellar masses and supports the idea that the galaxian red sequence is due to metallicity variations @xcite .",
    "contrary to the above trends , the metallicities of virgo gas - poor galaxies do not correlate with any of their environmental parameters .",
    "this result conflicts with the @xmath6-@xmath26 trend @xcite ; we also return to this issue in .",
    "none of the stellar population diagnostics for virgo spiral galaxies exhibit significant correlations with their structural parameters .",
    "one worth noting is the null trend between age and surface brightness .",
    "however , @xcite and m04 both found a positive correlation between these quantities for field spirals , suggesting that the local potential regulates the sf in those galaxies .",
    "an obvious cause for the absence of this trend in our data is that our sample is drawn from a galaxy cluster , whereby environmental effects , such as gas stripping , could perturb the virgo spiral sfhs ( see below ) .",
    "dust could also skew the age estimates for some of our galaxies .",
    "the ages of virgo spirals are most strongly affected by their environment , such that galaxies with a greater neutral gas deficiency tend to have older stellar populations .",
    "although @xcite showed that @xmath27 also affects these galaxies _ integrated _ ages , this is secondary to the effect of @xmath23 , contrary to our results . also intriguing",
    "is the fact that we do not find a @xmath27 trend amongst any of the other stellar population diagnostics for virgo spirals , which would have been expected given the gas deficiency dependence of their local sfhs .",
    "for example , the traditional picture of gas stripping posits that the sf in disk outskirts should be truncated before that in the inner regions @xcite , thereby changing that galaxy s age gradient .",
    "we return to this discrepancy in .",
    "it should finally be noted that while a significant @xmath27-morphology correlation exists amongst virgo spirals ( @xmath19 = -0.68 ; paper i ) , these galaxies alone do not drive the @xmath27 trend observed in .",
    "akin to virgo spirals , the ages of virgo irregulars positively correlate with their gas deficiencies ( ) , such that systems with larger @xmath27 are typically older .",
    "again , though , this trend is surprising given that the metallicities plus age and metallicity gradients for the virgo irregulars bear no @xmath27 imprint .",
    "other than an age - gas deficiency trend , the virgo irregulars collectively exhibit no other significant correlations in their stellar population diagnostics .",
    "the metallicities of virgo peculiars ( s?+ ? ) though , increase with both their luminosities and surface brightnesses ( pearson @xmath19 = + 0.66 and + 0.48 , respectively ) , similar to what was found for virgo gas - poor galaxies .      the stellar population scaling relations that we have discussed above apply to the sfhs and chemical evolution of virgo galaxies on local scales .",
    "it is clearly of interest if these correlations also hold on galaxy - wide scales . to explore this",
    ", we must look at the integrated characterizations of our galaxies stellar populations .",
    "shows that the integrated ages and metallicities of virgo galaxies against their corresponding effective quantities are remarkably consistent with one another . on the other hand , substantial scatter exists between these galaxies integrated and effective metallicities , which increases to low @xmath36 and is preferentially directed to lower @xmath37 . despite this scatter ,",
    "our galaxies are distributed in a rather monotonic fashion in the @xmath37-@xmath36 plane .",
    "the integrated and effective stellar population estimates of virgo galaxies thus agree with one another ( at least in a relative sense ) , implying that their local scaling relations should apply globally as well .",
    "below , we discuss the stellar population information of virgo cluster galaxies in the context of popular galaxy formation and evolution scenarios ( i.e. , monolithic collapse , hierarchical merging , and secular and environmental evolution ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) with the aim of establishing which one , or any combinations thereof , contributed most significantly to the inferred stellar content of each basic galaxy type . in this discussion , we focus only on those galaxies for which our sample is richest : gas - poor giants and dwarfs ( e / s0 and de / ds0 , respectively ) , and spirals ( sa@xmath15sd ) .",
    "as reviewed in , spectroscopic studies of gas - poor giants have revealed downsizing trends in their central stellar populations which match monolithic collapse scenario predictions more readily than with hierarchical merging . while hierarchical models may be tweaked to reproduce said trends ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , many studies have instead contrasted the above scenarios through the stellar population gradients that they predict in e / s0 s @xcite , but there is no consensus .",
    "from the perspective of stellar populations , the the formation of gas - poor giants remains open to interpretation .    in order to explain the large central [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios found in local e s @xcite , a monolithic - like formation of these galaxies should have happened on a timescale of @xmath171 gyr .",
    "such a timescale implies shallow , positive age gradients , and steep and negative metallicity gradients on account of the cumulative enrichment of the central regions @xcite .",
    "although the recent monolithic collapse models of @xcite successfully predict our observed metallicity gradients within virgo e / s0 s ( -0.33 dex per decade radius , in the median ) , their ability to reproduce these galaxies age gradients is suspect ( a. pipino , private communication ) .",
    "also , simulations suggest that the metallicity gradients of collapse remnants should correlate with their stellar masses due to the effect of the potential well on both dissipation and chemo - dynamics during collapse @xcite ; we recover no such trend . the stellar population information of virgo e / s0 s then suggests that these galaxies origins were not monolithic - like in nature .",
    "given this tension between stellar population gradients of virgo gas - poor giants and the monolithic collapse model , let us examine the possibility of a hierarchical origin . at face value ,",
    "virgo e / s0 s having positive age and negative metallicity gradients are consistent with a scenario whereby their interiors was formed via compact starbursts @xcite , while their outskirts were accreted from ( dwarf ) satellites @xcite .",
    "that is , these galaxies stellar population gradients suggest the involvement of both gas - rich and gas - poor mergers in their formation . if this scenario is correct , then the continuous radial increase ( decrease ) in the age ( metallicity ) profiles of these virgo e / s0 s contrast with early merger simulations @xcite which predicted that violent relaxation would flatten the stellar population gradients in the remnants outskirts .",
    "more recent work has demonstrated , however , that non - negligible age and metallicity gradients , like those in virgo gas - poor giants , may persist within merger remnants , but only if the progenitors gradients were roughly twice as steep @xcite .",
    "recent photometric studies of virgo e / s0 s have suggested that the gas fractions of the mergers which produced them may be ascertained from the central behaviour ( cusp / core ) in their light profiles @xcite .",
    "that is , gas - rich merger remnants should have cusped light profiles due to their centralized starbursts @xcite , while gas - poor merger remnants should have cored light profiles due to binary black hole scouring of the central regions @xcite .",
    "given a cusp / core catalog for virgo e / s0 s @xcite , we can then explore the effect of gas fractions on merger remnants stellar population gradients .",
    "the comparison of the age and metallicity gradients of cusped and cored virgo e / s0 s in , suggests that neither of these two galaxy types distinguish themselves in this regard .",
    "this bolsters the above claim that progenitors stellar population gradients may indeed survive merger events .",
    "the stellar population scaling relations of virgo e / s0 s also offer insight into their merger gas fractions .",
    "we showed in that the metallicities of virgo gas - poor giants increase with both their concentration and luminosity .",
    "although a gas - poor merger of low-@xmath22 galaxies could conceivably produce a more concentrated remnant , the absence of merger - induced sf implies that it still would not follow the established @xmath6-@xmath22 relation ( i.e. , its metallicity would not exceed that of its progenitors ) . from this",
    ", we suggest that a significant fraction of the stellar mass in massive virgo e / s0 s may have formed via starbursts in gas - rich mergers .",
    "coupled with the predominance of cusped light profiles in less luminous virgo e / s0 s @xcite , this indicates that gas - rich mergers play a significant role in the formation of all the gas - poor giants in this cluster .",
    "the hallmark of recent spectroscopic studies of local e / s0 s is that their central ssp ages and [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios increase with dynamical mass and local density @xcite .",
    "however , the authenticity of these downsizing trends remains contentious @xcite .",
    "for instance , @xcite suggest that downsizing may actually represent a mass - dependent trend in the latest central sf episode within these galaxies , since ssp fits are biased by the system s youngest stars . as alluded to in",
    ", downsizing has major implications about giant gas - poor galaxy formation . as stated in",
    ", we do not detect a statistically significant downsizing trend by stellar mass in the ages of virgo e / s0 s .",
    "this result agrees with other conflicting results from prior investigations into the stellar mass dependence of gas - poor giants stellar populations @xcite .",
    "recall also that our non - detection of downsizing refers to the effective radii of virgo e / s0 s , which suggests that these galaxies integrated sfhs do not downsize with respect to their stellar masses .",
    "that is , this result casts doubt on downsizing by mass as a key characteristic of the formation of giant gas - poor galaxies .",
    "we also demonstrated in that the stellar populations of virgo e / s0 s do not exhibit downsizing trends with environment .",
    "while this is , in principle , contrary to the age and metallicity differences between field and cluster gas - poor giants advocated by @xcite , we speculate that our null result may be due to saturation of the thomas et al . trend on the density scales of galaxy clusters",
    ". a plausible source of such saturation may involve the preprocessing of gas - poor galaxies in groups which arrive for the first time into the cluster environment @xcite .",
    "further exploration of the possible environmental downsizing of virgo e / s0 s will have to await the compilation of accurate distances ( @xmath810% error ) for these galaxies , to enable 3d estimates of cluster - centric distances and local galaxy densities .",
    "while most statistical studies of the stellar populations of giant gas - poor galaxies group e s and s0 s together ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the structural differences between these galaxy types hint at a unique origin for the latter .",
    "the origins of s0 s have thus been popularly ascribed to an evolution of spiral galaxy progenitors , driven by environment , which involves the removal of the latter s gas ( via hydrodynamic and/or tidal processes ) and the subsequent fading of their stellar disks @xcite .",
    "the increasing fraction of blue cluster galaxies to high redshifts @xcite is perhaps the strongest evidence in favour of such a scenario .",
    "since a hydrodynamic or tidal transformation of a spiral galaxy should leave its remnant with a central gas reservoir ( see below ) , one would expect to uncover environmental signatures in s0 s stellar populations ( e.g. , positive age gradients ) if this scenario was true .",
    "studies along these lines , however , have so far failed to reveal conclusive results ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .    the positive age and negative metallicity gradients found in some virgo s0 s conform with their possible evolutionary origin .",
    "younger and more enriched central regions in galaxies that have experienced either ram pressure stripping or harassment are a generic expectation from simulations of these effects @xcite .",
    "these simulations show that remnants of these processes are left with central gas reservoirs due to either the stronger gravitational restoring force in those regions ( re : ram pressure stripping ) , or tidally - induced central gas flows ( re : harassment ) .",
    "the participation of virgo s0 s in the age - gas deficiency trend for the gas - rich systems in this cluster ( ) also supports an evolutionary origin for these galaxies .",
    "this trend and the lack of @xmath25 or @xmath26 signatures in the stellar population diagnostics of virgo s0 s , strongly suggest that ram pressure stripping would be the preeminent cause of their evolution from a gas - rich spiral progenitor .",
    "alternatively , virgo s0 s may have formed , like virgo e s , through hierarchical merging .",
    "both the prominence of s0 bulges @xcite and the evidence for ( small ) disks in the light profiles and kinematic maps of classified e s @xcite suggest that these two galaxy types represent a continuum in gas - poor giant structure .",
    "furthermore , the stellar population diagnostics for virgo e s and s0 s follow similar scaling relations ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "if virgo e s and s0 s share a common origin , as these commonalities suggest , then the positive age gradients we find in many of the latter imply that their disks existed prior to their bulges . while stellar disks can survive a minor merger @xcite ,",
    "it is unlikely that such events could build the massive bulges of s0 s .",
    "conversely , major mergers may explain the formation of virgo s0 s given the simulations @xcite and observations @xcite that both support the idea of disk survival ( or even regrowth ) after such an event , provided that it is of a high gas fraction .",
    "gas - rich merging may be problematic though as the gas disk must be promptly removed after the merger to keep the disk s stellar population older than that of the bulge ; this problem , of course , does not exist for virgo s0 s having negative age gradients .",
    "mergers can consume gas through centripetal gas flows and subsequent starbursts @xcite , but it is unlikely that this mechanism will deplete the remnant s entire gas disk .",
    "thus , the merger scenario of s0 formation may still require an external agent ( e.g. , ram pressure stripping ) to remove gas from these galaxies progenitors ; that is , no one mechanism may explain these galaxies origins @xcite .",
    "the gradual realization that gas - rich and gas - poor dwarf galaxies overlap in terms of their structure , dynamics , gas content , substructure and sfhs @xcite has lent considerable weight to the idea of an evolutionary link between these two galaxy types .",
    "external mechanisms that could drive the evolution of a gas - rich dwarf into a gas - poor dwarf include ram pressure stripping or thermal evaporation of its ism , and galaxy harassment @xcite .",
    "an internal mechanism for such a depletion is unlikely due to dwarf galaxies ( implied ) inefficiencies in both sf @xcite and gas expulsion @xcite . despite the extensive overlap of their physical properties ,",
    "important differences remain between gas - rich and gas - poor dwarfs in terms of their surface brightnesses , metallicities and globular cluster statistics @xcite .",
    "a primordial origin , like that for gas - poor giants ( i.e. , monolithic collapse or hierarchical merging ) , thus remains viable for gas - poor dwarfs , and is supported by the very old ages and low metallicities of the nucleated dwarfs in both the coma and fornax galaxy clusters @xcite .",
    "we have found that a majority of virgo gas - poor dwarfs in our sample have positive age and negative metallicity gradients ( admittedly though , indicates that the former are statistically consistent with being flat ) .",
    "given such a stellar population gradient combination , it seems unlikely that these galaxies could be primordial in origin .",
    "for instance , the metallicity gradients in virgo de / ds0 s are collectively steeper than those of virgo e / s0 s , contrary to the predicted flattening of this diagnostic towards low masses in monolithic collapse models @xcite .",
    "the absence of such a trend in our data is supported by the pearson test ( @xmath38 + 0.34 ) shown in the lower - right panel of for virgo gas - poor galaxies . the primordial origin hypothesis for virgo de / ds0 s",
    "is also discredited on account that these galaxies do not exhibit comparable stellar population scaling relations with those of virgo e / s0 s .",
    "the stellar population data virgo de / ds0 s thus argue against either a hierarchical or monolithic - like origin for them .",
    "much of the stellar population data for the virgo gas - poor dwarfs is readily interpreted in the context of an evolutionary origin . while our data can not confirm which environmental mechanism is most likely to have removed these galaxies gas , the absence of trends in their stellar population diagnostics with both galaxy density and cluster - centric distance disfavours it being harassment . on the other hand ,",
    "the fact that gas stripping of ( more massive ) virgo spiral galaxies is observed ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) and should increase in efficiency with lower masses makes this mechanism appealing . given this , negative age gradients in virgo de / ds0 s may arise from the strangulation of gas - rich progenitors haloes , while positive age gradients may result from ram pressure stripping of progenitors gas disks @xcite .",
    "not all the stellar population information for virgo de / ds0 s agrees with their possible evolutionary origin .",
    "while we find broad consistency in the central metallicities of all virgo dwarfs ( ) , the young ages of our im+bcd s suggests that our ( light - biased ) estimates sample only their most recently formed stars , such that their fitted metallicities are better thought of as being upper limits .",
    "this , coupled with the more negative metallicity gradients within the im+bcd s , then implies that the true metallicities of virgo gas - rich and gas - poor dwarfs are likely discrepant , as found amongst local group dwarfs as well @xcite . the fact that we find mild agreement between the central metallicities of all virgo dwarfs , however , implies that im+bcd s are at least capable of enriching themselves to the same degree as de / ds0 s .",
    "this suggests a solution to discrepant metallicity problem which the evolutionary scenario faces , whereby the progenitors of virgo de / ds0 s sufficiently enrich themselves before completely losing their gas supplies ( e.g. , through triggered sf ) .",
    "this can happen once a dwarf galaxy has been stripped of its gas , as only evolved stars can replenish its ism at that point @xcite .",
    "conversely , the extremely metal - poor outskirts in virgo i m s may be understood as a recent accretion of pristine gas onto those regions ( i.e. , those estimates are lower limits ) .",
    "considering our poor statistics in the stellar population diagnostics of virgo im+bcd s , we refrain from pursuing this comparison further .    in a manner similar to the gas - poor giants , the virgo ds0 s exhibit several structural differences relative to the virgo de s , suggesting a different origin for these two gas - poor dwarf types .",
    "this is supported by ks tests with low probabilities ( @xmath39 0.5 ) between their respective stellar population diagnostics .",
    "* and references therein ) , @xcite , and @xcite have also explored the idea of distinct classes of virgo gas - poor dwarfs and argued that the younger , flatter , less centrally clustered population is the prototype for the evolutionary remnant of a low - mass spiral or gas - rich dwarf .",
    "these authors also suggest that the older , rounder , more centrally clustered gas - poor dwarfs may have a primordial origin .",
    "the many structural and stellar population differences that we find between virgo ds0 s and de s thus bolster the main conclusion of the above studies ; namely , that the virgo gas - poor dwarfs likely formed through at least two different channels .      as discussed in , the formation of spiral galaxy bulges remains unsettled , particularly with respect to the relative contributions of hierarchical merging @xcite and secular evolution @xcite as a function of hubble type .",
    "making matters worse , to distinguish these processes is non - trivial as satellite accretion is likely to excite disk instabilities @xcite .",
    "furthermore , while the formation of spiral galaxy disks is well understood in principle as the self - gravitating collapse of a rotating gas cloud @xcite , the local environment may play a significant role in the evolution of this component in cluster spirals .",
    "below , we try to understand the formation of the bulges and disks of virgo spirals via comparisons of their relative ages and metallicities and assuming that bulge light dominates these galaxies interiors ( @xmath301 @xmath13 ) .",
    "decompositions of virgo spirals light profiles indeed show that the bulge - to - total light ratio is typically above 50% within their effective radii @xcite .",
    "the negative metallicity gradients found in most virgo spirals indicates that their bulges are more enriched than their disks .",
    "conversely , the age gradients in virgo spirals range from being typically positive for early - types ( sa - sbc ) to negative for late - types ( scd+sd ) .",
    "each spiral ( sub-)class , however , contains a mixture of positive and negative age gradients ( ) , such that no one scenario can describe the origin of any one galaxy type .",
    "we therefore address the origins of virgo spirals based on age gradient sign rather than morphological type .",
    "the definite existence of positive and negative age gradients in these systems is confirmed by their measured error envelopes which do not typically overlap with zero .      the combination of a young , metal - rich bulge and an old",
    ", metal - poor disk ( found in @xmath1735% of virgo spirals , most commonly sa@xmath15sc s ) suggests a formation scenario for the bulge which involves the accumulation of a central gas reservoir . both secular evolution and",
    "a recent gas - rich minor merger could create such a reservoir @xcite .",
    "however , the former scenario would likely fail to produce a positive age gradient for two reasons .",
    "first , the gas reservoir that a bar creates via a centripetal flow from the disk would be spatially confined to the galaxy s nucleus and not spread over the entire bulge .",
    "second , the scattering of stars into the pseudo - bulge by a bar should actually flatten a spiral galaxy s age gradient @xcite .",
    "secular evolution is thus unlikely the source of positive age gradients in virgo ( early - type ) spirals .    while secular evolution may fails to explain the positive age gradients in virgo spirals , the success of the gas - rich minor merger scenario is contingent upon at least two constraints .",
    "first , some mechanism is needed to restrict the funneling of gas into the nucleus as this will not likely lead to the creation of a positive gradient over a large radial extent within the remnant .",
    "this funneling may derive from the weak torques acting on the gas during a minor merger @xcite or from tidal disruption of the secondary before coalescence , such that the merger turns into an accretion event .",
    "second , the merging of a gas - rich dwarf with a spiral galaxy should create a positive metallicity gradient , due to the deposition of metal - poor gas and stars into the bulge .",
    "this challenge for the merger scenario may be overcome if the accreted gas has either been pre - enriched or is consumed over a long timescale .",
    "although gas - rich minor mergers may explain the origin of bulges in virgo spirals with positive age gradients , it offers no insight as to why stellar ages and metallicities continue to increase and decrease , respectively , outward in these galaxies disks .",
    "the most compelling scenarios for the creation of such disks include outside - in formation and disk fading , wherein the latter occurs after depletion of the gas disk by external agents .",
    "while the formation of outside - in disks has been seen in simulations @xcite , current observational evidence suggests that this is a rare mechanism for the growth of spiral disks @xcite .",
    "therefore , the existence of positive age gradients in most virgo bulges and disks in our sample may be explained by a combination of gas - rich minor merging and disk fading .",
    "we shall revisit the topic of gas disk depletion in .",
    "the alternate combination of an old , metal - rich bulge with a young , metal - poor disk ( found in @xmath1735% of virgo spirals , most commonly sc@xmath15sd s ) implies that the gas supply of the disk accumulated later and/or was converted to stars over a longer timescale than that of the bulge ( i.e. , the bulge formed before the disk ) .",
    "bulges may deplete their gas supplies most efficiently at early epochs , thereby making them relatively old , by undergoing major mergers .",
    "this suggestion contradicts the popular wisdom that late - type spirals possess pseudo - bulges @xcite , but recent spectroscopic stellar population analyses have shown that the stellar masses of late - type bulges are indeed predominantly old ( m09 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as expected in a classical sense . also , the existence of a negative age gradient in a spiral galaxy that has experienced the stellar mixing and radial gas flows associated with secular evolution seems counter - intuitive .",
    "the bulges of such galaxies are then most consistent with having originated through mergers .",
    "a negative age gradient throughout a spiral galaxy also places constraints on the formation mechanism and epoch of its disk .",
    "such radial behaviour in stellar age , coupled with a negative metallicity gradient , suggests that the outskirts of these galaxies were formed through a more extended sfh , from a more pristine ism and suffered metal - rich outflows , while their central regions would have resulted from a more intense but short - lived sfh which involved substantial gas recycling .",
    "such an inside - out origin of virgo late - type disks agrees well with results from @xmath0cdm simulations of disk formation @xcite and supports the idea that the gravo - thermal collapse of gas clouds within them ( and thus their star formation rates ) depends on the local surface mass density @xcite .",
    "the fact that the disks in virgo late - type spirals are younger than their bulges also suggests that these gaseous disks have not yet ( or only recently ) been stripped by the virgo icm . if true , then these galaxies are likely recent additions to this cluster .",
    "the existence of positive age gradients and a statistically significant age-@xmath27 scaling relation in virgo spirals both argue that gas removal plays a fundamental role in the evolution of these galaxies .",
    "we ascribe the agent of gas removal to ram pressure since several observational evidences favour its influence on gas - rich cluster galaxies ( for a summary , see @xcite , and references therein ) , its efficiency at quenching the sf in spiral disks is high @xcite , and the ages of virgo spirals are evidently independent of both their cluster - centric distances and local galaxy densities and @xmath26 and the possibility that ram pressure stripping can occur at large cluster - centric radii in virgo due to a dynamic or `` lumpy '' icm @xcite may also be playing a role in generating these null results . ] .",
    "although cluster galaxies are expected to quickly lose their gas haloes to hydrodynamical interactions at large cluster - centric radii @xcite , such a strangulation scenario @xcite should not produce positive age gradients within them if the local star formation rate is density - dependent ( m04 ) .    the removal of a cluster spiral s gas supply should not only affect its sfh , but other factors related to its stellar populations as well .",
    "ram pressure stripping gradually removes a spiral galaxy s gas disk from the outside - in @xcite , but the deeper potential well towards its center prevents the complete loss of its supply , ultimately leaving it with a large anemic annulus about its center .",
    "given such a range in the gas retention properties within cluster spirals , the age gradient of a highly deficient system might be expected to be more positive than that of a less deficient system , since sf will undoubtedly be quenched in the former s outer disk but not in its central regions . moreover ,",
    "if sf is quenched in a galaxy s outskirts , so too should the enrichment of the local ism , such that highly deficient spirals should be more metal - poor and have more negative metallicity gradients than less deficient spirals .",
    "finding no @xmath27 effect whatsoever on either the metallicities or the stellar population gradients of virgo spirals is thus disconcerting .",
    "many factors may contribute to wash out these trends , however , such as a rapid stripping timescale , a recent stripping epoch for the highly deficient spirals , and/or triggered sf or gas fallback accompanying the stripping event ( as seen in simulations ; * ? ? ?",
    ". the absence of @xmath27 trends expected in the stellar population diagnostics of cluster spirals may be evidence that gas stripping does not simply entail a gradual outside - in removal of their gas and subsequent quenching of their sf .",
    "to bolster our claim that the effects of gas stripping on cluster spirals is more complex than the simple ( intuitive ) picture described above , we show in the stellar population profiles for virgo spirals that we have in common with ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; hereafter ck08 ) .",
    "ck08 analysed the stellar populations located just beyond the truncated h@xmath1 disks in several virgo spirals to determine when sf was quenched in those regions .",
    "they concluded that the highly -deficient galaxies must have lost their gas disks recently ( @xmath9500 myr ) without any triggering of sf .",
    "seven of ck08 s spirals overlap with our sample , thereby enabling a qualitative comparison of our age profiles with them .",
    "we find that the age profiles of only two of these galaxies ( vcc0873 and vcc1126 ) notably increase beyond their h@xmath1 disks , implying that their disks were stripped gradually , not recently .",
    "interestingly , the age profile of vcc1690 ( @xmath27 = 1.07 ) actually decreases just beyond its h@xmath1 disk , suggesting that ram pressure has actually triggered sf during the stripping process . the age profiles of the other four galaxies remain flat beyond their h@xmath1 disks , implying that these galaxies were instead stripped rapidly .",
    "the age profiles for virgo spirals and our comparison with ck08 suggest that the gas stripping timescales for gas - rich galaxies falling into the virgo cluster may not be uniform @xcite and that ram pressure may indeed promote sf in galaxies before ultimately quenching it .",
    "we have used high - quality optical and near - infrared ( @xmath11 ) imaging of @xmath17300 virgo cluster galaxies to determine radial stellar population variations for a representative sample spanning the full range of galaxian parameter space . we have also compared stellar population diagnostics ( ages , metallicities , and their gradients ) with structural and environmental parameters to investigate their contribution to galaxies sfhs and chemical evolution .",
    "all these data considered , we have developed plausible formation and evolution scenarios for each of the major galaxy types ( gas - poor giants and dwarfs , and spirals ) within a cluster setting . here is a summary of our main results :    * most galaxies colour gradients are due to variations in metallicity ; ellipticals , sbc  sd spirals , gas - rich dwarfs , and peculiars also show non - negligible age variations ; * although reddening can skew stellar population estimates from colours , realistic dust modelling can not be achieved through colour information alone ; * of the sfhs considered , only an exponential sfh can simultaneously account for the wide colour range exhibited by all galaxy types , especially the gas - poor giant galaxies ; * the metallicity gradients of virgo galaxies become increasingly negative towards later types along the hubble sequence ; * significant correlations in the stellar population diagnostics of virgo galaxies indicate that : + - : :    the chemical evolution of gas - poor galaxies is determined by the    interplay between stellar masses ( nucleosynthesis sites ) and surface    densities ( potential well depth ) , - : :    the higher metallicities of e / s0 s that experienced more dissipation    during their formation suggests that their stellar masses were built    up _ in situ _ , - : :    the sfhs of gas - rich cluster galaxies are strongly affected by    complicated gas removal processes that likely trigger sf as well as    inhibit it . * the stellar population data for virgo galaxies suggest the following formation and evolution scenarios for the major galaxy types in this cluster : + - : :    giant gas - poor ( e / s0 ) galaxies grew mostly via gas - rich mergers but    some gas - poor mergers , as well as gas removal processes in s0 s , also    likely play a role ; - : :    dwarf gas - poor ( de+ds0 ) galaxies do not result from a single formation    mechanism but the dominant production channel likely involves an    evolution from a gas - rich progenitor ( e.g. , im+bcd ) that is driven by    environment ; - : :    spiral ( sa@xmath15sd ) galaxies having a bulge that is older and    more enriched than the disk likely formed their bulge through merging    and grew their disk inside - out afterward , free from environmental    effects . conversely , spirals with a disk older and less enriched than    their bulge , whilst still having a merger - built bulge , likely    underwent stripping of their gas disk .",
    "we are grateful to l. p. chamberlain , c. conroy , e. emsellem , l. ferrarese , and c. maraston for insightful discussions .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic and goldmine databases .",
    "j. r. and s.c .",
    "acknowledge financial support from the national science and engineering council of canada .",
    "the presence of dust in galaxies affects broadband studies of their stellar populations since a change in reddening can mimic variations in both age and metallicity @xcite .",
    "the weak sf characteristics of gas - poor galaxies @xcite imply that reddening of their colours by dust should be minimal since their dust reservoirs should not have been recently replenished by stellar feedback @xcite .",
    "the same can not be said for gas - rich galaxies , as evidenced by the extremely red optical - nir colours that we find in some virgo spirals ( paper i ) ; however , @xcite show that such red colours could also result from the presence of a significant tp - agb population . rather than correct our photometry using idealized dust models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we instead address the impact that dust would have on galaxy colours .",
    "to gauge the effect of reddening , we examine three popular dust models : ( 1 ) foreground screen , ( 2 ) face - on triplex @xcite , and ( 3 ) clumpy medium @xcite . the screen model follows a simple prescription , @xmath40 = 1.08@xmath41 , where @xmath40 and @xmath41 are the extinction and optical depth in band @xmath42 , respectively .",
    "the triplex model assumes exponentially declining distributions of stars and dust in both the radial and vertical directions .",
    "we calculate triplex extinctions according to eq .",
    "( 14 ) of m04 , which invokes a simple treatment of scattering @xcite .",
    "m04 argued that a large reddening gradient is only achieved with the triplex model when the stellar and dust scale lengths are equal , contrary to observations @xcite .",
    "for both the screen and triplex models , we use the milky way extinction curve and albedos from @xcite .",
    "the clumpy medium model mimics the preferential but short - lived extinction of young star clusters @xcite due to the higher dust concentrations in molecular clouds than in the diffuse ism .",
    "the power - law dependence of the extinction curve in this model has been verified in a multi - band study of sdss galaxies @xcite .",
    "however , as charlot & fall contend , the neglected scattering in their model make its applicability to galaxian light profiles questionable .",
    "indeed , the absence of a detailed scattering treatment in most analytic dust models is another valid reason to forego reddening corrections to our data .",
    "we compare in the predictions for each of the above dust models against our preferred exponential sfh model .",
    "the predicted reddening mostly affects optical - nir colours and thus mostly skews metallicity estimates @xcite . considering our typical measurement errors however ( paper i )",
    ", the models are degenerate with respect to colours and even themselves .",
    "although the dust extinction vectors lie nearly parallel to the median colour gradients of our virgo spirals ( paper i ) , unfeasibly large attenuations would be required to fully explain the magnitude of these galaxies gradients ( m04 ) . with exception to a few edge - on virgo spirals that lie completely redward of the exponential model grid ( e.g. , vcc0873 ) ,",
    "we can thus rule out dust as a dominant contributor to the colours of virgo gas - rich galaxies .",
    "this point is supported by our finding in paper i that these galaxies central colours are independent of inclination .",
    "constraints on the dust properties of virgo cluster galaxies should be significantly improved with the highly anticipated completion of several ongoing dedicated x - ray , uv , optical , ir - fir , and sub - mm surveys of this cluster .",
    "99 abadi , m.  g. , navarro , j.  f. , & steinmetz , m.  2006 , mnras , 365 , 747 adelman - mccarthy , j.  k. , et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 172 , 634 adelman - mccarthy , j.  k. , et al .",
    "2008 , apjs , 175 , 297 allanson , s.  p. , hudson , m.  j. , smith , r.  j. , & lucey , j.  r.  2009 , apj , 702 , 1275 andredakis , y.  c. , peletier , r.  f. , & balcells , m.  1995 , mnras , 275 , 874 balcells , m. , graham , a.  w. , domnguez - palmero , l. , & peletier , r.  f.  2003 , apjl , 582 , l79 balogh , m.  l. , navarro , j.  f. , & morris , s.  l.  2000 , apj , 540 , 113 barazza , f.  d. , binggeli , b. , & jerjen , h.  2002 , a&a , 391 , 823 baugh , c.  m.  2006 , reports on progress in physics , 69 , 3101 bedregal , a.  g. , aragn - salamanca , a. , merrifield , m.  r. , & cardiel , n.  2008 , mnras , 387 , 660 bekki , k. , couch , w.  j. , & shioya , y.   2002 , apj , 577 , 651 bell , e.  f. , & de jong , r.  s.  2000 , mnras , 312 , 497 bell , e.  f. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 608 , 752 bell , e.  f. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 640 , 241 bender , r. , burstein , d. , & faber , s.  m.   1992 , apj , 399 , 462 binggeli , b. , tarenghi , m. , & sandage , a.  1990 , a&a , 228 , 42 boselli , a. , & gavazzi , g.  2006 , pasp , 118 , 517 boselli , a. , boissier , s. , cortese , l. , gil de paz , a. , seibert , m. , madore , b.  f. , buat , v. , & martin , d.  c.  2006 , apj , 651 , 811 boselli , a. , boissier , s. , cortese , l. , & gavazzi , g.  2008 , apj , 674 , 742 boselli , a. , boissier , s. , cortese , l. , & gavazzi , g.  2008 , a&a , 489 , 1015 bothun , g.  d. , mould , j.  r. , caldwell , n. , & macgillivray , h.  t.  1986 , aj , 92 , 1007 bower , r.  g. , benson , a.  j. , malbon , r. , helly , j.  c. , frenk , c.  s. , baugh , c.  m. , cole , s. , & lacey , c.  g.  2006 , mnras , 370 , 645 bruzual , a.  g.  2007 , iau symposium , 241 , 125 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s.  2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 butcher , h. , & oemler , a. , jr .",
    "1978 , apj , 219 , 18 byun , y.  i. , freeman , k.  c. , & kylafis , n.  d.  1994 , apj , 432 , 114 caldwell , n. , rose , j.  a. , & concannon , k.  d.  2003 , aj , 125 , 2891 cardiel , n. , gorgas , j. , snchez - blzquez , p. , cenarro , a.  j. , pedraz , s. , bruzual , g. , & klement , j.  2003 , a&a , 409 , 511 catinella , b. , et al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 403 , 683 prochaska chamberlain , l.  c. , courteau , s. , mcdonald , m. , rose , j.  a.  2011 , mnras , accepted charlot , s. , & fall , s.  m.  2000 , apj , 539 , 718 chilingarian , i.  v. , silchenko , o.  k. , afanasiev , v.  l. , & prugniel , p.  2007",
    ", astronomy letters , 33 , 292 chilingarian , i.  v.  2009 , , 394 , 1229 chung , a. , van gorkom , j.  h. , kenney , j.  d.  p. , crowl , h. , & vollmer , b.  2009 , aj , 138 , 1741 clemens , m.  s. , bressan , a. , nikolic , b. , alexander , p. , annibali , f. , & rampazzo , r.  2006 , mnras , 370 , 702 cole , s. , lacey , c.  g. , baugh , c.  m. , & frenk , c.  s.  2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 conroy , c. , gunn , j.  e. , & white , m.   2009 , apj , 699 , 486 conroy , c. , & gunn , j.  e.  2010 , apj , 712 , 833 conselice , c.  j. , oneil , k. , gallagher , j.  s. , & wyse , r.  f.  g.  2003 , apj , 591 , 167 conselice , c.  j. , bershady , m.  a. , dickinson , m. , & papovich , c.  2003 , aj , 126 , 1183 ct , p. , et al .",
    "2006 , apjs , 165 , 57 courteau , s. , de jong , r.  s. , & broeils , a.  h.  1996 , apjl , 457 , l73 cowie , l.  l. , & songaila , a.  1977 , nature , 266 , 501 crowl , h.  h. , & kenney , j.  d.  p.  2008 , aj , 136 , 1623 debattista , v.  p. , mayer , l. , carollo , c.  m. , moore , b. , wadsley , j. , & quinn , t.  2006 , apj , 645 , 209 de jong , r.  s.  1996 , a&a , 313 , 377 de jong , r.  s. , & davies , r.  l.   1997 , mnras , 285 , l1 de lucia , g. , springel , v. , white , s.  d.  m. , croton , d. , & kauffmann , g.  2006 , mnras , 366 , 499 de propris , r. , colless , m. , driver , s.  p. , pracy , m.  b. , & couch , w.  j.  2005 , , 357 , 590 de rijcke , s. , dejonghe , h. , zeilinger , w.  w. , & hau , g.  k.  t.  2003 , a&a , 400 , 119 di matteo , p. , pipino , a. , lehnert , m.  d. , combes , f. , & semelin , b.  2009 , a&a , 499 , 427 disney , m. , davies , j. , & phillipps , s.   1989 , mnras , 239 , 939 dressler , a.  1980 , apj , 236 , 351 dressler , a.  1987 , apj , 317 , 1 dutton , a.  a.  2009 , mnras , 396 , 121 eggen , o.  j. , lynden - bell , d. , & sandage , a.  r.  1962 , apj , 136 , 748 eminian , c. , kauffmann , g. , charlot , s. , wild , v. , bruzual , g. , rettura , a. , & loveday , j.  2008 , mnras , 384 , 930 emsellem , e. , et al .  2007 ,",
    "mnras , 379 , 401 faber , s.  m.  1973 , apj , 179 , 731 faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "1997 , aj , 114 , 1771 faber , s.  m. , et al .  2007 ,",
    "apj , 665 , 265 falcn - barroso , j. , peletier , r.  f. , & balcells , m.  2002 , mnras , 335 , 741 fall , s.  m. , & efstathiou , g.  1980 , mnras , 193 , 189 ferrarese , l. , et al .",
    "2006 , apjs , 164 , 334 ferrarese , l. , et al .",
    "2006 , apjl , 644 , l21 foster , c. , proctor , r.  n. , forbes , d.  a. , spolaor , m. , hopkins , p.  f. , & brodie , j.  p.  2009 , mnras , 400 , 2135 foyle , k. , courteau , s. , & thacker , r.  j.   2008 , mnras , 386 , 1821 franx , m. , illingworth , g. , & heckman , t.   1989 , , 98 , 538 gallazzi , a. , charlot , s. , brinchmann , j. , white , s.  d.  m. , & tremonti , c.  a.  2005 , mnras , 362 , 41 gauthier , j .-",
    "r . , dubinski , j. , & widrow , l.  m.  2006 , apj , 653 , 1180 gavazzi , g. , boselli , a. , & kennicutt , r.  1991 , aj , 101 , 1207 gavazzi , g. , pierini , d. , & boselli , a.   1996 , , 312 , 397 gavazzi , g. , bonfanti , c. , sanvito , g. , boselli , a. , & scodeggio , m.  2002 , apj , 576 , 135 gavazzi , g. , boselli , a. , donati , a. , franzetti , p. , & scodeggio , m.  2003 , a&a , 400 , 451 gavazzi , g. , boselli , a. , van driel , w. , & oneil , k.  2005 , , 429 , 439 gavazzi , g. , boselli , a. , cortese , l. , arosio , i. , gallazzi , a. , pedotti , p. , & carrasco , l.  2006 , a&a , 446 , 839 geha , m. , guhathakurta , p. , & van der marel , r.  p.  2002 , aj , 124 , 3073 gordon , k.  d. , calzetti , d. , & witt , a.  n.  1997 , apj , 487 , 625 graham , a.  w. , & guzmn , r.   2003 , aj , 125 , 2936 graham , a.  w. , jerjen , h. , & guzmn , r.  2003 , aj , 126 , 1787 graves , g.  j. , faber , s.  m. , & schiavon , r.  p.  2009 , apj , 693 , 486 graves , g.  j. , faber , s.  m. , & schiavon , r.  p.  2009 , apj , 698 , 1590 grebel , e.  k. , gallagher , j.  s. , iii , & harbeck , d.  2003 , aj , 125 , 1926 gunn , j.  e. , & gott , j.  r. , iii 1972 , apj , 176 , 1 gltekin , k. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 698 , 198 haines , c.  p. , la barbera , f. , mercurio , a. , merluzzi , p. , & busarello , g.  2006 , , 647 , l21 hernquist , l. , & mihos , j.  c.  1995 , apj , 448 , 41 hopkins , p.  f. , cox , t.  j. , younger , j.  d. , & hernquist , l.  2009 , apj , 691 , 1168 hopkins , p.  f. , cox , t.  j. , dutta , s.  n. , hernquist , l. , kormendy , j. , & lauer , t.  r.  2009 , apjs , 181 , 135 hopkins , p.  f. , lauer , t.  r. , cox , t.  j. , hernquist , l. , & kormendy , j.  2009 , apjs , 181 , 486 jablonka , p. , martin , p. , & arimoto , n.   1996 , aj , 112 , 1415 jablonka , p. , gorgas , j. , & goudfrooij , p.  2007",
    ", , 474 , 763 jaffe , y.  l. , aragon - salamanca , a. , de lucia , g. , jablonka , p. , rudnick , g. , saglia , r. , & zaritsky , d.  2010 , arxiv:1007.1425 janz , j. , & lisker , t.  2008 , , 689 , l25 jerjen , h. , binggeli , b. , & freeman , k.  c.  2000 , aj , 119 , 593 johnson , b.  d. , et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 173 , 392 kannappan , s.  j. , guie , j.  m. , & baker , a.  j.  2009 , aj , 138 , 579 kawata , d. , & gibson , b.  k.  2003 , mnras , 340 , 908 kelson , d.  d. , illingworth , g.  d. , franx , m. , & van dokkum , p.  g.  2006 , apj , 653 , 159 kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .",
    "1989 , apj , 344 , 685 kim , k.  o. , & ann , h.  b.  1990 , journal of korean astronomical society , 23 , 43 kim , s. , rey , s .- c . , lisker , t. , & sohn , s.  t.  2010 , , 721 , l72 klypin , a. , kravtsov , a.  v. , valenzuela , o. , & prada , f.  1999 , apj , 522 , 82 kobayashi , c. , & arimoto , n.  1999 , apj , 527 , 573 kobayashi , c.  2004 , mnras , 347 , 740 koleva , m. , prugniel , p. , de rijcke , s. , zeilinger , w.  w. , & michielsen , d.  2009 , astronomische nachrichten , 330 , 960 koo , d.  c. , et al .",
    "2005 , apjs , 157 , 175 kormendy , j. , & illingworth , g.   1983 , apj , 265 , 632 kormendy , j. , & kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .",
    "2004 , ara&a , 42 , 603 kormendy , j. , fisher , d.  b. , cornell , m.  e. , & bender , r.  2009 , apjs , 182 , 216 krajnovi , d. , et al .",
    "2008 , mnras , 390 , 93 kronberger , t. , kapferer , w. , ferrari , c. , unterguggenberger , s. , & schindler , s.  2008 , a&a , 481 , 337 la barbera , f. , de carvalho , r.  r. , de la rosa , i.  g. , gal , r.  r. , swindle , r. , & lopes , p.  a.  a.  2010 , arxiv:1006.4056 larson , r.  b.  1974 , mnras , 166 , 585 larson , r.  b. , tinsley , b.  m. , & caldwell , c.  n.  1980 , apj , 237 , 692 lee , j.  c. , kennicutt , r.  c. , funes , s.  j. , jos g. , sakai , s. , & akiyama , s.  2007 , apjl , 671 , l113 lee , j.  c. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 706 , 599 lin , d.  n.  c. , & faber , s.  m.  1983 , apjl , 266 , l21 lisker , t. , grebel , e.  k. , & binggeli , b.  2006 , aj , 132 , 497 lisker , t. , glatt , k. , westera , p. , & grebel , e.  k.  2006 , aj , 132 , 2432 lisker , t. , grebel , e.  k. , binggeli , b. , & glatt , k.  2007 , apj , 660 , 1186 lisker , t. , grebel , e.  k. , & binggeli , b.  2008 , aj , 135 , 380 lisker , t. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjl , 706 , l124 macarthur , l.  a. , courteau , s. , & holtzman , j.  a.  2003 , apj , 582 , 689 macarthur , l.  a. , courteau , s. , bell , e. , & holtzman , j.  a.  2004 , apjs , 152 , 175 macarthur , l.  a. , ellis , r.  s. , treu , t. , u , v. , bundy , k. , & moran , s.  2008 , , 680 , 70 macarthur , l.  a. , gonzlez , j.  j. , & courteau , s.  2009 , mnras , 395 , 28 macarthur , l.  a. , mcdonald , m. , courteau , s. , & gonzalez , j.  j.  2010 , arxiv:1006.3831 mac low , m .- m . , & ferrara , a.  1999 , apj , 513 , 142 maraston , c.  2005 , mnras , 362 , 799 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g.  2001 , apjl , 547 , l123 mayer , l. , mastropietro , c. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & moore , b.  2006 , mnras , 369 , 1021 mcdonald , m. , courteau , s. , & tully , r.  b.  2009 , mnras , 394 , 2022 mcdonald , m. , courteau , s. , tully , r.  b. , & roediger , j.  2011 , , 519  ( paper i ) mei , s. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 655 , 144 merritt , d.  2006 , reports on progress in physics , 69 , 2513 michard , r.  2005 , , 441 , 451 mihos , j.  c. , & hernquist , l.  1996 , apj , 464 , 641 mihos , j.  c.  2004 , clusters of galaxies : probes of cosmological structure and galaxy evolution , 277 mo , h.  j. , mao , s. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a.  1996 , nature , 379 , 613 moorthy , b.  k. , & holtzman , j.  a.   2006 , , 371 , 583 muoz - mateos , j.  c. , gil de paz , a. , boissier , s. , zamorano , j. , jarrett , t. , gallego , j. , & madore , b.  f.  2007 , apj , 658 , 1006 murphy , e.  j. , kenney , j.  d.  p. , helou , g. , chung , a. , & howell , j.  h.  2009 , apj , 694 , 1435 naab , t. , jesseit , r. , & burkert , a.  2006 , mnras , 372 , 839 neistein , e. , van den bosch , f.  c. , & dekel , a.  2006 , mnras , 372 , 933 nelan , j.  e. , smith , r.  j. , hudson , m.  j. , wegner , g.  a. , lucey , j.  r. , moore , s.  a.  w. , quinney , s.  j. , & suntzeff , n.  b.  2005 , apj , 632 , 137 noeske , k.  g. , et al .",
    "2007 , apjl , 660 , l43 ogando , r.  l.  c. , maia , m.  a.  g. , chiappini , c. , pellegrini , p.  s. , schiavon , r.  p. , & da costa , l.  n.  2005 , apjl , 632 , l61 paudel , s. , lisker , t. , kuntschner , h. , grebel , e.  k. , & glatt , k.  2010 , , 405 , 800 paudel , s. , lisker , t. , & kuntschner , h.   2011 , , 255 pedraz , s. , gorgas , j. , cardiel , n. , snchez - blzquez , p. , & guzmn , r.  2002 , mnras , 332 , l59 peletier , r.  f. , balcells , m. , davies , r.  l. , andredakis , y. , vazdekis , a. , burkert , a. , & prada , f.  1999 , mnras , 310 , 703 pfenniger , d. , & norman , c.  1990 , apj , 363 , 391 pipino , a. , dercole , a. , & matteucci , f.  2008 , a&a , 484 , 679 pipino , a. , dercole , a. , chiappini , c. , & matteucci , f.  2010 , , 407 , 1347 poggianti , b.  m. , smail , i. , dressler , a. , couch , w.  j. , barger , a.  j. , butcher , h. , ellis , r.  s. , & oemler , a. , jr .   1999 ,",
    "apj , 518 , 576 rakos , k. , & schombert , j.  2004 , aj , 127 , 1502 roediger , e. , & hensler , g.  2005 , a&a , 433 , 875 rogers , b. , ferreras , i. , peletier , r.  f. , & silk , j.  2008 , arxiv:0812.2029 rokar , r. , debattista , v.  p. , stinson , g.  s. , quinn , t.  r. , kaufmann , t. , & wadsley , j.  2008 , apjl , 675 , l65 saglia , r.  p. , maraston , c. , greggio , l. , bender , r. , & ziegler , b.  2000 , , 360 , 911 saglia , r.  p. , et al .",
    "2010 , a&a , 509 , a61 snchez - blzquez , p. , gorgas , j. , cardiel , n. , & gonzlez , j.  j.   2006 , a&a , 457 , 809 snchez - blzquez , p. , forbes , d.  a. , strader , j. , brodie , j. , & proctor , r.  2007 , mnras , 377 , 759 sanders , d.  b. , & mirabel , i.  f.   1996 , ara&a , 34 , 749 serra , p. , & trager , s.  c.  2007 , mnras , 374 , 769 skrutskie , m.  f. , et al .",
    "2006 , aj , 131 , 1163 smail , i. , ivison , r.  j. , & blain , a.  w.   1997 , apjl , 490 , l5 smith , r.  j. , lucey , j.  r. , & hudson , m.  j.  2007 , mnras , 381 , 1035 smith , r.  j. , lucey , j.  r. , & hudson , m.  j.  2009 , mnras , 400 , 1690 sommer - larsen , j. , gtz , m. , & portinari , l.  2003 , apj , 596 , 47 somerville , r.  s. , & primack , j.  r.  1999 , mnras , 310 , 1087 spolaor , m. , proctor , r.  n. , forbes , d.  a. , & couch , w.  j.  2009 , apjl , 691 , l138 springel , v. , et al .",
    "2005 , nature , 435 , 629 strader , j. , brodie , j.  p. , spitler , l. , & beasley , m.  a.  2006 , aj , 132 , 2333 strateva , i. , et al .",
    "2001 , aj , 122 , 1861 tamura , n. , & ohta , k.  2003 , , 126 , 596 thomas , d. , greggio , l. , & bender , r.   1999 , mnras , 302 , 537 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , bender , r. , & mendes de oliveira , c.  2005 , apj , 621 , 673 toloba , e. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjl , 707 , l17 tolstoy , e. , hill , v. , & tosi , m.   2009 , ara&a , 47 , 371 toomre , a. , & toomre , j.  1972 , apj , 178 , 623 tortora , c. , napolitano , n.  r. , cardone , v.  f. , capaccioli , m. , jetzer , p. , & molinaro , r.  2010 , , 407 , 144 trager , s.  c. , faber , s.  m. , worthey , g. , & gonzlez , j.  j.  2000 , aj , 120 , 165 trager , s.  c. , faber , s.  m. , & dressler , a.  2008 , mnras , 386 , 715 tremonti , c.  a. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 613 , 898 valcke , s. , de rijcke , s. , & dejonghe , h.   2008 , mnras , 389 , 1111 van der wel , a. , holden , b.  p. , zirm , a.  w. , franx , m. , rettura , a. , illingworth , g.  d. , & ford , h.  c.  2008 , apj , 688 , 48 van dokkum , p.  g.  2005 , aj , 130 , 2647 van zee , l. , skillman , e.  d. , & haynes , m.  p.  2004 , aj , 128 , 121 van zee , l. , barton , e.  j. , & skillman , e.  d.  2004 , aj , 128 , 2797 vollmer , b. , cayatte , v. , balkowski , c. , & duschl , w.  j.  2001 , apj , 561 , 708 weisz , d.  r. , skillman , e.  d. , cannon , j.  m. , dolphin , a.  e. , kennicutt , r.  c. , jr . , lee , j. , & walter , f.  2008 , apj , 689 , 160 white , s.  d.  m.  1980 , mnras , 191 , 1p witt , a.  n. , thronson , h.  a. , jr . , & capuano , j.  m. , jr .  1992 , apj , 393 , 611 wu , h. , shao , z. , mo , h.  j. , xia , x. , & deng , z.  2005 , , 622 , 244 xilouris , e.  m. , byun , y.  i. , kylafis , n.  d. , paleologou , e.  v. , & papamastorakis , j.  1999 , a&a , 344 , 868 zaritsky , d. , kennicutt , r.  c. , jr . , & huchra , j.  p.  1994",
    ", apj , 420 , 87    ccccc constant & constant = @xmath43 & @xmath44 - @xmath45 & [ 0.2 , 13 ] & 6.5 - 12.9 delayed & @xmath46e@xmath47 & @xmath44 - 2@xmath48 & [ -@xmath49 , @xmath49 ] & 0.9 - 12.9 exponential & @xmath43e@xmath51 & @xmath44 - @xmath52 @xmath53 & [ -@xmath49 , @xmath49 ] & 0.9 - 12.9 linear & @xmath54 $ ] , for @xmath55 & @xmath44 - @xmath56 & [ 0.3 , 36.3 ] & 0.9 - 12.9 & 0 , for @xmath57 & & & sandage & @xmath46e@xmath58 & @xmath44 - @xmath59 & [ 0.08 , @xmath49 ] & 4.4 - 12.9 single - burst & @xmath60(@xmath61 ) & @xmath44 - @xmath61 & [ 0.0 , 12.1 ] & 0.9 - 13.0 + [ tbl : sfhs ]    cccccc ds0 & 0.05 @xmath62 1.13 & 0.03 @xmath62 0.89 & 0.12 @xmath62 1.90 & 9.65 @xmath62 0.99 & 19 de & 0.22 @xmath62 1.45 & 0.30 @xmath62 1.26 & 0.34 @xmath62 2.50 & 9.68 @xmath62 1.14 & 49 e & 0.30 @xmath62 0.91 & 0.27 @xmath62 1.96 & 0.84 @xmath62 3.05 & 10.15 @xmath62 0.82 & 31 s0 & 0.00 @xmath62 0.62 & 0.00 @xmath62 0.58 & -0.07 @xmath62 1.50 & 10.20 @xmath62 0.70 & 53 sa@xmath15sb & 0.02 @xmath62 0.73 & 0.01 @xmath62 0.55 & 0.02 @xmath62 1.59 & 10.00 @xmath62 1.27 & 24 sbc+sc & 0.26 @xmath62 1.49 & 0.13 @xmath62 0.60 & 0.41 @xmath62 2.25 & 9.20 @xmath62 1.44 & 15 scd+sd & -0.13 @xmath62 1.19 & -0.10 @xmath62 0.84 & -0.53 @xmath62 2.40 & 8.95 @xmath62 1.70 & 17 sdm+sm & 0.58 @xmath62 1.98 & 0.28 @xmath62 0.93 & 0.71 @xmath62 2.38 & 7.20 @xmath62 2.37 & 9 i m & 1.31 @xmath62 3.08 & 1.03 @xmath62 2.86 & 2.05 @xmath62 4.55 & 5.15 @xmath62 2.98 & 13 bcd & 2.07 @xmath62 2.68 & 1.92 @xmath62 4.85 & 4.25 @xmath62 5.64 & 5.60 @xmath62 2.08 & 8 s ? & 1.16 @xmath62 1.55 & 1.01 @xmath62 1.03 & 2.80 @xmath62 2.60 & 6.50 @xmath62 3.19 & 9 ? & 0.58 @xmath62 0.99 & 0.18 @xmath62 2.15 & 1.26 @xmath62 2.44 & 9.15 @xmath62 1.68 & 8 + [ tbl : agrd ]    cccccc ds0 & -0.10 @xmath62 0.30 & -0.05 @xmath62 0.27 &",
    "-0.16 @xmath62 0.54 & -0.21 @xmath62 0.29 & 19 de & -0.23 @xmath62 0.43 & -0.18 @xmath62 0.43 & -0.46 @xmath62 0.84 & -0.49 @xmath62 0.22 & 49 e & -0.17 @xmath62 0.25 & -0.14 @xmath62 0.60 & -0.60 @xmath62 0.89 & + 0.05 @xmath62 0.36 & 31 s0 & -0.06 @xmath62 0.24 & -0.04 @xmath62 0.21 & -0.27 @xmath62 0.47 & + 0.01 @xmath62 0.25 & 53 sa@xmath15sb & -0.13 @xmath62 0.26 & -0.05 @xmath62 0.10 & -0.34 @xmath62 0.53 & -0.07 @xmath62 0.27 & 24 sbc+sc & -0.25 @xmath62 0.43 & -0.09 @xmath62 0.18 & -0.48 @xmath62 0.62 & -0.08 @xmath62 0.32 & 15 scd+sd & -0.25 @xmath62 0.70 & -0.11 @xmath62 0.57 & -0.38 @xmath62 2.03 & -0.09 @xmath62 0.65 & 17 sdm+sm & -0.15 @xmath62 0.93 & -0.08 @xmath62 0.69 & -0.28 @xmath62 1.44 & -0.25 @xmath62 0.34 & 9 i m & -0.68 @xmath62 1.02 & -0.30 @xmath62 1.06 & -0.86 @xmath62 1.78 & -0.40 @xmath62 0.41 & 13 bcd & -0.32 @xmath62 0.36 & -0.36 @xmath62 0.56 & -0.63 @xmath62 0.67 & -0.40 @xmath62 0.19 & 8 s ? & -0.31 @xmath62 0.55 & -0.26 @xmath62 0.34 & -0.42 @xmath62 0.74 & -0.47 @xmath62 0.38 & 9 ? & -0.20 @xmath62 0.45 & -0.08 @xmath62 0.97 & -0.54 @xmath62 1.13 & + 0.01 @xmath62 0.57 & 8 + [ tbl : zgrd ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use a combination of deep optical and near - infrared light profiles for a morphologically diverse sample of virgo cluster galaxies to study the radially - resolved stellar populations of cluster galaxies over a wide range of galaxy structure . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , in the median , the age gradients of virgo galaxies are either flat ( lenticulars and sa  sb spirals ) or positive ( ellipticals , sbc+sc spirals , gas - rich dwarfs , and irregulars ) , while all galaxy types have a negative median metallicity gradient . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of the galaxy stellar population diagnostics ( age , metallicity , and gradients thereof ) against structural and environmental parameters also reveals that the ages of gas - rich systems depend mainly on their atomic gas deficiencies . </S>",
    "<S> conversely , the metallicities of virgo gas - poor galaxies depend on their concentrations , luminosities , and surface brightnesses . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar population gradients of all virgo galaxies exhibit no dependence on either their structure or environment . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar populations of gas - poor giants ( e / s0 ) are consistent with a hierarchical formation , wherein the stars in more massive systems were largely formed out of dissipative starbursts associated with gas - rich merging . </S>",
    "<S> differences in the stellar population properties of gas - poor dwarfs and giants suggests different origins for them . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar populations in virgo ds0 s and de s also lack uniformity , suggesting that the formation of virgo gas - poor dwarfs proceeded through at least two different channels ( environmental transformation and merging ) . </S>",
    "<S> lastly , the present stellar content of virgo spirals seems to have been largely regulated by environmental effects . </S>",
    "<S> spirals with positive age gradients ( largely gas - poor types ) are likely evolutionary remnants of progenitors which were stripped of their gas disks due to prolonged exposure to the intercluster medium wind . </S>",
    "<S> spirals with negative age gradients are consistent with a traditional inside - out disk growth scenario and have likely not been affected by their environment yet . </S>",
    "<S> the paucity of flat stellar population gradients in virgo spirals suggests that secular evolution is likely not responsible for the formation of their bulges . </S>"
  ]
}