{
  "article_text": [
    "rt-2 experiment onboard the coronas - photon satellite ( kotov et .",
    "al . 2008 ) consists of 3 scientific and 1 processing electronic payloads ( nandi et al .",
    "2009a ) . the processing electronic device , namely , rt-2/e communicates with the scientific payloads and the ground stations through ssrni ( system of collection and registration of scientific informations or scrsi in english ) and the control and communication unit ( bus - fm ) of the satellite",
    ". the three scientific payloads are rt-2/s & rt-2/g ( both phoswich scintillating detectors of nai(tl)/csi(na ) crystals ) and rt-2/czt ( solid - state imaging detector ) . in debnath",
    "( 2009 ) , kotoch et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , nandi et al . (",
    "2009 ) , we described the technical aspects of three scientific payloads , their functionality and different imaging techniques that are designed and implemented in the rt-2/czt payload . in sarkar et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , we mainly discussed the effect of the cosmic diffuse high energy x - ray background on all the three detectors through monte - carlo simulations as implemented in geant-4 toolkit .",
    "the rt-2 experiment covers the energy range of 15 to 150 kev extendable up to 1 mev .",
    "all three payloads have different fields of view ranging from 4@xmath0x 4@xmath0 ( rt-2/s ) , 6@xmath0x 6@xmath0 ( rt-2/g ) and 6@xmath1  6@xmath0 ( rt-2/czt ) . in order to view the sky ( sun ) in the low energy @xmath2-ray range ,",
    "all the three detector systems are placed outside the hermetically sealed module of the satellite .",
    "the three detectors are mounted with instrument axis parallel to the sun pointing axis of the satellite .",
    "on the other hand , rt-2/e along with other processing systems of the satellite are placed inside the hermetically sealed chamber of the satellite .    in the present paper , we will concentrate on the onboard software and the overall functionality of rt-2/e . the schematic diagram of rt-2 system is shown in figure 1 .",
    "rt-2/e is the main processing electronic device of the rt-2 experiment and it acts as an interface between the detector electronics and the satellite system .",
    "the unit decodes the telecommand appropriately and transmits the detector data to the ground through the satellite telemetry , which also involves the functions of compressing and making packets of the data from the detectors .",
    "the control logic system of the device is fpga ( field programmable gate array ) , which carries all the logical operations in the rt-2/e .",
    "a digital signal processor adsp2101 is used in the system for data processing .",
    "the rt-2/e electronics also consists of input and output buffers for detectors , satellite interface , electronics for power interface , memory interface .",
    "the schematic block diagram of rt-2/e device is shown in figure 2 . a continuous power supply to the rt-2 system",
    "is provided by the control and communication unit ( bus - fm ) of the satellite .",
    "power supply is provided by a dc current source with the voltage of 27@xmath3 volt without a midpoint .",
    "the maximum power provided for the rt-2 system is 32 watt .",
    "rt-2/e weighs 8.56 kg and the power consumption of the device is 3.78 watt , @xmath4 10 kg and @xmath4 5 watt , respectively , as per design requirement .",
    "rt-2/e is operable in the temperature range of -10@xmath0c to + 40@xmath0c and it is placed inside a hermetically sealed chamber of the satellite .",
    "in the power - on mode , all detectors detect x - rays and package them in a ` page ' in the detector box itself , in a mode called the ` normal ' mode , which can be changed to ` test ' mode by command . every second",
    ", rt-2/e sends a ` second ' signal to the detectors and the data is sent to rt-2/e while the storing is done in a separate ` page ' ( these two pages toggle every second ) .",
    "rt-2/e processes the detector data and sends to the satellite . in rt-2/e ,",
    "the data is made into packets with the processing intervals known as frames in whole ( a number of packets as one frame ) and each frame is divided into blocks .",
    "these blocks are compressed and are written in the memory of rt-2/e , in the form of packets .",
    "this telemetry data is subsequently sent to the satellite .",
    "telecommands , which are up - linked to the satellite , include commands to adjust high voltage ( hv ) , low level discriminator ( lld ) value , channel boundary change , ` mode ' change and so on .",
    "all these commands are decoded within rt-2/e and are passed on to the respective detectors .",
    "another important task of the rt-2/e is to execute the pulse commands ( switch off / on ) that are available form the control and communication unit ( bus - fm ) of the satellite .",
    "the control commands ( pulse commands ) of the rt-2 system are discussed later on .",
    "the telemetry resources available for the rt-2 experiment is 32 bits of satellite telemetry , read every 4 seconds and transmitted semi - continuously to the ground and 10 mbytes of onboard memory , transmitted once or twice daily to the ground .",
    "the scientific requirement is to have coarse spectral and timing information of the x - ray data on a continuous basis and higher time resolution information during transient events .",
    "further , it is also desirable to have faster read out of information for ground testing as well as for trouble shooting purposes .",
    "the onboard software needs to be parameterized so that a sufficient flexibility is available to change the working of the software based on a 16-bit data command and 14 ` pulse commands ' . for time synchronization ,",
    "calibration time information is also available from the satellite subsystem ssrni .",
    "this multiple and complex demands are realized in the following way :    * the asynchronous data from the x - ray detectors are packaged in the detector blocks themselves .",
    "this packaging is organized in two modes : a ) a time tagged event mode to get 0.3 ms time resolution ( to cater to any special needs like high time resolution study of some celestial objects and also for debugging the detector software ) and b ) a spectral and timing mode which has a time resolution better than what is scientifically required .",
    "spectrum and image every second , and timing information every 10 millisecond , packaged every second are deemed to be sufficient to satisfy all the requirements .",
    "time - stamping is done in the detector block using a local clock , and the data is interrogated and taken precisely every second , and this precision is established by taking this information from ssrni .",
    "the detector performance and software are controlled by a few data commands , designed as a subset of the 16-bit satellite data command . * the basic detector data are packaged and kept in a memory in rt-2/e , to be transmitted to the satellite memory with its own protocol .",
    "this re - packaging is done based on modes and while transmitting , data are compressed using a loss - less compression code . *",
    "the information from the detector is codified ( 8 bits per payload ) and sent to the satellite telemetry every 4 seconds to have a basic diagnostic of the working of the experiment . *",
    "the modes of operation is done based on ground commands as well as onboard processing",
    ". the onboard processing caters to a ) flare detection b ) memory availability c ) satellite position ( high and low background regions ) and solar visibility .",
    "* facility is also kept to change the complete onboard software .",
    "the data collected from the detectors is first taken into input buffers of rt-2/e memory and is accumulated in the accumulation buffers during a processing interval . on every processing interval boundary or on every processing mode change ,",
    "the frame of data is compressed and made into packets by the onboard software .",
    "the algorithm used for loss - less compression of rt-2/e telemetry data is the ccsds ( consultative committee for space data systems ) recommended rice algorithm ( yeh et al .",
    "1991 ; rice et .",
    "al . 1993 ) . the compressed data is then sent to the satellite and then subsequently to the ground",
    ". also , all the telecommands coming from the ground are decoded and appropriate commands are sent to the corresponding detectors .    the onboard flare detection logic is enabled every second .",
    "satellite telemetry data is prepared by the software every second .",
    "also , all the required functions are carried out on receiving the on / off commands from the satellite .",
    "memory management scheme is included in the software , which does the work of managing the memory in rt-2/e .",
    "further , czt detectors initialization data is sent to czt from the rt-2/e memory , on receiving czt initialization command from ground .",
    "watchdog timer updating logic is incorporated in the software , which will enable the hardware to reset the digital signal processor in case of software hang up .",
    "there is an additional feature of downloading the contents of the program memory ( onboard software ) for verification .",
    "this can be enabled based on ground command .",
    "the onboard software is developed in the assembly language of adsp2101 processor .",
    "based on the diverse constraints for using the satellite memory as well as requirement of the scientific interest , various processing modes are defined for rt-2/e .",
    "the bad mode runs when the satellite enters into high flux region ( south atlantic anomaly - saa , north and south polar regions ) , based on signals from the satellite called ` good ' and ` bad ' .",
    "when rt-2/e is in this mode , the onboard software lowers the high voltage of photomultiplier tubes ( pmt ) of the phoswich detectors and makes the hv of czt detectors to zero and only the frame header data is transmitted but not the detector data . when coming out of this mode i.e. , to the good state , the previous modes are started afresh and the high voltage",
    "is set for the pmts and czt .",
    "the switch over to good mode from bad mode can be delayed by ground command as multiples of 64 seconds . in the bad mode , the data ( header data )",
    "is sent every 100 seconds .",
    "the software enters this mode , when the test mode data from the detectors are received .",
    "there will be house keeping data ( vco ) and event data from the detectors , in this mode .",
    "the most significant bit of vco data , if set , takes the software to this mode .",
    "the raw data from the detectors is sent to the satellite as soon as they arrive to rt-2/e , i.e. , every second without any compression .",
    "there are also command based facilities to send a limited number of czt events and also to send only the cmos data .      in this mode",
    ", the spectral data from detector units is sent to the satellite every second as soon as they arrive to rt-2/e .",
    "the purpose of this mode is debugging during the initial verification phase as well as in the case of any later malfunctions of either packages ( payloads ) .",
    "rt-2/e is switched to the debug mode on commands from ground .",
    "when rt-2/e is in the debug mode , there is an option to get the timing data alone from the detectors .",
    "this is the primary accumulation mode since the sun is quiet in hard x - rays most of the time . in this mode",
    ", spectrum is obtained for every 100 second and count rates for every second in rt-2/s and g. similarly , the spectra and the images in every 100 second and the count rates in every second are obtained for czt detectors while only images are obtained for cmos in every 100 second .",
    "the major science requirement for this experiment is the availability of high temporal and spectral resolution data during solar flares .",
    "since such flares occur randomly , the onboard software has a built - in mechanism for checking the current count rate against the present thresholds to detect the flares .",
    "the flare search is carried out at every second .",
    "the logic of flare detection will be discussed later .",
    "the data packaging is unaffected for rt-2/czt during flares .    in this mode ,",
    "data frame structure is identical to the solar quiet mode except that both the time resolutions are reduced by a factor of 10 , i.e. , in this mode , the count rates are stored at every 0.1 second and spectra are stored at every 10 second .",
    "normally , the data accumulation is done in the quiet mode . however , as soon as the flare trigger occurs , the current frame of the quiet mode is filled to the next multiple of 10 s. the quiet mode data till the detection of flare is made into packets and a new frame is started in the flare mode .",
    "after trigger , the data is accumulated in this mode for next 10 second i.e. , one frame . at the end of the frame , again flare threshold is checked and if the count rate is still more than that , then this mode will continue for another frame .",
    "otherwise , the data accumulation will revert back to the quiet mode .",
    "flare mode data frames are stored in the same address stream of data as the quiet mode .",
    "shadow mode is activated when the sun is out of the detector field of view i.e. , during night and at the time of solar occultation . in this mode ,",
    "flare detection is disabled .",
    "the processing of data in the shadow mode is similar to the solar quiet mode ( sqm ) .",
    "the detector data are stored for every 100 seconds in blocks of 64 words",
    ". while transmitting , they are compressed and transmitted in packets of 60 words ( 59 words of data and one packet header ) . also , for each type of data a separate packet called frame header is created .",
    "for example , in the normal mode for rt-2/s and g , after decompression at ground , one frame data consists of 57 packets data ( in rt-2/czt 218 packets ) . out of these 57 packets of data , first packet data is called frame header .",
    "rest of the 56 packets contain scientific data .",
    "first word of each data packet is called packet header , it signifies current packet number out of total packets in the frame",
    ". the number of packets after decompression ( 60 words each ) will be number of blocks before compression * 64/59 + 1 and these values are estimated and given in table 1 .",
    ".modes & packetisation of rt-2/s , rt-2/g and rt-2/czt payload data [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "rt-2/e has onboard flare detection logic , which is executed every second .",
    "rt-2/e software switches to solar flare mode ( sfm ) or back to solar quiet mode ( sqm ) based on the solar mode detected on every 10 second boundary .",
    "the solar mode is decided based on the data from rt-2/s and rt-2/g .",
    "there are two options by which the solar mode is decided :    \\1 . when rt-2/s or rt-2/g , any of them gives flare data .",
    "+ 2 . when rt-2/s and rt-2/g , both give flare data .    either of these two options can be chosen by ground command .",
    "the commands 0xe000 and 0xe001 choose ` or ' logic and ` and ' logic respectively . once the solar mode is decided based on the logic , both rt-2/s and rt-2/g data is processed in the same mode , solar flare mode ( sfm , processing every 10 second ) or solar quiet mode ( sqm , processing every 100 second ) .",
    "flare detection every second is done based on the accumulated values of c1 , c2 and c5 counts ( scientific data are accumulated in 8 counters , for details , see debnath et al .",
    "2009 ) during the last three 100 ms intervals within the second .",
    "if the sum of the accumulated c1 , c2 and c5 counts exceeds a set threshold value ( @xmath5 ) in all these three intervals , then a flare is identified .",
    "these threshold values can be changed by command .",
    "else , if the counts have not even exceeded the threshold at least once , then the data are assumed to be solar quiet data .",
    "independent threshold values can be given for rt-2/s and rt-2/g .",
    "the commands for default threshold are 80ff and a0ff ( see table 25 ) .",
    "the default value of both these thresholds is 0xff , which means that the count rate should be @xmath6 @xmath5 x 32 i.e. 255 x 32 = 8160 .",
    "flare detection logic applies to rt-2/s and rt-2/g data only .",
    "in a series of papers on rt-2 experiment onboard the coronas - photon satellite , we have described the technical details as well as the test and evaluation methods . in the present paper , we have discussed the processing electronic device ( rt-2/e ) of rt-2 . on 30th of january , 2009 , the coronas - photon",
    "was launched successfully and all the rt-2 payload components including rt-2/e are working to our satisfaction .",
    "the data structure and data management softwares are working as per plan as verified by the onboard data status .",
    "the onboard performance of the software was found to be very satisfactory .",
    "since most of the data are slowly varying , a factor of 3 compression could be obtained , mostly with 15:1 or 14:2 options . in the initial days of operation",
    ", the detectors were operated without applying the high voltages to verify the satisfactory response to the bad signals from the satellite .",
    "once these aspects are correctly established , the detectors were operated in the sqm ( by deliberately keeping the flare threshold high and not allowing any flare detection ) .",
    "it was found that the onboard memory was adequate .",
    "the ` test modes ' were operated to calibrate the cmos detectors as well as to make high time resolution observations of the crab nebula . in this mode , however , memory full signal was noticed and the system was going to the ` bad ' mode .",
    "in the subsequent operations of the ` test modes ' , duration of these modes are restricted by time - tagged commands to avoid memory overflow .",
    "once full confidence in the overall working of the instrument was established , the flare detection logic was enabled with appropriate flare threshold commands ( instruments were operated with 0x8002 command for flare threshold value @xmath5 = 2 with count rate 64 ) .",
    "the system was going to sfm during about 30% of time , mostly due to the flare triggers encountered during high background regions .",
    "the details of the on board data calibration would be discussed elsewhere .",
    "dd and tbk thank csir / net scholarships and rt-2/srf fellowship ( isro ) which supported their research work .",
    "the authors are thankful to scientists , engineers and technical staffs from tifr / icsp / vssc / isro - hq for various supports during rt-2 related experiments .",
    "debnath , d. , nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , malkar , j. p. , hingar , m. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sreekumar , s. , madhav , v. p. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation i : rt-2/s and rt-2/g payloads , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , debnath , d. , malkar , j. p. , rao , a. r. , hingar , m. k. , madhav , v. p. , sreekumar , s. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation ii : rt-2/czt payload , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "kotov , yu . , kochemasov , a. , kuzin , s. , kuznetsov , v. , sylwester , j. , yurov , v. , : set of instruments for solar euv and soft x - ray monitoring onboard satellite coronas - photon . in 37th cospar scientific assembly , in montral , canada . , p.1596 ( 2008 )    nandi , a. , palit , s. , debnath , d. , chakrabarti , s. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sarkar , r. , yadav , v. k. , girish , v. , rao , a. r. , bhattacharya , d. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation iii : coded aperture mask and fresnel zone plates in rt-2/czt payload exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , chakrabarti , s. k. et .",
    "al . : indian payloads ( rt-2 experiment ) onboard coronas - photon mission . in proc .",
    "of international conference on space technology , greece , g. lampropoulos and m. petrou ( eds . ) ( 2009a ) ( arxiv:0912.4126 )      sarkar , r. , mandal , s. , debnath , d. , kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation iv : background simulations using geant-4 toolkit , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the onboard software and data communication in the rt-2 experiment onboard the coronas - photon satellite is organized in a hierarchical way to effectively handle and communicate asynchronous data generated by the x - ray detectors . </S>",
    "<S> a flexible data handling system is organized in the x - ray detector packages themselves and the processing electronic device , namely rt-2/e , has the necessary intelligence to communicate with the 3 scientific payloads by issuing commands and receiving data . </S>",
    "<S> it has direct interfacing with the satellite systems and issues commands to the detectors and processes the detector data before sending to the satellite systems . </S>",
    "<S> the onboard software is configured with several novel features like a ) device independent communication scheme , b ) loss - less data compression and c ) digital signal processor . </S>",
    "<S> functionality of the onboard software along with the data structure , command structure , complex processing scheme etc . are discussed in this paper .    </S>",
    "<S> example.eps gsave newpath 20 20 moveto 20 220 lineto 220 220 lineto 220 20 lineto closepath 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}