{
  "article_text": [
    "observational astronomy in the x - ray and @xmath0-ray bands of the electromagnetic spectrum is very crucial to explore high - energy physical phenomena in the universe .",
    "x - ray or @xmath0-ray observations from the ground - based instruments are not possible due to the atmospheric attenuation . in the last four decades , huge efforts have been made towards the development of space - borne x - ray and @xmath0-ray telescopes . at the same time , these efforts are also limited by the hostile space environment , particularly in hard x - rays and @xmath0-rays .",
    "high energy charged particles coming from outer space and from the solar wind become trapped in the earth s surrounding magnetic field creating radiation belts around the earth , known as the van allen radiation belt .",
    "though the satellites carrying the x - ray and @xmath0-ray detectors are usually placed below the inner radiation belt ( altitude varying from a few @xmath1 to @xmath2 ) , still there are some localized energetic charged particle regions which may result in severe damages to the instruments if they are activated while passing through those regions such as the polar regions and the south atlantic anomaly ( saa ) region . apart from these trapped charged particle regions , there are the cosmic diffuse radiation and the cosmic rays , mainly protons and alpha particles .",
    "these cosmic - ray particles , depending on the geomagnetic strength at the altitude and position , enter into the earth s atmosphere and interact with the atoms and molecules resulting in various secondary particles .",
    "these primary and secondary cosmic radiations and charged particles bombard the detector and satellite materials and may produce secondary or higher order particles in prompt interactions ( through bremsstrahlung , pair creation etc . ) or / and may initiate the detector activation . these radiations and particles",
    "will increase the detector noise which may mask the original source signal .",
    "the high - energy charge particles can pass through detector and space craft and may deposit a line of charge in the detector volume .",
    "this may then be detected in the same way as energy deposit produced by the ` real ' x - ray radiations .",
    "it is thus very essential to make an accurate estimate of the onboard background noise before designing any space experiment .",
    "the background noise in an x - ray instrument is mainly due to the interactions of the cosmic - ray protons , the albedo protons and neutrons due to earth s atmosphere , cosmic diffused gamma - ray background ( cdgrb ) , secondary gamma rays formed in the detector material , its frame structure and with the satellite ( dean , lei & knight 1991 ) .",
    "in addition , the long - term activation of the detector materials by these radiations or particles or by the particles in the trapped particle region are also responsible for the background noise .",
    "the background noise varies over a wide range of energy and actually depends on the detection capability of the specific detector .",
    "these background noise compete with the signals due to the interactions of source photons with the detectors .",
    "it is therefore important to understand the interactions of these background components with the detector material and to remove them while extracting the source signal .    the rt-2 experiment aboard the coronas - photon satellite ( kotov et al .",
    "2008 , nandi et al .",
    "2009 ) consists of 4 payloads : three x - ray detectors ( rt-2/s , rt-2/g & rt-2/czt ) and one processing electronic device ( rt-2/e ) .",
    "detailed description of all the payloads and their functionality are given in debnath et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , kotoch et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , nandi et al .",
    "( 2010 ) and sreekumar et al .",
    "the phoswich detectors ( rt-2/s & rt-2/g ) are made of nai ( tl ) and csi ( na ) scintillating crystals .",
    "both the phoswich detectors are sensitive to detect high energy x - rays in the energy range of @xmath3 to @xmath4 .",
    "the rt-2/czt detector is a solid - state imaging device , which consists of czt and cmos detectors .",
    "both the detectors are sensitive in the energy range of @xmath5 to @xmath6 .    in the present work",
    ", we concentrate on predicting / comparing the background in these detectors during the passage of the space craft through the low - background equatorial region ( away from the saa and polar regions ) , to estimate the sensitivity of the detector .",
    "hence , we make a detailed simulation of the interaction of primary and secondary protons , cosmic diffused gamma rays , secondary gamma rays and secondary neutrons with the detector volume as well as the whole structure of the satellite carrying the detectors .    in this paper",
    ", we carry out monte carlo ( mc ) simulations using the geant-4 toolkit and highlight the effects of shielding material in calculating the background noise due to cosmic - ray photons on the detectors of the rt-2 experiment . in the next section (  2 ) , we describe the typical spectrum of the cdgrb , primary cosmic - ray proton and secondary proton , gamma - ray and neutron spectrum in the low earth orbit of interest and of a standard grb source .",
    "we also discuss the physical processes that are involved while the incident particles and radiations interact with the detector material . in  3 &  4 , we present the simulation results of the rt-2/s ( rt-2/g ) and rt-2/czt payloads . in ",
    "5 we compare the predicted result with an observed data set . finally",
    ", we conclude in section  6 .",
    "the rt-2 experiment aboard the coronas - photon satellite is a unique experiment as it consists of different types of detectors , namely a scintillator detector ( nai , csi crystal ) , a solid - state detector ( czt ) and a photo - diode ( cmos ) detector . the specifications and materials used for all these detectors are given in table 1 .",
    "table 1 : detector specifications of rt-2/s ( rt-2/g ) and rt-2/czt payloads",
    ". 0.5 cm    [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     from the results in table 5 it appears that with czt detector , we can detect grbs quite confidently in the energy range of @xmath7kev for the on - axis case and @xmath8 for the off - axis case .",
    "we compare the simulation results for the various background components with the real data measured by the detector in its in - flight operation .",
    "we consider one set of onboard nai spectral data of rt-2/s near the equatorial region and far from the trapped charged particle regions .",
    "this data refers to the satellite position when the instruments came out of the polar region , the count rates were found to be dropping slowly .",
    "we noticed that the low energy count rates stabilized faster than the high energy count rates .",
    "we took the background region near the equatorial region when : ( a ) the low energy ( @xmath9 ) count rates were steady ( better than a percent stability in @xmath10 minutes ) and ( b ) when the high energy count rates ( @xmath11 ) were steady by about @xmath12 in @xmath10 minutes .",
    "the primary energy range of the instrument for spectroscopic measurements is @xmath13 in the nai detector .",
    "hence we have concentrated on predicting background around this region .    the comparison of the data in the energy range of @xmath14 with the simulated background components of primary and secondary gamma rays , downward and upward going protons ( consisting primary cr and secondary protons ) and secondary neutrons are shown in figure 10 .    from figure 10",
    "we observe that the total simulated background noise due to the main sources of the prompt background components are not sufficient to explain the total measured background flux .",
    "this prompt background components are able to address only about @xmath15 of the measured background .",
    "the rest of the background noise is suspected to be due to the long - term detector activation which is to be considered in a future work . among the simulated components",
    "the most significant contributor ( @xmath16 ) to the background noise in the nai crystal are the cdgrb photons .",
    "albedo photons contribute @xmath17 , downward going protons @xmath18 and rest from the other factors .    for onboard calibration of the detectors ( rt-2/s and rt-2/g )",
    ", we used radioactive source co-57 ( 122 kev ) that is placed into one of the slats of the collimator .",
    "extensive calibration of both the phoswich detectors ( nai / csi ) on the ground reveals that the @xmath19 emission line ( debnath et al . 2010 ) is the intrinsic detector background feature ( not due to the tantalum ( ta ) shielding around the collimator mesh ) .",
    "the emission feature of @xmath20 , earlier reported by gruber et al .",
    "( 1996 ) was also observed in the onboard data of rt-2/s and rt-2/g ( nandi et al .",
    "the extra emission line feature at around @xmath5 ( cutoff energy of rt-2/s is around @xmath3 ) could be due to the detector s electronic noise , which was not observed during ground testing and the investigation is still ongoing .",
    "these two emission features characteristics will be taken up in a separate paper , while considering the long - term activation aspects of the background components in the detector .",
    "also the comparison of the simulated result with the real data from the other active volumes are under investigation due to the calibration concern of the detectors .",
    "the csi detector in the phoswich combination is primarily used for background rejection and we use it only for very bright sources like grbs . to investigate the background in csi for faint sources , one also needs to simulate the exact instrument characteristics like the pulse shape for partial energy deposition in nai and csi .",
    "these activities would be taken up in a separate paper .",
    "we have , however , looked at the csi spectra and ensured that the background spectral shape broadly agrees with the model prediction .",
    "background simulations of space - borne payloads is one of the challenging tasks to understand the space environment as well as the effect of high energy radiation ( photons , charged particles , neutrons ) on the detectors itself .",
    "the effects of the major prompt background components like cosmic diffused gamma - ray background , secondary gamma - ray photons , primary cosmic - ray protons , secondary protons and albedo neutrons on the rt-2 payloads ( rt-2/s , rt-2/g and rt-2/czt ) are studied in detail , which helped the background calibration and source data extraction from the rt-2 experiment .",
    "the weight of the material ( ta ) that is used for shielding purpose for rt-2/s ( rt-2/g ) and rt-2/czt payload is around @xmath21 and @xmath22 respectively .",
    "the current work of estimating the prompt background noise covers @xmath23 of the measured background .",
    "the rest part of the background noise is probably due to the long - term activation of the detector materials due to the cr or trapped charged particles which is to be estimated in subsequent work ( zoglauer et al .",
    "2008 ; zoglauer , 2009 )    as we have already mentioned that this experiment is primarily designed for the spectroscopic measurement of solar flares , but it is also capable of detecting grbs . since the energy threshold for these grb detection is about @xmath24 ( for off - axis source positions ) ( see , figure 6b ) , they will be sensitive for grbs @xmath25 .",
    "the probability of on - axis detection is less than 1 in 1000 and hence grbs are not expected to be detected on - axis . as for the uniqueness of the experiment , if we have a reasonable spectral response above @xmath24 , it is possible to constrain the spectral parameters using the data in conjunction with other contemporaneous spectral measurements .",
    "the exercise of the present paper is to demonstrate that off - axis response can be handled in a reasonable way .    on 30th january , 2009 ,",
    "the coronas - photon satellite was launched successfully and all the rt-2 instruments are functioning to our satisfaction . already several gamma ray bursts ( rao et al .",
    "2009 ; chakrabarti et al .",
    "2009abc ) and solar flares have been detected by the instrument .",
    "detailed reports on the on - board data quality and backgrounds would be discussed elsewhere .",
    "detailed results on the observed grbs and solar flares are also being submitted for publication elsewhere .",
    "rs and tbk thank rt-2/srf fellowship ( isro ) which supported their research work .",
    "the authors are thankful to icsp / tifr / vssc / isro - hq for various supports during rt2 related experiments .",
    "we are thankful to an anonymous referee for his very helpful comments which improved the paper substantially .",
    "debnath , d. , nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , malkar , j. p. , hingar , m. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sreekumar , s. , madhav , v. p. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation i : rt-2/s and rt-2/g payloads , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , debnath , d. , malkar , j. p. , rao , a. r. , hingar , m. k. , madhav , v. p. , sreekumar , s. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation ii : rt-2/czt payload , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "kotov , yu . , kochemasov , a. , kuzin , s. , kuznetsov , v. , sylwester , j. , yurov , v. : set of instruments for solar euv and soft x - ray monitoring onboard satellite coronas - photon . in 37th cospar scientific assembly , in montral , canada . , p.1596 ( 2008 )      nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , chakrabarti , s. k. et .",
    "al . : indian payloads ( rt-2 experiment ) onboard coronas - photon mission , in proc . of international conference on space technology , greece , g. lampropoulos and m. petrou ( eds . ) ( 2009 ) ( arxiv:0912.4126 )    nandi , a. , palit , s. , debnath , d. , chakrabarti , s. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sarkar , r. , yadav , v. k. , girish , v. , rao , a. r. , bhattacharya , d. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation iii : coded aperture mask and fresnel zone plates in rt-2/czt payload exp . astron .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "sreekumar , s. , vinod , p. , samuel , e. , malkar , j. p. , rao , a. r. , hingar , m. k. , madhav , v.p .",
    ", debnath , d. , kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , begum , s. s. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation v : onboard software , data structure , telemetry and telecommand , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "zoglauer , a. , www.mpe.mpg.de/mega/software/cosima.pdf , ( 2009 ) zoglauer , a. , weidenspointner , g. wunderer , c. b. boggs , s. e , : status of instrumental background simulations for gamma - ray telescopes with geant4 .",
    "ieee nss conference record ( 2008 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> hard x - ray detectors in space are prone to background signals due to the ubiquitous cosmic rays and cosmic diffuse background radiation that continuously bombards the satellites which carry the detectors . in general </S>",
    "<S> , the background intensity depends on the space environment as well as the material surrounding the detectors . understanding the behavior of the background noise in the detector is very important to extract the precise source information from the detector data . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we carry out monte carlo simulations using the geant-4 toolkit to estimate the prompt background noise measured with the detectors of the rt-2 experiment onboard the coronas - photon satellite .    </S>",
    "<S> example1.eps gave new path 20 20 move to 20 220 line to 220 220 line to 220 20 line to close path 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}