{
  "article_text": [
    "it is generally conjectured that solar flares represent a dissipative part of the release of the magnetic energy accumulated in active regions at the sun . the standard cshkp model ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) agrees well with the observed large - scale dynamics of eruptive events . in this model",
    "the flares are initiated by eruption of a flux - rope ( in many cases observed as a filament ) via , for example , a kink or torus instability ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) evolving later into a coronal mass ejection ( cme ) .",
    "the latter is trailed by a large - scale current layer behind the ejecta @xcite . in this trailing current layer reconnection",
    "is supposed to give rise to various observed phenomena like hot sxr / euv flare loops rooted in h@xmath0 chromospheric ribbons , hxr sources in loop - top and foot - points , and radio emissions of various types . some authors ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) argue that the bright thin ray - like structure observed sometimes behind cmes may represent a manifestation of the density increase connected with this current sheet ( cs ) .    however , closer analysis of the classical cshkp model revealed some of its open issues .",
    "namely , the time - scales of reconnection in such a thick flare cs appeared to be much longer than typical flare duration .",
    "in other words , reconnection rate in such configurations has been found to be insufficient for the rapid energy release observed in flares .",
    "later it was found that the dissipation necessary for reconnection in the practically collisionless solar corona is an essentially plasma - kinetic process ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) which takes place at very small spatial scales .",
    "hence , the question arises , how sufficiently thin css can build up within the global - scale , thick cme - trailing current layer : open is the actual physical mechanism that provides the energy transfer from the global scales , at which the energy is accumulated to the much smaller scales , at which the plasma - kinetic dissipation takes place .    addressing these questions",
    "@xcite suggested a concept of cascading ( or _ fractal _ , as they call it ) reconnection . according to their scenario",
    "a cascade of non - linear tearing instabilities occurs in the continuously stretched current layer formed behind a cme .",
    "multiple magnetic islands ( helical flux - ropes in 3d ) , also called plasmoids , are formed , interleaved by thin css .",
    "due to increasing separation of the plasmoids in the continuously vertically extending trailing part of the cme the interleaving css are subjected to further filamentation until the threshold for secondary tearing instability is reached .",
    "this process continues further , third and higher levels of tearing instabilities take place , until the width of the css reaches the kinetic scale .",
    "this scenario has recently been supported by the analytical theory of _ plasmoid instability _ by @xcite .",
    "they show that the high - lundquist - number systems with high enough current - sheet length - to - width ratio are not subjected to the slow sweet - parker reconnection but they are inherently unstable to formation of plasmoids on very short time - scales .",
    "@xcite , @xcite , and @xcite confirmed predictions of this analytical theory by numerical simulations with high lundquist numbers . @xcite",
    "generalizes the model by presence of shear flows around current sheet ( cs ) .",
    "@xcite relate the theory of plasmoid instability further to the concept of fractal reconnection suggested by @xcite .",
    "@xcite and @xcite study the plasmoid instability numerically at smaller scales and investigate its relation to the hall reconnection .",
    "they found various regimes of parameters where different type of reconnection prevails .",
    "eventually , however , kinetic scales are reached where dissipation and particle acceleration take place most likely via kinetic coalescence of micro - plasmoids and , possibly , their shrinkage @xcite .",
    "in addition to the issue of energy transport there are also other questions that remain open in the cshkp model .",
    "it is its apparent insufficiency to accelerate such a number of particles in its single diffusion region around the x - line that would correspond to the fluxes inferred from hxr observations in the thick - target model ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) . and ,",
    "furthermore , the hxr and radio ( e.g. decimetric spikes , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) observations indicate that the particle acceleration takes place via multiple concurrent small - scale events distributed chaotically in the flare volume rather than by a single compact acceleration process hosted by a single diffusion region .",
    "such observations are usually referred to as signatures of fragmented / chaotic energy release in flares .    because of these difficulties an alternative concept based on the so - called `` self - organized criticality '' ( soc ) has been proposed @xcite .",
    "this class of models is based on the idea of multiple small - scale css embedded in chaotic ( braided ) magnetic fields that are formed as a consequence of random motions at the system boundary ( photosphere ) .",
    "multiple css can host multiple reconnection sites what provides natural explanation of observed signatures of fragmented energy release . at the same moment they provide larger total volume of diffusion regions , perhaps sufficient to account for the observed particle fluxes also quantitatively .",
    "organised large - scale picture ( i.e. coherent structures like the flare - loop arcades ) should be in the case of soc - based models achieved by the so - called avalanche principle : a small - scale energy release event can trigger similar events in its vicinity provided the system is in marginally stable state ( due to the continuous pumping of energy and entropy through the boundary ) .",
    "nevertheless , it is difficult to achieve such coherent large - scale structures as they are usually observed in solar flares in the frame of soc - based models .",
    "thus , solar flares appear to be enigmatic phenomena exhibiting duality between the regular , well - organized dynamics of flares observed at large scales and signatures of fragmented / chaotic energy release seen in observations related to flare - accelerated particles .",
    "while the coherent global eruption ( flare ) picture seems to be in agreement with the cshkp scenario , the observed fragmented - energy - release signatures favor the soc - based class of models .    in the present paper , we suggest that cascading reconnection can address these three pressing questions ( i.e. energy transport across the scales , accelerated - particles fluxes , and the organized / chaotic picture duality ) as closely related to each other . in our view",
    "the energy is transferred from large to small scales by the cascade of fragmentation of originally large - scale magnetic structures to smaller elements .",
    "we identify two elementary processes of this fragmentation ( see section  [ sect : results ] ) . in the course of this process also the initial current layer fragments into multiple small - scale , short - living current sheets .",
    "these current sheets are hierarchically embedded inside the thick current layer in qualitatively self - similar manner . in this sense",
    "the cascading fragmentation reminds soc models , but now the chaotic distribution of small - scale currents results from _ internal _ instabilities of the global current layer .",
    "the fragmented current layer represents the modification of the standard cshkp model and thus it keeps coherent large - scale picture of solar flares . at the same time it addresses the observed signatures of fragmented energy release and the question of efficient particle acceleration .",
    "we believe that the cascading reconnection in solar coronal current layers can thus address the three main problems mentioned above _ en bloc _ , and it reconciles the two concepts of the standard cshkp and soc - based models seen hitherto as antagonistic .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : first , we describe the model used in our investigations . then we present results of our high - resolution mhd simulation of cascading reconnection in an extended , global , eruption - generated current layer .",
    "we identify the processes that lead to the fragmentation of magnetic and current structures to smaller elements",
    ". then we analyze the resulting scaling law of the energy cascade .",
    "we describe the structure , distribution and dynamics of small dissipation regions embedded in an initially thick current layer .",
    "finally , we discuss the implications that cascading reconnection have for theory of solar flares .",
    "generally speaking , the solar flare involves three kinds of processes that take place in different scale domains  see fig  [ fig : transfer ] . at the largest scales magnetic - field energy is accumulated . during this stage flux - rope ( filament ) is formed and its magnetic energy increases .",
    "eventually it looses its stability and gets ejected .",
    "this process already represents ( ideal ) release of the magnetic - energy at large scales .",
    "subsequently , a current layer is formed and stretched behind ejected flux - rope .",
    "energy transfer from large scales at which the magnetic energy has been accumulated to the small dissipation scale occupies intermediate range of scales .",
    "the dissipation itself takes place at smallest , kinetic scales .    in this paper",
    "we aim at studying energy transfer from large to small scales by means of numerical simulations . despite the high spatial resolution",
    "our simulation is still within the mhd regime .",
    "also , we do not address the very process of energy accumulation ",
    "i.e. the flux - rope formation and energization , nor its instability and subsequent current - layer formation .",
    "instead we assume a relatively thick and extended current layer to be already formed at the initial state of our study . in order to cover a large range of scales we limit ourselves to the 2d geometry allowing for all three components of velocity and magnetic field ( commonly referred to as 2.5d models ) .",
    "this is a reasonable assumption since observations show that the typical length of flare arcades along the polarity inversion line ( pil ) is much larger than the dimension across the pil .    in the range of scales that we are interested in the evolution of magnetized plasma",
    "can be adequately described by a set of compressible resistive one - fluid mhd equations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : @xmath1 the set of equations  ( [ eq : mhd ] ) is solved by means of finite volume method ( fvm ) . for the numerical solution it is first rewritten in its conservative form .",
    "the ( local ) state of magneto - fluid is then represented by the vector of basic variables @xmath2 , where @xmath3 , @xmath4 , @xmath5 , and @xmath6 are the plasma density , plasma velocity , magnetic field strength and the total energy density , respectively . the energy flux @xmath7 and auxiliary variables  plasma pressure @xmath8 and current density @xmath9  are defined by the formulae : @xmath10 and @xmath11 is the gravity acceleration at the photospheric level .",
    "microphysical ( kinetic ) effects enter into the large - scale dynamics by means of transport coefficients  here via a ( generalized ) resistivity @xmath12 .",
    "in general , the role of non - ideal terms in the generalized ohm s law increases as the current density becomes more concentrated via current sheet filamentation .",
    "to quantify this intensification we use the current - carrier drift velocity @xmath13 as the threshold for non - ideal effects to take place .",
    "such behavior is presumed by theoretical considerations and confirmed by kinetic ( vlasov and pic codes ) numerical experiments @xcite .",
    "in particular , we assume the following law for ( generalized ) resistivity ( see also * ? ? ? * ) : @xmath14    in order to study the energy - transfer cascade it is appropriate to cover a large range of scales . for structured grids",
    "it means the utilization of very fine meshes . for a given simulation box size",
    "the number of finite grid cells is limited technically by cpu - time and memory demands .",
    "alternatively , one can use a refined mesh only at locations where the small - scale dynamics becomes important  this idea forms the base for the adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) technique ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we implemented the numerical solver for the mhd system of equations  ( [ eq : mhd ] ) in the form of block amr finite - volume method ( fvm ) code : whenever the current sheet width drops below a certain threshold , a refined mesh sub - domain is created and initialized with values one step backward in time .",
    "its evolution is then computed using accordingly refined time - step ( this procedure is commonly known as sub - cycling ) .",
    "the global dynamics influences the sub - domain evolution by means of time- and spatially varying ( interpolated ) boundary conditions . for the details of our amr algorithm see @xcite . as an illustration , in fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom_cells ] the regions of enhanced grid resolution at @xmath15 ( for units used see below ) are depicted at the background of current density and magnetic field .",
    "the partial differential equations  ( [ eq : mhd ] ) are of a mixed hyperbolic - parabolic type .",
    "we utilized the time - splitting approach for their solution : first , hyperbolic ( conservative ) part is solved using a second - order fvm leap - frog scheme . in a second step",
    "the magnetic - diffusivity term is solved by means of a ( semi - implicit ) alternating - direction - implicit ( adi ) scheme @xcite .",
    "we solve the mhd system of eqs .",
    "( [ eq : mhd ] ) in a 2d simulation box initially on a global ( coarse ) cartesian grid .",
    "the horizontal and vertical dimensions of calculated box are 800 and 6400  grid cells , respectively . using mirroring boundary condition at @xmath16 in the symmetric cs ( see below )",
    "we obtain a doubled box with an effective grid of @xmath17 cells ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* for details ) .",
    "we use the following reference frame : the @xmath18-axis corresponds to the vertical direction , the @xmath19-axis is the invariant ( i.e. @xmath20 ) direction along the pil .",
    "the @xmath21-axis is perpendicular to the current layer and centered at the initial current maximum .",
    "the simulation is thus performed in the @xmath22-plane , while the @xmath23-plane corresponds to the solar photosphere ; the pil is located at @xmath16 , @xmath24 ( see fig .  5 in * ? ? ?",
    "the simulation is performed in dimensionless variables .",
    "they are obtained by the following normalization : the spatial coordinates @xmath21 , @xmath19 , and @xmath18 are expressed in units of the current sheet half - width @xmath25 at the photospheric level ( @xmath24 ) .",
    "time is normalized to the alfvn - wave transit time @xmath26 through the current sheet , where @xmath27 is the asymptotic value at @xmath28 and @xmath24 of the alfvn speed at @xmath29 .",
    "( [ eq : eta ] ) for anomalous resistivity in the dimension - less variables then reads @xmath30 for @xmath31 . @xmath32 and @xmath33 are now dimension - less parameters .",
    "we used @xmath34 and @xmath35 in our simulation .",
    "the choice of the threshold @xmath33 is not arbitrary as it is closely related to the numeric resolution reached by the code  see the discussion in section  [ sect : discussion ] .",
    "the parameter @xmath32 was adjusted to reach peak anomalous resistivities in the order of @xmath36 times higher than the spitzer resistivity in the solar corona  similar values for resistivity based on non - linear wave - particle interaction are indicated by vlasov simulations @xcite .    if not specified otherwise , all quantities in the paper",
    "are expressed in this dimension - less system of units . in order to apply our results to actual solar flares appropriate scaling of dimension - less variables , however , has to be performed .",
    "the gravity stratification included in our model introduces a natural length scale . assuming an ambient coronal temperature of @xmath37  mk the corresponding scale - height for a fully - ionized hydrogen plasma is @xmath38  mm .",
    "the value used in our simulation is @xmath39 , hence @xmath40  km . for this",
    "scaling the flare arcade loop - top is @xmath41  km high , which corresponds well to observed values .",
    "the initial cs width @xmath42  km is roughly in line with the fact that the cs was formed by stretching of the magnetic field in the trail of ejected flux - rope / filament which itself has typical transversal dimensions @xmath43  km @xcite .",
    "it also corresponds ( by order of magnitude ) to estimations made from observations of thin layers trailing behind cmes that are sometimes interpreted as signatures of current sheets @xcite . for the ambient magnetic field in the vicinity of the current layer",
    "we assume @xmath44  gauss ( see , e.g. , the discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "the initial state has been chosen in the form of a vertical generalized harris - type cs with the magnetic field @xmath45 slightly decreasing with height @xmath18 @xcite : @xmath46 in the following we will refer to @xmath47 and @xmath48 as the _ principal components _ and @xmath49 as the _ guide field_. the characteristic width of the initial current sheet varies with @xmath18 as @xmath50 and @xmath51 , @xmath52 , @xmath53 , @xmath54 , and @xmath55 are appropriately chosen constants : @xmath56 , @xmath57 , @xmath58 , @xmath59 , and @xmath60 . the initial state given by eq .",
    "( [ eq : init ] ) corresponds to a stratified atmosphere in the presence of gravity ( which is consistent with eqs .",
    "( [ eq : mhd ] ) ) .",
    "the divergence of the magnetic field - lines towards the upper corona is in agreement with the expansion of the coronal field .",
    "it also favors up - ward motion of secondary plasmoids formed in the course of cs tearing @xcite .",
    "this leads to further filamentation of the current sheets which develop between the plasmoids @xcite . the current density and magnetic field at the initial state",
    "are displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : init ] .",
    "a rather thick current layer is visible .",
    "an enhanced view of the selected area is presented in the right panel for the sake of direct comparison with the current - density filamentation developed in later stages of the evolution ( see below in fig .  [",
    "fig : zoom1 ] ) .",
    "free boundary conditions are applied to the upper and right part of the actually calculated right half of the box .",
    "it means that von neumann prescription @xmath61 has to be fulfilled for all calculated quantities except the normal component of magnetic field @xmath62 and its contribution to the total energy density @xmath6 .",
    "@xmath62 and @xmath6 are extended in the second step fulfilling @xmath63 . in order to satisfy mhd boundary conditions symmetric ( @xmath64 ) relations",
    "are used for @xmath3 @xmath49 , @xmath48 , @xmath6 , and anti - symmetric ( @xmath65 ) for @xmath47 at the bottom boundary while velocities are set to zero there ( @xmath66 ) .",
    "this ensures that the principal magnetic - field component is vertical at the bottom boundary and that the total magnetic flux passing through that boundary does not change on the rather short time - scales of the eruption , as enforced by the presence of a dense solar photosphere @xcite .",
    "mirroring boundary conditions ( symmetric in @xmath3 , @xmath67 @xmath47 , @xmath49 , and @xmath6 and antisymmetric in @xmath68 and @xmath48 ) are used for the left part of boundary at @xmath16 ( = the center of the cs ) .",
    "we use these symmetries to construct ( mirror ) the left half of the full effective box .",
    "the asymptotic plasma beta parameter at @xmath28 and @xmath24 is @xmath69 and the ratio of specific heats is @xmath70 ( adiabatic response ) .",
    "the coarse - mesh sizes are @xmath71 in the dimensionless units .",
    "thus , with the reference frame established above the entire box corresponds to @xmath72 in the @xmath22-plane .",
    "the simulation was performed over 400 normalized alfvn times . to save disk space only the most interesting interval @xmath73",
    " @xmath74 has been recorded with a step of @xmath75 .",
    "note that the initial state described by eq .",
    "( [ eq : init ] ) is not an exact mhd equilibrium",
    ". nevertheless , the resulting field variations are much weaker than those introduced by reconnection .    at the very beginning , in order to trigger reconnection , the system is perturbed by enhanced resistivity localized in a small region surrounding a line @xmath16 , @xmath76 in the invariant direction @xmath19 for a short time @xmath77 ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "this short perturbation sets a localized inflow which somewhat compresses the current layer around the selected point .",
    "it should mimic the effect of various irregularities that can be expected during the cs stretching in actual solar eruptions , see also @xcite .",
    "later , the resistivity is switched on only if the threshold according to equation  ( [ eq : eta ] ) is exceeded .",
    "as the threshold for anomalous resistivity can not be reached for a coarse grid ( the threshold for mesh - refinement is reached earlier than the threshold for anomalous resistivity onset ) , the condition in eq .",
    "( [ eq : eta ] ) is actually checked only at the smallest resolved scale , for the large - scale dynamics we take @xmath78 .",
    "we used the above described numerical code in order to study , which mechanisms are involved in the transfer of free magnetic energy from large to small scales . thanks to the adaptive mesh we were able to cover scales from @xmath79 to @xmath80 ( the larger size of the simulation box ) , i.e. over almost five orders of magnitude .",
    "the early system evolution can be briefly described as follows : after the localized initial resistivity pulse a flow pattern sets - up that leads to cs stretching ( in the @xmath18- ) and compression ( in the @xmath21-direction ) . eventually , the condition in eq .",
    "( [ eq : eta ] ) for anomalous resistivity is reached at the smallest resolved scale and first tearings occur .",
    "dynamics of the plasmoids formed by the tearing process leads to further stretching of css interleaving the mutually separating plasmoids .",
    "this leads to further generation of tearing . later , after @xmath81 the smallest magnetic structures yet consistent with the resolution start appearing . here",
    "we present an analysis of this more developed stage of cascade .",
    "results are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : zoom1 ] and  [ fig : zoom2 ] . fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom1 ] shows the state of magnetic field and current density at @xmath82 . for better orientation auxiliary lines",
    "are added indicating the locations where @xmath83 and @xmath84 .",
    "their intersections show the positions of o - type and x - type `` nulls ''  the points , where only the guide field remains finite .",
    "areas indicated by blue line are consecutively zoomed ( from left to right panels ) .",
    "the left - most panel shows the entire simulation box and the right - most corresponds to a zoom at the limit of the amr - refined resolution .",
    "the figure shows , how parts of the current layer are stressed and thinned between separating magnetic islands / plasmoids formed by tearing instabilities .",
    "the current - layer filamentation is the most clearly pronounced if one compares the zoomed views of the same selected area at the initial state ( fig .",
    "[ fig : init ] , right panel ) and the system state at @xmath82 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom1 ] , the third panel ) . during the dynamic evolution",
    "the even thinner , stretched current layers become , after some time , unstable to the next level of tearing and even smaller plasmoids are formed .",
    "the zoomed figures show that cascading reconnection has formed plasmoids at the smallest resolved scales : the @xmath21-sizes of the largest and smallest resolved plasmoid in fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom1 ] range from @xmath85 down to @xmath86 , the @xmath18-sizes are from @xmath87 to @xmath88 .",
    "plasmoids formed by tearing instability are not only subjected to the separation but they can also approach each other . as a result the magnetic flux piles - up and transversal ( i.e. horizontal , perpendicular to the original current layer ) current sheets are formed between pairs of plasmoids approaching each other .",
    "earlier simulations with lower effective resolution treated the plasmoid merging as a coalescence process without any internal structure of the small - scale ( sub - grid ) current sheet between the magnetic islands since their thickness was not resolved @xcite .",
    "if resolved , however , the transversal current sheet does not just dissipate .",
    "instead it is subjected to the tearing instability in the direction perpendicular to the primary current layer .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom2 ] .",
    "the most detailed resolution ( right - most panel ) clearly reveals the formation of the o - point at @xmath89 , @xmath90 and two adjacent x - points at @xmath91 , @xmath92 and @xmath93 , @xmath92 .",
    "we call this process `` fragmenting coalescence '' in order to emphasize that even smaller structures are formed during the merging of two plasmoids .",
    "thus both the tearing and ( fragmenting ) coalescence processes contribute to the fragmentation of the original thick and smooth current layer .      in order to study scaling properties of the continued fragmentation of the magnetic structures associated with the current layer we performed both a 1d fourier and a wavelet analysis of the magnetic field along the vertical axis @xmath94\\}$ ] .",
    "we use for this study the @xmath47 component since @xmath84 there due to the boundary condition .",
    "the results are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : scaling ] .",
    "the upper panel shows the magnetic field and current density in the sub - set of the entire computation domain ( @xmath95 , note the rotated view ) , where the current layer is fragmented .",
    "panel ( b ) shows the profile of @xmath47 along the current - layer axis , and panels ( c ) and ( d ) the fourier and wavelet analyses of this profile .",
    "the fourier power spectrum exhibits a power - law scaling with the spectral index @xmath96 in rather wide range of scales 300  km  10000  km .",
    "this clearly indicates cascading nature of the continued fragmentation .",
    "the energy - transfer cascade ends at @xmath97  km in fig .",
    "[ fig : scaling ] .",
    "this is closely related to the dissipation threshold @xmath33 that has been chosen as @xmath35 in our simulation . by selecting this value we shifted dissipation - scale domain into the window of resolved scales",
    " see the discussion in section  [ sect : discussion ] .",
    "typical width of dissipative current sheets in our model is thus @xmath98  km . since the plasmoid dimensions along the cs are about one order of magnitude ( typically 6@xmath99 ) larger than across cs , distribution of magnetic energy in structures along cs , which is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : scaling ] , reaches its dissipation scale at @xmath100  km . in reality , the ion inertial length @xmath101 is considered as a typical width of dissipative current sheets @xcite .",
    "its value for parameters @xmath102 and @xmath103 used in this paper is @xmath104  m in the simulation - box center , i.e. at @xmath105 ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : transfer ] ) .",
    "the most pronounced features in the wavelet spectrum are the locations of low signal ( the white islands ) .",
    "they correspond to the filamented parts of the current layer between plasmoids .",
    "their distribution indicates , that the filamented current sheets are embedded within the global current layer in a hierarchical ( qualitatively self - similar ) manner .",
    "the current sheets are filamented down to the resolution limit of our simulations ( in reality to the kinetic scales ) .",
    "the smallest current - density structures contain dissipative / acceleration regions . in the following",
    "we will study the structure , distribution and dynamics of these non - ideal regions embedded in the global current layer .",
    "cascading reconnection and consequent fragmentation of the current layer may have significant impact also for particle acceleration in solar flares . instead of a single diffusion region assumed in the classical picture of the solar reconnection ,",
    "cascading fragmentation causes the formation of large amount of thin non - ideal channels .",
    "the structuring of non - ideal regions in our simulation is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : dissip ] .",
    "the left panel shows two areas of dissipation around @xmath16 , @xmath106 and @xmath16 , @xmath107 . a closer look ( right panel , note the large zoom ) , however , reveals that the bottom dissipation region is structured and it is in fact formed by two regions of finite magnetic diffusivity that are associated with two x - points at @xmath16 , @xmath108 and @xmath16 , @xmath109 interleaved with a ( micro ) plasmoid .",
    "the multiple dissipative regions embedded in the global current layer are favorable for efficient ( and possibly multi - step ) particle acceleration . at the same time they provide a natural explanation of _ fragmented energy release _ as it has been inferred from hxr and radio observations @xcite .",
    "since they are embedded in the large - scale current layer the classical well - organized global picture of eruptions is kept simultaneously .",
    "[ fig : dissip ] shows that the x - points formed in the thinned current sheets between magnetic islands are connected with the thin channels of magnetic diffusivity .",
    "hence it is appropriate to study the distribution and dynamics of these non - ideal regions by means of tracking the x - points associated with them .",
    "we present such analysis in fig .",
    "[ fig : nulls ] . in order to see the `` skeleton '' of the reconnection dynamics we followed the positions of all magnetic `` null '' points during the entire recorded interval @xmath73  @xmath74 .",
    "the results show the kinematics of the o - type ( red circles ) and x - type points .",
    "motivated by our endeavour to establish a closer relation of the model to observable quantities in our consecutive study @xcite we also paid special attention to the magnetic connectivity of the x - points to the bottom boundary . for this sake , the x - points connected to the model base (= the photosphere ) are painted as green asterisks while the unconnected x - points are displayed as black crosses .    since we are interested in the cascade that already developed into the stage reaching the smallest resolved structures ( @xmath110 ) , many x- and o- points connected with the larger - scale ( and therefore longer - living ) structures ( plasmoids ) are already formed and their space - time trajectories enter fig .",
    "[ fig : nulls](a ) from the bottom . fig .",
    "[ fig : nulls ] thus shows mainly full life - cycles of the x- and o- points related to the smallest resolved plasmoids .",
    "it is best visible in the three bottom panels ( b ) ",
    "( d ) that show zoomed views ( projected to the @xmath111-plane ) of typical examples of null - point dynamics  the creation of temporary x  o pairs ( panels ( b ) and ( d ) ) and plasmoid merging ( c ) . as it can be seen from panels ( b ) and ( d ) the x - points can become magnetically connected ( the right x - point in panel ( d ) ) or disconnected ( panel ( b ) ) to / from the bottom boundary during their lifetime .",
    "note also the splitting ( and subsequent merging ) of the x - point at @xmath16 , @xmath112 into an x - o - x configuration between @xmath113 and @xmath114 in panel ( a ) .",
    "this process maps the tearing in the transversal ( horizontal ) current sheet formed between interacting plasmoid and the loop - arcade ( see also fig .  [",
    "fig : zoom2 ] ) . note that fig .",
    "[ fig : nulls ] can be compared with fig .  5 in @xcite .",
    "the main difference is just in the presence of the off - plane x - points formed by the fragmentation of the cs between coalescing plasmoids in our simulation .",
    "reconnection in the trailing current layer behind an ejected flux - rope ( filament ) is a key feature of the standard cshkp scenario of solar flares .",
    "a large amount of free magnetic energy is accumulated around this rather thick ( relative to plasma kinetic scales ) and very long layer .",
    "the thickness of this layer was estimated both from the observed brightening @xcite and based on a typical transversal dimensions of a filament @xcite .",
    "both ways one obtains the order of magnitude of @xmath115  km . on the other hand collisionless reconnection requires dissipation at very small scale , thin current sheets with typical width of the order of @xmath85  m in the solar corona @xcite .",
    "the fundamental question arises how the accumulated energy is transferred from large to small scales . or , in other words , what are the mechanisms of direct energy cascade in magnetic reconnection .",
    "we addressed this question using high - resolution amr simulation covering broad range of scales to investigate the mhd dynamics of an expanding current layer in the solar corona .",
    "our simulations reveal the importance of a continued fragmentation of the current layer due to the interaction of two basic processes : the tearing instability of stretched current sheets and the fragmenting coalescence of flux - ropes / plasmoids formed by the tearing and subsequently forced to merge by the tension of ambient magnetic field .",
    "after ejection of the primary flux - rope ( i.e. the filament / cme ) , a trailing current layer is formed behind it which becomes long and thins down . as it has been pointed out by theoretical analysis by @xcite , current layers with high enough length - to - width ratio become unstable for fast plasmoid instability .",
    "moreover , any irregularity in the plasma inflow that stretches the sheet facilitates the tearing @xcite .",
    "plasmoids that are formed are subjected to the tension of ambient magnetic field , which causes them to move @xcite .",
    "the motion can lead to their increasing separation .",
    "a secondary current layer then formed between them becomes , again , stretched and a secondary tearing instability can take place .",
    "this simulation result , illustrated by fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom1 ] , fully confirms the scenario suggested by @xcite , developed further by @xcite and @xcite into the analytical theory of chain plasmoid instability .",
    "the results are also in qualitative agreement with the simulations of plasmoid instability by @xcite and @xcite , which has been performed , however , with constant resistivity .    in addition to that",
    ", our simulation has shown that the converging motion of plasmoids leads to a magnetic - flux pile - up between mutually approaching plasmoids .",
    "consequently , secondary ( oppositely directed ) current sheets are formed perpendicular to the original current layer . while previous studies found only unstructured current density pile - ups between merging magnetic islands our enhanced - by - amr resolution reveals secondary tearing mode instabilities that take place in the transversal to the primary current sheet direction ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom2 ] ) .",
    "this process represents a new mechanism of fragmentation and changes our view to coalescence instability , which has been hitherto commonly considered as a simple merging process of two plasmoids contributing to the inverse energy cascade only . note that this behavior is different from that seen for plasmoids at the dissipation scales in pic simulations @xcite , where plasmoids merge without subsequent tearing .",
    "one can suppose that with even higher spatial resolution one would see more subsequent tearing mode instabilities altering with the fragmenting coalescence of the resulting magnetic islands / flux - ropes . as a result third- and higher order current sheets could form .    to sum up , the results of our simulation support the idea that both the tearing @xcite and `` fragmenting coalescence '' processes lead to the formation of consecutively smaller magnetic structures ( plasmoids / flux - ropes ) and associated current filaments .",
    "subsequent stretching and compression cause a filamentation of the current .",
    "this situation is schematically depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : fragmentation ] which can be seen as a generalization of the scheme in fig .  6 . in @xcite .",
    "one can expect that this cascade will continue down to the scales where the magnetic energy is , finally , dissipated .",
    "note that the physics and the corresponding scaling laws may change at intermediate ( but still relatively small ) scales when additional contributions to the generalized ohm s law become significant , e.g. a hall term  see recent simulations by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "reconnection in the current sheet between merging plasmoids is fast since it is driven by ambient - field magnetic tension which naturally pushes the flux - ropes together .",
    "thus even shorter time - scales can be reached by this process than by tearing cascade in the stretched cs @xcite . and yet another point makes the overall reconnection process more efficient : many magnetic - flux elements  except those ejected out - wards to the escaping cme  reconnect several times .",
    "first , during the primary tearing and plasmoid formation and then again during plasmoid coalescence . since coalescence leads to a follow - up tearing instability ( in the transversal direction ) the remaining magnetic flux is subjected to another act of magnetic reconnection .",
    "this process resembles the _ recurrent separator reconnection _ simulated by @xcite .      to some extent",
    "the initial situation of global , smooth and relatively thick sheets is similar to the turbulence on - set in a sheared flow in ( incompressible ) fluid dynamics ( fd ) as schematically shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : analogy ] .",
    "usually the typical length - scale of shear flows ",
    "the counterpart of the width of current layers  is much larger than the dissipative ( molecular ) scale .",
    "the mechanism of energy transfer from large to small scales in classical fd is mediated by a cascade of vortex tubes : large - scale vortices formed by shear flows can mutually interact giving rise to increased velocity shear at the smaller scales in the space between them .",
    "each small shear flow element formed by this process can be , again , subjected to this fragmentation .",
    "based on our simulation results , we suggest a similar scenario for current - layer fragmentation .",
    "the role of the vortex - tubes in fd is in mhd taken over by flux - ropes / plasmoids .    in analogy with the on - set of turbulence in sheared flows",
    ", one could expect that a dynamical balance would arise between fragmentation and coalescence processes in later more developed stage .",
    "this should be manifested by a power - law scaling rule .",
    "using amr we reached a rather broad ( five orders of magnitude ) range of scales .",
    "this allowed us to perform a 1d scaling analysis of the magnetic - field structures formed along the current layer for the first time .",
    "the scaling rule found exhibits , indeed , a power - law distribution with the index @xmath96 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : scaling ] ) . since our resolution still does not allow to make this scaling analysis only within the small selected subdomain around the cs center where one could expect isotropic turbulence ( we would lack sufficient range of scales for that ) it is difficult to compare the spectral index found over the whole ( clearly anisotropic ) simulation domain with the values expected from the theory for fully developed isotropic turbulence .",
    "obtained power - law distribution is also in qualitative agreement with the concept of fractal reconnection by @xcite and with hierarchical analytical model of plasmoid instability @xcite as described by @xcite .",
    "they use distribution functions for plasmoid width and contained flux in order to characterize statistical properties of plasmoid hierarchy rather than power spectrum .",
    "we plan to perform similar analysis of our results in the future study in order to compare the results also quantitatively .    in order to obtain as broad as possible scale range in the plane where reconnection occurs , we performed these simulations using 2.5d approach .",
    "the question arises to what extent a full-3d treatment would change the resulting picture . in the fd cascade vortices",
    "are deformed , their cross - sections change along their main axis , even in the topological sense . the object defined as a single vortex tube in one place",
    "can be split into two in another location .",
    "one can expect a similar behavior of plasmoids / flux - tubes in mhd .",
    "there they could be subjected to the kink and similar instabilities with @xmath116 .",
    "such processes would naturally lead to the modulation of reconnection rate along the pil .",
    "observations indicating such effect have already been presented @xcite . to some extent",
    "the expected behavior can also be obtained for kink instabilities of tiny current channels at the dissipative scale studied by 3d pic simulations @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , @xcite found no such evidence in their 3d amr mhd simulation , which uses , however , a different set - up .",
    "sizes of the plasmoids formed under 3d perturbation in the direction that corresponds to the invariant @xmath19-axis in our 2.5d case have been found very short preventing a kink - like instabilities to develop . on the other hand",
    ", the resulting plasmoid lengths might depend on the initial guide field @xcite .    to sum up",
    ", the answer to this question can be found only via full 3d simulations with similar initial set - up as we used here .",
    "therefore we plan to extend our current 2.5d simulations with very high in - plane resolution with moderately resolved structuring in the third dimension .",
    "cascading fragmentation of the current layer is closely related to another puzzling question of current solar flare research  the apparent contradiction between observed regular large - scale dynamics and signatures of fragmented energy release in ( eruptive ) flares .",
    "this duality is reflected by two classes of flare models : the classical cshkp scenario based on magnetic reconnection in a single global flare current sheet and the class of `` self - organized criticality '' ( soc ) models based on the avalanche of small - scale reconnection events in multiple current sheets formed as a consequence of either chaotic @xcite or regular but still complex boundary motions causing , e.g. , magnetic braiding @xcite .",
    "the model of cascading reconnection has the potential to provide a unified view on these seemingly very different ( see the discussion in the next paragraph ) approaches . from the global point of view",
    ", it coincides with the classical cshkp model keeping the regular picture of the process at large scales . at the same time , due to the _ internal _ current - layer fragmentation the tearing / coalescence cascade forms multiple small - scale current sheets and potential diffusive regions . as a consequence , fragmented energy release , e.g. , by particle acceleration , can take place in these tiny regions .",
    "to some extent this finding can be seen as a follow - up of the bursty reconnection regime found by @xcite .",
    "these authors show that intermittent signal ( x - ray , radio ) can be related to chaotic pulses of the ( resistive ) electric field in the dissipation region around x - point .",
    "the pulsed regime is a consequence of non - linear interplay between governing mhd equations and the anomalous resistivity model . in our view , however , these pulses result from the subgrid physics unresolved in earlier simulations .",
    "essentially , what has been seen as a single dissipative region around a single x - point in the coarse - grid models is in fact a ( `` fractal - like '' ) set of non - ideal areas around multiple x - points ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : dissip ] ) that interleave very small - scale mutually interacting plasmoids .",
    "this view based on high - resolved simulation is perhaps closer to the term of `` fragmented energy release '' that assumes the energy dissipation to be performed via many concurrent small - scale events appearing in multiple sites distributed in space . in this context",
    "it is interesting to note how surprisingly well the phenomenological resistivity model ( eq .  [ eq : eta ] ) used by @xcite mimics the sub - grid scale physics as it has been able to reproduce qualitatively temporal behavior of resistive electric field even without resolving actual processes that are responsible for it .",
    "note also that a possible role of tearing and coalescence in fragmentation of the energy release in solar flares has been mentioned already by @xcite .",
    "we would like to emphasize that there is a fundamental difference between the fragmented energy release by cascading reconnection and soc models .",
    "it is rooted in the fact that in cascading reconnection the complexity / chaoticity is due to an intrinsic current - layer dynamics , i.e. , due to spontaneous fragmentation , while it is introduced in soc models through ( external ) boundary conditions ( chaotic boundary motions ) .",
    "in fact , these two concepts are contrary to some extent : while in soc - based models the global flare picture is built as an avalanche of many small - scale events ( bottom@xmath117top process in the scale hierarchy ) in cascading reconnection small scale structures are formed as a consequence of internal dynamics of large - scale cs ( top@xmath117bottom process ) .",
    "fragmented energy release is closely related to the number problem of particles accelerated in solar flares .",
    "a single diffusion region assumed in the cshkp model provides a far too small volume for accelerating strong fluxes of particles as they are inferred from the hxr observations .",
    "this argument has been used in favor of soc - based models as they provide energetic - particle spectra and time - profile distributions as observed and explain large energetic particle fluxes .",
    "we suggest that , however , the inclusion of cascading reconnection into the cshkp has even more capabilities than soc models .",
    "it could explain both the distribution and the number of accelerated particles , based on a physical consideration of many small - scale current sheets which can host tiny diffusive channels that all can act as the acceleration regions ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : dissip ] ) .    here",
    "it is appropriate to make one technical comment : in an mhd simulation with resistivity model described by eq .",
    "( [ eq : eta ] ) , respectively its dimension - less version , the size and the number of diffusive regions are controlled mostly by the threshold @xmath33 for the onset of ( anomalous ) diffusivity .",
    "the higher @xmath33 is chosen , the thinner the current sheets can become , the smaller and more numerous are the embedded diffusion regions . since one has to resolve these diffusive regions in the simulation",
    ", one has to choose the threshold @xmath33 low enough to be able to resolve the dissipation regions appropriately . in ideally resolved simulations , covering all scales down to the real physical dissipation length",
    ", the critical velocity @xmath33 could be chosen of the order of physically relevant value  the electron thermal speed @xmath118 @xcite . in dimensionless units",
    "this corresponds to @xmath119 , where @xmath120 and @xmath121 are the proton and electron masses . for a technically limited spatial resolution ,",
    "one has to choose a ( much ) smaller value of @xmath33 in order to resolve the smallest possible current sheets , before dissipation sets in , by a reasonable number of grid points .",
    "since the resolution in our current amr simulation is higher than in earlier models , we could choose a more reasonable value of @xmath35 .",
    "this allowed us to track down more fragmented , smaller reconnection regions .",
    "if we extrapolate this trend , we can expect that with even higher resolution one would find even more and tinier diffusive regions .",
    "they would be grouped hierarchically ( self - similarly ) , occupying a sub - space of the global current layer .",
    "such kind of distribution is indicated in the wavelet spectra ( white islands in fig .",
    "[ fig : scaling](d ) ) , and also by the positions and motion of the associated x - points in fig .",
    "[ fig : nulls ] .",
    "the latter shows a structured grouping of `` null points '' and their various life times .",
    "our simulation has shown that cascading reconnection due to the formation and fragmenting coalescence of plasmoids / flux - ropes is a viable physical model of fragmented magnetic energy release in large - scale systems , like solar flares .",
    "cascading reconnection addresses at once three key problems of the current solar - flare research : the scale - gap between energy - accumulation and dissipation scales , the duality between regular global - scale dynamics and fragmented energy - release signatures observed simultaneously in solar flares , and the issue of particle acceleration .",
    "all these problems arising from observations appear to be tightly related via cascading reconnection .    in order to evaluate relevance of the cascading reconnection for actual solar flares",
    "further it is desirable , however , to identify and predict model - specific observables and to search for them in observed data .",
    "we are going to propose possible specific signatures and compare them with observations in a consecutive paper @xcite .",
    "this research was performed under the support of the european commission through the solaire network ( mtrn - ct-2006 - 035484 ) and the grant p209/10/1680 of the grant agency of the czech republic , by the grant 300030701 of the grant agency of the czech academy of science and the research project av0z10030501 of astronomical institute of the czech academy of science .",
    "the authors thank to dr .",
    "antonius otto for inspirational discussions and to unknown referee for valuable comments that helped to improve the quality of the paper .                                                                                                        , l. 2007 , in lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag , vol .",
    "725 , `` magnetic complexity , fragmentation , particle acceleration and radio emission from the sun '' , berlin springer verlag , ed .",
    "klein & a.  l. mackinnon , 1531"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> magnetic reconnection is commonly considered as a mechanism of solar ( eruptive ) flares . </S>",
    "<S> a deeper study of this scenario reveals , however , a number of open issues . among them is the fundamental question , how the magnetic energy is transferred from large , accumulation scales to plasma scales where its actual dissipation takes place . in order to investigate this transfer over a broad range of scales we address this question by means of a high - resolution mhd simulation . </S>",
    "<S> the simulation results indicate that the magnetic - energy transfer to small scales is realized via a cascade of consecutive smaller and smaller flux - ropes ( plasmoids ) , in analogy with the vortex - tube cascade in ( incompressible ) fluid dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> both tearing and ( driven ) `` fragmenting coalescence '' processes are equally important for the consecutive fragmentation of the magnetic field ( and associated current density ) to smaller elements . at the later </S>",
    "<S> stages a dynamic balance between tearing and coalescence processes reveals a steady ( power - law ) scaling typical for cascading processes . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that cascading reconnection also addresses other open issues in solar flare research such as the duality between the regular large - scale picture of ( eruptive ) flares and the observed signatures of fragmented ( chaotic ) energy release , as well as the huge number of accelerated particles . </S>",
    "<S> indeed , spontaneous current - layer fragmentation and formation of multiple channelised dissipative / acceleration regions embedded in the current layer appears to be intrinsic to the cascading process . </S>",
    "<S> the multiple small - scale current sheets may also facilitate the acceleration of a large number of particles . </S>",
    "<S> the structure , distribution and dynamics of the embedded potential acceleration regions in a current layer fragmented by cascading reconnection are studied and discussed . </S>"
  ]
}