{
  "article_text": [
    "the rt-2 experiment onboard the coronas - photon satellite ( kotov et al .",
    "2008 , nandi et al . 2009 ) is a dedicated experiment for hard x - ray study of solar flares .",
    "it consists of three main detector payloads , namely rt-2/s , rt-2/g ( both nai(tl)/csi(na ) scintillator - phoswich detectors ) and rt-2/czt ( solid - state imaging detector ) along with one processing electronics device , rt-2/e .",
    "detailed descriptions of the phoswich detectors and processing electronic device are given in debnath et al .",
    "( 2010 ) and sreekumar et al .",
    "( 2010 ) and the background simulations of the detectors using geant-4 toolkit are presented in sarkar et al .",
    "( 2010 ) .",
    "the rt-2/czt payload consists of two different types of imaging detectors : three czt ( cadmium zinc telluride ) detectors and one cmos ( complementary metal oxide semiconductor ) detector , arranged in a configuration of 2 x 2 array . the entire detector assembly ( czt and cmos ) sits below a collimator ( @xmath032 cm height ) with two different types of masking devices , namely coded aperture mask ( cam ) and fresnel zone plate ( fzp ) .",
    "the payload configuration , simulation and experimental results with the coding devices are discussed in nandi et al .",
    "( 2010 ) . due to the different dimensions of the implemented coding devices ,",
    "this payload has a field of view ( fov ) from @xmath0 6@xmath1 to 6@xmath2 .",
    "rt-2/czt payload is the only imaging device onboard the coronas - photon satellite to image solar flares in hard x - rays between @xmath3 kev to @xmath4 kev .",
    "the czt detectors have good spectral resolution but moderate spatial resolution .",
    "the cmos detector is capable of imaging with a high resolution .",
    "however , it is a single channel device , and is not capable of generating a spectrum .",
    "rt-2/czt payload is placed outside the hermetically sealed vessel of the satellite and co - aligned to the sun pointing axis . in  2 and  3 we present individual detector module testing and selection criteria of czt and cmos detectors for the flight use . in ",
    "4 we present the test set - up for the payload testing and results at different conditions and in  5 , we make concluding remarks .",
    "cadmium zinc telluride ( czt ) is an extrinsic semiconductor x - ray detector with a band gap energy of 1.5 - 2.0 ev and an average atomic number , @xmath5 . due to the high band gap energy",
    ", it can be operated at room temperature .",
    "as the atomic number ( @xmath6 ) is high , even a few mm of czt can absorb hard x - rays efficiently ( knoll 1999 ) . in comparison to other x - ray detectors like scintillation detector and proportional counter , czt needs a relatively low energy deposition for electron - hole pair formation resulting in a good energy resolution ( kotoch et al .",
    "czt detectors have other major benefits , for example , it can be pixilated by further dividing the sensitive area with segmented anode into multiple pixels which leads to spectral enhancement due to small pixel effect .",
    "the current state of art allows one to develop large area x - ray detectors in the form of a mosaic of czt pixel devices , making this technology really appealing for use in hard x - ray astronomy .",
    "czt detectors already have been successfully used in the swift satellite ( barthelmy et al .",
    "2005 ) and in recently launched indian moon mission chandrayaan-1 ( vadawale et al .",
    "the same detectors would be used in the forthcoming missions like astrosat , exist and constellation - x .",
    "we have used czt detectors in the rt-2 experiment for hard x - ray solar flare studies .",
    "three czt detector modules are placed in rt-2/czt , one of the main payloads of the rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon mission , which was launched successfully from russia on january 30 , 2009 .",
    "the rt-2 czt detector modules ( oms40g256 ) were procured from orbotech medical solutions ltd . ,",
    "the detector module ( fig .",
    "1 ) consists of a 5 mm thick czt crystal having dimension of @xmath7 @xmath8 .",
    "each module is pixilated to have @xmath9 pixels , where each inner pixel size is @xmath10 mm@xmath11 , while the edge pixels have a pitch of @xmath12 mm@xmath11 .",
    "the czt crystal composition ( i.e. , cd@xmath13zn@xmath14te ) and growth are achieved using the mhb ( modified horizontal bridgman ) technique ( yadav et al .",
    "2005 , jung et al .",
    "2007 , vadawale et al . 2009 ) .",
    "it has a density of @xmath15 gm/@xmath16 .",
    "the crystal is n - type conductive having electron as a major charge carrier .",
    "the electrodes contacts are made of indium ( lachish et al . 1999 ) .",
    "cathode is a single mono - electrode , whereas the anode is pixilated to pad size of @xmath17 mm@xmath11 with 0.42 mm gap .",
    "the czt detector crystal has been integrated with a multi - channel read - out asic s having 128 channel which are self - triggered and data driven ( yadav et al . 2005 , jung et al .",
    "2007 , vadawale et al . 2009 ) . its threshold can be externally controlled .",
    "these modules can be easily mounted and dismounted from the motherboard through two 20-pin surface mounted connectors in the back side .",
    "oms40g256 detectors are capable of detecting x - rays of energies ranging from @xmath18 kev .",
    "in addition to having all digital interfaces , an optional temperature measurement sensor is integrated with the front end electronics to monitor the temperature of the module , which is useful in monitoring the heat dissipation by the asics .",
    "the asic in each czt module contains its own pixel map information and inbuilt event storing memory ( fifo ) for up to 256 events .",
    "the peak position shift of any source spectrum is less than 0.1 kev/@xmath19c .",
    "the overall power consumption of a module is about 300 mw , which is about @xmath20 % lower than that of the earlier version of the series of products ( yadav et al .",
    "2005 , jung et al .",
    "2007 , vadawale et al . 2009 ) .",
    "a detailed study of these detectors was carried out for finding its performance , efficiency , etc . in various environmental conditions and to authenticate its use for the space environment .",
    "[ ]      the system development kit ( sdk ) , developed by orbotech , was used to test our sample detector modules .",
    "this system is available from orbotech commercially and consists of two packages : a detector box and a sdk box .",
    "the detector box can accommodate up to 20 detector modules ( in a @xmath21 matrix ) and it is connected to the sdk box by a 50 pin cable .",
    "it gets hv ( high voltage ) bias directly from the power supply and the low voltage power through the sdk .",
    "the sdk is connected to a computer with an accompanied software which basically allows the control of all asic functionalities and data acquisition from the czt detector modules ( yadav et al .",
    "2005 ; vadawale et al .",
    "the sdk software tool saves the spectrum of each pixel data in ascii files containing the information of event counts per channel .    for the tests at low temperatures",
    ", we used a regular laboratory cold chamber which can actively control temperature between -30@xmath19c to 0@xmath19c with the accuracy of 1@xmath19c .",
    "we have made the detector box air - tight by covering it with a plastic bag containing two pouches of dried silica gel .",
    "the major source of heat dissipation is at the bottom of the czt detector modules .",
    "therefore , we positioned a temperature probe ( thermistor ) at the cold finger of the detector module in order to control the detector temperature .",
    "the chamber temperature is maintained and varied with respect to this monitoring thermistor temperature .",
    "a test procedure was planned on the basis of detector specification provided by oms ltd . and desired test environment",
    ". the schematic block diagram along with the lab setup of the experiment is shown in fig .",
    "[ ]    czt detectors were stored in a low humidity control chamber .",
    "this chamber was kept in the clean room for mounting or dismounting of czt modules from the motherboard ( detector board ) .",
    "radioactive sources am@xmath22 and cd@xmath23 were used for various tests and calibration of czt detectors .",
    "three separate power supplies were used for the oms detector test unit to provide two analog ( called avdd and afe ) and one digital ( called dvdd ) supply voltages along with a common grounding .",
    "a high voltage power supply ( hvps ) with -@xmath24v is fed at the top of czt detector crystal . during this period , we monitored each power supply to verify the nominal power consumption for each detector ( table 1 ) .",
    "a dedicated usb port is used for interfacing between the system and sdk unit for data acquisition and to control various parameters of the detector .    on accomplishing all the basic settings required for the test",
    ", czt modules were directly irradiated with two radioactive sources ( am@xmath22 and cd@xmath23 ) .",
    "appropriate separation between the sources and detector was kept in such a way that a uniform illumination occurs over the entire detector area .",
    "the data were accumulated for intervals of 150 - 1800 seconds as required to obtain a good counting statistics ( typically several thousand photons under one energy peak in the spectrum which gives the statistical accuracy of the peak position determination correct to @xmath01% ) .",
    "the average threshold of each czt module was set at 40 kev in order to avoid low energy noise and to obtain a good spectrum at 59.5 kev and 88.0 kev .",
    "it was noticed that heating of detector asic creates a large number of noisy pixels in the detector . to prevent this effect ,",
    "the detector temperature was maintained below 20@xmath2c inside the cold chamber . in order to avoid the moisture condensation ,",
    "the entire detector unit was kept in airtight container before placing inside the cold chamber .",
    "the temperature of detector box was maintained with the help of thermistor placed at the base .",
    "tests were conducted at various temperatures ( -20@xmath2c to 20@xmath2c ) for characterization ( such as , overall performance , energy resolution and stability ) .",
    "table 1 : detector power consumption ( for one module )    0.2 cm    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we have presented the test results of several czt detector modules along with the performance of the 3 selected czt modules for the rt-2/czt payload . during the room temperature tests , we observed varied pixels behaviors in terms of response and performance .",
    "the numbers of disqualified pixels also vary from module to module .",
    "we recognized two different types of bad modules whose behavior can be understood either on the basis of poor czt crystal or bad asic .",
    "czt module functionality appears to vary with temperature .",
    "this was revealed by both cold test and also during the space qualification screening procedure .",
    "though the czt modules can operate at room condition , their best average energy resolution is achieved in the temperature range between 10@xmath19c to 20@xmath19c . beyond these temperature ranges ,",
    "some of the pixels may become noisy showing a large variation in counting rate .",
    "the average energy resolution which varies with temperature is not uniform for all the modules .",
    "this implies that any selection of good czt detector module for the flight payload shall be based on a trade off between the best average energy resolution and number of disqualified pixels . from the results obtained at 15@xmath19c",
    ", we concluded that the number of disqualified pixels should not be more than 5 .",
    "the results of various flight screening tests conducted over the rt-2/czt flight payload shows that the overall performance of czt modules and cmos detector remains invariant even after going through various environment conditions along with flight electronics .",
    "as expected , the flight czt modules give their best performance at 10@xmath19c ambient temperature . in future ,",
    "a similar work will be carried out for the development of czt - imager payload , astrosat .    on 30th january , 2009 , coronas - photon has been successfully launched and all the rt-2 instruments , including rt-2/czt - cmos , are working with the expected performance .",
    "details of the on - board calibration and data analysis will be published elsewhere .",
    "tbk thanks rt-2/srf fellowship ( isro ) which supported his research work .",
    "the authors are thankful to scientists , engineers and technical staffs from tifr/ icsp/ vssc/ isro - hq for various supports during rt-2 related experiments .",
    "debnath , d. , nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , malkar , j. p. , hingar , m. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sreekumar , s. , madhav , v. p. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation i : rt-2/s and rt-2/g payloads , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "kotov , yu . , kochemasov , a. , kuzin , s. , kuznetsov , v. , sylwester , j. , yurov , v. , : set of instruments for solar euv and soft x - ray monitoring onboard satellite coronas - photon . in 37th cospar scientific assembly , in montral , canada . , p.1596 ( 2008 )      nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , chakrabarti , s. k. et .",
    "al . : indian payloads ( rt-2 experiment ) onboard coronas - photon mission . in proc . of international conference on space technology , greece , g. lampropoulos and m. petrou ( eds . ) ( 2009 ) ( arxiv:0912.4126 )    nandi , a. , palit , s. , debnath , d. , chakrabarti , s. k. , kotoch , t. b. , sarkar , r. , yadav , v. k. , girish , v. , rao , a. r. , bhattacharya , d. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation iii : coded aperture mask and fresnel zone plates in rt-2/czt payload exp . astron .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "sarkar , r. , mandal , s. , debnath , d. , kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , rao , a. r. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation iv : background simulations using geant-4 toolkit , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) .",
    "sreekumar , s. , vinod , p. , samuel , e. , malkar , j. p. , rao , a. r. , hingar , m. k. , madhav , v. p. , debnath , d. , kotoch , t. b. , nandi , a. , begum , s. s. , chakrabarti , s. k. : instruments of rt-2 experiment onboard coronas - photon and their test and evaluation v : onboard software , data structure , telemetry and telecommand , exp .",
    "( 2010 , in press ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cadmium zinc telluride ( czt ) detectors are high sensitivity and high resolution devices for hard x - ray imaging and spectroscopic studies . </S>",
    "<S> the new series of czt detector modules ( oms40g256 ) manufactured by orbotech medical solutions ( oms ) , israel , are used in the rt-2/czt payload onboard the coronas - photon satellite . </S>",
    "<S> the czt detectors , sensitive in the energy range of 20 kev to 150 kev , are used to image solar flares in hard x - rays . </S>",
    "<S> since these modules are essentially manufactured for commercial applications , we have carried out a series of comprehensive tests on these modules so that they can be confidently used in space - borne systems . </S>",
    "<S> these tests lead us to select the best three pieces of the ` gold ' modules for the rt-2/czt payload . </S>",
    "<S> this paper presents the characterization of czt modules and the criteria followed for selecting the ones for the rt-2/czt payload .    </S>",
    "<S> the rt-2/czt payload carries , along with three czt modules , a high spatial resolution cmos detector for high resolution imaging of transient x - ray events . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , we discuss the characterization of the cmos detector as well .    </S>",
    "<S> example.eps gsave newpath 20 20 moveto 20 220 lineto 220 220 lineto 220 20 lineto closepath 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}