{
  "article_text": [
    "an ultra - deep spectroscopic blind survey ( rauch et al 2008 ; hereafter r08 ) has revealed the existence of numerous , faint , spatially extended ly@xmath0 emitters at @xmath2 .",
    "the inferred rate of incidence of the emitters , and the observed signatures of resonant radiative transfer suggest that the emission originates from regions corresponding to high column density hi qso absorption systems .",
    "r08 proposed that these objects may thus be identified with the elusive host galaxies of dlas and lyman limit systems ( lls ) .",
    "their study showed that even objects with the low luminosities and low masses characteristic of high redshift dwarf galaxies are surrounded by extended gaseous halos , whose intrinsic ly@xmath0 emission can typically be traced out to radii of at least 4 \" .",
    "rahmani et al ( 2010 ) recently published a high signal - to - noise composite spectrum of the absorption trough of high redshift dlas from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) , to search for ly@xmath0 emission from the underlying galaxies giving rise to the dlas .",
    "their sample represents low resolution ( r=2000 ) spectra of 341 dlas , with column densities exceeding @xmath3n@xmath4=20.62 .",
    "the dlas where shifted to the rest frame and then averaged according to various prescriptions .",
    "the individual qso spectra used represent the integrated light of fibers with 3 \" diameter . since many of the r08 objects have relatively compact cores of ly@xmath0 emission ( on top of more extended low light level emission )",
    ", a significant fraction of the ly@xmath0 luminosity of such galaxies should occur close enough to the line - of - sight to be recorded within the fiber radius , _ assuming that these emitters are in fact associated with dlas_. rahmani et al establish upper limits on the flux in a central wavelength region of the stacked absorption troughs .",
    "based on this result they conclude that the low mean flux permitted by their analysis contradicts , at the @xmath5 level , the suggestion that dlas could correspond to a population of ly@xmath0 emitters with a mean flux as high as found by r08 .",
    "we argue here that this conclusion is based on an inappropriate model of the emission profile used by rahmani et al .",
    "when allowance is made for the resonant scattering of the ly@xmath0 photons with their inherent wavelength shifts and asymmetries , their combined dla profile is consistent with substantial ly@xmath0 flux , and supports , rather than contradicts , the correspondence between dlas and ly@xmath0 emitters proposed by r08 .",
    "rahmani et al searched for ly@xmath0 emission at the center of the dla line , assuming a gaussian velocity distribution with a width of 200kms@xmath6 .",
    "this model would be appropriate for optically thin emission , broadened only by galactic velocity dispersion and the instrumental profile",
    ". however , numerous theoretical studies of radiative transfer through the very optically thick dlas ( e.g. , zheng & miralda - escud 2002 ; dijkstra et al 2006 ; verhamme et al 2006 ; and references therein ) have shown that the generic emission line profile is double - humped , with apparent velocity shifts of hundreds of kms@xmath6 between the blue and red components , and little emission at all at the systemic redshift .",
    "the profile is further modified by the motion of the gas .",
    "observationally , in high redshift galaxies the red peak dominates , and the blue peak is highly reduced in size .",
    "this pattern can be accomplished by ly@xmath0 propagating through an expanding halo , partial absorption by intervening ly@xmath0 forest clouds , or a combination of both ( e.g. , dijkstra et al 2006 ; barnes & haehnelt 2010 ; laursen et al .",
    "the pattern of a dominant red peak , absorption trough , and faint blue peak is clearly seen in the brighter of the sources found by r08 , and a similar pattern ( with even less blue emission ) is seen in the much brighter lyman break galaxies . in the latter objects the red line suffers a mean shift of 445 kms@xmath6 relative to the systemic velocity ( steidel et al 2010 ) .",
    "similarly large shifts are predicted for ly@xmath0 photons passing through simple static slabs of hi gas with column densities typical of dlas ( e.g. , dijkstra et al 2006 ; hansen & oh 2006 ) . thus ,",
    "unless there are many objects where the ly@xmath0 escapes through optically thin holes in the hi distribution ( as may be produced through photoionization by an agn ) , there should be little flux at the center of most dla troughs .",
    "note that the population of ly@xmath0 emitters , at least at its bright end , where there are more detailed observations , harbors only a small contamination by agn ( e.g. ouchi et al 2008 ) .    among the non - agn ly@xmath0",
    "emitters the red peak can occur over a wide range of velocities on the red ( right hand ) side of the absorption trough , with the position determined by column density , temperature , kinematics and possibly dust in a not necessarily trivial way .",
    "the intensity in the blue half of the trough should generally be weaker in proportion to the ratio between blue and red peaks .",
    "thus we expect an upward jump in the flux density when going from the blue to the red half of the bottom of the dla line .",
    "such a spectral distribution of the ly@xmath0 emission is indeed suggested by the appearance of the stacked spectrum of rahmani et al . in our fig .  1 we show the residuals obtained after we subtracted their model of the dla trough from the flux density in the rightmost panel ( weighted mean with 5% clipping ) of their figure 1 .",
    "we also compare the spectral profile assumed by rahmani et al . with a more realistic , predicted profile of an individual emitter taking into account the expected resonant scattering of the ly@xmath0 emission .",
    "we further show the mean observed position of the ly@xmath0 line in a sample of lyman break galaxies .",
    "note that for a large ensemble of emitters a broad distribution of the location and width of the `` red peak '' would be expected . for a stacked spectrum like the one of rahmani et al .",
    "this should lead to a broad emission feature on the red side of the trough , extended over several hundred km / s .",
    "unfortunately , because of their faintness , we can not determine the systemic redshifts of the r08 emitters so it is not possible to stack the r08 spectra to directly determine the shape of the combined emission feature .",
    "the mean observed flux density over the entire trough in fig .",
    "1 is @xmath7 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 , i.e. , consistent with zero , in agreement with rahmani et al.s statement that a global correction of the zero level has been performed for each spectrum to account for imperfections in the sky background subtraction .",
    "however , the kolmogorov - smirnov probability for the residuals in the 16 pixels with error bars in their figure to be consistent with zero flux throughout is only 1% .",
    "the probability for the flux density in the blue half and the red half of the dla trough ( the bluest 8 pixels and the reddest 8 pixels of the residuals ) to be drawn from the same sample is likewise less than 1% , i.e. , the flux levels in the blue and red half of the trough are significantly different , and not consistent with being at the true zero level . the mean flux density in the left side of the trough ( bluest 8 pixels plus half of the central pixel ) and the right side of the trough ( right half of the central pixel and the redward adjacent 8 pixels ) are @xmath9 and @xmath10 erg s@xmath6@xmath11 , respectively .    without any detailed radiative transfer model or statistical distribution of profile shapes we can still obtain a very simple lower limit to the total flux by _ assuming that all the flux emerges in the red half of the profile_. this amounts to ignoring the blue peak entirely and is probably correct to better than 10% ( judging from the spectra in r08 ) . the integrated flux in the red half of the trough , covering wavelengths from [ 1215.67,1218.2]  or velocities in the range from [ 0 , 624 ] kms@xmath6 , , i.e. , the wavelength region occupying the rhs half of fig 1 , is @xmath12 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 .",
    "this assumes that the zero - level was correctly determined in the spectrum by rahmani et al 2010 .",
    "however , the zero level was adjusted globally for the trough and the flux level is sloping so both halves of the trough can not be simultaneously at the correct zero level . if we enforce the trivial condition that the flux must be equal or greater than zero in both halves of the dla trough simultaneously we are forced to raise the zero level flux density in the entire region at least by the amount of @xmath13erg s@xmath6@xmath8 .",
    "this leads to zero flux in the blue side , and to a corrected flux density for the red half of @xmath14 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 . the total flux in the red side , over the interval [ 0 , 624 ] kms@xmath6 is then @xmath15 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 .",
    "the results are robust with respect to different choices in averaging the spectra .",
    "applying the same analysis to the unweighted mean spectrum ( rahmani et al panel 1 in their fig.1 ) we get similar numbers , a required upward correction of the zero level by @xmath16erg s@xmath6@xmath8 , and a total flux in the red side of @xmath17 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 .",
    "the errors here are purely statistical and do not take into account the uncertainty regarding the shape of the true flux density distribution .",
    "the flux value given here should systematically underestimate the true flux in several ways : we have ignored any flux in the blue peak , have raised the global continuum level only so far that the blue side is zero , and have limited ourselves to take into account only flux within [ 0 , 624 ] kms@xmath6 red - ward of the rest frame wavelength . if the emission profiles are similar to those of the brighter observed emitters detected by r08 ( or those of typical lyman break galaxies with detectable ly@xmath0 emission ) , these shortcomings may , however , be relatively unimportant at the level of accuracy achieved here .",
    "we emphasize that the above result is only a marginal detection .",
    "the method of stacking many low signal - to - noise spectra from the sdss still falls short by a factor 4 - 6 ( rahmani et al .",
    "erroneously give a factor 1.7 ) of the sensitivity reached by r08 in detecting individual ly@xmath0 emitters .",
    "much larger samples of dlas spectra ( or larger s / n of individual spectra ) will be required to match the r08 detection threshold .    finally , we would like to note that the selection criteria for the emitters in r08 and rahmani et al 2010 are rather different .",
    "the stacking of dla troughs by definition is sensitive to the flux from dlas host galaxies within 1.5 \" ( or at least a significant fraction of the flux for the less extended objects ) .",
    "the emitters of r08 were instead detected when part of their ly@xmath0 emission intersected a randomly positioned long slit .",
    "hi ionizing photons can be efficiently converted into ly@xmath0 at column densities below those characteristic of dlas ( e.g. , gould & weinberg 1996 ) and the ly@xmath0 can be scattered into the line - of - sight at even lower column densities ( e.g. barnes & haehnelt 2010 ) .",
    "some of the ly@xmath0 photons received from the r08 emitters should thus originate from regions with column densities characteristic of sub - dla or lls . in consequence , sometimes only a minor fraction of their total luminosity may be recorded by the resulting spectrum .",
    "most of these galaxies are still likely to host dlas , but their luminosities may ( in some cases ) be severely underestimated by only part of their light falling through the slit .",
    "note further that the redshift distribution of the rahmani et al .",
    "sample extends to higher redshift .",
    "a more precise quantitative comparison will need to take these observational differences into account .",
    "ly@xmath0 emitters associated with optically thick gaseous halos show asymmetric and mostly redshifted line profiles that , in aggregate , can produce a tilt of the flux level at the bottom of a dla absorption profile .",
    "we identify such a pattern in the stacked dlas spectrum presented by rahmani et al 2010 and estimate the flux emerging from the trough . taking into account the expected effects of resonant scattering on the spectral distribution of the emission and the probable over - subtraction of the sky background at the bottom of the profile , we arrive at a much higher ( but still only marginally significant ) estimate for the average ly@xmath0 flux than rahmani et al .",
    "our lower limit of ly@xmath0 flux emerging at the bottom of the stacked dlas profile ( clipped weighted mean ) gives @xmath15 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 .",
    "this value is within one standard deviation of the mean flux of the r08 emitters , @xmath18 erg s@xmath6@xmath8 , in reasonable agreement with that independent estimate .",
    "the average luminosity of ly@xmath0 emitters causing dlas in the line - of - sight to background qsos is similar or perhaps even somewhat larger than the average luminosity of faint ly@xmath0 emitters in the r08 sample .",
    "thus , contrary to the claim by rahmani et al , our present analysis lends additional support to the conclusions by rauch et al 2008 that their ly@xmath0 emitters largely overlap with the host galaxies of dlas .",
    "we acknowledge helpful discussions with george becker .",
    "ouchi , m. , shimasaku , k. , akiyama , m. , simpson , c. , saito , t. , ueda , y. , furusawa , h. , sekiguchi , k. , yamada , t. , kodama , t. , kashikawa , n. , okamura , s. , iye , m. , takata , t. , yoshida , mi . , yoshida , ma . , 2008 apjs , 176 , 301"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we demonstrate that the ly@xmath0 emission in the absorption troughs of a large sample of stacked damped ly@xmath0 absorption systems ( dlas ) presented by rahmani et al ( 2010 ) is consistent with the spectral profiles and luminosities of a recently detected population of faint ly@xmath0 emitters at @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> this result supports the suggestion that the faint emitters are to be identified with the host galaxies of dlas at these redshifts .    </S>",
    "<S> = -0.8 in    [ firstpage ]    galaxies : high redshift  quasars : absorption lines  galaxies : formation  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : dwarf  line : profiles  radiative transfer . </S>"
  ]
}