{
  "article_text": [
    "while around @xmath0 of sun - like stars surveyed harbor jovian - mass planets , only @xmath1 are orbited by so - called hot - jupiters with periods short - ward of @xmath2 days ( see reviews by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there appears to be a pile - up of hot jupiters around @xmath3 day orbital periods .",
    "this excess is genuine and has been confirmed by both radial velocity and transit surveys @xcite .",
    "outward of hot jupiters , there appears a deficit of gas giants with periods of @xmath4 to @xmath5 days ( the  period valley ;  * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "according to current theories of planet formation , hot jupiters could not have formed in situ , given the large stellar tidal field , high gas temperature , and low disk mass to be found so close to the star .",
    "instead , hot jupiters most likely formed beyond a few au and then migrated inward .",
    "candidate migration scenarios that have been proposed include protoplanetary disks , kozai migration by binary or planetary companions , and scattering with other planets in the system .",
    "while each of these mechanisms may have contributed to the hot jupiter population to some degree , the question remains as to which is the dominant one .",
    "the dominant mechanism has to explain a variety of observed correlations . in ",
    "[ sec : critical ] , we review some of these correlations and provide a critical assessment of the above three mechanisms .    in this work , we propose a fourth channel for producing hot jupiters , namely planet migration by secular chaos .",
    "secular chaos may arise in planetary systems that are well - spaced and are dominated by long - range secular interactions .",
    "a system of two non - coplanar planets can be chaotic , but only if their eccentricities and inclinations are of order unity @xcite .",
    "so in this contribution we focus on systems with three planets .",
    "the criterion for secular chaos is less stringent , and the character of secular chaos is more diffusive , differing from that of the two planet case .",
    "this diffusive type of secular chaos promotes energy equipartition between different secular degrees of freedom .",
    "the physics behind secular chaos is analyzed in detail in a companion paper @xcite , where we show that mercury , the innermost planet in our solar system , experiences a similar type of secular chaos .",
    "mercury may consequently be removed from the solar system @xcite .",
    "secular chaos tends to removes angular momentum in the inner most planet gradually , causing its pericenter to approach the star .",
    "tidal dissipation may then remove orbital energy from this planet , turning it into a hot jupiter .",
    "hot saturns or hot neptunes may also be produced similarly .",
    "such a migration mechanism , which we term `` secular migration , '' can reproduce a range of observations .",
    "it also predicts that in systems with hot planets , there are other giant planets roaming at larger distances .",
    "there is a sharp inner cut - off to the 3-day pile - up of hot jupiters .",
    "they appear to avoid the region inward of _ twice _ the roche radius @xcite , where the roche radius is the distance within which a planet would be tidally shredded .",
    "new data spanning two orders of magnitude in planetary masses ( and including planet radius measurements ) have strengthened this claim .",
    "there are only 5 known exceptions lying inward of twice the roche radius , and the rest mostly lie between twice and four times the roche radius .    hot jupiters appear to be less massive than more distant planets @xcite . for planets discovered with the radial velocity method ,",
    "close - in planets have projected masses ( @xmath6 ) less than twice jupiter s mass , excluding planets in multiple star systems . but",
    "numerous further out planets have @xmath7 ( * ? ? ?",
    "many hot jupiters have orbits that are misaligned with the spin of their host stars .",
    "the angle between the orbit normal of a transiting planet and the spin axis of its host star ( the stellar obliquity ) can be probed with the rossiter - mclaughlin ( r - m ) effect ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "planets were presumably born in a disk aligned with the stellar spin .",
    "therefore measurements of the present stellar obliquity provide a stringent constraint on the migration scenario .",
    "analysis of the first @xmath8 systems with r - m measurements found that the majority were consistent with perfect alignment , while a small minority were highly misaligned @xcite .",
    "however later analysis that included more systems ( @xmath9 in total ) found that most are misaligned , and many of these are even in retrograde orbits @xcite .",
    "the reason for this discrepancy is currently unclear .",
    "hot jupiters also tend to be alone , at least out to a few au . from radial velocity surveys , @xmath10 of planets",
    "are in multiple planet systems ( including ones with radial velocity trends , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while only 5 hot jupiters are ( hd 187123b , hip 14810b , ups andb , hat - p-13b and hd 217107b ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; i.e. fewer than @xmath0 of hot jupiters are known to have companions within a couple au .",
    "this relative deficit also shows up in the transit sample , where most attempts at detecting transit timing variations caused by close companions @xcite have been unsuccessful ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , except for , perhaps , @xcite .",
    "the successful migration scenario has to explain these and other observed correlations .",
    "there are two categories of migration scenarios .",
    "one is to migrate the planet within a gaseous disk ( disk migration ) .",
    "the other is to generate a high eccentricity in the planet , bringing it sufficiently close to the star that tidal dissipation circularizes and shrinks its orbit into that of a hot jupiter .",
    "the latter category includes kozai migration , planet - planet scattering , as well as the secular chaos that we propose in this work .",
    "we first examine disk migration , a theory that pre - dated the discovery of hot jupiters @xcite .",
    "it asserts that the viscous protoplanetary disk carries the planet inward @xcite .",
    "the presence of mean - motion resonance pairs among observed planets seems to support this scenario .",
    "however , to produce the observed pile - up of hot jupiters at around 3 day orbital periods , the inward migration has to be halted . as discussed by @xcite ,",
    "this could be achieved if the disks are truncated by the stellar magnetosphere at a radius that corresponds to twice the planet orbital period .",
    "disks are likely truncated at the co - rotation radius , where the orbital period of the disk material equals the spin period of the star .",
    "the observed distribution of rotation periods of pre - main sequence stars appear to be bimodal @xcite with location of the long period peaks varying from 4 to 8 days for different clusters .",
    "this could be consistent with the period distribution of hot jupiters .",
    "it is also plausible that hot jupiters thus migrated would tend to be lower in mass , although that has yet to be shown .",
    "a difficulty with this scenario is that it should produce planets whose orbit normals are aligned with the stellar spin axis ( for an opposite view , however , see * ? ? ?",
    "in addition , it remains to be argued why hot jupiters rarely have close companions ( within a few au ) if they are migrated inward by powerful disks .",
    "and there is no natural explanation in this scenario for the avoidance of twice the roche radius .",
    "we now turn our attention to planet - planet scattering .",
    "first proposed by @xcite , it asserts that close encounters between planets can induce extreme eccentricity in one of them @xcite , which may then be tidally circularized to form a hot jupiter .",
    "such a theory reproduces the observed eccentricity distribution of ( non - hot ) extra - solar planets that have @xmath11 @xcite , as well as the observed close - packed nature of pairs @xcite .",
    "it may also account for the high inclinations of hot jupiters .",
    "however , it is unclear if the initial condition of a compact and highly unstable planetary system as required by this theory is applicable to planets emerging from a gaseous disk @xcite .",
    "also , @xcite find that the inner planets tend to be the most massive ones , contrary to the observed correlations .",
    "furthermore , since scatterings are sudden , it is difficult for tides , a slow process , to halt scattered planets @xcite .",
    "this theory also predicts readily detectable outer planets that are responsible for scattering and producing the observed hot jupiters .",
    "they are , however , not observed .",
    "lastly , we comment on kozai migration . first proposed by @xcite",
    ", it asserts that a highly inclined companion star can induce kozai oscillations @xcite in the planet , gradually exciting the planet to a high enough eccentricity that it approaches the central star , whereupon tidal dissipation circularizes it into a hot jupiter .",
    "while it succeeds in producing hot jupiters that are highly inclined with respect to stellar spin , including ones that are retrograde in projection @xcite , and is likely responsible in a number of specific cases ( such as hd 80606b * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it does not preferentially yield low - mass hot jupiters , and its effectiveness may be hampered by the presence of other planets in the system @xcite .",
    "furthermore , population studies establish that only @xmath12 of hot jupiters can be explained by kozai migration due to binary companions @xcite .",
    "mechanisms that rely on eccentricity excitation , such as kozai migration or planet - planet scattering , naturally produce hot jupiters that tend to avoid the region inside of twice the roche radius @xcite .",
    "however , only kozai migration can naturally explain the 3-day pile - up , as the eccentricity rise in this case is gradual and planets are accumulated at the right location .",
    "the secular chaos mechanism described in this paper also leads to gradual eccentricity excitation and can therefore inherit much of the success of the kozai mechanism .",
    "the noteworthy simulations of @xcite combine planet scattering with kozai oscillations . starting from very compact systems of three equal - mass planets ,",
    "their planets frequently scatter one another onto highly inclined orbits , which in some cases triggers kozai oscillations .",
    "their particular set - up yields hot jupiters @xmath13 of time , with orbital inclinations that are roughly isotropic .",
    "the production of hot jupiters by inter - planet kozai oscillations has also been studied in @xcite .",
    "such a mechanism appears promising if eccentricities and inclinations can reach order - unity values .",
    "secular interactions are a simplified version of interplanetary interactions , where one can account for the forces between two planets by calculating the torque between two mass wires .",
    "the latter are made by spreading the mass of a planet along its orbit , weighted by the amount of time it spends at that segment .",
    "this describes the dynamics adequately as long as the planets have no close - encounters and do not lie near mean - motion resonances .",
    "secular interactions allow planets to exchange angular momentum but not energy .",
    "so planets semi - major axes are unchanged .",
    "the long - term evolution of the inner solar system , for instance , is primarily secular in nature @xcite .    under certain circumstances , secular interactions",
    "can gradually raise the eccentricity of the inner planet to near unity , even when the initial eccentricity are as low as that expected of planets emerging out of dissipative gaseous protoplanetary disks .",
    "this is the work of chaos .",
    "when planet eccentricities and inclinations are small , secular dynamics is fully described by a linear summation of secular eigenmodes that are independently oscillating , abiding by the so - called laplace - lagrange theory ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the multi - periodic variations in the eccentricity of the earth are largely caused by the interference between the eigenmodes .",
    "these have been claimed to drive climate changes @xcite .",
    "when eccentricities and inclinations rise , linear eigenmodes no longer describe the dynamics adequately .",
    "nonlinear effects can occur .",
    "one example is the appearance of nonlinear secular resonances , including new fixed points and separatrices that are not present in the linear system @xcite .",
    "a second is the chaotic motion associated with the overlap of neighboring resonances @xcite .    for a system of two planets ,",
    "strong nonlinearity and chaos requires eccentricities and/or inclinations of order unity .",
    "if the two planets are coplanar , energy and angular momentum conservation constrain the motion to be regular and quasi - periodic .",
    "but if the planets are sufficiently inclined , the kozai resonance can be triggered , leading to instability and/or chaos .",
    "this requires mutual inclinations @xmath14 if the initial eccentricities are very large , and @xmath15 for more modest eccentricities @xcite .",
    "for instance , for the inner two planets listed in table [ tab : initial ] to interact to produce @xmath16 , a mutual inclination of @xmath17 is necessary .",
    "for a system of three or more planets , however , the threshold for chaos is much reduced . moreover",
    ", the nature of the secular chaos is different . in the two planet case ,",
    "chaotic systems are quickly unstable on the secular timescale , @xmath18 myr for typical parameters @xcite .",
    "by contrast , in the multi - planet case a multitude of resonances can overlap .",
    "this leads to a gentler type of chaos , with the orbital elements gradually diffusing over many secular times , while the values of the eccentricities and inclinations remain modest .",
    "an example of the latter type of behavior is the inner solar system , where chaos is prevalent even at eccentricity / inclination levels of a few percent , and the timescale of the evolution is @xmath19 gyr @xcite .    in the following ,",
    "we investigate a planetary system with three mildly eccentric and inclined planets to demonstrate the appearance of this new type of secular chaos  new , that is , in the context of extra - solar planetary systems .",
    "lcccccc pl . & mass ( @xmath20 ) & a(au ) & e & inc ( deg ) & @xmath21 ( deg ) & @xmath22 ( deg ) +   + @xmath23 & @xmath24 & @xmath23 & @xmath25 & @xmath26 & @xmath27 & @xmath28 + @xmath29 & @xmath30 & @xmath31 & @xmath32 & @xmath33 & @xmath34 & @xmath27 + @xmath3 & @xmath35 & @xmath36 & @xmath37 & @xmath38 & @xmath27 & @xmath28 + [ tab : initial ]    * initial conditions : * parameters for the example system we investigate are listed in table [ tab : initial ] .",
    "the inclinations are measured relative to the system s invariable plane .    for the semi - major axes , we space the planets sufficiently far apart and away from any major mean - motion resonances ( orbital period ratios are : @xmath39 ) .",
    "the choice for the masses is somewhat arbitrary , except for our choice that the innermost planet be the least massive , which facilitates its excitation .",
    "the somewhat odd - looking choices for the other orbital elements place most of the secular energy ( i.e. , angular momentum deficit ) in the outer planets , or more specifically in the secular eigenmodes associated with those planets ( more detail in  [ sec : analy ] ) .",
    "we find that the occurrence of secular chaos is not particularly sensitive to our choices for these values , as long as the system has sufficient amount of angular momentum deficit (  [ sec : analy ] ) .",
    "* numerics : * this simulation was performed using the swift symplectic integrator @xcite , supplemented with routines that model tidal dissipation in the planet and in the star , precessions due to general relativistic effects , and precessions due to rotational and tidal bulges on both the inner planet and the star .",
    "details are presented in the appendix .",
    "these effects are essential for determining the final positions of the hot jupiters . numerical precision at extremely high eccentricities is of concern .",
    "so we adopt a time - step that is @xmath40 of the inner planet s orbital period ( 1 yr ) for most of the integration , but switch it to a value @xmath5 times shorter whenever the periastron of the inner planet reaches inward of @xmath41 au from the star .",
    "we find that such a change of time - step , even though it breaks the time - symmetry of the symplectic integrator , is required to maintain satisfactory energy and angular momentum conservation . the fractional energy error , integrated over an episode of extremely high eccentricities ( which typically lasts @xmath42 yrs ) , remains below @xmath43 as long as @xmath44 , sufficiently small for our problem at hand .",
    "the angular momentum error is much smaller .",
    "* results ( figs . [",
    "fig : textbook_case1]-[fig : largeee ] ) : * our fiducial 3-planet system is chaotic due to secular interactions . the random exchanges of angular momentum ( but not energy ) among planets induce large fluctuations in their eccentricities and inclinations .",
    "the orbit of the inner planet , starting from initial values of @xmath45 and @xmath46 , by @xmath47 myrs has diffused to @xmath48 and @xmath49 .",
    "it has lost almost all of its initial angular momentum to the outer planets ; equivalently , it has stolen some of the outer planets angular momentum deficit .",
    "we find that the orbital elements of the inner planet undergo a random walk to most of the phase space allowed by the total energy and angular momentum . however , there are a few forbidden regions .",
    "the most important one is the region of very high eccentricity .",
    "the inner planet prudently avoids the roche zone .",
    "this occurs because when the pericentre of the inner planet ( @xmath50 ) approaches the star to within a few stellar radii , finite - size effects ( quadrupole precessions associated with the tidal and rotational deformations on the planet and the star , respectively ) , as well as general relativity , combine to suppress the secular forcing .",
    "were it not for these additional precessional effects , the inner planet could be driven to tidal disruption and merger with the central star .",
    "but as it is , the inner planet stays within @xmath51 , or @xmath52 au in our system .",
    "we explain this in the following .    due to secular interactions with other planets , the inner planet s longitude of pericentre precesses at the rate @xmath53 where @xmath54 is the mass of the perturbing planet , and @xmath55 is the ratio of the semi - major axes .",
    "this is disturbed by the prograde precession induced by the close - range forces . comparing the orbit averaged rates @xcite for the four types of quadrupole precessions and for gr , for the following parameters : a jupiter - like planet with a spin period of @xmath3 days , orbiting at @xmath56 au around a sun - like star that is spinning with a period of @xmath4 days , we conclude that the tidal bulge raised by the star on the planet dominates the precession at high eccentricities with the gr effect following not far behind .",
    "the orbit - averaged precession due to the tidal quadrupole on the planet is @xmath57 where @xmath58 is the tidal love number of the planet , taken to be @xmath59 , and @xmath60 , @xmath61 , @xmath62 and @xmath63 are the planet s mean - motion , eccentricity , semi - major axis and radius , respectively .",
    "since this rate rises steeply as the planet approaches the star , we expect that the secular driving is arrested when the planet s pericentre reaches inward of @xmath64 this stalling radius is independent of the planet s initial position ( @xmath62 ) , weakly dependent on the planetary and stellar masses , as well as the planet spacing in the system ( i.e. , the value of @xmath65 ) .",
    "it does , however , scale with the size of the planet linearly . since jupiter - like planets have a fairly uniform radius , the stalling distance spans a narrow range for a wide range of system parameters .    when the orbit of such a planet is tidally circularized , the final semi - major axis is moved to twice its stalling radius , @xmath66 au .",
    ") is roughly conserved during tidal dissipation .",
    "so the post - circularized @xmath67 is related to the pre - circularized @xmath62 via @xmath68 . ]",
    "this explains why the hot jupiters are piled up at the distance they are observed today ( fig .",
    "[ fig : largeee ] ) .",
    "the strength of the _ dissipative _ tide can also have an affect on the final orbit .",
    "even if the above precessional effects are absent , the progression of the inner planet toward the star will be halted by the dissipative tide , albeit at a somewhat closer distance .",
    "for secularly interacting systems , there is an important conserved quantity , the angular momentum deficit ( amd , e.g. * ? ? ? * ) @xmath69 where @xmath70 is the number of planets , @xmath71 the circular angular momentum of planet @xmath72 , @xmath73 , @xmath74 is its inclination relative to the invariable plane ( normal to the total angular momentum ) . since the total angular momentum is conserved , and secular interactions do not modify the orbital energies ( @xmath75 constant ) , the amd is conserved during secular interactions . for circular , coplanar systems ,",
    "the amd is zero , and the amd increases with increasing @xmath76 s and @xmath77 s .    here",
    ", we analyze our numerical results to illustrate the condition for hot jupiter formation .",
    "we find that a sufficient amount of amd is requisite .",
    "firstly , the value of amd limits the maximum eccentricity and inclination an individual planet can attain (  [ subsec : maximum ] ) .",
    "secondly , only when amd is large enough , can it be shared among different secular eigenmodes ( equipartition ) , ultimately driving the inner planet to extreme orbits .",
    "we call this sharing process * ` secular chaos'*. we illustrate the deep analogy between amd and kinetic energy in a thermodynamical system in  [ subsec : amd ] , and analyze the diffusive and chaotic nature of the energy sharing process in  [ subsec : amddiffu ] & [ subsec : outcome ] .",
    "we also briefly look at the issue of amd generation by mean - motion resonances in the system (  [ subsec : mmr ] ) .      to be propelled into the hot jupiter status , the inner planet has to reach so close to the star that tidal dissipation operates .",
    "let this be roughly @xmath78 au .",
    "if all amd can be transferred to the inner planet , this condition translates into @xmath79 .",
    "\\label{eq : amdthreshold0}\\ ] ] so a planet that is closer to the star and lower in mass needs less amd to become a hot jupiter . from now on we measure amd in units of the circular angular momentum of the inner planet ( @xmath80 ) .",
    "the above condition translates into @xmath81 for @xmath82 au .",
    "so to produce a coplanar hot jupiter ( @xmath83 ) , @xmath84 , while a retrograde hot jupiter would require @xmath85 .",
    "fortunately , this is not difficult to satisfy  the outer planets can carry plenty of amd even at low values of eccentricity / inclination .",
    "our example system has @xmath86 .",
    "retrograde hot jupiters can potentially be produced .",
    "the amd is for a secularly interacting system what kinetic energy ( or temperature ) is for a thermodynamical system .",
    "this analogy runs deep , as we shall show here .",
    "we introduce the complex poincar variables @xmath87 and @xmath88 ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xmath89 where @xmath90 is the longitude of periapse , and @xmath91 the longitude of the ascending node . at low eccentricities and inclinations , @xmath92 , and @xmath93 .",
    "the amd may then be recast as @xcite @xmath94 the resemblance of amd to kinetic energy becomes obvious in this form : while the `` inertial mass '' for each planet corresponds to its circular angular momentum @xmath71 , the @xmath95 pair corresponds to its `` velocity . ''",
    "when amd is zero , the system will remain coplanar and circular and stable forever . at low amd ,",
    "secular interactions lead to periodic exchanges of angular momentum between planets .",
    "this , however , is not related to the equipartition process .",
    "the dynamics can be decomposed into that of linear secular eigenmodes . and the periodic variations in orbital elements are caused by the interference between these modes ( the so - called laplace - lagrange theory ) .",
    "each linear mode oscillates at its characteristic eigenfrequency with constant amplitude and phase .",
    "let the eigenvectors be @xmath96 and @xmath97 .",
    "they are orthonormal after each component is pre - multiplied by @xmath98 , i.e. , @xmath99 , where @xmath100 is the kronecker delta ; the overall phase of each eigenvector is chosen so that all components are real .",
    "projecting the complex orbital elements onto these eigenvectors , @xmath101 , we can re - express amd as @xmath102 each eigenmode resembles one degree of freedom in a thermodynamical system , and the amd resembles the total energy . in the linear solution , if one mode is initially assigned all the amd , it will retain it forever . as a result , each planetary orbit moves within a certain bound as given by the initial condition .    as",
    "amd rises , energy transfer ( or really , amd transfer ) becomes non - periodic and chaotic .",
    "orbital elements are allowed to wander as in a random - walk diffusion .",
    "this may ultimately lead to amd equipartition between different secular modes ( different degrees of freedom in the system ) , as well as approximate amd equipartition between different planets .",
    "the least massive or the closest planet has the smallest inertia .",
    "amd equipartition implies that such a planet can reach very high eccentricity and/or inclination , providing the condition for hot jupiter formation .",
    "diffusion of energy in a weakly nonlinear system is an extensively studied subject , starting from the famous fermi - pasta - ulam ( fpu ) problem @xcite . in the following , we present evidence for amd diffusion in our example system , and illustrate the criterion for amd diffusion .",
    "one line of evidence comes from the amplitudes of the secular eigenmodes .",
    "the initial conditions chosen in table [ tab : initial ] correspond to deliberately depositing almost all amd into the secular modes associated with the outer planets , and little in the eccentricity mode associated with the inner planet .",
    "there are three advantages to this .",
    "first , amd transfer between modes occurs on secular or longer timescales .",
    "so for the first tens of millions of years , all three planets have small @xmath76 s and @xmath77 s , as appropriate for planets emerging from a protoplanetary disk .",
    "second , by initializing the inner eccentricity mode with low amplitude , we are furthest away from our preferred end state , when this mode acquires enough amd to place the inner planet on a @xmath103 orbit and a tidal encounter with the star .",
    "third , by concentrating amd into only a few modes , we can best observe the approach towards equipartition .",
    ".frequencies and amplitudes ( initial and final ) of the five linear secular eigenmodes . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : initial_mode ]    table [ tab : initial_mode ] and figure [ fig : diffusion ] show that after @xmath104 myrs of evolution ( right before tidal dissipation sets in ) , the amd of mode @xmath23 has grown diffusively by a factor of @xmath105 , while the total amd @xmath106 remains constant .",
    "the normalization of @xmath107 in table [ tab : initial_mode ] is such that the circular angular momentum for the inner most planet ( at @xmath23 au ) has the numerical value of one .",
    "amd equipartition is reached in @xmath108 yrs .    a second way to quantify diffusion",
    "is by tracing the `` spectral entropy '' @xcite @xmath109 where @xmath110 is the fractional energy ( amd ) in mode @xmath65 .",
    "this entropy increases from its minimum value of @xmath28 ( when one mode has all the amd ) to the maximum value of @xmath111 as the system diffuses toward energy equipartition .",
    "spectral entropy is analogous to entropy in a thermodynamical system .",
    "[ fig : diffusion ] shows that for our example system , amd is gradually shared among different eccentricity and inclination modes , and the spectral entropy rises toward @xmath112 over a @xmath113 year timescale .",
    "a third way to observe diffusion is to plot the probability distribution function of @xmath61 , following @xcite , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : threepdf ] . for our example system",
    ", @xmath61 is broadly distributed from @xmath28 to @xmath23 , with its distribution roughly described by a rice function @xcite , @xmath114 where @xmath115 is the modified bessel function of the first kind with order 0 .",
    "this is the expected distribution for @xmath116 if @xmath117 with @xmath118 and @xmath119 being two independent gaussian variables with mean @xmath120 and variance @xmath121 .    what is required for amd diffusion to occur ?",
    "we find that there must be a sufficient amount of amd in the system .",
    "for instance , when integrating the example system , but with all secular mode amplitudes reduced by a factor of @xmath29 ( total amd reduced to @xmath122 , the ` twice - lower ' curve in fig . [",
    "fig : threepdf ] ) , or when flattening all orbits into coplanar ones ( amd@xmath123 , the ` coplanar ' curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : threepdf ] ) , we find that amd diffusion is largely suppressed .",
    "while amd allows @xmath61 to reach @xmath124 ( ` twice - lower ' ) and @xmath125 ( ` coplanar ' ) , diffusion is only able to bring @xmath61 to @xmath126 and @xmath124 , respectively .",
    "motion is either largely quasi - periodic or weakly chaotic .",
    "this is in contrast to the example case where the inner planet explores phase space and reaches its maximum eccentricities and inclinations .",
    "why does the amount of amd make a difference ? the interested readers are referred to @xcite for detailed quantitative analysis .",
    "here we only comment that to allow amd diffusion , chaos is essential , and chaos is driven by the overlap of resonances @xcite .",
    "the resonances of relevance are high order secular resonances .",
    "their widths increase sharply with mode amplitude .",
    "a lowering of the mode amplitudes by a mere factor of @xmath29 can shrink the resonance width by a large factor .",
    "this qualitatively explains why the twice - lower case is not chaotic . in a coplanar system ,",
    "all resonances that involve the inclination modes are ineffective , and with fewer resonances to drive chaos , they dynamics become much more regular .",
    "given the chaotic nature of the dynamics , the final state of the system depends sensitively on initial conditions . in our example",
    "case , we obtain a hot jupiter with @xmath127 au and an inclination of @xmath128 at the end of the 300 myrs integration ( fig . [",
    "fig : largeee ] ) . in another case ,",
    "modified from the previous one in energy and angular momentum by about @xmath129 at time @xmath130 myrs ( just before the onset of tidal dissipation ) , we find that the inner planet narrowly avoids being tidally circularized into a hot jupiter straight - away , and is able to return its amd to the outer planets .",
    "the eventual hot jupiter thus formed has @xmath131 au and an inclination of @xmath132 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : difoutcome ] ) .",
    "our other experiments show that in some cases the tidal dissipation process is gradual and occurs over many episodes of high eccentricities",
    ". there could be an extended period during which the planet destined to become a hot jupiter is temporarily parked at an intermediate distance ( e.g. , @xmath133 au ) with large eccentricities and inclinations .",
    "they may help to explain the presence of warm jupiters.    with a tidal quality factor for the planet of @xmath134 , the example case sees most of the orbital binding energy deposited inside the planet within a couple myrs , with an averaged ( over 1 myrs timescale ) heating rate of @xmath135 , @xmath136 times higher than the self - luminosity of a @xmath137 jovian planet .",
    "the total tidal energy deposited is @xmath138 , again about @xmath139 times larger than the gravitational binding energy of the planet .",
    "this has the potential of disrupting the planet unless the heat is deposited in regions of short thermal time",
    ". however , if the tidal dissipation process is more gradual , the mode of heat deposition can be drastically different , potentially impacting on the final sizes of hot jupiters .",
    "mean - motion resonances ( mmrs ) , not to be confused with secular resonances , can also affect secular chaos .",
    "this is true even if the mmr s are of high order . because mmrs can change the semi - major axes , the dynamical system has more degrees of freedom and can explore different parts of phase space , potentially enhancing diffusion .",
    "we experiment by placing the outer two planets near the @xmath140 mmr ( 6 au and 9.52au ) .",
    "we find that diffusion proceeds quickly even with an amd as low as @xmath141 , a value that corresponds to our twice - lower system ( which shows regular behaviour ) .",
    "but when we move the outer planet outward by a mere @xmath24 au , the system behaves regularly again .",
    "this confirms that , at least in this case , mmr s can be responsible for facilitating amd equipartition .",
    "in addition , even for systems which are not initially next to any lower order mmr s ( such as our example case ) , as eccentricity and inclination rise to order unity values , low order mmr s are activated . for the case shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : textbook_case1 ] , the semi - major axis of the inner planet undergoes increasingly large variations at late stages of the evolution , perhaps indicating mmr s at work .",
    "accompanying this is the non - conservation of amd .",
    "are mmr s a significant source of amd ?",
    "if so , they could allow the inner planet to reach a higher eccentricity than allowed by the initial amd of the system .",
    "this intriguing possibility deserves to be explored .",
    "another possible connection between secular chaos and mmr s exists . in systems which are initially more compact than our example system , but not compact enough to have immediate close encounters , secular chaos increases the eccentricity of inner planets , allowing mmr s to function at later stages , leading finally to planet scattering well after the protoplanetary disks have dissipated .",
    "we have demonstrated that secular chaos can produce hot jupiters .",
    "the remaining central issue is how prevalent this mechanism is .",
    "is it prevalent enough to explain the observed frequency of hot jupiters ?",
    "unfortunately , since we do not know the initial configurations of planetary systems , it is difficult to predict the frequency of hot jupiter production by secular chaos .",
    "we also face the problem that a systematic survey of the relevant parameter spaces is numerically expensive , at least using our current technique of n - body integration .",
    "so in the following , we discuss qualitative predictions based on our present understanding of secular chaos .",
    "the predictions are ranked roughly in decreasing order of certainty .    1 .   a pile - up of hot jupiters around three - day orbital periods .",
    "+ the characteristic stalling at @xmath3-day orbital periods that we observe in our simulations is explained by a combination of tidal precession and tidal dissipation ( both due to tides on the planet ) .",
    "precessions by other close - range forces ( gr , rotational quadrupole ) are less important .",
    "the tidal precession stalls the rise of the eccentricity to about a few times the roche radii , and tidal dissipation finishes the job by circularizing the highly eccentric orbit to that of a hot jupiter .",
    "location of the pile - up remains largely unchanged even if the rate of tidal dissipation is orders of magnitude weaker .",
    "this conclusion also applies to kozai migration , another secular migration process .",
    "2 .   hot jupiters are lower in mass compared to other giant planets .",
    "+ this prediction stems from amd conservation . to become a hot jupiter",
    ", the inner planet has to reach an eccentricity so high that @xmath78 au . for a given amount of amd , a lower mass inner planet can reach a higher eccentricity .",
    "compared to giant planets at larger distances , there is a clear deficit of massive hot jupiters @xcite .",
    "kozai migration , in contrast , has no mass preferences @xcite .",
    "3 .   hot jupiters have no companion within a few au , but have companions roaming at larger distances .",
    "+ on the one hand , the high eccentricity episode the inner planet undergoes before it is tidally captured implies that hot jupiters have no companions within a few au .",
    "this agrees with observations where hot jupiters appear to be strikingly alone @xcite , and where attempts at measuring transit timing variations have repeatedly turned up empty - handed . on the other hand ,",
    "secular chaos requires driving by other giant planets .",
    "they should be roaming at large distances ( outside a few au ) and remain to be detected  some may have already shown up as radial velocity residuals in hot jupiter systems @xcite .",
    "there is also the intriguing possibility that one of the companions is a binary star .",
    "4 .   frequency of hot jupiters should rise with stellar age .",
    "+ being a diffusive process , secular chaos operates on timescales comparable to or longer than the secular precession timescale .",
    "the latter , for our fiducial system , is of order @xmath142 yrs . as such",
    ", we expect stars that are within a few tens of million years after their disk dispersal should have a lower hot jupiter fraction than stars that are a few gyrs old .",
    "this prediction should be quantified by extensive numerical simulations that start with reasonably realistic planetary configurations .",
    "orbits of hot jupiters could be strongly misaligned with stellar spin .",
    "+ we will discuss the planet inclination in  [ subsec : obliquity ] .",
    "if secular chaos is responsible for producing hot jupiters , this has a number of implications for planetary systems at large .    1 .",
    "a large number of planetary systems should have 3 or more giant planets on ( mildly ) eccentric , inclined orbits .",
    "+ only systems that have sufficient amd can make hot jupiters .",
    "hot jupiters may be the tip of the iceberg in terms of their system amd values .",
    "if so , then most giant planets we know of should reside in systems with three or more giant planets .",
    "there should still be residual amd in the outer planets .",
    "warm jupiters could arise from secular chaos and their orbit could be misaligned with respect to the stellar spin .",
    "+ we call giant planets at a few tenths of an au ` warm jupiters , ' for the reason that they are at intermediate locations between hot jupiters ( @xmath143 au ) and cold jupiters ( @xmath144 a couple au ) .",
    "+ among those that fail to make hot jupiters , there may be warm jupiters ",
    "planets which have suffered some degree of tidal dissipation but have yet to be tidally captured into hot jupiters .",
    "these planets are temporarily intercepted from their inward spiral by interactions with outer planets that can inject into their orbits a fresh boost of angular momentum .",
    "eventually , these planets would be dragged in to become hot jupiters , but while they are in their temporary parking space , their orbits could have high inclinations as well as high eccentricities .",
    "observationally , there is a ` period valley ' at these distances , indicating that perhaps the warm jupiter phase is relatively short - lived . measurements of spin - orbit angle for these planets will be useful constraints .",
    "3 .   even for systems where the inner planets can not reach high enough eccentricity to be captured into hot jupiters",
    ", secular chaos may have observable consequences .",
    "+ starting from mildly eccentric , inclined orbits , inner planets in planetary systems may gradually extract amd from outer planets .",
    "the long - term eccentricity and inclination distributions for these planets approach the rice distribution ( fig .",
    "[ fig : threepdf ] ) .",
    "this reduces to a rayleigh distribution when the centroid is much smaller than the variance .",
    "[ fig : edist ] shows the observed eccentricity distribution of jovian planets : it may be represented by a rayleigh distribution with variance @xmath145 .",
    "if future rossiter - mclaughlin measurements provide us with a similar distribution for the orbital inclinations , this will be a strong proof in favour of secular chaos .",
    "( the solid histogram ) . the lower limit of 0.1 au is selected to preclude planets that have undergone significant tidal circularization .",
    "the dotted line is the rayleigh distribution with @xmath146 .",
    "the sub - population of more massive planets with @xmath147 are represented by the dashed histogram .",
    "it appears that more massive planets have a hotter distribution . ]",
    "+ if secular chaos is largely responsible for the observed planet eccentricities , one expects that , for the same amount of amd available in the system , lighter planets in general reach higher eccentricities .",
    "however , data ( fig .",
    "[ fig : edist ] ) portray an inverse correlation  more massive ( @xmath148 ) planets have a hotter eccentricity distribution .",
    "this may be interpreted as due to pollution from systems undergoing kozai cycles induced by stellar companions , which is capable of exciting eccentricities even in very massive planets .",
    "this interpretation requires that massive planets occur preferentially in binary systems .",
    "4 .   secular chaos can stabilize planetary systems .",
    "+ in our simulation ( fig .",
    "[ fig : textbook_case1 ] ) , the tidally captured hot jupiter removes amd from the system , stabilizing the outer planetary systems as a result .",
    "this could be a generic process in organizing planetary systems on long timescales .",
    "can secular chaos explain hot neptunes or hot earths ?",
    "+ if the inner planet has a lower mass , it experiences a weaker near - range precession due to its smaller tidal and j2 moments .",
    "[ eq : bstall ] predicts that a neptune - like planet ( @xmath149 , and @xmath150 ) , driven to chaos by secular forcing of giant planets at a few au , could be stalled at periapse distance @xmath151 , and hence it would be circularized at @xmath152 .",
    "this distance would be approximately doubled if it is forced by other neptune - mass planets , while a more inflated planet would also be stalled at a greater distance .",
    "hot neptunes thus produced will tend to have a broader pile - up than hot jupiters , because the masses of the perturbers can extend over a large range .",
    "such a mechanism could explain some of the observed hot neptunes  for instance , the hd 125612 system where a hot neptune is accompanied by two jupiter - like planets at much larger distances @xcite .",
    "+ @xcite noted that @xmath153 of low mass close - in planets ( with @xmath154 ) have detected planetary companions .",
    "this differs from the hot jupiter case .",
    "it likely relates to the lower requirement for the planetary spacing when the inner planet is less massive .",
    "+ an earth - like planet , on the other hand , will not be stalled at large enough distances to avoid roche - lobe overflow .",
    "secular chaos is an unlikely agent for making hot earths , especially considering that the tidal damping time for an earth - like planet at @xmath155 au exceeds a hubble time .",
    "the final inclination of the inner planet deserves an in - depth discussion .",
    "@xcite found that a majority of transiting planets have their orbits aligned with the stellar spin .",
    "however , that majority was quickly weakened by a slew of misaligned systems @xcite .",
    "the current situation is unclear , partly due to small number statistics , though a correlation between stellar obliquity and stellar spectral type has been noted @xcite .    our example system ( fig .",
    "[ fig : textbook_case1 ] ) produces a hot jupiter with an orbit inclined by @xmath128 from the invariable plane of the planetary system , while its near - identical twin yields a hot jupiter with an inclination of @xmath132 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : difoutcome ] ) . secular chaos could in principle drive the inner planet to inclinations between @xmath28 and @xmath156 relative to the invariable plane ( fig .",
    "[ fig : e1_inc1 ] ) , given the amount of amd in this system . to demonstrate this",
    ", we turn - off tidal dissipation in our example integration , and evolve the fiducial system for @xmath157 myr .",
    "the eccentricity and inclination phase - space traversed by the inner planet is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : e1_inc1 ] . within the constraint of amd conservation",
    ", the planet is able to diffusively reach high eccentricity , with both prograde and retrograde orbits .",
    "the final inclination for the hot jupiter then depends on chance . in fig .",
    "[ fig : e1_inc1 ] , we also display the distribution of inclinations whenever @xmath158 , as a proxy for the final inclinations of hot jupiters .",
    "we find that retrograde orbits represent a few percent of the total .",
    "the preponderance of prograde orbits is related to the prograde initial condition .",
    "this result is specific to our example system and is relative to the invariable plane .",
    "the invariable plane does not necessarily coincide with the stellar equatorial plane  the relative angle is only @xmath159 in the solar system , but it can be large elsewhere .",
    "hot jupiters , while representing only a small fraction of all known extra - solar planets , demand special attention .",
    "they are most at odds with planet formation theory ; they are detected disproportionately in radial velocity and transit surveys ; and they are most accessible to characterization . their rarity may indicate that their formation requires extreme circumstances .",
    "however , they may teach us much about the general conditions of planetary systems .",
    "hot jupiters are piled up around 3-day orbital periods , with rapid cut - offs both inward and outward of this distance ; they tend to be less massive than more distant planets ; many of them have orbits that are misaligned relative to the stellar spin ; and they are remarkably anti - social in having few detected companions . in this work , we show that most of these characteristics can be explained if hot jupiters are produced by secular chaos .",
    "these planets , originally located at @xmath160 au , acquire amd from planets that are further out in the system . the outer planets can be mildly eccentric and/or inclined .",
    "but the same amd produces much greater eccentricities and inclinations when it is transported to an inner planet , especially if the inner planet is less massive than the outer ones .",
    "the extreme high eccentricity allows the inner planet to reach inward of a few stellar radii and be tidally ensnared by the central star into a hot jupiter .",
    "we find that the criterion for hot jupiter production is a sufficient amount of amd .",
    "only 5 hot jupiters have known planetary companions , and these companions are typically eccentric and may have contributed to secular chaos .",
    "we note that the hot jupiter ( at @xmath161 au ) in the ups and system , where two other massive planets orbit at @xmath162 and @xmath163 au , with eccentricities @xmath164 and @xmath165 respectively , may well be produced by the secular chaos presented here . this possibility is further boosted by the recent finding that the outer two planets inclinations are misaligned by @xmath166 from each other @xcite .",
    "similarly , the retrograde hot jupiter in wasp-8b @xcite is in a stellar system including an m - star companion at @xmath167 au .",
    "moreover , the radial velocity trend indicates a companion at distance @xmath168 that is more massive than @xmath169 .",
    "this could also be a hot jupiter produced by secular chaos , with the m - star acting as the third planet .",
    "hot neptunes may also be formed via secular migration .",
    "however , hot earths are different .",
    "it is not that earth - like planets could not undergo secular chaos , but that once they do , they can not be stalled at a safe enough distance to avoid being swallowed by the central star .",
    "secular chaos has also been found to be responsible for instability in the inner solar system @xcite .",
    "we speculate that secular chaos may be a frequent phenomenon in planetary systems .",
    "it may help to excite inner planets to higher eccentricities or inclinations .",
    "if these planets are removed , the remaining planetary systems may be stabilized for a time comparable to the system age .",
    "the success of this theory depends on two unknown factors .",
    "one is the amount of initial amd in the system .",
    "the other is the typical configuration of planetary systems when emerging out of the protoplanetary disk .",
    "it also needs to be demonstrated solidly that secular chaos can lead to a large fraction of retrograde hot jupiters .",
    "observationally , if not only hot planets , but also warm or cold planets can be shown to have significant orbital inclinations relative to the spin of their host stars , this would boost the case for the ubiquity of secular chaos .",
    "future rossiter - mclaughlin measurements should be extended to transiting planets at large distances .",
    "we thank peter goldreich , jeremy goodman , norm murray , daniel fabrycky , scott tremaine , eiichiro kokubo and doug lin for discussions .",
    "we both enjoyed the hospitality of kiaa beijing where part of this work is performed .",
    "yw further acknowledges the nserc funding and a caltech sabbatical stay .",
    "lastly , we thank m. duncan and h. levison for the use of their swift package .                    , s. , renner , s. , barge , p. , agol , e. , aigrain , s. , alonso , r. , almenara , j. , bonomo , a.  s. , bord , p. , bouchy , f. , cabrera , j. , deeg , h.  j. , de la reza , r. , deleuil , m. , dvorak , r. , erikson , a. , guenther , e.  w. , fridlund , m. , gondoin , p. , guillot , t. , hatzes , a. , jorda , l. , lammer , h. , lzaro , c. , lger , a. , llebaria , a. , magain , p. , moutou , c. , ollivier , m. , ptzold , m. , queloz , d. , rauer , h. , rouan , d. , schneider , j. , wuchterl , g. , & gandolfi , d. 2010 , , 510 , a94 +                          , a. , narita , n. , tristram , p.  j. , sumi , t. , abe , f. , itow , y. , sullivan , d.  j. , bond , i.  a. , hirano , t. , tamura , m. , bennett , d.  p. , furusawa , k. , hayashi , f. , hearnshaw , j.  b. , hosaka , s. , kamiya , k. , kobara , s. , korpela , a. , kilmartin , p.  m. , lin , w. , ling , c.  h. , makita , s. , masuda , k. , matsubara , y. , miyake , n. , muraki , y. , nagaya , m. , nishimoto , k. , ohnishi , k. , omori , k. , perrott , y. , rattenbury , n. , saito , t. , skuljan , l. , suzuki , d. , sweatman , w.  l. , & wada , k. 2010 , arxiv e - prints          , g. , bonfils , x. , segransan , d. , moutou , c. , delfosse , x. , bouchy , f. , boisse , i. , arnold , l. , desort , m. , diaz , r.  f. , eggenberger , a. , ehrenreich , d. , forveille , t. , lagrange , a. , lovis , c. , pepe , f. , perrier , c. , pont , f. , queloz , d. , santos , n.  c. , udry , s. , & vidal - madjar , a. 2010 , arxiv e - prints    , g. , desert , j. , diaz , r.  f. , boisse , i. , bouchy , f. , lecavelier des etangs , a. , moutou , c. , ehrenreich , d. , arnold , l. , bonfils , x. , delfosse , x. , desort , m. , eggenberger , a. , forveille , t. , gregorio , j. , lagrange , a. , lovis , c. , pepe , f. , perrier , c. , pont , f. , queloz , d. , santerne , a. , santos , n.  c. , segransan , d. , sing , d.  k. , udry , s. , & vidal - madjar , a. 2010 , arxiv e - prints                                            , g. , dimitrov , d. , neuhaeuser , r. , tetzlaff , n. , niedzielski , a. , raetz , s. , chen , w.  p. , walter , f. , marka , c. , baar , s. , krejcova , t. , budaj , j. , krushevska , v. , tachihara , k. , takahashi , h. , & mugrauer , m. 2010 , arxiv e - prints                                , f. , hbrard , g. , irwin , j.  m. , bouchy , f. , moutou , c. , ehrenreich , d. , guillot , t. , aigrain , s. , bonfils , x. , berta , z. , boisse , i. , burke , c. , charbonneau , d. , delfosse , x. , desort , m. , eggenberger , a. , forveille , t. , lagrange , a. , lovis , c. , nutzman , p. , pepe , f. , perrier , c. , queloz , d. , santos , n.  c. , sgransan , d. , udry , s. , & vidal - madjar , a. 2009 , , 502 , 695    , d. , anderson , d. , collier cameron , a. , gillon , m. , hebb , l. , hellier , c. , maxted , p. , pepe , f. , pollacco , d. , sgransan , d. , smalley , b. , triaud , a.  h.  m.  j. , udry , s. , & west , r. 2010 , arxiv e - prints                          , j.  n. , howard , a.  w. , johnson , j.  a. , marcy , g.  w. , gazak , j.  z. , starkey , d. , ford , e.  b. , coln , k.  d. , reyes , f. , nortmann , l. , dreizler , s. , odewahn , s. , welsh , w.  f. , kadakia , s. , vanderbei , r.  j. , adams , e.  r. , lockhart , m. , crossfield , i.  j. , valenti , j.  a. , dantowitz , r. , & carter , j.  a. 2009 , , 703 , 2091                  the standard swift package distribution does not contain a treatment for the general relativistic precession , or precession due to tidal and rotational bulges .",
    "these dominate over secular precession by other planets when the inner planet reaches very close to the host star . together with tidal dissipation , these effects determine the final orbit of the planet , as well as the timescale for tidal circularization .",
    "below is our implementation of all these processes in the swift code .",
    "since non - keplerian accelerations in the symplectic swift integrator are incorporated as velocity kicks between keplerian drifts , we need expressions for the perturbative accelerations .",
    "to first order in @xmath170 , the gr effect can be written as a perturbation to the newtonian gravitational potential as @xmath171 where @xmath172 is the radial distance between the star and the planet , @xmath173 is the orbital angular momentum . the purely radial force associated with this potential",
    ", @xmath174 gives rise to a precession of the eccentricity vector .",
    "we confirm that such a numerical procedure yields the following orbit - averaged precession rate for the longitude of pericentre @xcite @xmath175    for the tidal effects , we first consider the rotational bulge and the tidal bulge on the star .",
    "the following expressions are from @xcite , differing only in notation .",
    "let the stellar spin rate be @xmath176 , radius @xmath177 .",
    "the centrifugal potential due to the stellar spin , and the quadrupole tidal potential due to the planet acting on a point at distance @xmath178 away from the stellar center is @xmath179 here , the legendre function @xmath180 , and the connecting angles are defined as @xmath181 , @xmath182 , where @xmath183 is the vector connecting the two bodies .",
    "the global distortion of the star under the above potential casts a response potential in its surrounding ( measured at position @xmath178 ) @xmath184 , \\label{eq : responsepotential}\\ ] ] where @xmath58 is the love number and is taken to be @xmath185 for the star ( polytrope @xmath186 ) and @xmath187 for the planet ( polytrope @xmath188 ) . ) by a factor of @xmath29 . ]",
    "the barycentric acceleration the reduced particle feels is therefore @xmath189 where the reduced mass @xmath190 .",
    "we trace the planetary motion in the frame of the invariable plane .",
    "and we assume that the stellar spin coincides with the normal of the invariable plane .",
    "so at the heliocentric position of the planet ( @xmath191 ) , @xmath192 , and @xmath193 , where @xmath194 . here",
    "the @xmath195 term in the potential gives rise to spin - orbit coupling and the orbit normal of the planet precesses around the spin direction .",
    "the bulges on the planet are treated similarly , except we assume that the planet spin is aligned with the orbit normal , so @xmath196 .",
    "the above close - range accelerations are expressed for the barycentric movement .",
    "however , one should correct for the fact that the kick asked by the swift code is the heliocentric value .",
    "the dissipative part of the tidal effect is handled in a way that differs from the standard treatment of @xcite .",
    "we use the weak friction prescription for the equilibrium tidal bulge , and calculate the effect of dissipation in both the star and the planet .",
    "the tidal bulge raised on either body produces a potential given by the second term in eq .",
    "[ eq : responsepotential ] . due to finite dissipation inside the body , there is a delay between the response and the forcing",
    ". we can assume either a constant time lag ( @xmath197 ) , or a constant phase lag ( @xmath198 ) . in the latter case",
    ", we can introduce a tidal @xmath199 factor @xcite , which is related to the phase lag and the time lag as @xmath200 , and @xmath201 , respectively . here",
    "@xmath202 is the tidal forcing frequency . for the eccentricity tide , @xmath202 is simply @xmath203 .",
    "the acceleration associated with the delayed tidal bulge raised on body @xmath204 ( with radius @xmath205 ) by body @xmath206 at distance @xmath172 is @xcite @xmath207 , \\label{eq : ffriction}\\ ] ] where @xmath21 is the rotational velocity and @xmath208 the instantaneous orbital angular velocity . in particular , @xmath209 for a keplerian ellipse .",
    "the first half of the radial term contributes to orbital precession ( dealt with above ) but no energy dissipation ( as it is anti - symmetric within a keplerian ellipse and cancels out over an orbit ) .",
    "we ignore the angular force which transfers angular momentum  the spin angular momentum of the planet is much smaller than its orbital angular momentum and so we assume that the planet is quickly synchronized with the orbit , while we assume that the tidal @xmath199 factor associated with the star is so large that there is no angular momentum being transported between the orbit and the stellar spin .",
    "so we are left only with the second half of the radial force .",
    "this is easily implemented in the swift package .",
    "we adopt values of @xmath134 and @xmath210 for our work .",
    "so tidal dissipation is dominated by that inside the planet ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in a planetary system with two or more well - spaced , eccentric , inclined planets , secular interactions among these planets may lead to chaos . </S>",
    "<S> the innermost planet may gradually become increasingly eccentric and/or inclined , as a result of the secular degrees of freedom drifting towards equipartition of amd ( angular momentum deficit ) . </S>",
    "<S> this `` secular chaos '' is known to be responsible for the eventual destabilization of mercury in our own solar system . here </S>",
    "<S> we focus on systems with three giant planets . </S>",
    "<S> we characterize the secular chaos and demonstrate the criterion for it to occur , but leave a detailed understanding of secular chaos to a companion paper @xcite .    </S>",
    "<S> after an extended period of eccentricity diffusion , the inner planet s pericentre can approach the star to within a few stellar radii . </S>",
    "<S> strong tidal interactions and ensuing tidal dissipation extracts orbital energy from the planet and pulls it inward , creating a hot jupiter . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast to other proposed channels for the production of hot jupiters , such a scenario ( which we term `` secular migration '' ) provides an explanation for a range of observations : the pile - up of hot jupiters at 3-day orbital periods , the fact that hot jupiters are in general less massive than other rv planets , that they may have misaligned inclinations with respect to stellar spin , and that they have few easily detectable companions ( but may have giant companions in distant orbits ) . </S>",
    "<S> secular migration can also explain close - in planets as low in mass as neptune ; and an aborted secular migration can explain the `` warm jupiters '' at intermediate distances . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , the frequency of hot jupiters formed via secular migration increases with stellar age . </S>",
    "<S> we further suggest that secular chaos may be responsible for the observed eccentricities of giant planets at larger distances , and that these planets could exhibit significant spin - orbit misalignment . </S>"
  ]
}