{
  "article_text": [
    "differential microlensing offers the promise of indirectly measuring the spatial size and kinematics of different emitting regions in quasars . in this paper , a new observation of differential microlensing between the continuum and different velocity components of the ciii ] broad line emission line in q2237 + 0305 is presented .",
    "these data are then used to constrain the kinematics of the broad line gas .",
    "the core regions of quasars are unresolved at any wavelength , and so physical understanding must be based on theoretical models constrained by their observed spectral properties .",
    "the gas responsible for the broad emission lines presents a particular challenge as there are relatively few measurements capable of even beginning to probe its kinematical structure . as such",
    ", there is still no agreement on even the simplest models of this structure . beyond the obvious width of the emission lines , which indicate large doppler velocities of tens of thousands of km / sec , most of our current understanding has come from reverberation mapping and from polarisation observations of emission lines .",
    "the most recent reverberation signatures have been interpreted as arising from outflowing , inflowing and virialised motions @xcite , while the polarisation studies have indicated an outflowing helical motion in the emission line gas @xcite .",
    "theoretical models have favoured outflowing winds ( eg @xcite ) , but alternative points of view are still under active consideration ( eg .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "differential microlensing provides an independent probe of the inner structure of quasars . in quasars that are subject to strong gravitational lensing",
    ", the belr and potentially the accretion disk are resolved on the spatial scale of the fine magnification structure of the lens .",
    "given a model for the lensing galaxy , observation of differential magnification between these components allows constraints to be placed on their sizes .",
    "the use of this technique was first discussed by @xcite , who specifically looked at the effect of a single low mass star on a range of kinematical models for the broad emission line region ( belr ) .",
    "a key result of this paper was that different parts of the emission lines were differentially magnified , depending on the kinematical model : in general the smaller spatial regions showed the greatest variations , as would be expected . @xcite",
    "further considered the problem , noting that , in the case of a macro - imaged quasar , the differences between the lines in different images can be used to test whether particular emitting regions are being significantly microlensed .",
    "in particular , these authors noted that keplerian motions in the belr would be much easier to detect than infall ( or presumably outflow ) .",
    "a key improvement in the modelling compared to @xcite was the use of microlensing magnification patterns to model the possible statistical variations for each macro - image .",
    "@xcite also noted that differential microlensing would also effect the redshift measured from a particular line .",
    "more recently @xcite and @xcite both considered different signatures which might be induced in the observed structure of the broad emission lines .",
    "there are at least four differential microlensing experiments which could allow the measurement of the physical parameters of the quasar emission regions",
    ". target - of - opportunity observations of a quasar crossing a caustic provide the cleanest imaging experiment @xcite .",
    "the physical interpretation of a caustic crossing event is straightforward .",
    "however in order to trigger the target - of - opportunity , regular monitoring is required ; and for a reasonable annual probability of observing a caustic crossing , more than ten objects would need to be monitored .",
    "recently , monitoring data has been used to fit the size of the region emitting the quasar continuum using bayesian monte carlo methods @xcite .",
    "these analyses rely on detailed modeling where a standard accretion disk is convolved with microlensing networks .",
    "a third and more specialized possibility arises when two macro - images straddle a caustic . in a surprising number of cases ,",
    "the fluxes of the two images differ , while theory predicts them to be the same .",
    "several variables in the modeling can affect the relative fluxes , but the size of the emission region is the dominant factor @xcite . @xcite",
    "have shown that measurements of the anomalous fluxes can be used to set limits on the size of the emission regions .",
    "the final method uses spectroscopic data to compare the shapes of emission lines and continuum spectra .",
    "if the broad emission line region has ordered kinematical motions , then differential magnification may change the shape of the emission lines of one image . in the case of a macro - imaged quasar , differences between the line spectra of the images",
    "can then provide a diagnostic for the kinematical motions of the broad emission lines .",
    "such differences have already been observed in several sources ( e.g. @xcite ) . in this work",
    "we apply this last method to new integral field spectroscopy ( ifs ) of the multipy imaged quasar q2237 + 0305 @xcite .",
    "q2237 + 0305 is an ideal candidate for differential microlensing experiments .",
    "the close proximity of the lensing galaxy , at @xmath0 compared to the quasar redshift of @xmath1 , yields a large projected einstein radius ( er ) of @xmath2 cm in the source plane .",
    "this er , which characterizes the size - scale of magnification fluctuations , is significantly larger than its estimated continuum region size of @xmath3 cm @xcite , and it is similar to the upper size limit of its ciii ] and mgii belr , determined from our previous observations of differential microlensing in this source ( @xcite , hereafter w05 ) .",
    "this indicates a high probability of differential microlensing between continuum and broad lines , and also a reasonable probability of differential microlensing _ within _ the belr .",
    "differential microlensing between the continuum and belr in q2237",
    "+ 0305 has been observed many times .",
    "microlensing within the broad line itself has also been observed .",
    "most notably , @xcite have conducted vlt monitoring of q2237 + 0305 that spans several years , and present high quality slit spectroscopy of both continuum and belr change , comparable to the data presented in this paper .",
    "however ifs observations can provide more reliable spectra as they allow more careful deblending of the small - separation lensed images and lensing galaxy .",
    "interpretation of the differences between the spectra of the four images requires a model for both the accretion disk and the spatial and kinematical structure of the belr .",
    "broadly , larger flux changes are expected for regions closer to the accretion disk .",
    "the velocity structure , projected along the line - of - sight to the quasar should discriminate between models where the higher velocities are far from the disk ( due to an accelerating wind ) and those where a high velocity might be found close to the disk ( due to keplerian motion around the central black hole ) .",
    "it is still not known which ( if either ) of these two models best describes the kinematics of the belr .",
    "the current work does not attempt to construct a fully consistent model of the belr , nor include a full photoionisation calculation .",
    "rather , a more limited question is addressed : near the accretion disk where the continuum is emitted , is the belr gas moving relatively quickly or slowly ?",
    "answering this question will help resolve the dominant physical process in the inner belr .",
    "in section 2 of this paper we present the observational data , and the methods of data reduction and spectra extraction .",
    "section 3 describes the flux ratios for different emission lines and at different wavelengths for the continuum . in section 4 we present simple models to describe the belr kinematics .",
    "section 5 describes the computation of the microlensing simulations which are convolved with the models . in section 6 ,",
    "the results of comparing the model predictions with the data are presented .",
    "these are discussed in section 7 , with the final conclusions presented in section 8 .",
    "q2237@xmath40305 was observed on the 27th of june 2006 with the gmos integral field unit ( ifu ) @xcite on the gemini south telescope ( program i d : gs-2006a - q-14 ) .",
    "5@xmath515 minute exposures were taken in one - slit mode using the b600 grating and with central wavelength 515 nm , giving a spectral range of 3975  to 6575  and a resolution of @xmath6 . at q2237@xmath40305 s redshift of 1.69 , this covers the civ and ciii ] broad emission lines .",
    "seeing conditions were excellent , with a psf fwhm of 06 .",
    "the gmos ifu in one - slit mode gives a 5@xmath535 field of view , with an additional 5@xmath5125 field offset by @xmath71  arcmin to measure the sky .",
    "importantly , the field is filled , with the science field consisting of 500 02 diameter hexagonal lenslets with abutting edges .",
    "the filled field means that no interpolation between lenslets is required , which makes the determination of brightness ratios significantly more accurate than in the case of non - filled ifus .",
    "the data was reduced using the gemini iraf package v1.8 , under iraf v2.12 .",
    "the standard gmos ifu reduction recipe was followed for overscan subtraction and trimming , bias subtraction , dark subtraction , flatfielding , arc calibration , spectrum extraction , sky subtraction , and flux calibration .",
    "we used calibration files taken as part of the standard gemini facility calibration unit ( gcal ) suite .",
    "cosmic ray removal was performed separately on the reduced images before spectrum extraction , using crrej algorithm via imcombine .",
    "crrej performs iterative rejection of unusually high pixels , accounting for the noise properties of the image . in w05",
    "we found that this method provided far superior cosmic ray rejection to that provided by gscrrej , and demonstrated the advantage of taking multiple gmos ifu exposures at the same offset position , as opposed to using an extensive dither pattern .",
    "we converted the hexagonal image arrays into rectangular arrays with 01 square pixels using gfcube .",
    "atmospheric differential refraction ( adr ) was found to cause a 08 shift over the wavelength range .",
    "this was corrected by first computing the shifts relative to the image position at the central wavelength of ciii ] using cross - correlation , then fitting a physical model of adr @xcite to these shifts .",
    "the cube was corrected according to the best - fit adr model .",
    "figure [ 2dimage ] shows the adr - corrected data cube collapsed into a 2-d image .",
    "the four quasar images and the core of the lensing galaxy are well - resolved .          .",
    "[ psfext ]        the excellent seeing allows us to extract the spectum of each quasar image with high precision .",
    "nonetheless , there is some blending between adjacent quasar images and with the core of the lensing galaxy , and so deblending is required . to deblend",
    ", we perform least - squares fitting of the spatial frame at each wavelength element . with positions determined from archival hst imaging",
    ", we fit a reconstructed point spread function ( psf ; see below ) to all quasar images and the galaxy core using @xmath8 minimization . for each quasar image",
    ", we perform psf - subtraction of all other quasar images and the galaxy core using the best - fit amplitudes .",
    "we then determine the flux for each image , at each wavelength element , within an integration aperture , normalized by the fraction of the model psf within this aperture .",
    "this aperture is a 08 radius circle centred on the relevant quasar image or galaxy , excluding regions within 08 of any other quasar image or the galaxy core .",
    "the psfs used in these fits are determined using an iterative process .",
    "as the psf is wavelength - dependent , we calculate ten different psfs across the wavelength range , each from a @xmath7100  wide stacked frame .",
    "the psf extraction proceeds as follows :    * _ a. _ * take the azimuthal average for each quasar image within 16 circles , excluding regions within 08 of any other quasar image or of the galaxy core .",
    "this yields four 1-d psf profiles .",
    "we splice these together to construct a single psf profile and convert this into a azimuthally symmetric 2-d psf .",
    "* _ b. _ * perform least - squares fitting to obtain a first estimate of quasar image and galaxy core amplitudes .    * _ c. _ * create four frames ; in each one , three of the quasar images and the galaxy core are subtracted according to the best - fit normalizations from step _ b _ , leaving a single quasar image remaining .    * _ d. _ * use these four frames to splice together a 2-d estimate of the psf using the same regions defined in step _",
    "a_.    * _ e. _ * repeat steps _ c _ through _ d _ using the 2-d psf .",
    "* _ f. _ * repeat until the psf converges , with rms differences between iterations of @xmath9% .",
    "using this process , the psf converged within 5 iterations for all ten 100wavelength bins , and was stable for further iterations .",
    "figure  [ psfext ] illustrates the regions used for construction of the psf and spectral extraction ( left ) , and the residuals after final subtraction for the spectral region of the ciii ] line .",
    "figure  [ spec ] shows the extracted spectra of the four quasar images .",
    "the use of the psf to model the core of the lensing galaxy introduces some error .",
    "if we assume a de vaucouleurs effective radius of 31 @xcite , we find that the difference in galaxy flux between the de vaucouleur and psf models in the integration aperture of images a and b is less than 1% of the quasar image flux in this region .",
    "as the galaxy spectrum is reasonably smooth in the region of the ciii ] line , any residual galaxy flux is largely removed in the continuum subtraction ( see section  [ sr ] ) .",
    "in a multiply - imaged quasar , differential microlensing is characterized by a variation in the magnification levels of different spectral components in a single lens image , compared to the `` true '' , unmicrolensed quasar spectrum .",
    "this effect is most easily observed in the ratio of lens images . in the absense of microlensing",
    ", we expect emission line and continuum flux ratios to be equivalent to each other and to agree with the macro - model flux ratios , and we also expect flat , featureless spectral ratios .",
    "gravitational lensing of a point source is achromatic , and so the spectral differences resulting from differential microlensing can be identified independently of the lens model .",
    "however it is important to consider the other processes that can also lead to spectral differences between lens images .",
    "it is possible that extinction properties differ significantly between the lines of sight of each quasar image ; both within the lensing galaxy and in intervening absorbing systems .",
    "however in this analysis we are concerned with the relative strengths of the continuum and belr within a small wavelength range ( the width of the emission line ) , and so differential extinction will not be a significant effect .",
    "nonetheless , we correct for extinction using the @xmath10 values of @xcite , which uses the average milky way extinction curve to obtain @xmath10 for images a of 0.88@xmath110.21 , b of 0.84@xmath110.20 , c of 1.30@xmath110.31 , and d of 1.15@xmath110.27 .    intrinsic variation within the quasar coupled with time delays between lens images can result in time - varying spectral differences , possibly duplicating the effect of differential microlensing if the continuum undergoes significant variation over a timescale smaller than that of the time delay . in the case of q2237 + 0305",
    "the time delay predicted by modeling is less than a day @xcite , and chandra observations measure a delay between images a and b of @xmath12 hours @xcite .",
    "this is sufficiently smaller than the estimated accretion disk light - crossing time of @xmath13  days to eliminate the possibility of significant spectral differences due to intrinsic variation .",
    "( dashed lines ) reveal differential microlensing in which the continuum in image a is magnified relative to the belr.,width=321 ]      table  [ fluxratios ] gives the flux ratios in the civ and ciii ] emission lines and in the continuum .",
    "line ratios use the integrated , continuum - subtracted line fluxes , while continuum ratios use the the continuum level at the central wavelength of each line , determined by a linear interpolation from either side of each line . from these ratios",
    "it is apparent that image a is magnified relative to the other images .    .flux",
    "ratios for ciii ] and civ broad emission lines and for the continuum at the central wavelengths of these lines .",
    "mid ir flux ratios from @xcite , radio flux ratios from @xcite , h@xmath14 from @xcite .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     magnification map size , and the corresponding orbital and wind models .",
    "@xmath15 is the einstein radius projected on to the source plane : @xmath16  cm for q2237 + 0305 .",
    "figures  [ windmagspec ] and [ keplmagspec ] shows a random selection of simulated magnification ratio spectra for the outflow model and the orbital model respectively , for a single parameter combination . for outflow model",
    "the parameters are : @xmath17  cm , orientation 70@xmath18 , disk / jet opening angle 0@xmath18/0@xmath18 . for the orbital model",
    "the parameters are : @xmath19  m@xmath20 , orientation 0@xmath18 , disk / jet opening angle 0@xmath18/0@xmath18 .",
    "as illustrated in figures  [ windmagspec ] and  [ keplmagspec ] , the orbital model tends to reproduce the microlensing signature observed in the data more easily than the wind model . to quantify this comparison ,",
    "we adopt a simple parameterization for the observed microlensing signature , comparing the amplitude and width of the observed hump . taking the ciii ] continuum - subtracted line ratios between images a and b , we compare the amplitude at the rest wavelength of the emission line ( designated @xmath21 ) to an equivalent width analog : the integral across the line s width minus the continuum ratio , divided by @xmath21 ( designated @xmath22 ) .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  [ eqw_method ] .",
    "this parameterization is useful because it is sensitive to the central amplitude , the integrated strength , and the symmetry of the feature , which together are effective in identifying shapes similar to the observed microlensing signature .",
    "figures  [ lrrlocikepl ] and [ lrrlociwind ] show @xmath21 versus @xmath22 for a selection of the parameter space explored in the simulations .",
    "the error bars show the location of the data in this parameterization and the @xmath23 uncertainty .            using this parameterization",
    ", we can calculate the p - value for the observed microlensing signature with respect to each model .",
    "the probability , @xmath24 , of each model reproducing the observed microlensing signature within @xmath23 of @xmath21 and @xmath22 is the ratio of the number of simulated points within these error bars to the total number of simulations .",
    "the p - value is then the integrated probability distribution below @xmath24 , which is equal to the number of simulation points with a surrounding point density within a @xmath23 box equal to or lower than the point density of the observed signature , divided by the total number of simulation points . given these p - values",
    ", we can reject models and parameter combinations with a quantifyable significance level .",
    "figure  [ eqwprobkepl ] shows the p - values for the orbital model as a function of orientation , for a range of disk and jet opening angles and black hole masses / launching radii .",
    "[ eqwprobkepl ] ( right ) shows the average probabilities over all orientations as a function of black hole mass / launching radius .",
    "figure  [ probtable ] shows the orientation - averaged p - values for both the orbital and the wind models , for all disk and jet opening angles and a selection of black hole masses and wind launching radii .    assuming the orbital model , the p - value for the observed microlensing signature is inversely proportional to black hole mass .",
    "we can place a firm upper limit on black hole mass , assuming this orbital model .",
    "models with @xmath25 are rejected with @xmath2699% confidence .",
    "larger black hole masses are ruled out for all orientations and disk / jet opening angles .",
    "the most probable disk / jet configuration for all orientations and black hole masses is one with a large opening angle for both disk and jet of @xmath27 .",
    "interestingly , cases where only one of the disk or the jet have a large opening angle are ruled out with @xmath2699% probability .    for the pure outflow model , very few parameter sets are capable of reproducing the observed microlensing signature .",
    "all are ruled out with high ( @xmath28 ) confidence with the exception of models with very small starting radii for the wind ( @xmath29  cm ; probably unphysical as it is smaller than the lower estimates of the accretion disk size , e.g. @xcite ) and a tightly constrained orientation range ( @xmath30 ) , which are excluded at only the 90% level .",
    "this tells us that it is unlikely that a pure accelerating outflow produced the observed microlensing signature .    changing the mean microlensing mass marginally affects the p - values , but the general results are the same .",
    "if mean masses are smaller , differential microlensing becomes less likely but increases in strength , and vice versa for larger mean masses .",
    "it becomes no easier to produce the observed microlensing signature with a pure outflow model .",
    "reverberation mapping studies have now provided evidence for inflowing , outflowing , keplerian and virialised motions in quasar belrs @xcite . using a wide range of observational evidence , @xcite has argued in favour of infall velocities which are smaller than the keplerian velocities .",
    "flow - dominated belr models , for example those outlined by @xcite and @xcite are especially attractive because it is known that high velocity nuclear flows are very common , if not ubiquitous , in quasars . indeed , the fraction of quasars in sdss showing some civ broad absorption is  25% @xcite .",
    "the line - driven photoionised wind modelled by @xcite produced line profiles in good agreement with observation .",
    "in addition , there are now strong physical arguments for circular motions ( gravity ) , and also the first observational evidence from polarisation of the h@xmath14 line @xcite .",
    "thus there is still no consensus on even the simple question of the direction of the gas flow in the broad line region .",
    "our analysis shows that a pure keplerian model for the belr is able to reproduce the observed microlensing signature .",
    "in contrast , our pure accelerating outflow model can not reproduce this signature for any physical launching radius .",
    "this is expected considering the qualitative nature of this signature .",
    "the low velocity gas exhibits the strongest differential microlensing relative to the continuum ( which is expected to arise from the smallest size scale ) , while the high velocity gas exhibits flux ratios closer to that of the continuum .",
    "this distribution of velocities is consistent with a keplerian field in which the highest velocities are expected closest to the central gravitating body , but inconsistent with a purely accelerating outflow in which velocity increases with distance .",
    "the observed differential microlensing signature for the belr is also consistent with that observed blueness of the continuum for image a : if smaller size scales are preferentiallly magnified , then we expect the continuum to appear more blue , assuming that this magnification gradient extends to scales smaller the outer regions of the accretion disk .      the observed differential microlensing signature rules out belr models in which the gas dynamics at all radii are dominated by an accelerating outflow .",
    "this includes winds that are exclusively driven by line pressure .",
    "other drivers , such as thermal expansion of the confining gas @xcite , centrifugal force @xcite or radiation pressure via dust @xcite may produce outflows in which high velocity gas dominates at smaller radii .",
    "even if the driving force behind the outflow only allows for an accelerating wind , such models are still viable so long as the gas remains within the gravitationally dominated region for a period comparable to or greater than its orbital period .",
    "until recently , reverberation mapping studies have found that belr velocity distributions are consistent with keplerian motion @xcite .",
    "our results are consistent with this , and extend the finding of reverberation mapping ",
    "itself applicable to low - luminosity agn  into the high - luminosity regime .",
    "gravitationally - dominated kinematics are also supported by the fact that the agn black hole masses calculated based on the assumption of a virial belr follow the @xmath31-@xmath32 relation of normal elliptical galaxies @xcite .    recent reverberation mapping results with greatly improved velocity resolution have now found evidence for both infall- and outflow - dominated belr kinematics @xcite , indicating that a variety of dynamical processes are important .",
    "simple randomly oriented orbits are unlikely . it is known that the inner region of quasar belrs can be as small as @xmath33  cm @xcite , which overlaps the outer regions of accretion disk . this greatly restricts the possible orbits in the innermost regions of the belr .    given the likely presence of multiple kinematic regimes within the belr , we interpret our results cautiously . rather than implying a spherical keplerian field , we instead take these results to indicate that the inner regions of the belr are strongly gravitationally dominated , which may include orbital motion and/or infall .      in our simple models , the configuration that most easily reproduces the observed microlensing signature is one in which both accretion disk and jet have large ( @xmath34 ) opening angles ; configurations in which only the disk _ or _ jet have a large opening angle",
    "are ruled out with high confidence .",
    "interestingly , this configuration of large opening angles is similar to the hollowed - cone geometry of many wind models .",
    "thus , our modeling suggests that such a geometry is viable , but _ only _ if the gas motion within this outflow cone is gravitationally dominated at small radii .",
    "this is consistent with the vortex model of @xcite , in which line - driven gas outflowing in a hollowed cone initially orbits at accretion disk velocities , or with the magnetically - constrained outflow similar to that proposed by @xcite .",
    "this interpretation is also consistent with the biconical model proposed by @xcite to explain the recurrent microlensing enhancement of the broad line blue wings in sdss j1004 + 4112 .",
    "our black hole mass limit of @xmath35 is of similar order to the virial estimate based on the width of the civ line ( @xmath36 ; @xcite ) .",
    "if we calculate a virial black hole mass from the upper limit on the ciii ] belr from section  [ fr ] and the line s velocity fwhm , we instead obtain @xmath37 .",
    "modeling the differential microlensing signature with a belr comprised of a simple keplerian field seems to be as useful for obtaining black hole mass limits based on the virial assumption as the standard method .",
    "it has the added advantage of including both belr velocity and size in the model , instead of using quasar luminosity as a proxy for belr size ( calibrated using low - luminosity quasars ) .",
    "however stronger limits are obtainable by placing a more direct limit on belr size from microlensing of this region .",
    "@xcite also detect differential microlensing within the velocity structure of the belr in their long - running vlt monitoring campaign .",
    "the nature of the signatures are broadly consistent with those we observe ; in high - magnification phases , the wings of the ciii ] line were more strongly amplified than the core .",
    "@xcite are able to constrain the orientation of the accretion disk of q2237 + 0305 by comparing the expected light curve produced by a model accretion disk with the continuum light curve observed over 11 years of ogle monitoring .",
    "their finding of @xmath38 , which is to say a face - on accretion disk within @xmath39 of the line of sight , is consistent with our results , which do nt strongly constrain orientation except for a few specific parameter combinations ; in particular , keplerian models with the largest black hole masses ( see fig .",
    "[ eqwprobkepl ] ) .",
    "m@xmath20 , _ green : _ 3@xmath510@xmath40  m@xmath20 , _ yellow : _ 10@xmath41  m@xmath20 , _ red : _ 1.5@xmath510@xmath41  m@xmath20 ) , and the average p - value over black hole masses ( _ black lines _ ) .",
    "_ right : _",
    "average p - value over all orientations as a function of black hole mass .",
    "vertical panels show results for different jet / disk opening angles ( _ upper : _ 0@xmath420@xmath18 , _ middle : _",
    "20@xmath4220@xmath18 , _ lower : _",
    "40@xmath4240@xmath18 ) . , width=321 ]",
    "we have presented observations of the gravitationally lensed quasar q2237 + 0305 taken with the gemini north gmos ifu .",
    "ratios between continuum subtracted image b and image a spectra reveal differential microlensing across the velocity structure of the ciii ] broad emission line .",
    "the high velocity wings of this line tend towards the flux ratio of the continuum , and the lower velocity core , while still microlensed , is closer to the expected flux ratio in the absence of microlensing .",
    "this implies that the high velocity component is emitted from a region with a size comparable to that of the continuum emission region , whereas the low velocity component is emitted from a larger region .",
    "we conducted microlensing simulations using two simple models of the broad emission line region : an outflow model and an orbital model .",
    "the outflow model assumes a clumpy wind accellerated by radiation pressure.the orbital model assumes circular keplerian orbits with random orientations . for both models we tested a wide range of parameters .",
    "these models were used to construct an ensemble of simulated b / a flux ratios as a function of velocity , for comparison with the observed flux ratio spectrum .",
    "a purely radial outflow was unable to reproduce the observed differential microlensing signature for any plausible launching radius of the wind .",
    "conversely , the orbital model was able to reproduce the observed signature for all simulated black hole masses @xmath43 . though our orbital model is simplistic",
    ", we interpret this result as further evidence that the inner regions of the belr are gravitationally dominated .",
    "this is consistent with an outflow model where the belr gas is lifted off the quasar accretion disk , and thus retains a high keplerian velocity .",
    "the belr models presented here are not intended to accurately describe the physical situation in the quasar .",
    "they describe only the generic behaviour of a radially outflowing wind , or a collection of orbiting clouds .",
    "more sophisticated models , perhaps making use of radiative transfer codes such as cloudy , may provide additional constraints on the quasar central engine .",
    "we have obtained gemini ifu observations of nine other gravitationally lensed quasars , both double and quadruply imaged .",
    "these data will allow us to probe a range of quasar orientations , emission lines , black hole masses , and therefore belr emission region scales .",
    "the analyses of these data are forthcoming .",
    "nfb acknowledges the support of an australian postgraduate award .",
    "abajas , c. , mediavilla , e. , munoz , j. a. , gomez - alvarez , p. , gil - merino , r. , 2007 , apj , 658 , 748 agol , e. , jones , b. , blaes , o. , 2000 , apj , 545 , 657 allington - smith , j. , graham , m. , content , r. , dodsworth , g. , davies , r. , miller , b. w. , jorgensen , i. , hook , i. , crampton , d. , murowinski , r. , 2002 , pasp , 114 , 892 bate , n. f. , webster , r. l. , wyithe , j. s. b. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 1591 bentz , m. c. , walsh , j. l. , barth , a. j. , _ et al .",
    "_ , 2009 , apj , 705 , 199 blandford , r. d. , payne , d. g. , 1982 , mnras , 199 , 883 blandford , r. d. , rees , m. j. , 1991 , in holt , s. s. , neff , s. g. , urry , c. m. , ( eds ) , testing the agn paradigm , aip conf .",
    "254 , p3 capriotti , e. , foltz , c. , byard , p. 1980 , apj , 241 , 903 congdon , a. b. , keeton , c. r. , osmer , s. j. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 263 dai , x. , chartas , g. , agol , e. , bautz , m. w. , garmire , g. p. , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 589 , 100 denney , k. d. , peterson , b. m. , pogge , r. w. , _ et al . _ , 2009 , apj , 704 , l80 eigenbrod , a. , courbin , f. , sluse , d. , meylan , g. , agol , e. , 2008 a&a , 480 , 647 eigenbrod , a. , courbin , f. , meylan , g. , agol , e. , anguita , t. , schmidt , r. w. , wambsganss , j. , 2008 a&a , 490 , 933 elvis , m. 2000 , apj , 545 , 63 emmering , r. t. , blandford , r. d. , shlosman , i. , 1992 , apj , 385 , 460 everett , j. e , 2007 , astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    "311 , 269 falco e. e. , lehar j. , perley r. a. , wambsganss j. , gorenstein m. v. , 1996 , aj , 112 , 897 ferrarese , l. , pogge , r. w. , peterson , b. m. , merritt , d. , wandel , a. , joseph , c. , 2001 , apj , 555 , l79 gaskell , cm 2009 newar , 53 , 140 goad , m. r. , obrien , p. t. , gondhalekar , p. m. , mnras , 263 , 149 hook , i. , jorgensen , i. , allington - smith , j. r. , davies , r. l. , metcalfe , n. , murowinski , r. g. , crampton , d. , 2004 , pasp , 116 , 425 huchra j. , gorenstein m. , kent s. , shapiro i. , smith g. , horine e. , perley r. , 1985 , aj , 90 , 691 hutsemkers , d. , borguet , b. , sluse , d. , riaud , p. , anguita , t. , 2010 , a&a , 519 , 103 kaspi , s. , smith , p. s. , netzer , h. , maoz , d. , jannuzi , b. t. , giveon , u. , 2000 , apj , 533 , 631 kayser r. , refsdal s. , stabell r. , 1986 , a&a , 166 , 36 keeton , c. r. , burles , s. , schechter , p. l. , wambsganss , j. , 2006 , apj , 639 , 1 kent , s. m. , falco , e. e. , 1988 , aj , 96 , 1570 kochanek , c. s. , 2004 , apj , 605 , 58 lewis , g. f. , ibata , r. a. , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 24 metcalf , r. b. , moustakas , l. a. , bunker , a. j. , parry , i. r. , 2004 , apj , 607 , 43 morgan , c. w. , kochanek , c. s. , morgan , n. d. , falco , e. e. , 2010 , apj , 712 , 1129 murray , n. , chiang , j. , grossman , s. a. , voit , g. m. , , 1995 , apj , 451 , 498 murray , n. , chiang , j. , apj , 474 , 91 nemiroff , r. j. , 1988 , apj , 335 , 593 peterson , b. m. , wandel , a. , 2000 , apj , 540 , l13 pointdexter , s. , kochanek , c. , 2010 , apj , 712 , 668 proga , d. , 2007 , in ho , l. c. , wang , j .- c . , ( eds ) , the central engine of active galactic nuclei , asp conf .",
    ", vol 373 , p267 .",
    "racine r. , 1992 , apj , 395 , l65 schmidt r. , webster r. l. , lewis g. f. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 488 schneider d. p. , turner e. l. , gunn j. e. , hewitt j. n. , schmidt m. , lawrence c. r. , 1988 , aj , 95 , 161 schneider , p. , wambsganss , j. , 1990 , a&a , 237 , 42 schubert , g. , walterscheid , r. l. 2000 , in allen s astrophysical quantities , 4th edition , ed .",
    "arthur n. cox .",
    "( new york : aip press ) , 239 sluse , d. , claeskens , j .- f . ,",
    "hutseme/kers , d. , surdej , j. , 2008 , rmxac , 32 , 83 trott c. m. , treu t. , koopmans l. v. e. , webster r. l. , 2010 , mnras , 401 , 1540 t trump , j. r. , hall , p. b. , reichard , t. a. , richards , g. t. , schneider , d. p. , vanden berk , d. e. , knapp , g. r. , anderson , s. f. , fan , x. , brinkman , j. , kleinman , s. j. , nitta , a. 2006 , apjs , 165 , 1 voit , g. m. , weymann , r. j. , korista , k. t. , 1993 , apj , 413 , 95 wambsganss j. , paczyski b. , katz n. , 1990 , apj , 352 , 407 wambsganss , j. , paczyski , b. , schneider , p. , 1990",
    ", apj , 358 , l33 wayth , r. b. , odowd , m. j. , webster , r. l. , mnras , 359 , 561 weymann , r. j. , scott , j. s. , schiano , a. v. r. , christiansen , w. a. , 1982 , apj , 262 , 497 witt , h. k. , mao , s. , schechter , p. l. , 1995 , apj , 443 , 18 wyithe , j. s. b. , webster , r. l. , turner , e. l. , mortlock , d. j. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 62 wyithe , j. s. b. , loeb , a. , 2002 , apj , 577 , 615 young , s. , axon , d. j. , robinson , a , hough , j. h. , smith , j. e. , 2007 , nature , 450 , 74"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the detailed workings of the central engines of powerful quasars remain a mystery . </S>",
    "<S> this is primarily due to the fact that , at their cosmological distances , the inner regions of these quasars are spatially unresolvable . </S>",
    "<S> reverberation mapping is now beginning to unlock the physics of the broad emission line region ( belr ) in nearby , low - luminosity quasars , however it is still unknown whether this gas is dominated by virial motion , by outflows , or infall . </S>",
    "<S> the challenge is greater for more distant , powerful sources due to the very long response time of the belr to changes in the continuum . </S>",
    "<S> we present a new technique for probing the kinematic properties of the belr and accretion disk of high - z quasars using differential microlensing , and show how substantial information can be gained through a single observation of a strongly - lensed quasar using integral field spectroscopy . </S>",
    "<S> we apply this technique to gmos ifu observations of the multiply - imaged quasar q2237 + 0305 , and find that the observed microlensing signature in the ciii ] broad emission line favours gravitationally - dominated dynamics over an accelerating outflow .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    broad line regions  microlensing  quasars : individual ( q 2237 + 0305 ) </S>"
  ]
}