{
  "article_text": [
    "the interstellar medium ( ism ) consists of several `` phases '' of matter at different temperatures and densities . in most or all of these phases , the gas is sufficiently ionized to be considered a plasma .",
    "a difference with the well - studied media of the solar wind and the solar corona is that many of the phases , and specifically the two we will discuss here , are partially ionized .",
    "in addition to one or more ion species and electrons , there are neutral atoms and associated ion - neutral collisions .",
    "these ion - neutral collisions cause processes which are not present in the fully ionized corona and solar wind at a heliocentric distance of one astronomical unit .",
    "this paper will deal with two topics involving the interaction of ions with neutrals in the interstellar medium .",
    "1 .   ion - neutral collisions constitute a damping mechanism for magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) waves and turbulence in the interstellar medium . as a result , turbulence propagating from a central source of turbulence , such as a supernova remnant , is limited in how far it can go before being attenuated . in the case of the diffuse ionized gas ( dig ) component of the ism @xcite , which is probably the most extensive in terms of volume and contains the best - diagnosed interstellar turbulence , the dissipation lengths are short and place interesting constraints on the sources and mechanisms for interstellar turbulence .",
    "alternatively , this damping length calculation could point to odd features of turbulent dispersal in the interstellar medium .",
    "this issue was discussed four years ago @xcite .",
    "it remains an interesting topic worthy of attention , and there have been some developments in the last four years which are relevant to this topic .",
    "the nearest parts of the interstellar medium are the clouds of the very local interstellar medium ( vlism ) @xcite .",
    "there are 15 of these clouds within 15 parsecs of the sun @xcite , and they have typical dimensions of a parsec to several parsecs .",
    "the reason for discussing them in the present context is that astronomical spectroscopic observations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have provided very good plasma diagnostics , including information on turbulence in the clouds .",
    "an obvious exercise is to compare the turbulence in these clouds with the paradigmatic turbulence in the solar corona and solar wind .",
    "as we will see , there may be important differences between heliospheric turbulence and turbulence in the local clouds .",
    "the strongest result is that signatures of collisionless plasma processes in the solar wind and corona are absent in the local clouds . as we discuss below , it is plausible that ion - neutral collisional processes are responsible for this difference .",
    "the subject of plasma physics may be defined as the dynamics of ions and electrons .",
    "ions and electrons generate electrical currents and charge densities and respond to the electric and magnetic fields in plasma waves .",
    "neutral atoms and molecules do neither of these things , and interact with the plasma only via collisions . an important role of neutrals , discussed in this paper , is to constitute a stationary or independently - moving background with which ions ( and electrons ) collide .",
    "these collisions transfer energy from the directed motion of plasma waves or turbulence into disordered thermal motion .",
    "these collisions thus constitute a damping mechanism for the plasma waves and turbulence .",
    "there are two types of ion - neutral collisions which will concern us here . in both cases ,",
    "a quantity of interest is the collision frequency @xmath0 where @xmath1 is the ion speed , @xmath2 is the velocity - dependent cross section and @xmath3 is the number density of target atoms . in some applications ,",
    "an average collision frequency may be taken by averaging the speed - dependent collision frequency over the ion distribution function .    [",
    "[ charge - exchange ] ] charge exchange + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    in the process of charge exchange , an ion strips the electron from a passing neutral atom , so the ion and neutral atoms change roles .",
    "this mechanism can and generally does ( in the space science context ) occur with negligible change in the energy or momentum of the nuclei . in this respect",
    "it differs from coulomb scattering , in which at least one of the colliding ions undergoes a substantial change in momentum .",
    "the expression for the charge exchange cross section is @xmath4 where @xmath5 is the impact parameter between the colliding atom and ion , and @xmath6 is the quantum mechanical probability for the electron transfer at distance @xmath5 . for protons on light neutral atoms such as h and",
    "he , and for atomic speeds characteristic of the ism , @xmath7 depending on the species interacting and the speed of interaction .",
    "[ [ induced - dipole - scattering ] ] induced dipole scattering + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    an ion approaching a neutral atom or molecule causes a polarization of the charge cloud within the atom , leading to a dipole moment , even if the unperturbed atom or molecule possesses no electric dipole moment .",
    "the dipole electric field of the atom or molecule then affects the motion of the ion , leading to scattering .",
    "the strength of the interaction depends on the polarizability @xmath8 of the neutral atom .",
    "the cross section for this process is @xmath9 where @xmath10 and @xmath11 are the masses of the ion and the neutral , respectively @xcite . for hydrogen ions scattering from neutral hydrogen or helium ,",
    "the cross section is @xmath12 for typical ism thermal speeds .",
    "the range depends on the target neutral ( scattering from h@xmath13 has a larger cross section ) and the precise value of the speed of interaction .",
    "interestingly , charge exchange and induced dipole collisions have similar values for the cross section for interstellar conditions . for the media of interest in this paper ,",
    "the charge exchange cross section is slightly larger , but the values depend on temperature . for lower - temperature parts of the interstellar medium ,",
    "induced dipole scattering is more significant @xcite .",
    "a possibly significant difference between the two types of interaction is that charge exchange does not produce any true randomization of atomic motion , only an exchange of the roles of neutral and ion .",
    "induced dipole scattering , on the other hand , does produce a randomization of initially ordered motion .",
    "we now discuss two topics in the physics of the interstellar medium in which ion - neutral collisions play an important role .",
    "we first consider the sources of turbulence in the diffuse ionized gas ( dig ) component of the interstellar medium .",
    "the dig probably occupies the largest fraction of the volume in the interstellar medium @xcite and is almost certainly the host plasma for the turbulent density fluctuations which produce radio scintillations of pulsars and extragalactic radio sources .",
    "these radio scintillations provide our best information on the nature of interstellar turbulence @xcite .",
    "the basic plasma properties of the dig are given in table 1 @xcite .",
    "one of the most important properties in table 1 is the helium ionization fraction ; astronomical spectroscopic observations indicate that helium is only partially ionized @xcite",
    ". it may be completely neutral , but is probably not more than 50 % ionized .",
    "in fact , a best estimate would seem to be that the helium in the dig is @xmath14 % ionized @xcite .",
    "hydrogen ions , moving as part of alfvnic waves or turbulence , collide with these neutral helium atoms and convert directed motion into random motion .",
    ".plasma properties of the diffuse ionized gas ( dig ) [ cols= \" < , > \" , ]      our information about turbulence in the local clouds comes almost exclusively from measurements of the absorption line widths @xmath15 .",
    "it is remarkable that we can tell anything about turbulence from such measurements .",
    "we can do so because the same absorption component can be measured in lines of up to 8 ions and atoms .",
    "redfield and linsky @xcite model the measured line profile for all species by the expression @xmath16 where @xmath10 is the mass of an atom or ion , @xmath17 is the temperature , and @xmath18 is the nonthermal component of the doppler width due to random motions of the gas",
    ". we identify @xmath18 with the rms velocity fluctuation due to turbulent fluctuations of all spatial scales . with measurements of the line width for more than 2 atoms or ions",
    ", we can fit for @xmath17 and @xmath18 . with 8 transitions ,",
    "one has a very good estimate of the significance and goodness of the fit .    equation ( 7 ) might strike a solar astronomer or space physicist as naive . in the solar corona and , to a lesser extent the solar wind , there is not a single temperature which characterizes all ion species .",
    "observations in the solar corona show that more massive ions have higher temperatures than less massive ones @xcite .",
    "the physically relevant quantity is the ion cyclotron frequency , or the ion inertial scale corresponding to a certain ion . as a prominent example ,",
    "at heliocentric distances of 2 - 3 @xmath19 the proton temperature is 1 - 2 million k , whereas that of ovi is of order 100 million k @xcite .",
    "the ratio of temperatures is more than proportional to the ion mass ratio .",
    "in addition , the heating is largely perpendicular to the large scale magnetic field .",
    "observations in the corona indicate that @xmath20 .",
    "in - situ observations in the solar wind show similar , though less pronounced phenomena .",
    "there is evidence for enhanced energy input to heavier ions , and the perpendicular temperature can exceed the parallel temperature , or at least be higher than would be expected , given adiabatic cooling in the expansion of the solar wind .",
    "the explanation generally given for this variety of temperatures is ion - cyclotron resonance interaction between turbulence and charged particles @xcite .",
    "this is discussed further below .",
    "the argument for use of a single temperature in the local clouds is that equation ( 7 ) provides a very good , and statistically satisfactory , fit to the data .",
    "for example , figure 2 shows the line width data for the absorption component in the spectrum of the star capella .     as a function of atomic mass for the line of sight to the star capella .",
    "the solid curve gives the least - squares fit of equation ( 7 ) to the data , and the shaded region indicates the 1@xmath21 range of uncertainty . excerpted from @xcite .",
    "this version of the figure is taken from @xcite . ]",
    "this figure provides no motivation for considering a more complex temperature model to describe the data .",
    "equation ( 7 ) is entirely adequate in a least - squares sense .",
    "results similar to those shown in figure 2 are available for many more stars ; see figure 1 of @xcite .",
    "furthermore , in addition to being an entirely adequate representation of the data , these data actually preclude , at some level , a temperature which depends on ion mass .",
    "we are currently carrying out an analysis to determine the maximum allowable degree of mass - dependence of the temperature compatible with the data .",
    "we consider a generalization of equation ( 7 ) which permits the temperature to depend on ion or atomic mass , @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the mass of a fiducial ion or atom ( say deuterium ) and @xmath24 is a parameter which describes the degree of mass - dependence of the temperature . obviously , equation ( 8) contains equation ( 7 ) as a special case with @xmath25 .",
    "mass - proportional ion temperature corresponds to @xmath26 . for the case of the hydrogen and ovi temperatures in the solar corona , @xmath27 . in our analysis of local cloud data",
    ", we are restricting consideration to those lines of sight which have measurements for the full set of 8 lines .",
    "for each line of sight , we determine the maximum value of @xmath24 which is statistically - compatible with the data in a least - squares sense .",
    "the parameters @xmath17 and @xmath18 are left relatively unconstrained .",
    "these maximum allowable values of @xmath24 range from about 0.3 to 0.8 , depending on the line of sight . fits with @xmath28 have lower values of @xmath18 , often significantly so . in no case",
    "does equation ( 8) provide a satisfactory fit when equation ( 7 ) could not . to summarize these preliminary results , a single temperature @xmath17 for all species is a satisfactory representation of the data , and a temperature proportional to ion mass appears to be ruled out in all cases .",
    "an even more restrictive result which emerges from the fits presented in @xcite is that the temperature is the same for both ions and neutral atoms . in figure 2 and the more extensive set of fits and data shown in figure 1 of @xcite , the lines of d , n , and o are for neutral atoms , while the lines of c , mg",
    ", al , si , and fe are of ions . obviously , any plasma wave - particle interaction , resonant or non - resonant , will affect only charged particles , and will not directly affect the neutral atoms .",
    "a final remark pertains to the existence of a temperature anisotropy in the local clouds .",
    "as noted above , perpendicular heating , or an enhancement of the perpendicular temperature , appears to be a general characteristic of the solar wind . if perpendicular heating were occurring in the local clouds , and _",
    "if _ there is a uniform direction of the galactic magnetic field across the system of local clouds , then the temperature @xmath17 should depend on direction in the sky . in certain directions",
    "we would be looking across the galactic field and should see predominantly @xmath29 , while for two parts of the sky aligned with the galactic field we should measure @xmath30 .",
    "a casual examination of this point is possible via figure 8 of @xcite .",
    "although random variations in @xmath17 are seen from one line of sight to another , there is no evidence in this figure for a systematic anisotropy which would indicate the presence of temperature anisotropy and a uniform galactic magnetic field .",
    "a quantitative study of this point , together with limits to the degree of temperature anisotropy is in progress .    in summary",
    ", the data of @xcite for turbulence and plasma parameters in the local clouds suggest that the plasma wave - particle effects which are so prominent in the corona and solar wind are absent in the local clouds . in the next section , we briefly comment on possible explanations of this .",
    "the turbulence in the local clouds of the ism , as diagnosed by spectral line widths , appears to differ in a number of respects from coronal and solar wind turbulence @xcite .",
    "in particular , the characteristics attributed to collisionless processes for the interaction of charged particles and turbulence , such as ion mass dependent temperatures and large perpendicular - to - parallel temperature ratios , are not present .",
    "these properties have generally been attributed to ion cyclotron resonance processes in wave - particle interactions @xcite . in this section ,",
    "we briefly consider possible explanations for this .",
    "the simplest answer is probably that the local clouds are collisional via the ion - neutral collision processes discussed in section 1 , whereas the solar corona at heliocentric distances @xmath31 and the solar wind at 1 astronomical unit are collisionless plasmas .    to accept this suggestion , we need to convince ourselves that the partially ionized plasma media of the local clouds are collisional . following the suggestions of uzdensky @xcite , we can define a collisional plasma in two ways .",
    "we can first ask if the ion cyclotron frequency greatly exceeds the ion - neutral collision frequency .",
    "if this is the case , processes which involve ion - cyclotron resonances can proceed through many cyclotron periods before being disrupted by a collision .",
    "for example , a distribution function which is unstable to the growth of alfvn or fast mode waves will generate the unstable waves , or large amplitude , resonant waves will substantially modify an ion distribution function on time scales shorter than the collision time .",
    "according to this way of defining things , a plasma in which an ion cyclotron frequency is much higher than the ion - neutral collision frequency would be collisionless for that ion .",
    "2 .   the second criterion of collisionality according to uzdensky considers the mean free path for collisions and the size of the plasma .",
    "if the mean free path for collisions is much larger than the size of the cloud , the typical ion in the medium would not have undergone a collision , and one would expect collisionless physics to be applicable . in the opposite limit of the mean free path being much smaller than the size of the cloud , the typical ion would have undergone numerous collisions .",
    "it seems plausible that collisions would redistribute the energy gained from collisionless processes among different parts of the distribution function , and indeed different species in the plasma .",
    "support for these ideas may be found in @xcite , where it is noted that collisional parts of the solar wind at 1 au , such as dense parts of the interplanetary current sheet , lack the collisionless indicators of temperature anisotropy and mass - dependent temperature .",
    "we have enough information about the local clouds to apply the above criteria .",
    "in table 2 we list the proton ion cyclotron frequency , ion - hydrogen collision frequency , and mean free path , which are calculated from the plasma parameters listed previously in the table . in carrying out the calculations leading to these numbers , we assume a collision cross section of @xmath32 , which is appropriate for induced dipole scattering of h and h@xmath33 at a relative speed of 14 km / sec . if we assume that the most important ion - neutral process is charge exchange , the cross section would be a few times larger , resulting in a collisional mean free path a few times smaller .",
    "table 2 shows that the local clouds strongly fulfill the criterion for a collisionless plasma according to the first definition , and strongly fail it according to the second .",
    "given the above considerations , we can say that the absence in the local clouds of those signatures of collisionless plasma dynamics which are seen in the solar corona and solar wind is plausibly due to ion - neutral collisions which redistribute the energy placed in ion distribution functions by plasma waves and turbulence .",
    "while this might seem like a trivial result according to criterion # 2 , our investigation indicates that there are not vigorous ion cyclotron resonance processes occurring at small scales in the local clouds .    in concluding this section , it is interesting to note a recent result which constitutes an alternative description of the same data .",
    "chandran @xcite has proposed that the features of coronal and solar wind turbulent heating that we have nominated `` collisionless '' arise not through an ion cyclotron resonant interaction with turbulence , but rather via stochastic acceleration .",
    "stochastic acceleration occurs when the turbulent velocity fluctuations @xmath34 on the spatial scale of the ion cyclotron radius become comparable to the perpendicular component of the ion thermal velocity @xmath35 .",
    "chandran @xcite defines a parameter @xmath36 which is the ratio of these two speeds , @xmath37 and contends that stochastic acceleration occurs when @xmath38 .",
    "he presents arguments that stochastic acceleration , once commenced , will self - regulate at @xmath38 .",
    "he also shows that this mechanism can reproduce the observed features which hithero have been attributed to ion cyclotron resonant heating .",
    "it can be argued that if the mechanism of @xcite is in fact operative in the solar corona and solar wind , it does so because of the small inertial subrange in the solar corona and solar wind .",
    "it is plausible to assume that the rms velocity fluctuation at the outer scale , @xmath39 is limited to a fraction of the alfvn speed , @xmath40 , where @xmath41 .",
    "this is certainly the case in the solar wind .",
    "the amplitude of the fluctuations decreases with decreasing spatial scale , a fact recognized and utilized in equation ( 13 ) of @xcite . in the case of the solar wind ( and presumably in the solar corona )",
    "the ratio of the outer scale to the ion inertial length is 2 - 3 orders of magnitude ; a number large enough to allow a true inertial subrange , but small enough so that velocity fluctuations on the ion inertial length might be large enough to permit stochastic acceleration .",
    "the case in the local clouds , or any phase of the interstellar medium , is very different . assuming that the outer scale is of the order of a parsec , and the ion inertial length is a few hundred kilometers , the ratio of outer scale to ion inertial scale is of order @xmath42 ,",
    "so stochastic acceleration as described in @xcite would not occur .",
    "if one takes this inchoate viewpoint , the absence of phenomena such as temperature anisotropy and mass - proportional temperature in the ism has nothing to do with ion - neutral interactions , and everything to do with the extent of the intertial subrange in interstellar turbulence .",
    "there are a number of interesting research projects which could adumbrate the issues brought up in this paper .",
    "1 .   additional spectroscopy of stars whose lines of sight pass through the local clouds could yield valuable information on the plasma physics of these clouds .",
    "progress could be made both through measurements of additional transitions of different atoms or ions on the same lines of sight , as well as additional measurements on new lines of sight .",
    "what might be particularly interesting would be comparisons of line broadening on closely - spaced lines of sight , such as to components of a visual binary star .",
    "data of this sort could indicate the degree of intermittency in local cloud turbulence .",
    "we have suggested above that collisions between ions ( moving in response to plasma waves ) and neutral atoms can damp the waves and alter the ion distribution functions .",
    "theoretical research could clarify the resultant changes to ion and neutral distribution functions .",
    "such studies might also reveal observational signatures which could be sought in astronomical observations .",
    "laboratory experiments should be made to investigate ion - neutral interactions in plasma turbulence . in the last decade or so , new",
    ", larger machines have been made available to plasma experimentalists , and new diagnostic instruments have been developed .",
    "these experimental advances will permit measurements with machines which are large enough to contain alfvn waves , and possess roughly similar densities of ions and neutrals .",
    "the results of section 2 indicate that the distribution of plasma turbulence in the interstellar medium might be highly spatially inhomogeneous , and that it is quickly damped when present .",
    "new astronomical observations should be considered which could reveal anomalous neutral heating in the dig and similar phases of the ism",
    ".      9 j.w .",
    "armstrong , b.j .",
    "rickett , and s.r .",
    "spangler , astrophys .",
    "j.  443 , 209221 ( 1995 ) p. banks , planet sp .",
    "14 , 11051122 ( 1966 ) w.p .",
    "blair , r. sankrit , j.c .",
    "raymond , and k.s .",
    "long , astron .",
    "j.  118 , 942947 ( 1999 ) b.d.g .",
    "chandran , astrophys .",
    "j.  720 , 548554 ( 2010 ) j.m .",
    "cordes , b.j .",
    "rickett , d.r .",
    "stinebring , and w.a .",
    "coles , astrophys .",
    "j.  637 , 346365 ( 2006 ) d.p .",
    "cox and r.j .",
    "reynolds , annu .",
    "ap .  25 , 303344 ( 1987 ) s.r .",
    "cranmer , space sci .",
    "rev .  101 , 229293 ( 2002 ) p.c .",
    "frisch , am .",
    "88 , 5259 ( 2000 ) l.m .",
    "haffner , r.j .",
    "reynolds , s.l .",
    "tufte , g.j .",
    "madsen , k.p .",
    "jaehnig , and j.w .",
    "percival , astrophys .",
    "j. supp .",
    "149 , 405422 ( 2003 ) j.v .",
    "hollweg , j. astrophys .",
    "29 , 217237 ( 2008 ) j.c .",
    "kasper , b.a .",
    "maruca , and s.d .",
    "bale , arxiv : 0911.2715 ( 2009 ) r.m .",
    "kulsrud and w.p .",
    "pearce , astrophys .",
    "j.  156 , 445469 ( 1969 ) r. lallement , b.y .",
    "welsh , j.l .",
    "vergely , f. crifo , and d. sfeir , astron . &",
    "..  411 , 447464 ( 2003 ) j.l .",
    "linsky , b.j .",
    "rickett , and s. redfield , astrophys .",
    "j.  675 , 413419 ( 2008 ) g.j .",
    "madsen , r.j .",
    "reynolds , and l.m .",
    "haffner , astrophys .",
    "j.  652 , 401425 ( 2006 ) a.h .",
    "minter and d.s .",
    "balser , astrophys .",
    "j.  484 , l133l136 ( 1997 ) a.h .",
    "minter and s.r .",
    "spangler , astrophys .",
    "j.  485 , 182194 ( 1997 ) s. redfield and j.l .",
    "linsky , astrophys .",
    "j.  551 , 413428 ( 2001 ) s. redfield and j.l .",
    "linsky , astrophys .",
    "j.  613 , 10041022 ( 2004 ) s. redfield and j.l .",
    "linsky , astrophys .",
    "j.  673 , 283314 ( 2008 ) s. redfield , space sci .",
    "143 , 323331 ( 2009 ) r.j .",
    "reynolds and s.l .",
    "tufte , astrophys .",
    "j.  439 , l17l20 ( 1995 ) b.j .",
    "rickett , annu .",
    "28 , 561605 ( 1990 ) s.r .",
    "spangler , astrophys .",
    "j.  376 , 540555 ( 1991 ) s.r .",
    "spangler , `` the propagation distance and sources of interstellar turbulence '' , in `` sins - small ionized and neutral structures in the diffuse interstellar medium '' , m. haverkorn and w.m .",
    "goss , editors , astr .",
    "conference series  367 , 307314 ( 2007 ) s.r .",
    "spangler , a.h .",
    "savage , and s. redfield , nonlinear proc .",
    "geophys , in press , arxiv1008.1263 ( 2010 ) d. uzdensky , astrophys . j.  671 , 21392153 ( 2007 ) m.a .",
    "walker , d.b .",
    "melrose , d.r .",
    "stinebring , and c.m .",
    "zhang , mon . not .",
    "354 , 4353 ( 2004 ) b.y .",
    "welsh , r. lallement , j.l .",
    "vergely , and s. raimond , astron . &",
    "astrophys ..  510 , a54 , 123 ( 2010 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most phases of the interstellar medium contain neutral atoms in addition to ions and electrons . </S>",
    "<S> this introduces differences in plasma physics processes in those media relative to the solar corona and the solar wind at a heliocentric distance of 1 astronomical unit . in this paper , we consider two well - diagnosed , partially - ionized interstellar plasmas . </S>",
    "<S> the first is the diffuse ionized gas ( dig ) which is probably the extensive phase in terms of volume . </S>",
    "<S> the second is the gas that makes up the local clouds of the very local interstellar medium ( vlism ) . </S>",
    "<S> ion - neutral interactions seem to be important in both media . in the dig , </S>",
    "<S> ion - neutral collisions are relatively rare , but sufficiently frequent to damp magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) waves ( as well as propagating mhd eddies ) within less than a parsec of the site of generation . </S>",
    "<S> this result raises interesting questions about the sources of turbulence in the dig . in the case of the vlism , </S>",
    "<S> the ion - neutral collision frequency is higher than that in the dig , because the hydrogen is partially neutral rather than fully ionized . </S>",
    "<S> we present results showing that prominent features of coronal and solar wind turbulence seem to be absent in vlism turbulence . </S>",
    "<S> for example , ion temperature does not depend on ion mass . </S>",
    "<S> this difference may be attributable to ion - neutral collisions , which distribute power from more effectively heated massive ions such as iron to other ion species and neutral atoms .     </S>",
    "<S> address = department of physics and astronomy , university of iowa     address = department of physics and astronomy , university of iowa     address = department of astronomy and van vleck observatory , wesleyan university </S>"
  ]
}