{
  "article_text": [
    "the early history of galaxy assembly leaves its signatures in the properties of the stellar content of the outer regions of galaxies .",
    "the currently - favored scenario of galaxy formation in a hierarchical context predicts that the vast majority of stars in the outskirts of galaxies should be accreted from disrupted satellite galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the ages , metallicities , spatial distribution , and amount of sub - structures in the faint outskirts of present - day galaxies are therefore directly related to their assembly histories , and to issues such as the suppression of star formation in small halos .",
    "recent wide field observations of the milky way have led to the identification of a number of large - scale stellar features , attributed either to past accretion of identified satellites ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , others of unknown progenitors ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and others to the disruption of globular clusters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the accretion of stars from satellites is clearly a contributor to the stellar haloes of galaxies",
    ". quantitative analysis of wide - field imaging data from the sloan digital sky survey indicates that the stellar halo of the milky way is highly structured on small scales @xcite .    for the nearest milky way analogue ngc  891 , the analysis of deep and high resolution imaging data sampling a quadrant running parallel to the high surface brightness disk of the galaxy , and extending outward to more than 10 kpc from the plane of the galaxy , identified strong evidence for the presence of highly significant small - scale substructures in the median metallicity map @xcite .",
    "the degree of substructures present on the stellar density distribution in the halo of ngc  891 is found to be strikingly comparable to what is present in the milky way @xcite .",
    "the extra - planar regions of ngc  891 appear to be composed of a large number of incompletely - mixed sub - populations .",
    "the discovery of a giant stream that loops around the galaxy and a series of low surface brightness features in its outskirts demonstrates that ngc  891 had an active accretion history @xcite .",
    "being the nearest giant elliptical galaxy , ngc  5128 and its outer regions in particular have been targeted extensively as a unique testing ground for stellar population and formation models of elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "the colour - magnitude diagrams of the stellar populations in the remote regions of the galaxy suggest that those regions are dominated by moderately metal - rich stars , i.e. , @xmath3\\sim -0.65}$ ] , with a very wide red giant branch , suggesting that stars at large radii span a wide range of metallicities @xcite .",
    "different stellar age indicators , i.e. , the red clump , the asymptotic giant branch bump , the period distribution of long period variables , globular clusters , suggest that the outer regions of ngc  5128 are populated by old stars , with a likely presence of a small fraction of intermediate age stars @xcite",
    ".    possible formation histories of elliptical galaxies come generically in three flavours , first an early and rapid in - situ formation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , secondly later mergers of pre - existing disk galaxies ( e.g. * ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and finally as the results of multiple dissipationless mergers and accretions of distinct protogalactic fragments ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "significant effort has been devoted over the years to test these scenarios using a variety of discriminants , e.g. stellar ages , chemical abundances , kinematics , and globular cluster systems .",
    "these different formation histories should give rise also to different stellar halo structures . the in - situ formation",
    "would predict relatively few substructures , as the formation epoch was many dynamical times ago .",
    "the stellar halos of elliptical galaxies that have grown hierarchically through mergers and accretions would be however substantially lumpy , and possibly as structured as those predicted by the most extreme cold - dark matter hierarchical formation models .",
    "the purpose of the present paper is to examine the distribution of the stellar populations in the outer regions of ngc  5128 , and to investigate in particular the clumpiness of the spatial and chemical structure of the halo population of a giant early - type galaxy for the first time .",
    "the data upon which this study is based have been presented in detail in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter referred to as r05 ) .",
    "the layout of this paper is as follows : in  [ data ] we briefly introduce the data set used in the paper , while  [ analysis ] presents the analysis to uncover small - scale sub - structures over the surveyed area .",
    "the implications of our findings are discussed in ",
    "[ discussion ] , and we draw our conclusions in  [ conclu ] .    throughout this paper",
    "we assume a distance of 3.8  mpc , i.e. , distance modulus of @xmath4 @xcite .",
    "we note that ngc  5128 is located at relatively low galactic latitude ( @xmath5 , @xmath6 ) , and therefore the targeted field suffers from significant ( though not large ) extinction from foreground dust .",
    "following r05 , we adopt a reddening value of @xmath7 @xcite , which corresponds approximately to @xmath8 and @xmath9 .",
    "as described in detail in r05 , a single deep pointing was observed with the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) camera on - board the hubble space telescope ( hst ) in the halo of the galaxy ngc  5128 ( program go-9373 ) , at a location approximately @xmath0 south of the nucleus ( fig .",
    "[ pointing ] ) .",
    "the target field was chosen to avoid any peculiarities of the galaxy , such as jet - induced star - forming regions @xcite , shells @xcite , and dust lanes @xcite .",
    "the f606w and f814w passbands were used ( approximately broad - band johnson @xmath10 and kron - cousins @xmath11 ) , with a total exposure of 8.58  hr ( 12 full - orbits ) in each filter , which reaches f606w@xmath12 , f814w@xmath13 .",
    "allframe software @xcite has been used to measure the photometry of all detected sources on the acs images . to select stellar objects",
    ", we applied the criteria of r05 ( summarised in their fig .",
    "3 ) , namely those sources with allframe sharpness parameter within their defined hyperbolic envelope , and with chi - squared @xmath14 .",
    "the left panel of figure [ cmds ] shows the foreground reddening - corrected colour - magnitude diagram ( cmd ) of all objects detected in our images and classified as stars in the deep acs halo field .",
    "the cmd are shown as density contours to reveal features in otherwise crowded regions .",
    "in addition to the wide sequence of red giant stars , red clump stars are visible at @xmath15 and @xmath16 , and those on the agb bump at @xmath17 and @xmath18 .",
    "careful analysis of the completeness corrections and photometric uncertainties has been conducted via monte - carlo simulations .",
    "artificial stars were added to the frames , which were then reprocessed in the same way as the original data , locating the 50% completeness level of the data at @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "the distribution of photometric differences between input and recovered magnitudes as a function of magnitude shows that the photometry is excellent with virtually no bias down to very faint magnitudes ; for instance , at @xmath21 the uncertainty is @xmath22 .",
    "we have fitted the r05 uncertainty functions with the following relations : @xmath23 which give a good approximation to the uncertainty estimates for @xmath24 and @xmath25 . in the analysis below",
    "we will assume that the @xmath11 and @xmath10 uncertainties are uncorrelated ( i.e. with no colour terms , which is a reasonable assumption ) , so we adopt the above fitting functions to assign uncertainties to the individual stars in the survey . to investigate the properties of the stellar spatial distribution , we select only stars with excellent photometry , i.e. , @xmath26 and @xmath27",
    ". we further limited the selection to stars with @xmath28 , yielding a catalogue of approximatively 43400 stars .    as well as encompassing stars in the outskirts of ngc  5128",
    ", the deep acs observations also intersect the foreground galaxy . to estimate the foreground counts , we used the besanon galactic population model @xcite to estimate the foreground contamination .",
    "the model predicts 70 - 80 stars in the range of @xmath29 over a field - of - view comparable to that of acs in the direction of ngc  5128 .",
    "the right panel of figure [ cmds ] shows a typical predicted cmd of the galaxy foreground stars .",
    "the model predicts about 15 - 20 galaxy foreground stars with colours and magnitudes similar to those of red giant branch stars at the distance of ngc  5128 .",
    "this constitutes much less than one per cent of the total number of stellar objects classified as red giant stars in our photometric catalogue , indicating that the foreground contamination is not an issue for the analysis presented below .",
    "large background galaxies , as well as bright foreground stars cause holes in the stellar distribution map . to correct for this , and",
    "for the gap between the two ccds in the camera , when studying the two - dimensional distribution of stellar density and metallicity , a mask was constructed by choosing suitably large elliptical areas around these problematic regions ; in all , 3% of the image was discarded in this manner .",
    "only those stars outside of the masked regions were kept in the final catalogue .",
    "it is well known that the photometric properties of old red giant branch ( rgb ) stars are linked to their metallicities , offering therefore a way to determine the metallicity distribution of old stellar populations by comparing their colour - magnitude diagrams to rgb tracks .",
    "the metallicity of stars on the red clump can not be estimated however by comparing their photometry to rgb tracks ; we therefore imposed a faint cut - off at @xmath30 to the catalogue selected above in order to retain only bona - fide rgb stars .",
    "this limit corresponds to @xmath31 , or @xmath32 , where the @xmath11-band measurement uncertainty is @xmath33 .",
    "an additional quality cut of @xmath34 was imposed to ensure that the @xmath10-band measurements were also of good quality , yielding a catalogue of about 13300 rgb stars .",
    "it is worth mentioning that these magnitude cuts do not exclude metal - rich rgb stars . to estimate",
    "the metallicities of the selected rgb stars , we repeat the procedure explained in @xcite , interpolating between the models of @xcite of @xmath35-enhanced , i.e. , [ @xmath35/fe]=0.3 , rgb stars of mass @xmath36 .",
    "the models span @xmath37 < -0.097}$ ] approximately in steps of 0.1 dex , and are complemented at the metal rich end by two models with @xmath3 = 0.0}$ ] and @xmath3 = + 0.4}$ ] .",
    "stars outside of the colour - magnitude range covered by these rgb tracks were flagged and not used in subsequent analysis ( i.e. , no extrapolation beyond the validity of the models was attempted ) . at the distance of ngc  5128 , the asymptotic giant branch ( agb )",
    "bump is found to be located at @xmath38 with a dispersion of 0.12 mag ( see r05 for more details ) .",
    "the sample of selected bona - fide rgb stars therefore contains agb bump stars . to examine the effects of this on the estimates of the chemical properties of the population of rgb stars , we constructed two samples by selecting stars brighter than @xmath39 and @xmath40 respectively .",
    "the metallicity distribution functions of both samples are found to be almost identical , i.e. , the overall shape is unchanged and the changes in the median and/or average metallicities are much smaller than the typical estimate of the metallicity error .",
    "this indicates that the presence of agb bump stars in the selected sample of rgb stars does not bias the results discussed below .",
    "we first perform an analysis of the number density variations over the area of the acs survey .",
    "panel ` a ' of fig.[sub_density ] shows the star - count density map in the @xmath41 ccd coordinate system chosen by r05 .",
    "we opted to bin the stars in a grid of @xmath42 super - pixel , to contain @xmath43 sources ( to ensure a signal - to - noise ratio of @xmath44 ) .",
    "the star number density has been corrected for the mask , and only super - pixels with a usable surface area larger than 50% were kept .",
    "the map appears approximately homogenous , with no obvious gradient .",
    "this is not very surprising since the observed field covers a small physical size at the distance of ngc  5128 compared to its projected radial distance .",
    "since we do not have an a - priori model of the large - scale stellar distribution over the targeted field , we fit the observed stellar distribution with a two - dimensional legendre polynomial function ( shown in panel ` b ' ) , with up to quadratic terms in @xmath45 and @xmath46 including cross - terms ( i.e. 6 parameters ) , which is sufficient to provide a smooth empirical template to compare the data to . the residuals between the data and the best smooth model are shown in panel ` c ' , along with their statistical significance in panel ` d ' , where we have assumed only poisson noise uncertainties ( the effect of the mask is properly accounted for ) .",
    "there appears to be no coherent large - scale structure in the residuals that might indicate the presence of , for instance , streams or shells of stellar debris .",
    "how likely are these small - scale variations about the model of the stellar spatial distribution ?",
    "a way to quantify the significance of the presence of substructure in a survey is to estimate the rms deviation of the data around a smooth model , taking into account the expected poisson noise in the model . @xcite",
    "proposed the following statistic : @xmath47 , where @xmath48 is the number of discrete bins the sample is divided into , @xmath49 are the individual observed counts in those bins , @xmath50 are the model values in the pixels , and @xmath51 is a poisson realization of the model with mean @xmath50 .",
    "thus the numerator is the pixel scatter of the data around the model minus the expected scatter in the model , while the denominator was chosen to be the total of the poisson scatter .",
    "this statistic is convenient because it is independent of the choice of binning scale ( provided that the substructures are well sampled by the chosen binning scale ) , and the number of sources in the survey , and furthermore the poisson noise contribution is removed .    for a bin size ranging from 100pc to 350pc ,",
    "i.e. , grids of @xmath52 to @xmath53 respectively , the fractional rms deviation @xmath54 varies from 0.04 to 0.02 with probabilities of finding those values of this statistic by chance ranging from 12% to 22% , assuming the smooth model shown in panel ` b ' of fig.[sub_density ] .",
    "this clearly indicates that the small - scale deviations of the data around the model shown in fig.[sub_density ] are consistent with what would be expected from poisson - noise deviations from a smooth model .",
    "the stellar populations within the surveyed field are then most likely smoothly distributed at physical scales larger than @xmath43pc .",
    "this contrasts with what was reported for the two large late - type galaxies where the properties of small - scale substructures have been investigated so far .",
    "@xcite found that the fractional rms deviation exceeds @xmath55 in the galactic halo region probed by the sdss .",
    "for the milky way analogue ngc  891 , @xcite have estimated @xmath56 for the extra - planar regions within @xmath44kpc from the galactic plane , with an extremely small probability of finding this value by chance .",
    "this clearly indicates that the spatial distribution of halo stars in both large late - type spiral galaxies is most likely dominated by significantly lumpy components .",
    "the catalogue used in the present analysis integrates stellar populations along the line of sight through the entire halo of the galaxy .",
    "the contrast introduced by any sub - structure will be then reduced , especially in the presence of multiple sub - structures along the probed line of sight .",
    "it should then be appreciated that the low fractional rms deviation found here does not necessarily imply that localized spatial over - densities are absent in the halo of ngc  5128 .",
    "furthermore , the present survey samples a halo region much smaller than that studied in ngc  891 by @xcite , and a tiny fraction of the halo when compared to the vast region of the galactic halo sampled by the sdss data examined in @xcite .",
    "wide - field observations covering a representative volume of the outskirts of the galaxy are needed to establish ( or to rule out ) firmly the predominance of a smooth stellar component at large radii in ngc  5128 , and to quantify comprehensively the amount of sub - structures in those regions .      in this section",
    "we investigate the properties of the two - dimensional distribution of stellar metallicities over the surveyed region .",
    "given the smaller size of the sample of stars for which we can measure photometric metallicities , we decided to distribute stars in a @xmath57 bin grid ( @xmath58 ) to ensure a high signal - to - noise ratio in each super - pixel .",
    "the star number density has been corrected for the mask , and we have discarded the few super - pixels where the usable surface area was less than 50% . as in @xcite , we use the median metallicity as a statistic to investigate the spatial variations of stellar populations in the outer regions of the galaxy .",
    "this choice presents the advantages of being insensitive to e.g. variations of the population spatial density , holes due to bright stars , etc .",
    "the map of median metallicities estimated in the super - pixels is shown in the upper panel of fig.[medianz ] .",
    "the lower panel of the figure shows the map of the uncertainties of median metallicities .",
    "the errors on the median metallicity in each super - pixel is estimated by simulating the effects of both the photometric uncertainties on the metallicity estimate for each star belonging to the super - pixel and the sampling uncertainty due to the limited number of stars per super - pixel ( see * ? ? ? * for a detailed description ) .",
    "the map shows that the combined random errors on the median metallicities in the super - pixels are of the order of @xmath59  dex .",
    "the first clear feature of the median metallicity map is the presence of a large scale gradient over the field , with the average median metallicity decreasing when moving diagonally with increasing @xmath46 ( i.e. , moving from the west to the east ) .",
    "a second striking feature of the median metallicity map is that the pixel - to - pixel variations are significantly larger than the random errors .",
    "note that while we notice the presence of numerous super - pixels dominated by stellar populations with lower median metallicities , i.e. , @xmath3 \\la -0.7}$ ] , than that of the overall stellar population , i.e. , @xmath3 \\sim -0.6}$ ] , it appears however that metal - rich , i.e. , @xmath3 \\ga -0.5}$ ] , super - pixels are rare .",
    "how likely are those small - scale variations about a large - scale smooth model of the median metallicity distribution ?    to represent the large - scale spatial distribution of median metallicities , we fitted the observed distribution with a two - dimensional legendre polynomial ( up to order 3 in both spatial directions , i.e. , 10 parameters ) .",
    "the fit is shown in the top panel of fig.[modelz ] , and exhibits clearly a large - scale median metallicity gradient .",
    "the middle panel of fig.[modelz ] shows the difference between the map of median metallicities and the best smooth model , while the lower panel shows the map of the significance levels of these differences .",
    "the lower panel of the figure shows clearly the presence of localized variations at the 3 - 5@xmath60 level in the median metallicity map , occurring on the scale of a super - pixel or a few super - pixels , and distributed over the field . when comparing the significance map of the deviations of the median metallicity map about the best smooth model to the maps of the spatial density distribution and the deviation about the best smooth model",
    "( see fig.[sub_density ] ) , we notice that the small - scale sub - structures in the median metallicity map are not systematically associated to small - scale stellar density sub - structures .",
    "as already discussed in detail in our study of ngc  891 , the number density of stars required to cause statistically significant deviations about a smooth median metallicity map is rather small , causing only a modest enhancement in the stellar distribution that is much harder to detect from its density contrast .",
    "the stellar number density needed to cause a deviant super - pixel in the median metallicity map depends on the shape of the metallicity distribution functions of both the smoothly - distributed population and the super - imposed sub - structures , but in broad terms an additional stellar population numbering @xmath61 per cent of the smooth population could induce a @xmath62 dex metallicity variation @xcite .",
    "while this mass fraction of the super - imposed population is of the order of the change in density over a typical super - pixel , the induced change in the median metallicity of the super - pixels is many times larger than the typical errors on the estimate of the median metallicity ( see the lower panel of fig.[medianz ] ) .",
    "it is then not surprising that sub - structures detected in the median metallicity map are not inducing significant deviations in the number density map .",
    "the distribution function of the statistical significance of the variations about the best smooth model of the median metallicities map is shown in fig.[dist_sigma ] .",
    "the dashed line shows a fitted gaussian of dispersion equal to 1.58 .",
    "the probability of finding such a large dispersion by chance ( we expect unit dispersion if the uncertainties have been correctly estimated ) , given the large number of bins , is smaller than 0.1% .",
    "this strongly indicates that the variations about the best smooth model of the spatial distribution of median metallicities are significantly larger than expected for a population where the median metallicity varies spatially in a smooth manner .",
    "perhaps the simplest explanation of these large deviations is that we have underestimated the uncertainties in the median metallicity by @xmath63 .",
    "this would require that the photometric errors reported by r05 to be underestimated by a similar factor . in our study of ngc 891",
    "we were able to verify our uncertainty estimates by comparing measurements in overlapping fields .",
    "unfortunately , we do not have the necessary complementary data to perform a similar check here . although we can not dismiss this possibility , experience from our ngc 891 study ( and other projects )",
    "suggests that artificial star simulations give reliable uncertainty estimates .",
    "the large pixel - to - pixel variations reported in the median metallicity map are unlikely to result from errors in the zero - point over the acs field . to induce the observed small - scale metallicity changes , large variations in the zero point ( of the order of 0.1 mag or more )",
    "are required , which is extremely unlikely for the very stable instrument that the acs is .",
    "could the large - scale metallicity gradient and the small - scale chemical substructures we have uncovered be due to systematic biases ? to convert the rgb photometric properties into metallicities , we have had to assume that the stellar populations dominating the surveyed field are uniformly old .",
    "due to the so - called age - metallicity degeneracy , a red rgb star can be either more chemically evolved than a bluer one or older . in the interpolation procedure , we have assumed a single old age for all the stars , which may introduce a bias of up to 0.1 dex , if the age is @xmath64 gyr younger ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the agb stars are known to be efficient tracers of intermediate age ( 1 - 6 gyr ) stellar populations @xcite .",
    "the abundance of agb stars normalized to rgb stars , which are tracing predominantly older populations , is a good indicator of a stellar population age ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the map of the ratio of agb stars , selected as stars with @xmath65 and @xmath66 , and all other quality criteria identical to the rgb sample summarized in  [ data ] , to stars in the brightest one magnitude of the rgb is shown in fig.[agb_rgb_map ] .",
    "the spatial distribution of the agb to rgb ratio is fairly smooth , with no apparent spatial gradient .",
    "this suggests the absence of an agb gradient and then most likely the absence of an age gradient across the observed field .",
    "furthermore , no enhancements of agb stars relative to rgb stars are associated to any of the super - pixels that are deviants from a smooth model of the median metallicity map by more than @xmath67 .",
    "interestingly , the typical agb to rgb ratio , i.e. , @xmath68 . is consistent with an old stellar population @xcite .",
    "the pixel - to - pixel variations of the agb - to - rgb ratio are significantly smaller than what is required for the pixel - to - pixel variations of the median metallicities to be due only to age differences : to account for the @xmath69dex variations in median metallicity about the best smooth model for the most deviant super - pixels ( i.e. , @xmath70 or more ) as a result of age differences , the stellar populations of those super - pixels have to be dominated by @xmath71gyr stars , which is not supported by the morphology of the colour - magnitude diagram ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a detailed discussion ) .",
    "the localized median metallicity variations are also unlikely to result from the effects of small - scale structures in the foreground galactic inter - stellar medium . following @xcite , by using the reasonable assumption that reddening variations scale approximately linearly with mean reddening , we expect less than a couple hundredths of a magnitude scatter at most in colour excess from foreground dust .",
    "for the small - scale metallicity variations to be due solely to variation in foreground extinction , the required offset in colour excess are either much larger than the expected scatter , or , more problematically , negative in the case for deviant metal - poor super - pixels .",
    "small angular scale variations in foreground dust are therefore unlikely to contribute significantly to the observed small - scale variations in median metallicity .",
    "we conclude that there is no evidence for systematic biases affecting the measure of stellar metallicities .",
    "so , under the assumption that the photometric uncertainties have been well estimated , we conclude that the statistically significant small - scale variations in the median metallicities of the stellar populations are present in the targeted halo field",
    ". to highlight the differences between thte detected small - scale chemical inhomogeneities , fig.[cmds_super_pixels ] shows the cmds of all stellar objects populating a metal - poor super - pixel , i.e. , with a median metallicity of [ m / h]=-0.77 , and a metal - rich super - pixel , i.e. , with a median metallicity of [ m / h]=-0.47 , located at ( x / kpc=1.75 , y / kpc=3.00 ) and ( x / kpc=2.40 , y / kpc=0.48 ) respectively",
    ". fiducials of rgb sequences for galactic globular clusters spanning a wide range of metallicities and shifted to the distance of ngc  5128 are overplotted .",
    "the stellar populations occupying both super - pixels appear to be different . a significant fraction of bright rgb stars populating the metal - poor super - pixel exhibit photometric properties consistent with metallicities in the range of [ fe / h]=-2.2 and -1.3 .",
    "such metal - poor stars are absent in the metal - rich super - pixel .",
    "furthermore , the reddest stars in the metal - rich super - pixel extend clearly to higher metallicities than those occupying the metal - poor super - pixel .",
    "the stellar population differences between the localized sub - structures in the median metallicity spatial distribution would suggest that the survey has revealed the presence of inhomogeneities that have not yet been fully blended into the smooth halo .",
    "0.125pc     ) is shown in panel ` a ' .",
    "the residuals between the data and this model are displayed in panel ` b ' . using the uncertainty estimates on the metallicity metallicity from panel ` b ' of fig.[medianz ] ,",
    "the statistical significance levels of the metallicity variations are shown in panel ` c ' . ]",
    "the metallicity distribution function of the stellar populations in the outer regions of ngc  5128 has been determined over an extended range of radial distances , 10 - 40 kpc @xcite . the overall shape ,",
    "mean metallicity , metallicity dispersion , fraction of metal - poor stars , are found to be strikingly similar @xcite over these fields .",
    "this indicates that the metallicity gradient present within the field at @xmath72kpc ( see fig.[modelz ] ) could not be associated to a large - scale metallicity gradient , as it would lead to metallicities significantly higher than observed if extrapolated inward .",
    "the most likely explanation is that the median stellar metallicity gradient present within the acs halo field is related to chemical inhomogeneities present locally .    using the predictions of a @xmath73-cold dark matter semi - analytical galaxy formation model , and by summing the total star formation occurring over all the progenitors",
    ", @xcite computed the metallicity distribution function of spheroid stars of early - type galaxies comparable in luminosity and environment to ngc  5128 . despite some differences ,",
    "the predicted metallicity distribution function resembles qualitatively the observed distribution function of stellar metallicities in the outer regions of ngc  5128 , i.e. , mean metallicity , metal - rich end cut - off , and extent of the metal - poor tail ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this broad agreement suggests that the stellar populations in the outer regions of ngc  5128 could have been assembled in a hierarchical fashion .",
    "if this is indeed the case , one can expect to find the presence of chemical sub - structures caused by the remnants of the disruption of the predicted large populations of sub - halos orbiting around massive galaxies",
    ".    the localised chemical inhomogeneities could be in principle potential candidate satellites or remnants of past accretion events .",
    "upon inspecting the stacked acs image visually , none of the strongly deviant super - pixels shows any plausible stellar concentration , although clear rgb sequences are detected for all of them , apart from the super - pixel at ( @xmath74 ) which contains the faint , old , and metal - poor extended globular cluster reported in @xcite . the extended nature and",
    "the low luminosity of that globular cluster become very important when considered in light of the emerging consensus that extended clusters are formed preferentially in low mass galaxies ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in m31 , all but one extended globular cluster in the outer halo , i.e. , at projected distances larger than 30kpc , are found to be projected onto stellar substructures or are members of a cluster overdensity @xcite , supporting the scenario where this class of globular clusters originate in low mass systems .    the properties ( luminosity , surface brightness , size , central concentration ) of the globular cluster found in the halo field resemble in every way one those of the faint and extended globular clusters populating the milky way outer halo @xcite",
    "this suggests that the extended cluster in the targeted field could have been formed in a similar environment as its galactic counterparts , and experienced potentially a similar dynamical history .",
    "strong evidence is accumulating that extended and faint globular clusters in the outer galactic halo , i.e. , the so - called young halo globular clusters , were associated with dwarf galaxies that have since disrupted ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite have argued that the vast majority of globular clusters in the outer halo of m31 are most likely associated with tidal debris features observed in those regions , thus strongly supporting the scenario where the outer globular cluster system of m31 has been built up via the accretion of satellite host galaxies .",
    "it is then tempting to suggest that the extended faint cluster in the surveyed halo field in ngc 5128 could have originated in a now disrupted dwarf galaxy .",
    "interestingly , the median metallicity of the diffuse stellar population within the super - pixel containing the extended faint cluster is comparable to those measured for metal - poor super - pixels deviants at the @xmath75 levels in the observed halo field , i.e. , @xmath3\\sim -0.75}$ ] , suggesting that the stellar populations dominating the metal - poor super - pixels could be sharing the same origin . put together ,",
    "these properties provide circumstantial evidence that the chemical inhomogeneities detected in the observed field could be related to the disruption of low mass satellites .    the restricted spatial extent of the present survey limits however our ability to investigate the large - scale distribution of the chemical sub - structures , to quantify the degree of spatial sub - structures in the halo of the galaxy , to search for signs of the disruption of the hypothetical progenitor(s ) of the detected chemical sub - structures .",
    "extending the survey of the outer regions of ngc  5128 should be undertaken to tackle comprehensively these questions . when compared to the properties of sub - structures in the outskirts of late - type galaxies",
    ", it will be possible to constrain the assembly histories of galactic halos as a function of galaxy e.g. morphology , type , and mass .",
    "to make the first attempt to quantify the degree of substructure in the outer regions of elliptical galaxies , we have undertaken a structural and chemical analysis of the stellar content of a @xmath76 halo field situated @xmath0 from the centre of the nearest giant elliptical galaxy ngc  5128 .",
    "the very deep colour - magnitude diagram of the stellar populations used in the analysis reaches the red clump .    comparing the observed stellar number density map of halo stars to smooth models , we find no statistically significant evidence for the presence of spatial density variations .",
    "deviations from the smooth models , quantified using the rms deviation of the data around the best fit model are consistent with what would be expected from poisson - noise deviations in a smooth model .",
    "the measured statistics appears to suggest the presence of a smooth stellar halo component at spatial scales larger than @xmath43pc in the region probed by the present survey .    estimating metallicities of rgb stars from their optical photometry , we investigated the spatial distribution of stellar metallicities . on top of a smoothly distributed large - scale map",
    ", we detect the presence of small - scale sub - structures in the median metallicity across the surveyed field .",
    "although the absolute median metallicity variations are relatively modest , i.e. , ranging from @xmath77 to @xmath78 dex , they are nevertheless statistically significant .",
    "those small - scale chemical sub - structures do not appear to be associated with any statistically significant stellar spatial density variations .",
    "we argue that these subtle small - scale metallicity variations are related to accretions of low mass systems ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an analysis of the spatial and chemical sub - structures in a remote halo field in the nearby giant elliptical galaxy centaurus a ( ngc  5128 ) , situated @xmath0 from the centre of the galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the observations were taken with the advanced camera for surveys instrument on board the hubble space telescope , and reach down to the horizontal branch . in this relatively small @xmath1 field , after correcting for poisson noise , we do not find any statistically strong evidence for the presence of small - scale sub - structures in the stellar spatial distribution on scales @xmath2pc . </S>",
    "<S> however , we do detect the presence of significant small spatial - scale inhomogeneities in the stellar median metallicity over the surveyed field . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that these localized chemical substructures could be associated with not - fully mixed debris from the disruption of low mass systems . </S>",
    "<S> ngc  5128 joins the ranks of the late - type spiral galaxies the milky way , for which the stellar halo appears to be dominated by small - scale spatial sub - structures , and ngc  891 , where localized metallicity variations have been detected in the inner extra - planar regions . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the presence of small - scale sub - structures may be a generic property of stellar halos of large galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation  galaxies : stellar content  galaxies : individual ( ngc  5128 )  galaxies : haloes </S>"
  ]
}