{
  "article_text": [
    "the changing phases of an exoplanet as it orbits the host star has long been considered as a means for their detection and characterization @xcite . the relation between giant planet atmospheres and phase curves have been described in detail by @xcite and @xcite , hereafter kg10 .",
    "however , the relatively small flux ratio of the planet to the host star has presented a major hinderance to the realization of such detections .",
    "a new era of optical and infra - red ( ir ) telescopes are enabling phase detections in a manner which was previously inaccessible from the ground .",
    "attempts to detect phase signatures have primarily been for transiting planets .",
    "examples of observed phase variations in the ir include hd  189733b @xcite and hd  149026b @xcite .",
    "examples in the optical include kepler observations of hat - p-7b @xcite and phase variations detected in the light curve of corot-1b @xcite .",
    "phase variation detection of non - transiting planets have been restricted to hot jupiters , including @xmath0  and  b @xcite and hd  179949b @xcite .",
    "there has also been recent observational evidence for the detection of phase variations by the non - transiting planet hd  46375b by @xcite .",
    "planets in eccentric orbits , such as hd  17156b @xcite and hd  80606b @xcite , will produce relatively high phase amplitudes during a brief interval .    the orbital inclination is usually preferred to be edge - on for optimal detection of phase variations since this ensures that full phase will occur along the line - of - sight . however , this is not necessarily the case depending upon the eccentricity and periastron argument of the orbit , and indeed there are cases where the maximum flux ratio occurs when the orbit is face - on . even though the radial velocity technique is biased towards the detection of edge - on orbits , since these have a larger radial velocity semi - amplitude , certainly this is not always the case .",
    "astrometric studies such as that performed by @xcite have shown that there are a variety of orbital inclinations as expected , and so it is prudent to consider this for attempted phase detections .    here",
    "we present a thorough exploration of orbital parameter - space and the impact upon flux ratios for eccentric planets .",
    "the main causes of degeneracy are the periastron argument and inclination for a given eccentricity .",
    "we further calculate projected separations at apastron as a function of inclination and determine their correspondance with maximum flux ratio locations . with all orbital elements considered , one may then use the phase locations of maximum flux ratio and maximum projected separation to quantify the suitability for follow - up observations .",
    "in this section , we outline the theoretical framework which will be used through the remainder of the paper . this formalism has been used extensively by @xcite and more recently by @xcite .",
    "we refer the reader to kg10 for a more detailed description of the particular formalism used here .",
    "the flux ratio of a planet with radius @xmath1 to the host star is defined as @xmath2 where the flux is measured at wavelength @xmath3 .",
    "this flux ratio consists of three major components ; the geometric albedo @xmath4 , the phase function @xmath5 , and the inverse - square relation to the star  planet separation @xmath6 .",
    "each of these are briefly described below in the context of eccentric orbits .",
    "note that the observed flux ratio from an exoplanet is wavelength dependent in that the atmospheric composition drives the scattering properties and thus the shape of the geometric albedo and phase function . as was the case with kg10 , we confine our study to optical wavelengths centered on 550  nm .",
    "atmospheric models have shown that there is a dependence of the geometric albedo of giant planets on the semi - major axis of the orbit @xcite . to account for this",
    ", we use the analytic function described by kg10 which was in turn derived from the models of @xcite .",
    "this function results in a time - dependence of the albedo as the strong irradiation of the atmospheres of giant planets removes reflective condensates from the upper atmospheres during periastron passage . this function can have a dramatic effect in dampening the flux ratio at small star ",
    "planet separations .",
    "the phase angle @xmath7 is defined to be zero when the planet is at superior conjunction and is described by @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the argument of periastron and @xmath10 is the true anomaly .",
    "thus , in terms of orbital parameters , minimum phase occurs when @xmath11 and maximum phase occurs when @xmath12 .",
    "the exact nature of a planetary phase function depends upon the assumptions regarding the scattering properties of the atmosphere . rather than assuming isotropic scattering ( lambert sphere ) , we adopt the empirically derived phase function of @xcite which is based upon observations of jupiter and venus and incorporates substantially more back - scattering due to cloud - covering .",
    "this approach contains a correction to the planetary visual magnitude of the form @xmath13 leading to a phase function given by @xmath14 which is used throughout the remainder of this paper .",
    "as shown by @xcite and kg10 , the maximum flux ratio does not necessarily occur at zero phase angle for a non - circular orbit .",
    "this is because the star  planet separation @xmath6 is constantly changing and is given by @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the semi - major axis and @xmath17 is the orbital eccentricity .",
    "the @xmath18 component of equation [ fluxratio ] becomes dominant for highly eccentric orbits which is especially important when the orbital inclination is considered .",
    "to add the effect of inclination angle to the phase function , the phase angle ( equation [ phaseangle ] ) is modified as follows : @xmath19 at 1st and 3rd quarter ( @xmath20 and @xmath21 ) , the flux ratio is completely independent of inclination angle . however , at all other phase angles there arises a complex pattern of flux ratios from the inclination and argument of periastron . here",
    "we describe these dependencies .",
    "the two cases worth considering first are the extremes of edge - on ( @xmath22 ) and face - on ( @xmath23 ) orbits .",
    "as noted earlier , the radial velocity method is biased towards the detection of edge - on orbits due to the increase in the semi - amplitude of the signal .",
    "in addition , most of the planets monitored for phase signatures are known to transit .",
    "thus the case of edge - on orbits is currently the dominant form of investigated systems .",
    "this guarantees the observability of both zero phase and full phase , the contribution of which to the flux ratio depends upon the star ",
    "planet separation at @xmath24 .",
    "the case of face - on orbits means that the phase function becomes completely flat since only half phase will be visible at any one time .",
    "thus the flux ratio is completely determined by the eccentricity of the orbit which drives both the star  planet separation and the changing albedo of the upper atmosphere .      beyond the cases of edge - on and face - on orbits ,",
    "the interaction of inclination and periastron argument becomes more complex .",
    "figure [ phases ] demonstrates this for four eccentric orbits , each with fixed periastron arguments , which are inclined from edge - on to face - on . within the range of @xmath25 the flux ratio actually increases with decreasing orbital inclination as the dayside of the planet becomes more visible where the planet is the hottest , most noticable for the case of @xmath26 . outside of this regime , the peak flux from the planet generally declines as the inclination increases and thus the access to the full phase diminishes .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "there is a bias against optimal separation since maximum flux naturally occurs when the planet is closest to the star .",
    "this is most severe for edge - on orbits , such as hd  80606b where the angular separation is @xmath27 at this location .",
    "for this reason , the location of maximum flux ratio preferentially corresponds to the location of minimum angular separation .",
    "consider the case of hd  39091b ( figure [ fluxsep ] ) where the peak flux arises from an edge - on orientation .",
    "the peak flux ratio corresponds to a @xmath28 separation , whereas the planet reaches a separation of @xmath29 during the entire phase . by matching the angular separations above the resolution criteria of the coronagraph",
    ", one can choose the optimal targets for monitoring during predicted the orbital phase of peak flux ratio .",
    "the main targets for which phase signature detection will be attempted will likely be those for which a planet is already known to be present . in this case , the purpose of the observations are chatacterization rather than discovery . as shown by equation [ fluxratio ] ,",
    "the flux ratio is a function of the geometric albedo @xmath30 , the periastron argument @xmath9 , the orbital inclination @xmath31 , and the planetary radius @xmath1 .",
    "the challenge of disentangling those components from the phase shape and amplitude will vary depending upon what is already known for that system .",
    "if the planet is known to transit then one can measure @xmath31 , @xmath9 , and @xmath1 .",
    "one can thus determine @xmath30 which , along with models of the planetary structure based upon the size and mass , can constrain the properties of the atmosphere .",
    "if however the planet does not transit , then we can estimate the radius of the planet from the measured mass using theoretical models , such as those of @xcite and @xcite , for which there will be associated uncertainties depending upon factors such as the age of the planet and the assumed core model . in some cases",
    ", astrometric measurements of the host star can performed , such as those carried out by @xcite .",
    "this will have the simultaneous result of resolving the inclination of the orbit , thus breaking the degeneracy of the flux ratio with the periastron argument , and determining the true mass of the secondary companion . for non - transiting planets",
    "discovered using the radial velocity method , one has the advantage of a strong bias towards bright host stars relative to those discovered using the transit method .",
    "the increase in signal - to - noise will be a great asset for an appropriate instrument to exploit , as described in section [ feasibility ] .",
    "possible contamination of the phase signature at photometric passbands by internal heating of the planet is worth considering .",
    "if indeed the thermal signature of the planet is dominated by internal heating rather than incident flux from the host star , the signature will maintain a constant offset of the predicted photometric signature .",
    "the self - luminous properties of the planet will be a strong function of the age of the system , and will be restricted to planets whose age is ( @xmath32  gyr ) .",
    "current radial velocity surveys choose targets based upon stability as well as spectral line features and thus prefer f  g  k main sequence stars where activity is known to be reduced @xcite .",
    "thus , targets drawn from the radial velocity discoveries will preferentially be of an age whereby thermal contamination of the optical phase signature will be minimal .",
    "in this section we briefly outline requirements which will influence the detection of the previously described phase signatures .",
    "the detection of the phase amplitudes described here present a significant challenge to instrumentation requirements . as mentioned in section [ introduction ] ,",
    "optical phase variations have been detected in kepler photometry .",
    "however , the vast majority of kepler targets are relatively faint and so not ideally suited towards characterization with current follow - up capabilities .",
    "conversely , planets discovered through radial velocities have bright host stars by comparison .",
    "the instrumentation requirement for successful detection of the signatures shown in table [ phasetab ] is photometry with an accuracy of @xmath33 .",
    "the necessary stability of this precision over long timescales depends upon the fraction of the orbital phase over which the largest change in phase amplitude occurs , described in detail by kg10 .",
    "the photometer for the kepler mission , for example , is designed to achieve high - precision photometry over the 6.5 hour window of a transit , but is not designed for long - term stability over the lifetime of the mission @xcite .",
    "fortunately the orbits of the radial velocity planets are well understood in most cases and so we can accurately predict not just the amplitude of the predicted phase signature but also the phase and times of maximum and minimum flux ratios . this knowledge will help to distinguish the phase signatures from instrumental drift effects .    from the ground ,",
    "the challanges are more substantial since one needs to also contend with the offsets from night - to - night variations .",
    "future generation telescopes will provide opportunities to achieve very high precision , such as the european extremely large telescope ( e - elt ) , the thirty meter telescope ( tmt ) , and the giant magellan telescope ( gmt ) .",
    "it has been demonstrated by @xcite that precision photometry of @xmath34% can be achieved with large telescopes through the use of narrow - band filters .",
    "the phase variation due to the planetary orbit is the main observable we have discussed here but these calculations can be combined with projected separations for use with coronagraphs , as described in section [ prosep ] .",
    "ground - based coronagraph experiments , such as that being pursued at palomar @xcite , are rapidly improving in instrument efficiency and the suppression of speckle noise .",
    "simulations of these coronagraphs indicate that long - term stability may indeed be possible @xcite , though this may only be feasible in the short - term at the needed precision for young self - luminous planets .",
    "space - based instruments , such as the planned lyot coronagraph on nircam for the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) , may be able to achieve phase detections for a sample of the most favorable targets , though in this case the instrument is optimized towards young planets around late - type stars .      at the level of photometric precision required here , it is important to consider the level of intrinsic stellar variability .",
    "an analysis of kepler data by @xcite found that most dwarf stars are stable down to the the precision of the kepler spacecraft , with g - dwarfs being the most stable of the studied spectral types .",
    "the well - known orbital parameters of the radial velocity target stars will aid in separating the signals of planetary phase from that of the host star variability .",
    "additionally , most of the known exoplanet host stars have been well - characterized through extensive ground - based photometry and spectroscopy .    the main cause of photometric variability in f  g ",
    "k stars is starspots and rotation , as verified by the kepler variability study performed by @xcite .",
    "the effects of starspots on exoplanet detection have been previously studied , such as the work of @xcite .",
    "since the distribution of the starspot periodicity is related to the rotation rates of these stars , the detection of short - period planets ( such as most of the known transiting planets ) is relatively unaffected by these variations",
    ". however , there will inevitably be cases where the orbital period of the planet is close to the rotation period of the star , which is generally in the range 1040  days for radial velocity host stars @xcite .",
    "in such cases , the peaks in the power spectrum from a fourier analysis of the photometry may separate to a degree where the starspot variability can be isolated from the phase signature .",
    "it should be noted that disentangling these signals may substantially increase the required observing time .",
    "the push towards characterizing the atmospheres of exoplanets will rapidly expand once further direct measurements of atmospheric albedos and thermal properties become possible .",
    "current space telescopes are already detecting exoplanet phase variations in the optical ( eg .",
    ", kepler ) and the ir ( eg . , spitzer ) .",
    "one approach to optimizing searches for phase variations in known eccentric systems is the refinement of orbital parameters through radial velocity measurements @xcite .",
    "the peak flux ratio maps may then be used to constrain the detectability of each system and the location of the peak intensity with respect to the projected separation , particularly important for proposed coronagraph missions such as the spectro - polarimetric imaging and characterization of exo - planetary systems ( spices ) mission .",
    "more imminently , kepler will soon detect transiting long - period ( @xmath35 days ) planets where the bias will be towards eccentric orbits since those have a higher probability of transiting @xcite . in this case the results of the presented work may be utilized to predict flux ratios for edge - on orbits as an independent measurement of the periastron argument .",
    "the faintness of these host stars will provide many instrumentation and observing challenges which make known radial velocity planets more attractive targets despite their unknown orbital inclination .",
    "even so , as more science results are released by the kepler mission , the study of photometric phase variations of long - period planets will become an increasingly relevant endeavour in the characterization of exoplanets .",
    "the authors would like to thank david ciardi and warren skidmore for several useful discussions .",
    "we would also like to thank the anonymous referee , whose comments greatly improved the quality of the paper .",
    "this research has made use of the exoplanet orbit database and the exoplanet data explorer at exoplanets.org .",
    "barbieri , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 476 , l13 basri , g. , et al . , 2011 , aj , 141 , 20 beichman , c.a .",
    ", et al . , 2010 , pasp , 122 , 162 bodenheimer , p. , laughlin , g. , lin , d.n.c . , 2003 , apj , 592 , 555 borucki , w. , et al . , 2010 ,",
    "science , 327 , 977 cahoy , k.l . ,",
    "marley , m.s . ,",
    "fortney , j.j .",
    ", 2010 , apj , 724 , 189 charbonneau , d. , noyes , r.w . ,",
    "korzennik , s.g . ,",
    "nisenson , p. , jha , s. , vogt , s.s . ,",
    "kibrick , r.i . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 522 , l145 ciardi , d.r . , von braun , k. , bryden , g. , van eyken , j. , howell , s.b . , kane , s.r .",
    ", plavchan , p. , stauffer , j.r . , 2010 , aj , submitted collier cameron , a. , horne , k. , penny , a. , leigh , c. , 2002 , mnras , 330 , 187 coln , k.d . , ford , e.b . ,",
    "lee , b. , mahadevan , s. , blake , c.h . , 2010 , mnras , 408 , 1494 cowan , n.b . , agol , e. , charbonneau , d. , 2007 , mnras , 379 , 641 fortney , j.j . ,",
    "marley , m.s . ,",
    "barnes , j.w . , 2007 ,",
    "apj , 659 , 1661 gaulme , p. , et al . , 2010 , a&a , 518 , l153 han , i. , black , d.c . ,",
    "gatewood , g. , 2001 , apj , 548 , l57 harrington , j. , hansen , b.m . ,",
    "luszcz , s.h . ,",
    "seager , s. , deming , d. , menou , k. , cho , j.y .- k . ,",
    "richardson , l.j .",
    ", 2006 , science , 314 , 623 hilton , j.l .",
    ", 1992 , in seidelmann , p.k . , ed .",
    ", explanatory supplement to the astronomical almanac .",
    "university science books , mill valley ca , p. 383 hinkley , s. , et al . , 2010 , pasp , in press kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2008 , apj , 689 , 492 kane , s.r . , mahadevan , s. , von braun , k. , laughlin , g. , ciardi , d.r . , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1386 kane , s.r . ,",
    "gelino , d.m . , 2010 ,",
    "apj , 724 , 818 knutson , h.a . , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 690 , 822 knutson , h.a . , charbonneau , d. , cowan , n.b . ,",
    "fortney , j.j . , showman , a.p . ,",
    "agol , e. , henry , g.w . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 703 , 769 laughlin , g. , deming , d. , langton , j. , kasen , d. , vogt , s. , butler , p. , rivera , e. , meschiari , s. , 2009 , nature , 457 , 562 leigh , c. , collier cameron , a. , horne , k. , penny , a. , james , d. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1271 makarov , v.v . , beichman , c.a . , catanzarite , j.h . ,",
    "fischer , d.a . , lebreton , j. , malbet , f. , shao , m. , 2009 , apj , 707 , l73 rodler , f. , krster , m. , henning , t. , 2010 , a&a , 514 , a23 simpson , e.k . ,",
    "baliunas , s.l . ,",
    "henry , g.w . ,",
    "watson , c.a .",
    ", 2010 , mnras , 408 , 1666 snellen , i.a.g .",
    ", de mooij , e.j.w . , albrecht , s. , 2009 , nature , 459 , 543 sudarsky , d. , burrows , a. , pinto , p. , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 538 , 885 sudarsky , d. , burrows , a. , hubeny , i. , li , a. , 2005 , apj , 627 , 520 welsh , w.f . , orosz , j.a . ,",
    "seager , s. , fortney , j.j . , jenkins , j. , rowe , j.f . , koch , d. , borucki , w.j .",
    ", 2010 , apj , 713 , l145 wright , j.t .",
    ", 2005 , pasp , 117,657"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> improved photometric sensitivity from space - based telescopes have enabled the detection of phase variations for a small sample of hot jupiters . </S>",
    "<S> however , exoplanets in highly eccentric orbits present unique opportunities to study the effects of drastically changing incident flux on the upper atmospheres of giant planets . here </S>",
    "<S> we expand upon previous studies of phase functions for these planets at optical wavelengths by investigating the effects of orbital inclination on the flux ratio as it interacts with the other effects induced by orbital eccentricity . </S>",
    "<S> we determine optimal orbital inclinations for maximum flux ratios and combine these calculations with those of projected separation for application to coronagraphic observations . these are applied to several of the known exoplanets which may serve as potential targets in current and future coronagraph experiments . </S>"
  ]
}