{
  "article_text": [
    "@xmath0 scorpii ( hd  143275 , hr  5953 , fk5  594 ) is a well known binary system with a highly elliptical orbit and a period of almost 11 years .",
    "the primary star is classified as a be star with a gaseous circumstellar disk and the secondary is a b2-type star  @xcite .",
    "this system has been a subject of a number of studies that investigated a range of different characteristics ranging from the disk structure around the primary  @xcite to refining the binary parameters  @xcite . because the primary did not possess strong h@xmath1 emission during the previous periastron passage in 2000 , whereas as of late",
    "@xmath0  sco has shown strong h@xmath1 emission , the high likelihood that some type of interaction between the secondary and the circumstellar disk of the primary will occur during the upcoming periastron passage in 2011 makes this system particularly interesting .",
    "being such a high priority target for many observational campaigns scheduled for 2011 creates the need for accurate binary parameters such that the upcoming periastron passage can be predicted with high accuracy .",
    "this is especially important for the targeted observational campaigns that request a very limited number of telescope nights near the periastron passage .",
    "the most recent binary parameters established for @xmath0  sco were presented by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite have revised the orbit using speckle interferometry complemented with radial velocity data from @xcite .",
    "similarly , @xcite combined the speckle data with additional optical interferometric data from the sydney university stellar interferometer ( susi ) obtained between 1999 and 2007 . however , except for the observations obtained on four nights in 1999 , the interferometric observations obtained with susi have not detected the binary signature . @xcite attributed this to a fully resolved circumstellar structure  ( with an estimated size of more than 4  mas ) associated with the primary component .",
    "however , this is inconsistent with the results of @xcite who based on 2007 observations estimated the size of the circumstellar disk to be in the 1  mas range ( although their measurements have been obtained in the h and k band as opposed to the optical ) . in this study , we show how the interferometric observations obtained with the navy prototype optical interferometer  ( npoi ) at the same epochs clearly resolve the binary signature .",
    "nevertheless , @xcite have obtained the best orbital elements published to date with a newly revised period of 10.74  @xmath2  0.02  yr .",
    "the high eccentricity of this system requires that the period should be known with high accuracy if the periastron passage is to be predicted with sufficiently high accuracy to be useful for targeted observational campaigns .",
    "this is because uncertainties of even a few days in this 11-year period translate to very significant motions near the periastron passage .",
    "therefore , to assist any upcoming observational campaigns aimed at observing the @xmath0  sco system near its periastron passage , the main focus of this study is the revision of the binary parameters .",
    "we acquired interferometric observations of the @xmath0 sco binary system using the npoi , which are used to obtain high precision relative astrometric positions between the stellar components .",
    "the astrometric data is then combined with the radial velocities from @xcite to produce the most accurate orbital parameters for this system to date .",
    "the interferometric data used in this study have been acquired using the npoi on two nights in 2000 july ( shortly before the last periastron passage ) and with the rest obtained over 94 nights between 2005 june and 2010 august .",
    "there were about a dozen or so nights in the latter period that have not been utilized in this study since these nights produced small amounts of low quality data most commonly due to poor atmospheric conditions .",
    "therefore , a total of 96 nights have been used where the dates of all these nights are listed in table  [ tab : data ] .",
    "the npoi is a six - element optical long - baseline interferometer that has been described in detail by @xcite .",
    "the interferometric observations obtained during our @xmath0  sco campaign have utilized all six operational stations resulting in baseline lengths from 18 to 80  m. the raw interferometric data were obtained and reduced using steps outlined in @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "the calibrator star used was @xmath3  oph ( hr  6175 , o9v ) with an estimated diameter of 0.85  mas based on the @xmath4 color  @xcite .",
    "the interferometric binary signature for each individual night in our data set was modeled in the same manner as described by equation  1 in @xcite . to estimate the squared visibility curve of the two stellar components we assumed that the two angular diameters are known . for the primary component we adopted the measured uniform disk diameter of 0.45@xmath20.04  mas from @xcite . for the secondary component we adopted an angular diameter of 0.2",
    "mas ( nearly unresolved for the employed baselines ) , which is expected based on the average value of 5.7  @xmath5 from tabulations of @xcite for a b2-type main sequence star and a dynamical parallax of 7.03@xmath20.15  mas @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : binary ] illustrates a typical interferometric binary signature across different spectral channels of a single baseline obtained during the 2006 observing season . because the main purpose of this study is to revise the binary parameters , we exclude from the analysis the spectral channel that contains the h@xmath1 emission from the circumstellar disk around the primary .",
    "we leave the analysis of the h@xmath1-emitting region in the @xmath0  sco system for future publication .",
    "the resulting binary fits to each night produced the angular separation ( @xmath6 ) and the position angle ( p.a . , @xmath7 ) of the two stellar components , as well as their magnitude difference .",
    "the median magnitude difference between the two components based on all the nights yielded @xmath8 values of 1.87@xmath20.17 and 2.24@xmath20.26 for the 550 and 850  nm regions , respectively .",
    "this is in an agreement with the values of @xmath9 @xcite and 1.78@xmath20.03 @xcite , based on observations in the 440  nm region .",
    "the astrometric fits were repeated adopting the median values of the magnitude differences , and the uncertainty ellipses were adopted as one - seventh the size of a gaussian fitted to the center of the synthesized point - spread function @xcite .",
    "the astrometric results for all nights are listed in table   [ tab : data ] .",
    "following a similar procedure outlined by @xcite we have combined our astrometric measurements with the radial velocities obtained by @xcite during the last periastron passage that occurred in 2000 .",
    "because @xcite did not publish uncertainty estimates , we adopted 1.8 km  s@xmath10 as the measurement error of a radial velocity based on their scatter in the final fit . the astrometric uncertainty ellipses did not have to be rescaled before combination as their size corresponded to the average deviation from the fitted positions .",
    "for the systemic radial velocity we used the value of @xmath11 km s@xmath10 from @xcite .",
    "we also fixed the mass of the secondary at @xmath12 , the value found by @xcite .",
    "based on its color of @xmath13 derived from the measured magnitude differences , it is likely a dwarf of type b2 for which a mass of @xmath12 is listed by @xcite .",
    "this leaves the mass of the primary and the seven orbital elements to be fit to the combined data using standard nonlinear least - squares methods .",
    "the combined astrometric and radial velocity data resulted in the best - fit orbital parameters listed in table  [ tab : parameters ] , where our values are also compared to the results from @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite . the reduced @xmath14 statistic associated with",
    "the best - fit solution was 1.2 .",
    "the mass of the primary is derived as @xmath15 , and the dynamical parallax is @xmath16 mas .",
    "figure  [ fig : orbit ] compares how well the revised model fits the actual astrometric data and compares the revised orbit to the one obtained by @xcite .",
    "it is clearly evident from the figure that the wide range of baselines of the npoi produces very high precision narrow - angle astrometric measurements .",
    "the high precision astrometry compounded with the extensive orbital coverage that includes observations close to the previous periastron passage , results in the best orbital parameters to date .      our best - fit values for @xmath17 and @xmath18 of jy2000.6927  ( jd2,451,798 ) and 10.817  yr  ( 3950.9 @xmath2 1.7",
    "d ) , respectively , allow us to revise the timing of the upcoming periastron passage to ut2011  jul  6 @xmath2 2  d. this revised periastron timing differs by @xmath19  30 days from the predictions based on the most accurate orbital parameters published to date . because the secondary moves rapidly near periastron passage , observations acquired even a few days before or after the closest approach might miss the possible disk - secondary interaction completely .",
    "figure  [ fig : periastron ] illustrates where the secondary is expected to be located 10 , 30 , and 60 days before and after the periastron passage , along with the locations of the secondary along our newly revised orbit based on the periastron timings derived based on the @xmath17 and @xmath18 values published in the literature .    using the updated orbital parameters we also derive the minimum expected separation at the closest approach  ( @xmath20 ) to be @xmath21 mas ( 14 stellar radii ) .",
    "the uncertainty in the separation at the closest approach was obtained using a monte carlo approach , which simulated 300,000 synthetic data sets all distributed according to the uncertainties associated with all the orbital parameters . by obtaining a @xmath20 value for each synthetic data set allowed us to obtain a distribution of solutions where the standard deviation of the distribution was used to obtain the uncertainty on @xmath20 .",
    "the binary orbit has been refined using astrometric data obtained from npoi and radial velocities from @xcite .",
    "the orbit that is obtained gives a better fit to the data than previous findings .",
    "the next periastron passage is expected to occur on ut  2011  jul  6 @xmath2  2  d. our results indicate that the periastron passage will occur almost one month later compared to what one would expect based on the period reported by @xcite .",
    "this result can have a significant impact on observational campaigns that request relatively small amount of telescope time ( sometimes months in advance ) and need to time their request as closely to the periastron passage as possible .",
    "the navy prototype optical interferometer is a joint project of the naval research laboratory and the us naval observatory , in cooperation with lowell observatory , and is funded by the office of naval research and the oceanographer of the navy .",
    ". acknowledges , with thanks , grant support from research corporation for science advancement .",
    "c.t . and a.a .",
    "would like to thank the physics department at central michigan university for support .",
    "armstrong , j.  t. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 496 , 550 bedding , t.  r.  1993 , , 106 , 768 benson , j.  a. , hummel , c.  a. , & mozurkewich , d.  2003 , , 4838 , 358 carciofi , a.  c. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 652 , 1617 cox , a. n. , ed . 2000 , allen s astrophysical quantities ( 4th ed . ; new york : aip ) evans , d.  s.  1967 , determination of radial velocities and their applications , 30 , 57 halonen , r.  j. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 120 , 498 hanbury brown , r. , davis , j. , & allen , l.  r.  1974 , , 167 , 121 hartkopf , w.  i. , mason , b.  d. , & mcalister , h.  a.  1996 , aj , 111 , 370 hummel , c.  a. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 125 , 2630 koubsk , p. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 517 , a24 mason , b.  d. , hartkopf , w.  i. , gies , d.  r. , henry , t.  j. , & helsel , j.  w.  2009 , aj , 137 , 3358 millan - gabet , r. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 723 , 544 miroshnichenko , a.  s. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 377 , 485 mozurkewich , d. , et al .",
    "1991 , , 101 , 2207 tango , w.  j. , davis , j. , jacob , a.  p. , mendez , a. , north , j.  r. , obyrne , j.  w. , seneta , e.  b. , & tuthill , p.  g.  2009 , mnras , 396 , 842"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in anticipation of the possible collision between a circumstellar disk and the secondary star in the highly eccentric binary system @xmath0 scorpii , high angular resolution interferometric observations have been acquired aimed at revising the binary parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the navy prototype optical interferometer ( npoi ) was used to spatially resolve the binary components in 2000 and over a period between 2005 and 2010 . </S>",
    "<S> the interferometric observations are used to obtain the angular separations and orientations of the two stellar components at all epochs for which data has been obtained , including 2005 and 2006 , for which based on previous studies there was some uncertainty as to if the signature of binarity can be clearly detected . </S>",
    "<S> the results of this study represent the most complete and accurate coverage of the binary orbit of this system to date and allow for the revised timing of the upcoming periastron passage that will occur in 2011 to be obtained . </S>"
  ]
}