{
  "article_text": [
    "the galaxy m82 ( ngc  3034 ) hosts the nearest and best example of an ongoing massive starburst , making it an excellent target for detailed studies at all wavelengths . the galaxy is thought to have undergone an interaction event with its neighbor m81 about 10@xmath6 yr ago @xcite , triggering a massive nuclear starburst about 5@xmath310@xmath7  years ago @xcite .",
    "there is also evidence for several other star formation episodes , both older and younger @xcite . around 40 supernova remnants ( snrs )",
    "have been identified in the core @xcite , and one new supernova ( sn ) is produced every @xmath13 years ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the energy output of the super star clusters hosting the sne is thermalised and drives a large scale superwind along the galactic minor axis @xcite which can be observed in detail because of the favorable edge - on inclination of the source .    in the infrared ,",
    "m82 has been extensively studied with all space missions .",
    "its infrared luminosity is measured to be 5@xmath310@xmath8 @xmath9 , and it shows prodigious dusty outflows and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon ( pah ) grains in the mid - infrared ( mid - ir ) extending on kpc - scales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there are very few high - spatial - resolution mid - ir studies of the core itself on scales of order 100 pc , because of size limitations of space missions . with their large primary mirrors",
    ", ground - based telescopes can achieve the best spatial resolution currently possible . in the @xmath10 ( 813 )",
    "band atmospheric window , the highest resolution studies thus far are the works of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter tg92 ) and ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter al95 ) , with nominal resolutions of 1@xmath51 and 2 , respectively .    in this work ,",
    "we present the first sub - arcsec mid - ir @xmath10-band images of the core of m82 .",
    "the galaxy was observed as an extension of our recent work of seyfert galaxies @xcite , as part of a study to understand the mid - ir emission of galaxies at high angular resolution .",
    "the observations were carried out at the 8.2  m subaru telescope . at wavelengths of 11.7 and 12.81 ,",
    "our imaging is diffraction - limited at @xmath11 .",
    "these new images provide the sharpest mid - ir view of structures at the base of the superwind , and allow an extensive multi - wavelength comparison of individual sources .",
    "several  regions are newly identified in the mid - ir .",
    "we also discuss the nature of a putative active galactic nucleus candidate . using a mid - ir detection and new  data , we rule out the agn hypothesis and discuss other possibilities , include supernova remnant ionization and emission from a starburst .",
    "distance estimates to m82 have ranged over 3.25.2 mpc ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "some of the latest measurements suggest a distance at the lower end of this range based upon accurate determination of the tip of the red giant branch magnitude @xcite .",
    "we adopt a value of 3.53 mpc herein , resulting in a physical scale of 17.1 pc per arcsec .",
    "our imaging resolution limit corresponds to @xmath126.1 and 6.7 pc at 11.7  and 12.8  , respectively .",
    "observations were carried out at subaru on the night starting 2009 may 04 , under generally clear weather conditions .",
    "the source was observed at the beginning of the night close to meridian , i.e. near its maximum altitude of 40@xmath13 .",
    "the cooled mid - infrared camera and spectrometer , or comics @xcite was used in imaging mode with standard chopping and nodding off - source . due to the extended nature of the emission from m82 , a relatively large chop throw of 30",
    "was used so that the sky position lay completely outside a single field - of - view of the detector .",
    "technical difficulties prevented us from using larger throws .",
    "a north - south chop direction was adopted , because this is approximately perpendicular to the apparent major axis of the galaxy .",
    "integration times of 60 s were used at each chop position .",
    "subsequently , the telescope was nodded to a position at an offset of 1 arcmin to the north , and the above chopping series was replicated , this time entirely on sky .",
    "the above sequence was repeated 10 times , resulting in a total on - source exposure of 600 s per filter and a total telescope time of about 50 min per filter after accounting for observing efficiency .",
    "imaging was obtained in the  ( narrow - band ) and the 117filter  filters , with central wavelengths ( and full widths at half maximum ) of 12.81 ( 0.2 )  and 11.7 ( 1.0 ) , respectively .",
    "the median airmass of the source was 1.56 and 1.65 , respectively .",
    "the cohen standard star pi2  uma ( hd  73108 ; @xcite ) was observed for photometric calibration just before the target at an airmass of @xmath121.44 . on - chip",
    "chopping with a throw of 10  was used , and two nod observations were obtained with exposure time 10 s each .",
    "seeing was measured in this observation , as well as in a standard star observation of hd  108381 ( with identical observational setup to pi2  uma ; in the 117filter  filter only ) carried out approximately 1 h after the target observation was completed .",
    "the maximum systematic error in the photometry due to the absolute calibration of the standard star is @xmath123% , and this error is added quadratically to all target photometric errors .",
    "data reduction was carried out using routines provided by the comics team ( q_series package ) , and following the procedures recommended in the comics data reduction manual v.2.1.1 .",
    "some additional image manipulation was carried out in .",
    "the comics data flow returns two sets of images for each observation : 1 ) a  cube of data frames including all images obtained in one observing block ; 2 ) a single chop - subtracted  image , co - added over all the frames in that block .",
    "the recommended flat fielding procedure for imaging is a self - sky - flat , in which the off  beam chop positions are used for flat fielding the on  beam ones , and vice - versa .",
    "this is possible because the detector is illuminated quite uniformly by sky background , much brighter than the imaged sources . to create these flats ,",
    "dark frames were first subtracted from each cube of data . for the standard star reduction , the on and",
    "the off chop beam data cubes were averaged to create a separate mean image for each of the two beams ( hereafter , called mean beam images ) .",
    "low spatial frequency trends across the detector are then removed by simply dividing through a heavily gaussian - smoothed version of the mean beam images .",
    "this results in the desired flats for one observing block , and each comq co - added frame can be divided by these flats to create calibrated on and off beam standard star images , with the pixel - to - pixel sensitivity variation removed . this flat fielding procedure was carried out separately for each nod position , following which the two beams are shifted and averaged ( with flux inversion of one ) .    the target was observed with a large chop angle so that the off beam images are devoid of any bright sources .",
    "hence , only the flats created from the off beam positions are required to calibrate the on beam target images .",
    "so , for the target , we simply divided each comq image by the off beam flat created as described above .",
    "this was done identically for the nod position as well .",
    "each flat fielded nod position image was then subtracted from its immediately preceding flat fielded target image , resulting in 10 calibrated and background - subtracted images of the target .",
    "one of the point - like sources in each image was used as a reference for determining small shifts necessary to create the final co - added image .",
    "two systematic sources of noise affect comics observations .",
    "firstly , a low level random noise in the form of horizontal stripes is introduced into every exposure by the readout amplifiers .",
    "although it is largely periodic in nature across the field of view as a result of the 16 identical amplifier channels employed , this is difficult to remove because of 1 ) its random nature from exposure to exposure ; 2 ) the fact that our target covers most of the field of view , leaving free very little of the ccd for determination of the noise level .",
    "no optimal solution was found for removal of this read noise component without introducing additional statistical uncertainties in the process , so no attempt is made to remove it , except for display purpose .",
    "secondly , we find non - negligible background residuals in our 117filter  image .",
    "this is a result of the fact that 1 ) the chop throw ( and nod offset ) is relatively large which means that the background and target optical light paths differ significantly ; and 2 ) the typical time delay between a chopped beam observation and its corresponding nod observation is of order several minutes , during which time the sky level can vary significantly .",
    "these residuals are more prominent in the 117filter  image because of the wide filter width could make it more sensitive to sky variations . in order to remove these , the final neii image was rescaled in order to produce the best match to the target in the 117filter  filter , and then subtracted .",
    "this leaves a background image dominated by the 117filter  background residuals , with only some additional low level structures due to the varying seds of targets across the field of view between the two wavelengths .",
    "this background image can then be subtracted from the shifted and co - added 117filter  image to create the desired residual - free product .",
    "final calibrated images are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : basicimages ] .",
    "the attached absolute astrometry was determined based on multi - wavelength comparison of detected sources , as described in the following sections .",
    "the coordinates attached to all images presented herein are for the j2000 equinox .",
    "the point - spread - function ( psf ) size in our observations may be accurately measured from the photometric standard star observations , which were carried out both before , and after , the target observations .",
    "the stellar flux contours are displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : psfs ] .",
    "also overplotted is the expected diffraction limit resolution for both filters .",
    "the 50 per cent stellar flux contour matches the expected ideal full - width at half - maximum ( fwhm ) , meaning that our observations were closely diffraction - limited at 036 and 039 in the 117filter  and neii filters , respectively .",
    "in order to isolate the most significant discrete sources in the target field of view , we carried out automatic detection with the sextractor package @xcite .",
    "the dominant source of uncertainty for source detection and photometry is the diffuse and bright galactic background emission .",
    "an iterative process of interpolating the image on a smooth mesh and removing detected sources is employed for proper modeling of this background .",
    "but the complex nature of the observed emission makes the local background quite sensitive to the choice of the mesh size .",
    "we thus decided to run sextractor in two passes using different mesh sizes . in the first instance , a background map is created from a mesh with squares of size 8@xmath38 pixels .",
    "a limit of 3@xmath14 ( with @xmath14 being the root - mean - square variance in the background map at the mesh location of interest ) was chosen for defining significant sources , and a rather small minimum detection area of 3 contiguous pixels with a significant signal was adopted for detecting the more compact sources . in a second pass , we chose a smaller background mesh size of 4@xmath34 pixels , and ran the source detection procedure again",
    ". sextractor fits ellipse profiles to all sources , and only those sources whose centroids remained consistent to within some threshold between the two passes were retained in the end . a threshold of size equal to the semi - minor axis for the  filter ( and twice this value for the 117filter  images which are affected by worse residuals , as described above )",
    "was found from experimentation to work well .",
    "note that a very small background mesh can result in subtraction of some flux from the source wings themselves .",
    "test runs on the photometric star images showed that using a mesh as small as 4@xmath34 pixels results in fluxes lower than the total expected values by factors of about 1.2 and 1.3 ( 117filter  and , respectively ) , so all sextractor  determined fluxes have been increased by these amounts .",
    "because of the clumpy nature of the galaxy emission , additional systematic uncertainties of @xmath1210%  are estimated for this background correction , and these have also been included .",
    "a better photometric solution will require accurate mapping of the galactic background emission ( in longer exposures or using space telescopes ) , which the present data do not allow .",
    "calibration of counts to flux was carried out using the photometric standard observations described in   [ sec : obs ] .",
    "final source fluxes are listed in table  [ tab : compact ] and the sources are identified in fig .",
    "[ fig : compact ] .",
    "finally , in order to determine limiting fluxes for non detections , we simulated two dimensional gaussian profiles matched to the psf , scaled these according to flux and added them in at specific positions in the images where limits were required .",
    "we then passed these images through our detection pipeline , and determined the flux limit corresponding to the faintest source that could be detected .",
    "we find nominal point source flux limits of @xmath1243 mjy and 18 mjy in the  and 117filter  filters , respectively , at the radio kinematic center position of @xcite .",
    "but these limits can vary significantly with position and source morphology assumed , so we quote relevant numbers for some interesting sources individually in the following sections .",
    "registration of images at multiple wavelengths ( to better than half - arcsec accuracy ) is a non - trivial task , given the small field - of - view of comics , the extended nature of the bulk of the emission and the strong dust extinction towards the core .",
    "extensive high resolution radio studies over the years have accurately mapped many supernova remnants ( snrs ) and  regions , which arguably provide the best reference system for cross - registration .",
    "we used the vla / merlin 5/15 ghz study of ( * ? ? ? * hereafter m02 ) to search for source matches with our mid - ir neii image .",
    "a possible solution was identified in which four radio  regions coincided with mid - ir neii detections to within 0@xmath55 .",
    "these four are listed in table  [ tab : compact ] and are highlighted in fig .",
    "[ fig : hiiregions ] . the rms error of the astrometric solution fit was 0.27 pixels , or 0036 , about 10 times smaller than a single resolution element . adopting this solution required a shift of about 0.5 arcsec from the raw subaru astrometry baseline .",
    "the astrometry for the 117filter  image was tied to that determined for the neii filter , and all four  regions are also detected in the 117filter  image .    in order to check whether these mid - ir detections are consistent with being dust emission from  regions , we plot their radio to mid - ir spectral energy distributions ( seds ) in fig .",
    "[ fig : hiiregions ] , and compare to the seds of the massive embedded star clusters identified by @xcite in ngc  1365 .",
    "the overall match is excellent given the long lever arm  between the radio and infrared , and given that some natural variation amongst the strengths of the 12.81  line dominating the  filter is expected .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^ , > ,",
    "< , > , < , > \" , ]      detection of any flux variability can be important for understanding the nature of the source .",
    "the fluxes inferred from the two  observations above are consistent with each other , and one must examine longer timescales . searching in the  archive for other data ,",
    "one of the earliest acis - s observations covering the position of this source is sequence 600270 with observation date 2002 jun 18 .",
    "the exposure time after flare removal is only 18.03 ks , but there is a long time baseline of about 7 years to the 2009 observations analyzed in previous sections .",
    "we reduced and analyzed this archival data set in an identical manner to the 2009 observations . the extracted net spectrum is shown in fig .  [ fig:2933 ] .",
    "fitting with the same absorbed double thermal model as in   [ sec : xspec ] yields parameters consistent with those listed in table  [ tab : xspec ] ( though with much larger uncertainties ) , and a flux @xmath15=1.06@xmath16@xmath310@xmath17 erg s@xmath18 @xmath19 corrected for galactic absorption only .",
    "the 90%  confidence interval overlaps with the flux determined from the 2009 observations (   [ sec : xspec ] ) .",
    "thus , there is no indication for strong flux variability on a timescale of several years either .",
    "a similar inference has also been reached by @xcite in a recent analysis of other observations ( their source designation is cxou  j095552.8 + 694045 ) .",
    "our comparisons limit any flux variations to less than 20% .         , and fitted with the absorbed double thermal model described in   [ sec : xspec ] . a minimum bin grouping of 20 counts has been applied .",
    "[ fig:2933 ] , height=321 ]",
    "we have presented the highest resolution imaging of the nuclear regions of m82 to date in the mid - ir .",
    "the subaru diffraction limit at wavelengths of 11.7 and 12.81  is 036 and 039 , respectively .",
    "compared to the previous best resolution observations ( the 12.4  imaging with psf of 1@xmath51 presented by tg92 ) , our images have psfs improved by factors of 3.1 and 2.8 at 11.7 and 12.81  , respectively , and we cover a core region larger by a factor of at least two .",
    "the referee also made us aware of a conference proceeding by @xcite , where an image at 11.7  with an angular resolution of 06 is presented .",
    "the absolute astrometry of their image agrees to within @xmath11  with our work , as well as with the works of al95 and tg92 . to our knowledge",
    ", no further details have been published .",
    "multi - wavelength image comparisons show an anti - correlation between the observed stellar distribution ( probed in the near - ir ) with the distribution of warm dust that we probe .",
    "this means that obscuration in these dusty regions is heavy enough to scatter even near - ir radiation .",
    "our observations provide the best view of the base of the dusty superwind that is known to exist in this galaxy , and reveal several elongated features on projected physical scales of up to @xmath20=120 pc at least .",
    "if the mid - ir emitting dust is mixed in with and entrained in outflowing gas , then the travel time ( @xmath21 ) is    @xmath22    where a velocity of @xmath23=200 km s@xmath18 identical to that found by @xcite for the molecular gas is used as reference .",
    "this time period suggests recent energy input from young starbursts .",
    "the kinetic energy required to expel this dust is only a fraction of that channeled into the total gas mass , and so expulsion by sne occurring at various locations around the ring of star - formation can easily account for this @xcite .    using the integrated fluxes over the comics field - of - view alongside archival data at longer and shorter wavelengths , and assuming only a two temperature phase for the dust , we are able to describe the broad - band mid - ir diffuse emission with a @xmath24=160 k modified black body with a hot dust mass of @xmath11000  , in addition to the 45 k cool dust component responsible for the far - ir emission . assuming a standard gas : dust ratio of 100 , the mass of the gas associated with the mid - ir emitting dust is then @xmath110@xmath25  .",
    "this is lower than the ionized gas mass of 2@xmath310@xmath26  ( th80 ; @xcite ) by a factor of about 20 , meaning that the ionized gas may be the predominant environment for the hot dust that we are observing .",
    "the cooler dust , on the other hand , is likely to be tracing the distribution of molecular gas ( th80 )",
    ".    more than 20 discrete sources are detected , and most are found to have extended profiles . matching against radio catalogs suggests that we have resolved at least four ( and tentatively , five )  regions in the mid - ir for the first time .",
    "these  regions have monochromatic continuum dust luminosities ranging from @xmath27=2@xmath310@xmath26  ( radio i d 39.29 + 54.2 ) to 8@xmath310@xmath26  ( 41.17 + 56.2 ) , consistent with being powered by embedded super star clusters similar to those seen in some other nearby galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : rgb ] , no source is detected at the position of the radio transient identified by @xcite as sn2008iz , the brightest radio snr in m82 over the past 20 years .",
    "the start of bright radio flaring activity is limited to the time interval of 2007 oct 29 to 2008 mar 24 .",
    "our observations were carried out one month after the final set of follow - up radio observations on 2009 apr 04 reported by @xcite , when they found the source to have an integrated 22.2 ghz flux of 9.20.2 mjy .",
    "our flux limits are @xmath28@xmath438 mjy and @xmath29@xmath418 mjy , assuming a point source of angular size equal to the diffraction limits in each filter . in general",
    ", there is little overlap between confirmed snrs and mid - ir detections .",
    "additionally , no mid - ir counterpart is detected at the location of the unusual radio transient found by @xcite .",
    "the source appeared on radio images obtained within the period of 15 may 2009  contemporaneous with our mid - ir observations  and was not present one week before .",
    "it is located @xmath121  from the position of our source # 18 ( see also @xcite for an identification of the x - ray counterpart ) .",
    "we estimate point source upper limits of 34 mjy and 15 mjy in the neii and n11.7 filters .    no space observatory is foreseen to have a better resolving power than subaru at @xmath110  , though the mid infrared instrument ( miri )",
    "onboard  should provide excellent sensitivity for only a modest loss in angular resolution at the same wavelengths ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "miri is also expected to have a field of view larger by a factor of @xmath302 on a side , making source identification much more secure . on a longer timescale",
    ", the european / jaxa mission  @xcite will be crucial for deep searches of far - ir signatures of agn activity at this source location .",
    "on the ground , the gran telecopio canarias , with a primary mirror diameter of 10.4  m , can improve the resolution slightly to 03 under good observing conditions .",
    "even better resolution must await larger ground - based observatories such as the extremely large telescope .",
    "this will not be diffraction - limited under natural seeing conditions and will require additional adaptive optics capabilities in the mid - ir to improve upon the results presented herein .",
    "the puzzling radio source 44.01 + 59.6 has a significant  mid - ir detection ( our source # 18 [ i52.70 + 45.9 ] ) , and is also coincident with a source visible in high - resolution x - ray images ( j095552.7 ) , to well within our estimated absolute positional uncertainties . from  data ,",
    "it is immediately apparent that the x - ray spectrum is not consistent with that of agn , which usually display broad - band power - laws with photon - indices @xmath11.9 characteristic of radiatively - efficient accretion ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "low luminosity agn with radiatively - inefficient flows or jets , too , usually display hard x - ray continua ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "similarly , one can argue against direct association with other kinds of accreting sources such as x - ray binaries .",
    "the detection of a strong he - like fe line instead of a neutral line centered on 6.4 kev implies the absence of cold reflecting matter , also atypical for an accreting source .",
    "highly ionized lines have actually been attributed to heavily obscured agn in some cases ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , though on larger scales . in such a scenario ,",
    "the agn itself is not readily apparent ; rather , the visible spectrum is dominated by surrounding gas which is irradiated by the agn along directions out of our line of sight .",
    "if this is true for the case of source j095552.7 , the underlying accreting object ( be it an agn or an x - ray binary ) could power the radio jet found by @xcite and also provide a ready source where accreting gas is in rotation ( as inferred from the maser lines found by @xcite ) .",
    "but this would also result in x - ray photoionization spectral features or even an ionized reflection continuum .",
    "an extra layer of optically - thick obscuration is then also required ( in addition to the two that we detect ) with an extreme covering factor very close to unity so as to completely hide the reflection continuum and any neutral fe k line .",
    "this is not consistent with the detection of a jet which would be expected to decrease the covering factor by clearing away some surrounding matter .",
    "finally , the 210 kev luminosity of 5@xmath310@xmath31 erg s@xmath18 means that the source is unlikely to have a bolometric x - ray power which would place it in the ulx regime ( e.g. @xcite ) because of the steep spectra of the fitted thermal models .",
    "thus , our analysis allows us to reach some firm conclusions as to what the source is _",
    "not_. the true source nature still remains uncertain , though , and in the following , we discuss plausible alternatives .",
    "in addition to our  image , the source appears most prominently as a compact object in hard x - rays .",
    "one possibility may then be that both the mid - ir and the hard x - ray components are associated with the snr visible in the radio . to test this",
    ", we may compare the source power to that of cas a , a powerful and young galactic snr .",
    "from  observations summed over the entire remnant , the 410 kev x - ray luminosity of cas a is determined to be @xmath32@xmath124@xmath310@xmath33 erg s@xmath18 @xcite .",
    "this is about 150 times smaller than the deabsorbed x - ray luminosity @xmath34@xmath126@xmath310@xmath35 erg s@xmath18 that we find for our source by using the high temperature apec component alone (   [ sec : xspec ] ) .",
    "this requires that the electron density ( @xmath36 ) in the x - ray emitting interstellar medium ( ism ) around source # 18 be much larger than in the case of cas a. @xmath36 may be determined by using the normalization values returned by the apec@xmath37 component and the emission volume which , in the scenario under consideration here , should correspond to the volume of the radio - emitting plasma .",
    "* see their table 3 ) measure a diameter of 0.86  pc for the snr , using which yields an electron density of @xmath36@xmath11.75(0.3)@xmath310@xmath38 @xmath39 .",
    "a low plasma filling factor would only push this value up .",
    "this is , indeed , much larger than typical ism densities of 110 @xmath39 relevant for galactic snrs .",
    "we also note that the present limit on any x - ray variability in the source ( @xmath4020%  over seven years ) derived from archival data comparisons in   [ sec : variability ] is consistent with the observed smaller flux changes in cas a over similar timescales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the detected collimated radio jet may then suggest some kind of axisymmetry in the progenitor ( e.g. a binary merger event ) .",
    "on the other hand , the mid - ir power for source # 18 ( @xmath41=1.5@xmath310@xmath42 erg s@xmath18 ) is in excess of the integrated 12  power of cas a ( @xmath43=5@xmath310@xmath44 erg s@xmath18 ; @xcite ) by a much larger factor of @xmath123000 .",
    "but given the unknown dust temperature , the fraction of freshly formed vs. ambient heated dust , and the fact that our  filter flux is likely to be dominated not by continuum but by the 12.81  line ( which is known to be a strong cooling line for snrs ; e.g. @xcite ) , further comparison of the mid - ir fluxes is difficult .",
    "the other possibility to consider for the x - ray thermal plasma components is that of a hot ism phase in a compact star cluster .",
    "in fact , collisionally ionized plasmas with a wide range of temperatures have been previously inferred to exist within starburst galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , though on larger scales .",
    "[ fig : nucleussed ] shows the compiled radio  to  x - ray fluxes for source # 18 .",
    "a mid - ir flux dominating the sed is consistent with an origin in a starburst , though this is not a unique solution .",
    "the detection of two distinct layers of absorption (   [ sec : xspec ] ) may also suggest a scenario which combines the above possibilities as follows . the hot x - ray thermal plasma and the radio counterpart could both be associated with a snr , which is embedded within a host star cluster .",
    "the high column density affecting the apec@xmath37 component ( table  [ tab : xspec ] ) may easily be explained by strong local absorption within molecular clouds , for instance .",
    "the point - like profile of the hard x - ray data is also consistent with this .",
    "the cluster , on the other hand , could appear prominently in soft x - rays and also in the mid - ir .",
    "the comparatively low aborption affecting this component is then due to gas along the plane of the galaxy on larger scales .",
    "further insight into the nature of this source will be possible if it can be isolated at longer wavelengths characterizing the peak of typical star - formation seds ( this may be within reach of ) , or through detection of spectral features in the sub - mm with alma .",
    "subsequent long  exposures would be useful to place tighter constraints on x - ray variability .",
    "meanwhile , the question of whether m82 hosts an agn or not remains to be answered .     117filter  detection limit measured assuming poisson statistics within an aperture equal in size to the diffraction limit .",
    "the x - ray regime shows the unfolded spectrum relevant for the model fitted to the observed data in fig .",
    "[ fig : agn ] .",
    "[ fig : nucleussed ] , height=321 ]",
    "pg acknowledges a jaxa international top young fellowship and a riken foreign postdoctoral researcher fellowship during parts of this work . this research is supported in part by a jsps grant in aid kakenhi number 21740152 .",
    "pg also thanks s. konami and p. ranalli for discussions .",
    "the referee is acknowledged for their useful comments .    based on data collected at subaru telescope and obtained from the smoka , which is operated by the astronomy data center , national astronomical observatory of japan .",
    "data archives for the  and  missions were essential for the multi - wavelength comparisons presented herein .",
    "subaru observatory staff are thanked for their assistance in the observations .                                                                  , w.  a. & mandel , e. 2003 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "295 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xii , ed .",
    "h.  e.  payne , r.  i.  jedrzejewski , & r.  n.  hook , 489        , h. , okamoto , y. , takubo , s. , onaka , t. , sako , s. , nakamura , k. , miyata , t. , & yamashita , t. 2000 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol .",
    "4008 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "m.  iye & a.  f. moorwood , 11441152                                                                                      , g.  s. , et al .",
    "2004 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol . 5487 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed . j.  c.  mather , 653663"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new imaging at 12.81 and 11.7 @xmath0 m of the central @xmath140@xmath2@xmath330@xmath2 ( @xmath10.7@xmath30.5 kpc ) of the starburst galaxy m82 . </S>",
    "<S> the observations were carried out with the comics mid - infrared ( mid - ir ) imager on the 8.2  m subaru telescope , and are diffraction - limited at an angular resolution of @xmath40@xmath54 . </S>",
    "<S> the images show extensive diffuse structures , including a 7long linear chimney - like feature and another resembling the edges of a ruptured bubble . </S>",
    "<S> this is the clearest view to date of the base of the kpc - scale dusty wind known in this galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> these structures do not extrapolate to a single central point , implying multiple ejection sites for the dust . </S>",
    "<S> in general , the distribution of dust probed in the mid - ir anticorrelates with the locations of massive star clusters that appear in the near - infrared . the 1021  mid - ir emission , spatially - integrated over the field of view , may be represented by hot dust with temperature of @xmath1160 k. most discrete sources are found to have extended morphologies . </S>",
    "<S> several radio  regions are identified for the first time in the mid - ir . </S>",
    "<S> the only potential radio supernova remnant to have a mid - ir counterpart is a source which has previously also been suggested to be a weak active galactic nucleus . </S>",
    "<S> this source has an x - ray counterpart in  data which appears prominently above 3 kev and is best described as a hot ( @xmath12.6 kev ) absorbed thermal plasma with a 6.7 kev fe k emission line , in addition to a weaker and cooler thermal component . </S>",
    "<S> the mid - ir detection is consistent with the presence of strong 12.81  line emission . </S>",
    "<S> the broad - band source properties are complex , but the x - ray spectra do not support the active galactic nucleus hypothesis . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss possible interpretations regarding the nature of this source . </S>"
  ]
}