{
  "article_text": [
    "the kelvin - helmholtz ( kh ) instability , produced by two fluids undergoing differential shearing motion across an interface , was described by @xcite and @xcite almost one and a half centuries ago .",
    "the kh instability is observed over a wide range of gaseous , fluid , and plasma regimes on the earth and in space .",
    "chains of vortex - shaped features have been observed in clouds on the earth , and in the atmospheric cloud belts of jupiter and saturn that exhibit shearing wind motions .",
    "these vortices were interpreted as signatures of the kh instability .",
    "kh vortices have been observed in the earth s aurora @xcite and the magnetosphere , where there is evidence that the instability plays an important role in the energy transport of solar wind into the magnetosphere @xcite .",
    "observations have also been made in the magnetospheres of mercury @xcite , saturn @xcite , and ganymede @xcite .",
    "recently , evidence of kh development in solar prominence material was found in observations from the hinode solar optical telescope @xcite .",
    "the growth rate of the instability was calculated analytically for sheared flow in an idealized fluid @xcite .",
    "this instability can also occur in magnetized plasma of the solar corona ; in this case the magnetic field component along the direction of the shear can have a stabilizing effect @xcite and can also affect the growth rate and structure of the vortices @xcite.non - uniform ( sheared ) magnetic field across the velocity shear layer can have stabilizing or destabilizing effect on the kh mode , depending on the properties of the magnetic shear ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the kh instability has been studied theoretically in the context of coronal plasmas , where it is believed to play an important role in the transition to turbulence and plasma heating @xcite.kh instability was also proposed as a mechanism that produces the observed quasi - periodic pulsation in flare high energy emission @xcite . in this study",
    "we report the first observation of kh instability in the solar corona in euv coronal lines by sdo / aia .",
    "the interpretation of observations is supported by linear analysis and mhd model of kh instability .",
    "the paper is organized as follows :   2",
    "is devoted to the description of sdo / aia observations ,   3 described briefly the theory of kh instability ,   4 is devoted to numerical result of mhd model , and the conclusion are in   5 .",
    "the atmospheric imaging assembly ( aia ) on sdo is an array of four telescopes that captures images of the sun s atmosphere out to 1.3@xmath1 in ten separate wave bands .",
    "seven of the ten channels are centered on euv wavelengths : 94  ( fe xviii ) , 131  ( fe viii , xx , xxiii ) , 171  ( fe ix ) , 193  ( fexii , xxiv ) , 211(fe xiv ) , 304  ( he ii ) and 335   ( fe xvi ) , representing a range of effective temperatures from the upper chromosphere to the corona .",
    "the images are 4096@xmath24096 square with a pixel width of 0.6 .",
    "sdo was launched on 11 february 2010 , and on 8 april 2010 the observatory was still undergoing its post - launch commissioning phase .",
    "aia was taking a full set of images every 20 seconds in preparation for the transition to nominal science operations which would have a 10- to 12-second cadence . on 8 april 2010 beginning at 02:34 ut , aia observed a flare and coronal mass ejection coming from an active region located 16@xmath3 e and 29@xmath3 n of heliographic disk center .",
    "the flare peaked at 03:25 ut at a flux of b3.7 on the goes magnitude scale , and stereo secchi measured the cme s speed to be around 500 km s@xmath0 .",
    "in addition to the flare , the primary indicator of the cme in the aia images was the formation of large - scale dimming regions adjacent to the active region ( see figure  [ context : fig ] ) .",
    "these dimming regions are the site of plasma evacuated by the eruption .    along the boundary of one of the dimming regions ,",
    "we identify the formation , propagation and decay of vortex - shaped features ranging from several to ten arcseconds in size .",
    "they traveled at speeds ranging from @xmath4 km s@xmath0 along the boundary , which we identify as the shearing interface between erupting magnetic fields and the surrounding , non - erupting corona .",
    "based on the structure , evolution and decay of these features and supported by theoretical results ( see below ) , we believe that these are the first observations of the kelvin- helmholtz instability in the corona in euv .",
    "the vortex - shaped features are clearly visible in six of aia s euv wavebands , and are partially visible in the 94  images .",
    "the corona imaged in the 94  is the hottest of the aia wavebands ( around 6 mk ) , while the plasma at the dimming boundary is closer to typical coronal temperatures of 1 - 2mk .",
    "the observed vortices are small ( @xmath5 7000 km ) and evolve rapidly , disappearing on timescales of tens of minutes . in figure  [ context : fig ] we show the solar disk observed in the euv 171  waveband .",
    "the outer box shows the location of the cme eruption , while the inner box shows the boundary of the dimming region where the vortices were observed . in the right panel",
    "we highlight the evolution of the vortices in a sampling of 211  images ranging from t = 3:20:53 ut to t = 3:37:53 ut ( see the accompanying animations of this event ) .",
    "the vortices propagate from right to left at speeds ranged from @xmath6 km s@xmath0 .",
    "all in all , aspects of these vortices were visible for more than an hour .",
    "the first sign of vortex formation is at 3:00:13ut , and the flow of the vortices along the boundary was fully developed by 3:13:13ut . the vortex and associated features lasted until about 4:47:13ut . in order to study the motion of the vortices in figure  [ contour : fig ] we show the interface boundary stacked in time , where the @xmath7-axis is the location across the solar coordinate in arcseconds , and the @xmath8-axis is time in seconds ( lower panel ) .",
    "cuts were taken from a total of 51 images in 211  from a period of 3:20ut to 3:40ut , which corresponds to the period in which the vortex motion was most visible .",
    "the average difference between consecutive images was 20 - 25 seconds . in order to obtain the speed relative to the curved interface",
    "the stacks are shown along the coordinate of the interface @xmath9 on the @xmath7-axis , and time on the @xmath8-axis .",
    "the dashed lines in the figure indicate slopes corresponding to speeds of 6 km s@xmath0 and 14 km s@xmath0 , after compensating for the velocity of solar rotation .    the motion of the magnetic loops associated with the erupting cme on april 8 , 2010 are shown in figure 3 .",
    "the five frames show difference images that were created from consecutive pairs of 211  images taken at @xmath102:51:13 , 2:55:13 , 3:00:33 , 3:08:33 , and 3:13:55ut .",
    "the aia image of the region at 3:13:53ut is shown for context .",
    "the difference images enhance the structure and the evolution of the loops .",
    "we have estimated the upper limit of the speed of the shearing field motion in the initial stages of the eruption by tracking several loop features as a function of time , and found that their velocity was @xmath5 20 km s@xmath0 .",
    "we assume that this velocity is close to the velocity at which the material is evacuated from the dark regions , and that the projection effects are small .",
    "thus , we can estimate the relative velocity between the non - erupting ( stationary ) , and erupting region . by observing the width of the interface between the two regions before the formation of the vortices we estimate the thickness of the interface as 1 - 3 pixels .",
    "thus , on average the interface is @xmath5800 km thick , and the velocity must change from zero to @xmath11 km s@xmath0 over this thickness .",
    "this is the initial driving shear of the kh instability ( see below ) .",
    "the first indication of the appearance of the dimming structure is around 2:42:53ut , and it s fairly well defined by 2:51:13ut .",
    "the dimming structure expands and reaches the location where the kh vortices eventually develop . the first image where we see any motion along the kh front is 3:13:53ut .",
    "thus , we can roughly estimate that the growth time of the kh instability to the nonlinear stage is on the order of 14 minutes .",
    "the kh instability in fluids or plasmas arise when there is a velocity discontinuity or finite thickness velocity shear over an interface between two regions @xcite , and it is observed in many natural phenomena as well as in laboratory fluids or plsamas . in the initial linear stage",
    "the kh instability exhibits exponential growth , followed by nonlinear saturation and the formation of the typical kh vortices on the interface between the fluids , thus broadening the interface and reducing the magnitude of the shear .",
    "the kinetic energy of the shear is converted to the kinetic energy of the vortices that further transport it to smaller scales . in magnetized plasma",
    "the orientation of the magnetic field has an important role on the growth of the kh instability @xcite .",
    "when the magnetic field has significant component parallel to the interface , the growth of the kh instability can be suppressed .",
    "the strength of the magnetic field affects the size and the complexity of the vortices produced by kh instability in magnetized plasma .",
    "the linear growth rate of kh instability in an incompressible fluid with a discontinuous velocity jump between the two regions is @xcite @xmath12^{1/2 } , \\label{kh_growth : eq}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath13 is the velocity jump over the interface , @xmath14 is the magnetic field , @xmath15 is the wavevector , @xmath16 is the alfvn speed , and @xmath17 is the density . when the interface region is of a finite width the growth rate is reduced compared to the case with discontinuous jump in velocity .",
    "based on the parameters of the observed velocity shear in the range 6 - 14 km s@xmath0 , wavelength of 7000 km ( based on the size of the initial ripples ) , and assuming that the velocity jump is discontinuous since it is much smaller than the wavelength , we can estimate the upper limit of the linear growth rate of the kh instability using the above equation : @xmath18 s@xmath0 . for simplicity",
    ", we have assumed that the magnetic field has no parallel component to the interface in equation  [ kh_growth : eq ] .",
    "the nonlinear saturation is reached at time scale of several @xmath19 or in about 10 minutes , is in agreement with the observed time scale of the evolution .",
    "we relax some of the simplifying assumptions in the mhd model .",
    "note that the kh instability is not strongly suppressed , implying that the magnetic field was mostly radial ( i.e. , perpendicular to the plane of the velocity shear ) at the interface .",
    "this is in agreement with the observations of the erupting loops , which stretch the magnetic field and evolve to a nearly radial orientation as the eruption proceeds .",
    "here , we describe the results of numerical 2.5d ( i.e. , two spatial dimensions and 3 components of magnetic field and velocity ) mhd model of kh instability as a simplified model the magnetic and velocity structures seen by aia .",
    "numerical studies have been developed in the past to model the behavior of kh instability in a magnetized plasma , with initial velocity shear and weak magnetic field in the plane of the shear using a 2.5d mhd model ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and similar studies ) . here",
    ", we solve the compressible resistive mhd equations in the 2d cartesian @xmath20 plane , without gravity ( since it is perpendicular to the plane ) , and isothermal energy equation ( see , * ? ? ?",
    "* for the description of the equations and the normalization ) and with the following initial state ( figure  [ kh_init : fig ] ) : @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the width of the shear layer in @xmath23 and @xmath24 , and the density is varied similarly between @xmath25 and @xmath26 , and @xmath27 km , guided by aia observations . in order to determine the density ratio between the bright and dark ( evacuated ) regions across the interface we have examined the emission ratio in euv aia images for several wavebands .",
    "we found that the emission ratio is on average @xmath55 with a range of 3 - 10 .",
    "since the density is proportional to the emission square for the same column depth in the line of sight , we have used @xmath28 in the model to represent the average observed value .",
    "we have also performed runs with density ratios of 2 and 3 and found similar results , with the growth rate of kh instability decreasing by @xmath515% with the density ratio in this range .",
    "the initial magnetic field is taken to be @xmath29 , with constant @xmath30 , and the form of @xmath31 determined from pressure balance over the interface , i.e. , in normalized units @xmath32 since we assume that the magnetic field is opened by the erupting cme we take the value of @xmath33 resulting in small alfvn speed in the @xmath20 plane , @xmath34 compared to the total alfvn speed @xmath35 , and the value of @xmath36 .",
    "the value of the magnetic field in the observations is unknown .",
    "however , the results of the model are not sensitive to the magnitude of @xmath37 , and @xmath30 as long as @xmath38 .",
    "the boundary conditions are periodic in the @xmath7-direction , and open in the @xmath8-directions .",
    "the size of the modeled region in the @xmath8-direction is @xmath39 , and in the @xmath8-direction @xmath40 corresponding to the wavelength of the fastest growing mode ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the time is in units @xmath41 .",
    "the calculations are initialized with a small amplitude fundamental harmonic perturbation in velocity in the @xmath20 plane .",
    "the mhd equations are solved using the modified lax - wendroff method with 4th order artificial viscosity term on @xmath42 grid .",
    "the resistivity does not play a significant role on the time scale of the evolution of kh instability that grows in few alfvn times , and the lundquist number is set to @xmath43 .",
    "the results of the 2.5d mhd model of kh instability are shown in figure  [ rh_v : fig ] at @xmath44 in the nonlinear stage .",
    "the density structure and the corresponding velocity fundamental vortex generated by the kh instability are evident . the structure and the temporal evolution of",
    "the density corresponds to the traveling structures seen in the time sequence of the sdo / aia euv emission in figure  [ context : fig ] and in the corresponding animations of the data and the model .",
    "the model shows that later evolution leads to formation of smaller scale vortices , and the development of low density bubbles in the high density region , similar to observational features ( see the animations ) .",
    "although , the present model is for simplified 2.5d configuration , it reproduces the main observational features , supporting the interpretation of the observations in terms of kh instability .",
    "we report the first euv observations of the kh instability in the corona , which occurred along the interface between erupting and non - erupting material associated with the cme of april 8 , 2010 .",
    "the kh instability features are small ( 7000 km ) and evolve on timescales of seconds , so it would be difficult to observe this phenomenon with an imager that has a lower resolution and cadence than sdo / aia .",
    "the detailed formation and evolution of kh vortices is observed and analyzed .",
    "it was found that features along the velocity shear first exhibit the linear growth stage , but the instability quickly reaches nonlinear saturation ( within tens of minutes ) , exhibiting the typical formation of kh vortices .    the growth and the evolution of the instability is compared to theoretical predictions in the linear stage , and to the results of 2.5d mhd model in the nonlinear stage , and good qualitative agreement is found . in particular , we find that the modeled vortices and associated density structures reach the saturated , nonlinear stage , and the dynamics of the features is qualitatively similar to the observed evolution in aia images .",
    "the detection of the kh instability in the solar corona further shows that kh instability is a ubiquitous process in natural fluids and plasmas that can play an important role in energy transport in the corona on all scales .",
    "theoretical studies find that kh instability is important in dissipation of free energy in shear flows and jets , and in the transition to turbulence .",
    "kh instability can also occur on small scales in solar coronal plasma in the presence of shear flows , leading to enhanced dissipation of waves and super - alfvnic jets produced by impulsive events ( such as flares ) in the solar corona , and facilitate the heating of the solar coronal plasma .",
    "99 berger , t.  e. , et al.2010 , , 716 , 1288 chandrasekhar , s.  1961 , international series of monographs on physics , oxford : clarendon farrugia , c.  j. , sandholt , p.  e. , & burlaga , l.  f.  1994 , , 99 , 19403 frank , a. , jones , t.  w. , ryu , d. , & gaalaas , j.  b.  1996 , , 460 , 777 hasegawa , h. , fujimoto , m. , phan , t .- d . ,",
    "rme , h. , balogh , a. , dunlop , m.  w. , hashimoto , c. , & tandokoro , r.  2004 , , 430 , 755 hermann von helmholtz 1868 , monatsberichte der kniglichen preussische akademie der wissenschaften zu berlin 23 , 215 heyvaerts , j. , & priest , e.  r.  1983 , , 117 , 220 karpen , j.  t. , dahlburg , r.  b. , & davila , j.  m.  1994 , , 421 , 372 lord kelvin ( william thomson ) 1871 , phil . mag .",
    "42 , 362 kivelson , m.  g. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 103 , 19963 lysak , r.  l. , & song , y.  1996 , , 101 , 15411 masters , a. , et al.2010 , , 115 , 7225 miura , a. , & pritchett , p.  l.  1982 , , 87 , 7431 miura , a.  1984 , , 89 , 801 ofman , l. , chen , x.  l. , morrison , p.  j. , & steinolfson , r.  s.  1991 , physics of fluids b , 3 , 1364 ofman , l. , davila , j.  m. , & steinolfson , r.  s.  1994 , , 21 , 2259 ofman , l. , & sui , l.  2006 , , 644 , l149 ofman , l. , & thompson , b.  j.  2002 , , 574 , 440 ryutova , m. , berger , t. , frank , z. , tarbell , t. , & title , a.  2010 , , 170 slavin , j.  a. , et al .",
    "2010 , science , 329 , 665          .",
    "the lower right panel is a 211  aia image of the eruption region at 03:13:5ut , shown for context .",
    "the displacement motion of several different loops indicated that the motion near the arrows was around 20 km s@xmath0 . ]",
    "-direction is parallel to the interface .",
    "the blue arrows show the magnetic field components ( not to scale ) , where @xmath37 represents the strong radial magnetic field components associated with the erupting cme , and @xmath30 is the much weaker transverse field component .",
    "the red arrow shows the direction of the initial flow , the curves show schematically the variation of @xmath45 ( red ) , and density @xmath46 ( dashes ) across the interface . ]",
    "obtained with the 2.5d mhd model .",
    "the density is in units of @xmath26 .",
    "the arrows show the direction of the flow , and the magnitude is in units of @xmath47 ( see text ) .",
    "the animation of the density and velocity evolution is enclosed in the electronic version of this paper . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present observations of the formation , propagation and decay of vortex- shaped features in coronal images from the solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) associated with an eruption starting at about 2:30ut on apr 8 , 2010 . </S>",
    "<S> the series of vortices formed along the interface between an erupting ( dimming ) region and the surrounding corona . </S>",
    "<S> they ranged in size from several to ten arcseconds , and traveled along the interface at 6 - 14 km s@xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> the features were clearly visible in six out of the seven different euv wavebands of the atmospheric imaging assembly ( aia ) . </S>",
    "<S> based on the structure , formation , propagation and decay of these features , we identified the event as the first observation of the kelvin - helmholtz ( kh ) instability in the corona in euv . </S>",
    "<S> the interpretation is supported by linear analysis and by mhd model of kh instability . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the instability is driven by the velocity shear between the erupting and closed magnetic field of the coronal mass ejection ( cme ) . the shear flow driven instability can play an important role in energy transfer processes in coronal plasma . </S>"
  ]
}