{
  "article_text": [
    "the general understanding of low luminosity stellar systems is that they come in two distinct flavours . on the compact side",
    "we have the globular clusters whose properties are consistent with a purely stellar composition with no need to invoke dark matter ( dm ) to explain their dynamical masses  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . on the more extended side",
    ", we have the dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsph ) which have similar luminosities to globular clusters but are much more extended and show enhanced velocity dispersions .",
    "these entities are believed to be highly dm dominated , typically having estimated mass - to - light ( m / l ) ratios of several 10s to 100s  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , with values as high as 1000 being claimed for some of the faintest systems  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these high m / l values make the dsphs the most dm dominated objects known in the local universe  ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* for a convenient review ) . between these two regions of parameter space",
    "there seems to be a clear gap  @xcite in the distribution of effective radii .",
    "this gap is visible over a wide range of absolute magnitudes , i.e.  for several orders of magnitude in stellar mass .    with the discovery of the new ultra - faint galaxies around the milky way",
    "( see e.g. * ? ? ? * and references therein , for the latest discoveries ) , there seems to be a closing of the gap at very low stellar masses , which could be due to the tidal disruption of those small systems as they orbit the milky way . in this region ,",
    "the distinction between star clusters and dwarf galaxies becomes blurred - in the absence of detailed chemical information about the stellar populations and star formation history , we can not be sure whether a particular object is a dissolving star cluster or a disrupting dwarf galaxy .",
    "but this faint , low - mass end is not the only region of the diagram where the two distinct populations of stellar systems come closer to each other , reducing the gap between their half - light radius distributions . at the high - luminosity end",
    ", we have the population of ultra - compact dwarf ( ucd ) galaxies , which have masses up to @xmath1  m@xmath2 and effective radii of @xmath3@xmath4  pc .",
    "their formation mechanism is still under debate .",
    "do we see some freakish , high - mass outliers of the globular cluster mass - function  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "are they the product of many star clusters , which have formed in a dense star forming region and then subsequently merged  @xcite ? or are they instead the stripped nuclei of dwarf galaxies  @xcite ?",
    "they clearly fall on the star cluster side of the above - mentioned gap but are more extended than typical clusters , suggesting a relation to dwarf galaxies .",
    "further , some of them show evidence of m / l - ratios which can not be explained by simple stellar population models  @xcite .",
    "the jury is still out on whether or not ucds have a dynamically significant dm component .    even in",
    "the ` normal ' range of globular cluster luminosities , we now know of objects which are more extended than the regular globular cluster family .",
    "regular globular clusters have effective radii of order a few pc . however , there is also a population of clusters with effective radii in the range @xmath5@xmath3  pc .",
    "we see those extended globular clusters ( egc ) as faint fuzzy star clusters in the discs of s0 galaxies  @xcite and as huxor objects in the halo of m31  @xcite .    extended globular clusters were first found by @xcite in m31 .",
    "the authors searched for old objects in the halo of andromeda and found objects which are similar to globular clusters in colour and luminosity , but with half - light radii of more than @xmath6  pc .",
    "their relative distances to the centre of m31 are between @xmath7 and @xmath8  kpc .",
    "similarly , @xcite found the first extended globular clusters in the halo of the local group dwarf irregular galaxy ngc @xmath9 .",
    "the authors reported that the projected distances of these egcs from the centre of ngc @xmath9 are close to @xmath10  kpc , and estimated their half - light radii to be larger than @xmath3  pc .",
    "this kind of object was previously unknown and could imply the existence of an intermediate population of objects between usual gcs and dsph galaxies .",
    "further discoveries have been added to the original observations  @xcite , but , it is still unclear whether these are really a distinct population , or rather the large effective radius tail of a continuous distribution of cluster sizes .",
    "meanwhile , egcs have also been found in many other galaxies . extended globular star clusters ( egc )",
    "are clusters of stars for which the half - light radii ( @xmath11 ) exceed @xmath12  pc .",
    "their occurrence seems to be aleatory : they represent less than @xmath13 of the clusters in ngc 5128  @xcite , @xmath14 of the milky way clusters  @xcite , and are more than @xmath15 of the clusters in m51  @xcite .",
    "even though egcs are usually found at large galactocentric radii , they can also be observed in dwarf galaxies  @xcite .",
    "this additional dichotomy within the star cluster population is also not well understood . as in the case of ucds ,",
    "a possible scenario for their formation is again the merging of two or more star clusters , which have formed in a confined region  @xcite .    in this work we focus on",
    "the first egc found in a dwarf elliptical galaxy . in the sculptor group of galaxies , @xcite found an egc ( gc1 ) around the dwarf elliptical galaxy scl - de1 ( sc22 ) .",
    "it has a half - light radius of @xmath16  pc and an absolute magnitude of m@xmath17 .",
    "another reported characteristic of this egc is that its stellar population seems to be indistinguishable from the population of the parent dwarf . by considering a king profile @xcite for the v - band surface brightness profile of this egc ,",
    "the authors were able to measure a core radius of @xmath0  pc , a concentration index c@xmath18 and a central surface brightness of @xmath19  v mag arcsec@xmath20 .",
    "observationally , the half - light radius is defined as the projected radius at which the surface brightness has dropped to half its central value . in the theoretical literature ,",
    "the term core radius is used to refer to the natural scalelength of the model under consideration , for example , the king model .",
    "it is important to note that these definitions do not , in general coincide and in real systems their temporal evolution may be qualitatively different due to processes such as mass segregation of stellar remnants with high mass - to - light ratios  ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this paper",
    ", we estimate the core radii of our models by fitting king profiles to them in the same manner as in @xcite .",
    "thus , our quoted core radii can be compared directly to that of scl - de1 gc1 reported in that paper .    by means of numerical simulations",
    "we want to investigate whether ( 1 ) this egc could have formed in a dm halo of its own ( a scenario in which all globular clusters may reside in their own dm halo was proposed by @xcite ) ; ( 2 ) this egc could be the product of the merging of two ( or more ) star clusters .",
    "we combine these two scenarios and simulate the merger of two star clusters orbiting in a dm halo .",
    "a similar scenario has been proposed by @xcite as a possible formation mechanism for the luminous components of dwarf galaxies such as dsphs .    in section  [ sec : setup ]",
    "we describe the setup of our simulations in detail . in section [ sec : res ] we present and discuss our main results , namely that no additional dm is needed to explain the properties of gc1 .",
    "finally , in section [ sec : conc ] we summarise our conclusions .",
    "initially , we place two star clusters at a distance of @xmath21  kpc from each other , at @xmath22  kpc . while this choice is arbitrary , it ensures that the two clusters are well - separated at the beginning of our simulations .",
    "each star cluster is represented by a plummer sphere with a plummer radius ( effective radius ) of @xmath23  pc and is initially truncated beyond a cut - off radius of @xmath24  pc , because less than two per cent of the cluster mass resides beyond this radius .",
    "the clusters begin the simulations in equilibrium , but we then mimic the effect of early gas expulsion by artificially reducing the mass of the individual star particles during the first crossing time of the star cluster ( @xmath5  myr ) .",
    "this mass - loss represents not only the loss of gas which has not formed stars , but also mass - loss from the rapid evolution of massive stars , although we note that we do not use a sophisticated mass - loss algorithm as in @xcite , and in the subsequent evolution we do not take mass - loss due to stellar evolution into account .",
    "the possible impact of mass - loss from stars on the late - time evolution of a merger remnant at the centre of a dark matter potential well is itself an interesting issue to be explored elsewhere .",
    "the initial mass of the star clusters is varied according to the adopted star formation efficiency ( sfe ) in order to obtain final masses ( after gas expulsion ) of @xmath25  m@xmath26 in all simulations .",
    "we consider three values for the sfe , namely @xmath5 , @xmath27 and @xmath28  per cent which lead to initial masses of our star clusters of @xmath29 , @xmath30 and @xmath31  m@xmath2 , respectively . each cluster",
    "is represented by @xmath32  particles .",
    "our model clusters are placed inside spherical dm haloes of different masses and density profiles .",
    "as we are primarily interested in the early evolution of the merger remnant , we treat the halo as an isolated dm halo , ie.we do not simulate the dark matter halo of the dwarf elliptical galaxy scl - de1 ( sc22 ) .",
    "we use either a cored plummer profile  @xcite with a scale length of @xmath33  pc or a cusped nfw profile  @xcite with a characteristic radius of @xmath33  pc .",
    "the mass of the halo enclosed within @xmath33  pc ( @xmath34 ) is varied over many orders of magnitude namely : none , @xmath35 , @xmath36 , @xmath37 , @xmath38 and @xmath39  m@xmath2 .",
    "the halo is modeled using 1,000,000 particles . as a cut - off radius for our halo",
    "we take @xmath40  kpc in the plummer cases and the virial radius for the nfw profiles . due to",
    "the restrictions of fixed scale - length and fixed enclosed mass , the concentrations of our nfw models vary from @xmath41 up to @xmath42 . in table",
    "[ tab : halo ] , we give an overview of the main parameters of the dark matter haloes we choose .",
    ".initial parameters of the dark matter haloes used .",
    "the first column denotes the halo profile , which is either plummer ( p ) or nfw ( n ) .",
    "the second column gives the mass enclosed within @xmath33  pc . in the third column",
    "we give the scale length of the halo , either the plummer radius or the scale radius of the nfw profile .",
    "the fourth column gives the cut - off radius of the halo which is chosen to be either @xmath43  r@xmath44 or the virial radius of the nfw halo .",
    "finally , the last column denotes the circular speed of the halo at the initial position of the star clusters .",
    "[ cols=\"^ , > , > , > , > \" , ]     finally in table  [ tab : vel3 ] we show the los velocity dispersion of our best - fitting , single - cluster models .",
    "as expected , the central velocity dispersion rises with dm halo mass , from below one kms@xmath45 for the non - dm case up to more than two kms@xmath45 for the dm dominated one , and therefore will be the crucial parameter to decide whether or not this very extended object has its own dm halo , once spectroscopic data are available .",
    "in this paper , we explored several of the proposed formation scenarios for the recently - discovered , extended globular cluster gc1 associated with the dwarf elliptical galaxy scl - de1 in the sculptor group of galaxies . even though extended globular clusters have been found in the haloes of many galaxies ,",
    "this is the first such object found in orbit around a dwarf galaxy and exhibiting a very large core radius .",
    "there are two obvious scenarios for the formation of an extended stellar system starting from one , or several , individual constituents .",
    "the first , and probably more natural , scenario is via the expansion induced by either gas expulsion or stellar mass loss during the early evolution of a normal star cluster .",
    "the other viable scenario is that extended objects form via the merger of smaller systems .",
    "a third , more recent proposal for the formation of globular clusters is that they might reside in their own dm halo , thereby helping to solve the missing satellite problem .",
    "we have extended those speculations to the object of our study . in this paper , we have combined aspects of these three scenarios in order to investigate thoroughly which initial conditions can lead to an object which resembles the observations .      1 .   as expected , for an assumed sfe of 100% , mergers of two clusters without the presence of dm produce a remnant which is of similar density to the original clusters , while lower sfes lead to the dissolution of both initial clusters without merging .",
    "finely tuned initial conditions would be required to produce a merger remnant via this route which matches scl - de1 gc1 in terms of size .",
    "mergers of two virialised clusters within a dm halo do not , in general , lead to a remnant which is more extended than the original clusters .",
    "this result is independent of the assumed halo mass .",
    "we therefore need to invoke additional expansion either due to a sfe which is lower than @xmath28  % or due to mass loss from early stellar evolution to produce extended remnants .",
    "3 .   for high halo masses",
    ", we find that low sfes can lead to the dispersal of the star clusters before they have time to merge . in those cases",
    "we see an extended luminous component which more closely resembles a dsph galaxy than a globular cluster .",
    "this coincides with the formation theory for dsph galaxies we discuss in  @xcite and assmann et al .",
    "( in prep . ) .",
    "4 .   in all the simulations which led to an extended remnant whose appearance matched that of scl - de1 gc1 , the mass of dm enclosed within the volume probed by the stars of the egc was not sufficient to raise the mass to light ratio significantly above the stellar m / l . therefore , even though our simulations can not rule out that this extended globular cluster resides in its own dm halo we do not expect it to be a highly dm dominated object at the present day .",
    "we have shown that our models can be tested by future observations . in our remnants , the higher the dm content , the higher is the central velocity dispersion of our merger object ranging from @xmath46 to @xmath47  kms@xmath45 .",
    "the next generation telescopes , for example the extremely large telescope , may be able to measure such differences either from the integrated spectra of the clusters or from observations of individual cluster stars , which can then be compared with the predictions of the models we have simulated .",
    "if we merge clusters which are initially as compact as typical globular clusters , we find that it is very difficult to form an object resembling the observed egc .",
    "we need to lower the sfe below the general survival limit while still requiring that the clusters merge in the centre of the halo before they dissolve completely .",
    "such chance mergers are possible and have been found in other studies as well  @xcite , but are unlikely to be a dominant formation avenue .    abandoning the merger scenario , we have shown that we can also form an object like gc1 via the expansion due to gas - expulsion during the formation of the cluster . in these models , we start with an object forming in the very centre of a dm halo and show that gas expulsion produces remnant clusters whose extent depends on the mass of the halo - the higher the halo mass the more compact is the remnant . with high halo masses",
    "it is possible to get surviving and matching objects by using sfes which would lead to the complete dissolution of the cluster in the absence of dm .",
    "starting out with a more compact object leads to a final remnant which is more compact .",
    "thus , for any given halo mass , it is possible to match the data either by changing the sfe or by changing the initial size of the object .",
    "again , as in the merger scenario , the observable difference between the models which resemble scl - de1 gc1 is their velocity dispersion . the higher halo mass , and therefore the dm content within the egc , the higher its velocity dispersion will be .",
    "the velocity dispersions of globular clusters containing intermediate - mass black holes ( imbh ) at their centres have been discussed by @xcite using numerical models .",
    "the velocity dispersion for a star cluster of similar stellar mass to our egc is raised by only @xmath48-@xmath21  km @xmath49 in the inner @xmath5  per cent of the half - mass radius .",
    "the same would also be true for the stronger effect of a binary imbh .",
    "in both cases , the increase in velocity dispersion is seen only in the core the star cluster .",
    "other numerical simulations show , that ebven if there is a high binary black hole fraction within a globular cluster @xcite , the central line of sight velocity dispersion is about @xmath50-@xmath51 km@xmath49 about double the value , but shows the regular fall - off at the outer radii as well .    to distinguish between the presence of a black hole and the presence of dark matter distributed within the cluster would require the measurement of the velocity dispersion as a function of radius within the cluster .",
    "if the egcs contain dark matter , then their velocity dispersions will remain higher than expected at large radii , not solely at the centre .",
    "for some egcs , such observations may be feasible with the next generation of extremely large telescopes .",
    "finally , we note that it is possible to obtain an object like scl - de1 gc1 just by using expansion due to mass - loss ( gas expulsion and/or stellar winds ) within a single young cluster .",
    "fine - tuning the initial concentration of the cluster and , in our case , the sfe leads to an object which matches the data . in the light of occam",
    "s razor this might be the most simplest and straightforward solution to explain the properties of scl - de1 gc1",
    ". the key test of this model would be the survivability of the remnant in the tidal field of the host galaxy .",
    "this would require further simulations of the evolution of the cluster in the external tidal field following the period of expansion and is beyond the scope the present paper .",
    "we conclude that the unusually large size of the extended star cluster scl - de1 gc1 does not require the presence of dynamically significant dm in this system .",
    "we have shown that there are several formation paths for this object involving mergers of star clusters in low - mass dark matter haloes which result in a remnant that contains very little dm interior to the stellar distribution .",
    "it is also possible to form the object through the expansion of a single star cluster as a result of mass loss .",
    "thus , we have demonstrated that the formation scenarios proposed for this system in the literature are plausible . to make further progress requires the measurement of a precise velocity dispersion for the object , as this would enable us to distinguish between formation models which require dm and those which require only baryonic matter . to distinguish between scenarios which involve merging of two or more initial objects and models which only expand due to gas - expulsion alone",
    ", one might also be able to look for irregular chemical abundances in the stars of the cluster which could point to an origin in different clusters .",
    "+ * acknowledgments : * pa is supported through a conicyt phd scholarship and wishes to thank w. dehnen for his help with the nfw profiles .",
    "pa also announces help through the mecesup travel grant fsm0605 .",
    "mf acknowledges financial support through fondecyt grant no .",
    "miw acknowledges the royal society for support through a university research fellowship ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent observations of the dwarf elliptical galaxy scl - de1 ( sc22 ) in the sculptor group of galaxies revealed an extended globular cluster ( scl - de1  gc1 ) , which exhibits an extremely large core radius of about @xmath0  pc . </S>",
    "<S> the authors of the discovery paper speculated on whether this object could reside in its own dark matter halo and/or if it might have formed through the merging of two or more star clusters . in this paper , we present n - body simulations to explore thoroughly this particular formation scenario . </S>",
    "<S> we follow the merger of two star clusters within dark matter haloes of a range of masses ( as well as in the absence of a dark matter halo ) . in order to obtain a remnant which resembles the observed extended star cluster , we find that the star formation efficiency has to be quite high ( around 33  per cent ) and the dark matter halo , if present at all , has to be of very low mass , i.e.  raising the mass to light ratio of the object within the body of the stellar distribution by at most a factor of a few . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that expansion of a single star cluster following mass loss provides another viable formation path . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we show that future measurements of the velocity dispersion of this system may be able to distinguish between the various scenarios we have explored .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : dwarfs  galaxies : star clusters  methods : n - body simulations </S>"
  ]
}