{
  "article_text": [
    "astrophysical fluids on virtually all scales are characterized by highly complex turbulent motions . besides being turbulent , we know from observations that the gas is magnetized between galaxies and inside galaxies , as well as in individual star - forming molecular clouds , down to the proto - stellar accretion disks , which naturally accompany the birth of stars and planetary systems .",
    "however , not just the present - day universe is characterized by turbulence and magnetic fields . with the advent of large - scale computer simulations , it became clear that primordial gas becomes highly turbulent during the formation of the first galaxies and stars as well ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which has far - reaching consequences for all cosmic structure formation .",
    "this turbulence provides an extremely efficient way to amplify primordial seeds of the magnetic field ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) by the turbulent dynamo process ( see the review by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) already during the earliest phases of structure formation in the universe @xcite . here",
    "the amplification of the magnetic field arises from sequences of a `` stretch , twist , and fold '' nature , until the magnetic field lines are so tightly packed that the magnetic energy density becomes comparable to the kinetic energy density .",
    "strong magnetic fields , close to equipartition may have been reached in normal disk galaxies already at redshifts of @xmath1 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , emphasizing the significance of the dynamo action even in the early stages of galaxy evolution and star formation .",
    "thus , magnetic fields may not only have a significant impact on the gas dynamics and fragmentation in present - day star formation @xcite , but potentially also in primordial star formation .",
    "despite its ubiquity and importance for star formation @xcite , only very little is known about the origin of astrophysical turbulence and magnetic fields .",
    "recently , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite suggested that a universal source for driving astrophysical turbulence everywhere from cosmic scales and galaxies , over galactic clouds , down to individual proto - stellar disks is the accretion from their environment , i.e. , by gravity - driven flows , on all scales ( see also , * ? ? ?",
    "similar ideas existed earlier . in particular",
    ", @xcite showed that during the contraction of a slightly unstable , nearly isothermal gas cloud , internal random motions can be excited .",
    "@xcite suggested that even fully irrotational motions can give rise to turbulence due to the reynolds stresses .",
    "hoyle s idea of gravity - driven turbulence was later refined by @xcite , which they called ` turbulent virialization ' .",
    "@xcite suggested that the injection of turbulence by gravitational contraction is important in the interstellar medium , and @xcite conclude that angular - momentum transport during the turbulent collapse of a gaseous system may suppress fragmentation .",
    "here we show with numerical simulations that turbulence and magnetic field growth are indeed efficiently driven by the gravitational energy released during the collapse of a dense gas cloud .",
    "the connection between gravity - driven turbulence and magnetic field amplification has also been suggested recently in a model by @xcite and confirmed numerically in @xcite . in this process",
    ", potential energy is converted into turbulent motions , which in turn amplify the magnetic energy via the turbulent dynamo .",
    "thus , the driving of turbulence and magnetic field growth by gravitational infall may be the consequence of a self - regulating instability . at the bottom of this cascade , close to the sonic scale @xcite",
    ", gas is expected to become subsonic as a consequence of a steep rise in the temperature when the gas becomes optically thick . during this process",
    ", compressible modes will be converted into solenoidal turbulent motions , until a natural energy ratio of @xmath0 is reached , @xcite .    in this paper",
    ", we first discuss the physics of magnetic field amplification by gravity - driven turbulence , and subsequently derive a new resolution criterion required to resolve these processes .",
    "we aim to address the following key questions : on what scales does the magnetic field grow during the collapse of a dense , magnetized gas cloud ? what is the effective kinetic energy injection scale of gravity - driven turbulence ?",
    "how are the compressible motions in a contracting system converted into turbulent random motions , and what is the asymptotic fraction of solenoidal motions generated during the contraction ?",
    "after presenting our methods in section  [ sec : methods ] , we address these physical questions in section  [ sec : gravitydriventurb ] with the use of magnetohydrodynamical ( mhd ) simulations .",
    "we find that the magnetic field is most efficiently amplified on the smallest resolvable scales in the simulations , and grows exponentially fast due to the small - scale dynamo .",
    "the effective energy injection scale of gravity - driven turbulence is close to the local jeans scale during the contraction .",
    "finally , we show in section  [ sec : rot_ratio ] that about 2/3 of the total kinetic energy released during the collapse is converted into solenoidal , turbulent motions , efficiently driving magnetic field amplification .",
    "in the second part of the paper ( section  [ sec : newjeansresol ] ) , we discuss the numerical resolution requirements for modeling turbulent , self - gravitating systems and for minimum dynamo action to set in .",
    "to study the resolution dependence of our results , we use a sequence of simulations in which we resolve the jeans length with 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , and 128 grid cells ( see , * ? ? ?",
    "* paper i ) . with a fourier analysis of the magnetic energy ,",
    "we confirm our earlier findings in paper i , showing that 30 grid cells per jeans length is the threshold resolution for minimum dynamo amplification of the magnetic field to occur . in addition , we show that a jeans resolution of about 30 grid cells is required to obtain converged values of the turbulent energy , in particular of the solenoidal ( rotational ) component , which drives dynamo amplification .",
    "in contrast , we find that the turbulent energy density , i.e. , the turbulent pressure on the jeans scale is underestimated , if the jeans length is resolved with 16 grid cells or less during the collapse . apart from a few exceptions ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the jeans length is resolved with less than 16 grid cells in almost all numerical simulations today .",
    "we speculate that this is because in the study by @xcite , it was found that only four grid cells per jeans length are enough to avoid artificial fragmentation .",
    "an equivalent resolution criterion for the jeans mass in smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) simulations was found by @xcite .",
    "also , the computational expenses increase strongly , if one aims to resolve the jeans length with more than a few cells ( or few particles in sph ) .",
    "thus , most existing hydrodynamical and mhd simulations of self - gravitating media have typically used about ten grid cells per jeans length or less .",
    "some modification of this criterion was recently also suggested by @xcite to better resolve self - gravitating disks .",
    "here we find that the turbulence and magnetic field structure are under - resolved , if the jeans length is resolved with 16 cells or less .",
    "moreover , turbulent dynamo amplification of the magnetic field is completely absent in this case . to avoid this problem",
    ", we suggest a new resolution criterion for simulations of self - gravitating gaseous media : in order to resolve turbulence on the jeans scale and to account for the turbulent pressure on that scale , as well as to capture minimum dynamo action in mhd simulations , 30 grid cells per jeans length are required , which is discussed in detail in section  [ sec : newjeansresol ] .",
    "gravitational collapse , turbulence and magnetic field evolution are except for some idealized cases difficult to study analytically , because the system is highly non - linear and naturally three - dimensional .",
    "thus , we study the processes leading to turbulence and magnetic field amplification through gravitational collapse in high - resolution mhd simulations .",
    "we present results of a numerical experiment with a collapsing , magnetized , turbulent gas core ( see , * ? ? ?",
    "* paper i ) .",
    "we focus on the gravitational collapse and magnetic field amplification of a dense gas cloud , using a simplified setup , where we assume an almost isothermal equation of state ( effective @xmath2 , with the temperature @xmath3 and density @xmath4 ) and neglect non - ideal mhd effects ( discussed below ) .",
    "the numerical simulations presented here were performed with the publicly available adaptive - mesh refinement ( amr ) code , flash2.5 @xcite .",
    "we solve the equations of ideal mhd , including self - gravity with a refinement criterion guaranteeing that the jeans length , @xmath5 with the sound speed @xmath6 , gravitational constant @xmath7 , and density @xmath4 , is always resolved with a user - defined number of cells .",
    "we use the new hll3r scheme for ideal mhd @xcite , which employs a 3-wave approximate mhd riemann solver @xcite .",
    "this mhd scheme is an extension of the hydrodynamical version @xcite , developed for flash that preserves physical states ( e.g. , positivity of mass density and pressure ) by construction , and is highly efficient and accurate in modeling astrophysical mhd problems involving turbulence and shocks @xcite .",
    "the ionization degree is expected to be sufficiently high in primordial clouds to ensure a strong coupling between ions and neutrals to maintain flux - freezing @xcite .",
    "however , non - ideal mhd effects may eventually become important at very high densities , as suggested by simulations of contemporary star formation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these effects are not included in the present calculations , but should be subject of future studies .",
    "the initial conditions for our numerical simulations were motivated from large - scale cosmological models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". however , for simplicity we use a spherically symmetric initial density distribution , following a super - critical bonnor - ebert profile @xcite with a core density of @xmath8 at a temperature of @xmath9 .",
    "we did not include any initial rotation of the core .",
    "the bonnor - ebert sphere has a radius of @xmath10 and a total mass of @xmath11 .",
    "the three - dimensional cartesian computational domain has a volume of @xmath12 .",
    "for a similar approach see @xcite    although the existence of magnetic fields on a wide range of astrophysical scales is clear , their origin is still poorly understood .",
    "some mechanisms include the @xcite battery , the weibel instability ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the ejection of magnetic fields from active galactic nuclei ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , production by cosmic rays @xcite , and amplification by galaxy cluster mergers . recent lower limits of magnetic fields in the intergalactic medium suggest @xmath13 @xcite . to keep our setup as simple and general as possible , we add a small initial seed of the magnetic field and study its self - consistent amplification during the collapse of a gravitationally unstable gas cloud in detail . in order to initialize seeds of turbulence and magnetic field , we impose a random initial velocity field with transonic velocity dispersion of amplitude @xmath14 ( equal to the initial sound speed ) and a weak random magnetic field with @xmath15 , without a mean field component .",
    "this initial field strength corresponds to a plasma beta ( ratio of thermal to magnetic pressure ) of @xmath16 .",
    "both , the turbulent velocity and magnetic field were set up with the same power - law dependence in wavenumber space , @xmath17 , peaking on scales of about @xmath18 , which roughly corresponds to the initial jeans length of the core .",
    "the choice of the initial power spectrum is motivated by the finding that turbulence develops a @xmath19 and @xmath20 velocity spectrum for incompressible @xcite and for shock - dominated @xcite turbulence , respectively .",
    "astrophysical systems typically exhibit spectra of the turbulence in between these two extremes .",
    "since both , kolmogorov and burgers turbulent spectra are dominated by large - scale modes , i.e. , small wavenumbers @xmath21 , our results are not expected to depend strongly on the particular choice of the initial spectrum . however , varying parameters of the initial conditions will be subject of a follow - up study . after an initial transient phase , the turbulence develops its own self - consistent spectrum , driven by the gravitational collapse .",
    "we consider an isolated system for solving the poisson equation , and use neumann boundary conditions ( zero - gradient ) for the mhd .",
    "since the initial conditions for the magnetic field were generated in fourier space to obtain a divergence - free field , the initial magnetic field is naturally periodic .",
    "this introduces an inconsistency at the six boundaries of the simulation domain and may cause some non - vanishing divergence there .",
    "however , even the fastest mhd waves ( the fast magneto - sonic waves ) have a box - crossing time of about @xmath22 , an order of magnitude longer than the initial free - fall time scale of the system . thus , any potential perturbations produced at the boundaries can be ignored in the dense core .",
    "consistent with previous works of @xcite and @xcite , we adopt an effective equation of state with @xmath23 for number densities in the range @xmath24@xmath25 . however , this kind of setup is sufficiently general to allow us to investigate basic properties of turbulence and magnetic field amplification in the context of collapsing primordial as well as present - day gas clouds .",
    "we note that the efficiency of the turbulent dynamo depends on the kinematic reynolds number , @xmath26 , with the driving scale @xmath27 , turbulent velocity dispersion @xmath28 on that length scale , and physical viscosity @xmath29 .",
    "also note that previous studies found a critical value of the magnetic reynolds number , @xmath30 , below which the small - scale dynamo is not excited @xcite . in numerical simulations , however , the viscosity , @xmath29 and the magnetic diffusivity , @xmath31 are typically determined by the numerical cutoff scale , as a result of the discretization of the fluid variables on a computational grid with finite resolution .",
    "the numerical values of @xmath32 and @xmath33 are thus related to the grid resolution and to how well the turbulent motions are resolved ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "even if physical viscosity / diffusivity is added as an extra term in the equations , it must be guaranteed that it is at least as high as the numerical viscosity / diffusivity .",
    "typical reynolds numbers reached in numerical simulations of turbulence are of the order of a few hundred ( depending on what scales are estimated to be affected by numerical viscosity , which varies among different codes , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which is usually orders of magnitude below the physical reynolds numbers in the systems that one aims to study , but just large enough to excite the turbulent small - scale dynamo . a strong resolution dependence of turbulent and magnetic properties is thus expected , with higher resolution resulting in smaller numerical viscosity and diffusivity , higher reynolds numbers , and thus yielding faster magnetic field amplification",
    "to demonstrate this effect , we perform five numerical simulations , in which we resolve the jeans length , @xmath34 with 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , and 128 cells . in our highest resolution simulation with 128 cells per jeans length ,",
    "we use amr with 19 levels of refinement by a factor of two .",
    "this results in an effective resolution of @xmath35 grid cells by the time when we have to stop the simulation , because it become computationally prohibitive .      to understand the behavior of the system quantitatively",
    ", we need to follow its dynamical contraction in an appropriate frame of reference .",
    "first , we note that the physical time scale becomes progressively shorter during the collapse .",
    "we therefore define a dimensionless time coordinate @xmath36 ( see paper i ) , @xmath37 which is normalized in terms of the local free - fall time , @xmath38 where @xmath39 is the mean density in the central jeans volume , @xmath40 . if not otherwise stated , we obtain all dynamical quantities of interest within this contracting jeans volume , which is centered on the position of the maximum density .",
    "this approach enables us to study the turbulence and magnetic field amplification in the collapsing frame of reference .",
    "however , we also analyze radial profiles and magnetic field spectra in the fixed frame of reference to study the global evolution of the system .      to study the scale - dependence of the magnetic field , we use fourier analysis and compute magnetic energy spectra , @xmath41 , defined as @xmath42 where @xmath43 denotes the fourier transform of the magnetic field .",
    "the spectral energy density is averaged over spherical shells in fourier space , such that the directional information of the wavevector is integrated out , and the pure scale - dependence of the field can be studied as a function of the norm of the wavevector , @xmath44 .",
    "note that integrating @xmath41 over all wavenumbers yields the total magnetic energy .",
    "thus , @xmath45 is the magnetic energy on scales between @xmath21 and @xmath46 .    for computing the spectra inside the jeans volume of the core",
    ", we extract the amr data inside a cube with length equal to the local jeans length of the core and interpolate all relevant quantities for the analysis ( density , velocity , and magnetic field components ) to a uniform grid with resolution equivalent to the local jeans resolution .",
    "a problem in applying fourier analysis to non - periodic datasets is that the spectrum can be distorted by the fact that the data is discontinuous at the boundary of the extracted cube .",
    "methods to avoid this include applying a spherical window function , which smoothly approaches zero on all boundaries of the cube , zero - padding around the boundaries , or mirroring the dataset on all sides .",
    "we compared spectra obtained by simply ignoring the non - periodicity of the data with spectra obtained by windowing with a spherical hann window , by zero - padding ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or by mirroring the dataset ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "we find that the spectra are very similar in all cases .",
    "they are mostly affected at small scales ( high-@xmath21 ) when different methods are applied . since this high - wavenumber range is also strongly affected by numerical resolution , we simply ignore the non - periodicity of the data and compute spectra as if the extracted data were periodic .",
    "we also tried a wavelet transformation , the @xmath47-variance technique @xcite to compute the scale dependence of the magnetic field , and found consistent results .",
    "however , since the direct spectral method allows a decomposition of the turbulent velocity field into solenoidal and compressible modes , and thus enables us to study these components separately , we prefer the fourier analysis for the present purpose .",
    "the time evolution of the density , magnetic field strength and mach number of the magnetized , turbulent collapse of our bonnor - ebert sphere is discussed in detail in paper i. in particular , we showed that the root - mean - squared ( rms ) magnetic field increases rapidly from a small seed field of @xmath48 to the milli - gauss level , i.e. , over six orders of magnitude in our highest resolution run with 128 cells per jeans length .",
    "we showed that two orders of magnitude of this growth are due to twisting and folding of magnetic field lines , i.e. , due to the action of the turbulent small - scale dynamo @xcite .",
    "this is , however , a lower limit to the physical amplification by the dynamo , as the dynamo growth rate depends strongly on the reynolds number , and thus on numerical resolution ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "if the jeans length is resolved with 16 cells or less ( which is quite common in typical present - day grid simulations involving gravity , and correspondingly in simulations with the smoothed particle hydrodynamics technique , see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , no dynamo amplification is seen at all . even in our highest resolution run , where we resolve the jeans length with 128 cells ,",
    "most of the amplification is due to compression of magnetic field lines , i.e. , flux - freezing , and not due to the dynamo .",
    "the rather small turbulent reynolds numbers achievable in modern simulations ( of the order of a few hundred ) , do not allow for a more efficient dynamo amplification in the simulations .",
    "however , since the reynolds numbers in real astrophysical systems are typically much higher ( e.g. , of the order of @xmath49 in the interstellar medium ) , dynamo amplification will eventually dominate over compressional amplification .",
    ", 10 , and 12 .",
    "b ) same as a ) but for the rms magnetic field .",
    "c ) same as a ) but for the infall velocity , @xmath50 and the radial velocity dispersion , @xmath51 .",
    "d ) and e ) same as a ) but for the polar and azimuthal velocity dispersions , @xmath52 and @xmath53 .",
    "the vertical lines extending through all panels indicate the jeans radius at @xmath54 , 10 , and 12 , respectively .",
    "see paper i for the corresponding radial profiles of the rms velocity and mach number . ]",
    "figure  [ fig : radprofiles ] shows the radial profiles of gas density , rms magnetic field , radial infall velocity , @xmath55 and dispersion , @xmath51 , polar and azimuthal velocity dispersions , @xmath52 and @xmath53 at @xmath54 , 10 , and 12 in the collapse regime for our run with 128 cells per jeans length ( note the definition of the dimensionless time coordinate @xmath36 in eq .",
    "[ eq : tau ] ) .",
    "the density and radial velocity profiles follow the typical collapse profiles of an unstable gas cloud ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the initial density profile exhibits a short power law with exponent -2.2 for large radii @xcite , while the profiles at later times are very well fit with a power law , @xmath56 .",
    "this steepening of the profile during the collapse is a result of the slight deviations from an isothermal equation of state ( effective @xmath23 instead of 1 ) .",
    "the turbulent velocity fluctuations , measured in terms of the dispersions , @xmath51 , @xmath52 , and @xmath53 remain subsonic inside the central jeans volume for @xmath57 , because the sound speed increases during the collapse .",
    "the rms magnetic field profile exhibits some similarities to the density profile , however , the power - law exponent in the envelope is different . for the 128 cell run , @xmath58 outside the central jeans volume ,",
    "which is significantly steeper than what is expected for purely compressional amplification , i.e. , flux - freezing during the collapse ( @xmath59 ) .",
    "the steepening is thus due to dynamo amplification .",
    "however , since the turbulent dynamo is highly resolution - dependent , the radial power - law exponent is expected to depend on resolution , which we discuss next .      in figure  [ fig : resradprofiles ] we show the power - law part of the radial profiles of the rms magnetic field , @xmath61 for jeans resolutions of 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , and 128 cells at @xmath62 .",
    "both the 8 and 16 cell runs are consistent with the radial exponent expected for pure flux - freezing , @xmath59 .",
    "only for the runs with 32 , 64 , and 128 cells , we see a steepening of the profiles , which is caused by additional amplification of the field through the turbulent dynamo , again showing that the jeans length must be resolved with significantly more than 16 cells ( e.g. , 32 grid cells ) for minimum dynamo action to occur .",
    "the radial exponent for the 128 cell runs is close to -2.0 , however , the profile is expected to steepen further with increasing jeans resolution .",
    "the resolution dependence of our results is discussed in detail in section  [ sec : newjeansresol ] , where we present evidence for the requirement of a new jeans resolution criterion in simulations of self - gravitating gas .    combining the radial dependence of the density , @xmath56 , and magnetic field , @xmath58 in our 128 cell run , we find @xmath63 , which is expected to increase further at higher reynolds numbers ( higher resolution ) .",
    "this is clearly steeper than the pure flux - freezing case , @xmath64 .",
    "moreover , @xcite showed that already a scaling of @xmath65 can lead to a significant change in the thermodynamics of primordial gas , which we show here will have an even stronger effect , when turbulent dynamo amplification is taken into account .",
    "the physical exponent of the radial distribution of the magnetic field is set by the physical viscosity and magnetic diffusivity .",
    "since the physical viscosity and diffusivity can be very small , resulting in reynolds numbers orders of magnitude higher than what we can model in a computer simulation , the radial profile of the magnetic field is expected to be significantly steeper than @xmath58 .",
    "this means that the potential influence of the magnetic field can be significant not only inside the jeans volume , but also on scales larger than the local jeans length , because of the strong amplification of the field when the core went through the previous dynamo amplification on scales outside the jeans volume .",
    "if the reynolds numbers are sufficiently high inside the jeans core , we would expect that the magnetic field can increase to about 10% of equipartition with the turbulent energy on time scales much shorter than the free - fall timescale , boosting the magnetic field to a dynamically significant level even before the core has had time to contract much . in the saturated phase , the radial dependence of the magnetic field is expected to change .",
    "the saturation behavior , however , can not be addressed with the current simulations , because even at the last available time step ( after which the simulation becomes computationally too expensive to advance any further ) , at @xmath62 in the 128 cell run , the ratio of magnetic to kinetic energy in the core is @xmath66 , still far away from the expected saturation level ( @xmath67 ) .",
    "thus , the saturation behavior needs to be investigated in a follow - up study with initial field strengths closer to equipartition .         in figure",
    "[ fig : diffusion ] we show the magnetic field strength divided by @xmath68 as a function of the density , measured within the collapsing , central jeans volume ( see analysis described in section  [ sec : methods_analysis ] ) .",
    "the magnetic field grows with increasing density , but initially , it grows shallower than @xmath69 due to the geometry of the field . only for a fully isotropic field , @xmath69 for ideal mhd . here",
    ", however , the magnetic field is initially very anisotropic ( containing a @xmath70-component only ) , and thus , the magnetic field is initially only compressed along the @xmath71 , and @xmath72-directions , while the density increases along all three axes . due to the bending of the field lines , the field becomes more isotropic in the late stages of the collapse .",
    "figure  [ fig : diffusion ] indeed shows a clear flattening of @xmath73 at high densities , when due to the bending , the magnetic field has developed roughly similar magnetic field strengths in all three directions .",
    "thus , only then , we expect @xmath69 for ideal mhd .",
    "power - law fits in this regime are indicated in figure  [ fig : diffusion ] .",
    "the curves are still falling with a roughly constant dependence on density , giving an upper limit on the effects of numerical diffusion .",
    "three runs with jeans resolutions of 8 , 16 , 32 cells were analyzed in this diffusion test .",
    "we find a departure from perfect flux - freezing , @xmath74 with @xmath75 , @xmath76 , and @xmath77 for a jeans resolution of 8 , 16 , and 32 cells , respectively .",
    "thus , the effects of numerical diffusion are resolution - dependent , as expected , however , the level of numerical diffusion of the magnetic field with respect to ideal mhd is generally quite small .    in this simple test , we only studied a particular situation , motivated by the density and magnetic field regimes analyzed in the main part of the paper .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the properties of numerical diffusion depend on the physical and numerical parameters of the modeled system ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cosmic structure formation is characterized by the complex interplay between gravity , turbulence , and magnetic fields . the processes by which gravitational energy is converted into turbulent and magnetic energies , however , remain poorly understood . here </S>",
    "<S> , we show with high - resolution , adaptive - mesh simulations that mhd turbulence is efficiently driven by extracting energy from the gravitational potential during the collapse of a dense gas cloud . </S>",
    "<S> compressible motions generated during the contraction are converted into solenoidal , turbulent motions , leading to a natural energy ratio of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the energy injection scale of gravity - driven turbulence is close to the local jeans scale . </S>",
    "<S> if small seeds of the magnetic field are present , they are amplified exponentially fast via the small - scale dynamo process . </S>",
    "<S> the magnetic field grows most efficiently on the smallest scales , for which the stretching , twisting , and folding of field lines , and the turbulent vortices are sufficiently resolved . </S>",
    "<S> we find that this scale corresponds to about 30 grid cells in the simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we thus suggest a new minimum resolution criterion of 30 cells per jeans length in ( magneto)hydrodynamical simulations of self - gravitating gas , in order to resolve turbulence on the jeans scale , and to capture minimum dynamo amplification of the magnetic field . due to numerical diffusion , </S>",
    "<S> however , any existing simulation today can at best provide lower limits on the physical growth rates . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that a small , initial magnetic field can grow to dynamically important strength on time scales significantly shorter than the free - fall time of the cloud . </S>"
  ]
}