{
  "article_text": [
    "the binary star rs  ophiuchi ( rs  oph ) consists of a white dwarf ( wd ) orbiting within the dense wind of a red giant ( rg ) .",
    "as the wd travels in its orbit it accretes matter from the rg wind , growing slowly in mass .",
    "the orbital period is around 460  days ( dobrzycka and kenyon , 1994 ) , but the system does not eclipse as the inclination angle is approximately 50@xmath0 to the line - of - sight , assuming a massive wd around 1.2 - 1.4 solar masses ( brandi , 2009 ) .",
    "it has experienced at least six dramatic optical brightening events or outbursts ( in 1898 , 1933 , 1958 , 1967 , 1985 and 2006 ) generally attributed thermonuclear runaway ( tnr ) events within the accreted matter on the wd surface .",
    "two other events are suggested in the literature ( 1907 ; 1945 from * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* respectively ) .",
    "the optical development during an outburst is very similar in each case @xcite . following the 2006 outburst ,",
    "a wd mass of around 1.35 solar masses has been suggested @xcite implying that it may be a supernova  ia progenitor .    since the wd is gaining mass through accretion , but losing mass due to the outbursts , an interesting question is : what happens to the overall mass of the wd after an outburst ? will it increase , stay unchanged or decrease over many outbursts ?",
    "if it actually increases in mass then this means that at some point it will exceed the chandrasekhar limit , which will lead to a type  ia supernova @xcite .",
    "supernovae outbursts play an important role in the history of the universe and as standard candles .",
    "being able to observe a complete recurrent nova cycle from pre - outburst accretion to post - outburst quiescence in sufficient detail will tell us a lot about the physical processes involved .",
    "if we were able to predict an outburst , we would be able to take spectroscopic and multi - band observations of the star before and at the beginning of the outburst , which has never been done before .",
    "here we examine the optical lightcurve between 1933 and 2008 , which includes five confirmed and one suspected outburst .",
    "the data have been taken from the american association of variable star observers ( * ? ? ?",
    "* aavso hereafter ) and are mainly visual estimates . in section  [ sec - lightcurve ]",
    "we present the lightcurve over 75  years and discuss previous work to analyse the variations . in section  [ sec - decline ]",
    "we look at a bayesian approach to parameterising the form of the lightcurve during the outbursts , describing the stages of post - outburst development and providing a model that supports the subsequent analysis of the whole lightcurve .",
    "section  [ sec - wavelet ] presents a wavelet analysis of the lightcurve , which leads to a pre - outburst signal that is present in the data even if we remove the outbursts themselves . in section  [ sec - discussion ]",
    "we discuss this feature and its potential utility in predicting outbursts sufficiently early to allow detailed observations of the pre - outburst and peak periods of the next outburst .",
    "[ fig - lc ] shows the aavso visual lightcurve from 1933 august 16th up until the 2008 january 31st ( 44,655 points over 27196  days ) .",
    "these are mainly naked eye visual estimates from amateur astronomers , while more recently these are supplemented by v band telescope measurements , also from amateur observers .",
    "there is considerable scatter , but the data is of sufficient quality to determine some basic features :        * there are clear peaks in 1933 , 1958 , 1967 , 1985 and 2006 due to the optical brightening  this is the fundamental activity that identifies the object as a recurrent novae . *",
    "the quiescent light curve fluctuates between 9.6 and 12.8 magnitudes , but with no periodicity or other pattern . *",
    "the time from outburst to decline to quiescent mean magnitude is about 100 days , but the light consistently declines below this point and only recovers to approximately the mean after 400 to 500  days . *",
    "the seasonal gap from mid - november until late - january , is long enough to contain most of an outburst , so that we may have missed one or more .",
    "however each decline - and - recovery phase is sufficiently similar and lasts long enough that the tail of such a hidden outburst might be identifiable .",
    "as we examine the characteristics of the outbursts , we also present the 1000  days around each outburst in fig .",
    "[ fig - outbursts ] .",
    "we also include the data around 1945 that led @xcite to suggest an outburst that was missed in the seasonal gap .",
    "a number of authors @xcite have found flickering  like fluctuations on timescales of minutes , and @xcite were the first to detect the resumption of flickering post  outburst . as flickering of this sort",
    "is generally attributed to accretion in binary star systems , this enabled the first post  outburst accretion rate estimate to be made .",
    "the aavso lightcurve presented here has insufficient time resolution to allow flickering analysis .",
    "however it should be noted that night - to - night variations of 0.5  mag are seen in high time resolution data , so that the aavso data have some sensitivity to the underlying amplitude of flickering .",
    "we extract the outburst events from fig .",
    "[ fig - lc ] and conduct a bayesian analysis to characterise the decline , described in section  [ sec - decline ] .",
    "we also use the data in fig .",
    "[ fig - lc ] as the basis of a wavelet analysis with a morlet mother function @xcite , as described in section  [ sec - wavelet ] .",
    "@xcite discussed the decline rate of the outbursts .",
    "they divided each outburst into different phases according to the decline rate and concluded that each outburst consists of three breakpoints before the star begins to brighten again . in this section ,",
    "we model the outburst data with simple curves .",
    "the aim is simply to parameterise the form of the decline , rather than determine any underlying physical model .    in order to apply the statistical analysis",
    ", we take the first 500  days of each outburst ( including the proposed 1945 one ) .",
    "the total number of data values is n = 8505 .",
    "the most well observed outburst is the one that happened in 2006 with 4109 observed points .",
    "the more observed points there are in an outburst , the more information will be added from this outburst to the statistical analysis we undertake .",
    "@xcite commented that the decline rate and then brightening rate of the proposed 1945 ( obscured ) outburst is akin to all the other outbursts , and that this combination has never been observed outside of an outburst . from this resemblance of the light curves",
    ", we have a reason to believe that the same physical mechanisms cause all the outbursts .",
    "thence , we can assume that all the outbursts can be described with the same parametrised model .",
    "we apply bayesian analysis to the declines from maximum for each outburst in the data .",
    "we consider four models . in each case",
    "the time @xmath1  days defines the end of the outburst , and the parameters @xmath2 are calculated to ensure each model is continuous .",
    "we take time zero as a parameter to determine the start of each outburst , instead of assuming it is defined by the first observed point in outburst ; this allow us to estimate the start date of the proposed 1945 outburst and hence check that it would not have been visible before the seasonal gap .",
    "the break points in the decline are calculated as times @xmath3 and @xmath4 from this zero point .",
    "* model 1 .",
    "* this is the most complicated model of the four with 11 free parameters .",
    "it consists of four stages . during the first three",
    "there is a decline in magnitude , whereas in the last one it increases . @xmath5",
    "the parameter space for this model will be @xmath6 .    * model 2 .",
    "* this is the second most complex model with 10 free parameters .",
    "it consists of four stages .",
    "the only difference between this and the @xmath7 model is the third stage , where instead of an exponential function we assume a straight line . @xmath8",
    "the parameter space for this model will be @xmath9 .",
    "* model 3 .",
    "* this model consists of nine free parameters and four stages .",
    "the only change from the @xmath10 model is the second stage , where instead of an exponential function we assume a straight line . @xmath11",
    "the parameter space for this model will be @xmath12 .",
    "* model 4 .",
    "* this is the simplest model with seven free parameters .",
    "the basic difference between this and the previous three models is that it consists of three stages . in the first two the magnitude is declining and in the third it is increasing .",
    "@xmath13 the parameter space for this model will be @xmath14 .    in the following analysis",
    ", we assume that the first observed brightest point of each outburst is at time @xmath15 from the true beginning of the outburst ( there are 6 outbursts including the 1945 one ) .",
    "we incorporate @xmath16 as parameters so that the data will decide their values .",
    "this will also give us the information about how many days after the 1945 peak the first observation occurred .",
    "therefore , the parameter space will be @xmath17 .",
    "uninformative prior distributions were assumed for the parameters , where possible . also normal and uncorrelated errors were implemented for the observed values . in this",
    "case nuisance parameters like the standard deviation of the errors can be integrated out .",
    "first , we will try to choose which of the four models fits best to the data we have and after that we present the parameter estimations for that particular model .",
    "the codes used for this analysis were written and implemented by @xcite .",
    "table [ m_j : bf ] depicts the logarithmic marginal densities estimation with three different approximation methods .",
    "all of them choose model @xmath10 as the best , although @xmath10 is `` not more than a bare mention '' better than @xmath18 , according to the criteria of @xcite .",
    "the information criteria ( table [ m_j : ic ] ) choose @xmath10 and @xmath18 as the best two models .",
    "however , they disagree as aic suggests @xmath10 , whereas bic proposes @xmath18 .",
    "the maximum likelihood functions under these two models are @xmath19 for @xmath10 and @xmath20 for @xmath18 .",
    "although @xmath10 maximises the likelihood compared to @xmath18 , the fact that it contains one more parameter than @xmath18 does not allow bayes factor estimations to clearly favour @xmath10 .",
    "therefore , @xmath18 can not be excluded . nevertheless , we select model @xmath10 for further analysis .",
    ".logarithmic marginal densities estimation for modelling rs  oph s outbursts . 1 : laplace method with posterior covariance matrix , 2 : laplace method with robust posterior covariance matrix , 3 : importance sampling estimation with the probability density from stage @xmath21 as the additional probability density . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     , ( first observed point to 500 days after peak ) including the proposed 1945 outburst , demonstrating the similarity of all outbursts .",
    "the red solid line indicates the best fit from the bayesian analysis ( @xmath10 ) .",
    "dot - dash blue lines indicate the break points , also from the bayesian analysis.,width=321 ]    from this we have demonstrated that the 1945 data are consistent with an outburst beginning and completing most of its decline during the seasonal gap , but with the final decline and recovery visible",
    ". it does not prove that this is an outburst , as we included it in our analysis .",
    "but it is the simplest explanation of the data .",
    "as noted by @xcite the data that are available show a form that is only seen after outbursts .",
    "if we accept that there was an outburst at this time , the mean recurrence interval goes down . between 1933 and 1967 the mean interval was just over 10  years , compared with a mean over all seven outbursts of approximately 15  years .",
    "we have subjected the lightcurve in fig .",
    "[ fig - lc ] to a wavelet analysis using the techniques of @xcite .",
    "we applied the implementation of these techniques in the fortran  77 software available from those authors available via atoc.colorado.edu/research/wavelets . in order to apply a wavelet analysis",
    "the data must be evenly sampled .",
    "thus we have re - sampled to a one day interval . where a day had more than one observation , we have taken an average , while we take a linear interpolation from the adjacent dates over days with no data .",
    "seasonal gaps are replaced with the mean value for the entire lightcurve . as 90% of the data are from the quiescent periods the effect of outbursts on the mean is small .",
    "as the analysis relies on a range of input data to generate each point in the output data , we pad beyond the start and end of the data with the mean value , until the total number of data points reaches the next power of two .",
    "while we used a morlet mother function @xcite that is designed to identify periodic signals in the data , power appears in the resultant power plot due to discontinuities in the data such as those seen at outburst .",
    "while a complex wavelet function , such as used here , can allow the separation of both phase and amplitude of the data and is useful for identifying oscillations , a real wavelet function merges these two in one component and can be helpful to isolate peaks or discontinuities @xcite . in this paper",
    "the wavelet power spectrum is defined as the sum of the squares of the real and imaginary parts of the wavelet transform @xcite .",
    "formally there is a cone of influence ( coi ) outside which there is not enough information to determine if a signal is real .",
    "primarily this excludes periods longer than the time ",
    "span of the data , but early and late in the time series it is also affected by the padding , hence the cone  like shape.more",
    "specifically , the wavelet power is expected to drop as we approach the edge of the data , due to the infinite support of the morlet wavelet function .",
    "[ fig - power]a depicts the wavelet power plot of the optical light curve in fig .",
    "[ fig - lc ] following re - sampling to a one day interval and interpolation of missing data as described above .",
    "the vertical dotted lines represent the beginning of an outburst as determined from our parametrisation approach .",
    "all the peaks in the wavelet power spectrum are associated with an outburst .",
    "a similar feature can be located for the year 1945 , where @xcite suggested an additional outburst . however , the wavelet power is not as strong as all the other outbursts due to the lack of data during the brightest part of the outburst ( as we found in section  [ sec - decline ] if an outburst had indeed occurred , it started during the seasonal gap ) .",
    "the most prominent peak in the wavelet power spectrum of fig .",
    "[ fig - power]a is linked with the 1967 outburst .",
    "this has to do with the fact that during the last stage of the magnitude decline of the outburst the magnitude becomes fainter than 12 , which might be an indication that the 1967 outburst was more powerful than the others observed .",
    "note that the features we observe are not symmetric about the beginning of each outburst .",
    "this asymmetry is because the wavelet power is influenced by the data before and after the outbursts .",
    "the signal for the 2006 outburst seems to be weaker than the rest of the outbursts because part of it is outside of the coi .",
    "this means that the wavelet power at larger scales will decrease as we approach the edges because we pad the end of the time series with the mean value .      a natural response of the wavelet power to discontinuities in the data ( such as those seen at outburst in fig .",
    "[ fig - power]a ) is a peak in the power at the time of the discontinuity .",
    "we decided to remove the first 143  days of each outburst and undertake the same analysis .",
    "the removed data have been replaced with the mean of the time series , as presented in fig .",
    "[ fig - power2]b .",
    "we tested the robustness of the results for different choices for replacement data , including a sinusoid of 50  day period and the residuals of subtracting the model determined in section  [ sec - decline ] . introducing different artificial values for",
    "the removed data did not affect the outcome of this analysis other than to insignificantly change the detailed distribution of power in the wavelet power spectrum .",
    "[ fig - power2]b shows the resultant wavelet power spectrum .",
    "there are peaks in the wavelet power spectrum at a period range between 600 and 800  days that are associated with each of the 1945 , 1985 and 2006 pre - outburst phases .",
    "this implies that these three outbursts are most similar regarding the light curve .",
    "the fact that part of the 2006 peak of the wavelet power is outside of the coi does not suggest that the wavelet power is completely wrong .",
    "since we pad with the mean value of the time series at the edges , we expect the wavelet power near the edges at large scales to be less than it otherwise would be .",
    "this means that if we had more years of data , then the 2006 wavelet power peak would be entirely inside the coi and appear with enhanced wavelet power .",
    "the 1967 outburst is associated with a feature in the period range 500 and 1100  days , whereas the 1958 outburst does not give any significant peak associated with the pre  outburst .",
    "thus we believe that the peak for 1958 in the wavelet power spectrum in fig .  [",
    "fig - lc]b , when the outburst data is retained , is due only to the data discontinuity .",
    "it is clear that all of the other outbursts ( apart from the 1958 ) are linked with a specific form of wavelet power variation roughly around a period of 700800  days which appears before the outburst begins , and so can not be due to the discontinuity .",
    "last but not least , the pre - outburst phase and the post - outburst phase ( i.e. after 143  days from the outburst ) of the light curve seem to follow the same pattern in all cases .",
    "[ fig - power ]    this is another indication why we should remove the outbursts from the analysis , as the peak for the wavelet power for the 1958 outburst in fig.[fig - power]a is created only by the data discontinuity .",
    "therefore , the 1958 and 1967 outbursts might have progressed differently and may provide a key to the outburst mechanisms .",
    "in addition the 1958 outburst was only 9 years before the 1967 outburst , and also the 1958 outburst was not associated with any fluctuation around that range .    to conclude ,",
    "each outburst is associated with a peak in the wavelet power spectrum around period 500 to 1000  days ( apart from the 1958 outburst ) , which never appears outside of an outburst .",
    "a detailed analysis shows that these peaks are part of the true signal and not due to the observational uncertainty .",
    "from our bayesian analysis , using a piecewise model curve fitting for the declines from outburst , we find breakpoints in the decline at @xmath2253 , @xmath22107 and @xmath22143  days after the outburst .",
    "it is not clear that these are associated with any other changes in the system s behaviour .",
    "the x - ray flux shows a change in the power - law of the decline at around day  70 @xcite but there is no obvious physical reason to relate this to changes in the optical light curve .",
    "the super - soft phase also settled into a reasonably stable state around day  50 @xcite but again this can not be clearly associated with the optical break by any physical mechanism .",
    "it was found that the first observed point of the 1945 outburst was @xmath2268  days after the actual beginning of the outburst , which means that there was probably an outburst beginning at most a few days after the seasonal gap began . using wavelet analysis",
    "the pre- and post - outburst features in the light curve at this time can be distinguished , and are similar to all the other outbursts ( apart from the 1958 one ) .",
    "identifying an outburst in 1945 reduces the mean interval outburst recurrence rate from @xmath2220 years @xcite to @xmath2212.5 years .",
    "this also makes the nine year interval between the 1958 and 1967 outbursts less anomalous - moving it much closer to the median interval than when the 1945 outburst is excluded ( from 1.25 standard deviations to 0.7 standard deviations ) .",
    "a more detailed look at the wavelet power for each outburst suggests that the 1945 , 1985 and 2006 outbursts had similar magnitude wavelet peaks .",
    "the 1967 outburst has an unusually strong wavelet peak while in 1958 there is no significant peak .",
    "while we can say nothing about the outburst mechanisms from this , it does suggest some observable pre  outburst activity in most cases  with the only analysed outburst without such a peak followed by a second outburst within 9  years , still the shortest observed interval .",
    "the only major parameter in outburst models ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) that can be varied on such short timescales is the mass accretion rate onto the wd .",
    "variable mass transfer also seems to be the only plausible process that could generate the pre  outburst activity indicated by our wavelet analysis .",
    "we note that the pre ",
    "outburst signal in the power plots are similar regardless if we include or exclude the outbursts themselves in the light curve ( compare figs .",
    "[ fig - power]a and [ fig - power2]b ) .",
    "since we know what a typical characteristic of each outburst is , then we can use it for outburst prediction .",
    "even 200  days before the outburst the wavelet analysis shows this pre - outburst trend of the star . for 455  days ( an orbital period ) this feature is less significant but in some cases ( 1967 and 1985 outbursts ) is still recoverable .",
    "hence , we have a means to predict outbursts in this object .",
    "further work will extend this to similar systems .",
    "if it turns out to be robust then it may also have implications for the outburst mechanism as a tnr should have no pre - outburst signal .      since ( almost ) every analysed outburst is linked with a pre - outburst feature in the wavelet power spectrum",
    ", this can be a useful tool for outburst prediction . to test this , wavelet analysis for",
    "the time interval between two outbursts has been applied .",
    "the starting point of each time series was 500  days after the beginning of the outburst .",
    "the end point of each time series was 455  days before the beginning of the next outburst , which coincides with one orbital period .",
    "the aim here was to investigate the appearance of the pre ",
    "outburst signal as we approach outburst .    in fig .",
    "[ fig - power4 ] , data values between the 1933 and the 1967 outbursts were analyzed .",
    "we can clearly see the peak in the wavelet power spectrum at a period around 600800  days associated with the start of the 1945 outburst determined in section  [ sec - decline ] .",
    "no such signal is apparent for 1958 , consistent with the result for the entire data - set .",
    "outburst signal for the 1967 outburst is growing , albeit outside the coi .",
    "a similar analysis of the period from 1958 to 2006 showed similar signals for each outburst , with the 1967 one being by far the strongest .",
    "the wavelet power of this peak drops as we approach the end of the time series because more wavelet function is convolved with the artificial data we pad the end of the time series with .",
    "the interaction of the true data with the artificial data will reduce the value of the wavelet power , the structure of which can only be influenced by changes in the real data .",
    "although this feature is initially outside of the coi , it can still be recognized . as no other feature like this at that period range",
    "can be observed in the rest of the time series , this is consistent with the appearance of such a feature at the most recent end of the wavelet power plot indicating an approaching outburst .",
    "when we assumed we did not know that at the end of these data there was an outburst , and did the same analysis up to : i ) 1 day before the outburst , ii ) 100  days before the outburst , and iii ) 200  days before the outburst , we still see this feature for every outburst where one was seen when the data from either side of the outburst were included ( 1945 , 1967 , 1985 and 2006 ) .",
    "the closer we get to the outburst the better defined this feature is .",
    "similar analysis has been applied to all the time intervals between each pair of outbursts .",
    "the outcome was that a peak in the wavelet power spectrum like the one in fig .",
    "[ fig - power4 ] was observed before every outburst , apart from the 1958 outburst .",
    "given that this also had the shortest interval to the next outburst in 1967 ( which was then the strongest outburst seen so far ) it may be that something peculiar happened at that date compared with the other outbursts .",
    "we do not have data before 1933 at sufficient density to subject to this analysis , so we can not say anything about that outburst or the one in 1898 .",
    "we have analysed 76  years of optical photometry of the recurrent nova rs  ophiuchi , allowing analysis of both the quiescent and outburst phases over that time .",
    "bayesian analysis of the decline from maximum of the combined data from the five accepted outbursts in the data and the proposed 1945 outburst show that there is a preferred set of break points when the form of the decline changes , at @xmath2253  days , @xmath22107  days and @xmath22143  days after the outburst peak , after which the optical light recovers towards the quiescent level over another @xmath2265  days . with this empirical model of the decline",
    ", we are able to place the start point of the 1945 outburst proposed by @xcite as only about a day after the start of the preceding seasonal gap .",
    "the 1945 data contribute so little to the bayesian analysis we can be confident that the decline seen here , but no where else in the lightcurve outside of a confirmed outburst , is due to a 7th outburst as proposed by @xcite .    turning to the overall lightcurve , including the quiescent phases",
    ", a wavelet analysis shows that there is a signal in wavelet power due to the outbursts .",
    "while some of this signal is contributed by the discontinuity due to the outburst , replacing the outburst data with continuous data essentially indistinguishable from quiescent data only reduces the strength of the signal prior to the known start dates for the outbursts .",
    "thus it appears that we have identified a pre  outburst signature up to 450  days before outburst in the wavelet analysis , which was apparent in all but the 1958 events .",
    "this holds out the possibility of having an early warning of outbursts in the future .",
    "it also suggests some implication of the accretion process in the onset of outburst , as a tnr would not provide such a pre  outburst signal .",
    "we are working to extend this work to similar objects .",
    "we thank dr mike marsh for creating an independent plot equivalent to fig .  [",
    "fig - power ] as part of checking the outcomes for this paper .",
    "the wavelet analysis was applied using the wavelet software of torrence and compo ( available at atoc.colorado.edu/research/wavelets ) .",
    "we acknowledge with thanks the variable star observations from the aavso international database contributed by observers worldwide and used in this research .",
    "sa was supported by a phd studentship from the university of central lancashire and the science & technology facilities council .",
    "bode , m. f. , obrien , t. j. , osborne , j. p. , page , k. l. , senziani , f. , skinner , g. k. , starrfield , s. , ness , j .- u . ,",
    "drake , j. j. , schwarz , g. , beardmore , a. p. , darnley , m. j. , eyres , s. p. s. , evans , a. , gehrels , n. , goad , m. r. , jean , p. , krautter , j. , novara , g. 2006 , apj , 652 , 629      , m.  f. , osborne , j.  p. , page , k.  l. , beardmore , a.  p. , obrien , t.  j. , ness , j .- u . ,",
    "starrfield , s. , skinner , g.  k. , darnley , m.  j. , drake , j.  j. , evans , a. , eyres , s.  p.  s. , krautter , j. and schwarz , g. aspc , 401 , 269        chesneau , o. , nardetto , n. , millour , f. , hummel , c. , domiciano de souza , a. , bonneau , d. , vannier , m. , rantakyr , f. , spang , a. , malbet , f. , mourard , d. , bode , m. f. , obrien , t. j. , skinner , g. , petrov , r. g. , stee , p. , tatulli , e. , vakili , f. , 2007 a&a , 646 , 119                                          obrien , t. j. , beswick r.j .",
    ", bode m.f .",
    ", eyres s.p.s . ,",
    "muxlow t.w.b . , garrington s.t . ,",
    "porcas r.w . , evans a. , davis r.j . , 2008 , in evans a. , bode m.f",
    ", obrien t.j . ,",
    "darnley m.j .",
    ", eds , asp conf . ser .",
    "vol 401 , rs  ophiuchi ( 2006 ) and the recurrent nova phenomenon .",
    ", san francisco , p.239                                          zamanov , r. k. , boeva , s. , bachev , r. , bode , m. f. , dimitrov , d. , stoyanov , k. a. , gomboc , a. , tsvetkova , s. v. , slavcheva - mihova , l. , spassov , b. , koleva , k. , mihov , b. , 2010 mnras in press arxiv1001.0852z"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recurrent novae are binary stars in which a white dwarf accretes matter from a less evolved companion , either a red giant or a main - sequence star . </S>",
    "<S> they have dramatic optical brightenings of around 56  mag in v in less than a day , several times a century </S>",
    "<S> . these occur at variable and unpredictable intervals , and are followed by an optical decline over several weeks , and activity from the x - ray to the radio </S>",
    "<S> . the unpredictability of recurrent novae and related stellar types can hamper systematic study of their outbursts . </S>",
    "<S> here we analyse the long - term lightcurve of rs  ophiuchi , a recurrent nova with six confirmed outbursts , most recently in 2006  february . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm the previously suspected 1945 outburst , largely obscured in a seasonal gap . </S>",
    "<S> we also find a signal via wavelet analysis that can be used to predict an incipient outburst up to a few hundred days before hand . </S>",
    "<S> this has never before been possible . </S>",
    "<S> in addition this may suggest that the preferred thermonuclear runaway mechanism for the outbursts will have to be modified , as no pre - outburst signal is anticipated in that case . if our result indeed points to gaps in our understanding of how outbursts are driven </S>",
    "<S> , we will need to study such objects carefully to determine if the white dwarf is growing in mass , an essential factor if these systems are to become type ia supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> determining the likelihood of recurrent novae being an important source population will have implications for stellar and galaxy evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : individual : rs  oph  novae , cataclysmic variables  aavso </S>"
  ]
}