{
  "article_text": [
    "at times during a web browsing session , a user s navigation is interrupted by broken links which point to non - existent pages . in some cases ,",
    "these pages are not lost forever , but can be accessed at a different address .",
    "lexical signatures , which consist of a small number of words chosen to represent the `` aboutness '' of a page , have been proposed as a way to discover the new address of a page .",
    "for example , a lexical signature for a page that sells instruments for environmental measurement might be [ humidity , measurement , machine ] .",
    "prior research has shown @xcite that using those words as a query to a search engine may yield the same page at another uri",
    ". however , previous methods relied on computing the lexical signature before the page was lost , or using cached or archived versions of the page to calculate a lexical signature . if the lexical signature had not been previously calculated , and no archived or cached copies of the page were available , these methods are unusable .    to overcome this limitation , an experiment was performed to evaluate constructing lexical signatures from link neighborhoods . since pages tend to link to related pages , the intuition was that the link neighborhoods contain enough of the `` aboutness '' of the targetted page to allow a lexical signature to be created .",
    "link neighborhoods were constructed by querying a search engine for listings of backlinks , and several methods of calculating lexical signatures from those link neighborhoods were tested to see which method produced the most effective signatures .",
    "the effects of lexical signature size , backlink depth , and backlink ranking were examined , as well as the radius within a backlink page from which terms for the lexical signature should be drawn .",
    "the method most likely to succeed used three terms in the lexical signature , the terms being drawn only from the anchor text of links pointing to the missing page .",
    "it was necessary to use only the first ten backlinks for a uri to calculate the lexical signature .",
    "further , only first - level backlinks , those pages that linked directly to the missing page , proved useful ; second - level backlinks yielded poorer results .",
    "[ sec : lex - sigs ]        a lexical signature , as used previously and in this experiment , is a small number of terms chosen to represent the `` aboutness '' of a webpage .",
    "various methods have been proposed for calculating lexical signatures , but each attempts to choose terms based on the commonality of the term on the page , and/or the rareness of that term in the corpus .",
    "figure [ fig : lex - sig ] shows an example of a lexical signature for a webpage , with the terms of the lexical signature outlined in red .",
    "the words `` smithsonian '' and `` behring '' have been chosen those words are rarely used in the corpus , so their presence here might indicate something important about the nature of this page .",
    "the words `` time '' and `` americans '' , though common in the corpus , are nevertheless used repeatedly on this page , indicating that they are important to the meaning of this page . indeed , since the page is about the concept of time in america , and hosted by the behring center , part of the smithsonian , this lexical signature provides a reasonably unique , if terse , description of the page .",
    "the underlying principle , which has been demonstrated in prior studies , is that this lexical signature can be used to find or identify the page that it represents .",
    "our experiment is focused on calculating a lexical signature for a uri when no representation of that uri can be retrieved .      to calculate lexical signatures ,",
    "the term frequency - inverse document frequency method was used to rank all available terms .",
    "@xmath0 term frequency is calculated for each term for each target uri , as shown in equation [ eqn : tf ] .",
    "the tf of term _ i _ for target uri _ j _ is the number of times that _",
    "i _ appears in the backlinks of _",
    "j_. @xmath1 as shown in equation [ eqn : idf ] , inverse document frequency ( idf ) is the total number of documents in the corpus ( _ d _ ) divided by the number of documents _ d _ in which term _ i _ occurs . the yahoo !",
    "api was queried to determine the frequency of that term on the web .",
    "klein and nelson have shown @xcite that search engines can be used to approximate df for the purpose of lexical signature calculation .",
    "_ @xmath2 _ was estimated using the numbers for the yahoo !",
    "index taken from http://www.worldwidewebsize.com/ on 11/1/2010 .",
    "@xmath3 tfidf is the product of tf and idf , as shown in equation [ eqn : tfidf ] , and the terms with the highest tfidf values make up the lexical signature .    in this way , tfidf calculates the words that occur in the backlinks more often than they occur on the web at large .",
    "a lexical signature made up of such relatively rare terms should describe what the backlinks are about , and hopefully therefore describe what the target ( missing ) page is about .    before tfidf calculation ,",
    "any terms included in a list of `` stop words '' were discarded .",
    "a local cache of df values was kept to reduce the number of queries to yahoo !",
    ", on the assumption that df values were unlikely to change significantly over the amount of time that lexical signatures were calculated , which was less than two weeks .",
    "phelps and wilensky @xcite proposed calculating the lexical signature of a target page , and embedding that lexical signature into the link uris to make the referenced page easier to find .",
    "their method relied on a five - term lexical signature being calculated at the time the link was created , and included in the link uri .",
    "this placed the burden of preparing for future recovery on the content creator or administrator ; if the creator did not calculate the lexical signature in advance , the user would be unable to use this method to attempt to rediscover the page .",
    "in addition , web browsers would have to be modified to use the lexical signature in the uri to attempt to rediscover the page .",
    "this meant that both web servers and browsers would have to implement this method for it to be usable .",
    "park , pennock , giles , and krovetz @xcite expanded on the work of phelps and wilensky by analyzing eight different formulas for calculating a lexical signature .",
    "phelps and wilensky s method involved dividing the number of times a term appeared in a document , known as its term frequency ( tf ) , by the number of times that term appeared in all documents in the corpus , known as the document frequency ( df ) .",
    "this fraction is known as term frequency - inverse document frequency ( tfidf ) .",
    "park et al .",
    "test phelps and wilensky s original tfidf variant , a simpler tfidf , plain tf , and plain df as so - called `` basic lss '' .",
    "in addition they tested several `` hybrid '' formulas in which some of the ls terms were calculated with one formula , and some of the terms with another formula , as potential ways to find relevant documents when the original document could not be found .",
    "they found that tfidf was the best among the `` basic '' formulas , though some of the hybrid formulas performed better in certain use cases .",
    "they also used a five - term ls for lack of an empirical study on ls size , and noted that the effect of ls size was a topic for future research .    to remove the browser requirement in phelps and wilensky s system , harrison and",
    "nelson @xcite proposed a system called opal , wherein a webserver administrator would embed a javascript on http 404 error pages to redirect users to an opal server .",
    "the opal server would offer the user to view a cached copy of the page ( if one could be found ) , or looking for another copy of the page using a lexical signature calculated from a cached copy .",
    "this had two major advantages over phelps and wilensky s system .",
    "first , a server administrator would have to make only one change , replacing the 404 error page , one time .",
    "second , this method required no modification to web browsers . however , this still required some interaction on the part of the server administrator , and if the administrator did not implement this system , or if the server was unreachable , this system would not be usable .",
    "klein and nelson @xcite proposed a method to use lss calculated from archived or cached versions of a page to calculate a lexical signature .",
    "they showed that a five - term or a seven - term lexical signature would produce the best results .",
    "a seven - term ls did best at finding the uri in the first result , whereas a five - term ls performed best at finding the uri somewhere in the first page .",
    "henzinger , chang , milch , and brin @xcite used lexical signatures derived from newscast transcripts to find articles related to the newscast in real - time .",
    "their input , rather than being a static web page , was a constantly - flowing stream of text from the transcript .",
    "their method took into account the temporal locality of terms , that is words that were spoken close together in the broadcast , to attempt to compute lss that would be relevant to a single story each , rather than spanning across subsequent stories .",
    "their observations showed that , far from the five - term lss used in prior studies , a two - term lexical signature worked best in this application .",
    "craswell et al .",
    "@xcite showed the effectiveness of anchor text in describing a resource .",
    "they demonstrated that for a specific user need , which they called the site - finding problem , anchor text of backlinks provided a more effective way of ranking documents than did the content of the target page itself .",
    "sugiyama , hatano , yoshikawa , and uemura @xcite proposed enhancing the feature vector of a web page by including its link neighborhood .",
    "that is , they proposed that a search engine could more accurately describe the contents of a page by including information from both in - links ( backlinks ) and out - links .",
    "they tested up to third - level in- and out - links , and found that only links up to the second level were helpful . in some of the methods they tested , only the first - level links were helpful .",
    "fujii et al . @xcite explored the correlation between anchor text and page titles .",
    "they showed that the collective nature of anchor texts , since they are created by many people , adds a significant value .",
    "anchor texts are created by a similar thought process to queries , and as such will use similar words to describe a topic .",
    "since links can be made by many authors , they will use their own word preferences , which means that anchors can provide synonyms that the original page s author might not use .",
    "they even showed that anchor texts , since they are made by different authors and might be written in different languages , might be used to provide a bilingual corpus for machine learning of natural language translation .",
    "for the experiment , 309 uris were obtained from the same corpus used in klein and nelson 2008 @xcite . for each uri , the yahoo",
    "! boss application programming interface ( api ) was queried to determine the pages that link to the uri ( `` backlinks '' ) . the yahoo !",
    "boss api was used because it was previously shown to give more complete backlink results than other search engines @xcite . the order in which these backlinks were returned",
    "is referred to as `` backlink rank '' .",
    "the backlinks of the backlinks were obtained to create a directed graph of depth 2 .",
    "figure [ fig : link - neighborhood ] shows an example of such a link neighborhood .",
    "the page on the right , in green , represents the target page , the page that a user linked to but is no longer available . using yahoo ! , we obtain three pages that link to the target page .",
    "these are the first - level backlinks , represented in blue . for each first - level backlink",
    ", we obtain its backlinks , represented in yellow as the second - level backlinks .",
    ".various measures of experimental cost [ cols=\"<,>\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this paper , we showed that lexical signatures calculated from the backlink neighborhood of a web page can be used to re - discover that page .",
    "this method can be used when no copies of the missing page exist , and the page was not analyzed before it went offline .",
    "we found that only the first - level backlinks were related closely enough to the missing page to be helpful in creating a lexical signature . including second - level backlinks introduced too much noise into the signatures .",
    "the most relevant text in a backlink page is the text that is used to link to the missing page , and this `` anchor text '' provides enough terms to develop a viable lexical signature for the missing page .    the ranking of backlinks for a uri is meaningful and helpful in determining a lexical signature for the missing uri .",
    "we found that using only the first ten backlinks produced a better signature than including the first hundred or thousand backlinks .",
    "the effect should be studied with greater granularity to determine the best number of backlinks to analyze , since we tested only values that were separated by an order of magnitude each .",
    "the ideal size for a lexical signature derived from backlinks is three terms .",
    "any fewer terms and the signature is too vague , likely to include the target uri deep in its results , if at all .",
    "any more terms and the signature runs the risk of including terms not present in the target page , which would likely exclude the target uri from the results .",
    "e.  agichtein and z.  zheng .",
    "identifying `` best bet '' web search results by mining past user behavior . in _ proceedings of the 12th acm",
    "sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , kdd 06 , pages 902908 , 2006 .",
    "n.  craswell , d.  hawking , and s.  robertson .",
    "effective site finding using link anchor information . in _ proceedings of the 24th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval _ , sigir 01 , pages 250257 , 2001 .",
    "t.  joachims , l.  granka , b.  pan , h.  hembrooke , and g.  gay . accurately interpreting clickthrough data as implicit feedback . in _ proceedings of the 28th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval _ , sigir 05 , pages 154161 , 2005",
    ".    m.  klein and m.  l. nelson . a comparison of techniques for estimating idf values to generate lexical signatures for the web . in _ widm 08 : proceeding of the 10th acm workshop on web information and data management _ , pages 3946 , new york , ny , usa , 2008 . acm ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> for discovering the new uri of a missing web page , lexical signatures , which consist of a small number of words chosen to represent the `` aboutness '' of a page , have been previously proposed . however , prior methods relied on computing the lexical signature before the page was lost , or using cached or archived versions of the page to calculate a lexical signature . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate a system of constructing a lexical signature for a page from its link neighborhood , that is the `` backlinks '' , or pages that link to the missing page . after testing various methods , </S>",
    "<S> we show that one can construct a lexical signature for a missing web page using only ten backlink pages . </S>",
    "<S> further , we show that only the first level of backlinks are useful in this effort . </S>",
    "<S> the text that the backlinks use to point to the missing page is used as input for the creation of a four - word lexical signature . that lexical signature is shown to successfully find the target uri in over half of the test cases .    </S>",
    "<S> \\{jware , mklein , mln}@cs.odu.edu </S>"
  ]
}