{
  "article_text": [
    "massive stars have a profound effect on the evolution of their natal molecular clouds .",
    "their strong stellar winds and ultraviolet ( uv ) radiation cause an important feedback of energy and momentum in the surrounding medium .",
    "once massive stars form they begin to ionise the remaining parental molecular cloud .",
    "the ionising uv radiation has two competing effects on the parental molecular cloud .",
    "one is negative feedback on star formation activity , i.e. , the remaining molecular cloud is dispersed and further star formation is halted . the other is positive feedback .",
    "the interaction can trigger new episodes of star formation as the hii region expands into the molecular cloud .",
    "two processes have been considered for the triggering of star formation at the edge of the hii region , namely ` collect and collapse ' and ` radiation driven implosion ( rdi ) ' . in the collect and collapse process , a compressed layer of high density neutral material is accumulated between the ionisation front ( if ) and the shock front ( sf ) . the dynamical instabilities in the compressed layer result in the fragmentation of the layer and formation of second generation stars .",
    "if the if/ sf encounters pre - existing denser parts , it compresses them to induce star formation .",
    "the process is known as rdi .",
    "detailed model calculations of the rdi process have been carried out by several authors ( e.g. , bertoldi 1989 , lefloch @xmath6 lazareff 1995 , kessel - deynet & burkert 2003 , miao et al .",
    "star formation is predicted to occur in * the * initial short compression phase .",
    "this compression phase is followed by a transient phase of re - expansion and then by a quasi - stationary cometary phase . during this last phase",
    ", the cloud represents a structure of a dense head and a long tail and moves slowly away from the ionising source by the rocket effect .",
    "the signature of the rdi process is the anisotropic density distribution of gas in a relatively small molecular cloud surrounded by a curved ionisation front ( bright rim ) as well as a small group of ysos in front of it .",
    "brcs are small molecular clouds located near the edge of evolved hii regions and show signs of the rdi and are hence considered to be good laboratories to study the physical processes involved in the rdi process .",
    "sugitani et al .",
    "( 1995 ) carried out near infrared ( nir ) imaging of 44 brcs and found that elongated small clusters or aggregates of ysos , which are aligned toward the direction of the ionizing star , are often associated with them .",
    "these aggregates showed a tendency that ` redder ' ( presumably younger ) stars tend to be located inside the brcs , whereas relatively ` bluer ' ( presumably older ) stars are found outside the clouds , suggesting an age gradient .",
    "thus , they advocated a hypothesis called ` _ small - scale sequential star formation _",
    "( _ s@xmath7f _ ) ' .",
    "if the brc is originally relatively large , the star formation may propagate along the axis of the brcs as the ionization / shock front advances further and further into the molecular cloud ( kessel - deynet & burkert 2003 ) .",
    "the w5 hii region is an extended hii region with relatively simple morphology and shows indications of triggered star formation .",
    "it is a part of the large w3/w4/w5 cloud complex in the perseus arm and consists of two adjacent circular hii regions , w5 e and w5 w. there are many studies on this region .",
    "karr & martin ( 2003 ) discussed triggered star formation in w5 using multi - wavelength archival data . based on the timescales of the expansion of the hii region and the age of the ysos",
    ", they obtained the timescale of the interaction between the molecular clouds and the hii region , @xmath8 myr . using the @xmath9 space telescope imaging with infrared array camera ( irac ) and multiband imaging photometer for @xmath9 ( mips ) , koenig et al .",
    "( 2008 ) noticed dense clusters of ysos , centered around the o stars hd 17505 , hd 17520 , bd + 60 586 and hd 18326 .",
    "the hii region w5 e is primarily ionised by hd 18326 .",
    "chauhan et al .",
    "( 2009 ) also paid attention to the cluster around this o7 v star .",
    "w5 e hii region has two brcs , namely brcs 13 and 14 ( sugitani et al . 1991 , hereafter sfo 91 ) at its periphery . based on the column densities of @xmath10co and the spatial distribution of yso candidates , niwa et al .",
    "( 2009 ) identified a brc candidate in the north - western part of the w5 e hii region .",
    "we refer to this brc candidate as brc nw .",
    "hence w5 e is an interesting region to study triggered star formation .    in our earlier papers ( ogura et al .",
    "2007 , hereafter paper i ; chauhan et al .",
    "2009 , hereafter paper ii ) we have studied the star formation scenario in/ around six brcs , including brcs 13 and 14 .",
    "the analysis was limited to the ysos detected using the h@xmath11 emission and nir excess only . a recent study by koenig et al .",
    "( 2008 ) has increased the number of ysos in w5 e significantly .",
    "hence , these data can be used to further investigate the yso contents which we partly failed to detect in the h@xmath11 and nir excess surveys reported in paper i and paper ii .    in this paper , we have made an attempt to make photometric studies of the stellar content of the newly identified cluster in w5 e , by incorporating the nir and mid infrared ( mir ) data from irac/ mips of the @xmath9 telescope .",
    "we have also considered the properties of the ysos in the cluster as well as the three brc regions to understand the star formation scenario in the w5 e hii region .",
    "the influence of the ionizing source on the surrounding parental molecular cloud has also been discussed .    in sections 2 and 3 ,",
    "we describe the observations , data reductions and archival data used in the present work .",
    "section 4 describes the analysis of the associated cluster .",
    "sections 5 and 6 illustrate the procedure to estimate the membership , age , mass of the ysos and total - to - selective extinction , @xmath12 in the cluster and brc regions . in section 7 we discuss the initial mass function ( imf ) and cumulative mass functions ( cmfs ) of the cluster and brc regions .",
    "section 8 describes the star formation scenario in the cluster and brc regions . in section 9 the disk evolution of t tauri stars ( ttss )",
    "has been discussed .",
    "the 50@xmath1350 arcmin@xmath14 area containing the cluster around the o7 star hd 18326 that is noticed by koenig et al .",
    "( 2008 ) and chauhan et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , is reproduced from the dss2-r image , and shown in fig .",
    "1 . as is evident from the figure , the cluster is embedded in an hii region w5 e. brcs 13 and 14 are located towards the eastern side , whereas brc nw detected by niwa et al .",
    "( 2009 ) can be seen towards the north - west direction of the cluster . in the ensuing subsections",
    "we describe the observations carried out to study the region in detail .",
    "the @xmath0 ccd optical observations of w5 e were carried out using the the 2048 @xmath13 2048 pixel@xmath14 ccd camera mounted at the f/3.1 schmidt focus of the 1.05-m telescope of kiso observatory , japan .",
    "the pixel size of 24 @xmath15 m with an image scale of @xmath16/pixel covers a field of view of @xmath2 50@xmath13 50 arcmin@xmath14 on the sky .",
    "the average fwhm of the star images during the observations was @xmath2@xmath17 .",
    ".log of observations [ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]     there has been qualitative evidence for the @xmath18f hypothesis such as an asymmetric distribution of probable ttss ( ogura et al .",
    "2002 ) and of the properties of nir excess stars ( matsuyanagi et al . 2006 ) .",
    "papers i and ii presented some quantitative evidence on the basis of @xmath19 photometry . in the present study",
    "the sample of ysos is significantly larger as compared to that used in papers i and ii . to further verify the @xmath18f hypothesis we follow the approach",
    "as given in papers i and ii . we have divided the ysos associated with brcs into two groups : those lying inside / on the rim ( i.e. , stars embedded or projected onto the molecular cloud / lying on the rim ) and outside the rim ( i.e. , stars lying outside the rim in the projected hii region ) ( see e.g. , figure a1 of paper ii for brcs 13 and 14 ) . mean age has been calculated for these regions .",
    "since the ionising source of the brcs studied here has a maximum ms lifetime of 4 - 5 myr , therefore the sources having age greater than 5 myr can not be expected as the products of triggered star formation .",
    "they might have formed spontaneously in the original molecular cloud prior to the formation of the hii region .",
    "some of them may be background stars ; larger distances make them look older in the cm diagram . therefore , while calculating the mean age we have not included those stars .",
    "the results are given in table 5 , which shows that in all the brcs , the ysos lying on / inside the rim are younger than those located outside it .",
    "the above results are exactly the same as those obtained in papers i and ii .",
    "therefore , the present results further confirm the @xmath18f hypothesis . as in papers",
    "i and ii , we again find a large scatter in the stellar age in spite of a clear trend of the mean age .",
    "possible reasons for the scatter , as discussed in earlier papers , include photometric errors , errors in extinction correction , light variation of young stars , drift of stars due to their proper motions , binarity of the stars , etc .",
    "photometric errors and light variation as big as 0.5 mag would affect stellar ages by 0.25 dex , so they do not seem to be the major reason for the scatter . as for the extinction correction , it probably does not affect the results much , since in the @xmath20 , @xmath21 cmd the reddening vector is nearly parallel to the isochrones . as discussed in papers i and ii , we speculate that the proper motions of the newly born stars may probably be the main cause of the scatter .",
    "h@xmath11 emission and ir excess are important signatures of young pms stars .",
    "these signatures in cttss indicate the existence of a well - developed circumstellar disk actively interacting with the central star .",
    "strong h@xmath11 emission ( equivalent width ew @xmath22 10  ) in cttss is attributed to the magnetospheric accretion of the innermost disk matter onto the central star ( hartmann et al .",
    "1994 ; edwards et al . 1994 ; muzerolle et al 2001 and references therein ) . on the other hand the weak h@xmath11 emission ( ew @xmath23 10  ) in weak - line t tauri stars ( wttss ) , which lack disks ( or , at least inner disks ) ,",
    "is believed to originate from their chromospheric activity ( e.g. , walter et al .",
    "1988 ; martn 1998 ) . in the 1990s ,",
    "a large number of wttss were found in and over wide areas around t - associations by x - ray surveys with rosat , which led to active studies on the nature of the so - called dispersed wttss .",
    "the `` standard model '' ( kenyon and hartmann 1995 ) postulates that the cttss evolve to the wttss by losing their circumstellar disk ( or , at least its inner part ) .",
    "the age distribution derived from the hr diagram of the taurus region indicates that the wttss are systematically older than the cttss , but the statistical significance is low ( kenyon and hartmann 1995 ; hartmann 2001 ; armitage et al . 2003 ) .",
    "bertout et al .",
    "( 2007 ) concluded that the observed age and mass distribution of cttss and wttss in the taurus - auriga t association can be explained by assuming that a ctts evolves into a wtts . in paper",
    "ii we compared the age distribution of cttss and wttss associated with several brcs and supported the conclusion of bertout et al .",
    "( 2007 ) .",
    "on the other hand , there have also been many observations which claimed that the ctts and the wtts are coeval and have indistinguishable age distribution ( e.g. , walter et al .",
    "1988 ; lawson et al . 1996",
    "; gras - velzquez & ray 2005 ) . from the analyses of the hr diagram of the cttss and wttss in chamaeleon i , lawson et al .",
    "( 1996 ) concluded that some stars may be born even almost diskless or lose the disk at very early stages ( age @xmath23 1 myr ) .    in the present work we have derived the age of 79 , 26 , 29 , 59 class ii and 27 , 5 , 5 , 17 class iii sources in the cluster , brc nw , brc 13 , brc 14 regions , respectively . assuming that all the identified class ii and class iii stars are cttss and wttss respectively",
    ", we can study the possible evolution of the ttss .",
    "the advantage of our sample in addressing this issue is that the stars are spatially , i.e. , three - dimensionally , very close to each other , so there should be no problem of distance difference , contrary to extended t associations .",
    "here we would like to caution the readers that although we have attempted to clean the class iii sample from sources not belonging to w5 , however , to confirm the wttss nature of these sources in the absence of spectral information such as measurement of the lithium absorption line is difficult .    since data for class iii sources in the brc nw and brc 13 regions are not statistically significant , in fig .",
    "17 we show the cumulative distribution of class ii and class iii sources in the cluster and brc 14 region only .",
    "17 indicates that both the class iii and class ii sources have rather similar distribution .",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov ( ks ) test for the combined sample of the cluster and brc 14 region confirms the statement that the cumulative distributions of class ii sources ( cttss ) and class iii sources ( wttss ) are different only at a confidence level of 50% .",
    "hence , we can conclude that both the samples have rather similar distribution with practically indistinguishable age distribution .",
    "this result is in contradiction with that of bertout et al .",
    "( 2007 ) for the taurus - auriga t - association and that of paper ii , that wttss are older than cttss and cttss evolve into wttss ; and it is in agreement with those which claim that the cttss and wttss are coeval and have indistinguishable properties . here",
    "we have to keep in mind that the classification of ctts and wtts in the present work is based on the spitzer mir observations whereas in paper ii and in bertout et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , the classification was based on the ews of h@xmath11 emission stars .",
    "h@xmath11 surveys may fail to detect class iii sources which have smaller ews whereas , those sources can be identified using the mir observations .",
    "here it is worthwhile to point out that the class iii sources by koenig et al .",
    "( 2008 ) were identified on the basis of all four @xmath9 irac bands ( 3.6 , 4.5 , 5.8 and 8.0 @xmath15 m ) .",
    "the detection of class iii sources would be suppressed because of less sensitivity at 5.8 and 8.0 @xmath15 m bands and also because of the very bright , variable background at these wavelengths in w5 .",
    "koenig et al .",
    "( 2008 ) have stated that their photospheric sample is only 90% complete to 2 m@xmath24 in general in w5 , and to 8 m@xmath24 on regions of bright background emission ( e.g. , the brcs studied in this paper ) .",
    "this fact is evident in @xmath25 cmd ( fig .",
    "7 ) by comparing the number of class ii sources to the number of class iiis fainter than 20th magnitude in @xmath20 band .",
    "in this paper we have made @xmath1 photometric studies of the newly identified central cluster of w5 e. nir data from 2mass and mir data from irac / mips of the @xmath9 telescope have also been added to consider the properties of the cluster . also , by incorporating @xmath9 data we have re - analysed the properties ( age and spatial distribution , etc . ) of the ysos in w5 e with special emphasis on the three brc regions .",
    "we obtained the following as the main conclusion of the present work .",
    "the central cluster has a distance of @xmath22.1 kpc , a radius of @xmath26 and a mean age of @xmath2 1.3 myr .",
    "the reddening law is normal .",
    "the star formation in the cluster region is found to be non - coeval , with an age spread of @xmath2 5 myr .",
    "the slope of the imf within the cluster region in the mass range @xmath3 is found to be @xmath27 , which is comparable to the salpeter value . in the mass range of @xmath5",
    "; the cmfs of the ysos associated with the three brcs show a break in the slope at @xmath2 @xmath28 @xmath29 .",
    "the cmfs indicate that the cluster region and brc nw have relatively more low mass ysos in the mass range @xmath5 .",
    "the distribution of the ysos in the w5 e region indicates that they are globally aligned from the ionising source towards the brcs .",
    "a comparison of the average age of the ysos lying on / inside and outside the bright rim indicates a quantitative age gradient in the sense that the ysos located on / inside the rim are younger than those located outside the rim .",
    "the results are similar to those reported in paper i and paper ii .",
    "these results confirm the @xmath18f hypothesis .",
    "the globally aligned distribution of the ysos , indicate that a series of rdi events took place in the past from near the central ionising source to the periphery of the hii region .    in the present study it is found that the age distributions of the class ii and class iii sources are the same .",
    "this result is in accordance with the results which claimed that the ctts and the wtts are coeval and have indistinguishable age distribution ( e.g. , walter et al .",
    "1988 ; lawson et al . 1996",
    "; gras - velzquez & ray 2005 ) .",
    "the authors are grateful to the anonymous referee for useful comments that improved the contents of the paper .",
    "we are thankful to the kiso observatory , iao and aries for allotting the observing time .",
    "we also thank the staff of kiso observatory ( japan ) , iao , hanle and its remote control station crest , hosakote for their assistance during observations .",
    "this publication makes use of data from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "nc is thankful for the financial support for this study through the fellowships granted by the dst and csir , india ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the aim of this paper is to present the results of photometric investigations of the central cluster of the w5 e region as well as a follow - up study of the triggered star formation in and around bright - rimmed clouds ( brcs ) . </S>",
    "<S> we have carried out wide field @xmath0 and deep @xmath1 photometry of the w5 e hii region . </S>",
    "<S> a distance of @xmath22.1 kpc and a mean age of @xmath21.3 myr have been obtained for the central cluster . </S>",
    "<S> the young stellar objects ( ysos ) associated with the region are identified on the basis of near - infrared and mid - infrared observations . </S>",
    "<S> we confirmed our earlier results that the average age of the ysos lying on / inside the rim are younger than those lying outside the rim . </S>",
    "<S> the global distribution of the ysos shows an aligned distribution from the ionising source to the brcs . </S>",
    "<S> these facts indicate that a series of radiation driven implosion processes proceeded from near the central ionising source towards the periphery of the w5 e hii region . </S>",
    "<S> we found that , in general , the age distributions of the class ii and class iii sources are the same . </S>",
    "<S> this result is apparently in contradiction with the conclusion by bertout , siess & cabrit ( 2007 ) and chauhan et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2009 ) that classical t tauri stars evolve to weak - line t tauri stars . </S>",
    "<S> the initial mass function of the central cluster region in the mass range @xmath3 can be represented by @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> the cumulative mass functions indicate that in the mass range @xmath5 , the cluster region and brc nw have more low mass ysos in comparison to brcs 13 and 14 .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : formation - stars : pre - main - sequence - ism : globules  hii regions - open cluster : initial mass function ; star formation . </S>"
  ]
}