{
  "article_text": [
    "to realize the fullest potential in a range of applications , energy recovery linacs ( erls ) require high brightness electron beams that are currently beyond the state of the art .",
    "in addition to very low beam emittances ( @xmath0 m rms normalized ) , these sources need to provide high average currents ( @xmath1ma ) .",
    "photoemission guns , whether utilizing a dc high voltage gap or an rf resonant cavity , have become the technology of choice and remain a key component in photoinjectors .",
    "several efforts are underway in the accelerator community to advance the electron source technology towards generating higher average current and lower emittance beams .",
    "normal conducting rf guns have performed well in pulsed applications , e.g. see @xcite .",
    "cw operation tends to be limited to a lower frequency range ( below a ghz ) @xcite and the problems of ohmic wall losses appear prohibitive for the l band frequency range .",
    "dc and superconducting rf ( srf ) guns are free of this limitation , which allows the excellent vacuum necessary for high quantum efficiency photocathodes .",
    "both technologies are actively pursued at the moment at a number of laboratories ; for an overview refer to @xcite .",
    "it is important to understand the main limitations in both cases .",
    "dc guns are mainly limited by field emission , whereas srf guns should allow operation with much higher fields . however , the introduction of a photocathode transport system with load - lock into a clean srf gun environment without unwanted field emission remains a challenge .",
    "the implications of beam dynamics are very different for the two gun types as well .",
    "higher accelerating gradient is of advantage in srf guns for space charge dominated beams .",
    "dc guns , on the other hand , are free of time - dependant forces , which allows for small abberations , as well as longer bunches to reduce the effect of space charge forces .",
    "in this paper we present a comparison of the two gun types for the production of low emittance high average current beams from the point of beam dynamics and emittance performance . in simulations , each gun is followed by a short 1.3-ghz accelerating section ( existing cornell erl injector cryomodule ) that takes the beam energy to 10 - 12mev where the effect of space charge forces on beam emittance are considerably reduced .",
    "we use a genetic multiobjective algorithm @xcite , which proved to be a powerful tool in the accelerator design . additionally , we implemented flexible ( adjustable ) gun geometries for both dc and srf guns to allow for lowest emittance production . in each of the two gun types ,",
    "constraints are imposed in order to obtain a realistic assessment of their performance and its implications on beam brightness .",
    "additionally , we investigate the effects of the intrinsic photocathode emittance , the laser shape , and various emittance diluting mechanisms present in the system .    while both technologies will continue to be developed , this study presents a self - consistent comparison from the beam performance point of view .",
    "it is shown that either technology is capable of generating ultra - low emittance beams necessary for the next generation high current and brightness accelerators .",
    "the results indicate that successfully implemented srf guns should allow superior performance for photocathodes with high intrinsic emittance , whereas the two technologies are largely equivalent in emittance when very low thermal emittance photocathodes are utilized @xcite .    in what follows",
    ", we introduce our numerical method and explain the variable geometry of the guns as well as the photoinjector beamline used to compare the two technologies . following the presentation of the main results , we investigate various emittance limiting and degrading mechanisms in both dc and srf gun based photoinjectors .",
    "for the purpose of this study we explore average currents delivered out of each gun of up to 200ma , or 154pc / bunch at 1.3ghz beam repetition rate , with pulses of 0.9 mm rms bunch length ( 3ps ) at the end of the photoinjector for either gun choice .",
    "beam dynamics in photoinjectors at such charge and bunch duration is dominated by space charge phenomena , and experimentally benchmarked codes are essential to understand beam performance implications .",
    "there has been an effort in the accelerator community to benchmark the space charge codes and overall good agreement between beam measurements and simulations exist ( for example , see @xcite ) .",
    "we implemented genetic algorithm optimizer to use two different space charge codes : gpt ( 3d ) @xcite and astra ( 2d radially symmetric ) @xcite , which demonstrate excellent agreement between each other and the experimental measurements . due to the axial symmetry of all the beam elements in the studied photoinjector and in the interest of efficiency ,",
    "the results presented in this paper were obtained with astra .",
    "our previous work @xcite introduced a genetic multi - objective optimization for the photoinjector design .",
    "the main advantage of this method is that optimal fronts are obtained , which show the tradeoffs and dependencies in various parameters .",
    "this is to be contrasted with a single point conventional design approach ( e.g.  a single bunch charge ) .",
    "detailed space charge simulations are computationally expensive and as previously , a computer cluster is used in these studies .",
    "an important addition to the optimizer is its newly implemented ability to vary the fieldmaps of individual accelerator elements .",
    "pre - computed fieldmaps from a parameterized geometry of an element ( dc or srf gun in this case ) are combined in such a way as to allow the generation of new fieldmaps corresponding to new shapes .",
    "this process is controlled by the optimizer in minimizing the figures of merit .",
    "our optimization package is a set of codes that modularizes the optimization process .",
    "the optimization process has two main components : the selector and the variator @xcite .",
    "the algorithm begins with the selector forming a trial set of decision variable solutions that the variator then uses in either astra or gpt simulations of the beamline , the results of which are returned to the selector .",
    "then the selector chooses the `` fittest '' solutions from the set , based on several ( typically two ) criteria , known as  objectives \" .    , the cathode - anode gap @xmath2 , and the photocathode recess @xmath3 are the parameters varied by the optimizer .",
    "equipotential lines are shown .",
    "( b ) the effect of varying the angle @xmath4 ( from 0 to 45@xmath5 ) on the axial electric field for a fixed gap @xmath6 mm .",
    "( c ) the effect of varying the gap @xmath2 ( from 20 to 120 mm ) for a fixed @xmath7.[fig : dcgeom ] ]    to form a new trial set for the next generation of solutions , the selector applies two operators to the selected fittest solutions of the previous generation : ( 1 ) `` crossing '' , or `` mating '' , of two or more solutions ; and ( 2 ) slightly perturbing ( `` mutating '' ) each solution to form a new solution ( `` offspring '' ) .",
    "the process is then repeated with the newly formed set of offspring solutions and continues for a number of generations , effectively exploring the decision variable space for the best solutions . in the process , the selector also subjects the solutions to a set of constraints to ensure physically realistic scenarios .",
    "finally , the algorithm presents a set of optimal solutions as the optimal front . in our study , the objectives are minimum beam emittance and maximum bunch charge , constrained so that the current in the injector does not exceed 200ma , the final bunch duration to be less than 3ps rms , and that the fields in dc and srf guns remain below the physical maxima ( detailed below ) .",
    "we expect the minimum emittance solutions to be those with low bunch charge , and thus the inclusion of bunch charge as an objective effectively serves to scan the emittance over the entire range of bunch charges .",
    "the optimizer as a whole will seek to evaluate different solutions with various beam parameters , and more challengingly , solutions with different gun geometries .",
    "field maps for a requested gun geometry could be calculated during optimization ; however , we have found it more computationally efficient to calculate field maps for a discrete set of gun geometries prior to the optimization run .",
    "these field maps , calculated and post - processed with poisson - superfish @xcite , are tabulated based on a number of geometry parameters and figures of merit ( angles , electric field at the photocathode , peak fields , etc . ) .",
    "the optimizer selects from a continuous space of these geometry parameters , wherein the requested map and its figures of merit are interpolated on the multi - dimensional geometry parameter space .",
    "a powerful addition to the optimizer has been the inclusion of constraints that are any algebraic relationship of the above geometry parameters , figures of merit , or simulation outputs .",
    "for instance , this has enabled the implementation of the empirical voltage breakdown condition , which is a power law function relating the dc voltage , and dc gun cathode - anode separation .",
    "furthermore , this capability allows mid - optimization calculation of various functions that depend on both geometry and field map figures of merit .     and recess @xmath3 of the photocathode , the angle @xmath4 of the leftmost cavity wall , the gap @xmath2 between photocathode and exit pipe , and the exit pipe radius @xmath8 are varied , with the equatorial cavity radius left as the free parameter for frequency tuning . here",
    ", lines of constant azimuthal magnetic field are shown .",
    "( b ) the effect of varying the angle @xmath4 ( from 0 to 25@xmath5 ) on the axial electric field for fixed @xmath9 mm , @xmath10 cm , @xmath11 and @xmath12 .",
    "( c ) the effect of varying the gap @xmath2 ( from 15 to 105 mm ) for fixed @xmath13 , @xmath14 mm , @xmath15 mm , and @xmath10cm.[fig : srfgeom ] ]      the dc gun geometry parameters that are varied are the pierce electrode angle , the cathode anode gap , and the the photocathode recess , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dcgeom ] .",
    "the cathode recess has an effect of fine - tuning electrostatic focusing at the photocathode . at the end , however , recess was found to be a relatively unimportant parameter for the final injector performance .",
    "the gun voltage is also varied directly , being only limited by vacuum breakdown ( figs .",
    "[ fig : dcgeom]b and [ fig : dcgeom]c depict the highest allowable voltages ) .    in our optimizations ,",
    "the gap was allowed to vary from 2 - 12 cm , the angle between 0 - 45@xmath5 , and the recessed between 0 - 2 mm .",
    "there are a number of emittance tradeoffs when varying gun geometry .",
    "an increased angle provides greater focusing , beneficial to counteract space charge , but also decreases the field at the photocathode surface . decreasing",
    "the gap will strengthen the field at the photocathode surface , but will also increase the intrinsic effect of anode defocusing .",
    "the voltage and gap will be ultimately limited by the vacuum breakdown limit , to be discussed in section [ sec : breakdown ] .",
    "is defined as the shortest distance between the cathode and anode.[fig : slade ] ]      we use a one- ( or half- ) cell srf cavity design .",
    "while it might be beneficial to use multiple cells , our choice was motivated by both simplicity and input coupler considerations .",
    "the beam energy even after a one - cell srf gun can approach 2mev in our optimizations , requiring 400kw power coupled into 200ma beam ( the highest average current considered in this study ) .",
    "these power levels become problematic for input couplers at 1.3ghz and a larger number of cells has been ruled out .",
    "for the very same reason , the energy boosting cavities in the cornell erl injector cryomodule design have only 2-cell cavities at a more modest gradient , each equipped with twin input couplers capable of delivering @xmath16kw rf power into the beam .",
    "the 1.3ghz srf gun cavity geometry is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : srfgeom ] .",
    "the srf gun has 5 varied parameters : the photocathode radius @xmath17 , the angle of the leftmost cavity wall @xmath4 , and to a lesser extent the photocathode recess @xmath3 , will affect the initial focusing , whereas the gap @xmath2 and exit pipe radius @xmath8 will determine the extent of the cavity field into the exit pipe .",
    "the equatorial cavity radius is used as the parameter for frequency tuning , which is iteratively performed for each set of geometry parameters .",
    "we have allowed the following parameter ranges : @xmath4 is varied between 0 - 50@xmath5 , @xmath2 between 1.5 - 13.5 cm , @xmath3 from 0 - 2.5 mm , @xmath18 between 0 - 0.1mm@xmath19 , and @xmath8 from 0.8 - 3.9 cm .",
    "not all geometries within the scanned space can be tuned to 1.3ghz or are even possible ; however , the successfully generated geometries were seen to form a connected set , as expected . in fig .",
    "[ fig : srfgeom]b and  [ fig : srfgeom]c , the maximum surface electric and magnetic fields are constrained to be equal to the values found in tesla 9-cell cavity structure @xcite at @xmath2025mv / m .      it is essential to constrain maximum fields achievable in respective gun types for a meaningful comparison . for the case of the dc gun , a fundamental limitation is vacuum breakdown precipitated by field emission .",
    "in addition to the material choice , surface preparation as well as the area and the gap separating the electrodes play an important role . while ceramic puncture is the present limitation in raising gun voltage higher for many existing dc guns , technological solutions such as the use of segmented , shielded ceramic @xcite may entirely mitigate the puncture problem . in this case , the emphasis is shifted towards the fields in the beam region of the cathode - anode gap . while the field emission current scaling is well known via the fowler - nordheim relations , field emission sites , often caused by inclusions within the electrode material , are highly stochastic in concentration , and cross - talk mechanisms between the anode and the cathode ( e.g.  x - ray generation , electron - induced gas desorption , etc . )",
    "make the onset of the field emission notoriously difficult to predict .",
    "however , empirical data have been collected in @xcite concerning vacuum breakdown voltage as a function of gap , which is plotted for our region of interest in fig .",
    "[ fig : slade ] . in the figure",
    ", @xmath21 is the shortest distance between the cathode and the anode , approximately given by @xmath22 .",
    "the breakdown voltage is computed for each combination of the gun geometry parameters and if the gun voltage exceeds the breakdown voltage , that trial solution is invalidated .",
    "srf guns are also prone to field emission problems @xcite .",
    "one important challenge is an introduction of the photocathode ( via a load - lock ) into the ultra - clean srf cavity environment .",
    "a number of srf guns have displayed high levels of the field emission , which is especially significant when high quantum efficiency materials are present in the system .",
    "we use an optimistic criterion with fields being limited by the standard tesla cavity parameters at @xmath23mv / m , which will undoubtedly be more difficult to achieve in an srf photoemission gun .",
    "both peak electric field @xmath24 and magnetic field @xmath25 at the niobium surface is calculated for each gun geometry .",
    "the following requirements are imposed during simulations @xmath26 and @xmath27mt/(mv / m ) @xcite .",
    "we find that the majority of solutions within our parameter space were limited by the restriction on the surface electric field ( @xmath28mv / m ) .    ]",
    "both the srf and dc beamlines are modeled after the existing cornell erl injector , a schematic of which is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : l0inj ] .",
    "the dc beamline has no modifications to the cornell injector , which includes two emittance compensating solenoids with a normal conducting rf bunching cavity , followed by a 5-m long cryomodule with five 2-cell 1.3 ghz srf cavities , and then a drift section until the emittance measurement system at @xmath29 m from the photocathode .",
    "the buncher cavity is operated at zero - crossing and is used to compress the electron bunches .",
    "this works very well due to the low energy out of the dc gun requiring only modest buncher fields .",
    "however , in the case of the srf gun , owing to the higher gun energy , the buncher is of limited utility .",
    "thus , it was completely eliminated , and the beamline for the srf gun based photoinjector has only one solenoid between the srf gun and the energy boosting cryomodule .",
    "we have chosen a distance of 40 cm between the solenoid center and the gun photocathode to allow for sufficient magnetic field attenuation at the niobium structure .",
    "refer to fig .",
    "[ fig : fieldmaps ] for an example of axial fields for both photoinjector types .",
    "each magnet current , cavity phase , and amplitude are varied by the optimizer .",
    "all the beamline elements can adopt a range of values that have been demonstrated in the cornell erl photoinjector ( e.g.  the maximum electric field on axis in srf 2-cell cavities stays below 30mv / m , while the rf buncher does not exceed @xmath30mv / m ) .    ]",
    "photocathode properties play an important in production of high brightness electron beams .",
    "the mean transverse energy ( mte ) associated with photoemitted electrons along with the cathode electric field set a limit to the highest beam brightness available from a photoinjector @xcite . in terms of the laser rms spot size @xmath31 , the intrinsic emittance ( rms normalized ) from the photocathode is given by @xmath32 where @xmath33 is the electron rest energy .",
    "additionally , photoemission response time impacts the effective use of laser shaping .",
    "several photocathode materials hold immediate promise .",
    "@xmath34 has good quantum efficiency at a convenient laser wavelength ( green ) and additionally demonstrates good longevity for high average current applications .",
    "its exact value for mte is still under investigation .",
    "gaas features very low @xmath35ev at 520 nm and a prompt @xcite response ( @xmath36ps ) . in this study",
    "we use 3 values for mte : 0.5ev , 0.12ev , and 0.025ev @xcite .    to achieve very small emittances",
    "it is essential to control space charge forces via laser shaping . for a dc beam ,",
    "a transverse flat - top distribution is ideal as it generates linear space charge forces that do not increase beam emittance . for beams in free space",
    ", a uniform density 3d ellipsoid gives a linear force in any direction .",
    "the conducting boundary condition at the photocathode surface changes this idealized picture . additionally , the space charge forces can couple transverse and longitudinal motion .",
    "we have included several parameters to optimize the temporal profile of the laser pulse by allowing a wide range of pulse templates to explore effective laser shapes from the electron beam dynamics point of view .",
    "these pulse templates are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : shapes ] .",
    "we have allowed the laser pulse duration to vary between 0 and 30ps .",
    "the longer bunch lengths near the gun allow for reduced density of space charge , and thus it is expected that the optimizer will push for long pulses , up to the limits set by rf - focusing induced emittance growth .",
    "this is in fact the situation we observe in the dc gun case , whereas the srf gun case never exceeded laser pulse duration of 10ps rms .",
    "the final bunch duration in all cases is constrained to be less than 3ps rms , primarily driven by the considerations of limiting induced energy spread from long bunches in the main linac of erl @xcite .    ]",
    ".[tab : optim]main injector parameters after optimization . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     geometric aberration are evaluated assuming an elliptical transverse distribution [ or uniform in the square brackets ] . where two different values are given in table  [ tab : aber ] , the values in parenthesis were obtained with a rigid beam approximation .",
    "it is seen that nontrivial cancelation of correlated emittance growth contributions takes place in both injector types , especially the dc gun based variant .",
    "precision control of the 3d laser shaping and beam optics is required to achieve such a high degree of cancelation .",
    "we have demonstrated a new optimization method , wherein a genetic algorithm is used to dynamically adjust the gun geometry to achieve the lowest beam emittance . a comparison of two technologies , dc and srf guns , for production of high average current low emittance beams has been performed .",
    "undoubtedly both approaches will be pursued by the accelerator community in the coming decade . while each approach has",
    "its pros and cons , our optimizations show that either is capable of producing similar quality beams .",
    "the analysis performed also emphasizes the importance of low mean transverse energy photocathodes .",
    "this work is supported by nsf dmr-0807731 grant . andrew rzeznik implemented the rf cavity autophasing routine in gpt , and tsukasa miyajima implemented laser shaping routines .",
    "sergey belomestnykh and bruce dunham are acknowledged for reading and commenting on early versions of the manuscript . chess computer group support of the computer cluster is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "r.  akre , d.  dowell , p.  emma , j.  frisch , s.  gilevich , g.  hays , p.  hering , r.  iverson , c.  limborg - deprey , h.  loos , a.  miahnahri , j.  schmerge , j.  turner , j.  welch , w.  white , j.  wu , commissioning the linac coherent light source injector , phys . rev .",
    "beams 11  ( 3 ) ( 2008 ) 030703 .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/physrevstab.11.030703 [ ] .",
    "n.  nishimori , i.  bazarov , b.  dunham , j.  grames , c.  hernandez - garcia , l.  jones , b.  militsyn , m.  poelker , k.  surles - law , m.  yamamoto , dc gun technological challenges , in : proceedings of erl09 , ithaca , new york , usa , 2001 , pp .",
    "623 .",
    "s.  karkare , i.  bazarov , http://link.aip.org/link/?apl/98/094104/1[effect of nanoscale surface roughness on transverse energy spread from gaas photocathodes ] , applied physics letters 98  ( 9 ) ( 2011 ) 094104 .",
    "i.  bazarov , b.  dunham , c.  gulliford , y.  li , x.  liu , c.  sinclair , k.  soong , benchmarking of 3d space charge codes using direct phase space measurements from photoemission high voltage dc gun , phys . rev .",
    "st ab 11 ( 2008 ) 100703 .",
    "s.  bleuler , m.  laumanns , l.  thiele , e.  zitzler , pisa  a platform and programming language independent interface for search algorithms , in : c.  m. fonseca , et  al .",
    "( eds . ) , conference on evolutionary multi - criterion optimization ( emo  2003 ) , vol .",
    "2632 of lncs , springer , berlin , 2003 , pp .",
    "494508 .",
    "r.  nagai , r.  hajima , n.  nishimori , t.  muto , m.  yamamoto , y.  honda , t.  miyajima , h.  iijima , m.  kuriki , m.  kuwahara , s.  okumi , t.  nakanishi , http://link.aip.org/link/?rsi/81/033304/1[high-voltage testing of a 500-kv dc photocathode electron gun ] , review of scientific instruments 81  ( 3 ) ( 2010 ) 033304 .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.3354980 [ ] .",
    "i.  v. bazarov , b.  m. dunham , y.  l. li , x.  h. liu , d.  g. ouzounov , c.  k. sinclair , f.  hannon , t.  miyajima , thermal emittance and response time measurements of negative electron affinity photocathodes , journal of applied physics 103  ( 5 ) .",
    "i.  v. bazarov , d.  g. ouzounov , b.  m. dunham , s.  a. belomestnykh , y.  l. li , x.  h. liu , r.  e. meller , j.  sikora , c.  k. sinclair , efficient temporal shaping of electron distribution for high - brightness photoemission electron guns , phys . rev .",
    "st ab 11  ( 4 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a comparison of the two most prominent electron sources of high average current high brightness electron beams , dc and superconducting rf photoemission guns , is carried out using a large - scale multivariate genetic optimizer interfaced with space charge simulation codes . </S>",
    "<S> the gun geometry for each case is varied concurrently with laser pulse shape and parameters of the downstream beamline elements of the photoinjector to obtain minimum emittance as a function of bunch charge . </S>",
    "<S> realistic constraints are imposed on maximum field values for the two gun types . </S>",
    "<S> the srf and dc gun emittances and beam envelopes are compared for various values of photocathode thermal emittance . </S>",
    "<S> the performance of the two systems is found to be largely comparable provided low intrinsic emittance photocathodes can be employed .    </S>",
    "<S> electron source , photoinjector , photoemission gun , low emittance , energy recovery linac </S>"
  ]
}