{
  "article_text": [
    "since the birth of x - ray astronomy , sensitivity / capability of timing , spectral , and spatial observations of the x - ray sources have improved by several orders of magnitude and has provided us with a wealth of information regarding the x - ray sky .",
    "x - ray polarimetry however , continues to remain a fairly unexplored domain with only one definitive polarisation measurement available made with oso 8 in @xmath0 @xcite of the crab nebula ( @xmath1 1.0 per cent ) thus proving the synchrotron nature of the radiation .",
    "it also provided upper limits of - @xmath2 and @xmath3 per cent for the pulse phase averaged degree of polarisation in two x - ray accretion powered pulsars cen x-3 & her x-1 respectively @xcite .",
    "although radio and optical astronomers extensively use polarimetry to probe into the radiation mechanism and geometry of sources , x - ray astronomy is still behind them in this regard which would provide some crucial information regarding the radiation mechanism , source geometry , inclination and magnetic fields .",
    "sensitive x - ray polarimetry could also be used as a probe for fundamental physics since it gives information on matter under extreme gravitation or magnetic fields .",
    "it could also solve degeneracy between different theoretical models which can not be solved by timing and spectroscopy studies alone .",
    "various emission mechanisms like synchrotron , non - thermal bremsstrahlung etc",
    ". give rise to high degree of polarisation .",
    "other emission processes for polarisation could be scattering of initially unpolarised radiation in asymmetric plasmas or disks .",
    "vacuum birefringence through extreme magnetic fields or the phenomenon of compton dragging can also give rise to polarisation .",
    "the potential sources of x - ray polarisation are accretion and rotation powered pulsars , thermal or reflected emission from the accretion disk .",
    "cosmic acceleration sites such as supernovae remnants and jets in active galactic nuclei or microquasars are also sources of polarisation . in recent times",
    "there has been significant development in x - ray polarisation measurement techniques @xcite .",
    "various x - polarimetry missions are under development . out of them",
    "the most significant one is the approved _ gems _ mission @xcite which is based on photoelectron polarimeter technique .",
    "recently a proposal has been submitted to the indian space research organization ( isro ) for a dedicated small satellite experiment for measuring x - ray polarisation in the @xmath4 range .",
    "this will be based on the principle of polarisation measurement by anisotropic t2homson scattering of x - rays and will be sensitive to the bright x - ray sources .",
    "a laboratory unit has been built for the same @xcite .",
    "here we calculate the minimum detectable polarisation ( mdp ) that we would get with the x - ray polarimeter experiment for the thermal emission from the accretion disk for some of the galactic black hole sources during their thermal dominated spectral states . apart from the mdp , the error in measurement of the angle of polarisation for particular detection significance limits is also calculated .",
    "this analysis is of importance due to the following reasons :    1 .",
    "sources with strong x - ray polarisation like accretion powered pulsars or reflection dominated emission from the accretion disk , are expected to have a fairly high degree of polarisation and are sources of hard x - rays which are most suited for observation by the thomson x - ray polarimeter .",
    "galactic black hole binaries however , have a soft spectra in their thermally dominated state and typically peak at @xmath5 .",
    "there is also expected to be very little flux above @xmath6 .",
    "the radiation itself is also not polarised to a high degree except in the innermost parts of the accretion disk in some cases .",
    "this makes its detection by the thomson polarimeter difficult .",
    "black hole binaries have different spectral states and display state transitions in which either the thermal or the non thermal component dominates the x - ray flux .",
    "they are also mostly transient sources which go into outburst once in a while during which they make their transition to the thermally dominated soft state .",
    "therefore , detection of polarisation from the black hole binaries in their thermal state would also be constrained by the condition of one of the sources going into outburst / state transition during the lifetime of the mission .",
    "a thomson scattering x - ray polarimeter has been developed and a small satellite mission with a similar payload is under consideration by isro .",
    "it is based on the principle of anisotropic thomson scattering of x - ray photons working in the @xmath7 ( with lithium scatterer ) and @xmath8 ( with beryllium scatterer ) .",
    "it has a sensitivity of @xmath9 per cent mdp in a @xmath10 mcrab source for an exposure of one million seconds @xcite",
    ". the proposed experiment will be useful in measuring the degree and direction of x - ray polarisation of a few ( @xmath11 ) bright cosmic x - ray sources including accretion powered binary x - ray pulsars , galactic black hole candidates , rotation powered pulsars and magnetars , snrs and active galactic nuclei .",
    "though the most sensitive polarisation measurement devices are based on photoelectron track imaging , they require to be coupled with high throughput x - ray mirrors due to a small detector size .",
    "they also cover a softer energy range .",
    "the proposed scattering experiment is based on the well established technique of x - ray polarisation measurement using thomson scattering which has moderate sensitivity over a relatively large bandwidth suited in the energy band of our interest .",
    "the experiment configuration consists of a central low z ( lithium , lithium hydride or beryllium ) scatterer surrounded by xenon filled x - ray proportional counters as x - ray detectors which collects the scattered x - ray photons .",
    "the instrument is rotated along the viewing axis leading to the measurement of the the azimuthal distribution of the scattered x - ray photons which gives information on polarisation .",
    "the sensitivity of this experiment is dependent on a ) collecting area b ) scattering and detection efficiency c ) detector background and d ) modulation factor of the instrument .",
    "the experiment is based on the principle that the differential thomson scattering cross section for polarised radiation has an azimuthal dependence .",
    "the expression for differential cross section is given by @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the angle between the direction of the incident and scattered photon , @xmath14 is the angle between the scattering plane defined by the direction and the electric field vector of the incident photon , @xmath15 is the classical electron radius .",
    "the resultant azimuthal distribution follows the integral of the differential cross section and is given by @xmath16 a and b are constants and @xmath14 is the azimuthal coordinate and p the angle of polarisation of the incident radiation .",
    "+ the modulation factor @xmath17 for the pattern is expressed as @xmath18 the degree of polarisation for the incident beam is defined as @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the observed modulation factor and @xmath21 is the modulation factor of the instrument in the absence of background for a @xmath22 per cent polarised radiation + minimum detectable polarisation ( mdp ) of the measurement for 99 per cent confidence level is given as @xcite - @xmath23 where s is the total source counts in the units of counts / sec given as @xmath24 ; @xmath25 being the rate of incident photons per unit area , @xmath26 is the overall detection efficiency and @xmath27 the collecting area .",
    "b is the total background counts in the same unit given as @xmath28 ; @xmath29 being the total rate of background photons per unit area , @xmath30 being the total detector area . ,",
    "t the integration time .",
    "( following m. weisskopf et al .",
    "2010 ) , for a required detection significance of @xmath31 ( @xmath32 percent confidence level ) & @xmath33 ( @xmath34 per cent confidence level ) the mdp is calculated to be - @xmath35 & @xmath36 so for a given observation of particular s and b the parameters t determines the mdp at @xmath37 level .",
    "+ this is the expression for the mdp that we get for one day of observations for t secs integration time . to improve our polarisation detectability",
    "we should intergrate it for more number of days .",
    "so the net mdp obtained for n days of observation each of t secs for a @xmath38 detection significance is given by @xmath39 where @xmath40 and @xmath41 are the net source and background counts obtained by integration over n days given by @xmath42",
    "one of the earliest work on the expected polarisation properties of thermal emission from the accretion disk was done by @xcite .",
    "it predicted linear polarisation with the electric field vector lying in the plane of the disk due to electron scattering in its plane parallel atmosphere .",
    "this was predicted according to @xcite calculations for plane scattering atmosphere where polarisation degree depends on the angle of inclination of the system , the maximum value being @xmath43 per cent for edge on systems .",
    "@xcite showed that the polarisation of the disk photons depend on the optical thickness of the disk .",
    "@xcite computed x - ray polarisation features from the standard accretion disk using general relativistic treatment which predicted energy dependent rotation in the plane of polarisation in the inner parts of the accretion disk closer to the black hole .",
    "@xcite extended this work by including the effect of optical depth and scattering atmosphere on the expected polarisation signal .",
    "@xcite showed the use of polarisation information obtained of the thermal emission from the accretion disk to infer the inclination of the inner region of the disk .",
    "@xcite computed x - ray polarisation from accreting black holes in their thermally dominated state using a monte carlo ray tracing code in general relativity . for direct radiation from the disk",
    "it reproduces chandrasekhar s results for the outer part of the disk .",
    "there is a decrease in the degree of polarisation and energy dependent rotation in the plane of polarisation in the innermost regions due to general relativistic effects .",
    "however , for the returning radiation there would be a rotation in the plane of polarisation by ninety degrees at a transition radius , and an enhancement in polarisation which can provide a good estimate of the black hole spin and also map the temperature of the inner accretion disk and its emissivity profile .",
    "we have calculated the expected mdp from five galactic black hole candidates during their transition to the soft spectral state in the three energy bands of @xmath44 , @xmath45 , and @xmath46 .",
    "mdp was computed during the days when the blackbody temperature was highest ( hence the source most thermally dominated ) during the outbursts / state transitions of the sources .",
    "equation @xmath47 and @xmath48 is used to calculate the mdp and @xmath49 in the case of a @xmath50 statistical detection .",
    "the @xmath49 value is also calculated for a @xmath51 statistical detection given by equation @xmath52 only in the @xmath53 range , since it may not be detected for a @xmath50 detection in all cases in this band.the values of the parameters used for the calculation are as follows : -@xmath54 ; modulation factor for @xmath22 per cent polarisation for our experiment @xmath55 ; integration time t @xmath56 secs ( assuming a duty cycle of @xmath57 per cent in a low altitude near equatorial orbit ) .",
    "the source counts s and background counts b are obtained from spectral fitting of the rossi x - ray timing explorer _",
    "rxte_/pca @xcite spectra in the @xmath58 range during the specified period of the outburst / state transition of the source .",
    "the proportional counter array ( pca ) has five xenon filled proportional counter detectors , sensitive in the range of @xmath59 , and has an effective area of @xmath60 at @xmath61 .",
    "rxte_/pca spectral data was fitted using xspec to a model consisting of interstellar absorption @xcite plus a multicolor blackbody accretion disk @xcite and a power - law component .",
    "in addition , an iron line and a fe absorption edge was applied to some data sets .",
    "a systematic error of 0.5 per cent was also added in quadrature with the error . for the source counts @xmath62",
    ", @xmath25 is obtained from the blackbody count rate obtained by the spectral fitting of the data .",
    "@xmath63 ( collecting area for our experiment ) . following @xcite ,",
    "the energy dependent efficiency @xmath26 is calculated for both lithium and beryllium scatterer assuming a disc shaped scattering element with an optical depth of unity for thomson scattering .",
    "the values obtained in the three energy bands of interest for both the materials of the scatterer are tabulated in table @xmath64 .",
    ".energy dependent efficiency for li & be scatterer [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "since polarisation from accreting black holes in their thermally dominated state is also expected to have a rotation in the net angle of polarisation in the inner parts of the accretion disk as discussed previously , determination of the error or uncertainty in the angle of polarisation measurement is also necessary to specify how well one would be able to constrain the angle of polarisation measurement for a specified @xmath37 statistical detection . to determine the error in the angle of polarisation measurement we generated a modulated signal riding on a background superimposed with random errors as would be expected to obtain from the actual measurement of a polarised signal with the thomson polarimeter . adjusting the amplitude and background to fix the signal at specified @xmath37 levels of detection we determined the broadening in the phase ( angle of polarisation ) measurement the @xmath65 uncertainty in the polarisation angle measurement at each @xmath66 level .",
    "similar results have been found by m. weisskopf et al .",
    "figure @xmath67 shows the @xmath65 deviation in phase versus the number of sigma @xmath68 detection .",
    "we have shown that provided some of the sources go into similar outburst / state transition during the lifetime of the mission , detection of polarisation in the disc emission would be possible with the thomson polarimeter .",
    "this can be done by performing spectro polarimetric observations in different energy bands to map the energy dependent polarisation for these sources in their disc emission dominated state .",
    "+ x - ray emission from the disk in accreting black holes are polarised due to electron scattering from the plane parallel atmosphere of the disk with the polarisation vector lying in the plane of the disk .",
    "however , relativistic effects like beaming and gravitational lensing gives a non - trivial rotation to the integrated net polarisation vector resulting in energy dependent rotation in the plane of polarisation .",
    "recent monte carlo ray tracing simulations @xcite predict a decrease in the degree of polarisation along with its rotation in the inner parts of the accretion disk for direct radiation , and a net rotation of ninety degrees in the plane of polarisation in the same region considering returning radiation .",
    "they have also simulated the results that would be expected with the polarisation measurement taken by the _ gems _ mission polarimeter which is a photoelectron polarimeter working in the @xmath69 range . here",
    "we produce the results that we would expect to get with the thomson polarimeter .",
    "the results could also be complimented with the _ gems _ enabling extensive wideband spectro polarimetric studies .",
    "the main conclusions of this paper are :    1 .",
    "the net mdp obtained for these sources in the three energy bands of @xmath70 , @xmath71 & @xmath72 is in most cases less than the degree of polarisation expected from accreting black holes in their thermal state from the simulations of @xcite , the degree and the net rotation in the integrated polarisation vector being a strong function of the black hole spin .",
    "a comparison of the net mdp presented in table 2 for three different energy bands with the predicted degree of polarisation ( @xcite , figures 7 & 8) shows that for sources with favourable inclination angle ( _ _ i__@xmath7375 degrees ) spectro - polarimetric measurements will be possible with the proposed thomson x - ray polarimeter and these measurements will also be useful to constrain the spin parameter of the black hole . in some cases however , where the spectrum is almost entirely powerlaw dominated in the @xmath53 band , the mdp obtained is above the the degree of polarisation expected to be detected from such sources in case of a @xmath74 statistical detection .",
    "a lower significance detection however , may be possible in such cases as a @xmath75 detection gives a lower achievable value of mdp .",
    "the calculated error in the angle of polarisation obtained for a @xmath75 statistical detection onwards is also within reasonable limits .",
    "hence spectro polarimetric observation of such sources for a few weeks during their thermally dominated spectral state would possibly enable us to map the transition radius from horizontal to vertical polarisation .",
    "this could provide us with some estimates on the parameters of the black holes like their spin and/or the emissivity profile .",
    "2 .   observation of polarisation in the @xmath70 energy range necessitates the use of lithium as the scattering element which would set the dynamic range of the experiment to @xmath76 .",
    "use of beryllium however limits the lower energy energy threshold to @xmath48 thus making observation in the @xmath70 band having the lowest mdp impossible .",
    "this study thus strongly supports the use of lithium as the scattering element for the thomson polarimeter .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained through the high energy astrophysics science archive research center on line service , provided by nasa / goddard space flight center .",
    "bellazini r. , angelini f. baldini l.bitti et al .",
    "2006 , nimpa , 560 , 425b belloni t. , homan j. , casella p.",
    "2005 , a&a , 440 , 207b belloni t. , nespoli e. , homan j. et al .",
    "2003 , in new views on microquasars , the fourth microquasars workshop , ed .",
    "durouchoux , y. fuchs , j. rodriguez .",
    "( center for space physics : kolkata ( india ) ) , 83 bowyer s. , byram e. t. , chubb t. a. et al .",
    "1965 , science , 147 , 394 chandrasekhar s. 1960 , radiative transfer , ( dover , new york ) connors , p. a. piran , t. , stark r.f .",
    "1980b , apj , 235 , 224 corbel s. , tomsic j. a. , kaaret p. 2006 ,",
    "apj , 636 , 971c      costa e. , soffitta p. , bellazini r. et al .",
    "2001 , natur , 411 , 662 cowsik r. , paul b. , duraichelvan r. , rishin p.v .",
    "2010 , in `` x - ray polarimetry : a new window in astrophysics '' , ed .",
    "r. bellazzini , e. costa , g. matt , and g. tagliaferri , cambridge university press , p345 cui w. , 1996 , iau circ . , 6404 , 1 cui w. , focke w. , swank j. 1996 , iau circ .",
    ", 6439 , 1 davanzo p. , goldoni p. , covino s. 2006 , atel , 724 , 1d dovciak m. , muleri , f. , goodmann r. w. , karas v. , matt g. , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 32 fender r. , corbel s. , tzioumis t. et al .",
    "2002 , atel , 107 , 1f gies d. r. , bolton c. t. 1986 , apj , 304 , 371 g harmon b. a. , mccollough m. l. , zhang s. n. , paciesas w. s. , wilson c. a 1995 , iau circ . ,",
    "6196 , 1 herrero a. , kudritzki r. p. , gabler r. et al .",
    "1995 , a&a , 297 , 556h hynes r. i. , steeghs d. , casares j. et al .",
    "2003 , bulletin of the american astronomical society , 35 , 615 jahoda k. , swank j. h. , giles a. b. et al .",
    "1996 in proc .",
    "spie , 2808 , 59j kalemci e. , tomsick j. a. , rothschild r. e. 2006 , apj , 639 , 340k kaluzienski l. j. , holt s. s. , swank j. h. , boldt e. a. , serlemitsos p. j. 1977 , bulletin of the american astronomical society , 9 , 592k li , l .- x . , narayan , r. , mcclintock , j.e.,2008 , apj , 691 , 847 long k.s . ,",
    "chanan g.a . , novick r. , 1980 , apj , 238 , 710 makishima k. , maejima y. , mitsuda k. et al .",
    "1986 , apj 308 , 635 m markert t. h. , clark g. w. , lewin w. h. g. , schnopper h. w. , sprott g. f. 1973a , iau circ .",
    "2483 markert t. h. , canizares c. r. , clark g. w. , et al . 1973b , apj , 184 , l67 markwardt c. b. , swank j. h. 2003 , atel , 133 markwardt c. b. , swank j. h. 2005 , atel , 414 , 1 m miller j. m. , homan j. , steeghs d. , torres m. a. p. , wijnands , r. 2006c , atel , 743 mitsuda k. , et al .",
    "1984 , pasj , 36 , 741 morrison r. , mccammon d. 1983 , apj , 270 , 119 orosz j. a. , bailyn c. d. 1997 , apj , 482 , 1086o rees m. j. 1975 , nyasa , 171 , 457r remillard r. , levine a. m. , morgan e. h. , markwardt c. b. , swank j. h. 2006 , atel , 714 , 1r revnivtsev m. , chernyakova m. , capitanio f. 2003 , atel , 132 , 1r rishin p.v .",
    ", paul b. , duraichelvan r , james m. , devasia j. 2009 , in `` x - ray polarimetry- a new window in astrophysics '' , ed .",
    "r. bellazzini , e. costa , g. matt and g. tagliaferri , cambridge university press , p83 rupen m. p. , dhawan v. , mioduszewski a. j. 2006 , 721 , 1r schnittman j. d. , krolik j. h. 2009 , apj , 701 , 1175s schnittman j. d. , krolik j. h. 2010 , apj , 712 , 908 silver e. h. , weisskopf m. c. , kestenbaum h. l. et al . 1979 , apj , 232 , 248s sunyaev r. a. , titarchuk l.g .",
    "1985 , a&a , 143 , 374 swank j. , kallman t. , jahoda k. 2008 , in 37th cospar scientific assembly , 3102 torres m. a. p. , steeghs d. , jonker p.",
    "g. 2006a , atel , 733 torres m. a. p. , steeghs d. , mcclintock j. 2006 , atel , 749 , 1 t weisskopf m. c. , cohen g. g. , kestenbaum k. s. et al .",
    "1976 , apj , 208 , l125 weisskopf m.c .",
    ", elsner r. f. odell s. l. , 2010 , preprint(astro - ph/1006.3711v2 ) white n. e. , marshall f.e .",
    "1984 , apj , 281 , 354 zhang s. n. , cui w , harmon b. a. , paciesas w. s. 1997 , the fourth compton symposium , aip conference proceedings , 410 , 839z zhang w. , giles a. b. , jahoda k. , swank j. h. , morgan e. h. 1993 , in proc .",
    "spie , 2006 , 324"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> x - ray polarisation measurement is a unique tool which may provide crucial information regarding the emission mechanism and the geometry of various astrophysical sources , like neutron stars , accreting black holes , pulsar wind nebulae , agns , supernova remnants etc . and can help us to probe matter under extreme magnetic fields and extreme gravitational fields . </S>",
    "<S> although the three other domains of x - ray astronomy timing , spectral and imaging are well developed , there has been very little progress in x - ray polarimetry with only one definitive polarisation measurement and a few upper limits available so far . </S>",
    "<S> radiation from accreting black holes in their thermal dominated ( high soft ) state is expected to be polarised due to scattering in the plane parallel atmosphere of the disk . also , special and general relativistic effects in the innermost parts of the disk predicts energy dependent rotation in the plane of polarisation and some distinct signatures which can be used as a probe for measuring the parameters of the black hole like its spin , emissivity profile and the angle of inclination of the system . </S>",
    "<S> we present the results from an analysis of expected minimum detectable polarisation from some of the galactic black hole binaries gro j1655 - 40 , gx339 - 4 , h1743 - 322 , cyg x-1 and xte j1817 - 330 in their thermal dominated state with a proposed thomson x - ray polarimeter . </S>",
    "<S> a proposal for a scattering polarimeter has been submitted to the indian space research organization ( isro ) for a dedicated small satellite mission and a laboratory unit has been built . </S>",
    "<S> along with the measurement of the degree of polarisation , the polarisation angle measurement is also important , hence the error in the polarisation angle measurement for a range of detection significance is also obtained .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    instrumentation : polarimeters instrumentation : detectors x - rays : binaries accretion , accretion disks </S>"
  ]
}