{
  "article_text": [
    "jets of the x - ray binary star ss433 , the prototype of microquasars , are best studied .",
    "the kinematic model ( e.g. , @xcite ) was developed mainly on the base of data on the optical jets ( extended to distances of @xmath0 cm ) , and assumes the independent of each other blobs in the ss433 precessing jets move at a constant velocity ( rectilineally and uniformly ) .",
    "this model is a basement for any physical model of the jets .",
    "however , observations evidence about deviation of the radio jets from the kinematic model by more than 10 percents ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) , in particular about regular shift in the precession phase ( @xcite )  evidently that the optical and radio jets are some decoupled in kinematics .",
    "moreover , the published kinematic modelings of morphology of the radio jets at distances from source of @xmath1@xmath2 cm ( e.g. , @xcite ) might be accommodated to a jet velocity and a distance to the object essentially varied simultaneously around those of the canonical kinematic model @xmath3 and @xmath4  kpc , respectively , where @xmath5 is the speed of light .",
    "powerful wind from supercritical accretion disk in ss433 outflows at a rate of @xmath6  m / yr with the velocity @xmath7  km / s . in the model of (",
    "* ( 2006 ) ) this wind is able even to transmit the precession and nutation rotations of the disk to the jets near by the source . therefore the jets may decelerate while a movement through this wind .    the polarization observations of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ( 2008 ) ) reveal that the jets magnetic field is aligned with the spiral of the precessing jets , and not with the jet velocity vector ( also see @xcite ) , and the apparent at 15 ghz leading edge of the jets is the most bright and sharp .",
    "this suggests a significant interaction of the jets with a surrounding medium , influencing on morphology of the jets .",
    "in particular , this interaction might affect jets dynamics .",
    "the sketch of precessing jet ploughing through ambient medium is shown in fig .  1 . our model of the dynamical interaction of precessing jets with ambient medium supposes",
    "the followings : the surrounding matter at rest as @xmath8 ; the jet as a rather continuous flow , whose local velocity vector is somehow inclined to the jet precession spiral ; in the jet co - moving reference frame the surrounding gas impinges the jet front surface , not penetrating into , with the resulting ram pressure @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the density of the surrounding gas , @xmath11 is the component of the jet velocity normal to the surface , @xmath12 and @xmath13 are the precession frequency and the opening half - angle of the precession cone , respectively , @xmath14 is the jet flight time .    as the jets propagate through the slow wind the shock waves develop at the jets surface , providing energetics of synchrotron radiation of the jets .",
    "the minimum pressure in the jets  the lower limit of the jets internal pressure @xmath15  can be evaluated from brightness of the radiation in an approximation of energy equipartition between relativistic particles and magnetic field , as @xmath16 , where the dependency on the index @xmath17 and frequency range of the synchrotron spectrum is involved in the coefficient @xmath18 , @xmath19 is the radio luminosity in this range of an optically thin jet region of the volume @xmath20 , @xmath21 is the filling factor of the region , @xmath22 is the ratio of the total particle energy density to the electron energy density , @xmath23 is the strength of the equipartited magnetic field ( @xcite ) .",
    "the profiles of intrinsic brightness ( in a jet co - moving reference frame ) of the jets in ss433 at 4.86  ghz and derived from it magnitude of the equipartited magnetic field in the jets are shown in fig .  2 as functions of the jet flight time .",
    "the brightness is adopted from the fit of ( * ? ? ? * ( 2010 ) ) over 60  150 days of jet age , as @xmath24  mjy / beam , where the jet age @xmath14 is in units of days .",
    "the dependency @xmath25 is extrapolated beyond the definition region .",
    "this simplification is justified by the posteriority that most of jet deceleration takes place in this region ( see below ) .",
    "the magnetic field is derived for @xmath26 ( for @xmath27 ) , @xmath28 and @xmath29 .    above mentioned data",
    "suggests the front side of the jets undergoes an essential ram pressure of the impinging gas , therefore the internal jet pressure should approximately equal the dynamical pressure at the jet surface : @xmath30 .",
    "so , the model allows to evaluate the dynamical pressure on the jets , which the surrounding matter renders , from minimum energy of the relativistic particles and the magnetic field in the jets . to find space disposal of the jets , i.e. the overall jets kinematics , the kinematics of each enough small segment of the jets was calculated , taking into account an action of the dynamical pressure on jets movement . in this procedure the segments",
    "were supposed independent of each other .",
    "initial conditions of the kinematic task were determined by the canonical kinematic model of the jets with the parameters collected in ( * ? ? ? * ( 2010 ) ) .",
    "\\1 . estimation of the ram pressure on the jets , from brightness of the jets synchrotron radiation , shows that density of the wind falls as @xmath31 in the region of most of jet deceleration @xmath32  days ( see below ) and is approximately two order less than could be expected in the case of the isotropical wind from supercritical accretion disk in ss433 with an outflow rate of @xmath33  m@xmath34/yr .",
    "deviations from the kinematics of a free ballistic movement prescribed by the canonical kinematic model , across and along the jets , are calculated with described above dynamical model .",
    "they are shown in fig .  3 as functions of the flight time , for the ram pressure corresponding to the magnetic field in fig .  2 .",
    "these deviations can also be viewed in fig .  4 as a difference between the tracks of the canonical kinematic model and the dynamical model .",
    "the tracks are overlaid on the image of the jets , taken from ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ( 2004 ) ) .",
    "the dynamical model for a filling factor of a synchrotron radiation region of @xmath35 is in compliance with the observed deviations magnitude , @xmath36 : the deviations developed in the precessing jets flowing through the medium can be as much as several 100 mas at the jet length of @xmath37 .",
    "it seems from fig .",
    "4 the brightness ridge of the jets lies somewhere between models for @xmath29 and @xmath38 .",
    "there is also shown in fig .",
    "3 the distribution along the jets of dissipation rate of the kinetic energy of the jets of ss433 . most of the dissipation , and of the jets deceleration , takes place in the region 30260 flight days , and the integrated dissipation rate achieves 10% of the jets kinetic luminosity in the first 130 days .",
    "it should be noted , the energy lost by jets does not go into the jets radiation : the radio luminosity is approximately @xmath33 times the kinetic luminosity , of the same order is x - ray luminosity of the jets extended to the bounds of w50 ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , this contradiction does not restrict the dynamical model because the dissipated energy could be redirected into mechanical energy of the surrounding medium . indeed , observations evidence that most of the power of the jets is not radiated and is somehow transfered into mechanical energy of w50 and the surrounding interstellar matter ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "none models in fig .  4 fit acceptably good the jets ridge .",
    "nevertheless , as we have shown the deceleration and azimuthal bending ( around the precession axis ) of the jets of ss433 are enough big and should be accounted in interpretation of the observations , which evidence as we know about an essential deviation of the radio jets from the kinematic model . in particular",
    "this might affect the kinematic distance to ss433",
    ". in its estimation one usually assumes that velocity of the radio jets equals the value derived for the optical jets , i.e. for the jets region close to the source , that could be rather crude approximation ( however , see another approach of @xcite ) . by different estimations",
    "the distance to ss433 is in the range 35.5  kpc .",
    "its improving by the kinematic method is an important task .",
    "the studying of the jets deceleration needs observations of jets regions as far from the source as possible , where the dynamical jets - wind interaction develops most strongly in jets morphology . besides",
    ", it would be more appropriate to fit the kinematic model track to the overall jet morphology , and not to the bright ridge , because the latter could lie not along the axis of the precessing jets ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "aloy m .- a .",
    ", marti j .-",
    ", gomez j .- l .",
    ", agudo i. , m@xmath39ller e. , iba@xmath40ez j .-",
    ", 2003 , apj , 585 , l109 begelman m. c. , king a. r. , pringle j. e. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 399 blundell k. m. , bowler m. g. , 2004 , apj , 616 , l159 brinkmann w. , pratt g. w. , rohr s. , kawai n. , burwitz v. , 2007 , a&a , 463 , 611 dubner g. m. , holdaway m. , goss w. m. , mirabel i. f. , 1998 , apj , 116 , 1842 hjellming r. m. , johnston k. j. , 1981 , apj , 246 , l141    pacholczyk a. g. , 1970 , radio astrophysics , freeman , san francisco panferov a. a. , 2010 , preprint ( arxiv:1001.5097 ) roberts d. h. , wardle j. f. c. , lipnick s. l. , selesnick p. l. , slutsky s. , 2008 , apj , 676 , 584 roberts d. h. , wardle j. f. c. , bell m. r. , mallory m. r. , marchenko v. v. , sanderbeck p. u. , 2010 , apj , 719 , 1918 schillemat k. , mioduszewski a. , dhawan v. , rupen m. , 2004 , baas , 36 , 1515 stirling a. m. , spencer r. e. , cawthorne t. v. , paragi z. , 2004 , mnras , 354 , 1239"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the problem of the interaction between the precessing mildly relativistic radio jets of ss433 and an ambient medium has been often invoked in interpretations of the jets behaviour . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamical interaction could be responsible for disagreements between the kinematic model and observations of the jets . to estimate the relative ram pressure of the jet and impinging matter we used the profile along the radio jets of brightness of synchrotron radiation . from this we estimated magnitude of possible deceleration and twisting of the jets , and compare model locus of the jets with observations . </S>",
    "<S> the magnitude is enough big to be observed , that addresses an applicability of the kinematic model , based mostly on the optical observations , to the radio jets and a problem of the kinematic distance to the object in particular .    </S>",
    "<S> * kinematics of ss433 radio jets : interaction of jets with ambient medium *    a.  a. panferov    ipt , togliatti state university , russia    e - mail : panfs@yandex.ru </S>"
  ]
}