{
  "article_text": [
    "the lambda cold dark matter ( @xmath7cdm ) cosmological model is the standard theoretical framework for structure formation in the universe . in order to understand how galaxies form and evolve in this cosmological context",
    ", we must also understand the properties of dark matter haloes over a wide range of physical scales and across the cosmic history .",
    "numerical simulations provide one of the best methods for approaching this problem .",
    "the cosmological parameters that provide the best match between the @xmath7cdm cosmology and several observations , are most often obtained using measurements of the power spectrum of temperature fluctuations in the cosmic microwave background @xcite or of density fluctuations in the galaxy distribution @xcite ; but these are limited to the linear regime of density fluctuations . in order to make comparisons between the model and observations in the non - linear regime , without making simplified assumptions such as the spherical or ellipsoidal collapse @xcite",
    ", one would need to use fully non - linear numerical simulations . however , these are too expensive in terms of computational time .",
    "great efforts go into running even single simulations corresponding to one set of cosmological parameters , which can still be compared with a very wide range of observational measurements .    for the past several years",
    "the millennium simulation @xcite has been the focus for many studies of the distribution and statistical properties of dark matter haloes and provides the basis for the implementation of semi - analytic models of the evolving galaxy population @xcite . however , it is important to appreciate that this simulation was run using the wmap1 cosmological parameter set @xcite , which are rather different from the current best fit parameters .",
    "more recently the bolshoi simulation @xcite used cosmological parameters consistent with the latest wmap5 @xcite and wmap7 @xcite values .",
    "the main difference is that the millennium simulation used a substantially larger amplitude of perturbations than the bolshoi one .",
    "the differences in the parameters of the cosmological model can affect the abundances and properties of the dark matter haloes at a given redshift . consequently , the properties of the galaxies hosted by such haloes may also be affected . as a consequence",
    "the interpretation of many observational statistical tests , like those measuring clustering and luminosity functions , becomes more difficult .",
    "notice that according to the cosmological parameter constraints from wmap5 and cluster abundances @xcite , the millennium simulation is about @xmath8 away from the best fit model ( see figure @xmath9 in @xcite ) .",
    "the small variations of the parameters of the background cosmological model also become important in the understanding of the baryonic processes involved in galaxy formation .",
    "an extreme case can be seen in @xcite where the maximum of the stellar formation rate ( sfr ) activity is found at @xmath10 due to their choice of @xmath11 , which favours mergers at low redshifts .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : scaling ]      in order to test the scaling of haloes and their histories we use two sets of simulations . in a first set we use 6 simulations .",
    "the two main simulations are simulation @xmath13 which has a millennium - like cosmology and simulation @xmath14 which has the background cosmology of the bolshoi simulation .",
    "both simulations contain @xmath15 particles in cubic volumes of @xmath16 and @xmath17h@xmath1mpc of side length , respectively , which results in a particle mass comparable to that of the millennium simulation , @xmath18h@xmath19 .",
    "this set of simulations also includes a low resolution version of simulations @xmath13 and @xmath14 , with @xmath20 particles , and versions with volumes @xmath21 times bigger ( with respect to @xmath13 and @xmath14 ) , which we will refer to as @xmath22 , @xmath23 and @xmath24 , @xmath25 , respectively . with the low resolution simulations we will minimise the rescaling function using the same parameters as for the @xmath13 and @xmath14 simulations ; in this way we will only test the effect from the coarser resolution . in the case of the larger volume",
    ", the minimisation will be performed on a range of masses one order of magnitude higher than for @xmath13 and @xmath14 and will therefore include the effects from considering different scales in the power spectra , as well as a lower resolution .",
    "unless otherwise stated , the @xmath14 cosmology will be taken as the reference model and the simulations with the @xmath13 cosmology will be rescaled to resemble the former as closely as possible .",
    "the second set contains 9 low resolution simulations ( @xmath20 particles ) designed to measure the variation in the precision of the rescaling of the halo catalogues as the desired cosmology moves further away in the plane @xmath26 from the original parameters . in order to do that ,",
    "we fix all parameters and vary only @xmath3 ( or @xmath2 ) in @xmath27 and @xmath28 of its original value using @xmath29 , which is in concordance with the standard wmap7 deviation for both parameters @xcite , giving us @xmath30 simulations .",
    "the remaining simulation was run varying both the@xmath3 and @xmath2 parameters by @xmath31 .",
    "the relevant parameters for both sets of simulations are detailed in table [ tab : params ] .",
    "the range of masses over which the minimisation is performed is the same as for the @xmath13 and @xmath14 simulations , in order to mimic the accuracy of this procedure for a simulation with the particle mass resolution of the millennium simulation .",
    "all the simulations were evolved from their intial redshifts using the public version of gadget2 @xcite .",
    "the initial conditions were constructed using the public code grafic2 @xcite and use exactly the same random seed in all cases .",
    "the halo catalogues , including substructure identification and merger histories , were constructed using the subfind algorithm explained in detail in @xcite .",
    "the linking length parameter used is equal to @xmath32 times the mean interparticle separation and considering only groups with at least 10 particles .",
    "the simulations outputs consist of 100 steps equally spaced in @xmath33 between @xmath34 to @xmath35 .    in the process of obtaining the @xmath14 simulations we search for the scaling factor @xmath36 and final redshift @xmath37 that provide the best fit between the actual linear fluctuation amplitudes via the minimisation of eq ( [ eq : drms ] ) .",
    "these are shown in table [ tab : scaling ] for each simulation ( see the table caption for the mass ranges used in the minimisation ) .",
    "the table also shows the minimum value of @xmath38 obtained .      in this subsection",
    "we perform a test that will allow us to infer in which cases it is acceptable to ignore the quasi - linear correction of long wavelength contributions .",
    "this test consists on implementing the reduced and full algorithm and studying the resulting differences as a function of the boxsize of the simulation , and of the redshift .",
    "the latter is done since @xmath39 depends on the redshift .",
    "we use two sets of four @xmath15 particle simulations specific for this subsection with reference simulation boxsizes @xmath40 50 , 100 , 500 and 1000 @xmath41mpc .",
    "the first set has the same cosmological parameters than simulation @xmath13 and the second one has the parameter set of simulation @xmath14 .",
    "we will analyse the @xmath420 , 0.5 , 1 , 2 and 4 outputs .",
    "the top panel of figure [ fig : sigmas ] shows the 1d rms difference in the particle positions , for the case where the aw10 method is applied in full and in its reduced version ( solid and dashed lines , respectively ) ; each line shows the change in the error as the simulation box increases to the right .",
    "as can be seen , for simulations of @xmath43mpc a side , the reduced rescaling algorithm produces positions that are as precise as those obtained using the full method .",
    "the bottom panel shows the ratio between the 1d rms differences obtained from the reduced and full aw10 methods for different values of the simulation box , as the redshift increases to the right . in this case",
    "it can be clearly seen that the small simulation box ( with side @xmath44 ) shows almost a unit ratio for all the redshifts explored .",
    "the fact that the large - scale correction is not important in simulations of @xmath43mpc a side is expected since , by construction , the displacement fields are smooth on modes larger than @xmath45 . note that this correction depends on the cosmologies selected for the simulations , and therefore the results shown in this subsection are only presented as a qualitative example .",
    "[ ssec : haloprops ]    ( 400,340 ) ( -50,-20 ) ( 75 , -20 ) ( 200,-20 ) ( 325,-20 )    in this section we apply the rescaling to the simulations presented above , and perform tests on the recovery of the properties of individual haloes , including their detailed growth histories .",
    "we also study the recovery of statistical properties of the global population of haloes . from this point on we apply the reduced version of the aw10 algorithm to dark matter haloes in all the simulations except @xmath25 , to which the full method is applied since has a boxsize for which the quasi - linear correction is important .",
    "we compare the properties of haloes of at least @xmath46 particles in the numerical simulations run with the desired cosmological parameters ( @xmath14 simulations , the reference model ) to the haloes from simulations @xmath13 ( with a different cosmology ) rescaled to the cosmology of the @xmath14 simulations ( rescaled haloes ) .",
    "these haloes are allowed any number of member particles ( at least @xmath47 ) . in order to do this we match haloes that share the largest percentage of particles via their gadget2 identifying particle i d ( referred to as matched haloes ) ; this can be done as the initial conditions are constructed using the same random seed .",
    "the percentage of haloes in the @xmath14 simulations that have a matched halo in the @xmath13 simulation is higher than @xmath48 in all cases .",
    "we compare the properties of matched haloes in figure [ fig : indiv ] .",
    "the number of particles of the recovered haloes shows a slight underestimation of @xmath49 percent , and a clear increase in the dispersion that decreases with halo mass and becomes @xmath47 percent for haloes of @xmath50 particles .",
    "results for a lower resolution simulation ( @xmath23 ) in green , and for the simulation with @xmath21 times larger volume ( @xmath25 ) in red are also shown .",
    "as can be seen , neither the lower resolution nor the larger amplitude over which the minimisation is done affect the precision of the recovered number of particles per halo for haloes with @xmath51 particles .",
    "the catalogue of simulation @xmath25 shows a slightly broader range of recovered number of particles for haloes with less particles , but it is not clear whether this is a result of noise or the larger box of the simulation .",
    "the results for the @xmath23 and @xmath25 simulations are also similar to those of the @xmath14 simulation in most of the comparisons shown in the other panels of this figure .",
    "therefore , in order to improve clarity , in the remaining panels we will only show the results for the @xmath14 simulation except for the cases where there are noticeable differences with resolution or box size .    as can be seen the positions of haloes",
    "are well recovered to a precision of @xmath52mpc for the catalogue of simulation @xmath13 ( difference between percentiles @xmath47 and @xmath53 and the median ) .",
    "the velocities show relative differences of less than @xmath54 percent , and small changes in the direction of the velocity vector with a mode of @xmath9 degree .",
    "as can be seen in the figure , the velocities tend to be biased high for @xmath55km / s , and biased low for @xmath56km / s , although always below a 5 percent difference .",
    "the precision in the recovered halo positions and velocities are consistent with those reported by aw10 in their figure 8 using the full implementation of the algorithm .",
    "the larger box ( blue line ) produces an increase in the bias at low peculiar velocities but removes it at the large velocity end .",
    "also , the amplitude of the differences between velocities increases more rapidly for low velocities in the catalogue of the large volume simulation .",
    "we compute the virial mass of haloes as the mass inside a sphere that contains an average virial overdensity of @xmath57 , where @xmath58 @xcite .",
    "since the methodology we apply does not involve re - identifying the haloes using dark - matter particles , the virial mass for the rescaled haloes resulting from applying equation ( [ eq : mass_cor ] ) is underestimated by a @xmath59 percent ( panel e , dotted line ) . however , by considering a correction due to the difference in @xmath60 which is @xmath61 percent higher for the cosmology of the recovered haloes , we are able to reduce the discrepancy in the virial masses to below @xmath62 percent . to do this correction",
    "we assume a nfw dark matter density profile @xcite for each halo , compute the integral of the assumed density profile above the corresponding virial overdensity in each cosmology using a concentration parameter given by @xcite , and then multiply the rescaled mass by the ratio between the integrated mass in the target and base models .",
    "we also explored the effect of adopting different concentrations on the recovered virial masses ( figure [ fig : indiv ] ) .",
    "we used three different concentrations , ( i ) the proxy @xmath63 ( where @xmath64 is the maximum circular velocity of the halo and @xmath65 is the circular velocity at the virial radius ) , ( ii ) the recipe given by @xcite , and ( iii ) from the fit provided by @xcite .",
    "our results indicate a negligible effect on the mass , which neither improves nor diminishes the level of agreement between rescaled and reference masses , independently of the definition of concentration applied .    regarding the recovery of the concentrations of the haloes in the target cosmology , the individual concentrations defined as @xmath63 are affected by a bias of @xmath59 percent with a strong dependence with the concentration in the reference cosmology . on the other hand , the concentrations computed using the mass dependence reported by @xcite show a negligible difference between rescaled and reference cosmologies , with no dependence on the halo virial mass .",
    "the @xcite concentrations are obtained using their dependence on the cosmological time when the main progenitor acquired @xmath66 percent of the final fof halo mass .",
    "this quantity can be computed using the information in the halo merger trees ; however , due to the numerical resolution of our simulation , this quantity can only be calculated for the @xmath67 most massive haloes .",
    "for these haloes , the concentration shows no offset between the rescaled and target simulations but its dispersion is larger than for the @xcite concentrations , particularly for low @xmath68 values .",
    "even though the recovery of individual properties shows some biases and non - negligible scatter , the quantification of these effects can be used to gauge what studies can be performed with rescaled simulations and the statistics that are expected to be affected by these uncertainties .",
    "our findings on the accuracy of the properties of haloes are consistent with those found by aw10 , which indicates that applying the full method to particles or haloes produces only small differences .",
    "we confirm this estimate using our simulations , where we only find negligible differences in the resulting accuracy when using individual particles .      for a more detailed comparison between the rescaled and reference halo catalogues",
    ", we also compare the detailed histories of individual friends - of - friends ( fof ) haloes .",
    "we choose the first , 10th , 100th and 1000th most massive haloes and show them in figure [ fig : histories ] .",
    "the panels show from top to bottom , the accretion history , the accretion via mergers and via smooth , individual particle infall , the evolution of the dimensionless spin parameter , and the fraction of mass in substructures .",
    "the number of particles per halo decreases to the right , and range from fof masses of @xmath69h@xmath19 to @xmath70h@xmath19 .",
    "regardless of the halo mass , the individual accretion histories , spin parameter evolution , and fraction of mass in substructures , are remarkably well recovered .",
    "the only noticeable differences are shown in the mass accretion via mergers and individual infall of particles , which cancel out as when one is overestimated the other compensates , showing the effects from confusion between accretion of small mass haloes and infalling field particles .",
    "this effect can be appreciated more clearly in the mass accretion history of the 10th largest halo in figure [ fig : histories ] .",
    "these results indicate that individual merger trees should be reasonably suitable for rescaling and later use for semi - analytic type galaxy formation modeling .",
    "the history of mass accretion via mergers would ensure a @xmath47 percent accuracy in the population of satellite galaxies , whose added stellar masses should be even more precise ( according to the well recovered fraction of mass in substructures ) , and the accurate evolution of the spin parameter should ensure reasonable estimates of galaxy disc sizes .      if the rescaled simulation is used to produce statistics of large populations , either of dark - matter haloes or simulated galaxies obtained via semi - analytic techniques , it is necessary to estimate how they are affected by the rescaling process .",
    "we first study the mass function of dark - matter haloes .",
    "figure [ fig : mf ] compares the mass functions of the rescaled and reference haloes ( dashed and solid lines , respectively ) for different redshifts from @xmath35 to @xmath71 .",
    "the agreement is excellent with only minor differences .",
    "the relative differences shown in the lower panel indicate that there is a mild , although clear trend that starts as an underestimation of abundances at @xmath35 but then tends to overestimate them by larger amounts at higher redshifts . at low redshift",
    "the rescaled catalogue shows a slight underestimation of the number density of haloes which is very mild at low masses @xmath72h@xmath19 at the @xmath9 percent level , but increases to a @xmath62 percent lower abundances at @xmath73h@xmath19 . the highest redshift shown in the figure indicates a flat overestimation of abundances of a @xmath74 percent .",
    "these effects are small in comparison to the current precision of measurements of the mass function in clusters of galaxies @xcite and galaxy luminosity functions ( for example in the sdss , see @xcite ) which , in simulations , are highly influenced by the underlying mass function of dark - matter haloes ( see for instance @xcite ) .",
    "however , the determination of a power spectrum from a mass function requires high precision measurements @xcite and the accuracy of the rescaling technique could be important in this case .",
    "the spin parameter influences the resulting properties of disc galaxies in semi - analytic models @xcite .",
    "therefore it is important to check whether the rescaling of a numerical simulation could produce biased distributions of spin parameters .",
    "figure [ fig : lam ] shows these distributions for the rescaled and reference catalogues ( dashed and solid lines , respectively ) , and as can be seen , the distributions are consistent with one another .",
    "the distributions of disc sizes would therefore be expected to be reliable in the rescaled simulation .",
    "this is also in agreement with the evolution of the spins of individual matched rescaled and reference haloes shown in figure [ fig : histories ] , which are consistent with one another at all times .        given that the stellar population of a galaxy is highly dependent on the mass accretion history of a halo , either via mergers or smooth infall , a statistical study of the merger trees of haloes can also be used to test the adequacy of the rescaling .",
    "figure [ fig : times ] shows the differences between rescaled and reference models for four particular characteristics of merger trees .",
    "the quantity shown on the top - left panel corresponds to the time when half the total mass of a halo was formed in the tree @xmath75 (",
    "i.e. including all the mass in satellites that will later merge with the central halo ) ; by subtracting any cooling and star formation timescales involved , this would correspond to a stellar age for the final galaxy .",
    "as can be seen , the differences show a clear peak at @xmath76gyr and a median at @xmath77 gyr , with a mean witdh of @xmath78gyr . on a @xmath35 galaxy population",
    "the former difference would produce little effects on the resulting galaxies , but the latter may spuriously broaden distributions of galaxy properties such as colours .    the second statistics , the time since the halo in the main branch of the merger tree attained half of its final mass , @xmath79 ( top - right panel of figure [ fig : times ] ) , would be related to the time of assembly of the mass of the final galaxy and shows an offset of @xmath77gyr and a mean witdh of @xmath80gyr .",
    "similar results are obtained for the time since the last major merger @xmath81 ( bottom - left ) which should correlate with the time since the last starburst ( the actual starburst should be more recent than this quantity when taking into account the dynamical friction that affect galaxies ) , which shows a similar offset of @xmath82gyr on average , and a similar distribution width of @xmath83gyr .    since the timescales of last starburst , star formation , and stellar mass assembly are affected in a similar way , we do not expect important changes on the spectral shape of a galaxy obtained using rescaled merger - trees , with the exception of the effect from a general shift in age towards older populations by @xmath84gyr .",
    "the lower - right panel of figure [ fig : times ] shows the histogram of the difference between the number of major mergers undergone by the rescaled and reference haloes between @xmath85 and @xmath76 . as can be seen , the distribution is symmetric with a clear peak at zero ( which contains more than @xmath46 percent of the sample ) , and a maximum difference of @xmath5 or more major mergers for about @xmath47 percent of the haloes .",
    "aw10 presented comparisons between semi - analitic galaxies obtained from rescaled and direct simulations , showing an effect that may be the product of these offsets , the slightly fainter k - band magnitudes ( by @xmath86 mag ) in their rescaled simulations .",
    "the study of the effect of the rescaling of merger trees on the inferred positions of haloes performed in section [ ssec : haloprops ] showed that these are not badly affected by the process .",
    "however , the correlation function could show changes due to the dispersion in the positions shown in the top - left panel of figure [ fig : indiv ] .",
    "figure [ fig : xi ] shows the resulting cross - correlation functions from the rescaled and reference haloes . for this test",
    "we choose cross - correlations over auto - correlation functions in order to increase the signal - to - noise ratio of our measurements ( see for instance @xcite ) .",
    "halos of different lower limits on fof mass are used as centres , whereas all haloes in the simulations are used as tracers for these measurements .",
    "we choose three different lower limits on the mass of centre haloes ( @xmath87h@xmath19 , @xmath88h@xmath19 and @xmath89h@xmath19 ) such that they bracket the non - linear mass for the cosmology of simulation @xmath14 , @xmath90h@xmath19 , around which the bias factor shows a clear increase ( for haloes with mass @xmath91 , the bias factor is @xmath92 , for more details see for instance @xcite ) .    as can be seen , at scales @xmath93 , @xmath94 , and @xmath66h@xmath1mpc for masses @xmath95 , @xmath96 and @xmath97h@xmath1m@xmath98 , respectively , the precision of the correlation function of the rescaled haloes is better than @xmath62 percent ( see the ratios on the lower sub - panel ) . given the offset in the number of particles between the reference and rescaled haloes , we also tested whether using the same equivalent lower limit in number of particles improved this comparison , but find very similar results .",
    "this is also the case for the effect of the dispersion between rescaled and reference halo masses ( number of particles ) , since the resulting change is of only a few percent , which influences the clustering amplitude by factors below the offsets originating from the rescaling procedure .",
    "this level of precision is of the order of that obtained for large surveys at @xmath35 such as the sdss ( see for instance @xcite ) .",
    "furthermore , other effects such as the assembly bias @xcite are expected to produce variations on the clustering of haloes and , consequently , galaxies to a @xmath47 percent , which indicates that rescaled haloes could be used to test the detectability of this particular effect .",
    "however , @xcite point out that the precision of future surveys such as the dark energy survey ( des , @xcite ) and the large synoptic survey telescope ( lsst , @xcite ) will be much better than that in the sdss , and could irequire new runs with the desired cosmology rather than rescaled halo catalogues .    as a final test , we study the changes introduced by the rescaling of haloes in the fraction of fof particles in substructures ( i.e. , not restricting substructures to the sphere contained in one virial radius ) .",
    "figure [ fig : fsub ] shows this fraction as a function of the number of particles per halo , for the rescaled and reference halo catalogues ( lines and dots in blue and red , respectively ) . both the median relation , and the envelope of @xmath99 percent of the haloes",
    "show an excellent agreement between the two catalogues , with differences that only amount to a @xmath47 percent .",
    "this statistics is related to different properties of the galaxies inhabiting these haloes . on the one hand , it would influence the variation of the amplitude of clustering as a function of subhalo mass ( or galaxy luminosity ) , since the average host halo mass of a selection of subhaloes can be affected if this fraction is not accurately recovered . on the other hand , this result is in agreement with our earlier claim that we would not expect to find correlated changes in the spectra of semi - analytic galaxies obtained from the rescaled trees .",
    "this is due to the fact that the changes in the characteristic timescales of the merger trees are slightly biased but these biases go all in the same direction , otherwise we would expect to find shifts in the fraction of mass in subhaloes .",
    "this is also the cause for the fraction of mass in substructures to remain consistent ; this can happen if the overall histories are consistent , even if slightly shifted .",
    "( dashed lines ) and reference @xmath14 ( solid lines ) catalogues with different lower limits on fof mass ( different colours shown in the key ) and the full population of haloes ( with at least @xmath47 particles ) .",
    "the lower sub - panel shows the relative differences between the correlation functions obtained from the rescaled and reference catalogues ; the shaded regions show the uncertainties computed using the boostrap resampling technique . ]     and @xmath53 percentiles ( dashed lines ) of the difference between the recovered and true fraction of mass in substructures as a function of the number of particles per halo .",
    "blue and red lines correspond to the rescaled and reference halo catalogues , respectively .",
    "the uprising of @xmath100 at small masses may correspond to a resolution effect . ]",
    "the method of adjusting the cosmological parameters of a set of haloes and their assembly histories can be very useful for exploring a cosmological parameter space using halo properties from numerical simulations . in this section",
    "we investigate how the agreement between the rescaled and reference haloes degrades as the baseline of the extrapolation on the parameter space varies .",
    "we choose to vary only two cosmological parameters for this test , the matter density parameter @xmath3 , and the amplitude of fluctuations @xmath2 . in this case",
    "we take as a starting point the parameters of simulation @xmath23 , shown in figure [ fig : indiv ] , and owes to the large number of simulations involved in this analysis . ]",
    "which are in agreement with the latest constraints on the cosmology @xcite , and explore the resulting rescaled haloes for the @xmath101 , @xmath102 , @xmath103 , @xmath104 simulations , which maintain the same cosmological parameters as simulation @xmath23 but vary @xmath3 between @xmath105 , and @xmath106 with @xmath107 , the simulations @xmath108 , @xmath109 , @xmath110 , @xmath111 , which with respect to @xmath23 only change @xmath2 between the values @xmath112 , and @xmath113 with @xmath107 , and a simulation in which both , @xmath3 and @xmath2 are increased in one standard deviation , @xmath114 ( details on the simulation parameters are shown in tables 1 and 2 ) . in all cases , the value of @xmath115 is similar to the standard deviation in these parameters from the wmap7 results . since we are using simulations with small boxes for this test , we only apply the reduced version of the aw10 algorithm in this section .",
    "figure [ fig : cosm ] shows average and median quantities that summarise the accuracy of the rescaled haloes .",
    "we include the variation in the number of particles per halo averaged over all haloes with @xmath116 to @xmath117 particles and the @xmath47 and @xmath53 percentiles of the distribution ( top - left ) , the average relative variation in the cumulative mass function for masses in the range @xmath118 and the dispersion of the distribution ( top - right ) , the average variation in the cross - correlation function between haloes of fof masses @xmath119h@xmath19 against the full halo population , in the range of scales @xmath120mpc@xmath4 and its dispersion ( lower - left ) , and the median difference in the assembly ages of rescaled and reference haloes and the @xmath47 and @xmath53 percentiles of the distribution ( lower - right ) . in all cases ,",
    "the @xmath121axis shows the number of wmap7 standard deviations from the @xmath23 parameters . as can be seen , the effect from changing the matter density parameter is in all cases more important than varying the amplitude of fluctuations @xmath2 .",
    "we also show the resulting biases and uncertainties in the solid and open green symbols when changing both @xmath3 and @xmath2 by @xmath31 , which follows the expected tendency and results in larger biases and dispersions than varying only one parameter at a time .",
    "these statistics are chosen since they are representative of important variations in the galaxy population that can be obtained via semi - analytic models ( for instance via the abundance of haloes or the assembly time - scales ) , or variations in constraints on cosmological models via clustering and abundance measurements .",
    "the biases in the number of particles per halo and the number of haloes shown in the top panels are correlated , and consist on underestimates ( overestimates ) for lower ( higher ) values of either @xmath3 and @xmath2 .",
    "this is due to the fact that a bias in the number of particles , which does not depend on the halo mass as was seen in the comparison between simulations @xmath13 and @xmath14 , @xmath22 and @xmath23 and @xmath24 and @xmath25 ( cf",
    ". figure [ fig : indiv ] , although an underestimation of the number of particles per halo is present ) , is reflected in the mass function .",
    "the change from simulation @xmath13 to @xmath14 is approximately equivalent to @xmath122 and @xmath31 in @xmath2 and @xmath3 , respectively , which would correspond to @xmath123 in the top - left panel of figure [ fig : cosm ] , where the number of particles per halo in rescaled catalogues is underestimated , showing the consistency of our analysis .",
    "+      the lower - left panel of figure [ fig : cosm ] shows that the amplitude of the correlation function shifts from an overestimation when the parameters are lowered , to an underestimation when going to higher values of either @xmath3 or @xmath2 ( with a larger variation in the former ) . finally , the asembly times shown on the lower - right show almost no biases , but a slight tendency towards underestimating this quantity for positive @xmath115 values on either @xmath2 or @xmath3 ( and stronger for the latter ) .",
    "the increase in number of particles per halo , the space density of haloes , and the decrease in the amplitude of the correlation function ( and possibly in the assembly time - scales ) responds to the decreasing values of the rescaling parameter @xmath36 .",
    "this can be seen in figure [ fig : map ] where we show in a colour gradient that , for a fixed value of @xmath3 ( for instance , that of the @xmath23 simulation , shown by the vertical line ) , a higher final value of matter density parameter requires @xmath124 .",
    "this figure also serves the purpose of allowing to rescale the expected biases shown in figure [ fig : cosm ] to a different base cosmology .",
    "the white diagonal lines are contours of the equal @xmath36 values that satisfy @xmath125 at the @xmath23 cosmological parameter set , and show that for lower values of base cosmology @xmath3 , the biases of figure [ fig : cosm ] would only be obtained for smaller values of @xmath126 . as this result is independent of the base and desired values of @xmath2 , this shows that a grid of cosmological simulations would need to more densely cover low @xmath3 values , roughly following @xmath127 , to ensure a stable accuracy in rescalings done along the @xmath3 parameter , for any value of @xmath2 . as for changes in @xmath2 , as this will entail changing the output redshift adopted for the rescaling rather than introducing a new dimension in the grid of simulations , this will not affect the design of the grid .",
    "these results can be used to set the maximum difference on either @xmath3 or @xmath2 that will be allowed when adopting the aw10 method to rescale dark - matter haloes from a given cosmology into different ones .",
    "this result is also expected to hold for larger simulation boxes as long as the full rescaling algorithm is applied .",
    "we have tested the use of the full and a reduced form of the angulo & white ( 2010 ) method to change the cosmology of a catalogue of simulated haloes with the aim to test its application to a cosmological parameter search using semi - analytic galaxies .",
    "our tests on the effect of applying it to the haloes in a numerical simulation instead of to the individual particles , shows a dramatic reduction of computational time .",
    "the main reason for this particular test is that future planned numerical cosmological simulations will be so large that the storage of their individual particles will be impractical , in which case only halo properties will be available . even in the event that the approach presented here is applied to a simulation with available individual particles ,",
    "the cpu time required to rescale dm haloes is orders of magnitude ( at least one ) smaller than it is required to rescale the particles .",
    "if one adds the time consumed in identifying dm haloes and constructing merger trees , the speed up of the process can reach an improvement of two or three orders of magnitude ( r. angulo , private communication ) .",
    "the reduced form of the rescaling algorithm further reduces the computational time , but at the expense of being limited to small simulation boxes . for the cosmological parameters of simulations",
    "@xmath13 and @xmath14 ( see table [ tab : scaling ] ) , the simulation box side should be @xmath0h@xmath1mpc or smaller .",
    "in such boxes , the correction for the quasi - linear modes does not further improve the accuracy of the rescaling .",
    "we measured the achieved precision of the rescaled haloes extracted from a given set of cosmological parameters ( such as those adopted in the millennium simulation ) by comparing them to those extracted from numerical simulations with the desired final parameters ( in a first instance corresponding to a bolshoi simulation cosmology ) , constructed using the same initial conditions as the simulation from which the rescaled haloes are taken .",
    "we compared individual properties , such as the number of particles per halo , their peculiar velocities ( and variation in the direction of movement ) , concentration parameters , the mass of the haloes , and their positions . in all cases",
    "the precision of the recovered properties is comparable to what is obtained from the full modification of the individual particles in the simulation ( aw10 ) .",
    "the level of precision is better than @xmath128kpc for the halo positions , and of @xmath62 percent of their peculiar velocities .",
    "both the number of particles per halo , and the virial halo mass are slightly underestimated , by @xmath62 percent .",
    "it should be noticed , though , that in order to obtain this accuracy for the virial mass , it is necessary to perform an additional correction which takes into account the different values of @xmath60 in the rescaled and target cosmologies .",
    "the halo concentrations derived using the @xcite recipe shows the lowest biases between rescaled and reference cosmologies , with no dependence on halo mass .",
    "we tested the effects from lowering the resolution of the simulation by a factor of @xmath30 in the number of particles ( for the same total periodic volume ) , and from increasing by a factor of @xmath21 the volume of the simulation ( for the same number of particles ) .",
    "we expect changes in the two cases due to different reasons . in the case of changing the resolution ,",
    "all the other parameters of the rescaling of the haloes were held fixed . in the change of the simulated volume , the range of masses over which the rescaling function was minimised was shift one order of magnitude to higher masses ( see table [ tab : scaling ] ) .",
    "lowering the resolution or increasing the volume do not change the precision in the recovered number of particles as a function of the number of particles in the halo .",
    "this implies that a lower resolution results in a lower precision at a fixed halo mass .",
    "the lower resolution does not produce any other significant biases .",
    "the increase of the volume does not result in a higher uncertainty in the recovered positions since the quasi - linear correction of long wavelength contributions in the aw10 method properly takes into account the different quasi - linear theory modes in the two models .",
    "furthermore , we also explored the differences arising in the detailed history of growth of haloes , and find only mild displacements in particular events such as major mergers .",
    "in order to do this we checked haloes corresponding to the @xmath9st . , 10th , 100th and 1000th most massive objects in the simulations , and the resulting agreement is independent of the halo mass , at least down to masses @xmath129h@xmath19 .",
    "these results indicate that rescaled haloes and halo histories can even be used independently with little effects on the resulting galaxy population .",
    "a direct application of this method consists on changing the cosmological background of semi - analytic galaxies . in order to assess the possible systematic biases that such a population of galaxies would present if it was based on a catalogue of rescaled haloes , we studied the offset in several measures of the halo merger histories , on the halo mass funcion and their clustering properties , on their spin parameter distributions , and in the number of major mergers experienced by the haloes .",
    "neither the mass function nor the correlation amplitudes show important variations ( @xmath49 percent ) within the range of masses explored , which is also the case for the distribution of spin parameters or frequency of major mergers .",
    "the only possible important discrepancy comes from a systematic offset in the ages of merger trees ( assembly , star formation and last starburst ) , which are all biased toward smaller ages .",
    "given that these are correlated , the relative shapes of the spectral energy distributions of galaxies of different types will remain almost unchanged , but will result in a global change of the population toward slightly bluer colours .",
    "this method can effectively allow to sample the cosmological parameter space using fully non - linear simulations .",
    "even though semi - analytic models were designed to understand the processes driving galaxy formation and evolution , the possible dependences of galaxy properties on the cosmological parameters could also be used to impose constrains on the latter . to do",
    "this one possible approach is to use monte - carlo markov chain or similar analyses of the cosmological parameter space ( see for instance @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "this would produce chains of parameter sets on which , in principle , a new numerical simulation would need to be run , in which the detection of haloes and merger trees , and a semi - analytic model , would need to be performed and applied .",
    "this process becomes much more efficient when using rescaled haloes , which avoid several time - consuming processes .",
    "the lowest computational cost is achieved by rescaling haloes in boxes small enough so as to allow the use of the reduced method .    at this point",
    "it is important to note that even if there are small systematic effects on the scaled catalogues and merger trees , these are negligible in comparison to the uncertainties in the semi - analytic modeling .",
    "furthermore , given the flexibility of semi - analytic models , it is in principle possible to diminish the difference between rescaled and direct simulations , but in a way that is not related to the scaling formalism ; therefore , this particular ability does not help to improve the use of rescalings in a fast search for baryonic and cosmological parameters together .",
    "we showed that in terms of the uncertainties in the matter density parameter @xmath3 and amplitude of fluctuations parametrised by @xmath2 , the biases on different halo properties increase considerably more in the case of adopting more different values of @xmath3 than of @xmath2 .",
    "these constraints can be used to set limits on how far the extrapolation can be extended in terms of these parameters ; this way only a limited number of numerical simulations located in strategically selected grid points would need to be run in order to cover in a continuous way a wide cosmological parameter space .",
    "we have benefited from helpful discussions with the referee ral angulo .",
    "anr acknowledges receipt of fellowships from the consejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas ( conicet - argentina ) and fondap @xmath130 .",
    "np acknowledges support from proyecto fondecyt regular no .",
    "1071006 , fondap @xmath130 , and project basal pfb0609 , and wishes to thank the hospitality of the iate institute at univeridad nacional de crdoba during a scientific visit to work on this project .",
    "mjd acknowledges secyt ( unc - argentina ) and conicet grants .",
    "the authors kindly acknowledge volker springel for providing the subfind code .",
    "this project made use of @xmath131 months of cpu time in the geryon cluster at the centro de astro - ingeniera uc .",
    "blanton m.  r. , hogg d.  w. , bahcall n.  a. , brinkmann j. , britton m. , connolly a.  j. , csabai i. , fukugita m. , loveday j. , meiksin a. , munn j.  a. , nichol r.  c. , okamura s. , quinn t. , schneider d.  p. , shimasaku k. , strauss m.  a. , tegmark m. , vogeley m.  s. , weinberg d.  h. , 2003 , apj , 592 , 819                  dunkley j. , komatsu e. , nolta m.  r. , spergel d.  n. , larson d. , hinshaw g. , page l. , bennett c.  l. , gold b. , jarosik n. , weiland j.  l. , halpern m. , hill r.  s. , kogut a. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , tucker g.  s. , wollack e. , wright e.  l. , 2009 , apjs , 180 , 306 .",
    "hinshaw g. , weiland j.  l. , hill r.  s. , odegard n. , larson d. , bennett c.  l. , dunkley j. , gold b. , greason m.  r. , jarosik n. , komatsu e. , nolta m.  r. , page l. , spergel d.  n. , wollack e. , halpern m. , kogut a. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , tucker g.  s. , wright e.  l. , 2009 , apjs , 180 , 225    jarosik n. , bennett c.  l. , dunkley j. , gold b. , greason m.  r. , halpern m. , hill r.  s. , hinshaw g. , kogut a. , komatsu e. , larson d. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , nolta m.  r. , odegard n. , page l. , smith k.  m. , spergel d.  n. , tucker g.  s. , weiland j.  l. , wollack e. , wright e.  l. , 2011 , apjs , 192 , 14      komatsu e. , dunkley j. , nolta m.  r. , bennett c.  l. , gold b. , hinshaw g. , jarosik n. , larson d. , limon m. , page l. , spergel d.  n. , halpern m. , hill r.  s. , kogut a. , meyer s.  s. , tucker g.  s. , weiland j.  l. , wollack e. , wright e.  l. , 2009 , apjs , 180 , 330            percival w.  j. , nichol r.  c. , eisenstein d.  j. , frieman j.  a. , fukugita m. , loveday j. , pope a.  c. , schneider d.  p. , szalay a.  s. , tegmark m. , vogeley m.  s. , weinberg d.  h. , zehavi i. , bahcall n.  a. , brinkmann j. , connolly a.  j. meiksin a. , 2007 , apj , 657 , 645              spergel d.  n. , verde l. , peiris h.  v. , komatsu e. , nolta m.  r. , bennett c.  l. , halpern m. , hinshaw g. , jarosik n. , kogut a. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , page l. , tucker g.  s. , weiland j.  l. , wollack e. , wright e.  l. , 2003 , apjs , 148 , 175 .",
    "springel v. , white s.  d.  m. , jenkins a. , frenk c.  s. , yoshida n. , gao l. , navarro j. , thacker r. , croton d. , helly j. , peacock j.  a. , cole s. , thomas p. , couchman h. , evrard a. , colberg j. , pearce f. , 2005 , nature , 435 , 629      tucker d.  l. , annis j.  t. , lin h. , kent s. , stoughton c. , peoples j. , allam s.  s. , mohr j.  j. , barkhouse w.  a. , ngeow c. , alam t. , beldica c. , cai d. , daues g. , plante r. , miller c. , smith c. , suntzeff n.  b. , 2007 , aspc , 364 , 187 .",
    "zehavi i. , weinberg d.  h. , zheng z. , berlind a.  a. , frieman j.  a. , scoccimarro r. , sheth r.  k. , blanton m.  r. , tegmark m. , mo h.  j. , bahcall n.  a. , brinkmann j. , burles s. , csabai i. , fukugita m. , gunn j.  e. , lamb d.  q. , loveday j. , lupton r.  h. , meiksin a. , munn j.  a. , nichol r.  c. , schlegel d. , schneider d.  p. , subbarao m. , szalay a.  s. , uomoto a. , york d.  g. , 2004 , apj , 608 , 16"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we test and present the application of the full rescaling method by angulo & white ( 2010 ) to change the cosmology of halo catalogues in numerical simulations for cosmological parameter search using semi - analytic galaxy properties . </S>",
    "<S> we show that a reduced form of the method can be applied in small simulations with box side of @xmath0 h@xmath1mpc or smaller without loss of accuracy . </S>",
    "<S> we perform statistical tests on the accuracy of the properties of rescaled individual haloes , and also on the rescaled population as a whole . </S>",
    "<S> we find that individual positions and velocities are recovered with almost no detectable biases , but with a scatter that increases slightly with the size of the simulation box when using the full method . </S>",
    "<S> the dispersion in the recovered halo mass does not seem to depend on the resolution of the simulation . </S>",
    "<S> regardless of the halo mass , the individual accretion histories , spin parameter evolution and fraction of mass in substructures are remarkably well recovered . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , in order to obtain a more accurate estimate of the halo virial mass , it was necessary to apply an additional correction due to the change of the virial overdensity and the estimate of its effect on a nfw virial mass . </S>",
    "<S> the mass of rescaled haloes can be underestimated ( overestimated ) for negative ( positive ) variations of either @xmath2 or @xmath3 , in a way that does not depend on the halo mass . </S>",
    "<S> statistics of abundances and correlation functions of haloes show also small biases of @xmath4 percent when moving away from the base simulation by up to @xmath5 times the uncertainty in the wmap7 cosmological parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the merger tree properties related to the final galaxy population in haloes also show small biases ; the time since the last major merger , the assembly time - scale , and a time - scale related to the stellar ages show correlated biases which indicate that the spectral shapes of galaxies would only be affected by global age changes of @xmath6myr , i.e. relatively small shifts in their broad - band colours . we show some of these biases for different separations in the cosmological parameters with respect to the desired cosmology so that these can be used to estimate the expected accuracy of the resulting halo population . </S>",
    "<S> we also present a way to construct grids of simulations to provide stable accuracy across the @xmath3 vs. @xmath2 parameter space .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    cosmology : cosmological parameters - cosmology : large - scale structure - cosmology : theory - methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}