{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of extended flat rotation curves in the outer parts of disk galaxies three decades ago @xcite was decisive in ushering the paradigm shift that led to the now standard cosmological model dominated by cold dark matter ( cdm ) and dark energy .",
    "on cosmological ( i.e.  linear ) scales there is excellent agreement between the predictions of the standard @xmath3cdm model and observations of the cmb , type ia supernovae , weak - lensing , and galaxy clustering ( e.g.   * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . on galactic and sub - galactic ( i.e. non - linear ) scales",
    ", however , there are a number of apparent discrepancies between the predictions and observations ( e.g.   * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) of the structure and mass function of dark matter haloes .",
    "whether these problems reflect an incomplete understanding of galaxy formation , or signal an unresolvable problem for the standard paradigm , remains to be determined .",
    "measuring the density profiles of dark matter halos on galaxy scales is thus a crucial test for the standard paradigm of galaxy formation , offering great potential for discovery .    in most luminous galaxies the baryons ( i.e.  stars and cold gas )",
    "always make a non - negligible contribution to the gravitational potential , and due to the so - called _ disk - halo degeneracy _",
    "@xcite the distribution of baryons and dark matter in galaxies is poorly constrained , even when high spatial resolution rotation curves are available ( e.g.   * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      all the swells deflectors show a clear disky component ( figure  [ fig : cmontage ] ) , confirming our original selection based on sdss images .",
    "furthermore , the targets have high projected ellipticity , again consistent with our original selection based on sdss images ( figure  [ fig : hist ] ) .",
    "many of the targets show clear spiral arms , which in several cases are blue .",
    "other targets are so close to edge - on that it is hard to identify spiral arms conclusively ( notes on the morphology of individual targets are provided in the previous section ) .",
    "the overall morphology of the targets is also consistent with the distribution of velocity dispersions ( figure  [ fig : hist ] ) ; this distribution has a lower central value than the slacs sample , which is dominated by massive elliptical galaxies .",
    "we quantify the structural properties of the deflectors by performing a bulge - disk decomposition . for the purpose of this paper",
    "we adopt a simple parametrisation , and describe the bulge with an elliptical @xcite profile and the disk with an elliptical exponential profile .",
    "this parametrisation is the same as that adopted by simard et al .",
    "( 2011 , in preparation ) to analyse the entire sdss - dr7 database , and therefore is ideal for a comparison between lenses and non - lens galaxies . beyond this first analysis ,",
    "in future papers we will derive more accurate descriptions of the surface brightness distribution by considering more flexible models , like , e.g. , the sersic profile for the bulge ( e.g. paper ii ) , and by correcting for extinction due to prominent dust lanes ( brewer et al . 2011 , in preparation ) .    for each deflector",
    "we compute the posterior probability distribution function of the parameters by comparing the models with the multi - colour images using the dedicated code developed by one of us ( mwa ; see also * ? ? ?",
    "replaces the functionality of standard codes like , by enabling a full exploration of the likelihood surface as well as joint analysis of multiband data .",
    "furthermore , spasmoid models fit the multi - band imaging simultaneously with the same effective radius , and the bulge effective radius is constrained to be smaller than the disk effective radius .",
    "this ensure self - consistent colors even with data of varying depth as a function of wavelength .",
    "the most probable values of the parameters are given in table  [ tab : structure ] .    ) , the middle panel shows the distribution of deflector redshifts , and the bottom panel shows the distribution of axis ratios .",
    "systems discovered prior to cycle  16s are plotted in red , our new systems are shown in black .",
    "solid histograms represent secure lenses ( a ) , hatched histograms represent probable and possible lenses ( b and c ) , while open histograms represent non - lenses ( x ) .",
    "note that our cycle  16s strategy targeted preferentially lower velocity dispersion and axis ratio systems , in order to select disk edge - on galaxies .",
    "note also how the confirmation rate increases with @xmath4 , as expected .",
    "[ fig : hist ] ]    .",
    "the black lines represent the total mass density profile , the red lines represent the contribution of the bulge , and the blue lines represent that of the disk .",
    "profiles for both the salpeter and chabrier imf are shown .",
    "the top panel shows the profiles of secure ( a ) lenses , the middle panel shows the profile of probable ( b ) and possible ( c ) lenses , and the bottom panel shows the non - lenses ( x ) .",
    "note that the bulge always dominates the enclosed average mass at small radii , while the disks start to provide a non - negligible contribution on scales of a kpc or larger .",
    "[ fig : kappaprof],title=\"fig : \" ] .",
    "the black lines represent the total mass density profile , the red lines represent the contribution of the bulge , and the blue lines represent that of the disk .",
    "profiles for both the salpeter and chabrier imf are shown .",
    "the top panel shows the profiles of secure ( a ) lenses , the middle panel shows the profile of probable ( b ) and possible ( c ) lenses , and the bottom panel shows the non - lenses ( x ) .",
    "note that the bulge always dominates the enclosed average mass at small radii , while the disks start to provide a non - negligible contribution on scales of a kpc or larger .",
    "[ fig : kappaprof],title=\"fig : \" ] .",
    "the black lines represent the total mass density profile , the red lines represent the contribution of the bulge , and the blue lines represent that of the disk .",
    "profiles for both the salpeter and chabrier imf are shown .",
    "the top panel shows the profiles of secure ( a ) lenses , the middle panel shows the profile of probable ( b ) and possible ( c ) lenses , and the bottom panel shows the non - lenses ( x ) .",
    "note that the bulge always dominates the enclosed average mass at small radii , while the disks start to provide a non - negligible contribution on scales of a kpc or larger .",
    "[ fig : kappaprof],title=\"fig : \" ]    , the red histogram represents lenses discovered prior to cycle  16s ; the black solid , hatched and empty histograms represent lenses targeted in cycle  16 , identified respectively as secure , probable and possible , and not - lenses . note how no lens was confirmed with stellar einstein radius below @xmath5 .",
    "[ fig : histo2 ] ]      stellar mass estimates for the bulge and disk components of each candidate were derived by comparing multiband photometry with stellar population synthesis models @xcite .",
    "the method we employ provides not only stellar masses but also uncertainties that take into account all the relevant degeneracies between , e.g. , age and metallicity of the stellar populations .",
    "the dominant systematic uncertainty is the unknown normalisation of the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "determining the absolute normalisation of the imf is one of the goals of the swells survey ( see paper  ii ) . for the moment ,",
    "we adopt two popular choices for the imf , which are believed to bracket the appropriate range for spiral galaxies @xcite .",
    "stellar masses for these @xcite and @xcite imfs are given in table  [ tab : structure ] .",
    "the overall success rate for confirmation of swells candidates in cycle  16s is @xmath6% ( 8/19 ) for a - grade and @xmath7% ( 9/19 ) for a+b - grade lenses .",
    "as expected , this is somewhat lower than the confirmation rate for massive early - type galaxies in the slacs survey , due to the fact that our galaxies are on average less massive : the einstein radii are smaller and occupy a smaller fraction of the sdss fiber . furthermore , identifying multiple images is inherently more difficult behind spiral deflectors , due to the complexity of their surface brightness distribution and the presence of dust .    we can investigate the selection function more quantitatively by studying the stellar mass structure of the deflectors and correlations of its properties with the confirmation rate . mass and surface mass density are expected to be the key parameters determining the lensing strength of a galaxy .",
    "we will therefore investigate the dependency of confirmation rate on several proxies for mass and density .",
    "first , in figure  [ fig : kappaprof ] we show the average stellar mass within circular apertures , expressed in units of the critical density @xmath8 , where @xmath9 @xmath10 and @xmath11 are the angular diameter distance to the source , to the deflector and between the deflector and the sources , respectively ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : kappaprof ] , the enclosed average stellar mass density is always dominated by the bulge in the inner parts , although the disk starts to contribute significantly beyond 1  kpc .",
    "all of the secure systems have deflectors of uniformly high density , above critical density well beyond one kpc , even for a chabrier imf .",
    "the not - lenses span a broader range in surface mass densities including several systems that are significantly underdense compared to the grade - a systems .",
    "three out of four of the x - grade lenses do not have a detectable bulge component ( to our sensitivity limit of m@xmath12m@xmath2 ) .",
    "in a circularly symmetric system the einstein radius corresponds to the radius within which the average mass density equals the critical density @xcite . in order to obtain a proxy for the einstein radius",
    "even when no lensing is detected we define the `` stellar einstein radius '' as the radius within which the average stellar mass density equals the critical density .",
    "note that high resolution multi - band imaging is necessary to estimate this quantity robustly .",
    "clearly this is only an approximation for non - circular systems , and will be a lower limit to the true einstein radius if dark matter is present .",
    "we are now in a position to study the distribution of integrated stellar mass  @xmath13 , bulge - to - total stellar mass ratio  @xmath14 and stellar einstein radii for the swells targets .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : histo2 ] all three quantities correlate at some level with confirmation rate .",
    "most of the not - lenses are found at small @xmath13 , small @xmath14 , and small stellar einstein radius .",
    "however , the correlation is not perfect : b and c grade lenses are found even at m@xmath15 and b / t@xmath16 .",
    "all three objects with no detected bulge turned out to be not - lenses .",
    "perhaps the cleanest predictor of confirmation is stellar einstein radius : there are no confirmed lenses below @xmath5 even though there are probable and possible lenses well above @xmath17 .    in conclusion , the selection function of the new swells targets is complex and comprised of multiple steps . in the first one , we preselect based on sdss images edge - on late type galaxies",
    "this is extremely efficient in producing a sample of lenticular and spiral galaxies .",
    "the second step , confirmation as a lens system , depends on the properties of the deflector but also has a stochastic component .",
    "denser systems produce larger einstein radii , which in turn make the lensing effect more likely and easier to detect at resolution .",
    "in addition , the relative position on the sky of the source and deflector , as well as the broad band surface brightness of the source , ultimately control the presence of detectable multiple imaging .",
    "a third layer of complication is added by the presence of dust lanes and small scale structure in the surface brightness distribution of the deflector , which may complicate identification of multiple images even for a perfectly good strong lensing system . in the next section",
    "we will investigate the effective selection function of the swells sample by comparing the properties of the swells deflectors with those of a typical sample of spiral galaxies .",
    "understanding the selection function of any observational sample is essential , both in order to generalise results to its parent population , as well as to compare across samples . in the case of the swells sample the selection function of the deflectors is sufficiently complicated that it is extremely hard to compute it accurately from first principles .",
    "we therefore take an alternative approach and reconstruct the basic features of the selection function _ a posteriori _ by comparing the properties of the slacs detectors to those of a suitable comparison sample of non - lens galaxies",
    ". the comparison sample should be as close as possible in terms of controllable galaxy parameters , so that significant differences might be interpreted unambiguously as due to the lensing selection effect .",
    "it is particularly useful to perform this comparison for both confirmed lenses and not - confirmed lenses as this will help separate the effects of our sdss - based pre - selection from those related to the ability of the deflectors to produce detectable strong lensing events .    among the quantities that are well - studied and available for large samples of galaxies , stellar mass and size ( and therefore density )",
    "are particularly interesting and likely to influence the lensing selection function .",
    "we therefore choose to focus on the size - stellar mass correlation as our comparison tool ( for a similar analysis of the slacs sample , based on the fundamental plane relation see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    a suitable comparison sample for the swells",
    "dataset is its parent sample , the sdss - dr7 database itself .",
    "we adopt the results of the recent structural analysis performed by l.  simard and collaborators ( 2011 , in preparation ) .",
    "these authors fit two - dimensional models to the sdss images , using the same parametrisation for bulge and disk as was adopted in this study .",
    "the range in redshift and stellar mass of their sample is very similar to ours , and the parent sample is the same . to minimise differences with our sample ,",
    "we construct the size mass relation for the sdss sample limited to @xmath180.6 .",
    "following @xcite , we construct the size - mass relationship separately for the bulge , disk , and total size , adopting the semi - major axis size for all three components .",
    "in contrast to @xcite we do not apply any selection based on stellar mass or spectral type . to minimise the impact of measurement biases",
    "we perform the comparison by also using sizes and stellar masses estimated using sdss images for our sample of lenses dex ) , consistent with the findings of @xcite .",
    "in contrast , the -determined sizes are on average @xmath19 ( disk ) and @xmath20 dex ( bulge ) smaller than those determined from sdss images , with larger differences for the smaller objects .",
    "these differences are likely due to the higher spatial resolution of and/or a longer wavelength range used for our fits . ] . the size - mass relation for sdss and for our deflector galaxies",
    "is shown in figure  [ fig : sizemass ] .",
    "the top panel shows the relation between the total half light radius and total stellar mass .",
    "the middle panel shows the relation between the half light radius of the disk and the total stellar mass .",
    "the bottom panel shows the relation between the half light radius of the bulge and the total stellar mass . as a population ,",
    "the deflector galaxies are consistent with being drawn from the sdss parent population .",
    "we quantify this statement by comparing the vertical offset of each data point with the mean and standard deviation of the correlation , and computing a @xmath21 goodness of fit statistic .",
    "we find @xmath22 respectively for total , disk , and bulge , with 27 degrees of freedom for total and bulge and 26 for disk ( one galaxy was omitted because of an unphysically small size returned by the sdss catalogue , @xmath23 kpc ) .",
    "this shows that our selection of targets _ at fixed stellar mass _ is unbiased with respect to the parent sdss population once the @xmath24 cut is taken into account .",
    "clearly however , the distribution along the size - mass relation is very different than that of the parent sample , since our target list was comprised almost exclusively of systems with mass above 10@xmath25 m@xmath2 by design .",
    "it is also interesting to consider whether the distribution of confirmed lenses is consistent with that of the parent population , or whether the confirmation rate appears to be a function of , e.g. , stellar mass density . by comparing the solid ( grade a lenses ) and open points ( grade b , c , x ) in figure  [ fig : sizemass ]",
    ", it appears that the solid points tend to lie preferentially somewhat below the open points .",
    "however , the difference is not significant .",
    "even if we restrict to only the a grade lenses , they still appear to be consistent with the size mass relation of the sdss parent population , at fixed stellar mass ( @xmath26 for 16 degrees of freedom , respectively for total , disk , and bulge component ) .    .",
    "the points represent the swells galaxies : solid squares are secure lenses ( a ) , open stars are probable and possible lenses ( b and c ) , while open squares are not lenses ( x ) .",
    "red symbols identify pre - cycle  16s targets , while black symbols identify cycle  16s targets .",
    "the top panel shows the total semi - major axis effective radius as a function of total stellar mass .",
    "the middle panel shows the semi - major axis effective radius of the disk component as a function of total stellar mass .",
    "the bottom panel shows the semi - major axis effective radius of the bulge component as a function of total stellar mass .",
    "we use the symbol @xmath27 to identify the semi - major axis effective radius as measured from sdss images , to distinguish it clearly from the circularized half - light radius measured from hst images and given in table  [ tab : structure ] .",
    "[ fig : sizemass ] ]",
    "finding spiral lens galaxies is more difficult than finding early - type lens galaxies for two reasons : 1 ) spiral galaxies tend to be less massive and less dense than early - type galaxies , and they therefore produce smaller image separations ; 2 ) their complex surface brightness distribution and the presence of dust makes it hard to identify multiple images if they are present .    for these reasons",
    "a crucial element for the success of this search was the availability of multi - colour high resolution imaging data .",
    "however , for any given candidate it is not clear _ a priori _ which band will be most useful . in general ,",
    "the slacs sources are by selection star - forming and therefore blue ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and stand out the most in the f450w filter . a good example of this phenomenon is j1117@xmath284704 , where the quadruply imaged source near the centre gradually disappears moving to longer wavelengths . in some cases , however , the presence of dust makes the infrared data crucial for studying the multiple images .",
    "an example of this phenomenon is j1703@xmath282451 , where the lensed source is barely visible in the optical images , while it is obvious in the infrared one .",
    "interestingly , two of the lenses were confirmed purely on the basis of @xmath29 ao imaging .",
    "it appears that multiband photometry is an essential ingredient for future studies . at optical wavelengths",
    "is the only option for the time being . with current technology ao",
    "is only feasible for @xmath301/3 of high latitude targets , and therefore a combination of ao ( when possible ) and ( when ao is not possible ) observations seems to be the most cost - effective strategy for the infrared .",
    "the other crucial ingredient is angular resolution .",
    "this is useful especially for the detection of compact sources or central counter - images .",
    "limited resolution is one of the reasons why we do not confirm any lens with stellar einstein radius significantly smaller than one arcsecond .",
    "a good example of this phenomenon is j0841@xmath283824 , where the counter - image is clearly visible in @xmath31-band , but not at the lower resolution @xmath32-band , even though this may in part be due to colour variations .",
    "the wfpc2 images obtained in cycle  16s significantly under - sample the native psf .",
    "better - sampled images with acs or wfc3-uvis may result in an improved success rate .",
    "higher resolution red / infrared images from next generation advanced optics or from the james webb space telescope might combine the advantages of dust removal and angular resolution , even though colour contrast may still make blue / uv images competitive .",
    "alternatively one may restrict the search to the systems with larger stellar einstein radii to maximize success .",
    "however , high - resolution multiband images are needed to estimate this quantity accurately and therefore it does not appear a viable strategy for a large sample .",
    "furthermore , one has to be mindful of the astrophysical implications of such a selection against objects where dark matter contributes significantly to the central mass density or where the imf normalization is higher than normally assumed . not to mention that finding lenses with small einstein radii is astrophysically interesting in its own right , in order to probe the structure of the lower mass galaxies and those with smaller bulges .    in terms of future prospects",
    "it seems that another way to improve the success rate would be to target emission lines in the sources at high resolution .",
    "this would be an efficient way to disentangle light from the source and deflector , and distinguish without any doubt multiple images from peculiar features in the surface brightness of the deflector .",
    "the rich filter complement of wfc3 aboard makes it the most promising instrument for this purpose .",
    "targeting infrared lines might mitigate the effects of foreground extinction , although with the present targets only paschen @xmath0 is accessible with decent strehl and the line is typically too faint for present day integral field spectrographs , even on large 8 - 10 m telescopes .",
    "a tunable filter or custom - made filters will be necessary to pursue this goal .",
    "alternatively , one could target lines in the radio mapping co transitions or hi .",
    "alma and ska will have the resolution and sensitivity to measure emission line maps of the source _ and _ lens , and will thus also offer the ability to measure kinematics of the lens and of the source .",
    "molecular gas tends to trace the stars , so any source that is visibly lensed should also be lensed in co. neutral gas tends to be more extended ( typically by a factor of 2 or more ) than stars and molecular gas so this will increase the chances of strong lensing .",
    "the goal of the swells ( sloan wfc edge - on late - type lens survey ) is to study the distribution of luminous and dark matter in disk galaxies . with this goal in mind",
    "we have assembled an unprecedented sample of  candidate gravitational lens systems , where the deflector is a high inclination disk galaxy .",
    "the sample is comprised of  systems previously discovered by the slacs survey for which we have obtained follow - up multiband high resolution imaging , and 19 new targets .",
    "the new targets were selected from the sdss database to have multiple redshifts in the sdss fiber , as well as elongated morphology .",
    "we present multi - colour imaging of the sample , as well as structural parameters derived from this data for the whole sample .",
    "we then study the properties of the deflectors and compare them to a sample of non - lens galaxies selected from sdss with the same criteria as our lens targets .",
    "our main results can be summarised as follows :    1 .   of the 19 new targets ,",
    "are classified as a - grade ( secure ) lenses ,  is classified as b - grade ( probable ) ,  are classified as c - grade ( possible ) , and  are classified as x - grade ( not lenses ) .",
    "our global success rate in cycle  16s was @xmath33 for a - grade lenses .",
    "the total number of a - grade lenses in the swells sample is . 2 .",
    "all the deflector galaxies have prominent disks observed at high inclination , by design . however , the sample spans a broad range of morphological and spectral types .",
    "it includes early - type spirals and lenticulars as well as later - type spirals , galaxies with strong h@xmath0 emission and galaxies with no detectable h@xmath0 emission .",
    "the stellar bulge to disk ratio of confirmed lenses range between 0.22 and 0.85 , with an average of 0.55 .",
    "all confirmed lenses have stellar masses above 10@xmath25 m@xmath2 and stellar einstein radii above @xmath5 .",
    "none of the low stellar mass density targets is confirmed to be a strong lens , consistent with the idea that stellar mass ( as opposed to dark matter ) dominates the mass density profile at the scales of a few kpc .",
    "the swells targets and confirmed lenses follow the same size - stellar mass relation as a comparison sample of high - elongation ( @xmath24 ) non - lens galaxies selected from the sdss survey .",
    "this implies that , _ at given stellar mass _ , swells lenses are consistent with being representative of the overall population of high - elongation galaxies as identified by sdss .",
    "we conclude our study by summarising some of the lessons learnt during this search .",
    "key elements for a successful disk lens search appear to be high resolution images spanning from the blue to the near infrared , to exploit colour contrast as well as low dust extinction .",
    "the main remaining limitation is our ability to disentangle light from the deflector and source .",
    "future studies should increase their success rate by targeting emission lines in the source at high resolution , via narrow band imaging or integral field spectroscopy .",
    "we thank matteo barnab for useful discussions and suggestions .",
    "tt acknowledges support from the nsf through career award nsf-0642621 , and from the packard foundation through a packard research fellowship .",
    "aad acknowledges financial support from a cita national fellowship , from the national science foundation science and technology center cfao , managed by uc santa cruz under cooperative agreement no .",
    "aad and dck were partially supported by nsf grant ast 08 - 08133 , and by hst grants ar-10664.01-a , hst ar-10965.02-a , and hst go-11206.02-a .",
    "pjm was given support by the tabasgo and kavli foundations , and the royal society , in the form of research fellowships .",
    "lvek acknowledges the support by an nwo - vidi programme subsidy ( programme number 639.042.505 ) .",
    "this research is supported by nasa through hubble space telescope programs go-10587 , go-11202 , and go-11978 , and in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "phy99 - 07949 . and",
    "is based on observations made with the nasa / esa hubble space telescope and obtained at the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 , and at the w.m .",
    "keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w.m .",
    "keck foundation .",
    "the authors wish to recognize and acknowledge the very significant cultural role and reverence that the summit of mauna kea has always had within the indigenous hawaiian community .",
    "we are most fortunate to have the opportunity to conduct observations from this mountain .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii was provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss was managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.",
    "the parent sample for the new swells lens search consists of all sdss dr7 spectra with either good or marginal plate quality that are classified by the sdss spectroscopic reduction pipeline as galaxies .",
    "noise estimates for all spectra were rescaled on a plate - by - plate basis to be consistent with the statistics of sky - subtracted sky spectra on that plate .    the spectroscopic selection algorithm of the original slacs sample and our new swells sample both rely upon subtracting a model for the continuum of the foreground galaxy and scanning the residual spectrum for higher redshift emission features . for slacs",
    ", these models were taken directly from the sdss redshift pipeline , and consist of the best - fit combination of 4 pca - derived eigenspectra .",
    "for the absorption - dominated systems typical of slacs , these models provide essentially noise - limited subtraction of the foreground galaxy continua .",
    "however , for emission - line foreground spectra , the quality of continuum subtraction with these models is much worse .",
    "hence , we derived new continuum models by ( 1 ) generating a new pca basis with 7 eigenspectra , and ( 2 ) masking all common emission features in the foreground galaxy spectra before fitting each spectrum with this basis .",
    "the new models were subtracted from the target spectra , and the residual spectra were scanned automatically for either ( 1 ) multiple emission lines at a single background redshift , or ( 2 ) a single emission line consistent with a marginally resolved [ oii]3727 doublet .",
    "potential [ oii ] identifications were all checked for the presence of veto lines that would indicate h@xmath0 , [ oiii]5007 , or h@xmath34 as a more likely identification .",
    "neighboring fibers in the multifiber spectrograph image were also checked to make sure that candidate [ oii ] detections were not due to crosstalk from bright emission lines in adjacent spectra , or to small - scale auroral emission in the night sky .                                                    , e. , dunkley , j. , nolta , m.  r. , bennett , c.  l. , gold , b. , hinshaw , g. , jarosik , n. , larson , d. , limon , m. , page , l. , spergel , d.  n. , halpern , m. , hill , r.  s. , kogut , a. , meyer , s.  s. , tucker , g.  s. , weiland , j.  l. , wollack , e. , & wright , e.  l. 2009 , apjs , 180 , 330                            , d.  n. , bean , r. , dor , o. , nolta , m.  r. , bennett , c.  l. , dunkley , j. , hinshaw , g. , jarosik , n. , komatsu , e. , page , l. , peiris , h.  v. , verde , l. , halpern , m. , hill , r.  s. , kogut , a. , limon , m. , meyer , s.  s. , odegard , n. , tucker , g.  s. , weiland , j.  l. , wollack , e. , & wright , e.  l. 2007 , apjs , 170 , 377"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the relative contribution of baryons and dark matter to the inner regions of spiral galaxies provides critical clues to their formation and evolution , but it is generally difficult to determine . for spiral galaxies that are strong gravitational lenses , however , the combination of lensing and kinematic observations can be used to break the disk - halo degeneracy . in turn , </S>",
    "<S> such data constrain fundamental parameters such as i ) the mass density profile slope and axis ratio of the dark matter halo , and by comparison with dark matter - only numerical simulations the modifications imposed by baryons ; ii ) the mass in stars and therefore the overall star formation efficiency , and the amount of feedback ; iii ) by comparison with stellar population synthesis models , the normalization of the stellar initial mass function . in this first paper of a series </S>",
    "<S> , we present a sample of 16 secure , 1 probable , and 6 possible strong lensing spiral galaxies , for which multi - band high - resolution images and rotation curves were obtained using the hubble space telescope and keck - ii telescope as part of the sloan wfc edge - on late - type lens survey ( swells ) . </S>",
    "<S> the sample includes 8 newly discovered secure systems . </S>",
    "<S> we characterize the sample of deflector galaxies in terms of their morphologies , structural parameters , and stellar masses . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the swells sample of secure lenses spans a broad range of morphologies ( from lenticular to late - type spiral ) , spectral types ( quantified by h@xmath0 emission ) , and bulge to total stellar mass ratio ( 0.22 - 0.85 ) , while being limited to m@xmath1 m@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> the swells sample is thus well - suited for exploring the relationship between dark and luminous matter in a broad range of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the deflector galaxies obey the same size - mass relation as that of a comparison sample of elongated non - lens galaxies selected from the sdss survey . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the swells sample is consistent with being representative of the overall population of high - mass high - inclination disky galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : spiral  galaxies : structure  galaxies : haloes  galaxies : fundamental parameters  gravitational lensing </S>"
  ]
}