{
  "article_text": [
    "colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) are one of the most important tools available to astronomers for studying stellar evolution , stellar populations and star clusters . and yet , there remain several features found in cmds whose origins are still a mystery .",
    "examples include horizontal branch ( hb ) morphology , the presence of extended horizontal branch ( ehb ) stars , and blue stragglers ( bss ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "previous studies have shown that the observed differences in the hbs of milky way globular clusters ( gcs ) are related to metallicity @xcite , however at least one additional parameter is required to explain the spread in their colours .",
    "many cluster properties have been suggested as possible second and third parameters , including age , central density and cluster luminosity , although no definitive candidates have been identified ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "an explanation to account for the existence of bss has proved equally elusive .",
    "many bs formation mechanisms have been proposed , including stellar collisions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and binary mass - transfer @xcite",
    ". however , no clear evidence has yet emerged in favour of a dominant formation mechanism .    in short ,",
    "we still do not understand how many of the physical processes operating within star clusters should affect the appearance of cmds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in general , the importance of these processes can be constrained by looking for correlations between particular features in cmds and cluster properties that serve as proxies for different effects .",
    "for example , the central density can be used as a rough proxy for the frequency with which close dynamical encounters occur .",
    "similarly , the cluster mass can be used as a proxy for the rate of two - body relaxation .",
    "once the relevant effects are accounted for , cmds can continue to provide an ideal tool to further our understanding of stellar evolution , stellar populations and star clusters .",
    "it is now clear that an important interplay occurs in clusters between stellar dynamics and stellar evolution .",
    "for example , dynamical models have shown that star clusters expand in response to mass - loss driven by stellar evolution , particularly during their early evolutionary phases when massive stars are still present ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "mass - loss resulting from stellar evolution has also been proposed to cause horizontal branch stars to exhibit more extended radial distributions relative to red giant branch and main - sequence turn - off ( msto ) stars in globular clusters having short central relaxation times relative to the average hb lifetime ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this can be understood as follows .",
    "red giant branch ( rgb ) stars should be more mass segregated than other stellar populations since they are among the most massive stars in gcs .",
    "hb stars , on the other hand , are much less massive since rgb stars experience significant mass loss upon evolving into hb stars .",
    "consequently , two - body relaxation should act to re - distribute hb stars to wider orbits within the cluster potential relative to rgb and msto stars @xcite , provided the average hb lifetime is shorter than the central relaxation time .",
    "studies have shown that the radial distributions of the hb populations in some gcs could differ from those of other stellar populations .",
    "for instance , @xcite presented evidence that blue hb stars could be more centrally concentrated than red hb and sub - giant branch stars in the gc ngc 1851 .",
    "conversely , @xcite showed that blue hb stars could be centrally depleted relative to other stellar types in the gc ngc 6205 . to date , no clear evidence has been found linking the spatial distributions of hb stars to any global cluster properties .",
    "peculiar trends have also been reported for the radial distributions of rgb stars .",
    "for example , a deficiency of bright red giants has been observed in the gc ngc 1851 ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "@xcite discussed the possibility that this deficiency could be the result of strong mass loss on the rgb .",
    "alternatively , some authors have suggested that dynamical effects could deplete red giants .",
    "for instance , giants could experience collisions more frequently than other stellar populations due to their larger cross - sections for collision @xcite",
    ".    one important example of the interplay that occurs in clusters between stellar evolution and stellar dynamics can be found in the study of blue stragglers . found commonly in both open and globular clusters , bss",
    "are thought to be produced by the addition of hydrogen to the cores of low - mass main - sequence ( ms ) stars , and therefore appear as an extension of the msto in cluster cmds @xcite .",
    "this can occur via multiple channels , most of which involve the mergers of low - mass ms stars since a significant amount of mass is typically required to reproduce the observed locations of bss in cmds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "stars in close binaries can merge if enough orbital angular momentum is lost , which can be mediated by dynamical interactions with other stars , magnetized stellar winds , tidal dissipation or even an outer triple companion ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "alternatively , ms stars can collide directly , although this is also thought to usually be mediated by multiple star systems ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "finally , bss have also been hypothesized to form by mass - transfer from an evolving primary onto a normal ms companion via roche lobe overflow @xcite .",
    "whatever the dominant bs formation mechanism(s ) operating in dense star clusters , it is now thought to somehow involve multiple star systems .",
    "this was shown to be the case in even the dense cores of gcs @xcite where collisions between single stars are thought to occur frequently @xcite . in @xcite",
    ", we showed that the numbers of bss in the cores of a large sample of gcs correlate with the core masses .",
    "we argued that our results are consistent with what is expected if bss are descended from binary stars .",
    "@xcite also showed that at least @xmath0 of the bss in the old open cluster ngc 188 have binary companions .",
    "although the nature of these companions remains unknown , it is clear that binaries played a role in the formation of these bss .",
    "dynamical interactions occur frequently enough in dense clusters that they are also expected to be at least partly responsible for the observed properties of bss .",
    "it follows that the current properties of bs populations should reflect the dynamical histories of their host clusters . as a result",
    ", bss could provide an indirect means of probing the physical processes that drive star cluster evolution .    in this paper , we present a homogeneous catalogue for red giant branch , main - sequence turn - off , horizontal branch and blue straggler stars in a sample of 35 milky way ( mw ) gcs taken from the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) survey for globular clusters @xcite . with this catalogue ,",
    "we investigate two important issues related to stellar populations in gcs .",
    "first , we test the observational correlation found for bss presented in @xcite by re - doing the study with newer and more accurate photometry . the larger spatial coverage considered in our new sample offers an important additional constraint for the origin of this correlation .",
    "second , we perform the same statistical comparison for rgb , hb and msto stars in order to study their radial distributions .",
    "this will allow us to test some of the results and hypotheses introduced in @xcite , where we first presented this technique for studying stellar populations . in particular , we found evidence for a surplus of rgb stars in low - mass gc cores relative to msto stars .",
    "however , we concluded that the study needed to be re - done with better photometry .",
    "the acs data are of sufficiently high quality to address this issue .    in section  [ method ] , we present our selection criteria to determine the numbers of bs , rgb , hb and msto stars located in the central cluster regions .",
    "the spatial coverage of the photometry extends out to several core radii from the cluster centre for most of the clusters in our sample . for these clusters ,",
    "we have obtained number counts within several circles centred on the cluster centres provided in @xcite for various multiples of the core radius .",
    "this catalogue is presented in section  [ results ] . in this section ,",
    "we also present a comparison between the sizes of the different stellar populations and the total stellar masses contained within each circle and annulus .",
    "finally , we discuss our results for both bss and the other stellar populations in section  [ discussion ] .",
    "in this section , we present our sample of cmds and define our selection criteria for each of the different stellar populations .",
    "we also discuss the spatial coverage offered by the acs sample , and describe how we obtain estimates for several different fractions of the total cluster mass from king models .",
    "the data used in this study consists of a sample of 35 mw gcs taken from the acs survey for globular clusters @xcite .",
    "the acs survey provides unpecedented deep photometry in the f606w ( @xmath1 v ) and f814w ( @xmath1 i ) filters that is nearly complete down to @xmath2 m@xmath3 . in other words ,",
    "the cmds extend reliably from the hb all the way down to about 7 magnitudes below the msto .",
    "we have confirmed that the photometry is nearly complete above at least 0.5 magnitudes below the msto for every cluster in our sample .",
    "this was done using the results of artificial star tests taken from @xcite , and confirms that the photometric quality of the stellar population catalogue presented in this paper is very high .",
    "we have also considered foreground contamination by field stars , and it is negligible .",
    "each cluster was centred in the acs field , which extends out to several core radii from the cluster centre in most clusters and , in a few cases , beyond even 15 core radii .",
    "coordinates for the cluster centres were taken from @xcite .",
    "these authors found their centres by fitting a series of ellipses to the density distributions within the inner 2 of the cluster centre , and computing an average value .",
    "the core radii were taken from @xcite .      in order to select the number of stars belonging to each stellar population",
    ", we define a series of lines in the ( f606w - f814w)-f814w plane that act as boundaries enclosing each of the different stellar populations .",
    "to do this , we fit theoretical isochrones taken from @xcite to the cmds of every cluster in our sample .",
    "each isochrone was generated using the metallicity and age of the cluster , and fit to its cmd using the corresponding distance modulus and extinction provided in @xcite .",
    "the msto was then defined using our isochrone fits by selecting the bluest point along the ms .",
    "this acts as our primary point of reference for defining the boundaries in the cmd for the different stellar populations .",
    "consequently , the selection criteria provided in this paper are a significant improvement upon the criteria presented in @xcite , and our new catalogue for the different stellar populations is highly homogeneous",
    ".    two additional points of reference must also be defined in order for our selection criteria to be applied consistently from cluster - to - cluster .",
    "first , the selection criteria for the hb are determined by fitting a line through the approximate mid - point of the points that populate it in the cmd .",
    "this line is then used to define upper and lower boundaries for the hb .",
    "theoretical isochrones become highly uncertain at the hb , so it is necessary to specify this additional criterion by eye .",
    "second , the lower boundary of the rgb is defined for each cluster as the point along its isochrone corresponding to a helium core mass of 0.08 m@xmath3 .",
    "we do not include rgb stars brighter than the hb since the tilt of the upper rgb varies significantly from cluster - to - cluster , presenting a considerable challenge for the consistency of our selection criteria .",
    "moreover , the distinction between rgb and asymptotic giant branch stars in the cmd is often ambiguous .",
    "example selection criteria for each of the different stellar populations are shown in figure  [ fig : fig1 ] .",
    "formal definitions for the boundaries in the cluster cmd that define the bs , rgb , hb and msto populations are provided in appendix  [ appendix ] .",
    "we note that the sizes of our selection boxes have been chosen to accomodate the photometric errors , which contribute to broadening the various evolutionary sequences in the cmd . with superior photometry",
    ", the sizes of our selection boxes could therefore be reduced .",
    "this would further decrease contamination from field stars in our samples .    ]",
    "the acs field of view extends out to several core radii from the cluster centre for nearly every cluster in our sample .",
    "consequently , we have obtained estimates for the number of stars contained within four different circles centred on the central cluster coordinates provided in @xcite .",
    "we list these numbers only for clusters for which the indicated circle is completely sampled by the field of view .",
    "the radii of the circles were taken to be integer multiples of the core radius , and we focus our attention on the inner four core radii since the field of view extends beyond this for only a handful of the clusters in our sample .",
    "an example of this is shown in figure  [ fig : fig2 ] .",
    "the numbers we list are cumulative , so that entries for each circle include stars contained within all smaller circles .    ]      in order to obtain accurate estimates for the total stellar mass contained within each circle , we generated single - mass king models calculated using the method of @xcite to obtain luminosity density profiles for the majority of the clusters in our sample .",
    "the profiles were obtained using the concentration parameters of @xcite and the central luminosity densities of @xcite for each cluster in @xcite that overlaps with our sample .",
    "we then integrated the derived luminosity density profiles numerically in order to estimate the total stellar light contained within each circle .",
    "after removing clusters with high concentration parameters @xcite for which king models are known to provide a poor fit , we multiplied the total stellar light by a mass - to - light ratio of 2 in order to obtain estimates for the total stellar mass contained within each circle . calculating the total stellar mass contained within each circle from king models requires a number of assumptions that we will discuss fully in section  [ discussion ] .",
    "in this section , we present our catalogue along with the results of our comparisons between the sizes of the different stellar populations and the total stellar mass contained within each circle and annulus .      the numbers of bs , rgb , hb and msto stars found within several different circles are shown for all clusters in table  [ table : catalogue ] , along with the total number of stars with magnitudes brighter than 0.5 mag below the msto .",
    "number counts are only shown whenever the spatial coverage is complete within the indicated circle .",
    "how can we use our catalogue to learn which , if any , cluster properties affect the appearance of cmds ?",
    "one way to accomplish this is by plotting the size of a given stellar population in a particular circle versus the total stellar mass contained within it . from this",
    ", lines of best fit can be found that provide equations relating the size of each stellar population to the total stellar mass contained within each circle .",
    "as described below , this is ideal for probing the effects of the cluster dynamics on the appearance of cmds .",
    "the rate of two - body relaxation for a cluster can be approximated using the half - mass relaxation time @xcite : @xmath4^{3/2}n^{1/2}[m / m_{\\odot}]^{-1/2 } years,\\ ] ] where @xmath5 is the half - mass radius , @xmath6 is the total number of stars within @xmath5 and @xmath7 is the average stellar mass .",
    "the half - mass radii of mw gcs are remarkably similar independent of mass , and simulations have shown that @xmath5 changes by a factor of at most a few over the course of a cluster s lifetime @xcite .",
    "the gcs that comprise our sample show a range of masses spanning roughly 3 orders of magnitude , and have comparably old ages @xcite .",
    "therefore , equation  [ eqn : t - rh ] suggests that the degree of dynamical evolution ( due to two - body relaxation ) experienced by a cluster is primarily determined by the total cluster mass for the gcs in our sample . in particular , more massive clusters",
    "are less dynamically evolved , and vice versa .",
    "consequently , if the size of a given stellar population is affected by two - body relaxation , the effects should be the most pronounced in the least massive clusters in our sample .",
    "additionally , the rate of ( direct ) stellar collisions increases with increasing cluster mass ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this suggests that , if a given stellar population is affected by collisions , the effects should be the most pronounced in the most massive clusters in our sample .",
    "therefore , by comparing the size of each stellar population to the total stellar mass contained within a given circle , the effects of the cluster dynamics can be quantified .",
    "this technique also ensures a normalized and consistent comparison since it accounts for cluster - to - cluster differences in the fractional area sampled by the acs field of view .",
    "that is , we are consistently comparing the same structural area for each cluster .",
    "the validity and implications of all of these assumptions will be discussed further in section  [ discussion ] .",
    "plots showing the number of stars belonging to each stellar population as a function of the total stellar mass contained within each circle are shown in figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_cum ] .",
    "uncertainties for the number of stars belonging to each stellar population were calculated using poisson statistics .",
    "we also plot in figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_noncum ] the number of stars belonging to each stellar population as a function of the total stellar mass contained in each annulus outside the core .",
    "that is , we considered the populations for each annulus individually , as opposed to considering every star with a distance from the cluster centre smaller than the radius of the outer - most circles . recall that we have neglected clusters for which our theoretical king models provide a poor description of the true density distributions .",
    "this was the case for clusters in our sample having a high concentration parameter , most of which are labelled as post - core collapse in @xcite .    , @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "blue corresponds to blue stragglers , red to red giant branch stars , green to horizontal branch stars and black to main - sequence turn - off stars .",
    "estimates for the total stellar mass contained within each circle were found using single - mass king models , as described in section  [ king ] .",
    "[ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_cum ] ]    .",
    "[ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_noncum ] ]    we performed a weighted least - squares fit for every relation in figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_cum ] and figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_noncum ] . slopes and y - intercepts for these lines are shown in table  [ table : mshell_vs_npop_cum ] and table  [ table : mshell_vs_npop_noncum ] , respectively .",
    "uncertainties for the slopes and y - intercepts were found using a bootstrap methodology in which we generated 1,000 fake data sets by randomly sampling ( with replacement ) number counts from the observations .",
    "we obtained lines of best fit for each fake data set , fit a gaussian to the subsequent distribution and extracted its standard deviation .",
    "as shown in table  [ table : mshell_vs_npop_cum ] , the power - law index is sub - linear for bss within the core at much better than the @xmath11 confidence level , and it is consistent with the slope obtained in our earlier analysis presented in @xcite .",
    "the slopes for the bss are also sub - linear at better than the @xmath11 confidence level for all circles outside the core .",
    "this is also the case for all annuli outside the core , as shown in table  [ table : mshell_vs_npop_noncum ] .",
    "note , however , that the uncertainties for the bs slopes are very large for all annuli outside the core , whereas this is not always the case for corresponding circles outside the core .",
    "this is the result of the fact that the number of bss drops off rapidly outside the core in several clusters so that the corresponding poisson uncertainties , which are given by the square - root of the number of bss , are significant .",
    "the rapid decline of bs numbers with increasing distance from the cluster centre in these clusters has also contributed to an increased degree of scatter in the relations for annuli outside the core relative to the corresponding relations for circles outside the core .",
    "the slopes are consistent with being linear for all other stellar populations in the core within their respective @xmath11 confidence intervals .",
    "this agrees with the results of our earlier analysis presented in @xcite when we performed the comparison using the total core masses .",
    "the slopes are also consistent with being linear for all circles outside the core for both hb and msto stars .",
    "the power - law indices are sub - linear at the @xmath11 confidence level only for rgb stars , and this is only the case for circles outside the core .",
    "the power - law index is nearly unity for the core rgb population , yet the associated uncertainty is very large . upon closer inspection ,",
    "the distribution of power - law indices obtained from our bootstrap analysis for rgb stars in the core is strongly bi - modal , with comparably - sized peaks centred at @xmath12 and @xmath13 .",
    "this bi - modality is most likely an artifact of our bootstrap analysis caused by a chance alignment of data points in the log m@xmath14-log n@xmath15 plane . upon performing the comparison for only those stars found within particular annuli",
    ", our results suggest that the slopes are consistent with being sub - linear for all stellar populations at the @xmath11 confidence level in only the annulus immediately outside the core ( i.e. @xmath16 ) .",
    "the slopes are consistent with being linear for rgb , hb and msto stars in all other annuli .",
    "we also tried performing the same comparisons using the total number of stars in each circle and annulus as a proxy for the total stellar mass . in this case , the slopes are sub - linear for bss within all circles and annuli at the @xmath11 confidence level .",
    "once again , the uncertainties are very large for all annuli outside the core , whereas this is not the case for corresponding circles outside the core . the slopes are consistent with being linear within the @xmath17 confidence interval for all other stellar populations in all circles and annuli .",
    "our results are therefore inconsistent with those presented in @xcite for the core rgb populations , in which we found that rgb numbers scale sub - linearly with the number of stars in the core at the @xmath11 confidence level .",
    "we will discuss the implications of these new results in section  [ discussion ] .      as a check of our previous results reported in @xcite",
    ", we also looked for a correlation between the observed number of bss in the cluster core and the number predicted from single - single ( 1 + 1 ) collisions .",
    "the results of this comparison are shown in figure  [ fig : ncoll_vs_nbs ] .",
    "we define the predicted number of bss formed from 1 + 1 collisions as @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the average bs lifetime and @xmath20 is the average time between 1 + 1 collisions in the cluster core .",
    "we adopt the same definition for @xmath20 as used in @xcite , and assume @xmath21 gyrs as well as an average stellar mass and radius of @xmath22 m@xmath3 and @xmath22 r@xmath3 , respectively .",
    "we also adopt a constant mass - to - light ratio of @xmath23 for all clusters .",
    "central luminosity densities and velocity dispersions were taken from @xcite and @xcite , respectively .    upon performing a weighted line of best fit for every cluster in our sample that overlaps with the catalogue of @xcite ,",
    "we find a power - law index of @xmath24 ( the uncertainty was found using the bootstrap methodology described in section  [ statistics ] ) . for the subset of dense clusters having a central luminosity density satisfying log @xmath25",
    ", we find a power - law index of @xmath26 .",
    "as before , we find no significant correlation with collision rate , even for the subset of dense clusters .",
    "although we do find a weak dependence of bs numbers on collision rate for the entire sample , this is not unexpected since the collision rate and the core mass are themselves correlated , and our results suggest that there exists a strong correlation between bs numbers and the core masses .     versus the logarithm of the observed number of bss in the core n@xmath27 .",
    "filled circles correspond to clusters having central luminosity densities satisfying log @xmath28 , whereas open triangles correspond to dense clusters for which log @xmath25 .",
    "the adopted definition for n@xmath29 has been provided in the text . [",
    "fig : ncoll_vs_nbs ] ]",
    "in this paper , we have presented a catalogue for bs , rgb , hb and msto stars in a sample of 35 gcs .",
    "our catalogue provides number counts for each stellar population within several different circles centred on the cluster centre .",
    "the radii of the circles were taken to be integer multiples of the core radius , and we have focussed on the inner four core radii since the field of view extends beyond this for only a handful of the clusters in our sample .",
    "particular consideration was given to our selection criteria for the different stellar populations in order to ensure that they were applied consistently from cluster - to - cluster .",
    "in particular , we have improved upon our previous selection criteria @xcite by fitting theoretical isochrones to the cluster cmds .",
    "this provides an unambiguous definition for the location of the msto , which acts as the primary point of reference for the application of our selection criteria . as a result ,",
    "our new catalogue is highly homogeneous .",
    "we have used our catalogue to quantify the dependence of the size of each stellar population on the total stellar mass enclosed within the same radius . as described in section  [ statistics ] , this provides a means of quantifying the effects , if any , had by the cluster dynamics in shaping the appearance of cmds above the msto .",
    "below , we summarize the implications of our results for each of the different stellar populations .      we have confirmed our previous result that the numbers of bss in the cores of gcs scale sub - linearly with the core masses @xcite .",
    "that is , we find proportionately larger bs populations in low - mass gcs .",
    "there exist several possibilities that could explain the origin of this sub - linear dependence .",
    "first , we previously suggested that this could be an artifact of an anticorrelation between the binary fraction and the cluster ( or core ) mass @xcite .",
    "this assertion stems from the fact that , if bss have a binary origin , we expect their numbers to scale with the core mass as @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the binary fraction in the core .",
    "as before , we find that @xmath32 .",
    "our result could therefore be explained if @xmath33 .",
    "second , we suggested in @xcite that the fact that the least massive gcs in our sample should be more dynamically evolved than their more massive counterparts could be contributing to the observed sub - linearity for bss . in particular , the low - mass clusters in our sample should have experienced a significant depletion of their very low - mass stars as a result of stellar evaporation induced by two - body relaxation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in turn",
    ", this could contribute to a higher fraction of merger products having masses that exceed that of the msto in low - mass gcs . as a result",
    ", more merger products would appear brighter and bluer than the msto in these clusters cmds , leading to more merger products being identified as bss .",
    "finally , mass segregation could also be contributing to the observed sub - linear dependence for bss .",
    "again , this is the result of the fact that the rate of two - body relaxation , and therefore dynamical friction , is in general the fastest in low - mass clusters .",
    "bss are among the most massive stars in gcs , so they should rapidly migrate into the core via dynamical friction in clusters for which the half - mass relaxation time is shorter than the average bs lifetime .",
    "it follows that proportionately more bss could have drifted into the core via dynamical friction in low - mass gcs .",
    "this would also contribute to the observed sub - linear dependence of bs numbers on the core masses .",
    "this last hypothesis can be tested by comparing our scaling relations for progressively larger circles outside the core .",
    "if mass segregation is indeed the cause of the observed sub - linear dependence of bs numbers on the core masses , then we might expect the power - law index to systematically increase as we consider progressively larger circles .",
    "that is , we could be including more bss that have not yet migrated into the core via dynamical friction , particularly in the most massive clusters in our sample . however , our results suggest that the power - law index remains roughly constant for all circles .",
    "this is the case for both the comparison to the total stellar masses as well as to the total number of stars contained in each circle .",
    "the fact that these relations are comparably sub - linear within all circles can be interpreted as evidence that mass segregation is not the dominant effect contributing to the observed sub - linear dependence of bs numbers on the total stellar masses ( or the total number of stars ) .",
    "we note that for many of the clusters in our sample , the spatial coverage is comparable to or exceeds the half - mass radius .",
    "this is a sufficiently large fraction of the total cluster area for our comparison to be sensitive to the effects of mass segregation .    on the other hand ,",
    "several gcs are known to show evidence for a bi - modal bs radial distribution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "that is , in these clusters the number of bss is highest in the central cluster regions and decreases with increasing distance from the cluster centre until a second rise in bs numbers occurs in the cluster outskirts .",
    "this seconary outer peak has been shown to occur at a distance from the cluster centre that exceeds 20 core radii in several cases .",
    "consequently , the spatial coverage provided by the acs data likely does not extend sufficiently far in most clusters to detect any bi - modality in the bs radial distribution . nonetheless , if applied to a statistically - significant sample for which the spatial coverage is complete out to the tidal radius , the technique we have presented in this paper could provide a powerful constraint for the origin of the bi - modal bs radial distribution observed in several mw gcs by addressing the role played by mass segregation .",
    "we also tried to correlate the number of bss observed in the cluster core with the number predicted from single - single collisions .",
    "as in @xcite , we find that bs numbers depend strongly on core mass , but not on collision rate .",
    "this also proved to be the case for the subset of dense clusters satisfying log @xmath25 .",
    "our previous interpretation that our results provide strong evidence for a binary , as opposed to a collisional , origin for bss in gcs therefore remains the same .",
    "the technique used in this paper to compare the sizes of the different stellar populations was first presented in @xcite . in that study",
    ", we introduced our method and applied it to a sample of 56 gcs taken from @xcite in order to study their rgb populations .",
    "our results were consistent with a sub - linear dependence of rgb numbers on the core masses . in particular , we found evidence for a surplus of rgb stars relative to msto stars in the cores of low - mass gcs .",
    "we considered several possible causes for this result , but concluded that our analysis should ideally be repeated with superior photometry in order to properly assess effects such as completeness .",
    "given the high - quality of the acs data , we are now in a position to reassess our previous result for rgb stars .    upon applying our technique to the acs sample , we find that the numbers of rgb stars scale linearly with the core masses to within one standard deviation .",
    "this is also the case for our comparison to the total number of stars in the core .",
    "this suggests that we should reject our previous conclusions for this stellar population reported in @xcite .",
    "specifically , if we take a strict @xmath11 limit as our criterion for whether or not the slopes are sub - linear at a statistically significant level , then the core rgb slope reported in this paper is consistent with being linear whereas this was not the case for the core rgb slope reported in @xcite . however , if we take a more stringent criterion for statistical significance , then there is no inconsistency between our new and old results for rgb stars , and both slopes are consistent with being linear .",
    "we also tried comparing the rgb catalogue presented in this paper with the one presented in @xcite .",
    "this showed that the old rgb numbers are slightly deficient relative to the new numbers at the high - mass end . although this difference is not sufficiently large to completely account for the difference in slopes ( for the comparison with the core mass ) found between our new and old rgb catalogues , it works in the right direction and is likely a contributing factor . if our uncertainties are also factored in , then our new and old slopes agree to within one standard deviation ( due mainly to the large uncertainty for the new slope ) .",
    "the source of the disagreement between our old and new rgb catalogues is unclear , and we can not say whether or not incompleteness ( in the old data set ) is the culprit .",
    "the results of our artificial star tests have at least confirmed that incompleteness is not an issue for our new catalogue , however it could certainly have contributed to the lower rgb numbers reported in @xcite .",
    "indeed , the central cluster density tends to be higher in more massive clusters , which should negatively affect completeness .",
    "it is not clear , however , why this would have affected rgb stars more than msto stars in the old data set . given all of these considerations , we feel that our new results show that this issue needs to be looked at in more detail before any firm conclusions can be drawn .",
    "the evidence in favour of rgb numbers scaling linearly with the core masses is interesting .",
    "for one thing , it suggests that two - body relaxation does not significantly affect rgb population size relative to other stellar populations of comparable mass in even the dense central regions of gcs .",
    "this is not surprising , since two - body relaxation is a long - range effect for which the stellar radius plays a negligible role .",
    "second , it suggests that collisions do not significantly deplete rgb stars relative to other stellar populations despite their much larger radii .",
    "this is because the collision rate increases with increasing cluster mass , so we would expect rgb stars to appear preferentially depleted in massive clusters if they are significantly affected by collisions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "third , it suggests that the sub - linear relation found for bss does not contribute to a sub - linear relation for rgb stars despite the fact that bss should eventually evolve to occupy our rgb selection box , as discussed in @xcite .",
    "this is likely the result of the relatively small sizes of the bs populations in our sample when compared to the numbers of rgb stars since the rate at which evolved bss ascend the rgb is thought to be comparable to the rgb lifetimes of regular msto stars @xcite .",
    "alternatively , this result could , at least in part , be explained if a smaller fraction of bss end up sufficiently bright and blue to be identified as bss in the cmds of massive gcs . in other words , it could be that a larger fraction of bss are hidden along the ms in massive clusters , as discussed in section  [ bss ] . in this case",
    ", the contributions to rgb populations from evolved bss could be comparable in all clusters , in which case a linear relationship between rgb numbers and the core masses would be expected .",
    "finally , evolved bss would be expected to have a negligible impact on rgb population size if the average bs lifetime is considerably longer than the lifetimes of rgb stars .",
    "this effect is difficult to quantify , however , given that bs lifetimes are poorly constrained in the literature ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "our results suggest that hb numbers scale linearly with the core masses .",
    "this can be interpreted as evidence that two - body relaxation does not significantly affect the radial distributions of hb stars in gcs relative to the other stellar populations above the msto .",
    "one reason to perhaps expect that two - body relaxation should affect the spatial distributions of hb stars stems from the fact that rgb stars are among the most massive stars in clusters , and they undergo significant mass loss upon evolving into hb stars .",
    "consequently , the progenitors of hb stars should be heavily mass segregated .",
    "hb stars themselves , however , have relatively low - masses so that two - body relaxation and strong dynamical encounters should act to re - distribute them to wider orbits within the cluster potential .",
    "the hb lifetime is roughly constant at @xmath34 years @xcite and it is comparable to or exceeds the core relaxation times for most of the low - mass clusters in our sample @xcite .",
    "therefore , we might expect the hb populations in these clusters to exhibit more extended radial profiles relative to more massive clusters .",
    "this would contribute to a sub - linear relationship between the numbers of hb stars and the core masses .",
    "our uncertainties are sufficiently large that this possibility can not be entirely ruled out , however our results are consistent with a linear relationship between hb numbers and the core masses .",
    "recent observations have revealed the presence of multiple stellar populations in a number of mw gcs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the majority of these cases have been reported in very massive clusters .",
    "moreover , their existence is thought to be related to the chemical properties of gcs , in particular an observed anticorrelation between their sodium and oxygen abundances . in turn , these chemical signatures have been argued to be linked to the cluster metallicity , mass and age @xcite .",
    "we identified clusters in our sample currently known to host multiple stellar populations , but none of these were clear outliers in our plots .",
    "consequently , the effects had on our results by multiple stellar populations remains unclear .",
    "it is certainly possible that multiple stellar populations have contributed to the uncertainties for the weighted lines of best fit performed for the relations in figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_cum ] and figure  [ fig : mshell_vs_npop_2x2_noncum ] .",
    "it is difficult to quantify the possible severity of this effect , however , given the limited evidence linking multiple stellar populations to cluster properties .",
    "although the uncertainties are sufficiently large that the slopes are consistent with being linear at the @xmath11 confidence level for all stellar populations when performing the comparisons with the total stellar mass , the reported slopes are typically less than unity within the @xmath17 , and often even the @xmath35 , confidence interval . this does not appear to result from the fact that we have obtained our estimates for the total stellar masses by numerically integrating 3-dimensional density distributions and are comparing to number counts , which are projected quantities . to address this , we also tried obtaining the total stellar masses by numerically integrating 2-dimensional surface brightness profiles so that we are consistently comparing only projected quantities . despite this , our results remain unchanged and the new slopes agree with the old ones to within one standard deviation for all stellar populations .",
    "another possibility to account for this trend that is perhaps worth considering is a systematic dependence of the mass - to - light ratios of clusters on their total mass .",
    "there are two ways this could have affected our analysis .",
    "first , stellar remnants have been shown to affect the dynamical evolution of clusters , and therefore the sizes of their cores ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it follows that , if the number of stellar remnants depends on the cluster mass , then this could contribute to an additional underlying dependence of the core radius on the cluster mass .",
    "this could perhaps arise as a result of the fact that the ratio of the rate of stellar evolution to the rate of dynamical evolution is larger in more massive clusters , since in general the rate of two - body relaxation decreases with increasing cluster mass whereas the rate of stellar evolution is independent of the cluster mass .",
    "coupled with their deeper gravitational potential wells , this could contribute to more massive clusters retaining more stellar remnants .",
    "second , variations in the mass - to - light ratios of clusters can also occur as a result of changes in the average stellar mass ( not including stellar remnants ) @xcite .",
    "that is , we can approximate the total stellar mass contained in the core as : @xmath36 where @xmath37 is the mass - to - light ratio , @xmath38 is the central luminosity density , @xmath7 is the average stellar mass and @xmath39 is the total number of stars in the core . based on our results , @xmath40 , where we have used the total number of stars in the core with magnitudes brighter than 0.5 mag below the msto as a proxy for @xmath39 .",
    "this could suggest that @xmath41 .",
    "in other words , the average stellar mass in the core decreases weakly with increasing core mass .",
    "this could in part be due to the fact that more massive clusters should be less dynamically evolved than their less massive counterparts , and should therefore be less depleted of their low - mass stars due to stellar evaporation induced by two - body relaxation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "similarly , mass segregation should also tend to operate more rapidly in low - mass clusters , which acts to migrate preferentially massive stars into the core @xcite .",
    "alternatively , differences in the stellar mass function in the core could result from variations in the degree of primordial mass segregation , or even variations in the initial stellar mass function .",
    "we have assumed throughout our analysis that the core mass is a suitable proxy for the total cluster mass .",
    "we have checked that these two quantities are indeed correlated , however this does not tell the whole story since we are also using the total cluster mass as a proxy for the degree of dynamical evolution .",
    "the central concentration parameter , defined as the logarithm of the ratio of the tidal to core radii , describes the degree to which a cluster is centrally concentrated .",
    "previous studies have shown that there exists a weak correlation between the concentration parameter and the total cluster mass ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in order to better use our technique to reliably probe the effects of the cluster dynamics on the sizes and radial distributions of the different stellar populations , the concentration parameter should ideally be accounted for when applying our normalization technique in future studies .",
    "it is not yet clear how the concentration parameter can be properly absorbed into the normalization , however its effect on our analysis should be small given the weak dependence on cluster mass .",
    "the assumption that the degree of dynamical evolution experienced by a given cluster depends only on its mass is also incorrect .",
    "two - body relaxation has been shown to dominate cluster evolution for a significant fraction of the lives of old mw gcs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , however other effects can also play a significant role .",
    "for example , stellar evolution is known to affect the dynamical evolution of star clusters , although its primary role is played during their early evolutionary phases ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "tidal effects from the galaxy have also been shown to play an important role in deciding the dynamical fates of clusters by increasing the rate of mass loss across the tidal boundary ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "consequently , clusters with small perigalacticon distances should appear more dynamically evolved than their total mass alone would suggest .",
    "this effect can be significant , and has likely contributed to increasing the uncertainties found for the comparisons to the total stellar mass .",
    "therefore , tidal effects from the galaxy should also ideally be absorbed into our normalization technique in future studies .",
    "this can be done by using the perigalacticon distances of clusters as a rough proxy for the degree to which tides from the galaxy should have affected their internal dynamical evolution @xcite .",
    "interestingly , tides could also help to explain why the uncertainties for the comparisons to the total number of stars in each circle are considerably smaller than for the comparisons to the total stellar mass .",
    "we have used the number of stars with magnitudes brighter than 0.5 mag below the msto as a proxy for the total number of stars .",
    "consequently , we are comparing stars within a very narrow mass range , so that all populations of interest should have been comparably affected by two - body relaxation ( except , perhaps , for hb stars ) independent of tidal effects from the galaxy .",
    "in other words , tides should affect all stars above the msto more or less equally , and this is consistent with our results .",
    "it is also worth mentioning here that our king models consider only a single stellar mass .",
    "this assumption is not strictly true and could also be contributing to increasing the uncertainties found for the comparisons to the total stellar masses .",
    "an additional concern is that we do not know if the clusters in our sample are currently in a phase of core contraction or expansion .",
    "this has a direct bearing on the recent history of the stellar density in the core , and therefore the degree to which stars in the core should have been affected by close dynamical interactions .",
    "these effects are independent of two - body relaxation and occur on a time - scale that is typically much shorter than the half - mass relaxation time @xcite",
    ". the effects could be significant in clusters that were recently in a phase of core - collapse but have since rebounded back out of this highly concentrated state .",
    "this could occur , for example , as a result of binary formation induced by 3-body interactions combined with their subsequent hardening via additional encounters @xcite .",
    "in general , binaries play an important role in the dynamical evolution of clusters , and could have affected our results in a number of ways .",
    "this is a difficult issue to address even qualitatively given how little is currently known about the binary populations in globular clusters .",
    "theoretical models suggest , however , that the time - scale for core contraction is often longer than a hubble time , and that this evolutionary phase will only come to an end once the central density becomes sufficiently high for hardening encounters involving binaries to halt the process @xcite .",
    "it follows that the cores of most mw gcs are expected to currently be in a phase of core contraction .",
    "this process is ultimately driven by two - body relaxation , so that our assumption that the total cluster mass provides a suitable proxy for the degree of dynamical evolution is still valid .    in summary , our results suggest that effects related to the cluster dynamics do not significantly affect the relative sizes of the different stellar populations above the msto .",
    "this is the case for at least rgb , hb and msto stars .",
    "bss , on the other hand , show evidence for a sub - linear dependence of population size on the total stellar mass contained within the same radius .",
    "whether or not the cluster dynamics is responsible for this sub - linearity is still not clear .",
    "notwithstanding , our results have provided evidence that mass segregation is not the dominant cause for this result , although it will be necessary to redo the comparison performed in this study with a larger spatial coverage in order to fully address this question .",
    "further insight into the origin of the sub - linearity found for bss will be provided by reliable binary fractions for the clusters in our sample , which are forthcoming ( sarajedini 2010 , private communication ) .",
    ".stellar population catalogue [ cols=\"<,<,<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this section , we present our selection criteria for bs , rgb , hb and msto stars .",
    "our method is similar to that described in @xcite , and we have used this as a basis for the selection criteria presented in this paper .",
    "first , we define a location for the msto in the ( f606w - f814w)-f814w plane using our isochrone fits .",
    "the msto is chosen to be the bluest point along the ms of each isochrone , which we denote by ( ( v - i)@xmath42,i@xmath42 ) . in order to distinguish bss from msto stars , we impose the conditions :    @xmath43    where the slope of this line is @xmath44 and its y - intercept is given by : @xmath45    similarly , we distinguish bss from hb stars by defining the following additional boundaries : @xmath46 where @xmath47 , @xmath48 and @xmath49 .",
    "we also define : @xmath50 and @xmath51 , where @xmath52 roughly corresponds to the mid - point of points that populate the hb and is chosen by eye for each cluster so that our selection criteria best fits the hb in all of the cmds in our sample .",
    "we apply a similar set of conditions to the rgb in order to select stars belonging to this stellar population .",
    "these boundary conditions are : @xmath53 where @xmath54 , @xmath55 is defined as the f814w magnitude corresponding to a core helium mass of 0.08 m@xmath3 and : @xmath56    core helium - burning stars , which we refer to as hb stars , are selected if they satisfy one of the following sets of criteria : @xmath57 @xmath58 or @xmath59 we define @xmath60 on a cluster - by - cluster basis in order to ensure that we do not over- or under - count the number of hb stars .",
    "this is because the precise value of ( f606w - f814w ) at which the hb becomes the rgb varies from cluster - to - cluster .",
    "in addition , the precise location of the transition in the cluster cmd between hb and ehb stars remains poorly understood . to avoid this ambiguity ,",
    "we consider hb and ehb stars together throughout our analysis , and collectively refer to all core helium - burning stars as hb stars throughout this paper .",
    "finally , msto stars are selected according to the following criteria : @xmath61",
    "we would like to thank ata sarajedini , aaron dotter and roger cohen for providing the data on which this study was based and for their extensive support in its analysis .",
    "we would also like to thank evert glebbeek for useful discussions .",
    "this research has been supported by nserc and ogs .",
    "ambartsumian v. a. 1938 , ann .",
    "leningrad state univ . , 22 , 19 ; english translation : ambartsumian v.a . , 1985 , in dynamics of star clusters , iau symp .",
    "113 , eds .",
    "goodman j. & hut p. ( dordrecht : reidel ) , 521 anderson j. , sarajedini a. , bedin l. r. , king i. r. , piotto g. , reid i. n. , siegel m. , majewski s. r. , paust n. e. q. , aparicio a. , milone a. p. , chaboyer b. , rosenberg a. 2008 , aj , 135 , 2055 applegate j. h. 1986 , apj , 301 , 132 beccari g. , ferraro f. r. , possenti a. , valenti e. , origlia l. , rood r. t. 2006 , aj , 131 , 2551 beers m. e. , davies m. b. 2004 , mnras , 348 , 679 buonanno r. , corsi c. , bellazzini m. , ferraro f. r. , fusi pecci f. 1997 , aj , 113 , 706 carretta e. , bragaglia a. , gratton r. g. , recio - blanco a. , lucatello s. , dorazi v. , cassisi s. 2010 , a&a , 516 , 55 chernoff d. f. , weinberg m. d. 1990 , apj , 351 , 121 cohen r. l. , guhathakurta p. , yanny b. , schneider d. p. , bahcall j. n. 1997 , aj , 113 , 669 davies m. b. , piotto g. , de angeli f. 2004 , mnras , 348 , 129 de angeli f. , piotto g. , cassisi s. , busso g. , recio - blanco a. , salaris m. , aparicio a. , rosenberg a. 2005 , aj , 130 , 116 de marchi g. , paresce f. , portegies zwart s. 2010 , apj , 718 , 105 dervisoglu a. , tout c. a. , ibanoglu c. 2010 , mnras , 406 , 1071 djorgovski s. , meylan g. 1994 , aj , 108 , 1292 dotter a. , chaboyer b. , jevremovic d. , baron e. , ferguson j. w. , sarajedini a. , anderson j. 2007 , aj , 134 , 376 dotter , a. , sarajedini a. , anderson j. , aparicio a. , bedin l. r. , chaboyer b. , majewski s. , marin - franch a. , milone a. , paust n. , piotto g. , reid n. , rosenberg a. , siegel m. 2010 , apj , 708 , 698 farouki r. t. , salpeter e. e. 1982 , apj , 253 , 512 ferraro f. r. , messineo m. , fusi pecci f. , de palo m. a. , straniero o. , chieffi a. , limongi m. 1999 , aj , 118 , 1738 fregeau j. m. , cheung p. , portegies zwart s. f. , rasio f. a. 2004 , mnras , 352 , 1 fregeau j. m. , ivanova n. , rasio f. a. 2009 , apj , 707 , 1533 fukushige t. , heggie d. c. 1995 , mnras , 276 , 206 fusi pecci f. , ferraro f. r. , corsi c. e. , cacciari c. , buonanno r. 1992 , aj , 104 , 1831 fusi pecci f. , ferraro f. r. , bellazzini m. , et al .",
    "1993 , aj , 105 , 1145 gieles m. , baumgardt h. , heggie d. , lamers h. 2010 , mnras , 408 , l16 gieles m. , heggie d. , zhao h. 2011 , mnras , accepted goldsbury r. , richer h. b. , anderson j. , dotter a. , sarajedini a. , woodley k. 2010 , aj , 140 , 1830 harris , w. e. 1996 , aj , 112 , 1487 ( 2010 update ) heggie d. c. , hut p. 2003",
    ", the gravitational million - body problem : a multidisciplinary approach to sar cluster dynamics ( cambridge : cambridge university press ) henon m. 1960 , annales dastrophysique , 23 , 668 henon m. 1973 , dynamical structure and evolution of dense stellar systems , ed . l. martinet & m. mayor ( geneva obs . ) hut p. , bahcall j. n. 1983 , apj , 268 , 319 iannicola g. , monelli m. , bono g. , stetson p. b. , buonanno r. , calamida a. , zoccali m. , caputo f. , castellani m. , corsi c. e. , dallora m. , cecco a. di , deglinnocenti s. , ferraro i. , nonino m. , pietrinferni a. , pulone l. , moroni p. g. prada , romaniello m. , sanna n. , walker a. r. 2009 , apj , 696 , l120 iben i. jr .",
    "1991 , apjs , 76 , 55 king i. r. , sosin c. , cool a. m. 1995 , apj , 452 , l33 knigge c. , leigh n. w. , sills a. 2009 , nature , 457 , 288 kruijssen j. m. d. , mieske s. 2009 , a&a , 500 , 785 lanzoni b. , dalessandro e. , perina s. , ferraro f. r. , rood r. t. , sollima a. 2007 , apj , 670 , 1065 lee h. m. , fahlman g. g. , richer h. b. 1991 , apj , 366 , 455 leigh n. w. , sills a. , knigge c. 2007 , apj , 661 , 210 leigh n. w. , sills a. , knigge c. 2008 , apj , 678 , 564 leigh n. w. , sills a. , knigge c. 2009 , mnras , 399 , l179 leigh n. w. , sills a. 2010 , mnras , 410 , 2370 leonard p.",
    "j. t. 1989 , aj , 98 , 217 leonard p. j. t. , linnell a. p. 1992",
    ", aj , 103 , 1928 li l. , zhang f. 2006 , mnras , 369 , 2001 mapelli m. , sigurdsson s. , ferraro f. r. , colpi m. , possenti a. , lanzoni b. 2006 , mnras , 373 , 361 mathieu r. d. , geller a. r. 2009 , nature , 462 , 1032 mccrea w. h. 1964 , mnras , 128 , 147 mclaughlin d. e. 2000 , apj , 539 , 618 mclaughlin d. e. , van der marel r. p. 2005 ,",
    "apjs , 161 , 304 meylan g. , heggie d. c. 1997 , a&ar , 8 , 1 murray n. 2009 , apj , 691 , 946 pancino e. , seleznev a. , ferraro f. r. , bellazzini m. , piotto g. 2003 , mnras , 345 , 683 perets h. b. , fabrycky d. c. 2009 , apj , 697 , 1048 peterson r. c. , carney b. w. , dorman b. , green e. m. , landsman w. , liebert j. , oconnell r. w. , rood r. t. 2003 , apj , 588 , 299 piotto g. , king i. r. , djorgovski s. g. , sosin c. , zoccali m. , saviane i. , de angeli f. , riello m. , recio - blanco a. , rich r. m. , meylan g. , renzini a. 2002 , a&a , 391 , 945 portegies zwart s. f. , hut p. , makino j. , mcmillan s. l. w. 1998 , a&a , 337 , 363 rood r. t. 1973 , apj , 184 , 815 sandage a. r. 1953 , aj , 58 , 61 sandage a. , wallerstein g. 1960 , apj , 131 , 598 sandquist e. l. , bolte m. , hernquist l. 1997 , apj , 477 , 335 sandquist e. l. , martel a. r. 2007 , apjl , 654 , l65 sarajedini a. , bedin l. r. , chaboyer b. , dotter a. , siegel m. , anderson j. , aparicio a. , king i. , majewski s. , marin - franch a. , piotto g. , reid i. n. , rosenberg a. , steven m. 2007 , aj , 133 , 1658 saviane i. , piotto g. , fagotto f. , zaggia s. , capaccioli m. , aparicio a. 1998 , a&a , 333 , 479 shara m. m. , drissen l. , bergeron l. e. , paresce f. 1995 , apj , 441 , 617 sigurdsson s. , phinney e. s. 1995 , apjs , 99 , 609 sills a. , bailyn c. d. 1999 , apj , 513 , 428 sills a. r. , faber j. a. , lombardi j. c. , rasio f. a. , waren a. r. 2001 , apj , 548 , 323 sills a. , karakas a. , lattanzio j. 2009 , apj , 692 , 1411 spitzer l. jr .",
    ", harm r. 1958 , apj , 127 , 544 spitzer l. jr .",
    "1969 , apj , 168 , l139 spitzer l. jr .",
    ", hart m. h. 1971 , apj , 166 , 483 spitzer l. jr .",
    ", shull j. m. 1975 , apj , 200 , 339 spitzer l. 1987 , dynamical evolution of globular clusters ( princeton : princeton university press ) trenti m. , vesperini e. , pasquato m. 2010 , apj , 708 , 1598 webbink r. f. structure parameters of galactic globular clusters . in goodman , j. & hut , p. ( eds . )",
    "dynamics of star clusters , vol .",
    "113 of iau symposium , 541 - 577 ( 1985 ) .",
    "zinn r. , barnes s. 1996 , aj , 112 , 1054"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a homogeneous catalogue for blue straggler , red giant branch , horizontal branch and main - sequence turn - off stars in a sample of 35 clusters taken from the acs survey for globular clusters . as a result of the superior photometry and relatively large field of view offered by the acs data , </S>",
    "<S> this new catalogue is a significant improvement upon the one presented in @xcite . using our catalogue , </S>",
    "<S> we study and compare the radial distributions of the different stellar populations .    </S>",
    "<S> we have confirmed our previous result @xcite that there is a clear , but sub - linear , correlation between the number of blue stragglers found in the cluster core and the total stellar mass contained within it . by considering a larger spatial extent than just the core </S>",
    "<S> , our results suggest that mass segregation is not the dominant effect contributing to the observed sub - linearity . </S>",
    "<S> we also investigate the radial distributions of the different stellar populations in our sample of clusters . </S>",
    "<S> our results are consistent with a linear relationship between the number of stars in these populations and the total mass enclosed within the same radius . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , we conclude that the cluster dynamics does not significantly affect the relative distributions of these populations in our sample .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : blue stragglers  globular clusters : general  stellar dynamics  stars : statistics  catalogues . </S>"
  ]
}