{
  "article_text": [
    "the cosmological evolution survey ( cosmos ) 2  sq .",
    "field has been extensively targeted by a wide array of observations in order to probe the cosmic evolution of galaxies and the large - scale structure in which they are immersed ( scoville et al .",
    "2007a ) . with a wealth of multi - wavelength data spanning from x - rays to radio - wavelengths , and a core deep uv - optical - ir survey with the highest resolution and sensitivity offered by space facilities ( _ hst _ , _ spitzer _ , _ galex _ )",
    ", it provides a unique opportunity to study the relationships and interactions among galaxy populations selected at different wavelengths and across a wide array of environments in cosmic time .    a key contribution towards this knowledge comes from the far - ir to millimeter wavelength regime , which has been shown to uncover ultraluminous violently star - forming galaxies at high redshifts ( @xmath11 ) that would have gone undetected at traditional optical - near ir survey wavelengths due to their intrinsic high obscuration ( smail , ivison & blain 1997 , barger et al .",
    "1998 , hughes et al .",
    "1998 ) . named the ( sub-)millimeter galaxy population ( smg for sort ) , this population has been linked to the formation of massive elliptical galaxies , with large luminosities @xmath12 , large star formation rates @xmath13  yr@xmath2 , large reservoirs of gas @xmath14 , and large dynamical @xmath15  and stellar masses @xmath15(e.g .",
    "greve et al .",
    "2005 , tacconi et al .",
    "2008 , dye et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "previous mm - wavelength surveys in cosmos have covered areas which were significantly smaller than the full 2  sq .",
    "design survey and the conclusions derived from the limited number of detected galaxies suffered from large field - to - field variations .",
    "cosbo ( bertoldi et al . 2007 ) , a 1.2 mm survey carried out with the max - planck millimeter bolometer array ( mambo ) mounted on the 30 m institute for radioastronomy at millimeter wavelengths ( iram ) telescope , detected 37 candidate sources at a s / n@xmath3 in the central 0.09  sq . deg .",
    "of cosmos , which was mapped at a @xmath16 noise level of @xmath17  mjy  beam@xmath2 .",
    "an adjacent 0.15  sq .",
    "field was imaged at 1.1 mm to a 1@xmath18 level of 1.2 to 1.4  mjy  beam@xmath2 with the aztec instrument ( wilson et al .",
    "2008a ) mounted on the 15 m james clerk maxwell telescope ( jcmt ) , uncovering 50 candidate sources at a s / n@xmath3 ( scott et al .",
    "the combined area sampled by these two surveys amounts to only @xmath19  per cent of the total @xmath20 cosmos area .",
    "field - to - field variations in the derived overall properties of smgs , such as number counts , redshift distributions , or clustering , had already been reported in these kinds of smaller ( @xmath21 sq .",
    "deg . ) fields and attributed both to variance due to the intrinsically small volume sampled by the surveys ( e.g. coppin et al .",
    "2006 , aretxaga et al .",
    "2007 , wei@xmath22 et al .",
    "2009 , austermann et al . 2010 ) and to the chance amplification by a foreground population of galaxies ( almaini et al .",
    "2005 , austermann et al .",
    "indeed , the environments traced by optical - ir galaxies in the cosmos sub - fields were quite different : while the aztec survey focused on an area with an overdensity of optical - ir galaxies , cosbo sampled lower galaxy - density environments ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "a more representative survey of the cosmos field was thus necessary in order to investigate the culprits for these large variations and to characterize the global blank - field population at 1.1 mm .",
    "aztec alone has surveyed to date @xmath23  sq .",
    "deg . of the blank - field extragalactic sky at 1.1 mm , to @xmath24 to 1.4  mjy beam@xmath2 , coupled to 15 and 10 m telescopes with resolutions 18 and 30  arcsec , respectively ( scott et al . 2008 , 2010 , perera et al .",
    "2008 , austermann et al .",
    "2009 , 2010 , hatsukade et al .",
    "2011 , ikarashi et al . 2011 ) . the cosmos survey of 0.72  sq .",
    "deg . presented in this paper is the largest single - field extragalactic area mapped at 1.1 mm at these depths , and provides important constraints especially when compared to the scuba half degree extragalactic survey ( shades ) fields mapped at 1.1 mm , of comparable extension and depth ( austermann et al .",
    "2010 ) .",
    "section  2 presents the aztec / aste observations in the cosmos field ; section  3 details the data reduction processes employed to produce our 1.1 mm map ; section  4 characterizes the systematic properties of the map and derives the catalog of source candidates from our observations ; section  5 compares the aztec source catalog to other mm and radio - wavelength catalogs in cosmos ; section  6 presents the number counts over the 0.72  sq .",
    "deg . area , which shows an excess over those of the 0.5  sq deg .",
    "shades field ; section  7 explores the origins of the excess in terms of cross - correlations with the optical - ir galaxy population ; and section  8 discusses the results and summarizes our conclusions .",
    "we imaged a 2800  sq .",
    "arcmin field centered at right ascension ra(j2000.0)=@xmath25 and declination dec(j2000.0)= @xmath26 with aztec mounted on the 10 m aste ( ezawa et al . 2004 , 2008 ) , located at 4800 m in the atacama desert of chile . the survey was carried out from october 20 to november 30 , 2008 , during excellent observing conditions , with mean zenith opacity , as reported by the aste monitor , @xmath27 and values of @xmath28 about 76  per cent of the time .",
    "aste was operated remotely with the n - cosmos3 network system ( kamazaki et al .",
    "2005 ) by observers deployed in san pedro de atacama ( chile ) , mitaka and nobeyama ( japan ) , amherst ( usa ) and tonantzintla ( mexico ) .",
    "a total of 112.6  hrs of on - bolometer time was devoted to this field , excluding calibration and pointing observations .",
    "the area was sampled in raster mode at 208  arcsec  s@xmath2 along 52  arcmin stripes oriented in azimuth , spaced by 1  arcmin steps in elevation . since the array orientation is fixed in azimuth and elevation , the scan angle in ra - dec continuously changes due to sky rotation , providing excellent cross - linking in the final combined image .",
    "a total of 203 raster - scan maps were acquired in cosmos during the 2008 observing season , each taking 33 minutes of observation in a single passage through the scanning area . out of the 144 nominal bolometers of aztec ,",
    "117 were operative during this season .",
    "pointing observations were acquired every half an hour to an hour , sandwiching every one to two cosmos raster - maps , depending on observing conditions .",
    "the bright qso 1055@xmath29018 , @xmath30  jy , was used to measure shifts from the standard aste pointing model .",
    "we acquired @xmath31  arcmin@xmath32 maps of our pointing target with a continuous lissajous pattern ( scott et al .",
    "2010 ) , and fitted a bi - dimensional gaussian to the resulting map .",
    "the calculated offset - corrections were not implemented in real time .",
    "instead , they were fed into a time series , and a linearly interpolated offset was applied to the telescope - pointing time series of each cosmos raster - map during the reduction process .",
    "a total of 270 pointing observations were obtained for the cosmos field during the campaign .",
    "aztec maps are calibrated using planets as primary calibrators .",
    "each night uranus or neptune was imaged in order to derive the flux conversion factor for each detector . in a single observation of a field the typical statistical calibration error",
    "is found to be @xmath33  per cent ( wilson et al . 2008a ) .",
    "this estimate is supported by the observations of pks 0537@xmath34411 , where we report a 6  per cent scatter in 31 single observations ( wilson et al .",
    "the cosmos data presented in this paper is the weighted sum of 203 observations taken over 27 days .",
    "if the nightly calibration uncertainty is as high as 13  per cent , in the absence of systematic errors , combining the 27 days of observations leaves us with a statistical calibration uncertainty of 2.5  per cent . adding this in quadrature with the 5  per cent uncertainty in the brightness temperature of uranus at 1.1 mm ( griffin & orton 1993 ) gives a 5.6  per cent overall calibration uncertainty .",
    "we reduced the aztec data in a manner similar to that described in detail by scott et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , but with an added set of steps to account for nonlinearities in our atmospheric cleaning technique . for each of our 203 observations of the cosmos field ,",
    "the raw time - stream data from the instrument , which includes both bolometer and pointing data , are despiked and then `` cleaned '' of atmospheric contamination in a row - by - row manner using our standard principal component analysis technique ( see scott et al .",
    "2008 for a description ) .",
    "an astrometric correction is made to all pointing signals in the time stream based on a linear interpolation of the pointing offsets measured by the bracketing pointing observations of the qso 1055@xmath29018 . with this correction in place ,",
    "the bolometer signals are flux - calibrated and binned into @xmath35  arcsec@xmath32 pixels . performing this process for the 203 observations of the field results in 203 nearly independent maps which are then co - added to make a preliminary image of the sky .    as in previous aztec analyses",
    ", we also produce 100 noise - only realizations of the cosmos field by jack - knifing the time - stream data on a row - by - row basis as described in scott et al .",
    "these noise maps are used extensively in the characterization of the map properties .    as a deviation from previous aztec analyses , we revise the technique presented in scott et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , used to estimate the transfer function of the correlated noise removal algorithm on point sources in the data .",
    "the previous technique estimated the transfer function by creating simulated data that contain only a point source at the center of the field and subtracting the eigenmodes identified for removal in the raw time - stream data .",
    "the revised technique differs in that the transfer function is estimated by executing the cleaning algorithm on data that combines the raw time - stream data with several simulated point sources distributed throughout the field . in the latter case ,",
    "the eigenmodes identified for removal are recalculated from the combination of all sources of signal , noise and simulated point sources . in detail , several gaussian point sources are added to the time - stream data , all map - making steps save optimal filtering are performed , and the resulting maps are differenced from the original true maps of the sky .",
    "the regions near the simulated sources are normalized , stacked and rotationally averaged to produce the point source ` kernel . ' as demonstrated in downes et al .",
    "( 2011 ) , this technique provides a better estimation of the effects of the non - linear correlated noise removal on a typical point source in the map . for the cosmos field",
    ", this has the effect of increasing the measured flux and noise values by @xmath36  per cent relative to the values obtained from the prescription in scott et al .",
    "we use this kernel to optimally filter the maps in an identical manner to that in previous aztec analyses .",
    "the final step in the analysis is to use the mean power spectral density of the noise maps and the newly estimated kernel map to construct an optimal filter for point source detection .",
    "this final set of wiener filtered maps is composed of the filtered signal map , the filtered weight map , and the corresponding signal to noise map .",
    "the 100 noise realizations are filtered with the same wiener filter and will collectively be referred to as `` noise maps '' .",
    "the inner 0.72  sq . deg .",
    "map of cosmos acquired by aztec at aste is shown in figure  [ fig : map08 ] .",
    "this area corresponds to a minimum coverage of 50  per cent of the maximum coverage attained in the map , and has been shown to provide excellent noise properties for source extraction and overall population analysis ( e.g. scott et al .",
    "the raster scan strategy for cosmos translates into very uniform noise properties along this section of the map , ranging from 1.23 to 1.27  mjy  beam@xmath2 , while at the extreme edges of the map ( not represented ) , the noise increases quickly as one moves away from the center .",
    "the overall noise of the map , characterized by the combined jack - knifed noise simulations of the individual raster - maps , is well represented by a gaussian distribution of rms 1.26  mjy  beam@xmath2 ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : fluxhisto ] ) .",
    "this value is within the noise range of our previous 0.15  sq .",
    "deg . cosmos map ( scott et al . 2008 ) .",
    "the astrometric accuracy of the aztec map is verified by stacking at the positions of 1471 radio sources in the field that are _ not _ located within 30 arcseconds of @xmath37 or greater peaks in the aztec map .",
    "the radio source locations are taken from the very large array ( vla ) 1.4ghz deep mosaic of cosmos ( schinnerer et al .",
    "2010 ) which has an rms noise level of @xmath38jy  beam@xmath2 in the central @xmath39 region , and positional accuracy better than 1  arcsec .",
    "the stacked aztec map has a bright , psf - shaped peak with s / n@xmath40 and an offset from the center of the stacked image of @xmath41  arcsec in ra and @xmath42  arcsec in dec .",
    "both of these mean offset values are small compared to the 3  arcsecond pixel size of the map and so we consider them to be too small to warrant any correction .",
    "the source extraction algorithm employed to derive the candidate source catalog is identical to that used in scott et al .",
    "we identify point sources in the 1.1 mm s / n map by searching for local maxima within 15  arcsec of pixels with s / n@xmath3 inside the 50  per cent coverage region .",
    "the 189 source candidates are marked with circles in figure  [ fig : map08 ] and listed in table  [ tab : stacks ] , together with their measured s / n , flux densities , @xmath16 photometric errors , and deboosted flux densities ( see   [ sec : num_counts ] ) .",
    "all sources in the cosmos catalog appear to be unresolved .    .aztec",
    "/ aste source catalog and ancillary sub - mm to radio photometry .",
    "the columns give ( 1 ) aztec identification number , ( 2 ) source name , ( 3 ) s / n of the detection in the aztec map , ( 4 ) measured 1.1 mm flux density , ( 5 ) deboosted flux density and 68  per cent confidence interval , ( 6 ) flux density at @xmath43 m from sma observations ( younger et al . 2007 , 2009 ) , ( 7 ) flux density at 1.2 mm from mambo ( bertoldi et al .",
    "2007 ) , ( 8) flux density at 1.4ghz from vla ( schinnerer et al . 2010 ) , ( 9 ) probability of chance association as per @xmath44-statistics , ( 10 ) angular distance to radio counterpart , and ( 11 ) notes on individual objects , including names for the source in other ( sub-)mm catalogs , where aztec_j refers to the aztec / jcmt catalog ( scott et al . 2008 ) , aztec denotes interferometric sma detections at 890@xmath45 m",
    "( younger et al . 2007 , 2009 )",
    ", mmj denotes detections at 1.2 mm by the cosbo survey performed with mambo ( bertoldi et al .",
    "2007 ) , and b indicates detection at 1.1 mm by the bolocam survey carried out at the caltech submillimeter observatory ( cso ; j. aguirre , private communication ; for a description of the survey see aguirre et al .",
    "2006 ) . also included in these notes are claims for additional radio associations ( ra ) and spectroscopic redshifts , where references are ( a ) younger et al .",
    "2007 ; ( b ) younger et al . 2009 ; ( c ) capak et al .",
    "2011 , riechers et al . 2010 ; ( d ) smolci et al . 2011 ; and ( e ) capak et al . in preparation",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,>,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]",
    "with the detection of ultra - bright smgs by aztec ( wilson et al . 2008b , ikarashi et al . 2011 ) , mambo ( lestrade et al . 2010 ) , the south pole telescope ( vieira et al . 2010 ) and the _ herschel _ satellite ( negrello et al . 2010 ) , there has been new attention given to the role that lensing plays in our view of the smg population .",
    "our aztec survey of the cosmos field offers a prime opportunity to inspect the relationship between the background smgs and the foreground large scale structure mapped out at optical - ir wavelengths over a large redshift span . indeed , with the 0.15  sq .",
    "aztec / jcmt map of cosmos austermann et al .",
    "( 2009 ) already found a significant spatial correlation between the projected foreground ( @xmath46 ) galaxy population and the 50 smg candidates . in this section",
    "we will take advantage of a much wider range of foreground large scale structures covered within the 0.72  sq .",
    "aztec / aste map of cosmos in order to test if the foreground structure significantly impacts our view of the blank - field smg population and whether this might be the likely origin of the difference in number counts between cosmos and shades .",
    "figure  [ fig : galden1 ] shows the projected density of optical - ir galaxies in the aztec field with photometric redshift @xmath47 along with the location of the 129 aztec sources with s / n @xmath48 , @xmath5  per cent of which we expect to be spurious detections .",
    "while there is no apparent correlation between the positions of both populations , we can quantify this impression by comparing the distribution of projected densities of optical - ir galaxies within 30  arcsec radii circles centered on the aztec positions with those of 30  arcsec radii circles centered on random locations in the map ( as in austermann et al .",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov ( ks ) @xmath49-test can then be used to ask with what probability we can rule out the null hypothesis that the two samples are drawn from the same parent distribution .",
    "as expected , the result , @xmath50  per cent , is consistent with no strong correlation between the optical - ir population at @xmath51 and the @xmath52 aztec catalog .",
    "performing the same test with a flux - cut on the aztec catalog results in a more significant correlation detection . considering only the 41 s / n @xmath53 sources we find @xmath54  per cent , which is tentative evidence ( at @xmath55 level ) that the null hypothesis of no correlation is rejected",
    "indeed , for the 20 aztec sources with deboosted flux - densities @xmath56  mjy we can strongly reject the null hypothesis of identity between the distributions of galaxy - densities around random positions in the aztec coverage area of the cosmos field and galaxy - densities around bright aztec sources : @xmath57  per cent ( @xmath58 ) .",
    "[ fig : twotone ]    the latest release of photometric redshifts for optical - ir selected galaxies in the cosmos field has achieved accuracies @xmath59 to @xmath60 at @xmath61 ( ilbert et al .",
    "this statistical precision allows for the identification of large - scale structure pertaining to different redshift slices ( see for example scoville et al .",
    "2007b ) . with this information in hand",
    ", we can search in redshift space for the structures that are more likely associated with the bright aztec sources .",
    "we will again compare the distributions of galaxy - densities around aztec sources and around random positions in the aztec covered cosmos area at the redshift of interest . as a reference ,",
    "if we take into account the aztec catalog of 129 s / n@xmath4 sources , there is no significant signal of statistical differences between the distributions at any redshift ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : z_contrib ] ) .",
    "however , if we restrict the analysis to the 20 sources with deboosted flux densities @xmath56  mjy , we identify the redshift ranges @xmath62 and @xmath63 as the ones in which most significant ( @xmath64 ) differences are found between the median density of galaxies around aztec sources and the median density of galaxies around random positions ( fig .",
    "[ fig : z_contrib ] ) .",
    "the same redshift bins are highlighted if the analysis focuses on the 42 sources with deboosted flux densities @xmath65  mjy , although the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis for the former redshift interval is smaller than for the later .",
    "the optical - ir galaxy density in these redshifts slices and the positioning of the bright aztec sources can be seen in figures .",
    "[ fig : galden_slice0p65 ] and [ fig : galden_slice0p24 ] . in the interval @xmath62",
    "we find that @xmath56  mjy aztec sources have a significantly denser galaxy environment than that found at random positions in the map : the null hypothesis of identity between the medians of the distributions can be rejected at a @xmath66  per cent confidence level , while for @xmath65  mjy aztec sources that level gets reduced to @xmath67  per cent . in the interval @xmath63 the reverse happens , finding that the @xmath68  mjy aztec sources have a denser environment with a significance @xmath69  per cent . the significance gets increased to @xmath70  per cent if @xmath65  mjy sources are considered .",
    "the effect seems to be carried by four @xmath71  mjy sources that coincide with large density peaks , rather than by the general population of intermediate / brightness sources , though .",
    "if one excludes the @xmath56  mjy sources from the analysis , the probability drops to @xmath72  per cent .",
    "these two redshift intervals are the same ones we identified as having the largest correlation between @xmath8 optical - ir galaxies and aztec sources for the smaller 0.15  sq .",
    "deg . field observed by aztec in the jcmt ( austermann et al .",
    "it is thus important to know if the correlations arise mainly due to the very rich clusters located in the area of the sky previously sampled , or if this is a trend observed over the larger 0.72  sq .",
    "deg . field , which might be more representative of a generic blank - field .    in austermann",
    "et al . ( 2009 ) we showed that the association of bright aztec sources around areas of large galaxy densities was not exclusively due to the presence of massive rich clusters .",
    "if we mask out the areas marked as # 1 and # 24 in figure  [ fig : galden_slice0p65 ] , which represent the fwhm of the two massive clusters at @xmath62 identified in the large - scale - structure analysis of scoville et al .",
    "( 2007b ) , and exclude the sources that fall within those areas , the probability of having a median of galaxy - densities around aztec sources larger than that of random positions by chance is only @xmath73  per cent .",
    "the distributions are shown in figure  [ fig : dennocluster ] . likewise ,",
    "if we exclude from the correlation analysis the overlapping area common to the aztec / jcmt and aztec / aste maps ( encircled in dashed blue lines in figures  [ fig : galden_slice0p65 ] and [ fig : galden_slice0p24 ] ) , the remaining 12 @xmath56  mjy sources still show a larger tendency of falling within the large galaxy - density regions mapped at optical - ir wavelengths at @xmath8 . in that case",
    ", the null hypothesis of identity between the medians of the distributions can be rejected at a @xmath74  per cent confidence level .",
    "with evidence that our detected smgs are spatially correlated with foreground ( @xmath75 ) large scale structure in the cosmos field , we now ask what effect , if any , this structure might have on our estimation of the smg number counts .",
    "we address this by first dividing the catalog into two sub - samples : smgs that lie in regions of the map with foreground galaxy densities larger than the average density of the field and smgs that lie in regions with foreground galaxy densities smaller than the average galaxy density of the field .",
    "figure  [ fig : twotone ] shows the two regions along with the respective locations of the corresponding smgs .",
    "figure  [ fig : compare_hl ] shows the number counts resulting from splitting sources in high and low foreground galaxy density environments . while none of the @xmath76 bins individually show a clear , statistically significant deviation from the mean counts over the field , the data clearly suggests that , consistent with the results of section  7 , at high fluxes ( @xmath77mjy ) the counts are systematically higher for the high foreground galaxy density sample .",
    "this result can also be made evident by representing the distribution of flux densities of the smgs that fall within the low and high galaxy - density areas of the map ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : dendencompa ] ) . the null hypothesis that the 1.1 mm flux - density distribution of sources that fall within low and high density areas are similar can be rejected , as differences as large as the one measured can only be produced by chance in 0.37  per cent of situations .",
    "the number counts for the low density galaxy sample is closer to the number counts derived for shades , if still systematically above them ( by @xmath78  per cent in flux density ) , while the high density galaxy sample aligns with the results derived for cosmos / jcmt and goods - n , ( about @xmath79  per cent offset in flux density at @xmath80mjy , compare with fig .",
    "it is thus apparent that an accurate description of the overall population will fall somewhere in between these solutions , and that despite having sampled 0.72  sq .",
    "deg . in cosmos and 0.5  sq .",
    "deg in shades at comparable noise levels , this is not yet a large enough area to avoid variance due to intrinsic clustering of the smg population and amplification by foreground structures .",
    "cc    the optical - ir galaxies that compose the cosmos galaxy density map have accurate photometric redshifts that place them at @xmath81 , while most of the redshifts of the smgs uncovered by aztec are still unknown .",
    "furthermore , the largest amplitude correlation between the positions of optical - ir galaxies and smgs occurs at @xmath82 (   7 ) , where only a @xmath83  per cent of 850@xmath45 m smgs with radio associations are statistically located ( chapman et al . 2005 ) .",
    "photometric arguments ( fig .  9 ,   5.3 ) ,",
    "place the majority of aztec smgs at @xmath84 ( see also younger et al . 2007 , 2009 ) and the 4 bright targets with refined interferometric positions by sma that have been spectroscopically targeted and have robust redshifts are indeed at @xmath85 ( table  1 , capak et al . 2011 and in prep . , riechers et al .",
    "2010 , smolci et al .",
    "2011 ) . while there is no proof that all bright @xmath86  mjy sources are at high redshifts",
    ", it is likely that most of these sources are at @xmath87 and that their association with the optical - ir galaxy large scale structure is through amplification , an explanation already posed to account for the discrepancies between the number counts measured in the smaller cosmos aztec / jcmt field and shades ( austermann et al .",
    "2009 ) . our new results , thus , confirm this interpretation for a more representative area of the sky that is not dominated by the presence of a rich cluster environment .",
    "lensing of galaxies by foreground galaxies and by foreground groups of galaxies has been shown to be the reason for the presence of a very bright ( sub-)mm selected galaxy population ( vieira et al .",
    "2010 , negrello et al .",
    "2010 , lestrade et al .",
    "2010 , ikarashi et al . 2011 ) .",
    "these galaxies are extreme cases of the phenomena presented here , where moderate @xmath88  per cent amplification factors would be enough to account for the flux density offset between the number counts of shades and cosmos .",
    "light propagation experiments in cosmological simulations using multiple lens - plane algorithms show that at @xmath87 any population is subject to a large chance of amplification by foreground structures ( e.g. martel & premadi 2008 ) .",
    "correlations between bright smgs and foreground optically selected galaxies at @xmath89 were first detected using a small sample of @xmath90  mjy sources in the uk 8-mjy and hubble deep field ( almaini et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the analysis of a statistically robust sample of 2477 350@xmath45m - selected smgs in the lockman - swire field , that includes the smaller uk 8-mjy survey area studied previously , has confirmed correlations between the smg population and @xmath91 and @xmath92 optical and ir - selected galaxy samples ( wang et al .",
    "our first 0.15 sq .",
    "survey in the cosmos field scanned all foreground structures at @xmath93 , yielding significant correlations between the bright 1.1mm - selected smgs detected in the field and optical - ir galaxies at redshifts @xmath94 and @xmath95 ( austermann et al . 2009 ) . whether these correlations were dominated by the optical - ir overdensity of galaxies where the aztec survey had been acquired or inherent of amplifications to the general blank - field population was open to debate .",
    "our new analysis in cosmos allows for a better estimation of the structures that contribute to the possible boosting of flux densities of smgs by foreground structures , identifying the @xmath96 and , most significantly , the @xmath97 redshift bins as those with the largest probability of association with bright @xmath98  mjy sources .",
    "the first redshift interval is common to the @xmath99m - selected smg correlations result . the second redshift interval , however , is still unexplored by other experiments .",
    "other populations of high - z galaxies , also should show similar amplification trends .",
    "the positions of bright lyman break galaxies selected to be at @xmath100 in the canada - france - hawaii - telescope legacy survey are , indeed , positively correlated with optically - selected galaxies at @xmath101 , and this effect has been shown to be consistent with weak lensing by the foreground structures in the line of sight ( hildebrandt , waerbeke & erben 2009 ) .",
    "strong lensing is also predicted to be a dominating effect in the bright number counts of smgs ( blain 1996 , negrello et al .",
    "2007 , lima , jain & devlin 2010 ) , however , neither strong nor weak lensing are often included in the predictions of observables offered by galaxy formation models .      figure  10 shows the number counts of cosmos compared with several semi - analytical galaxy formation models that have successfully reproduced overall properties of the smg and smg population ( granato et al .",
    "2004 , baugh et al .",
    "2005 , rowan - robinson 2009 ) .",
    "the 1.1 mm number counts of the shades field were compared with these very same models ( austermann et al .",
    "2010 ) , and it was found that they all overpredicted the number counts in the @xmath102  mjy regime .",
    "the discrepancies with the new 0.72  sq .",
    "aztec / aste cosmos field are not that severe . while the granato et al .",
    "( 2004 ) model for the joint formation of qsos and smgs could be made compatible with the cosmos number counts using a small shift in flux density that would mimic the amplification claimed in this paper , the model over - predicts the @xmath103  mjy number counts , which , although they are poorly constrained by the cosmos data alone , have more robust estimations from smaller deeper fields ( scott et al .",
    "2010 , hatsukade et al . 2011 ) .",
    "the baugh et al .",
    "( 2005 ) model offers a good description of the cosmos number counts at @xmath104  mjy , but it over - predicts the number counts at lower flux densities , while the rowan - robinson ( 2009 ) models have a different functional form to that found for cosmos over the whole flux density range sampled by our study .",
    "the number counts of the cosmos 0.72  sq . deg .",
    "aztec / aste field show an overdensity of sources with respect to the population of smgs found in previous large blank - field surveys such as shades ( austermann et al , 2010 ) .",
    "the number counts derived for the cosmos field display a systematic positive offset over those of shades , but are nevertheless consistent with those derived from smaller fields that were considered too small to characterize the overall blank - field population .",
    "we identify departures to occur more significantly in the @xmath7  mjy regime , and demonstrate that these differences are related to the areas where galaxies at redshifts @xmath8 are more densely clustered .",
    "the positions of optical - ir galaxies in the redshift interval @xmath105 are the most strongly correlated with the positions of the 1.1 mm bright population ( @xmath106  mjy ) , a result which does not depend exclusively on the presence of rich clusters within the survey sampled area . the most likely cause of these departures in number counts at 1.1 mm is lensing by either foreground galaxies or foreground groups of galaxies at moderate amplification levels , that increases in amplitude as one samples larger and larger flux densities .",
    "our results and the comparison with the previously published shades number counts illustrate the fact that even @xmath107  sq .",
    "surveys are still subject to variance due to the small volume sampled by the mapped areas in conjunction to the chance amplification by foreground structures .",
    "this work has been supported in part by conacyt ( mexico ) grants 39953-f and 39548-f , nsf ( usa ) grants ast-0907952 and ast-0838222 , and by the mext grant - in - aid for specially promoted research ( no .",
    "20001003 ) .",
    "observations with aste carried out remotely from japan used nnt s gemnet2 and its partner r&e networks , which are based on the accessnova collaboration of the university of chile , ntt laboratories , and the noaj .",
    "we would like to thank everyone who supported the aztec / aste observations of the cosmos field , including e. akiyama , r. cybulski , k. fukue , s. harasawa , s. ikarashi , h. inoue , m. kawamura , a. kuboi , j. rand , m. tashiro , t. tosaki , t. tsukagoshi , y. shimajiri and c. williams .",
    "the aste project is driven by the nobeyama radio observatory ( nro ) , a branch of the national astronomical observatory of japan ( naoj ) , in collaboration with the university of chile and japanese institutions including the university of tokyo , nagoya university , osaka prefecture university , ibaraki university , and hokkaido university ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a @xmath0  sq . deg . </S>",
    "<S> contiguous 1.1 mm survey in the central area of the cosmos field carried out to a @xmath1  mjy beam@xmath2 depth with the aztec camera mounted on the 10 m atacama submillimeter telescope experiment ( aste ) . </S>",
    "<S> we have uncovered 189 candidate sources at a signal - to - noise ratio s / n@xmath3 , out of which 129 , with s / n@xmath4 , can be considered to have little chance of being spurious ( @xmath5  per cent ) . </S>",
    "<S> we present the number counts derived with this survey , which show a significant excess of sources when compared to the number counts derived from the @xmath60.5 sq . </S>",
    "<S> deg . area sampled at similar depths in the scuba half degree extragalactic survey ( shades , austermann et al . </S>",
    "<S> 2010 ) . </S>",
    "<S> they are , however , consistent with those derived from fields that were considered too small to characterize the overall blank - field population . </S>",
    "<S> we identify differences to be more significant in the @xmath7  mjy regime , and demonstrate that these excesses in number counts are related to the areas where galaxies at redshifts @xmath8 are more densely clustered . </S>",
    "<S> the positions of optical - ir galaxies in the redshift interval @xmath9 are the ones that show the strongest correlation with the positions of the 1.1 mm bright population ( @xmath10  mjy ) , a result which does not depend exclusively on the presence of rich clusters within the survey sampled area . </S>",
    "<S> the most likely explanation for the observed excess in number counts at 1.1 mm is galaxy - galaxy and galaxy - group lensing at moderate amplification levels , that increases in amplitude as one samples larger and larger flux densities . </S>",
    "<S> this effect should also be detectable in other high redshift populations .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    surveys  galaxies : evolution  cosmology : miscellaneous  infrared : galaxies  submillimetre </S>"
  ]
}