{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , indirect evidence for the presence of convection in sunspot penumbral filaments has been growing ( e.g. , scharmer 2009 ) .",
    "e.g. , the twisting motion of penumbral filaments is taken as a signature of overturning convection ( ichimoto et al .",
    "2007 ; zakharov et al . 2008 ; spruit et al . 2010 ; bharti et al . 2010 ) . using high resolution spectropolarimetric observations ,",
    "zakharov et al . ( 2008 ) estimated that such motions can provide sufficient heat to the surface layers of the penumbra to explain its relatively high brightness .",
    "the correlation of the apparent velocity of the twisting motion with the local brightness of the filaments obtained by bharti et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , supports convection as a major source of heat transport in sunspot penumbral filaments .",
    "overturning convection in penumbral filaments is a natural and important feature in three - dimensional mhd simulations of sunspots ( rempel et al .",
    "2009a , b ; rempel 2011 ) .",
    "in particular , rempel et al .",
    "( 2009b ) found upflows along the central axes and downflows at the edges of the filaments .",
    "direct observational evidence for this scenario is , however , so far missing , because downflows have not been measured in the body of a penumbra , although the twisting filaments provide indirect support .",
    "the simulations indicate that the convective structures and motions are restricted to the subsurface and surface layers .",
    "since most spectral lines used for diagnostic purposes sample mid - photospheric heights , this may explain why it has not been possible to obtain direct evidence of overturning convection in penumbral filaments ( see , e.g. , franz & schlichenmaier 2009 ; bellot rubio et al .",
    "in particular , downflows at the sides of penumbral filaments have not been reported .    in this study",
    "we probe the deep layers of the photosphere in search of such downflows by analyzing high resolution observations in c@xmath0i5380.3 , obtained at the 1-m swedish solar telescope . in the quiet sun",
    ", c@xmath0i5380.3 has a mean formation height of around 40 km above the continuum optical depth @xmath1  at 500 nm ( stuerenburg & holweger 1990 ) making it ideal for this purpose .",
    "we observed a decaying sunspot with a one - sided penumbra in active region noaa  11019 ( cf .",
    "1 ) with the 1-meter swedish solar telescope ( sst ) on 2009 , june 02 . the center of the field of view ( fov ) was located at @xmath2 ( heliocentric angle = 32.7 ) . during the observations the seeing conditions were good to excellent , with only few interruptions by poorer seeing .",
    "we carried out consecutive spectral scans of the photospheric c@xmath0i5380.3 , fe@xmath0i5250.2  and the chromospheric ca@xmath0ii8542  spectral lines using the crisp imaging spectropolarimeter . here",
    "we analyze only the c@xmath0i5380.3  linei5250.2  line is used only to identify `` quiet sun '' locations , where the polarization signal in this line is below a given threshold . ] .",
    "two liquid crystal variable retarders , used to modulate the light beam , and two 1k@xmath31k - pixel sarnoff ccd cameras , mounted behind a polarizing beam splitter , were used to record the full stokes vectors at each spectral position .",
    "a third ccd camera was used to record broad - band images .",
    "all three cameras were synchronized in order to allow post - facto image restoration .",
    "we recorded the c@xmath0i5380  line at 8 wavelength positions ( @xmath4$]m ) .",
    "scanning the line in all four stokes parameters required 14 s for the c@xmath0i5380.3  line .",
    "the cadence of these observations , including the fe@xmath0i5250.2 and ca@xmath0ii8542 scans ( not considered in the present study ) is 29s .",
    "40m from average line center ) of the fe@xmath0i5250  line is greater than 4 % .",
    "colored boxes ( @xmath5 ) show the different quiet sun fields used to calculate the velocity reference value .",
    "the thick white rectangle marks the portion of the image shown in fig . 5 in detail.,scaledwidth=65.0% ]         ( see eq . ( 1 ) ) .",
    "the dotted curve represents the @xmath6 , i.e. , the fourier transform of a gaussian of @xmath7 width . , scaledwidth=60.0% ]        to achieve near diffraction limited spatial resolution ( @xmath8 ) , images were reconstructed using the multi - object multi - frame blind deconvolution ( momfbd ) method ( van noort et al . 2005 ; lfdahl 2002 ) .",
    "images observed in c@xmath0i5380  and fe@xmath0i5250  were aligned with sub - pixel accuracy by cross - correlating the corresponding continuum images .",
    "we determined doppler velocities by fitting a gaussian function to the c@xmath0i line . due to the low land factor ( @xmath9 , solanki & brigljevic 1992 ) and large thermal width of the line ,",
    "this is an acceptable approach even in a sunspot .",
    "the good quality of the gaussian fit throughout the penumbra suggests that the line is unblended there , unlike in the umbra ( see sect .",
    "another reason for expecting that the line is unblended ( or at the most rather weakly blended ) in the penumbra is that the line strength increases strongly with temperature , a nearly unique property of c@xmath0i lines among photospheric spectral lines .",
    "the resulting velocity maps show variations of the mean quiet sun velocities across the fov caused by the absolute wavelength positions varying across the fov due to cavity errors of the etalons of crisp .",
    "these wavelength shifts are smeared out in a continuously changing manner due to varying seeing conditions .",
    "the applied calibration data ( flat fields ) , which are well defined in pixel space , are no longer connected to pixel space of the science data after restoration ( schnerr et al .",
    "therefore , the cavity errors can not be fully removed with the flat fields .",
    "the absolute wavelength shifts caused by the cavity errors are wavelength dependent and the residuals after correction for flat - field cavity shifts are much higher in the 5380  band than in the 6300  and 6560  bands , used in previous studies carried out with crisp ( see , e.g. , scharmer et al .",
    "2008 ; rouppe van der voort et al . 2010 ; ortiz et al .",
    "since the residual wavelength shifts across the fov are expected to be large - scale , however , they do not rule out a study of penumbral fine structure . in order to determine a confidence level of the resulting absolute velocity reference point of the doppler velocities we selected 19 quiet sun subfields of @xmath10 size throughout the fov , indicated by the colored squares in fig .",
    "the relative quietness of the selected subfields was assured by a threshold value ( 4 % ) of spectrally averaged absolute circular polarization in the line wings ( @xmath11 40m from average line center ) of fe@xmath0i5250.2 .",
    "we calculated mean doppler velocities of c@xmath0i5380 by spatially averaging the line profiles in each subfield and repeated this procedure for all the observed sequences , i.e. , over 20 min .",
    "the results from this procedure are shown in fig .   2 .",
    "the velocity in each subfield fluctuates randomly , but does not exhibit a systematic variation with time .",
    "in order to get a mean quiet sun velocity reference , we fitted a gaussian to the velocity distribution and obtained a mean value of @xmath12480ms@xmath13 and a full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) of 580ms@xmath13 for the c@xmath0i5380  line , i.e. , the residual uncertainty ( @xmath14 ) in the absolute doppler velocities is @xmath11248ms@xmath13 . after applying this procedure ,",
    "the mean values of the obtained velocity maps are calibrated for a convective blueshift of @xmath12922ms@xmath13 for c@xmath0i5380.3(de la cruz rodrguez et al .",
    "2011 ) . for the further analysis we selected the scan of c@xmath0i5380.3 made under the best seeing conditions .",
    "ground - based observations are strongly affected by straylight , so that , e.g. , contrasts are significantly lower than in data recorded above the earth s atmosphere ( see , e.g. , danilovic et al .",
    "2008 ; hirzberger et al .",
    "we also expect the velocity to be reduced through straylight . the amount of straylight and the shape of the corresponding straylight point spread function is strongly dependent on the seeing conditions and on the instrument design .",
    "the straylight point spread functions can be approximated from fitting observations of the solar limb ( aureolas , see , e.g. , sobotka et al . 1993 ) or from fitting the profiles of planetary limbs during transits ( see , e.g. , bonet et al .",
    "1995 ; mathew et al . 2009",
    "; wedemeyer - bhm & rouppe van der voort 2009 ) .",
    "since we do not have these auxiliary data , we applied a rough estimation , assuming that the biggest amount of the straylight stems from regions within @xmath7 around the respective positions ( approximately the tenfold of the spatial resolution of the data ) , i.e. , we approximated the straylight point spread function with a gaussian of @xmath7 width . for deconvolving the images we used the wiener filter given in sobotka et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and applied a slight modification , so that it has the shape @xmath15 where mtf is the modulation transfer function ( the modulus of the fourier transform of the point spread function ) , @xmath16 is the spatial wavenumber and @xmath17 is a free parameter which defines the straylight contribution that has to be deconvolved .",
    "@xmath18 for different choices of @xmath17 is plotted in fig .",
    "3 . the advantage of the present form of the filter compared to the one used in sobotka et al . ( 1993 ) is that it converges to unity for large @xmath16 , i.e. , it does not affect the small - scale structures of the images .    in the present study",
    "the value of parameter @xmath17 has been chosen equal to 2.0 , so that the resulting quiet sun rms image contrast for the continuum point ( at @xmath19m ) of the best scan increases from 8.5% in the original image to 13.0% in the deconvolved image , which is closer to , but still somewhat smaller than the contrast obtained from data at a similar wavelength that are much less contaminated by straylight ( continuum at 5250.4   in imax / sunrise observations , see martnez pillet et al .",
    "we finally used this conservative choice , although we also tested other straylight functions , including broad gaussians with widths up to @xmath20 .",
    "the results of using stronger straylight removal ( larger @xmath17 ) or broader gaussians , remained similar , but provided stronger downflows and , for larger @xmath17 , also stronger contrast .",
    "stronger straylight removal also led to bigger scatter in the velocities and somewhat more distorted line profiles , which was another reason to keep to the conservative value of straylight .",
    "we selected a @xmath21 field in the quiet sun to compare velocities before and after straylight removal .",
    "results are shown in fig .",
    "4 . the redshift in inter - granular lanes increases disproportionately through straylight removal ( see panels ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) of fig .",
    "downflows are particularly affected by straylight because they are narrower and are present in darker features .",
    "the fact that the downflows remain weaker than upflows also after our standard straylight removal confirms that we have been conservative in the removed amount of straylight .",
    "panels ( a ) and ( c ) of fig . 5 show a portion of the observed penumbra as seen in the continuum intensity ( at @xmath22 m ) , before and after straylight removal , respectively .",
    "the corresponding maps of doppler velocity are plotted in panels ( b ) and ( d ) .",
    "obviously both blue- and redshifts are present in the penumbra , in particular after straylight removal . a striking feature in fig",
    "5b is the localized patches of strong blueshift , up to 3.3 kms@xmath13 , coinciding with the bright heads of penumbral filaments .",
    "these bright heads are surrounded by lanes of gas nearly at rest or slightly redshifted . in panel",
    "( b ) significant redshifts are visible only at two locations , once at the side of a filament reaching into the umbra ( at @xmath23 and @xmath24 ) and once , rather weakly around the bright and strongly blueshifted head of a filament ( at @xmath25 and @xmath26 ) .",
    "a number of new redshifted patches are found in the doppler map after straylight removal ( panel d ) , appearing dominantly at locations previously seemingly at rest in panel ( b ) .",
    "we have grayed out areas where intensity is below 0.6 times that of the quiet sun , because @xmath27 values of the gaussian fits to the line profiles are high in these areas since the line is very weak there and possibly blended ( as suggested by the fact that we obtain mainly strong blueshifts in the umbra contrary to all previous studies based on other spectral lines ) .",
    "redshifts ( largest value 2.0 kms@xmath13 ) show a tendency to be located in dark regions , as can be judged by considering the white contours in panel ( c ) .",
    "these contours outline the redshift of panel ( d ) .",
    "redshifts are now found clearly around the head of multiple filaments ( e.g. , at @xmath28 and @xmath29 and around the filaments protruding into the umbra ) .",
    "narrow redshifted areas are also found in the middle and outer penumbra beside and between bright filaments .",
    "clearly , in the lower photosphere redshifts are present at many different locations in the penumbra .",
    "we expect that only a part of redshifted features actually present in the penumbra has been detected .",
    "we have provided the first direct measurements of downflows ( reaching 2.0 kms@xmath13 ) in the body of a penumbra .",
    "the studied sunspot , located at @xmath30 , had only a partial penumbra , on the disk - center side of the spot , so that all well - defined filaments partially point to disk center .",
    "hence the evershed flow contributes a blueshift , so that redshifts in fig .",
    "5d must be caused by downflows ( or inflow , which appears rather unlikely , however ) .",
    "the c@xmath0i5380 line reveals a highly structured velocity pattern , with large variations in velocity around the head of filaments .",
    "typical blueshift of 3kms@xmath13 found in the bright head of the filaments , surrounded by gas displaying redshift ( after straylight removal ) or no shift .",
    "we interpret them as strong localized upflows of hot gas in the head of the filaments following rimmele & marino ( 2006 ) , , but can not rule out that they are due to evershed flow .",
    "a fraction of this gas starts moving along the axis of the filaments and forming the evershed flow ( scharmer et al .",
    "the rest of the gas moves to the sides of the filaments and flows downward .",
    "further downflows are found alongside bright filaments in the middle and outer part of this penumbra .",
    "such downflows have been predicted by models of penumbral convection ( e.g. , rempel et al .",
    "2009a , b ; scharmer & spruit 2006 ) .",
    "earlier observational studies have provided only indirect evidence for such downflows ( ichimoto et al .",
    "2007 ; zakharov et al . 2008 ; bharti et al . 2010 ; spruit et al . 2010 ) .",
    "the velocity at the heads of the filaments reaches values up to 3.3kms@xmath13 , interpreted here as upflows , agrees with earlier observational results ( rimmele 1995 ; rimmele & marino 2006 ; hirzberger & kneer 2001 ; hirzberger et al . 2005 ) .",
    "such upflows are also consistent with the moving flux tube model presented by schlichenmaier et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , which predicts an upflow of 4kms@xmath13 at the footpoints of the penumbral filaments , but equally with the interpretation of scharmer et al .",
    "( 2008 ) that the evershed flow is a horizontal flow component of overturning convection . in recent years",
    ", convection has become an important candidate to explain the heat transport in penumbrae . based on the observed 1kms@xmath13 upflow at the axis of the filament in the upper layers of the photosphere , zakharov et al .",
    "( 2008 ) estimated the heat transport by convection in the penumbra to be sufficient for maintaining the brightness of the penumbra .",
    "the upflows up to 3.3kms@xmath13 in the bright heads of penumbral filaments with downflows at the filament sides , found in the present study , and the coincidence of the strongest upflows with bright filaments and downflows with dark filaments strongly support that the heat transport in the penumbra is accomplished by convection .    in the outer sections of penumbral filaments",
    "( i.e. further from the umbra ) we found maximum blueshifts of up to 3.0kms@xmath13 .",
    "if we assume that of this blueshift is due to the evershed effect , its projection in the direction of disk center and parallel to solar surface gives 8.5kms@xmath13 of radial outflow .",
    "this upper limit agrees well with results from the simulation by rempel ( 2011 ) which shows evershed flow speeds above 8kms@xmath13 near @xmath31 .",
    "the true strength of the penumbral downflows are expected to be larger than found here for the following reasons . for the same reasons we expect",
    "a number of the locations still seemingly at rest , in reality be filled with downflowing gas .    1",
    ".   incomplete removal of straylight .",
    "we have been rather conservative when removing straylight , since the assumed granular contrast of 13% is smaller than values found by mathew et al .",
    "( 2009 ) at 5550 from hinode and martnez pillet et al .",
    "( 2011 ) at 5250 from sunrise .",
    "2 .   a blueshift imposed by the los - component of the evershed flow .",
    "the major axis of most of the filaments makes an angle of @xmath32 with the line joining the sunspot and the disk center .",
    "thus , we expect radial outflow due to evershed effect to contribute as @xmath33 ( where @xmath34 represents the evershed velocity ) to the los velocity .",
    "the evershed flow probably hides a significant amount of the redshift due to downflowing gas ( cf .",
    "bharti et al .",
    "3 .   the geometry of the filaments . as proposed by zakharov et al . ( 2008 ) the penumbral @xmath35 surface is strongly corrugated , so that we see the disk center side of the filaments more clearly than the other side ( see their fig .",
    "hence , in our sunspot we might expect the downflows to be better visible on the diskward side of a filament where they may be partly covered by the filament lying in front of them .",
    "this interpretation is supported by the fact that the strongest downflows are found on the diskward side of a filament extending into the umbra , where no other filament can block the view of its edge .",
    "this work has been partially supported by wcu grant no .",
    "r31 - 10016 funded by the korean ministry of education , science and technology .",
    "the swedish 1-m solar telescope is operated on the island of la palma by the institute for solar physics of the royal swedish academy of sciences in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "jj acknowledges a phd fellowship of the international max planck research school on physical processes in the solar system and beyond .                    , j. , feller , a. , riethmller , t.  l. , schssler , m. , borrero , j.  m. , afram , n. , unruh , y.  c. , berdyugina , s.  v. , gandorfer , a. , solanki , s.  k. , barthol , p. , bonet , j.  a. , martnez pillet , v. , berkefeld , t. , knlker , m. , schmidt , w. , & title , a.  m. 2010 , , 723 , l154            , v. , del toro iniesta , j.  c. , lvarez - herrero , a. , domingo , v. , bonet , j.  a. , gonzlez fernndez , l. , lpez jimnez , a. , pastor , c. , gasent blesa , j.  l. , mellado , p. , piqueras , j. , aparicio , b. , balaguer , m. , ballesteros , e. , belenguer , t. , bellot rubio , l.  r. , berkefeld , t. , collados , m. , deutsch , w. , feller , a. , girela , f. , grauf , b. , heredero , r.  l. , herranz , m. , jernimo , j.  m. , laguna , h. , meller , r. , menndez , m. , morales , r. , orozco surez , d. , ramos , g. , reina , m. , ramos , j.  l. , rodrguez , p. , snchez , a. , uribe - patarroyo , n. , barthol , p. , gandorfer , a. , knoelker , m. , schmidt , w. , solanki , s.  k. , & vargas domnguez , s. 2011 , , 268 , 57"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the velocity structure of penumbral filaments in the deep photosphere to obtain direct evidence for the convective nature of sunspot penumbrae . </S>",
    "<S> a sunspot was observed at high spatial resolution with the 1-m swedish solar telescope in the deep photospheric c@xmath0i5380   absorption line . </S>",
    "<S> the multi - object multi - frame blind deconvolution ( momfbd ) method is used for image restoration and straylight is filtered out . </S>",
    "<S> we report here the discovery of clear redshifts in the c@xmath0i5380  line at multiple locations in sunspot penumbral filaments . </S>",
    "<S> for example , bright head of filaments show larger concentrated blueshift and are surrounded by darker , redshifted regions , suggestive of overturning convection . </S>",
    "<S> elongated downflow lanes are also located beside bright penumbral fibrils . </S>",
    "<S> our results provide the strongest evidence yet for the presence of overturning convection in penumbral filaments and highlight the need to observe the deepest layers of the penumbra in order to uncover the energy transport processes taking place there . </S>"
  ]
}