{
  "article_text": [
    "the complexity of the magnetosphere has been extensively studied and one of its descriptions is based on the paradigm of self - organized criticality ( soc ) coined by @xcite .",
    "systems that exhibit soc activate many degrees of freedom , their interactions are local , but due to the excitation of a scale - free hierarchy of avalanches when the system is slowly driven to a criticality threshold , long - range interactions develop , and the dynamics on different spatial and temporal scales is essentially the same .",
    "it has been shown that the magnetospheric - ionospheric system exhibit signatures characteristic of soc - dynamics @xcite , and models for such description have been developed @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , the magnetospheric - ionospheric system has also some signatures of intermittent turbulence @xcite , non - equilibrium phase - transitions @xcite as well as low - dimensional chaos @xcite .",
    "it has been recently reported in @xcite that the magnetosphere , interplanetary magnetic field ( imf ) _",
    "z_-component @xmath0 and solar wind flow speed @xmath1 become more predictable and more persistent during magnetic storms , while only the magnetosphere reduces the effective number of degrees of freedom through self - organization . in that study",
    "the magnetosphere was studied through analysis of the geomagnetic indices sym - h and @xmath2 , since it is known that these indices respond to the intensification of the ring current during magnetic storms @xcite . in this article",
    "we analyze how different magnetospheric indices respond to the much more frequent and short - living events called substorms .",
    "different geomagnetic indices represent different parts of the magnetosphere and respond to different dynamics .",
    "geomagnetic indices studied in this article , are downloaded from world data center , with 1-min resolution .",
    "the most commonly used index for substorm studies is the auroral electrojet index ( ae ) defined as the difference between the au index , which measures the strength of the eastward electrojet in the auroral zone , and the al index , measuring the westward electrojet current , and is usually derived from 12 magnetometers positioned below the auroral oval @xcite .",
    "we also use minute data for the imf component @xmath0 , as well as minute data for the solar wind bulk velocity @xmath1 along the sun - earth axis .",
    "they are both retrieved from the omni satellite database and are given in gse coordinate system .",
    "we have not analyzed other plasma parameters , since the plasma instruments can be influenced by solar x rays or energetic particle precipitation and are more unstable than the magnetometers .",
    "we also analyze the polar cap magnetic activity ( pc ) , as well as the au and the al index . during magnetically disturbed times",
    "the westward electrojet , whose proxy is the al index , increases abruptly due to currents from the magnetotail . on the other hand , the eastward electrojet ,",
    "whose proxy is the au index , increases due to the partial ring current closure via the ionosphere in the evening sector @xcite .",
    "therefore , through the analysis of the al and au index we can get insight into the dynamics of different parts of the magnetosphere .",
    "the pc index monitors geomagnetic activity over the polar caps caused by changes in the imf and the solar wind .",
    "this index is mostly influenced by field - aligned currents which flow at the poleward rim of the auroral oval , and is also sensitive to the ionospheric hall currents in the polar cap @xcite , which are particularly dominant in the summer time . since field - aligned currents are closely related to the auroral electrojets ,",
    "the linear correlation of the pc and ae indices is of the order of 0.8 - 0.9 @xcite .",
    "here we use the northern polar cap index measured at the danish geomagnetic observatory in thule ( @xmath3n ) .",
    "magnetic substorms are associated with release and storage of energy and momentum from the solar wind to the magnetosphere .",
    "they consist of three phases . in the growth phase ,",
    "typically lasting for about one hour , loading of the magnetic flux and energy into the magnetotail takes place .",
    "it is succeeded by the expansion phase ( substorm onset ) , lasting 30 - 60 minutes , when hot plasma  unloads \" earthward , leading to sudden brightenings of the polar aurora , and plasmoids are ejected away from earth in the far tail . in this phase dissipation is dominant and formation of a storm ring current can take place . in the ionosphere substorm onset is characterized by a rise of the westward electrojet current , which forms the substorm current surge with field aligned currents .",
    "the recovery phase returns the magnetosphere to its quiet state .",
    "the duration of this this phase is 1 - 2 hours .",
    "data about the times of substorm onsets are found in @xcite , whose database is from the period between 2000 and 2002 .",
    "these substorms were detected by the fuv instrument on the image spacecraft .",
    "observations covered the peak of the last solar cycle . according to @xcite a substorm onset is only accepted as a separate event if at least 30 minutes have passed after the previous event .",
    "it is also required that local brightening of aurora occurs and that the aurora expands to the poleward boundary of the auroral oval and spreads azimuthally in local time for at least 20 minutes .",
    "the latter criterion excludes pseudo - breakups which do not develop into full substorms .",
    "the remainder of the paper is organized as follows : section 2 gives a brief overview of the methods used in the analysis of our data .",
    "section 3 shows the results from application of these methods to the substorm data and section 4 is reserved for discussion .",
    "recurrence - plot analysis was developed by @xcite and is very useful in studies of short and non - stationary time series .",
    "a comprehensive review of the method and its applications can be found in @xcite .",
    "substorm durations are at most a few hours and all indices show non - stationary behavior during the events .",
    "recurrence - plot analysis is very suitable for handling such short non - stationary time series .",
    "the method is useful for low - dimensional deterministic dynamical systems as well as for high - dimensional systems and for stochastic signals .",
    "it can also provide useful information about non - autonomous systems .",
    "an impression of the versatility of this technique can be obtained from the special issue edited by @xcite . for low - dimensional systems",
    "@xmath4 ,   \\label{eq1}\\ ] ] recurrence plots are based on the recurrences of a trajectory @xmath5 on the @xmath6-dimensional attractor in a @xmath7-dimensional phase space .",
    "if the system is autonomous , i.e. no explicit time dependence of the phase - space flow @xmath8 $ ] , and if the attractor of trajectory has dimension @xmath6 , takens time - delay method @xcite can be used to construct an @xmath9-dimensional embedding space on which the attractor can be mapped continuously and one - to - one .",
    "the embedding space is constructed from the time series @xmath10)$ ] , where @xmath11 is the measurement function .",
    "here @xmath12 , and @xmath13 is the sampling time of the time series .",
    "the mapping is given by @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the time delay .",
    "there are practical constraints on useful choices of the time delay @xmath15 .",
    "if @xmath15 is much smaller than the autocorrelation time the image of the attractor in the embedding space becomes essentially one - dimensional .",
    "if @xmath15 is much larger than the autocorrelation time , noise may destroy the deterministic connection between the components of @xmath16 , such that our assumption that @xmath5 determines @xmath16 will fail in practice .",
    "a common choice of @xmath15 has been the first minimum of the autocorrelation function , but it has been shown that better results are achieved by selecting the time delay as the first minimum in the average mutual information function @xcite , which we also use in this article .    the recurrence - plot analysis deals with the trajectories in the embedding space .",
    "if the original time series @xmath17 has @xmath18 elements and a time delay @xmath15 , we have a time series of @xmath19 vectors @xmath16 for @xmath20 .",
    "this time series constitutes the trajectory in the reconstructed embedding space .",
    "the next step is to construct a @xmath21 matrix @xmath22 consisting of elements 0 and 1 .",
    "the matrix element @xmath23 is 1 if the distance is @xmath24 in the reconstructed space , and otherwise it is 0 .",
    "the recurrence plot is simply a plot where the points @xmath23 for which the corresponding matrix element is 1 is marked by a dot .",
    "for a deterministic system the radius @xmath25 is typically chosen as small fraction of the diameter of the reconstructed attractor , but varies for different sets of data . in our analysis",
    "we have used @xmath26 of the total extent of the set spanned by the trajectory analyzed in the embedding space .",
    "this is a rule of the thumb generally accepted in the recurrence - plot literature @xcite .",
    "the results are not very sensitive to this choice , but issues arise if @xmath25 is too large ( to crude resolution and practically no information ) or too small ( poor statistics ) .    dynamical systems with a large number of independent or weakly dependent degrees of freedom can only be described either by large - scale numerical simulation or by stochastic methods . for such systems",
    "the phase - space attractor is also high - dimensional and can not be mapped one - to - one onto a low - dimensional time - delay embedding space .",
    "nevertheless , the evolution of the  projection \" of the phase - space vector onto the embedding space usually provides valuable information if the measurement function is carefully chosen to be sensitive to variation of those degrees of freedom that are in focus of our interest ( for instance we should use the ae index rather than the @xmath2 index as measurement function if substorm activity is studied ) .",
    "some of this information can be discerned from the recurrence plots , even if the recurring states are not recurrences of the full phase - space vector , but only of the projections .",
    "this is true also if the full set of differential equations is non - autonomous .",
    "the time - dependent forcing invalidates the embedding theorem , but we are not assuming a perfect embedding anyway .",
    "we just have to be aware that dynamical features we observe in the recurrence plot may well reflect the dynamics of the forcing and not only the internal dynamics of the unforced system .    of particular interest",
    "is analysis based on the diagonal line structures of the recurrence plots .",
    "if the projected trajectory has a tendency to repeat its path when it recurs to the same region in embedding space , recurrences tend to be localized along unbroken diagonal segments . the longer these segments are , the more predictable is the path .",
    "we define the average inverse diagonal line segment length @xmath27 : @xmath28 where @xmath29 is a histogram over diagonal lengths : @xmath30 it was shown heuristically in @xcite that @xmath27 can be used as a proxy for the largest lyapunov exponent in deterministic systems and as a measure of persistence in stochastic systems . for a deterministic system we demonstrated the connection with the largest lyapunov exponent @xmath31 by computing @xmath31 and @xmath27 along a period - doubling route to chaos for the lorenz system . by computing @xmath27 and the self - similarity exponent @xmath32 for",
    "numerically generated fractional brownian motions ( fbm ) with @xmath32 in the range @xmath33 we established the relation @xmath34 in the range of persistent brownian motions ( @xmath35 ) .",
    "an fbm is a gaussian stochastic process @xmath36 which satisfies the self - similarity condition @xmath37 for all @xmath31 . here",
    "@xmath38 denotes identity in distribution . for a given time - series @xmath32",
    "can be estimated from the variogram @xcite . for a chaotic , deterministic system the inverse of",
    "the largest lyapunov exponent is a measure of predictability . for a persistent stochastic process @xmath32",
    "is also such a measure , and @xmath27 decreases with increasing @xmath32 .",
    "thus we suggest use the inverse of @xmath27 as a measure of predictability .",
    "since signals of interest are a mixture of deterministic and stochastic components , and many stochastic processes are neither self - similar nor gaussian , we do not consider @xmath27 as an absolute measure of predictability , but when a decrease of @xmath39 takes place in a time series under certain conditions , e.g. during a magnetic storm , we interpret this as increase in predictability of the dynamics under these conditions .",
    "we compute @xmath27 for embedding dimension @xmath40 .",
    "an obvious advantage of this choice is that we do nt have to worry about the choice of time delay @xmath15 .",
    "a higher value of @xmath41 does not make much more sense since the dynamics of the magnetosphere and the solar wind is strongly influenced by a high - dimensional / stochastic component and can not be unfolded in any higher - dimensional embedding space .",
    "also , if the embedding dimension is inappropriately high , spurious long diagonal lines will appear in the recurrence plot .",
    "moreover , the way @xmath27 depends on other predictability measures like lyapunov exponent or self - similarity exponent is rather insensitive to the choice of @xmath41 , hence @xmath27 can be used to detect changes in predictability irrespective of the choice of embedding dimension .",
    "we shall adopt a terminology where a physical system is deterministic if it can be described as a low - dimensional dynamical system , i.e. by the autonomous version of equation ( [ eq1 ] ) .",
    "a test of determinism was developed by @xcite which takes advantage of the fact that the trajectory through a given position in phase space is completely determined by this position , and if a trajectory recurs to the vicinity of this point the tangents of the trajectory in these two points are approximately parallel .",
    "this is in contrast to a stochastic system , where the directions of the tangents are independent for the two points .",
    "let us assume that the phase space is divided into boxes . in our test , a box size is chosen as the average distance a phase - space point moves in the @xmath41-dimensional embedding space during one time step .",
    "the displacement of the trajectory inside a box , in _",
    "m_-dimensional phase space is given from the time - delay embedding reconstruction : @xmath42 , \\label{eq6}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath43 is the characteristic time the trajectory spends inside a box . in our test",
    "@xmath44 time step .",
    "the tangent for the @xmath45th pass through box @xmath46 is the unit vector @xmath47 .",
    "the averaged tangent in the box is @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the number of passes of the trajectory through box @xmath46 . in the case of deterministic dynamics and finite box size , @xmath50 will not depend very much on the number of passes @xmath49 , and @xmath51 will converge to @xmath52 .",
    "in contrast , for the trajectory of a random process with independent increments , @xmath51 will decrease with @xmath49 as @xmath53 .",
    "thus , to obtain better statistics for the description of average tangents we compute the average @xmath51 as a function of the number of passes through a box : @xmath54 where this average is done over all boxes with same number @xmath55 of trajectory passes .",
    "there are obvious similarities between this test for determinism and the one for predictability developed in the previous subsection .",
    "both measure the degree of divergence of projected trajectories starting at almost the same position in the reduced embedding space . in those cases",
    "when the system can be described as a low - dimensional dynamical system ( equation ( [ eq1 ] ) without the explicit time dependence in the flow field ) , we have @xmath56 for all @xmath55 , provided the embedding dimension @xmath41 is sufficiently large to unfold the attractor . in this case",
    "@xmath27 will reflect the magnitude of the largest lyapunov exponent , and the two tests clearly measure different properties . for a stochastic process",
    "@xmath57 is independent of @xmath41 @xcite and independent of its persistence , which is easily demonstrated by computing it for fbms with varying self - similarity exponents @xmath32 .",
    "however , for the systems considered in this paper the signals contain both a deterministic and a stochastic component . in this case",
    "the phase - space trajectory can not be mapped one - to - one onto the embedding space for any choice of @xmath41 , and the distinction between the two methods is less clear .",
    "one could envisage that an increase of the low - dimensional ( deterministic ) component relative to the stochastic one could enhance both @xmath57 and @xmath58 .",
    "on the other hand an increase in predictability in either the deterministic or the stochastic component , without change in relative strength of the two components , could also influence both measures .",
    "thus , in those cases where both measures either increase or decrease together , it is difficult to decide whether the cause is a change in determinism or in predictability .",
    "however , in situations when only one of the measures undergoes a change , or they change in opposite direction , the interpretation is unambiguous .",
    "@xcite also suggest another test of determinism , which does not suffer from this ambiguity .",
    "it takes advantage of how the measure of determinism , the curves @xmath57 , changes when we construct a new surrogate time series for which the effect of nonlinearity in a low - dimensional system has been corrupted .",
    "this surrogate signal has the same power spectral density ( and hence same auto - covariance ) as the original signal , but the phases of the fourier coefficients have been randomized . from application of this procedure to synthetic stochastic and low - dimensional signals we have gained support for the conjecture that randomization of phases do not change these curves for neither stochastic or high - dimensional , nor low - dimensional , linear systems . only for low - dimensional , nonlinear systems",
    "will the surrogate data curves lie below those based on the original data .",
    "these features were demonstrated for numerical solutions of the lorenz system ( low - dimensional , nonlinear and chaotic ) in @xcite .",
    "here we demonstrate the same for @xmath59 versus @xmath55 for the mackey - glass ( mg ) equation @xcite : @xmath60 unlike the lorenz system , the attractor of this system is in general high - dimensional",
    ". however , for some set of parameters , e.g. @xmath61 , the attractor of mg dynamics can be low - dimensional and @xmath59 derived from the mg equation will fall more slowly with increasing @xmath55 than that for the randomized version , as shown in figure 1 .",
    "the inset in the same figure shows the same results for a fractional ornstein - uhlenbeck ( fo - u ) stochastic process .",
    "the stochastic equation used to generate such a process was described in @xcite .",
    "the coefficients in this equation used to generate figure 1 are generated from fitting the variogram of the numerically generated process to the variogram of the ae index by means of least square regression ( for definition of the variogram see equation ( 12 ) in @xcite ) . in both fo - u and mg equation ,",
    "the embedding dimension used is @xmath62 .",
    "realizations of a stochastic process like fo - u is indistinguishable from realizations of a measurement function of a high - dimensional deterministic system for which the embedding dimension is too small to unfold the attractor .",
    "the @xmath57-curve for the fo - u process is unchanged after randomization of phases and shows that this test for determinism is negative for stochastic ( and high - dimensional ) systems .",
    "we have verified that this is the case also for strongly persistent ( highly predictable ) fo - u processes .",
    "this is completely reasonable on theoretical grounds ; the long - range persistence in an fbm only depends on the predominance of low frequencies in the power spectrum , not on correlation between the phases of the fourier coefficients .",
    "thus , this test is not measuring predictability and is a useful test for detecting changes in determinism in time series .",
    "vs. number of passages @xmath55 : bullets are derived from numerical solutions to the mg equation , stars are derived from these solutions after randomization of phases of fourier coefficients .",
    "inset in the figure shows same characteristics for the fo - u process .",
    "the error bars are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]",
    "in @xcite it was shown that the fluctuation amplitude ( or more precisely ; the one - timestep increment ) @xmath63 of the ae index is on the average proportional to the instantaneous value @xmath64 of the index .",
    "this gives rise to a special kind of intermittency associated with multiplicative noises , and leads to a non - stationary time series of increments .",
    "however , the time series @xmath65 is stationary , implying that the stochastic process @xmath66 has stationary increments .",
    "thus , a signal with stationary increments , which still can exhibit a multifractal intermittency , can be constructed by considering the logarithm of the ae index .",
    "we use transformed versions of geomagnetic indices : tae@xmath67 , tal@xmath68 , tau=@xmath69 , tpc@xmath70 , while @xmath0 and @xmath1 have increments which are not strongly dependent on their magnitude , and do not need transformation to obtain stationary increments .",
    "it is well known that the ae index exhibits scale - free characteristics which often is associated with stochastic dynamics since its power spectral density has two distinct power - law regimes @xcite .",
    "however , it has also been shown that apart from colored noise which dominates the dynamics of the ae index on time scales up to 100 minutes , there are also signatures of low - dimensional , chaotic characteristics as well @xcite .",
    "these properties will be discerned from the analysis of determinism of geomagnetic indices in section 3.2",
    ".       averaged over 500 substorms .",
    "b ) ensemble mean of @xmath71 .",
    "triangles represent tae , squares tau , stars tpc , and circles tal .",
    "the standard errors for all points are in the range @xmath72 .",
    ", width=264 ]    first , we discuss two magnetic substorms that occurred on september 8th , 2002 . the first substorm onset was registered at 5:01 ut and the other at 21:26 ut . the second substorm onset started after 13 hours of northward imf @xmath0 . in figure 2a",
    "the transition between dark and white bands in the recurrence plot indicates changes in the dynamics in the tae .",
    "the first transition marked by an arrow occurs around the first substorm onset .",
    "the next appears at the onset of the second substorm .",
    "for instance , the broad white band in figure 2a corresponding to @xmath73 indicates that a region in embedding space visited before the substorm onset is never visited after onset .",
    "figure 2b contains a blow - up of the recurrence plot for the second substorm .",
    "the image pales away from the main diagonal , which indicates that the process is non - stationary due to the intensification and the movement of ionospheric currents during the substorm . since the plot pattern changes during the substorm we might expect that @xmath27 , which is defined from the diagonal lines of the plot , will change as well .    .",
    "b ) ensemble mean for @xmath71 .",
    "stars represent @xmath0 and diamonds @xmath1 .",
    "standard error for @xmath27 is of the order @xmath74 , while for @xmath71 it is @xmath75.,width=264 ]     vs. number of passages @xmath55 : bullets are derived from the entire tae time series , stars from this time series after randomization of phases of the fourier coefficiens .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]    we obtain @xmath27 for tae , tau , tpc , tal , @xmath0 , and @xmath1 for 500 substorms whose onsets were taken from the database of @xcite .",
    "the variation of @xmath27 over a 6 hour time interval , three hours before and three hours after the substorm onset , is computed from recurrence plots derived from thirty - minute windows , such that 12 @xmath27-values are obtained for each substorm .",
    "the time evolution of @xmath27 is computed for all 500 substorms and averaged .",
    "the results are presented in figure 3a .",
    "apparently , there is no significant variation of the ensemble average of @xmath27 over the duration of a substorm for any of the geomagnetic indices .     vs. @xmath55 , a ) squares are derived from tae during substorms , triangles from the entire tae time series , b ) squares from tau during substorms , triangles from entire tau time series .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]     vs. @xmath55 , a ) squares are derived from tal during substorms , triangles from the entire tal time series , b ) squares from tpc during substorms , triangles from entire tpc time series .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]    on time scales less than 100 minutes all quantities analyzed can be modeled as non - stationary multifractal motions whose persistence can be characterized by an exponent @xmath32 @xcite .",
    "increasing @xmath32 implies higher persistence and predictability , corresponding to a reduction of @xmath27 .",
    "we compute @xmath32 from the variogram ( equation ( 12 ) in @xcite ) .",
    "figure 3b shows no variation in ensemble mean of @xmath71 for any of the indices , confirming the result obtained for @xmath27 .",
    "the same analysis is done for @xmath0 and @xmath1 .",
    "mean values for @xmath27 and @xmath71 are plotted in figure 4 , showing no significant change of predictabilty during substorms for the solar wind observables .",
    "the example of two substorms from september , 8th , 2002 shows a reduction of @xmath27 in tae around substorm onset ( not shown here ) , but this day seems to be an exception rather than the rule .",
    "vs. @xmath55 , a ) squares are derived from @xmath0 during substorms , triangles from entire @xmath0 time series , b ) squares are derived from @xmath1 during substorms , triangles from entire @xmath1 time series .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]    ) , b ) ae index.,width=302 ]    ) with @xmath76 a fractional gaussian noise with @xmath77 .",
    "lower : from fo - u process with @xmath76 the same as above.,width=302 ]     vs. number of passages @xmath55 : bullets are derived from low - pass filtered numerical solutions to equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) , stars are derived from these solutions after randomization of phases of fourier coefficients .",
    "inset in the figure shows same characteristics for the filtered fo - u process .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]     vs. number of passages @xmath55 : bullets are derived from the entire low - pass filtered tae time series , stars from this time series after randomization of phases of the fourier coefficients .",
    "standard errors are of the same order as the symbol size.,width=302 ]      the signals we study are dominated by a stochastic component and their @xmath59 decreases when number of passes @xmath55 is increased .",
    "however , the existence of a low - dimensional component in e.g. the tae can be demonstrated by computing @xmath59 and then do the same for the surrogate signals obtained by randomizing phases of fourier coefficients . in order to compute mean @xmath59 ,",
    "we use ae index data from the year 2000 ; each @xmath59 is computed over a record of 7200 points , such that the mean @xmath59 is computed over @xmath78 realizations .",
    "we have also computed mean @xmath59 for several other lengths of records , but its value has not changed significantly .",
    "the embedding dimension is @xmath79 , and @xmath80 minutes .",
    "the sample values of @xmath57 are normally distributed , and hence the standard error of the ensemble mean is @xmath81 .",
    "this error is for all @xmath57-curves shown in this paper of the same order as the symbol size , and is therefore not shown explicitly in the figures .",
    "as observed in figure 5 , @xmath59 for tae is higher than for the randomized version , indicating existence of a low - dimensional and nonlinear component in the signal .",
    "the same is shown for tal , tau , and tpc indices .",
    "notice that in case of fo - u in the inset of figure 1 , @xmath57 for the randomized version could not be distinguished from the @xmath59 of the fo - u itself .",
    "also , the same test was done for the geomagnetic index sym - h in @xcite , and even though analysis of this index yields low - dimensionality during magnetic storms , @xmath59 is indistinguishable from its randomized version when averaged over a year .",
    "@xmath59 computed for @xmath0 and @xmath1 is also indistinguishable from the @xmath59 of their randomized versions ( not shown here ) .    as we shall demonstrate below tae , tau and tpc all exhibit a discernible low - dimensional component during substorms .",
    "since substorms occur very often , sometimes several per day , this low - dimensionality is discernible also when averaged over the year ( as is shown in figure 5 ) .",
    "we use the substorm database and compute @xmath59 in the time interval 1 hour before and 1.5 hours after the substorm onset .",
    "this way we generally include all phases of the substorm .",
    "it has been shown in @xcite that the increase in the embedding dimension gives increased determinism for the systems with low - dimensional dynamical component , while no change in determinism can be seen for the fo - u process .",
    "therefore , the only constrain on the embedding dimension for our data should be the length of the studied time series .",
    "ideally @xmath15 should be chosen to correspond to the first minimum of the average mutual information ( which is @xmath82 in most of our data ) . however , in our data we are limited by the length of the time records , which is the typical length of a substorm .",
    "we use records of length 2.5 hours ( record length @xmath83 data points ) , chose @xmath84 minutes , and @xmath79 ( when @xmath80 , results are the same , but due to better statistics , we use @xmath84 ) .",
    "this leaves a trajectory record in embedding space of length @xmath85 ( from equation ( 2 ) ) , from which we compute a sample value of @xmath57 for a given substorm .",
    "these values are computed over an ensemble of @xmath86 substorms ; and the ensemble mean and standard error @xmath87 are estimated .",
    "this analysis is made for tae , tal , tau , and tpc , and compared to @xmath59 computed from all the data from year 2000 .",
    "figures 6 and 7 illustrate that all geomagnetic indices ( except tal ) exhibit elevated determinism during substorm times , i.e. low - dimensionality increases during substorms .",
    "future studies should investigate why determinism in tal index does not change during magnetospheric substorms . notice that if we could obtain equally good statistics with higher embedding dimension , it would be very likely that the determinism during substorms would be even more elevated than it is for @xmath79 .",
    "another way to demonstrate the existence of a low - dimensional component in these indices is to compare the determinism computed from the tae during substorms with signals generated numerically from the fo - u equation , whose coefficients are fitted to the tae under substorm through least square regression procedure . for each of a large number of realizations of the fo - u process , we compute the ensemble mean of @xmath88 as a measure of low - dimensionality .",
    "the choice of @xmath88 from the @xmath59 vs. @xmath55 curve is a compromise between clear separation between low - dimensional and stochastic dynamics and small error bars ( which increase with increasing @xmath55 ) .",
    "the ensemble mean for fo - u process is @xmath89 , while for deterministic process @xmath90 . in contrast ,",
    "figure 6a shows that @xmath91 for tae under substorm conditions , which gives a clear indication that the ae index is neither fully deterministic nor stochastic .    in figure 8",
    "we plot @xmath59 for @xmath0 and @xmath1 and observe no increase in determinsm during substorms .",
    "this indicates that the increased low - dimensional component in the geomagnetic indices during substorms is not imposed on the magnetosphere by the growth of such a component in the solar wind . in other words : the organization of the magnetosphere during substorms is a _ self_-organization .",
    "we have applied recurrence - plot analysis and a test of determinism to geomagnetic indices ae , au , al and pc , as well as imf @xmath0 and solar flow speed @xmath1 .",
    "recurrence plots were applied by @xcite to connect solar wind observables to the al and au indices , concluding that the correlation between these indices results from magnetic storm signatures appearing in both time series . also , correlation between the solar wind electric field @xmath92 and the ae index was studied in @xcite , invoking mutual information .",
    "here it was found that correlation is present intermittently on the timescales of a few hours , suggesting that substorms are information carriers between the solar wind and the magnetosphere . in our study",
    ", recurrence analysis is used to measure the inverse average diagonal line length @xmath27 which is heuristically shown to be a useful measure of predictability of the dynamics . as an alternative predictability measure the self - similarity exponent @xmath32",
    "was measured during the course of substorms .",
    "no systematic variation of @xmath32 or @xmath27 during substorms has been detected in an ensemble of five hundred substorms .",
    "this is true both for geomagnetic indices and the solar wind observables .",
    "thus we conclude that geomagnetic indices which represent dynamics in the magnetotail , plasma sheet boundary layer , partial ring current and polar cap convection , do not become more predictable during substorms .",
    "the same applies for observables representing the dynamical state of the solar wind driver . from the analysis of a spatio - temporal dynamical model of the high latitude magnetic perturbation ,",
    "it was shown in @xcite that the nonlinear dynamical model for the evolution of the spatial structure produces better prediction than the linear one during intense magnetospheric activity . in this article , a simple test for determinism",
    "has shown as well that the ae index exhibits some nonlinear characteristics , but in addition , it has s weak low - dimensional component .",
    "these characteristics are elevated during substorms .",
    "other geomagnetic indices , except the al index , also show same signatures during magnetic substorms , which could indicate that the magnetosphere self - organizes and develops low - dimensional dynamics under substorm conditions . for the ae index similar results",
    "were obtained by @xcite , who applied singular value decomposition ( svd ) analysis to the ae index .",
    "they concluded , by comparing the ae index with solutions of the lorenz system contaminated by a colored noise term , that the first svd component in both cases is entirely due to colored noise , while the higher - order svd components are due to the internal , low - dimensional and chaotic dynamics . by computing cross - correlation between the first svd component of the ae index and the index itself",
    ", they concluded that the influence of the first component is about 40 percent .",
    "further , the first svd component is attributed to the solar wind and is characterized as linear and stochastic , while higher svd components are attributed to magnetospheric dynamics . in our test of determinism",
    "the data are not filtered to reduce the effect of the stochastic component on the analysis , but the results still reveal that unlike imf @xmath0 and solar wind flow speed @xmath1 , the ae index contains components that makes it different from a high - dimensional or stochastic system .    thus , it seems firmly established that the auroral electrojet proxies exhibit an additional low - dimensional component associated with self - organization of the magnetosphere , the most prominent example being the auroral substorm . it should be stressed , however , that also for ae activity the _ major _ component is stochastic .",
    "@xcite argue that the ae index contains information transferred from the solar wind , since it has been shown in @xcite that power laws in burst lifetime distribution for the al and au indices and for the solar wind electric field @xmath92 are similar apart from a bump in the lifetime distribution which @xcite explain as a signature of the substorm current system .",
    "this indicates that the stochastic component of the auroral electrojet activity to a great extent is a direct imprint of the solar wind turbulence .",
    "this conclusion is supported by the analysis in @xcite , where @xmath93 and tae are found to exhibit very similar multifractal spectrum on the time scale up to 100 minutes .",
    "our analysis supports a picture where the magnetosphere under quiet conditions resides in a forced state where the organization of the magnetospheric dynamics reflects the organization of the solar wind driver , i.e. the stochastic properties of the global magnetospheric system and the driver are very similar .",
    "if substorms are trigged by solar wind features , this trigger is not an increase in organization or predictability of the solar wind dynamics . during substorms",
    "geomagnetic indices are influenced by a self - organization that involves the major current systems in the magnetosphere - ionosphere , and hence indicates that a global instability is exited .",
    "this picture is consistent with the scenario described in @xcite , and conceptually simpler forerunners like @xcite .",
    "the latter sets out to explain the unpredictability of substorm onset , noting that external triggers , like reversal from northward to southward pointing @xmath93 , are not always identifiable , and series of substorm cycles can occur if southward imf persists for prolonged times .",
    "southward imf opens up for loading of magnetic flux and energy to the magnetosphere , and in @xcite , and further elaborated by @xcite , parameters representing this loading are modeled as external time - dependent control parameters , and the magnetospheric state - variable ( e.g. a geomagnetic index ) is modeled via a non - autonomous system on the form @xmath94 where @xmath95 , @xmath96 are two time - dependent external control parameters .",
    "the underlying assumption is that the magnetosphere resides in a forced equilibrium corresponding to a stable fixed point of this system , and hence these equilibria are located on the surface @xmath97 in the three - dimensional @xmath98-space .",
    "choosing a third - order polynomial form , e.g. @xmath99 , gives rise to a folded surface that opens the possibility of a cusp catastrophe which is interpreted as the substorm onset ( expansion phase ) .",
    "according to this non - autonomous model for evolution of stable , forced equilibria the substorm onset is not really unpredictable since it depends on the control parameters @xmath100 and @xmath43 .",
    "however , the catastrophe can occur along a curve in the @xmath101-plane which may be hard to identify from this kind of conceptual model , and hence practical prediction may be difficult .",
    "one unsatisfactory feature of non - autonomous models of this kind is that the control parameters are not directly related to the state of the solar wind driver , but rather a result of the solar - wind / magnetosphere interaction that is an integral part of the dynamical system to be modeled .",
    "thus , in this respect a more satisfactory approach is to model the magnetosphere - ionosphere as a dynamical system which is autonomous under constant forcing .",
    "such models can be constructed with varying degree of sophistication , @xcite , and may give rise to chaotic signals that reproduce many of the random characteristics of the magnetospheric time series .",
    "however , being deterministic and low - dimensional they can not reproduce the strong stochastic component in the observational signals . on the other hand ,",
    "such models can be generalized to include stochastic forcing from small - scale internal dynamics and deterministic and stochastic forcing from variations of the driver .",
    "thus , one may conceive complicated as well as simple conceptual dynamic - stochastic models that can capture the essential stochastic dynamics as it presents itself in the observables studied here . in @xcite",
    "the ae index is modeled by a simple dynamic - stochastic equation that reproduces the general statistical features .",
    "the deterministic dynamics in this equation was represented by a drift term ( a nonlinear damping ) which prevents the solution to drift off to infinity , but the focus in those studies was on the time scales less than a 100 minutes , where the effect of the drift term is small .",
    "a version of this stochastic difference equation that exhibits on - off intermittency for certain choices of parameters is @xmath102 where @xmath103 with @xmath104 models the drift term found from the ae index in @xcite . here @xmath13 is the discrete time step ( the sampling interval of the time series ) and @xmath105 . in @xcite @xmath106 is modeled as a particular multifractal stochastic noise process with unit variance .",
    "it was shown by @xcite that the on - off intermittency of this equation is sensitive to the nature of the noise term .",
    "if @xmath106 is approximated by a white gaussian noise , equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) in the limit @xmath107 reduces to the it stochastic differential equation @xmath108where @xmath109 is the wiener process ( brownian motion ) . it can be shown from the associated fokker - planck equation that the stationary probability density for @xmath110 is @xmath111 .",
    "the divergence of @xmath112 as @xmath113 for @xmath114 is due to the on - off intermittency in this regime , which makes the solution reside in the vicinity of @xmath115 for a considerable portion of the time , while for @xmath116 small , but positive , the solution has an intermittent character more similar to the behavior of the ae index .",
    "such a solution , for @xmath117 , is shown in figure 9a , with a sample of the ae index shown in panel ( b ) . here",
    "@xmath76 was chosen as a weakly anti - persistent fractional gaussian noise with hurst exponent @xmath77 , which is the @xmath118-value derived from the power spectral density for ae shown in figure 10 .",
    "the relation between the spectral index @xmath119 , which is the slope of the straight lines fitted to the spectra plotted in a log - log plot , and the hurst exponent of the differentiated signal is @xmath120 . on time scales @xmath121 time steps ( minutes ) ae index has @xmath122 , corresponding to @xmath123 .",
    "the power spectral density for the model signal shows a less clear power - law regime on these time scales , which is mainly due to a crude model for the nonlinear drift term @xmath124 in equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) . a more  box - like \" function would remedy this . on time scales",
    "the spectrum for the ae index has a pink - noise character ( @xmath126 ) , while the model time series has a more gradual transition towards white noise . further study on refinements of equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) is required to settle whether these spectral features are possible to reproduce within this class of one - dimensional stochastic equations .",
    "an interesting question is whether modeling along these lines can produce bursts ( substorms ) which enhance the determinism compared to a completely random process . as discussed before ,",
    "the test based on comparing the @xmath57-curve with the one obtained after randomization of phases is a test on the existence of a low - dimensional and nonlinear component in the dynamics .",
    "direct computation of @xmath57 from the model signal does not reveal a significant reduction of @xmath57 after randomization , in contrast to what was found from the mg system signal in figure 1 .",
    "one obvious reason for this is that the signal from equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) contains a strong stochastic component which is not present in the signal from the mg system .",
    "hence , in this case it is necessary to perform a mild low - pass filtering of the model signal before computation of @xmath57 @xcite . the result after filtering is shown in figure 11 , indicating the presence of a low - dimensional nonlinear component . to make sure that this filtering does not introduce spurious low - dimensional nonlinearities in the signal , we perform the same test to a filtered fo - u process with similar spectral characterics as our model signal (",
    "the power spectral density for the fo - u signal is displayed in figure 10 ) .",
    "the filtered fo - u process shows very small change of @xmath57 after randomization of phases , as shown in the inset of figure 11 .",
    "obviously , low - pass filtering also have an effect on this test when applied to physical signals with a stochastic component . in figure 12",
    "we show the effect of applying the same filter to tae , which should be compared to the result for the unfiltered signal shown in figure 5 .",
    "the nonlinearity producing determinism in the model signal from equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) is a combination of the nonlinear drift term and the multiplicative noise term @xmath127 .",
    "the multiplicative term can be eliminated by the transformation @xmath128 , but then it s formula @xcite yields a new drift term on the form @xmath129 .",
    "note that if our original drift term is a linear damping @xmath130 the transformed drift term reduces to a negative constant @xmath131 .",
    "this yields @xmath132 , and hence @xmath133 as @xmath134 , and demonstrates that the drift term must be nonlinear to produce stationary time series from a model with a multiplicative noise term like equation ( [ on - offeq ] ) .",
    "baker , d. n. , a. j. klimas , r. l. mcpherron , and j. bchner ( 1990 ) , the evolution from weak to strong geomagnetic activity : an interpretation in terms of deterministic chaos , _ geophys .",
    "lett , _ _ 17 _ , 41 .",
    "chapman , s. , and n. watkins ( 2001 ) , avalanching and self - organised criticality , a paradigm for geomagnetic activity , _ space science review _ , _ 95 _ , 293 .",
    "chapman , s. c. , n. w. watkins , r. o. dendy , p. helander , and g. rowlands ( 1998 ) , a simple avalanche model as an analogue for magnetospheric activity , _ geophys .",
    "_ _ 25 _ , 2397 .",
    "feldstein , y. i. , v. a. popov , j. a. cumnock , a. prigancova , l. g. bloomberg , j. u. kozyra , b. t. tsurutanj , l. i. gromova , and a. e. levitin ( 2006 ) , auroral electrojets and boundaries of plasma domains in the magnetosphere during magnetically disturbed intervals , _ ann .",
    "geophys . , _ _ 24 _ , 2243 .",
    "klimas , a. , j. a. valdivia , d. vassiliadis , j. takalo , d. baker ( 2000 ) , self - organized criticality in the substorm phenomenon and its relation to localized reconnection in the magnetospheric plasma sheet , _",
    "j. geophys .",
    "res . , _ _ 105 _ , 18765 .",
    "march , t. k , s. c. chapman , and r. o. dendy ( 2005b ) , mutual information between geomagnetic indices and the solar wind as seen by wind : implications for propagation time estimates , _ geophys .",
    "_ , _ 32 _ , l04101 .",
    "rypdal , m. , and k. rypdal ( 2010a ) , stochastic modeling of the ae index and its relation to fluctuations in @xmath93 of the imf on time scales shorter than substorm duration , _",
    "j. geophys .",
    "res . , _ _ 115 _ , a11216 .",
    "sitnov , m. i. , a. s. sharma , and k. papadopoulos ( 2001 ) , modeling substorm dynamics of the magnetosphere : from self - organization and self - organized criticality to nonequlibrium phase transitions , _ phys .",
    "65_.    takens , f. ( 1981 ) , detecting strange attractors in fluid turbulence , in : dynamical systems and turbulence , edited by d.  rand , and l.  s.  young , springer , berlin .",
    "troshichev , o. a. , and v. g. andrezen ( 1985 ) , the relationship between interplanetary quantities and magnetic activity in the southern polar cap , _ planet .",
    "space sci . , _ _ 33 _ , 415 .",
    "uritsky , v. m. , and m. i. pudovkin ( 1998 ) , low frequency 1/f - like fluctuations of the ae - index as a possible manifestation of self - organized criticality in the magnetosphere , _ ann .",
    "_ , _ 16 _ , 1580 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the change in degree of organization of the magnetosphere during substorms is investigated by analyzing various geomagnetic indices , as well as interplanetary magnetic field _ z_-component and solar wind flow speed . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the magnetosphere self - organizes globally during substorms , but neither the magnetosphere nor the solar wind become more predictable in the course of a substorm . </S>",
    "<S> this conclusion is based on analysis of five hundred substorms in the period from 2000 to 2002 . a minimal dynamic - stochastic model of the driven magnetosphere that reproduces many statistical features of substorm indices </S>",
    "<S> is discussed . </S>"
  ]
}