{
  "article_text": [
    "fu orionis systems ( hereafter fuors ) , named after their prototype object , are low - mass ( sun - like ) protostars that undergo a rapid accretion episode in the innermost region of the circumstellar disc ( see @xcite for a review ) .",
    "the gravitational energy released in such an event leads to an emission outburst ( with a rise time of @xmath2yr and a duration of @xmath3yr ) , during which the disc is more luminous than the central protostar by a factor of @xmath4 .",
    "the inferred mass accretion rate during the outburst is @xmath5 , much higher than typical accretion rates during the quiescent phase .",
    "statistical arguments , first advanced by @xcite , indicate that such outbursts occur , on average , ten or more times during the protostellar lifetime .",
    "there is evidence that the outbursts are more frequent during the early ( the so - called class 0 and class i ) evolutionary phases and peter out as the mass accretion rate declines and the protostar enters the visible ( class ii , or classical t tauri ) phase .",
    "the picture that has emerged from the observations and their interpretation is that most of the mass that ends up in the protostar is transferred from the disc during such outbursts ( e.g. @xcite ; see , however , @xcite for a different viewpoint ) .",
    "if our understanding is correct , the fu orionis phenomenon represents a key element of the star formation process .",
    "fuor outbursts are accompanied by strong winds of maximum line - of - sight speeds @xmath6 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whose inferred mass outflow rates @xmath7 can reach @xmath8 ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite , hereafter chk93 ) .",
    "if most of the mass accreted through the disc is indeed processed through outbursts of this type then most of the mass and momentum ejected over the protostellar lifetime  and hence most of the impact that protostellar outflows may have on their environment ( e.g. in contributing to the dynamical support of the parent cloud against gravitational collapse and to the regulation of the mass inflow to the centre )  will be associated with these eruptions .",
    "it is also likely that the repeated , powerful ejections have a strong influence on the properties and appearance of the large - scale jets that emanate from these protostars ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "it is therefore important to understand the nature and origin of these outflows .",
    "neither thermal nor radiative acceleration is likely to be important in fuor winds , which leaves magnetic driving as the most promising mechanism .",
    "this conclusion is supported by a zeeman - signature least - square deconvolution measurement in the prototype object fu ori , which was interpreted as indicating the presence of a @xmath9 poloidal magnetic field on scales of @xmath10au @xcite .",
    "one possible scenario is that the outflows represent a centrifugally driven wind that is launched along magnetic field lines that thread the disc and are sufficiently inclined ( at an angle @xmath11 for a keplerian rotation law ) to the disc surface ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "these field lines could correspond to the interstellar magnetic field that threads the natal molecular cloud core and is dragged in by the accretion flow , although an origin in a disc dynamo is also conceivable . in this picture , the outflow need not be launched from the immediate vicinity of the central star .",
    "alternatively , the wind , while still comprising material removed from the accretion disc , could be driven along stellar magnetic field lines . in view of the fact that the massive accretion flow during an fuor outburst is expected to compress the stellar magnetosphere to an equatorial radius @xmath12 not much larger than the stellar radius @xmath13",
    ", the wind in this scenario necessarily originates close to the stellar surface .",
    "one version of the latter scenario , proposed by @xcite , corresponds to the x - celerator model presented in @xcite . in this picture , the accretion flow spins up the outer layers of the star to breakup , resulting in a magnetocentrifugal wind being driven along a narrow bundle of opened - up field lines that emerge from an ` x - point ' at the stellar equator . in the x - wind model described in @xcite , the ` x - point ' is associated more generally with the corotation radius @xmath14 ( the radius where the disc angular speed equals the stellar angular speed ) , which in quiescent protostars is typically a few stellar radii away from the stellar surface .",
    "chk93 and @xcite presented arguments in favour of the ` disc field ' interpretation of fuor outflows and against a ` stellar field ' scenario .",
    "they demonstrated that increasingly stronger photospheric lines observed in fu ori become progressively more blueshifted even as their two absorption components ( attributed to the disc rotation ) move closer together in wavelength , and pointed out that this is precisely the behaviour expected in a disc - driven wind .",
    "in addition , based on the evidence that most of the optical continuum in fuors is emitted by an extended disc and on the fact that typical stellar winds accelerate on scales comparable to the stellar radius , they contended that a stellar field - driven wind launched from the stellar surface could not reproduce the observations .",
    "in particular , they argued that the strong , but only moderately blueshifted , intermediate - strength lines detected in fu ori could not originate in such a wind because , by the time such an outflow covered a significant fraction of the continuum emission region in the disc ( necessary for producing strong absorption ) , it would have already attained a high velocity ( and would therefore exhibit strongly blueshifted lines ) .",
    "another potential problem that they cited involves the large rotational broadening that could be expected from a source rotating at breakup ( as envisioned in the x - celerator picture ) .",
    "recent axisymmetric and 3d numerical simulations of disc accretion on to stellar magnetospheres ( @xcite , hereafter r09 ) have revealed features that resemble the x - wind configuration proposed by @xcite but that are nevertheless different on several counts .",
    "specifically , it was found that such systems drive conical disc winds along stellar field lines that are bunched up by the accretion flow .",
    "however , even though these winds also originate in the inner disc , their launching region is not confined to the immediate vicinity of the corotation radius , as hypothesized in the x - wind scenario .",
    "furthermore , the conical winds are driven by the pressure gradient of the azimuthal magnetic field component ( wound up by the differential rotation between the disc and the star ) rather than centrifugally , and they have a smaller opening angle and a narrower lateral extent than x - winds .",
    "interestingly , even though r09 only presented results for model parameters appropriate to protostars with comparatively low ( @xmath15 ) accretion rates , the outflows produced in their simulations exhibited several properties that could potentially mitigate the aforementioned arguments against stellar field - driven outflow models for fuors . in particular , it was found that the acceleration of a conical wind is more extended than in a typical ( hydrodynamic ) stellar outflow and that its rotation speed generally decreases along the flow , in contrast with the initial behaviour of a centrifugally driven wind .",
    "these findings provide a strong motivation for reevaluating the viability of the ` stellar field ' class of wind models for fuors .",
    "more recent investigations , employing larger simulation regions and higher accretion rates , have begun to extend the results of r09 .",
    "one notable finding of this new work , analysed in @xcite , is that the collimation of conical winds increases with distance from the origin and that they can eventually become fully collimated . in this paper",
    "we focus on simulations that we performed for parameters that are relevant to fuors .",
    "our goal is to verify that conical winds are still produced under these circumstances and to examine whether they could potentially account for the inferred properties of fuor outflows . in section  [ sec : model ]",
    "we provide analytic estimates that are used to guide our simulations and we summarize our numerical scheme . in section  [ sec : results ] we present representative results and derive the physical properties of the simulated flows .",
    "we discuss the implications of this study for fuors in section  [ sec : analysis ] and give our conclusions in section  [ sec : conclude ] , where we also outline steps toward further progress .",
    "the fuor phenomenon has been convincingly argued to represent an enhanced accretion episode in a protostellar accretion disc , most likely associated with an instability that arises from a mismatch between the mass accretion rates in the inner and outer disc regions ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "accordingly , we set up a numerical model that simulates a non - steady disc accretion ` burst ' on to a magnetized star .",
    "we first discuss some basic scaling relations that allow us to choose the appropriate model parameters , and then briefly describe our numerical model .",
    "our model is based on the assumption that the stellar magnetic field can effectively diffuse into the inner region of the disc , allowing the bulk of the inflowing disc material to be channelled on to the stellar surface along closed magnetic field lines ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the remainder to be expelled in an outflow along opened - up field lines ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the disc truncation ( or ` magnetospheric ' ) radius @xmath1 corresponds to the location in the disc where the torque exerted on the disc plasma by the stellar magnetic field becomes large enough to brake the disc keplerian rotation and enforce corotation with the star . for an aligned dipolar field ,",
    "it is given by @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the stellar mass and @xmath18 is its magnetic dipole moment , @xmath19 is the gravitational constant and the mass accretion rate is measured at @xmath1 @xcite . under stationary conditions ,",
    "the numerical factor @xmath20 is estimated to be @xmath21 @xcite .",
    "when @xmath1 is close to @xmath13 , as in the fuor case , higher order magnetic moments @xmath22 , which produce magnetic field amplitudes @xmath23 , can also be expected to play a role . in this case ,",
    "equation  ( [ eq : r_m ] ) generalizes to @xmath24 @xcite , where , in particular , @xmath25 , 2 and 3 correspond , respectively , to the dipole , quadrupole and octupole field components . for a given dipole component , the incorporation of additional multipole components will tend to increase the value of the disc truncation radius over the estimate  ( [ eq : r_m ] ) .",
    "however , for the sake of simplicity , we restrict the discussion in the rest of this paper to a purely dipolar field .",
    "in choosing our model parameters , we adopt as fiducial values the physical parameters inferred from observations of fu ori . in particular , based on the results given in @xcite , we take @xmath26 and @xmath27 .",
    "these authors also estimate , from spectral modeling , that the inner radius @xmath28 of the fu ori disc is @xmath29 .",
    "we identify this radius with @xmath1 , which allows us , using equation  ( [ eq : r_m ] ) , to infer the value of @xmath30 : @xmath31 where the normalization of the equatorial surface magnetic field @xmath32 is consistent with typical values inferred in quiescent class - i @xcite and class - ii ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) protostars as well as with the results reported by @xcite for the poloidal field near fu ori . is larger than that of the corresponding unperturbed dipole field on account of the compressional amplification of the stellar field by the accretion flow . ]",
    "the contribution of higher order multipole field components , which could become important near the stellar surface , would have the effect of increasing this ratio . ) and setting , for definiteness , @xmath33 , we deduce , using equation  ( [ eq : r_m_n ] ) , that @xmath34 and @xmath35 . note in this connection that recent spectropolarimetric observations of the t tauri stars v2129 oph and bp tau ( @xcite , @xcite ; see also @xcite and @xcite ) inferred an octupolar surface field component that is stronger than the dipolar component . ]",
    "previous accretion disc models of fuors have generally ignored the role of the magnetic field in truncating the disc and therefore identified @xmath28 , the inner radius of the disc , with the stellar radius ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the value @xmath36 inferred in this way is measurably higher than typical values for low - mass protostars ( @xmath37 ) , and several explanations have been advanced to account for the difference .",
    "( a brief summary of this issue is given by @xcite , who favour an interpretation that attributes the larger radius to stellar expansion brought about by the deposition of heat produced by the accreting gas . ) since @xmath30 is generally @xmath38 in the magnetic accretion model ( for example , it is 1.4 in the representative simulation presented in this paper ) , the inferred value of @xmath13 is lower in this case , which reduces the implied difference from the radii of quiescent protostars .",
    "we employ the same numerical model as the one described in section  2 of r09 , and the reader is referred to that paper for further details .",
    "as explained in section  2.3.1 of r09 , the high - density gas that comprises the disc material enters the simulation region through the disc boundary only after the computation commences , and it subsequently flows inward on account of its viscosity .",
    "this numerical setup is thus naturally suited for modelling the evolution of an accretion ` burst ' , which is the focus of the present work .",
    "although we performed simulations for a variety of model parameters , we present only one representative case in this paper .",
    "we use the same parameters as in the reference simulation shown in r09 , except that we reduce the reference radius @xmath39 from @xmath40 to @xmath41 and change the outer radius of the computational domain from @xmath42 to @xmath43.au , which corresponds to @xmath44 for the inferred value of @xmath13 in our reference simulation . ]",
    "the latter change enables us to increase the mass accretion rate on to the central star in our simulation to the level inferred in fuors .",
    "the larger size of the computational domain also allows us to get a better handle on the collimation properties of conical winds .",
    ", is presented in @xcite .",
    "] the mass accretion rate on to the central object is determined from the simulations using the expression @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the reference mass accretion rate and where @xmath47 and @xmath48 are , respectively , the dimensionless magnetic moment and mass accretion rate parameters .",
    "we use @xmath49 as in the reference simulation of r09 and obtain the value of @xmath50 from the numerical calculation . as described in section  [ sec : results ] , the final ( quasi - steady ) mass accretion rate on to the central object in our representative simulation corresponds to @xmath51 .",
    "we also find that @xmath52 at that stage , which implies @xmath53 ( using our fiducial value for @xmath28 ) .",
    "we can then use equation  ( [ eq : mdot_sim ] ) to infer the value of @xmath54 for our representative model : @xmath55 the reference and fiducial parameters for our model are summarized in table  [ tab : refval ] . ) , we infer @xmath56 . although @xmath20 is expected to be @xmath57 under stationary conditions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we consider the derived value to be physically consistent , especially in view of the time - dependent nature of the simulation and the expected presence of higher order multipole field components .",
    "one could in principle obtain a lower value of @xmath20 by increasing the adopted value of the parameter @xmath58 . ]    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     the time evolution of the simulated system depends on the magnitudes of the viscosity and the magnetic diffusivity , which are parametrized by @xmath59 and @xmath60 , respectively .",
    "r09 ( see their appendix  d ) found that conical winds are established only when @xmath61 .",
    "this is consistent with the fact that the dragging of the magnetic field by the accretion flow , which in fuors causes the field compression near the inner boundary of the disc , requires the magnetic prandtl number @xmath62 to be @xmath38 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "our simulations employ the values adopted in the reference case of r09 , namely @xmath63 and @xmath64 .",
    "recent work on non - steady protostellar accretion - disc models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has indicated that @xmath59 must be large enough ( @xmath65 ) for outbursts that resemble those of fuors to be produced .",
    "our adopted value of the viscosity parameter is consistent with this requirement .",
    "it is noteworthy in this connection that r09 found that the formation of a robust conical outflow also requires @xmath59 ( _ and _ @xmath60 ) to be comparatively large ( @xmath66 ) .",
    "the large - scale poloidal structure of the simulated flow is shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : fig1 ] at the time when the wind has become fully developed .",
    "the most striking feature of the figure is its qualitative similarity to fig .  3 in r09 , which corresponds to a quiescent protostar that accretes at a much lower ( by a factor @xmath67 ) rate .",
    "this conclusion is reinforced by an inspection of fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2 ] , which shows a close - up view of the region near the star . in both cases a high - density , conical disc wind is launched from the vicinity of the disc truncation radius @xmath28 , and a lower - density , higher - velocity jet component is established in the interior of the cone . the main difference between the two simulations is in the value of @xmath68 : it is @xmath69 in our simulation , as compared with @xmath70 in the r09 reference calculation .",
    "this difference is consistent with the expectation from equation  ( [ eq : ratio ] ) , which indicates that this ratio scales only as a weak power of the mass accretion rate ( @xmath71 ) .",
    "thus , even though the accretion flow is much more powerful in this case , the steep radial scaling of the magnetic pressure exerted by the dipolar field component ( @xmath72 ) insures that the disc is still truncated at a finite radius and does not actually ` crush ' the stellar magnetosphere ( as envisioned , for example , in the x - celerator scenario for fuors ; see @xcite ) .",
    "although the disc in the current simulation is truncated very close to the stellar surface , the magnetic field structure in the vicinity of its inner radius is qualitatively very similar to the case where @xmath73 is @xmath38 .",
    "in particular , the magnetic field lines that guide the conical wind and the axial jet are open .",
    "the opening - up of parts of the initially dipolar stellar field is a consequence of the differential rotation between the star , where the magnetic field is anchored , and the disc , into which the field lines diffuse , and is a generic property of magnetically linked star  disc systems ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . as in the lower-@xmath74 case considered in r09",
    ", the conical wind is driven primarily by the pressure gradient of the azimuthal magnetic field component generated by the differential rotation rather than centrifugally .",
    "note in this connection that the profile of the azimuthal velocity component ( see panel c in fig .",
    "6 of r09 as well as the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fig4 ] below ) initially _ decreases _ along the poloidal field lines , which contrasts with the behaviour of centrifugally driven winds , in which the azimuthal speed @xmath75 at first increases along a field line . the acceleration is quite efficient , and the conical wind reaches outflow speeds @xmath76 ( corresponding to @xmath77 of the keplerian speed at @xmath28 ) at the outer edge of the simulation region . the highest poloidal speed observed in this simulation",
    "is attained further up and is associated with the lower - density axial flow . as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig1 ] , its value is @xmath78 , which is consistent with the maximum line - of - sight speed measured in fu ori @xcite .",
    "however , this value may not be accurate since the low - density region in the vicinity of the axis is susceptible to numerical artifacts . ) , which results in a comparatively weak axial outflow . ] near the base of the flow the wind velocity is dominated by the azimuthal component , which arises from the rotational motion of the disc in the wind - launching region and has a maximum value of @xmath79 , attained at @xmath80 .",
    "( at smaller radii the wind azimuthal velocity decreases on account of the interaction with the magnetosphere , which rotates with the comparatively low angular velocity of the star . )",
    "we note that , even though the wind is launched very close to the stellar surface and has a high initial rotation velocity , it does _ not _ originate in the stellar surface and does _ not _ require the star to rotate at break - up speed  which distinguishes it from the outflow envisioned in the x - celerator scenario @xcite .",
    "as discussed in r09 , the magnetic force also has a component directed toward the symmetry axis , which acts to collimate the wind . by using the poloidal matter flux distribution",
    ", r09 determined that the conical outflow in their reference simulation attained an opening half - angle of @xmath81 . from the corresponding distribution presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig1 ] , we find that the collimation is even more efficient in the case that we simulate , with the outflow half - angle decreasing to @xmath82 within a radial distance ( projected on the equatorial plane ) of @xmath83 from the stellar surface .",
    "in general , a magnetically driven outflow is collimated by a combination of two effects ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : the magnetic tension force that acts to balance the magnetic pressure - gradient force in the force - free sub - alfvnic regime , and the hoop stress exerted by the azimuthal magnetic field component in the super - alfvnic flow region .",
    "the difference in the collimation properties of the conical wind in our simulation and in the reference simulation of r09 can be attributed to the fact that a higher mass accretion rate in the disc results in a stronger compression of the stellar magnetic field and hence in a larger collimating magnetic tension force in the sub - alfvnic region of the wind .",
    "the hoop - stress effect is also stronger in the higher-@xmath74 case on account of the compressional amplification of the field and because the differential rotation that twists the field lines gets stronger ( for a given value of @xmath14 ) as @xmath28 is decreased .",
    "a detailed analysis of the collimation properties of a conical wind from a high-@xmath74 disc is given in @xcite .",
    "[ fig : fig3 ] shows the evolution of the matter fluxes that are deposited by the accretion flow on to the stellar surface and in the outflow ( with the mass outflow rate evaluated over a spherical surface far enough from the centre ) .",
    "it is seen that the mean mass accretion rate increases steadily until it attains a fully developed state ( with @xmath74 corresponding to the value inferred in fu ori ) at a time @xmath84d from the start of the simulation . this time is longer than the @xmath85yr observed rise time of the fu ori outburst ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but the discrepancy is probably in large part just a consequence of the particular choice of initial conditions for our simulation ( see section  [ subsec : numerical ] ) . in the fully developed state ,",
    "the average accretion and outflow rates are related by @xmath86 .",
    "this result is consistent with the observational findings in fu ori ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the rapid accretion during the fuor outburst can be expected to spin up the star , and it is therefore necessary to check whether our assumption of slow stellar rotation is self - consistent .",
    "we calculated the torque on the star at the end of our simulation from the expression @xmath87 , where the reference torque @xmath88 is listed in table  [ tab : refval ] and where the dimensionless field and matter contributions @xmath89 and @xmath90 are , in our case , @xmath91 and @xmath92 , respectively . and @xmath93 at @xmath94 at the end of the simulation .",
    "this is consistent with the fact that , as in the quiescent case ( see fig .  14 in r09 )",
    ", most of the angular momentum transport occurs through the viscous stress in the disc . ] by dividing the total torque calculated in this way , @xmath95 , into the stellar angular momentum @xmath96 , where we assume uniform rotation with angular velocity @xmath97 and scale the normalized radius of gyration @xmath98 by its value for a polytrope of index 1.5 , we infer a characteristic spin - up time @xmath99 , which is of the order of the typical fuor outburst time .",
    "this implies that our assumption of a slow rotator is only marginally consistent .",
    "we note , however , that a conical wind - like component may be present in the outflow even if this assumption is violated ( see section  [ sec : conclude ] ) .",
    "the simulation results presented in section  [ sec : results ] indicate that the observed properties of fuor outflows could in principle be explained in terms of the conical wind and axial jet that are driven from the vicinity of the stellar surface in these systems along stellar magnetic field lines that are compressed , twisted , and opened up by the interaction between the initially dipolar field component and the strong accretion flow .",
    "in particular , for typical values of the stellar mass , radius and surface magnetic field strength , and of the mass inflow rate at the inner edge of the circumstellar disc , our representative simulation demonstrates that this interaction can produce outflows whose properties ( mass outflow rate , strong rotational velocity component near the base and possibly also the maximum outflow speed ) are consistent with the observations .    as was mentioned in section  [ sec : intro ] , chk93 and @xcite argued against a stellar magnetic field - driven wind being able to account for the spectral properties of the outflow in fu ori .",
    "they envisioned the outflow as originating in the stellar surface and accelerating rapidly along strongly divergent field lines even as its rotation speed ( which initially has the stellar breakup value ) continues to increase . in our picture , the absorption features modelled in the above - mentioned papers would arise in the conical - wind component , which exhibits a spatially more extended acceleration ( along fast collimating magnetic field lines ) and a lower initial rotation speed ( that at first actually decreases along the flow ) than the ` stellar field ' outflow assumed in those papers .",
    "although the spatial and kinematic properties of our simulated conical wind are distinct from the semi - analytic disc outflow model presented in chk93 ( which combined a hydrostatic disc atmosphere with a simple representation of a centrifugal wind ) , it is probably qualitatively closer to that model ( which chk93 and hartmann & calvet 1995 argued was consistent with the spectral data for fu ori ) than to their hypothesized stellar wind model .    to demonstrate that the conical wind model could account for the behaviour of the absorption lines measured in fu ori would require a determination of the thermal structure of the simulated flow and a calculation of the synthesized spectra of the relevant photospheric lines .",
    "an analogous radiative - transfer calculation , addressing the rotationally induced line variability from an accreting t tauri star with a misaligned magnetic dipole , was carried out by @xcite . while a detailed computation of this type is outside the scope of the present paper",
    ", we can obtain some indication of the potential promise of this model by calculating the density and velocity profiles as functions of distance from the mid - plane at the location of the optical continuum emission region and comparing the results with those obtained in the disc wind model of chk93 .",
    "in view of the clear differences between our numerical model and chk93 s semi - analytic model ( which include the fact that the latter model , in contrast with our simulations , incorporates energy loss by radiative diffusion in the disc atmosphere ) , we can not expect to find a full quantitative correspondence between the two calculations . , @xmath100 and @xmath101 , and presented results for @xmath102 .",
    "furthermore , in their spectral fits they assumed a disc inclination angle @xmath103 , whereas more recent fits for this source ( e.g. zhu et al .",
    "2007 ) have used @xmath104 .",
    "] however , we can look for common trends in the respective profiles .",
    "we take the optical emission radius @xmath105 to correspond to an effective disc temperature of @xmath106k , and we use the disc model of @xcite , in which @xmath107 $ ] and the maximum effective temperature ( attained at @xmath108 ) is @xmath109k , to deduce @xmath110 . as noted by chk93 , the disc model fits of @xcite similarly imply that roughly 60% of the optical spectrum in fu ori arises from disc annuli between @xmath111 and @xmath112 .",
    "chk93 suggested that this region could be adequately represented by their calculated ` disc atmosphere plus wind ' structure at @xmath113 , which they presented as a function of the height @xmath114 above the mid - plane in their table  2 . in view of the different model setups and",
    "adopted source parameters , there are several possible choices for the value of the wind - launching radius where we could compare our model results with the ones given in that table . for definiteness",
    ", we opt to also use @xmath115 .",
    "note , however , that this value corresponds to different radial distances in the two models : @xmath116 for our choice of parameters and @xmath117 for those employed by chk93 .",
    "the comparison between the predictions of these two models is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig4 ] . in the chk93 model",
    ", the poloidal velocity only has a vertical ( @xmath114 ) component and the azimuthal velocity is approximated as being constant with height and set equal to the keplerian speed at the base of the flow ( @xmath118 for their adopted parameters ) .",
    "the curves showing @xmath119 and the mass density @xmath120 in that model are labelled by chk and plotted as a function of @xmath114 at @xmath115 using the data in table 2 of chk93 . in view of the conical shape of our simulated wind , we plot the poloidal and azimuthal velocity components as well as the density in the numerical model along a slightly inclined path ( represented by the heavy dash - dotted straight line in fig .  [ fig : fig2 ] ) . and  [ fig : fig2 ] . ]",
    "it is seen that , as expected , the values of corresponding quantities at a given distance from the mid - plane can be significantly different for the two cases . reflects , in part , the fact that our simulated disc is hotter  and therefore geometrically thicker  than the chk93 model disc .",
    "the latter model was chosen to be consistent with the minimum - temperature requirement obtained by @xcite for a viscous disc to generate fuor - type outbursts .",
    "the hotter disc produced in our simulation is clearly also consistent with this condition .",
    "] however , we also find that the basic velocity and density structure of the two models is very similar . in both cases ,",
    "the flow is rotation - dominated as it emerges from the disc but eventually @xmath121 comes to exceed @xmath75 ( which , in turn , does not systematically increase along the flow ) .",
    "chk93 estimated that the disc photosphere at @xmath122 occurs roughly where the density drops to @xmath123 and @xmath119 increases to @xmath124 .",
    "( for comparison , the sound speed in the optical emission region is @xmath125 . ) in their model , @xmath119 becomes @xmath126 when the density drops to @xmath127 . in our simulation",
    ", @xmath128 increases above @xmath124 also roughly when the density drops to @xmath123 , and @xmath121 comes to exceed @xmath75 when @xmath120 decreases by another two orders of magnitude .",
    "this correspondence indicates that the observed dependence of photospheric absorption line profiles in fu ori on the line strength , which was successfully reproduced by the chk3 model ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , is consistent with an origin in a stellar field - driven conical wind .    even if more extensive and detailed calculations indicate that the observed behaviour of the photospheric absorption lines in fu ori can not be reproduced by a conical wind model (",
    "because , for example , a wind of this type that is launched very close to the stellar surface collimates too rapidly for its acceleration region to intercept a line of sight to the optical continuum emission region for the inferred disc inclination angle , or if the maximum predicted outflow speed is too low ) , the results of our simulations suggest that a stellar field - driven outflow might still be an important ingredient of a comprehensive model of fuors .",
    "in particular , such an outflow could still potentially account for much of the mass and momentum injected into the ambient medium in the course of an outburst and perhaps also for the highest measured velocities in the h@xmath129 , h@xmath130 and na i lines ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) even if another outflow component ( in particular , a disc wind driven along non - stellar magnetic field lines , which were not included in our simulations ) gives rise to the observed photospheric lines .",
    "this is because a strong conical wind and a fast , low - density jet appear to be generic features of the disc / stellar - field interaction under a wide range of conditions . on the other hand , if it can be demonstrated that these predicted outflow components are , in fact , absent during fuor outbursts , this would indicate that at least one of the underlying key assumptions of the model [ e.g. that the magnetic diffusivity in the inner disc does not exceed the viscosity ( @xmath131 ) but is nevertheless sufficiently large ( @xmath132 ) , or that the star possesses a sufficiently strong dipolar field component ( @xmath133 ) ] is not valid , which would also enhance our physical understanding of these systems .",
    "we have presented numerical simulation results that support an interpretation of the powerful winds that accompany fuor outbursts in terms of stellar magnetic field - driven disc outflows . in this picture , the massive accretion flow that gives rise to an observed burst strongly compresses the stellar magnetic field lines , and the resulting magnetic stress truncates the accretion disc very close to the stellar surface .",
    "some of the field lines diffuse into the disc and become twisted by the differential rotation between the disc and the star .",
    "this twisting , in turn , opens up the field lines , and the pressure gradient associated with the azimuthal magnetic field component along the opened field drives a moderate - velocity , dense conical wind that emanates from the vicinity of the truncation radius as well as a high - velocity , tenuous axial jet ( whose properties , however , are less well determined in the simulation that we described ) .",
    "the magnetic field also acts to collimate these outflow components .",
    "the conical wind and axial jet appear to be generic features of the interaction between an accretion disc and a predominantly dipolar stellar field in cases where the effective viscosity @xmath59 and magnetic diffusivity @xmath60 satisfy @xmath134 and are both comparatively high ( @xmath66 ) .",
    "these features were originally identified in simulations of protostars with low and moderate accretion rates ( r09 ) . the representative simulation presented in this paper verifies that the same type of outflow",
    "is produced also when the accretion rate is as high as @xmath135 , the value inferred in the archetypal object fu ori .",
    "our simulation implies that the disc truncation radius in this source , which was observationally determined to lie at a radius @xmath136 , corresponds to a distance of @xmath137 from the stellar surface , and that the surface magnetic field is @xmath138 , which is consistent with independent indications .",
    "the mass outflow rate in the simulated outburst ( dominated by the conical wind ) is a factor @xmath139 of the mass accretion rate on to the star , and the maximum outflow velocity within the computational domain ( attained in the axial jet ) is @xmath140 ; these agree well with the observationally inferred values for fu ori .",
    "an interpretation of fuor winds in terms of an accretion - disc outflow driven along stellar magnetic field lines was previously proposed by @xcite on the basis of the x - celerator model of @xcite . in this picture , the outflow is launched centrifugally from the surface of a star whose outer layers rotate at breakup speeds .",
    "this contrasts with the conical - wind scenario , in which the star rotates comparatively slowly and the outflow originates at a finite distance from the star and is driven by the @xmath141 magnetic pressure gradient from the start .",
    "@xcite generalized the x - celerator model to the case where the star rotates below breakup , corresponding to the corotation radius @xmath14 exceeding @xmath13 .",
    "however , in their generalized ( x - wind ) model , @xmath14 still coincides with the magnetospheric radius @xmath1 , and the nature of the outflow from that region ( the x - point ) is qualitatively similar to that of the x - celerator model . our assumption in this paper that @xmath142 is plausible in view of the fact that a rapidly rotating protostar could be efficiently braked through a magnetic interaction with the disc during the relatively long quiescent phase ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "and while such a star would be spun up during the rapid accretion event comprising an fuor outburst ( see section  [ sec : results ] ) , this need not result in the surface layers reaching breakup speeds .",
    "( note in this connection that , even in the absence of a large - scale magnetic field coupling the disc and the star , the protostellar surface layers are not expected to reach breakup speeds during an outburst of this type ; e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "chk93 and @xcite argued that a stellar magnetic field - driven outflow model of the x - celerator type is inconsistent with the detection of moderately blueshifted , intermediate - strength absorption lines in fu ori , which , they suggested , could be explained in terms of a disc outflow originating at a distance @xmath143 of a few stellar radii and driven along magnetic field lines that are not associated with the star . specifically , they showed that the observed line profiles could be reproduced by a model in which gas launched from a keplerian accretion disc gradually accelerates until the poloidal velocity component comes to exceed the azimuthal velocity component . in this paper",
    "we have demonstrated that a conical wind naturally exhibits this behaviour since the outflow also starts with a predominantly azimuthal velocity component and eventually accelerates to @xmath144 . in particular",
    ", we showed that the density and poloidal velocity profiles along a ray through the conical shell that intercepts the disc at the distance of the optical emission region closely match the corresponding profiles calculated in the disc - outflow model of chk93 , notwithstanding the different setups ( and even the fiducial parameter values ) employed in the two ( respectively , numerical and semi - analytic ) models .",
    "the fact that the azimuthal velocity of the conical wind remains much lower than the breakup speed of the star and that , in contrast with the initial behaviour of @xmath75 in a centrifugally driven wind , it does not increase ( but , rather , decreases ) along the outflow , circumvents another objection that chk93 levelled at the x - celerator scenario .",
    "we note in this connection that an outflow component resembling a conical wind , as well as a strong axial jet component , have been found in simulations of the disc ",
    "magnetosphere interaction in the ` propeller ' regime ( @xmath145 ) . based on the results presented in r09",
    ", we expect such a flow to be more strongly influenced by the centrifugal force and less well collimated for given values of @xmath18 and @xmath74 than the conical wind we considered above .",
    "however , r09 also found in the propeller case that the magnetic force remains important in driving the wind and that the azimuthal speed of the wind does not increase along a field line ( see their fig .",
    "it is therefore conceivable that an outflow in this regime could also account for the observations , although this remains to be verified by an explicit simulation .",
    "while the results presented in this paper are highly suggestive , a more detailed calculation ( involving the thermal and spectral properties of the outflow ) is required to evaluate the contribution of a stellar field - driven disc wind to the absorption - line spectrum in an object like fu ori .",
    "it will also be useful to carry out additional simulations in order to further check the dependence of the results on the adopted initial mass and magnetic flux distributions . in particular , our assumption that initially there is no disc ( as compared to coronal ) gas in the simulation region is not realistic , and our current numerical setup also does not account for the possibility that some of the stellar magnetic field may have diffused into the disc before the onset of the outburst ( see * ? ? ? * ) . given the comparatively high value of the disc inclination angle ( @xmath104 ; @xcite ) adopted in recent studies of fu ori , it is conceivable that the conical wind model would not be able to reproduce the absorption - line profiles measured in this object if the source of the optical continuum is indeed a region of size @xmath146 in the disc .",
    "in that case a disc outflow driven along a non - stellar magnetic field , as proposed by chk93 , might provide the dominant contribution to the absorption - line spectrum of fu ori , although a ` conical wind plus axial jet ' outflow could potentially still contribute to some of the observed properties of this object .",
    "note , however , that if a _ stellar _ wind is also present ( see section  5.2 of r09 ) , it would have a decollimating effect on the conical wind ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that could increase the range of disc radii ` covered ' by the conical outflow .    to our knowledge",
    ", photospheric line shifts such as those detected in fu ori have so far not been found in any other fuor .",
    "although a lower-@xmath147 wind or some other factor ( such as a higher projected azimuthal velocity ) could have prevented a detection in other fuors ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it would clearly be useful to be able to test competing models also in other bursting sources .",
    "lower - amplitude , repetitive photometric outbursts have been detected in ex lupi and a few other t tauri stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and they have also been interpreted as enhanced mass accretion events . in a few of these exor sources",
    "there is evidence for an accompanying outflow , which , as discussed in r09 , may well ( at least in some cases ) arise in a disc  magnetosphere interaction .",
    "however , these systems generally do not exhibit absorption - line spectra like fuors , and there is also no indication that their continuum emission is dominated by a disc ; in this regard their appearance is similar to that of quiescent systems . therefore , unless other spectroscopic diagnostics are identified in these sources , fuors will remain the best candidates for probing the acceleration regions of protostellar disc outflows .",
    "this research was supported in part by nsf grants ast-0908184 ( ak ) and ast-1008636 ( mmr and rvel ) and by a nasa atp grant nnx10af63 g ( mmr and rvel ) . the authors thank g.  v. ustyugova and a.  v. koldoba for the development of the code used in the simulations discussed in this paper , and the reviewer for comments that helped to improve the presentation .",
    "bastian u. , mundt r. , 1985 , a&a , 144 , 57 blandford r.  d. , payne d.  g. , 1982 , mnras , 199 , 883 calvet n. , hartmann l. , kenyon s.  j. , 1993 , apj , 402 , 623 ( chk93 ) calvet n. , hartmann l. , strom s.  e. , 2000 , in mannings v.  g. , boss a.  p. , russell s. , eds , protostars & planets iv .",
    "arizona press , tucson , p. 377",
    "clarke c.  j. , lin d.  n.  c. , pringle j.  e. , 1990 , mnras , 242 , 439 croswell k. , hartmann l. , avrett e.  h. , 1987 , apj , 312 , 227 donati j.  f. , et al . , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1297 donati j.  f. , et al .",
    ", 2008 , mnras , 386 , 1234 donati j.  f. , paletou f. , bouvier j. , ferreira j. , 2005 , nature , 438 , 466 fendt c. , 2009 , apj , 692 , 346 ghosh p. , lamb f.  k. , 1979a , apj , 232 , 259 ghosh p. , lamb f.  k. , 1979b , apj , 234 , 296 goodson a.  p. , winglee r.  m. , 1999 , apj , 524 , 159 hartmann l. , calvet n. , 1995 , aj , 109 , 1846 hartmann l , kenyon s.  j. , 1996 , ara&a , 34 , 207 herbig g.  h. , 1977 , apj , 217 , 693 herbig g.  h. , 1989 , in reipurth , b. , ed , eso workshop on low - mas star formation and pre  main - sequence objects .",
    "eso , garching , p. 233",
    "herbig g.  h. , 2007 , aj , 133 , 2679 herbig g.  h. , 2008 , apj , 135 , 637 herbig g.  h. , petrov p.  p. , duemmler r. , 2003 , apj , 595 , 384 johns - krull c.  m. , 2007 , apj , 664 , 975 johns - krull c.  m. , greene t.  p. , doppmann g.  w. , covey k.  r. , 2009 , apj , 700 , 1440 kenyon s.  j. , hartmann l. , hewett r. , 1988 , apj , 325 , 231 knigl a. , 1991 , apj , 370 , l39 kurosawa r. , romanova m.  m. , harries t.  j. , 2008 , mnras , 385 , 1931 lii p. , romanova m.  m. , lovelace r.  v.  e. , 2011 , mnras , submitted ( arxiv:1104.4374 ) long m. , romanova m.  m. , kulkarni a.  k. , donati j.  f. , 2011 , mnras , 413 , 1061 long m. , romanova m.  m. , lamb f.  k. , 2011 , new astronomy , submitted ( arxiv:0911.5455 ) long m. , romanova m.  m. , lovelace r.  v.  e. , 2005 , apj , 634 , 1214 lovelace r.  v.  e. , romanova m.  m. , bisnovatyi - kogan g.  s. , 1995 , mnras , 275 , 244 lubow s.  h. , papaloizou j.  c.  b. , pringle , j.  e. , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 235 lynden - bell d. , boily c. , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 146 malbet f. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 437 , 627 meliani z. , casse f. , sauty c. , 2006 , a&a , 460 , 1 popham r. , kenyon s. , hartmann l. , narayan r. , 1993 , apj , 473 , 422 popham r. , narayan r. , hartmann l. , kenyon s. , 1993 , apj , 415 , l127 reipurth b. , 1990 , in mirzoyan , l.  v. , pettersen b.  r. , tsvetkov m.  k. , eds , proc .",
    "137 , kluwer , dordrecht , p. 229 romanova m.  m. , long m. , lamb f.  k. , kulkarni a.  k. , donati j .- f . , 2011 ,",
    "mnras , 411 , 915 romanova m.  m. , ustyugova g.  v. , koldoba a.  v. , lovelace , r.  v.  e. , 2009 , mnras , 399 , 1802 ( r09 ) shu , f.  h. , lizano s. , ruden s.  p. , najita j. , 1988 , apj , 328 , l19 shu , f. najita j. , ostriker e. , wilkin f. , ruden s. , lizano s. , 1994 , apj , 429 , 781 skinner s.  l. , sokal k.  r. , gdel m. , briggs k.  r. , 2009 , apj , 696 , 766 ustyugova g.  v. , koldoba a.  v. , romanova m.  m. , lovelace r.  v.  e. , 2006 , apj , 646 , 304 uzdensky d. , knigl a. , litwin c. , 2002 , apj , 565 , 1191 van ballegooijen a.  a. , 1994 , ssrv , 68 , 299 zhu z. , hartmann l. , calvet n. , hernandez j. , 2007 , apj , 669 , 483 zhu z. , hartmann l. , calvet n. , hernandez j. , tannirkulam a .- j . , dalessio p. , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 684 , 1281 zhu z. , hartmann l. , gammie , c. , 2009a , apj , 694 , 1045 zhu z. , hartmann l. , gammie c. , book l.  c. , simon j.  b. , engelhard e. , 2010 , apj , 713 , 1134 zhu z. , hartmann l. , gammie c. , mckinney , j.  c. , 2009b , apj , 701 , 620"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> fu orionis ( fuor ) outbursts are major optical brightening episodes in low - mass protostars that evidently correspond to rapid mass - accretion events in the innermost region of a protostellar disc . </S>",
    "<S> the outbursts are accompanied by strong outflows , with the inferred mass outflow rates reaching @xmath0 of the mass inflow rates . </S>",
    "<S> shu et al . proposed that the outflows represent accreted disc material that is driven centrifugally from the spun - up surface layers of the protostar by the stellar magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> this model was critiqued by calvet et al . , who argued that it can not reproduce the photospheric absorption - line shifts observed in the prototype object fu ori . </S>",
    "<S> calvet et al . proposed that the wind is launched , instead , from the surface of the disc on scales of a few stellar radii by a non - stellar magnetic field . in this paper we present results from numerical simulations of disc accretion on to a slowly rotating star with an aligned magnetic dipole moment that gives rise to a kilogauss - strength surface field . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that , for parameters appropriate to fu ori , such a system can develop a strong , collimated disc outflow of the type previously identified by romanova et al . in simulations of protostars with low and moderate accretion rates . at the high accretion rate that characterizes the fuor outburst phase , the radius @xmath1 at which the disc is truncated by the stellar magnetic field moves much closer to the stellar surface , but the basic properties of the outflow , which is launched from the vicinity of @xmath1 along opened - up stellar magnetic field lines , remain the same . </S>",
    "<S> these properties are distinct from those of the x - celerator ( or the closely related x - wind ) mechanism proposed by shu et al .  in particular </S>",
    "<S> , the outflow is driven from the start by the magnetic pressure - gradient force , not centrifugally , and it is more strongly collimated . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the simulated outflow can in principle account for the main observed characteristics of fuor winds , including the photospheric line shifts measured in fu ori . </S>",
    "<S> a detailed radiative - transfer calculation is , however , required to confirm the latter result .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion discs  mhd  stars : formation  stars : magnetic field  stars : winds , outflows . </S>"
  ]
}