{
  "article_text": [
    "the financial sustainability of a pension scheme depends not only on the time - length of the benefit to be paid , subject to longevity risk , but also on the correct quantification of the contributions to be received .",
    "the uncertainty related to future contributions primarily affects the retirement plans based on a pay - as - you - go financing system ( payg ) , where pensions are directly funded by current employees salary deductions .",
    "thus , an  intergenerational pact \" compels young generations ( composed by current and future contributors ) to sustain the older age groups . for the financial self - sufficiency of such pension schemes , it is essential that in the long term there should be equilibrium between the number of pensioners and the number of workers . due to the inversion of the production cycle ,",
    "delivering financial equilibrium in the short - medium term via an increase in the number of new members can be harmful in the long run , when contributors in the preceding period will become pensioners .",
    "if the ratio contributors / pensioners was to decrease in the future , due to an increase of an older population , there would be _ ceteris paribus _ an increase of financial burden for the pension system ; thus creating a disequilibrium in the pension scheme and the risk of financial difficulties .",
    "public payg pension schemes are generally opened to different professional groups , in order to prevent financial unbalances due to a decline in a specific profession ( and the consequent decline in its contributors ) .",
    "therefore , variations in the number of contributors are mostly influenced by changes in the age structure of the population .",
    "on the other hand , private payg pension schemes can choose to admit only a homogeneous class of people ( e.g. employees of a specific firm , workers with given professional qualification , etc . ) .",
    "for such  closed \" pension funds , the demographic risk related to the variable ` new entrants ' is relevant because changes in the job market may influence the number of contributors .",
    "this is the case of the self - administered payg pension funds of italian professional categories .    until the early nineties , social security and pension disbursement in italy were publicly funded and administered .",
    "nearly all citizens , regardless of their income , were entitled to a pension that allowed them to approximately maintain the same socio - economic status they enjoyed while employed .",
    "the right to a pension was generously guaranteed as prescribed by the article 38 of the italian constitution . in 1994 the legislative decree no .",
    "509 was passed , calling for the privatisation of certain sectors of social security and pension administration .",
    "any professional group organized as an order / board ( such as lawyers , accountants , engineers , doctors , pharmacists , etc . ) was to create and administer its own retirement fund .",
    "members who work autonomously would deposit portions of their incomes during their working years , and receive pensions upon retirement ; meanwhile , members who work as employees would still be entitled to public pension cover .",
    "these new financial institutions , called _ casse di previdenza e assistenza dei liberi professionisti _ , have been no longer dependent on governmental assistance .",
    "the change meant that , should a given fund reach a negative balance , there would be no more financial backup from the public finances ; thus retirees would have no pensions available to them .    in this perspective , the present study addresses the evaluation of demographic risk related to the variable ` new entrants ' in payg pension systems .",
    "it starts with a brief review of recent literature on pension fund risk management ( sect.2 ) and continues with the mathematical formalization of the problem ( sect.3 ) and an application to the _ cassa nazionale di previdenza e assistenza dei dottori commercialisti _",
    "( sects.4 and 5 ) .",
    "finally , conclusions are drawn ( sect.6 ) .",
    "over the last few years a vast literature regarding management and regulation of risk in pension systems has developed .",
    "the main topics on quantitative research have been the development of stochastic models for longevity risk and global asset return .",
    "recent financial scandals have also improved research on governmental regulations for life insurance institutions .",
    "an introduction to longevity risk with a comprehensive literary review can be found in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "rigorous analyses of mortality projections have been conducted by lee and carter in @xcite , benjamin and pollard in @xcite , benjamin and soliman in @xcite , haberman and renshaw in @xcite , lee in @xcite , olivieri in @xcite , thatcher et al . in @xcite and",
    "olivieri and pitacco in @xcite .",
    "joint analyses of both financial and longevity risks have been proposed by olivieri and pitacco in @xcite and by coppola et al . in @xcite .",
    "the securitisation of mortality risk has been analysed by lin and cox in @xcite and by cairns et al . in @xcite .",
    "several stochastic models for global asset return in pension funds have been proposed ; see for example parker in @xcite , cairns and parker in @xcite , blake et al . in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "mandl and mazurova in @xcite use spectral decomposition of stationary random sequences for assessing defined benefit pension schemes under randomly fluctuating rates of return and numbers of entrants .",
    "haberman in @xcite identifies a ` contribution rate risk ' and considers as stochastic components both rate of return and contribution rate .",
    "gerrard et al . in @xcite",
    "analyse the financial risk faced by members of defined contribution schemes both during the service period and after retirement .",
    "stochastic analyses of new entrants in private pension schemes have been proposed by janssen and manca in @xcite and by colombo and haberman in @xcite .",
    "sinn in @xcite , @xcite and abio et al . in @xcite",
    "consider the age structure of future national population as a prime risk factor in payg public pension systems .",
    "angrisani et al . in @xcite",
    "propose a demographic model for studying the impact on payg pension systems of future developments of the population .",
    "bianchi et al . in @xcite",
    "conduce joint demographic and behavioural analyses via dynamic microsimulation to test the economic effects of pension reforms .",
    "a vast literature on risk management policies has been developed following defaults on life insurance sector ; see for example plantin and rochet in @xcite .",
    "a debated point is whether competition among pension funds and moral hazard can expose funds to excessive risks that are not compatible with their social not - speculative function ; see for example mcclurken in @xcite .",
    "bader in @xcite suggests that pension funds should avoid investing in specific sectors in the stock market .",
    "ryan and fabozzi in @xcite study the defaults of us pension funds due to actuarial losses and not to wrong portfolio investments .",
    "trudda in @xcite shows that marginal increments in global asset return appear to strongly reduce the default probability of the pension fund of an italian professional order , thus generating an incentive to take superfluous risks in case of lacking of regulations .",
    "otranto and trudda in @xcite urge the need for a risk rating system for pension funds and propose a cluster analysis based on garch volatility of their rates of return .",
    "the population - education - profession ( ) model , that we propose here , is a discrete - time stochastic model for the estimation of the new entrants in a pension fund with restricted entrance , such as that of a professional category .",
    "the model is based on the study of variables related to the demographic evolution of the population , the development of university instruction and the attraction of the profession .",
    "it can be used , with appropriate simplifications , to forecast the entrants in any kind of pension scheme . to the best of our knowledge , it is the first stochastic model specifically designed for the estimation of new members of a professional category ( and , subsequently , of its pension fund ) . an early version of the model and a deterministic application are proposed in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the intergenerational patterns of employment in a given professional group depend on different specific variables , both demographic ( trend in population , trend in study choices , etc . ) and economic ( appeal of the profession , appeal of the firm , expected income , etc . ) .",
    "thus , for a correct estimation of the future contributors to such a  closed \" pension fund we should address the following questions :    * what will the demographic evolution of the reference population be ? * what are the trends in the choices of study regarding the specific profession ? * what is the attraction of the profession ( or of the firm , in case of corporate pension fund ) ? *",
    "how is the admission to the pension fund regulated ( e.g. elective / compulsory entrance ) ?",
    "the stages that a potential contributor has to leave behind before entering in the pension fund of a professional category have been represented in the markov chain in fig.[fig : example ] .",
    "accordingly , we propose a model based on subsequent estimations of the population in different stages , as described in table [ tab : stages ] .",
    "the markov chain is composed by the following states :    1 .",
    "belonging to the cohort of reference ( e.g. italian population aged 18 - 25 ) ; 2 .   having a high school diploma ; 3 .",
    "being enrolled in the required course of study ( e.g. bachelor degree in law ) ; 4 .   being graduated in the specific degree ; 5 .   starting the training period required for taking the admission exam",
    "; 6 .   becoming a member of the professional category ( e.g. becoming a lawyer ) ; 7 .   joining the pension fund of the professional category .",
    "the @xmath0 in the markov chain represents the probability of transition from state @xmath1 to state @xmath2 at time @xmath3 ; @xmath4 and @xmath5 are the expected lengths for successfully completing , respectively , the course of study and the professional training period . at time @xmath3 , each potential future contributor can only be in one state .",
    "an individual can move to a greater state exclusively after fixed time periods ( @xmath6 , @xmath4 or @xmath5 time units ) depending on the state itself .",
    "99 abio , g. , mahieu , g. , patxot , c. : on the optimality of payg pension systems in an endogenous fertility setting .",
    "journal of pension economics and finance , 3 ( 2004 ) , 1 angrisani , m. : bilancio tecnico della cassa nazionale di previdenza e assistenza a favore dei dottori commercialisti (  ) proiezioni : 2006 - 2045 .",
    "roma , 5th december 2006 angrisani , m. , attias , a. , bianchi , s. , varga , z. : demographic dynamics for the pay - as - you - go pension system .",
    "pu.m.a . , 15 ( 2004 ) 4 , 357 - 374 bader , l.n . : the case against stock in corporate pension funds .",
    "society of actuaries newsletter of the pension section , 51 ( 2003 ) 17 - 19 benjamin , b. , pollard , j.h . : the analysis of mortality and other actuarial statistics . the institute of actuaries , oxford ( 1993 ) benjamin , b. , soliman , a.s . : mortality on the move .",
    "the institute of actuaries , oxford ( 1993 ) bianchi , c. , romanelli , m. , vagliasindi , p. : microsimulating the evolution of the italian pension benefit .",
    "labour , 17 ( 2003 ) 139 - 173 blake , d. , cairns , a. , dowd , k. : pensionmetrics : stochastic pension plan design and value - at - risk during the accumulation phase .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 29 ( 2001 ) 187 - 215 blake , d. , cairns , a.j.g . ,",
    "dowd , k. : pensionmetrics ii : stochastic pension plan design during the distribution phase .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 33 ( 2003 ) 29 - 47 cairns , a.j.g . , blake , d. , dowd , k. : pricing death : frameworks for the valuation and securitisation of mortality risk .",
    "cris discussion paper series - 2006.iv , university of nottingham ( 2006 ) cairns , a.j.g .",
    ", parker , g. : stochastic pension fund modelling .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 21 ( 1997 ) 43 - 79 colombo , l. , haberman , s. : optimal contributions in a defined benefit pension scheme with stochastic new entrants .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , elsevier , 37 ( 2005 ) 2 , 335 - 354 coppola , m. , di lorenzo , e. , sibillo , m. : risk sources in a life annuity portfolio : decomposition and measurements tools .",
    "journal of actuarial practice , 8 ( 1,2 ) ( 2000 ) 43 - 61 cox , j.c . ,",
    "ingerson , j.e . ,",
    "ross , s.a .",
    ": a theory of the term structure of the interest rate .",
    "econometrica , 53 ( 1985 ) 385 - 407 fiori , a. : unanalisi dei rischi demografici e finanziari applicata alle casse di previdenza degli ordini professionali .",
    "university of sassari honors thesis , july 2003 gerrard , r. , haberman , s. , vigna , e. : optimal investment choices post retirement in a defined contribution pension scheme .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 35 ( 2004 ) 321 - 342 haberman , s. : stochastic investment returns and contribution rate risk in a defined benefit pension scheme .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 14 ( 1997 ) 127 - 139 haberman , s. , pitacco , e. : actuarial models for disability insurance , chapman & hall / crc press , london ( 1999 ) haberman , s. , renshaw , a.e . : generalized linear models and actuarial science .",
    "the statistician , 45 ( 1996 ) 4 , 407 - 436 janssen , j , manca , r. : a realistic non - homogeneous stochastic pension fund model on scenario basis .",
    "scandinavian actuarial journal , 2 ( 1997 ) 113 - 137 janssen , j. , manca , r. : applied semi - markov processes .",
    "springer , new york ( 2006 ) kannisto , v. : on the survival of centenarians and the span of life .",
    "population studies , 42 ( 1988 ) 3 , 389 - 406 lee , r. , carter , l. : modelling and forecasting u.s . mortality .",
    "journal of the statistical association , 87 ( 1992 ) , 419 lee , r. : the lee - carter method for forecasting mortality , with various extensions and applications .",
    "north american actuarial journal , 4 ( 2000 ) 1 , 80 - 93 lin , y. , cox , s.h .",
    ": securitization of mortality risks in life annuities .",
    "journal of risk and insurance , 72 ( 2005 ) 227 - 252 mandl , p. , mazurova , l. : harmonic analysis of pension funding methods .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 17 ( 1996 ) 203 - 214 melis , r. : i fondi pensione pay - as - you - go : rischio demografico e solvibilit .",
    "universit degli studi di napoli federico ii , ph.d . thesis , december 2008 mcclurken , j. : testing a moral hazard hypothesis in pension investment .",
    "washington university honors thesis , january 2006 olivieri , a. : uncertainty in mortality projections : an actuarial perspective .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 29 ( 2001 ) 2 , 231 - 245 olivieri , a. : rischi demografici negli schemi previdenziali per collettivit .",
    "quaderni del dipartimento di matematica applicata delluniversit di trieste , 6 ( 2001 ) olivieri , a. , pitacco , e. : solvency requirements for life annuities .",
    "proceedings of the afir 2000 colloquium , tromsoe , norway ( 2000 ) 547 - 571 olivieri , a. , pitacco , e. : inference about mortality improvements in life annuity portfolios .",
    "transactions of the 27th international congress of actuaries , cancun , mexico ( 2002 ) olivieri , a. , pitacco , e. : solvency requirements for pension annuities .",
    "journal of pension economics and finance , 2 ( 2003 ) 2 , 127 - 157 olivieri , a. , pitacco , e. : la valutazione nelle assicurazioni vita .",
    "profili attuariali .",
    "egea , milano ( 2005 ) orlando , a. , trudda , a. : some remarks on first and second order stochastic processes choice .",
    "journal of investment management and financial innovations , 3 ( 2004 ) 118 - 131 otranto , e. , trudda , a. : classifying italian pension funds via garch distance .",
    "transition economies : 21st century issues and challenges , nova sciences , new york ( 2007 ) parker , g. : stochastic analysis of the interaction between investment and insurance risks .",
    "north american actuarial journal , 1 ( 1997 ) 2 , 55 - 84 pitacco , e. : longevity risk in living benefits .",
    "cerp conference : developing an annuity market in europe , moncalieri , italy ( 2002 ) pitacco , e. : survival models in a dynamic context : a survey .",
    "insurance : mathematics and economics , 35 ( 2004 ) 2 , 279 - 298 plantin , g. , rochet , j.c .",
    ": when insurers go bust : an economic analysis of role and design of prudential regulation .",
    "princeton university press ( 2007 ) ryan , r.j . ,",
    "fabozzi , f.j . : the pension crisis revealed . the journal of investing , 12.3 , ( 2003 ) 43 - 48 sinn , h.w . : the pay - as - you - go pension system as a fertility insurance and enforcement device .",
    "nber working paper 6610 ( 1998 ) sinn , h.w : pension reform and demographic crisis . why a funded system is needed and why it is not needed .",
    "international tax and public finance , 7 ( 2000 ) 389 - 410 sinn , h.w .",
    ": the value of children and immigrants in a pay - as - you - go pension system : a proposal for a transition to a funded system .",
    "ifo studien , 47 ( 2001 ) 77 - 94 thatcher , r. , kannisto , v. , andreev , k. : the survivor ratio method for estimating numbers at high ages .",
    "demographic research , 6 ( 2002 ) 1 , 1 - 18 trudda , a. : notes on first order stochastic processes .",
    "2nd conference in actuarial science and finance proceedings , samos , greece ( 2002 ) trudda a. : casse di previdenza : analisi delle dinamiche attuariali .",
    "giappichelli , torino ( 2005 ) vasicek , o. : an equilibrium characterization of the term structure .",
    "journal of financial economics , 5 ( 1977 ) 177 - 188"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this research presents an analysis of the demographic risk related to future membership patterns in pension funds with restricted entrance , financed under a pay - as - you - go scheme . </S>",
    "<S> the paper , therefore , proposes a stochastic model for investigating the behaviour of the demographic variable ` new entrants ' and the influence it exerts on the financial dynamics of such funds . </S>",
    "<S> further information on pension funds of italian professional categories and an application to the _ cassa nazionale di previdenza e assistenza dei dottori commercialisti _ are then provided .    * keywords . * pension funds , demographic risk , new entrants , markov chain , professional categories .    </S>",
    "<S> * m.s.c . classification . </S>",
    "<S> * 11k45 , 60j10 , 60j20 , 62n02 .    </S>",
    "<S> * j.e.l . classification . </S>",
    "<S> * c15 , c32 , c53 , g23 , j11 . </S>"
  ]
}