{
  "article_text": [
    "in the context of the european program ssa , the aim of the project _ sara - part i feasibility study of an innovative system for debris surveillance in leo regime _ was to demonstrate the feasibility of a european network based on optical sensors , capable of complementing the use of radars for the identification and cataloging of debris in the high part of the leo region , to lower the requirements on the radar system in terms of power and performances .",
    "the proposal relied on the definition of a wide - eye optical instrument able to work in high leo zone and on the development of new orbit determination algorithms , suitable for the kind and amount of data coming from the surveys targeting at leos .",
    "taking into account the performances expected from the innovative optical sensor , we have been able to define an observing strategy allowing to acquire data from every object passing above a station of the assumed network , provided the @xmath0 is good enough .",
    "still the number of telescopes required for a survey capable of a rapid debris catalog build - up was large : to reduce this number we have assumed that the goal of the survey had to be only one exposure per pass .",
    "a new algorithm , based on the first integrals of the kepler problem , was developed by dm to solve the critical issue of leos orbit determination .",
    "standard methods , such as gauss @xcite , require at least three observations per pass in order to compute a preliminary orbit , while the proposed algorithm needs only two exposures , observed at different passes .",
    "this results in a significant reduction of the number of required telescopes , thus of the cost of the entire system . for leo ,",
    "the proposed method takes into account the nodal precession due to the quadrupole term of the earth geopotential . because of the low altitude of the orbits and the availability of sparse observations , separated by several orbital periods , this effect is not negligible and it must be considered since the first step of preliminary orbit computation .",
    "the aim was to perform a realistic simulation .",
    "thus in addition to the correlation and orbit determination algorithms , all the relevant elements of the optic system were considered : the telescope design , the network of sensors , the observation constraints and strategy , the image processing techniques .",
    "starting from the esa - master2005 population model , cgs provided us with simulated observations , produced taking into account the performances of the optical sensors .",
    "these data were processed with our new orbit determination algorithms in the simulations of three different operational phases : catalog build - up , orbit improvement , and fragmentation analysis .",
    "the results of these simulations are given in the sections  [ sec : survey_res ] , [ sec : task_results ] , and [ sec : frag ] .",
    "the only way to validate a proposed system , including a network of sensors and the data processing algorithms , was to perform a realistic simulation . this does not mean a simulation including all details , but one in which the main difficulties of the task are addressed .",
    "the output of such a simulation depends upon all the assumptions used , be they on the sensor performance , on the algorithms and software , on the physical constraints ( e.g. , meteorological conditions ) .    in what follows ,",
    "we list all the assumptions used in the catalog build - up simulation , in the orbit improvement simulation , and in the fragmentation detection simulation .",
    "we discuss the importance of each one in either surveying capability or detection capability or orbit availability and accuracy .",
    "all the assumptions turn out to be essential to achieve the performance measured by the simulations .",
    "we are assuming a network consisting of optical sensors only , with the following properties :    1 .",
    "the telescope and the camera have a * large field of view : 45 square degrees * ( @xmath1 arcsec ) .",
    "the telescope has * quick motion capability * , with mechanical components allowing a * 1 s exposure every 3 s * , with each image covering new sky area : the motion in the 2 s interval must be @xmath2 , with stabilization in the new position .",
    "3 .   the camera system has a * quick readout * , to be able to acquire the image from all the ccd chips * within the same 2 s * used for telescope repositioning , and this with a low readout noise , such that the main source of noise is the sky background .",
    "4 .   the camera system needs to have * high resolution * , comparable to the seeing . a pixel scale of about 1.5 arcsec is the best compromise , known to allow for accurate astrometry .",
    "then field of view of 24000@xmath324000 arcsec implies a camera system with 256 megapixel .",
    "the camera has by design a * fill factor 1*. the fill factor is the ratio between the effective area , on the focal plane , of the active sending elements and the area of the field of view . 6 .",
    "the * telescope aperture needs to be large * enough to detect the target debris population , we are assuming an * effective aperture of 1 meter*. that is , the unobstructed photon collecting area has an area equal to a disk of 1 meter diameter .",
    "the * network of sensors * includes * 7 geographically distributed stations , each with 3 telescopes * available for leo tracking . 8 .",
    "the telescope is assumed to have * tasking capabilities * , consisting in the possibility of * non - sidereal tracking at a programmed rate up to 2000 arcsec / s * ( relative to the sidereal frame ) while maintaining the image stable .",
    "the above assumptions about the sensor hardware require a significant effort in both technological development and resources : a discussion on the feasibility of each of them is beside the scope of this paper .",
    "we need just to point out that a design for an innovative sensor with such properties does exist and has been presented in @xcite .",
    "the large field of view is needed to cope with the tight requirements on surveying capability resulting from a population of space objects with very fast angular motion , up to 2000 arcsec / s .",
    "the surveying capability is further enhanced by taking an image on a new field of view every 3 s , and by the use of 21 telescopes . thus it should not be surprising that such a network has the capability of observing objects in orbits lower than those previously considered suitable for optical tracking",
    ".    the large fill factor also contributes by making the surveying capability deterministic , that is objects in the field of view are effectively observable every time .",
    "manufacturing imperfections unavoidably decrease the fill factor , but with good quality chips the reduction to a value around @xmath4 does not substantially change the performance , while detectors with values in the @xmath5 range would result in a severely decreased performance .",
    "both properties ( large aperture and large fill factor ) are feasible as a result of an innovative design based on the fly - eye concept , that is the telescope does not have a monolithic focal plane but many of them , each filled by the sensitive area of a separate , single chip camera .",
    "the comparatively high astrometric resolution is essential to guarantee the observation accuracy , in turn guaranteeing the orbit determination accuracy .",
    "if the goal is to perform collision avoidance , there is no point in having low accuracy orbits .",
    "thus a low astrometric resolution survey would require a separate tasking / follow up network of telescopes for orbit improvement . in our assumed network all",
    "the tasking is performed with the same telescopes .",
    "the telescope effective aperture , which corresponds in the proposed design to a primary mirror with @xmath6 meters diameter , is enough to observe leos in the @xmath7 cm diameter range if it is coupled with a computationally aggressive image processing algorithm , discussed below and in sec .",
    "[ sec : s2n ] .",
    "the selection of the stations locations is a complicated problem , because it has to strike a compromise between the requirement of a wide geographical distribution and the constraints from meteorology , logistics and geopolitics ; see sec .",
    "[ sec : network ] . to simulate the outcome of such a complicated selection process",
    ", we have used a network which is ideal neither from the point of view of geographical distribution nor for meteorological conditions , but it is quite realistic .",
    "the assumed sensors are optimized for leo , but they are also very efficient to observe medium earth orbit ( meo ) , geostationary orbit ( geo ) , and any other earth orbit above 1000 km .",
    "the same sensors could also be used for near earth objects ; the required changes have only to do with longer exposure times and can be implemented in software .",
    "we are assuming the observations from the optical sensor network are processed with algorithms and the corresponding software , having the following properties :    1 .",
    "the * scheduler * of the optical observations is capable of * taking into account the geometry of light and the phase * ( which is defined as the sun - object - observer angle ) , in such a way that the objects passing above the station are imaged and the phase is minimized .",
    "the * image processing * includes a procedure to * detect long trails at low signal to noise * , @xmath0 with a loss due to the spreading of the image on @xmath8 pixels proportional to @xmath9 .",
    "3 .   the * astrometric reduction algorithms * allow for * sub - pixel accuracy , even for long trails * , and taking properly into account star catalog errors .",
    "the * correlation and orbit determination * algorithms allow us to compute preliminary orbits starting from a * single trail per pass * , and correlating passes separated by several orbital periods of the objects ( e.g. , a time span of the order of a day ) .",
    "the assumptions 9 - 12 are different from the previous ones because they are all about software .",
    "of course a significant software development effort is necessary , but we consider part of our current research effort to ensure that the algorithms which could lead to the assumed results already exist .    the synthetic observations used in the simulation have been obtained by taking one exposure for each pass , in the visibility interval ( @xmath10 15@xmath11 of elevation , illuminated by the sun , station in darkness ) . within this interval ,",
    "we have assumed the best third from the point of view of the phase angle is used ( near the shadow of the earth ) . since the apparent magnitude @xmath12 of the objects is a steep function of the phase angle ,",
    "the number of observations with sufficient @xmath0 is significantly increased ( by a factor 3 - 4 ) .",
    "such a _ light aware _",
    "scheduler was not actually available , but we have tested that a simple observing strategy exists leading to this result . the idea is to use a dynamic barrier formed by frequently visited fields of view .",
    "the barrier could be bordering the earth shadow at the altitude of the objects being targeted : both simple computations and a numerical simulation show that this can be achieved by using @xmath13 telescopes with the performances outlined in assumptions 1 - 6 .",
    "the _ trailing loss _ , that is the decrease of the signal due to the spreading of the image on @xmath8 pixels , appears to limit the sensitivity of the detector for objects with a high angular velocity , like @xmath14 arcsec / s ( typical values for an object at an altitude of 1400 km ) .",
    "this appears to defeat the approach used in astronomy , that is increasing the exposure time to observe dimmer objects .",
    "however , even for a stationary object such as a star , the increase in @xmath0 is only with the square root of the exposure time .",
    "thus , if an algorithms is available to _ sum up _ the signal from adjacent pixels , in such a way that @xmath0 accumulates with @xmath9 , the increase of exposure time is as effective as for a stationary target .",
    "such algorithms exist and are discussed in sec .",
    "[ sec : s2n ] .",
    "the actual implementation in operational software and field testing are assumptions .",
    "the observations have to be reduced astrometrically in an accurate way , with rms error of 0.4 arcsec when the pixel @xmath0 is good .",
    "geo and geostationary transfer orbit ( gto ) data from the esa optical ground sensor in teide ( canary islands ) , reduced by university of bern , show a typical rms @xmath15 arcsec of the residuals from the orbit determination performed by our group @xcite . for low @xmath0 on each pixel the astrometric error is assumed to increase , see sec .",
    "[ sec : s2n ] . when the rms grows to @xmath16 arcsec , the observations can result in orbit determination failure and/or accuracy requirements non compliance .",
    "improvements in the astrometric reduction procedure , to remove systematic star catalog errors , are already implemented in asteroid orbit catalogs such as the ones available online from the astdys-2 and neodys-2 development systems .",
    "they are based on the star catalog debiasing algorithms proposed by @xcite .",
    "the assumption is that an ad hoc astrometric reduction software is developed .",
    "correlation and orbit determination algorithms , developed and implemented in software by our group , have the capability to use significantly less observations with respect to classical methods to compute a preliminary orbit . as an example",
    ", we can use two trails from different passes of the same object above either the same or a different station to compute an orbit with covariance matrix .",
    "these methods , and those used for successive orbit improvement , are discussed in sec .",
    "[ sec : orbdet ] .",
    "the correlation software we use is capable of computing orbits starting from sparse uncorrelated observations of leo ( also of geo , @xcite ) .",
    "the amount of data to be used as input for initial catalog build - up is limited to 1 exposure per pass .",
    "the advantage with respect to the traditional approach @xcite , requiring three separate observations in the same pass , is such that the surveying capability for a given sensor network is increased by a factor 3 .",
    "note that in this case the software with the assumed performances actually exists and is being tested in simulations like the ones we are discussing in this paper .",
    "the assumption is only that the existing software is upgraded to operational .",
    "to perform a debris observation some conditions shall be verified : a minimum elevation angle , the orbiting object must be in sunlight , etc .. these conditions are strongly dependent on the object orbit parameters , on the observatory location and on the seasonal factors .",
    "there are also other observational constraints that have been taken into account , such as the distance from the moon and the galactic plane .",
    "the first constraints to the network architecture are purely geometrical and are due to the horizon .",
    "an orbiting object at an altitude @xmath17 is visible only up to a given distance from a station , beyond which the object is below a minimum elevation , @xmath18 being a reasonable value . for an object at @xmath19 km , the distance to the object",
    "is thus limited to about 3100 km , and the distance to the groundtrack of the object to about 2500 km ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : horizon ] , showing these values in km as a function of the object altitude .",
    "moreover , for a station at a latitude of @xmath20 , this figure also shows the half width of the equatorial band such that , if the groundtrack is in there , the object is not observable .",
    "this argument favors the stations located at low latitudes .",
    "1400 km , @xmath2160@xmath22,scaledwidth=70.0% ]    the second consideration is how the object presents itself with a groundtrack passing near a station .",
    "figure  [ fig : groundtra ] shows the groundtrack for a nearly circular orbit with @xmath23 km and inclination of 60@xmath11 .",
    "the oval contour shows the maximum visibility range , for an equatorial station and an elevation @xmath24 .",
    "typically a leo has 4 passes / day above the required altitude as seen from a station at low latitudes .",
    "note that the constraints discussed so far apply equally to a radar sensor .",
    "the main difference with radar arises because of the geometry of sunlight .",
    "the requirements for an optical station are the following :    1 .",
    "the ground station is in darkness , e.g. , the sun must be at least 10 - 12@xmath11 below the horizon , that is the sky is dark enough to begin operations , typically about 30 - 60 minutes after sunset and before sunrise ( this is strongly dependent on the latitude and the season at the station ) ; 2 .",
    "the orbiting object is in sunlight ; 3 .",
    "the atmosphere is clear ( no dense clouds ) .",
    "the condition on sunlight is quite restrictive : the low orbiting objects are fully illuminated in all directions only just after sunset and before sunrise . in the figures  [ fig : shadow1]-[fig : shadow3 ] the bold line represents the earth shadow boundary at 1400 km above ground .",
    "the shadow also depends upon the season , the figures have been drawn for march 20 , a date close to an equinox .",
    "the earth shadow region , where the orbiting object is invisible , is represented in gray .",
    "the circles represent the iso - elevation regions of the sky above the horizon , which is the outer curve ; the center is the local zenith .",
    "the labeled lines ( 30 , 60 , 90 and 120 ) represent the iso - phase curves for objects at 1400 km above ground , that is the directions in the sky where the objects have a specific phase angle .",
    "the phase angle is a very critical observing parameter for a debris .",
    "the optical magnitude of an object ( generally all solar system moving objects ) depends , among other parameters , by the phase angle : the smaller the phase angle the brighter the object .",
    "the strength of this effect also depends upon the optical properties of the object surface , such as the albedo .",
    "anyway the effect is large , e.g. , at a phase of @xmath25 the apparent magnitude could increase by @xmath26 magnitudes with respect to an object at the same distance but with @xmath27 phase .",
    "thus an observation scheduling taking into account the need of observing with the lowest possible phase increases very significantly the optical sensor performance .",
    "the figures show that the regions where the phase angles are smaller are close to the earth shadow boundary .",
    "very low phases can be achieved only near sunset and sunrise , by looking in a direction roughly opposite to the sun ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : shadow1 ] ) . for leos",
    "there is a central portion of the night , lasting several hours , in which for a either an equatorial or a tropical station the observations are either impossible or with a very unfavorable phase , e.g. , for the station at @xmath20 north latitude on march 20 from about 22 hours to 2 hours of the next day ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : shadow2 ] ) . on the contrary , for a station at an high latitude ( both north and south ) the dark period around midnight when leo can not be observed does not occur , because the earth shadow moves south ( for a north station ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : shadow3 ] ) .",
    "it is clear that , by combining the orbital geometry of passages above the station with the no shadow condition , it is possible to obtain objects which are unobservable from any given low latitude station , at least for a time span until the precession of the orbit ( due to earth s oblateness , @xmath28/day for an altitude of 1400 km and inclination @xmath29 ) changes the angle between the orbit plane and the direction to the sun . on the other hand , high latitude stations can not observe low inclination objects , and operate for a lower number of hours per year because of shorter hours of darkness in summer and worse weather in winter .",
    "a trade off is needed , which suggests to select some intermediate latitude stations , somewhere between 40 and 50@xmath11 both north and south .",
    "the meteorological constraints can be handled by having multiple opportunities of observations from stations far enough to have low meteorological correlation .",
    "this implies that an optimal network needs to include both tropical and high latitude stations , with a good distribution also in longitude . beside the need for geographic distribution as discussed above",
    ", the other elements to be considered in the selection of the network are the following :    * geopolitics : the land needs to belong to europe , or to friendly nations .",
    "the limitations of the european continent implies that sites in minor european islands around the world are needed as well as observing sites in other countries .",
    "* logistics : some essentials like electrical power , water supply , telecommunications , airports , harbors , and roads have to be available .",
    "* meteo : the cloud cover can be extremely high , in some geographic areas , and especially in ( local ) winter . other meteorological parameters such as humidity , seeing , wind play an important role .",
    "high elevation observing sites over the inversion layer are desirable , but in mid ocean there are not many mountains high enough . * orography : an unobstructed view of the needed sky portions , down to 15@xmath11 of elevation , is necessary .",
    "astronomical observatories are not so demanding , especially in the pole direction . *",
    "light pollution : an observing site with low light pollution is essential , to lower the sky background , which is the main source of noise .",
    ".[tab : network ] geographical coordinates of the proposed network of stations [ cols=\">,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     in conclusion , our study suggests that the simulated network of telescopes can detect and catalog the fragments generated by a catastrophic event in high leo after just a few days from the event .",
    "some caveats and conclusions can be stated .",
    "first , the detection of a stream of fragments , with low ejection velocity , within 24 hours is like detecting a single object , because the fragments are not spread along the entire orbit . for this reason it might not be possible to detect a large fraction of the fragments in 1 day , if bad meteorological conditions are present on critical stations .",
    "then , the gabbard diagram , built with the output of the orbit determination simulation after 6 days , shows that the orbital information is more than enough to assess the fragmentation event ( parent body , energy , etc . ) .",
    "the results of the catalog build - up simulation show that more than 98% of the leo objects with perigee height above 1100 km and diameter greater than 8 cm can be cataloged in 2 months . as fig.[fig : simul12_2months ] shows , a central area around 1100 km of orbital perigee altitude has been identified where radar sensors and the optical network should operate in a cooperative way .",
    "all the numbered orbits are accurate enough to allow follow up observations with no trailing loss , and the orbit accuracy from the improved orbits is compliant with the accuracy we have used , which corresponds to collision avoidance requirements . finally the simulated network of telescopes is able to detect and catalog the fragments generated by a catastrophic event just a few days after the event .",
    "the significance of our results for the design of a space situational awareness system is in the possibility to use optical sensors to catalog and follow up space debris on orbits significantly lower than those previously considered suitable .",
    "of course this is true only provided a list of technological assumptions , both in hardware and in software , spelled out in section  [ sec : assumptions ] , are satisfied . if these technologies are available , then it is possible to trade off between an upgraded system of optical sensors and a radar system with higher energy density .",
    "we wish to thank cgs for providing us with the expected sensor performances and realistic simulated observations , taking into account the characteristics of the fly - eye telescope , the meteorological model to account for cloud cover , and the statistical model for the signal to noise ratio .",
    "this work was performed under esa / esoc contract 22750/09/d / hk _ sara - part i feasibility study of an innovative system for debris surveillance in leo regime _ , with cgs as prime contractor .",
    "bowell e. , hapke , b. , domingue , d. , lumme , k. , peltionemi , j. , harriw , a. w. , `` application of photometric models to asteroids '' , _ asteroids ii , proceedings of the conference _ ,",
    "university of arizona press , tucson , 1989 , pp .",
    "524556 .",
    "farnocchia , d. , tommei , g. , milani , a. , rossi , a. , `` innovative methods of correlation and orbit determination for space debris '' , _ celestial mechanics and dynamical astronomy _ , vol .",
    "107 , no . 12 , pp .",
    "169185 , 2010 .",
    "fujimoto k. , maruskin j. d. , scheeres d. j. , `` circular and zero - inclination solutions for optical observations of earth - orbiting objects '' , _ celestial mechanics and dynamical astronomy _ , vol .",
    "2 , pp . 157182 , 2010 .",
    "milani , a. , gronchi , g. f. , farnocchia , d. , tommei , g. , and dimare , l. , `` optimization of space surveillance resources by innovative preliminary orbit methods '' , _ proceedings of the fifth european conference on space debris _ , darmstadt , germany , 2009 .",
    "schildknecht , t. , musci , r. , ploner , m. , beutler , g. , flury , w. , kuusela , j. , de leon cruz , j. , de fatima dominguez palmero , l. , `` optical observations of space debris in geo and in highly - eccentric orbits '' , _ advances in space research _ , vol .",
    "5 , pp . 901911 , 2004 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a large scale simulation , reproducing the behavior of a data center for the build - up and maintenance of a complete catalog of space debris in the upper part of the low earth orbits region ( leo ) . </S>",
    "<S> the purpose is to determine the performances of a network of advanced optical sensors , through the use of the newest orbit determination algorithms developed by the department of mathematics of pisa ( dm ) . </S>",
    "<S> such a network has been proposed to esa in the space situational awareness ( ssa ) framework by carlo gavazzi space spa ( cgs ) , istituto nazionale di astrofisica ( inaf ) , dm , and istituto di scienza e tecnologie dellinformazione ( isti - cnr ) . </S>",
    "<S> the conclusion is that it is possible to use a network of optical sensors to build up a catalog containing more than 98% of the objects with perigee height between 1100 and 2000 km , which would be observable by a reference radar system selected as comparison . </S>",
    "<S> it is also possible to maintain such a catalog within the accuracy requirements motivated by collision avoidance , and to detect catastrophic fragmentation events . </S>",
    "<S> however , such results depend upon specific assumptions on the sensor and on the software technologies . </S>"
  ]
}