{
  "article_text": [
    "it is now generally believed that super - massive black holes reside in the center of active galactic nuclei ( agns ; lynden - bell 1969 ) . through accretion of gas , agns release vast radiant energy , including high - energy ionizing photons , from an accretion disk around the black hole ( rees et al .",
    "the radiation photoionizes and heats surrounding gas so that it is able to leave its imprint , for example broad emission line ( bel ) and broad absorption line ( bal ) , on the emergent continuum spectra emitted by accretion disk ( davidson & netzer 1979 ; osterbrock 1989 ; weymann et al .",
    "the observed properties of these lines , such as strength , width , and profile , are determined by the combined effects of various physical processes .",
    "hence , studies of these line features can reveal the physical conditions and processes in the central region of agns , and further shed light on the accretion and radiation mechanisms , and the co - evolution of black holes and their host galaxies .",
    "the broad emission line region ( belr ) is the most studied structure of agns .",
    "extensive efforts had been devoted to probing its structure and kinematics , which are important for estimation of black hole masses and understanding of line formation .",
    "velocity - resolved reverberation mapping of several local agns shows that there is no significant difference in the temporal response of the blue and red parts of the bels to variations in the continuum ( gaskell 1988 ; koratkar & gaskell 1991 ; korista et al .",
    "1995 ; done & krolik , 1996 ; obrien et al .",
    "these studies demonstrate that the predominant motion of the belr is either keplerian or virial motion , both driven by the gravity of the central black hole ( see gaskell 2009 , for a review ) .",
    "further robust evidence supporting this view is given by the correlation between the belr size and line width in the form @xmath0 for various emission lines found in a few well - studied agns ( krolik et al 1991 ; peterson & wandel 1999 ; 2000 ; onken & peterson 2002 ) .",
    "this correlation is readily expected for gravitation dominated kinematics .",
    "particularly , these works showed that the emitting regions of both high- and low - ionization lines ( e.g. civ  and h@xmath1 ) are gravitationally bound .",
    "however , studies of luminous agns at high redshifts uncover quite different behaviors of the belr , especially the high - ionization line ( e.g. civ ) region .",
    "gaskell ( 1982 ; see also wilkes 1984 ; marziani et al . 1996 ) found that the peak of the civ  line tends to be blueshifted with respect to the peak of low - ionization lines in a small sample of high - redshift agns .",
    "this was confirmed by richards et al .",
    "( 2002 ; also vanden berk et al . 2001 ) using a large sample of agns selected from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; york et al .",
    "subsequently , the civ  blueshift was detected in several low - luminosity agns ( e.g. leighly & moore 2004 ) .",
    "the blueshift is difficult to reconcile with gravitationally bound belr models , but is considered as a signature of outflowing gas ( gaskell 1982 ; marziani et al . 1996 ; leighly 2004 ) .",
    "outflow models based on dynamical and photoionization calculations have been put forward to reproduce the observed line profiles , equivalent widths and line ratios , and further imposing constraints on the density , ionization state and geometry of the line emitting gas ( e.g. murray & chiang 1997 ; leighly 2004 ; wang et al .",
    "in fact , the frequent occurrences of blueshifted narrow absorption lines and bals in agn spectra have proved that outflow is ubiquitous in agn ( weymann et al .1991 ; crenshaw , kraemer & george 2003 ) .",
    "outflow is therefore a natural interpretation of blueshift of high - ionization lines .",
    "although there have been a few attempts to tune one single model , i.e. outflow or gravitationally bound belr , to simultaneously account for the contradictory observational results in reverberation - mapped objects and blueshifted civ  agns ( e.g. chiang & murray 1996 ; gaskell & goosmann 2008 ) , the dramatic inconsistency may indeed manifest fundamental differences in the structure and kinematics of these two line emitting regions . if this is the case , it would be interesting to find out what causes such differences .",
    "previous studies have already provided some meaningful observational constraints on the underlying processes .",
    "for example , it is well known that the blueshift of the civemission line in radio quiet agns is , on average , stronger than in radio loud agns ( marziani et al .",
    "1996 ; sulentic et al . 2000a ; richards et al . 2002 ; 2011 ) .",
    "recently , several studies found that the civ  blueshift decreases with the increase of the x - ray to uv flux ratio ( gibson , brandt & schneider 2008 ; richards et al .",
    "in addition , sulentic et al .",
    "( 2007 ) found that the correlation between the width and equivalent width of the civbel varies dramatically with the width of the h@xmath1  bel .",
    "richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) found that civ  blueshift varies with the ionizing spectral energy distribution .",
    "all these facts point towards that belr structure is related to the accretion process of the central engine .",
    "it is worthwhile to note that the low - ionization lines , such as mgii  and h@xmath1 , are fairly close to the systemic redshift ( marziani et al .",
    "1996 ; sulentic et al . 2000a ; richards et al . 2002 ) . apparently different from the high - ionization lines ,",
    "the low - ionization line region is gravitationally bound , and outflow model is unlikely .",
    "this is supported by the fact that local agns follow the same luminosity - belr size relationship for the h@xmath1line as for those well - studied agns , whose belr have been demonstrated to be governed by gravity ( kaspi et al . 2005 ;",
    "bentz et al . 2006 ) .",
    "in particular , the power - law slope of this relationship is about 0.5 , indicating that all of these agns have roughly the same ionization state and gas density in the low - ionization lines region .",
    "the h@xmath1  and mgii  lines are therefore widely adopted to estimate the black hole masses , @xmath2 , of agns ( kaspi et al .",
    "2000 ; collin et al . 2006 ; vestergaard & peterson 2006 ; mclure & jarvis 2002 ; onken & kollmeier 2008 ; wang et al . 2009a ) .",
    "the @xmath2  estimate is plagued by many uncertainties in , for example , the geometry , kinematics and inclination of the belr , the measurement of line with , the influence from other forces ( such as radiation pressure ) , the validity of extrapolating the small - sample results to a large sample ( krolik 2001 ; collin et al .",
    "2006 ; marconi et al . 2008 ; richards et al . 2011 ) .",
    "although the @xmath2  estimate can be calibrated using the correlation between @xmath2  and bulge / spheroid stellar velocity dispersion ( e.g. onken et al .",
    "2004 ) , it is accurate only from a statistical point of view .    in this paper , we probe the structure and kinematics of the high - ionization line emitting region via a comparison with the low - ionization lines .",
    "we use the civ  line , the most prominent metal line , to represent high - ionization lines , while we adopt mgiias a representation of low - ionization lines .",
    "both lines are observable in sdss agns at redshift @xmath3 , from which a sufficiently large sample can be obtained for our purpose .",
    "please see section [ sec_sam ] for the sample selection .",
    "we present in section [ sec_c4b ] the correlations between the properties of civ  line , and the composite spectra . in section [ sec_mc ]",
    ", we examine whether the civ  and mgii  line properties follow the same correlations .",
    "similarity in the correlations indicates that two lines come from regions with similar kinematics , while opposite results mean that the structures are different .",
    "our method differs from earlier investigations , in which the authors directly compared the properties of the two lines .",
    "then , in section [ sec_dis ] , we analyze the geometry and kinematics of the civregion and discuss the candidate models .",
    "we also present a comprehensive comparison between bal and the blueshifted civ  bel .",
    "finally , we summarize our results in section [ sec_sum ] .",
    "we select agns in the redshift range @xmath4 from the fifth data release ( dr5 ) of sdss spectroscopic database ( schneider et al .",
    "the redshift range is chosen in such a way that both the civ  and mgii  lines fall in the wavelength coverage of the sdss spectrograph . to ensure reliable measurements of emission line parameters , we only select objects with median signal - to - noise ratio ( s / n)@xmath5 7 per pixel in both the civ  ( 1450 - 1700 ) and the mgii  ( 2700 - 2900 ) spectral regions . we further discard the broad absorption line agns as cataloged by scaringi et al .",
    "6009 agns meet these criteria .",
    "the sdss spectra are corrected for the galactic extinction using the extinction map of schlegel et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and the reddening curve of fitzpatrick ( 1999 ) , and transformed to the rest frame using the improved redshifts for sdss agns as computed by hewett & wild ( 2010 , hereafter hw10 ) . to measure the broad lines , we perform continuum and emission - line fitting using interactive data language ( idl ) code based on mpfit ( markwardt 2009 ) , which performs @xmath6-minimization by the levenberg - marquardt technique .",
    "the mgii  broad lines are fitted using the exactly same method as wang et al .",
    "( 2009a ) . here",
    "we only present a brief description of the procedures .",
    "first , we simultaneously fit the featureless continuum ( assumed to be a power law ) and the feiimultiplet emission , which together constitute the so - called pseudocontinuum .",
    "feii  is modelled with the tabulated semi - empirical template generated by tsuzuki et al .",
    "( 2006 ) based on their measurements of i zw1 ; in the wavelength region covered by the mgii  emission , this template uses the calculation with the cloudy photoionization code ( ferland et al .",
    "1998 ) . after subtracting the fitted pseudocontinuum , the broad components of the mgii  @xmath72796 ,",
    "2803 doublet lines are each modelled with a truncated five - parameter ( @xmath8 , i=0 to 4 ) gauss - hermite series profile ( van der marel & franx 1993 ) .",
    "the expression for a gauss - hermite function is @xmath9,\\nonumber\\\\ & h_3(x)=\\frac{1}{\\sqrt{6}}(2\\sqrt{2}x^3 - 3\\sqrt{2}x),\\nonumber\\\\ & h_4(x)=\\frac{1}{\\sqrt{24}}(4x^4 - 12x^2 + 3).\\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath10 .",
    "the narrow component of each line is fitted with a single gaussian .",
    "the full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) is measured from the gauss - hermite model of mgii@xmath112796 , and rest equivalent width ( ew ) is the sum of the broad doublet lines .    to measure the civ  broad lines",
    ", we first fit the local continuum with a power - law in two wavelength windows near 1450and 1700 , that have little or no contamination from emission - lines . after subtracting the continuum",
    ", we fit the residual spectrum around civ  with two gaussians .",
    "since the red wing of civ  is contaminated by heii , only the spectral region of 1450 - 1580  is considered in fitting the civ  line .",
    "we also attempted to fit the residual spectrum with three gaussians , which results in little or no significant improvements .",
    "we thus adopt the two - gaussian model here .    in this work",
    "we introduce a blueshift and asymmetry index ( bai ) to measure the deviation of the civ  line from an unshifted and symmetric profile .",
    "bai is defined as the flux ratio of the blue part to the total profile , where the blue part is the part of civ  line at wavelengths short of 1549.06 , the laboratory rest - frame wavelength of civ  doublets .",
    "the line parameters , bai , fwhm and ew , of civ  are measured from the composite profiles of the two - gaussian model ( in the wavelength range of 1450 - 1700 ) .",
    "the bai estimation may be affected by the accuracy of the redshifts which we use to transform the observed spectra to the rest frame . to reduce possible uncertainty of bai thus introduced , we adopt the redshifts provided by hw10 , which were derived by cross correlation of observed spectra with a carefully - constructed template . in particular , they corrected for the dependence of emission - line shift on luminosity and redshift , which is relevant to our investigation",
    ". bai measures the combined effects of the asymmetry and shift of a line profile , which are generally treated separately in the literature ( e.g. sulentic et al .",
    "2000a ) . in the appendix",
    "we consider line shift and asymmetry separately and conclude that using bai is a robust choice for our purposes .",
    "we use blueshift and bai alternately in this paper .",
    "the fitting results for most of the objects are reasonable according to our subsequent visual inspection",
    ". however , a small fraction of objects display strong narrow absorption in the emission lines regions , especially civ  spectral region , and can not be well fitted by our automated processing . to minimize outliers left by the procedures , we eliminate objects with unacceptable fitting , i.e. @xmath12d.o.f@xmath13 .",
    "this restriction leads to a final working sample of 4963 agns .",
    "we note that the last selection has little or no effect on the results obtained in this paper .",
    "we show the distribution of bai for the entire sample in fig .",
    "[ fig_udis ] .",
    "this parameter distributes in a wide range , from about 0.4 to more than 0.9 , with a median value of 0.63 . according to our definition of bai",
    ", a blueshifted line has a bai parameter larger than 0.5 .",
    "obviously , most of the agns in our sample display blueshifted civ  emission lines with respect to their systemic redshifts , in agreement with previous findings ( gaskell 1982 ; richards et al .",
    "only 7.2% of the agns are redshifted outliers .",
    "this fraction is the same as that found in richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) , in spite of that we adopt a different method to denote the blueshift .",
    "since the blueshifted civ  line has been suggested to be emitted from outflows ( e.g. gaskell 1982 ; murray & chiang 1997 ; leighly 2004 ) , the bai distribution suggests that outflows are common in agns .",
    "we then show the equivalent width of civ  as a function of bai and fwhm(civ ) in the two upper panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] . the civ  emission line is weaker for agns with larger blueshifts or line widths .",
    "both two trends are consistent with previous results .",
    "richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) found an anti - correlation between blueshift and equivalent width ( see also marziani et al .",
    "1996 ; leighly & moore 2004 ) , and wills et al .",
    "( 1993 ) reported an anti - correlation of fwhm with ew .",
    "the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_uf ] shows fwhm(civ ) against bai .",
    "our result confirms the finding of richards ( 2006 ) that the line width of civ  is , on average , slightly larger for agns with larger blueshifts . inspecting the scatter plot in detail",
    ", one can find that the trend is complex and there appears to exist a ` v'-shaped lower envelope .",
    "it implies a mixture of origins of the civ  emission .",
    "we will come back to this issue later .",
    "composite spectra can provide a wealth of diagnostic information .",
    "we show the composite spectra as a function of bai in fig .",
    "[ fig_cs1 ] .",
    "our composites are constructed through the arithmetic mean method .",
    "we first sort the agn sample according to their bai then sub - divide it into four equally - sized subsamples ( each subsample contains about 1241 agns ) . for each agn",
    ", we use the redshift from hw10 to deredshift the spectrum .",
    "the spectrum is then normalized at 1450 , rebinned into the same wavelength grids .",
    "the composite spectra are created by combining these normalized spectra in each of these subsamples .",
    "only four major emission line regions , siiv , civ , ciii ]  and mgii , are presented .",
    "the spectra are normalized in the local continuum regions : ( 1355,1450 ) , ( 1450,1700 ) , ( 1830,1975 ) , ( 2695,2955 ) ( in units of ) for siiv , civ , ciii ]  and mgii .    as expected , the civ  emission line in our composites shifts significantly towards shorter wavelength as bai increases .",
    "the equivalent width of civ  decreases with increasing bai , consistent with fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] .",
    "the blueshift is also remarkable for heii  and moderate for siiv , but seems to be absent in lower - ionization lines , such as mgii  and aliii , in good agreement with richards et al .",
    "we also create composites as a function of ew(civ ) and bai , following richards et al .",
    "the composites are very similar to that shown in richards et al .",
    "this is not surprising since we use the same agn redshifts provided by hw10 .",
    "our composites reveal a significant excess flux in the blue wing of civ  ( around 1500 ) , the strength of which increases with bai ( fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] ) .",
    "we then take the difference between the largest - bai and smallest - bai composite spectra and show the difference as a function of velocity with respect to civ  in fig .",
    "[ fig_ex ] ( thick line ) .",
    "the blue excess wing peaks at 8000@xmath14 , ranging between @xmath15@xmath14and 11000@xmath14 .",
    "two additional phenomena are worth noting .",
    "first , the mean width of mgii  tends to be narrower for agns with larger civblueshifts .",
    "we will address this issue in next section .",
    "second , the equivalent width of aliii  is dramatically boosted at large bai , different from other lines .",
    "richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) paid particular attention to the unusual property of the aliii  line .",
    "they suggested that the strong aliii , together with the large siiii]/ciii ]  ratio , is indicative of an x - ray weak spectrum for these agns .",
    "although this explanation is reasonable , it might simply be that aliii  is contaminated by other lines .",
    "one possible contamination comes from the uv feiii  complexes .",
    "the feiii  complexes are usually more prominent on the long - wavelength side of ciii](laor et al . 1997 ) .",
    "however , we do not find the expected excess at the corresponding wavelength and thus rule out this probability .",
    "another promising explanation is that this excess flux is the ciii ]  emission of the outflow . to demonstrate this",
    ", we show the difference spectra of the largest - bai and smallest - bai composites as a function of velocity with respect to ciii ]  in fig .",
    "[ fig_ex](thin line ) .",
    "one can find the average velocity of the ` excess of aliii ' is about 8000@xmath14 .",
    "this velocity is very similar to that of the blue wing excess of civ and thus supports our interpretation .",
    "difference spectra are usually sensitive to the normalization .",
    "to investigate into this , we also try to use other local continuum regions .",
    "the velocity ranges of the excess flux for both civ  and ciii]change only slightly .",
    "the blueshifted ciii ]  component suggests that the number density of the large - velocity part of the civ  belr can not be much larger than @xmath16 , which is the critical density of the intercombination line ciii ]  ( osterbrock 1989 ) .",
    "this value is consistent with that estimated by wang et al.(2009b ) , but much lower than that estimated by ferland et al .",
    "( 1992 ) , about @xmath17 ( see also kuraszkiewicz et al .",
    "the discrepancy can be understood if there exist two kinds of civemitting region : a normal gravitationally bound belr and an outflow , as we will discuss in this paper .",
    "in fact , studies of blueshifted absorption lines revealed quite low densities in outflows ( see crenshaw et al .",
    "2003 for a review ) .",
    "moreover , the column density of outflow can be constrained based on the absence of blueshifted component in low - ionization line .",
    "for example ,",
    "leighly ( 2004 ) performed photoionization calculation to model the outflow components of various uv lines in two narrow - line seyfert 1 galaxies and derived a rather low column density : @xmath18 for outflow gas .",
    "leighly ( 2004 ) did not consider the blueshifted ciii ]  component .",
    "if taking into account this component , one may get a slightly larger column density .",
    "the lower density and column density than the typical values of normal emitting gas may be due to the expansion of outflow .",
    "in this section , we examine whether the mgii  and civ  line properties follow the same correlations . since mgii  is thought to be emitted from a gravitationally bound belr , the comparison may offer insight into the kinematics and geometry of the civemitting region . note",
    "that our method differs from earlier investigations , in which the authors directly compared the properties of the two lines .",
    "we show the rest equivalent width of mgii  against bai and fwhm(mgii ) in the lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] .",
    "note that the bai presented here is calculated using civ  line .",
    "one can see that ew(mgii ) declines with increasing bai .",
    "the trend is similar to but slightly weaker than civ .",
    "of particular interest is the positive correlation between ew(mgii ) and fwhm(mgii ) , which is in contrast to civ(fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] ) .",
    "we also found such a correlation in a low - redshift agn sample ( dong et al .",
    "the opposite behaviors indicates that the properties of mgii  and civ  emitting regions are essentially different .    the scatter plot of fwhm(mgii ) versus civ  blueshift",
    "is shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_uf ] . here",
    "again , we find a different correlation from civ . agns with narrow mgii  bel have a strong tendency to exhibit civ  emission with prominent blueshift .",
    "this trend is appreciable in previous work based on small low - redshift samples .",
    "for instance , bachev et al . (",
    "2004 ) found the civ  blueshift can only be found in objects with fwhm(h@xmath1 ) less than 4000@xmath14 .",
    "baskin & laor ( 2005 ) found an marginal correlation between civ  blueshift and fwhm(h@xmath1 ) in 81 pg qsos .",
    "sulentic et al . (",
    "2007 ) used the centroid at half maximum of civ  profile as a surrogate of line shift .",
    "their figure 2 clearly shows a somewhat weak correlation between the blueshift and fwhm(h@xmath1 ) ( see also sulentic et al .",
    "2000b ) . since fwhm(mgii ) is closely correlated with fwhm(h@xmath1)(e.g .",
    "wang et al .",
    "2009a ) , their results broadly agree with ours .",
    "this correlation hints that the civ  blueshift is driven by some primary physical parameters , such as black hole mass and the eddington ratio  is the bolometric luminosity and @xmath19  is the luminosity required for radiation pressure arising from electron scattering to balance the gravity of the central black hole . ]",
    "( @xmath20/@xmath19 ) .",
    "we calculate black hole masses based on the fwhm(mgii ) and the monochromatic luminosity @xmath21 using the formula of wang et al .",
    "( 2009a ) .",
    "we then compute the eddington ratio assuming a constant bolometric correction , @xmath22 ( mclure & dunlop 2004 ) . to give a quantitative analysis",
    ", we perform spearman rank correlation tests over the correlations of bai with @xmath20/@xmath19 , @xmath2  and fwhm(mgii ) , but note that these properties are degenerate , with @xmath20/@xmath19@xmath23fwhm@xmath24 , and @xmath2@xmath23fwhm@xmath25 . the correlations with @xmath20/@xmath19  and fwhm(mgii ) are comparable in strength , with spearman correlation coefficients @xmath26 of 0.54 and -0.50 respectively ( the probabilities for null hypothesis are less than @xmath27 ) , and are both significantly stronger than the dependence on @xmath2(@xmath26 = -0.39 ) .",
    "eddington ratio is therefore a more fundamental driver of the civ  blueshift than black hole mass . in fig .",
    "[ fig_uledd ] , we show bai as a function of @xmath20/@xmath19 . as @xmath20/@xmath19increases from 0.1 to 1 ,",
    "the median value of bai significantly increases from @xmath280.5 to @xmath280.75 .",
    "a commonly accepted view for this correlation is that outflow is driven by radiation pressure ( e.g. murray et al .",
    "1995 ; boroson 2002 ) , and therefore prominent for high @xmath20/@xmath19  agns .",
    "if outflow carries away a significant amount of the angular momentum ( e.g. wang et al .",
    "2007 ) , it can serve as a driver of the accretion process , and consequently strengthen this correlation .",
    "the correlation of bai with fwhm(mgii ) is as strong as that with the eddington ratio .",
    "it would be interesting to know which physical property dominates the correlations involving bai .",
    "however , given the tight correlation between fwhm(mgii ) and the eddington ratio ( @xmath26=-0.93 ) in our sample , that is flux limited , it is impossible to disentangle these dependencies .",
    "a sample of agns covering a wide range in luminosity is required for this purpose .",
    "recently , richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) reported that the reverberation mapped agns occupy only part of the civ  line parameter space , and suggested that these objects have different ionizing spectral energy distribution ( sed ) from the mean sed of agns .",
    "it is unclear whether applying the scaling relation to the whole sample would lead to systematic error in determining @xmath2and @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "if yes , the origin of the correlation between bai and the inferred @xmath20/@xmath19  would be more complex than that we discussed above , because the ionizing sed also correlates with the civ  blueshift ( richards et al .",
    "even so , it does nt necessarily mean the relationship between real @xmath20/@xmath19  and bai is weaker than that shown in fig .",
    "[ fig_uledd ] .",
    "in fact , the correlation between sed , characterized by the ratio of x - ray flux to uv flux ( @xmath29 ) , and the inferred @xmath20/@xmath19  and line width is weak or absent ( vasudevan & fabian 2007 ; shemmer et al .",
    "these results does nt favor that the estimates of @xmath20/@xmath19  and @xmath2  are significantly affected by the assumption of a single mean sed .",
    "however , @xmath29 can not fully characterize the ionizing sed , further work is needed .",
    "moreover , the constant bolometric correction may introduce systemic bias in the dependence of bai on @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "but it is not important here because the bolometric corrections differ between objects by a factor of 2 ( e.g. richards et al .",
    "2006 ) , much less than the @xmath20/@xmath19  range of our sample .",
    "when considering the correlations involving fwhm , we can see very different or even opposite behaviors between civ  and mgii .",
    "fwhm may be a key to understanding the difference between civ  and mgii  emitting regions .",
    "the width of an emission line reflects the motion of the corresponding emitting gas .",
    "mgii  gas is thought to be gravitationally bound , whereas civ  line is generally blueshifted and the corresponding emitting gas may be impacted or driven by the radiation field .",
    "thus , fwhm(mgii ) is a measure of the gravity , while fwhm(civ ) is more likely the result of the competition between gravity and radiation pressure .",
    "it is therefore not surprising to find inconsistent trends . in order to understand the detailed effect of radiation pressure on civ  gas , it is necessary to explore more differences between mgii  and civ , and to examine whether these trends for civ  hold for agns of different eddington ratio .",
    "to do so , we select two extreme subsamples which comprise the 25% highest @xmath20/@xmath19  and 25% lowest @xmath20/@xmath19  agns , designated as sample a and b respectively .",
    "we first show the fwhm(civ ) as a function of bai for these two subsamples in the left panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_fb ] .",
    "there is a clear trend that civ  line width increases with bai in sample a , but this trend disappears in sample b. an evidence for this discrepancy can also be found in the entire sample ( left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_uf ] ) . for comparison",
    ", we also show fwhm(mgii ) versus bai for the _ entire _ sample in the same two panels ( black points ) as background .",
    "the civ  line of agns in sample a reveals an opposite tendency compared to the low - ionization line mgii , while the civ  distribution of sample b is well consistent with the upper half of the mgiidistribution .",
    "we then make the same analysis of the fwhm - ew correlations for both lines and obtain similar results ( see the right panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_fb ] ) . on one hand , agns in sample",
    "a exhibit a strong anti - correlation between fwhm(civ ) and ew(civ ) , which is completely opposite to the correlation for mgii .",
    "this correlation also exists in the whole sample , albeit weaker . on the other hand , for sample b agns ,",
    "the correlation becomes marginal and the discrepancy between civ  and mgii  become tiny compared to sample a.    we note that the results shown above do not change if we select subsamples based on fwhm(mgii ) rather than @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "that is again due to the fact that fwhm(mgii ) is strongly correlated with eddington ratio in our flux limited sample . using 130 low - redshift agns with hst ultraviolet - band spectroscopic observation , sulentic et al.(2007 )",
    "found fwhm(civ ) increases with the blueshift _ only _ in agns with fwhm(h@xmath1 ) @xmath304000@xmath14 .",
    "their results are consistent with ours based on a much larger sample and mgii , supporting that the kinematics of h@xmath1  and mgii",
    "regions are similar .",
    "they found agns with fwhm(h@xmath1 ) less and greater than 4000@xmath14  exhibit different feii and radio properties and further suggested that there is apparent dichotomy between these two populations(see also sulentic et al .",
    "2000a;2000b ; bachev et al .",
    "2004 ; zamfir , sulentic & marziani 2008 ) .",
    "we also find similar differences between sample a and b agns in the parameter space defined by bai , fwhm and ew ( and the same differences between the small and large fwhm(mgii ) subsamples ) .",
    "_ more importantly , we find that the civemission of sample a is totally different from the low - ionization line mgii , while the civ  emission of sample b is similar to mgii_. in addition , fig .",
    "[ fig_uf ] and [ fig_uledd ] show clearly that the civ  blueshift varies continuously and smoothly with fwhm(mgii ) and @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "this implies that the corresponding variation in the properties of the civ  emitting region is smooth , rather than abrupt .",
    "in this section , we analyze the kinematics and geometry of the civ  region on the basis of the results presented above . then we discuss candidate belr models that can account for the specific behavior of civ . to get more insight into the origin of the civblueshift ,",
    "we finally present a comprehensive comparison between the civ  blueshift and bal .",
    "the civ  emission of the agns in samplea is strongly blueshifted , and it also displays an opposite tendency compared to mgii  in the parameter space defined by bai , fwhm and ew .",
    "it is very likely dominated by outflow , whose velocity range can be roughly measured by fwhm(civ ) .",
    "further evidence for the outflow origin of the civ  blueshift is given by comparison of the blueshifted civ  and bal ( see sect . [ sec_cbo ] ) , that is believed to be produced by outflows .",
    "the correlation between fwhm(civ ) and bai found from sample a can be easily understood in terms of outflows .",
    "in general , an outflow with a large terminal velocity tends to produce emission with a large blueshift and fwhm(civ ) .",
    "however , not all outflow models can successfully reproduce such a relationship .",
    "one of the commonly proposed models is disk - like equatorial outflows with a small opening angle . in this model ,",
    "outflows on the far and near sides emit redshifted and blueshifted civ  photons , respectively , at comparable amounts ( see , e.g. figure 7 of murray & chiang 1997 ) . only when viewed along the pole , the emission line is significantly blueshifted .",
    "meanwhile , we will see a very narrow line because the line of sight is nearly perpendicular to the outflow velocity .",
    "it is inconsistent with our finding here .",
    "one solution is that , in the case of disk - like outflows , a large opening angle is required .",
    "alternatively , the outflow is funnel like ( see the geometry shown in elvis 2000 and wang et al . 2007 ) , even close to the polar direction in some cases ( e.g. zhou et al . 2006 ; wang et al .",
    "2008 ) . for a funnel - like outflow ,",
    "the projected velocity of the far - side along the line of sight is so small that it contributes only little to the red side of the civemission .",
    "the strong anti - correlation between fwhm(civ ) and ew(civ ) in sample a suggests that the civ  emission is suppressed in outflows at high velocities .",
    "this can possibly be ascribed to that , with expansion , the density of high velocity outflow gets lower , in agreement with our finding that the blueshifted component of the ciii ]  emission is possibly enhanced in agns with large bai ( see section [ sec_c4b ] and fig .",
    "[ fig_cs1 ] ) .",
    "however , as a major coolant of belr , civ  may be insensitive to the change of the density .",
    "alternatively , murray & chiang ( 1997 ) suggested that this correlation is related to the distribution of the launching radius of outflows .",
    "detailed dynamical and photoionization model is needed to understand the underlying process .",
    "different from the case of sample a , the civ  emission of the agns in sample b nearly overlaps with mgii  in the parameter space .",
    "in particular , the two lines have similar widths . to demonstrate this more clearly",
    ", we show the probability distribution of @xmath31 in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_fr ] , which peaks at zero , albeit a large scatter of 0.16 dex . for comparison",
    ", we also plot the result for sample a , show that civ  is much broader than mgii .",
    "the similarity between the widths of civ  and mgii  suggests that they largely come from the same emitting gas , which should be optically thick to ionizing radiation . considering that radiation pressure is not important for optically - thick clouds ( e.g. fabian et al . 2006 ; marconi et al . 2008 ) and that mgii  is a reasonable indicator of black hole mass , our results suggest that the kinematics of the civ  emission - line gas in these agns is primarily governed by gravity rather than by radiation field .",
    "this argument is also consistent with the facts that sample b agns have small blueshifts of civ  and weak radiation field compared to gravity for their low @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "the most convincing evidence to date for the gravitationally dominated kinematics of the civ  regions , from reverberation mapping observations of local agns , includes similar response timescales of the blue and red wings of civ , the correlation between the belr size and line width ( gaskell 1988 ; koratkar & gaskell 1991 ; korista et al . 1995 ; peterson & wandel 1999 ; 2000 ; onken & peterson 2002 ) .",
    "we examine the eddington ratio of these reverberation mapped objects listed in koratkar & gaskell ( 1991 ) , peterson & wandel ( 2000 ) , and onken & peterson ( 2002 ) by collecting data from the literature , and find that almost all of these have quite low eddington ratio , generally less than 0.1 ( see wang et al .",
    "2009a for black hole mass and luminosity data ) .",
    "moreover , radio - loud agns have averagely lower eddington ratios ( e.g. boroson 2002 ; zamfir et al .",
    "2008 ) and weaker civblueshifts in comparison with radio - quiet agns .",
    "both results are in agreement with our conclusion that the civ  region tends to be gravitationally bound at low @xmath20/@xmath19 .    therefore , our finding reconciles naturally previous contradictory results .",
    "the civ  region tends to be dominated by outflows in high eddington ratio agns , and dominated by normal gravitationally bound belr in low eddington ratio agns .",
    "the emission strength from these two regions varies with @xmath20/@xmath19   in opposite directions , and bai is a measure of their radio . for low - bai agns , in which the outflow component is trivial ,",
    "civ  is emitted primarily from the gravitationally bound region and is expected have a similar line width to mgii .",
    "this is supported by the probability distribution of @xmath31 for the 25% lowest - bai agns , as shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_fr ] .",
    "interestingly , we find that the distributions of high- and low-@xmath20/@xmath19  agns ( sample a and b ) on the fwhm - bai plane join at bai@xmath32 ( fig . [ fig_fb ] ) . at this value",
    "the emission from the two regions may be comparable , and also the distributions of bai for all the agns peak ( fig .",
    "[ fig_udis ] ) .",
    "we thus conclude that the gravitationally bound and radiation driven civ  emitting regions coexist in most of the agns ( see also richards et al 2011 ) , and there is no abrupt transition from one type to the other .",
    "extensive efforts have already been devoted to understanding how an outflow is launched from an accretion disk ( e.g. arav et al .",
    "1994 ; murray et al .",
    "1995 ; proga , stone & kallman 2000 ; everett 2005 ) .",
    "these studies showed that the radiation force arising from line absorption of the central uv continuum can accelerate outflows to velocities up to 10000 - 20000@xmath14 .",
    "in particular , murray et al .",
    "( 1995 ) derived an approximate mass loss rate carried by outflow ( their equation 9 ) , that is equivalent to the strength of outflow , and found that it increases with the eddington ratio ( see also proga et al . 2000 ) .",
    "this is consistent with our finding here in observation .",
    "another important parameter that also has impact on outflows is the strength of the x - ray emission relative to the uv ( denoted as @xmath33 ) .",
    "a hard ionizing continuum can over - ionize outflows so that the acceleration efficiency of line absorption is suppressed ; whereas a soft ionizing continuum would allow the launch of a strong wind ( see e.g. murray et al",
    "recently , richards et al .",
    "( 2011 ) found that agns with larger civ  blueshifts are apparently weaker in x - ray relative to uv ( see also gibson et al . 2008 ) , consistent with the theoretical expectation .",
    "both the above facts strongly favor the line driven outflow model .",
    "if @xmath33 decreases with increasing @xmath20/@xmath19 the dependencies of the civ  blueshift on @xmath20/@xmath19  and @xmath33 are possibly induced by the same underlying causal process .",
    "recent studies have revealed a complicated relationship between the two parameters .",
    "kelly et al .",
    "( 2008 ) found that @xmath33 decreases with @xmath34/@xmath19 , but increases with @xmath35/@xmath19 , where @xmath34 and @xmath36 are the uv and x - ray luminosity , respectively .",
    "such a difference might be ascribed to the bolometric corrections of these two bands , that change with @xmath20/@xmath19  in different ways ( vasudevan & fabian 2007 ) .",
    "vasudevan & fabian ( 2007 ) directly calculated @xmath20  by fitting the broad spectral energy distributions and did nt find any relationship , while they pointed out that @xmath33 can not characterize the full ionizing continuum .",
    "shemmer et al .",
    "( 2008 ) also found that the dependence of @xmath33 on @xmath20/@xmath19  is rather weak .",
    "they suggested that this correlation is probably a secondary effect of the correlations of @xmath34 with @xmath20/@xmath19  and @xmath33 .",
    "thus the outflow strength might be affected by least two ` independent ' quantities : the eddington ratio and the relative strength of the ionizing continuum",
    ".    one prediction of the line - driven outflow model is that the correlation between the outflow strength and @xmath20/@xmath19  depends on the ionizing continuum . in fig .",
    "[ fig_uledd ] , we show bai against @xmath20/@xmath19  for the two subsamples that comprise the 25% largest ew(civ ) and 25% smallest ew(civ ) agns respectively .",
    "one can find that the correlation between bai and @xmath20/@xmath19  is apparently stronger in the small ew sample than in the large ew sample .",
    "since ew(civ ) is strongly correlated with @xmath33 ( e.g. wang et al . 1998 ; wu et al . 2009 ) , it is reasonable to expect that the small - ew agns are relatively x - ray weak compared to the large - ew ones .",
    "the result shown here thus provides another piece of possible evidence to support the model .",
    "a viable model for the civ  emitting region must also account for the weakening of the normal civ  bels in high-@xmath20/@xmath19  agns .",
    "one possible mechanism is the change of the ionization state of bel clouds , as discussed in leighly ( 2004 ) . in that model",
    ", the ionizing continuum is filtered through an outflow before reaching the normal belr .",
    "the outflow absorbs the photons that can produce highly ionized ions , such as c@xmath37 and he@xmath38 .",
    "as the outflow becomes stronger , the continuum filtering is more severe and high - ionization lines from the normal belr become weaker .",
    "a shortcoming of this model is that it can not explain the weakness of the low - ionization line mgii  in large bai ( strong outflow ) or high @xmath20/@xmath19  agns ( fig .",
    "[ fig_uwe ] ) .",
    "because the ionization state of the outflow is high , it can only absorb photons in the helium continuum , but is transparent to low - energy ionizing photons ( leighly 2004 ) .",
    "note that a high ionization state is required for the outflow as there is no significantly blueshifted component in low - ionization lines .",
    "nevertheless , the ionization state - sed scenario can not be ruled out .",
    "the low - energy ionizing continuum may be just intrinsically weak when a strong outflow is launched .",
    "another possible mechanism is that the amount of bel clouds varies with @xmath20/@xmath19 . if radiation pressure can expel bel clouds out of the belr ( dong et al . 2009 ; 2011 ,",
    "see also ferland et al .",
    "2009 ) , the suppression of the normal bel in high-@xmath20/@xmath19  agns can be easily explained . since bel clouds are usually dust free",
    ", the radiation pressure arises mainly from three processes : thomson scattering , resonance scattering and ionization absorption .",
    "thomson scattering is not favored since it is only important in agns with supper eddington luminosities .",
    "resonance scattering is neither able to drive clouds , because the internal velocity dispersion of a cloud is generally small and only tiny fraction of photons can be scattered .",
    "recently , fabian et al .",
    "( 2006 ; see also marconi et al .",
    "2008 ) found that the radiation pressure arising from absorption of ionizing photons can not be neglected . assuming the fraction , @xmath39 , of ionizing flux is absorbed by a cloud with column density @xmath40",
    ", we can derive the ratio of the radiation force ( due to ionization absorption ) to the gravitational force on the cloud : @xmath41 where @xmath42 , @xmath43 and @xmath44  are gravitational constant , light speed and thomson cross section , @xmath45 the luminosity of ionizing continuum , @xmath46 , and @xmath47 the distance from the cloud to the central source .",
    "when @xmath48 , the radiation force overcomes the gravity of the central black hole , and the clouds can escape from the belr .",
    "it sets a lower limit of the column density of clouds that can survive : @xmath49 , where @xmath50 .",
    "there are two parameters , @xmath39 and @xmath51 , to be determined .",
    "@xmath39 is dependent on ionization degree and column density . for the typical normal belr , when @xmath52cm@xmath24 , that is the column density at the hydrogen ionization front , the cloud is optically thick to the ionizing continuum and @xmath54 ( ferland 1999 ; marconi et al .",
    "2008 ) . for @xmath55cm@xmath24",
    ", ionization absorption becomes ineffective , i.e. @xmath56 .",
    "we then give a rough estimate of @xmath51 assuming the ionizing continuum seen by the cloud is the same as what we observe .",
    "approximating the continuum at wavelength short of 1200  as a power law with an index @xmath57 ( zheng et al .",
    "1997 ; telfer et al .",
    "2000 ) , @xmath45 is given by integrating over all ionizing frequencies(i.e .",
    "above the frequency of lyman edge ) : @xmath58 . then approximating the uv continuum between 1200  and 3000  as a power law with an index @xmath59 ( vanden berk et al .",
    "2001 ) , @xmath60 . adopting @xmath61 ( mclure & dunlop 2004 )",
    ", we obtain @xmath62 and @xmath63cm@xmath24 .    as long as @xmath64 , clouds with column density in the range between @xmath65cm@xmath24 and @xmath66 can be blown away from the belr .",
    "that is to say , the amount of bel clouds that can survive near the central engine drops with increasing @xmath20/@xmath19 .",
    "increasing @xmath20/@xmath19  up to 0.1 , the upper limit of the column density of expelled clouds increases to @xmath67cm@xmath24 ; where clouds can effectively emit the low - ionization line mgii .",
    "note that the estimation of @xmath51 is inexact , since it depends on whether the ionizing emission is isotropic , or is blocked by other bel clouds ( gaskell 2009 ) and/or other structures ( such as outflows , leighly 2004 ) . nevertheless , the mechanism proposed here gives a promising explanation to the suppression of both the civand mgii  emission from the normal belr in high-@xmath20/@xmath19  agns .",
    "one of the most prominent spectral features imprinted by outflows is the broad absorption line .",
    "we refer to outflows associated with bal as bal outflow , while that associated with blueshifted bel as bel outflow .",
    "the comparison below suggests that bal and bel outflows may represent the same physical component .",
    "richards et al .",
    "( 2002 ) found that the emission line features , such as the ciii ]  line complex  line complex is composed of ciii ] , siiii ]  and aliii . ]",
    ", heii  and the red wing of civ , are very similar between the composites of bal agns and non - bal agns with large civ  blueshift .",
    "the broad band sed also displays a similar trend . for a given uv luminosity ,",
    "non - bal agns with large blueshifts tend to be x - ray weak compared to those with small blueshifts ( richards et al .",
    "the x - ray emission of bal agns is usually severely absorbed , and thus can not be directly used for a comparison . after correction for absorption , fan et al .",
    "( 2009 ) found that the intrinsic x - ray emission of bal agns is on average weaker than that of non - bal agns of the same uv luminosity .",
    "in particular , they found that the intrinsic x - ray strength is anti - correlated with the absorption strength of the civ  bal for bal agns .",
    "it is consistent with the correlation for the civ  bel .",
    "more similarities can be found when looking at the correlations of the outflow properties with @xmath20/@xmath19 . in this work",
    ", we find that the bel outflow is stronger at a higher @xmath20/@xmath19  ( fig .",
    "[ fig_uledd ] ) .",
    "similar correlations between the bal properties and @xmath20/@xmath19  have been reported previously .",
    "boroson ( 2002 ) has shown that bal agns tend to occupy the extreme end of the boroson & green ( 1992 ) eigenvector 1 , that is thought to be driven by the eddington ratio .",
    "recently , ganguly et al . ( 2007 ) found the fraction of bal agns , an indicator of the average covering factor of outflow , increases with the eddington ratio(see also zhang et al .",
    "they also found there appears to exist an overall upper - envelope of increasing @xmath68 of bals with increasing eddington ratio .",
    "the correlations for the bal outflows are consistent with but weaker than those for the bel outflows",
    ". there may be a simple reason for this : bal troughs hold only the information of outflow along the line of sight , and thus may be sensitive to the local structure ; while bel is an integral of emission over entire volume of the outflow and represents the overall properties .",
    "the similarity between the bel and bal outflows can also be found directly from their own properties .",
    "the first is the maximal velocity , @xmath68 .",
    "gibson et al . (",
    "2009 ) have obtained the distribution of @xmath68 for bal agns , which ranges from @xmath695000@xmath14  to @xmath7020000@xmath14 , with a mean value of @xmath2812000@xmath14 .",
    "the maximal velocity of a bel outflow for individual agn is hard to estimate .",
    "we estimate the average @xmath68 of the bel outflow from the difference spectra of the largest - bai and smallest - bai composites ( fig .",
    "[ fig_ex ] ) .",
    "it is about 11000@xmath14 , similar to the bal outflow .",
    "we then compare their ionization states .",
    "as discussed above , the absence of blueshifted mgii  suggests that the bel outflows contain very few mg@xmath71 ions .",
    "the same condition also appears in the bal outflows . about only 10% of the bal agns exhibit mgii  bal ( e.g trump et al .",
    "2006 ; zhang et al .",
    "2010 ) , suggesting the absence of mg@xmath71 ions in most of the bal outflows .    given the similarities shown above , the bal outflows may also be responsible for producing the observed blueshifted bel , at least for the strongest blueshifted bel .",
    "when the line of sight to the continuum source intersects the outflow , bals are produced in the agn spectrum ; otherwise , the agn appears as a non - bal agn with blueshifted civ .",
    "the frequency of occurrence of bal in agn spectra , the strength of bal trough , and the blueshift of civare all enhanced as the outflow is boosted with increasing @xmath20/@xmath19and / or decreasing the intrinsic x - ray emission . a viable outflow model must simultaneously account for both , the absorption and emission of civ .",
    "future studies on agn outflows can be proceed from these two different approaches . for example , it is possible to use reverberation mapping results of the blueshifted civ  line to estimate the distance of the bal outflow to the central source , an important parameter for understanding the launch of the outflow ( the difficulty lies in how one separates variation of the outflow component from that of the normal bel ) .",
    "one may also use the x - ray emission of agns with strongly blueshifted civ , rather than the entire sample , to characterize the intrinsic x - ray emission of bal agns ; the latter is generally strongly absorbed and hard to study directly .",
    "in addition , we note that resonance scattering of the continuum and emission lines by ions , such as c@xmath72 and n@xmath73 , in outflows may also contribute to the observed emission ( e.g. wang et al . 2010 ) .",
    "that is to say , for proper modeling of the emission lines , especially civ  and nv  with large blueshifts ( a strong outflow and a weak normal belr ) , the scattering emission must be taken into consideration .",
    "there are two kinds of models proposed to describe the kinematics and structure of the belr of high - ionization lines ( e.g. civ ) in agns , namely , the outflow and gravitationally bound belr , that are apparently mutually contradictory . in this paper we attempt to uncover the underlying physical process responsible for this difference , using 4963 agns in the redshift range @xmath4 selected from sdss dr5 .",
    "we introduce a blueshift and asymmetry index ( bai ) to measure the deviation of the civ  line from an unshifted and symmetric profile .",
    "bai is defined as the flux ratio of the blue part to the total profile , where the blue part is the part of the civ  line at wavelengths short of 1549.06 , the laboratory rest - frame wavelength of the civ  doublets .",
    "bai actually measures the combined effect of asymmetry and shift of a line profile , which is generally treated separately in the literature .",
    "since both asymmetry and line shift may be caused by the same physical process , bai is the best choice for our purpose .",
    "we confirm previous findings that the civ  bel is generally blueshifted with respect to the systemic redshift , and there exist significant correlations among the bai , the line width ( fwhm ) and the rest equivalent width ( ew ) of civ . for comparison",
    ", we investigate the same relationships among the bai of civ , the fwhm and ew of the low - ionization line mgii .",
    "dramatic differences are found between these two lines . for the mgii  line",
    ", fwhm is positively correlated with ew , and inversely correlated with bai .",
    "while for civ , fwhm is anti - correlated with ew , and the correlation between fwhm and bai is complex and significantly different from that for mgii . given that line profile reflects the kinematic properties of the emitting gas , our results demonstrate clearly that , in general , the civ  line comes from a region with the structure and kinematics fundamentally different from those of mgii , which is thought to be gravitationally bound .",
    "we find a prominent correlation between bai and the eddington ratio , that is consistent with theoretical expectation .",
    "this correlation , together with the previously known correlation between civ  blueshift and the x - ray to uv flux ratio , advocates strongly the view that outflows are driven by resonance line absorption .",
    "interestingly , there exist a number of similarities between blueshifted emission lines and broad absorption lines in agns in , for instance , the maximal velocity , ionization state and the correlations with the eddington ratio and with the x - ray to uv flux ratio .",
    "these suggest that the same outflow produces these two different phenomena observed .",
    "we select two subsamples , one composed of the 25% highest and one of the 25% lowest eddington ratio agns . in the high eddington ratio subsample , fwhm(civ )",
    "is positively correlated with bai and anti - correlated with ew(civ ) .",
    "both correlations are opposite to those for mgii  and can be understood in terms of outflow . whereas , for the low eddington ratio subsample , these two correlations for civ  become marginal or absent .",
    "civ  overlaps almost completely with mgii  in the parameter space .",
    "in particular , the line width of civ  is , on average , the same as that of mgii .",
    "we thus conclude that the civ  line in this subsample is emitted by optically - thick gas driven by gravity , similar to the mgii  line .",
    "our results further suggest that the two civ  emitting regions , gravitationally bound and radiation driven , coexist in most of the agns .",
    "the emission strengths of these two regions vary smoothly with @xmath20/@xmath19  in opposite directions .",
    "the civ  emission is generally dominated by outflows at high eddington ratios , while it is primarily emitted from the normal gravitationally bound belrs at low eddington ratios .",
    "this explanation naturally reconciles the contradictory views proposed in previous studies .",
    "viable models are also discussed that can account for both , the enhancement of outflow emission and the suppression of the normal bel , in agns with high eddington ratios .",
    "we thank the referee , gordon richards , for his helpful suggestions that improved the paper .",
    "this work is supported by nsfc ( 11073017 , 11033007 , 10973013 , 10973012 , 11073019 ) , 973 program ( 2007cb815405 , 2009cb824800 ) and the fundamental research funds for the central universities .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    arav , n. , li , z .- y . , & begelman , m.  c.  1994 , , 432 , 62    baskin , a. , & laor , a.  2005 , , 356 , 1029    bachev , r. , marziani , p. , sulentic , j.  w. , zamanov , r. , calvani , m. , & dultzin - hacyan , d.  2004 , , 617 , 171    bentz , m.  c. , peterson , b.  m. , pogge , r.  w. , vestergaard , m. , & onken , c.  a.  2006 , , 644 , 133    boroson , t.  a. , & green , r.  f.  1992 , , 80 , 109    boroson , t.  a.  2002 , , 565 , 78    chiang , j. , & murray , n.1996 , , 466 , 704    collin , s. , kawaguchi , t. , peterson , b.  m. , & vestergaard , m.  2006 , , 456 , 75    crenshaw , d.  m. , kraemer , s.  b. , & george , i.  m.  2003 , , 41 , 117    davidson , k. , & netzer , h.1979 , reviews of modern physics , 51 , 715    done , c. , & krolik , j.  h.1996 , , 463 , 144    dong , x .- b . , wang , t .-",
    "g . , wang , j .-",
    "g . , fan , x. , wang , h. , zhou , h. , & yuan , w.  2009 , , 703 , l1    dong , x .- b . ,",
    "wang , j .-",
    ", ho ,  l.  c. , wang ,  t. , fan ,  x. , wang , h. , zhou , h. , & yuan , w.2011 , apj accepted ( arxiv:0903.5020 )    elvis , m.  2000 , , 545 , 63    everett , j.  e.  2005 , , 631 , 689    fabian , a.  c. , celotti , a. , & erlund , m.  c.  2006 , , 373 , l16    fan , l.  l. , wang , h.  y. , wang , t. , wang , j. , dong , x. , zhang , k. , & cheng , f.  2009 , , 690 , 1006    ferland , g.  j. , peterson , b.  m. , horne , k. , welsh , w.  f. , & nahar , s.  n.  1992 , , 387 , 95    ferland , g.  j. , korista , k.  t. , verner , d.  a. , ferguson , j.  w. , kingdon , j.  b. , & verner , e.  m.  1998 , , 110 , 761    ferland , g.  j. , hu , c. , wang , j .-",
    "m . , baldwin , j.  a. , porter , r.  l. , van hoof , p.  a.  m. , & williams , r.  j.  r.  2009 , , 707 , l82    fitzpatrick , e.  l.  1999 , , 111 , 63    ganguly , r. , brotherton , m.  s. , cales , s. , scoggins , b. , shang , z. , & vestergaard , m.  2007 , , 665 , 990    gaskell , c.  m.  1982 , , 263 , 79    gaskell , c.  m.  1988 , , 325 , 114    gaskell , c.  m. , & goosmann , r.  w.  2008 , arxiv:0805.4258    gaskell , c.  m.  2009 , , 53 , 140    gibson , r.  r. , brandt , w.  n. , & schneider , d.  p.  2008",
    ", , 685 , 773    gibson , r.  r. , et al.2009 , , 692 , 758    hewett , p.  c. , & wild , v.2010 , , 405 , 2302    kaspi , s. , smith , p.  s. , netzer , h. , maoz , d. , jannuzi , b.  t. , & giveon , u.  2000 , , 533 , 631    kaspi , s. , maoz , d. , netzer , h. , peterson , b.  m. , vestergaard , m. , & jannuzi , b.  t.2005 , , 629 , 61    kelly , b.  c. , bechtold , j. , trump , j.  r. , vestergaard , m. , & siemiginowska , a.  2008 , , 176 , 355    koratkar , a.  p. , & gaskell , c.  m.  1991 , , 75 , 719    korista , k.  t. , et al.1995 , , 97 , 285    krolik , j.  h. , horne , k. , kallman , t.  r. , malkan , m.  a. , edelson , r.  a. , & kriss , g.  a.  1991 , , 371 , 541    krolik , j.  h.  2001 , , 551 , 72    kuraszkiewicz , j.  k. , wilkes , b.  j. , czerny , b. , mathur , s. , brandt , w.  n. , & vestergaard , m.  2000 , , 44 , 573    laor , a. , jannuzi , b.  t. , green , r.  f. , & boroson , t.  a.  1997 , , 489 , 656    leighly , k.  m.  2004 , , 611 , 125    leighly , k.  m. , & moore , j.  r.  2004 , , 611 , 107    lynden - bell , d.  1969 , , 223 , 690    marconi , a. , axon , d.  j. , maiolino , r. , nagao , t. , pastorini , g. , pietrini , p. , robinson , a. , & torricelli , g.  2008 , , 678 , 693    markwardt , c.  b.  2009 , astronomical society of the pacific conference series , 411 , 251    marziani , p. , sulentic , j.  w. , dultzin - hacyan , d. , calvani , m. , & moles , m.1996 , , 104 , 37    mclure , r.  j. , & jarvis , m.  j.  2002 , , 337 , 109    mclure , r.  j. , & dunlop , j.  s.  2004 , , 352 , 1390    murray , n. , chiang , j. , grossman , s.  a. , & voit , g.  m.  1995 , , 451 , 498    murray , n. , & chiang , j.1997 , , 474 , 91    nagao , t. , marconi , a. , & maiolino , r.  2006 , , 447 , 157    obrien , p.  t. , et al.1998 , , 509 , 163    onken , c.  a. , & peterson , b.  m.  2002 , , 572 , 746    onken , c.  a. , ferrarese , l. , merritt , d. , peterson , b.  m. , pogge , r.  w. , vestergaard , m. , & wandel , a.  2004 , , 615 , 645    onken , c.  a. , & kollmeier , j.  a.  2008 , , 689 , l13    osterbrock , d.  e.  1989 , research supported by the university of california , john simon guggenheim memorial foundation , university of minnesota , et al .  mill valley , ca , university science books , 1989 , 422 p. ,    peterson , b.  m. , & wandel , a.  1999 , , 521 , l95    peterson , b.  m. , & wandel , a.  2000 , , 540 , l13    proga , d. , stone , j.  m. , & kallman , t.  r.  2000 , , 543 , 686    rees , m.  j.  1984 , , 22 , 471    richards , g.  t. , vanden berk , d.  e. , reichard , t.  a. , hall , p.  b. , schneider , d.  p. , subbarao , m. , thakar , a.  r. , & york , d.  g.  2002 , , 124 , 1    richards , g.  t.  2006 , arxiv : astro - ph/0603827    richards , g.  t. , et al .  2006 , , 166 , 470    richards , g.  t. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 141 , 167    scaringi , s. , cottis , c.  e. , knigge , c. , & goad , m.  r.  2009 , , 399 , 2231    schlegel , d.  j. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , & davis , m.  1998 , , 500 , 525    schneider , d.  p. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 134 , 102    shemmer , o. , brandt , w.  n. , netzer , h. , maiolino , r. , & kaspi , s.  2008 , , 682 , 81    sulentic , j.  w. , marziani , p. , & dultzin - hacyan , d.  2000a , , 38 , 521    sulentic , j.  w. , zwitter , t. , marziani , p. , & dultzin - hacyan , d.  2000b , , 536 , l5    sulentic , j.  w. , bachev , r. , marziani , p. , negrete , c.  a. , & dultzin , d.  2007 , , 666 , 757    telfer , r.  c. , zheng , w. , kriss , g.  a. , & davidsen , a.  f.  2002 , , 565 , 773    trump , j.  r. , et al.2006 , , 165 , 1    tsuzuki , y. , kawara , k. , yoshii , y. , oyabu , s. , tanab , t. , & matsuoka , y.  2006 , , 650 , 57    van der marel , r.  p. , & franx , m.  1993 , , 407 , 525    vanden berk , d.  e. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 122 , 549    vasudevan , r.  v. , & fabian , a.  c.  2007 , , 381 , 1235    vestergaard , m. , & peterson , b.  m.  2006 , , 641 , 689    wang , t .-",
    ", lu , y .-",
    "j . , & zhou , y .- y .",
    "1998 , , 493 , 1    wang , h .- y . ,",
    "wang , t .-",
    ", & wang , j .- x .  2007 , , 168 , 195    wang , j. , jiang , p. , zhou , h. , wang , t. , dong , x. , & wang , h.  2008 , , 676 , l97    wang , j .-",
    ", et al .  2009a , , 707 , 1334    wang , t. , zhou , h. , yuan , w. , lu , h.  l. , dong , x. , & shan , h.  2009b , , 702 , 851    wang , h. , wang , t. , yuan , w. , wang , j. , dong , x. , & zhou , h.  2010 , , 710 , 78    weymann , r.  j. , morris , s.  l. , foltz , c.  b. , & hewett , p.  c.  1991 , , 373 , 23    wilkes , b.  j.  1984 , , 207 , 73    wills , b.  j. , brotherton , m.  s. , fang , d. , steidel , c.  c. , & sargent , w.  l.  w.  1993 , , 415 , 563    wu , j. , vanden berk , d.  e. , brandt , w.  n. , schneider , d.  p. , gibson , r.  r. , & wu , j.  2009 , , 702 , 767    york , d.  g. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579    zamfir , s. , sulentic , j.  w. , & marziani , p.  2008",
    ", , 387 , 856    zhang , s. , wang , t .-",
    "g . , wang , h. , zhou , h. , dong , x .- b .",
    ", & wang , j .-",
    "2010 , , 714 , 367    zheng , w. , kriss , g.  a. , telfer , r.  c. , grimes , j.  p. , & davidsen , a.  f.  1997 , , 475 , 469    zhou , h. , wang , t. , wang , h. , wang , j. , yuan , w. , & lu , y.  2006 , , 639 , 716",
    "the asymmetry and shift of line profile are generally treated separately in the literature ( e.g. baskin & laor 2005 ) .",
    "our blueshift and asymmetry index ( bai ) is actually a combination of these two properties . in this appendix , we present the line - shift index ( si ) and asymmetry index ( ai ) of the civ  line profile and their comparisons with bai . both parameters are measured from the composite profiles of our two - gaussian model .",
    "si is defined as the shift of the line peak with respect to that in the agn rest frame .",
    "positive values of si indicate blueshift . while ai is the flux ratio of the blue part to the total profile , where the blue part is the part of line profile at wavelengths short of the _",
    "peak wavelength_. the measurement of ai is therefore independent of the redshift errors of agns .    in the upper panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_asy ] , we show the distributions of ai and si .",
    "the median of si is about 898@xmath14 , in agreement with richards et al .",
    "the median of ai is about 0.50 , suggesting that there is no strong preference for red or blue asymmetries .",
    "this is consistent with the result in marziani et al .",
    "( 1996 , their figure 4 , see also sulentic et al .",
    "2000a ) , but different from that in baskin & laor ( 2005 ) , who found that the civ  lines tend to be blue asymmetric . to derive the line parameter , baskin & laor fitted the local continuum with a power - law in two wavelength windows near 1470  and 1620 . however , it is well known that there is a prominent bump near 1620  ( see e.g. nagao et al .",
    "adopting 1620  as a continuum window can lead to systematic overestimation of ai .",
    "ai and si are strongly correlated with bai ( the lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig_asy ] ) .",
    "the spearman rank coefficients for these two correlations are both about @xmath74 , suggesting that redshift errors do not cause significant bias in bai , at least for our sample with high s / n data .",
    "we use ai or si , instead of bai , to repeat our analysis .",
    "interestingly , all the correlations shown in this paper retain , albeit becoming somewhat weaker .",
    "this means that we can draw the same conclusions by using any of these three parameters .",
    "this further suggests that the line asymmetry and line shift are caused by the same process , as is discussed in the main text .",
    "since bai is a combination of ai and si , bai is the best choice for our purpose here .",
    "moreover , we also attempt to use the often - used asymmetry index , such as the shift between the centroids at @xmath75 and @xmath76 maximum in units of fwhm ( see sulentic et al . 2000a ; baskin & lasor 2005 ) .",
    "very similar results are obtained ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> there are mutually contradictory views in the literature of the kinematics and structure of high - ionization line ( e.g. civ ) emitting regions in active galactic nuclei ( agns ) . </S>",
    "<S> two kinds of broad emission line region ( belr ) models have been proposed , outflow and gravitationally bound belr , which are supported respectively by blueshift of the civ  line and reverberation mapping observations . to reconcile these two apparently different models , we present a detailed comparison study between the civand mgii  lines using a sample of agns selected from the sloan digital sky survey . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the kinematics of the civregion is different from that of mgii , which is thought to be controlled by gravity . </S>",
    "<S> a strong correlation is found between the blueshift and asymmetry of the civ  profile and the eddington ratio . </S>",
    "<S> this provides strong observational support for the postulation that the outflow is driven by radiation pressure . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we find robust evidence that the civ  line region is largely dominated by outflow at high eddington ratios , while it is primarily gravitationally bounded at low eddington ratios . </S>",
    "<S> our results indicate that these two emitting regions coexist in most of agns . </S>",
    "<S> the emission strength from these two gases varies smoothly with eddington ratio in opposite ways . </S>",
    "<S> this explanation naturally reconciles the apparently contradictory views proposed in previous studies . </S>",
    "<S> finally , candidate models are discussed which can account for both , the enhancement of outflow emission and suppression of normal bel , in agn with high eddington ratios . </S>"
  ]
}