{
  "article_text": [
    "dust lane early - type galaxies are those galaxies classified in galaxy zoo  2 as early - type galaxies with dust lane features . the classification procedure and construction of the dust lane sample",
    "are described in detail in a companion paper , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper  i ) . in that paper",
    ", we showed that dust lane early - type galaxies often exhibit morphological disturbances , show signs of recent star formation and have stellar ages that are older than starburst early types , but younger than the overall early - type population .",
    "we therefore argued that these objects are starburst systems , and suggested that they might arise from gas - rich minor mergers . while intergalactic medium accretion is also a plausible mechanism , we ruled it out in this case due to the presence of large amounts of dust , and the disturbed nature of most galaxies .    in the present paper we test this paradigm by examining the active galactic nucleus ( agn ) properties of dust lane early - type galaxies .",
    "numerous theoretical and observational arguments connect star formation and agn triggering in galaxies .",
    "the basic point is that similar conditions ( namely the presence of cold gas ) are required for both a nuclear starburst and agn fuelling .",
    "once the supermassive black holes that reside at galaxy centres become active , radiative and kinetic feedback from these objects can profoundly affect their environments through heating and expulsion of gas .",
    "agn feedback has been invoked to explain the cooling flow problem @xcite , and accounts for both the shape of bright end of the optical luminosity function @xcite and the strong correlation between black hole and bulge mass @xcite in the local universe .",
    "a number of diagnostics are used to identify agn .",
    "perhaps the best known is the so - called bpt @xcite analysis , which relies on emission - line measurements to separate star - forming galaxies from agn .",
    "synchrotron emission from agn jets and jet - inflated cocoons manifests itself at radio frequencies .",
    "x - ray and infrared diagnostics are also used .",
    "previous studies have shown that seyfert and low - ionization nuclear emission - line region ( liner ) elliptical hosts are more likely to contain dust than inactive ellipticals @xcite .",
    "however , it is unclear whether this finding can be extended to other agn classifications .",
    "recently , @xcite showed that radio and emission - line agn activities are largely independent at low radio luminosities , in contrast to the well - known correlation at high luminosities @xcite .",
    "this led @xcite to suggest an environmental origin for this dichotomy .",
    "bright radio sources preferentially live in the field ; these are also the objects that often exhibit emission - line agn properties .",
    "by contrast , low - luminosity radio agn tend to live in denser environments , and show little emission - line activity .",
    "@xcite argued that fundamentally different agn fuelling mechanisms are likely to be at work in these two scenarios , with radio - loud objects in dense environments mainly fuelled by the relatively slow bremsstrahlung cooling out of the hot x - ray gas halo , while in poor environments mergers are primarily responsible for the sudden increase in cold gas content .",
    "the properties of the black hole accretion disc are different in the two cases . at high accretion rates associated with mergers ,",
    "the disc assumes the standard geometrically thin , optically thick shape ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; this disc is radiatively efficient and can also produce a radio jet .",
    "thus , both emission - line and radio agn are detected . at low accretion rates , however ,",
    "the accretion disc puffs up and becomes radiatively inefficient , yielding a powerful radio jet but no corresponding emission lines @xcite .",
    "therefore , a detailed analysis of both optical and radio agn properties of our sample can help reconstruct the origins of the gas used in both star formation and agn fuelling , and indicate whether dust lane early - type galaxies are indeed produced in galaxy interactions .",
    "moreover , sizes and luminosities of radio agn can be used to constrain their ages @xcite and therefore place these objects on an evolutionary sequence .",
    "the homogeneity and size of our sample of dust lane early - type galaxies allow us to study the agn - triggering mechanisms via a combination of photometry , spectroscopy and radio data .",
    "we create well - defined control samples , facilitating the construction of an evolutionary sequence and uncovering the significance of the observed dust deatures .",
    "the paper is structured as follows . in section  [ sec : sampleconstruction ] we present our sample of dust lane early - type galaxies as well as a relevant control sample . in particular , we mimic the salient properties of dust lane galaxies in constructing the control sample .",
    "section  [ sec : agnselection ] outlines the agn selection procedure using two alternative definitions : radio luminosity and emission lines .",
    "we present our results in section  [ sec : results ] .",
    "environmental dependence of dust lane agn properties indicates that the origin of these objects is merger driven .",
    "we show that these mergers are necessarily recent , and gas - rich .",
    "finally , we conclude in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .    throughout the paper ,",
    "we adopt the hubble constant of @xmath0kms@xmath1mpc@xmath1 .",
    "the selection of early - type galaxies and a subsample of these exhibiting dust lane features from sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) dr7 is described in detail in paper  i. the only slight difference between the samples analysed here and in paper  i is the inclusion of bulge - dominated sa galaxies in the present work , which were added to improve statistics .",
    "sa galaxies constitute 23 per cent of the dust lane sample and exhibit very similar redshift distribution and disturbed fraction values to the rest of the sample .",
    "we made sure that their inclusion did not bias our conclusions by repeating the analysis without these objects , obtaining the same results .",
    "[ fig : dustlanes_distributions ] shows the stellar mass and redshift distribution of dust lane early - type galaxies .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     table  [ tab : radiosizesages ] gives the size distribution of radio agn for the dust lanes and the matched control sample .",
    "the distributions are statistically indistinguishable at the 10 per cent level . however , the number of dust lane radio agn in our sample ( 46 ) is small , and most of these are unresolved .",
    "high resolution imaging will be required to address this issue properly .",
    "[ fig : sftimescales ] compares the derived radio source ages with the ages of stellar populations for dust lane early - type galaxies .",
    "seyferts and liners have similar age distributions , with median values around 300  myr .",
    "there is no difference between radio - loud and radio - quiet emission - line agn .",
    "we interpret this as evidence for the simultaneous triggering of the radio jet and line emission .",
    "seyfert - like line emission will come from the radiatively efficient agn disc , while liner - like emission can either come from the disc or be distributed throughout the radio cocoon ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this picture is further supported by the @xmath2  myr offset between radio and starburst ages in fig .",
    "[ fig : sftimescales](b ) being consistent with the age difference between starburst and transition objects in fig  [ fig : sftimescales](a ) .",
    "our interpretation of the origin and evolution of dust lane early - type galaxies is then as follows .",
    "a quiescent early - type galaxy undergoes a gas - rich minor merger .",
    "the resulting gas inflow triggers a starburst .",
    "some time later ( typically @xmath3  myr ) the agn switches on .",
    "circumnuclear starbursts could be the reason for this delay , with powerful winds driven by ob stars and supernovae suppressing agn fuelling temporarily @xcite .",
    "alternatively , mass loss from newly formed stars could help fuel agn activity , providing a possible mechanism of funneling gas towards the central engine .",
    "once the agn switches on , the accretion rate onto the central black hole is high enough ( typically at least a few per cent of the eddington value ) for the accretion disc to be in a classical , radiatively efficient thin disc state , and the agn is observed in both emission lines and at radio wavelengths .",
    "this phase is accompanied by the presence of significant amounts of dust , and the early - type galaxy is observed as having a dust lane feature . eventually , agn feedback heats up and/or expels the gas from the galaxy ( this is evidenced for example by the depletion of molecular gas reservoir on time - scales of around 200 myr ; * ? ? ?",
    "both the star formation and agn activity are truncated , with the galaxy returning to a quiescent state .      in paper",
    "i we showed that the mass of dust in the observed features is too great to come from stellar mass loss , suggesting strongly an external origin for this dust . since dust and gas",
    "are typically coupled , one might expect dust lane early - type galaxies to be gas rich , consistent with the gas - rich merger origin of these objects . as shown in paper",
    "i , dust lane early types do show enhanced levels of star formation compared to a control sample of all early - type galaxies . however , fig .",
    "[ fig : t2control ] shows that galaxies with dust features also have younger starburst ages , and it is therefore possible that the higher star formation rates in these objects could simply be due to them having had less time to deplete their newly - acquired gas reservoirs .",
    "we alleviate this potential problem by requiring the dust lane control and sample galaxies to span the same range in starburst age , @xmath4  myr . as fig .",
    "[ fig : sftimescales](a ) shows , this preferentially picks out the agn population ( as defined in the bpt plot ) , and should be representative of recent merging events in both the dust lane and overall early - type populations .",
    "we note that the stellar mass distributions of the two subsamples are very similar .",
    "[ fig : gasaccretion](a ) shows that , even after correcting for the difference in starburst age distributions , dust lane galaxies exhibit star formation rates that are higher by a factor of 3 than the control sample . if dust corrections are important , this number is a lower limit , and the actual star formation rates in dust lane early - type galaxies may be even higher .    fig .  [",
    "fig : gasaccretion](b ) shows the distribution of the black hole accretion rate , in eddington units .",
    "bolometric luminosity is derived using the [ oiii ] line luminosity , and the usual correction factor of 3500 @xcite is applied .",
    "the black hole mass is estimated via its velocity dispersion @xcite .",
    "dust lane early types show accretion rates that are again a factor of three higher than the control sample , consistent with the discrepancy in the star formation rates .",
    "a final confirmation of this picture comes from emission - line agn fractions in the two samples .",
    "almost all ( 84 per cent ) dust lane early types are classified as either seyfert , liner or transition objects , compared to only 24 per cent for the control sample .",
    "more than 60 per cent of the objects in the control sample have emission lines that are too weak to place them on the bpt diagnostic , suggesting that these objects undergo very low - level ( if any ) star formation and agn activity , despite having relatively young starbursts .",
    "this is in stark contrast to dust lane hosts with the same starburst ages , and confirms that the dust features are simply associated with galaxies that have acquired large amounts of gas , most likely in a recent merger .",
    "we consider the origin and evolution of dust lane early - type galaxies . in a companion paper",
    ", we showed that these objects are preferentially located in poor environments , are morphologically disturbed , and have higher star formation rates than the mean for early - type galaxies .    in this work we addressed the issue of the origin of these objects .",
    "by employing optical ( sdss ) and radio ( first and nvss ) surveys we examined agn properties of dust lane early - type galaxies and a relevant control sample of early - type .",
    "our findings are as follows .    1 .",
    "dust lane early types are much more likely to host emission - line agn than the control sample of early - type galaxies",
    "radio - loud agn in dust lane early types do not show an environmental dependence , with similar fractions detected in the field and groups / clusters .",
    "by contrast , control sample early - type galaxies are much more likely to be radio loud if located in a cluster .",
    "radio - loud agn in dust lane early types are much more likely to also be detected in emission lines than radio - loud agn in the control sample .",
    "these results all strongly suggest that minor mergers act as a trigger for agn activity in dust lane early - type galaxies .    1 .",
    "dust lane early types have starburst ages that are younger than the mean for early - type galaxies . 2 .",
    "dust lane early - type galaxies exhibit higher star formation and black hole accretion rates than the control sample of early types with the same starburst ages .",
    "these results indicate that the minor mergers are both gas rich and recent .",
    "the mergers act as a trigger for both the starburst and agn activity .",
    "the dust lane phase is associated with starburst galaxies in which the agn has already been triggered , but has not yet shut off star formation completely .",
    "sss thanks the australian research council and new college , oxford for research fellowships .",
    "yst is grateful to the french ministry of foreign and european affairs for an egide - eiffel scholarship , and ecole polytechnique .",
    "sk acknowledges a research fellowship from the royal commission for the exhibition of 1851 , an imperial college junior research fellowship and a senior research fellowship from worcester college , oxford .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the us department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org .",
    "the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory and the university of washington .",
    "the nvss and first surveys were carried out using the national radio astronomy observatory vla .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "allen s.  w. , dunn r.  j.  h. , fabian a.  c. , taylor g.  b. , reynolds c.  s. , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 21 baldwin j.  a. , phillips m.  m. , terlevich r. , 1981 , pasp , 93 , 817 becker r.  h. , white r.  l. , helfand d.  j. , 1995 , apj , 450 , 559 bell e.  f. , mcintosh d.  h. , katz n. , weinberg m.  d. , 2003 , apjs , 149 , 289 best p.  n. , kauffmann g. , heckman t.  m. , ivezi  . , 2005a , mnras , 362 , 9 best p.  n. , kauffmann g. , heckman t.  m. , brinchmann j. , charlot s. , ivezi  . , white s.  d.  m. , 2005b , mnras , 362 , 25 binney j.  j. , tabor g.  r. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 663 brinchmann j. , charlot s. , white s.  d.  m. , tremonti c. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. , brinkmann j. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1151 condon j.  j. , cotton w.  d. , greisen e.  w. , yin q.  f. , perley r.  a. , taylor g.  b. , broderick j.  j. , 1998 , aj , 115 , 1693 davies r.  i. , snchez f.  m. , genzel r. , tacconi l.  j. , hicks e.  k.  s , friedrich s. , sternberg a. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 1388 hardcastle m.  j. , evans d.  a. , croston j.  h. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 1849 hring n. , rix h .- w . , 2004 , apj , 604 , 89 heckman t.  m. , kauffmann g. , brinchmann j. , charlot s. , tremonti c. , white s.  d.  m. , 2004 , apj , 613 , 109 kaiser c.  r. , alexander p. , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 215 kaiser c.  r. , dennett - thorpe j. , alexander p. , 1997",
    ", mnras , 286 , 215 kauffmann g. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1055 kaviraj s. , 2010 , mnras , 408 , 170 kaviraj s. et al . , 2012 , mnras , 423 , 49 ( paper  i ) kennicutt r.  c.  jr . , 1998 , apj , 498 , 541 krause m.  g.  h. , gaibler v. , 2011 , in antonuccio - delogu v. , silk j. , eds , agn feedback in galaxy formation .",
    "cambridge univ .",
    "press , cambridge , p. 183",
    "magorrian j. et al . , 1998 , aj , 115 , 2285 martini p. , regan m.  w. , mulchaey j.  s. , pogge r.  w. , 2003 , apj , 589 , 774 meier d.  l. , 2001 , apj , 548 , l9 rawlings s. , saunders r. , 1991 , nat , 349 , 138 schawinski k. , thomas d. , sarzi m. , maraston c. , kaviraj s. , joo s .- j . , yi s. k. , silk j. , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1415 schawinski k. et al . , 2009 ,",
    "mnras , 396 , 818 shabala s.  s. , alexander p. , 2009",
    ", apj , 699 , 525 shabala s.  s. , ash s.  a. , alexander p. , riley j.  m. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 625 shakura n.  i. , sunyaev r.  a. , 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 simes lopes r.  d. , storchi - bergmann t. , de ftima saraiva m. , martini p. , 2007",
    ", apj , 655 , 718 tremaine s. et al .",
    ", 2002 , apj , 574 , 740 tremonti c.  a. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 613 , 898 yang x. , mo h.  j. , van den bosch f.  c. , pasquali a. , li c. , barden m. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 153 yun m.  s. , reddy n.  a. , condon j.  j. , 2001 , apj , 554 , 803"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the second of two papers concerning the origin and evolution of local early - type galaxies exhibiting dust features . </S>",
    "<S> we use optical and radio data to examine the nature of active galactic nucleus ( agn ) activity in these objects , and compare these with a carefully constructed control sample .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that dust lane early - type galaxies are much more likely to host emission - line agn than the control sample galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , there is a strong correlation between radio and emission - line agn activity in dust lane early types , but not the control sample . </S>",
    "<S> dust lane early - type galaxies show the same distribution of agn properties in rich and poor environments , suggesting a similar triggering mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> by contrast , this is not the case for early types with no dust features . </S>",
    "<S> these findings strongly suggest that dust lane early - type galaxies are starburst systems formed in gas - rich mergers . </S>",
    "<S> further evidence in support of this scenario is provided by enhanced star formation and black hole accretion rates in these objects . </S>",
    "<S> dust lane early types therefore represent an evolutionary stage between starbursting and quiescent galaxies . in these objects , </S>",
    "<S> the agn has already been triggered but has not as yet completely destroyed the gas reservoir required for star formation .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : interactions </S>"
  ]
}