{
  "article_text": [
    "[ sec : intro ]    cosmological simulations of galaxy formation provide a powerful technique to calculate the non - linear evolution of structure formation . in principle",
    ", such simulations can properly model the evolution and formation of galaxies from first principles , but the enormous dynamic range and the many poorly understood aspects of the baryonic physics of star formation make this task extremely challenging . at present , the limitations imposed by the coarse numerical resolution achievable in practice and by the approximate treatment of the physics introduce significant uncertainties in simulation predictions .",
    "regardless , previous simulations have already proven instrumental for developing our current understanding of the formation and evolution of galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    when only dark matter ( dm ) is considered , the newest generation of cosmological simulation codes yields a consensus picture of important key results about the matter distribution in the universe , such as the large - scale distribution and the detailed internal properties of dark matter haloes @xcite .",
    "the computational methods employed in the codes vary between different implementations ; however , the discretization of the equations needed to follow the evolution of dm involves only gravity , and can only be done efficiently in terms of the n - body technique .",
    "hence the requirements for obtaining converged and consistent results with different simulation codes are clear ; all that is needed is an accurate gravity solver , a sufficiently large number of simulation particles and an accurate time integration scheme .    over the last decades ,",
    "a number of hydrodynamic codes have been developed and used in the field of computational cosmology ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "they all account for the baryons in the universe and try to follow their evolution self - consistently in a @xmath0cdm dominated universe by solving the equations of hydrodynamics coupled to gravity .",
    "however , the discretization schemes and numerical algorithms used for this task differ widely from code to code , and unlike in pure dm simulations , large differences in the simulation outcomes are often found .",
    "such simulations can be more directly related to observations , unlike the pure dark matter simulations .",
    "in fact , hydrodynamic simulations have already explained several features of the observed large scale distribution of baryons , such as the existence and the properties of the ly-@xmath1 forest in the spectra of distant qsos ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) . in this",
    ", low density , low temperature regime different hydrodynamic techniques show good agreement between sph and grid - based codes @xcite .",
    "numerical simulations played a crucial role in both our understanding of the properties of the absorbing gas and in the quantitative measurements of the matter distribution in the universe based on lyman-@xmath2 forest data ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unfortunately , at higher densities characteristic of galaxies and their haloes , qualitative differences exist already at the simplest modeling level where radiative gas cooling and energetic feedback processes due to star formation are ignored ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "such differences are sometimes apparent even between codes using quite similar discretization techniques @xcite .",
    "this emphasizes the need to find numerical methods that give the most accurate and reliable results .",
    "understanding the origin and size of errors in a given computational technique is clearly vital for fully exploiting the predictive power of cosmological simulations of galaxy formation .",
    "the most widely used methods to follow the evolution of baryons in cosmological simulations are lagrangian smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) and eulerian mesh - based hydrodynamics with adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) .",
    "sph has the great advantage of being naturally adaptive , making it suitable for simulations with a large dynamic range in density , such as cosmological simulations where sph automatically increases its resolution in collapsing regions .",
    "in addition , sph can be easily combined with very accurate gravity solvers , which are often based on gravitational tree algorithms ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or particle - mesh+tree ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) methods .",
    "sph has excellent conservation properties .",
    "in particular , it still manifestly conserves total energy even when coupled to self - gravity , something not available in hydrodynamical mesh codes @xcite . on the other hand , amr codes offer higher accuracy in representing shocks , large density gradients and hydrodynamic fluid instabilities ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "it has become clear over recent years that both sph and amr codes suffer from weaknesses which are likely the primary cause for the disagreements found in some cosmological results obtained with these methods ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "for example , it has been shown that sph in its standard implementation has limited ability to accurately follow fluid instabilities @xcite .",
    "furthermore , in sph , shock capturing is done through the addition of an artificial viscosity , which increases the dissipativeness of the scheme and can have unwanted consequences such as angular momentum transport in disks .",
    "also , while the introduction of an artificial viscosity results in the correct properties of post - shock flow , the width of a shock in sph can be significantly broadened ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , potentially affecting the evolution of gas in complex cosmological environments @xcite , for example causing in - shock cooling @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , eulerian amr codes are not free of unwanted numerical effects either .",
    "they may suffer from advection errors , mesh - alignment effects , and potentially over - mixing @xcite .",
    "in addition , amr codes are intrinsically not galilean - invariant , i.e.  their truncation error depends on the bulk velocity relative to the grid .",
    "this can be a significant issue when the velocities of the flow are large and the resolution is limited ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "recently , @xcite ( s10 hereafter ) proposed a new `` moving - mesh '' technique that promises accuracy advantages over both of these traditional approaches .",
    "this new method has been realized in the arepo code and can be viewed as a hybrid of lagrangian sph and eulerian amr , combining positive features of both methods while avoiding their most important weaknesses . instead of a stationary structured mesh as in amr codes , arepo uses an unstructured mesh given by the voronoi tessellation of a set of mesh - generating points distributed within the computational domain .",
    "these points are allowed to move with the fluid , causing the mesh to be moved along as well , so that a natural adaptivity is achieved , just as in sph . on the other hand",
    ", arepo employs the same concepts of spatial reconstruction and riemann - solver based flux computation as ordinary amr codes , thereby retaining their high accuracy for shocks and fluid instabilities , and their low level of numerical dissipation . in addition , because the mesh can move with the fluid , the numerical solutions of arepo are fully galilean - invariant and have lower advection errors compared to codes with a stationary mesh .",
    "the arepo code has already been successfully used in problems of first star formation @xcite , and extensions for radiative transfer @xcite and magnetohydrodynamics @xcite exist . here",
    "we apply this new method for the fist time to cosmological galaxy formation simulations in representative parts of the universe . in",
    "what follows , we are primarily interested in clarifying to which extent the new hydrodynamic solver affects the properties of galaxies when compared to the widely employed sph code gadget ( last described in * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "gadget shares an identical high - resolution tree - pm gravity solver with arepo , allowing us to study differences caused by the hydrodynamics alone , unaffected by possible systematics in the gravitational dynamics of the collisionless components , which were present in previous comparisons of mesh - based and sph techniques ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , we include an identical implementation of the basic physical processes that govern the evolution of the gaseous component in galaxy formation , such as radiative cooling and heating , star formation and feedback . finally , we let arepo carry out refinement and de - refinement operations on cells ( if needed despite the moving mesh which normally keeps the mass per cell constant to good accuracy ) in order to guarantee that the masses of cells never deviate significantly from a target given by the particle mass in the corresponding sph comparison run .",
    "this ensures that we compare runs carried out with the two codes at about the same mass resolution .    in the last few years",
    "significant strides have been made in modeling disk galaxy formation with cosmological zoom - in simulations based on the sph technique ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these simulations often contain millions of resolution elements per halo and incorporate feedback processes that prevent an excessive collapse of baryons into galactic components .",
    "however , these successes in reproducing properties of observed galaxies have been reached for individual halos over a limited mass range .",
    "it is not clear yet if the same model would be able to reproduce the observed population mix of galaxies over a wide range of properties .",
    "we stress , however , that our goal here is not to model galaxies with the highest possible resolution in a single system or to produce the most realistic looking galactic disks .",
    "our comparison strategy is designed to detect systematic differences ( that are projections of inaccuracies in used simulations techniques ) for a large population of galaxies .",
    "while strong galactic feedback is an important component in galaxy formation and can induce large variations in the results ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we here prefer an extremely simple subresolution treatment of feedback which can be implemented numerically in a well - posed and identical way , both in our moving - mesh code and in sph .",
    "our strategy attempts to ensure a clean comparison by avoiding a modeling of strong feedback processes , which would significantly complicate the interpretation of differences induced by the underlying hydrodynamic technique because parameterizing such feedback in a code agnostic fashion is quite difficult .",
    "in this paper ii of a series , we focus on an analysis of the properties of galaxies and their haloes throughout cosmic time , and discuss differences that the two simulation techniques imprint on the resulting population of galaxies . in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper i ) , we discuss global properties of baryons in different phases , the cosmic star formation history and various code characteristics , including technical details of our updated versions of the moving - mesh code arepo and our sph code gadget . finally , in a further companion paper ( * ?",
    "* hereafter paper iii ) we use idealized setups of situations relevant for galaxy formation , such as gas cooling in haloes and stripping of infalling galaxies to demonstrate where and how differences between the two codes occur , which helps us to understand and interpret the differences we find in a fully cosmological environment .",
    "we note that the conclusions reached in this paper directly apply only to standard formulations of sph ( as described , for example in * ? ? ?",
    "it is now well established that noisy and inaccurate pressure gradient estimates ( for example see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , an absence of mixing at the particle level , and comparatively large artificial viscosity lead to a number of accuracy problems in sph , in particular a limited ability to model fluid instabilities @xcite and problems in representing subsonic turbulence @xcite , which are likely the most important factors contributing to the differences we identify in this paper .",
    "we emphasise that this ` standard sph ' method or quite similar variants thereof have been used in the majority of the works on cosmological simulations of galaxy formation to date ( both using large boxes and zoom - ins ) .",
    "a number of recent efforts proposed extensions or modifications of the traditional sph formulation that aim to improve the accuracy of sph ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "our results do not necessarily apply to these new modified methods .",
    "they have yet to be tested for cosmological simulations of galaxy formation , and it remains to be seen whether they resolve the differences we find here in our comparison of standard sph as implemented in gadget3 with a more accurate hydrodynamic scheme such as the one implemented in arepo .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows . in section  [ sec :",
    "methods ] , we describe our simulation setup , the physical processes included , the initial conditions , and the most important code modifications and methods used to identify haloes and galaxies . in section  [ sec : results ] , we present properties of galaxies and haloes in our moving - mesh and sph simulations . in particular , we discuss the baryon content of haloes , galaxy mass functions , gas fraction and star formation rates of haloes , disk sizes and specific angular momenta of galactic baryons .",
    "we interpret and discuss our new results from the moving - mesh cosmological hydrodynamics in section  [ sec : discussion ] .",
    "in this paper , we describe only the essential setup information for our simulations , in the interest of brevity .",
    "we refer readers to the original code papers for a detailed discussion of gadget @xcite and arepo ( s10 ) , as well as to paper i for technical information about specific parameters adopted for the codes and about their relative cpu - time performance .",
    "we construct the initial conditions at redshift @xmath3 and evolve them to @xmath4 , adopting the following @xmath0cdm cosmology : @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "these parameters are consistent with recent wmap-7 measurements @xcite at the @xmath12 level , except for @xmath13 which is consistent at @xmath14 level .",
    "the initial power spectrum was approximated with the fit of @xcite .",
    "our simulation suite follows a periodic box of size @xmath15 at three different resolution levels : @xmath16 , @xmath17 and @xmath18 particles / cells , respectively .",
    "initially we start with an equal number of gaseous fluid elements and dm particles in both codes . while the number of dm particles stays fixed , the number of gaseous elements changes over time . in gadget",
    "this change owes to transformations of gas particles into star particles during star formation events , keeping the total number of baryonic resolution elements constant .",
    "likewise , in arepo gaseous cells turn into star particles , but occasionally can also be refined and de - refined if needed to keep the mass resolution always close to the nominal resolution present in the initial conditions .",
    "this leads to further changes in the number of cells , but overall , the total number of baryonic resolution elements stays approximately constant as well ( see paper i for more details ) .",
    "we note that we have used the same random phases and amplitudes for overlapping modes on large scales for the different resolution levels , so that our simulation set can be used for a resolution study of individual objects formed in our @xmath0cdm realization . in table",
    "[ table : simulations ] , we list the symbolic names of the simulation runs , together with their principal numerical parameters , such as the initial particle / cell masses , the number of computational elements for all of our simulations , and the gravitational softening used for collisionless particles .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]                the galaxy resides in a halo of mass @xmath19 , and its most important quantitative measurements are summarized in table  [ table : disks ] .",
    "the visual impression already indicates that the galaxy is more massive , more extended and has a much higher gas fraction in arepo , which is born out by our quantitative measurements .",
    "in fact , the star formation rate is a factor of @xmath20 higher in arepo than in gadget , illustrating the principal difference between the codes we discussed in the previous sections .",
    "in addition , the gaseous disk is clearly much more extended in arepo , as well as being thinner and more well - defined .",
    "while the difference in the half - mass radius is @xmath21 , the net specific angular momentum of the gaseous disk is almost 2 times larger in arepo than for the same galaxy in gadget .",
    "similarly , the stellar disk is somewhat more extended and thinner in arepo , as seen in figure  [ fig : gas_examplez2 ] .",
    "it also has a higher rotational support , as indicated by the net stellar specific angular momentum which is about 60% higher in arepo compared to gadget .",
    "this is consistent with the visual impression of a more disky stellar distribution in arepo .",
    "it is also evident that the stellar and gaseous disks are better aligned in arepo , as measured by the angle between the angular momenta of gas and stars in the galaxy .",
    "we note that our findings in this halo represent typical differences in the properties of massive galaxies , and are by no means restricted to a single system .",
    "figure  [ fig : gas_examplez0 ] shows another example of extended gaseous disk , this time of a central galaxy in @xmath22 halo at @xmath23 .",
    "the figure demonstrates that gaseous disks are even more extended at late times and the relative difference between arepo and gadget is now even larger .",
    "the example galaxy contains @xmath24 times more gas in its large disk , most of which is non - star forming and represents a large extended gaseous reservoir .",
    "galactic interactions between such disks can lead to strong , extended tidal features such as the ones visible in figure  [ fig : tidal ] , while compact gaseous disks of gadget galaxies are unlikely to produce them in cosmological simulations .",
    "differences in the stellar distribution are visible in the bottom panels of figure  [ fig : gas_examplez0 ] with the galaxy appearing more disky in arepo as a consequence of higher specific angular momentum of stars in our moving - mesh simulation ( see table  [ table : disks ] ) .",
    "this galaxy , however , does show a large bulge component that is similar in both simulations ( and is a fairly typical example for this halo mass ) , suggesting the need for an efficient feedback mechanism that can remove a large fraction of low - angular momentum baryons ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in order to demonstrate this point more systematically we show a measure of the extent of gaseous disks in our highest resolution simulations in figure  [ fig : galsize_rmax ] . for this purpose",
    "we project the mass of cold , dense gas onto the gaseous disk plane of a central galaxy .",
    "next , we find the azimuthally averaged surface density of the cold , dense gas in @xmath25 wide rings .",
    "we define `` disk radius '' as the radius at which the ring - averaged column density drops to a column density characteristic of damped lyman-@xmath1 absorbers , @xmath26 . from the results in figure  [ fig : galsize_rmax ]",
    "it is clear that galaxies in our high - resolution arepo simulation are much more extended than galaxies in gadget . at @xmath27 ,",
    "the difference in the average extent of gaseous disks is typically around a factor of @xmath28 while for the most compact galaxies it is closer to factor of @xmath20 . in addition , visual inspection indicates that the disks in arepo are not only more extended but are also smoother , thinner in edge - on projections and have better aligned gas at different radii ( as visible in figure  [ fig : gas_examplez2 ] ) .",
    "this makes their appearance more similar to the observed galactic disks .",
    "in contrast , gadget galaxies show a more irregular gas distribution in the disk , and numerous dense gaseous clumps in the galactic surroundings .    at @xmath4 , below a halo mass of @xmath29 ,",
    "arepo galaxies are also a factor of @xmath28 larger , but in more massive haloes the size difference is even more dramatic than at @xmath27 . for about an order of magnitude in halo mass around @xmath30 , galaxies formed in our moving - mesh simulations are systematically larger than in sph by a factor of 3 - 5 . notice that this is a mass range of great interest as it corresponds to the halo masses of massive late - type disk galaxies such as our own milky way .",
    "the measurement of gas disk sizes , as shown in figure  [ fig : galsize_rmax ] , has been specifically chosen to capture as closely as possible visual impressions from figure  [ fig : gas_examplez2 ] and [ fig : gas_examplez0 ] ( see also figures 2 and 4 in paper i ) .",
    "the trends of figure  [ fig : galsize_rmax ] are fully consistent with a more in depth analysis presented in @xcite , which is based on detailed sersic and exponential disk profile fits .",
    "we note that stellar half - mass radii are only barely resolved even in our highest resolution simulations , being of the order of @xmath31 times the gravitational softening length .",
    "we can therefore not make definitive statements about the radial extent of the stellar component , based on a rather coarse diagnostic such as half - mass radii .",
    "nonetheless , the full extent of the stellar component is well resolved in our simulations and can be used to infer at least some of the stellar disk properties , such as total angular momentum ( see below ) .    to characterize the degree of orderly rotation of stellar and gaseous components of galaxies",
    "we calculate the angular momentum of individual gas cells / particles and stellar particles with respect to the galaxy center and find the total angular momentum vectors for gas and stars in a galaxy .",
    "we normalize this by the gaseous and stellar galaxy mass , respectively , before calculating the magnitude of the net specific angular momentum .",
    "we apply the same procedure for the galaxy as a whole .",
    "the results are shown in figure  [ fig : am ] in terms of the net specific angular momenta of gas , stars and total baryons ( gas+stars ) in galaxies in our highest resolution simulations .",
    "not too surprisingly , for the cold , dense galactic gas , the structural differences we have observed earlier in the characteristic radii are also reflected in the specific angular momentum of the galactic gas , which is higher in arepo than in gadget by a factor of @xmath20 , explaining the larger sizes of galaxies forming in our moving - mesh simulations .",
    "substantial differences are also visible in the distribution of the stellar specific angular momentum shown in figure  [ fig : am ] .",
    "because galaxies in arepo are diskier , their specific angular momentum is much higher than in gadget galaxies .",
    "this statement applies to both @xmath27 and @xmath4 , with typical angular momentum differences at @xmath30 of the order of @xmath32 .    in figure",
    "[ fig : am ] , we also indicate the spread of the distribution in specific angular momentum by indicating the 25% and 75% percentiles of the distribution at a given mass .",
    "the distribution of specific angular momentum at a given mass is much narrower in arepo than in gadget . in terms of specific angular momentum of both gas and stars in the @xmath33 mass range",
    ", there is very little overlap between galaxies in arepo and gadget .",
    "for example , galaxies within the lowest 25% of the distribution in arepo often have similar specific angular momentum as the top 25% of galaxies in gadget .",
    "interestingly , the differences between the net specific angular momentum for the total baryonic content of galaxies are even larger than for the stellar content , where arepo galaxies have up to a factor of @xmath20 higher specific angular momentum than gadget galaxies .",
    "this results from a combination of higher gas content and higher net specific angular momentum in arepo , and a better alignment of the gaseous and stellar components .    in our measurements",
    ", we see a trend of an increase of the gaseous disk extent and the specific angular momentum of galaxies with halo mass and time .",
    "both effects are consistent with expectations of simple models of the formation of galactic disks @xcite .",
    "in fact , these trends are qualitatively easily understood in the inside - out model of disk formation @xcite where the galaxy sizes will approximately scale like @xmath34 , where @xmath35 is the dimensionless spin parameter @xcite and @xmath36 is the disk scale length .",
    "the specific angular momentum then approximately scales as @xmath37 . because the spin parameter is approximately independent of mass and redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the sizes and specific angular momenta of galactic gas both increase with time and mass .",
    "both @xmath38 and @xmath39 increase with mass , causing the dependence of @xmath40 on halo mass to be stronger than for the disk radius , correctly approximating the trends in our simulations . for a more detailed quantitative model ,",
    "one however has to account for the mass and redshift dependence of the halo concentration and the angular momentum distribution within haloes .",
    "also , one has to postulate conservation of angular momentum of the gas during infall , an assumption we do not have to make in our detailed hydrodynamical simulations .    owing to the increasing specific angular momentum as a function of halo and galaxy mass",
    ", one may wonder if a large part of the differences in figure  [ fig : am ] is caused by the mass difference of galaxies inhabiting halos of the same mass . as we show in section",
    "[ sec : gal_to_halo ] , in our highest resolution simulations the galaxy masses at a fixed halo mass are very similar between the two codes for @xmath41 .",
    "this means that trends with halo mass also directly reflect trends with galaxy mass .",
    "however , one needs to be more careful at higher masses where there is a systematic offset in galaxy masses between arepo and gadget at a given halo mass . in figure",
    "[ fig : am_gal ] , we show the specific angular momentum for galactic baryons as a function of galaxy mass .",
    "in addition , we show a matched sample of galaxies in the mass range @xmath42 , connected with dashed lines to indicate corresponding differences in specific angular momentum for galaxies in the same collapsed structures . it is clear that the specific angular momentum of arepo galaxies is systematically larger than for gadget at a given galaxy mass .",
    "this trend is even clearer for our matched sample : for the large majority of galaxies , arepo galaxies have much higher specific angular momentum than galaxies of the same mass in gadget . in other words , the baryons that make galaxies in our moving mesh simulations either retain more angular momentum or are forming from baryons with systematically higher angular momentum .",
    "finally , we note that by looking at measurements of disk sizes as a function or resolution , we find that there appears to be a qualitative difference between our simulation techniques with respect to the sensitivity of predicted disk sizes on numerical resolution . in both codes",
    ", the sizes of the galactic gas distributions spuriously increase with poorer resolution , but this effect is somewhat stronger in arepo .",
    "this basic trend is to be expected as poor spatial resolution will tend to lower the central densities in galaxies and make them puffy . in sph ,",
    "part of this trend is likely offset by the angular momentum transport caused by the artificial viscosity in sph , which will tend to makes galaxies more compact , as we discussed in section  [ sec : gas_fractions ] .",
    "to summarize , gaseous disks of arepo galaxies are systematically larger than their counterparts in gadget .",
    "arepo galaxies show a higher degree of rotational support as measured by their specific angular momentum , indicating that they are more disky and less dispersion - dominated .",
    "these differences are particularly prominent for the range of halo masses in which large disk galaxies are expected to form in the real universe .",
    "we note that previous attempts to model disk galaxy formation in cosmological simulations with sph often led to a too low specific angular momentum of simulated galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "higher resolution simulations of individual galaxies with sph hinted that the problem might be less severe when the resolution is better ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , this has not been demonstrated yet for a large population of galaxies .",
    "furthermore , we show that our moving - mesh simulations provide a dramatic improvement over corresponding sph results and have much higher specific angular momentum at a given galaxy mass , facilitating formation of late - type galaxies .",
    "in this study , we have systematically compared results obtained for cosmological simulations of galaxy formation with the sph code gadget against the new moving - mesh code arepo .",
    "the simulations started from identical initial conditions , employed the same high - resolution gravity solver , and used a completely equivalent modeling of the physics of radiative cooling , star formation and associated feedback processes , the latter being incorporated into a subresolution model for the multi - phase structure of the ism .",
    "hence the outcome of our simulations yields a direct test of the impact of hydrodynamical solvers on the predictions of cosmological galaxy formation simulations .    in paper i of this series",
    ", we have focused on a comparison of the global baryonic properties predicted by the two simulation techniques , while here we consider properties of individual galaxies .",
    "reassuringly , we find that many of their properties are in fact in broad agreement , for example the galaxy mass functions are quite similar at low masses .",
    "however , when scrutinized in detail , and especially towards later times and in high mass systems , we find rather significant systematic differences in the predicted galaxy properties .",
    "specifically , massive haloes in arepo host galaxies that are larger , diskier , more massive , and have a higher star formation rate than their gadget counterparts . in the extreme end of the galaxy mass function",
    ", arepo can accumulate up to a factor of @xmath20 more mass in central galaxies than gadget .",
    "the moving - mesh galaxies also have a higher specific angular momentum , and the morphology of the gas surrounding the galaxies is clearly different , being much less clumpy than in the sph code .",
    "these clumpy condensations of gas are largely absent in arepo ; instead , comparatively smooth gas disks are formed which tend to align better with the stellar disks .",
    "there appears to be primarily a single driver for the higher star formation rates , lower central entropies and higher gas fractions in massive galaxies in arepo .",
    "multiple lines of evidence show ( see also paper  i ) that the hot gaseous haloes formed in arepo cool out gas more efficiently than their counterparts in gadget , causing in turn much higher star formation rates in the central galaxies of these haloes .",
    "we find that these different effective cooling rates occur despite the fact that the two codes create rather similar gas profiles in large haloes at low redshift , which do not suggest an a priori cause for a substantially different total cooling emission .",
    "in fact , we find that the culprit does not lie in a different cooling per se .",
    "it lies in a different _ heating_. as we have shown in paper  i , the local dissipation rates in haloes simulated with sph and the moving - mesh code are quite different . whereas more entropy ( and hence dissipative heating ) is produced in the infall regions of haloes in arepo compared with gadget , the opposite is true for most of the halo volume inside the virial region , and in particular in the outer parts of haloes where the cooling radius for many of these haloes lies .",
    "this dissipative heating offsets part of the cooling losses in sph , reducing the strength of the cooling flows .",
    "there are good reasons to believe that this heating effect in sph is in fact spurious .",
    "first of all , as we demonstrate explicitly in paper iii , the standard formulation of sph that we use here tends to suppress gas stripping out of infalling satellites , as well as any entropy mixing with background material . as a result ,",
    "dense gaseous clumps penetrate further into haloes in gadget upon infall , heating them through ram - pressure interactions at smaller radii than corresponding arepo simulations , where material is stripped and mixed already at much larger radii .",
    "the stripping processes themselves , as well as the curved accretion shocks around haloes , inject subsonic and mildly transonic turbulence into the outer parts of haloes . however , as @xcite show , subsonic turbulent cascades are not represented in a physical way in sph at the achievable resolution ( unlike in the moving - mesh code ) .",
    "instead , the turbulence is damped efficiently close to the injection scale .",
    "in addition , there is significant viscous damping of small - scale subsonic noise in sph . the latter is ultimately sourced by errors in sph s gradient estimate @xcite , which trigger jittering motions of the gas particles on the scale of the sph kernel @xcite .",
    "if the artificial viscosity is increased , the amplitude of this sonic noise can be lowered , but the total dissipation through this effect stays nearly invariant @xcite . the dynamic environment around forming haloes can efficiently regenerate the sph noise , such that its constant damping by the artificial viscosity constitutes a spurious heating source . especially in the slow cooling regime encountered for large haloes at low redshift , this can then affect the cooling flows in haloes .",
    "we note that this problem is neither easily cured by higher resolution , lower artificial viscosity , nor a larger number of sph neighbors . what might help is a formulation of sph that features a more accurate gradient estimate , which seems a prerequisite to eliminate the sub - sonic velocity noise .",
    "the differences in cooling induce substantial differences in the sfrs of galaxies , which are largest for halo masses around @xmath43 at @xmath4 , i.e.  approximately at the mass scale of our own milky way galaxy . at this mass scale , we also find substantial differences of the predicted angular momentum content of both gas and stars , which is reflected in more extended disks galaxies forming in our moving - mesh simulations when compared to sph .",
    "the differences in the gaseous disk sizes are apparent at all halo masses , but around @xmath30 they are particularly large and reach a factor of @xmath44 . because the angular momentum content of halo gas increases with time ( see section [ sec : gal_radii ] ) , a more efficient gas supply at late times will lead to a relative increase of the specific angular momenta and sizes of galaxies .",
    "this suggests that the efficient late time cooling is not only increasing galaxy masses but is also a significant contributor to the differences in galaxy sizes , especially at mass ranges where the cooling differences are large .",
    "however , our results in figure  [ fig : am_gal ] show that this is not the only cause .    also , we note that even low - mass galaxies have more extended gas distributions and higher gas content in the moving - mesh simulations when compared to sph",
    ". these properties together with more efficient ram pressure stripping in moving - mesh runs ( as we show in paper iii ) , will lead to a much larger mass loss from low - mass galaxies as they infall into more massive halos .",
    "this means that the fraction of the infalling material that will loose angular momentum via dynamical friction to dark matter halo will be much smaller in arepo leading to a relative increase of specific angular momentum of galactic baryons with respect to gadget .",
    "the results we have presented in this paper hence clearly show that it does matter for simulations of galaxy formation which hydrodynamical solver is used .",
    "we find significant systematic offsets in the predicted properties of galaxies formed in gadget and arepo at all mass scales , but the most striking differences occur in haloes around @xmath45 . here",
    "the more accurate hydrodynamics provided by arepo leads to late - type galaxies that are large , disky , gas - rich , and have high star formation rates .",
    "such galaxies , especially at late times , simply appear not to form in cosmological sph simulations when the same physics is included .",
    "our findings also suggest that arepo is able to significantly alleviate the low angular momentum problem of galaxies formed in cosmological hydrodynamic simulations , which has been a long - standing issue in galaxy formation for the past two decades ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "strong feedback mechanisms , however , appear to be needed to both regulate galaxy masses ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and remove the low angular momentum baryons that form excessive bulges ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "given the extended gaseous disks of galaxies in arepo and diskier stellar morphology when compared to sph results , it is likely that the strength and type of the required feedback discussed in previous sph work needs to be revisited .",
    "this emphasizes that an accurate numerical treatment of hydrodynamics is a key factor for successful cosmological simulations that aim to form realistic galaxies in a complex environment .",
    "we would like to thank the referee , fabio governato , for constructive comments .",
    "the simulations in this paper were run on the odyssey cluster supported by the fas science division research computing group at harvard university .",
    "dk acknowledges support from nasa through hubble fellowship grant hsthf-51276.01-a and nasa atp nnx11ai97 g .",
    "ds acknowledges nasa hubble fellowship through grant hst - hf-51282.01-a .",
    "r.  a. , theuns t. , dalla vecchia c. , eke v.  r. , frenk c.  s. , jenkins a. , kay s.  t. , peacock j.  a. , pearce f.  r. , schaye j. , springel v. , thomas p.  a. , white s.  d.  m. , wiersma r.  p.  c. , 2009 , , 399 , 1773                                                        k. , luki z. , fasel p. , habib s. , warren m.  s. , white m. , ahrens j. , ankeny l. , armstrong r. , oshea b. , ricker p.  m. , springel v. , stadel j. , trac h. , 2008 , computational science and discovery , 1 , 015003                                                                                                            r.  s. , barden m. , rix h .- w . , bell e.  f. , beckwith s.  v.  w. , borch a. , caldwell j.  a.  r. , huler b. , heymans c. , jahnke k. , jogee s. , mcintosh d.  h. , meisenheimer k. , peng c.  y. , snchez s.  f. , wisotzki l. , wolf c. , 2008 , , 672 , 776                  v. , white s.  d.  m. , jenkins a. , frenk c.  s. , yoshida n. , gao l. , navarro j. , thacker r. , croton d. , helly j. , peacock j.  a. , cole s. , thomas p. , couchman h. , evrard a. , colberg j. , pearce f. , 2005 , , 435 , 629"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss cosmological hydrodynamic simulations of galaxy formation performed with the new moving - mesh code arepo , which promises higher accuracy compared with the traditional sph technique that has been widely employed for this problem . in this exploratory study , </S>",
    "<S> we deliberately limit the complexity of the physical processes followed by the code for ease of comparison with previous calculations , and include only cooling of gas with a primordial composition , heating by a spatially uniform uv background , and a simple sub - resolution model for regulating star formation in the dense interstellar medium . </S>",
    "<S> we use an identical set of physics in corresponding simulations carried out with the well - tested sph code gadget , adopting also the same high - resolution gravity solver . </S>",
    "<S> we are thus able to compare both simulation sets on an object - by - object basis , allowing us to cleanly isolate the impact of different hydrodynamical methods on galaxy and halo properties . in accompanying papers , we focus on an analysis of the global baryonic statistics predicted by the simulation codes @xcite , and complementary idealized simulations that highlight the differences between the hydrodynamical schemes @xcite . here </S>",
    "<S> we investigate their influence on the baryonic properties of simulated galaxies and their surrounding haloes . </S>",
    "<S> we find that arepo leads to significantly higher star formation rates for galaxies in massive haloes and to more extended gaseous disks in galaxies , which also feature a thinner and smoother morphology than their gadget counterparts . </S>",
    "<S> consequently , galaxies formed in arepo have larger sizes and higher specific angular momentum than their sph correspondents . </S>",
    "<S> interestingly , the more efficient cooling flows in arepo yield higher densities and lower entropies in halo centers compared to gadget , whereas the opposite trend is found in halo outskirts . </S>",
    "<S> the cooling differences leading to higher star formation rates of massive galaxies in arepo also slightly increase the baryon content within the virial radius of massive haloes . </S>",
    "<S> we show that these differences persist as a function of numerical resolution . while both codes agree to acceptable accuracy on a number of baryonic properties of cosmic structures , our results </S>",
    "<S> thus clearly demonstrate that galaxy formation simulations greatly benefit from the use of more accurate hydrodynamical techniques such as arepo and call into question the reliability of galaxy formation studies in a cosmological context using traditional standard formulations of sph , such as the one implemented in gadget . </S>",
    "<S> our new moving - mesh simulations demonstrate that a population of extended gaseous disks of galaxies in large volume cosmological simulations can be formed even without energetic feedback in the form of galactic winds , although such outflows appear required to obtain realistic stellar masses .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology : dark matter  methods : numerical  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : formation  galaxies : haloes </S>"
  ]
}