{
  "article_text": [
    "the densities in the interstellar space ( consisting of 99% gas and 1% dust ) , even in the densest interstellar clouds , are so low that they are beyond the capabilities of the best vacuum systems on earth .",
    "even then , a large number of infrared absorption features are observed toward low and high mass protostars . some of these features are attributed to the solid state interstellar molecules @xcite .",
    "discovery of these interstellar molecules in condensed phase demands a proper explanation for the interstellar chemical composition budget . increasing observational and experimental evidences in the gas phase points to the inadequacy of the gas phase chemistry and",
    "suggests the need to incorporate the grain surface processes .",
    "interstellar dust grains are thought to be consisting of an amorphous silicate or carbonaceous core surrounded by a molecular ice layer @xcite .",
    "presently , very little is known about the morphology or chemistry on these grain surfaces , or the porosity of the grains themselves .",
    "similarly , the chemical and physical processes on the grain surfaces till date are also very poorly known .",
    "a number of theoretical attempts have been carried out to verify the observed abundances of the gas phase and the condensed phase species @xcite .",
    "both the deterministic and stochastic approaches are tested by these studies .",
    "observational and experimental evidences suggest that almost 90% of the grain mantle is covered with h@xmath1o , ch@xmath0oh and co@xmath1 . in our earlier paper @xcite , ( hereafter dac10 ) , we mentioned that it is very difficult to theoretically match the exact observed abundances of all the three molecules simultaneously .",
    "results of the numerical simulations show that only in a narrow region of parameter space all these three molecules are produced within the observed limit .",
    "it is well known that the ism chemistry is highly influenced by the interstellar uv radiations which mainly come from the nearby young stars .",
    "uv radiation affects the chemistry of the ism through photo - dissociation and photo - ionization of the molecules and atoms .",
    "several works are carried out to study the photo - chemistry in the ice containing simple as well as complex molecules .",
    "most of the studies @xcite are concentrated following the irradiation of ice mixtures to reflect the chemical composition of the star forming regions .",
    "these types of studies give us an insight about the photo effects on the interstellar ice mantles .",
    "structure of the interstellar ices under various physical circumstances are yet to fully understood .",
    "water ice is less abundant along some lines of sight . in the present paper ,",
    "we carry out a coupled gas - grain study to fully understand the structure of the interstellar grain mantle around various lines of sight .",
    "gas - grain interactions are considered via accretion from gas phase and evaporation from grain surface .",
    "important surface reactions , which are feasible under the interstellar conditions are considered in our surface chemistry network to have clear insight of the interstellar ice feature . moreover , to mimic the realistic situation , the formation of several mono - layers are considered . as we are interested only around the dense region of the molecular cloud , we assume that the major portion of the gas phase carbon atoms are already converted into carbon monoxide and as in the other models @xcite , we also consider the accretion of h , o and co from the gas phase to follow the time evolution of several chemical species .",
    "recent experimental findings of several new reaction pathways and several interaction energies involved during these process , motivate us to update our earlier dac10 model . our main aim in the present context is to study the formation of ice mantle under the influence of photo - processing and to make a comparative study among different routes to the water formation .",
    "this has been suggested recently by some experiments @xcite .",
    "we also compare our simulation results with other observational , experimental and theoretical results carried out till date . in section 2 , we discuss the physical processes and the method used for the modeling .",
    "extensive discussions along with the results are presented in section 3 . in section 4 , a comparison between the theoretical and observational results are presented .",
    "finally , in section 5 we have summarized our work .",
    "in general , the rate equation method @xcite is widely used to follow the surface process occurring under the interstellar condition .",
    "main advantage of this method is that the computation is very fast .",
    "this method assumes the average concentration of species to follow the chemical evolution .",
    "main drawback with this method is that it does not consider the statistical fluctuations and discrete nature of the species . as a result",
    ", this method is very much dependent on the physical conditions of the interstellar cloud . in the lower accretion rate regime ,",
    "where surface population is comparatively lower , this method tends to overestimate the result @xcite .",
    "moreover as this method deals with the average concentration , it is not able to follow the internal structure of the grain mantle .",
    "however , as the time passes by , grains are expected to grow in size with several surface species . as the rate equation is unable to trace any particular species",
    ", it is not possible for this method to mimic the actual situation in ism .",
    "this is the reason , we use the descrete - time random walk monte carlo method to have more accurate results . in our approach ,",
    "fluctuations in the surface abundance due to the statistical nature of the grain is preserved and as a result this method is much more realistic to study the interstellar surface chemistry . with this method , we can follow movements of each species and evaluate the results at every instant .",
    "details of the processes we follow are already discussed in @xcite . for the sake of completeness ,",
    "we discuss them again briefly .",
    "we assume that the grains are square shaped and similar to an atom on an fcc[100 ] plane , each grain site has four nearest neighbors .",
    "we assume the periodic boundary conditions and also allow the possibility to form multiple layers on a grain surface .",
    "for modeling purposes , we consider classical dust grains , characterized by 1000a@xmath2 and 10@xmath3 surface sites .",
    "following @xcite , we consider the surface density of available sites to be 1.5 @xmath4 @xmath5 .",
    "number density of the grains are taken to be 1.33@xmath6 ( @xmath7 is the concentration of h nuclei in all forms ) and gas to dust ratio is taken to be @xmath8 by mass@xcite .",
    "monte carlo method is computationally much slower than the rate equation method and it is quite difficult to simulate for a grain having @xmath9 sites . to save computational time",
    ", we consider the grain having @xmath10 sites and the final results are extrapolated for the grain having @xmath9 sites .",
    "reason behind choosing the grain having @xmath11 sites is that it is above the limit of the statistical fluctuating size and according to @xcite , above this size , results are scalable and do not differ significantly .",
    "location of the accreting species is dictated by generating a pair of random numbers .",
    "langmuir hinshelwood ( reactions between the surface species via hopping ) and eley rideal ( reaction between the incoming species with the surface species ) , both types of reactions are considered . after landing on a grain , its direction towards any one of the four nearest neighbors",
    "is dictated by generating random numbers .",
    "two possibilities may occur : if the site is occupied then either it will react when the reaction is permitted or it will wait until its next hopping time . if the neighboring site is vacant and it does not have any species just beneath that site then it can roll down on that grid until it touch some existing species in a layer or just the bare grain surface . if the reaction between the species touching the existing species is permitted , a new species is formed and if not , then it can sit on the top of that . for the reactions having barriers",
    ", we are generating random numbers upon each encounter and checking for the possibility of the reaction .",
    "following @xcite probability ( p ) for the reaction to happen upon an encounter is calculated and if the generated random number is less than p then the reaction is allowed and if the generated number is greater than p then reaction is discarded at that instant .",
    "every species has its own hopping time scale . in our simulation",
    ", we consider the hopping time scale of h atom to be the minimum .",
    "after each interval of h hopping time , we are checking for the evaporation ( via thermal or other process ) and photo - dissociation by generating random numbers .",
    "for example , let us consider h@xmath1o .",
    "its evaporation rate is r@xmath12 sec@xmath13 .",
    "that means , one h@xmath1o can evaporate after each @xmath14 seconds of its formation on the grain . since the smallest time scale is the hopping time scale @xmath15 of an h atom , after every @xmath15 , we generate a random number to find out whether the species will evaporate or stick to the grain .",
    "if the generated number is smaller than @xmath16 , then the species can evaporate .",
    "photo - dissociations are also treated similarly , i.e. , if the generated random number is under the probability of photo - dissociation of any species , that species can photo - dissociate .",
    "gas phase compositions are adjusted at every @xmath15 after taking care of the accretion onto and the evaporation from the grains .",
    "a major difference between our previous study and the present study is that we have updated our reaction network by considering several new reactions and have considered the effects of the cosmic rays as well .",
    "cosmic rays have the direct / induced effect on the interstellar grain mantle . in our model , we consider the photo - dissociation and photo evaporation to incorporate the effects of the cosmic rays .",
    "formation of the most abundant molecules such as , h@xmath1o , ch@xmath0oh and co@xmath1 are considered as before . keeping in mind the recent experimental results @xcite , we have also included the formation of h@xmath1o via o@xmath0 and h@xmath1o@xmath1 routes .",
    "all the reactions considered in our present model are given in table 1 .",
    "activation barrier energy used in our previous paper @xcite , and in some other papers @xcite are noted in tab.1 .",
    "we gave some comments on the most recent experimental / theoretical findings in the last column .",
    "for the reaction numbers 4 and 6 , we normally use @xmath17k as the activation barrier energy @xcite .",
    "the most recent findings by @xcite , suggest that the energy barrier could be much lower ( @xmath18k for reaction number 4 and @xmath19k for the reaction number 6 at @xmath20k ) . in our model calculation",
    ", we assume that at @xmath21k , the energy barrier is @xmath22k for the reaction number 4 , and @xmath23k for the reaction number 6 .",
    "so far , barrier energy @xmath24k was used as mentioned in @xcite .",
    "recent experimental findings by @xcite suggest that the reaction number 12 is barrier less .",
    "recent surface chemical modelling by @xcite assumed that the reaction number 14 is also barrier less though it is not experimentally verified . in our model , we assume reaction number 12 is barrier less and reaction number 14 with barrier 1400k @xcite . reaction number 16 is considered to have the activation energy @xmath25k @xcite .",
    "binding energies of the species are the keys for the chemical enrichment of the interstellar grain mantles .",
    "grain surface provides the space for the interstellar gas phase species to land on and to react with the other surface species .",
    "if allowed , chemical species can return back to the gas phase after chemical reactions or in the original accreted form .",
    "reactions between the surface species is highly dependent on the mobility of the surface species , which in turn , depends on the thermal hopping time scale or on the tunneling time scale .",
    "for the lighter species , tunneling time scale is much shorter than the hopping time scale .",
    "so for the lighter species , surface migration by tunneling method might be effective .",
    "when two surface species meet , they can react .",
    "if some activation energy involved for that reaction to happen , they can react with a quantum mechanical tunneling probability ( p ) .",
    "@xcite studied the tunnelling reaction between o and co with direct dynamics employing density functional theory and they obtained the activation energy 2500k for the reaction between o and co. we use only thermal hopping of o atom for its mobility on the grain surface and use the same activation barrier energy , 2500k following @xcite for the reaction number 9 of tab .",
    "1 . in @xcite , a comparative study between tunneling and hopping for the mobility of h atom on the grain surface was carried out and it was noticed that results did not show drastic variation within the accretion regime considered here ( number density 10@xmath26 - 10@xmath3 ) . we expect that as long as the accretion rate is within the limit , this does not significantly affect the final results .",
    "there are two types of binding energies associated with the physical processes at low temperature , namely , physisorption and chemisorption . among them , physisorption energies are more probable in low temperature ( @xmath27k ) condition , i.e. , frigid ( low temperature , @xmath28 10k ) condition .",
    "therefore , in our model calculations , we considered the physisorption energies .",
    "we defined the whole system with a lot of interaction energies .",
    "most of the energies considered here are discussed in detail in @xcite and references therein .",
    "the rest of the species which are updated in our present model are given in table 2 .",
    "it is very difficult to find the exact binding energies for every specific surface . in @xcite ,",
    "olivine surface was considered for the modeling purpose .",
    "presently , we also considered olivine surface as a model substrate . among the updated chemical species , binding energies of ho@xmath1 , o@xmath0 and h@xmath1o@xmath1 are taken from @xcite .",
    "they used the physisorbed energies of these molecules for the carbonaceous grain and here we have included their values as if those are the interaction energies with the bare olivin surfaces . for c atom",
    ", we used the same binding energy as in co. for ch@xmath0 and ch@xmath1oh , we used the same binding energies as in ch@xmath0oh and h@xmath1co respectively .",
    "since the binding energies of these species are very high , we can be sure that our assumptions would not alter the final results significantly .",
    "due to the lack of knowledge of the appropriate interaction energies between various species , we assumed that the binding energies of these species with other surface species are the same as with olivine surfaces .",
    ".surface reactions considered in our network [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      + @xmath29 @xcite +",
    "in this paper , we carried out a monte carlo simulation to study the formation and structural information of the interstellar grain mantle .",
    "the main results of our study are as follows :    @xmath30 the effects of interstellar radiations are included to extract the information about the structure of the interstellar grain mantle .",
    "the effects of photo - dissociation are studied as a function of the extinction parameter . for lower values of the extinction parameter ,",
    "the photo - dissociation effects dominate . a comparison between the rate equation method and the monte carlo method has been made and difference in results between the two approaches is presented in fig.1 .",
    "we notice that in comparison with the monte carlo method , the rate equation method always overestimates the abundances of species .",
    "stable species like h@xmath1o , ch@xmath0oh and co@xmath1 are photo - dissociating more strongly in the rate equation method as compared to the monte carlo method .",
    "@xmath30 recent chemical models assumed that the interstellar photons can have effects on the first few mono - layers only .",
    "but as the column density of the grain mantle itself is very low , we assume that the effect may be significant also deep inside the mantle .",
    "we notice that the choices of number of exposed layers can affect the chemical composition of the interstellar grain mantle significantly .",
    "@xmath30 column densities are calculated along different lines of sight and it is noticed that deep inside the cloud , the probability of finding different grain surface species are very high .",
    "effects of interstellar photons are extensively studied and it is noticed that beyond @xmath31=10 , its contribution toward the chemical evolution is negligible .",
    "@xmath30 column densities of various grain surface species are studied for static as well as time dependent models .",
    "a static model is considered which is more realistic than the dac10 model , where the number density of the cloud is varied according to the extinction parameter of the cloud . as the initial conditions are completely different from those of the dac10 model , our results are also significantly different .",
    "in the time dependent model , variation of the number density and extinction parameter with time is considered to follow the chemical evolution during the collapsing phase of a proto - star .",
    "it is noticed that since initially the density was low , formation of several species was seriously hindered by the effects of the interstellar photon . as the time passes by , the density and a@xmath32 increases , which in turn enhance the production of several grain surface species .",
    "@xmath30 water is the most abundant species on the grain .",
    "there are several routes by which water can be formed on the interstellar grain .",
    "major parts of h@xmath1o are formed via traditional route(h + oh ) .",
    "but there are also other pathways responsible for the h@xmath1o production on the grain . from our simulation , we find that the formation of h@xmath1o via o@xmath0 and h@xmath1o@xmath1 routes are also have significant contributions , especially in high density regions .",
    "@xmath30 a comparison between the results of our approaches and observational data has been made along different lines of sight .",
    "the initial gas phase composition was chosen from the dac10 model ( dac10a and dac10b ) as well as the modified dac10 model ( i.e. , by considering the variations of density with the extinction parameter , dac10a(m ) and dac10b(m ) ) .",
    "some of our results are found to be in good agreement with different observational results obtained so far .",
    "this work was partly supported by a dst project ( grant no . sr / s2/hep-40/2008 ) .",
    "allamandola , l. j. , sandford s. a. & tielens a.g.g.m .",
    "1992 . , apj , 399 , 134 allen , m. , robinson , g. w. , 1975 . , apj , 195 , 81 allamandola , l. j. , sandford , s. a. , valero , g. j. 1988 , icarus , 76 , 225 andersson , s. , al - halabi , a. , kroes , g. , van dishoeck , e. f. , 2006 , jcp , 124 , 064715 boogert , a.c.a & ehrenfreund , p. , 2004 , aspc 309 , 547 cazaux , s.,cobut , v. , marseille , m. , , spaans , m. , caselli , p. , 2010 ,",
    "a&a , 522 , a74 chang , q. , cuppen , h. , m. , herbst , e. , 2005 , a&a , 434 , 599 charnley , s.b . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 562l , 99 chakrabarti , s.k . ,",
    "das , a. , acharyya , k. , chakrabarti , s. , 2006 , a&a , 457 , 167 chakrabarti , s.k . , das , a. , acharyya , k. , chakrabarti , s. , 2006 , basi , 34 , 299 cuppen , h. m. , herbst , e. , 2007 , apj , 668 , 294 cuppen , h. m. , van dishoeck e. , f. , herbst , e. , tielens , a. g. g. m. , 2009 , a&a , 508 , 275 dartois , e. , schutte , w. , geballe , t. r. , demyk , k. , ehrenfreund , p. , dhendecourt , l. 1999 a&a , 342l , 32 das , a. , acharyya , k. , chakrabarti , s. , chakrabarti , s. k. , 2008 , a & a , 486 , 209 das , a. , acharyya , k. , chakrabarti , s. k. , 2010 , mnras 409 , 789 das , a. , acharyya , k. , chakrabarti , s. , chakrabarti , s. k. , 2008 , new astronomy , 13 , 457 dhendecourt , l. , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a , 315 , l365 dhendecourt , l. b. , allamandola , l. j. , baas , f. , greenberg , j. m. 1982 , a&a , 109 , l12 draine , b. t. , 2003 , apj 598 , 1017 .",
    "fuchs , g. w. , cuppen , h. m. , ioppolo , s. , romanzin , c. , bisschop , s. e. , andersson , s. , van dishoeck , e. f. , linnartz , h. , 2009 , a&a , 505 , 629 goumans , t. , p. , m. , andersson , s. , 2010 , mnras , 406 , 2213 .",
    "gibb , e. l. , whittet , d. c. b. , boogert , a. c. a. , tielens , a. g. g. m. , 2004 , apjs 151 , 35 hagen , w. , allamandola , l. j. , greenberg , j. m. 1979 , ap&ss , 65 , 215 hollenbach , d. , salpeter , e. e. , 1970 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 53 , 79 hasegawa , t. , herbst , e. , leung , c.m . , 1992 , apj , 82 , 167 ioppolo , s. , cuppen , h. m. , romanzin , c. , van dishoeck , e. f. , linnartz , h. , 2008 , apj , 686 , 1474 jiang , b. w. , szczerba , r. , & deguchi , s. , 2000 , a&a , 362 , 273 keane , j. v. , boogert , a. c. a. , tielens , a. g. g. m. , ehrenfreund , p. , schutte , w. a. , 2001 , a&a , 375l , 43 _ klemm , r. b. , payne , w. a. , stief , l. j. 1975 , in chemical kinetic data for the upper and lower atmosphere , ed . s. w. benson ( new york : wiley),61 _ lee , h. , h. , herbst , e. , pineau des forets , g. , roueff , e. , le bourlot , j. , 1996 , a&a , 311 , 690 leger , a. , jura , m. , omont , a. , 1985 , a&a , 144 , 147 leith - devlin , m. , a. , williams , d. , a. , 213 , 295 , mnras , 1985 melius , c. f. , & blint , r. j. 1979 , chem .",
    "64 , 183 murakawa , k. , tamura , m. , nagata , t. , 2000 , apjss , 128 , 603 nguyen , t. k. , ruffle , d. p. , herbst , e. , williams , d. a. 2002 , mnras , 329,301 onishi , t. , mizuno , a. , kawamura , a. , ogawa , h. , & fukui , y. 1996 , apj , 465 , 815 roberts , h. , & herbst , e. , 2002 , a&a , 395 , 233 schiff , h. , i. , 1973 , in physics and chemistry of upper atmospheres , ed . b. m. mccormac ( dordrecht : reidel ) , 85 shalabiea , o. m. , greenberg , j. m. , 1994 , a&a , 290 , 266 stantcheva , t. , shematovich , v. i. , herbst , e. , 2002 , a&a , 391 , 1069 talbi , d. , chandler , g. s. , rohl , a. l. , 2006 , chem .",
    ", 320 , 214 tielens , a. g. g. m. , hagen , w. , 1982 , a&a , 114 , 245 vandenbussche , b. , ehrenfreund , p. , boogert , a. , c. , a. , van dishoeck , e. , f. , schutte , w. , a. , gerakines , p , a. , chiar , j. , tielens , a. , g. , g. , m. , keane , j. , whittet , d. , c. , b. , and 2 coauthors , 1999 , a&a , 346l , 57 westley , m. s. , baragiola , r. a. , johnston , r. e. , baratta , g. , a. , 1995 , nat , 373 , 405 watson , w. d. , salpeter , e. e. , 1972 , apj , 174 , 321 whittet , d. c. b. , et al . , 1996 , a&a , 315 , l357 woodall , j.,agundez , m. , markwick kemper , a. j. , millar , t. j. , 2007 , a&a , 466 , 1197"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the chemical evolution of interstellar grain mantle by varying the physical parameters of the interstellar medium ( ism ) . to mimic the exact interstellar condition , gas grain interactions via accretion from the gas phase and desorption ( thermal evaporation and photo - evaporation ) from the grain surface </S>",
    "<S> are considered . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the chemical composition of the interstellar grain mantle is highly dependent on the physical parameters associated with a molecular cloud . </S>",
    "<S> interstellar photons are seen to play an important role towards the growth and the structure of the interstellar grain mantle . </S>",
    "<S> we consider the effects of interstellar photons ( photo - dissociation and photo - evaporation ) in our simulation under various interstellar conditions . </S>",
    "<S> we notice that the effects of interstellar photons dominate around the region of lower visual extinction . </S>",
    "<S> these photons contribute significantly in the formation of the grain mantle . </S>",
    "<S> energy of the incoming photon is attenuated by the absorption and scattering by the interstellar dust . </S>",
    "<S> top most layers are mainly assumed to be affected by the incoming radiation . </S>",
    "<S> we have studied the effects of photo - dissociation by varying the number of layers which could be affected by it . </S>",
    "<S> model calculations are carried out for the static ( extinction parameter is changing with the density of the cloud ) as well as the time dependent case ( i.e. , extinction parameter and number density of the cloud both are changing with time ) and the results are discussed in details . </S>",
    "<S> different routes to the formation of water molecules are studied and it is noticed that around the dense region , production of water molecules via o@xmath0 and h@xmath1o@xmath1 contributes significantly . at the end , various observational evidences for the condensed phase species are summarized with their physical conditions and are compared with our simulation results .    </S>",
    "<S> astrochemistry , ism : abundances , molecules , evolution , stars : formation , methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}