{
  "article_text": [
    "it has been long known that galaxies have evolved over the history of the universe , and a major branch of recent astronomy has been to quantify how the galaxies we see in the present day came to be as they are now .",
    "it is impossible to observe how a given galaxy evolves over cosmologically - significant time scales , but its evolution can be inferred either on a galaxy by galaxy basis from the present state of individual galaxies  for example the star formation history ( e.g. maraston et al .",
    "2006 ; noeske et al .",
    "2007b ) , or the merger history ( e.g. conselice 2003 ; conselice et al . 2009 ) ; or from the changes to the properties of a population of galaxies at different times .",
    "massive galaxies are a major component of a number of branches of astronomy , being a pivotal test for , amongst others , dark matter theories and galaxy formation models .",
    "multiple constraints have now been put on when the most massive ( m@xmath10 ) galaxies formed ( e.g. , fontana et al .",
    "2004 ; glazebrook et al . 2004",
    "; bundy et al .",
    "2006 ; conselice et al .",
    "2007 , 2011 ) and it is seen that @xmath11 is an era of transition when massive galaxies shut off their star formation ; their mass for the most part , already in place ( glazebrook et al .",
    "2004 ; bundy et al . 2006 ; conselice et al . 2007 ;",
    "prez - gonzlez et al .",
    "2008a ; ilbert et al .",
    "the star formation in these most massive galaxies was significantly higher before this epoch , and there appears to be evidence of star formation rates well in excess of those found in today s universe ( e.g. hopkins 2004 ; prez - gonzlez et al .",
    "2008b ) .    within this transition epoch , there is increasing evidence that the shut off in star formation is not triggered simultaneously across the universe , but is highly dependent on the masses of the galaxies . in a process that has been named ` downsizing '",
    ", it has been suggested that the most massive galaxies finish their star formation earlier than less massive systems , a progression observed in broad - band colours ( e.g. bundy et al .",
    "2006 ) , radio observations ( hopkins 2004 ) , infrared observations ( e.g. papovich et al . 2006 ; bell et al . 2007 ) and emission line surveys ( e.g. heavens et al . 2004 ; panter et al .",
    "2007 ) .",
    "measurements of high - redshift star formation rates ( hereafter sfrs ) have until recently , been dogged by many problems .",
    "the more favoured emission line diagnostic , the h@xmath1 line is only available via optical spectroscopy at @xmath12 0.4 and so the more troublesome [ oii ] line has been regularly used at higher redshifts ( gallagher , hunter & bushouse 1989 ; kennicutt 1998a ; rosa - gonzlez , terlevich & terlevich 2002 ; charlot et al .",
    "2002 ; kewley , geller & jansen 2004 ) . the [ oii ] line is affected more by metalicity and due to its bluer wavelength , is more influenced by dust attenuation than the h@xmath1 line ( jansen , franx & fabricant 2001 ; charlot et al .",
    "2002 ) . as a result",
    ", it is never entirely certain whether high-@xmath13 sfrs derived from [ oii ] are completely compatible with low-@xmath13 sfrs derived from other more accurate methods .",
    "infrared ( ir ) sfr tracers , for example 24@xmath14 m emission ( lonsdale persson & helou 1987 ; rowan - robinson & crawford 1989 ; kennicutt 1998a ; calzetti et al .",
    "2007 ) is also commonly used as a ` proxy ' sfr diagnostic .",
    "emission from sfr regions is absorbed by dust and re - radiated as ir radiation , allowing a conversion to be calibrated to retrieve the original sfr .",
    "this method has however , problems in measuring star formation rates .",
    "for example , using current technology , spectral line tracers are also able to measure sfrs to an order of magnitude lower than the mips ir instrument , and are more sensitive at higher redshifts ( see for example noeske et al .",
    "other problems include the fact that the extrapolation from a few sub - mm and radio luminosities to a bolometric ir luminosity is subject to many uncertainties , especially at high redshift ( smail , ivison & blain 1997 ; chapman et al .",
    "2005 ) and systematic changes ( for example papovich et al . 2007 ) ; contamination by an active galactic nuclei ( agn ) ( see daddi et al .",
    "2007b ) ; and possibly cirrus emission comming from older stars ( lonsdale persson & helou 1987 ; helou 1986 ; kennicutt 1998a ) .",
    "radio sfrs , another sfr measure , often relies on stacking of data sources which may lead to complications in interpretting results ( e.g. ivison et al .",
    "2010 ) .",
    "each measure of star formation tracks a different element of the stellar evolution cycle , each with its own precise definitions ( see kennicutt 1998a for a review of what different wavelengths actually measure ) and therefore unique biases .",
    "it is important therefore to get a measure of whether the apparent changes in global sfr are actually due to a change in the sfr of galaxies , or because the different measurements at different redshifts are measuring different processes .",
    "the h@xmath1 line is the best tracer of this due to the relatively low attenuation it suffers from dust compared to other emission line tracers , the lack of any strong dependency on metalicity , and because its emission is associated largely with only star forming regions .",
    "it is also a direct measurement of star formation , and measures instantaneous star formation during the last 20myr within the galaxy .",
    "attenuation is still a significant problem however  it is variable galaxy - to - galaxy due to its dependence on the amount of dust in a galaxy , and can effect the emission by a factor of three or more .    at redshift @xmath15 0.4 ,",
    "the h@xmath1 emission line shifts into the near - infrared ( nir ) and different technologies are required to observe it . in the last decade",
    "there have been a number of ir instruments built for telescopes and with these new instruments , we can now begin to measure this emission to higher redshifts than before .",
    "there have been a few small investigations into h@xmath1 emission at @xmath11 , however most have been hampered by a very high detection limit , or the low number of galaxies studied .",
    "glazebrook et al ( 1999 ) presented the first nir spectroscopy to detect h@xmath1 emission from galaxies at @xmath13 = 1 .",
    "they studied 13 field galaxies drawn from the canada - france redshift survey and compare their derived sfrs with observations of the rest - frame uv emission .",
    "they find that the h@xmath1 sfr density measurements are roughly three times larger than the ones derived using the madau , pozzetti & dickinson ( 1996 ) uv relation .",
    "doherty et al ( 2006 ) followed from works by yan et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , hopkins , connolly & salay ( 2000 ) and tresse et al .",
    "( 2002 ) examining the sfr density at @xmath11 .",
    "doherty et al",
    ". took spectra of 38 galaxies within the _ hubble deep field north _ and stacked their spectra in order to measure the total star formation and hence the sfr density .",
    "they estimate a lower limit for the total sfr in their stacked sample to be @xmath16 312yr@xmath17 but do not measure individual sfrs .",
    "both doherty et al . and",
    "yan et al .",
    "derive dust corrections by comparison with uv measurements .",
    "tresse et al .",
    "( 2002 ) used a mixture of balmer ratios ( h@xmath1/h@xmath18 and h@xmath19/h@xmath18 ) where available to measure a dust correction , in other galaxies they used a fixed attenuation .",
    "most recently , rodrguez - eugenio et al .",
    "( 2007 ) measured 16 star forming galaxies at redshift 0.8 @xmath20 1.0 from the deep2 survey with the camera on the , but had problems removing the sky lines from their data .",
    "garn et al .",
    "( 2010 ) used narrow band imaging to measure h@xmath1 emission from 477 sources in the hizels survey with a sfr detection limit of 2.15yr@xmath17 .",
    "they used other available multiwavelength imaging to calculate the dust attenuation using a number of methods .",
    "sobral et al . (",
    "2010 ) further investigate the sfr - mass relation and specific sfr - mass relation of these galaxies , however focusing on environmental effects .",
    "none of these previously mentioned surveys have however used h@xmath1 spectroscopy to investigate trends and relations found with other sfr tracers , nor do they use a mass selected sample .",
    "we present the first such study using the spectrograph on the  to obtain near - infrared multi - object spectroscopy of 42 galaxies from the powir survey ( conselice et al .",
    "2008a ) with stellar masses m@xmath21 and at redshifts @xmath22 .",
    "we measure h@xmath1 luminosities for our sample to calculate their sfrs and to investigate whether the observed trends in global and individual star formation properties are seen when using different sfr tracers . in this paper",
    "we furthermore investigate the number of galaxies with h@xmath1 emission as a function of mass , compare h@xmath1-derived sfrs with other measures of their sfrs and relations between the sfrs , and mass and colour .",
    "this paper is organised as follows .",
    "the data and new observations are summarised in section [ sec : data ] , including different methods of correcting for dust attenuation in section [ sec : corrections ] .",
    "the galaxies where h@xmath1 emission is detected are investigated in section [ sec : results ] and the sfr relations are investigated in section [ sec : starformation ] .",
    "the results , and the astrophysical interpretation of the sfrs are discussed in section [ sec : discussion ] , with a summary of the work in section [ sec : conclusion ] . throughout the paper ,",
    "we adopt the cosmology @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath25kms@xmath17mpc@xmath17 .",
    "the galaxies investigated in this paper are selected from galaxies within the powir survey ( conselice et al .",
    "2008a ) as investigated in conselice et al .",
    "( 2007 , hereafter c07 ) .",
    "the powir survey is a large area ( @xmath161.5deg@xmath26 ) deep nir survey in the _ k _ and _ j _ band covering the goods field north ( giavalisco et al .",
    "2004 ) , the extended groth strip ( egs ; davis et al . 2007 ) and three fields observed by the deep2 team with the deimos spectrograph ( davies et al .",
    "c07 used all the areas covered except the goods - north field .",
    "data in c07 was acquired from the palomar 5-m telescope ( @xmath27 and @xmath28 band imaging ) and used imaging from the _ canada - france - hawaii telescope _",
    "( cfht ; b , r , i ) , the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) on the ( optical ) , the multiband imaging photometer ( mips ) on the _ spitzer space telescope _ ( 24@xmath14 m ) , the _ very large array _",
    "( 1.4 ghz ) , the _ chandra x - ray observatory _ and spectra from the deep imaging multi - object spectrograph ( deimos ) at the w. m. keck observatory ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "a @xmath30-selected catalogue was created and the different photometry bands matched .",
    "readers are directed to c07 for more information on these observations and the parent sample selection .",
    "the c07 catalogue was used to measure the stellar masses of galaxies to @xmath31 20  21 from sed fitting as in bundy et al .",
    "( 2006 ; for details , see c07 ) .",
    "this measurement uses a chabrier initial mass function ( hereafter imf ; chabrier 2003 ) .",
    "a complete subset was then created with m@xmath10 and a redshift range of @xmath32 0.4  1.4 taken from deep2 spectroscopic redshifts ( davis et al .",
    "this is the dataset from which our sample was constructed .",
    "the targets for were taken from two regions , one purely mass selected from the powir field 3 to have m@xmath10 , the second selected from the egs field .",
    "this second set of targets were selected to be massive ( m@xmath10 ) , have a significant mips flux and no chandra 2 - 8 kev x - ray emission at @xmath33ergs@xmath17@xmath34 .",
    "both sets were selected within the range @xmath35 , giving a total of @xmath167500 possible targets . masks for multi - object spectroscopy were created using pointings that maximised the number of galaxies targeted .",
    "our near infrared ( nir ) spectra were taken during 9 nights over two observing runs on the 4.2-metre  using the long - slit intermediate resolution infrared spectrograph ( _ liris _ ) instrument in multi - object spectroscopy mode ( acosta - pulido et al .",
    "the spectra were taken using a 3-point nodding routine and the total integration times range from 2.1 hrs to 6.3 hrs for each of the 7 masks .",
    "each mask targeted between 8 and 14 galaxies , targetting a total of 71 galaxies .",
    "data reduction was done using the dedicated suite of routines lirisdr for iraf , written by jos acosta - pulido and the spectra were flux calibrated using @xmath28-band magnitudes from the powir survey data . in all cases",
    "the spectra covered the wavelength range of the @xmath28-band , and the spectra were scaled to give the same integrated flux measurement within that wavelength range as the @xmath28-band magnitude measurements .",
    "this also corrected for flux lost due to the finite width of the slit ( aperture correction ) . out of the 71 galaxies targeted ,",
    "42 had detected continuum .",
    "there are no galaxies where there is emission at around 6563   but have no detected continuum .",
    "there were 21 galaxies detected in each of the two areas of sky targeted .",
    "one galaxy , 32014349 is affected by an atmospheric absorption feature within 200  of the wavelength of any h@xmath1 emission line and so is discarded leaving 41 galaxies in our sample .",
    "the stellar mass and redshifts of these 41 galaxies are shown in figure [ fig : massz ] ( see also table [ tab : data ] ) .",
    "the 1d spectra were examined by eye and if an emission line was seen at the correct wavelength to be h@xmath1 , the flux was extracted from the continuum subtracted spectra within this region .",
    "even though in most cases where there was substantial @xmath36 emission the h@xmath37 and [ nii]@xmath38 appeared separated , the extraction region was chosen to include both emission lines .",
    "this was to allow the procedure for measuring an upper limit where there was no emission detected to follow as closely as possible the procedure used when there was emission .",
    "the continuum level and noise was taken from two 200  sections of continuum one average full width half maximum ( fwhm , 5 pixels = 31 ) either side of the emission and the root mean squared value of this continuum is used as the error on each pixel .",
    "this average fwhm is used as the extraction width for continuum with no visual signs of emission .",
    "if the h@xmath1 emission is less than the 1.5 times the error and no line has been seen by eye , then these galaxies are classified as non - detections .",
    "this method of measuring the emission line is similar to that used in glazebrook et al ( 1999 ) .",
    "a correction of 30 per cent for [ nii ] is applied ( see for example , gallego et al .",
    "1997 ; tresse et al . 1999 ; garn et al .",
    "2010 ) . in cases where there was no visible emission ,",
    "the continuum noise was used to calculate a 1.5 @xmath39 upper limit to any h@xmath1 emission .",
    "the deep2 spectroscopic redshifts were used to determine the predicted observed h@xmath1 wavelengths and convert fluxes to luminosities .",
    "star formation rates were derived from the h@xmath1 luminosities using the kennicutt ( 1998 ) relation converted to use a chabrier imf ( chabrier 2003 ) :    @xmath40    in order to compare our measurements with measurements taken in other wavelengths , we use infrared ( ir ) , uv and radio observations already available of the same sources .",
    "ultraviolet ( uv ) data was taken using the _ galaxy evolution explorer _ ( galex ) and available imaging in the @xmath41 , @xmath42 and @xmath43 filters to match the galaxy s rest - frame emission as close as possible to the galex filters ( 1528  and 2271 ; schiminovich 2007 ) .",
    "sfrs and dust extinction - corrected sfrs were calculated using a composite method using ir calibrated uv - optical colours and broadband sed fitting ( for a description of the method see schiminovich et al .",
    "2007 and seibert et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the uv and ir sfrs are discussed in more detail in section [ sec : corrections ] .",
    "radio data was acquired from a 1.4 ghz catalogue of the egs , ( ivison et al .",
    "2007 ) taken with the _ very large array _ ( vla ) .",
    "they detect 1,123 sources with s@xmath44@xmath14jy to a 5-@xmath39 detection limit which corresponds to rest - frame 1.4 ghz calculated sfr of 275yr@xmath17 at z = 1.0 .",
    "our sample were matched with the radio catalogue , but only reveal 1 match ( from 41 galaxies ) .",
    "the radio catalogue was then matched with the entire set of possible galaxies that could have been observed and are in the same region of sky as those that were observed .",
    "out of these 62 galaxies there are 4 matches ( @xmath45 per cent ) .    concluding that our galaxies are not detected at 1.4 ghz",
    ", upper limits can be placed on the total star formation in these galaxies following the methods of condon ( 1992 ) , haarsma et al .",
    "( 2000 ) and condon , cotton & broderic ( 2002 ) . using the detection limit of the nearest galaxy in the sample ( z @xmath16 0.55 ) gives an upper limit of 66yr@xmath17 , the furthest ( z @xmath16 1.23 ) gives @xmath16450yr@xmath17 .",
    "these are considerably higher than the majority of our upper limits derived from the h@xmath1 measurements and thus are not further used .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "in the scenario of downsizing the most massive galaxies should turn off their star formation at the redshift ranges we probe . in our sample , the most massive galaxies with star formation and with stellar masses m@xmath46are found only at a redshift greater than @xmath13 = 0.93 . the drop - off in the number of star forming galaxies with masses above m@xmath47is sharp , suggesting that the process of turning off star formation happens very quickly , in less than a gyr .",
    "this appears to be a sudden quenching rather than a slow ending of star formation , similarly it is not likely to be a `` running out '' of gas within star forming regions as in this scenario we would expect this to lead to a declining sfr over a longer period of time .",
    "there is only one galaxy that is detected in h@xmath1 and lies within the red sequence of galaxies in our sample , showing that star forming galaxies detected with h@xmath1 at z@xmath161 are mostly blue .",
    "there are only a small number of non - detections ( 4 out of 25 ) that lie definitively within the region of blue galaxies and these could be either non - detections of star forming galaxies or actual non - star forming galaxies .    in line with what other studies have found at other wavelengths ,",
    "this study finds a slightly increasing h@xmath1-derived sfr with stellar mass , and a decreasing ssfr with mass relations .",
    "there is some suggestion that the normalisation of the ` galactic main sequence ' ( gms , n07 ) is dependent on the wavelength and method used to measure the sfr , and the h@xmath1-derived sfrs appear to be slightly higher than other measurements .",
    "this could be the result of the sensitivity of measuring sfrs which in this study are limited to greater than a few yr@xmath17 . with a dust correction ,",
    "this becomes a lower limit of sfrs greater than a few tens of yr@xmath17 .",
    "[ oii ] star formation rates can be measured ( uncorrected ) typically down to 0.51yr@xmath17 , which when corrected give sfrs with typically half the value detected in this sample . however , to reconcile our results with the n07 derived gms , there would have to be a significant number of galaxies which have a sfr an order of magnitude below the level of our gms at all masses .",
    "there are two probable causes of our detections having larger average sfrs than the gms measured by n07",
    ". a major contributor will be that some of our galaxies have been selected to have significant 24-@xmath14 m emission , meaning that they are either highly star forming , or have a significant agn component .",
    "two galaxies ( 12024309 & 12024445 ) could have [ nii]/h@xmath1 ratios indicative of agn , but have a sfr@xmath48 excess suggesting otherwise .",
    "these two therefore probably have a slightly larger amount of [ nii ] emission leading to a overestimation of the h@xmath1-derived sfr .",
    "there is little other evidence of any other galaxies in this sample having a dominating agn and so the higher sfrs measured are likely because the galaxies actually have a higher rate of star formation .",
    "these would then lie above ( i.e. with a higher sfr ) any gms relationship found in more complete samples .",
    "the galaxies however lie much above the n07 gms ( even with their estimated raising of the normalisation for higher redshifts ) , significantly beyond their 0.3 dex estimated scatter .",
    "the daddi et al .",
    "( 2007 , d07 ) gms is derived from uv and 24-@xmath14 m emission(as opposed to [ oii ] and 24-@xmath14 m in n07 ) and appears to be at a similar level to our data , but it is not clear whether our data follows their slope .",
    "it is clear then that the choice of sfr indicator can be important .",
    "c07 measured that the 24@xmath14m - derived sfr were considerably higher than the [ oii ] values and it is not unusual that the two methods do not give agreement on a galaxy - by - galaxy basis ( e.g. salim et al .",
    "2007 ) .",
    "the ssfr is a measure of how much of a galaxy s mass has been formed in recent star formation episodes .",
    "the most massive galaxies with m@xmath5have a lower ssfr than the less massive galaxies which have a roughly constant value .",
    "these very massive galaxies have had less of their mass formed in recent star formation and so must contain older stellar populations .",
    "this is a clear indication that the most massive galaxies had their star formation quenched at a higher redshift than lower mass galaxies .",
    "we find a separation between the star forming and non - star forming galaxies in sfr - colour plots ( figure [ fig : sfr_colour ] ) .",
    "galaxies that are towards the red end of our sample ( in @xmath7 ) and have measured star formation , have the same average sfr as the blue galaxies . in the ssfr - colour plots ( figure [ fig : ssfr_colour ] ) ,",
    "the ssfr drops with colour due to the fact that the red star forming galaxies are more massive than the blue galaxies with the same sfr .",
    "this is seen in figure [ fig : colourmass ] and is possibly a selection effect .",
    "half the galaxies in the sample were selected to have a 24-@xmath14 m detection  for a galaxy to have enough star formation so that it gives 24-@xmath14 m emission , but not be significant enough to make the galaxy blue , the galaxy must be more massive .",
    "figure [ fig : colourmass ] also shows a considerable difference in the slope of this relation for star - forming and passive galaxies .",
    "the star - forming galaxies are fit by a line with the relation    @xmath49    and the galaxies without h@xmath1 detections are fit by the relation    @xmath50    a two dimensional kolmogorov ",
    "smirnov test ( k - s test ; fasano & franceschini , 1987 ) indicates that these two populations are however not significantly different .     colour for galaxies divided into those with detected star formation ( crosses ) and no detected star formation ( triangles ) .",
    "the redder galaxies tend to be more massive than the blue galaxies  this is possibly a selection effect due to half our galaxies needing 24@xmath14 m emission for selection and thus have star formation .",
    "there is a lack of massive , blue galaxies which should have been detected .",
    "the solid line is a least - squares fit to the galaxies with h@xmath1 detections and has a slope of @xmath51 .",
    "the dashed line is a least - squares fit to the galaxies without detected h@xmath1 and has a smaller slope : @xmath52,width=321 ]        a more detailed look at the sfr and ssfr against colour relations can be obtained by binning the points by stellar mass ( figure [ fig : sfrcolourmass ] ) .",
    "the effects of downsizing are clearly seen in these plots with the highest mass bins having many more passive galaxies than star - forming ones , similarly the lowest mass bin has more star - forming than passive galaxies .",
    "both the lowest and intermediate mass bins in the sfr - colour plot can be described as a number of star - forming galaxies with a range of sfrs but with similar colours , with the passive galaxies ( with similar sfrs ) having a range of @xmath7 colours .",
    "the most massive galaxies are mostly passive , red galaxies .    when galaxies turn off their star formation , they also usually start changing colour from blue to red .",
    "this would lead to the galaxies moving downwards and to the right in the sfr - colour diagram .",
    "if the concept of downsizing is correct , then the most massive galaxies shut off their star formation before less massive systems .",
    "we can then use a mass cut to separate a population of galaxies that have shut off their star formation ( the most massive galaxies ) from a population that are yet to shut off their star formation ( the least massive galaxies ) .",
    "figure [ fig : sfrcolourmass ] splits the galaxies into stellar mass bins and shows their position on a sfr - colour diagram .    in each stellar mass bin ,",
    "the star forming galaxies have a bluer @xmath7 colour than the passive galaxies and the range of colours that the star forming galaxies have in each stellar mass bin is quite narrow .",
    "passive galaxies have a range of @xmath7 colours .",
    "each stellar mass bin is successively redder , this is due to the relation between stellar mass and colour ( figure [ fig : colourmass ] ) .",
    "as seen in figure [ fig : ssfr_colour ] there is a relationship between the ssfr and colour .",
    "this is partially expected ",
    "ssfr traces the effect that star formation has had on the the recent history of the galaxy .",
    "this will also be borne out in the colour of the galaxy , with the more recent the star formation , the more affect it has on a galaxy s colour .",
    "this then explains why the different mass bins are separated along the colour axis of the sfr - colour diagram ( figure [ fig : sfrcolourmass ] ) : the redder systems have lower ssfrs and so for the same sfr they must be more massive than bluer systems .",
    "this relation could be affected by our selection criteria .",
    "we could be missing low - mass passive objects which are red .",
    "however due to their low mass , they would not lie considerably below galaxies already plotted on the ssfr - colour diagram .",
    "the galaxies investigated appear to follow what would be expected in a downsizing senario .",
    "there are significantly fewer galaxies with m@xmath46forming stars and the most massive galaxies are only forming stars at the highest redshifts probed .",
    "more detailed studies into the sfr - m@xmath53 as a function of redshift are not possible due to the small size of our sample .",
    "we have analysed nir spectroscopy of 41 massive ( m@xmath10 ) galaxies taken from the powir survey of which half were chosen to have significant 24-@xmath14 m flux , no x - ray emission and within the range @xmath54 .",
    "we have acquired nir spectroscopic data for these systems and measured sfrs from the h@xmath1 emission line .",
    "the h@xmath1 emission line is the best direct measure of instantaneous star formation as it is coupled directly to the massive stars in formation , is largely independent of metalicity and is less effected by dust attenuation than either the [ oii ] emission line or uv flux .",
    "we investigated several methods of correcting high - redshift galaxies for dust using multi - wavelength methods and chose to ultimately apply a method derived from uv data .",
    "we find that the h@xmath1 sfr measurements are in good agreement with those measured by uv emission , but are slightly higher than those measured from 24-@xmath14 m emission . by not using the correction to the @xmath55 value due to differences associated with gas emission and stellar light ( calzetti et al .",
    "2000 ) our h@xmath1 corrected sfrs are similar to or less than the galaxies 24-@xmath14 m derived sfrs .",
    "the agn contamination of our sample is low ",
    "although highly obscured agn may exist within the sample there is no evidence that there are any .",
    "we find that there is a drop in the fraction of galaxies with detections of h@xmath1 for systems with a stellar mass greater than m@xmath56 .",
    "the massive galaxies with detected h@xmath1 are all found at redshifts greater than @xmath57 0.93 .",
    "the fraction of galaxies with detected h@xmath1 also drops for galaxies that are red in u - b colour .",
    "the sharpness of this drop implies that star formation is truncated over a very short period of time rather than dropping steadily over an extended epoch .",
    "we investigated the h@xmath1 sfr as a function of stellar mass and find that sfr stays roughly constant with stellar mass .",
    "likewise , the ssfr drops with increasing mass , especially at m@xmath58 .",
    "this implies that at @xmath32 1 , galaxies with m@xmath59are less likely to be forming stars , and when they are , they are doing so at a much lower rate relative to their mass .",
    "these massive galaxies have a lower ssfr than lower mass galaxies , implying that they have on average a stellar population that formed earlier , and must have had their star formation quenched at a higher redshift than the lower mass galaxies .",
    "we find that the observed slope in the sfr - mass relation appears to be slightly flatter than what is found in previous studies .",
    "the ssfr - mass relation also agrees with the relation predicted by an exponentially decreasing star formation history model with mass dependent formation redshifts .",
    "our measured ssfrs however are slightly higher than the noeske et al .",
    "( 2007b ) model predictions .",
    "we also investigate the sfr as a function of colour and find that the galaxies that are detected in h@xmath1 form stars at similar rates independent of colour .",
    "when split into bins of stellar mass , within each bin we find star forming galaxies that have a narrow range of @xmath7 colours while galaxies not detected in h@xmath1 have a wider range of colours which are mostly redder than the star forming ones .",
    "these mass bins can be viewed as populations of galaxies in different stages of their evolution from star forming to passive , and suggests that galaxies drop in star formation before becoming redder .",
    "we also find that the specific sfr drops with increasing @xmath7 colour ( redness ) for all galaxies ; this is probably due to both being a measure of the effect on the galaxy of recent star formation .",
    "this relation leads to the more massive galaxies ( with lower ssfr ) becoming redder .",
    "evolutionary tracks on the sfr - colour plot are therefore shifted towards redder colours for the most massive galaxies .",
    "we also investigate the structures of our sample which have acs hst imaging .",
    "we find that there is possible relation found between a galaxy s sfr and its asymmetry as measured by the cas parameters ( conselice 2003 ) .",
    "h@xmath1-derived sfrs at @xmath0 appear to be similar to those measured using other tracers .",
    "there is a large body of work studying star formation at these redshifts using these other tracers , and we have shown , using the more reliable h@xmath1 values that these other results are consistent at least up to @xmath60 .",
    "as nir spectroscopic instrument technology continues to evolve , especially on 8 - 10 m telescopes , the growth in the number and quality of h@xmath1 measurements , particularly at high redshift , will allow us to compare these different sfr tracers at higher redshifts and therefore obtain an even more accurate measure of the star formation history of galaxies .",
    "funding for the trip to the obseratorio del roque de los muchachos was provided by the university of nottingham .",
    "we thank nathan bourne for useful and informative discussions .",
    "we acknowledge support from the stfc as well as a leverhulme trust prize to cjc .",
    "the william herschel telescope is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "99 acosta - pulido j. a. , ballesteros e. , barreto m. et al . , 2003 ,",
    "ingn , 7 , 15 afonso j. , hopkins a. , mobasher b. , almeida c. , 2003 , apj , 597 , 269 alonso - herrero a. , quillen a. c. , simpson c. , efstathiou a. , ward m. j. , 2001 , aj , 121 , 1369                                        conselice c. j. , bluck a. f. l. , buitrago f. et al . , 2011 , mnras , 413 , 80 daddi e. , dickinson m. , morrison g. et al .",
    ", 2007a , apj , 670 , 156 ( d07 ) daddi e. , alexander d. m. , dickinson m. et al . , 2007b , apj , 670 , 173 davis m. , faber s. m. , newman j. et al . , 2003 ,",
    "spie , 4834 , 161 davis m. , guhathakurta p. , konidaris n. p. et al . , 2007 , apj , 660 , 1            fontana a. , pozzetti l. , donnarumma i. et al .",
    ", 2004 , a&a , 424 , 23 frster schreiber n. m. , genzel r. , bouch n. et al .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 706 , 1364 gallagher j. d. , hunter d. a. , bushouse , h. , 1989 , aj , 97 , 700                            johnson b. d. , schiminovich d. , seibert m. et al .",
    ", 2006 , apj , 644 , l109 johnson b. d. , schiminovich d. , seibert m. et al . , 2007 , apjs , 173 , 377 kauffmann g. , heckman t. m. , white s. d. m. et al . , 2003a , mnras , 341 , 33 kauffmann g. , heckman t. m. , tremonti c. et al . ,",
    "2003b , mnras , 346 , 1055 kennicutt r. c. , 1983 , apj , 272 , 54 ,                  noeske k. g. , weiner b. j. , faber s. m. et al .",
    ", 2007a , apj , 660 , l43 ( n07 ) noeske k. g. , faber s. m. , weiner b. j. et al . 2007b , apj , 660 , l47 osterbrock d. e. 1989 , astrophysics of gaseous nebulae and active galactic nuclei , university science books , mill valley , ca      papovich c. , moustakas l. a. , dickinson m. et al . , 2006 , apj , 640 , 92 papovich c. , rudnick g. , le floch e. et al . , 2007 , apj , 668 , 48 prez - gonzlez p. g. , rieke g. h. , villar v. et al . , 2008a , apj , 675 , 234 prez - gonzlez p. g. , trujillo i. , barro g. , gallego j. , zamorano j. , conselice c. j. , 2008b , apj , 687 , 50            salim s. , rich r. m. , charlot s. et al . , 2007 ,",
    "apjs , 173 , 267 schiminovich d. , wyder t. k. , martin d. c. et al . , 2007 , apjs , 173 , 315 seibert m. , martin d. c. , heckman t. m. et al . , 2005 , apj , 619 , l55 silverman j. d. , kovac k. , knobel c. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 695 , 171 smail i. , ivison r. j. , blain a. w. , 1997 , apj , 490 , l5"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a near - infrared spectroscopic study of a stellar mass selected sample of galaxies at @xmath0 utilising the liris multi - object spectrograph on the william herschel telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we detect continuum , and the h@xmath1 line for our sample , which is one of the better direct tracers of star formation in external galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we spectroscopically measure the h@xmath1 emission from 41 massive ( m@xmath2 ) galaxies taken from the powir survey with spectroscopic redshifts 0.4 @xmath3 z@xmath4 @xmath3 1.4 . </S>",
    "<S> we correct our h@xmath1 fluxes for dust extinction by using multi - wavelength data , and investigate sfr trends with mass and colour . </S>",
    "<S> we find a drop in the fraction of massive galaxies with m@xmath5which are detected in h@xmath1 emission at @xmath6 . </S>",
    "<S> we furthermore find that the fraction of galaxies with h@xmath1 emission drops steadily and significantly with redder @xmath7 colours at z @xmath8 , and that the ssfr drops with increasing @xmath7 colour for galaxies at all masses . by investigating the sfr - mass relation </S>",
    "<S> we find that the sfr is roughly constant with mass , in possible contrast to previous work , and that the specific star formation rate ( ssfr ) is lower in the most massive galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the scatter in the sfr vs. mass relationship is very small for those systems with ongoing star formation which suggests that star formation in the most massive galaxies at @xmath0 shuts off rather abruptly over @xmath9gyr , without an obvious gradual decline . </S>",
    "<S> we furthermore investigate the sfr as a function of @xmath7 colour divided into different mass bins , revealing a tracer of the epoch of transition from star forming to passive , as a form of star formation `` downsizing '' . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the shut off of star formation occurs before the change in a galaxy s colour . </S>",
    "<S> we find that galaxy stellar mass is the primary driving mechanisms behind the star formation history for these galaxies and discuss several possible mechanisms for regulating this process .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : star formation - galaxies : evolution - galaxies : formation </S>"
  ]
}