{
  "article_text": [
    "the matter distribution in the early universe is nearly uniform , but not completely so , and small density fluctuations grow with time through gravitational forces .",
    "eventually , matter becomes dense enough to initiate star formation and galaxies form in high density peaks of the density fluctuations .",
    "galaxies grow progressively more massive by accreting material from the surroundings and by merging with other galaxies .",
    "the cosmic large - scale structure , in which galaxies are embedded , also develops with time .",
    "later , clusters of galaxies form at the nodes of filaments , where galaxies can be quenched by gravitational and gas - dynamical effects . the evolution of galaxies and large - scale structure goes in tandem and galaxies eventually acquire the properties that we observe today .",
    "this current framework of galaxy formation and evolution indicates that the formation and evolution of galaxies are driven by statistical events ( e.g. , they form in density fluctuations and grow by mergers ) and galaxies are statistical objects in nature .",
    "they do not form at the same time and they do not evolve in the same way . only by statistical analyses can we study the physics of galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "this fundamental principle has motivated a number of galaxy surveys .",
    "imaging surveys deliver limited information about galaxy properties because one needs precise distances to galaxies in order to translate observed quantities into physical quantities . for this reason ,",
    "several large spectroscopic surveys have been carried out to date and they have brought new insights into galaxy evolution over cosmological time scales .",
    "the cfa redshift survey carried out the first systematic spectroscopic survey of the local universe in the late-70 s @xcite .",
    "they measured redshifts of nearby galaxies and revealed the cosmic large - scale structure in the local universe , making a major progress in our understanding of galaxy distribution in the universe .",
    "following the cfa redshift survey , the las campanas redshift survey @xcite mapped out the galaxy distribution out to larger distances , and the canada - france redshift survey @xcite reached out to @xmath2 .",
    "the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; @xcite ) and the 2 degree field redshift survey ( 2df ; @xcite ) surpassed the previous surveys with much improved statistics .",
    "in particular , sdss imaged a quarter of the sky in five photometric bands @xcite and measured more than 2 million redshifts with unprecedented precision @xcite .",
    "the sdss dramatically refined our view of the local universe .",
    "in parallel to these surveys of the local universe , large spectroscopic surveys with 8 m telescopes such as deep2 @xcite , vimos vlt deep survey @xcite , and zcosmos @xcite peered deep into the universe reaching @xmath3 .",
    "all of these surveys enabled statistical analyses of galaxy populations over a large redshift range , bringing in new insights into the evolution of galaxies .",
    "this paper is in a context of such statistical galaxy studies from large spectroscopic surveys .",
    "we will study galaxy properties out to @xmath2 using data from zcosmos with a particular emphasis on the dependence of galaxy properties on environment .",
    "a pioneering work on this subject was made by @xcite , who first quantified the morphology - density relation . following this work",
    ", many authors studied the relationship between galaxy properties and environment ( e.g. , @xcite ; see @xcite for a thorough set of references and also see below for more recent papers ) .",
    "the sdss and 2df data sets delivered the unprecedented statistics and we now have a fairly good understanding of galaxy properties in the local universe @xcite .",
    "the advent of 8m - class telescopes pushed those environment studies to redshift of unity and beyond ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , many of these high-@xmath4 studies still suffer from limited statistics particularly in low - medium density environments and this is the area where large spectroscopic surveys fill in as they mainly probe such environments @xcite .    however , results from these deep surveys and their interpretations are not always consistent . in particular , the dependence of galaxy colors on environment at @xmath1 is controversial as discussed in @xcite .",
    "there are a number of differences between the data sets from different surveys and the ways the analyses are made , which might explain the possible inconsistency . in this paper",
    ", we study photometric and spectroscopic properties of galaxies as a function of environment and make an attempt to settle the issue .",
    "a unique feature of our study is that we define mass - selected environments using x - ray groups .",
    "most of the previous studies are based on environment traced by galaxies and there is room for observational biases to come in .",
    "such biases include sampling rate , redshift success rate as functions of redshift and galaxy type , large - scale structure , etc .",
    "for example , if a sample is biased towards star forming galaxies , which can be the case at high redshifts in optical surveys , the density field traced by galaxies is basically the density of star forming galaxies , which may not represent the true density field .",
    "x - rays , on the other hand , are free from such biases .",
    "an extended x - ray emission is a strong signature of a dynamically bound system . also , an x - ray luminosity is a good proxy for mass of a system , making it possible to define environments by mass .",
    "we present a robust analysis of the dependence of galaxy properties on environment based on stellar mass limited galaxy sample with mass - selected environments .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows .",
    "we briefly summarize the zcosmos survey and construct an x - ray group catalog in section 2 . we then study properties of the group galaxies and make comparisons to field galaxies in section 3 .",
    "section 4 discusses the results and the paper is concluded in section 5 . unless otherwise stated , we use @xmath5 , @xmath6 , and @xmath7 . the uncertainties are given in 68% confidence intervals .",
    "all the magnitudes are given in the ab system .",
    "we study spectroscopic properties of galaxies up to @xmath2 based on data from the zcosmos survey @xcite .",
    "we first briefly describe the survey and move on to construct a catalog of galaxy groups selected from deep x - ray data .",
    "the zcosmos survey is a spectroscopic survey of the cosmos field @xcite using the vimos spectrograph on the very large telescope on the cerro paranal @xcite .",
    "it is the largest program ever conducted at vlt with 600 hours of allocated time .",
    "the survey consists of two components : zcosmos - bright and zcosmos - faint .",
    "the former is a flux - limited survey down to @xmath8 using the medium resolution grism ( @xmath9 ) with a wavelength coverage of @xmath10 .",
    "the latter is a color - selected galaxy survey aiming at @xmath11 galaxies using the low - resolution blue grism with @xmath12 over @xmath13 .",
    "all the spectra are visually inspected by two people independently and final redshifts and confidence flags are determined through face - face reconciliation meetings . in this study , we use the zcosmos - bright 20k data to perform statistical analysis of galaxy groups . for further derails of the survey ,",
    "the readers are referred to @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we construct an x - ray group catalog using x - ray data from xmm - newton and chandra available in the cosmos field @xcite",
    ". an early version of the group catalog was presented in @xcite , in which we relied only on photometric redshifts to identify the optical counterparts of extended x - ray emission .",
    "we revise the catalog with an efficient group identification algorithm demonstrated by @xcite and @xcite to the massive cosmos data set .",
    "we give the full details in finoguenov et al .",
    "( in prep ) , and here we only briefly outline our algorithm .    on the mosaic of coadded xmm and chandra images , cluster candidates are first identified as extended sources through a classical wavelet transform technique with a careful removal of point sources @xcite .",
    "next , we look for the cluster red sequence around the extended x - ray sources using the deep optical - ir data . for this red sequence search , we construct model red sequence using the recipe by @xcite and quantify a significance of red sequence around an extended x - ray source at a given redshift in the following manner :    * we extract galaxies located within 1 mpc ( physical ) from the x - ray center and have @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is the photometric redshift of a galaxy and @xmath4 is the redshift at which we want to quantify the red sequence .",
    "* we count galaxies with weights according to their spatial locations from the x - ray center and to their location on a color - magnitude diagram .",
    "bright red galaxies located at the center have the highest weight .",
    "* we compare the count with the average count and its dispersion , which are derived by placing the apertures of the same size at random positions in the cosmos field , to quantify the significance of the red sequence .",
    "* we repeat the above procedure at @xmath16 to identify peaks of the red sequence signals . * finally , we visually inspect all the significant peaks and assign redshift and confidence flag to the x - ray source .    in the first procedure , we make use of the excellent photometric redshift in the cosmos field @xcite to efficiently eliminate fore-/background contamination . in the second step , we change the filter combinations to compute colors with redshift .",
    "we have to make a compromise between the depth of the data and filter combinations to probe similar rest - frame wavelengths at different redshifts , but we always straddle the 4000  break , which is a sensitive feature to star formation . to be specific , we use the following color - magnitude diagrams .    * @xmath17 : @xmath18 vs. @xmath19 * @xmath20 : @xmath21 vs. @xmath22 * @xmath23 : @xmath24 vs. @xmath4 * @xmath25 : @xmath26 vs. @xmath27 * @xmath28 : @xmath29 vs. @xmath30    finally , all the significant red sequence signals are visually inspected and the group redshifts and confidence flags are assigned .",
    "we use the 20k redshifts from zcosmos @xcite to help identify the systems and obtain spectroscopic redshifts of them in this final identification procedure .",
    "details of the confidence flags will be described in finoguenov et al .",
    "( in prep . ) , but in short , we give flag=1 to groups that are unambiguously confirmed with spectroscopic redshifts and the x - ray centroid is reliably determined by high significance x - ray fluxes .",
    "flag=2 is for spectroscopically confirmed groups whose x - ray center can potentially be off ( up to 30 arcsec ) due to low fluxes or to blending with other sources , and the location of the optical counterparts were used in the centroid determinations .",
    "we have confirmed that these uncertain centroids do not affect our results as we discuss below .",
    "flag=3 groups are likely real groups but they are not spectroscopically confirmed yet .",
    "the catalog contains 215 groups with flag=1 , 2 or 3 , of which 195 are at @xmath31 .",
    "we note that @xmath32% ( 175 out of 195 ) of the groups at @xmath31 are spectroscopically confirmed ( i.e. , flag=1 or 2 ) .",
    "we do not use those flag=3 groups in this work , but we have confirmed that our results do not change if we include them .",
    "we define the group membership using the x - ray group catalog constructed above and the spectroscopic redshifts from zcosmos . in this work , we apply the following selection criteria to study the dependence of galaxy properties on environment :    1 .   we use spectroscopically confirmed groups at @xmath33 with masses between @xmath34 and @xmath35 .",
    "2 .   we define group members as galaxies with high confidence spectroscopic redshifts from zcosmos and located within @xmath36 and @xmath37 from the group centers , where @xmath38 is line - of - sight velocity dispersion and @xmath39 is a virial radius of a group within which the mean interior density is 200 times the critical density of the universe at the group redshift .",
    "the first criterion is about groups themselves .",
    "we want to reduce spurious groups that contaminate the analysis . for this",
    ", we use groups with flag 1 or 2 . as mentioned above ,",
    "they are spectroscopically confirmed groups .",
    "we then restrict the sample to @xmath33 as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : m200_z ] .",
    "this redshift selection is motivated to have the emission in our spectral coverage .",
    "the line is not available at @xmath40 and we could in principle use h@xmath41 to fill that redshift range .",
    "but , these two lines have different sensitivities to star formation and agn ( e.g. , h@xmath41 is much more robust to extinction ) and it is hard to make fair comparisons between emitters and h@xmath41 emitters .",
    "we do not include the @xmath40 groups in order to perform a robust analysis .",
    "we do not include @xmath3 groups either as extremely strong fringes in the vimos spectra decrease the success rate of obtaining redshifts of passive galaxies at @xmath3 , making any spectral analysis at @xmath3 difficult .",
    "in addition to the redshift criterion , we impose a group mass threshold .",
    "as shown by previous studies ( e.g. , @xcite ) , galaxy properties depend on group mass . in order to eliminate any strong group mass dependence and extract evolutionary trends",
    ", we use groups with masses ( @xmath42 , which is the mass contained within @xmath39 ) between @xmath34 and @xmath35 as shown in figure [ fig : m200_z ] . note that @xmath42 is derived from the x - ray scaling relation calibrated against weak lensing mass estimates @xcite . we still have a weak mass tendency within the narrow mass range in the sense that we tend to have more massive systems at higher redshifts .",
    "this bias _ weakens _ any evolutionary trends because more massive groups tend to be more evolved .",
    "if we had a flat group mass distribution at @xmath33 , we would have observed stronger evolutionary trends than those shown below .",
    "the second criterion is the definition of group members . in this work ,",
    "we use galaxies with highly confident spectroscopic redshifts from zcosmos .",
    "specifically , we use galaxies with flags 4 s , 3 s ( including 14 s and 13 s ) , 2.5 , 2.4 , 9.5 , 9.4 , and 9.3 . for details of the flags ,",
    "readers are referred to @xcite .    to define the group membership",
    ", we first estimate @xmath42 from the x - rays . from this , we evaluate the velocity dispersions ( @xmath38 ) and virial radii ( @xmath39 ) of the groups assuming that they are virialized @xcite . as most group galaxies are observed to lie within @xmath43 in the local universe",
    "@xcite , we define group members as those within @xmath37 from the centers",
    ". the centers of groups with flag=2 can be uncertain , but this is not a major concern in our analysis because a typical @xmath39 of these groups is 2.5 times larger than the maximum positional uncertainty of 30 arcsec .",
    "we have checked the robustness of our results by perturbing the centers of the flag=2 groups with a gaussian function with @xmath44 arcsec and repeated all the analysis in this paper . we have observed no appreciable changes in our results .",
    "for the line - of - sight separation , we apply @xmath36 from the redshift centers of the groups .",
    "galaxies that do not belong to any groups are defined as field galaxies . in total",
    ", we have 7,549 galaxies with high confidence redshifts at @xmath0 , of which 246 are in groups satisfying the criteria above .",
    "we will further apply a stellar mass cut to the galaxies in the next section , and the total numbers of galaxies used in the main analyses are 1,574 and 96 for the field and group environments , respectively .",
    "( 120mm,1mm)fig2.eps    we base our analysis on the group catalog and member catalog constructed in the last section and study properties of galaxies as functions of redshift and environment ( i.e. , group vs. field ) . to give an overview of the properties of galaxies in our catalog ,",
    "we show a rest - frame @xmath18 color vs. stellar mass diagram in fig . [",
    "fig : cmd ] .",
    "the rest - frame color and stellar mass are derived by @xcite by fitting the photometry with model templates from @xcite assuming the chabrier initial mass function @xcite .",
    "a typical error in our stellar mass estimates is @xmath45 dex ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "before we discuss the plot , let us introduce our definition of ( a ) red / blue galaxies and ( b ) emitters .    *",
    "( a ) * we divide galaxies into red and blue galaxies by their rest - frame @xmath18 color .",
    "we perform a biweight fit to the red sequence in groups at @xmath46 , where we observe the most prominent red sequence due to the largest number of group galaxies we have there .",
    "we then shift it by @xmath47 shown as the slanted dashed line in fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd ] to separate the two populations .",
    "the amount of the shift is motivated to give a reasonable separation between emitters and non- emitters ( see below for their definitions ) .",
    "we have confirmed that our conclusions are insensitive to a small change in the amount of the shift .",
    "we correct for the color evolution of the red sequence in the other bins using an instantaneous burst model formed at @xmath48 from @xcite . as seen in the figure ,",
    "the color threshold is bluer at higher redshift .    *",
    "( b ) * we also use emission to characterize galaxy properties .",
    "we use the equivalent widths of measured by lamareille et al .",
    "( in prep ) .",
    "line detections below @xmath49 are considered fake and here we adopt a conservative significance threshold of @xmath50 to ensure that the line is securely detected .",
    "we define galaxies with ew@xmath51 detected at @xmath52 as emitters , and the other galaxies as quiescent .",
    "note we use a negative sign for emission .",
    "going back to fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd ] , it is immediately clear that the most massive galaxies tend to be red and many of them do not show a sign of active star formation .",
    "galaxies with no significant form a clear sequence of red galaxies .",
    "interestingly , some of the red galaxies show significant emissions despite their red colors .",
    "in contrast to massive galaxies , low - mass galaxies are predominantly blue emitters .",
    "this is due to a bias introduced by the flux limit of the survey .",
    "the @xmath53-band , with which spectroscopic targets are selected in zcosmos , samples bluer light in rest - frame at higher redshifts , and we are missing low - mass red galaxies , resulting in a strong bias towards blue , star forming galaxies .    it is hard to interpret fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd ] due to the strong selection bias .",
    "we apply a stellar mass cut in each redshift bin to construct a stellar mass limited sample in order to study evolutionary trends .",
    "we have to correct for the mass evolution in each redshift bin , but we can not track the mass evolution of individual galaxies , which depends on their star formation and merger histories . here , we simply apply correction for the passive evolution using the same passive evolution model as used for the color evolution . we can reach @xmath54 galaxies at @xmath2 in zcosmos , although the redshift success rate drops to 70% ( see figs 2 and 10 of @xcite ) . @xcite and @xcite applied a conservative cut of @xmath55 , but for the purpose of the paper , we do not need to be 100% complete and we apply a stellar mass thresholds of @xmath56 , @xmath57 , and @xmath58 at @xmath59 , @xmath60 , and @xmath61 , respectively . we note that our conclusions do not change if we adopt a conservative mass cut of @xmath55 , although the statistics becomes poor .",
    "@xcite reported on an abundant population of green valley galaxies in groups at @xmath62 .",
    "we do not observe strong evidence for an increased amount of green galaxies in fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd ] , but we can not probe as low - mass galaxies as they did ( @xmath63 ) .",
    "( 80mm,1mm)fig3.eps    we plot the fraction of red galaxies as a function of redshift in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] using the stellar mass limited sample .",
    "the fraction of massive red galaxies remains constant over the explored redshift range in both groups and field .",
    "an interesting trend in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] is that the red fraction is always higher in groups than in the field , showing clear environmental dependence of galaxy colors at @xmath0 .",
    "this may appear inconsistent with previous studies ( e.g. , @xcite ) , and we will discuss that in section 4.1 . while we do not see strong color evolution , we see a clear increase in the fraction of emitters among red galaxies at high redshifts as shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] .",
    "as discussed earlier , our group sample is biased towards more massive groups at higher redshifts , which weakens any evolutionary trends .",
    "also , due to the nature of a mass limited sample , spectra at higher redshifts are of lower signal - to - noise ratios .",
    "we tend to miss weak emissions at higher redshifts , which weakens the trend we see here due to the busy oh lines , and that might be driving the observed increase of red galaxies with emission , which are easier to identify .",
    "however , as will be discussed in section 3.2 , red emitters increases with increasing stellar mass in the highest redshift bin .",
    "this is an opposite trend from what expected from the redshift determination bias because we do not miss massive ( bright ) passive galaxies even under the presence of busy oh lines .",
    "therefore , the observed trend is unlikely due to an observational bias . ] .",
    "the real evolutionary trend should be stronger than that observed in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] .",
    "the fraction of red emitters in the field remains nearly constant with redshift , while it evolves very fast in groups .",
    "the fractions become indistinguishable in between groups and field in the highest redshift bin .",
    "these red emitters must have dusty star formation activities and/or agn activities .",
    "this is a sort of evolution that can not be revealed by broad - band photometry , demonstrating a power of large spectroscopic surveys .",
    "( 120mm,1mm)fig4.eps    essentially all galaxy properties are correlated with stellar mass .",
    "it would be important to show that the higher red fraction in groups observed in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] is not due to the environmental dependence of the stellar mass function such that groups host a larger fraction of massive galaxies , which increases the red fraction because massive galaxies tend to be red .",
    "we plot in fig .",
    "[ fig : smass_func3 ] the fraction of red galaxies as functions of stellar mass and redshift .",
    "we find that the red fraction tends to be higher in groups than in the field at a given stellar mass , although the error bars often overlap .",
    "the difference between groups and field is particularly clear at @xmath60 , where we have a prominent large - scale structure @xcite .",
    "the poor statistics does not allow us to conclude that the groups show a higher red fraction at a given stellar mass , but the systematically higher fraction suggests that the observed high red fraction in groups in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] is not entirely due to the dependence of stellar mass function on environment .",
    "we note that @xcite showed that the red fraction is higher in groups than in the field at a given stellar mass based on the same x - ray group catalog and on the photometric data in cosmos .",
    "( 120mm,100mm)fig5.eps    similarly , it would be interesting to look at the stellar mass dependence of the emitters on the red sequence .",
    "we plot in fig [ fig : smass_func2 ] the fraction of the red as a function of stellar mass . in the field ,",
    "the fraction of the red emitters does not strongly depend on mass above the mass threshold .",
    "the overall fraction does not show a strong increase with redshift either .",
    "on the other hand , the fraction in groups increases at higher redshift , and in the highest redshift bin , the fraction of emitters seems to increase with increasing mass above the mass cut .",
    "although the statistics is poor , this is a contrasting trend to the field .",
    "it seems that the increase of emitters in groups at high redshift is stronger for more massive galaxies .",
    "a high fraction of emitters at @xmath1 has already been observed by several authors .",
    "@xcite found a fraction of ew@xmath64 galaxies of @xmath65 at @xmath66 .",
    "their sample is not stellar mass limited and we can not make a fair comparison with theirs .",
    "but , if we apply the same selection of ew@xmath64 to our sample , we obtain a consistent fraction of @xmath67 .",
    "@xcite showed the high fraction ( very roughly 50% ) in groups and clusters at @xmath68 .",
    "if we apply ew@xmath69 as done in @xcite , we obtain a consistent fraction .",
    "a similarly high fraction of emitters in groups at higher redshift ( @xmath70 ) is reported by @xcite . if we apply our definition of emitters and the stellar mass cut to their sample , we find that the fraction of massive emitters is @xmath71",
    ". we should be careful with this face value as their sample was drawn from optically selected groups and the targets for spectroscopy were photo-@xmath4 selected , which potentially introduces biases in the sample .",
    "however , this high fraction of emitting galaxies in groups drawn from completely different sample is reassuring . unfortunately , their sample is not large enough to constrain the mass dependence of the emitters .",
    "not only the fraction of red emitters , but strengths of the emission seem to increase with increasing redshift as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ewoii_distrib ] .",
    "field galaxies do not show any strong change in the median ew with redshift . on the other hand ,",
    "group galaxies seem to show a larger ew tail at higher redshifts .",
    "the distributions of ew in groups at @xmath60 and @xmath61 show a null probability of 3% from the mann - whitney @xmath72 test .",
    "this increase in ew would not be too surprising given the rapid increase in the fraction of emitters observed in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] , which is statistically significant .",
    "we have only one red emitter at @xmath73 , and we can not apply any statistical tests there .",
    "in contrast to groups , field galaxies do not show any strong evolutionary trends : the mann - whitney test gives a null probability of 33% between @xmath73 and @xmath60 , and 47% between @xmath60 and @xmath61 .",
    "@xcite showed that @xmath74 of galaxies with @xmath55 in @xmath75 groups show infrared flux excess , which can be due to star formation and/or agn .",
    "the observed low frequency of the emitters compared to the infrared detections may be because and infrared have different sensitivities to star formation and agn .",
    "it could also be because of our conservative ew cut .",
    "to summarize , we observe that the fraction of red galaxies with @xmath76 does not strongly evolve at @xmath0 in both group and field environments , and it is always higher in groups than in the field . the most striking trend that we find",
    "is that the fraction of red emitters in groups increases at higher redshifts , while the fraction is nearly constant in the field .",
    "it seems that more massive galaxies in groups show stronger increase in .",
    "this trend suggests that the red galaxies in groups have dusty star formation and/or agn activities and the rates at which environment suppresses such activities are different in different environments .",
    "we will pursue this point in the next section .",
    "recent large spectroscopic surveys such as zcosmos @xcite , deep2 @xcite , and vvds @xcite have enabled statistical analysis of galaxies in the universe up to @xmath2 and even beyond .",
    "several authors have studied the environmental dependence of galaxy properties using data from those surveys ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "but , the results from those papers are not always consistent .",
    "in particular , results on the color - density relation at @xmath1 and interpretations of it seem to be controversial .",
    "in fact , our finding that the fraction of red galaxies depends on environment up to @xmath1 does not seem to be consistent at a first glance with those from @xcite and @xcite who have found no strong dependence of galaxy colors on density at @xmath1 based on a stellar mass limited sample .",
    "another finding by @xcite that the red fraction decreases with increasing redshift is not consistent either .",
    "@xcite discussed differences in the data sets and in the ways analyses were made in the literature .",
    "but , we use basically the same data set as @xcite and @xcite and the observed differences appear at odds . here",
    "we attribute the cause of the differences to differences in ( i ) definitions of environments and in ( ii ) definitions of red galaxies .",
    "there is a fair amount of evidence that galaxy properties depend on the mass of groups and clusters at high redshifts ( e.g. , @xcite ) . in this paper , we use x - ray selected groups , while most of the previous papers from large spectroscopic surveys are based on galaxy groups ( or galaxy densities ) identified using spectroscopically observed galaxies .",
    "there are pros and cons in these environment definitions , but the advantage of the x - ray groups is that our environment is mass - selected . as mentioned earlier , 90% of the groups at @xmath31 in cosmos are spectroscopically confirmed , and we probably sample the group - mass environments well in this study .",
    "a further comparison between optical and x - ray groups will be made in finoguenov et al .",
    "( in prep ) .    a disadvantage would be that we can not identify very low - mass groups which are below our x - ray detection limit , while optical group identification algorithms can .",
    "we suspect that these low - mass groups would be the primary cause of the difference from @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite showed that optically poor groups tend to exhibit a lower red fraction than optically rich groups .",
    "poor groups are more numerous than rich ones and they dominate the group sample , which results in a smaller difference in the red fraction between groups and field .",
    "the difference in the group mass ranges explored could account for the difference in the dependence of the red fraction on environment between us and the previous studies .",
    "we note that @xcite recently observed clear dependence of the red fraction as a function of stellar mass on environment based on the photometric data in cosmos .",
    "another cause of the difference is that our definition of red galaxies is different from that adopted in @xcite .",
    "they adopted a color threshold of @xmath77 regardless of redshift and stellar mass of galaxies , while we account for the tilt of the red sequence with respect to stellar mass and also for the passive evolution .",
    "we have confirmed that the red fraction decreases at higher redshifts if we adopt the same definition as theirs .",
    "we prefer to account for the tilt and passive evolution to define red/ blue galaxies in this paper .",
    "the above two reasons are likely the primary causes of the somewhat different results between us and the previous authors .",
    "@xcite and @xcite also suggested that the red fraction decreases with increasing redshifts in high density environments .",
    "this might be due to the selection of galaxies .",
    "they applied a rest - frame @xmath78-band magnitude cut , not a stellar mass cut .",
    "the @xmath78-band magnitude cut introduces a strong bias towards star forming galaxies , which could result in a lower red fraction at higher redshifts .",
    "we note that there is a non - zero possibility that we are missing groups dominated by blue galaxies because we used the red sequence finder in the group identification process and that could possibly enhance the difference between groups and field .",
    "however , our technique uses a contrast of the red sequence between group and field and we do not actually require a higher fraction of red galaxies in groups .",
    "even if groups had the same red fraction as the field , we can identify them as long as they show an over - density .",
    "we miss only groups in which the fraction of red galaxies is significantly lower than the field .",
    "it is unlikely that such very blue groups are so abundant that they change our results significantly because we have identified @xmath79 of all the x - ray group candidates at @xmath31 with high significance and they exhibit a clearer red sequence compared to field galaxies .",
    "recently , @xcite reported on h@xmath41 narrow - band imaging of a @xmath80 cluster .",
    "they found that groups exhibit a higher fraction of h@xmath41 emitters than in the field , which is in contrast to our finding in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] .",
    "there are a number of differences in the explored stellar mass range , observing technique , emission line used and emission line sensitivity .",
    "these differences hinder detailed comparisons with our results .",
    "the increasing fraction of red emitters with increasing redshift must be due to increasing dusty star formation activities and/or agn activities .",
    "recent studies of @xmath3 clusters also reported on increased rate of emission line galaxies in clusters than in lower redshift clusters ( e.g. , @xcite , but see also @xcite ) .",
    "but , this trend is not established yet , and it is not clear if the emission line originates from star formation or agn activities either .",
    "( 80mm,1mm)fig7.eps    let us first ask if the emission is due to dusty star formation .",
    "we look at the @xmath81 color of the emitters taken from @xcite .",
    "the @xmath81 color is a reddening corrected color of galaxy templates used for the photometric redshift estimates ( i.e. , the raw template colors without dust extinction ) using the 30-band photometry .",
    "this is sensitive to on - going star formation as shown by @xcite .",
    "we adopt a threshold of @xmath82 to separate quiescent galaxies from star - forming galaxies @xcite and plot the fraction of quiescent galaxies in fig .",
    "[ fig : nuv_r_distrib2 ] . as the color from @xcite",
    "is based on photometric redshifts , we use galaxies with correct photometric redshifts ( @xmath83 ) .",
    "we note that this analysis is essentially equivalent to the popular two - color diagnostics to separate quiescent red galaxies from dusty ones @xcite .",
    "but , instead of using only 2 colors , we here make use of the 30-band photometry that gives a fine sampling of galaxy seds over a wide wavelength range to discriminate quiescent galaxies from dusty star forming ones .",
    "let us start with the red galaxies without significant emission shown by the open and filled triangles .",
    "the quiescent fractions of these galaxies are very high as expected from the absence of .",
    "the stellar population of these galaxies is typically old and there is no significant difference between groups and field .",
    "that is , if red galaxies exhibit no , they are dominated by old stellar populations regardless of environment .",
    "now , we turn our attention to the red emitters . the quiescent fraction of the red emitters in the field ( open circle ) is relatively low ( @xmath84 ) , suggesting that more than a half of them are not quiescent and are probably undergoing dusty star formation .",
    "in contrast , the red emitters in groups ( filled circle ) show a very high quiescent fraction even at high redshifts and it is as high as those without emission .",
    "this suggests that red emitters in groups are dominated by old stellar populations despite the emission . in fig .",
    "[ fig : fred ] , we observed a sharp increase in the fraction of red emitters in high redshift groups , but the quiescent fraction does not show a corresponding decrease .",
    "there is no clear evidence for increased dusty galaxies in the red emitters in groups . instead",
    "[ fig : nuv_r_distrib2 ] favors the agn origin .",
    "let us then stand on the other side of the view and ask whether the emission comes from agns . at the redshift range under study , we can not use strong emission line diagnostics such as the one proposed by @xcite to identify agns as the h@xmath41 line migrates to near - ir . here",
    "we take another way to identify agns  x - rays  and quantify how agns populate in the redshift range studied here .",
    "we use the chandra point source catalog @xcite and apply an x - ray luminosity cut of @xmath85 , at which we are nearly complete up to @xmath2 . in the field",
    ", an x - ray detection rate of the red emitters seems to increase in the highest redshift bin : @xmath86 , @xmath87 , and @xmath88 from low to high redshift bins .",
    "however , we detect no red emitters in groups in x - rays : @xmath89 , @xmath90 , and @xmath91 from low to high redshifts .",
    "most of the red emitters in groups are not detected in x - rays ( only 2 are detected , but with luminosities below the cut applied above ) .",
    "@xcite found that agns in quiescent galaxies are typically soft , low - luminosity agns in the local universe .",
    "motivated by this , we performed a stacking analysis of those undetected sources in the soft band with a special care to remove the extended component @xcite . by stacking 9 objects that are not individually detected",
    ", we measure an average luminosity of @xmath92 in 0.52 kev , which translates into @xmath93 and @xmath94 at @xmath95 and @xmath2 , respectively .",
    "this luminosity level can be explained both by low - luminosity agn and star formation origins .",
    "we can not constrain the agn fraction in groups with x - rays .",
    "x - rays unfortunately do not put any constraint on the agn or dusty star formation origin , but the robust photometric analysis based on the 30 photometric bands presented above seems to lend support to the agn origin of the emission , although the statistics is poor .",
    "the stellar population of the red emitters in groups is old and there is no hint of strong on - going star formation in those galaxies .",
    "the observed emission is unlikely due to star formation and the most probable origin of it is agns .",
    "a possibility of weak agns in groups is supported by recent work by @xcite , who performed near - ir spectroscopy of galaxies dominated by old stellar population but have emission in @xmath96 and 0.9 clusters .",
    "they found that a significant fraction of them ( @xmath97 ) harbor agns . it would not be surprising if a large fraction of the red emitters in our high redshift groups are agns as they have similar photometric properties as those studied in @xcite . however , other authors reported on increased dusty star formation activities in groups at high redshifts ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite found that group galaxies at @xmath98 show weak h@xmath99 absorptions and they speculated that it might be due to large extinction .",
    "post - starburst galaxies might favor groups @xcite .",
    "@xcite also reported that post - starburst galaxies prefer high density environments based on the zcosmos data .",
    "recently , @xcite observed that both agn and star formation take place in a @xmath100 cluster .    given this controversial situation , it is probably fair to say that the origin of the emission line is still unclear at this point .",
    "it may be that both dusty star formation activities and agn activities increases at high redshifts and there is a strong cluster - cluster variation .",
    "any conclusion on the origin of the emission needs to be drawn from a larger statistical sample of groups at @xmath101 .",
    "an extensive near - ir spectroscopy targeting h@xmath41 and lines of the red emitters in groups to perform emission line diagnostics such as the one proposed by @xcite would be an obvious way forward . also , the newly developed agn identification method by @xcite is effective as well because it requires only and/or .",
    "deep chandra observations are obviously helpful as well . using these techniques",
    ", we first have to discriminate agns from star formation in order to interpret the recent observations that distant groups and clusters tend to show an increased rate of emission line galaxies .",
    "we have presented photometric and spectroscopic analyses of zcosmos galaxies at @xmath0 . unlike most of the previous studies , we define the mass - selected environments to study the dependence of galaxy properties on environment .",
    "this is the most important feature of this work .",
    "previous studies have shown that galaxy properties depend on mass of groups and clusters .",
    "these studies clearly show that environment needs to be defined by mass .",
    "we have found that the fraction of red galaxies is always higher in groups than in the field at @xmath0 and it does not strongly change over this redshift range .",
    "this result might appear inconsistent with previous studies from zcosmos , but we have argued that this is due to different environment definitions and to different definitions of red galaxies .",
    "the most important finding of this paper is that the fraction of emitters on the red sequence increases in groups at higher redshifts , while the fraction does now show any significant evolution in the field . the increased red emitters in groups",
    "must be due to increased dusty star formation activities and/or to increased agn activities .",
    "we have studied these two possibilities by using the 30-band photometry and x - ray data .",
    "while the x - ray data do not put a strong constraint on them , the 30-band photometry suggests that the stellar population of the emitters in groups is old and there is no hint of enhanced dusty star forming activities .",
    "this lends support to increased agn activities .",
    "recent observations often report a high fraction of emission line galaxies in distant groups and clusters .",
    "the question now is where the emission comes from .",
    "we have obtained evidence for the agn origin and recent near - ir spectroscopic work also favors it .",
    "but , our overall statistics is poor and some of the previous studies seem to favor the dusty star formation origin .",
    "more observations are obviously needed to settle the issue .",
    "this work is supported by world premier international research center initiative ( wpi initiative ) , mext , japan and also in part by kakenhi no .",
    "this work is based on observations undertaken at the european southern observatory ( eso ) very large telescope ( vlt ) under the large program 175.a-0839 .",
    "we would like to thank the anonymous referee for useful comments , which helped improve the paper .",
    "aihara , h. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 193 , 29 baldwin , j.  a. , phillips , m.  m. , & terlevich , r.  1981 , , 93 , 5 balogh , m.  l. , morris , s.  l. , yee , h.  k.  c. , carlberg , r.  g. , & ellingson , e.  1997 , , 488 , l75 bauer , a.  e. , grtzbauch , r. , jrgensen , i. , varela , j. , & bergmann , m.  2011 , , 411 , 2009 baldry , i.  k. , balogh , m.  l. , bower , r.  g. , glazebrook , k. , nichol , r.  c. , bamford , s.  p. , & budavari , t.  2006 , , 373 , 469 balogh , m.  l. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 412 , 2303 bielby , r.  m. , finoguenov , a. , tanaka , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 523 , a66 blanton , m.  r. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 594 , 186 blanton , m.  r. , eisenstein , d. , hogg , d.  w. , schlegel , d.  j. , & brinkmann , j.  2005 , , 629 , 143 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s.  2003 , , 344 , 1000 bolzonella , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 524 , a76 carlberg , r.  g. , yee , h.  k.  c. , & ellingson , e.  1997 , , 478 , 462 chabrier , g.  2003 , , 115 , 763 finoguenov , a. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 182 colless , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , arxiv : astro - ph/0306581 cooper , m.  c. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 409 , 337 cooper , m.  c. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 376 , 1445 cucciati , o. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 458 , 39 cucciati , o. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 524 , a2 davis , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 4834 , 161 demarco , r. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 432 , 381 demarco , r. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 663 , 164 doi , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 1628 dressler , a.  1980 , , 236 , 351 dressler , a. , et al .",
    "1997 , , 490 , 577 elvis , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 184 , 158 fassbender , r. , bhringer , h. , lamer , g. , mullis , c.  r. , rosati , p. , schwope , a. , kohnert , j. , & santos , j.  s.  2008 , , 481 , l73 finoguenov , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 704 , 564 finoguenov , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 403 , 2063 fukugita , m. , ichikawa , t. , gunn , j.  e. , doi , m. , shimasaku , k. , & schneider , d.  p.  1996",
    ", , 111 , 1748 gehrels , n.  1986 , , 303 , 336 geller , m.  j. , & huchra , j.  p.  1989 , science , 246 , 897 george , m.  r. , leauthaud , a. , bundy , k. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1109.6040 gerke , b.  f. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 376 , 1425 gmez , p.  l. , et al .  2003 , , 584 , 210 goto , t. , yamauchi , c. , fujita , y. , okamura , s. , sekiguchi , m. , smail , i. , bernardi , m. , & gomez , p.  l.  2003 , , 346 , 601 guzzo , l. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 254 hasinger , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 29 hayashi , m. , kodama , t. , koyama , y. , tanaka , i. , shimasaku , k. , & okamura , s.  2010 , , 402 , 1980 hayashi , m. , kodama , t. , koyama , y. , tadaki , k .-",
    ", & tanaka , i.  2011 , , 415 , 2670 ilbert , o. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 690 , 1236 ilbert , o. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 709 , 644 iovino , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 509 , a40 kauffmann , g. , white , s.  d.  m. , heckman , t.  m. , mnard , b. , brinchmann , j. , charlot , s. , tremonti , c. , & brinkmann , j.  2004 , , 353 , 713 kocevski , d.  d. , lemaux , b.  c. , lubin , l.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 737 , l38 kodama , t. , smail , i. , nakata , f. , okamura , s. , & bower , r.  g.  2001 , , 562 , l9 koekemoer , a.  m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 196 koyama , y. , kodama , t. , tanaka , m. , shimasaku , k. , & okamura , s.  2007 , , 382 , 1719 koyama , y. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 391 , 1758 koyama , y. , kodama , t. , shimasaku , k. , hayashi , m. , okamura , s. , tanaka , i. , & tokoku , c.  2010 , , 403 , 1611 koyama , y. , kodama , t. , nakata , f. , shimasaku , k. , & okamura , s.  2011 , , 734 , 66 leauthaud , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 709 , 97 le fvre , o. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 4841 , 1670 le fvre , o. , et al .  2005 , , 439 , 845 lewis , i. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 334 , 673 lemaux , b.  c. , lubin , l.  m. , shapley , a. , kocevski , d. , gal , r.  r. , & squires , g.  k.  2010 , , 716 , 970 lidman , c. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 489 , 981 lilly , s.  j. , le fevre , o. , crampton , d. , hammer , f. , & tresse , l.  1995 , , 455 , 50 lilly , s.  j. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 184 , 218 lilly , s.  j. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 70 lubin , l.  m. , oke , j.  b. , & postman , m.  2002 , , 124 , 1905 mei , s. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 690 , 42 nakata , f. , bower , r.  g. , balogh , m.  l. , & wilman , d.  j.  2005 , , 357 , 679 rettura , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 709 , 512 rosati , p. , stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , elston , r. , spinrad , h. , stern , d. , & dey , a.  1999 , , 118 , 76 strazzullo , v. , et al .  2010 , arxiv:1009.1423 poggianti , b.  m. , smail , i. , dressler , a. , couch , w.  j. , barger , a.  j. , butcher , h. , ellis , r.  s. , & oemler , a. , jr .  1999 , , 518 , 576 poggianti , b.  m. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 642 , 188 poggianti , b.  m. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 684 , 888 poggianti , b.  m. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 693 , 112 postman , m. , & geller , m.  j.  1984 , , 281 , 95 scoville , n. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 1 shectman , s.  a. , landy , s.  d. , oemler , a. , tucker , d.  l. , lin , h. , kirshner , r.  p. , & schechter , p.  l.  1996 , , 470 , 172 stanford , s.  a. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 634 , l129 stanford , s.  a. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 646 , l13 tanaka , m. , goto , t. , okamura , s. , shimasaku , k. , & brinkmann , j.  2004 , , 128 , 2677 tanaka , m. , kodama , t. , arimoto , n. , okamura , s. , umetsu , k. , shimasaku , k. , tanaka , i. , & yamada , t.  2005 , , 362 , 268 tanaka , m. , lidman , c. , bower , r.  g. , demarco , r. , finoguenov , a. , kodama , t. , nakata , f. , & rosati , p.  2009",
    ", , 507 , 671 tanaka , m. , finoguenov , a. , & ueda , y.  2010a , , 716 , l152 tanaka , m. , de breuck , c. , venemans , b. , & kurk , j.  2010b , , 518 , a18 tanaka , m. 2011 , pasj submitted .",
    "tasca , l.  a.  m. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 503 , 379 vergani , d. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 509 , a42 whitmore , b.  c. , gilmore , d.  m. , & jones , c.  1993 , , 407 , 489 wilman , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 680 , 1009 wolf , c. , gray , m.  e. , & meisenheimer , k.  2005 , , 443 , 435 wolf , c. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 393 , 1302 york , d.  g. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a photometric and spectroscopic study of galaxies at @xmath0 as a function of environment based on data from the zcosmos survey . </S>",
    "<S> there is a fair amount of evidence that galaxy properties depend on mass of groups and clusters , in the sense that quiescent galaxies prefer more massive systems . </S>",
    "<S> we base our analysis on a mass - selected environment using x - ray groups of galaxies and define the group membership using a large number of spectroscopic redshifts from zcosmos . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the fraction of red galaxies is higher in groups than in the field at all redshifts probed in our study . </S>",
    "<S> interestingly , the fraction of emitters on the red sequence increases at higher redshifts in groups , while the fraction does not strongly evolve in the field . </S>",
    "<S> this is due to increased dusty star formation activities and/or increased activities of active galactic nuclei ( agns ) in high redshift groups . </S>",
    "<S> we study these possibilities using the 30-band photometry and x - ray data . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the stellar population of the red emitters in groups is old and there is no clear hint of dusty star formation activities in those galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the observed increase of red emitters in groups is likely due to increased agn activities . </S>",
    "<S> however , our overall statistics is poor and any firm conclusions need to be drawn from a larger statistical sample of @xmath1 groups . </S>"
  ]
}