{
  "article_text": [
    "the spectral reddening of asteroidal surfaces is of fundamental importance to understanding the spectral properties derived from remote observations of asteroids and for making a reliable comparison with the corresponding laboratory meteorite data .",
    "the process of spectral reddening for s - complex asteroids has been recognized for a long time @xcite , and it has been attributed to the alteration of surface optical properties under exposure to the space environment .",
    "more recently , several contributions from laboratory experiments @xcite , in addition to dedicated asteroid observations and modeling , have disclosed several intriguing aspects of the reddening processes @xcite .",
    "it has also been shown that , to some extent , the overall results obtained from s - complex asteroids may play a non - negligible role also for other main taxonomic complexes and spectral types @xcite .",
    "+ on the basis of a statistical analysis of a large sample of visible spectra of s - complex asteroids @xcite ( hereinafter p1 ) , suggested that the solar wind is the dominant cause of the reddening .",
    "this conclusion was based on the significant dependence of the spectral slope on the exposure ( @xmath0 ) to the solar wind , namely the integrated ion flux that an asteroid received from the sun during its past evolution .",
    "this analysis is based on a large sample of both near - earth asteroids ( neas ) and main belt asteroids ( mbas ) . in a series of papers @xcite , additional details of the process",
    "were determined , and an estimate of the reddening timescale was given .",
    "it was found that 80% of the slope reddening is reached after about 200  myr at 1  au ; or 800  myr at 2  au @xcite . in general , the derived correlation between the slope and the asteroid age , the latter estimated by the collisional lifetime , requires that the time derivative exhibit an exponential decay : a fast initial reddening ( leading to almost 50% of the final reddening in a few tens myr ) is followed by a slower increase , asymptotically pointing to saturation .",
    "note , however , that the estimated reddening timescale due to heavy ion bombardment is of the order of @xmath1  myr at 1  au @xcite .",
    "+ a recent analysis based on s - complex mba families ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereinafter p2 ) claims that the solar wind is the dominant cause of the reddening .",
    "this conclusion was derived on the basis of the fast reddening timescale ( @xmath2  myr ) observed for two young asteroid families .",
    "moreover , a slower residual reddening is present in their data for older families . despite p2",
    "agrees on the what already found by p1 about the solar wind - driven space weathering , the derived timescales differs by orders of magnitude .",
    "+ to make the story more complicated , a recent analysis @xcite suggests that space weathering timescales may be very large ( of the order of @xmath3  myr for mbas ) , claiming agreement with a different series of laboratory experiments that assume micrometeorite bombardment is the dominant weathering process ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "while the timescales found by willman et al .",
    "are partially in agreement with some p1 results , the physical process that is the claimed cause of the reddening is completely different .",
    "+ a recent comprehensive review by @xcite points out that the consequences of space weathering may vary strongly among bodies , due , possibly , both to different physical processes and to different properties of the affected surfaces .",
    "for instance , it has been found that the space weathering of lunar regolith is likely due to the formation of nanophase iron particles @xcite produced by the vaporization of surface particles by microimpacts .",
    "it is noteworthy to recall that lunar ray craters ( e.g. tycho and copernicus ) show a moderate reddening even if their estimated age ( or the corresponding exposure to the sun ) is relatively large , of the order of hundreds of myr @xcite .",
    "microimpact vaporization , however , might have nothing to do with the reddening of asteroids , perhaps due to much lower mean impact speeds in the main belt ( 5  km / s ) compared to that on the moon ( 18  km / s ) .",
    "moreover , even if we decide to restrict our analysis to the asteroids , severe differences come out in the weathering properties of objects that should be -in principle- rather similar ( e.g. , eros and ida ) . according to conclusions of @xcite , it is not easy , and probably potentially misleading , to define a simple -uniparametric- asteroid weathering scenario .",
    "+ on the other hand , both the solar wind and micrometeorite bombardment weathering processes coexist for all asteroids , even if their relative efficiency may vary depending on the heliocentric distance .",
    "the different effects of space weathering should be foremost dependent on the different properties of the impacted surfaces ( composition , texture , presence of regolith and so on ) . unless we are able to find a well - defined selection criterion , which divides the asteroids into different groups , with different values of all the variables affecting the individual reaction of the bodies to the space environment , the weathering properties of _ individual _ bodies are difficult to assess , but the possibility of a statistical analysis and the search for a unitary statistical model remains open .",
    "+ in this series of papers we discuss the role of mini- and micro - collisions , as a potential solution to the two - timescales conundrum ( as already suggested , at a very qualitative level , in * ? ? ?",
    "+ the role of gardening in affecting weathering properties has been discussed in the literature ( see , for instance , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and a quantitative model has been introduced by @xcite",
    ". however , their models , based on some ad hoc assumptions ( see later ) seem to not be capable of fitting together the properties of the asteroids with those of ordinary chondrites ( ocs ) . in a recent improvement @xcite ,",
    "the fit with ordinary chondrites could be attained , but the reddened surfaces of young asteroid families do not fit with the inferred space weathering timescale . note that , however , not all s - type asteroids are expected to be genetically linked to ordinary chondrites . indeed , several observed s - types have inferred compositions incompatible with ordinary chondrites @xcite ; while laboratory analysis show that ocs may have originated from a comparatively small number of parent bodies @xcite .",
    "therefore , we caution that the average unweathered spectral slope of s - types may be different from that of ordinary chondrites .",
    "+ apart from the technical details , the essence of the problem can be qualitatively sketched in the following way .",
    "we have , on one side , some evidence for a short ( @xmath4  myr ) timescale for substantial reddening : experiments on ion implantation and the observed reddening of some of the youngest asteroid family members . on the other side",
    ", we have also hints for a longer timescale ( @xmath5  myr ) , both from micrometeorite bombardment experiments and from a significant continuation of the reddening on old asteroids .",
    "however , at a microphysical scale , both processes must be present simultaneously .",
    "thus if the short timescale holds , there is no conflict , while , in the opposite case , one should understand why the faster process does not work . moreover , if we introduce a de - weathering effect due to collisions , we can have two extreme cases : if the collisional timescale is by far shorter than that of the weathering , no significant reddening can happen at all ; if it is by far longer , the collisions do not much affect the reddening .",
    "thus , the role of collisions , within this scheme , may be relevant only if the gardening has a timescale comparable to the weathering ; this may be the case , as suggested by @xcite , but this is not enough to solve the two - timescales conundrum .",
    "+ thus , the solution may require an additional effect to be considered . in our model",
    ", this effect is connected to the _ saturation _ of the spectral properties , which can take place even in the presence of frequent gardening of the surface , due to the reaccumulation of the ejecta created by an impact ; this reaccumulation can partially cover the surface with already reddened layers .",
    "the relevance of the reaccumulation may differ in importance , depending on the target s size : thus a different behavior for small vs.  large objects has to be expected .",
    "+ in this paper , we show new observational results in support of the above mechanism .",
    "detailed numerical simulations of the regolith evolution and impact processes will be deferred to the next paper in the series .",
    "the most explicit statement of a fast reddening of s - complex asteroids is presented in p2 , where the analysis is restricted to a set of mbas , namely members of dynamical families .",
    "the reddening timescale is obtained , in p2 , by the correlation of the spectral slope of asteroids ( corrected to eliminate compositional effects ) and their family age .",
    "the timescale obtained , for most of the reddening , using data concerning two young mba families ( namely , datura and lucascavin ) , is of the order of 1  myr .",
    "this value is consistent with the estimates from ion bombardment laboratory experiments @xcite , therefore the authors of p2 claim that the reddening of young asteroid families is due to the solar wind .",
    "however , they find also a slower further increase of the spectral slope , which , according to the authors , might be due to different physical processes .",
    "note that the observed initial fast reddening is based on the assumption that the unweathered slopes of the s - type datura and lucascavin families are the same as that observed in ordinary chondrites . otherwise , the resulting reddening time dependence may be different , even showing no intrinsic evidence of a double timescale . however , the existence of a fast reddening process and the observed peculiar properties of q - type neas @xcite do not support this extreme possibility . + the reddening , if mainly caused by the sun , has to be related to the exposure @xmath0 to the solar wind , as defined in @xcite : @xmath6    for the data sample used in p2 , the slope - age and slope-@xmath0 plots are rather similar , since the range of heliocentric distances is rather narrow ( @xmath7  au ) . the slope-@xmath0 relation , obtained from the same data used by @xcite , is represented in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] . on the same plot",
    ", we also report the average data point from the neas dataset of @xcite . for a more detailed comparison between neas and mbas",
    ", we correct the average nea s data point for surface composition and perihelion de - reddening effects due to close encounters with terrestrial planets . for the composition effect ,",
    "a mean relative abundance of olivine and pyroxene @xmath8 was estimated for neas @xcite .",
    "thus , using the formula given in @xcite to correct the slope for a different composition , the mean spectral slope of neas has to be slightly increased by @xmath9@xmath10m@xmath11 ( fig .",
    "this data point was further corrected in order to take into account the perihelion de - reddening correction , as introduced in @xcite .",
    "+ we see that , in all cases , the nea data points are too low compared to mbas for a similar exposure . on the other hand , the average nea slope is similar to those of the datura and lucascavin families , thus implying a similar exposure . due to the different heliocentric distance , this exposure corresponds to a typical age of the order of 0.1  myr for neas  au ; @xmath12 ) .",
    "the reddening timescale of 1  myr suggested by p2 becomes @xmath13  myr for a typical nea . ] .",
    "this timescale is very short compared to all the relevant evolutionary timescales concerning neas :    1 .",
    "their average ages ( or collisional lifetimes ) taking also into account the time passed in the main belt ( the latter may exceed the dynamical lifetime of a typical nea and have a dominant role in determining the reddeding ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; 2 .   their typical lifetimes as neas ; 3 .",
    "the time interval between significant de - weathering close encounters @xcite .    in other words",
    ", the neas should be almost completely reddened , a conclusion that is in stark contradiction with observations . +",
    "a drastic solution to the problem assumes that the short timescale for reddening estimated by p2 is a fluke , and the correct timescale is of the order of hundreds of myr . in this case , the neas problem would be solved ; however , to match ordinary chondrites and young family objects is far less easy .",
    "in fact , the typical slope of the youngest known asteroids is , for the most part , significantly redder than that of the ordinary chondrites . + it is also possible to suggest that the timescale estimated in p2 , and based only on a couple of observational points , is underestimated by , say , one order of magnitude . in this case",
    "the de - weathering effect due to close planetary passes @xcite might do the job .",
    "this possibility should be enforced by weakening , as discussed before , the link between the slopes of ordinary chondrites and unweathered s - types .",
    "+ another , and more intriguing , possibility , will be discussed in greater detail below , namely that the main difference between neas and mbas should be the * size * : most neas are small and , if the gardening refreshing is rather fast but can be significantly weakened by the self - reaccumulation of the ejecta , then small bodies can not become too red . see sect .  3 for further discussion .",
    "+      the long - time camp is mainly represented by @xcite .",
    "their timescales are of the order of several hundreds of myr , and a different laboratory counterpart ( namely , micrometeorite impacts ) is suggested @xcite .",
    "the long - time camp is partially supported also by the results of our group ( p1 ) .",
    "we have found that a residual reddening ( 20% ) takes place over very long ages , even of the order of 1  gyr .",
    "however , in our model most of the reddening takes place in the first period , according to the analysis and plots presented in @xcite .",
    "+ moreover , there is evidence for a fast reddening of some young objects ( such as those of the karin family ) , in substantial agreement with the short - time camp suggestions @xcite .",
    "finally , the apparent sun - dependence of the weathering ( the slope is more strongly dependent on the exposure than on the age : @xcite ) strongly supports the dominance of the solar wind - driven ion - implantation processes , even if it can not be considered as final , unequivocal proof : in fact , the micrometeoritic bombardment may also depend on the distance from the sun @xcite , as claimed by @xcite .",
    "note , also , that the total fluxes used in experiments are tuned to those expected to come from the sun , even if the laboratory rate of ion bombardment is , obviously , by far larger .",
    "thus , if the ion - implantation process is not the main cause of weathering , one should find a theoretical explanation of it .",
    "+ in summary , we are facing a process characterized by two reddening timescales : the former , of the order of a few myr ( or even less ) , is characterized by significant reddening of several young ( and typically small ) objects ; the latter , of the order of @xmath3  myr , is characterized by a further reddening , towards saturation of the effect . while there is no reason to suggest that two different microphysical effects are at work ( why is the faster one not able to redden after the first few myr ? ) , the possibility of a complex process , in which weathering and de - weathering effects are simultaneously active , seems to deserve serious scrutiny .",
    "the timescale of collisional gardening is not easy to compute , since it depends on several ( partially unknown ) parameters .",
    "this is also the basic reason for the forthcoming numerical simulations ( see sect .  5 ) .",
    "recent estimates , presented in the literature , differ by several orders of magnitude @xcite and it is not easy to solve the apparent discrepancies . in this section , rather than present a new computation , we identify the main parameters of the problem",
    ". essentially , the basic questions are :    * * q1 . * for a given asteroid size , what is the ratio between the collisional disruption timescale ( @xmath14 ) and the global resurfacing timescale -not automatically entailing a general spectral refreshing ( see later in the text)- due to an individual impact ( @xmath15 ) ? * * q2 . *",
    "given the size distribution of the projectiles , what is the gardening timescale ( @xmath16 ) due to all projectiles ?",
    "the result is obtained by integrating between a maximum projectile size ( @xmath17 ) and a minimum size ( @xmath18 ) .",
    "when is the integral dominated by the value of @xmath18 ? * * q3 .",
    "* what is the minimum impactor size to be considered ? * * q4 .",
    "* if a crater is formed on a reddened region , what is the fraction of the ejecta which , refalling onto the asteroid surface , gives rise to a -partially or completely- reddened surface ?",
    "this possibility has not been taken into account in previous computations .",
    "the relevance of the effect depends , obviously , on the size of the asteroid , thus introducing differences between small and large objects .",
    "let us consider * q1 * first . according to the analysis presented in @xcite and @xcite ,",
    "the size of the resurfaced region ( @xmath19 ) is roughly proportional to that of the impacting projectile ( @xmath20 ) , namely @xmath21 .",
    "thus the resurfaced area is @xmath22 times larger than the projectile cross section .",
    "the value of @xmath23 depends on various parameters , but the linear relation seems rather reasonable and robust for the typical conditions of asteroidal impacts : in fact the size of the resurfaced region is proportional to the size of the crater @xcite , and this latter is proportional to that of the projectile ( at least in the strength regime ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus we can adopt this as a basic rule .",
    "consequently , it is possible also to discuss the first question : a global resurfacing follows from the impact of a projectile whose size is about @xmath24 times that of the target ( the factor @xmath25 comes out from the factor @xmath26 relating the surface of a sphere and the area of a circle with the same radius ) .",
    "+ the value of @xmath23 is not easy to estimate . according to @xcite , and references therein , the size of the crater @xmath27 , and the size of the resurfaced region is about @xmath28 times larger than the crater size .",
    "the mean size of the resurfaced region is thus about @xmath29 times that of the projectile ( or , in terms of area vs.  the cross - section of the projectile , we have a factor around @xmath30 ) .",
    "however , the size of the crater might be larger : for instance , the scaling laws suggest a value approximately twice as large ; moreover , the deep impact experiment @xcite suggests a transient crater , say , more than 100 times larger than the projectile . on the other hand , to compute the ratio between the resurfaced area and the crater area is even more difficult : the estimates might be a factor @xmath31 @xcite , or @xmath32 @xcite , which is intermediate between those suggested by @xcite , according to which the ratio between the sizes ( to be squared to convert to areas ) is between @xmath25 and @xmath33 .",
    "the above uncertainties , all together , may affect the value of @xmath23 , increasing it from a minimum value of about 30 ( see above ) , by even more than an order of magnitude , consequently strongly decreasing the gardening timescale .",
    "+ therefore , the minimum projectile / target mass ratio causing a complete gardening is @xmath34 in the conservative case , while going down to @xmath35 in the extreme opposite ; the former value is , according to current collisional theories @xcite , smaller than that causing a catastrophic disruption but larger than that causing a complete shattering of the target @xcite .",
    "if , as usual , the size distribution is a monotonic decreasing function of size , it entails @xmath36 ( maybe @xmath37 ) .",
    "moreover , especially when considering large targets , the role of gravity has to be taken into account .",
    "+ note that in order to evaluate the global effects of collisions , it may also be important to consider the so - called `` global - jolt '' , namely regolith displacement over the entire target surface due to impact - generated seismic waves .",
    "these effects can be estimated according to @xcite , by the following equation :    @xmath38    where @xmath39 is the size of the projectile producing , as a consequence of the impact , an acceleration @xmath40 ( in units of the acceleration of gravity @xmath41 ) to all surface particles , and is a function of the target diameter @xmath42 and of the impact speed @xmath43 . assuming that similar consequences follow from a similar value of @xmath44 , the above formula indicates that the size of a projectile able to produce global - jolt scales as @xmath45 .",
    "therefore , for the same impact speed , smaller asteroids are affected by progressively smaller impactors than larger ones .",
    "+ previous arguments showed that the physics of the impact processes plays a major role in understanding the collisional disruption rate and the rate of global resurfacing . since the outcome of a collision depends on the physical properties of the target , maybe a single recipe for all asteroids does not hold .",
    "more likely , small rubble - pile asteroids will have a different response compared to large rubble piles or monoliths .",
    "+ the answer to question * q2 * requires the choice of an asteroid size - frequency distribution .",
    "the problem is not simple and will not be discussed in detail here .",
    "however , we can take a simple power law , such as the traditional `` dohnanyi slope '' ( dohnanyi , 1969 ) obtained by simplified assumptions regarding a stationary collisional cascade :    @xmath46    where @xmath47 and @xmath48 are constant quantities and @xmath49 is the mass . in general @xmath50 ; for the donhanyi slope @xmath51 , @xmath52 . if we combine this assumption with the above - quoted ansatz @xmath53 ( and thus @xmath54 ; @xmath55 is the resurfaced surface ) we obtain the relation : @xmath56    the integral has to be performed between a maximum size @xmath17 of the order of that causing the collisional disruption ( with a corresponding timescale @xmath57 ) , or , better , of the order of the projectile size that causes global resurfacing @xmath58 , and a minimum @xmath18 to be defined . with the above assumptions ,",
    "we obtain something proportional to @xmath59 .",
    "if so , whenever @xmath60 ( or , equivalently , whenever the differential size distribution has an exponent steeper than @xmath61 ) , the small impacts dominate the timescale :    @xmath62    assuming a donhanyi slope ( @xmath63 ) , for an asteroid of size a few km , which should be disrupted by a @xmath64 km - sized projectile , the gardening time is of the order of @xmath65 ( or less ) if the minimum useful size of the impactor , to cause damage , is assumed of the order of a few meters ( as in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while decreasing below @xmath66 assuming @xmath67 1  mm ( as in * ? ? ?",
    "the values can change also assuming a different size distribution or altering other parameters of the model .",
    "+ figure  2 compares the analytic distribution with that of mbas derived by a collisional evolution model @xcite .",
    "the plot also shows the mba size distribution derived by subaru observations @xcite , which is valid down to @xmath4  km .",
    "all distributions are normalized at 5  km .",
    "the plot shows that the dohnanyi slope is a good approximation of the mba size - frequency distribution for the purpose of this work , although , there may be significant local slope variations .",
    "+ the discussion above shows that gardening is usually dominated by small impacts and that the estimate of the minimum impactor size causing resurfacing ( * q3 * ) is crucial for estimating the gardening timescale .",
    "+ the last question of the list ( * q4 * ) , however , may affect the above conclusions .",
    "in the case of an impact followed by the recapture of all the ejected fragments , one may imagine that a non - negligible fraction of the fragments ( @xmath68 ) will show an already - reddened surface .",
    "this fraction should be particularly large in the limit of a very small crater .",
    "we assume that a newly formed crater excavates material from pre - existing ejecta layers .",
    "this material will be mixed - up and then spread around to form a new ejecta blanket .",
    "let @xmath69 be the volume ratio of reddened particles to non - reddened particles present in the ejected material ( @xmath70 for non - reddened and totally reddened particles , respectively ) .",
    "thus , the resulting fraction of reddened particles exposed in the new ejecta blanket is @xmath71 , assuming that half of the particles should fall showing the reddened surface .",
    "+ if we neglect this effect , the maximum attainable spectral slope , due to the combined effect of weathering ( with a timescale of @xmath72 ) and collisions , should be a function of @xmath73 @xcite .",
    "a similar analytic toy model is discussed in @xcite .",
    "conversely , if we take it into account , one can imagine a progressive slope saturation , with a timescale of the order of @xmath74 .",
    "however , in the meantime , larger impacts take place , affecting deeper -and fresher- regions ; the resurfacing causes a partial refreshing ( the fraction is related to the fraction of deep , unweathered ejecta ) and the slope does not completely saturate .",
    "after a longer time , these layers also become completely or extensively reddened , and the saturation is limited only from the consequences of even larger -and rarer- events .",
    "thus the slope saturation may take an asymptotic behavior ; one can guess that the final timescale to approach the slope saturation may be of the order of @xmath75 @xcite . in principle",
    "one might suggest that the reddest asteroids should be those whose typical age ( or lifetime ) is close to the age of the solar system .",
    "smaller asteroids should be bluer -for the reasons discussed above- than intermediate sized bodies ; the same holds true for the larger bodies being farther from the asymptotic saturation . in the next section",
    "we compare our ideas with observations .",
    "the discussion presented in the previous section is rather challenging .",
    "some suggestions may be verified only with the aid of a detailed model of surface evolution , requiring numerical simulations . in this section",
    "we introduce some observational data that seem to support , at a semi - quantitative level , our ideas .",
    "+ one of the most interesting points in our model is , certainly , the different behavior between small and large asteroids . for the former ,",
    "gardening is more effective , since the reaccumulation of partially reddened ejecta is absent or strongly reduced . if the asteroids are a little bit larger , gardening is less effective , and the surface , for a given exposure , might be redder .",
    "this trend should continue as far as the asteroid size increases , reaching a plateau when the reaccumulation becomes massive or almost total .",
    "the value of the corresponding size depends on the physics of collisional processes ; it has certainly to be within the @xmath76s of km size range , since reaccumulation requires the typical speeds of the ejecta to be smaller than the escape speed .",
    "+ for larger bodies , as a first approximation , we imagine the spectral slope to remain close to the plateau value , but , if the arguments presented at the end of the last section are valid , the complete `` slope saturation '' is reached in a time which is of the order of the collisional lifetime . thus , if the lifetime is larger than the possible age of the body ( which can not exceed the age of the solar system ) , the slope might be slightly under the saturation value .",
    "the transition is for bodies of the order of a few tens of kilometers ( see , for instance , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in fig .",
    "[ f3 ] we show the exposure - corrected slope as a function of size for mbas .",
    "the exposure - corrected slope is computed multiplying the observed slope of a particular object by the ratio between its estimated exposure ( function of the orbital parameters and of the age ) and the mean ( among all asteroids ) exposure .",
    "thus , the obtained exposure - corrected slopes are scattered around an average value with no correlation with the asteroid sizes .",
    "we find a statistically significant increase up to around 15  km ( 2-tailed probability of @xmath77 ) , followed by a significant decrease beyond 15  km ( 2-tailed probability of @xmath78 ) .",
    "note that the exposure , used to obtain the data represented in the figure , assumes constant orbital elements ( @xmath79 ) and an age computed according to the prescriptions of @xcite ( applied to all objects regardless their family membership ) .",
    "however , for family asteroids a different age estimate , obtained from the analysis of the overall properties of the related family , can be obtained .",
    "we verified that the quality of the trend is not affected by the definition of the age .",
    "with all the uncertainties in the model , fig .",
    "[ f3 ] supports our ideas .",
    "as discussed in the previous sections , the basic problem to be solved for a reliable assessment ( or falsification ) of the ideas sketched above , and partially supported by observational evidence , is to understand what happens when a crater is formed on the surface of an asteroid .",
    "in particular , the critical issues are :    *   * i1 .",
    "* what happens when the projectile impacts onto a fractured ( regolith , imbricated ) surface and the size of the projectile is smaller or comparable to that of the surface components ? ( this projectile size is represented by @xmath18 in sect .  3 .",
    ") *   * i2 .",
    "* what is the size and velocity distribution of the ejecta ( and , possibly , the size - velocity relation ) ; in other words , given the size of the target , how many -and which- ejecta will fall again onto the target , and where ( within the crater , close to the crater , everywhere on the surface ) ?",
    "* is there any effect due to the rotational properties of the ejecta ?",
    "in other words , do they , re - falling , show approximately the same external surface in about 50% of the cases ( consistent with common sense ) , or is there some subtle reason for a different value ?",
    "the handling of these problems , with the use of numerical simulations , might be successful , as indirectly shown by the possibility of explaining some observed features of eros in terms of a dynamical model of crater ejecta @xcite . +",
    "direct simulation of regolith dynamics is becoming more feasible with advances in computer speed and numerical algorithms . @xcite and",
    "@xcite have begun development of discrete element methods tailored for the low - gravity environment of small asteroids .",
    "key advances include efficient collision handling , proper accounting of surface friction , and implementation of weak non - gravitational forces that may play a critical role in the evolution of surface regolith .",
    "+ many parameters are uncertain , even if critical information and constraints may come out from the analysis of space missions ( see , for instance , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , new interest in sample return from and possible human exploration of small asteroids is spurring development of laboratory and computer experiments that may ultimately shed light on the weathering processes being discussed here . + we will devote a forthcoming paper to the implementation of the required numerical simulations and to the discussion of the results .",
    "simulations being developed will allow a portion of the granular surface of an asteroid to be modeled as a collection of discrete , possibly non - spherical particles in resting contact . impacts and/or seismic shaking of the region will be simulated to determine the extent of ejecta redistribution and overturning as a function of impactor size , speed , and incidence angle . +",
    "the purpose of the present series of papers is to establish a complete model of the space weathering processes for s - complex asteroids , in terms of a balance between the reddening due to weathering and the refreshment of the surface due to collisional processes , introducing also the possibility of a reduced refreshment arising from the reaccumulation of collisional ejecta . in this paper",
    "we have outlined the general features of the scenario and the most relevant uncertainties of the theory . in spite of these uncertainties ,",
    "we have suggested a way to overcome the apparent conundrum of the relevant timescales coming out from the data .",
    "the suggested explanation is also -at least qualitatively- supported by a particular analysis of the data .",
    "however , the overall complexity of the impact / cratering / ejection / reaccumulation processes requires a more detailed analysis in terms of numerical simulations , which we intend to perform .",
    "+ the realistic goal of this future study is a more quantitative estimate of the involved timescales , allowing a better general model and a more detailed statistical analysis of the data .",
    "however , we guess that the detailed interactions between external disturbances and the surface properties of any individual asteroid may lead to a wide spread of results . their interpretation , and the related possibility of deriving some relevant surface properties for a given object , requires very sophisticated modeling .",
    "in this sense , the verification or falsification of the suggestions presented in the last section may be of some preliminary use .",
    "+ finally , we remark that a reliable model of space weathering of asteroids is not only interesting _",
    "per se _ , but also represents a fundamental step to understanding the overall surface evolution of asteroids , including collisions , thus cratering and erosion , formation of regolith layers , and so on .",
    "dcr acknowledges support from the national aeronautics and space administration under grant no .",
    "nnx08am39 g issued through the office of space science .",
    "pp has been funded by asi .",
    "authors are grateful to the referee m.j .",
    "gaffey for useful comments .",
    "binzel , r.p . ,",
    "morbidelli , a. , merouane , s. , demeo , f.e . ,",
    "birlan , m. , vernazza , p. , thomas , c.a . ,",
    "rivkin , a.s . , bus , s.j . ,",
    "tokunaga , a.t .",
    ", earth encounters as the origin of fresh surfaces on near - earth asteroids , nature , 463 , 331334 ( 2010 ) .",
    "burbine , t.  h. , mccoy , t.  j. , meibom , a. , gladman , b. , & keil , k. meteoritic parent bodies : their number and identification .",
    "asteroids iii , w. f. bottke jr .",
    ", a. cellino , p. paolicchi , and r. p. binzel ( eds ) , university of arizona press , tucson , p.653 - 667 ( 2002 ) .",
    "gaffey , michael j. ; burbine , thomas h. ; piatek , jennifer l. ; reed , kevin l. ; chaky , damon a. ; bell , jeffrey f. ; brown , r. h. , mineralogical variations within the s - type asteroid class , icarus , 106 , 573 ( 1993 )        hiroi , t. ; sasaki , s. , importance of space weathering simulation products in compositional modeling of asteroids : 349 dembowska and 446 aeternitas as examples , meteoritics & planetary science , 36,15871596 ( 2001 ) .",
    "holsapple , k.a . , on the `` strength '' of the small bodies of the solar system : a review of strength theories and their implementation for analyses of impact disruptions , planetary and space science , 57 , 127141 ( 2009 ) .",
    "marchi , s. , brunetto , r. , magrin , s. , lazzarin , m. , & gandolfi , d. space weathering of near - earth and main belt silicate - rich asteroids : observations and ion irradiation experiments .",
    "a&a 443 , 769 - 775 ( 2005 ) .",
    "pieters , c. m. ; taylor , l. a. ; noble , s. k. ; keller , l. p. ; hapke , b. ; morris , r. v. ; allen , c. c. ; mckay , d. s. ; wentworth , s. , space weathering on asteroids : a mystery resolved with lunar samples , meteoritics & planetary science,35 , suppl . , a127 ( 2000 ) .",
    "richardson , j.e .",
    ", melosh , h. j. , lisse , c. m. and carcich , b.,a ballistics analysis of the deep impact ejecta plume : determining comet tempel 1 s gravity , mass , and density , icarus , 190 , 357390 ( 2007 ) .",
    "strazzulla , g. ; dotto , e. ; binzel , r. ; brunetto , r. ; barucci , m. a. ; blanco , a. ; orofino , v. , spectral alteration of the meteorite epinal ( h5 ) induced by heavy ion irradiation : a simulation of space weathering effects on near - earth asteroids , icarus , 174 , 3135 ( 2005 ) .",
    "willman , m. , jedicke , r. , nesvorn , d.,moskovitz , n. , ivezi , z. , fevig , r. , redertermination of the space weathering rate using spectra of iannini asteroid family members .",
    "icarus , 195 , 663673 ( 2008 ) .",
    "willman , m. , jedicke , r. , moskovitz , n. , nesvorn , d. , vokroulick , d. , mothe - diniz , t. using the youngest asteroid clusters to constrain the space weathering and gardening rate on s  complex asteroids .",
    "icarus , 208 , 758772 ( 2010 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> space weathering is the generic term used for processes that modify the optical properties of surfaces of atmosphereless rocky bodies under exposure to the space environment . </S>",
    "<S> the general agreement about the relevance of the effects of space weathering on the spectral properties of s - complex asteroids fails when some basic quantitative estimates are attempted . in particular , there is severe disagreement regarding the typical timescales for significant spectral reddening to occur , ranging from 1  myr to 1  gyr . </S>",
    "<S> + generally speaking , the spectral reddening of an individual object can be considered as the sum of three terms , one ( which is relevant for statistical analyses ) depending on the exposure of the object to space weathering during its lifetime , a second one due to the original surface composition , and a third one ( a _ noise _ term ) due to the combination of poorly constrained effects ( e.g. , structure and texture of the surface ) . </S>",
    "<S> + the surface of an asteroid is usually covered by regolith , and its presence and properties presumably play a critical role in the weathering processes . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the role played by collisional evolution in affecting the spectral properties of asteroids and refreshing the surfaces due to the formation of ejecta , and the necessity of a simultaneous modeling of collisions and weathering processes . </S>",
    "<S> we introduce a new idea , based on the possibility of a sort of saturation of the refreshing process whenever a massive reaccumulation of the impact ejecta takes place . in this case , </S>",
    "<S> a dependence of the overall reddening on the asteroid size should naturally come out . </S>",
    "<S> we show that this conclusion is indeed supported by available main belt asteroid spectroscopic data . </S>",
    "<S> +    [ firstpage ]    minor planets , asteroids : general ; meteorites , meteors , meteoroids </S>"
  ]
}