{
  "article_text": [
    "large - scale , high - resolution computer simulations dominate many areas of theoretical and computational astrophysics .",
    "the demand for such simulations has expanded steadily over the past decade , and is likely to continue to grow in coming years due to the relentless increase in the volume , precision , and dynamic range of experimental data , as well as the ever - widening spectral coverage of observations . in order to accommodate the improved observations",
    ", simulations must see a comparable improvement in detail . in recent years ,",
    "simulation environments have grown substantially by incorporating more detailed descriptions of more physical processes , but the fundamental design of the underlying codes has remained unchanged since the introduction of object - oriented programming @xcite and patterns @xcite . as a result , maintaining and extending existing large - scale , multi - physics solvers has become a major undertaking .",
    "the legacy of design choices made long ago can hamper further code development and expansion , prevent scaling on large parallel computers , and render maintenance almost impossible .",
    "the root cause of the increase in code complexity lies in the traditional approach of incorporating multi - physics components into a single simulation ",
    "namely , solving the equations appropriate to all components in a monolithic software suite , often written by a single researcher .",
    "this monolithic solution may seem desirable from the standpoint of consistency and performance , but the resulting software generally suffers from fundamental problems in maintenance and expansion .    the amuse ( astrophysical multipurpose software environment ) project assimilates well tested applications into a software suite with which we can perform individual tasks , or reassemble the parts into a new application that combines a wide variety of solvers .",
    "the interfaces of codes within a common domain are designed to be as homogeneous as possible .",
    "this approach is possible in astrophysics because of the tradition among astronomers during the last several decades of sharing scientific software .",
    "many of these applications were written by experts who spent careers developing these codes and using them to conduct a wide range of numerical experiments .",
    "these packages are generally developed and maintained independently of one another .",
    "we refer to them collectively as `` community '' software .",
    "amuse has recently surpassed our `` noah s ark '' developmental milestone @xcite , in which we have at least two numerical solvers for each of the astrophysical domains of interest : gravitational dynamics , stellar evolution , hydrodynamics , and radiative transfer .",
    "in a first step towards using this framework , we combine here three of these fundamental ingredients of amuse to address a long - standing problem in astrophysics : the relevance of the star formation efficiency to the survival of embedded star clusters .",
    "the amuse environment allows astrophysical codes from different domains to be combined to conduct numerical experiments .",
    "the community codes are generally written independently , so amuse encompasses a wide variety of computer languages and programming styles .",
    "the fundamental design feature of the framework is the abstraction of the functionality of individual community codes behind physically motivated interfaces that hide their complexity and/or numerical implementation .",
    "amuse presents the user with standard building blocks that can be combined into applications and numerical experiments .    the binding language that stitches the codes together",
    "is python .",
    "the relatively low speed of this high - level language is not an issue , since the focus in the high - level management code is not so much performance ( the computational cost being concentrated in the component codes ) , but algorithmic flexibility and ease of programming to allow rapid prototyping . as described in more detail in the contribution by mcmillan , portegies zwart , and van elteren elsewhere in these proceedings , an amuse application consists of a python user script controlling one or more community modules .",
    "the user script specifies the initial conditions , selects the simulation modules , and manages their use .",
    "the coupling between the user script and a community code is handled by the community module , which contains an mpi - based communication interface onto the code , as well as unit - handling facilities and an object oriented data model .",
    "the relationships among the community codes define the numerical experiment .",
    "our model here combines the effects of the self - gravity and nuclear evolution of the stars with the hydrodynamics of the intracluster gas ( pelupessy & portegies zwart 2011 , in preparation ) .",
    "the latter includes both the primordial gas content of the cluster and the gas liberated by the stars via stellar winds and supernovae . in this case",
    "we construct a hybrid n - body / stellar / hydrodynamic solver by combining a direct n - body integrator , a stellar evolution package , and an sph code .    the python user script controlling the experiment generates the initial conditions ( masses , positions and velocities of the stars , and the distribution of the gas ) , specifies the various solvers , structures the procedural calling sequences , resolves all interactions among the various physical domains ( e.g. feedback from the stellar winds and supernovae to the surrounding gas ) , and processes the output .",
    "the particular modules employed in this experiment are the gadget-2 sph code @xcite , the phigrape hermite n - body code @xcite , the tree gravity code octgrav @xcite and the stellar evolution code @xcite .",
    "the first dynamical model is used for the integration of the equations of motion of the stars , the second module is used for the gravitational coupling between the gas - particles and the stars .",
    "the combined solver consists of an integrator for the coupled gas / gravitational dynamics systems and a feedback prescription for mechanical energy input from the evolving stars .",
    "the gas and gravitational dynamics are coupled via the bridge integrator @xcite .",
    "bridge provides a semi - symplectic mapping for gravitational evolution in cases where the dynamics of a system can be split into two ( or more ) distinct regimes .",
    "a typical application would be a dense star cluster in a galaxy , where the internal dynamics of the former evolves on a relatively short timescale compared to the dynamics of the latter .",
    "a similar idea was implemented by @xcite by splitting the gravitational and hydrodynamic evolution operators for simulating gas - rich galaxy mergers .",
    "they expressed the algorithm in a single monolithic code , whereas we adopt the concept of operator splitting within amuse to couple different codes .",
    "the clusters we simulate are composed of a mixture of gas and @xmath0 stars ; both are distributed in a @xcite sphere , and they have the same characteristic radius .",
    "stellar masses are assigned using a @xcite imf between 0.1 and 100 , with an additional constraint that the most massive star is @xmath1 .",
    "this maximum mass is based on the most massive star naively expected for a cluster with this number of stars and mass function @xcite .",
    "the masses of the stars are assigned independently of their positions in the cluster .",
    "we present here the results of two of our simulations , which in our larger paper describing this work are identified as model a2 and model a5 ( see pelupessy & portegies zwart 2011 ) .    for small clusters the number of high - mass stars can vary quite substantially between different realizations of the imf , and",
    "we have performed simulations of models a2 and a5 with numerous random realizations of the imf to examine this effect . we have performed additional simulations in which we varied the number of gas particles to test whether our results are independent of the resolution of the gas dynamics .",
    "figure[fig : model_a2 ] shows the stellar and gas distribution of our models a2 and run a5 . in both models we parameterize the relative feedback efficiency between the stars and the gas by a parameter @xmath2 , which is the fraction of the total supernova and wind energy output that ends up as thermal energy in the ism ( this accounts for the uncertainties in modeling the feedback and radiative losses ) . for the a2 model",
    "we take @xmath3 while for the a5 model @xmath4 .",
    "the feedback is implemented by returning gas particles from stars in proportion to the mass loss rates of the stellar wind and sn , with a thermal energy set by the mechanical luminosity of the star and the canonical energy @xmath5 in case a star goes supernova . for each model",
    "we plot the stars and a slice through the gas density distribution at four moments during the simulation . in the first a2 frame ( at 0.96 myr ) , we see the early stages where stellar winds create buoyant bubbles that rise out of the potential of the star cluster .",
    "as the mechanical luminosity increases these bubbles grow until they blow away sizable fractions of the cluster gas and a free - flowing wind develops ( 4.37 myr frame ) .",
    "the strong feedback then unbinds most of the gas of the cluster . at approximately 9.5 myr",
    "the cluster ism has been ejected  the gas visible in this frame originates from the strong agb wind of the most massive progenitor ( @xmath6 ) .    at an age of 9.54 myr",
    "the most massive star in the simulation undergoes a supernova explosion which ejects the remaining gas from the cluster ( both simulations use the same initial realizations for the imf and stellar positions ) . for the a5 simulation ( with a relative feedback efficiency of 0.01 , compared to 0.1 for model a2 ) , the initial wind stages ( before 0.96 myr )",
    "proceed less violently , with smaller bubbles , and a free - flowing wind does not develop until just before the supernova ( compare the 4.37 myr frames ) .",
    "the main difference between the a2 and a5 runs is that most of the cluster gas is retained in the latter case until the first supernova blows it away .",
    "just before the supernova the a5 cluster is much more compact than in the a2 run .",
    "loosely bound associations can be distinguished from ` true ' stellar clusters using limited observables by considering the ratio @xmath7 of age @xmath8 and the crossing time @xmath9 @xcite : @xmath10 in fig.[fig : model_pi ] we present the value of @xmath7 for models a2 and a5 as functions of time .",
    "a value of @xmath11 indicates that the cluster is in a ballistic state of expansion , whereas a value of @xmath12 implies a bound state . in fig.[fig : model_pi ] we see two completely different behaviors for the evolution of @xmath7 . for model a2 , @xmath7 rises sharply but the cluser fails to reach a bound state ( in the sense of @xmath12 ) until much later ( after @xmath13 ) , whereas model a5 reached a bound state within a few myr after formation and remained marginally bound for the stof the simulation ( up to @xmath14myr ) . in our survey of parameter space",
    "( see pelupessy & portegies zwart 2011 ) , we explore a wider range of initial conditions .",
    "we have simulated star clusters in their embedded phase .",
    "our simulations include the gravitational dynamics of the stars , the dynamics of the intracluster gas , and the internal evolution of the stars .",
    "we find that the star formation efficiency is a poor predictor of final state of the cluster .",
    "there are several arguments why the star formation efficiency is less important than has been found in earlier studies .",
    "the most dramatic event in the lifetime of a young cluster is the occurrence of the first supernova , which blows away most of the residual gas in the cluster .",
    "but due to earlier fast wolf - rayet winds from the massive stars most of the gas has already escaped without much damage to the cluster . in addition , during the time between the strong wolf - rayet wind and the supernova explosion the cluster has time to relax , making it more resilient against destruction by the loss of primordial gas .",
    "statistical variations in our method of generating the initial mass function have a profound effect on the early evolution of the cluster .",
    "the survival of the star cluster may well depend on the masses and orbits of the few most massive stars it contains .",
    "a cluster with a slight enhancement of massive stars may well dissolve , whereas a more fortunate cluster may be born with a larger gap between the masses of few most massive stars .",
    "slight differences of even a few in the most massive stars may well be crucial in determining the survival of the cluster .    the surviving clusters are strongly mass segregated . during the embedded phase massive stars easily sink to the cluster center .",
    "the degree of mass segregation found in the surviving clusters nicely matches those required to explain the oberved degree of mass segregation in the pleiades .",
    "our prescription for the radiative feedback in our models is still very limited , and the next obvious step in improving our model would be by adopting a radiative transfer code to resolve this problem .",
    "this work was supported by nwo ( grants # 643.200.503 , # 639.073.803 and # 614.061.608 ) , nova and the lkbf in the netherlands , and by nsf grant ast-0708299 in the u.s .",
    "mccarthy , j. , abrahams , p. , edwards , d. , hart , s. , & levin , m.  i. 1962 , lisp 1.5 programmer s manual : object - a synonym for atomic symbol ( mit press ) , 105 .",
    "/ scc / projects / lisp / book / l% isp%201.5%20programmers%20manual.pdf[http://community.computerhistory.org / scc / projects / lisp / book / l% isp%201.5%20programmers%20manual.pdf ]      , s. , mcmillan , s. , harfst , s. , groen , d. , fujii , m. , nuallin , b.   . , glebbeek , e. , heggie , d. , lombardi , j. , hut , p. , angelou , v. , banerjee , s. , belkus , h. , fragos , t. , fregeau , j. , gaburov , e. , izzard , r. , juri , m. , justham , s. , sottoriva , a. , teuben , p. , van bever , j. , yaron , o. , & zemp , m. 2009 , new astronomy , 14 , 369 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we introduce a general - purpose framework for interconnecting scientific simulation programs using a homogeneous , unified software interface . </S>",
    "<S> our framework is intrinsically parallel , and conveniently separates all components in memory . </S>",
    "<S> it performs unit conversion between different modules automatically and defines common data structures to communicate across different codes . </S>",
    "<S> we use the framework to simulate embedded star clusters . for this purpose </S>",
    "<S> we couple solvers for gravitational dynamics , stellar evolution and hydrodynamics to self consistently resolve the dynamical evolution simultaneousy with the internal nuclear evolution of the stars and the hydrodynamic response of the gas . </S>",
    "<S> we find , in contrast to earlier studies , that the survival of a young star cluster depends only weakly on the efficiency of star formation . </S>",
    "<S> the main reason for this weak dependency is the asymmetric expulsion of the embedding gas from the cluster .    </S>",
    "<S>   a&a </S>"
  ]
}