{
  "article_text": [
    "axions are one of the best motivated dark matter ( dm ) candidates . arising as consequence of the peccei - quinn solution to the strong cp problem  @xcite they are a natural cold dark matter candidate  @xcite if their mass lies within the range of @xmath0 . ] .",
    "this region is marked in orange in fig .",
    "[ limits ] . beyond the explicit axion",
    "there is a wide range of so - called axion - like particles ( alps ) which have similar couplings but with an often increased coupling constant",
    ". they could also be good dark matter candidates  @xcite .",
    "therefore , searches for axion(-like particle ) dark matter have great potential to shed light on one of the most important open questions in physics .",
    "the possibility that axions or alps ( from now on we will include axions whenever we say alps ) are dark matter both allows and requires new search strategies .",
    "in contrast to searches for weakly interacting massive particles , scattering experiments are less suitable to search for alp dark matter due to their extremely low masses .",
    "hence one usually strives for inducing a conversion of ambient dark matter alps into detectable particles .",
    "most of these searches are based on the coupling of alps to two photons . for simplicity in this note",
    "we focus on the pseudo - scalar case .",
    "] , @xmath1 where @xmath2 is the coupling constant with mass dimension @xmath3 and @xmath4 denotes the alp field .",
    "most prominently , searches employing microwave cavities , so - called haloscopes , have great potential for detecting alp dark matter in the @xmath5ev mass range  @xcite .",
    "indeed a number of searches using haloscopes have already been undertaken  @xcite , most recently the admx experiment  @xcite .",
    "the corresponding limits are shown as the black `` fingers '' in fig .",
    "[ limits ] as a function of the alp mass @xmath6 .",
    "the principle of the haloscope is as follows .",
    "dark matter axions entering a region permeated by a strong external magnetic field @xmath7 will be converted into photons ( which correspond to the electric field part in the interaction term ) which can then be detected .",
    "this conversion probability can be significantly enhanced if it occurs in a cavity resonant to the energy of the alps . since alps are typically a cold dark matter candidate their energy is given essentially by their mass . to cover a wide range of axion masses one therefore has to have setups with cavities resonant at a range of different frequencies .",
    "proposing experiments for sensitively probing new frequency ranges is one of the goals of the present note .    .",
    "the left green / red region shows the masses and couplings that could be probed in a setup with a toroidal magnet .",
    ", width=434 ]    up to now all haloscope searches have used solenoid magnets to provide the magnetic field . however , at accelerator and advanced light source facilities a range of magnets are available that have not yet been exploited for their use in searches for alp dm .",
    "in particular we have the typical dipoles used for the accelerator itself as well as toroidal magnets used in particle detectors .",
    "in addition we have the wiggler magnets used for creating synchrotron and free electron laser light .",
    "the aim of this note is to investigate these magnets with respect to their use in haloscope searches for alp dm . as we will see these new types of magnets allow to explore new mass ranges as well as having the potential for better sensitivity . in the following sections [ dipole ] , [ wiggler ] and [ toroid ] we will go through the three mentioned types of magnets , discuss the required cavities and mechanisms for tuning them and provide estimates for the achievable sensitivity . in sect .  [ future ] we will then briefly discuss possibilities for future magnets .",
    "finally we conclude in sect .",
    "[ conclusions ] .",
    "let us first consider the use of a typical accelerator type dipole magnet .",
    "accelerator dipoles offer strong fields in a long region , with the magnetic field oriented perpendicular to the long direction .",
    "typical parameters are given in tab .",
    "[ table1 ] .",
    ".dimensions of three different types of available superconducting dipole magnets .",
    "the bore aperture radius @xmath8 assumes straightened magnets .",
    "( the straightening of hera dipole magnets is presently under study at desy in context of the alps - ii experiment . ) [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      let us take the spring-8 magnet as an example . from its width and height",
    "our benchmark cavity also fits into this magnet .",
    "if only a single wiggler of this type is available the useable cavity length , however , is reduced to @xmath91  m. however , there is absolutely no fundamental problem in combining a sizeable number of wigglers to achieve a total cavity length of about 10  m.    let us now take a look at the required modes and the achievable sensitivity . to make optimal use of the cavity we use a te@xmath10 mode where @xmath11 is given by the number of alternating field regions .",
    "for the spring-8 magnet @xmath12 .    as long as we choose @xmath11 to be equal to the number of magnetic domains in the wiggler the geometry factor is given by eq .   for the ( 101)-mode , @xmath13 .    the power output , measuring time and scanning speed are given by eqs",
    ".  - . with the same assumptions for the detector and cavity quality factor the sensitivity for a single wiggler",
    "is reduced by a factor three compared to the ( longer ) dipole . combining several wigglers to achieve the same total length the sensitivities are equal .",
    "an advantage of the wiggler configuration is that the mode spacing eq",
    ".   grows with @xmath11 , i.e. the number of oscillations in the wiggler .",
    "the problem of overlapping modes is therefore somewhat reduced . using this",
    "we find for the maximal useable length without sectioning , @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the domain size of the wiggler magnet .",
    "we can see that using a wiggler magnet significantly reduces the need for sectioning .",
    "the bigger width of many of the wiggler magnets could also be used to probe lower frequencies .",
    "using the full width of 10 cm of the spring-8 magnet reduces the frequency to about 1.5 ghz , while only increasing the sensitivity due to the additional volume while at the same time benefitting from the increased alp number density .",
    "in addition one can hope for an improved @xmath16 according to eq .  .",
    "building a set of tunable cavities such that the whole frequency range @xmath17  ghz is covered , one could hope to scan the lightly shaded region shown in fig .",
    "[ limits ] .      for a rectangular cavity in a dipole magnet all te@xmath10 modes with @xmath18 suffer from a low geometric form factor c.",
    "this is predicted by eq .   and a direct cause of the sinusoidal electric field distribution @xmath19 along the length of the cavity given by eq .  .",
    "for @xmath18 there are positive and negative values for @xmath19 in different parts of the cavity , cancelling each other out partly or completely in eq .   and leading to a small geometric form factor .",
    "one way to work around this issue is proposed in sect .",
    "[ ch : wiggler ] and involves changing the polarity of the external magnetic field in those regions , where the electric field points in the unwanted direction , thus recovering the geometric form factor close to its theoretical maximum of @xmath20 .",
    "alternatively the cavity can be mechanically rotated , changing the polarity of the electric field inside .",
    "we propose an alternation of a straight rectangular piece and a special element , smoothly twisting the structure by 180 degree around its axis .",
    "this alternation is repeated to fill up the dipole magnet . a similar",
    ", commercially available waveguide twist for 90 degrees is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : twistedwg ] .     in a dipole magnet while avoiding many engineering challenges of other setups.,scaledwidth=40.0% ]    we want the length of the twist - element ( @xmath21 ) to be as short as possible as the electric field inside points in an unfavorable direction .",
    "its minimum length is bound by several times the free space wavelength given by @xmath22 . in a first approximation",
    "the geometric form factor of this structure would then be given by eq .",
    ", where @xmath23 is the length of a straight section .",
    "@xmath24    for such a structure , operated in a dipole magnet , its sensitivity and resonant frequency would be roughly comparable to a higher order mode cavity operated in a wiggler - type magnet , as described in sect .",
    "[ ch : wiggler ] .",
    "the maximum total length of the structure @xmath25 is limited by overlapping modes and can be estimated by eq .   if we substitute the magnetic domain length @xmath15 by @xmath26 .",
    "advantageous for this configuration is that dipole bending magnets from particle accelerators can be used efficiently , they are usually more common and provide higher magnetic field strengths compared to wiggler magnets .",
    "its disadvantage is , that only the straight sections contribute to the active axion detection volume .",
    "another interesting class of magnets are so - called toroidal magnets as they are currently used in particle physics detectors such as atlas",
    ". design studies  @xcite for a next generation axion helioscope ( ngah ) also suggest to use such a magnet . in certain regions ,",
    "these magnets provide transverse ( to the long side ) magnetic fields similar to dipole magnets .",
    "the advantage of these magnets is that the corresponding `` bore '' sizes are significantly larger than in the case of accelerator dipole magnets .",
    "for example in the magnet configuration worked out in  @xcite one ( of six available ) bores has a radius of about @xmath27 with a ( more or less ) dipole like field of @xmath28 over a length of 20 m  .",
    "in addition to using a full toroid which provides multiple sections of strong dipole - like fields one could also use a single coil of such a magnet .",
    "a convenient ( because already existing ) example is the b0 coil build as a test setup for the atlas toroid .",
    "it provides a 4 t field in a large region ( the coil has dimensions @xmath29 .",
    "although this field may not be fully homogeneous this should not reduce the geometric factor   dramatically .",
    "there are multiple ways to use this increased magnetized volume .",
    "one is to insert multiple identical cavities into the bore and couple them together .",
    "using cavities of the same type as in the previous sections would correspond to an increase in volume by a factor of a @xmath30 which by itself would allow for a dramatic increase in scanning speed without requiring further improvements .",
    "however , as already mentioned previously , coupling such a large number of cavities is certainly challenging .",
    "note that with such a configuration one automatically avoids any of the coherence problems discussed at the end of sect .",
    "[ sectioned ] .",
    "moreover , as also mentioned in sect .",
    "[ sectioned ] , already an increase in the volume by a factor of 10 - 20 would help significantly with the scanning speed and correspondingly with the sensitivity .",
    "alternatively one could use the enormous available magnetic volume to complement the admx search at very low frequencies .",
    "let us take the ngah magnet as an example ( for the b0 coil similar or perhaps even bigger volumes may be possible ) .",
    "using the same ratio @xmath31 as for the dipole magnets we can now fit a cavity with dimensions @xmath32 and @xmath33 with a length of @xmath34 .",
    "this corresponds to a frequency @xmath35    due to the increase in volume to a whopping @xmath36 and the lower axion mass one achieves already a scanning speed of @xmath37 with a @xmath16-factor of @xmath38 and a noise temperature of 3k at a coupling @xmath39 . in other words ,",
    "even with this fairly conservative setup one can achieve sensitivities @xmath40 or better .",
    "indeed , in addition to the increase in volume and the decrease in the axion mass , the situation is also helped by the fact that lower frequencies typically allow for better @xmath16-factors .",
    "even the quantum limit for the noise temperature is much lower @xmath41  mk perhaps even allowing for better detection .",
    "this makes this avenue very promising indeed !    to illustrate this we indicate in fig .",
    "[ limits ] the sensitivity for a set of 5 cavities covering the @xmath42  mhz range . for simplicity",
    "we have kept the ratio @xmath31 fixed and scaled the volume appropriately .",
    "we have also kept the @xmath16-factor fixed . for the green region we have used @xmath43 and @xmath44k whereas for the red region we have used @xmath45 and @xmath46k . already with the conservative setup one probes deep into the qcd axion region and with the more ambitious setup the whole range of couplings predicted for the qcd axion can be covered .",
    "searches for axions and alps will most certainly benefit from ongoing research and development in the area of high field magnets that exists in other communities . as can be seen , for example , in eq .",
    "the signal power relevant for haloscope searches increase quadratically with external magnetic field strength .",
    "equation   also shows that extra volume also increases the output power but , as we have seen , also gives us the chance to explore new frequency ranges",
    ". therefore these are the features we will look for in future magnets .",
    "the high energy physics community has interest in high magnetic field development for its core physics research program at colliders such as the large hadron collider ( lhc ) at cern .",
    "the united states ( us ) lhc accelerator research program ( larp ) is a collaboration of four us national laboratories ( fermilab , bnl , lbnl and slac ) , has been formed to work with cern to advance the performance of the lhc by doing r&d towards magnet upgrades .",
    "similar goals are being pursued by the cern high field magnet program and the high - field magnet group within the eucard consortium .",
    "the development goals include both quadrupoles and dipoles .",
    "the community believes that a vigorous program to develop nb3sn and nb3al technology will be required to support this goal  @xcite . in dipole development ,",
    "the current record field is of 20 t with a 10 mm bore at 1.8 k. however , development goals do not only include high fields , but also large apertures @xmath47 .",
    "high temperature superconductors ( hts ) for use in high field magnets is also being pursued by these collaborations .",
    "although hts is still rather far from being suitable for use in a more application - oriented program its continued progress suggest that it may eventually be useful at least in specialized applications such as in this axion and alp community .",
    "accelerators also use quadrupole magnets .",
    "development of quadrupoles with the largest possible aperture ( of order 100 mm ) and an operating gradient greater than @xmath48 is underway .",
    "however , as long as their maximal field strengths do not exceed those of dipole magnets they are less suitable for alp dm searches .",
    "advanced light sources are at present one of the fastest developing technologies .",
    "therefore wiggler and undulator magnets are also likely to make significant progress in the near future . already at present there is a significant number of different magnets of this type available ( see , e.g.  @xcite for an overview ) . with the aim of achieving more compact aparatuses and shorter wavelengths , higher field strength are one of the main development goals .",
    "the nuclear magnetic resonance research community is broad and active , with high field magnet development a priority due to its demanding spectroscopy needs .",
    "the researchers make use of superconducting as well as resistive magnets .",
    "( although pulsed magnets for use in this area are developed and can achieve incredible performance such as 100 t magnetic fields , this technology is not easily suited for halo alp searches that are described in this document . )",
    "most of these magnets are of the solenoid type used in previous alp searches such as admx .",
    "a 45 t hybrid magnet has already been developed and employed in nmr research .",
    "it was designed as a versatile , reliable , user - friendly magnet system capable of producing 45  t in a 32  mm bore .",
    "the system consists of two sets of coils : the superconducting outsert and the resistive insert .",
    "the outsert contains three concentric cable - in - conduit coils operating at 1.8 k. it uses 33 mw of power and is estimated to cost about $ 15 million  @xcite .",
    "while developments outside of this present field require specialized performance parameters ( high field uniformity and operation in high radiation fields , for example ) that are not needed in axion and alp searches , these magnets should be commercially available in the very near future and provide attractive alternatives to current magnet technology .",
    "the last few years have seen significant progress in the development of magnets for accelerators , particle detectors as well as magnets used for the generation of synchrotron radiation and free electron laser light . beyond using them for their intended purpose",
    "they may also offer great opportunities for the next generation of searches for one of the favorite dark matter candidates , axion(-like particle ) dark matter ( alp dark matter ) .    in this note",
    "we have investigated a variety of such magnets , in particular accelerator dipoles , wiggler magnets used for light generation , as well as toroidal magnets used in particle detectors . from the solenoidal magnets previously used in alp dark matter searches they mainly differ in two aspects .",
    "first they provide dipole - like fields , second they offer a significantly different geometry . in particular the latter allows us to explore new frequency ( i.e. mass ) ranges which are untouched by previous experiments .",
    "both dipole and wiggler magnets have relatively small cross sectional area but an enormous length . when operated in low lying te modes",
    "this allows us to reach high frequencies in the range of @xmath49  ghz corresponding to alp masses of @xmath50 which are so far unexplored . at the same time",
    "their large length provides a sufficient volume to test very small values for the alp - photon coupling , reaching all the way down to the values predicted for the qcd axion .",
    "this makes them very promising for searches in this regime . on",
    "the other hand toroidal magnets offer a quite significant cross sectional area as well as enormous length .",
    "this could be utilized either by combining multiple long thin cavities as suggested for the dipoles and wigglers , or alternatively to test very low frequencies .",
    "the former clearly increases the sensitivities to even smaller couplings .",
    "the latter allows to explore an entirely new frequency range @xmath51 with impressive sensitivity covering the whole range of couplings predicted for the qcd axion .",
    "an important aspect for all alp dark matter searches is their ability to scan over a variety of alp masses .",
    "this can be achieved by tuning the frequency of the cavity .",
    "the different geometry required by the use of dipole magnets also requires a somewhat different tuning technique . here",
    ", we have investigated moveable dielectric inserts which allow to tune the cavity frequency by up to @xmath52 while still offering excellent sensitivity for alps .",
    "( both the quality factor as well as the geometric factor quantifying the coupling of the modes to the alp field remain high . )    all in all the various magnets investigated in this note offer excellent opportunities to search for alp dark matter in a wide range of frequencies which are complementary to existing searches with solenoids .",
    "many of these magnets are already available at accelerator and light source facilities are just waiting to be used to uncover the mystery of dark matter .",
    "m. betz and f. caspers would like to thank the cern be - department management , in particular e. jensen and r. jones for support .",
    "p. sikivie would like to thank the cern theory group and the organizers of the dmyh11 workshop for their hospitality and support .",
    "r.  d. peccei and h.  r. quinn , phys .",
    "lett . * 38 * , 1440 ( 1977 ) .",
    "s.  weinberg , phys .",
    "lett . * 40 * , 223 ( 1978 ) .",
    "f.  wilczek , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 40 * , 279 ( 1978 ) .",
    "j.  e. kim , phys .",
    "lett . * 43 * , 103 ( 1979 ) .",
    "m.  dine , w.  fischler , and m.  srednicki , phys .",
    "b104 * , 199 ( 1981 ) .",
    "m.  a. shifman , a.  i. vainshtein , and v.  i. zakharov , nucl .",
    "b166 * , 493 ( 1980 ) .",
    "a.  r. zhitnitsky , sov . j. nucl",
    ". phys . * 31 * , 260 ( 1980 ) .",
    "j.  preskill , m.  b. wise , and f.  wilczek , phys . lett . *",
    "b120 * , 127 ( 1983 ) .",
    "l.  f. abbott and p.  sikivie , phys .",
    "b120 * , 133 ( 1983 ) .",
    "m.  dine and w.  fischler , phys .",
    "b120 * , 137 ( 1983 ) .",
    "m.  p. hertzberg , m.  tegmark , and f.  wilczek , phys.rev .",
    "* d78 * , 083507 ( 2008 ) , arxiv:0807.1726 .",
    "a.  arvanitaki , s.  dimopoulos , s.  dubovsky , n.  kaloper , and j.  march - russell , phys .",
    "rev . * d81 * , 123530 ( 2010 ) , arxiv:0905.4720 .",
    "p.  arias , m.  goodsell , j.  jaeckel , j.  redondo , and a.  ringwald , in preparation .",
    "p.  sikivie , phys .",
    "lett . * 51 * , 1415 ( 1983 ) .",
    "s.  de  panfilis _ et  al .",
    "59 * , 839 ( 1987 ) .",
    "w.  wuensch _ et  al .",
    "_ , phys . rev . *",
    "d40 * , 3153 ( 1989 ) . c.  hagmann , p.  sikivie , n.  s. sullivan , and d.  b. tanner , phys",
    "* d42 * , 1297 ( 1990 ) .",
    "s.  j. asztalos _",
    "et  al . _ ,",
    "phys . rev . *",
    "d64 * , 092003 ( 2001 ) .",
    "[ admx collaboration ] , s.  j. asztalos _",
    "et  al . _ ,",
    "lett . * 104 * , 041301 ( 2010 ) , arxiv:0910.5914 .",
    "[ alps collaboration ] , k.  ehret _ et  al . _ ,",
    "b689 * , 149 ( 2010 ) , arxiv:1004.1313 .",
    "[ cast collaboration ] , s.  aune _ et  al .",
    "( 2011 ) accepted ( 2011 ) , arxiv:1106.3919 .",
    "j.  jaeckel and a.  ringwald , ann .",
    "nucl . part .",
    "sci . * 60 * , 405 ( 2010 ) , arxiv:1002.0329 .",
    "[ admx collaboration ] , s.  j. asztalos _ et  al . _ ,",
    "phys . rev . * d69 * , 011101 ( 2004 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/0310042 .",
    "a.  martin , talk given at the 6th axion - wimp - wisp workshop on mykonos , http://axion-wimp.desy.de .",
    "( 2011 ) .",
    "p.  sikivie , phys .",
    "* d32 * , 2988 ( 1985 ) , . c.  hagmann , p.  sikivie , n.  sullivan , d.  b. tanner , and s.  i. cho , rev .",
    "instrum . * 61 * , 1076 ( 1990 ) .",
    "h.  h. meinke and f .- w .",
    "gundlach , ( springer , berlin , 1992 ) .",
    "p.  sikivie , phys . lett . *",
    "b567 * , 1 ( 2003 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/0109296 . i.  g. irastorza _",
    "et  al . _ ,",
    "jcap * 1106 * , 013 ( 2011 ) , arxiv:1103.5334 .",
    "a.  v. zlobin , v.  v. kashikhin , and j.  b. strait , presented at particle accelerator conference ( pac 03 ) , portland , oregon , 12 - 16 may 2003 .",
    "n.  v. mokhov _",
    "et  al . _ ,",
    "presented at particle accelerator conference ( pac 03 ) , portland , oregon , 12 - 16 may 2003 .",
    "s.  meyers , talk given at the lhc : present status and prospects for the future , us atlas physics workshop , ( 2011 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this work we consider searches for dark matter made of axions or axion - like particles ( alps ) using resonant radio frequency cavities inserted into dipole magnets from particle accelerators , wiggler magnets developed for accelerator based advanced light sources , and toroidal magnets similar to those used in particle physics detectors . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the expected sensitivity of such alp dark matter detectors and discuss the engineering aspects of building and tuning them . </S>",
    "<S> brief mention is also made of even stronger field magnets that are becoming available due to improvements in magnetic technology . </S>",
    "<S> it is concluded that new experiments utilizing already existing magnets could greatly enlarge the mass region in searches for axion - like dark matter particles . </S>"
  ]
}