{
  "article_text": [
    "mass - loss phenomena are one of the best - known manifestations of the star formation process . in our current understanding of the formation of low - mass stars via accretion ( e.g. , mckee & ostriker 2007 ) ,",
    "highly collimated jets are necessarily present in the first stages of protostellar evolution , coeval with the formation of circumstellar disks .",
    "jets could be the agent releasing angular momentum excess , so that the protostar can continue accreting material from its environment .",
    "evidence for highly collimated mass - loss is widespread in low - mass young stellar objects ( ysos ) : e.g. , jets traced by herbig - haro objects , radio continuum emission , or masers , as well as bipolar molecular outflows . however the case for high - mass stars ( @xmath3 m@xmath4 ) is less clear .",
    "energetic mass loss is indeed present in those sources , although it is , in general , less collimated than in low - mass objects @xcite .",
    "highly collimated jets seems to be restricted to the earliest phases of the evolution ( @xmath5 years ; shepherd 2005 ) of massive ysos .",
    "this is important from a more global perspective , since it is not yet clear whether high - mass stars form via accretion , like their low - mass counterparts ( e.g. , yorke & sonnhalter 2002 ; mckee & tan 2003 ; krumholz et al .",
    "2009 ) , or by coalescence of lower - mass objects ( bonnell , bate & zinnecker 1998 ) .",
    "the presence of circumstellar disks and collimated outflows are key ingredients of the accretion scenario .",
    "the detection of disks @xcite and jets ( e.g. , mart , rodrguez & reipurth 1993 ; rodrguez et al .",
    "1994 ; davis et al . 2004 ; patel et al . 2005 ) in several high - mass objects clearly indicate that formation via accretion is possible in these objects , but we still do not know if this process is of general application",
    ".    here we will study the afgl 437 region , which hosts an interesting molecular outflow .",
    "the afgl 437 region comprises a cluster of at least @xmath6 ysos , although infrared images are dominated by a compact ( @xmath7 ) central cluster of four sources ( named afgl 437n , s , e , and w by wynn - williams et al .",
    "1981 ) , which seem to have recently emerged from the near side of the molecular cloud .",
    "afgl 437 shows clear signs of ongoing star formation , such as the presence of radio continuum emission ( probably tracing ultracompact hii regions associated with sources w and s , wynn - williams et al .",
    "1981 ; torrelles et al . 1992 ; kurtz , churchwell & wood 1994 ) , water masers ( close to sources n and w , torrelles et al .",
    "1992 ) , and a molecular outflow traced by co @xcite .",
    "at least sources w and s are thought to be massive stars , of early b type @xcite .    the molecular outflow , observed with single dish at @xmath8 angular resolution @xcite , is roughly oriented in the north - south direction , but it shows a very low degree of collimation , with high - velocity co emission completely surrounding the central cluster .",
    "interestingly , all observed co isotopes show the same distribution of blue- and red - shifted gas .",
    "given the location of the ysos close to the edge of the parental cloud , @xcite suggested a possible interpretation for the nature of the molecular outflow , alternative to more classical models : if the winds from the ysos , that can be isotropic at the origin , shock obliquely against the walls of the cavity opened in the cloud , they can produce a laminar flow of molecular gas along these walls . when this flow is observed under a particular angle of view",
    ", it may give the appearance of a bipolar molecular outflow .",
    "the observed bipolarity would then be a projection effect , not an intrinsic characteristic of the mass - loss itself .",
    "an alternative explanation for the morphology of the molecular outflow would be the superposition of several outflows excited by different sources in the cluster .",
    "the ir observations showed two different sources towards afgl 437n , one of which ( wk 34 ) is associated with a bipolar polarized nebula ( weintraub & kastner 1996 ; meakin , hines & thompson 2005 ) oriented n - s ( i.e. , roughly in the same direction as the co outflow ) with a centrosymmetric polarisation pattern .",
    "this led to suggest that wk 34 is the main driving source of the molecular outflow .",
    "however , the nature of this source is still uncertain : while @xcite argued that it is a low - mass yso , recent sed modelling including spitzer data suggest that it could be massive , but of young age , with effective temperature still not sufficient to create an hii region . on the other hand ,",
    "high - resolution infrared observations show elongated ( monopolar ) emission associated with source afgl 437s @xcite .",
    "this suggests that more than one source in the region could be undergoing mass loss .",
    "in this paper we present high resolution ammonia observations of the afgl 437 region , designed to test whether the bipolarity of the outflow is as a projection effect ( as suggested by gmez et al .",
    "1992 ) or if , alternatively , the observed outflow is the superposition of individual outflows from different sources . in the case of a projection effect , we should expect the ammonia to show a spatio - velocity pattern similar to that of co isotopes , with blueshifted gas to the south and redshifted one to the north . on the other hand , if this is a more classical example of molecular outflow , we expect ammonia emission to peak near the exciting source of the outflow , and possibly tracing a disk / toroid elongated in the e - w direction , i.e. , perpendicular to the collimation axis ( e.g. , estalella et al . 1993 ;",
    "wiseman et al . 2001 ) .",
    "we complement the ammonia observations with archival data of continuum emission at centimetre and submillimetre wavelengths to further study the nature of the sources in this region .",
    "[ cols= \" <",
    ", < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     \\1 . flux density at 3.6 cm .",
    "flux density at 2 cm .",
    "spectral index between 3.6 and 2 cm , defined as @xmath9 .",
    "the elongated radio continuum emission suggests the presence of a jet , and it is reminiscent of other jets traced by radio continuum in high - mass star - forming regions , like cepheus a or w75n ( torrelles et al .",
    "1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "the derived spectral index of this source ( @xmath10 ) is similar to that expected from constant - velocity winds ( @xmath11 ) . following the formulation by @xcite ,",
    "the spectral index would indicate the presence of a confined jet ( i.e , narrower than a purely biconical shape ) .",
    "this formulation assumes a power - law dependence of width ( @xmath12 ) with distance from the center ( @xmath13 ) , of the form @xmath14 . in our case ,",
    "the derived index is @xmath15 .",
    "the mass loss rate of the ionized jet can be estimated from eq .",
    "19 of reynolds ( 1986 ) .",
    "we assumed a wind velocity of 500 km s@xmath16 , a turnover frequency for the radio continuum emission of 10 ghz , a temperature of the ionized gas of @xmath17 k , a jet opening angle of @xmath18 , and an inclination angle with respect to the line of sight of @xmath19 .",
    "we have chosen a turnover frequency between the two observed ones , since the derived spectral index ( 0.4 ) is partially optically thick .",
    "however , the value of the mass loss rate depends only weakly on the turnover frequency ( to the power of @xmath20 ) , and the possible error introduced by this value is small . under these assumptions ,",
    "we obtain a mass - loss rate of @xmath21 m@xmath22 yr@xmath16 . the assumed velocity of 500 km s@xmath16 would imply a momentum rate of @xmath23 m@xmath22 km s@xmath16 yr@xmath16 for this jet , which could be enough to drive the large scale co outflow in the region , given that the derived momentum rate of jet and outflow are of the same order ( gmez et al .",
    "1992 ) .",
    "we also note that mid - infrared images of this source @xcite show extended emission slightly elongated along the same direction .    in the 2 cm map",
    ", there seems to be also some radio continuum emission @xmath24 northeast of afgl 437s , and an extension to the southeast of afgl 437w .",
    "we have searched in data archive for possible infrared counterparts of those emissions , but none was found . at this point , we can not ascertain whether these represent two real sources , or they are instrumental artifacts . if they are indeed real sources , the lack infrared counterpart for the weak 2 cm continuum emission may suggest the presence of young , deeply embedded sources .",
    "some weak continuum emission may also be associated with afgl 437n .",
    "gmez et al . ( 1992 ) suggested an interpretation for the molecular outflow in terms of motions of gas along the wall of a cavity opened in the molecular cloud by the massive stars in the cluster . with this anisotropic distribution of molecular gas ,",
    "even if the stellar winds are isotropic , the outflow could appear as bipolar , and of low collimation , to the observer .",
    "our nh@xmath0 observations were specifically designed to test whether this `` alternative '' interpretation for the outflow is valid , or this is a more `` classical '' bipolar outflow , where there is intrinsic collimation in the mass - loss process , probably driven by source wk 34 .",
    "there are several key characteristics to be investigated with these observations , such as the velocity pattern , the morphology , and the location of nh@xmath0 .",
    "if the interpretation given by @xcite for the outflow , as motions along the walls of a cavity is correct , this drag of material should be seen in all molecular tracers .",
    "in particular , the spatial distribution of blue- and redshifted velocities of the dense gas traced by nh@xmath0 should be similar to the one seen in co.    our results ( fig .",
    "[ chan ] ) are not conclusive to reject the gmez et al.s hypothesis .",
    "there is some hint of more redshifted gas to the north , and more blueshifted one to the south , but the low signal - to - noise ratio of the emission , specially that to the north does not allow firm conclusions . on the other hand ,",
    "the most intense ammonia emission ( c1 ) seems to be related to a particular infrared source ( s11 ) , which also emits in the submillimeter .",
    "the ammonia seems to trace individual clumps , well defined in velocity , rather than a continuous distribution with a velocity gradient , which one could expect from the model proposed by @xcite .",
    "classical examples of bipolar outflows show interstellar toroids of dense gas , perpendicular to molecular outflows and/or jets ( e.g. , torrelles et al . 1983 ; wiseman et al .",
    "2001 ) . in the past",
    ", these interstellar toroids have been proposed as the collimating agents of these outflows , although the actual collimators seem to be much smaller circumstellar disks .",
    "however , given the usual relationship outflow - interstellar toroid , the presence of a dense structure ( traced with nh@xmath0 ) perpendicular to the outflow , and located close to is center , would have favored a more `` classical '' interpretation of the outflow .",
    "moreover , ammonia emission has been used as a tool to identify the excitation source of bipolar outflows .",
    "excitation source of outflows usually coincides with the maximum emission of ammonia @xcite .",
    "this is usually confirmed with the presence of local enhancements of temperature ( with a higher ratio of the emission of ammonia ( 2,2 ) to ( 1,1 ) transitions ) , and turbulence ( wider ammonia lines ) .",
    "the overall distribution of nh@xmath0 does not show any preferential orientation with respect to the molecular outflow .",
    "only clump 3 shows an e - w orientation , roughly perpendicular to the outflow .",
    "however , it is located to the south , on the blueshifted lobe of the co emission , rather than towards the central cluster , and no infrared source is located near its maximum .    using the maximum of ammonia ( clump c1 ) as a criterium to search for the powering source of the outflow",
    ", source s11 would be a good candidate .",
    "its spectral energy distribution and its distinctive nature as a submillimeter source shows that s11 is a yso . nevertheless , source s11 is clearly offset from the center of the outflow , and it is hard to imagine that it could be its main driving source .",
    "however , we note that both , the redshifted and blueshifted co lobes show extensions to the east @xcite .",
    "we suggest that these extensions could in fact be part of an independent outflow driven by source s11 , while the bulk of the co outflow would be driven by the sources in the central cluster .",
    "there are several sources in afgl 437 that could be undergoing mass - loss simultaneously .",
    "source wk 34 is associated with an infrared polarized nebula , and has been suggested to be the dominant exciting source of the outflow . the infrared nebula and its association with a water maser clearly indicate that this source is an active source of mass - loss .",
    "source afgl 437s also shows elongated infrared emission @xcite , which is also suggestive of a star undergoing mass - loss , although this extension is weak , and close to the resolution limit of the maps .",
    "our radio continuum map at 2 cm ( fig . [ radio3 ] ) shows , for the first time , the presence of a collimated jet associated to source afgl 437w . the previous detection of both radio continuum and water maser emission ( torrelles et al .",
    "1992 ) already signaled this source as a young object , but now we see that its mass loss is highly collimated",
    ".    therefore we have strong evidence that at least wk 34 and afgl 437w ( and possibly afgl 437s ) are undergoing collimated mass loss .",
    "this seems not to support the model of @xcite , which suggested that the mass loss could be isotropic ( and the observed co bipolarity would be a projection effect ) .",
    "we now favor that the observed co outflow is the superposition of several bipolar outflows , which would explain its low degree of collimation .",
    "sources wk 34 , afgl 437w ( and possibly afgl 437s ) could be responsible for the bulk of high - velocity co emission close to the center .",
    "we also propose that source s11 is a young embedded object that could drive an additional outflow , traced by the eastern extensions of the co lobes . and noticed that the infrared emission near wk 34 is oriented in the n - s direction next to the source , but it bends to the northeast away from it . suggested that this bending may be due to the interaction of the outflow from wk 34 with mass loss from source afgl 437n , but we suggest that it could reflect the interactions between the outflows from wk 34 and afgl 437w .",
    "this superposition of several individual outflows , giving rise to complex morphologies when observing at low angular resolution , is also found in other high - mass star forming regions ( e.g. , beuther et al .",
    "2002 , 2006 ; ginsburg et al . 2009 ) .",
    "an alternative scenario would be that only one source is significantly driving the ( low - collimation ) outflow , even when present evidence is of highly collimated jets , if both a collimated jet and a low - collimation wind are driven simultaneously by the same source .",
    "evidence for simultaneous presence of high- and low - collimation mass loss has been found for the first time in a high - mass young star in water maser observations of cepheus a @xcite .    to test these scenarios",
    ", we propose that the molecular outflow should be observed with millimeter / submillimeter interferometers , at scales of a few arcseconds , to be able to discriminate the possible individual outflows driven by these sources .",
    "being able to trace the molecular outflow close to its driving source(s ) would provide direct evidence of whether there is a superposition of outflows or if one source is responsible for it .",
    "we presented new interferometric nh@xmath0(1,1 ) and ( 2,2 ) observations of the region of high - mass star formation afgl 437 , with the aim to understand the nature of the low - collimation bipolar molecular outflow previously detected in co ( gmez et al .",
    "these observations were complemented with archive data of radio continuum emission at 2 cm , 3.6 cm , and 450 @xmath1 m .",
    "our main conclusions are as follow :    1 .",
    "the ammonia emission in our interferometric maps is located mainly in three clumps at the south and east of the central cluster .",
    "the analysis of the velocity pattern of the ammonia transitions in the whole region is not conclusive and , in principle , it does not allow us to accept or reject the model proposed by gmez et al .",
    "one of the clumps seen in nh@xmath0(1,1 ) coincides with the maximum of nh@xmath0(2,2 ) emission , and with a local maximum of emission at 450 @xmath1 m . a near infrared source ( s11 )",
    "is also found at that position .",
    "we identify this source as _ possible _ active young stellar object , and it might be a source of mass - loss in the afgl 437 region .",
    "4 .   the radiocontinuum map at 2 cm shows extended , elongated emission in the source afgl 437w , not detected in previous studies .",
    "this elongated morphology and its spectral index ( @xmath2 ) suggest the presence of a jet in that source .",
    "the collimated mass loss observed in sources wk 34 and afgl 437w sources does not support the model proposed by @xcite , which suggested an isotropic mass loss in the region .",
    "we suggest that several bipolar outflows may exist in the afgl 437 region .",
    "the co outflow would be the superposition of them , what would explain its low degree of collimation .",
    "an alternative scenario is that the co outflow could be produced by a main source driving both less and highly collimated winds .",
    "observations with millimeter / submillimeter interferometers to scales of several arc seconds may identify the individual outflows .",
    "gm , jfg and idg acknowledge partial support from ministerio de ciencia e innovacin ( spain ) , grant aya2008 - 06189-c03 - 01 .",
    "jfg is also supported by junta de andaluca ( tic-126 ) .",
    "this research used the facilities of the canadian astronomy data centre operated by the the national research council of canada with the support of the canadian space agency .",
    "rayner j. , mclean i. ,  1987 , in wynn - williams c. g. and becklin e.e .",
    ", eds , proceedings of the workshop on ground - based astronomical observations with infrared array detectors , university of hawaii , honolulu p. 272"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present very large array ( vla ) high resolution observations of the nh@xmath0(1,1 ) and nh@xmath0(2,2 ) molecular transitions towards the high mass star forming region afgl 437 . </S>",
    "<S> our aim was to investigate if the poorly collimated co molecular outflow previously detected in the region is the result of a projection effect , with no intrinsic bipolarity , as suggested by gmez et al . </S>",
    "<S> we complemented our observations with radio continuum archived data from the vla at 2 and 3.6 cm , and with unpublished public data at 450 @xmath1 m taken with submillimetre common - user bolometer array at the james clerk maxwell telescope . </S>",
    "<S> ammonia emission was found mainly in three clumps located at the south and east of the position of the compact infrared cluster of afgl 437 , where the co outflow seemed to have its origin . </S>",
    "<S> one of the nh@xmath0(1,1 ) clumps coincides with the maximum of nh@xmath0(2,2 ) and with a local peak of emission at 450 @xmath1 m . a near infrared source ( s11 ) </S>",
    "<S> is also found at that position . </S>",
    "<S> our continuum map at 2 cm shows extended elongated emission associated with the infrared source afgl 437w . </S>",
    "<S> this elongated morphology and its spectral index between 3.6 and 2 cm ( @xmath2 ) suggest the presence of a jet in afgl 437w . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that several molecular bipolar outflows may exist in the region </S>",
    "<S> . the observed co outflow would be the superposition of those individual outflows , which would explain its low degree of collimation observed at larger scales .    </S>",
    "<S> = -0.8 in    [ firstpage ]    ism : jets and outflows - ism : individual objects : afgl 437 - stars : formation </S>"
  ]
}