{
  "article_text": [
    "neutrinos are unique messengers to study the high - energy universe as they are neutral and stable , interact weakly and therefore travel directly from their point of creation to the earth without absorption .",
    "neutrinos could play an important role in understanding the mechanisms of cosmic ray acceleration and their detection from a cosmic source would be a direct evidence of the presence of hadronic acceleration .",
    "the production of high - energy neutrinos has been proposed for several kinds of astrophysical sources , such as active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , gamma - ray bursters ( grb ) , supernova remnants and microquasars , in which the acceleration of hadrons may occur ( see ref .",
    "@xcite for a review ) .",
    "flat - spectrum radio quasars ( fsrqs ) and bl lacs , classified as agn blazars , exhibit relativistic jets pointing almost directly towards the earth and are some of the most violent variable high energy phenomena in the universe  @xcite .",
    "these sources are among the most likely sources of the observed ultra high energy cosmic rays .",
    "blazars typically display spectra with enhanced emission over two energy ranges : the ir / x - ray and mev / tev peaks .",
    "the lower energy peak is generally agreed to be the product of synchrotron radiation from accelerated electrons . however",
    ", the origin of the higher energy peak remains to be clarified .",
    "in leptonic models  @xcite , inverse compton scattering of synchrotron photons ( or other ambient photons ) by accelerated electrons generates this high energy emission . in hadronic models  @xcite , mev - tev gamma - rays and high energy neutrinos are produced through hadronic interactions of the high energy cosmic rays with radiation or gas clouds surrounding the source . in the latter scenario , a strong correlation between the gamma - ray and the neutrino fluxes is expected .",
    "the gamma - ray light curves of bright blazars measured by the lat instrument on board the fermi satellite reveal important time variability on timescales of hours to several weeks , with intensities much larger than the typical flux of the source in its quiescent state  @xcite .",
    "this paper presents the results of the first time - dependent search for cosmic neutrino sources by the antares telescope .",
    "the data sample used in this analysis and the comparison to monte carlo simulations are described in section 2 , together with a discussion on the systematic uncertainties . the point source search algorithm used in this time - dependent analysis",
    "is explained in section 3 .",
    "the search results are presented in section 4 for ten selected candidate sources .",
    "the antares collaboration completed the construction of a neutrino telescope in the mediterranean sea with the connection of its twelfth detector line in may 2008  @xcite .",
    "the telescope is located 40 km off the southern coast of france ( 42@xmath048n , 6@xmath010e ) at a depth of 2475 m. it comprises a three - dimensional array of photomultipliers housed in glass spheres ( optical modules  @xcite ) , distributed along twelve slender lines anchored at the sea bottom and kept taut by a buoy at the top .",
    "each line is composed of 25 storeys of triplets of optical modules ( oms ) , each housing one 10-inch photomultiplier .",
    "the lines are subject to the sea currents and can change shape and orientation . a positioning system based on hydrophones , compasses and tiltmeters is used to monitor the detector geometry with an accuracy of @xmath1  cm .",
    "the main goal of the experiment is to search for high energy neutrinos with energies greater than 100  gev by detecting muons produced by the neutrino charged current interaction in the vicinity of the detector . due to the large background from downgoing atmospheric muons ,",
    "the telescope is optimized for the detection of upgoing muons as only they can originate from neutrinos .",
    "muons induce the emission of cherenkov light in the sea water . the arrival time and intensity of the cherenkov light on the oms",
    "are digitized into hits and transmitted to shore .",
    "events containing muons are selected from the continuous deep sea optical backgrounds due to natural radioactivity and bioluminescence .",
    "a detailed description of the detector and the data acquisition is given in  @xcite .",
    "the arrival times of the hits are calibrated as described in  @xcite .",
    "a l1 hit is defined either as a high - charge hit , or as hits separated by less than 20  ns on oms of the same storey .",
    "at least five l1 hits are required throughout the detector within a time window of 2.2  @xmath2s , with the relative photon arrival times being compatible with the light coming from a relativistic particle .",
    "independently , events which have l1 hits on two sets of adjacent or next - to - adjacent floors are also selected .",
    "the data used in this analysis were taken in the period from september 6 to december 31 , 2008 ( 54720 to 54831 modified julian days , mjd ) with the twelve line detector .",
    "this period overlaps with the availability of the first data from the lat instrument onboard the fermi satellite .",
    "the corresponding effective live time is 60.8 days .",
    "atmospheric neutrinos are the main source of background in the search for astrophysical neutrinos .",
    "these upgoing neutrinos are produced by the interaction of cosmic rays in the earth s atmosphere . to account for this background , neutrino events",
    "were simulated according to the parametrization of the atmospheric neutrino flux from ref .",
    "only charged current interactions of muon neutrinos and antineutrinos were considered .",
    "an additional source of background is due to downgoing atmospheric muons mis - reconstructed as upgoing .",
    "downgoing atmospheric muons were simulated with the mupage package  @xcite . in both cases , the cherenkov light was propagated taking into account light absorption and scattering in sea water  @xcite .    from the timing and position information of the hits ,",
    "muon tracks are reconstructed using a multi - stage fitting procedure , based on ref .",
    "the initial fitting stages provide the hit selection and starting point for the final fit .",
    "the final stage consists of a maximum likelihood fit of the observed hit times and includes the contribution of optical background hits .",
    "upgoing tracks are also required to have a good reconstruction quality .",
    "the latter is quantified by a parameter , @xmath3 which is based on the value of the likelihood function obtained for the fitted muon ( see ref .",
    "@xcite for details ) . the cumulative distribution of @xmath3 for muons reconstructed as upgoing is shown in figure  [ fig : fitquality ] along with the simulated contributions from atmospheric muons and neutrinos .",
    "the angular uncertainty obtained from the muon track fit is required to be smaller than 1 degree . for this analysis , events are selected with @xmath4 .",
    "this value results in an optimal compromise between the atmospheric neutrino and muon background reduction and the efficiency of the cosmic neutrino signal with an assumed spectrum proportional to @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the neutrino energy , which gives the best 5@xmath7 discovery potential .",
    "the resulting sample consists of 628 events obtained in 60.8 days .",
    "the simulations indicate that the selected sample contains 60  % atmospheric neutrinos ; the rest being mis - reconstructed atmospheric muons .    )",
    "distribution for upgoing events in data ( dots ) and monte carlo samples ( atmospheric muons : dashed line ; atmospheric neutrinos : continuous line ) .",
    "events are selected with an error estimate lower than 1 degree .",
    "the green dashed vertical line corresponds to the optimized event selection ( @xmath4).,scaledwidth=90.0% ]    the angular resolution of the reconstructed neutrino direction can not be determined directly from the data and has to be estimated from simulation .",
    "however , comparison of data and monte carlo in which the time accuracy of the hits was degraded by up to 3  ns constrains the uncertainty of the angular resolution to about 0.1@xmath0  @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : angres ] shows the cumulative distribution of the angular difference between the reconstructed muon direction and the neutrino direction for an assumed spectrum proportional to @xmath5 . for the considered period , the median resolution is estimated to be 0.5 @xmath8 0.1 degrees .    ) and the reconstructed muon direction ( @xmath9 ) for an e@xmath10 flux of upgoing neutrino events selected for this analysis.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]    the effective area for muon neutrinos is defined as the ratio between the rate of selected neutrino events and the cosmic neutrino flux .",
    "figure  [ fig : seff ] shows the muon neutrino and antineutrino effective area of the antares telescope as a function of the declination of the source , after integrating over the energy with an assumed spectrum proportional to @xmath5 between 10  gev and 10  pev . in the flux limits ( see section 4 ) , a conservative uncertainty on the detection efficiency of about 30  % was taken into account .",
    "this number includes contributions on the uncertainty of the sea water optical parameters  @xcite and the om properties such as efficiency and angular acceptance .",
    "flux of upgoing muons selected for this analysis .",
    "the product of the effective area by the visibility ( i.e. fraction of the time the source is visible at the antares location ) is shown with the dashed line.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]",
    "the time - dependent point source analysis is performed using an unbinned method based on a likelihood ratio maximization .",
    "the data are parametrized as a mixture of signal and background .",
    "the goal is to determine , at a given point in the sky and at a given time , the relative contribution of each component and to calculate the probability to have a signal above background in a given model .",
    "the likelihood ratio , @xmath11 , is the logarithm of the ratio of the probability density for the hypothesis of signal and background ( @xmath12 ) over the probability density of only background ( @xmath13 ) :    @xmath14    where @xmath15 is the unknown number of signal events determined by the fit and n is the total number of events in the considered data sample . @xmath16 and @xmath17 are the probability density functions ( pdf ) for signal and background respectively . for a given event _",
    "i _ , @xmath18 , @xmath19 and @xmath20 represent the time of the event , its declination and the angular separation from the source under consideration .    the probability densities @xmath21 and",
    "@xmath22 are factorized into a purely directional and a purely time - related component .",
    "the shape of the time pdf for the signal event is extracted directly from the gamma - ray light curve assuming proportionality between the gamma - ray and the neutrino fluxes .",
    "it is assumed that the muon neutrino velocity in vacuum is equal to that of light in vacuum .",
    "for signal events , the directional pdf is described by the one dimensional point spread function ( psf ) , which is the probability density of reconstructing an event at an angular distance @xmath23 from the true source position .",
    "the directional and time pdf for the background are derived from the data using the observed declination distribution of the selected events and the observed one - day binned time distribution of all the reconstructed muons respectively .",
    "figure  [ fig : timedistri ] shows the time distribution of all the reconstructed events and the selected upgoing events for this analysis . once normalized to an integral equal to 1 , the distribution for all reconstructed events is used directly as the time pdf for the background .",
    "empty bins in the histograms correspond to periods with no data taking ( i.e. detector in maintenance ) or with very poor quality data ( high bioluminescence or bad calibration ) .",
    "the statistical interpretation of the search result relies on simulated pseudo experiments ( pe ) in which the background events are randomly generated by sampling the declination and the time from the parametrization @xmath17 and the right ascension from a uniform distribution .",
    "events from a neutrino point source are simulated by adding events around the desired coordinates according to the point spread function and the time distribution of the studied source .",
    "systematic uncertainties ( cf section 2 ) are incorporated directly into the pseudo experiment generation .",
    "the null hypothesis corresponds to @xmath24 .",
    "the obtained value of @xmath25 on the data is then compared to the distribution of @xmath26 .",
    "large values of @xmath25 compared to the distribution of @xmath26 reject the null hypothesis with a confidence level ( c.l . )",
    "equal to the fraction of the number of pe above @xmath25 .",
    "the fraction of pe for which @xmath26 is above @xmath25 is referred to as the p - value .",
    "the discovery potential is then defined as the average number of signal events required to achieve a p - value lower than 5@xmath7 in 50  % of the pes . in the same way",
    ", the sensitivity is defined as the average signal required to obtain a p - value less than that of the median of the @xmath26 distribution in 90  % of the pes . in the absence of evidence of a signal ,",
    "an upper limit on the neutrino fluence is obtained and defined as the integral in energy and time of the flux upper limit with an assumed energy spectrum proportional to @xmath5 from 10 gev to 10 pev .",
    "the limits are calculated according to the classical ( frequentist ) method for upper limits  @xcite .",
    "the performance of the time - dependent analysis was computed by applying this unbinned algorithm for a single source assuming a single square - shape flare with a width varying from 0.01 days to 84 days .",
    "the solid line in figure  [ fig : nev5sigma ] shows the average number of events required for a discovery from one source located at a declination of -40@xmath0 as a function of the width of the flare .",
    "the numbers in the black line are compared to that obtained without using the timing information ( dashed line ) .",
    "the flare timing information yields an improvement of the discovery potential by about a factor 2 - 3 with respect to a standard time - integrated point source search  @xcite .",
    "discovery ( 50  % probability ) from a single source located at a declination of -40@xmath0 as a function of the width of the flare period ( @xmath27 ) for the 60.8 day analysis .",
    "these numbers are compared to that obtained without using the timing information ( dashed line).,scaledwidth=80.0% ]",
    "the time - dependent analysis was applied to bright and variable fermi blazar sources reported in the first - year fermi lat catalogue  @xcite and in the lbas catalogue ( lat bright agn sample  @xcite ) .",
    "sources were selected in the sky visible to antares and that had at least one day binned gamma - ray flux in the high state periods greater than 80x10@xmath28 photons @xmath29 s@xmath30 above 100  mev and showed significant time variability on time scales of days to weeks in the studied time period .",
    "a source is assumed variable in the lbas catalogue when the observation has a probability of less than 1  % of being a steady source .",
    "this list includes six flat - spectrum radio quasars and four bl - lacs .",
    "only four bright and nearby sources in the considered sample , pks2155 - 304  @xcite , pks1510 - 089  @xcite , 3c279  @xcite and wcomae  @xcite , have been detected by the ground cherenkov telescopes hess , magic or veritas .",
    "table  [ tab : sources ] lists the characteristics of the ten selected sources .",
    ".list of bright variable fermi blazars selected for this analysis  @xcite . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "this paper presents the first time - dependent search for cosmic neutrinos using the data taken with the full twelve line antares detector during the last four months of 2008 . for variable sources ,",
    "time - dependent point searches are much more sensitive than time - integrated searches due to the large reduction of the background .",
    "this search was applied to ten very bright and variable fermi lat blazars .",
    "one neutrino event was detected in time / direction coincidence with the gamma - ray emission in only one case , for a flare of 3c279 in november 2008 , with a post - trial probability of 10  % .",
    "upper limits were obtained on the neutrino fluence for the ten selected sources .",
    "the authors acknowledge the financial support of the funding agencies : centre national de la recherche scientifique ( cnrs ) , commissariat  lnergie atomique et aux nergies alternatives ( cea ) , agence national de la recherche ( anr ) , commission europenne ( feder fund and marie curie program ) , rgion alsace ( contrat cper ) , rgion provence - alpes - cte dazur , dpartement du var and ville de la seyne - sur - mer , france ; bundesministerium fr bildung und forschung ( bmbf ) , germany ; istituto nazionale di fisica nucleare ( infn ) , italy ; stichting voor fundamenteel onderzoek der materie ( fom ) , nederlandse organisatie voor wetenschappelijk onderzoek ( nwo ) , the netherlands ; council of the president of the russian federation for young scientists and leading scientific schools supporting grants , russia ; national authority for scientific research ( ancs ) , romania ; ministerio de ciencia e innovacin ( micinn ) , prometeo of generalitat valenciana and multidark , spain .",
    "we also acknowledge the technical support of ifremer , aim and foselev marine for the sea operation and the cc - in2p3 for the computing facilities .",
    "bloom , s.d .",
    ", marscher a.p .",
    "1996 , apj , 461 , 657 ; maraschi , l. , ghisellini , g. , celotti , a. 1992 , apjl , 397 , l5 ; dermer c.d .",
    ", schlickeiser r. 1993 , apj , 416 , 458 ; sikora , m. , begelman , m. c. , rees , m. j. 1994 , apj , 421 , 153 .",
    "gaisser , t.k . ,",
    "halzen , f. , stanev , t. phys . rep . 258 ( 1995 ) 173 ; learned , j.g . ,",
    "mannheim , k. ann .",
    "nucl . part .",
    "50 ( 2000 ) 679 ; halzen , f. , hooper , d. rep .",
    "65 ( 2002 ) 1025 ; neronov , a. , ribordy , m. 2009 , phys.rev . , d80 , 083008 ; bttcher , m. 2007 , astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    ", 309 , 95 .",
    "abdo , a. a. _ et al .",
    "_ 2010 , apjs , 188 , 405 .",
    "abdo , a. a. _ et al .",
    "_ 2010 , apj , 715 , 429 .",
    "aharonian , f. et al . , a@xmath31a 430 865 - 875 ( 2005 ) .",
    "wagner , s. _ et al .",
    "_ , head 2010 27.06 .",
    "albert , j. _ et al .",
    "_ , 2008a , science , 320 , 1752 .",
    "acciari , v.a .",
    "_ et al . _ , 2008",
    "apj 684 73 - 77 .",
    "monitored source list , http://fermi.gsfc.nasa.gov/ssc/data/access/lat/"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the antares telescope is well - suited to detect neutrinos produced in astrophysical transient sources as it can observe a full hemisphere of the sky at all times with a high duty cycle . </S>",
    "<S> radio - loud active galactic nuclei with jets pointing almost directly towards the observer , the so - called blazars , are particularly attractive potential neutrino point sources . </S>",
    "<S> the all - sky monitor lat on board the fermi satellite probes the variability of any given gamma - ray bright blazar in the sky on time scales of hours to months . </S>",
    "<S> assuming hadronic models , a strong correlation between the gamma - ray and the neutrino fluxes is expected . selecting a narrow time window on the assumed neutrino production period can significantly reduce the background .    an unbinned method based on the minimization of a likelihood ratio </S>",
    "<S> was applied to a subsample of data collected in 2008 ( 61 days live time ) . by searching for neutrinos during the high state periods of the agn light curve , </S>",
    "<S> the sensitivity to these sources was improved by about a factor of two with respect to a standard time - integrated point source search . </S>",
    "<S> first results on the search for neutrinos associated with ten bright and variable fermi sources are presented .    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    antares , neutrino astronomy , fermi lat transient sources , time - dependent search , blazars + pacs 95.55.vj </S>"
  ]
}