{
  "article_text": [
    "there is a growing interest to understand the behavior of pedestrians , not only in emergency regimes - which can represent a real danger for the persons involved - but also in normal pedestrians flows , for example to improve the capacity of a pedestrian facility .",
    "but there is also a more fundamental interest for physicists to study pedestrian crowds , as these exhibit collective phenomena and show several types of pattern formation .",
    "several models were proposed to describe the dynamics of pedestrians @xcite which partially reproduce the behavior of real crowds .",
    "however , several intricate effects have to be taken into account , in particular due to the bidimensional nature of pedestrian traffic ( compared to the quasi one - dimensional road traffic , for example ) .",
    "pedestrians avoid each other by adapting both their velocity amplitude and direction @xcite .",
    "it is tempting to separate these effects by considering some simplified configurations .    in particular",
    ", one - dimensional pedestrian flows allow one to restrict oneself to longitudinal interactions , and to avoid lateral ones .",
    "such longitudinal interactions may occur in narrow corridors @xcite , where pedestrians can not pass each other , or in larger corridors when the encounter of oppositely moving pedestrians induces the formation of several ( possibly narrow ) lanes @xcite .",
    "the interpretation of two - dimensional data may require an understanding of the following behavior @xcite .",
    "one - dimensional flows can be used to test the following behavior in models @xcite . besides , some models do use a decoupling between the angular and speed adaptation @xcite .    if the line on which pedestrians walk is closed , boundary effects are avoided and it becomes easier to study the bulk behavior .",
    "such experiments have indeed already been performed in the past . in @xcite ,",
    "the distribution of time headways was measured .",
    "_ @xcite have measured the density and velocity of pedestrians following an oval trajectory .",
    "they considered densities up to 2 ped / m , where ped means pedestrians , and were able to draw the corresponding fundamental diagram .",
    "this experiment was compared to a similar one performed in india @xcite . in both cases",
    ", data were obtained from localized measurements .    in this paper , we present new experimental results that were obtained on a circular path using high precision motion capture .",
    "the trajectories of all pedestrians were reconstructed in three - dimensions for the whole duration of the experiments . as a result",
    ", we were able to obtain not only measurements that can be directly compared to previous studies , but we had access to new features .    in particular , we can now obtain an _ instantaneous _ fundamental diagram , giving the relation between the instantaneous velocity of a pedestrian and his instantaneous density , defined as the inverse of his spatial headway @xmath2 .",
    "we show that such a fundamental diagram is a mixture between stationary behavior , and transient behavior , for which the velocity does not have time to relax toward its stationary value .",
    "this may occur for example when a pedestrian arrives on the rear end of a jam , or on the contrary when it leaves the jam .",
    "our main result is that the behavior of pedestrians in a following regime exhibits two transitions , one occurring at a spatial headway of about @xmath0 m and again another transition around @xmath1 m. these transitions are clearly visible on the velocity - spatial headway relation @xmath3 .",
    "actually , this relation was found to be linear in previous experiments @xcite . our experiment has allowed us to access a much larger density range , and revealed that actually it is a piecewise linear relation .",
    "we shall first describe the experiment in section [ sect_exp ] .",
    "experimental measurements of the fundamental diagram will be presented in section [ sect_fd ] .",
    "we shall discuss in detail global , local ( subsection [ sect_global ] ) , and instantaneous fundamental diagrams ( subsection [ sect_instantaneous ] ) . in section [ sect_transition",
    "] , we shall present our main result , showing that there exists two transitions in the behavior of pedestrians that can be seen in the velocity - spatial headway relation @xmath3 .",
    "our results will then be compared with fundamental diagrams from other countries , in order to discuss possible cultural variations ( section [ sect_culture ] ) .",
    "we conclude in section [ sect_conclusion ] .",
    "the goal of our experiment was to characterize one - dimensional pedestrian traffic at various densities .",
    "different densities were obtained by modifying on the one hand the number of pedestrians involved , and on the other hand the path on which they walk .    up",
    "to 28 pedestrians ( 20 males and 8 females ) were involved in the experiment .",
    "the experiment was conducted inside a ring corridor formed by inner and outer circular walls of radii @xmath4 and @xmath5 m , respectively ( see figure [ fig : ring ] ) .",
    "participants were told to walk in line along either the inner or outer wall , without passing each other .",
    "this resulted into two types of pedestrians trajectories : the inner circular path of observed average radius @xmath6 m and length @xmath7 m , and the outer circular path of observed average radius @xmath8 m and length @xmath9 m. pedestrians were volunteers , and all were naive about the purpose of the experiment .",
    "they were asked to walk in a `` natural way '' , as if they were walking alone in the street ( and without talking to each other ) .        as a result of the variation of the number of pedestrians involved and of the use of the inner or outer circular path , the average density of pedestrians varied from @xmath10 to @xmath11 ped / m .",
    "table [ table : tab_nb ] gives a summary of the parameter values for which experiments were performed , and indicates the number of replicas that were performed for each parameter set . when it was possible ( i.e. ,  for low densities ) , replicas were involving different pedestrian sets .",
    "for half of the replicas , pedestrians were walking clockwise , and counterclockwise for the other half .",
    "the typical duration of an experiment was @xmath12 minute and somewhat more for higher densities .",
    ".number of experimental replicas for each set of parameters ( sorted by density ) : number of pedestrians , use of the inner or outer circular path , and density of pedestrians . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     still , it seems that for a given spatial headway , velocities are systematically slightly higher in the french case than in the german case .",
    "also , a higher intercept value @xmath13 , which can be seen as a minimal personal space @xcite , is observed in the french data .",
    "a high intercept means that pedestrians do not accept too small distances even in strong jamming .",
    "consistent with these two facts , the french adaptation time is smaller than the german one , which means that their reaction at small distances is stronger .",
    "finally , for indian data , we were not able to check whether the linear fit was performed only on the strongly constrained data . from the available values for the slope and the intercept of the linear fit performed in @xcite , we can conclude that the minimal personal space takes the lowest value for indian pedestrians , while their adaptation time to the change of spatial headway is in between the french and the german values .",
    "to say it otherwise , in view of the current available data , we could say that the strategy of indian pedestrians facing jamming is rather to accept small distances , the strategy of french pedestrians is rather to break hard , and the strategy of german pedestrians is to walk at lower velocities .",
    "however , it should be underlined that these cultural differences are weak , and that remarkably , in the three countries considered , velocity varies linearly with distance for distances below one meter",
    ". there seems to be a kind of universality in pedestrian s behavior , that would be interesting to probe on a larger range of densities .",
    "in this paper , we present some analysis of new experiments for pedestrians walking on a line using high precision motion capture .",
    "we have focused on the fundamental diagram measurements and shown that various definitions for the velocity and the density could be used , bringing complementary informations . in particular , our data allowed a measurement of the instantaneous fundamental diagram .",
    "we have shown that such a fundamental diagram actually aggregates both stationary and non - stationary behavior . indeed , for a given experiment",
    ", the results obtained far from the global density , i.e. ,  for fluctuations , show quite a different behavior from the average behavior , as the velocity is for a while not adapted to the available space - a feature that can be seen as fluctuations around the mean behavior in the fundamental diagram .",
    "our main result is to show that the velocity - spatial headway relation allows to distinguish three linear regimes , that we call free , weakly constrained , and strongly constrained .",
    "the crossovers between these regimes are quite sharp .",
    "the sensitivity , or adaptation time , characterizes how strongly a pedestrian adapts his velocity to the space available in front of him . instead of changing continuously",
    ", the adaptation time takes only three discrete values , corresponding to the three regimes",
    ". this observation should give new directions for further modeling .",
    "any comparison between different sets of data should be careful at covering enough densities to distinguish these various regimes .",
    "here we have compared our french data obtained in the strongly constrained regime with german @xcite and indian @xcite data .",
    "when facing congestion , a pedestrian can choose to slow down preventively , or to react more rapidly to changes , or to accept smaller distances with his predecessor .",
    "cultural background can enhance one of these strategies , though further careful experiments would be needed to confirm the trends that we observe .",
    "however , cultural effects are on the whole rather weak and pedestrians behavior appears mostly universal at the small distances for which a comparison could be made .",
    "further studies covering a larger density range would be of interest , in particular to explore the robustness of the transitions that we have found .      in a separate paper ,",
    "an analysis of the following behavior of pedestrians has led to the development of a microscopic model , which is shown to reproduce quite well the stop - and - go waves observed in the experiment @xcite . besides , its extension to a quasi-1d multi - lane model to simulate unidirectional flow in a corridor turns out to give results as realistic as alternative methods @xcite .",
    "this work has been supported by the french `` agence nationale pour la recherche ( anr ) '' in the frame of the contract `` pedigree '' ( contract no .",
    "anr-08-sysc-015 - 01 ) .",
    "the pedigree project is financed by the french anr and involves four research teams in rennes ( inria ) , toulouse ( imt , crca ) , and orsay ( lpt ) .",
    "experiments were organized and realized by the pedigree partnership @xcite at university rennes 1 , with the help of the laboratory m2s from rennes 2 .",
    "we are in particular grateful to armel crtual , richard kulpa , antoine marin , and anne - hlne olivier for their help during the experiments .",
    "m.  moussad , e.  guillot , m.  moreau , j.  fehrenbach , o.  chabiron , s.  lemercier , j.  pettr , c.  appert - rolland , p.  degond , and g.  theraulaz , _ traffic instabilities in self - organized pedestrian crowds _",
    ", plos computional biology ( 2012 ) to be published .",
    "s. lemercier , a. jelic , r. kulpa , j. hua , j. fehrenbach , p. degond , c. appert - rolland , s. donikian , and j. pettr , _ realistic following behaviors for crowd simulation _ , comput . graphics forum - eurographics ( 2012 ) to be published .",
    "a.  seyfried , b.  steffen , w.  klingsch , t.  lippert , and m.  boltes , in _ pedestrian and evacuation dynamics 2005 _ , editors n.  waldau , p.  gattermann , h.  knoflacher , and m.  schreckenberg .",
    "berlin , springer ( 2007 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present experimental results obtained for a one - dimensional pedestrian flow using high precision motion capture . </S>",
    "<S> the full pedestrians trajectories are obtained . in this paper , we focus on the fundamental diagram , and on the relation between the instantaneous velocity and spatial headway ( distance to the predecessor ) . while the latter was found to be linear in previous experiments , we show that it is rather a piecewise linear behavior which is found if larger density ranges are covered . </S>",
    "<S> indeed , our data clearly exhibits three distinct regimes in the behavior of pedestrians that follow each other . </S>",
    "<S> the transitions between these regimes occur at spatial headways of about @xmath0 and @xmath1 m , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> this finding could be useful for future modeling . </S>"
  ]
}