{
  "article_text": [
    "smart grids are next generation electricity grid system which will integrate power and communication networks . with the growing demand for electricity",
    ", there is a need to develop smart grids which can cope up with the demand by intelligently using different power resources and integrating different components like vehicles , and wireless devices .",
    "smart grids should have capabilities that would enable it to deal with power outages by balancing supply and demand .",
    "this can be achieved by intelligently balancing the consumption between peak and off - peak periods .",
    "one recent suggestion has been to charge electric vehicles ( also incorporated into the grid ) during the off - peak period and discharge it back into the grid . in this way",
    "the grid is bi - directional , energy can be used when needed and discharged back into the grid when not needed .",
    "the operation of smart grid involves many aspects : generation of power using different sources like solar , wind , geothermal , nuclear , fossil - fuel , the intelligent distribution of power by monitoring the demand of power in different regions and different customers , monitoring the power usage by customers using smart meters and intelligently deliver power when needed , building and integrating appliances into the grid , like vehicles ( plugged in electric vehicles - phev ) and wireless devices .",
    "research in smart grid is very important and involves a broad range of problems .",
    "an important problem is to design an architecture integrating all the components which can efficiently use electricity .",
    "smart grid architectures have been proposed and discussed by bose @xcite .",
    "it comprises of power infrastructure and information infrastructure @xcite .",
    "power infrastructure consists of power equipments like generators , transformers , transmission lines , voltage regulators , capacity banks , meters etc , which help to deliver electricity .",
    "the power infrastructure involves generation of power from different sources and their reliable and efficient transmission .",
    "energy efficient distribution of power is presented in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the information infrastructure helps in communication and ensures safety and reliability .",
    "it measures the status of the devices in the grid , balances demand and supply , helps in diagnosis of faults , helps authentication of devices and helps in the smooth working of plugged in devices like vehicles .",
    "devices might have sensors to sense different conditions and can be simple devices as smoke detectors and automatic light switches etc .",
    "there are also devices called phasor measurement units ( pmus ) which measure electrical waves in the grid .",
    "pmus are clock synchronized ( through gps ) sensors that can read current and voltage phasors at a substation bus on the transmission power network @xcite .",
    "these phasors can send 50 - 60 measurements per second @xcite .",
    "load balancing is an important aspect of research .",
    "direct load control ( dlc ) @xcite can remotely control appliances in homes and workplaces and reduce energy consumption .",
    "game theoretic techniques are being increasingly used to optimize consumption .",
    "one way to do this is consumption scheduling @xcite .",
    "there is a huge economic aspect of smart grids and demands a lot of attention .",
    "this relates to pricing and marketing policies , legal and ethical issues . at one hand",
    "it is important to switch towards green energy like solar , wind etc and on the other hand it is important how to make best use of these renewable sources of energy and integrate them into the grid",
    ". it might be easier to use the energy close to the source to reduce transmission loss and costs .",
    "several pricing policies are also being regulated by the government .",
    "these also require manual and ethical considerations .",
    "for example , reducing the consumption of electricity at peak hours .",
    "critical - peak pricing ( cpp ) , real - time pricing ( rtp ) , time - of - use pricing ( toup ) are popular ways of reducing consumption .",
    "these policies impose different rates during different time of the day ( more during peak hours ) or year ( cold days in winter and hot days in summer ) .",
    "control decisions of embedded systems in critical infrastructure can have significant impact on human life and the environment .",
    "cyber physical systems need to combine computational decision making on the cyber side with physical control on the device side .",
    "the network that connects intelligent devices must ensure that critical data are available for making informed decisions .",
    "smart grid with all its advantages must be fault tolerant , reliable and secure",
    ". it should be possible to detect fault early in the system , to protect against cascading effects .",
    "conventional power grids utilize centralized command and control structures , such as scada ( supervisory control and data acquisition ) systems relying on human monitors for decision making .",
    "scada systems provide the mechanism for identifying faults .",
    "however , they represent a single point of failure within today s power grid .",
    "further , even when scada systems are running with specified parameters , catastrophic faults ( e.g. cascading failures ) can occur @xcite .",
    "detecting faults earlier in the network is extremely important because faults can easily propagate throughout the network and lead to complete breakdown .",
    "such a blackout occurred in august 2003 , which affected 45 million people in us and 10 million people in canada .",
    "the damages due to this blackout has been estimated as 6 billion us dollars .",
    "thus , designing fault tolerant grid is very important . in this direction",
    ", it should be possible to divert the power to alternate route once a particular route is disrupted .",
    "zimmer and mueller @xcite proposed a fault tolerant network routing through software overlays .",
    "an important problem which is associated with smart grid is the problem of security and privacy .",
    "it is very important to secure the smart grid , not only from terrorist attacks , but also from customers , and building authorities who tamper with various devices .",
    "the information from remote terminal units ( rtu ) at the substation is needed not only for electricity distribution , but also for calculating costs , for predicting future conditions and for monitoring in case of unexpected behavior .",
    "all these tasks are done by separate users , for example the electrical and maintenance board will monitor the network , the costs calculation and analysis is done by the auditing unit and to predict future behavior researchers can be involved .",
    "all information must be sent only to the users responsible for specific job .",
    "access control thus becomes a very important issue in smart grids .",
    "in future , when content distribution will also be included into the smart grid ( our assumption is that future smart grids will also have cable integrated into it ) , it will be necessary to regulate the access , such that two or more users do not collude and access information they can not individually access .",
    "existing literature focus on either authentication authentication @xcite or privacy protection @xcite .",
    "surveys on security and related aspects of smart grids appear in @xcite .",
    "we present a security architecture that integrate privacy preserving data aggregation and access control for the first time .",
    "data aggregation has been studied by li _",
    "@xcite , however it is very limited in scope .",
    "it presents privacy protected data aggregation in a local neighborhood ( typically a building area network ) without focusing on large scale aggregation .",
    "it also does not say how keys are distributed and more concerned with efficient construction of data aggregation trees .",
    "access control has been studied by bobba _",
    "they proposed a policy based encryption scheme for access control in smart grids .",
    "the main assumption is the existence of a fully honest key distribution center ( kdc ) who distributes keys and access policies to data senders and receivers .",
    "a receiver can decrypt information , if it has a valid set of attributes .",
    "the policies are implemented in xml and the encryption mechanism uses kem - dem hybrid encryption paradigm introduced by cramer and shoup @xcite .",
    "kdc distributes keys and access policies .",
    "the scheme in @xcite is prone to failure if the single kdc is compromised .",
    "it also demands the kdc be online during data access , thus halting all activities during failure or maintenance . for reasons of efficiency and security ,",
    "multiple kdcs is desirable .",
    "for this reason , we use multiple kdcs .",
    "our access control scheme is based on attribute based encryption protocol , which is being increasingly used for access control in different domains like clouds @xcite , ad hoc networks @xcite etc .",
    "our architecture consists of two parts , the first network consists of home area networks ( han ) , building area network ( ban ) and neighborhood area network ( nan ) which reports to a substation . for each home area network",
    "there is a gateway smart meter @xmath0 which collects information and sends to the building area network .",
    "the gateway @xmath1 aggregates all information from smart meters in the ban and sends to the @xmath2 at the neighborhood area .",
    "@xmath2 reports to the substation .",
    "the second part consists of the rtu at the substation who send aggregated results to data centers for storage .",
    "the data centers distribute information to users for maintenance , auditing , future predictions etc .",
    "we solve the problem of privacy - protected aggregation at different levels like han , ban , nan , transmitting to rtu and then providing access control of the data stored at the data repository .",
    "the smart grid architecture is depicted in figure [ fig : architecture ] .",
    "the data aggregation network on the left side of figure [ fig : architecture ] collects and aggregates data and sends to the rtu at the nearest substation .",
    "the right side of the figure [ fig : architecture ] shows the access control network , consisting of rtus , kdcs , data repository and users .",
    "aggregation at each stage uses paillier additive homomorphic encryption @xcite which ensure that data can be aggregated only knowing the ciphertext , so that the plaintext can be hidden .",
    "this will protect the privacy of individuals as well as a particular locality .",
    "access control operates in the following way : the rtu collects information from different units and sends to the data repository , encrypting the data under a set of attributes .",
    "attributes of data can be the source of energy like solar , fossil - fuels , etc , or type of user like individual or corporate or plugged in vehicles , or the type of load like lower consumption equipment ( as in lights , television ) or high consumption equipment ( dryers , heaters etc ) .",
    "the rtu can also add new attributes depending on the time of collection ( peak / offpeak time ) , type of user who can access ( like engineers , environmentalist ) , location of the user ( region / city ) etc . in this way the rtu builds an access policy for the data .",
    "the task of the kdc is to distribute keys to the rtu and users , such that the data is securely kept in the data repository and retrieved only by authorized users .",
    "the kdcs can be energy management units who manage key distribution for attributes like source of energy , or power control units who look after key distribution for different types of equipments ( like high - energy consumption or low energy consumption ) or administrative officers who distribute keys depending on the type of user that the rtu wishes to give access .",
    "the kdcs also give keys to the users to enable them to decrypt messages , depending upon the attribute they possess .",
    "for example if a environmentalist is interested in green energy ( like solar / wind ) then he / she is given keys corresponding to these attributes .",
    "different users of data can access information stored in the databases , provided they have a valid access structure . for example",
    ", a maintenance unit might want to collect information from residential and corporate users , which run on fossil fuel and which have have consumed more than a given limit of electric power per day .",
    "researchers on the other hand might be interested on predicting load due to charging and discharging of plugged in hybrid electric vehicles ( phev ) during day time . for each rtu ,",
    "the key distribution centers distribute attributes and public and private keys .",
    "the rtus might have specific access policies .",
    "the rtus encrypt the data with keys ( depending on the access policy ) and sends to the storage units .",
    "the data repository is responsible for both storing and processing information .",
    "it can have several data storage centers .",
    "processing can be done by one or several data processors , which can provide efficient search techniques or help organize the data in databases .",
    "we will not consider such aspects here .",
    "users are also given attributes and secret keys .",
    "when users request data from the data repository , then they can decrypt those data that have matching attributes .",
    "we apply a recent variant of attribute - based encryption , proposed by lewko and waters @xcite , modified according to the needs of smart grids .",
    "since a smart grid has a bidirectional flow of information , another feature can be added , in which users can send information to selected rtus .",
    "for example the maintenance units can ask certain rtus to reduce power consumption in certain units on certain weekends ( for electrical maintenance ) or involve in a more complicated tasks .",
    "current rtus are programmable and in future it would be possible to incorporate more features into them .      * we propose a new security architecture for smart grids , integrating privacy preserving aggregation and access control . *",
    "aggregation of data at gateway smart meters of ban , han , nan is done using homomorphic encryption .",
    "* we propose an access control scheme which gives limited access to data users like audit teams , technical maintenance teams , engineers , environmentalists , research groups , policy makers , management groups , etc . *",
    "the scheme is collusion secure , in that no two users can collude and gain access to data they alone can not avail . *",
    "malicious and illegal users can be revoked .",
    "* we evaluate the performance and show it is feasible in the smart grids . *",
    "we provide a list of open problems not considered before and provide partial solution to these .",
    "the paper is organized in the following way .",
    "we present related work on security and privacy issues of smart grids in section [ sec : related ] .",
    "this section also discusses paillier s cryptosystem @xcite and lewko and water s scheme @xcite . in section [ sec : prelims ] , we describe mathematical tools , network model and assumptions used in our work .",
    "we discuss data aggregation in details in section [ sec : aggregation ] and access control in section [ sec : access - control ] . in section [ sec :",
    "analysis ] we analyze the security and performance of our scheme and compare with existing ones .",
    "we present open problems in section [ sec : open - problems ] and conclude in section [ sec : conclusion ] .",
    "in this section we first present related work on security in smart grids . we discuss previous work on homomorphic encryption and show why we chose paillier s @xcite homomorphic scheme for data aggregation in smart grids .",
    "then we discuss several attribute based encryption techniques to show why lewko and water s @xcite is most suited to access control in smart grids .      as we noted in the introduction",
    "that security is an important aspect of smart grid , not only to protect from military threats but also protect from misbehaviors of consumers and different service providers integrated into the grid .",
    "security issues in smart grid mainly focus on authenticating customer , operators , and service providers .",
    "there are several components in smart grids like scada ( supervisory control and data acquisition ) , cellular and mobile links , fiber optic cables etc .",
    "security of each of these components is essential in securing the grid",
    ". the cyber security requirements of smart grids have been outlined by the national institute of standards and technology ( nist ) @xcite . to protect smart grids smart grid pki infrastructure has been proposed .",
    "this infrastructure should provide certification to the various components and devices in the network .",
    "specific certification policies need to be issued @xcite .",
    "device attestation ( ensuring the validity of the device ) is an important requirement , since an invalid device can collect and send wrong electricity readings and can result in overloading and failure .",
    "it is also important to authenticate the message sent by devices and components in the network .",
    "each device has an identity .",
    "@xcite proposed a message authentication protocol for a smart grid which has the following network structure : the home area network ( han ) consists of individual apartment units which collect and report to the building area network ban , which further report to the neighborhood area network ( nan ) .",
    "there are gateway smart meters installed in each unit in a han , ban and nan that collect information and send to the next level .",
    "the communication in han is done using ieee 802.15.4 zigbee radio communication @xcite .",
    "the authors propose authentication techniques using diffie hellman key agreement protocol , sign - and - mac ( sigma ) and internet key exchange ( ikev2 ) @xcite .",
    "the message authentication techniques has less communication overheads compared to the scheme proposed in @xcite . in @xcite ,",
    "the authors proposed an authentication of metering messages which they claim to have less overheads .",
    "privacy in smart grid has been extensively studies because of its importance .",
    "though we want to know the amount of consumed data , we do not want to know the details , for example which user uses which appliance and at what time .",
    "this is to protect the privacy of the user .",
    "studying the details of consumed data helps to deduce the behavioral pattern to a certain extent .    in order to annonymize the metering data , efthymiou and",
    "kalogridis @xcite proposed a third party key escrow policy and uses several pseudonymous ids instead of unique identifiers .",
    "rial and danesiz @xcite proposed a privacy preserving protocol for smart meters using zero knowledge proof @xcite , which ensures correct payment of fees with disclosing the details about consumption data .",
    "the protocol is implemented into smart meters and is generic enough to consider different billing settings like electronic traffic pricing , pay - as - you - drive car insurance etc .    however",
    ", imposing privacy policies can affect the utility .",
    "very recently rajagopalan _ et al . _",
    "@xcite quantify ( using gaussian model ) how the utility is affected when privacy preservation is applied .",
    "they proposed that filtering out frequency components that are low in power can achieve an optimal utility - privacy solution .",
    "access control has not been studied much , even though there is a big need for it .",
    "@xcite presented a centralized access control scheme .",
    "as mentioned before , in the introduction , these scheme has a drawback because centralized authority can be a single point of failure .",
    "it also requires that the kdc is online during data transfer .",
    "so the system is affected when the kdc is faulty or switched off for maintenance .",
    "abe was discussed in connection to access control in smart grids in @xcite , but was not applied .",
    "we now present an overviews about homomorphic encryption and then abe .      the main idea for using homomorphic encryption is to carry out different operation on ciphertext and return results without knowing the plaintext messages .",
    "it has been largely used in voting mechanisms where the individual votes should not be known but the decision is important .",
    "this is done in order to achieve privacy of the voter .",
    "homomorphism has also been applied to data aggregation in ad hoc networks ( for example @xcite ) .",
    "several encryption techniques exists which support different homomorphism , like multiplicative homomorphism ( rsa @xcite ) , additive homomorphism ( paillier @xcite , boneh - goh - nissim @xcite ) or recently proposed fully homomorphic scheme @xcite which can support complicated functions . during aggregation , we need to add the results as such we choose paillier s cryptosystem , which supports additive homomorphism .",
    "boneh - goh - nissim @xcite is not a suitable choice because the set of messages in their system is very restrictive .",
    "abe is a cryptographic protocol proposed by sahai and waters in 2005 @xcite .",
    "the main idea is to distribute attributes to receivers and attributes to senders so that only receivers with matching attributes structure can access the data .",
    "data is encrypted using attribute based keys , which are distributed by a central key distribution center ( kdc ) .",
    "it is to be noted that identity based encryption ( ibe ) proposed by shamir @xcite is a special form of abe , where senders have one unique attribute ( i.e. , its identity ) .",
    "the protocol proposed by sahai and waters was restricted that only threshold access structures ( @xmath3-out - of-@xmath4 ) could be supported .",
    "this means that if the receiver has @xmath3 attributes ( out of @xmath4 ) in common to the sender , then it can decrypt the message .",
    "@xcite proposed a new abe which can handle any monotonic access structure .",
    "these schemes are known as key - policy based ( kp - abe ) schemes .",
    "another type of protocols are known as ciphertext - policy abe ( cp - abe ) @xcite ( proposed by bethencourt ) . in these",
    "the ciphertext is encrypted using a set of attributes under a given access structure .",
    "if a receiver has a matching set of attributes then it can decrypt the information .",
    "all the above schemes relied on a central key and attribute distribution center , which is prone to failures .",
    "chase @xcite proposed a multi - authority ( same as multi - kdc ) protocol , where several kdcs generate and distribute keys and attributes .",
    "there is also a central trusted authority who coordinates the multiple kdcs . to completely do away with central authority , chase and chow",
    "@xcite proposed a scheme where the authorities can coordinate amongst themselves , but do not require a central authority .",
    "the drawback of this protocol was that the access structure was specific and required each user to have at least one attribute from each kdc .",
    "both these scheme were kp - abe .",
    "recently lewko and waters @xcite proposed a multi - kdc cp - abe , which does not have trusted authority and coordination between the kdcs .",
    "it also allows any type of monotonic access structure .",
    "we use lewko and waters scheme to design an access control mechanism for smart grids .",
    "in this section we present our network model and the assumptions we have used in the paper .",
    "table [ table : notations ] presents the notations used throughout the paper .",
    "we also describe mathematical background used in our proposed solution .",
    ".notations [ cols=\"^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ table : comp ]      we will first calculate the cost of aggregation .",
    "encryption involves modular exponentiation of element @xmath5 , which can be done using square - and - multiply technique in @xmath6 time .",
    "decryption involves calculating @xmath7 , which needs only one multiplication .",
    "decryptions can be hastened using the technique already given in @xcite . at each smart meter gateway @xmath8 values",
    "have to be multiplied ( where @xmath8 is the indegree of that smart meter ) .",
    "so the costs are reasonable .",
    "we will calculate the computation and communication overhead of access control scheme with and without user , rtu revocation . in the first step of encryption ,",
    "the access tree needs to be converted to an access matrix .",
    "time taken to compute @xmath9 from @xmath10 is @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the number of attributes in the access structure . to check",
    "if there exists a set of rows in @xmath9 ( such that step ( 2 ) of decryption holds ) , is equivalent to solving the equation @xmath13 , for non - zero row vector @xmath14 .",
    "this takes @xmath15 .",
    "since the list of attributes might not be too large , such overhead is very little .",
    "the most expensive operation during encryption or decryption is pairing . during encryption ,",
    "each user @xmath16 performs only one pairing operation ( to calculate @xmath17 ) . for each row",
    "@xmath18 corresponding to attribute , it also performs two scalar multiplications to calculate @xmath19 , one scalar multiplication to calculate @xmath20 and one to calculate @xmath21 .",
    "thus , there are a total of @xmath22 scalar multiplications . during decryption ,",
    "there are two pairing operations , one for @xmath23 and the other for @xmath24 , for each @xmath18 .",
    "the number of pairing operations is thus @xmath25 to calculate @xmath23 .",
    "there are also at most @xmath12 scalar multiplications to calculate @xmath26 .",
    "therefore , the computation time is @xmath27 , where @xmath28 and @xmath29 are the time taken to perform pairing and scalar multiplication .    using pcb library ( pairing based cryptography ) @xcite with an mnt curve of embedding degree @xmath30 and @xmath31 bit curve , @xmath32 and @xmath33 . for an access policy consisting of 10 attributes ,",
    "decryption time at each user is 124.5 ms .",
    "the decryption time increases linearly with the number of attributes in the access policy .",
    "information to be sent from rtu to data repository , and from the storage centers to user require @xmath34 bits , where @xmath35 is the size of the data .",
    "@xmath36 bits are needed to transfer the matrix @xmath9 , and @xmath37 to transfer @xmath38 , @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21 and @xmath39 , to send @xmath40 .",
    "thus , the communication overhead is @xmath41 .",
    "when revocation is required , @xmath38 needs to be recalculated .",
    "@xmath17 is previously calculated .",
    "so , only one scalar multiplication is needed .",
    "if the user revoked is @xmath16 , then for each @xmath42 , @xmath19 has to be recomputed .",
    "@xmath17 is already computed .",
    "thus , only two scalar multiplication needs to be done , for each @xmath18 .",
    "so a total of @xmath43 scalar multiplications are done by the kdcs , where @xmath44 is the number of attributes belonging to all revoked users .",
    "users need not compute any scalar multiplication or pairing operations . additional communication overhead is @xmath45 .      in this section",
    "we compare our access control scheme with that of bobba _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite . we show ( in table [ table : comp ] ) that our scheme is more robust than theirs , because ours is a decentralized scheme .",
    "the biggest drawback of bobba _ et al . _",
    "@xcite is that the centralized kdc has to be online all the time to allow access of data .",
    "this is a huge restriction , because the system will completely shut off in case of fault or even maintenance .",
    "the data center stores huge amounts of data and thus maintenance of these databases can be a huge concern .",
    "one recent proposal is to integrate smart grids with clouds . in this context",
    ", cloud can provide infrastructure to store this huge amount of data .",
    "there has been quite a lot of research in information secure information retrieval using searchable encryption @xcite , where searching is done checking the indices of the encrypted keywords .",
    "result is returned without knowing the keyword or the retrieved record .",
    "cables can be incorporated into the smart grid system to enable users to get efficient access of content .",
    "content distributors can either provide satellite radio subscriptions ( for channels for a fixed duration like a month of a year ) , or provide impulse pay - per - view facility ( viewers pay as and when they view a program like in hotels ) , prepaid pay - per - view ( viewers pay in advance as in for a hockey match or a concert ) , pay - per - channel ( viewers pay subscribe for a channel ) .",
    "there are several security and privacy issues that need to be addressed here .",
    "efficient access control is very important because of the large number of viewers and attributes involved .",
    "previous work on content access control has been done by pirretti _",
    "the question is how to efficiently integrate them into the grid .",
    "the other issue is of privacy , such that a viewers identity if not revealed at any time",
    ". this might give valuable information about the behavior of the individual .",
    "in this paper we have presented an secure architecture in smart grids which integrates aggregation and access control .",
    "homomorphic encryption is used to preserve customer privacy , while abe is used for achieving access control .",
    "abe has not been used in access control in smart grids , though it has been mentioned as a possibility in @xcite .",
    "the access control architecture is decentralized , which makes it more attractive and practical than @xcite .",
    "we have also addressed a few open problems that can be worked on in future .",
    "r.  bobba , h.  khurana , m.  alturki , and f.  ashraf , `` pbes : a policy based encryption system with application to data sharing in the power grid , '' in _ asiaccs _ , w.  li , w.  susilo , u.  k. tupakula , r.  safavi - naini , and v.  varadharajan , eds.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emacm , 2009 , pp",
    ". 262275 .",
    "mohsenian - rad , v.  w.  s. wong , j.  jatskevich , r.  schober , and a.  leon - garcia , `` autonomous demand - side management based on game - theoretic energy consumption scheduling for the future smart grid , '' _ ieee transactions on smart grids _ ,",
    "vol .  1 , no .  3 , pp .",
    "320331 , 2010 .",
    "j.  choi , i.  shin , j.  seo , and c.  lee , `` an efficient message authentication for non - repudiation of the smart metering service , '' in _",
    "acis / jnu international conference on computers , networks , systems and industrial engineering ( cnsi ) _ , 2011 , pp .",
    "331333 .",
    "h.  khurana , r.  bobba , t.  m. yardley , p.  agarwal , and e.  heine , `` design principles for power grid cyber - infrastructure authentication protocols , '' in _",
    "hicss_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emieee computer society , 2010 , pp .",
    "110 .",
    "l.  sankar , s.  kar , r.  tandon , and h.  v. poor , `` competitive privacy in the smart grid : an information - theoretic approach , '' ieee smartgridcomm 2011 , to appear .",
    "available at http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2237 .",
    "a.  b. lewko and b.  waters , `` decentralizing attribute - based encryption , '' in _ eurocrypt _ , ser .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , k.  g. paterson , ed .",
    "6632.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer , 2011 , pp",
    ". 568588 .                j .- j .",
    "quisquater , m.  quisquater , m.  quisquater , m.  quisquater , l.  c. guillou , m.  a. guillou , g.  guillou , a.  guillou , g.  guillou , s.  guillou , and t.  a. berson , `` how to explain zero - knowledge protocols to your children , '' in _ crypto _ , ser .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , g.  brassard , ed .",
    "435.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer , 1989 , pp",
    ". 628631 .",
    "d.  boneh , e .- j .",
    "goh , and k.  nissim , `` evaluating 2-dnf formulas on ciphertexts , '' in _ tcc _ , ser .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , j.  kilian , ed .",
    "3378.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer , 2005 , pp",
    ". 325341 .",
    "v.  goyal , o.  pandey , a.  sahai , and b.  waters , `` attribute - based encryption for fine - grained access control of encrypted data , '' in _ acm conference on computer and communications security _ , a.  juels , r.  n. wright , and s.  d.  c. di  vimercati , eds.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emacm , 2006 , pp . 8998 .",
    "j.  bethencourt , a.  sahai , and b.  waters , `` ciphertext - policy attribute - based encryption , '' in _ ieee symposium on security and privacy_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emieee computer society , 2007 , pp .",
    ".      m.  chase and s.  s.  m. chow , `` improving privacy and security in multi - authority attribute - based encryption , '' in _ acm conference on computer and communications security _ , e.  al - shaer , s.  jha , and a.  d. keromytis , eds.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emacm , 2009 , pp .",
    "121130 .",
    "r.  curtmola , j.  a. garay , s.  kamara , and r.  ostrovsky , `` searchable symmetric encryption : improved definitions and efficient constructions , '' in _ acm conference on computer and communications security _ , 2006 , pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose an integrated architecture for smart grids , that supports data aggregation and access control . </S>",
    "<S> data can be aggregated by home area network , building area network and neighboring area network in such a way that the privacy of customers is protected . </S>",
    "<S> we use homomorphic encryption technique to achieve this . </S>",
    "<S> the consumer data that is collected is sent to the substations where it is monitored by remote terminal units ( rtu ) . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed access control mechanism gives selective access to consumer data stored in data repositories and used by different smart grid users . </S>",
    "<S> users can be maintenance units , utility centers , pricing estimator units or analyzing and prediction groups . </S>",
    "<S> we solve this problem of access control using cryptographic technique of attribute - based encryption . </S>",
    "<S> rtus and users have attributes and cryptographic keys distributed by several key distribution centers ( kdc ) . </S>",
    "<S> rtus send data encrypted under a set of attributes . </S>",
    "<S> users can decrypt information provided they have valid attributes . </S>",
    "<S> the access control scheme is distributed in nature and does not rely on a single kdc to distribute keys . </S>",
    "<S> bobba _ </S>",
    "<S> et al . _ </S>",
    "<S> @xcite proposed an access control scheme , which relies on a centralized kdc and is thus prone to single - point failure . </S>",
    "<S> the other requirement is that the kdc has to be online , during data transfer which is not required in our scheme . </S>",
    "<S> our access control scheme is collusion resistant , meaning that users can not collude and gain access to data , when they are not authorized to access . </S>",
    "<S> we theoretically analyze our schemes ( with mathematical proofs of correctness ) and show that the computation overheads are low enough to be carried out in smart grids . to the best of our knowledge , ours is the first work on smart grids , which integrates these two important security components ( privacy preserving data aggregation and access control ) and presents an overall security architecture in smart grids .    * keywords : * access control , decentralized attribute - based encryption , bilinear maps , homomorphic encryption , smart meters </S>"
  ]
}