{
  "article_text": [
    "roughly a decade ago , @xcite and @xcite argued that star - forming molecular clouds in the solar neighborhood evolve rapidly and produce stars on short - dynamical - timescales ( see also * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the starting point for this picture was the observation that most nearby molecular clouds of significant mass are forming stars with typical ages of @xmath1 1 - 2 myr ; only a small fraction of the stellar population exhibits ages @xmath0  myr .",
    "a straightforward interpretation of the observations is that local star formation ensues quite quickly after molecular cloud formation , and that lifetimes of these nearby star - forming clouds are typically only a few myr .",
    "furthermore , in some cases the spread in ages of the bulk of the stellar population was considerably less than a _",
    "lateral _ crossing time . to explain these observations",
    ", we proposed that molecular clouds in the solar neighborhood tend to be formed by `` large - scale flows '' , accumulating material in a direction roughly perpendicular to the lateral extension of the cloud @xcite .",
    "building clouds in this manner thus eliminates the need for communicating the `` information '' needed to trigger star formation roughly simultaneously along the length of the cloud .",
    "the swept - up material is initially atomic ; only after substantial column densities develop , as a result of both accumulation of gas and lateral gravitational contraction , does the cloud become molecular @xcite .",
    "this evolution , driven largely by gravity at late stages , helps explain why star formation is initiated shortly after `` molecular cloud formation . ''    since",
    "then there has been substantial discussion of apparent age spreads in star - forming regions ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "one of the common findings is that , even though the bulk of the stellar population is young , there exists a small number of stars with apparent ages @xmath2  myr or more which seem to be members of the region ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the question then arises : does the presence of a few older members in star - forming clouds contradict the idea of dynamic cloud evolution and star formation ?",
    "do these apparently older stars instead indicate a long phase of quasistatic cloud evolution , possibly supported by turbulence and/or magnetic fields ?",
    "in this paper we use numerical simulations to show that dynamic models of cloud formation can account for age spreads comparable to those observed , without introducing turbulent or magnetic field support , simply because fluctuations in initial conditions as a function of position result in some regions collapsing faster than others .",
    "moreover , the dynamic models exhibit global gravitational collapse , which produces an increasing rate of protostellar core and star formation over time , in a manner qualitatively similar to the accelerating star formation rates inferred from observations by @xcite .",
    "a similar argument has been made independently by @xcite , on a semianalytical basis .",
    "to illustrate the issues typically presented by observations of young stellar populations , we use results from recent observational analyses of the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) .",
    "we focus on the onc because it has been so well - studied , and because its density allows one to limit consideration to a restricted area of the sky , thus minimizing the problems of possible contamination ( see  4 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : histage ] shows the age distribution determined by @xcite using two differing sets of evolutionary tracks , and binning linearly in age as in @xcite .",
    "( we use only the observed members of da rio et al .  without correction for completeness , but the difference is negligible for our argument . ) based on their analysis , the majority of the stars have ages @xmath3  myr using the @xcite evolutionary tracks , or @xmath4  myr using the @xcite tracks ( figure [ fig : histage ] ) . in a later study of the data , @xcite infer that the onc stars are not coeval , with star formation activity between @xmath5 and 3.5  myr .",
    "similar results were found by @xcite , who estimated that the apparent mean age of the onc is about 2.5 myr , with 95% of the low - mass stars formed between 1.3 and 4.8  myr .",
    "it is important to consider these estimates in the context of the crossing time of the region .",
    "the da rio et al .",
    "observations span a region of about 30 arcmin north - south , or about 3.6 pc at the adopted distance of 414 pc .",
    "the ( one dimensional ) velocity dispersion of stars in the region is about @xmath6 @xcite , implying a full crossing time of @xmath7  myr .",
    "the age spreads of the main peaks in the stellar distribution ( @xmath8  myr using the siess et al .",
    "tracks ; @xmath9  myr using the palla & stahler tracks ) are thus @xmath10 crossing times .",
    "these values do not create a major difficulty for the picture of rapid star formation , as the onset of gravitational collapse of individual objects need not be coordinated better than a small number of dynamical timescales ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "moreover , it should be emphasized that these dynamical timescales refer to the _ current _ state of the region . if , as we suggest in  4 , the onc region has _",
    "contracted _ significantly over the last few myr , the relevant dynamical timescale is longer than the crossing times estimated above .",
    "finally , it is worth noting that observational uncertainties and problems with theoretical isochrones can produce spurious age spreads of similar order to those discussed above @xcite . indeed , @xcite suggest that this apparent age spread is dominated by a combination of observational uncertainties and differences in the formation processes of individual stars    the biggest challenge to dynamic models of star and cloud formation is the `` tail '' of older stars with apparent ages between @xmath1 5 and 10 myr .",
    "@xcite showed that skewed apparent age distributions such as in figure [ fig : histage ] were typical of nearby star - forming regions , and argued that this was evidence for accelerating star formation over periods of @xmath1  10 myr in molecular clouds .",
    "there are observational problems which can lead to spurious large age spreads (  4 ) , but these may not account for all of the apparently older stars , especially objects with infrared excesses implying the presence of circumstellar disks , or signatures of accretion @xcite .",
    "can the dynamic picture of star formation be reconciled with the presence of such older stars ?",
    "in the dynamic picture , star - forming clouds are not in a quasi - steady state , but instead are continually evolving . initially , the cloud forms by sweeping up mass via large - scale flows driven by stellar energy input or perhaps spiral density waves ; eventually , gravitational collapse leads to runaway contraction in local regions @xcite .",
    "turbulence leads to density fluctuations which are the seeds of subsequent gravitational collapse , modified by global contraction which increases densities everywhere prior to disruption by outflows , stellar winds , supernovae , etc . because some initial fluctuations will create denser structures than others",
    ", some regions will collapse before others , even without special turbulent or magnetic support ; and because cloud densities increase with time , initially due to accumulation of material in the post - shock regions , and later due to gravitational collapse , one would expect the star formation rate to increase with time .    to illustrate this sequence , we examine the results of two numerical simulations of cloud formation from colliding large - scale atomic flows .",
    "( the mechanism is more general than the specific setup designed for computational convenience , as any swept - up flow can be turned into a colliding flow in a frame of reference moving with the swept - up gas . )",
    "it should be emphasized that these simulations _ minimize _ differences in the onset of collapse along the cloud because the flows collide all along the interface exactly at the same time .",
    "moreover , no injected turbulent support or magnetic fields are included . even in these idealized cases ,",
    "star formation occurs over a finite time .",
    "the first simulations we consider are those of @xcite . at a resolution of @xmath11",
    "pc , these calculations can not follow fragmentation down to ( low - mass ) protostars ; instead , as a proxy for star formation , we use the criterion of the formation of gravitationally - bound , dense cores .",
    "we identify cores initially via clumpfind @xcite .",
    "we consider only gas with @xmath12  k to avoid having to analyze all the volume of the simulation , and demand that the local free - fall time in the clump is at least a factor of ten smaller than the global free - fall time of the cloud .",
    "the bulk of the core masses have temperatures near 20 k.         figure [ fig : fhcores ] shows the time sequence of massive core formation in simulation gs of @xcite .",
    "as these cores are quite massive , we alternatively plot both the number of cores and the mass in cores as a function of `` look back time '' from the end of the simulation .",
    "although the resolution is limited and the timesteps are crudely binned for reasons of statistics , it is clear that this model produces an accelerating rate of core formation ( as well as mass growth ) .    ) as a function of time , seen face - on ( upper set of panels ) and edge - on ( lower set ) .",
    "the colors correspond to the column density in log @xmath13 as given in the color bars.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    figure [ fig : gs ] shows what is happening globally .  after a sufficient amount of mass",
    "is accumulated in the post - shock region by the colliding flows , gravity begins to take over , resulting in a more rapid increase in densities .",
    "the structures are more local than in smaller cloud simulations gf1 and gf2 of @xcite , where the densest regions are the result of collapse into a filament .  the latter simulations ,",
    "though harder to use for tracking core formation because less mass was involved and therefore fewer cores were made , illustrate the type of evolution we envisage for the onc , where gravitational contraction over a few myr has lead to the dense gas residing in the narrow `` integral - shaped filament '' (  4 ) .",
    "the cores in this simulation are quite massive , ranging from about 150 @xmath14 to about @xmath15 .",
    "to relate this to star formation requires an assumption that these cores do not remain inert , but instead continue to collapse beyond what we can determine given our resolution , fragmenting into more typical protostellar cores of a few solar masses ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and then into stars .",
    "if the efficiency of star formation is directly related to the amount of dense core mass , as seems reasonable ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , then the core mass and number evolution of model gs can serve as a proxy for star formation .",
    "the other simulations we consider are those by @xcite , which are comparable to the previous ones , in that two warm , thermally bistable streams collide to form a dense , collapsing , cold cloud . these simulations used gadget , the smooth particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) code developed by @xcite , which includes the possibility of sink particle formation .    in figure",
    "[ fig : vscores ] we show the back - in - time histogram of the newborn sink particles for the fiducial run 20 @xcite . in this figure",
    ", @xmath16  myr corresponds to @xmath17  myr since the begining of the collision and thus @xmath18  myr corresponds to the time in which the first sink particles are formed , i.e. , to @xmath118  myr from the start of the simulation . from figure [ fig : vscores ] it is clear that , as well as in the case of the dense cores in the previous figure , the sink particles are being formed at an accelerated rate .",
    "we must note that at the final epoch plotted , the mass involved in sink particles is such that there would be enough ob stars to disrupt the cloud ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , assuming a typical imf ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "thus we omit the subsequent evolution of the simulations as likely being unrealistic . in both cases ,",
    "the formation of dense structures ( cores , sinks ) occurs at an accelerated rate due to gravitational collapse , becoming denser and thus evolving locally faster , especially in filaments ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "while there are limitations to these simulations - for example , there probably would be continuing fragmentation beyond the resolution limits , and the initial conditions are idealized - the qualitative resemblance of the simulations to the observational results is suggestive .        .",
    "[ fig : vscores ]",
    "given the current state of observational constraints , possible errors , and uncertain physics of star formation , one must exercise caution in interpreting the age distributions of star - forming regions @xcite .",
    "we agree with @xcite that it is especially difficult to be certain of age spreads in the range of @xmath19  myr , particularly as differing initial conditions for protostellar formation may result in significant initial dispersions in luminosity @xcite .",
    "there may even be difficulties in assigning the ages of @xmath20  myr - old stars ; contamination by foreground stars is an issue , especially for stars without disks or accretion , as star - forming regions are spatially - correlated . even stars with disks can appear anomalously faint for their colors if observed edge - on , and thus mostly detected in scattered light .",
    "nevertheless , our simulations show that the presence of small numbers of older stellar members in molecular clouds does not pose a particular problem for the idea of rapid or dynamic star formation .",
    "all such models begin with turbulent fluctuations , and it is plausible that a few especially dense perturbations collapse first @xcite .",
    "the effects of global gravity then generally results in ever - increasing densities , with runaway contraction in subregions , as argued by @xcite , and by @xcite specifically for the orion a complex .  in this scenario , a small number of stars are formed by a few especially dense initial turbulent fluctuations before the overall collapse leads to the main phase of star formation .",
    "the two simulations presented here suggest that time spans of 5 to 10 myr can be accomodated by purely dynamic models , as long as the initial star formation rate is quite low ( e.g. , compare figures 2 and 4 with figure 1 ) .    absent observational problems , it is difficult to understand the age distribution shown in figure [ fig : histage ] without invoking substantial evolution of the onc region over the last several myr .",
    "for instance , if the suggestion of @xcite that the star formation rate per free - fall time is roughly a constant is correct , the age distributions in figure [ fig : histage ] imply that the free - fall time has varied by an order of magnitude , and thus the average density by two orders of magnitude , over the last 10 myr .",
    "indeed , the recent simulations by @xcite of an `` onc - like cluster '' show strong evolution over @xmath21  yr , while a somewhat longer contraction timescale is exhibited by the cluster simulations of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the suggestion of significant cloud evolution is also consistent with kinematic studies of the onc stars @xcite , which suggest that both the gas and stars in the onc are collapsing toward the central regions .",
    "moreover , the spatial distribution of the stars ( see , for instance , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is wider in right ascension than the narrow dense `` integral - shaped filament '' of molecular gas and dust @xcite .",
    "this difference is qualitatively consistent with global gravitational collapse ; many stars could have been formed from the gas in the region in a more distended state , which has now collapsed to form a filament , as in the simple model of @xcite for orion a.     the idea of large - scale gravitational collapse is also consistent with both observed column density probability density functions @xcite as well as with recent discussions showing that the `` larson laws '' relating velocity dispersions ( `` turbulence '' ) with size scales are not independent of surface density @xcite .",
    "these results can be interpreted as the natural outcome of star - forming molecular clouds being in a state of hierarchical and chaotic gravitational collapse @xcite .    on the other hand ,",
    "the concept of global collapse has been challenged by dobbs et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , who argue on the basis of galactic - scale simulations that cloud - cloud collisions and stellar feedback prevent global gravitational forces from becoming dominant . in a narrow sense , this is not a problem for our picture , as we are focused on the dense star - forming regions of clouds , which dobbs et al .",
    "agree do become bound ( and form stars ) .",
    "future observations of stellar proper motions from the gaia spacecraft might be able test whether or not star forming regions are globally collapsing .",
    "we have shown that models of flow - driven , dynamic dense cloud formation and evolution predict that star formation occurs over a finite interval of time necessarily greater than the timescales of local collapse for individual stars .",
    "moreover , there is generally a strong increase in the dense core / star formation rate over time due to the increase in overall density and filament formation during global gravitational collapse .",
    "the small number of stars apparently older than a few myr found in or projected upon star - forming regions may be a signature of this cloud evolution , though care must be taken to avoid observational problems",
    ".  it may eventually be possible to use carefully - vetted age distributions of pre - main sequence stars to infer the global evolution of the clouds from which they formed .",
    "we acknowledge a useful report from the referee . this work was supported in part by us national science foundation grant ast-0807305 , by nasa grant nnx08a139 g , by the university of michigan , and by unam / dgapa grant in110409 .",
    "ballesteros - paredes , j. , hartmann , l.  w. , vzquez - semadeni ,  e. , heitsch , f. , & zamora - avils , m.  a.  2011a , , 411 ,  65 ballesteros - paredes , j. , vzquez - semadeni , e. , gazol , a. , hartmann , l.  w. , heitsch , f. , & coln , p.  2011b , , 1101"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most young stars in nearby molecular clouds have estimated ages of 1 - 2 myr , suggesting that star formation is rapid . </S>",
    "<S> however , small numbers of stars in these regions with inferred ages of @xmath0  myr have been cited to argue that star formation is instead a slow , quasi - static process .   when considering these alternative pictures it is important to recognize that the age spread in a given star - forming cloud is necessarily an upper limit to the timescales of local collapse , as not all spatially - distinct regions will start contracting at precisely the same instant .  </S>",
    "<S> moreover , star - forming clouds may dynamically evolve on timescales of a few myr ; in particular , global gravitational contraction will tend to yield increasing star formation rates with time due to generally increasing local gas densities . </S>",
    "<S> we show that two different numerical simulations of dynamic , flow - driven molecular cloud formation and evolution 1 ) predict age spreads for the main stellar population roughly consistent with observations , and 2 ) raise the possibility of forming small numbers of stars early in cloud evolution , before global contraction concentrates the gas and the bulk of the stellar population is produced . in general , </S>",
    "<S> the existence of a small number of older stars among a generally much - younger population is consistent with the picture of dynamic star formation , and may even provide clues to the time evolution of star - forming clouds .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : formation , stars : pre - main sequence </S>"
  ]
}