{
  "article_text": [
    "we live in the era of twitter . from the shenanigans of pop stars and actors to enduring political transformations , everything is being transacted on microblogging services .",
    "nonetheless , fundamental questions remain unanswered . we know , for instance , that discussions around certain topics `` go viral '' whereas other topics die an early death .",
    "the network propagates some ideas , and some make no headway . in view of the enormous influence of online social networks ( osn ) , understanding the mechanics of these systems",
    "is critical . to characterize the properties of popular and non - popular topics",
    "is of surpassing importance to our understanding of how these complex networks are shaping our world .    in this paper",
    "we present a large - scale measurement study that attempts to describe and explain the processes that animate microblogging services .",
    "we study a large set of popular and non - popular topics derived from a comprehensive data set of tweets and user information taken from twitter .",
    "a key strength of our study is that we observe both popular and not - so - popular topics .",
    "this allows us to hypothesize about the temporal and spatial behavior of popular topics and support our hypotheses by showing that non - popular topics display contrary behavior .",
    "note that we use the more general term _ popular _ rather than the more specific term _ viral .",
    "_ this is to make a clear distinction between those topics that achieve popularity because of processes and situations that lie _ outside _ the network and those whose popularity can be attributed to the dynamics that take place within the network .",
    "we reserve the term viral for those topics whose vast popularity is a product of the social network s internal dynamics . these topics could not have gained popularity in the pre - osn era unless traditional news media decided to promote them .",
    "our study does not focus on these kinds of topics in particular because we intend to study the entire ecosystem .",
    "our work emphasizes the structural aspects of topic spread .",
    "we give the semantic aspect its due importance in the process of topic identification and then proceed to study the fundamental temporal and spatial aspects of the spread of topics . in particular , we study topic movement over two interrelated spatial dimensions : the topology of the twitter network as formed by `` follower '' and `` following '' relationships , and the geospatial embedding of that network in the map of the world .",
    "our study spans several aspects of spatial diffusion , but our primary focus is on characterizing the temporal and spatial underpinnings of popularity .",
    "we focus on three important aspects as described in the sequel .",
    "first , in section  [ sec : initiators ] , we study how topic initiators influence popularity of the topic , and make the following observations :    * hypothesis 1 .",
    "* twitter is a partially democratic medium in the sense that popular topics are generally started by users with high numbers of followers ( we call them celebrities ) ; however , for a topic to become popular it must be taken up by non - celebrity users .",
    "* corollary 1a .",
    "* regions with large user bases or with large number of heavily followed celebrities and news sources dominate twitter .",
    "second , in section  [ sec : topology ] , we study the effect of topology and the dynamics of topic spread on popularity . the primary objects of study to this end are the subnetworks formed by users discussing each topic . while it is known that the twitter network , like most large osn , contains a giant connected component , a key finding is that the subgraph of users talking about a popular topic on a particular days always contains a giant connected component containing most of the nodes ( users ) of the subgraph , whereas the subgraphs of non - popular topics tend to be highly disconnected . to summarize",
    ", we make the following observations :    * hypothesis 2 . *",
    "most of the people talking about a popular topic on a given day tend to form a large connected subgraph ( giant component ) while unpopular topics are discussed in disconnected clusters .",
    "* hypothesis 2a .",
    "* the giant component forms when many tightly clustered sets of users discussing the topic merge .",
    "finally , we study the impact of geography on popularity by partitioning the twitter network according to regional divisions and studying the behavior of popular and non - popular topics .",
    "* hypothesis 3 . *",
    "popular topics cross regional boundaries while unpopular topics stay within them .",
    "the evidence for this observation is presented in section  [ sec : geography ] .",
    "apart from the highlights mentioned above , we review related work in section  [ sec : related ] .",
    "we describe the various methodological issues that needed to be surmounted to perform our study in section  [ sec : methodology ] .",
    "section  [ sec : conclusions ] concludes the paper with a discussion of the implications of our observations on different aspect of the osn sphere .",
    "leskovec , backstrom and kleinberg s seminal work on the evolution of topics in the news sphere was the starting point for this paper  @xcite .",
    "they studied how the growth of one topic affects the growth of other topics in the blogosphere .",
    "they identified and tracked a small number of popular threads , and showed that the growth of the number of posts on a thread negatively impacts the growth of other threads . the basic question that arose on reading",
    "that work was this : can the nuances of the temporal evolution of topics be explained by a more thorough study of their spatial evolution ? working with a data set taken from twitter we were able to extract the high level of structural and geographical information about the actors of the process that has allowed us to answer this question in the affirmative .",
    "this allows us to challenge the line of research that studies only the temporal evolution of topics  @xcite , or seeks to explain this evolution on the basis of content  @xcite .    following the paper cited above there has been more interest in understanding how information and ideas propagate on osns .",
    "a pioneering study on these phenomena on twitter was conducted by kwak et .",
    "@xcite where several aspects of topic diffusion were studied . of particular relevance to our work was their study on the topological properties of retweet trees . since our data set is built on the data set they used ( cf .",
    "section  [ sec : methodology ] ) for details ) , our work can easily be compared .",
    "our major contribution is that we work with a more general notion of a topic and that we work with an ecosystem of topics .",
    "also our work views the diffusion of topics through the lens of what we call `` topic graphs '' ( cf .",
    "section  [ sec : topology ] ) , that are a significant generalization of retweet trees .",
    "retweet cascades have also been studied specifically for the case of tweets with urls in them by galuba et .",
    "@xcite and by rodrigues et .",
    "there is a line of work that seeks to uncover the structural processes behind topic diffusion by studying cascade models ( e.g. ghosh and lerman  @xcite , sadikov et .",
    "@xcite ) but we feel this is a limited view of the effect of topology and try to view the network structure in a more complex way .    in another work relevant to ours , sousa el al .",
    "@xcite investigated whether user interactions on twitter are based on social ties or on topics , by tracking replies and message exchange on twitter ; their study is focused on only three topics namely sports , religion , and politics .",
    "more recently , romero et al .",
    "@xcite studied topic diffusion mechanisms on twitter by focusing on topics identifiable by hashtags .",
    "they study the probability of a topic adoption based on repeated exposure , and provide quantitative evidence of a contagion phenomenon made more complex than normal studies of virus - like phenomena by the existence of multiple topics , and briefly report on the graph structure of topic networks . one major limitation of this work we found is that only a very small fraction ( approx .",
    "10% ) of tweets are tagged with hashtags ( see table  [ table : dataset ] in section  [ sec : methodology ] ) .",
    "our methodology of using a natural language processor ( opencalais  @xcite ) allows us to study topic diffusion on a much larger scale than in this work since our topic choices are not limited to hashtags . on the geographical front , yardi et al .",
    "@xcite examine information spread along the social network and across geographic regions by analyzing tweets related to two specific events happening at two different geographic locations .",
    "as an aside we mention that krishnamurthy et .",
    "al . characterized the geographical properties of the twitter user base in 2008  @xcite .    on a more general level , we note that it is implicitly assumed that the attention of users on a platform like twitter is elastic but bounded ( see e.g.  @xcite ) and hence the diffusion process is essentially a competitive one , even if it is not explicitly adversarial .",
    "the study of competitive diffusion has largely revolved around the application domain of viral marketing where there is competition between different products  @xcite .",
    "budak et al .",
    "@xcite consider the problem of diffusion of mis - information , where opposing ideas are competing and propagating in a social network .",
    "the study of processes by which rumor spread may be combated is another example of competitive diffusion  @xcite .",
    "our work provides an important input into this area of study , articulating the properties of a complex system that requires extensive study to model correctly and comprehensively .",
    "we used a portion of the ` tweet7 ' data set crawled by yang et al .",
    "this data set contains 467 million tweets , collected over a period of seven months , from june to december , 2009 .",
    "the tweets emanated from over 17 million users and are estimated to constitute about 20 - 30% of all tweets posted during that time period . for our analysis , we used the first three month s tweets of this data set .",
    ".data set summary . [ cols=\"<,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     in order to establish the hypothesis , we investigated a geographical property of the cumulative evolving graphs defined in section  [ sec : topology ] . for each topic",
    "we determined the fraction of edges in the cumulative evolving graph that went from one region to another ; that is , we studied the fraction of edges @xmath0 such that @xmath1 belongs to one region and @xmath2 is a user from another region .",
    "the evolution of this fraction for three topics , one highly popular , one with a medium level of popularity and one with a low level of popularity ( as defined in section  [ sec : topology ] ) is shown in figure  [ fig : geoproperties ] .",
    "we observe that the highly popular topic `` barack '' shows a high fraction of edges crossing regional boundaries throughout its evolution , ranging between 0.74 and 0.81 .",
    "on the other hand the topic with medium popularity , `` cambridge '' , has a low fraction of edges crossing regions .",
    "it s noteworthy that an increase in the popularity of the topic `` cambridge '' is accompanied by an increase in the fraction of edges crossing regional boundaries .",
    "this further supports hypothesis 3 .",
    "the topic `` hamburg '' which has low popularity shows a very small fraction of edges crossing regional boundaries .    to examine this phenomenon at an aggregate level we took 40 topics from each category ( as we had done in section  [ sec : topology ] ) and computed the mean and median of the fraction of edges crossing regional boundaries for the entire period in our window where the topic is tweeted on .",
    "we plotted a histogram using five different ranges for this fraction ( see figure  [ fig : geomeanmedian ] ) .",
    "this histogram clearly shows that the most popular topics tend to have a very large fraction of edges crossing regional boundaries while the least popular topics have cumulative graphs that generally evolve within regional boundaries with small fractions of edges going to other regions .",
    "the studies we have presented in this paper have wide - ranging implications , some of which , we hope , will be discovered in the future . for",
    "now we present a brief discussion of those area we feel our results may have an impact on .    perhaps the most important implication pertains to the role and impact of highly influential users ( and consequently of highly influential geographies ) .",
    "the rise of osns has been accompanied by a triumphal narrative of democratization of communication through technology , and while it is true that twitter and other osn platforms have played an important role in giving voice to individuals who might otherwise find it difficult to speak to an audience beyond their immediate geography , our study shows that traditional holders of power and influence have not been unseated .    our hypothesis on how a giant component forms on twitter  by the merging of smaller tightly clustered sets of users  is an important input into the sociology of how information is transacted on a social network .",
    "there is reason to believe that despite the fact that osn platforms being the world closer , older notions of proximity and community continue to contribute significantly to popularity in the way described .",
    "our study is broad in nature and captures a coarse phenomenon that we hope will excite sociologist and invite them to tease out the finer nuances that lie within such phenomena .    from an engineering standpoint issues of content distribution and caching",
    "can be addressed from observing that highly popular topics cross national boundaries",
    ". a closer study of which national boundaries are crossed more often than others could underpin efficient content placement methods",
    ".    our results could also be of great interest to those involved in using the vast reach of media like twitter to advertise their products and services .",
    "the notions of trust and reputation inherent in osns have been leveraged to a great extent already for marketing purposes .",
    "our study could help advertisers and marketers figure out how best to use these platforms for efficient and well - targeted marketing .",
    "s.  bharathi , d.  kempe , and m.  salek .",
    "competitive influence maximization in social networks . in _ proceedings of the 3rd international conference on internet and network economics _ , wine 07 , pages 306311 , san diego , ca , usa , 2007 .",
    "springer - verlag .    c.  budak , d.  agrawal , and a.  el  abbadi . limiting the spread of misinformation in social networks . in _ proceedings of the 20th international conference on world wide web _ , www 11 , pages 665674 , hyderabad , india , 2011 .",
    "t.  carnes , c.  nagarajan , s.  m. wild , and a.  van zuylen . maximizing influence in a competitive social network : a follower s perspective . in _ proceedings of the ninth international conference on electronic commerce _ , icec 07 , pages 351360 , minneapolis , mn , usa , 2007 .",
    "w.  galuba , k.  aberer , d.  chakraborty , z.  despotovic , and w.  kellerer .",
    "outtweeting the twitterers - predicting information cascades in microblogs . in _ proceedings of the 3rd conference on onsline social networks _ , wosn 10 , 2010 .",
    "r.  ghosh and k.  lerman . a framework for quantitative analysis of cascades on networks . in _ proceedings of the 4th acm international conference on web search and data mining _ , wsdm 11 , 2011 .",
    "full version at http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3571 .",
    "j.  leskovec , l.  backstrom , and j.  kleinberg .",
    "meme - tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle . in _ proceedings of",
    "the 15th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , kdd 09 , pages 497506 .",
    "acm , 2009 .",
    "d.  m. romero , b.  meeder , and j.  kleinberg .",
    "differences in the mechanics of information diffusion across topics : idioms , political hashtags , and complex contagion on twitter . in _ proceedings of the 20th international conference on world wide web _ , www 11 , pages 695704 , hyderabad , india , 2011 .",
    "a.  ruhela , r.  m. tripathy , s.  triukose , a.  s. , a.  bagchi , and a.  seth . .",
    "in _ proceedings of the fifth international conference on advanced networks and telecommunication systems _ , ants 11 , bangalore , india , 2011 . ieee .",
    "e.  sadikov , m.  medina , j.  leskovec , and h.  garcia - molina .",
    "correcting for missing data in information cascades .",
    "in _ proceedings of the 4th international conference on web search and data mining _ , wsdm 11 , pages 5564 , 2011 .",
    "d.  sousa , l.  sarmento , and e.  mendes  rodrigues",
    ". characterization of the twitter @replies network : are user ties social or topical ? in _ proceedings of the 2nd international workshop on search and mining user - generated contents _ , smuc 10 , pages 6370 , toronto , on , canada , 2010 .",
    "r.  m. tripathy , a.  bagchi , and s.  mehta .",
    "a study of rumor control strategies on social networks . in _ proceedings of the 19th acm international conference on information and knowledge management _ , cikm 10 , pages 18171820 , toronto , on , canada , 2010 .",
    "acm .",
    "s.  yardi and d.  boyd .",
    "tweeting from the town square : measuring geographic local networks . in _ proceedings of the fourth international aaai conference of weblogs and social media_. the aaai press , 2010 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first comprehensive characterization of the diffusion of ideas on twitter , studying more than 4000 topics that include both popular and less popular topics . on a data set containing approximately 10 million users and a comprehensive scraping of all the tweets posted by these users between june 2009 and august 2009 ( approximately 200 million tweets ) , </S>",
    "<S> we perform a rigorous temporal and spatial analysis , investigating the time - evolving properties of the subgraphs formed by the users discussing each topic . </S>",
    "<S> we focus on two different notions of the spatial : the network topology formed by follower - following links on twitter , and the geospatial location of the users . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the effect of initiators on the popularity of topics and find that users with a high number of followers have a strong impact on popularity . </S>",
    "<S> we deduce that topics become popular when disjoint clusters of users discussing them begin to merge and form one giant component that grows to cover a significant fraction of the network . </S>",
    "<S> our geospatial analysis shows that highly popular topics are those that cross regional boundaries aggressively . </S>"
  ]
}