{
  "article_text": [
    "the minimal vertex - cover problem ( vertex - cover ) belongs to one of karp s 21 np - complete problems @xcite and the six basic np - complete problems @xcite , which is considered as one of the classical problems in theoretical computer science .",
    "the aim of this problem is to mark a minimum subset of vertices such that there are at least one vertex of each edge in the subset .",
    "there are a large number of applications of this problem in the related real networks , such as immunization strategies in networks @xcite and monitoring of internet traffic @xcite .",
    "there is a threshold behavior of the minimum vertex - cover problem on the erd@xmath0s - r@xmath1nyi random graph @xcite .",
    "it means that the typical running time of algorithms changes to exponential from polynomial when the order parameter becomes lager than the euler number @xmath2 @xcite .",
    "this phase transition phenomenon is considered to have intrinsic correspondence with the clustering structure of solution space which have already been observed in statistical physics when studying spin glasses @xcite .",
    "although most statistical physicists believe that the clustering structure leads to the failure of replica symmetry , the details of the relation between searching solutions and the structure are not well established , and how the clustering structure looks like is far from being clear for most models @xcite . from an algorithmic point of view , the solutions structure makes great effects on the algorithm to find the solutions , which sets barriers to local searching algorithms and makes the computation expensive @xcite .",
    "so the features of solutions structure are explored by different approaches .",
    "till now , some typical structures such as clustering , backbone , backdoor @xcite and frustration @xcite , have been widely investigated to understand the structure of solutions more clearly .",
    "especially , h. zhou @xcite has proposed the _ long - range frustration _ structure and f. krzakala @xcite has provided a formal definition as _ long - range correlation_. the long - range correlation and bakbone structures are treated as the origin of the replica symmetric breaking and the high computational complexity . and , based on the analysis of these typical characteristics of the solution space , many efficient searching algorithms are proposed to solve np - complete problems , such as belief propagation and survey propagation @xcite .    in this paper ,",
    "a _ mutual - determination _ structure is proposed by statistical mechanic approach to investigate the solution space of the minimum vertex - cover problem .",
    "this structure reflects the feature of the hamming distance @xcite among solutions and describes how tight the correlations among unfrozen variables are . by this structure",
    ", we can detect the equivalent variables in the solution space @xcite , i.e. , the variables must take the same or the opposite boolean values .",
    "furthermore , based on the existence of the mutual - determination in the solution space of vertex - cover , the ranks of nodes of a graph by the leaf - removal process are provided to describe the influence orders of leaves in different levels . taking the advantage of the leaf - removal ranks and the relationship of mutual - determination with the backbone and unfrozen variables , we can have a much clear understanding of the evolution of the states in the solution space when a new node is added , and a _ reduced solution graph _ is defined to exactly express the structural information of the solution ( sub-)space . finally , an algorithm named _ mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm _ is proposed by the evolution of the mutual - determinations and backbones on the reduced solution graph , and some analysis and numerical experiments are given to verify its efficiency and adaptability .",
    "this algorithm is complete to find the whole solution space of vertex - cover when there is no leaf - removal core in the graph , otherwise an approximated one with relatively better efficiency than the replica symmetry methods .",
    "a vertex cover on an undirected graph @xmath3 with @xmath4 nodes and @xmath5 edges is a subset @xmath6 of its nodes such that every edge has at least one endpoint in @xmath7 .",
    "the minimum vertex - cover problem is an optimization problem to find the minimum size of a vertex cover on a given graph .",
    "mapped to spin - glass model , energy function of the minimum vertex - cover problem can be written as @xmath8=-\\sum_{i=1}^n \\sigma_i+\\sum_{(i , j)\\in e(g)}(1+\\sigma_i)(1+\\sigma_j),\\ ] ] where @xmath9 denotes the edge set and @xmath10s are edges in it , spin / variable @xmath11 if node @xmath12 ( covered ) and @xmath13 otherwise .",
    "then , different energy levels are produced by different assignments or _ configurations _ in terminology of spin - glass theory .",
    "the assignments with the lowest energy are named _",
    "solutions / ground states _ , and the set of all these solutions achieving the lowest energy ( minimum vertex cover ) is named _ solution space _ @xmath14 .",
    "backbones @xcite and long - range correlations @xcite are both the typical structures of solution space of combinatorial optimization problems , which have been well studied in algorithmic and statistical analysis . in the solution space @xmath14 ,",
    "spin @xmath15 is _ frozen _ or called _ backbone _ if it takes the same value in all solutions ; otherwise it is _",
    "unfrozen_. for an unfrozen spin @xmath15 , if it taking some value will make influence on infinite number of other spins ( assumed @xmath16 with the total number of @xmath4 spins ) , it belongs to _ long - range correlation _ @xcite .",
    "recent research suggests that the complicated organizations of the solutions of combinatorial optimizations , e.g. , backbones and long - range correlations , would be the kernel reason for the algorithmic hardness to find a solution for large - scale combinatorial optimization problems with massive constraints and variables @xcite . to study the solution space @xmath14 of vertex - cover",
    ", we classify the variables as unfrozen , _ positively frozen _ ( frozen to @xmath17 ) and _ negatively frozen _ ( frozen to @xmath18 ) variables .    as a generalization of the backbone and long - range correlation , a new structure named _ mutual - determination _",
    "is proposed to achieve a better understanding of the solution space , which can be viewed as an interactive relation of unfrozen variables in the solution space .",
    "if two unfrozen variables form a mutual - determination , the fixation of the assignment of any one will result in the fixation of the other in the solution space . indeed , it is a special relation implied by the constraints that two unfrozen variables can be mutually determined by each other , i.e. , if two unfrozen variables @xmath19 form a mutual - determination , then @xmath20 .",
    "when two unfrozen nodes form mutual - determination for vertex - cover , it means that if one of them is covered , the other should be uncovered , and there is one and only one should be covered for this pair of nodes .    by the famous survey propagation algorithm @xcite , it takes advantage of the idea of the backbone and long - range correlation to gradually eliminate variables and constraints of the original problem in size , and achieves excellent performance for solving 3-sat , vertex - cover , etc . as the motivation for proposing the mutual - determination structure and for that the variables in interactive relations are equivalent variables",
    ", we can use a simple logic @xmath21 to decrease the number of variables in the original problem to obtain new algorithmic strategies . in the following sections",
    ", we will use the backbones and mutual - determinations to analyze the solution space of vertex - cover .",
    "to study the solution space of vertex - cover , the leaf removal @xcite should be mentioned as inspiration . given a graph",
    "@xmath22 , a _ leaf _ is a couple of nodes @xmath23 in which the first one has degree 1 and the second one is the only neighbor of it . here",
    ", node @xmath24 is a pendant point in the graph , node @xmath25 acts as a petiole , and for the same petiole there may be more than one pendant points connecting it . to define the _ leaf removal _",
    ", if the nodes pair @xmath23 is a leaf in graph @xmath22 , remove the two nodes with the edges touching them .",
    "it is very interesting that the leaf removal process can destroy all the leaves in graph @xmath22 and can produce new leaves for the rest graph . in figure 1 ,",
    "a leaf removal process for a simple graph is shown .",
    "form a multiple leaf with the common petiole @xmath26 and the corresponding edges are marked by black dashed lines ; after removing this leaf , a new leaf with nodes @xmath27 appears and the corresponding edges are marked by red dashed lines ; when leaf @xmath27 is removed , the last new leaf @xmath28 is produced and the corresponding edges are marked by green dashed lines .",
    "the subgraphs ( 2 - 4 ) reveal the relationship of nodes in the leaves of a graph .",
    "there are three leaves in the graph which are marked by the red rectangles in subgraph ( 2 - 4 ) , and the relations among the nodes are revealed by the constraints in the leaves for vertex - cover.,width=480 ]    by this leaf removal process , we can find that there exist some graphs which have no leaf removal core until the termination of this process , which means that each node belongs to a leaf in the graph .",
    "for the vertex - cover of these graphs , to obtain the minimum vertex cover for the graph , there is one and only one node should be covered for each leaf . by the results in @xcite ,",
    "a trivial minimum vertex cover can be obtained by making all the petioles covered with all the pendant points uncovered in different levels of leaves , e.g. , making the nodes @xmath29 or @xmath30 covered and the rest uncovered leads to minimum vertex covers . here , we will take use of this trivial solution to construct a relationship between / among nodes in a leaf .    in figure 1 , the first subgraph ( 1 ) is the original graph .",
    "for the first leaf @xmath31 in this graph which lies in the red rectangle of subgraph ( 2 ) , there are two pendant points with one petiole , and to ensure the minimum coverage of the subgraph of @xmath31 , the only way is to cover the petiole node @xmath26 and make the two pendant points @xmath32 uncovered . in this case , the node @xmath26 acts as a negatively frozen node ( backbone ) , which is marked by solid black circles , the node @xmath33 acts as a positively frozen node , which is marked by solid red circles , and the edges connecting them are marked by dashed ones . for the second leaf @xmath27 in the red rectangle of subgraph ( 3 ) , there is only one pendant point @xmath34 and one petiole @xmath2 , to ensure the minimum coverage of the subgraph of @xmath35 , covering any node of @xmath27 with the other one uncovered will make an optimization solution . in this case , the assignments of @xmath36 must be opposite and they are _ mutually determined _ in the solution space of vertex - cover , which is denoted by a double edge and two nodes with different colors . for the third leaf @xmath37 which is similar as the leaf @xmath27 , their relation is also mutually determination .",
    "however , the relation of @xmath37 makes influence on the leaf @xmath27 , which makes the states of nodes @xmath27 changed to be backbones , and the detailed techniques for this case will be discussed in the following sections .",
    "based on the analysis inspired by the example in figure 1 and the backbone and mutual - determination structures , we can construct an expression of the solution space of vertex - cover which named _ reduced solution graph _",
    "@xmath38 : to show different minimum vertex covers of a given graph @xmath22 , the backbones on it are marked by solid red or black circles , and _",
    "double edges _ between unfilled hollow nodes with different colors ( blue and green ) suggest that the relations between the nodes are mutual - determinations and they can not take the same value simultaneously ; the edges connecting the backbones will be changed to dashed ones and the edges connecting two unfrozen nodes are retained . by the leaf - removal process and the strong correlation among / between nodes in the leaves",
    ", the mutual - determination can only be in the pendant point and its petiole .",
    "then , it is evident that the reduced solution graph can express the solution space of vertex - cover strictly when there is no leaf removal core for the given graph , and whether this expression is also effective for general graphs with leaf - removal cores and how to obtain the reduced solution graph of vertex - cover will be discussed in the following .    in order to have a convenient analysis of the reduced solution graph",
    ", the leaf - removal @xcite sequence is very important . here ,",
    "we take advantage of the sequence of the leaf removal to define the rank of each node :    _ step _ 1 : all the pendant points in the graph are assigned to sequence order / rank 1 , and their neighbors ( the petioles ) have rank 2 ;    _ step _ 2 : remove the leaves with edges connecting them from the graph . after the leaf removal , all the new produced pendant points are assigned to rank 3 , and their corresponding petioles have rank 4 ;    _ step _ 3 : repeat the steps 1 - 2 and assign increasing ranks until their are no new leaves produced .",
    "if there is still a leaf - removal core after the above two steps , assign the nodes in the core with ranks according to their already ranked neighbors by gradually increase .",
    "in this section , we concern on achieving the reduced solution graph @xmath38 by determining the states of the nodes one by one following the leaf removal sequence / ranks .",
    "this process is fulfilled by a method similar to the cavity method , and for each node its state is determined by the local environment of itself . considering a new node @xmath39 connected to a graph @xmath22 with @xmath40 edges ,",
    "the newly produced graph is denoted by @xmath41 . for the neighborhood of node @xmath39",
    ", there are three kinds of neighbors : positively frozen ones , negatively frozen ones and unfrozen ones .      in this subsection",
    ", we consider the different local environments of a new node @xmath39 , and investigate the state determination and evolution of it and associated nodes .",
    "taking advantage of the analysis in @xcite , we first study the following four cases :    @xmath42 * _ case _ a * : only one of its neighbors is positively frozen in @xmath22 ; some other neighbors are unfrozen nodes which can take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously .    in case a , energy increase is unavoidable when node @xmath39 is added .",
    "when @xmath15 takes value @xmath18 ( covered ) , its neighbors of nodes are free to take their spin values in the original @xmath22 , and new covers of the new graph @xmath41 come out with the lowest energy ; when @xmath15 takes value @xmath43 , the positively frozen neighbor should be changed to an unfrozen node taking @xmath18 now , e.g. , adding the node @xmath2 to the subgraph of @xmath44 leads a mutual - determination of @xmath27 in figure 1 and the above subgraph in figure 3 also show this process . then , mutual - determination of the new added @xmath39 with the original positively frozen node @xmath45 is formed .",
    "@xmath42 * _ case _ b * : there are more than two neighbors which are positively frozen .    in case b ,",
    "energy increase is unavoidable when node @xmath39 is added . to obtain a coverage of the new graph @xmath41 from the original one @xmath22",
    ", the new added node @xmath39 must be covered without other choice .",
    "then , node @xmath39 is negatively frozen .",
    "( there will be a supplementary and additional adjustment for this case in the following case e when the positively frozen neighbors have some common properties . )    @xmath42 * _ case _ c * : there is no neighbor which is positively frozen , but all the unfrozen neighbors can take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously .    in case c ,",
    "energy increase is avoidable when node @xmath39 is added , and the new added node @xmath39 should be uncovered .",
    "when @xmath15 takes value @xmath17 , all the unfrozen neighbors should take @xmath18 simultaneously .",
    "then , by the mutual - determinations and coverage of each edge in the reduced solution graph @xmath38 , that these unfrozen neighbors change to be negatively frozen will lead a number of associated unfrozen nodes to be frozen .",
    "@xmath42 * _ case _ d * : there is at least one pair of unfrozen neighbors that can not take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously .    in case d , as the two neighbors can not take @xmath18 simultaneously , energy increase is inevitable .",
    "then , the new added variable @xmath39 should take @xmath18 to ensure the coverage .",
    "however , for the incompatible cycles ( like that in the below subgraph of figure 3 ) , making any other node except @xmath39 frozen to @xmath18 and the rest unfrozen nodes connected by alternatively existing double edges will have the same effect and ensure the coverage .",
    "thus , in case d freezing the new added node @xmath39 to @xmath18 will reduce the whole solution space to a partial solution subspace .",
    "nevertheless , as takeing any one to be frozen on the incompatible cycle leads to a solution subspace with the same size , we have the convenient way to make @xmath39 negative backbone .    by the above analysis ,",
    "the incompatible cycle in the reduced solution graph makes a possible inaccurate choice of the negatively frozen backbone .",
    "thus , the hardness of solving vertex - cover mainly stems from the incompatible cycles .",
    "there exists an interesting entanglement between case a and case c. in case c , some added node @xmath46 has a positively frozen state , its unfrozen neighbors are forced to be frozen with some associated nodes . in case a , if some new added node @xmath47 is connected to @xmath46 and forms mutual - determination with @xmath46 by the rule of case a , the nodes that have been frozen by @xmath46 should be released to their original unfrozen state .",
    "to fulfill this releasing steps , an additional mark should be sticken to the node number , e.g. , a node @xmath48 means that the node 4 has been frozen by the operation of adding node 7 .",
    "indeed , this _ freezing influence",
    "_ happens only in case c with node 7 positively frozen .",
    "then , if the state of node 7 is changed to be unfrozen by adding a new node 8 in case a , we can release all the nodes with mark @xmath49 and change the corresponding numbers to @xmath50 , in which 0 means the state of the node is unfrozen .",
    "this operation is named _ releasing operation_.    for the releasing operation , there is a special case should be considered for the node adding process :    @xmath42 * _ case _ e * : there are more than two neighbors which are positively frozen and have the same additional mark , and the unfrozen neighbors can take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously . this case is a supplementary and additional adjustment of case b.    in this case , the current node should form mutual - determinations with the positively frozen nodes whose additional marks are the same , and the releasing operation is operated for these positively frozen neighbors ( a simple example can be seen in the below subgraph of figure 7 ) .      , which consists a procedure of case a to produce a mutual - determination ; subgraph ( 3 ) describes the process of adding the nodes @xmath51 , which consists a procedure of case c to produce a positively frozen backbone ; subgraph ( 4 - 5 ) is for adding @xmath2 and @xmath52 separately , which consists a procedure of case a again , and the checking technique works when adding @xmath2 and the rechecking technique works when adding @xmath52 ; subgraphs ( 6 - 7 ) correspond the process of adding @xmath53 , which is obtained by case a and c , and the freezing influence work when adding @xmath54 and the releasing operation works when adding @xmath55 ; subgraph ( 8) is obtained by breaking the odd cycle to obtain the real reduced solution graph , which changes the node @xmath56 with lowest rank to be negatively frozen.,width=480 ]    in the releasing operation for case a , to avoid some possible mistakes , a _ checking technique _ should be considered . when releasing the negatively frozen backbones in the releasing operations for case a , its local environment should be considered , and if there are positively frozen neighbors for the current negatively frozen backbone whose additional mark is not same as itself , the releasing process should be stopped ( e.g. , the node @xmath56 in the process of subgraphs ( 3 - 4 ) in figure 2 ) .",
    "be specific to this checking item , after the operations of case a - d , a _ rechecking technique _ should be added : when the freezing influence and releasing operations of adding a new node have been done , we should check any of the negatively frozen backbone whose additional mark is not 0 , if there is only one positively frozen neighbor for itself , release the negatively frozen backbone with the only positively frozen neighbor and the nodes which have the same additional mark with it ( e.g. , the node @xmath56 in the process of subgraphs ( 4 - 5 ) in figure 2 ) .    at last , by the process of above analysis , a complicated structure - odd cycles on the reduced solution graph could come into appearance , which makes conflictions for the relations among the unfrozen nodes .",
    "for the example in figure 2 , the subgraphs ( 1 - 7 ) provide the process from the original graph to the reduced solution graph by adding the nodes one by one using our techniques above , but unfortunately the unfrozen nodes",
    "@xmath57 in subgraph ( 7 ) form an odd cycle . in the odd cycle",
    ", we find that any node except @xmath56 taking any value will force the node @xmath56 to be negatively frozen , and it is an incompatible cycle .",
    "to break this disharmony , the only way is to change the state of @xmath56 to be negative backbone and make corresponding changes for its neighbors with lower ranks ( e.g. , the process from subgraph ( 7 ) to ( 8) in figure 2 ) .",
    "this technique is named _ odd cycles breaking_.      in the following , we will have an explicit discussion of the mutual - determinations and unfrozen nodes structure of vertex - cover . as mentioned above , if some node @xmath39 forms mutual - determination with a node @xmath45 , i.e. , @xmath11 forces @xmath58 to take @xmath17 , correspondingly by the vertex - cover , we have that @xmath59 requires @xmath60 to satisfy the coverage .",
    "if a node @xmath45 forms a mutual - determination chain with some other nodes @xmath61 , a possible way is that the edges @xmath62 on the reduced solution graph are all double edges , i.e. , all these pairs of nodes form mutual - determinations , which is shown in the cycle 2-compatible cycle in figure 3 . when the node @xmath45 takes vale @xmath18 ( covered ) , the nodes @xmath63 must take @xmath17 by the mutual - determination relations and coverage of the edges connecting them , and the nodes @xmath64 must take @xmath18 .",
    "therefore , the alternatively existing double edges on the reduced solution graph lead to the emergence of the strong correlation for nodes of long distance .        without confusion ,",
    "we neglect the backbones in the reduced solution graph but keep the unfrozen nodes . as we know , there are almost no local cycles on random graphs and the cycle sizes on random graph are of @xmath65 . by this characteristic of random graph",
    ", the emergence of the cycle 2-compatible cycle in figure 3 leads to the long - range correlation structure , and indeed the alternating mutual - determination chain is the only way to produce the long - range correlation in vertex - cover .    when the unfrozen neighbors of the new added node @xmath39 only have influence range over tree structures , which means that the double edges belonging to different unfrozen neighbors are disconnected except @xmath39 .",
    "at this time , these unfrozen neighbors can not propagate its influence to each other , and they can take @xmath18 simultaneously .",
    "similar as that in random graph , as the increasing of the number of nodes and edges , the unfrozen nodes with double edges in the reduced solution graph may connect together , and form cycles and even giant connected component .",
    "especially , for random graphs , the cycles connected by unfrozen nodes in the reduced solution graph must be with size of @xmath66 .",
    "therefore , if the unfrozen nodes connect together to form a giant connected component @xcite , some of them taking value @xmath18 will cause a percolation phenomenon @xcite that many other nodes ( @xmath67 ) in this giant connected component will be forced to be frozen . as a result ,",
    "the long - range correlation phenomenon emerges . in the work of zhou @xcite ,",
    "the long - range correlation of vertex - cover for random graph appears at @xmath68 .",
    "indeed , by the literature of statistical mechanics , the existence of long - range correlation has close connection with the replica symmetric breaking of the solution space .",
    "as the correlation is formed by mutual - determinations , the long - range correlation can also provide an explicit explanation of the clustering phenomenon of solution space .    by the emergency of the long - range correlation nodes , the local environment becomes much more complicated . as unfrozen neighbors of the new added node @xmath39",
    "can be connected together by other unfrozen nodes , their values can not be assigned arbitrarily . in figure 3 , a schematic view of the compatible and incompatible cycles of unfrozen nodes is shown . in cycle 1 , the unfrozen nodes @xmath69 are connected by unfrozen nodes with alternatively existing double edges , and it is easy to find that the nodes @xmath69 form a long - range correlation relation and can not take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously . to the contrary , in the compatible cycle 2 , though the relation between @xmath70 is also long - range correlation , they can take spin value @xmath18 simultaneously by the mutual - determination chain in cycle 2 .",
    "in this section , we will introduce an algorithm for solving vertex - cover based on case a - e and the node ranks . by the analysis in case a , b , c , d , e",
    ", we consider to update the state of the original graph @xmath71 after adding a new node @xmath39 .",
    "as the node states are classified by mutual - determinations and backbones , we can get an algorithm to find the reduced solution graph @xmath72 of vertex - cover , this algorithm is named _ mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm _ , shown as follows : + let s take @xmath73 $ ] as an induced subgraph of original graph @xmath22 by adding node @xmath24 and @xmath74 represent nodes @xmath39 and @xmath45 are connected ( unconnected ) . especially , when nodes @xmath39 and @xmath45 form the mutual - determination , we take @xmath75 . @xmath76=-1,0 $ ] or @xmath43 means the node @xmath39 is unfrozen , positively frozen or negatively frozen node respectively ; @xmath77 $ ] is the additional mark of node @xmath39 . +   +",
    "the algorithm of _ releasing operation _ is shown as follows : +    [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]       random instances with @xmath78 nodes ; fraction of frozen vertices in one macroscopic state ( yellow solid triangle ) and its comparison with results of ref.@xcite ( blue line for the fraction in all macroscopic states and blue dashed line for the fraction in one macroscopic state ) .",
    ", width=384 ]     and @xmath79 random instances ; the brown rectangles and triangles denote the results of replica symmetric breaking theory and survey propagation respectively ; the purple line denotes the results by replica symmetry theory ; the dashed line represents mean degree @xmath68 .",
    ", width=384 ]    in this section , some numerical experiments will be performed to verify the efficiency and performance of the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm on random graphs .    to reflect the solution space structures of vertex - cover , the ratios of negatively frozen backbone and",
    "positively frozen backbones are detected by the algorithm , in which one is monotone increasing and the other is monotone decreasing . in figure 4 , the ratios of the backbones are shown by the solid triangles , and the unfrozen nodes have its ratio with the residual part of one .",
    "our results on the frozen nodes in one macroscopic state is higher than that in @xcite mainly be the freezing influence . besides",
    ", in figure 5 , the coverage of the vertex - cover which is the size of the minimal vertex - cover is approximated by our algorithm , which is shown by the blue cycles with error bars and compared with the results of replica symmetry , replica symmetric breaking theory and survey propagation .",
    "the results on coverage of our algorithm perform better than that of replica symmetry when the average degree @xmath26 is not very large , but still have a small gap with the results of replica symmetric breaking theory and survey propagation . by the proof of the strictness of mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm when @xmath80 in the next section , our numerical results should be exact ones for the corresponding interval on random graphs .",
    "random instances with @xmath81 , @xmath82 and @xmath83 with different size @xmath84 .",
    ", width=480 ]    as a comparison to the complete algorithm and the exact coverage , some experiments are made to verify the performance of the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm which is an incomplete algorithm . in figure 6 , average error of minimal vertex cover between experimental and exact results",
    "are plotted to provide the difference between the exact results and our results on the coverage , and it is evident to see that these differences are not very big and have their scales no more than 0.04 for @xmath85 with increasing sizes .      to detect the reduced solution graph and provide a primary analysis of efficiency of our algorithm on the leaf - removal core",
    ", we will discuss the vertex - cover on the complete graphs and cycles with even number of nodes for inspiration .",
    "for the complete graphs , the process of our algorithm to obtain the reduced solution graph is rather simple : when the second node is added with an edge ( subgraph ( 1 ) in figure 7 ) , the mutual - determination emerges ; for the following added nodes , their local environment satisfies the case d and they can only be negative backbones . this process is shown in figure 7 by a typical graph @xmath86 .",
    "it is easy to know that for the complete graph @xmath87 there must be @xmath88 nodes be covered , and our results of reduced solution graph correspond to a solution subspace of the vertex - cover of @xmath87 .",
    "the whole solution space possesses @xmath4 solutions and by our algorithm we can obtain 2 solutions . therefore , the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm is an incomplete algorithm for the solution space , but it may be efficient for finding one solution of vertex - cover . certainly ,",
    "as analyzed in the above section , the incompatible cycles of the unfrozen node will bring the intrinsic difficulty for solving it and our algorithm can only obtain some approximated solutions for the original problem .",
    "then , the cycles @xmath89 with even number of nodes are considered .",
    "the process of our algorithm to obtain its reduced solution graph is a regular process : when odd number of nodes are added , there are no unfrozen nodes in the reduced solution graph ; when even number of nodes are added , the releasing operations should be considered and all the nodes are unfrozen with double edges / mutual - determinations alternatively connected together ; for the last node , it connects with two positively frozen nodes which have the same additional mark @xmath90 , and by the case e the last node forms mutual - determination with node @xmath90 and the rest are released .",
    "the whole process is schematically shown in the lower subgraphs @xmath91 in figure 7 by a typical graph @xmath92 .",
    "thus , the solution space of @xmath89 can be obtained , and it is easy to verify that the result is strict by our algorithm .",
    "the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm aims to obtain the whole solution space , and it is easy to find that it is an algorithm of polynomial time . as the vertex - cover problem is a typical np - complete problem , this algorithm can not be a complete one and will lose its efficiency in some case . in this section",
    ", some detailed analysis on the algorithm will be provided .      by the algorithm in the above section",
    ", the process of determining the ranks of the nodes in the graph is intrinsically a leaf removal process , and it will cost at most @xmath67 steps to obtain the whole ranks of all the nodes .    by considering the nodes sequentially according to their ranks ,",
    "when adding a new node to the original graph , first we should consider its local environment , which will cost at most constant @xmath93 steps for random graph .",
    "then , in different cases a - e , there may be additional time cost . in case b and d , the current state of the new added node",
    "is only determined by its neighbors and it causes no influence to others ; in case c , the freezing of the current node will cause an influence to the unfrozen neighbors and those related to them , and thus the influence propagation will cost at most @xmath67 steps ; in case d , the releasing operation with the checking technique will cost at most @xmath67 steps . at",
    "last , the rechecking technique and odd cycle breaking will cost at most @xmath67 steps for changing the states of some nodes . in sum ,",
    "when a new node is added to the graph , there are at most @xmath94 steps to obtain the new reduced solution graph .    besides , by the node ranks , there are @xmath4 nodes to be added in total .",
    "therefore , the total time cost for the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm is at most @xmath95 steps for random graphs .          in this subsection",
    ", we will discuss the strictness of the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm . by the analysis in section 3 , vertex - cover",
    "can be solved in polynomial time by assigning the pendants @xmath17 and their petioles @xmath18 when there is no leaf removal core . indeed ,",
    "if all the nodes can be assigned ranks by the leaf - removal , i.e. , the leaf - removal core is null , the reduced solution graph can reveal the whole solution space of vertex - cover strictly and our algorithm is a complete one to obtain the whole solution space in this case . the proof is given in the following .    _",
    "proof : _ for each pair of leaf , they form mutual - determination or both are backbones with one positive and the other negative . our algorithm is intrinsic an evolution process for the two kinds of states of leaves .",
    "when the reduced solution graph is with unfrozen - node structures of trees or forests for each step of the algorithm , this evolution guarantees that each step of adding a leaf will obtain the whole solution space of the enlarged graph .",
    "the strictness of operations in case b is trivial . mainly by the case a and c",
    ", the releasing operation and freezing influence are alternatively changing the states on the trees or forests and have no cross influence among different branches , which leads to the strictness of our algorithm .",
    "when the reduced solution graph is with unfrozen - node structures of odd cycles in some steps , the odd cycles breaking technique ensures the correctness of the algorithm and the resulted reduced solution graph can be reduced to the case of unfrozen - node structures of trees or forests above .",
    "the reduced solution graph can never have even cycles with alternative existing mutual - determinations when there is no leaf - removal core . in the right subgraph of figure 8 , a schematic view for the leaf removal",
    "is provided .",
    "all the nodes in the red circles will be removed in pairs by leaf removal process , and all nodes @xmath96 can only have their own leaf partners on this cycle , which means that there are no new leaves after the nodes in the red circles are removed and the even cycle formed by @xmath96 survivals at last . evidently , the even cycles will be in the leaf - removal core .",
    "cycles of unfrozen nodes without alternative existing mutual - determinations can survive on the reduced solution graph . in the left above and below subgraphs of figure 8 ,",
    "two simple examples are given to reveal the existence of ordinary cycles of unfrozen nodes on the reduced solution graph . by simple logic",
    ", we can find that each node on the graphs can have both covered and uncovered states .",
    "in this situation , the strictness of our algorithm is guaranteed by the checking and rechecking techniques and the case e , which ensure that the influence of the freezing operation and releasing operation can be controlled in a correct way .    at last",
    ", considering case d , when the leaf - removal core is null , this case can be reduced to the odd cycle breaking , and it will bring the kernel difficulty when the leaf - removal core exists .    therefore , the reduced solution graph obtained by our algorithm can reveals the exact solution space when there is no leaf - removal core .",
    "@xmath97    by the above analysis , we have shown that the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm is strict when there is no leaf - removal core in the graph . by the results in @xcite",
    ", there is no leaf - removal core in the random graph with high probability when the average degree @xmath26 is less than @xmath2 .",
    "then , our algorithm is strict with high probability when @xmath80 .",
    "the even and odd cycles of unfrozen nodes will be analyzed in this subsection . in this right subgraph of figure 8 , the nodes @xmath96 with four mutual - determination @xmath98 construct an even cycle of unfrozen nodes .",
    "indeed on this cycle all the nodes have a mutual - determination relation , that is to say , that any node is covered of uncovered will lead to the fixation of all the other 7 nodes .",
    "then , the double edges can also be drawn on @xmath99 or all the edges , all these expressions on the reduced solution graph correspond to the same solution space and there are only two solutions on the even cycles of alternative mutual - determinations .",
    "for the odd cycles of alternative mutual - determinations , e.g. , subgraph ( 7 ) of figure 2 , what we can do is to perform the odd cycle breaking , which keeps the strictness of our algorithm .",
    "unfortunately , there is the other way to produce an odd cycle of alternative mutual - determinations , just like the incompatible cycle in the below subgraph of figure 3 .",
    "this kind of odd cycle structure emerges when the leaf - removal core exists and is hard to be broken for the lowest energy configuration of vertex - cover .",
    "as the incompatible cycle brings obstacle for obtaining the real reduced solution graph , changing any unfrozen node on it to be negatively frozen is a possible choice for the reduced solution graph . in our algorithm",
    ", we can only choose one way to proceed , which makes the solution space collapse to a subspace .",
    "many steps of the collapsing may lead to unnecessary energy increase and superfluous cover of the graph .",
    "in fact , we can keep all the incompatible cycles of alternative mutual - determinations without breaking choices for each step in the leaf - removal core and deal with them for the final reduced solution graph .",
    "all the backbones have no influence on the solution space , but breaking the incompatible cycles of alternative mutual - determinations on the reduced solution graph is an urgent task for achieving the proper solution subspaces .",
    "many these incompatible cycles are coupled together and should be broken by making some nodes on them negatively frozen .",
    "the fewer the number of negatively frozen nodes are chosen , the better covers we can obtain .",
    "therefore , this problem can be reduced to the max - cut @xcite problem for the unfrozen nodes of the reduced solution graph . by the results of max - cut , breaking the edges of unfrozen nodes which do not belong to the max - cut",
    "will lead to totaly compatible cycles .",
    "however , the max - cut problem is also a np - complete problem which is hard to solve .",
    "a new solution space structure , mutual - determination between unfrozen nodes is defined and discovered in some detailed case of the vertex - cover . based on the mutual - determinations and backbones , we construct the reduced solution graph to reveal the solution space of vertex - cover . and , inspired by the leaf removal process and introducing node ranks , a dynamical process for the evolution of the node states is studied to achieve the current states of nodes in the reduced solution graph . combing the mutual - determinations , backbones and the node ranks ,",
    "an algorithm named mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm is proposed to obtained the accurate reduced solution graph . to ensure the accuracy of the algorithm ,",
    "the releasing operations , checking and rechecking techniques and odd cycles breaking operation are defined by considering the influence propagation .",
    "then , the numerical results and some examples are given to verify the validity of the algorithm .",
    "besides , we have proved that this algorithm is an @xmath100 algorithm and performs strict when there is no leaf - removal core for the graph .",
    "the influence of incompatible cycles of unfrozen nodes to the algorithm is given , which can be reduced to max - cut problem .",
    "the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm can be applied to a wide range of graphs .",
    "though the difficulties are brought to by the incompatible cycles in case d on the reduced solution graph , choosing proper strategies to break the cycles will be helpful to obtain a solution subspace , which will be beneficial to solve the vertex - cover problem in different topologies .",
    "besides , in order to break the incompatible cycles of unfrozen nodes in case d on the reduced solution graph , we should design better heuristic strategies to check the key unfrozen nodes on it , such as taking advantage of the centrality or clustering coefficient @xcite . however , as the intrinsic character of vertex - cover is np - complete , the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm will still be an approximated one , and what we aim at is to improve the accuracy of solving different graphs of vertex - cover .",
    "the reduced solution graph of mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm can correspond to the whole solution space of vertex - cover in some cases , which is a great help to count the number of solutions .",
    "similar as the # csp @xcite , the # vertex - cover can be analyzed based on the reduced solution graph .",
    "however , calculating the exact entropy of the solution space needs a much detailed analysis of the constructions of the reduced solution graph and there should be many techniques to be introduce on counting the solutions on the reduced solution graph .",
    "besides , the reduced solution graph can help explicitly determine the role of every node and calculate the partition functions and marginal probabilities of the nodes / variables . some of the related results will be proceeded in our future work .",
    "the principal of our algorithm is related to the replica symmetry theory but not restrict to .",
    "most of recent algorithms solving combinatorial optimization problems always concentrate to find one solution , such as the searching algorithms , heuristic algorithms and even the belief / survey propagation algorithm @xcite .",
    "they assign values to the nodes / variables according to some strategies and do backtracking to reach the optimal solution , or determine the probability of the variables taking some values .",
    "the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm collects as more solutions as possible for the initial subgraphs , and aims to find solutions by contracting the solution space .",
    "at least , algorithms of detecting the solution space provides a strategy of reducing the complexity of finding solutions , and combing our algorithm with other searching and heuristic algorithm may be an interesting research direction for accelerating the solving process .",
    "this work is supported by the fundamental research funds for the central universities .",
    "1    r. m. karp , reducibility among combinatorial problems . in complexity of computer computations ,",
    "_ proc . sympos .",
    "ibm thomas j. watson res . center _ , 85 - 103 , 1972 .",
    "s. a. cook , the complexity of theorem - proving procedures , _ proc .",
    "acm symp . on theory of computing _ , 151158 , 1971 .",
    "y. breitbart , c. chan , m. garofalakis , r. rastogi and a. silverschatz , efficiently monitoring bandwidth and latency in ip networks , _ proc .",
    "ieee infocom 2001 .",
    "twentieth annual joint conference of the ieee computer and communications societies _ , 2 , 933 - 942 , 2001 .",
    "p. kilby , j. slaney , s. thiebaux and t. walsh , backbones and backdoors in satisfiability , _ proceedings of the 20th national conference on artificial intelligence and the 17th innovative appllications of artificial intelligence conference _ , menlo park : aaai / mit press , 2005 .",
    "f. krzakala , a. montanari , f. ricci - tersenghi , g. semerjian and l. zdeborova , gibbs states and the set of solutions of random constraint satisfaction problems , proc .",
    "sci . * 104 * , 10318 ( 2007 ) .",
    "w. wei , b. guo and z. zheng , the underlying interactive chain structure in the solution space of constraint satisfaction problems , _ procedding of the international conference on internet technology and security _ , 169 - 173 , wuhan , 2010 .",
    "r. monasson , r. zecchina , s. kirkpatrick , b. selman and l. troyansky , 2+p - sat : relation of typical - case complexity to the nature of the phase transition , random struct . algor . * 15 * , * 3 - 4 * , 414 - 435 , 1999 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> to solve the combinatorial optimization problems especially the minimal vertex - cover problem with high efficiency , is a significant task in theoretical computer science and many other subjects . </S>",
    "<S> aiming at detecting the solution space of vertex - cover , a new structure named mutual - determination between unfrozen nodes is defined and discovered for arbitrary graphs , which results in the emergence of the strong correlations . </S>",
    "<S> based on the backbones and mutual - determinations with node ranks by leaf removal , we propose an mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm to achieve the reduced solution graph , which provides a graphical expression of the solution space of vertex - cover . by this algorithm , </S>",
    "<S> the whole solution space and detailed structures such as backbones can be obtained strictly when there is no leaf - removal core on the graph . </S>",
    "<S> compared with the current algorithms , the mutual - determination and backbone evolution algorithm performs better than the replica symmetry ones but has a small gap higher than the replica symmetric breaking ones , and has a relatively small error for the exact results . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm with the mutual - determination provides a new viewpoint to solve vertex - cover , by which all detailed information of the ground / steady states can be shown in the reduced solution graph .    </S>",
    "<S> _ keywords _ : vertex - cover ; solution space ; mutual - determination ; backbone . </S>"
  ]
}