{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last 40 years , our knowledge about pulsating stars has greatly expanded .",
    "the ever increasing accuracy in stellar observations and advances in theory have revealed a large number of previously unknown classes of variable star .",
    "figure 1 compares the knowledge on the positions of pulsating stars in the hr diagram over this time span .",
    "the most striking difference between the two panels in this figure is that the hr diagram nowadays is well filled with pulsating variables .",
    "this has the important consequence that stellar oscillations can be utilized to sound the interiors of stars in many different evolutionary stages , and over wide ranges of mass and chemical composition .",
    "besides better defined locations of the pulsating stars over the last 40 years , another new feature is obvious : several of the different instability strips overlap .",
    "these instability strips contain stars with different pulsational behaviour , or in other words , with different types of mode excited .",
    "consequently , it can be suspected that stars possessing more than a single set of mode spectra exist .",
    "ground based observations have shown that they do , and the history of their study has been reviewed elsewhere ( e.g. , handler 2009 ) .",
    "the most complicated region in the hr diagram in terms of overlap of different classes of pulsating star is where the lower classical instability strip intersects the main sequence , at spectral types of a and f. there one finds :    * @xmath0 scuti stars , pulsating in radial and nonradial pressure and mixed modes of low radial order with periods between 20 minutes and 6 hours , driven by the classical @xmath2 mechanism in the he ii ionization zone ( baker & kippenhahn 1962 ) * rapidly oscillating ap ( roap ) stars , high - order pressure modes pulsators governed by a global magnetic field , with periods of 5 - 20 minutes , believed to be driven by the @xmath2 mechanism in the he i / h ionization zone ( balmforth et al .",
    "2001 ) * @xmath1 doradus stars that oscillate in high - order g modes with periods between 0.3 - 3 days , and likely driven by blocking of flux at the base of the envelope convection zone ( guzik et al .",
    "2000 ) * solar - like oscillations with periods around 10 - 40 minutes are theoretically predicted to be present and driven by surface convection ( houdek et al .",
    "1999 )    the present article reviews the present knowledge on hybrid pulsators in this domain in the light of recent results of asteroseismic space missions .",
    "there will be a strong focus on kepler data , not only because they have the best quality , but for the practical reason that the author is involved in their analysis .",
    "when searching for @xmath0  scuti pulsations in @xmath1  doradus stars , bob shobbrook invented the term `` delgam scudor stars '' for such hybrids . the asteroseismic observations by the kepler satellite ( gilliland et al .",
    "2010 ) revealed a large number of such variables .",
    "an example light curve is shown in fig .  2 .",
    "the presence of multiperiodic pulsation with both long and short periods is quite obvious thanks to the excellent data quality .",
    "first analyses of kepler data ( grigahcne et al .  2010 , uytterhoeven et al .",
    "2011 ) revealed that @xmath0 scuti/@xmath1 doradus hybridity is quite common ( with an incidence of about 1/4 ) among a / f type stars , a result consistent with findings from corot ( hareter et al .",
    "2010 ) .",
    "of course , better data also provide new challenges .",
    "it was noticed that the instability domains of @xmath0 scuti and @xmath1 doradus stars , and consequently , such hybrids , are larger than previously thought .",
    "this is in general not a surprise , but the apparent presence of hybrids all over the @xmath0 scuti instability strip ( grigahcne et al .",
    "2010 , uytterhoeven et al .",
    "2011 ) , and beyond , is .",
    "however , it must be kept in mind that the effective temperatures and surface gravities of these faint stars are not yet known to high accuracy .",
    "work is in progress to improve this situation .",
    "another new result from the space missions is that the g and p mode domains in many delgam scudor stars are not nicely separated in frequency , as to be expected from their defining pulsational behaviour .",
    "several stars appear to have a continuum of pulsation frequencies excited , filling the gap between high - order g modes and low order p and mixed modes .",
    "this is a problem for models of pulsational mode excitation , which predict just such a clear separation ( e.g.  cf .",
    "fig .  2 of grigahcne et al .",
    "2010 ) between the two types of mode . how can the frequency gap be filled ?",
    "two scenarios appear viable .",
    "the first has been proposed long ago by balona & dziembowski ( 1999 , their fig .  1 )",
    ". modes with high spherical degrees ( @xmath3 ) can fill this frequency gap .",
    "it has hitherto been assumed that such modes can not be seen in disk - integrated photometric measurements , but with the highly improved quality thanks to space observations , this assumption must be abandoned .",
    "daszyska - daszkiewicz et al .",
    "( 2002 ) have shown that , for instance , the photometric amplitude of an @xmath4 mode still is 0.3% of a radial mode with the same intrinsic amplitude .",
    "such modes can therefore fill the frequency gap .",
    "another possibility to fill the gap is rapid rotation , illustrated in fig .",
    "3 . at low rotation speeds ,",
    "the g and p mode spectra are well separated . however , with increasing rotation , the g mode regions extends and the p modes become rotationally split predominantly to lower frequency . because of the small vertical amplitude of the g modes , they hardly experience the centrifugal force and prograde modes increase in frequency with rotation . on the other hand , the mostly vertically moving p modes feel the centrifugal force and retrograde modes attain lower and lower frequencies . for clarity of presentation ,",
    "the current example was restricted to @xmath5 modes ; the effect becomes stronger for higher @xmath6 and with inwardly increasing rotation rate ( dziembowski & pamyatnykh 2008 ) .",
    "we are only at the beginning of the exploration of the scientific information present in the stellar mode spectra provided from the new high - quality measurements .",
    "there are several questions that require further thought and investigations , such as : what are the decisive quantities that separate hybrid pulsators from `` pure '' oscillators of a single class ?",
    "what are the signals in the gap between the g and p / mixed mode domains ?    of general importance is the following question : are all the variability frequencies we see in these stars due to normal pulsation modes or are there other causes ?",
    "rotational modulation of light curves can generate signals with frequencies in the @xmath1  doradus domain .",
    "in fact , a close connection between rotation and @xmath1  doradus pulsation has recently been proposed ( balona et al .",
    "another possibility is the presence of r modes in some oscillation spectra ( kurtz et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "given the presence of stellar surface convection in stars within the @xmath0  scuti instability strip , kallinger & matthews ( 2010 ) proposed that granulation noise may be observed in the amplitude spectra of stars with apparently `` too many '' pulsation frequencies .",
    "amplitude / phase modulation of pulsation modes may also generate spurious signals in frequency analyses .",
    "because of the many possible previously unobserved phenomena in stellar light variations , it remains to be discussed whether or not there is much point in keeping the designations of variable star classes as they are .",
    "as the first delgam scudor stars were discovered , there was the hypothesis that their nature could be related to chemical peculiarity , as several of these seemed to be am stars ( matthews 2007 ) .",
    "recent spectroscopic analyses ( hareter et al .  2011 ) argue against this hypothesis .",
    "the kepler mission also revealed some delgam scudor stars among ap stars and candidates .",
    "the detections of the oscillations are quite convincing , what remains to be proven is whether these objects are true ap stars ( balona et al .",
    "2011a ) ; spectroscopic observations need to be obtained .",
    "recently , a hybrid between a @xmath1  doradus and a roap star has been reported and modelled ( balona et al .  2011 ) .",
    "unfortunately the presumed @xmath1  doradus mode spectrum is sparse , wherefore utilizing both types of mode is not yet possible .",
    "kepler observations also supplied the first detection of solar - like oscillations in the @xmath0  scuti star hd 187547 ( antoci et al .",
    "the light variations of the star are dominated by low - order p mode pulsations , whereas at higher frequencies the comb - like structure of high radial overtone oscillations is observed .",
    "figure 4 shows a comparison of the temporal behaviour of a @xmath0  scuti mode , a stochastically driven pulsation and a solar mode .",
    "the similarity between the latter two is striking .",
    "the importance of the detection of these oscillations lies not only in the possibility to sound different interior regions of the star asteroseismically .",
    "it also implies that stellar surface convection can still be efficient in stars about twice as massive as the sun , where the superficial convection zones are as thin as 1% of the stellar radius .",
    "the solar - like mode amplitudes and lifetimes can be used to constrain convection models in a hitherto observationally unexplored domain of physical parameter space , and it will be interesting to see how this result can be reconciled with others implying non - efficient surface convection in @xmath0 scuti stars ( lenz et al .",
    "the @xmath0 scuti stars , the roap stars , the @xmath1 dor stars and solar like oscillators all overlap at the intersection of the classical instability strip and the main sequence .",
    "each of these classes of pulsating star are driven in different regions of the star . to date , we know hybrid pulsators between : @xmath0 scuti and @xmath1 dor stars , roap stars and @xmath1 dor stars as well as @xmath0 scuti stars and solar - like oscillators .",
    "the other three possible combinations of two classes of pulsator have not yet been observed .",
    "this status makes sense from the point of view of pulsational driving ( as we believe to understand it to date ) , because the mechanisms operating in the known hybrids , or their basic physical characteristics , do not affect each other negatively . on the other hand , the absence of roap / solar - like hybrids is also not a surprise , as the strong magnetic fields of ap stars are believed to suppress surface convection .",
    "similar arguments may be invoked to explain the non - detection of roap/@xmath0 scuti hybrids : the diffusion and settling of chemical elements is supposed to deplete the driving zone for @xmath0 scuti oscillations of the required helium , and slow wave leakage due to strong magnetic fields is believed to provide additional damping .    what about @xmath1 doradus / solar - like hybrids ?",
    "such stars have not been reported to date , but the author believes this is only a question of time . along those lines ,",
    "given the large fraction of delgam scudor stars , one may also expect the existence of @xmath0 scuti/@xmath1 doradus / solar - like hybrids , which would be another goldmine for asteroseismology of main sequence stars .",
    "i would like to express my deepest respect for the people of japan because of their prudence in dealing with a national tragedy .",
    "i thank hiromoto shibahashi for enouraging everyone to attend this meeting despite the difficult circumstances under which it was held , and for a generous travel grant .",
    "this work was partially supported by the austrian fonds zur frderung der wissenschaftlichen forschung under grant p20526-n16 .",
    "victoria antoci , patrick lenz and alosha pamyatnykh provided comments that made this article a better one .",
    "antoci , v. , handler , g. , campante , t. l. , 2011 , nature , 477 , 570 baker , n. , kippenhahn , r. , 1962 , zeitschrift fr astrophysik 54 , 114 balmforth , n. j. , cunha , m. s. , dolez , n. , gough , d. o. , vauclair , s. , 2001 , mnras 323 , 362 balona , l. a. , dziembowski , w. a. , 1999 , mnras 309 , 221 balona , l. a. , cunha , m. s. , kurtz , d. w. , et al .",
    ", 2011a , mnras 410 , 517 balona , l. a. , guzik , j. a. , uytterhoeven , k. , smith , j. c. , tenenbaum , p. , twicken , j. d. , 2011b , mnras 415 , 3531 daszyska - daszkiewicz j. , dziembowski w. a. , pamyatnykh a. a. , goupil m .- j . , 2002 , a&a 392 , 151 dziembowski w. a. , pamyatnykh a. a. , 2008 , mnras 385 , 2061 gilliland , r. l. , brown , t. m. , christensen - dalsgaard , j. , et al . 2010 , pasp 122 , 131 grigahcne , a. , antoci , v. , balona , l. a. , et al . , 2010 , apj 713 , l192 guzik , j. a. , kaye , a. b. , bradley , p. a. , cox , a. n. , neuforge , c. , 2000 , apj 542 , l57 handler , g. , 2009 , mnras 398 , 1339 hareter , m. , reegen , p. , miglio , a. , et al .",
    ", 2010 , arxiv:1007.3176 hareter , m. , fossati , l. , weiss , w. w. , et al . , 2011 , apj , 743 , 153 houdek , g. , balmforth , n. j. , christensen - dalsgaard , j. , gough , d. o. , 1999 , a&a 351 , 582 kallinger , t. , matthews , j. m. , 2010 , apj 711 , l35 kurtz , d. w. , cunha , m. s. , saio , h. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "mnras 414 , 2550 lenz , p. , pamyatnykh a. a. , breger , m. , antoci , v. , 2008 , a&a 478 , 855 matthews , j. m. , 2007 , coast 150 , 333 uytterhoeven , k. , moya , a. , grigahcne , a. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , a&a , 534 , a125"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this article reviews the present knowledge on oscillating main sequence a / f stars that belong to more than one class of pulsator . due to recent results of asteroseismic space missions , </S>",
    "<S> we now know of many @xmath0  scuti/@xmath1  doradus stars . however , @xmath1  doradus variability was also detected in a rapidly oscillating ap star , and solar - like oscillations were discovered in a @xmath0  scuti star . </S>",
    "<S> the astrophysical information that can be gained from these pulsators is discussed , and confronted with what is believed to be known about pulsational driving . </S>"
  ]
}