{
  "article_text": [
    "the field of ground - based gravitational - wave ( gw ) physics is rapidly approaching a state with a high likelihood of detecting gws for the first time in the latter half of this decade .",
    "such a detection will not only validate part of einstein s general theory of relativity , but initiate an era of astrophysical observation of the universe through gws .",
    "gravitational waves are dynamical strains in space - time , @xmath0 , that travel at the speed of light and are generated by non - axisymmetric acceleration of mass .",
    "a first detection is expected to witness an event such as a binary black hole / neutron star merger @xcite .",
    "the typical detector configuration used by current generation gravitational - wave observatories is a power - recycled fabry - perot michelson laser interferometer featuring suspended test masses in vacuum as depicted in figure [ fig : ifoschematic ] .",
    "a diode - pumped , power amplified , and intensity and frequency stabilized nd : yag laser emits light at @xmath1  nm .",
    "the laser is directed to a michelson interferometer whose two arm lengths are set to maintain destructive interference of the recombined light at the anti - symmetric ( as ) port .",
    "an appropriately polarized gravitational wave will differentially change the arm lengths , producing signal at the as port proportional to the gw strain and the input power .",
    "the fabry - perot cavities in the michelson arms and a power recycling mirror ( rm ) at the symmetric port are two modifications to the michelson interferometer that increase the laser power in the arms and therefore improve the detector s sensitivity to gws .",
    "a network of first generation kilometer scale laser interferometer gravitational - wave detectors completed an integrated 2-year data collection run in 2007 , called science run 5 ( s5 ) .",
    "the instruments were : the american laser interferometer gravitational - wave observatories ( ligo)@xcite , one in livingston , la with 4 km long arms and two in hanford , wa with 4 km and 2 km long arms ; the 3 km french - italian detector virgo@xcite in cascina , italy ; and the 600  m german - british detector geo@xcite located near hannover , germany .",
    "multiple separated detectors increase detection confidence through signal coincidence and improve source localization via waveform reconstruction .",
    "the first generation of ligo , now known as initial ligo , achieved its design goal of sensitivity to gws in the 407000  hz band , including a record strain sensitivity of @xmath2 at 155  hz .",
    "however , only nearby sources produce enough gw strain to appear above the noise level of initial ligo and no gravitational wave has yet been found in the s5 data .",
    "a second generation of ligo detectors , advanced ligo , has been designed to be at least an order of magnitude more sensitive at several hundred hz and above and to give an impressive increase in bandwidth down to 10  hz .",
    "advanced ligo is expected to open the field of gw astronomy through the detection of many events per year @xcite . to test some of advanced ligo s new technologies and to increase the chances of detection through a more sensitive data taking run , an incremental upgrade to the detectors",
    "was carried out after s5 @xcite .",
    "this project , enhanced ligo , culminated with the s6 science run from july 2009 to october 2010 .",
    "currently , construction of advanced ligo is underway .",
    "simultaneously , virgo and geo are both undergoing their own upgrades @xcite .",
    "the baseline advanced ligo design @xcite improves upon initial ligo by incorporating improved seismic isolation @xcite , the addition of a signal recycling mirror at the output port @xcite , homodyne readout , and an increase in available laser power from 8  w to 180  w. the substantial increase in laser power improves the shot - noise - limited sensitivity , but introduces a multitude of thermally induced side effects that must be addressed for proper operation .",
    "enhanced ligo tested portions of the advanced ligo designs so that unforeseen difficulties could be addressed and so that a more sensitive data taking run could take place .",
    "an output mode cleaner was designed , built and installed , and dc readout of the gw signal was implemented @xcite .",
    "an advanced ligo active seismic isolation table was also built , installed , and tested ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter 5 ) .",
    "in addition , the 10  w initial ligo laser was replaced with a 35  w laser @xcite . accompanying the increase in laser power , the test mass thermal compensation system @xcite , the alignment sensing and control @xcite , and the input optics were modified .",
    "this paper reports on the design and performance of the ligo input optics ( io ) subsystem in enhanced ligo , focusing specifically on its operational capabilities as the laser power is increased to 30  w. substantial improvements in the io power handling capabilities with respect to initial ligo performance are seen .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "first , in section [ sec : role ] we define the role of the io subsystem and detail the function of each of the major io subcomponents .",
    "then , in section [ sec : problems ] we describe thermal effects which impact the operation of the io and summarize the problems experienced with the io in initial ligo . in section [ sec : design ]",
    "we present the io design for advanced ligo in detail and describe how it addresses these problems .",
    "section [ sec : performance ] presents the performance of the prototype advanced ligo io design as tested during enhanced ligo .",
    "finally , we extrapolate from these experiences in section [ sec : aligo ] to discuss the expected io performance in advanced ligo .",
    "the paper concludes with a summary in section [ sec : summary ] .",
    "the input optics is one of the primary subsystems of the ligo interferometers .",
    "its purpose is to deliver an aligned , spatially pure , mode - matched beam with phase - modulation sidebands to the power - recycled fabry - perot michelson interferometer .",
    "the io also prevents reflected or backscattered light from reaching the laser and distributes the reflected field from the interferometer ( designated the _ reflected port _ ) to photodiodes for sensing and controlling the length and alignment of the interferometer .",
    "in addition , the io provides an intermediate level of frequency stabilization and must have high overall optical efficiency .",
    "it must perform these functions without limiting the strain sensitivity of the ligo interferometer . finally , it must operate robustly and continuously over years of operation .",
    "the conceptual design is found in ref .",
    "@xcite .    as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ioblock ] , the io subsystem consists of four principle components located between the pre - stabilized laser and the power recycling mirror :    * electro - optic modulator ( eom ) * mode cleaner cavity ( mc ) * faraday isolator ( fi ) * mode - matching telescope ( mmt )    each element is a common building block of many optical experiments and not unique to ligo .",
    "however , their roles specific to the successful operation of interferometry for gravitational - wave detection are of interest and demand further attention . here",
    ", we briefly review the purpose of each of the io components ; further details about the design requirements are in ref .",
    "@xcite .",
    "the length sensing and control ( lsc ) and angular sensing and control ( asc ) subsystems require phase modulation of the laser light at rf frequencies .",
    "this modulation is produced by an eom , generating sidebands of the laser light which act as references against which interferometer length and angle changes are measured @xcite .",
    "the sideband light must be either resonant only in the recycling cavity or not resonant in the interferometer at all .",
    "the sidebands must be offset from the carrier by integer multiples of the mc free spectral range to pass through the mc .",
    "stably aligned cavities , limited non - mode - matched ( junk ) light , and a frequency and amplitude stabilized laser are key features of any ultra sensitive laser interferometer .",
    "the mc , at the heart of the io , plays a major role .",
    "a three - mirror triangular ring cavity , the mc suppresses laser output not in the fundamental tem@xmath3 mode , serving two major purposes .",
    "it enables the robustness of the asc because higher order modes would otherwise contaminate the angular sensing signals of the interferometer .",
    "also , all non - tem@xmath3 light on the length sensing photodiodes , including those used for the gw readout , contributes shot noise but not signal and therefore diminishes the signal to noise ratio .",
    "the mc is thus largely responsible for achieving an aligned , minimally shot - noise - limited interferometer .",
    "the mc also plays an active role in laser frequency stabilization @xcite , which is necessary for ensuring that the signal at the anti - symmetric port is due to arm length fluctuations rather than laser frequency fluctuations .",
    "in addition , the mc passively suppresses beam jitter at frequencies above 10  hz .",
    "faraday isolators are four - port optical devices which utilize the faraday effect to allow for non - reciprocal polarization switching of laser beams .",
    "any backscatter or reflected light from the interferometer ( due to impedance mismatch , mode mismatch , non - resonant sidebands , or signal ) needs to be diverted to protect the laser from back propagating light , which can introduce amplitude and phase noise .",
    "this diversion of the reflected light is also necessary for extracting length and angular information about the interferometer s cavities .",
    "the fi fulfils both needs .",
    "the lowest - order mc and arm cavity spatial eigenmodes need to be matched for maximal power buildup in the interferometer .",
    "the mode - matching telescope is a set of three suspended concave mirrors between the mc and interferometer that expand the beam from a radius of 1.6 mm at the mc waist to a radius of 33 mm at the arm cavity waist .",
    "the mmt should play a passive role by delivering properly shaped light to the interferometer without introducing beam jitter or any significant aberration that can reduce mode coupling .",
    "the initial ligo interferometers were equipped with a 10  w laser , yet operated with only 7  w input power due to power - related problems with other subsystems .",
    "the eom was located in the 10  w beam and the other components experienced anywhere up to 7  w power .",
    "the 7  w operational limit was not due to the failure of the io ; however , many aspects of the io performance did degrade with power .",
    "one of the primary problems of the initial ligo io @xcite was thermal deflection of the back propagating beam due to thermally - induced refractive index gradients in the fi .",
    "a significant beam drift between the interferometer s locked and unlocked states led to clipping of the reflected beam on the photodiodes used for length and alignment control ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : ioschematic ] ) .",
    "our measurements determined a deflection of approximately 100  rad / w in the fi .",
    "this problem was mitigated at the time by the design and implementation of an active beam steering servo on the beam coming from the isolator .",
    "there were also known limits to the power the io could sustain .",
    "thermal lensing in the fi optics began to alter significantly the beam mode at powers greater than 10  w , leading to a several percent reduction in mode matching to the interferometer @xcite .",
    "additionally , absorptive fi elements would create thermal birefringence , degrading the optical efficiency and isolation ratio with power @xcite .",
    "the initial ligo new focus eoms had an operational power limit of around 10  w. there was a high risk of damage to the crystals under the stress of the 0.4  mm radius beam .",
    "also , anisotropic thermal lensing with focal lengths as severe as 3.3  m at 10  w made the eoms unsuitable for much higher power .",
    "finally , the mc mirrors exhibited high absorption ( as much as 24 ppm per mirror)enough that thermal lensing of the mc optics at enhanced ligo powers would induce higher order modal frequency degeneracy and result in a power - dependent mode mismatch into the interferometer @xcite .",
    "in fact , as input power increased from 1  w to 7  w the mode matching decreased from 90% to 83% .",
    "in addition to the thermal limitations of the initial ligo io , optical efficiency in delivering light from the laser into the interferometer was not optimal .",
    "of the light entering the io chain , only 60% remained by the time it reached the power recycling mirror .",
    "moreover , because at best only 90% of the light at the recycling mirror was coupled into the arm cavity mode , room was left for improvement in the implementation of the mmt .",
    "the enhanced ligo io design addressed the thermal effects that compromised the performance of the initial ligo io , and accommodated up to four times the power of initial ligo . also , the design was a prototype for handling the 180  w laser planned for advanced ligo . because the adverse thermal properties of the initial ligo io ( beam drift , birefringence , and lensing ) are all attributable primarily to absorption of laser light by the optical elements , the primary design consideration was finding optics with lower absorption @xcite .",
    "both the eom and the fi were replaced for enhanced ligo .",
    "only minor changes were made to the mc and mmt .",
    "a detailed layout of the enhanced ligo io is shown in figure [ fig : ioschematic ] .",
    "we replaced the commercially - made new focus 4003 resonant phase modulator of initial ligo with an in - house eom design and construction .",
    "both a new crystal choice and architectural design change allow for superior performance .",
    "the enhanced ligo eom design uses a crystal of rubidium titanyl phosphate ( rtp ) , which has at most 1/10 the absorption coefficient at 1064 nm of the lithium niobate ( linbo@xmath4 ) crystal from initial ligo . at 200",
    "w the rtp should produce a thermal lens of 200 m and higher order mode content of less than 1% , compared to the 3.3  m lens the linbo@xmath4 produces at 10  w. the rtp has a minimal risk of damage , because it has both twice the damage threshold of linbo@xmath4 and is subjected to a beam twice the size of that in initial ligo .",
    "rtp and linbo@xmath4 have similar electro - optic coefficients . also , rtp s @xmath5 anisotropy is 50% smaller .",
    "table [ tab : eomcrystals ] compares the properties of most interest of the two crystals .    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : mcabsorption2 ]      the fi was the second greatest source of power loss with its transmission of 93% .",
    "this was an improvement over the 86% transmission of the initial ligo fi .",
    "the most lossy element in the fi is the thin film polarizer , accounting for 4% of total losses .",
    "the integrated losses from ar coatings and absorption in the tggs , cwps , hwp , and dkdp account for the remaining 3% of missing power .      the isolation ratio is defined as the ratio of power incident on the fi in the reverse direction ( the light reflected from the interferometer ) to the power transmitted in the reverse direction and is often quoted in decibels : isolation ratio  =  @xmath6 . we measured the isolation ratio of the fi as a function of input power both in air prior to installation and _ in situ _ during enhanced ligo operation .    to measure the in - vacuum isolation ratio , we misaligned the interferometer arms so that the input beam would be promptly reflected off of the @xmath7 reflective recycling mirror .",
    "this also has the consequence that the fi is subjected to twice the input power .",
    "our isolation monitor was a pick - off of the backwards transmitted beam taken immediately after transmission through the fi that we sent out of a vacuum chamber viewport .",
    "refer to the `` isolation check beam '' in fig .",
    "[ fig : ioschematic ] .",
    "the in air measurement was done similarly , except in an optics lab with a reflecting mirror placed directly after the fi .",
    "figure [ fig : ir ] shows our isolation ratio data .",
    "most notably , we observe an isolation decrease of a factor of six upon placing the fi in vacuum , a result consistent with that reported by ref . @xcite . in air",
    "the isolation ratio is a constant 34.46 @xmath8 0.04 db from low power up to 47  w , and in vacuum the isolation ratio is 26.5 db at low power .",
    "the underlying cause is the absence of cooling by air convection .",
    "if we attribute the loss to the tggs , then based on the change in tgg polarization rotation angle necessary to produce the measured isolation drop of 8  db and the temperature dependence of the tgg s verdet constant , we can put an upper limit of 11  k on the crystal temperature rise from air to vacuum .",
    "furthermore , a degradation of 0.02  db / w is measured in vacuum .",
    "we measured the _ in situ _ thermal angular drift of both the beam transmitted through the mc and of the reflected beam from the fi with up to 25  w input power . just as for the isolation ratio measurement , we misaligned the interferometer arms so that the input beam would be promptly reflected off of the recycling mirror .",
    "the faraday rotator was thus subjected to up to 50  w total and the mc to 25  w.    pitch and yaw motion of the mc transmitted and interferometer reflected beams were recorded using the quadrant photodiode ( qpd ) on the io table and the rf alignment detectors on the interferometer sensing and control table ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : ioschematic ] ) .",
    "there are no lenses between the mc waist and its measurement qpd , so only the path length between the two were needed to calibrate in radians the pitch and yaw signals on the qpd .",
    "the interferometer reflected beam , however , passes through several lenses .",
    "thus , ray transfer matrices and the two alignment detectors were necessary to determine the faraday drift calibration .",
    "figure [ fig : drift ] shows the calibrated beam steering data .",
    "the angle of the beam out of the mc does not change measurably as a function of input power in yaw ( 4.7  nrad / w ) and changes by only 440  nrad / w in pitch . for the fi ,",
    "we record a beam drift originating at the center of the faraday rotator of 1.8  rad / w in yaw and 3.2  rad / w in pitch . therefore , when ramping the input power up to 30  w during a full interferometer lock , the upper limit on the drift experienced by the reflected beam is about 100 rad .",
    "this is a thirty - fold reduction with respect to the initial ligo fi and represents a fifth of the beam s divergence angle , @xmath9  =  490 rad .",
    "we measured the profiles of both the beam transmitted through the mode cleaner and the reflected beam picked off by the fi at low ( @xmath10  1  w ) and high ( @xmath10  25  w ) input powers to assess the degree of thermal lensing induced in the mc and fi .",
    "again , we misaligned the interferometer arms so that the input beam would be promptly reflected off the recycling mirror .",
    "we picked off a fraction of the reflected beam on the interferometer sensing and control table and of the mode cleaner transmitted beam on the io table ( refer to fig .",
    "[ fig : ioschematic ] ) , placed lenses in each of their paths , and measured the beam diameters at several locations on either side of the waists created by the lenses . a change in the beam waist size or position as a function of laser power indicates the presence of a thermal lens .    .",
    "within the error of the measurement , there are no obvious degradations . ]",
    "beam , indicating the presence of higher order modes .",
    "errors are @xmath11 for each data point . ]    as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : mc_lensing ] and [ fig : fi_lensing ] , the waists of the two sets of data are collocated : no thermal lens is measured .",
    "for the fi , the divergence of the low and high power beams differs , indicating that the beam quality degrades with power .",
    "the @xmath12 factor at 1  w is 1.04 indicating the beam is nearly perfectly a tem@xmath3 mode . at 25  w",
    ", @xmath12 increases to 1.19 , corresponding to increased higher - order - mode content .",
    "the percentage of power in higher - order modes depends strongly on the mode order and relative phases of the modes , and thus can not be determined from this measurement @xcite .",
    "the results for the mc are consistent with no thermal lensing .",
    "the high and low power beam profiles are within each other s error bars and well below our requirements .",
    "we also measured the thermal lensing of the eom prior to its installation in enhanced ligo by comparing beam profiles of a 160  w beam with and without the eom in its path .",
    "the data for both cross - sections of the beam is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : eomlensing ] .",
    "we observe no significant thermal lensing in the y - direction and a small effect in the x - direction .",
    "an upper limit for the thermal lens in the x - direction can be calculated to be greater than 4  m , which is 10 times larger than the rayleigh range of the spatial mode .",
    "the mode matching degradation is therefore less than 1% .",
    "although a direct test for advanced ligo because of the power used , this measurement also serves to demonstrate the effectiveness of the eom design for enhanced ligo powers .",
    "we measured the total interferometer visibility ( refer to eq .",
    "[ eq : vis ] ) as an indirect way of determining the carrier mode - matching to the interferometer . in this case",
    ", @xmath13 is the power in the reflected beam when the interferometer cavities are unlocked and @xmath14 is the power in the reflected beam when all of the interferometer cavities are on resonance .",
    "the primary mechanisms that serve to reduce the interferometer visibility from unity are : carrier mode - matching , carrier impedance matching , and sideband light .",
    "we measured the impedance matching at llo to be @xmath15  99.5% ; impedance matching therefore makes a negligible contribution to the power in the reflected beam .",
    "we also measured that due to the sidebands , the carrier makes up 86% of the power in the reflected beam with the interferometer unlocked and 78% with the interferometer locked ; to compensate , we reduce the total @xmath16 ratio by 10% . with",
    "the interferometer unlocked , there is also a 2.7% correction for the transmission of the rm .",
    "initially , anywhere between 10% and 17% of the light was rejected by the interferometer due to poor , power - dependent mode matching . after translating the mode - matching telescope mirrors during a vacuum chamber incursion and upgrading the other io components ,",
    "the mode mismatch we measured was 8% and independent of input power .",
    "the mmt thus succeeds in coupling 92% of the light into the interferometer at all times , marking both an improvement in mmt mirror placement and success in eliminating measurable thermal issues .",
    "as with other advanced ligo interferometer components , enhanced ligo served as a technology demonstrator for the advanced ligo input optics , albeit at lower laser powers than will be used there .",
    "the performance of the enhanced ligo io components at 30  w of input power allows us to infer their performance in advanced ligo .",
    "the requirements for the advanced ligo io demand are for similar performance to enhanced ligo , but with almost 8 times the laser power .",
    "the enhanced ligo eom showed no thermal lensing , degraded transmission , nor damage in over 17,000 hours of sustained operation at 30  w of laser power .",
    "measurements of the thermal lensing in rtp at powers up to 160 w show a relative power loss of @xmath17 , indicating that thermal lensing should be negligible in advanced ligo .",
    "peak irradiances in the eom will be approximately four times that of enhanced ligo ( a 45% larger beam diameter will somewhat offset the increased power ) .",
    "testing of rtp at 10 times the expected advanced ligo irradiance over 100  hours show no signs of damage or degraded transmission .",
    "the mc showed no measurable change in operational state as a function of input power .",
    "this bodes well for the advanced ligo mode cleaner .",
    "compared with the enhanced ligo mc , the advanced ligo mc is designed with a lower finesse ( 520 ) than initial ligo ( 1280 ) . for 150  w input power ,",
    "the advanced ligo mc will operate with 3 times greater stored power than initial ligo . the corresponding peak irradiance is 400  kw / m@xmath18 , well below the continuous - wave coating damage threshold .",
    "absorption in the advanced ligo mc mirror optical coatings has been measured at 0.5  ppm , roughly four times less than the best mirror coating absorption in enhanced ligo , so the expected thermal loading due to coating absorption should be reduced in advanced ligo .",
    "the larger advanced ligo mc mirror substrates and higher input powers result in a significantly higher contribution to bulk absorption , roughly 20 times enhanced ligo , however the expected thermal lensing leads to small change ( @xmath19 ) in the output mode @xcite .",
    "the enhanced ligo data obtained from the fi allows us to make several predictions about how it will perform in advanced ligo .",
    "the measured isolation ratio decrease of 0.02  db / w will result in a loss of 3  db for a 150  w power level expected for advanced ligo relative to its cold state .",
    "however , the advanced ligo fi will employ an _ in situ _ adjustable half wave plate which will allow for a partial restoration of the isolation ratio .",
    "in addition , a new fi scheme to better compensate for thermal depolarization and thus yield higher isolation ratios will be implemented @xcite .",
    "the maximum thermally induced angular steering expected is 480 rad ( using a drift rate of 3.2 rad / w ) , approximately equal to the beam divergence angle .",
    "this has some implications for the advanced ligo length and alignment sensing and control system , as the reflected fi beam is used as a sensing beam . operation of advanced ligo at high powers will likely require the use of a beam stabilization servo to lock the position of the reflected beam on the sensing photodiodes . although no measurable thermal lensing was observed ( no change in the beam waist size or position ) , the measured presence of higher order modes in the fi at high powers is suggestive of imperfect thermal lens compensation by the dkdp .",
    "this fault potentially can be reduced by a careful selection of the thickness of the dkdp to better match the absorbed power in the tgg crystals .",
    "in summary , we have presented a comprehensive investigation of the enhanced ligo io , including the function , design , and performance of the io . several improvements to the design and implementation of the enhanced ligo io over the initial ligo io have lead to improved optical efficiency and coupling to the main interferometer through a substantial reduction in thermo - optical effects in the major io optical components , including the electro - optic modulators , mode cleaner , and faraday isolator .",
    "the io performance in enhanced ligo enables us to infer its performance in advanced ligo , and indicates that high power interferometry will be possible without severe thermal effects .",
    "the authors thank r.  adhikari for his wisdom and guidance , b.  bland for providing lessons to k.  dooley and d.  hoak on how to handle the small optics suspensions , k.  kawabe and n.  smith - lefebvre for their support at lho , t.  fricke for engaging in helpful discussions , and v.  zelenogorsky and d.  zheleznov for their assistance in preparing for the enhanced ligo io installation .",
    "additionally , the authors thank the ligo scientific collaboration for access to the data .",
    "this work was supported by the national science foundation through grants phy-0855313 and phy-0555453 .",
    "ligo was constructed by the california institute of technology and massachusetts institute of technology with funding from the national science foundation and operates under cooperative agreement phy-0757058 .",
    "this paper has ligo document number ligo - p1100056 .",
    "robertson , n.  a. , et  al .",
    ", `` seismic isolation and suspension systems for advanced ligo , '' in `` society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , '' , vol .",
    "5500 of _ society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series _ , hough , j. , and g.  h. sanders , eds .",
    "( 2004 ) , vol .",
    "5500 of _ society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series _ , pp . 8191 .",
    "frede , m. , b.  schulz , r.  wilhelm , p.  kwee , f.  seifert , b.  willke , and d.  kracht , `` fundamental mode , single - frequency laser amplifier for gravitational wave detectors , '' opt .",
    "express * 15 * , 459465 ( 2007 ) .",
    "fritschel , p. , r.  bork , g.  gonzlez , n.  mavalvala , d.  ouimette , h.  rong , d.  sigg , and m.  zucker , `` readout and control of a power - recycled interferometric gravitational - wave antenna , '' appl . opt . *",
    "40 * , 49884998 ( 2001 ) .",
    "khazanov , e.  a. , o.  v. kulagin , s.  yoshida , d.  b. tanner , and d.  h. reitze , `` investigation of self - induced depolarization of laser radiation in terbium gallium garnet , '' ieee journal of quantum electronics * 35 * , 11161122 ( 1999 ) .",
    "khazanov , e. , n.  andreev , a.  babin , a.  kiselev , o.  palashov , and d.  h. reitze , `` suppression of self - induced depolarization of high - power laser radiation in glass - based faraday isolators , '' j. opt .",
    "b * 17 * , 99102 ( 2000 ) .",
    "mueller , g. , r.  s. amin , d.  guagliardo , d.  mcferon , r.  lundock , d.  h. reitze , and d.  b. tanner , `` method for compensation of thermally induced modal distortions in the input optical components of gravitational wave interferometers , '' classical and quantum gravity * 19 * , 1793 + ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the design and performance of the ligo input optics subsystem as implemented for the sixth science run of the ligo interferometers . the initial ligo input optics experienced thermal side effects when operating with 7  w input power . </S>",
    "<S> we designed , built , and implemented improved versions of the input optics for enhanced ligo , an incremental upgrade to the initial ligo interferometers , designed to run with 30  w input power . at four times </S>",
    "<S> the power of initial ligo , the enhanced ligo input optics demonstrated improved performance including better optical isolation , less thermal drift , minimal thermal lensing and higher optical efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> the success of the input optics design fosters confidence for its ability to perform well in advanced ligo . </S>"
  ]
}