{
  "article_text": [
    "lenticular galaxies have been introduced by edwin ( * ? ? ? * hubble ( 1936 ) ) as an intermediate type between ellipticals and spirals : they have large - scale stellar disks as spirals but lack blue spiral arms and hii - regions , and they look smooth and red as ellipticals . now lenticulars are thought to be ( trans-)formed from spirals by removing gas and quenching star formation in their disks ; also dynamical heating is required to make the s0 disks stable against spiral wave perturbations .",
    "there are some evidences that this transformation might take place at the redshift of @xmath1 , within dense environments , groups or clusters , where and when suddenly the dominance of blue ( spiral ? ) galaxies is replaced by s0 dominance ( e.g. , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* fasano et al .",
    "2000 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* wilman et al . 2009 ) ) .",
    "but if this scenario is valid , the star formation in the outer disks of nearby s0s should proceed only 4 gyr ago , and we must see intermediate - age stellar populations there . with deep long - slit spectroscopy of nearby s0 galaxies ,",
    "i study the stellar population properties along the radius beyond several scalelengths of their large - scale disks to check the validity of this paradigm .",
    "the sample consists of nearby lenticular galaxies for which deep long - slit spectra have been obtained at the russian 6 m telescope for the last five years in the frames of several observational programs .",
    "the main part of the sample are edge - on lenticular galaxies selected for kinematical study by natalia sotnikova which have been observed in the frame of her observational proposal ; i use here these data to derive lick indices .",
    "four s0 galaxies seen moderately inclined represent a part of our sample of nearby early - type disk galaxies  group members whose central parts have been studied earlier with the multi - pupil fiber spectrograph of the 6 m telescope ( ( * ? ? ? * silchenko 2006 ) ) .",
    "the galaxies are homogeneously distributed over the luminosities , their blue absolute magnitudes being spread from 19 to 21 , and over the environment densities .",
    "we have one galaxy ( ngc  4570 ) in the virgo cluster where the intracluster medium influence is inavoidable , and one galaxy ( ngc  4111 ) in the ursa major cluster where x - ray gas is not detected . among group galaxies , ngc  524 and ngc  5353 are the central group galaxies embedded into x - ray haloes , ngc  5308 is a member galaxy in the x - ray bright group , and ngc  502 and ic  1541 though being members of rich groups , lie outside their x - ray halo ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* osmond & ponman 2004 ) ; also we have checked the archive asca images ) .",
    "ngc  3414 is a central galaxy in the rich group undetected in x - ray .",
    "ngc  2732 is a host of a few faint satellites .",
    "ngc  1029 , ngc  2549 , and ngc  7332 are in triplets . by using the ned environment searcher ,",
    "we have no found any galaxies within 300 kpc off ngc  1032 and ngc  1184 so we take them as isolated field galaxies .",
    "the long - slit spectral observations have been made with the focal reducer scorpio ( ( * ? ? ? * afanasiev & moiseev 2005 ) ) installed at the prime focus of the russian 6 m telescope ( at the special astrophysical observatory of the russian academy of sciences ) .",
    "we exposed the rather narrow spectral range rich by absorpion lines , 48005500   , which is quite suitable for the study of stellar kinematics and stellar population properties .",
    "the slit width was one arcsecond , the spectral resolution  about 2   .",
    "the ccd 2k@xmath22k and 2k@xmath24k were used as detectors , and the scale along the slit was 0.36 arcsec per pixel .",
    "the slit length is about 6 arcminutes so at the edges of the slit we can take the sky background to subtract from the galaxy spectra .",
    "inhomogeneties of optics transparency and spectral resolution along the slit are checked with the twilight exposures .",
    "the lick index system was calibrated by observing the standard lick stars ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* worthey et al . 1994 ) ) with the same instrumental setup as the galaxies were observed .",
    "we calculated the lick indices h - beta , mgb , fe5270 , and fe5335 along the slit up to several scalelengths of exponential disks . to estimate the radial variations of the ssp - equivalent ages , metallicities and magnesium - to - iron ratios of the stellar populations",
    ", i confronted the measured lick indices to the models of old stellar populations by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* thomas et al . ( 2003 ) ) .    , and of the large - scale disks for the sample lenticulars .",
    "the dashed line is the line of equality ; the filled histograms attached to the axes characterize the distributions of the bulge and disk ages.,width=326 ]",
    "i have measured the lick indices in 15 s0s along the radius beyond 24 exponential scalelengths of their disks , and have estimated the ages and abundances of the stellar populations for the bulges and for the disks .",
    "the bulges have solar metallicities or higher , and the disks have solar metallicity or lower .",
    "the disks demonstrate very high magnesium - to - iron ratios of their stellar populations so they can not be descendants of spiral galaxies with prolonged star formation .",
    "the ssp - equivalent ages of the disks are mostly old ",
    "60%  of the sample demonstrate the ages older than 10  gyr ,  and almost always ( except one case ) larger than the ssp - equivalent ages of their corresponding bulges ( fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) .",
    "the parameters of the stellar populations of the disks do not show any correlation with the disk luminosities or masses .",
    "the only correlations found are those with the photometric disk scaleheight taken from the decomposition results by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* mosenkov et al . ( 2010 ) ) .",
    "the whole scaleheight range is from 0.3 kpc ( found in the disks with the ages of 23  gyr and [ mg / fe]@xmath3 ) to 0.60.9 kpc ( found mostly in the disks with the ages @xmath4  gyr and [ mg / fe]@xmath5 ) .",
    "all the old disks of our sample galaxies are so thick disks , while the only two young outer disks , those of ngc  4111 and ngc  7332 , are certainly thin disks .",
    "the disk of ngc  2732 , with its ssp - equivalent age of 8  gyr and the scaleheight of 0.5 kpc , is halfway between thin and thick disks .",
    "many arguments evidence for s0s and spiral galaxies being relatives , but this time the thing looks like s0s are progenitors of spirals , opposite to what is thought before .",
    "indeed , if we compare stars of the thick disk of our own galaxy with the thick outer stellar disks of s0s studied here we will see full resemblance : the ages @xmath4 gyr , [ mg / fe]@xmath6 , the total metallicity [ z / h ] is between 0.0 and 0.7 ( such parameters of the thick disk of our galaxy are found by e.g. ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bernkopf & fuhrmann 2006 ) or by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* schuster et al . 2006 ) ) .",
    "so if one provides fresh cold gas accretion into the disks of these s0s , after several gyrs of star formation we would get a typical spiral galaxy , with the thick old stellar disk and thin younger stellar disk .",
    "i propose now the following evolutionary sequence .",
    "all disk galaxies were s0s immediately after their birth ; later , at @xmath7 , some of them acquired cold gas accretion sources  these became spirals ,  and some of them failed to find such sources  those remained lenticulars .",
    "in large cluster - size and group - size dark haloes , there are little chance to find external sources of cold gas accretion , due to hot gas effect ,  so in nearby clusters the dominant disk - galaxy population is s0s .",
    "the open question remains what can be these sources of cold - gas prolonged accretion ",
    "they may be cosmologically motivated filaments ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* dekel & birnboim 2006 ) ) or rich systems of irregular - type dwarf satellites which have been merging with the host one after another ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> by studying the stellar population properties along the radius in 15 nearby s0 galaxies , i have found that the outer stellar disks are mostly old , with the ssp - equivalent ages of 815  gyr , being often older than the bulges . </S>",
    "<S> this fact puts into doubt a currently accepted paradigm that s0 galaxies have formed at @xmath0 by quenching star formation in spiral galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}