{
  "article_text": [
    "the dwarf galaxies of the local group ( for reviews see mateo 1998 , tolstoy et al .",
    "2009 ) display a variety of shapes . while this is particularly true for dwarf irregular ( dirr ) galaxies , it also applies to dwarf spheroidals ( dsph ) . unlike globular clusters",
    ", they tend to exhibit significantly non - spherical images of stellar content .",
    "the origin of these shapes is a subject of ongoing debate but one of the interesting possibilities involves the evolutionary connection between dirrs and dsphs .",
    "this scenario proposes that dsphs evolved from the primordial dirrs via tidal stirring caused by the presence of a large host galaxy , such as the milky way or andromeda ( mayer et al . 2001 ) .    the general picture painted by the tidal stirring model studied by the means of high resolution @xmath0-body simulations ( mayer et al .",
    "2001 ; klimentowski et al . 2009 ; kazantzidis et al . 2011 ) involves strong mass loss and morphological transformation , as well as a rebuilding of the orbital structure of the initial disk . in such simulations , a primordial disk galaxy embedded in an extended dark matter halo",
    "is placed on different orbits around a milky way - sized galaxy and evolved for a significant fraction of the hubble time .",
    "a thorough study of different aspects of the tidal stirring scenario , for different initial dwarf structures and different orbits , was recently performed by kazantzidis et al .",
    "( 2011 ) and okas et al .",
    "an important and general feature of the morphological evolution of the dwarf established in these studies is the formation and longevity of a triaxial , tidally induced bar .",
    "the bar , usually formed out of the disk at first pericenter passage , tumbles with a period much shorter than the orbital period of the dwarf , which leads to a number of observational biases in the characteristic parameters of the dwarfs ( okas et al .",
    ". as the tidal evolution progresses , the bar shortens and the stellar component of the dwarf becomes more and more spherical . if the tidal force is strong enough ( on tight orbits or orbits with small pericenters ) , the final shape of the stellar component can be almost exactly spherical .    in this paper",
    "we discuss selected observational characteristics of the tidal stirring model that may help to distinguish it from other scenarios for the formation of dsph galaxies , e.g. , those in which they form in isolation by purely baryonic processes such as cooling , star formation , feedback from supernovae and uv background radiation ( ricotti & gnedin 2005 ; tassis et al .",
    "2008 ; sawala et al .",
    "if the overall picture suggested by the tidal stirring model is correct , some of the less evolved dwarfs in the local group may still be in the bar - like phase .",
    "such elongated shapes are indeed observed at least in a few cases , such as ursa minor ( e.g. , irwin & hatzidimitriou 1995 ) , sagittarius ( majewski et al .",
    "2003 ) and the more recently discovered hercules dwarf ( coleman et al .",
    "2007 ) .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]     let us now focus on the 2d shapes of the simulated dwarfs , as they would be seen by a distant observer .",
    "we illustrate the evolution of such shapes using our default simulation o1 . in figure  [ viewsrun1apo ]",
    "we show how the dwarf s stellar component would appear when viewed along the principal axes of the stellar distribution @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 ( from the upper to the lower row ) at subsequent apocenters of its orbit around the milky way ( from the left to the right column ) .",
    "the images were produced by selecting stars within @xmath4 kpc and rotating their positions to align them with the principal axes determined for stars with @xmath5 , as described above .",
    "the plots show the surface density distribution of the stars with contours equally spaced in log density . in agreement with the conclusions from figure  [ shapesrun1 ] , at second apocenter",
    "the dwarf already has a pronounced bar and its shape changes from the oblate ( initial disk ) to the prolate ( a bar ) . at the third apocenter",
    "the shape is again oblate ( as shown by the green line in the upper panel of figure  [ cbbaapo ] which crosses the diagonal line back again from the prolate to the oblate part of the diagram at this time ) .",
    "later on , the shape gradually becomes more and more spherical with all axis ratios approaching unity .",
    "the final image of the dwarf , at the end of the simulation , at its most non - spherical appearance ( i.e. , viewed along the @xmath2 axis ) is shown in figure  [ shapealongyrun1 ] .    in figure  [ shapesalongy ]",
    "we show analogous images for the remaining simulations o2-o7 and s6-s17 . in all cases stars within @xmath4 kpc",
    "were extracted from the last output of the simulation and rotated to align the distribution with the principal axes .",
    "only the views along the @xmath2 axis are shown , i.e. we see the dwarfs along the line of sight in which they appear most non - spherical .",
    "the dwarfs are shown at the end of their evolution when most are far from their pericenters , and therefore weakly affected by tidal forces at this time , except for the case of o4 which has just passed its 6th pericenter .",
    "although this dwarf has already reached an almost spherical shape during its earlier evolution , it is strongly affected by tidal forces from the milky way at this particular instant ( note that its pericentric distance was 12 kpc at this passage ) which manifests itself by strong distortion of the outer contours .",
    "going back to our single - number measures of the shapes , @xmath6 and @xmath7 , we summarize our findings by comparing in figure  [ losshapes ] the values of these parameters measured along the three lines of sight at the end of each simulation and listed in columns 7 - 12 of table  [ properties ] . for each run",
    "we plot @xmath6 with filled symbols and @xmath7 with open symbols .",
    "the triangles , squares and circles correspond to measurements along the @xmath2 , @xmath1 and @xmath3 axis of the stellar component , respectively .",
    "as discussed above , the observation along the intermediate axis @xmath2 always gives the most non - spherical appearance , i.e. , triangles always mark the highest values of @xmath6 and @xmath7 . in addition , the next highest value of ellipticity is almost always the one seen along the @xmath1 axis ( so that the points are ordered triangle - square - circle from top to bottom ) .",
    "the exceptions occur for runs o4 , s7 , s11 and s12 .",
    "since these cases correspond to @xmath8 this means that only in these four cases do the dwarfs end up more prolate than oblate ( o4 should be excluded because its shape is due to strong tidal forces at pericenter ) .",
    "it is interesting , therefore , that although almost all dwarfs go through a bar - like phase during their evolution , most of them end up more oblate than prolate .",
    "we also note that the values of @xmath6 and @xmath7 are quite similar , although not exactly equal , and they preserve the relative triangle - square - circle hierarchy of the measurements . to illustrate this similarity further , in figure  [ a2baapo ] we plot @xmath6 as a function of @xmath7 for the line of sight where the dwarfs appear most non - spherical ( observation along @xmath2 ) .",
    "the lines join the values measured at subsequent apocenters , from the most non - spherical at the upper right corner of each panel to the almost spherical in the lower left .",
    "the upper panel shows the results for simulations of dwarfs on different orbits ( o1-o7 ) and the lower one those with different structure of the dwarf ( s6-s17 ) .",
    "the lines corresponding to each simulation can be identified by referring to the last column of table  [ properties ] .",
    "we can see that there is a one - to - one correspondence between the two measures of shape , and thus conclude that both measures , although defined differently from a mathematical point of view , essentially measure the departures from sphericity in a similar way and can be used interchangeably to quantify the shapes of galaxies with resolved stellar populations .",
    "in this section we discuss the shape parameters of the real dwarfs , satellites of the milky way using photometric data .",
    "our dwarf galaxy sample includes objects within heliocentric distance of about 260 kpc ( close to the largest apocenter considered in the simulations ) , brighter than @xmath9 mag and with good photometric data available .",
    "these requirements restrict the sample to the eight classical dsph galaxies , the sagittarius dwarf and the large and small magellanic clouds ( lmc and smc ) .",
    "the data sets we used comprise the positions and magnitudes of stars in at least two bands to allow for the selection of probable members of dwarf galaxies from the color - magnitude diagrams ( cmd ) . in the case of the fornax dwarf we used the data from coleman et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , for sextans and draco the data were retrieved from the sloan digital sky survey database . for these dwarfs we selected member stars by iterative fitting of the position of the red giant branch ( rgb ) and choosing stars within a strip of variable width along the branch whose shape was adjusted to match the equal - density contours of the stars in the cmd . for the lmc and smc",
    ", we extracted the stars from the 2mass survey and also included stars from the asymptotic giant branch ( see van de marel & cioni 2001 ; gonidakis et al .",
    "2009 ) .    for the remaining dwarfs ( sculptor , carina , ursa minor , leo i , leo ii and sagittarius ) we used samples obtained previously by s.r.m .",
    "and collaborators with more precise photometric membership determination using color - magnitude as well as color - color diagrams to extract only the giant stars . the technique , described in detail in majewski et al .",
    "( 2000a ) , relies on the sensitivity of the @xmath10 filter to magnesium features that reflect stellar surface gravity , temperature and abundance in later type stars .",
    "when combined with the wide - band @xmath11 and @xmath12 filters of the washington system , the @xmath10 filter is especially useful for discriminating giant stars from foreground dwarfs on the basis of differences in their respective @xmath13 colors at a given @xmath14 color . the data ,",
    "although not publicly available , are described in the references provided in table  [ dwarfs ] and we refer the reader there for details concerning each dwarf galaxy .",
    "table  [ dwarfs ] lists the properties of the dwarfs included in this analysis : the dwarf name ( column 1 ) , the position of the adopted center ( columns 2 and 3 ) , the heliocentric distance of the dwarf ( column 4 ) , the 2d half - light radius @xmath15 in arcmin and kpc ( columns 5 and 6 ) , the number of member stars within @xmath16 ( column 7 ) , the method used for the membership determination ( column 8 , cm = color - magnitude , cm+cc = color - magnitude plus color - color ) , and the source of data ( column 9 , the three numbers give respectively the reference for the dwarf center , distance and the photometric data used for the measurements of its shape ) .",
    "although the values of the half - light radii are available in the literature , for consistency we determined them from the surface density distribution of the selected member stars by fitting a plummer profile . for this purpose , the surface density profiles were measured in logarithmic bins of projected radii and fitted with data points weighted by density adjusting two parameters , the half - light radius and normalization .",
    "the obtained values of @xmath15 , listed in table  [ dwarfs ] , are in good agreement with published scales ( see , e.g. , table 2 in okas et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "we measured the shape parameters @xmath17 and @xmath7 first using member stars in the whole range @xmath18 .",
    "the values of these parameters are listed in the second and fifth column of table  [ shapeparameters ] respectively and marked as ` whole ' . in order to distinguish between intrinsic bars and external tidal extensions",
    "it is also interesting to look at the parameters calculated separately in the inner part within @xmath19 and the outer part within @xmath20 . those are shown in the columns of table  [ shapeparameters ] marked respectively as ` inner ' and ` outer ' . in the following we will focus on @xmath7 , which is a more customary quantity used to describe bars , and adopt @xmath21 as a threshold signifying the presence of a bar - like shape .",
    "values above this threshold were typed in boldface in table  [ shapeparameters ] .",
    "the motivation behind this division into inner and outer sample is that the tidal effects on the shape of dwarf galaxies can take two forms .",
    "the shapes can be affected by tides so that the whole orbital structure of the dwarf is rebuilt and a bar forms , or only the outer contours of the stellar distribution are elongated signifying the transition to the tidal tails .",
    "the latter situation is illustrated very well by the special case of simulation o4 which ends at the pericenter of the orbit .",
    "this moment of the evolution is shown in the upper right panel of figure  [ shapesalongy ] .",
    "while the inner contours of the stellar density distribution are circular , the outer ones are strongly elongated due to strong tidal force at the pericenter of the orbit . on this orbit with a very small pericenter ( as well as for the very tight orbit o2 ) the dwarf transforms into an almost perfectly spherical shape early on in the evolution , as demonstrated by the time - dependence of the shape parameters in figures  [ axisratios2 - 19]-[a2xyz2 - 19 ] .",
    "the shape remains spherical for most of the time at later stages , except at pericenters , where strong elongation takes place .    in figure  [ shapessmoothed ]",
    "we show the contour maps of the surface density of the stars in real dwarfs up to projected radii of the order of @xmath16 .",
    "the maps were obtained by smoothing the discrete distribution of stars with gaussians of scale @xmath22 and binning it into @xmath23 grids . as discussed in section  3 ,",
    "such smoothing scales are small enough not to obscure subtle morphological features .",
    "the contours joining the regions of equal surface density of the stars are equally spaced in log surface density .    as verified in table  [ shapeparameters ] ,",
    "only in the case of ursa minor and sagittarius are all three values of the bar mode parameter  for the whole , inner and outer samples  found to have @xmath24 .",
    "this strong elongation , determined by the discrete shape measures , is confirmed in a more qualitative way by the images of these dwarfs in figure  [ shapessmoothed ] .",
    "we conclude that these dwarfs possess the tidally induced bar and that their outer parts are affected by tides . in the case of the sagittarius dwarf , the outer parts are likely stretched by tidal forces acting _ now _ , since the dwarf is very close to the pericenter of the orbit and the pericenter distance is very small ( @xmath25 kpc ) ; ( like the dwarf in simulation o4 at the end of the evolution ) . in the case of ursa minor , which is much farther away from the center of the milky way at present",
    ", the outer contours probably signify a transition to the tidal tails . for the remaining dwarfs",
    ", the inner bar is detected only in the lmc and possibly in carina ( @xmath26 in the inner part ) .",
    "in addition , fornax , carina , leo i and the smc have @xmath24 in the outer parts , signifying mild tidal extensions .",
    "we have studied the shapes of dwarf galaxies orbiting the milky way using new discrete measures appropriate for systems where individual stars are resolved .",
    "first , we traced the evolution of shape parameters in a set of collisionless @xmath0-body simulations of late type progenitors of present day dsph galaxies .",
    "the initially disky dwarfs were placed on different orbits around a milky way - type galaxy and the inner structure of the satellites was also varied .",
    "in addition to the strong mass loss and randomization of stellar orbits , tidal interactions inherent to such configurations lead to significant evolution of the shape . usually at the first pericenter passage",
    "the dwarfs undergo bar instability and their overall distribution of stars transforms from the initial disks to triaxial bars .",
    "the bars are preserved for a few gyrs of evolution but become shorter in time and produce , in the most tidally affected cases , almost spherical stellar components .",
    "the effect of tidal forces on the shape of the dwarfs can be twofold .",
    "in addition to the tidally induced bar , which can be easily identified with the full 3d information available in the simulations , the tidal forces can stretch the outer contours of the stellar distribution even in dwarfs that have already evolved into spheres .",
    "this is particularly well visible at pericenters but can also occur at other parts of the orbit where the dwarf is not being strongly shocked , but is already surrounded by the material stripped from its main body in the form of tidal tails .",
    "the two effects can be distinguished by measuring shapes separately in the inner and outer parts of the dwarfs .",
    "we found the bar phase of the evolution to be quite common among the simulated dwarfs .",
    "given that the dwarf models were not susceptible to bar instability in isolation , the presence of the bars can be considered as a signature of tidal stirring .",
    "one has to keep in mind however , that the tidal forces are extremely effective not only in inducing the bars but also in destroying them .",
    "if the tidal force is very strong , the bar can transform into a spherical shape over a rather short timescale .",
    "it would therefore be very difficult to find a strong correlation between the formation of a bar and the strength of the tidal force or a dwarf s distance from the milky way .",
    "nevertheless , given the variety of shapes within the dwarf galaxy population in the vicinity of the milky way we attempted to check if the tidal stirring scenario is broadly consistent with the properties of real dwarfs .",
    "to this end we measured the shapes of brighter dwarf galaxies having good enough available photometry for large samples of stars . out of eleven dwarfs studied , we found clear signatures of inner bars in ursa minor , sagittarius , lmc and possibly carina . in six out of eleven dwarfs",
    "we found indications of tidal extensions in the outer parts which likely signify transitions to the tidal tails .",
    "the elongated shapes of ursa minor , sagittarius , carina and the inner bar of the lmc have been pointed out by many previous studies .",
    "the results are however particularly interesting for sagittarius because its elongated shape is usually interpreted as due to tidal forces acting at the present time when the galaxy is at the pericenter of its orbit .",
    "we find instead that the shape is elongated down to the very center of the dwarf thus lending support to the model proposed by okas et al .",
    "( 2010a ) . in this scenario ,",
    "the progenitor of sagittarius was a disk galaxy similar to the present lmc , which transformed into a bar at the first pericenter passage .",
    "the bar is preserved until the present and the dwarf is currently at the second pericenter on its orbit around the milky way .",
    "the presence of the inner bar in the lmc also seems consistent with the tidal stirring scenario which predicts that bars are typically formed at the first pericenter . since the lmc is probably on its first passage around the milky way ( besla et al .",
    "2007 ) , it should be forming its bar right now .",
    "it may seem surprising that among the eight classical dsph galaxies in the vicinity of the milky way a clear inner bar is detected only in ursa minor which , according to the scenario presented here , would imply that it has not passed many pericenters on its orbit around the milky way . on the other hand ,",
    "ursa minor is dominated by the most metal - poor stellar population among the classical milky way dsphs ( kirby et al .",
    "this means that it lost its gas rather early , probably via ram pressure stripping on its first passage around the milky way ( mayer et al .",
    "2007 ) , a mechanism acting most effectively for dwarfs accreted early .",
    "however , the gas may also have been lost via a strong blow - out in the formation of the initial stellar population while the system was still evolving in isolation .",
    "given the stochasticity in the star formation history outcomes , as well as the wide distribution of orbital and structural parameters of the progenitor dwarfs , it would be difficult to exactly reproduce the history of any given dwarf just from its present shape .",
    "the case of ursa minor however proves that bars are present even among the eight classical dwarfs and may be present also in other systems but not detectable because of their orientation along our line of sight .",
    "the present study was based on photometric data alone .",
    "however , considerable progress towards discriminating between different scenarios of dsphs formation is expected if these data are combined with kinematic measurements .",
    "although rich samples of radial velocity measurements are presently available only for a few dsphs ( e.g. , walker et al . 2009 ) , such samples are bound to grow substantially in the near future thanks to a new generation of multi - object spectrographs ( such as the prime focus spectrograph on the subaru telescope ) .",
    "kinematical samples for a few thousand stars could help detect remnant rotation that should be present in at least some dsphs if they formed from disky progenitors , as envisioned by the tidal stirring model .",
    "such a rotation signal has until now only been tentatively detected for some dwarfs .",
    "in addition , such data will also help distinguish bars from other structures .",
    "bars seen perpendicular to the longest axis should show little rotation in the inner parts , contrary to disks seen edge on . on the other hand , rotation detected in systems that appear",
    "spherical may indicate a bar seen along the longest axis ( see okas et al .",
    "2010b ) .",
    "we end with a note of caution that the picture established here with the help of collisionless simulations using standard assumptions concerning , e.g. , the initial dark matter profiles of the dwarfs , may well be modified if hydrodynamical processes are included or the assumptions changed .",
    "although few hydrodynamical simulations of tidal stirring have been performed to date , they indicate that the shapes may be significantly affected by the presence of the gas and star formation ( mayer et al .",
    "the details of the morphological transformation will also be different if the initial dark matter profile has a core rather than a cusp ( governato et al .",
    "2010 ; okas et al .",
    "2012 ) and the initial stellar and gaseous disk of the dwarf is thicker .",
    "we plan to address these issues in our forthcoming papers .",
    "this research was partially supported by the polish national science centre under grant n n203 580940 .",
    "we wish to thank gary da costa for providing photometric data for the fornax dwarf in electronic form .",
    "s.r.m . is grateful for financial support from nsf grants ast 97 - 02521 , ast 03 - 07851 , ast 03 - 07417 and ast 08 - 07945 , a fellowship from the david and lucile packard foundation , and a cottrell scholarship from the research corporation .",
    "he also thanks william e. kunkel , james c. ostheimer , christopher palma , richard j. patterson , michael h. siegel , sangmo tony sohn , and kyle b. westfall for their help in producing the photometric catalogs used in this analysis .",
    "is funded by the center for cosmology and astro - particle physics ( ccapp ) at the ohio state university . j.l.c .",
    "acknowledges support from national science foundation grant ast 09 - 37523 . the work of l.a.m .",
    "was carried out at the jet propulsion laboratory , under a contract with nasa .",
    "l.a.m . acknowledges support from the nasa atfp program .",
    "the numerical simulations were performed on the cosmos cluster at the jet propulsion laboratory .",
    "this work also benefited from an allocation of computing time from the ohio supercomputer center ( http://www.osc.edu ) .",
    "aihara , h. , et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 193 , 29 aparicio , a. , carrera , r. , & martinez - delgado , d. 2001 , aj , 122 , 2524 bellazzini , m. , ferraro , f. r. , origlia , l. , pancino , e. , monaco , l. , & oliva , e. 2002 , aj , 124 , 3222 bellazzini , m. , gennari , n. , & ferraro , f. r. 2005 , mnras , 360 , 185 besla , g. , kallivayalil , n. , hernquist , l. , robertson , b. , cox , t. j. , van der marel , r. p. , & alcock , c. 2007 , apj , 668 , 949 coleman , m. g. , da costa , g. s. , bland - hawthorn , j. , & freeman , k. c. 2005 , aj , 129 , 1443 coleman , m. g. , jordi , k. , rix , h .- w . , grebel , e. k. , & koch , a. 2007 , aj , 134 , 1938 gonidakis , i. , livanou , e. , kontizas , e. , klein , u. , kontizas , m. , belcheva , m. , tsalmantza , p. , & karampelas , a. 2009 , a&a , 496 , 375 governato , f. , et al .",
    "2010 , nature , 463 , 203 hernquist , l. 1990 , apj , 356 , 359 irwin , m. , & hatzidimitriou , d. 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1354 kazantzidis , s. , okas , e. l. , callegari , s. , mayer , l. , & moustakas , l. a. 2011 , apj , 726 , 98 kirby , e. n. , lanfranchi , g. a. , simon , j. d. , cohen , j. g. , & guhathakurta , p. 2011 , apj , 727 , 78 kleyna , j. t. , geller , m. j. , kenyon , s. j. , kurtz , m. j. , & thorstensen , j. r. 1998 , aj , 115 , 2359 klimentowski , j. , okas , e. l. , kazantzidis , s. , mayer , l. , & mamon , g. a. 2009 , mnras , 397 , 2015 kunder , a. , & chaboyer , b. 2009 , aj , 137 , 4478 lee , m. g. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 126 , 2840 okas , e. l. , kazantzidis , s. , majewski , s. r. , law , d. r. , mayer , l. , & frinchaboy , p. m. 2010a , apj , 725 , 1516 okas , e. l. , kazantzidis , s. , klimentowski , j. , mayer , l. , & callegari , s. 2010b , apj , 708 , 1032 okas , e. l. , kazantzidis , s. , & mayer , l. 2011 , apj , 739 , 46 okas , e. l. , kazantzidis , s. , & mayer , l. 2012 , submitted to apj letters , arxiv:1201.5784 majewski , s. r. , ostheimer , j. c. , kunkel , w. e. , & patterson , r. j. 2000a , aj , 120 , 2550 majewski , s. r. , ostheimer , j. c. , patterson , r. j. , kunkel , w. e. , johnston , k. v. , & geisler , d. 2000b , aj , 119 , 760 majewski , s. r. , skrutskie , m. f. , weinberg , m. d. , & ostheimer , j. c. 2003 , apj , 599 , 1082 mateo , m. l. 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435 mateo , m. , olszewski , e. w. , & walker , m. g. 2008 , apj , 675 , 201 mayer , l. , governato f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g. 2001 , apj , 559 , 754 mayer , l. , kazantzidis , s. , mastropietro , c. , & wadsley , j. 2007 , nature , 445 , 738 mo , h. j. , mao , s. , & white , s. d. m. 1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , & white , s. d. m. 1996 , apj , 462 , 563 ( nfw ) palma , c. , majewski , s. r. , siegel , m. h. , patterson , r. j. , ostheimer , j. c. , & link , r. 2003 , aj , 125 , 1352 pietrzyski , g. , et al .",
    "2008 , aj , 135 , 1993 pietrzyski , g. , grski , m. , gieren , w. , ivanov , v. d. , bresolin , f. , & kudritzki , r. p. 2009 , aj , 138 , 459 ricotti , m. , & gnedin , n. y. 2005 , apj , 629 , 259 sawala , t. , scannapieco , c. , maio , u. , & white , s. d. m. 2010 , mnras , 402 , 1599 saviane , i. , held , e. v. , & bertelli , g. 2000 , a&a , 355 , 56 schaefer , b. e. 2008 , aj , 135 , 112 siegel , m. h. , & majewski , s. r. 2000 , aj , 120 , 284 skrutskie , m. f. , et al .",
    "2006 , aj , 131 , 1163 sohn , s. t. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 663 , 960 stadel , j. g. 2001 , phd thesis , univ . of washington szewczyk , o. , pietrzyski , g. , gieren , w. , ciechanowska , a. , bresolin , f. , & kudritzki , r .-",
    "2009 , aj , 138 , 1661 tassis , k. , kravtsov , a. v. , & gnedin , n. y. 2008 , apj , 672 , 888 tolstoy , e. , hill , v. , & tosi , m. 2009 , ara&a , 47 , 371 van der marel , r. p. , & cioni , m .-",
    "l. 2001 , aj , 122 , 1807 walker , m. g. , mateo , m. , & olszewski , e. w. 2009 , aj , 137 , 3100 westfall , k. b. , majewski , s. r. , ostheimer , j. c. , frinchaboy , p. m. , kunkel , w. e. , patterson , r. j. , & link , r. 2006 , aj , 131 , 375 widrow , l. m. , & dubinski , j. 2005 , apj , 631 , 838"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the shapes of milky way satellites in the context of the tidal stirring scenario for the formation of dwarf spheroidal galaxies . the standard procedures used to measure shapes involve smoothing and binning of data and </S>",
    "<S> thus may not be sufficient to detect structural properties like bars , which are usually subtle in low surface brightness systems . </S>",
    "<S> taking advantage of the fact that in nearby dwarfs photometry of individual stars is available we introduce discrete measures of shape based on the two - dimensional inertia tensor and the fourier bar mode . </S>",
    "<S> we apply these measures of shape first to a variety of simulated dwarf galaxies formed via tidal stirring of disks embedded in dark matter halos and orbiting the milky way . </S>",
    "<S> in addition to strong mass loss and randomization of stellar orbits , the disks undergo morphological transformation that typically involves the formation of a triaxial bar after the first pericenter passage . </S>",
    "<S> these tidally induced bars persist for a few gyr before being shortened towards a more spherical shape if the tidal force is strong enough . </S>",
    "<S> we test this prediction by measuring in a similar way the shape of nearby dwarf galaxies , satellites of the milky way . </S>",
    "<S> we detect inner bars in ursa minor , sagittarius , lmc and possibly carina . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , six out of eleven studied dwarfs show elongated stellar distributions in the outer parts that may signify transition to tidal tails . </S>",
    "<S> we thus find the shapes of milky way satellites to be consistent with the predictions of the tidal stirring model . </S>"
  ]
}