{
  "article_text": [
    "what new knowledge will large surveys such as gaia and lsst bring to the field of binary stars and exoplanets ?",
    "astronomy has evolved into a science of large numbers . with gaia and lsst",
    ", this trend is even accelerating . with these very large numbers of observed objects",
    ", it will be possible to ( a ) describe statistically populations of stars , binary / multiple stars and exoplanets , revealing relations between their physical properties and ( b ) find very rare objects among the many millions , which may shed light on specific physical processes or capture these objects in a very brief moment of their evolution .",
    "complementary to the technological challenges that these ambitious projects require to fulfill their stringent requirements , there are software tools which have to be developed to handle the vast amount of data , to compute , search , classify and browse through terabytes or even petabytes of data .",
    "to predict the scientific impact of a project on a specific topic can be a very perilous exercise , especially when the project observes domains of astrophysical parameters never explored before .",
    "we therefore proceed with caution , starting with a description of the projects and their characteristics , followed by a brief overview of some analysis tools for characterization and classification , and finally we present a general description of binary stars and exoplanets .",
    "* gaia : * is a space mission of the european space agency , which will be located at the l2 point , 1.5 million km from earth",
    ". it will observe all stars between mag @xmath06 to 20 , amounting to about 1 billion objects .",
    "the measurements consist of astrometric , photometric , spectrophotometric and spectroscopic data .",
    "the length of the mission is 5 years with a possible one year extension . for 5 years",
    ", the average number of measurements will be about 70 per object .",
    "the launch is foreseen in 2013 .",
    "there will be an alert system and intermediate data releases throughout the mission .",
    "the final results will be made available by 2020 - 2021 .",
    "* lsst : * is a ground - based telescope that will observe about half of the sky , with a harvest amounting to 10 billion stars and 10 billion galaxies .",
    "the measurements will consist of repeated positions and photometry in the 5 sloan bands plus the `` y '' band .",
    "the survey ranges from mag @xmath116 to 24 , and can be extended to mag 27 with the stacking of images .",
    "the length of the project is planned to be 10 years during which about 1000 visits will be taken for a given region of the sky .",
    "first light is planned to be in 2018 .    for any astronomy project ,",
    "the constraints on space - based missions are different from those of ground - based projects .",
    "one of the bottlenecks from space is the transmission of data back to earth . for gaia ,",
    "once a star is detected , there is an on - board data processing to compress the information into a line spread function .",
    "this ladder information is transmitted to the earth .",
    "consequently gaia does not have the full pixel images . with the ground - based lsst project ,",
    "all the pixel images will be stored .",
    "other constraints from space are the weight and size , the gaia mission was downsized in order to fit on a soyuz rocket , which is less costly than an ariane launch .",
    "the advantages of space is that we get rid of the atmosphere and there is access to full sky from one instrument .",
    "a comparison of the instruments of these two contemporary projects , gaia from space , and lsst on earth , are presented in table  [ tab : gaialsst ] . for the performance",
    "we refer to figure  [ fig : precision ] , which presents the astrometric ( parallax , proper motion ) and photometric performances .",
    "in addition to photometric measurements , gaia has a spectrograph with a resolution 11,500 which will provide radial velocities up to magnitude @xmath017 at the level of 1 - 10 @xmath2 depending on the spectral type of the star .",
    ".technical characteristics of gaia and lsst telescopes . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     gaia will be helpful in many topics related to exoplanets , in particular for exoplanet detection and for the characterization of their host stars .",
    "one of the essential points is that gaia has a bright limit at magnitude 6 , therefore allowing easy follow - up activities of potentially interesting sources with relatively small telescopes , without requiring large amounts of telescope time .",
    "here is a non - exhaustive list of contributions that the gaia survey may provide :    * radius determination : one problem for planetary transit detection is the possible confusion between a secondary star and an exoplanet when the radius of the star is unknown .",
    "the luminosity of the primary star , estimated from the parallax , will enable the separation of giants from dwarfs .",
    "the spectrophotometric system may give an estimate of surface gravity and temperature and may also eliminate false detections due to the confusion between giant and dwarf parent stars .",
    "as pointed out by triaud ( these proceedings ) , the parallax will also lead to more accurate esimates of stellar masses and ages . *",
    "radial velocity variations : the precision of the radial velocity instrument on board gaia , which is at the level of @xmath2 , is obviously not suited for the detection of exoplanets , which requires a precision at the level of 1 to 10 @xmath3",
    ". this level of @xmath2 can be used , however , for brown dwarf detection .",
    "furthermore , the radial velocity instrument of gaia may detect the radial velocity variations from grazing eclipsing binaries and can therefore eliminate another source of false detection .",
    "* target selection : gaia , realizing a complete map of the sky for bright stars , will be most useful for target selection for further studies or surveys .",
    "for example , a mission such as plato will use the information collected by gaia .    for astrometry ,",
    "the position precision required to detect planets is very demanding : currently the estimate for the bright stars along the scanning direction is at the level of 20 micro - arcseconds per gaia - transit ( average of 9 ccd positions ) cf .",
    "a small degradation of the performance will generate a significant decrease in the number of the exoplanets detected by the astrometry .",
    "@xcite presented the following predictions for gaia : about 1000 planets will be detected and 400 to 500 will have their masses determined at the 10%-20% level .",
    "one interesting point about the astrometric method is that it is less sensitive to the orbital inclination than the radial velocity or transit detection methods .",
    "the case of planetary transits is somewhat controversial .",
    "indeed , the estimations range from 0 up to 5,000 - 30,000 ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* robichon 2002 ) ) .",
    "the matter here is to distinguish between the presence of a signal and its unambiguous detection .",
    "a knowledge of possible outlying values and technical problems is primordial in such a low signal - to - noise regime .",
    "moreover , the bulk of the exoplanetary targets will be red dwarfs , for which little is known regarding planetary populations .    within gaia , @xcite and @xcite",
    "are preparing two different methods to detect such planetary signals .",
    "dzigan & zucker , using a bayesian approach , showed that `` 5 points in a transit deeper than 0.002 '' means an almost certain detection .",
    "this method also allows the optimization of follow - up observations .",
    "what is then the probability that we have 5 points in transit in spite of the scarce sampling of gaia ? taking as an example the exoplanet tres-1 , figure  [ fig : prob5pint ] shows that this probability can be quite high .",
    "details will be published by dzigan & zucker ( in preparation ) .",
    "the detection of planets by microlensing is another challenge especially with gaia because of its scarce sampling .",
    "however this activity is planned .",
    "lsst with its denser sampling of a visit every 3 days will be more successful .",
    "gaia and lsst are two exceptional projects . if working within requirements , the scientific impact on astrophysics in general and on binaries in particular will be mind - blowing , but the significance of this impact is also difficult to predict .",
    "this harvest does not come without effort .",
    "there are many challenges to face with such an amount of data",
    ".    this presentation may be wrong in many aspects and blind to many others .",
    "but with these caveats in mind , we ca nt be wrong in remarking that the quantity and quality of the data of these projects are unprecedented .",
    "the other lesson from this contribution is to realize that gaia and lsst are two complementary projects .",
    "each will cross - validate the results of the other .",
    "in addition , lsst can rely on gaia results and extend them to fainter magnitudes .",
    "barblan , f. , bartholdi , p. , north , p. , burki , g. , & olson , e.  c.  1998 , a&as , 132 , 367 breiman l. , 2001 , machine learning , 45 , 5 de bruijne , j. , 2009 , gaia technical note , gaia - ca - tn - esa - jdb-053 dubath , p. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 414 , 2602 dzigan , y. , & zucker , s.  2011 , mnras , 415 , 2513 graczyk , d. , et al .",
    "2011 , acta astronomica , 61 , 103 lsst science collaborations , et al .  2009 ,",
    "arxiv:0912.0201 mermilliod , j .- c . ,",
    "rosvick , j.  m. , duquennoy , a. , & mayor , m.  1992 , a&a , 265 , 513 mermilliod , j .- c . , mathieu , r.  d. , latham , d.  w. , & mayor , m.  1998 , a&a , 339 , 423 north , p. , gauderon , r. , barblan , f. , & royer , f.  2010 , a&a , 520 , a74 pan , x. , shao , m. , & kulkarni , s.  r.  2004 , nature , 427 , 326 pra , a. , pepper , j. , & stassun , k.  g.  2011 , aj , 142 , 52 richards , j.  w. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 733 , 10 robichon , n.  2002 , eas publications series , 2 , 215 smoli , v. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 615 , l141 sozzetti , a.  2011 , eas publications series , 45 , 273 sveges , m. , bartholdi , p. , becker , a. , ivezic , z. , beck , m. , & eyer , l.  2011 , arxiv:1106.3164 tingley , b.  2011 , a&a , 529 , a6 zwahlen , n. , et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 425 , l45"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> two upcoming large scale surveys , the esa gaia and lsst projects , will bring a new era in astronomy . </S>",
    "<S> the number of binary systems that will be observed and detected by these projects is enormous , estimations range from millions for gaia to several tens of millions for lsst . </S>",
    "<S> we review some tools that should be developed and also what can be gained from these missions on the subject of binaries and exoplanets from the astrometry , photometry , radial velocity and their alert systems . </S>"
  ]
}