{
  "article_text": [
    "black holes ( bhs ) are believed to exist in many x - ray binaries ( xrbs ) and active galactic nuclei ( agn ) .",
    "measurement of the motion of a bh with respect to its surrounding in such a system can in principle set strong constraints on the mass of the bh .",
    "however in an agn this is normally not possible because the time scale of bh s significant motion is too long and/or the bh is barely moving at all . in an xrb , the bh should move with respect to the system s center of mass ( cm ) , making it possible to detect directly the bh s motion with respect to the cm .",
    "however in a low - mass xrb ( lmxb ) the companion is normally much less massive than the bh , so that the bh barely moves or moves very slowly with respect to the cm . in some lmxbs ,",
    "the companion s mass is comparable or only several times less massive than the bh , e.g. , in gro  j165540 ( @xcite ) , the bhs motion may be significant enough for direct detection .",
    "the most favorable systems for detecting bh s motion should be high - mass xrbs ( hmxbs ) , in which the bhs move rapidly with respect to their cms .",
    "orbital motion of double - peaked disk emission lines were observed for neutron star xrb sco x1 ( @xcite ) , the bh xrb a062000 ( @xcite ) , and the bh grs 112468 ( @xcite ) .",
    "unfortunately a significant phase offset of velocity modulation was found from that expected based on the observed orbital motion of the companion , though the velocity semi - amplitude is consistent with the expected mass ratio ( @xcite ) .",
    "soria et al .",
    "( 1998 ) observed the orbital motion of the double - peaked disk emission line he  ii  @xmath84686 from gro  j165540 , and found its velocity modulation phase and semi - amplitude in agreement with the kinematic and dynamical parameters of the system .",
    "therefore a more robust mass lower limit is placed based on the observed motion of the primary and thus ruling out any possibility for a neutron star as the primary in the system ( soria et al .",
    "however one major problem in accurately measuring the orbital motion of the primary from the observed double - peaked emission lines is how to determine reliably the line center , because the lines are typically asymmetric and also variable .    in an xrb",
    ", both the accretion disk and its wind move with the bh , and thus provides us with another opportunity to measure the bh s motion via doppler shift of absorption features of the accretion disk wind .",
    "accretion disk winds are ubiquitous in xrbs and normally detected through ionized absorption lines , typically with around @xmath9 or less ( e.g. , @xcite ) , but can reach to about @xmath10 in some extreme cases , e.g. in the newly discovered bh transient igr  j170913624 ( @xcite ) . in particular the high quality chandra / hetg observations of the bhxb gro  j165540 have found many highly ionized narrow absorption lines , which are interpreted as evidence of magnetic field - driven accretion disk wind ( @xcite ) ; although the absorption lines are also interpreted as from the absorption by x - ray heated thermal wind ( netzer 2006 ) .",
    "regardless the origin of the accretion disk wind , the orbital motion of its many absorption lines may be measured reliably , because typically many narrow absorption lines are present with high signal to noise ratios and appear to be rather stable when observed .    in this work ,",
    "we model the doppler motion of wind absorption lines from the lmxb gro  j165540 and hmxb lmc  x3 to constrain directly the companion to primary mass ratio , in order to measure their bh masses and orbital inclination angles .",
    "we first describe the methodology and test its feasibility by applying it to chandra / hetg observations of gro  j165540 , revealing for the first time the velocity modulation of wind absorption lines in an xrb and thus providing a new measurement of its bh motion and orbital inclination angle .",
    "we then apply this method to the hst / cos observations of lmc  x3 attempting to constrain the companion to primary mass ratio .",
    "finally we discuss further observations needed to achieve the required accuracy of bh mass estimate for lmc  x3 , as well as potential problems and uncertainties of applying this method .",
    "so far , all bh masses in xrbs have been estimated using the kepler s 3rd law of stellar motion , expressed in the so called the mass function , @xmath11 where @xmath12 is the orbital period , @xmath13 is the semi ",
    "amplitude of the velocity curve of the companion star , @xmath4 is bh mass , @xmath5 is the the orbital inclination angle , and @xmath14 is the mass ratio . since the only direct observables are @xmath12 and @xmath13 , both @xmath15 and @xmath5 have to be determined indirectly in order to obtain the bh mass estimate reliably .",
    "the companion s mass @xmath15 can be determined relatively reliably by the observed spectral type of the companion star . for lmxbs , @xmath5 can be estimated by modeling the optical or infrared light curve modulation , though model dependence and other uncertainties ( such as accretion disk contamination ) can not be circumvented completely .",
    "for hxmbs , @xmath5 is normally not determined very well ; in many cases observations or lack of eclipse of the accretion disk emission by the companion is used to put some constraints on the possible ranges of @xmath5 . for details of bh mass estimates using this method , please refer to .",
    "on the other hand , the mass ratio @xmath16 can be determined directly according to the law of momentum conservation , i.e. , @xmath17 if the semi  amplitude of the velocity curve of the bh @xmath18 can be observed directly . since",
    "a bh is not directly observable , we can only hope to observe any emission or absorption line feature co - moving with it .",
    "the accretion disk certainly moves with the accreting bh .",
    "however any line feature of the inner accretion disk suffers from the broadening of disk s orbital motion and distortions by relativistic effects around the bh , thus making it practically impossible , or difficult to the least , for detecting the binary orbital motion of the bh .",
    "emission line features from the outer disk region are normally detected with double - peaks , which can be modeled to obtain the semi ",
    "amplitude of the velocity of the compact object , as discussed above .",
    "however a major uncertainty is to determine the mean separation between the emission regions of the blue - shifted and red - shifted components .",
    "fortunately , as we have discussed above , absorption line features of accretion disk winds in bhxbs have been routinely detected with high significance .",
    "this suggests that the accretion disk wind in an xrb moves with the disk that produces the wind , since otherwise the wind from the disk would not intercept the continuum emissions produced from the same disk . in this case , the doppler motion of wind absorption line features can be considered as that of the bh , unless the wind interacts strongly with the surrounding interstellar medium or the wind intrinsic velocity has systematic orbital dependence .",
    "it has been found recently that large scale ( pc ) cavities exist around microquasars ( xrbs producing relativistic jets ) , and perhaps are ubiquitous in all bhxbs producing strong winds ( @xcite ) .",
    "this suggests that at least in the vicinity of the bh the wind can not interact directly with interstellar medium .",
    "the interactions of disk winds with interstellar medium at pc scale would not complicate the observations , because it takes much longer than an orbital period before the winds could arrive at the boundaries of these cavities , and thus the wind should have lost any possible memories of the orbital motion of the compact object . for disk - fed accretion",
    ", the wind velocity is not expected to have any orbital phase modulation ; for stellar - wind accretion the focused wind may complicate the situation considerably though .",
    "we therefore suggest to apply this method to only those systems in which the accretion is disk - fed , i.e. , no significant wind interaction happens between the stellar and accretion disk winds .",
    "nevertheless only observations can tell us in which kinds of systems this method can be used reliably .     from left to right .",
    "[ distr ] , scaledwidth=80.0% ]     error bar slightly shifted horizontally for visual clarity ; the inset shows all velocities , including the three data points out of the range in the main panel .",
    "the bottom panel shows the weighted average velocity of all lines in the upper panel at each phase ; the solid curve is the fitted velocity curve with its orbital period and phase fixed at the values observed previously .",
    "[ velocity ] , scaledwidth=50.0% ]",
    "gro  j165540 , discovered as an x - ray transient by zhang et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , is a well - known and best studied bhxb and the second source with superluminal relativistic jets detected ( @xcite ) .",
    "its system parameters remain so far the best measured among all known bhxbs , with @xmath19 d , @xmath20 , @xmath21 , and @xmath22  @xmath23 ( all 95% confidence ) ( @xcite ) .",
    "its precise bh mass and inclination measurements allow its bh spin parameter determined from its x - ray continuum fitting , first proposed by zhang et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and then refined by incorporating detailed modeling of various effects ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "however possible sources of systematic errors are in the modeling of the ellipsoidal light modulation of the companion star and contamination of the disk s continuum emission in the optical to infrared bands .",
    "soria et al . ( 1998 ) observed the velocity curve of the double - peaked disk emission line he  ii  @xmath84686 from gro  j165540 , and derived its projected radial velocity semi - amplitude determined for the primary as @xmath24  km s@xmath1 , yielding @xmath25  @xmath23 and @xmath26 ( all 68.3% confidence ) , fully consistent with that determined from the companion s velocity curve and ellipsoidal light variation .",
    "miller et al .",
    "( 2006 ) detected many narrow and ionized absorption lines with high energy transmission grating ( hetg ) chandra observations of gro  j165540 .",
    "the exact position of the point source can not be determined accurately in the zeroth order image , which is severely piled - up due to its high flux .",
    "an offset in the source position will cause a systematic shift of all lines in the wavelength space .",
    "however , this shift is mostly canceled out in the combined total spectrum if each line is detected in the spectra of both the @xmath27 and @xmath28 orders with similar count spectra .",
    "however the combined lines will be broadened by the unknown systematic offset , which in turn will cause larger uncertainties in determining the center of each line .",
    "there may also exist other sources of systematic errors which can cause offset between the centers of the same line in the spectra of the @xmath27 and @xmath28 orders .    here",
    "we determine the position of the zeroth order image by minimizing the relative offsets between the absorption lines in the @xmath27 and @xmath28 orders , and estimate the systematic error in determining the center wavelength of each absorption line .",
    "we first fit each absorption line feature with a gaussian profile in the @xmath27 and @xmath28 orders of the high energy grating ( heg ) and medium energy grating ( meg ) separately , i.e. , we get a pair of profiles for each absorption line , integrated over the whole observation in order to get the highest signal to noise ratio .",
    "the local continuum around each line is assumed to have a power - law shape , but our results are insensitive to the continuum shape . for heg and meg",
    "we obtain 43 and 9 pairs of absorption lines with at least 3-@xmath29 detection , resulting in 43 and 9 differences of the central wavelengths of these pairs , respectively .",
    "we then use the bayesian method to find the offset @xmath30 and its systematic error @xmath31 by maximizing the following function , @xmath32 where @xmath33 and @xmath34 are the wavelength difference and its statistical error of the @xmath35-th pair ( @xmath36 to @xmath37 , and @xmath38 for heg or 9 for meg ) , respectively .",
    "finally for heg we get @xmath39  and @xmath40  .",
    "we thus take the error for @xmath30 as @xmath41  for heg . similarly for meg we get @xmath42  for meg , where @xmath43  is dominated by the systematic error .",
    "taking these additional errors for meg and heg line wavelengths and requiring all pairs in heg with @xmath44  and in meg @xmath45  , we have a total @xmath46 for 50 degrees of freedom , thus validating our method of determining the systematic errors .",
    "since the wavelength bin ( an image pixel ) is @xmath47  or @xmath48  for heg or meg , we thus shift the spectra of the @xmath28 and the @xmath27 orders by one bin , towards the decreasing ( @xmath28 order ) and increasing ( @xmath27 order ) wavelength directions , respectively .",
    "this is identical to shifting the location of the point source by one pixel in the zeroth order image .",
    "finally we combine the two shifted spectra as one single spectrum .    because the observations lasted for about a quarter of the orbital phase of gro  j165540 and many absorption lines have high signal to noise ratios , here we divide the observations into four equal orbital internals in order to detect the orbital motion of the absorption lines .",
    "for each combined spectrum we again fit each absorption feature with a gaussian profile to determine its central wavelength , line width and intensity .",
    "table  1 lists the 45 lines in all four intervals with at least 3-@xmath29 detection that are included for further analysis ; here only statistical errors are shown .    fig .  [ distr ] shows the velocity distributions of the four groups of 45 lines and their average velocities ; note that here the system velocity of the bh xrb has already been subtracted . adopting the orbital period and phase ephemeras from greene et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and assuming that the bh s motion is exactly anti - phased with the companion s motion ( soria et al .",
    "1998 ) , we fit velocities of these lines simultaneously to a sinusoidal function . in the fit ,",
    "the intrinsic velocity of each line is a free parameter , but all lines in the same orbital phase follow the same orbital modulation .",
    "this way we have 46 free parameters ( 45 intrinsic velocities for all these lines plus the line of sight velocity amplitude of the black hole ) with 180 data points .",
    "the fit results in @xmath49 with @xmath50 for 134 degrees of freedom ; the systematic errors determined above are included for all lines .    considering that some lines may be outliers , we reject the four groups of six lines with central velocities more than 300  @xmath51 from the median values of each distribution , as listed in table  1 .",
    "the remaining four groups of 39 lines have velocity dispersion ( 1-@xmath29 ) of about 60  @xmath51 , i.e. , the rejected lines are more than 5-@xmath29 away from the median values .",
    "the fit to the remaining four groups of 39 lines yields @xmath52 with @xmath53 for 116 degrees of freedom , a marginal improvement over the full dataset fit .",
    "this means that the deviations of these possible outliers are not significant statistically and thus do not deserve further studies at this stage .",
    "[ velocity ] shows the fitting results ; please note that the velocities are obtained by subtracting the fitted line of sight intrinsic velocity of each line from the obtained central velocity of each line at this orbital phase .",
    "it is worth noting that the phase zero in this system was defined as that when the companion is receding from the observer at the maximum velocity ( orosz & bailyn 1997 ) .",
    "nevertheless both results are statistically consistent with @xmath54  km s@xmath1 obtained by soria et al .",
    "if we fit the four groups of 39 lines to a straight line , we get @xmath55 for 154 degrees of freedom .",
    "the linear model is thus rejected with high significance , compared to the sinusoidal model .    with the fitted @xmath0  km s@xmath1 and taking the other system parameters ( except the inclination ) of gro  j165540 from greene et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , we first obtain its bh mass @xmath56 from eq .  2 and then its system inclination @xmath3 from eq .",
    "[ equ : mass ] , respectively .",
    "all these ( 1-@xmath29 ) errors are obtained by monte - carlo samplings , because of the asymmetry and coupling of some errors .",
    "these parameters , albeit with large uncertainties due to the very incomplete orbital coverage of observations , are consistent with all previous measurements . therefore the existing data of gro  j165540 validate our proposal that absorption lines produced in the accretion disk wind can be used to measure directly the orbital motion of the bhs in bhxbs .     , and",
    "blue curves indicate the fit to the accretion disk wind absorptions at @xmath57 ( local velocity @xmath58 ) . the vertical bars mark the central positions of these components .",
    "[ fig : civ ] , scaledwidth=40.0% ]     , scaledwidth=40.0% ]",
    "lmc x3 is another excellent object for applying this method .",
    "it is a bright xrb system in the large magellanic cloud composed of a b3  v star and a central bh , and receding away from us at a systemic velocity @xmath59 ( @xcite ; hereafter c83 ) .",
    "it is one of the few bh systems that are persistently luminous in both x - ray and far - ultraviolet ( fuv ) wavelength bands .",
    "the bh is believed to be undergoing accretion from its b - star companion via roche lobe overflow with an orbital period of 1.7 days ( c83 ) ; we therefore do not expect any significant contamination of the stellar wind to any absorption features of its accretion disk wind .",
    "spectroscopic observations of the b star indicate a large radial velocity semi - amplitude , @xmath60 ( c83 ) . taken the mass of the b3  v star as about 6  @xmath23 , the bh mass in lmc x3",
    "is thus estimated to be @xmath61 , assuming an inclination angle of @xmath62 ( c83 ; @xcite ) . because of the considerable uncertainty in its inclination ( and thus bh mass ) , its bh spin has not been reliably determined yet with the x - ray continuum modeling method ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "since the bh should be moving at a comparable velocity to its companion , it is possible to directly measure its orbital motion if the absorption lines produced in its accretion disk wind are detected .",
    "although lmc x3 has been intensively studied in the x - ray band , the previously operated and currently operating x - ray spectroscopic instruments lack the combination of the required sensitivity and resolution to measure the expected doppler motion of any accretion wind absorption features .",
    "high resolution uv spectroscopic observations of this source are rather sparse ; so far only two _ fuse _ observations and four observations with the cosmic origins spectrograph ( cos ) onboard the _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst ) ( hst / cos hereafter ) to lmc x3 have been made ( @xcite , here after s10 ) .",
    "again _ fuse _ does not have the combination of the required sensitivity and the observations did not produce spectra with high enough signal to noise ratio for the purpose of this investigation .",
    "the hst / cos does have the required performance to do so , although the available observations only covered a small portion of the orbital period of lmc x3 . in this work ,",
    "we analyze the available hst / cos uv spectroscopic observations of lmc x3 , aiming at constraining the systemic parameters and further demonstrating the feasibility of our proposed new method of measuring the bh s mass in an xrb .    from the _ fuse _ and hst / cos observations",
    ", s10 detected variable  and  emission lines and found that variability of their intensities are inconsistent with expectation of a stellar wind origin .",
    "so they attributed them to the heated stellar surface of the companion star .",
    "in fact both absorption and emission features are detected in  ( with g130 m ) and  ( with g160 m ) doublets ( fig .  2 in s10 ) in the hst / cos observations ( program 11642 ; please refer to s10 for detailed description of the hst / cos observations and data analysis ) .",
    "however , since s10 focused on the origin of the emission variability and the connection between the emission features and the systemic parameters , these absorption features have not been explored in detail .",
    "here we analyze the  doublet complexes ( we do not conduct the same analysis to the  features because the absorptions are much less significant than those of ) . in fig .",
    "[ fig : civ ] , we decompose the observed  doublet into three components for each line : one emission component and two absorption components .",
    "the emission component is assumed to come from the heated surface of the companion , the same as the  and emission lines ( s10 ) ; its width and doppler shift are fixed to those inferred from the  and  emission lines in the decomposition .",
    "one absorption component ( at zero velocity ) is assumed to come from the galactic ism absorption .",
    "the other significant absorption component has a redshift of about @xmath63 , and may have two possible origins .",
    "one is the absorption produced in the stellar wind of the b3  v companion star .",
    "however , the orbital phase of the binary system was about 0.75 during the hst / cos observations , i.e. , the straight line connecting the companion star and the bh is perpendicular to our los ( please be noted that , in contrast to gro  j165540 , the orbital phase zero in lmc  x3 was defined as that when the bh is at its superior conjunction , i.e. , the companion is just between the observer and the bh ; cowley 1983 ; s10 ) . in order for any stellar wind to intercept significantly the emission from the inner disk region , a significant amount of stellar wind has to stream to the inner disk region , i.e. , the system must be wind - fed , against the common believe that lmc x3 is actually disk - fed .",
    "we thus rule out this possibility .",
    "the other and the only viable scenario is the absorption by the accretion disk wind , making it possible to directly measure the orbital motion of the bh .",
    "it is worth noting that the measured  column density in the ism [ @xmath64 agrees remarkably well with predicted value [ @xmath65 in a joint analysis of the x - ray and fuv spectroscopic observations of lmc  x3 ( @xcite ) , indirectly validating such a component decomposition .    with the measured velocity @xmath66 of  absorption lines tracing the bh motion and considering the systemic velocity ( @xmath67 ) of lmc  x3 and velocity semi - amplitude of the companion star @xmath68",
    ", we can constrain the companion to black hole mass ratio . at phase 0.75",
    ", the bh is receding from us at the maximum speed , and thus the relation of @xmath69 and @xmath70 can be expressed as @xmath71 where @xmath72 is the intrisinc velocity of the accretion disk wind in our los . assuming @xmath73 , a similar wind velocity found in gro  j165540 ( miller et al .",
    "2006 ) , from eq .",
    "[ equ:0.75 ] we obtain @xmath74 . plugging these numbers in eq .",
    "[ equ : ratio ] , we further obtain @xmath75 , which is consistent with the ratio usually adopted for the lmc  x3 system ( e.g. , c83 ) .",
    "we therefore suggest that the observed  absorption feature is consistent to our model that the accretion disk wind moves with the bh and the observed doppler shift is a combination of the wind velocity and the bh s orbital velocity in our los .    in the above exercise",
    ", we assumed a @xmath72 in order to obtain @xmath18 , since there is a degeneracy of @xmath72 and @xmath18 in eq .",
    "[ equ:0.75 ] .",
    "unfortunately , the hst / cos g160 m observation analyzed above only lasted for one hst orbit , and thus can not break the degeneracy , i.e. , we can not put an independent measure of the bh s velocity , without observing the orbital modulation of the doppler motion of the wind .",
    "the hst / cos g130 m observations in a shorter wavelength band covered a much larger part of the orbital period . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : si ] , the combined spectrum revealed several complicated absorption features .",
    "nevertheless ,  and  absorption lines at @xmath76 are also detected ; the apparent higher velocity components may arise from the outer part of the accretion disk with lower local velocities , mimicking the different velocities and ionization zones of agn warm - absorbers / outflows ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "however , the combination of the complexity of the observed absorption features and the rather incomplete orbital phase coverage of these previous hst / cos observations does not warrant further more quantitative analysis for breaking the above mentioned degeneracy and probing the nature of those higher velocity components .",
    "clearly , observations covering more orbital phases are badly needed to break the degeneracy .",
    "observations around phase 0.25 are the most favorable ones for this purpose .",
    "in contrast to the existing observations taken around 0.75 in which the bh is receding at the maximum velocity from us , at phase 0.25 , the bh is expected to be moving toward us at the maximum velocity , so is the disk wind .",
    "therefore , the relation between @xmath77 and @xmath18 can be expressed as @xmath78 if @xmath79 as assumed , the @xmath77 is expected to be at @xmath80 .",
    "the real measurement of @xmath77 from the future observations , together with @xmath69 measured from the existing observations , would allow us to solve @xmath72 and @xmath18 from eqs .",
    "[ equ:0.75 ] and [ equ:0.25 ] and then to reliably constrain @xmath81 and system inclination angle @xmath5 ( eqs .",
    "[ equ : ratio ] and [ equ : mass ] ) .",
    "as shown in eq .  [ equ : ratio ] , @xmath4 can be directly obtained if @xmath18 can be measured , in addition to @xmath15 and @xmath13 measured by observing the companion star . in this work",
    "we suggest to measure @xmath18 by detecting the doppler orbital motion of the accretion disk wind absorption lines , assuming that the accretion disk wind moves with the bh and does not have systematic orbital phase dependence .",
    "this method has the potential of circumventing the model dependence and other uncertainties in estimating the orbital inclination angle , that is required in the method commonly used to measure the bh masses in xrbs by detecting the companion star s velocity and light curves , as shown in eq .",
    "[ equ : mass ] . actually knowing the mass ratio with eq .",
    "[ equ : ratio ] , one can in turn use eq .",
    "[ equ : mass ] to derive the inclination angle , which can be used to calibrate the light curve model used previously to derive the inclination angle .",
    "our analysis of the previous chandra / hetg observations of gro  j165540 have revealed wind velocity modulation consistent with the orbital motion of the bh predicted from its previously measured system parameters .",
    "an independent projected radial velocity semi - amplitude measured here allows its inclination angle determined without using the modeling of its ellipsoidal light modulation of its companion .",
    "we find its bh radial velocity semi - amplitude @xmath0  km s@xmath1 , bh mass @xmath2 and system inclination @xmath3 , where @xmath4 does not depend on @xmath5 at all .",
    "however the very limited orbital coverage of the observations does not allow more accurate system parameter measurements of this binary system .",
    "nevertheless with the velocity component of its orbital motion removed , we can obtain more accurate measurements of the intrinsic velocities of each line along our line of sight , and thus may be able to constrain further the physical properties of the wind , by combining with the velocity broadenings of these lines ; this is the subject our future work .",
    "our analysis of the previous hst / cos observations of the hmxb lmc x3 has found absorption line features consistent with that predicted by assuming the previously measured dynamical parameters of lmc x3 and the wind properties in lmc x3 being similar to that observed in another bhxb gro  j165540 .",
    "given the limitations of the previous hst / cos observations of lmc x3 that do not allow to break the degeneracy of the wind velocity and the bh orbital velocity , new hst / cos observations are required to cover significantly different orbital phases .    as mentioned in s10 ,",
    "the  features shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : civ ] might be p - cygni profiles .",
    "however , the emission features agree well with all other emission lines detected , which are attributed to the heated stellar surface .",
    "therefore it is more reasonable to attribute the emission features in fig .",
    "[ fig : civ ] to the heated stellar surface ( as done in s10 ) , thus invalidating the p - cygni profile interpretation .",
    "uv emission lines produced from the heated stellar surface are not unique in the system of lmc  x3 , but rather a common feature observed in xrbs ( e.g. , vrtilek et al . 2003 ) .",
    "of course new observations suggested above would definitely reveal the nature of the the  features shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : civ ] .    in this work",
    ", we have also assumed that the accretion disk wind velocity is constant , at least during one full orbital phase , in order to apply this method reliably .",
    "in reality , the intrinsic wind velocity may have random fluctuations , though the fluctuations do not seem to be significant in gro  j165540 ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , it has been known that wind absorption features are not always detected and it is also not fully understood when and why wind absorptions are present or absent .",
    "future high signal to noise observations covering more orbital phases may shed some lights on this problem and test ultimately if our suggested method can be applied reliably and produce accurate bh mass measurements in bhxbs .",
    "the joint jaxa / nasa _ astro - h _ mission is particularly suitable for making such observations , with its high - throughput spectroscopy provided by the micro - calorimeter with high spectral resolution of @xmath82 ev ( @xcite ) .",
    "finally we should point out that this method in principle can also be applied to other accreting compact objects , such accreting neutron star and white dwarf binaries , with detectable accretion disk wind absorption line features .",
    "s.n.z . thanks the hospitality of casa , university of colorado at boulder , during his visit in december 2010 when the initial idea of this work emerged as results of some interesting discussions with local scientists there .",
    "the anonymous referee is thanked for making several useful comments and suggestions .",
    "we appreciate comments and suggestions made by drs .",
    "zhongxiang wang and hua feng .",
    "daniel dewey is thanked for his information and suggestion on evaluating the systematic errors . s.n.z . also acknowledges partial funding support by the national natural science foundation of china under grant nos . 11133002 , 10821061 , 10725313 , and by 973 program of china under grant 2009cb824800 .",
    "y.y . appreciates financial support by nasa through grant hst - go-11642.01-a .",
    "arav , n. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 620 , 665 boyd , p.  t. , et al .",
    "2001 , 555 , 822 begelman , m.  c. , et al .",
    "1983 , apj , 271 , 70 cowley , a.  p. , et al .",
    "1983 , apj , 272 , 118 ( c83 ) cowley , a.  p. , et al .",
    "1994 , apj , 429 , 826 davis , s.  w. , blaes , o.  m. , hubeny , i. , & turner , n.  j.  2005 , apj , 621 , 372 greene , j. , bailyn , c.  d. , & orosz , j.  a.  2001 , apj , 554 , 1290 hao , j.  f. , & zhang , s.  n.  2009 , apj , 702 , 1648 harmon , b.  a. , wilson , c.  a. , zhang , s.  n. , et al .",
    "1995 , nature , 374 , 703 haswell , c.  a. , & shafter , a.  w.  1990 , apj , 359 , l47 hjellming , r.  m. , & rupen , m.  p.  1995",
    ", nature , 375 , 464 hutchings , j.  b. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 126 , 2368 kallman t.  r. , bautista m.  a. , goriely s. , mendoza c. , miller j.  m. , palmeri p. , quinet p. , raymond j. , 2009 , apj , 701 , 865 king a.  l. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , apjl , in press , arxiv:1112.3648 kuiper , l. , et al .",
    "1988 , a&a , 203 , 79 li , l .- x . , zimmerman , e.  r. , narayan , r. , & mcclintock , j.  e.  2005 , apjs , 157 , 335 luketic , s. , et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 719 , 515 mcclintock , j.  e. , narayan , r. , davis , s.  w. , et al .",
    "2011 , classical and quantum gravity , 28 , 114009 miller , j.  m. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 601 , 450 miller , j.  m. , et al .",
    "2006 , nature , 441 , 953 miller , j.  m. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 680 , 1359 netzer , h.  2006 , apj , 652 , l117 orosz , j.  a. , bailyn , c.  d. , remillard , r.  a. , mcclintock , j.  e. , & foltz , c.  b.  1994 , apj , 436 , 848 orosz , j.  a. , & bailyn , c.  d.  1997 , apj , 477 , 876 remillard , r.  a. , & mcclintock , j.  e.  2006 , ara&a , 44 , 49 shafee , r. , mcclintock , j.  e. , narayan , r. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 636 , l113 song , l. , et al .",
    "2010 , aj , 140 , 794 soria , r. , wickramasinghe , d.  t. , hunstead , r.  w. , & wu , k.  1998 , apj , 495 , l95 soria r. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 , l273 steeghs , d. , & casares , j. 2002 apj , 1 , 273 steiner , j.  f. , mcclintock , j.  e. , remillard , r.  a. , narayan , r. , & gou , l.  2009 , apj , 701 , l83 steiner , j.  f. , et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 718 , l117 takahashi , t. , mitsuda , k. , kelley , r. , et al .",
    "2010 , spie , 7732 , 77320z tingay , s.  j. , jauncey , d.  l. , preston , r.  a. , et al .",
    "1995 , nature , 374 , 141 ueda , y. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 609 , 325      wang , q.  d. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 635 , 386 yao , y. , zhang , s.  n. , zhang , x. , feng , y. , & robinson , c.  r.  2005 , apj , 619 , 446 yao , y. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 690 , 143 zhang , s.  n. , harmon , b.  a. , paciesas , w.  s. , wilson , c.  a. , & fishman , g.  j.  1994 , iauc , 6106 , 1 zhang , s.  n. , et al .",
    "1997 , apj , 482 , l155"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> so far essentially all black hole masses in x - ray binaries have been obtained by observing the companion star s velocity and light curves as functions of the orbital phase . </S>",
    "<S> however a major uncertainty is the estimate of the orbital inclination angle of an x - ray binary . </S>",
    "<S> here we suggest to measure the black hole mass in an x - ray binary by measuring directly the black hole s orbital motion , thus obtaining the companion to black hole mass ratio . in this method </S>",
    "<S> we assume that accretion disk wind moves with the black hole and thus the black hole s </S>",
    "<S> orbital motion can be obtained from the doppler velocity of the absorption lines produced in the accretion disk wind . </S>",
    "<S> we validate this method by analyzing the chandra / hetg observations of gro  j165540 , in which the black hole orbital motion ( @xmath0  km s@xmath1 ) inferred from the doppler velocity of disk - wind absorption lines is consistent with the prediction from its previously measured system parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we thus estimate its black hole mass ( @xmath2 ) and then its system inclination ( @xmath3 ) , where @xmath4 does not depend on @xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> additional observations of this source covering more orbital phases can improve estimates on its system parameters substantially . </S>",
    "<S> we then apply the method to the black hole x - ray binary lmc  x3 observed with hst / cos near orbital phase 0.75 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the disk - wind absorption lines of  doublet were shifted to @xmath6 , which yields a companion - to - black - hole mass ratio of 0.6 for an assumed disk wind velocity of @xmath7 . </S>",
    "<S> additional observations covering other orbital phases ( 0.25 in particular ) are crucial to ease this assumption and then to directly constrain the mass ratio . </S>",
    "<S> this method in principle can also be applied to any accreting compact objects with detectable accretion disk wind absorption line features .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ] </S>"
  ]
}