{
  "article_text": [
    "few astronomical measurements are as direct and model - independent as trigonometric parallaxes , as they rely solely on geometry and an accurate ephemeris of the earth s orbit .",
    "distances determined by parallaxes form the foundation of much of modern astrophysics , e.g. , enabling the creation of the hertzsprung - russell diagram and establishing a key rung in the cosmological distance ladder .",
    "since the first stellar parallax measurement ( 61  cyg ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , astrometry programs have continuously evolved using new technology to achieve ever - expanding science objectives .",
    "photographic plates dominated parallax work for many decades , but the need to reach fainter stars eventually required the use ccds with their low noise , high quantum efficiency , and capacity for large dynamic range .",
    "pioneering work in this area demonstrated that precise astrometry was in fact possible with such devices ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , even though the field - of - view of early detectors was small by today s standards . as ccds have grown in size they have become the dominant tool for high - precision astrometry . with the advent of large - format infrared",
    "( ir ) arrays it is now possible to extend parallax measurements to large samples of the coldest known objects outside the solar system : brown dwarfs .    over the past decade ,",
    "several ground - based astrometry programs have laid the foundation for understanding the basic evolution of brown dwarfs on the color  magnitude diagram .",
    "infrared parallax programs account for about two thirds of parallaxes for brown dwarfs with spectral types @xmath9l4 , with red optical programs providing the remaining one third , mostly at earlier types .",
    "companions to stars with _ hipparcos_parallaxes also make up a significant fraction of the current sample of @xmath9l4 dwarfs with parallaxes , roughly half as many as have been measured directly in infrared astrometry programs .",
    "parallax measurements for very low - mass stars and brown dwarfs of earlier spectral types ( m6l4 ) are dominated by red optical astrometry programs at the usno @xcite and elsewhere .",
    "there is a pressing demand for the highest possible precision in ultracool dwarf distance measurements .",
    "this is because dynamical mass studies are now providing the strongest tests of substellar models , and precise parallaxes are crucial for such work .",
    "dynamical mass uncertainties from visual binary orbits are almost always dominated by the error in the distance since mass @xmath10 .",
    "thus , to achieve a 10% mass uncertainty requires parallax errors of @xmath23% . among ground - based measurements for @xmath9l4",
    "dwarfs such precision is not common ( only 26% of parallaxes ) and has previously been achieved _ only _ for relatively nearby objects ( @xmath1113  pc ) .    furthermore , despite the past successes of the parallax programs described above , there are still important aspects of brown dwarf evolution that would benefit from a larger set of distance measurements : young field brown dwarfs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the coldest brown dwarfs ( @xmath12500  k , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the l / t transition ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "samples pertaining to the first two subjects have only recently begun to be uncovered , and parallax measurements are underway by multiple groups for both young field dwarfs ( e.g. , ; liu , dupuy & allers , submitted ) and the latest - type t  dwarfs .",
    "in contrast , objects with properties intermediate between red l  dwarfs and blue t  dwarfs have been known since some of the earliest surveys to yield brown dwarfs @xcite . however , to date only 6 single objects in this range ( l9t4 ) have parallaxes , compared to 33 parallaxes for single t4.5t9 dwarfs and 29 parallaxes for single l4l8.5 dwarfs .",
    "( there are an additional @xmath24 components of binaries in the l9t4 range with parallaxes , but this exact number is subject to the somewhat uncertain spectral classification of most of these components . )",
    "there is a present deficiency in the number of l / t transition objects with parallaxes and thus in our ability to characterize one of the most important phases of brown dwarf evolution .    to address the need for high precision parallaxes of ultracool binaries",
    ", we initiated an infrared parallax program at the canada - france - hawaii telescope ( cfht ) in 2007 .",
    "we concentrated our observations on a sample of ultracool binaries with a wide range of component spectral types ( m6t9 ) that includes all systems observable with cfht that are likely to yield dynamical masses in the next @xmath2decade .",
    "this dynamical mass sample also forms the basis of our ongoing keck adaptive optics ( ao ) orbital monitoring program , which to date has tripled the number of ultracool binaries with dynamical masses sufficiently precise for model testing ( see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the primary goals of this first phase of our cfht program are to expand the sample of dynamical mass measurements for brown dwarfs and enable more precise masses from the existing sample of orbits by reducing distance errors .",
    "in addition to the dynamical mass sample , we included in our original parallax program several other binaries that are not necessarily amenable to orbit determination in the near future but that have components bridging the l / t transition .",
    "this l / t sample is motivated by the deficit of parallaxes for objects with spectral types l9t4 and by the inherent utility of binaries for substellar model tests given their identical age and composition ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this supplemental sample of l / t binaries provides the context needed for comparisons to the field population as our orbital monitoring program yields dynamical mass measurements for l / t transition objects ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . finally , we have also been targeting binaries with the coldest known components ( @xmath13t8 ) , and this has resulted in a parallax for cfbds  j1458 + 1013ab , which has component types of t9 and @xmath14t10 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* updated parallax given in this paper ) .",
    "we present here the first large set of results of our cfht infrared parallax program along with a complete description of our astrometric methods ( section  [ sec : cfht ] ) .",
    "this sample includes 34 binaries and 15 single objects that have been chosen because they will be useful for measuring dynamical masses in the future , studying the l / t transition , and increasing the number of parallaxes for mid- to late - t dwarfs .",
    "we also present supporting observations from other telescopes , including a large collection of resolved photometry for tight binaries from keck , _ hst _ , and vlt ( section  [ sec : keck ] ) and integrated - light near - infrared spectroscopy ( section  [ sec : irtf ] ) .",
    "the ensemble of these new measurements provides an unprecedented view of the l / t transition .",
    "since 2007 , we have been using the facility near - ir camera wircam at cfht to conduct an astrometric monitoring program with the goal of measuring parallaxes for ultracool dwarfs .",
    "wircam comprises a mosaic of four 2048@xmath02048 hawaii-2rg infrared arrays , each with a field - of - view of @xmath15 and pixelscale of @xmath16  @xcite . at each epoch , we obtained @xmath22030 dithered images of our targets , which were always centered on the northeast array of wircam .",
    "all images were first processed at cfht using the wircam pipeline ",
    "iiwi , which performs a non - linearity correction , dark subtraction , flat fielding , bad pixel masking , sky subtraction , and cross - talk removal for each image .",
    "we obtained data in @xmath4 band for most targets , as this filter afforded the lowest sky background and thus the most reference stars .",
    "targets brighter than @xmath17  mag were at risk of saturating in the 5-second minimum integration time of wircam , so for these targets we used the narrow @xmath6-band filter ( ) centered at 2.122  with a bandwidth of 0.032  ( 1.5% ) .",
    "table  [ tbl : sample ] summarizes our target list and the details of our observations .",
    "the cfht data presented herein were mostly collected from the fall semester of 2007 to spring 2010 , with 89  hours of queue - scheduled cfht time allocated over 6 semesters .",
    "we have continued monitoring some targets in later semesters to improve their parallax errors , and the most recent data presented here comes from early 2012 .",
    "the median seeing for all the cfht data presented here is @xmath18 , as judged by the target full - width half maximum ( fwhm ) , and 85% of the data were taken in @xmath19 seeing .",
    "our goal is to obtain a minimum of @xmath210 epochs spread over three or more observing seasons for each target , and in this paper we include targets with 624 observations obtained over 25 seasons",
    ".    cfht is operated in queue mode , providing significant advantages for astrometric monitoring .",
    "foremost is the ability to virtually eliminate the systematic effects of differential chromatic refraction ( dcr ) between observation epochs for every target .",
    "this is accomplished by obtaining data only within a narrow specified range of airmass , which can be done automatically within the cfht queue software .",
    "our @xmath4-band targets were typically observed within @xmath20airmass of 0.03 and never more than 1  hour from transit ( table  [ tbl : sample ] ) .",
    "( dcr is completely negligible for the -band targets because of the narrow bandpass . )",
    "figure  [ fig : dcr ] shows the expected dcr offsets in @xmath4 band between our targets and background reference stars , as determined using the method described in section  2.2 of @xcite .",
    "we computed the effective wavelength at @xmath4 band for late - m , l , and t dwarf spectral standards given in the spex prism library and then determined the dcr offsets using equations from and @xcite .",
    "we found that gkm stars all have virtually the same effective wavelength at @xmath4 band , and for our calculations we used the value derived from the m0 spectral standard ( hd  19305 ; @xmath21  ) .",
    "systematic astrometric offsets due to dcr result from the fact that atmospheric refraction shifts the grid of reference stars by a different amount than our ultracool target .",
    "our calculations show that even at our most extreme deviation in airmass , dcr is only a @xmath21  mas effect for t dwarfs , @xmath20.5  mas effect for l dwarfs , and @xmath20.3  mas effect for late - m dwarfs . as will be shown in section  [ sec : plx - fit ] , such dcr offsets have a negligible effect on our resulting parallaxes and uncertainties .",
    "the other major advantage afforded by queue service mode is the ability to obtain excellent parallax phase coverage for targets widely distributed on the sky with minimal impact from poor weather or seeing .",
    "note however that wircam is bolted onto the telescope when in use and must be removed to use other instruments , so there are discrete wircam runs of @xmath212 weeks each undertaken @xmath245 times per semester",
    ". these runs could be at irregular intervals , depending on the queue pressure each semester .",
    "this , combined with the fact that a string of very poor weather could cripple a given run , means that targets at some right ascensions received much better phase coverage in our program than others , with targets at 12h01h generally getting the most coverage and targets at 04h10h getting somewhat less .        at each epoch",
    "we obtained @xmath22030 individual dithered frames of our target fields .",
    "we obtained positional measurements for all of the sources in each field from sextractor using the `` windowed '' parameters ( e.g. , xwin_image ) rather than the classic isophotal parameters ( e.g. , x_image ) .",
    "windowed parameters have the advantage of being less noisy , because they are computed with a gaussian weight function that decreases the impact of pixels far from the psf core on the measured positions .",
    "we used flag maps within sextractor to track sources that were either saturated or located near bad pixels , as identified by the cfht data processing pipeline .",
    "these flagged sources were excluded from subsequent analysis .",
    "we also used the s / n estimates from sextractor . ] to exclude sources with s / n  @xmath22 . we did not attempt to exclude galaxies based on sextractor shape parameters at this stage , but in a later step ( section [ sec : epoch - match ] ) non - stellar sources typically ended up being excised because of their large positional rms .",
    "the first step in creating an astrometric catalog was to associate all of the detections across multiple frames as belonging to a common set of objects .",
    "we found that the most robust method for cross - identifying stars was to first match detections in a given frame to an astrometric reference catalog , either the sloan digital sky survey data release 7 ( sdss - dr7 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the two micron all sky survey point source catalog ( 2mass - psc ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or the usno - b1.0 catalog @xcite .",
    "we used the information in the cfht fits headers to obtain an initial guess for the image coordinates , and we refined this initial guess by using the catalog matching software scamp @xcite .",
    "we thereby determined approximate source positions in celestial coordinates , adequate for cross - identifying detections that have corresponding entries in the reference catalog ; we used whichever catalog gave the most matches for a target field .",
    "we then determined a more precise astrometric solution for the given frame that included second order terms ( i.e. , @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath25 ) since these distortion terms are significant at the @xmath21@xmath26 level .",
    "this fit was performed using the mpfit implementation of the levenberg ",
    "marquardt least - squares minimization routine in idl @xcite .",
    "this temporary best - fit astrometric solution was then applied to all the detections in the frame so that we could crossmatch them between frames .",
    "we constructed our catalog of associated detections by starting with the list of detections in the first image and then adding detections from the next image by either finding a match in the existing catalog or creating a new entry if no match was found . after adding a new image ,",
    "the catalog position of each object was recomputed as the median of currently associated measurements .",
    "this procedure was repeated for each image until all positional measurements from that epoch were included in the catalog .",
    "we then discarded objects from the catalog that were detected fewer than ten times in order to focus on stars that will have the most robust astrometry .",
    "this cut excludes stars on the periphery of the field that were only captured in a subset of dithers as well as bright sources near the saturation limit and image artifacts ( e.g. , cosmic rays , persistence spots , and array defects ) .",
    "note that because we created a separate catalog for each epoch , sources with large proper motion would not be discarded at this step .",
    "we next optimally registered the positions of stars cross - associated in individual images at a given epoch .",
    "the only information we used from the initial pass of reference catalog matching were the coordinates of the tangent point and linear terms for the first frame , and these were only a temporary guess because later in our analysis we solve for all of these parameters directly .",
    "our optimization operates in spherical rather than @xmath27 coordinates in order to properly account for the fact that our measurements are actually tangent projections of celestial positions . for example , our largest dithers of 1@xmath28 can cause the relative positions of stars at the edges of our 10@xmath28 field to appear to move by @xmath2910  mas due to tangent projection effects .",
    "the best - fit registration solution was found using mpfit to jointly minimize unweighted residuals in right ascension , @xmath30 , and declination , @xmath31 .",
    "the only parameters allowed to vary between frames in this fit were the @xmath32 coordinates of the tangent point ( i.e. , only a shift ) .",
    "after performing the fit the first time , we clipped any positional measurements that were more than 3.5@xmath33 discrepant with the median catalog position to eliminate corrupted measurements ( e.g. , affected by a cosmic ray hit ) or image artifacts that were erroneously associated with real sources .",
    "this cut was chosen because it would eliminate @xmath34 true measurement even in our richest data sets of a few @xmath35 detections , and typically @xmath36 detections were actually clipped . after clipping , the fit was then repeated a second and final time .      in optimizing the registration of dithers",
    ", we allowed for optical distortion as a 3@xmath37-order polynomial function in @xmath38 and @xmath39 , which was applied before the tangent projection .",
    "these distortion terms were derived from several data sets of the densest target field that lies within the sloan footprint ( 2mass  0850 + 1057 ) by fitting our measured @xmath27 positions to sdss - dr7 reference catalog coordinates .",
    "sdss provides the best combination of source density on the sky and positional accuracy ( @xmath240  mas as judged from the rms of our fits ) among astrometric reference catalogs currently available .",
    "the residuals of our fits using first , second , and third order terms are shown in figure  [ fig : distort - resid ] .",
    "there was no discernable improvement by including fourth order terms , so we adopted the best - fit terms up to third order for our distortion solution , shown in figure  [ fig : distort ] with coefficients given in table  [ tbl : distort ] .",
    "we note that we also tried fitting for the distortion from our data alone , since dithered images can in principle constrain any nonlinear terms ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "however , the largest observed offset of any given star between two of our 1@xmath28 dithers is only @xmath223  pixels , even though the largest absolute offsets due to distortion are @xmath21020  pixels .",
    "thus , we found that we have more leverage for determining the distortion by using a comparison to an absolute reference catalog .",
    "the scatter in the best - fit distortion terms determined from different data sets of 2mass  0850 + 1057 reflects this fact as it is much lower for the catalog matching approach compared to using the internal position residuals alone .",
    "we also tested the stability of the distortion pattern by both fixing and fitting for it in dense fields observed throughout our program .",
    "the astrometric residuals of star positions did not change significantly , validating our approach of using a single distortion solution for all images .",
    "we also accounted for differential aberration and refraction offsets in the process of registering dithered images .",
    "both effects are essentially a linear transformation of star positions , since stars on one side of our 10@xmath28 field experience slightly different positional offsets due to annual stellar aberration and atmospheric refraction than the opposite side of the field .",
    "differential refraction can cause up to a few  @xmath40 expansion of the scale along the elevation axis , and differential aberration can cause up to a @xmath41 seasonal change in the scale .",
    "thus , it is important to account for these effects in order to monitor the stability of wircam s linear terms over time and between targets .",
    "we computed the appropriate offsets from equations in @xcite and applied the differential values ( i.e. , with the median offset subtracted ) to the celestial coordinates in our minimization routine .",
    "the end product of combining measurements from each dithered data set was a catalog of median positions in celestial coordinates1@xmath26 , which is needed to achieve an accurate tangent projection and match our measured positions to an absolute reference catalog at a later step ( section  [ sec : catalog - match ] ) . ] and the and the rms for each source as determined from @xmath42 dithered measurements .",
    "these rms values correspond to the often quoted astrometric quality metric of the `` mean error for a single observation of unit weight '' ( m.e.1 ) .",
    "@xcite quote m.e.1 values of 35  mas for the highest s / n stars in the usno ccd program , @xcite quote 810  mas for the brightest reference stars in the usno infrared astrometry program , and @xcite report a median rms of 12  mas for the ntt infrared astrometry program .",
    "the ultimate astrometric precision at each epoch may be expected to scale as @xmath43 , and the usno ccd , usno ir , and ntt programs obtained 12 , 3 , and 8 frames per epoch , respectively .",
    "therefore , their precisions per epoch are 24  mas , 56  mas , and 4  mas , respectively . for our program , the rms of the position measurements for our targets were typically 618  mas ( 13  mas median ; figure  [ fig : dither - rms ] ) .",
    "because we obtained 2030 frames for each data set , our astrometric precision per epoch is 1.53.0  mas ( 2.8  mas median ) .",
    "thus , the quality of our astrometry is comparable to or better than previous ground - based parallax programs targeting ultracool dwarfs in the optical or infrared .      in order to obtain multi - epoch astrometry for all objects in each of our target fields , we next associated the sources measured in different dithered data sets .",
    "we excluded the noisiest measurements from this analysis , typically applying an rms threshold of 3060  mas ( 0.10.2  pixels ) .",
    "the positional shifts between epochs were estimated using a two - dimensional histogram approach as follows : all @xmath44 objects from the first image were each paired with all @xmath45 objects from a second image ; the @xmath46 and @xmath47 offsets between all @xmath48 possible pairings were computed and binned in a two - dimensional histogram ; the peak bin in @xmath49 space , which contains the min(@xmath50 ) true pairings , was found ; the shift was computed by taking the median of the offsets contained in the peak bin .",
    "the bin size used was initially set to be arbitrarily large and then iteratively decreased until the number of pairs in the peak bin was @xmath51 the expected number ( i.e. , until true pairs dominated the peak bin ) .",
    "the crossmatching of positions was then performed in similar fashion as for the individual dithered images : a match radius of @xmath52 was employed to associate objects detected at different epochs .",
    "such a large match radius is needed if the proper motion is large ( @xmath53 yr@xmath54 ) , as is the case for some targets .",
    "we excluded sources from the multi - epoch astrometry catalog if they were detected at fewer than half of the epochs .",
    "this excludes faint sources that were only well - detected in the best conditions , bright sources that were only below the saturation limit in poor conditions , and any other transient sources or long - lived artifacts that may be in the data set .    because the initial association of object positions was based only on rough estimates of the position offsets between epochs , we optimized this registration by fitting for the offsets as well as allowing for relative changes in linear terms across different data sets .",
    "thus , we replaced the initial guesses of the linear terms generated by the reference catalog matching ( except for the first epoch , which we solve for later ) .",
    "we parameterized the linear terms as a rotation , @xmath38-axis pixel scale , ratio of @xmath55-axis pixel scales , and a shear term ( @xmath56 ) .",
    "we used mpfit to perform an unweighted least squares minimization in a similar fashion as described for the dither matching in the previous section .",
    "after the first optimization , we fit every object in the field for proper motion and parallax and temporarily excluded objects that displayed significant parallax ( @xmath57 ) or proper motion ( @xmath58  ) .",
    "this automated procedure typically excluded no more than 5% of the reference stars , and it always excluded the science target .",
    "we then determined the optimal registration solution a second and final time after excluding these objects .",
    "we have performed as much of our analysis as possible using relative astrometry in order to preserve the fidelity of our position measurements .",
    "however , we must ultimately tie our astrometry to an absolute reference frame in order to determine , e.g. , the actual pixel scale and orientation of our images .",
    "the most suitable catalogs for this purpose are 2mass , which provides positions for infrared sources over the entire sky , and sdss , which has a higher sky density of sources and higher astrometric precision but more limited sky coverage . in our shallowest images taken with the -band filter",
    ", we found that shallower reference catalogs were usually more appropriate ( usno - b1 , @xcite ; and ucac-3 , @xcite ) .",
    "for each field , we constructed a reference frame from the catalog that had the most sources in common with our images .",
    "we required reference catalog sources to have absolute position errors @xmath59  mas ( e.g. , for 2mass : ` errmaj `  @xmath60  0.15 ) .",
    "we found the rough offset between our own astrometric catalog and the reference sources by using our aforementioned two - dimensional histogram approach .",
    "we then matched reference sources to our own using a match radius of 2@xmath610 .",
    "we excluded from this analysis any sources in our astrometric catalog that displayed significant proper motion ( @xmath58  ) , as these would have introduced substantial scatter ( @xmath130@xmath613 ) to our comparison with reference catalog position measurements from typically @xmath2510  years ago .    using the sources in common between our science images and the reference catalog ( typically @xmath62 stars ; see table  [ tbl : sample ] ) , we determined the absolute astrometric frame for our cfht images .",
    "we registered our positions to the reference catalog allowing for an offset ( i.e. , to determine the absolute coordinates of our astrometry ) and the linear terms .",
    "this solution allows us to compute the pixel scale and orientation in an absolute sense , completely replacing the temporary guess from the initial catalog crossmatching . in the final best - fit registration ,",
    "the rms of all stars about their catalog positions was typically 6080  mas for 2mass and 3050  mas for sdss .",
    "this scatter is dominated by the reference catalog positional errors .",
    "( thus , the actual relative astrometric uncertainties of 2mass positions over our 10@xmath28 field are a factor of @xmath292 smaller than the nominal catalog errors of 100150  mas . ) after this final absolute calibration we found that our input guess for the absolute coordinates from image headers were accurate to within @xmath34 .",
    "the best - fit parameters from the registration of multi - epoch data sets to an astrometric reference catalog enables us to assess the long - term astrometric stability of wircam .",
    "the level of precision with which we are able to monitor the changes in linear terms such as scale and rotation is fundamentally limited in two ways : ( 1 )  positional errors both in our data and reference catalogs introduce random and systematic errors in the derived terms ; and ( 2 )  the uncertainty in the higher order distortion terms is a source of systematic error in the derived linear terms .",
    "we have assessed the level of uncertainty in the scale introduced by both of these effects through monte carlo simulations . to test the contribution of random errors alone ( i.e. , case 1 ) , we simulated many star fields with random positions distributed uniformly over a @xmath63 field and found the best - fit scale to match them to a reference catalog that had normally distributed noise added to it . for a reference catalog accurate to 80",
    "mas ( i.e. , akin to 2mass ) , @xmath230 reference stars were needed to achieve a fractional precision in the scale of @xmath64 ( figure  [ fig : sclsim ] ) .",
    "this situation is typical of about half of our targets . for a higher fidelity reference catalog accurate to 40  mas ( e.g. , like sdss ) ,",
    "30 reference stars give a much better scale precision of @xmath65 , and the very best case among our targets of 190 sdss reference stars would give a precision of @xmath66 .    the second source of error present in our determinations of linear terms is the uncertainty in the distortion solution .",
    "this is because the linear and higher order terms are partially degenerate when fitting polynomials for the distortion . in the reduction procedure described above , we used data sets containing @xmath2200 sdss reference stars to determine the wircam distortion , and the catalog errors were estimated to be 40  mas from the rms of the fit residuals .",
    "thus , we simulated many random star fields each containing 200 stars with normally distributed noise of 40  mas and found that fitting freely for both linear and distortion terms resulted in a scale uncertainty of @xmath67 ( figure  [ fig : sclsim ] ) .",
    "this result is effectively independent of the assumed centroiding error in the star positions even up to our worst errors of 0.1  pixel because the reference catalog scatter dominates .",
    "this source of error is a few times larger than the uncertainty due simply to random errors in the reference catalog , and thus it is the limiting factor in our ability to measure the scale of wircam . from these simulations ,",
    "the limiting systematic uncertainties in shear and rotation are @xmath67 and 0@xmath6802 ( i.e. , @xmath67 radians ) , respectively .    with these results in mind",
    ", we can now assess the stability of wircam from our astrometric monitoring data ( figure  [ fig : sclrot ] ) . ( 1 )  we are most sensitive to changes in the orientation of wircam , and we found a highly significant scatter of @xmath69 among data sets taken over our program .",
    "this scatter is clearly not gaussian but rather is highly correlated with the observation date ; the orientation of data sets taken on the same wircam observing run were nearly identical .",
    "this is consistent with the fact that instrument is taken off of the telescope between observing runs .",
    "( 2 )  we found the @xmath38 pixel scale to be @xmath70  ( i.e. , a fractional error of @xmath71 ) .",
    "given the errors estimated above , this scatter is consistent with the pixel scale being constant over the duration of our program .",
    "this stability is impressive given that wircam is taken on and off the telescope for @xmath298 observing runs per year .",
    "( 3 )  we found the ratio between @xmath39 and @xmath38 pixel scales to be consistent with unity ( @xmath72 ) , and the scatter in this value is consistent with the uncertainty given by our monte carlo simulations .",
    "( 4 )  finally , we found a significant shear term ( which we have defined as @xmath56 ) of @xmath73 .",
    "if the angle between wircam s @xmath38 and @xmath39 axes were different from the 90  angle between north and east only by a rotation , this term would be zero .",
    "instead , this shear term implies that the angle between wircam s @xmath38 and @xmath39 axes is actually @xmath74 when projected onto the sky .      using our final astrometric catalog of wircam position measurements calibrated against an absolute reference frame , we fit for the proper motion and parallax of all sources in each target field . for each source",
    ", we used mpfit to perform a least - squares minimization weighted by the standard errors of the position measurements .",
    "we fitted three parameters to the combined @xmath32 data : proper motion in right ascension ( @xmath75 ) , proper motion in declination ( @xmath76 ) , and parallax ( @xmath77 ) .",
    "this is notably different from one standard approach taken in the literature of fitting two separate values of the parallax in @xmath46 and @xmath47 .",
    "the parallax offsets were computed as follows : @xmath78 @xmath79 where @xmath80 , @xmath3 , and @xmath81 are the coordinates of the earth relative to the barycenter of the solar system as given by the jpl ephemeris de405 .",
    "mpfit minimized the residuals in @xmath32 after subtracting the relative parallax and proper motion offsets ( 3 parameters ) and the mean @xmath32 position ( effectively removing 2 additional degrees of freedom ) .",
    "thus , each fit to @xmath82 measurements had @xmath83 degrees of freedom ( dof ) .    for each target",
    ", we then performed a markov chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) analysis on the astrometry in order to accurately determine the posterior distributions of all parameters .",
    "we adopted the formalism described by @xcite , which uses a metropolis - hastings jump acceptance criterion with gibbs sampling that chooses only one parameter ( at random ) to be altered at each step in the chain . before running our science chains , we first ran a test chain to determine the optimal step size ( @xmath84 ) for each of our parameters in order to ensure efficient convergence .",
    "this initial chain was run according to the procedure outlined by @xcite in which each value of @xmath84 is periodically adjusted until the acceptance rate for that parameter comes within some tolerance ( we chose 5% ) of the target rate ( we chose 0.25 ) .",
    "we then ran 30 chains of @xmath85 steps each that started at different points in parameter space drawn at random by adding gaussian noise , with @xmath33 equal to the step size , to the best - fit parameters from the mpfit results .",
    "we computed the gelman - rubin statistic for our set of 30 chains , which @xcite suggests should be @xmath86 to ensure that the results are converged and well - mixed .",
    "the gelman - rubin statistic was always @xmath601.03 for all parameters , and typically @xmath601.01 .",
    "finally , we discarded the first 10% of each chain as the `` burn in '' portion , using only the latter 90% for deriving the probability distributions of parameters .    at this stage",
    "we investigated the impact of dcr on our resulting parallaxes for targets observed at @xmath4 band .",
    "we assumed an effective wavelength of 1.2462  for the background star reference frame , based on the typical values for gkm stars as discussed earlier , and computed individual dcr offsets for the measured positions at each epoch using the method described in the introduction to this section ( also see figure  [ fig : dcr ] ) .",
    "we added these offsets to the measured astrometry and performed our mcmc analysis a second time .",
    "we found that the change in the resulting parallax was almost always @xmath110.15@xmath33 .",
    "as a source of systematic error this is completely negligible as it would boost the final error by @xmath111% when added in quadrature . in a few special cases that are most sensitive to dcr shifts ( i.e. , three t7t8 dwarfs with fewer than 10 epochs ) the change in parallax was as large as 0.20.4@xmath33",
    "this would give a slightly larger boost of 27% to their errors , but this is still negligible . in examining the ensemble of the 33 @xmath4-band targets for which we computed dcr parallax offsets , we found a mean@xmath87rms offset of @xmath88  mas ( @xmath89  mas when excluding objects with parallax errors @xmath142  mas ) , indicating that there is also no systematic offset in our parallaxes due to dcr .",
    "we also performed tests on our data to determine when to consider a parallax measurement `` done '' . even though our mcmc analysis fully captures any uncertainty due to the degeneracy between proper motion and parallax over datasets spanning modest time baselines ( @xmath90  years ) , we wanted to confirm that the parallaxes we present here will not change substantially with the addition of future data . to check this ,",
    "for each object we determined the best - fit parallax using subsets of the data starting with the first 3 epochs ( the minimum needed to constrain the 5-parameter fit ) and then adding one data point at a time for each successive epoch .",
    "as expected , the most important criterion for reaching a stable parallax solution was the time baseline .",
    "for all of our targets we found that a time baseline of @xmath21.2  years was sufficient to reach a best - fit parallax value that remained stable with the addition of new data up to the last observation epoch ( our longest time baseline to date is 4.3  years ) .",
    "therefore , all of the parallaxes presented here are expected to have a reached a stable , final value ( median baseline of 2.4  years , minimum 1.8  years ) .",
    "we note that this minimum needed time baseline of 1.2  years will necessarily be longer for cases where the astrometric errors are significantly larger than ours or when the target parallax is smaller .",
    "the results from our mcmc analysis are given in table  [ tbl : plx ] , and the astrometric data are shown in figures  [ fig : plx1 ] , [ fig : plx2 ] , [ fig : plx3 ] , and [ fig : plx4 ] .",
    "the minimum @xmath91 value for each chain is commensurate with the degrees of freedom , which verifies that our adopted positional errors are accurate .",
    "there are three exceptions , the known binaries 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab @xcite and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab @xcite and the candidate unresolved binary sdss  j0805 + 4812 @xcite .",
    "their large @xmath91/dof values can be attributed to the large perturbations present in the residuals after fitting for parallax and proper motion due to orbital motion .      for the binaries in our sample that have orbit determinations",
    ", we apply a correction to the best - fit parallax and proper motion parameters to account for photocenter shifts due to orbital motion .",
    "all binaries in our sample only have relative astrometric orbit determinations , so the center of mass is not known .",
    "thus , we use the relative orbital offsets and an assumed mass ratio ( derived from evolutionary models ) to compute the motion of the center of mass . this motion",
    "is then modified by a factor that depends on the binary s flux ratio in the bandpass used in our cfht imaging in order to determine the actual motion of the photocenter .",
    "the coefficient by which to multiply the relative orbital motion is thus @xmath92 , where @xmath93 @xmath94 @xmath95 is the flux ratio ( @xmath96 ) , and @xmath97 is the mass ratio @xmath98 .",
    "the coefficient @xmath92 is typically negative because flux is a steeper - than - linear function of mass , and thus the photocenter motion is opposite in sign from that of the orbit of the secondary relative to the primary .",
    "we compute the astrometric offsets in a monte carlo fashion , using the markov chain from the published orbit determination to draw the binary s orbital elements ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "we also draw random : ( 1 )  flux ratios corresponding to the error in the measured @xmath4-band resolved photometry of the target binaries ( or @xmath6-band photometry for targets using the cfht  filter ) ; and ( 2 )  mass ratios from evolutionary models are derived using the method described in section  5.4 of @xcite . our monte carlo approach enables us to appropriately track the correlation between the different parameters ( e.g. , the derived mass ratio depends on the @xmath6-band flux ratio and also the system mass via the orbital elements ) . for each monte carlo trial we subtracted the orbital motion offsets from our cfht astrometry and",
    "recomputed the best - fit parallax and proper motion .",
    "this enabled us to derive systematic offsets and corresponding errors due to the uncertainties in the various input parameters .",
    "our corrections to the parallax and proper motion are given in table  [ tbl : orbcorr ] along with the predicted semimajor axis of the photocenter motion for each binary ( @xmath99 ) .",
    "we quote @xmath100 as positive for photocenter motion has the same sign as the primary motion .",
    "for each target we added the randomly drawn orbital motion offsets to our mcmc chains in a monte carlo fashion .",
    "we note that the minimum @xmath91 of the parallax fit either improved or did not change significantly for all binaries .",
    "the latter cases correspond to orbital motion that is nearly linear ( e.g. , for very long period binaries ) and thus easily compensated by a slightly different proper motion than the pre - corrected fit .",
    "the parallax offsets are quite small ( always @xmath600.5@xmath101 , median 0.08@xmath101 ) , which is not surprising since the orbital periods of these binaries are very long ( @xmath21020  years ) .",
    "the proper motion offsets are much more significant , since the orbital motion over 24  years of monitoring can largely be expressed as a linear term .",
    "( we note that even though these proper motions are corrected for orbital motion , they are still not `` absolute '' since the bulk proper motion of the background stars that define the astrometric reference frame is not known . )",
    "the three binaries showing large perturbations due to orbital motion ( 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab , sdss  j0805 + 4812ab , and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab ) unfortunately do not have orbit determinations , and thus we are unable to correct their astrometry as described in this section .",
    "additional astrometric monitoring is needed before the orbits of these binaries can be determined from cfht data alone .",
    "the final step in determining the parallaxes of our targets is the conversion from relative to absolute parallax . because our reference objects are almost all stars , not galaxies , of 17  mag .",
    "@xcite predict 500  galaxies  deg@xmath102 with @xmath103  mag , and for the 0.028  deg@xmath104 field of view of one wircam detector , this implies 14 galaxies .",
    "this is much smaller than the @xmath240200 reference stars in our fields ( see table  [ tbl : plx ] ) .",
    "in fact , given that galaxies have larger fwhm they will have a larger rms in their position measurement , and thus most will be excluded by our rms cuts at the beginning of the epoch - matching step . ] their finite distances will result in a small parallax motion of the reference frame that erases part of the true parallax motion of our target .",
    "this introduces a systematic error in the parallax measurement that varies in amplitude depending on the distance distribution of the reference stars in each target field .",
    "we have computed a correction to account for this effect using the besanon model of the galaxy .",
    "given the celestial coordinates of each field , the besanon model generates a list of simulated stars with distances , magnitudes , and proper motions .",
    "we oversampled the model output for our wircam fields by a factor of 40 in order to ensure that our derived corrections are not dominated by small number statistics . for each field",
    ", we used the sextractor photometry to determine the magnitude range of our reference stars , and we used only model stars within this range for our calculations .",
    "the distribution of the model star distances for our fields is typically peaked at 0.52  kpc , giving corrections of 0.52.0  mas ( i.e. , @xmath212@xmath101 ) . we added the model - predicted parallax offsets to the actual reference stars within the analysis pipeline in a monte carlo fashion to determine the impact on the final derived target parallax .",
    "we found that different approaches such as applying offsets as a function of star brightness , applying offsets randomly , or not applying offsets to a subset of our reference sources ( e.g. , simulating the fact that some reference sources may be galaxies ) all produced essentially the same systematic error in the target parallax .",
    "the resulting shift was always very close to the mean of the model - predicted parallax distribution .",
    "thus , we used the mean besanon parallax for each field as the correction from relative to absolute parallax .",
    "we adopted an uncertainty in this correction factor based on sampling variance in a monte carlo fashion .",
    "for example , if a target field s astrometric catalog contained 100 stars , we drew random subsets of 100 stars from the oversampled besanon model output and determined the mean besanon parallax for each trial .",
    "the rms of @xmath105 trials was adopted as the error in the absolute parallax correction ( median error in the correction was 0.2  mas ) . in table",
    "[ tbl : sample ] we list the values of these corrections derived for our target fields .",
    "we have used the ao system at the keck  ii telescope on mauna kea , hawaii , to resolve 17 binaries in our sample and measure relative photometry .",
    "we employed the facility near - infrared camera nirc2 to obtain images in the standard mauna kea observatories ( mko ) photometric system @xcite . depending on the target and observing conditions ( see table  [ tbl : keck ] )",
    ", we used laser guide star ( lgs ) ao @xcite or natural guide star ( ngs ) ao @xcite . at some epochs we obtained data using the 9-hole non - redundant aperture mask installed in the filter wheel of nirc2 @xcite .",
    "our procedure for obtaining , reducing , and analyzing such imaging and masking data is described in detail in our previous work ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "table  [ tbl : keck ] summarizes the keck observations presented here , and figures  [ fig : lgs1 ] , [ fig : lgs2 ] , and [ fig : lgs3 ] show our imaging data .",
    "we also analyzed _ hst_/nicmos and vlt / naco archival images of eight ultracool binaries with parallaxes to supplement our sample of resolved near - ir photometry .",
    "five of these have had their nicmos data published previously @xcite , sometimes without errors given @xcite .",
    "our re - analysis thus provides a check on the published values and errors .",
    "two of these binaries are among the 17 that we have observed with keck / nirc2 .",
    "table  [ tbl : arch ] summarizes the results of our ( re)analysis of these archival data .",
    "we have obtained near - ir spectroscopy for targets in our sample that did not have previously published data .",
    "spectra were obtained using spex @xcite at the nasa infrared telescope facility ( irtf ) either in prism or sxd mode .",
    "prism mode delivers continuous wavelength coverage from 0.75  to 2.5  ( @xmath106 with the 0@xmath615 slit ) , while sxd mode has five separate orders spanning 0.812.42  ( @xmath107  =  1200 with the 0@xmath615 slit ) .",
    "we calibrated , extracted , and telluric - corrected all data using the spextool software package @xcite .",
    "the data presented herein were obtained on 6 different nights ( 2008 jul 6 , aug 15 ; 2011 jan 22 , 27 , 30 ; 2011 sep 8) using either the 0@xmath613 , 0@xmath615 , or 0@xmath618 slit .",
    "we obtained prism data for 2mass  j1750 + 4424ab and sxd data for the remaining targets ( lspm  j1735 + 2634ab , 2mass  j2140 + 1625ab , 2mass  j1847 + 5522ab , gl  417bc , 2mass  j1017 + 1308ab , 2mass  j1047 + 4026ab , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab ) .",
    "while our primary goal is to measure new parallaxes with cfht , we also monitored several objects with published parallaxes to validate our methods . in this subsection",
    "we provide a detailed comparison of our parallaxes to published values in order to determine if there are any unaccounted for sources of systematic error in our data .",
    "as shown below , we determine that our parallaxes generally agree very well with published values , with a few exceptions , and thus readers primarily interested in science results may wish to skip this subsection .",
    "our `` control '' sample of ultracool dwarfs included ( 1 )  single objects ( e.g. , 2mass  j2224@xmath10158 ) ; ( 2 )  wide but unresolved binaries that will have negligible orbital motion over our observations ( e.g. , 2mass  j1146 + 2230ab ) ; and ( 3 )  binaries that are in our keck ao dynamical mass sample for which we can independently check and/or improve the published parallax measurements ( e.g. , sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : vs - pub ] and table  [ tbl : compare ] we show our absolute parallaxes compared to published measurements .",
    "( note that we do not compare our proper motion measurements to published values because all such measurements are relative , not absolute , and we have no way to ascertain the absolute proper motion of the reference frame for published results that generally will be many times larger than the relative proper motion uncertainty . )",
    "our parallaxes are consistent within @xmath108 in 23 of 27 cases ( i.e. , 85% of the time ) and this subset of comparisons has a reasonable @xmath91 ( 19.9 for 23 dof ) .",
    "the published values largely come from the usno ccd ( 8  objects ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and ir ( 8  objects ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) programs .",
    "the parallax values for this subsample range from @xmath109  mas @xcite to @xmath110  mas @xcite . in table",
    "[ tbl : compare ] , we also show how well previously published parallaxes have agreed with each other .",
    "we note that there are several instances of published values that are discrepant with each other at the @xmath92@xmath33 level ( 9 of the 31 cases listed ) , whereas only 12 would be expected for gaussian errors .",
    "this implies that some of the parallax errors for the published sample are underestimated .",
    "we now consider the 4 objects for which our parallax is discrepant with the published value at @xmath141.8@xmath33 .",
    "* sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab disagrees by 3.1@xmath33 with the parallax of @xcite .",
    "these authors emphasize the preliminary nature of all their parallaxes ( see their section  6 ) and present evidence that their errors may be somewhat underestimated .",
    "there are 7 objects in common between their ir program and the usno ccd program .",
    "the two sets of measurements are only consistent to within 0.52.7@xmath33 , with an unreasonably large @xmath91 of 18.8 ( 7 dof ) . to achieve the median expected value of @xmath111 would require multiplying their errors by a factor of 2.0 .",
    "( alternatively , the parallax errors from _ both _ programs may be underestimated by a factor of 1.72 . )",
    "if we multiply the published parallax error of sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab by 2.0 , the discrepancy between our two measurements is much more modest ( 1.7@xmath33 ) .",
    "* 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab and 2mass  j1534@xmath12952ab are 2.0@xmath33 and 6.3@xmath33 discrepant with the measurements of @xcite and @xcite , respectively .",
    "we find that both published errors may be underestimated based on monte carlo simulations of the published data using an appropriate astrometric precision per epoch .",
    "using the actual measurement epochs and precision per epoch of the published 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab data ( j.  thorstenen 2010 , private communication ) , we find an uncertainty in the parallax of 3.8  mas that is @xmath22@xmath0 larger than the published error .",
    "adopting this error would result in better agreement with our measurement ( 1.2@xmath33 difference ) . in the case of 2mass  j1534@xmath12952ab",
    ", we retrieved the epochs of the observations from the eso archive and assumed a range of astrometric precision based on the values given in @xcite , namely ( 7  mas to 20  mas)/@xmath112 added in quadrature to the dcr offset error of 26  mas .",
    "this resulted in a parallax uncertainty of 2.73.7  mas , which is 2.33.1@xmath0 larger than the published error . at this level ,",
    "the discrepancy with our parallax measurement is significantly decreased , though it still disagrees at the 2.9@xmath33 level .",
    "we also checked if orbital motion was significant and found that the correction offset for the parallax was negligible for the @xcite epochs as it is for ours .",
    "we note that @xcite used only 8 reference stars ( cf .",
    "our 475 ) and data spanning 6 distinct epochs over 2.0  years ( cf .",
    "our 16 over 2.4  years ) , so our solution should be more robust . * for lp  349 - 25ab ,",
    "our parallax is 3.4@xmath33 different from the published value ( @xmath113  mas ; * ? ? ?",
    "this is the one case that we can not readily explain with information at hand .",
    "@xcite do not discuss their astrometric precision per epoch , so we can not assess their quoted error with monte carlo simulations .",
    "one source of systematic error could be their relatively small number of reference stars ( 12 versus our 33 ) .",
    "another effect could be dcr as @xcite seem to have observed in a broadband optical filter ( not described in their paper ) . for this object",
    "we used the narrow - band filter , so dcr will be completely negligible .",
    "we note that our value for the correction from relative to absolute parallax ( @xmath114  mas ) agrees very well with theirs ( @xmath115  mas ) , so this can not be the source of the discrepancy .",
    "our orbit correction is very small ( @xmath116  mas ) and @xcite see no significant perturbations due to orbital motion , so this is also unlikely to explain the discrepancy .",
    "* there is one other published parallax that is discrepant with our results , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ( 2.5@xmath33 different than * ? ? ?",
    "this object has already been discussed by @xcite .",
    "they found that the @xcite parallax was likely biased by a background star which was blended with the target at the time of those observations but which is now clearly separated from the science target at @xmath24@xmath26 in both our data and that of @xcite .",
    "our parallax of @xmath117  mas for 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab is in good agreement with both the values of @xmath118  mas and @xmath119  mas determined by @xcite and @xcite , respectively , but with 510@xmath0 smaller error bars .",
    "finally , we note that on average our absolute parallax measurements are not different from published results in any systematic fashion .",
    "the mean and rms of the differences between published parallax values and our own is @xmath120  mas ( excluding the 4 discrepant cases discussed above and published values with @xmath1420  mas parallax errors ) .",
    "in fact , by using a much larger number of reference stars than previous parallax programs , we should be less sensitive to systematic errors in our correction to absolute parallax .",
    "previous surveys typically used @xmath2510 reference stars , whereas on average we have @xmath14100 reference stars per field ( @xmath121475 ) and so are much less biased by outliers .",
    "this is further supported by the fact that the one target with a _ hipparcos _",
    "parallax for its stellar companion ( hd  225118 ; @xmath109  mas ) is in excellent agreement with our cfht value for the m7.5 dwarf ( 2mass  j0003@xmath12822 ; @xmath122  mas ) .",
    "the vast majority of our ultracool binary targets do no have any published resolved spectroscopy providing component spectral type determinations .",
    "some binaries have spectral types in the literature determined by a spectral decomposition , i.e. , using integrated - light spectra and resolved photometry to estimate the deblended component spectra .",
    "however , methods used in the literature have varied substantially ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and often rely on an input assumption for the relationship between spectral type absolute magnitude ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this is problematic because the binary components can not then truly be used to assess such empirical relations , which is a major goal of our work .",
    "therefore , we have determined component types for all binaries with parallaxes in a uniform fashion that is completely independent of any assumptions about how magnitude should depend on spectral type .    our approach is modeled somewhat after the spectral template matching method of @xcite , but we have removed assumption for the relationship between spectral type absolute magnitude",
    ". a library of template spectra for single objects is compiled , and all possible pairs of these spectra are added together . each pairing is allowed to have an arbitrary component flux ratio .",
    "the flux ratio and overall scale factor are adjusted to minimize the @xmath91 of the difference with the target s measured integrated - light spectrum . for each pairing",
    "we then compute synthetic photometry in the bands for which we have measured flux ratios .",
    "we reject pairings that disagree significantly with the measured resolved photometry ( @xmath123-value @xmath124 in a @xmath91 test ) .",
    "thus , our final set of modeled binary spectra is purely selected on how well they match the measured integrated - light spectrum and resolved photometry .",
    "we then ranked this ensemble based on the @xmath91 of the match to the integrated - light spectrum and computed weighted averages and errors of the component types and synthesized flux ratios using the method outlined in section  4.3 of @xcite .",
    "when assessing component types , we take these quantities and their nominal errors into consideration but do not treat them as absolute truth .",
    "the input library of template spectra we used necessarily varied with the component spectral types . for binaries composed wholly of @xmath9l3 dwarfs , we used the same library of 178 irtf / spex prism spectra as @xcite .",
    "although this library is somewhat less numerous than the full set of spectra in the spex prism library , it has the significant advantage that @xcite report infrared spectral types on a consistent scheme for all templates .",
    "this is in contrast to types available in the literature , particularly for l  dwarfs , which are based on a variety of infrared flux indices and sometimes only have optical types . because this library only has a handful of early l dwarf templates and no late - m dwarfs we had to use a different subset of spectra for earlier type binaries . for binaries with at least one @xmath60l3 component we simply used the full spex prism library with whatever spectral types",
    "were available in the literature ( i.e. , a mix of optical and infrared types ) . for uniformity",
    ", we resampled all spectra to a wavelength grid with 0.004  steps ranging from 0.782.40  . to reduce systematic errors due to inaccurate correction of telluric absorption , we excluded two wavelength regions ( @xmath125 and @xmath126 ) when performing the spectral matching .",
    "in some cases , we had to use measured integrated - light spectra obtained with spex in sxd mode ( @xmath1272000 ) , which we degraded to the standard spex prism resolution of 120 for accurate comparison to library templates .",
    "for such sxd data we exclude the @xmath6-band portion of the spectrum since that order does not overlap with the @xmath128 orders and thus its relative normalization would need to account for the uncertainty in the measured and synthesized integrated - light photometry in @xmath6 band .    throughout our analysis , we conservatively assume that infrared types of late - m and l  dwarfs are uncertain by at least 1  subtype , with some templates having larger uncertainties of 1.52  subtypes , and that t  dwarf types are uncertain by at least 0.5  subtype .",
    "this is based on the analysis of infrared types done by @xcite who compared their types to published values for 189 spectra of 178 sources .",
    "these authors found an intrinsic rms scatter of 1.1 and 0.5 subtypes in the ensemble of l and t  dwarfs , respectively .",
    "we assigned component types and uncertainties on a case by case basis , taking into account various factors such as : larger than average spectral type uncertainties in the best - match templates ; the full range of properties implied when there were multiple matches giving equally good fits ; and constraints imposed by requiring consistency with the integrated - light type . when flux ratios were available from multiple sources ( e.g. , our mko keck photometry and _ hst_/nicmos medium - band data ) , we checked for consistency .",
    "we sometimes noted discrepancies with photometry from the literature when published errors were rather small . in these cases",
    "we excluded the published values as their errors are likely underestimated , and it did not change the derived spectral types significantly within the errors .",
    "our derived component spectral types and their corresponding uncertainties are listed in table  [ tbl : spt ] , and the single best template pairing for each binary is shown in figures  [ fig : spec1 ] , [ fig : spec2 ] , and [ fig : spec3 ] . in table  [ tbl : spt ] , we give references for the literature photometry used and also a list of the bandpasses utilized in constraining each fit .",
    "we also list separately those binaries for which we do not use component types from our spectral template matching because their types have been determined directly from resolved spectroscopy or other analysis ( e.g. , cfbdsir  j1458 + 1013ab ; * ? ? ?",
    "finally , we note that there are several binaries with parallaxes for which we can not derive component spectral types using this method , either because they do not have the needed spectral or photometric data or the data available do not sufficiently constrain the component types .",
    "binaries with parallaxes for which we do not have spectra are 2mass  j0025 + 4759ab , hd  65216bc , lspm  j1314 + 1320ab , denis - p  j1441@xmath10945ab , and 2mass  j2331@xmath10406ab .",
    "2mass  j0856 + 2235ab , 2mass  j0952@xmath11924ab , 2mass  j1239 + 5515ab , and lsr  j1610@xmath10040ab have no near - ir photometry .",
    "and lhs  2397aab has a spectrum and near - ir photometry , but the late - l companion is too faint to enable accurate spectral decomposition .",
    "our spectral decomposition analysis produces estimates of the flux ratios for bandpasses without resolved photometry .",
    "we synthesize flux ratios for every template pairing that agrees with the available resolved photometry ( @xmath123-value @xmath124 ) . to determine the flux ratio and corresponding uncertainty in a given bandpass",
    ", we then use the weighted average and error given by the aforementioned @xcite weighting scheme .",
    "there are several cases which benefit from these flux ratios , in order of most to least reliable : ( 1 )  binaries with resolved @xmath129 photometry that we convert to mko @xmath6 ( and vice versa , e.g. , for @xmath130 to @xmath131 ) ; ( 2 )  binaries with _",
    "0.91.8  @xmath132 m photometry that we convert to @xmath128 photometry ; ( 3 )  binaries with , e.g. , only a @xmath6-band ratio for which we determine @xmath4 and @xmath5 flux ratios ; and ( 4 )  one binary without any flux ratios ( sdss  0805 + 4812ab ) . in the following analysis",
    "we account for these differing levels of reliability when reporting absolute magnitudes and examining the location of binary components on color ",
    "magnitude diagrams .",
    "we combine our parallaxes with integrated - light photometry ( and flux ratios in the case of binaries ) to compute the absolute magnitudes for our sample .",
    "we have also compiled such measurements for all ultracool objects with published parallaxes .",
    "table  [ tbl : plx - all ] presents a list of all ultracool dwarf parallax measurements , including objects that have parallax determinations by virtue of their companionship to stellar primaries .",
    "we compiled photometry from the literature for this entire sample , and for objects that have published photometry in only one system ( mko or 2mass ) we use near - ir spectra , when available , to synthesize photometric conversions .",
    "for such objects we also synthesize @xmath133 colors to provide @xmath3-band photometry when it is not measured directly .",
    "using objects in the spex prism library with both 2mass and mko photometry we can test the quality of our synthetic photometric system offsets .",
    "the @xmath91 of our computed 2mass / mko offsets compared to measured values was 52.0 ( 98 dof ) , 96.6 ( 95 dof ) , and 51.4 ( 93 dof ) for @xmath4 , @xmath5 , and @xmath6 bands , respectively . since @xmath91 is reasonable in all cases ,",
    "we find that any systematic error in our computed offsets must be negligible compared to the uncertainty in the measured photometry ( @xmath120.02  mag ) . however , when computing colors across different bandpasses we found an additional error of 0.05  mag was needed to explain the scatter in observed minus computed values .",
    "thus , we treat synthesized photometric system offsets ( e.g. , @xmath134 ) has having zero error , while we add 0.05  mag in quadrature to all synthesized @xmath133 photometry .",
    "we also include mid - ir photometry from _",
    "spitzer_/irac ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the _ wise _  all - sky source catalog @xcite .",
    "we checked for _ wise _  quality flags indicating possibly spurious or contaminated detections for all objects after noting that @xcite include sources with nonzero flags in their table  1 .",
    "we visually inspected the _ wise _",
    "image atlas in the worst cases , i.e. , `` h '' and `` d '' flags indicating possible spurious detections , and found that the sources are in fact likely to be real .",
    "a published example of one such object is hd  46588b shown in figure  1 of @xcite , which is flagged in the _ wise _  catalog as potentially spurious even though it is real .",
    "after vetting sources against the _ wise _  image atlas , we do not find the need to exclude any flagged _ wise _  photometry from the following analysis .",
    "tables  [ tbl : nir - mags ] and [ tbl : mir - mags ] present the resulting collections of apparent magnitudes in the near- and mid - ir , respectively . in total , there are 314 objects in 255 systems that have parallax measurements . in tables",
    "[ tbl : nir - absmag ] and [ tbl : mir - absmag ] we list absolute magnitudes sorted by spectral type , along with references for any high angular resolution imaging available .",
    "this encompasses numerous _ hst _  imaging programs with wfpc2 , nicmos , acs , and stis ; ao surveys at keck , vlt , gemini , subaru , palomar , cfht , and lick ; as well as speckle and lucky imaging surveys .",
    "we note that there are unpublished archival data for many of the objects compiled in our table , but we only count observations for which analysis has been published .",
    "the only exception is for the subset of objects observed by our keck ao binary survey that we have determined to be unresolved in fwhm = 0@xmath61050@xmath6110 imaging ( liu et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "the intention of this compilation is to identify a clean sample of likely single objects ( i.e. , with no companions outside @xmath20@xmath611 ) from objects that have not been surveyed for binarity .",
    "thus , we assign null entries for the handful of unresolved spectroscopic and astrometric binaries that have been imaged at high angular resolution in order to remove them from the subset of likely single objects .",
    "while our tables give complete compilations of the available data , we have excluded objects from our plots and analysis if : ( 1 )  their fractional parallax uncertainty is greater than 24% ( i.e. , an error in the distance modulus @xmath140.50  mag ) or ( 2 )  their color uncertainty is @xmath140.50  mag .",
    "binary components are sometimes absent from plots if they have no resolved photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0856 + 2235ab , which has only been resolved by _ hst _  in f814w ) .",
    "note that we retain objects that lack spectral type determinations , as these objects are still useful for color ",
    "magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) . for objects with",
    "multiple published parallax measurements , we use the one with the lowest uncertainty . in the following analysis",
    "( e.g. , in polynomial fits ) , we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "figures  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko][fig : cmd - l ] show cmds for the near - ir and figures  [ fig : cmd - irac1][fig : cmd - wise ] show cmds for the mid - ir . in these plots",
    "we have excluded any objects with subdwarf classifications ( i.e. , tabulated spectral types denoted as `` d / sd '' , `` sd '' , or `` esd '' ) for clarity , as well as ab  pic  b. and @xmath135 colors ( 1.37  mag and 2.02  mag , respectively ) makes this object an unusually prominent outlier in the cmds , being @xmath20.40.5  mag redder than objects of comparable absolute magnitude or spectral type . while this may reflect a unique sed for this source , another possibility is that the @xmath4-band photometry uncertainty is larger than reported .",
    "this speculation is supported by two possible pieces of evidence .",
    "( 1 )  figure  6 of @xcite shows that the @xmath136 color of ab  pic  b is far redder than all other known young companions and field ultracool dwarfs , but not its @xmath137 color .",
    "( 2 )   show that the near - ir spectra of ab  pic  b in the individual @xmath4 , @xmath5 , and @xmath6 bandpasses are consistent with previously known young early - l dwarfs .",
    "but if the published @xmath138 photometry is used to assemble a flux - calibrated sed , the resulting near - ir spectrum has a very peculiar broadband appearance ( b.  bowler , 2011 , private communication ) .",
    "thus we conservatively choose to exclude ab  pic  b from the cmd plots .",
    "] however , note that one object ( sdss  j1416 + 1348 ) stands out as significantly blue in all @xmath138 colors compared to the l  dwarf sequence , as expected if it were a subdwarf ; this object is discussed in detail in section  [ sec:1416 ] .",
    "figures  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] show near - ir absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type , and figures  [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] and [ fig : spt - abs - wise ] show the same for the mid - ir .",
    "for these relations we have excluded subdwarfs , likely unresolved binaries ( 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 and sdss  j1504 + 1027 , see section  [ sec : overl ] ) , and very low gravity objects .",
    "the last cut excludes planetary mass objects ( hr  8799bcde , 2 m  1207b , and @xmath84  pic  b ) as well as very young objects in stellar associations : 2mass  j1207@xmath13932 ( twa ) , pz  tel  b ( @xmath84  pic ) , hr  7329b ( @xmath84  pic ) , ab  pic  b ( tuc - hor ) , ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 ( twa ) , and 2mass  j2234 + 4041ab ( lkh@xmath46  233 ) .",
    "we fit polynomials to the remaining field dwarf data , accounting for errors in both spectral types and absolute magnitudes in a monte carlo fashion .",
    "this is necessary as least squares regression algorithms are unable to properly handle data sets in which the independent variables have errors , as in the case of our spectral types .",
    "we drew @xmath85 realizations of each data point with normally distributed magnitude errors and uniformly distributed spectral type errors .",
    "we then found the single best - fit polynomial to all @xmath139 simulated points , using a standard least squares method since all points now have equal weight .",
    "we fit magnitude as a function of spectral type for all bands , and for bands that were sufficiently monotonic in their decline we were able to also fit spectral type as a function of magnitude .",
    "the latter fits are applicable in the situation where an observer wishes to estimate the spectral type of an object based on photometry , whereas the more often quoted former fits are useful for spectroscopic distance estimates .",
    "the coefficients of all of our polynomial fits are given in table  [ tbl : poly ] along with the bulk rms of each fit . in figures  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] , [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] , [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] , and [ fig : spt - abs - wise ] the rms of the fits over specific spectral type ranges are also given .",
    "these rms values are useful in diagnosing the intrinsic scatter in absolute magnitude over different ranges of spectral types .",
    "they are also the relevant numbers to use , e.g. , when determining a spectroscopic distance to a single object of known spectral type since t  dwarfs generally show more scatter in absolute magnitude than l  dwarfs , as opposed to adopting the single rms value given in table  [ tbl : poly ] . to test the impact of our choice of using optical types for m and l  dwarfs when available , we tried using only infrared types for all objects .",
    "the median absolute value of the difference between polynomial fits computed these two ways was 0.010.02  mag for the mko photometry and 0.030.06  mag for the 2mass photometry .",
    "this is negligible compared to the scatter in the data about the fits , which is typically @xmath20.4  mag , and thus using optical versus infrared spectral types does not significantly affect our results .",
    "we have also tabulated the mean absolute magnitude at each spectral type in tables  [ tbl : spt - abs - mko][tbl : spt - abs - wise ] , and we plot the resulting values in figures  [ fig : spt - wavg ] and [ fig : cmd - wavg ] .",
    "this information enables a more direct way of assessing the changes in broadband fluxes as a function of spectral type , since polynomial fits are not guaranteed to be a good description of the data . in these tables",
    "we give the weighted average along with the rms for `` normal '' field dwarfs ( i.e. , those not flagged as atypical in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] ) .",
    "we also quantify the level of intrinsic scatter at each spectral type by computing @xmath91 for each type s collection of measurements and finding the amount of additional magnitude error that is needed to make reduced @xmath140 , i.e. , @xmath141 . when there are small numbers of objects in a bin , or when the measurement errors are large , the additional error needed is typically small , but this does not necessarily mean that the intrinsic scatter is small .",
    "thus , the value we find for the needed additional error is only a lower limit to the intrinsic scatter at a given spectral type .",
    "some well - known patterns are seen in our intrinsic scatter estimates , e.g. , it is relatively low for late - m dwarfs ( 0.10.3  mag ) and high for mid- to late - l dwarfs ( 0.30.5  mag ) at near - ir wavelengths .",
    "however , we also find quite large scatter , previously unappreciated , among mid- to late - t dwarfs ( 0.30.8  mag ) in the near - ir .",
    "this highlights the fact that cloud properties are not the only `` second parameter '' after  that can induce large near - ir flux variations  metallicity and surface gravity can produce variations in late - t dwarfs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) of similar or greater amplitude than that seen among dusty l  dwarfs .",
    "as mentioned in section  [ sec : plx - fit ] , our cfht astrometry has revealed perturbations due to binary orbital motion for some of our targets .",
    "the strongest cases are sdss  j0805 + 4812ab and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab , with 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab showing smaller residual scatter that we also tentatively attribute to orbital motion .",
    "2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab has previously been resolved by keck lgs ao imaging @xcite , and 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab was marginally resolved in _ hst_/nicmos imaging @xcite .",
    "in contrast , sdss  j0805 + 4812ab has only previously been suggested as a binary due to its unusual spectral morphology @xcite .",
    "thus , our cfht astrometry is the first confirmation that sdss  j0805 + 4812ab is indeed a binary .",
    "our spectral decomposition analysis gives spectral types of l5 : and t5 for sdss  j0805 + 4812ab and flux ratios of @xmath142  mag , @xmath143  mag , and @xmath144  mag in the mko photometric system .",
    "these are almost identical to the values derived in a similar analysis by @xcite .",
    "although the orbit of the system is not readily determined from our cfht astrometry , the perturbation amplitude ( @xmath8715  mas ) can be combined with the @xmath4-band flux ratio and an assumed mass ratio to estimate the semimajor axis following the equations in section  [ sec : orbcorr ] . using evolutionary models , @xcite estimate @xmath1450.88 for an age range of 15  gyr , respectively , which gives a factor of 0.350.15 by which the photocenter motion should be divided .",
    "thus , a rough estimate of the semimajor axis is 40100  mas . at a distance of @xmath146",
    "pc ( using a parallax uncorrected for orbital motion ) this corresponds to 0.92.3  au and an orbital period of 2.79.1  years ( again assuming the masses from @xcite ) .",
    "the short end of this orbital period range is broadly consistent with the oscillations in the astrometric residuals over our 4.0-year time baseline , thereby suggesting a lower value for the mass ratio ( i.e. , a younger age and lower masses of 0.066 + 0.036  ) .",
    "this is also consistent with the binary being unresolved in keck lgs ao images ( liu et al .",
    ", in prep . ) since the semimajor axis would be small ( @xmath240  mas ) .",
    "an age much younger than 1  gyr becomes problematic since lithium absorption would be expected in the optical spectrum but is not observed @xcite , though @xcite caution that this could simply due to insufficient s / n in the spectrum .",
    "using the same approach , we can estimate the properties of 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab , which displays astrometric residuals of @xmath8712  mas . using the mass ratio estimate of @xmath147 from @xcite and",
    "our flux ratio of @xmath148  mag gives a photocenter correction factor of @xmath149 and thereby semimajor axis estimate of @xmath150  mas . at a distance of @xmath151",
    "pc ( again using the parallax without correcting for orbital motion ) , this corresponds to @xmath152  au and orbital period of @xmath153  years for an assumed total mass of 0.07  from @xcite .",
    "this semimajor axis is somewhat at odds with the projected separation of the binary ( @xmath154  mas on 2006  june  3  ut ; @xcite ) unless the orbit is fairly eccentric .",
    "an eccentric orbit would however also be consistent with the short timescale of the astrometric perturbations ( @xmath22  years ) relative to the @xmath153 year orbital period , since the binary could be passing through periastron during our cfht observations .",
    "we note that eccentric orbits are not very common for such ultracool binaries @xcite , but they do occur .",
    "2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab does not have a measured @xmath4-band flux ratio , but the nicmos f110w flux ratio ( @xmath155  mag ) combined with our spectral deconvolution gives @xmath156  mag .",
    "this very uncertain flux ratio means we can not estimate the orbital properties for this system .",
    "we note that 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab does not show as clear a signature of orbital motion in its residuals as the other two binaries , and its reduced @xmath91 is also much lower ( 3.9 vs.  10.9 and 7.0 ) .",
    "although we are unable to estimate this binary s orbital properties from our cfht data , orbital monitoring currently underway with _",
    "hst_/acs will perhaps yield more information .",
    "one simple result from measuring the absolute magnitudes for a large sample is the identification of potential binaries as those objects that are overluminous . for l and t  dwarfs ,",
    "this is complicated by the large dispersion in colors at a given magnitude and in magnitudes at a given spectral type .",
    "perhaps the cleanest sequence seen in any cmd is that of @xmath2t0t7 dwarfs in the irac @xmath1573.6@xmath158 $ ] and @xmath1574.5@xmath158 $ ] channels or similarly the w1 and w2 _ wise _  bands ( figures  [ fig : cmd - irac1 ] and [ fig : cmd - wise ] ) . at earlier types ( @xmath12t0 ) these colors",
    "do not change at all with magnitude and at later types there is appears to be a large amount of intrinsic scatter .",
    "another place that we may be able to look for unresolved binaries is actually just above the l / t transition in the near - ir cmds , because the only way to reach that location is by being an extremely blue l  dwarf or an overluminous early - t dwarf . with these considerations in mind ,",
    "we identify the following overluminous objects as candidate binaries :    * _ 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 : _ this t4.5 dwarf has long been suspected to be an unresolved binary , because it stands out in both cmds and the spectral type ",
    "absolute magnitude relations as being very bright compared to both the late - l and early - t dwarfs .",
    "alternatively , it could simply represent the most extreme outcome of the brightening seen across the l / t transition .",
    "we note that this object not only continues to stand out on the cmds in the near - ir but also in the mid - ir with bands 1 and 2 of _ wise _  and irac .",
    "this greatly favors the unresolved binary hypothesis , since no such brightening is seen in the mid - ir cmds .",
    "however , a companion to 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 has remained elusive in both direct imaging ( @xcite ; but also see footnote  15 in @xcite ) and radial velocity monitoring @xcite .",
    "* _ sdss  j1021@xmath10304a : _ our parallax of @xmath159  mas for this system is consistent with the @xcite value @xmath160  mas but 3.5@xmath0 more precise .",
    "this has revealed that the t0 primary component lies significantly above the l / t transition in most near - ir cmds ( note that without resolved mid - ir photometry we can only use near - ir magnitudes here ) .",
    "sdss  j1021@xmath10304a could instead be described as being bluer than other objects of its absolute magnitude , akin to sdss  j1416 + 1348 ( a possible l6 subdwarf ) . however , unlike sdss  j1416 + 1348 , which has normal @xmath4 and @xmath5 absolute magnitudes for its spectral type but is fainter than average in @xmath6 , sdss  j1021@xmath10304a is 0.30.5  mag brighter in @xmath4 and @xmath5 for its spectral type and normal at @xmath6 .",
    "this suggests that its blueness ( or overluminosity ) is due to a different reason than sdss  j1416 + 1348 .",
    "perhaps the simplest explanation is that sdss  j1021@xmath10304a is an unresolved binary itself  a hypothesis that can be validated if future orbital monitoring determines that the total dynamical mass of sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab turns out to be @xmath142@xmath0 the substellar mass limit ( @xmath130.16  ) . since the location of sdss  j1021@xmath10304a in the near - ir cmds",
    "is not shared by any other known single objects , it is difficult to come up with another explanation without resorting to models . in the framework of @xcite , sdss  j1021@xmath10304a could be a brown dwarf with a large value of @xmath161 ( i.e. , rapid grain growth leading to optically thin clouds with a low number density of particles ) . *",
    "_ sdss  j1504 + 1047 : _ we measure the distance to this t7 dwarf for the first time ( @xmath162  pc ) , and it appears very similar to 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 in its location on the _ wise _  and irac bands 1 and 2 cmds ( i.e. , @xmath20.7  mag brighter than the t  dwarf sequence ) . however , because of its later spectral type , sdss  j1504 + 1047 is effectively buried in the nearly vertical t  dwarf sequence in the near - ir cmds .",
    "but it does stand out as the brightest t7 in all near - ir bands for which it has data ( @xmath138 ) and this is even more clear in the spectral type ",
    "absolute magnitude relations in the mid - ir , owing to their much lower dispersion in magnitude as a function of spectral type ( figures  [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] and [ fig : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "thus , we find that sdss  j1504 + 1047 is a strong candidate for being a nearly equal magnitude binary",
    ". there is no published high - resolution imaging for this object to date , and we note that its lack of astrometric perturbations in our cfht data would be consistent with this picture ( i.e. , nearly equal magnitude binaries have undetectable photocenter motion ) .",
    "we note that 2mass  j0939@xmath12448 ( t8 ) , 2mass  j0937 + 2931 ( t6p ) , and to a lesser extent 2mass  j1237 + 6526 ( t6.5 ) show up as brighter than the t  dwarf sequence in mid - ir cmds , similar to the candidate binaries 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 and sdss  j1504 + 1047 discussed above .",
    "however , it seems more likely that the atypical locations of 2mass  j0937 + 2931 and 2mass  j0939@xmath12448 may be explained by unusually low metallicity and/or high gravity ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , since they are not brighter than other objects of similar spectral type in the near - ir bands ( in fact , they are both the faintest objects of their type at @xmath6 band ) . in other words ,",
    "2mass  j0937 + 2931 and 2mass  j0939@xmath12448 are unusually red in wise and irac bands 1 and 2 , not unusually bright .",
    "the very active t6.5 dwarf 2mass  j1237 + 6526 also does not display unusually bright near - ir magnitudes and so is probably more accurately described as unusually red .",
    "2mass  j1237 + 6526 has been discussed extensively by @xcite who found that it is likely old , high - gravity , and with slightly subsolar metallicity .",
    "thus , its location on the mid - ir cmds may be due to similar , but somewhat weaker , effects as for 2mass  j0937 + 2931 and 2mass  j0939@xmath12448.2448 is overluminous for its model atmosphere derived temperature , concluding that it was likely an unresolved , nearly equal - flux binary .",
    "this conclusion was also reached by @xcite from analysis based on model atmospheres .",
    "our interpretation does not necessarily require unresolved binarity to explain the observations since we find that 2mass  j0939@xmath12448 is unusual in color rather than in magnitude .",
    "if single , the model - derived  from previous work would be systematically offset from the actual , possibly due to this object s subsolar metallicity and/or high gravity . ]",
    "sdss  j1416 + 1348 was identified by @xcite as a nearby l6 dwarf ( @xmath163  pc spectrophotometric distance estimate ) with unusually blue near - ir colors that might normally be indicative of being a metal - poor subdwarf .",
    "however , @xcite did not find metal - poor features in its optical or near - ir spectra , thereby suggesting that its color was instead due to unusual cloud properties for its spectral type .",
    "@xcite independently discovered this object and found a consistent spectral type ( l5 ) . @xcite",
    "assigned an intermediate classification of d / sdl7 based on an alternative interpretation of its optical spectrum and identified a late - t companion ulas  j1416 + 1348 ( t7.5p ) at a projected separation of 9@xmath6181 ( also independently discovered by ) .",
    "our distance measurement of @xmath164  pc is 1520@xmath0 more precise than preliminary parallaxes computed by and @xcite , enabling us to robustly assess the absolute magnitudes of both of these unusual brown dwarfs for the first time .",
    "sdss  j1416 + 1348 appears to be of normal brightness for its spectral type in both near- and mid - ir magnitudes .",
    "this is in contrast with results from @xcite for 2mass  j0532 + 8246 ( sdl7 ) that showed this subdwarf to be 12  mag brighter in the near - ir than objects of similar spectral type and slightly brighter at @xmath1574.5@xmath158 $ ] .",
    "( 13% ) , resulting in normal mid - ir magnitudes . ]",
    "enhanced @xmath4-band flux , such as seen for 2mass  j0532 + 8246 , would be expected for sdss  j1416 + 1348 if thin clouds or large condensate grains were responsible for its unusual colors .",
    "it may be that this enhancement is present but is too small to show up in the comparison to other objects given the relatively large scatter in @xmath4-band absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type ( @xmath130.5  mag for l6 , 2mass system ) .",
    "its offset from typical field @xmath165 colors is indeed small in an absolute sense ( 1.04  mag vs.1.75  mag for field l6 dwarfs from @xcite ) .",
    "thus , only a small offset in absolute magnitudes is expected , especially if the color offset is also due in part to @xmath6 band being suppressed by stronger - than - average collisionally induced h@xmath166 absorption as expected at slightly subsolar metallicity .",
    "ulas  j1416 + 1348 ( t7.5p ) on the other hand is much fainter than other t7t8 dwarfs .",
    "it is @xmath21  mag fainter than an average t7.5 dwarf ; in fact it is the faintest known t7t8 dwarf in @xmath167 bands except for the recently discovered t8p dwarf bd  + 01  2920b , which has comparable @xmath167 magnitudes @xcite . in @xmath6 band ( @xmath168  mag )",
    "ulas  j1416 + 1348 is fainter than _ all _ known t dwarfs with parallaxes except for cfbds  j1458 + 1013b ( @xmath14t10 ; @xmath169  mag ) and possibly ugps  j0722@xmath10540 ( t9 ; @xmath170  mag ) .",
    "this behavior is similar to , but much more extreme than , the proposed t subdwarf 2mass  j0937 + 2931 , classified as d / sdt6 by @xcite and .",
    "ulas  j1416 + 1348 also has very red @xmath171-[4.5]$ ] colors consistent with enhanced ch@xmath172 absorption at @xmath171 $ ] and weaker co absorption at @xmath173 $ ] , which may occur at subsolar metallicities ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . the _ wise _",
    "all - sky source catalog photometry is also quite red ( @xmath174  mag ) and , like the irac photometry , shows that ulas  j1416 + 1348 is indeed fainter at 34  by @xmath20.2  mag and brighter at 45  by @xmath20.4  mag compared to other t7.5 dwarfs .",
    "thus , we conclude that ulas  j1416 + 1348 likely has lower metallicity than typical field brown dwarfs , and so by extension the unusual properties of sdss  j1416 + 1348 are also affected by subsolar metallicity .",
    "however , we note that this does not exclude unusual cloud properties or high surface gravity as an explanation for some of the unusual features observed in these objects .",
    "finally , our precise distance enables a much better constraint on the projected separation of this binary system , @xmath175  au . to convert this separation to semimajor axis we use the results from the appendix of @xcite for the very low - mass visual binary eccentricity distribution with no discovery bias , as is appropriate for such a wide binary .",
    "the median and 68.3% confidence limits on the conversion factor is thus @xmath176 , giving a semimajor axis of @xmath177  au .",
    "this is the widest known binary with likely substellar components.4445411ab ( m9+l6 : , @xmath178  au ; @xcite ) ; denis - p  j055146.0@xmath1443412ab ( m8.5+l0 , @xmath179  au ; ) ; koenigstuhl  1 ( m6:+m9.5 , @xmath180  au ; ) ; 2mass  j01265549@xmath15022388ab ( m6.5+m8 , @xmath181  au ; @xcite ) ; and 2mass  j12583501 + 4013083ab ( m6:+m7 : , @xmath182  au ; @xcite ) .",
    "note that the values listed here are projected separations . ]      some objects in our sample have been proposed to be wide companions to stars based on common proper motion .",
    "we have checked if our improved proper motions and parallaxes for these objects are still consistent with companionship .",
    "we measure a relative proper motion and absolute parallax for 2mass  j0003@xmath12822 ( m7.5 ) of @xmath183  , @xmath184  , @xmath185  mas .",
    "this is in good agreement with the absolute _ hipparcos _  values for hd  225118 ( @xmath186  , @xmath187  , @xmath188  mas ) .",
    "thus , we confirm the result of @xcite that this is a common proper motion pair , and we show that it is common in parallax as well .    for 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab , we measure a proper motion ( @xmath189  ) and parallax ( @xmath117  mas ) 10@xmath0 more precise than @xcite , who found that this binary is a common proper motion companion to nltt  20346ab .",
    "( note that the proper motions for 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab and nltt  20346ab as measured by @xcite are different by 3.3@xmath33 , not @xmath602@xmath33 as stated in their section  3.2 . )",
    "our improved proper motion for 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab is discrepant with their value for nltt  20346ab by @xmath190  ( 6.7@xmath33 ) in two - dimensional proper motion space , where @xmath191 .",
    "this discrepancy is about a third of the total proper motion amplitude of the object ( @xmath192 ) , larger than all other accepted common proper motion pairs in the literature ( @xmath193 always @xmath194 as discussed below ) .",
    "we also note that the two proper motions do not satisfy the criterion of @xcite for being a co - moving pair ( their equation  5 ) , which is specifically valid for the range of proper motions in the lspm catalog from which nltt  20346ab was originally selected .",
    "@xcite based their criterion on how often chance alignments would occur as a function of separation on the sky and difference in proper motion vectors for lspm - n .",
    "nltt  20346ab and 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab form a pair with an exceptionally large separation ( 248 ) , making it very likely that this is only a chance alignment of marginally consistent proper motions ( see figure  1 of @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , we conclude that nltt  20346ab and 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab are not physically associated .",
    "we also searched for previously unrecognized common proper motion companions to all ultracool dwarfs with parallax measurements ( table  [ tbl : plx - all ] ) , and as a check on our results we included objects with known companions as well .",
    "we queried proper motion catalogs using a 10  radius around each object , and where possible for the known companions we used an independent measurement of the object s proper motion ( i.e. , not the primary s proper motion ) .",
    "our search of _ hipparcos _ , tycho , and lspm - n recovered all known wide companions present in those catalogs .",
    "we assessed companionship using both the @xcite criterion , which is valid for proper motions of @xmath2150450  , and also simply the fractional difference in proper motion , @xmath193 .",
    "we found that all known common proper motion pairs had @xmath195 , and 14 of the 19 pairs ( 74% ) had @xmath196 .",
    "the only exceptions were 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab , as discussed above , and 2mass  j2331@xmath10406ab .",
    "the latter inconsistency was simply due to the fact that we used an apparently erroneous proper motion from table  4 of @xcite , originally from @xcite , that gave @xmath197  and @xmath198 for the companion hd  221356 .",
    "however , both @xcite and the ppmxl catalog @xcite give proper motions for 2mass  j2331@xmath10406ab that are consistent with its companion ( @xmath199  , @xmath200 ) .",
    "our search of the _ hipparcos _ , tycho , and lspm - n catalogs revealed only two previously unrecognized candidate wide companions having @xmath201 :    * ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 ( m8.5 ) is a member of twa with a relatively small proper motion ( @xmath202  ; ) that appears to be co - moving with the tycho star tyc  7208 - 592 - 1 ( @xmath203 ) . with a projected separation of 197  this would be an extremely wide pair ( @xmath204  au or 0.05  pc ) .",
    "we note that tyc  7208 - 592 - 1 is an otherwise anonymous star with no x - ray detection in _ rosat _ , implying it may not be young and thus may not be physically associated with ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 .",
    "spectroscopy of tyc  7208 - 592 - 1 should readily determine if it is indeed a young star at the age of twa , and thus whether this is a physically associated pair .",
    "we note that ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 has previously been suggested by to be a wide companion of the star tw  hya , and its parallax is consistent with the _ hipparcos _ value for tw  hya ( @xmath205  mas ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , because of the extremely wide projected separation ( @xmath206  au or 0.2  pc ) point out that this is unlikely to survive as a gravitationally bound system . from equation  18 of @xcite ,",
    "only pairs tighter than @xmath120.12  pc are expected to remain bound over 10  gyr . *",
    "ulas  j1315 + 0826 ( t7.5 ) has a modest proper motion ( @xmath207  ; ) that is marginally consistent with tyc  884 - 383 - 1 ( @xmath208 ) .",
    "if physically associated the projected separation of 383 would correspond to 9000  au . a more precise proper motion for this late - t dwarf would be useful in determining whether this pair is truly associated .",
    "we have computed the tangential velocities ( ) of all ultracool dwarfs with parallaxes and proper motions ( table  [ tbl : plx - all ] ) .",
    "this direct observable is related to an object s kinematic history , as stars in the halo tend to have larger velocities than stars in the disk , and likewise the youngest members of the disk are kinematically colder than old members .",
    "very high tangential velocity is often used as an indicator of old age and thereby possibly low metallicity , especially for faint objects like brown dwarfs where the radial velocity ( and thus full three - dimensional space motion ) is not readily measurable . to put such associations on quantitative footing , we use a model of the galaxy to compute the projected motion on the sky for different kinematic populations and investigate how this varies along different sight lines . since the objects we are concerned with are all within @xmath2100  pc ( median distance of 19  pc )",
    ", they essentially represent a single point in the galactic potential , which simplifies this problem .",
    "we compute probabilities for membership in the thin disk , thick disk , and halo as a function of  by using the besanon model of the galaxy .",
    "we used a custom `` all sky '' simulation , as in our previous kinematic analysis work ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , that comprises @xmath209 model stars with a thin / thick disk proportion of 0.977/0.023 and a halo star fraction of @xmath210 .",
    "to simulate observational uncertainties we added gaussian noise to the model tangential velocities , and then we computed the fraction of each population as a function of  to determine the membership probability for a given combination of  and @xmath211 .",
    "we calculated membership probabilities for a wide range of observational uncertainties ( @xmath21270  ) , and the results are shown in figure  [ fig : vtan ] .",
    "we are interested in determining the probability of non - thin disk membership , and our simulations quantify the degree to which this membership probability drops as the uncertainty in  increases .",
    "the probability contours in figure  [ fig : vtan ] follow very closely an exponential relationship , so we have fit exponential functions to the results from our numerical simulations to provide easy - to - use criteria for determining if an object is likely to be a thin disk member or a kinematically old thick disk or halo object : @xmath213 @xmath214 @xmath215 where all velocities are in units of . at this point we investigated the effect of observing along different lines of sight of the local population .",
    "we randomly selected 100 locations uniformly distributed on the celestial sphere and computed the  cutoffs for @xmath216 , 0.5 , and 0.9 for zero error in .",
    "the mean values agree with those listed above , and the rms over the sky was 9%15% , demonstrating that using a single mean value is a reasonable simplification .",
    "we emphasize that the relations derived here provide criteria for membership _ probability _ , which is always just a statistical argument for any individual object , and if a radial velocity is available then full three - dimensional space motion should be used to assess membership probability instead .",
    "we applied the above criteria to all ultracool dwarfs with parallaxes ( table  [ tbl : plx - all ] ) to check their effectiveness and determine if any previously unrecognized likely thick disk or halo members are in this sample .",
    "we recovered all objects with @xmath217  as likely non - thin disk members ( @xmath218 ) , except for one object with a very large error ( @xmath219  ; sdss  j1256@xmath10224 ) .",
    "all 10 of the recovered objects have also been spectroscopically identified as subdwarfs , and only one known subdwarf in our sample was not recovered ( hd  114762b ; @xmath220  ) .",
    "we found 4 additional objects with @xmath221  as being somewhat unlikely thin disk members ( @xmath222 ) : lhs  207 , lhs  330 , grh  2208@xmath120 , and gl  802b .",
    "none of these are known to be subdwarfs , but some have been suggested as possible thick disk members based on their space motion ( e.g. , grh  2208@xmath120 in @xcite and gl  802b in @xcite ) .",
    "we did not find any previously unrecognized kinematically old objects in our sample .",
    "it is conventional to assume that if one component of an ultracool binary is brighter at _ all _ near - ir bands , then it must either be of earlier spectral type than the secondary or else an unresolved binary .",
    "this is largely due to prevailing notion that the parameters inducing scatter in the absolute magnitude vs.  spectral type relations ( e.g. , metallicity , gravity , and cloud properties ) will always be shared in common between the two components of a binary .",
    "however , as mentioned in section  [ sec : spt ] , methods for determining spectral types of ultracool binaries sometimes assume _ a priori _ that absolute magnitude declines monotonically with spectral type and thus are not well suited to assessing whether that is actually true .",
    "we find no strong evidence for spectral types `` flips '' for the binaries in our sample , namely where the brighter primary appears to be later type than the fainter secondary .",
    "the closest case is gl  337cd where we find l@xmath223 and l@xmath224 for the two components .",
    "we did not find any template pairings in which the primary was earlier type than the secondary .",
    "however , there was substantial scatter in the spectral types of templates used for the best pairings , resulting in very uncertain component types .",
    "thus , we lack the ability to determine if the primary is indeed later type than the secondary , and our results are consistent with the secondary being later type than the primary .",
    "the only other binary with similar results was 2mass  j0920 + 3517ab , but in this case only about half of the best pairings used a later type primary template .",
    "for this system , we conservatively assigned types of l@xmath225 and l@xmath226 corresponding to the template pairings with earlier type primaries but marginally consistent with equal type components .",
    "@xcite recently presented analysis of the two binaries 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab and 2mass  j1728 + 3948ab with the main results that : ( 1 )  2mass  j0850 + 1057a is anomalously bright for its spectral type , implying that it is likely an unresolved binary ; and ( 2 )  2mass  j1728 + 3948a is unusually faint in @xmath4 for its spectral type ( l5 from their analysis ) , requiring thick condensate clouds .    for 2mass",
    "j0850 + 1057ab we find that the best match to the spectrum and photometry are spectral templates with types of l@xmath227 and l@xmath223 , in contrast with the results of @xcite that require an later type secondary ( l7+l6 ) .",
    "one reason for this difference is that we find that the @xcite f110w and f110 m photometry is highly discrepant with our own @xmath4-band photometry .",
    "in addition , we found essentially no template pairs that both matched the photometry in these two nicmos bands and the blended spectra simultaneously , suggesting that the published flux ratio errors were underestimated . at l@xmath227",
    ", we find that 2mass  j0850 + 1057a is not anomalously bright compared to other l5.5l7.5 dwarfs ( e.g. , it is fainter than all l6 dwarfs in table  [ tbl : nir - absmag ] ) .",
    "we note that photometry from @xcite in other nicmos bandpasses ( f145 m and f170 m ) is consistent with our template pair matching and the f145m@xmath1f170 m colors in fact provide evidence that the secondary should be later type than the primary .",
    "this is because this color is quite sensitive to the h@xmath166o band depths in @xmath5 band . from synthesized f145m@xmath1f170 m colors for field dwarfs",
    "we find that the measured color difference of @xmath228  mag for 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab implies @xmath229  subtypes .",
    "this is consistent with our spectral type determination ( @xmath20spt = @xmath230  subtypes ) and inconsistent with @xmath20spt = @xmath231  subtypes from @xcite .    for 2mass  j1728 + 3948ab ( l@xmath232 and l@xmath233 ) , we find essentially identical spectral types as the l5+l6.5 values of @xcite .",
    "we confirm that 2mass  j1728 + 3948a is quite red for its spectral type , @xmath234  mag , and it is the reddest object in the field dwarf sample except for sdss  j0107 + 0041 ( l8 , @xmath235  mag ) and 2mass  j1711 + 2232 ( l6.5 , @xmath236  mag ) .",
    "it is also fainter in @xmath4 and @xmath5 than any other l4l6 dwarf , supporting the interpretation from @xcite that it has thicker than average dust clouds.0.05  mag for objects of similar spectral type @xcite .",
    "thus , variability is expected to have a negligible impact in our analysis since it is comparable to or much smaller than the uncertainties in the colors and absolute magnitudes .",
    "in addition , radigan et al .",
    "( 2012 , submitted ) find that the colors of variable ultracool dwarfs stay relatively constant while it is their overall flux that increases and decreases , so variability should have an even smaller impact on our noncontemporaneous color comparisons . ]",
    "the transformation of l  dwarfs into t  dwarfs as brown dwarfs cool has been an long - standing topic of interest . the dramatic differences between l  and t  dwarf spectra",
    "are generally understood to be due to a combination of effects as  decreases in ultracool objects : the formation and subsequent removal of condensate clouds from the photosphere and the change from co to ch@xmath172 being the dominant carbon - bearing molecule .",
    "one - dimensional models have reproduced the general properties of the spectra , colors , and magnitudes of late - l to mid - t dwarfs based on prescriptions for the clouds @xcite , and parameterized models can be successfully fitted to broad - wavelength observations of individual objects .",
    "however , given the difficulty of modeling clouds ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a robust physical theory is still lacking .",
    "consequently no model accurately reproduces the complete color - magnitude sequence of l  and t  dwarfs ( though see @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "one observational challenge to theory is the fact that the change between the near - ir seds of the late - l  dwarfs and early - t dwarfs ( with very red colors ) and those of the mid - t dwarfs ( with very blue colors ) occurs over a small range in effective temperature ( @xmath2371400  k , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "an additional challenge is the non - monotonic behavior of the 1.01.3  fluxes through the l / t transition region , where the t3t5 dwarfs can appear brighter than earlier objects , a phenomenon known as the `` @xmath4-band bump '' @xcite .",
    "both of these effects point to relatively rapid removal of clouds from the photospheres of the late - l and early - t dwarfs , including non - equilibrium ( dynamic ) processes such rapid particle growth / sedimentation @xcite and cloud disruption leading to spatially inhomogeneous photospheres @xcite .",
    "the driving role played by cloud evolution is highlighted by the wavelength - dependence of the brightening .",
    "condensate opacity is expected to dominate over gas opacity in the 1.01.3  region ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and thus the removal of condensates should be most pronounced at these wavelengths .",
    "binarity both enlightens and complicates our understanding .",
    "two binaries in the l / t region clearly show a reversal in their @xmath4-band flux ratios between their two components , indicating that the @xmath4-band bump is truly a physical effect that occurs as brown dwarfs cool @xcite and not solely due to a spread in the age / surface gravity of the field population @xcite .",
    "additional flux - reversal binaries have been proposed by @xcite,2828ab by @xcite used the spectrum of sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab as a template , which was later found to be a binary @xcite .",
    "the latest decomposition presented here ( figure  [ fig : spec1 ] ) suggests no flux reversal between the components , which is also consistent with the results from @xcite . ]",
    "@xcite , and @xcite based on decomposition of their integrated - light spectra . since the near - ir absolute magnitudes are roughly constant from @xmath2l6t5 while the spectra are greatly changing , unresolved binaries can substantially enhance the dispersion in the absolute magnitudes and colors , the amplitude of the @xmath4-band bump , and the binary frequencies at these spectral types @xcite .",
    "further complications arise from strong photometric variability is which present in at least some objects @xcite and the age / gravity - dependence of the l / t transition ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "resolved photometry for binaries of known distance offers perhaps the clearest view of the l / t transition for field objects , since the two components of each system represent a single isochrone of common ( albeit unknown ) metallicity .",
    "in addition , most pairs of binary components have very similar surface gravity , given the nearly constant radii of all old ( @xmath130.5  gyr ) substellar objects and the prevalence for brown dwarf binaries to have mass ratios near unity .",
    "finally , higher order multiplicity is very rare among ultracool binaries , with denis - p  j0205@xmath11159 being the only clear example @xcite out of hundreds of objects that have been imaged with ao and _ hst_. thus we can consider each binary component to be a truly single object , with much less concern about complications from unresolved binarity , as compared to studying the entire field sample .    to date",
    ", study of the l / t transition with binary components has been hampered by the small sample available .",
    "previously , only six l / t binaries with at least one component in the l6t5 range had both a measured parallax and resolved multi - band near - ir photometry .",
    "four of these had _",
    "hst_/nicmos photometry covering the @xmath4 and @xmath5 bands : sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab @xcite ; sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab @xcite ; and 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab and 2mass  j1728 + 3948 @xcite .",
    "two had full @xmath138 coverage from ground - based photometry : @xmath238  ind  bab and 2mass  j1534@xmath12952ab @xcite . by chance ,",
    "three of these six also had significant problems with their published parallax values ( i.e. , errors underestimated by 23@xmath0 or contaminated by an unresolved background star ) .",
    "our new parallaxes and resolved photometry greatly expands this sample , resulting in a total of 19 binaries with at least one component in the l / t transition ( l6t5 ) .",
    "we present keck photometry for 12 of these binaries and high - precision parallaxes for 15 of them ( 9 new , 6 significantly improved ) .",
    "thus , we have increased the sample of l / t binaries by at least a factor of 3 , or more than a factor of 6 if problems with literature parallaxes are considered .",
    "note that we have also added two new parallaxes for single objects in the transition , sdss  j0000 + 2554 ( t4.5 ) and 2mass  j1503 + 2525 ( t5 ) .",
    "the significant increase in the number of objects with parallaxes and multi - band infrared photometry provided by our work motivates a new look at the absolute magnitudes and colors of objects spanning the l / t transition .",
    "we examine two primary diagnostics : ( 1 )  the absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type and ( 2 )  the color  magnitude diagram .",
    "our work here almost doubles the number of objects that can be considered and increases the number of resolved binaries by nearly a factor of three .",
    "thus a much richer view of the transition s spectrophotometric behavior is revealed . this is particularly noteworthy for the peak of the @xmath4-band flux inversion , which was previously mapped by only three t3t4.5 objects with parallaxes ( two of which had 0.3  mag uncertainties in their distance moduli ) .",
    "our compilation ( tables  [ tbl : nir - absmag ] and [ tbl : mir - absmag ] ) adds 5  more objects with substantially higher precision parallaxes in this spectral type range .",
    "we first examine the behavior of absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type in figures  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] ( all objects ) and figure  [ fig : spt - abs - bin ] ( binary components only ) .",
    "the plots are consistent , both showing the increase in @xmath4-band flux for the early / mid - t  dwarfs relative to the late - l  dwarfs and the later t  dwarfs . the brightening effect is also seen in @xmath3 band , becoming more of a plateau at @xmath5 band , and then showing largely monotonic behavior at @xmath6 band ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "we quantify the amplitude of this brightening by using the weighted mean of absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type from table  [ tbl : spt - abs - mko ] , which shows a local flux minimum at @xmath2l8 and a local peak at @xmath2t4.5 .",
    "the difference between these extrema is 0.7  mag in the @xmath3 band and 0.5  mag in the @xmath4 band ( mko ) . fitting a line to the tabulated fluxes over this spectral type range",
    "gives similar results , with a brightening of 0.8  mag in @xmath3 and 0.3  mag in @xmath4 . in comparison ,",
    "the flux decreases over this same range of spectral types by 0.5  mag in @xmath5 and 1.4  mag in @xmath6 .",
    "if instead we gauge the brightening effect relative to the brightest object in the l / t transition , 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 ( t4.5 , @xmath239  mag ) , these values would be @xmath20.7  mag larger .",
    "this object is discussed in section  [ sec : overl ] , where we find that its near- and mid - ir magnitudes are unlikely to be consistent with a pronounced brightening due to unusual cloud properties .",
    "rather , the simplest explanation is that this object is an unresolved , nearly equal - flux binary , and thus its photometry should not be used to assess the @xmath4-band bump .",
    "the next brightest object in the l / t transition is sdss  j0000 + 2554 ( t4.5 , @xmath240  mag ) .",
    "note that previous studies have referred to the `` amplitude '' of the @xmath4-band brightening , with this term being used loosely @xcite .",
    "this lack of specificity was appropriate , given the small sample of transition objects  the description of the phenomenon was largely based on the outstanding object 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 , which was @xmath291  mag brighter compared to the late - l and mid / late - t  dwarfs in those earlier studies . with larger parallax samples now available , some care is warranted when using this description .",
    "in particular , the cited amplitude of the brightening sometimes comes from comparing the brightest mid - t dwarfs with low - order polynomial fits to the absolute magnitudes for l  and t  dwarfs @xcite .",
    "since polynomial fits are a convenient , but nonphysical , model for the large changes in magnitude as a function of spectral type , they inevitably do not provide a good match to all the data and serve to artificially enhance the outlier nature of the @xmath2t3t4 objects .",
    "thus , benchmarking the @xmath4-band behavior against polynomial fits should now be superseded by a direct comparison of measured absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type ( tables  [ tbl : spt - abs - mko ] and [ tbl : spt - abs-2mass ] ; figure  [ fig : spt - wavg ] ) .",
    "perhaps the most natural representation of the l / t transition can be found in near - ir cmds ( figures  [ fig : cmd - mko - zoom ] and [ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom ] ) . here , the view of the transition is much clearer , as the large change in near - ir colors over a small range in spectral type",
    "is displayed with a long horizontal extent in the cmd .",
    "objects in the @xmath4-band bump appear as the brightest objects in the blue vertical locus of the mid / late - t dwarfs , with 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 being the most protruding object .",
    "figures  [ fig : cmd - mko - zoom ] and [ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom ] shows the cmds assembled from resolved binary components , focusing on the l / t transition region .",
    "the distribution of the components is in accord with the cmd of the entire sample of objects , suggesting that unresolved binarity is not a significant issue for the latter . with this much larger sample of objects compared to previous work",
    ", one new feature appears : there is a `` gap '' in the color distribution in the transition , with many fewer objects seen with @xmath2410.3  mag and @xmath2420.4  mag as compared to redder ( early - t and late - l ) or bluer ( mid - t ) objects .",
    "there is no corresponding gap in @xmath137 , and thus the above ranges in color appear to due almost entirely to changes in the @xmath4-band flux at fixed @xmath137 color .",
    "( however , note that there appears to be a separate , much less prominent gap in @xmath137 color just blueward of the red l  dwarf sequence . )",
    "since the density of objects in the cmd is related to the lifetimes of the various evolutionary phases , the natural interpretation is that the gap reflects the shortest lived - phase of the l / t transition , shorter than the hotter or cooler stages .",
    "we also note that this gap appears when simply plotting the weighted averages of magnitudes binned by spectral type ( figure  [ fig : cmd - wavg ] ) .",
    "to highlight the gap , figure  [ fig : col - hist ] shows the histogram of near - ir colors for the range of absolute magnitudes representative of the l / t transition .",
    "in addition to the l / t gap , these plots also suggest a pileup of objects redward of the gap .",
    "this finding is highly evocative of work by @xcite .",
    "they combine evolutionary models with dusty model atmospheres to simulate the distribution of objects in the near - ir cmd .",
    "to model the l / t transition , they build a `` hybrid '' prescription that combines the hotter dusty atmospheres with the cooler dustless ones , by linearly interpolating the surface boundary conditions in the model atmospheres from 1400  k to 1200  k. such an approach produces a pileup of objects in this transition temperature range ( see their figure  13 ) , as the hotter dusty objects must release more energy to transform into a cooler dust - free object than compared to objects which do not change cloud properties .",
    "their simulated cmd shows a pileup of l / t objects at @xmath243  mag , which they discuss extensively , and a relative paucity of objects at @xmath2440.6  mag , which they do not discuss . while the model - predicted colors of these features may not exactly match our data , the qualitative agreement is compelling .",
    "our binary component cmds suggest a prolonged stage of brown dwarf color evolution during which condensate clouds slowly dissipate before rapidly transitioning to bluer near - ir colors in the last stages of condensate removal .",
    "although the cmds most directly probe the _ color _ evolution of brown dwarfs ( i.e. , cloud dispersal ) , in the theoretical perspective of @xcite this pileup and gap are inextricably tied to _",
    "luminosity _ evolution as well .    since our collection of binary components is not a rigorously defined sample ( e.g. , volume - limited or magnitude - limited ) , selection effects are a natural concern but seem unlikely to fundamentally alter the outcome .",
    "the target lists for previous high angular resolution searches for ultracool binaries were derived primarily from three magnitude - limited searches : the sdss ultracool dwarf search ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the 2mass l  dwarf search ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the 2mass t  dwarf search ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the 2mass searches were based on near - ir color criteria that were inevitably incomplete from the latest l  dwarfs to the mid - t dwarfs ( @xmath2l7t5 ) , while the sdss search was based on far - red optical colors and thus sensitive to the full range of l  and t  dwarfs .",
    "( in fact , most of the objects redward of the @xmath4-band gap are from sdss . )",
    "moreover , it would be highly contrived to imagine a selection bias whereby integrated - light measurements of binaries containing a @xmath245 component are avoided , while binaries with somewhat redder or bluer components are selected , especially as absolute magnitudes are relatively constant as a function of color across the transition .",
    "thus , we conclude the `` l / t gap '' is real , though more rigorous samples are needed to quantify the relative numbers of bluer and redder objects straddling the gap .",
    "the parallax - based census possible with upcoming all - sky surveys like pan - starrs and lsst offer the most robust means to achieve this goal .      a few objects warrant discussion based on comparison of our results with previous work :    * sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab ( t0 integrated - light near - ir type ) : @xcite decompose the integrated - light spectra based on the @xcite _",
    "@xmath246 and @xmath247 resolved photometry and find @xmath248  mag , in excellent agreement with our observed @xmath249  mag from keck lgs ao . * sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab ( t3 integrated - light near - ir type ) : @xcite resolved this system into a binary with _ hst_/nicmos and based on spectral decomposition suggested it shows a @xmath4-band flux inversion .",
    "this is seen for the first time with our keck lgs ao data , making this the fourth system to show a flux inversion after 2mass  j1728 + 3948 ( see below ) , sdss  j1534 + 1615 , and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159 .",
    "more recent spectral decomposition by @xcite derive @xmath4 and @xmath6-band flux ratios of 0.16@xmath870.41  mag ( i.e. , no brightening ) and 1.46@xmath870.29  mag , respectively . within the large fitting uncertainties ,",
    "this is consistent with our lgs ao measurements of @xmath10.10@xmath870.03  mag ( i.e. , a @xmath4-band flux reversal ) and 1.00@xmath870.03  mag .",
    "* 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab ( t3 integrated - light near - ir type ) : @xcite published this object as a binary using the same keck data as presented here .",
    "our flux ratio measurements are consistent with theirs within the quoted errors .",
    "our uncertainties are a factor of 24@xmath0 smaller , which likely stems from the different analysis methods .",
    "the key differences are that @xcite manually adjust their image subtractions , use aperture photometry , and choose psf reference stars that do not necessarily match the science data .",
    "* 2mass  j1728 + 3948ab ( l7 integrated - light optical type ) : @xcite identified this system as a binary from _",
    "hst_/wfpc2 optical far - red imaging .",
    "this was the first known ultracool binary to show an inversion in its flux ratios with wavelength , where the earlier - type component ( identified as being the optically bluer object ) was brighter in @xmath250 but fainter in @xmath251 .",
    "interestingly , our keck lgs ao @xmath4-band imaging shows no inversion in the @xmath138 flux ratios , indicating the wavelength - dependent behavior of the brightening can be rather complex .",
    "( this assumes variability effects between the non - simultaneous _ hst _  and keck data are negligible . ) to date , this binary is the only one with direct evidence for the brightening phenomenon extending as blue as 1  , though spectral decomposition suggests this occurs in other binaries ( e.g. , figures  [ fig : spec1][fig : spec3 ] , and also see @xcite ) .",
    "* sdss  j2052@xmath11609ab ( t1 : integrated - light near - ir type ) : this object was identified as a weak candidate for binarity by @xcite based on spectral decomposition and subsequently resolved by with vlt naco in 2009 .",
    "we present here an independent identification of this binary , obtained almost 4  years earlier in 2005 .",
    "the flux ratios in @xmath4 and @xmath6 bands are consistent between vlt and keck , but the @xmath5-band flux ratio appears to have changed from 0.33@xmath870.07  mag in 2005 to 0.57@xmath870.01  mag in 2009 .",
    "we present here the first results from our ongoing high - precision infrared astrometry program at cfht targeting ultracool dwarfs ( m6 to @xmath14t9 ) .",
    "we have found that cfht / wircam offers an excellent platform for measuring parallaxes to ultracool objects , given its relatively large aperture and the excellent seeing on mauna kea .",
    "queue scheduling at cfht is also a major advantage , as it enables good parallax phase coverage for targets widely distributed on the sky with almost no impact from poor weather .",
    "queue mode also allows data to be obtained only during the times of best seeing while also following rigorous airmass constraints to eliminate the effects of differential chromatic refraction .",
    "the work we present here is the first to use cfht / wircam for precision astrometry .    using cfht / wircam data collected since 2007 , we have measured parallaxes for 34 binaries and 15 single objects ( i.e. , 83 objects in 49 systems ) to a median precision of 1.1  mas ( 2.3% ) , and the best uncertainties are 0.7  mas ( 0.8% ) . for 48 objects in 29 systems",
    "we provide the first parallax measurements .",
    "for the 35 objects in 20 systems with published parallaxes we improve the precision in the vast majority of cases ( 29 objects in 17 systems ) . in these cases",
    "the median improvement in the published parallax error is a factor of 1.7 , and as good as a factor of 5 .",
    "comparison of targets in common between our program and published samples provides an independent check on our methods , and we generally find good agreement in parallax values",
    ". however , there are more @xmath142@xmath33 outliers than is statistically expected , and monte carlo simulations for these objects reveal that this is likely because some published errors are underestimated by a factor of @xmath223 .    to enable detailed analysis of the complete sample of ultracool binaries with parallaxes , we also present here a large set of resolved near - ir photometry obtained with keck ao imaging and aperture masking and archival _ hst _  and vlt data .",
    "combining this photometry with near - ir spectroscopy from irtf / spex , we determine component spectral types using a spectral decomposition technique . unlike some previous studies , our method does not assume any relation between spectral type and absolute magnitude so that our resulting types may be used to assess this relationship .",
    "our full sample comprises 17 m6l1 dwarfs , 27 l1.5l8 dwarfs , 22 l8.5t5 dwarfs , and 17 @xmath9t5.5 dwarfs .",
    "this doubles the number of l / t transition dwarfs with parallaxes and provides many high - precision distance measurements for ultracool binaries that will be crucial for future dynamical mass determinations .    these first results from our ongoing cfht program",
    "provide high - precision parallaxes for a large sample of ultracool dwarfs , enabling some basic quantitative tests of brown dwarf evolution .",
    "we combine our sample of new or improved parallaxes for 74 objects with previously published parallaxes for a total sample of 314 objects that allows us to form an unprecedented view of the absolute magnitudes of ultracool dwarfs and provide an update of key empirical relations :    1 .",
    "we determine empirical relations between absolute magnitude and spectral type for a wide variety of near- and mid - ir photometric systems ( mko , 2mass , _",
    "spitzer_/irac , and _ wise _ ) .",
    "we compute simple polynomial fits to these relations but suggest that using the actual tabulated values of mean and rms absolute magnitude is preferred for quantitative analysis .",
    "we are able to quantify the intrinsic scatter in absolute magnitude at a given spectral type with our high precision parallaxes .",
    "as expected , this reveals relatively small intrinsic variations in the near - ir among late - m dwarfs ( 0.10.3  mag ) that increases for l  dwarfs ( 0.30.5  mag ) as dust properties become an important `` second parameter '' after .",
    "we also identify a large , previously unappreciated amount of intrinsic scatter among mid- to late - t dwarfs in the near - ir ( 0.30.8  mag ) , presumably due to metallicity and surface gravity variations in the field population .",
    "we identify astrometric perturbations due to orbital motion in three targets : sdss  j0805 + 4812ab , previously suggested to be a binary based on its unusual spectrum ; and the known binaries 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab ( l6.5+t5 ) and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab ( l9+t5 ) .",
    "4 .   we find evidence for unresolved , nearly equal - flux binaries based on their overluminosity in near- and mid - ir cmds and spectral type ",
    "absolute magnitude relations : 2mass  j0559@xmath11404 ( t4.5 ) , which was previously known to be overluminous ; sdss  j1504 + 1047 ( t7 ) , for which we measure a parallax for the first time ; and sdss  j1021@xmath10304a ( t@xmath252 ) , which our 3.5@xmath0 improved parallax precision reveals lies @xmath20.5  mag above the l / t transition in near - ir cmds and which is unusually bright for its spectral type .",
    "if sdss  j1021@xmath10304a is indeed binary , it would be a member of a hierarchical triple with sdss  j1021@xmath10304b ( t5 ) .",
    "this idea can be tested with a dynamical mass for the system in the near future .",
    "our parallax measurement for the wide pair sdss  j1416 + 1348 ( l6 ) and ulas  j1416 + 1348 ( t7.5p ) shows that the components occupy unusual locations on near- and mid - ir cmds .",
    "we conclude the system has lower metallicity than typical field dwarfs , with the possibility remaining that unusual cloud properties and high surface gravity could also be affecting the components observed features .",
    "we investigate the kinematics of all ultracool dwarfs with parallaxes , searching for wide common proper motion companions and deriving criteria for identifying likely thick disk or halo members based on large tangential velocities .",
    "we identify two new candidate wide companions , and find that one previously identified pair is likely to be a chance alignment based on our improved proper motion ( 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab and nltt  20346ab ) .",
    "we do not identify any new thick disk or halo members . 7 .",
    "we find no evidence for a spectral type `` flip '' in the components of 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab , as recently suggested by @xcite .",
    "we find types of l@xmath227 and l@xmath223 , in contrast to l7+l6 from their analysis , thereby making 2mass  j0850 + 1057a normal for its spectral type and thus requiring no special explanation such as youth or unresolved multiplicity .",
    "we have increased the sample of resolved l / t systems having multi - band near - ir photometry and a measured parallax by more than a factor of 3 .",
    "we use these resolved components to provide the clearest view to date of the l / t transition .",
    "we find that the amplitude of the @xmath4-band brightening ( `` bump '' ) is @xmath20.5  mag , as defined by the mean absolute magnitude as a function of spectral type . as brown dwarfs cool they appear to reach a local minimum in @xmath4-band brightness at @xmath2l8 . in the framework of current models",
    ", this would correspond to the maximal suppression of @xmath4-band flux due to high condensate opacity .",
    "as objects evolve from red to blue near - ir colors , the @xmath4-band flux increases , presumably due to cloud dissipation , reaching a local maximum in @xmath4-band flux at @xmath2t4.5 .",
    "a similar pattern is seen in @xmath3 band , but perhaps with a larger amplitude of @xmath20.7  mag . brightening is not seen in the @xmath5 , @xmath6 , and bands , which instead are consistent with a monotonic decline as a function of spectral type .",
    "this behavior is consistent with flux ratios measured in near - ir bandpasses for binaries that span the l / t transition .",
    "we find an apparent `` gap '' in the evolution of brown dwarfs as they traverse the l / t transition in near - ir cmds at roughly constant absolute magnitude .",
    "there is a conspicuous paucity of objects over specific color ranges , @xmath2530.3  mag and @xmath2420.4  mag , with no gap in @xmath254 .",
    "immediately redward of this gap is an apparent pileup of objects in @xmath255 color .",
    "this is highly evocative of the pileup and gap seen in the `` hybrid '' tracks of @xcite , which self - consistently model brown dwarf evolution using a prescription for cloud dissipation at the l / t transition .",
    "regardless of the exact cloud prescription , they suggest that there should always be a pileup of some kind because hotter dusty objects must release much more energy to become cooler dust - free objects compared to objects that do not change dust properties .",
    "( they do not discuss the subsequent gap , though it is apparent in their model cmds . )",
    "the features we observe in the near - ir cmds thus indicate a slowing of color evolution at the last stages of condensate cloud dissipation ( possibly related to a slowing of luminosity evolution ) before brown dwarfs rapidly transform to their final , dust - free , blue near - ir colors ( @xmath13t4.5 ) .",
    "the capability of measuring @xmath21  mas parallaxes for faint infrared sources is novel .",
    "we have achieved the highest precision to date for such faint objects ( @xmath25616.5  mag , and as faint as 19.7  mag at somewhat reduced precision ) .",
    "although our precision goal has initially been driven by the need for high - quality dynamical masses , this new capability opens the door to other previously inaccessible samples .",
    "for example , rare classes of ultracool dwarfs are on average more distant and thus need high precision for useful parallaxes .",
    "in addition , the faintest ultracool dwarfs known ( @xmath257  mag ) are beyond the reach of previous parallax programs but can be efficiently monitored with cfht .",
    "such new samples will be the subject of our future publications .",
    "we are deeply indebted to the cfht staff for their constant observing support and dedication to delivering the highest quality data products , and in particular to loic albert .",
    "we also thank brendan p.bowler , kimberly aller , and mark pitts for assistance in conducting our irtf / spex observations .",
    "we are grateful to s.  k.  leggett and michael j.  ireland for suggestions that significantly improved our analysis .",
    "we have benefited from discussions with jan kleyna , gene magnier , dave monet , john thorstenen , chris tinney , john tonry , and fred vrba about astrometry and parallaxes .",
    "we are grateful to cline reyl for customized besanon galaxy models .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank joel aycock , randy campbell , al conrad , heather hershley , jim lyke , jason mcilroy , gary punawai , julie riviera , hien tran , cynthia wilburn , and the keck observatory staff for assistance with the keck observations .",
    "our research has employed the 2mass data products ; nasa s astrophysical data system ; the simbad database operated at cds , strasbourg , france ; and the spex prism spectral libraries , maintained by adam burgasser at http://www.browndwarfs.org/spexprism .",
    "this publication makes use of data products from the wide - field infrared survey explorer , which is a joint project of the university of california , los angeles , and the jet propulsion laboratory / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac infrared science archive , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this publication has made use of contour plotting code written by james r.  a.  davenport .",
    "t.j.d .  and m.c.l .",
    "acknowledge support for this work from nsf grants ast-0507833 and ast-0909222 . m.c.l",
    ".  acknowledges support from an alfred p.  sloan research fellowship . t.j.d .  acknowledges support from hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-51271.01-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "finally , the authors wish to recognize and acknowledge the very significant cultural role and reverence that the summit of mauna kea has always had within the indigenous hawaiian community .",
    "we are most fortunate to have the opportunity to conduct observations from this mountain .",
    "van leeuwen , f. 2007 , hipparcos , the new reduction of the raw data ( hipparcos , the new reduction of the raw data .  by floor van leeuwen , institute of astronomy , cambridge university , cambridge , uk",
    "series : astrophysics and space science library , vol .",
    "350 20 springer dordrecht )                               band due to the differential chromatic refraction ( dcr ) between our targets and background stars computed for mauna kea .",
    "these offsets result from our targets @xmath4-band spectra being dissimilar from those of background stars , and thus the offsets increase at later spectral types because the differences are more pronounced .",
    "each colored swath shows the range of offsets predicted for the variety of subtypes within each spectral classification ( e.g. , t0t8 for the t dwarfs ) .",
    "the offsets increase with airmass , so our observations were constrained to be as close to transit as possible , and the effects are expected to be worse for targets farther from zenith ( @xmath258 at mauna kea ) . by always obtaining data within 1  hr of transit ( and typically within 30  min ) , we have ensured that the effects of dcr on our astrometry are negligible ( @xmath34  mas ) .",
    "[ fig : dcr],width=576 ]     and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors .",
    "there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors .",
    "there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]       and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors .",
    "there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]       and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors .",
    "there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ] -0.1 in   and @xmath39 position .",
    "the data set shown here is for @xmath2200 stars in the 2mass  j0850 + 1057 field observed over 21 dithers with offsets of 1@xmath28 .",
    "both second- and third - order terms are needed in the distortion solution , and the resulting residual rms is @xmath240  mas , dominated by sdss positional errors . there is no obvious remaining structure in the residuals , indicating that a third - order solution is sufficient for wircam .",
    "[ fig : distort - resid],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]    200  pixels . _",
    "right : _ contour plot showing how the distortion amplitude increases radially from the optical axis ( red cross ) , which is roughly the midpoint of the four - array wircam mosaic .",
    "contours are labeled with the amplitude of the offset in pixels .",
    "[ fig : distort],title=\"fig:\",width=297 ] 200  pixels . _",
    "right : _ contour plot showing how the distortion amplitude increases radially from the optical axis ( red cross ) , which is roughly the midpoint of the four - array wircam mosaic .",
    "contours are labeled with the amplitude of the offset in pixels .",
    "[ fig : distort],title=\"fig:\",width=297 ]     the number of measurements shown here . _",
    "middle : _ distribution of the rms of measured positions among each dithered data set .",
    "_ right : _ distribution of the standard error ( i.e. , rms/@xmath259 ) of our position measurements at each observation epoch .",
    "[ fig : dither - rms],title=\"fig:\",width=192 ]   the number of measurements shown here . _",
    "middle : _ distribution of the rms of measured positions among each dithered data set .",
    "_ right : _ distribution of the standard error ( i.e. , rms/@xmath259 ) of our position measurements at each observation epoch .",
    "[ fig : dither - rms],title=\"fig:\",width=192 ]   the number of measurements shown here . _",
    "middle : _ distribution of the rms of measured positions among each dithered data set .",
    "_ right : _ distribution of the standard error ( i.e. , rms/@xmath259 ) of our position measurements at each observation epoch .",
    "[ fig : dither - rms],title=\"fig:\",width=192 ]    -0.2 in   for our calibration field containing @xmath2200 sdss stars .",
    "( dashed lines show first order polynomial fits to the simulation results . ) _ right : _ same as the left except that the third order distortion terms have been treated as free parameters . because of the strong degeneracy between linear and higher order terms in the fit , the precision in the pixel scale more than an order of magnitude worse than in the case of no ( or known ) distortion .",
    "this fundamentally limits our absolute calibration of wircam to a precision of @xmath71 .",
    "[ fig : sclsim],title=\"fig:\",width=364 ] -0.8 in   for our calibration field containing @xmath2200 sdss stars .",
    "( dashed lines show first order polynomial fits to the simulation results . ) _ right : _ same as the left except that the third order distortion terms have been treated as free parameters . because of the strong degeneracy between linear and higher order terms in the fit , the precision in the pixel scale more than an order of magnitude worse than in the case of no ( or known ) distortion .",
    "this fundamentally limits our absolute calibration of wircam to a precision of @xmath71 .",
    "[ fig : sclsim],title=\"fig:\",width=364 ]    -axis of wircam over the duration of our observing program , with diamonds of different colors indicating different targets ( not uniquely since there are 49 targets and only 11 colors ) .",
    "the scatter is consistent with the expected error in linear terms due to the uncertainty in the distortion solution ( @xmath71 , illustrated by black diamond and error bar ) .",
    "_ bottom : _ orientation of wircam over the course of our observing program ( 0  corresponds to the @xmath39-axis aligned with north ) .",
    "changes in the orientation are clearly evident and are correlated with the observing run .",
    "( runs can be seen as groupings of points very close together in time . )",
    "this is expected as wircam is taken off the telescope between runs .",
    "[ fig : sclrot],title=\"fig:\",width=316 ] -axis of wircam over the duration of our observing program , with diamonds of different colors indicating different targets ( not uniquely since there are 49 targets and only 11 colors ) . the scatter is consistent with the expected error in linear terms due to the uncertainty in the distortion solution ( @xmath71 , illustrated by black diamond and error bar ) . _",
    "bottom : _ orientation of wircam over the course of our observing program ( 0  corresponds to the @xmath39-axis aligned with north ) .",
    "changes in the orientation are clearly evident and are correlated with the observing run .",
    "( runs can be seen as groupings of points very close together in time . )",
    "this is expected as wircam is taken off the telescope between runs .",
    "[ fig : sclrot],title=\"fig:\",width=316 ]     and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]     and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]   and @xmath46 , respectively , as a function of julian year after subtracting the best - fit proper motion .",
    "( this is for display purposes only ; in our analysis we fit for both the proper motion and parallax simultaneously . )",
    "the bottom panels show the residuals after subtracting both the parallax and proper motion .",
    "[ fig : plx1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]                          .",
    "contours are in logarithmic intervals from unity to 10% of the peak flux in each band .",
    "north is always up , but the angular scale used for each binary varies , so scale bars are given .",
    "[ fig : lgs1],width=614 ]      .",
    "contours are in logarithmic intervals from unity to 10% of the peak flux in each band .",
    "north is always up , but the angular scale used for each binary varies , so scale bars are given .",
    "[ fig : lgs1],width=460 ]",
    ". contours are in logarithmic intervals from unity to 10% of the peak flux in each band .",
    "north is always up , but the angular scale used for each binary varies , so scale bars are given .",
    "[ fig : lgs1],width=460 ]      .",
    "contours are in logarithmic intervals from unity to 10% of the peak flux in each band .",
    "north is always up , but the angular scale used for each binary varies , so scale bars are given .",
    "[ fig : lgs1],title=\"fig:\",width=460 ] 0.10 in .",
    "contours are in logarithmic intervals from unity to 10% of the peak flux in each band .",
    "north is always up , but the angular scale used for each binary varies , so scale bars are given .",
    "[ fig : lgs1],title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]                                . for the remaining 23 of 27 comparison cases ,",
    "our parallaxes agree to within 1.8@xmath33 of the published results with a reasonable @xmath91 of 19.9 ( 23 dof ) . in 19 of these 23 cases",
    "our parallax errors are less than or equal to published errors .",
    "[ fig : vs - pub],width=297 ]    , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]      , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab ) we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab ) we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]      , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) .",
    "for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab ) we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis . [",
    "fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]      , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ] 0.05 in , table  [ tbl : spt ] ) .",
    "the bottom subpanels show the resolved photometry used to constrain the decomposition ( filled black circles with errors ) and the resulting flux ratios computed from the best matching template pair ( open brown squares ) . in some cases there exists both _",
    "hst_/nicmos medium - band and keck photometry ( e.g. , 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab ) , and in one case there is no resolved photometry available ( sdss  j0805 + 4812ab ) . for some binaries ( e.g. , 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab )",
    "we degrade our spex sxd spectra ( @xmath2602000 ) to the resolution of the prism template spectra ( @xmath261 ) and exclude @xmath6 band from the analysis .",
    "[ fig : spec1],title=\"fig:\",width=201 ]                                 with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol ( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "nearly half ( 40% ) of the data points here use our new cfht parallaxes .",
    "symbol colors indicate spectral types : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) , and unknown ( gray ) .",
    "solid symbols indicate photometry that is measured either directly or converted , e.g. , from 2mass to mko , using the object s own spectrum .",
    "open symbols indicate binary components where the flux ratio in one or more , but not all , bands was estimated from spectral decomposition . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) , no symbol",
    "( i.e. , error bar only ) indicates that all flux ratios were estimated from spectral decomposition .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]                     but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk1 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with @xmath138 photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd - jhk2 - 2mass],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for @xmath3-band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - y],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for @xmath3-band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - y],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for @xmath3-band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - y],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for @xmath3-band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - y],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for -band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - l],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for -band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - l],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for -band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - l],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : cmd - jhk2-mko ] but for -band absolute magnitudes ( mko ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - l],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac1],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but for the _",
    "spitzer_/irac @xmath263$]- and @xmath264$]-band absolute magnitudes .",
    "[ fig : cmd - irac2],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   with errors @xmath110.5  mag .",
    "symbols are the same as figure  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]      ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]      ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]      ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in ; subdwarfs and known young or planetary - mass objects excluded from plot ) .",
    "thick solid lines are polynomial fits to the data ( coefficients given in table  [ tbl : poly ] ) . at the bottom of each panel the rms about the fit is given , broken down by spectral type range : m6l2 ( brown ) , l2.5l9 ( red ) , l9.5t4 ( purple ) , and @xmath9t4.5 ( blue ) . dashed gray lines show inverted polynomial fits , i.e. , spectral type as a function of magnitude , for bands that are sufficiently monotonic ( @xmath6 and  here ) .",
    "the rms about these fits for the same spectral type ranges as listed above are given along the right side of the respective panels .",
    "we use optical spectral types for m and l  dwarfs when available ( infrared types otherwise ) and infrared types for t  dwarfs .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - jhk],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]           and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] but for _ spitzer_/irac photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - irac],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] but for _ spitzer_/irac photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - irac],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]       and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] but for _ spitzer_/irac photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - irac],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in   and [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] but for _ spitzer_/irac photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - irac],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]    , [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] , and [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] but for _ wise _ photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in , [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] , and [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] but for _ wise _ photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]      , [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] , and [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] but for _ wise _ photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in , [ fig : spt - abs - yl ] , and [ fig : spt - abs - irac ] but for _ wise _ photometry .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - wise],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]    [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]      [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.50 in [tbl : spt - abs - wise ] ) .",
    "we also show individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ; the underluminous young object is 2 m  1207b ) .",
    "the objects plotted here are marked in the `` note '' column in table  [ tbl : plx - all ] and are excluded from our analysis of absolute magnitudes as a function of spectral type , along with over - luminous objects suspected to be unresolved binaries ( not shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : spt - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]    ; only bins with 2 or more objects are shown ) .",
    "error bars indicate the rms in absolute magnitude and color for each bin .",
    "individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs are also shown : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.70 in ; only bins with 2 or more objects are shown ) .",
    "error bars indicate the rms in absolute magnitude and color for each bin .",
    "individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs are also shown : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.70 in ; only bins with 2 or more objects are shown ) .",
    "error bars indicate the rms in absolute magnitude and color for each bin .",
    "individual objects that were not considered to be normal field dwarfs are also shown : known subdwarfs as determined from optical spectroscopy ( green triangles ) ; suspected low - metallicity brown dwarfs ( pink upside - down triangles ) ; and members of young moving groups , including planetary mass companions ( blue squares ) .",
    "[ fig : cmd - wavg],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]    , and contours are drawn at 10% , 50% , and 90% .",
    "the dashed lines on the top panel are exponential fits to the contours ( equations 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .",
    "( note that contours are not perfectly smooth for the thick disk and halo because of numerical noise in the galaxy model . )",
    "[ fig : vtan],width=307 ]      , and contours are drawn at 10% , 50% , and 90% .",
    "the dashed lines on the top panel are exponential fits to the contours ( equations 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .",
    "( note that contours are not perfectly smooth for the thick disk and halo because of numerical noise in the galaxy model . )",
    "[ fig : vtan],width=307 ]      , and contours are drawn at 10% , 50% , and 90% .",
    "the dashed lines on the top panel are exponential fits to the contours ( equations 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .",
    "( note that contours are not perfectly smooth for the thick disk and halo because of numerical noise in the galaxy model . )",
    "[ fig : vtan],width=307 ]    , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]      , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]      , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ] -0.60 in , but showing only components of binaries , with pairs connected by thin gray lines .",
    "the polynomial fits displayed are derived from the full data set ( i.e. , the data in figure  [ fig : spt - abs - jhk ] ) ; they are not a fit to the data points plotted here .",
    "[ fig : spt - abs - bin],title=\"fig:\",width=307 ]     for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   for binary components .",
    "open symbols indicate data where a flux ratios was estimated from spectral decomposition constrained by flux ratios measured in other bands . for one binary ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 )",
    ", no symbol indicates that the flux ratio was not measured in any band , so resolved photometry is based solely on spectral decomposition .",
    "smaller gray points show the locus of likely single objects ( i.e. , those unresolved in _ hst_/ao imaging ) , only those with @xmath600.10  mag errors for clarity .",
    "[ fig : cmd - mko - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]     but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]       but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ] -0.60 in   but with photometry in the 2mass system .",
    "[ fig : cmd-2mass - zoom],title=\"fig:\",width=240 ]    15.0  mag ) .",
    "histograms were computed in a monte carlo fashion accounting for errors in colors and absolute magnitudes .",
    "the most prominent feature seen in near - ir cmds ( figures  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] and [ fig : cmd - mko - zoom ] ) is a gap in @xmath265 and @xmath255 colors just blueward of the late - l / early - t  dwarf sequence .",
    "this feature is clear in these histograms ( labeled `` l / t gap '' here ) , and other features less obvious to the eye in the cmds also appear .",
    "there is a less prominent gap in @xmath266 just blueward of the red l  dwarf peak ( labeled `` late - l gap ? '' ) and an enhanced number of objects with @xmath2670.9  mag ( labeled `` pileup ? '' ) .",
    "the l / t gap and the pileup are qualitatively similar to the behavior of near - ir colors along the l / t transition in the hybrid evolutionary models of @xcite . in these models",
    ", brown dwarf evolution slows as a direct consequence of the removal of condensate cloud opacity across the l / t transition , resulting in a pileup of objects in @xmath268 and a gap just blueward of this ( though the particular colors of these features differ between their models and the data shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : col - hist],width=528 ]      15.0  mag ) .",
    "histograms were computed in a monte carlo fashion accounting for errors in colors and absolute magnitudes .",
    "the most prominent feature seen in near - ir cmds ( figures  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] and [ fig : cmd - mko - zoom ] ) is a gap in @xmath265 and @xmath255 colors just blueward of the late - l / early - t  dwarf sequence .",
    "this feature is clear in these histograms ( labeled `` l / t gap '' here ) , and other features less obvious to the eye in the cmds also appear .",
    "there is a less prominent gap in @xmath266 just blueward of the red l  dwarf peak ( labeled `` late - l gap ? '' ) and an enhanced number of objects with @xmath2670.9  mag ( labeled `` pileup ? '' ) .",
    "the l / t gap and the pileup are qualitatively similar to the behavior of near - ir colors along the l / t transition in the hybrid evolutionary models of @xcite . in these models",
    ", brown dwarf evolution slows as a direct consequence of the removal of condensate cloud opacity across the l / t transition , resulting in a pileup of objects in @xmath268 and a gap just blueward of this ( though the particular colors of these features differ between their models and the data shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : col - hist],title=\"fig:\",width=288 ] -0.50 in 15.0  mag ) .",
    "histograms were computed in a monte carlo fashion accounting for errors in colors and absolute magnitudes .",
    "the most prominent feature seen in near - ir cmds ( figures  [ fig : cmd - jhk1-mko ] and [ fig : cmd - mko - zoom ] ) is a gap in @xmath265 and @xmath255 colors just blueward of the late - l / early - t  dwarf sequence .",
    "this feature is clear in these histograms ( labeled `` l / t gap '' here ) , and other features less obvious to the eye in the cmds also appear .",
    "there is a less prominent gap in @xmath266 just blueward of the red l  dwarf peak ( labeled `` late - l gap ? '' ) and an enhanced number of objects with @xmath2670.9  mag ( labeled `` pileup ? '' ) .",
    "the l / t gap and the pileup are qualitatively similar to the behavior of near - ir colors along the l / t transition in the hybrid evolutionary models of @xcite . in these models",
    ", brown dwarf evolution slows as a direct consequence of the removal of condensate cloud opacity across the l / t transition , resulting in a pileup of objects in @xmath268 and a gap just blueward of this ( though the particular colors of these features differ between their models and the data shown here ) .",
    "[ fig : col - hist],title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]      sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & /t4.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath269 & 0.014 & 291 & 12 & 2.43 & 124 & 114 & @xmath270 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & m7.5/ & & @xmath271 & 0.031 & 213 & 11 & 2.32 & 21 & 17 & @xmath272 + lp  349 - 25ab & m8/m8 & & @xmath273 & 0.062 & 456 & 15 & 2.96 & 33 & 30 & @xmath274 + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & /t8.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath275 & 0.018 & 66 & 9 & 2.18 & 73 & 64 & @xmath276 + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & /t7 & @xmath4 & @xmath277 & 0.023 & 137 & 7 & 2.19 & 77 & 37 & @xmath278 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & /t8.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath279 & 0.021 & 71 & 8 & 2.14 & 88 & 53 & @xmath280 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & t8/t8 & @xmath4 & @xmath281 & 0.026 & 136 & 8 & 2.28 & 124 & 44 & @xmath282 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & l7.5/t0 & @xmath4 & @xmath283 & 0.027 & 100 & 11 & 4.27 & 128 & 63 & @xmath284 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & l7/t1p & @xmath4 & @xmath285 & 0.022 & 131 & 12 & 4.20 & 182 & 59 & @xmath286 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & t5/t4.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath287 & 0.006 & 139 & 6 & 1.83 & 225 & 101 & @xmath288 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & l3.5/ & & @xmath289 & 0.068 & 216 & 12 & 4.12 & 94 & 86 & @xmath290 + lhs  1901ab & m7/m7 & & @xmath291 & 0.054 & 225 & 16 & 3.81 & 73 & 70 & @xmath292 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & t8/t7 & @xmath4 & @xmath293 & 0.036 & 268 & 12 & 2.46 & 331 & 106 & @xmath294 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & l0.5/l1 & & @xmath295 & 0.031 & 259 & 10 & 3.86 & 55 & 54 & @xmath296 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0 & l4/l9.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath297 & 0.046 & 237 & 13 & 4.03 & 72 & 70 & @xmath298 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & l6/ & @xmath4 & @xmath299 & 0.021 & 89 & 9 & 4.16 & 182 & 174 & @xmath300 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518ab & l3:/ & @xmath4 & @xmath301 & 0.007 & 64 & 8 & 2.41 & 115 & 113 & @xmath302 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742ab & l6.5/t0p & @xmath4 & @xmath303 & 0.016 & 172 & 15 & 4.35 & 77 & 68 & @xmath304 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & /t4.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath305 & 0.010 & 198 & 11 & 4.12 & 73 & 70 & @xmath306 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839ab & l2:/l1 & @xmath4 & @xmath307 & 0.013 & 303 & 13 & 4.12 & 35 & 34 & @xmath308 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & t3.5/t3 & @xmath4 & @xmath309 & 0.012 & 193 & 9 & 3.09 & 69 & 64 & @xmath310 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & /t5.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath311 & 0.006 & 102 & 10 & 3.15 & 80 & 74 & @xmath304 + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & /t7.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath312 & 0.058 & 131 & 7 & 2.02 & 61 & 21 & @xmath313 + lhs  2397aab & m8/ & & @xmath314 & 0.454 & 201 & 13 & 3.22 & 30 & 28 & @xmath315 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & l3/ & @xmath4 & @xmath316 & 0.013 & 173 & 7 & 2.26 & 38 & 35 & @xmath317 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008ab & t3.5/t3 & @xmath4 & @xmath318 & 0.019 & 215 & 12 & 3.92 & 28 & 16 & @xmath319 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & l5/l6 : : & @xmath4 & @xmath320 & 0.030 & 125 & 11 & 2.26 & 102 & 44 & @xmath321 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537ab & l5/ & @xmath4 & @xmath322 & 0.015 & 226 & 9 & 2.26 & 38 & 33 & @xmath323 + kelu-1ab & l2/ & @xmath4 & @xmath324 & 0.012 & 211 & 9 & 2.26 & 98 & 39 & @xmath325 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 &",
    "/t8.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath279 & 0.025 & 118 & 10 & 1.95 & 175 & 162 & @xmath326 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330ab & t0/t2.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath327 & 0.030 & 214 & 11 & 2.25 & 276 & 80 & @xmath328 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & l6/l6p : : & & @xmath329 & 0.149 & 246 & 13 & 1.95 & 22 & 19 & @xmath330 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134ab & /t9.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath331 & 0.022 & 119 & 11 & 1.96 & 324 & 262 & @xmath332 + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & t6/t5 & @xmath4 & @xmath333 & 0.004 & 98 & 7 & 2.00 & 58 & 53 & @xmath334 + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & /t7 & @xmath4 & @xmath273 & 0.058 & 63 & 6 & 1.94 & 102 & 91 & @xmath335 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1ab & /t3.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath336 & 0.014 & 219 & 11 & 2.35 & 139 & 132 & @xmath337 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & t6/t5.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath338 & 0.019 & 241 & 16 & 2.36 & 475 & 170 & @xmath339 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236ab & /t7 & @xmath4 & @xmath340 & 0.018 & 119 & 8 & 2.18 & 145 & 137 & @xmath341 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & /t7 & @xmath4 & @xmath342 & 0.030 & 110 & 9 & 2.32 & 166 & 155 & @xmath343 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & l7/ & @xmath4 & @xmath344 & 0.021 & 197 & 11 & 3.32 & 251 & 45 & @xmath345 + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & m7.5/ & & @xmath346 & 0.029 & 199 & 9 & 3.24 & 90 & 76 & @xmath347 + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404ab & m7.5/m8 & & @xmath348 & 0.029 & 239 & 13 & 2.18 & 64 & 61 & @xmath349 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243ab & m6.5/ & & @xmath350 & 0.020 & 291 & 13 & 2.90 & 99 & 88 & @xmath351 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8ab & /t1 : & @xmath4 & @xmath352 & 0.022 & 422 & 17 & 2.22 & 243 & 59 & @xmath353 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158ab & l6/ & @xmath4 & @xmath354 & 0.018 & 616 & 24 & 2.92 & 328 & 77 & @xmath355 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518ab & m8.5/ & & @xmath356 & 0.007 & 275 & 14 & 2.90 & 81 & 75 & @xmath357 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & m8/m8 & & @xmath269 & 0.025 & 291 & 18 & 2.34 & 32 & 29 & @xmath358 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & l4.5/l3.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath359 & 0.019 & 357 & 19 & 3.22 & 121 & 33 & @xmath360 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & /l7.5 & @xmath4 & @xmath361 & 0.021 & 411 & 16 & 2.21 & 72 & 28 & @xmath362 +      @xmath23 & @xmath363 & @xmath364 + @xmath25 & @xmath365 & @xmath366 + @xmath24 & @xmath367 & @xmath368 + @xmath369 & @xmath370 & @xmath371 + @xmath372 & @xmath373 & @xmath374 + @xmath375 & @xmath376 & @xmath377 + @xmath378 & @xmath379 & @xmath380 +      sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & 000.0563857 & @xmath38125.9054561 & 54301.63 & @xmath10.0191(15 ) & 0.1267(13 ) & 0.1281(13 ) & @xmath382 & 0.0708(19 ) & 22.5/19 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & 000.9277249 & @xmath128.3782531 & 55050.53 & 0.2803(15 ) & @xmath10.1233(17 ) & 0.3062(15 ) & @xmath383 & 0.0250(19 ) & 21.4/17 + lp  349 - 25ab & 006.9841925 & @xmath38122.3255463 & 54687.57 & 0.4040(10 ) & @xmath10.1654(15 ) & 0.4365(9 ) & @xmath384 & 0.0696(9 ) & 23.2/25 + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & 008.5116117 & @xmath100.8687246 & 55051.60 & @xmath10.0167(10 ) & @xmath10.3588(8 ) & 0.3592(8 ) & @xmath385 & 0.0687(14 ) & 13.3/13 + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & 012.5872589 & @xmath133.3749337 & 55050.57 & 1.1505(22 ) & 0.9391(21 ) & 1.4851(21 ) & @xmath386 & 0.0946(24 ) & 10.2/9 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & 014.7960832 & @xmath101.2335758 & 55068.57 & 0.8847(11 ) & 0.0440(13 ) & 0.8858(11 ) & @xmath387 & 0.1032(21 ) & 11.7/11 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & 063.8381022 & @xmath109.5835266 & 55070.64 & 2.2143(12 ) & 0.5359(12 ) & 2.2782(12 ) & @xmath388 & 0.1752(17 ) & 13.6/11 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & 065.9516865 & @xmath104.2338814 & 54341.64 & @xmath10.3276(5 ) & 0.0912(5 ) & 0.3401(5 ) & @xmath389 & 0.0721(11 ) & 12.5/17 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & 079.7498449 & @xmath128.4773438 & 54366.66 & @xmath10.0700(5 ) & @xmath10.2757(5 ) & 0.2844(5 ) & @xmath390 & 0.0437(8 ) & 73.3/19 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & 089.8314377 & @xmath114.0809294 & 54519.25 & 0.5718(15 ) & @xmath10.3330(17 ) & 0.6617(16 ) & @xmath391 & 0.0966(10 ) & 8.2/7 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & 105.1532663 & @xmath38131.9561584 & 54513.30 & 0.1424(7 ) & @xmath10.5546(7 ) & 0.5726(7 ) & @xmath392 & 0.0867(12 ) & 20.4/19 + lhs  1901ab & 107.7986681 & @xmath38143.4984000 & 54513.31 & 0.3544(8 ) & @xmath10.5662(9 ) & 0.6680(9 ) & @xmath393 & 0.0742(10 ) & 29.3/27 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & 111.8296673 & @xmath38117.1646091 & 55125.63 & 1.0470(9 ) & @xmath10.7642(10 ) & 1.2962(9 ) & @xmath394 & 0.1125(9 ) & 18.4/19 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & 116.6763725 & @xmath38120.0089457 & 54517.34 & @xmath10.3659(7 ) & @xmath10.0527(5 ) & 0.3697(7 ) & @xmath395 & 0.0811(9 ) & 18.4/15 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0 & 121.3813807 & @xmath38148.2094111 & 54428.60 & @xmath10.4583(7 ) & 0.0498(8 ) & 0.4610(7 ) & @xmath396 & 0.0431(10 ) & 229.1/21 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & 132.6494655 & @xmath38110.9544494 & 54428.61 & @xmath10.1442(6 ) & @xmath10.0126(6 ) & 0.1447(6 ) & @xmath397 & 0.0301(8 ) & 18.6/13 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518ab & 134.1992240 & @xmath38122.5884467 & 54428.62 & @xmath10.1869(10 ) & @xmath10.0133(8 ) & 0.1874(10 ) & @xmath398 & 0.0324(10 ) & 8.6/11 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742ab & 140.0506337 & @xmath38135.2949198 & 54427.66 & @xmath10.1889(8 ) & @xmath10.1984(6 ) & 0.2740(8 ) & @xmath399 & 0.0344(8 ) & 24.2/25 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & 141.5641928 & @xmath38158.7888671 & 54513.41 & 0.0102(5 ) & @xmath10.2162(5 ) & 0.2165(5 ) & @xmath400 & 0.0437(11 ) & 21.0/17 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839ab & 154.2817771 & @xmath38113.1442355 & 54514.44 & 0.0479(5 ) & @xmath10.1178(5 ) & 0.1272(5 ) & @xmath401 & 0.0302(14 ) & 29.7/21 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & 155.2902375 & @xmath103.0722820 & 54514.45 & @xmath10.1626(6 ) & @xmath10.0745(7 ) & 0.1789(6 ) & @xmath402 & 0.0299(13 ) & 13.7/13 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & 167.5412045 & @xmath38101.2699602 & 54514.50 & @xmath10.2171(7 ) & @xmath10.2809(6 ) & 0.3550(7 ) & @xmath403 & 0.0521(12 ) & 18.6/15 + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & 168.7032979 & @xmath126.3074976 & 55280.39 & @xmath13.0188(11 ) & @xmath10.3841(14 ) & 3.0432(11 ) & @xmath404 & 0.1792(14 ) & 12.8/9 + lhs  2397aab & 170.4539114 & @xmath113.2189698 & 54520.49 & @xmath10.4869(25 ) & @xmath10.0614(16 ) & 0.4908(23 ) & @xmath405 & 0.0730(21 ) & 28.3/21 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & 176.6440817 & @xmath38122.5151927 & 54514.51 & 0.0256(7 ) & 0.0894(8 ) & 0.0930(8 ) & @xmath406 & 0.0349(10 ) & 9.4/9 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008ab & 182.4851412 & @xmath110.0678779 & 54513.52 & 0.2661(5 ) & @xmath10.3554(6 ) & 0.4440(6 ) & @xmath407 & 0.0458(10 ) & 24.8/19 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & 187.0639038 & @xmath115.7935333 & 54514.54 & 0.1344(8 ) & @xmath10.1853(10 ) & 0.2289(9 ) & @xmath408 & 0.0448(18 ) & 15.1/17 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537ab & 189.8644820 & @xmath38155.2605441 & 54513.53 & 0.1252(11 ) & @xmath10.0004(11 ) & 0.1252(11 ) & @xmath409 & 0.0424(21 ) & 18.0/13 + kelu-1ab & 196.4167629 & @xmath125.6847666 & 54514.56 & @xmath10.2992(12 ) & @xmath10.0041(14 ) & 0.2992(12 ) & @xmath410 & 0.0497(24 ) & 15.9/13 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & 203.9727703 & @xmath38111.5014079 & 55287.48 & @xmath10.1908(15 ) & @xmath10.2024(13 ) & 0.2782(12 ) & @xmath411 & 0.0999(16 ) & 14.2/15 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330ab & 211.2070713 & @xmath131.9923990 & 54515.60 & 0.3448(10 ) & @xmath10.0107(14 ) & 0.3450(10 ) & @xmath412 & 0.0421(11 ) & 118.5/17 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & 214.1008726 & @xmath38113.8080084 & 55307.42 & 0.0952(13 ) & 0.1329(15 ) & 0.1635(14 ) & @xmath413 & 0.1097(13 ) & 25.4/21 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134ab & 224.6224723 & @xmath38110.2283899 & 55283.56 & 0.1740(20 ) & @xmath10.3818(27 ) & 0.4196(26 ) & @xmath414 & 0.0313(25 ) & 22.4/17 + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & 225.8321432 & @xmath38125.4236612 & 54575.47 & 0.0901(16 ) & 0.5618(16 ) & 0.5690(16 ) & @xmath415 & 0.1572(22 ) & 10.6/9 + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & 226.0493096 & @xmath38110.4545909 & 55050.24 & 0.3736(19 ) & @xmath10.3692(21 ) & 0.5253(19 ) & @xmath416 & 0.0461(15 ) & 10.6/7 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1ab & 233.5710654 & @xmath38116.2629914 & 54515.65 & @xmath10.0799(7 ) & @xmath10.0362(8 ) & 0.0877(7 ) & @xmath417 & 0.0249(11 ) & 19.6/17 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & 233.7082531 & @xmath129.8747002 & 54515.66 & 0.0934(9 ) & @xmath10.2600(13 ) & 0.2763(13 ) & @xmath418 & 0.0624(13 ) & 28.5/27 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236ab & 238.2584798 & @xmath38115.5441600 & 54576.51 & @xmath10.3859(7 ) & 0.1662(9 ) & 0.4201(7 ) & @xmath419 & 0.0751(9 ) & 14.0/11 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & 247.1623605 & @xmath38123.1387790 & 54576.52 & 0.4123(8 ) & @xmath10.4430(7 ) & 0.6052(8 ) & @xmath420 & 0.0751(9 ) & 13.9/13 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & 262.0481027 & @xmath38139.8164269 & 54576.59 & 0.0358(5 ) & @xmath10.0184(6 ) & 0.0402(5 ) & @xmath421 & 0.0387(7 ) & 23.4/17 + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & 263.8044568 & @xmath38126.5792649 & 54576.60 & 0.1496(8 ) & @xmath10.3191(8 ) & 0.3525(8 ) & @xmath422 & 0.0667(14 ) & 18.3/13 + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404ab & 267.5533210 & @xmath38144.4019032 & 54576.60 & @xmath10.0152(8 ) & 0.1433(9 ) & 0.1441(9 ) & @xmath423 & 0.0303(10 ) & 21.8/21 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243ab & 281.7647659 & @xmath38155.3788062 & 54314.36 & 0.1244(9 ) & @xmath10.0621(12 ) & 0.1391(10 ) & @xmath424 & 0.0298(11 ) & 26.0/21 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8ab & 313.1476698 & @xmath116.1580321 & 54314.45 & 0.3997(6 ) & 0.1527(7 ) & 0.4279(6 ) & @xmath425 & 0.0339(8 ) & 24.8/29 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158ab & 323.0479693 & @xmath38113.6995052 & 54314.50 & 0.0195(13 ) & @xmath10.1225(8 ) & 0.1240(7 ) & @xmath426 & 0.0360(7 ) & 40.5/43 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518ab & 325.1219856 & @xmath38116.4217247 & 54314.49 & @xmath10.0686(8 ) & @xmath10.0827(8 ) & 0.1075(8 ) & @xmath427 & 0.0325(11 ) & 20.6/23 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & 331.5952108 & @xmath120.7847199 & 54635.61 & 0.0130(9 ) & @xmath10.0318(11 ) & 0.0344(11 ) & @xmath428 & 0.0357(12 ) & 31.2/31 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & 336.1838686 & @xmath101.9830172 & 54316.47 & 0.4685(5 ) & @xmath10.8648(6 ) & 0.9836(6 ) & @xmath429 & 0.0862(11 ) & 35.4/33 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & 343.0457856 & @xmath117.5031008 & 54318.51 & 0.3973(15 ) & 0.1443(39 ) & 0.4226(20 ) & @xmath430 & 0.0632(16 ) & 24.5/27 +      lp  349 - 25ab & @xmath431 & @xmath432 & @xmath433 & 0.0018(6 ) & 0.0030(10 ) & 0.0005(2 ) & @xmath10.46(16 ) & @xmath10.00040(13 ) & @xmath434 & 3 + lp  415 - 20ab & @xmath435 & @xmath436 & @xmath437 & 0.0026(3 ) & 0.0000(1 ) & 0.0025(3 ) & @xmath10.32(5 ) & @xmath10.00006(7 ) & @xmath438 & 5 + lhs  1901ab & @xmath439 & @xmath440 & @xmath441 & @xmath10.0006(1 ) & @xmath10.0032(5 ) & 0.0024(4 ) & 0.19(3 ) & 0.00016(5 ) & @xmath434 & 3 + 2mass  j0746@xmath3812000ab & @xmath442 & @xmath443 & @xmath444 & 0.0025(3 ) & @xmath10.0018(2 ) & @xmath10.0022(3 ) & @xmath10.33(4 ) & @xmath10.00008(2 ) & @xmath434 & 6 + 2mass  j0920@xmath3813517ab & @xmath445 & @xmath446 & @xmath447 & 0.0017(6 ) & 0.0007(3 ) & @xmath10.0017(6 ) & @xmath10.15(5 ) & @xmath10.00044(18 ) & @xmath448 & 4 + lhs  2397aab & @xmath449 & @xmath450 & @xmath451 & 0.0270(24 ) & @xmath10.0104(12 ) & @xmath10.0257(22 ) & @xmath11.51(16 ) & @xmath10.00081(16 ) & @xmath452 & 2 + 2mass  j1534@xmath12952ab & @xmath453 & @xmath454 & @xmath455 & @xmath10.0003(2 ) & @xmath10.0014(6 ) & 0.0012(5 ) & 0.15(7 ) & @xmath10.00001(3 ) & @xmath456 & 7 + 2mass  j2132@xmath3811341ab & @xmath457 & @xmath458 & @xmath459 & @xmath10.0067(12 ) & @xmath10.0008(6 ) & @xmath10.0005(5 ) & 3.11(57 ) & 0.00016(9 ) & @xmath460 & 4 + 2mass  j2206@xmath12047ab & @xmath461 & @xmath462 & @xmath463 & @xmath10.0004(3 ) & @xmath10.0000(1 ) & @xmath10.0001(1 ) & 0.61(54 ) & 0.00000(14 ) & @xmath434 & 1 + denis - p  j2252@xmath11730ab & @xmath464 & @xmath465 & @xmath466 & 0.0001(8 ) & 0.0010(37 ) & 0.0005(16 ) & @xmath10.10(47 ) & 0.00001(15 ) & @xmath467 & 4 +      sdss  j0423@xmath10414ab & 2007 sep 6 & @xmath6 & & & @xmath468 + & & & & & + 2mass  j0700@xmath3813157ab & 2008 nov 3 & @xmath4 & @xmath469 & @xmath470 & @xmath471 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath472 & @xmath473 & @xmath474 + & & & @xmath475 & @xmath476 & @xmath477 + & & & @xmath478 & @xmath479 & @xmath480 + & & & & & + 2mass  j0850@xmath3811057ab & 2006 dec 19 & @xmath4 & @xmath481 & @xmath482 & @xmath483 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath484 & @xmath485 & @xmath486 + & 2011 apr 22 & @xmath6 & & & @xmath487 + & & & & & + 2mass  j0920@xmath3813517ab & 2006 may 5 & @xmath4 & @xmath488 & @xmath489 & @xmath447 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath490 & @xmath491 & @xmath492 + & & & @xmath493 & @xmath494 & @xmath495 + & & & & & + gl  337cd & 2006 may 4 & @xmath4 & @xmath496 & @xmath497 & @xmath498 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath499 & @xmath500 & @xmath501 + & & & @xmath502 & @xmath503 & @xmath504 + & & & & & + 2mass  j1017@xmath3811308ab & 2011 apr 21 & @xmath6 & @xmath505 & @xmath506 & @xmath507 + & & & & & + sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab & 2005 nov 26 & @xmath4 & @xmath508 & @xmath509 & @xmath510 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath511 & @xmath485 & @xmath512 + & & & @xmath513 & @xmath514 & @xmath515 + & & & & & + gl  417bc & 2007 mar 25 & @xmath6 & @xmath516 & @xmath517 & @xmath518 + & & & & & + 2mass  j1225@xmath12739ab & 2010 jan 10 & @xmath4 & @xmath519 & @xmath520 & @xmath521 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath522 & @xmath523 & @xmath524 + & & & @xmath502 & @xmath525 & @xmath526 + & & @xmath6 & @xmath527 & @xmath528 & @xmath529 + & & & & & + denis - p  j1228@xmath11547ab & 2008 jun 30 & & @xmath530 & @xmath531 & @xmath532 + & & & & & + 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab & 2006 jun 3 & @xmath4 & @xmath533 & @xmath534 & @xmath535 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath536 & @xmath537 & @xmath538 + & & & @xmath539 & @xmath540 & @xmath541 + & & & & & + 2mass  j1553@xmath3811532ab & 2010 may 23 & @xmath4 & @xmath542 & @xmath543 & @xmath544 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath545 & @xmath546 & @xmath547 + & & & @xmath548 & @xmath549 & @xmath550 + & & @xmath6 & @xmath551 & @xmath552 & @xmath553 + & & & & & + 2mass  j1728@xmath3813948ab & 2006 jun 3 & @xmath4 & @xmath554 & @xmath555 & @xmath556 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath502 & @xmath557 & @xmath558 + & & & @xmath559 & @xmath485 & @xmath560 + & & & & & + lspm  j1735@xmath3812634ab & 2010 may 23 & @xmath4 & @xmath561 & @xmath562 & @xmath563 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath564 & @xmath565 & @xmath566 + & & @xmath6 & @xmath567 & @xmath568 & @xmath569 + & & & @xmath570 & @xmath571 & @xmath572 + & & & & & + sdss  j2052@xmath11609ab & 2005 oct 11 & @xmath4 & @xmath573 & @xmath574 & @xmath575 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath576 & @xmath577 & @xmath578 + & & @xmath6 & @xmath579 & @xmath580 & @xmath581 + & & & & & + 2mass  j2132@xmath3811341ab & 2008 aug 20 & @xmath4 & @xmath582 & @xmath583 & @xmath459 + & & @xmath5 & @xmath584 & @xmath585 & @xmath586 + & 2007 sep 6 & & & & @xmath587 + & 2010 may 10 & @xmath6 & @xmath588 & @xmath589 & @xmath590 + & & & & & + denis - p  j2252@xmath11730ab & 2010 jul 9 & @xmath6 & & & @xmath591 +      gj  1001bc & 2004 sep 17 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath592 + & & & f170 m & @xmath593 + & 2004 oct 7 & vlt / naco & @xmath4 & @xmath594 + & & & @xmath5 & @xmath595 + & & & & @xmath594 + & & & & + lhs  1070ab & 2003 dec 12 & vlt / naco & @xmath4 & @xmath596 + & & & @xmath5 & @xmath597 + & & & & @xmath598 + & & & & @xmath599 + & & & & + lhs  1070bc & 2003 dec 12 & vlt / naco & @xmath4 & @xmath600 + & & & @xmath5 & @xmath601 + & & & & @xmath602 + & & & & @xmath603 + & & & & + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191ab & 2005 may 22 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath604 + & & & f170 m & @xmath605 + & & & & + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925ab & 2008 aug 10 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath606 + & & & f170 m & @xmath607 + & 2006 sep 25 & vlt / naco & & @xmath608 + & & & & + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & 2004 sep 7 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath609 + & & & f170 m & @xmath610 + & & & & + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & 2003 nov 9 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath611 + & & & f170 m & @xmath612 + & & & & + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & 2004 feb 5 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath613 + & & & f170 m & @xmath614 + & & & & + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & 2005 jun 21 & _ hst_/nicmos & f110w & @xmath615 + & & & f170 m & @xmath616 +        2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & @xmath617 & c & @xmath618 & 26 & @xmath619 + lp  349 - 25ab & @xmath620 & c & @xmath621 & 11 & @xmath622 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & @xmath623 & c & @xmath624 & 17 & @xmath625 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & @xmath626 & c & @xmath627 & 27 & @xmath628 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & @xmath629 & c & @xmath630 & 27 & @xmath631 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & @xmath632 & c & @xmath633 & 6 & @xmath634 + & & & @xmath635 & 27 & @xmath636 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & @xmath637 & c & @xmath638 & 21 & @xmath639 + lhs  1901ab & @xmath640 & c & @xmath641 & 15 & @xmath642 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & @xmath643 & c & @xmath644 & 27 & @xmath645 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & @xmath646 & c & @xmath647 & 6 & @xmath648 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & @xmath649 & c & @xmath650 & 27 & @xmath651 + & & & @xmath652 & 6 & @xmath653 + & & & @xmath654 & 10 & @xmath655 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & @xmath656 & c & @xmath657 & 24 & @xmath658 + & & & @xmath659 & 27 & @xmath660 + lhs  2397aab & @xmath661 & c & @xmath662 & 18 & @xmath663 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & @xmath664 & c & @xmath665 & 6 & @xmath666 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & @xmath667 & c & @xmath668 & 6 & @xmath669 + kelu-1ab & @xmath670 & c & @xmath671 & 6 & @xmath672 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & @xmath673 & c & @xmath674 & 17 & @xmath675 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & @xmath676 & c & @xmath677 & 2 & @xmath678 + & & & @xmath679 & 20 & @xmath680 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & @xmath681 & c & @xmath682 & 24 & @xmath683 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & @xmath684 & c & @xmath685 & 27 & @xmath648 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & @xmath686 & c & @xmath687 & 5 & @xmath688 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & @xmath689 & c & @xmath690 & 6 & @xmath691 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & @xmath689 & & @xmath692 & 27 & @xmath693 +   +   +    gj  1001bc & @xmath694 & 13 & @xmath695 & 25 & @xmath696 + lhs  1070a & @xmath697 & 4 & @xmath698 & 25 & @xmath699 + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & @xmath700 & 17 & @xmath701 & 27 & @xmath702 + teegarden s  star & @xmath703 & 11 & @xmath704 & 13 & @xmath705 + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & @xmath706 & 19 & @xmath707 & 3 & @xmath708 + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & @xmath709 & 27 & @xmath710 & 1 & @xmath711 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & @xmath633 & 6 & @xmath635 & 27 & @xmath712 + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & @xmath713 & 14 & @xmath714 & 16 & @xmath715 + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & @xmath716 & 6 & @xmath717 & 27 & @xmath718 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & @xmath652 & 6 & @xmath654 & 10 & @xmath719 + & & & @xmath650 & 27 & @xmath720 + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & @xmath721 & 19 & @xmath722 & 27 & @xmath723 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & @xmath657 & 24 & @xmath659 & 27 & @xmath724 + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & @xmath725 & 27 & @xmath726 & 24 & @xmath727 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & @xmath728 & 9 & @xmath729 & 12 & @xmath730 + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & @xmath731 & 24 & @xmath732 & 27 & @xmath733 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466ab & @xmath734 & 24 & @xmath735 & 27 & @xmath736 + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & @xmath737 & 6 & @xmath738 & 24 & @xmath739 + & & & @xmath740 & 27 & @xmath741 + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & @xmath742 & 24 & @xmath743 & 27 & @xmath744 + gd  165b & @xmath745 & 25 & @xmath746 & 22 & @xmath747 + lsr  j1425 + 7102 & @xmath748 & 7 & @xmath749 & 19 & @xmath750 + 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & @xmath751 & 6 & @xmath752 & 5 & @xmath753 + lsr  j1610@xmath10040ab & @xmath754 & 7 & @xmath755 & 19 & @xmath711 + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & @xmath756 & 24 & @xmath757 & 6 & @xmath758 + & & & @xmath759 & 27 & @xmath760 + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & @xmath761 & 6 & @xmath762 & 27 & @xmath763 + lp  335 - 12 & @xmath764 & 15 & @xmath765 & 11 & @xmath766 + scr  j1845@xmath16357ab & @xmath767 & 13 & @xmath768 & 8 & @xmath769 + vb  10 & @xmath770 & 18 & @xmath771 & 23 & @xmath772 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & @xmath690 & 6 & @xmath692 & 27 & @xmath773 +        gj  1001bc & l@xmath774 & l@xmath774 & @xmath138 & 110w,170 m & 1 + lp  349 - 25ab & m@xmath227 & m@xmath775 & @xmath138 & & 5 + sdssp  j0423@xmath10414ab & l@xmath227 & t@xmath776 & @xmath6 & 110w,170 m & 1,2 + 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab & l@xmath777 & t@xmath778 & & 110w,170 m & 1 + 2mass  j0700 + 3157ab & l@xmath779 & l@xmath780 & @xmath138 & & 1 + lhs  1901ab & m@xmath233 & m@xmath233 & @xmath138 & & 5 + sdss  j0805 + 4812ab & l@xmath781 & t@xmath774 & & & + 2mass  j0850 + 1057ab & l@xmath227 & l@xmath223 & @xmath138 & 110w,145m,170 m & 1,3 + gl  337cd & l@xmath223 & l@xmath224 & @xmath138 & & 1 + 2mass  j0920 + 3517ab & l@xmath225 & l@xmath226 & @xmath138 & & 1 + sdss  j0926 + 5847ab & t@xmath782 & t@xmath232 & & 110w,170 m & 1 + 2mass  j1017 + 1308ab & l@xmath783 & l@xmath779 & @xmath6 & & 1 + sdss  j1021@xmath10304ab & t@xmath252 & t@xmath774 & @xmath138 & 110w,170 m & 1,2 + gl  417bc & l@xmath784 & l@xmath777 & @xmath6 & & 1 + 2mass  j1146 + 2230ab & l@xmath779 & l@xmath779 & & & + 2mass  j1209@xmath11004ab & t@xmath785 & t@xmath227 & @xmath138 & & 10 + 2mass  j1225@xmath12739ab & t@xmath786 & t@xmath787 & @xmath138 & & 1 + denis - p  j1228@xmath11547ab & l@xmath225 & l@xmath225 & @xmath6 & & 1 + kelu-1ab & l@xmath788 & l@xmath781 & @xmath138 & & 7 + 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab & l@xmath789 & t@xmath774 & @xmath138 & & 1 + sdss  j1534 + 1615ab & t@xmath252 & t@xmath786 & @xmath138 & & 8 + 2mass  j1534@xmath12952ab & t@xmath790 & t@xmath774 & @xmath138 & & 9 + 2mass  j1553 + 1532ab & t@xmath791 & t@xmath792 & @xmath138 & 110w,170 m & 1,2 + 2mass  j1728 + 3948ab & l@xmath232 & l@xmath233 & @xmath138 & 110w,145m,170 m & 1,3 + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & m@xmath792 & l@xmath252 & @xmath138 & & 1 + 2mass  j1750 + 4424ab & m@xmath227 & m@xmath223 & @xmath138 & & 6 + 2mass  j1847 + 5522ab & m@xmath793 & m@xmath794 & @xmath138 & & 6 + sdss  j2052@xmath11609ab & l@xmath795 & t@xmath796 & @xmath138 & 110w,170 m & 1,11 + 2mass  j2101 + 1756ab & l@xmath233 & l@xmath775 & @xmath6 & & 6 + 2mass  j2132 + 1341ab & l@xmath797 & l@xmath795 & @xmath138 & & 1 + 2mass  j2140 + 1625ab & m@xmath787 & m@xmath798 & @xmath138 & & 6 + 2mass  j2206@xmath12047ab & m@xmath787 & m@xmath787 & @xmath138 & & 4 + denis - p  j2252@xmath11730ab & l@xmath797 & t@xmath782 & @xmath6 & 110w,170 m & 1 +   +   +    lhs  1070bc & m@xmath799 & m@xmath798 & & & a + 2mass  j0746 + 2000ab & l@xmath800 & l@xmath796 & & & b + hd  130948bc & l@xmath781 & l@xmath781 & & & c + gl  569bab & m@xmath799 & m@xmath801 & & & d + cfbds  j1458 + 1013ab & t@xmath802 & @xmath14t10 & & & e + scr  j1845@xmath16357ab & m@xmath799 & t@xmath793 & & & f + @xmath238  ind  bab & t@xmath803 & t@xmath793 & & & g + 2mass  j2234 + 4041ab & m@xmath777 & m@xmath777 & & & h +      sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & 000.0564 & @xmath804 & 54301.63 & 0.0708(19 ) & @xmath10.0191(14 ) & 0.1267(13 ) & 0.1281(13 ) & @xmath805 & @xmath806 & 1 & + lsr  j0011 + 5908 & 002.8826 & @xmath807 & 51492.22 & 0.1083(14 ) & @xmath10.8997 & @xmath11.1654 & 1.4723 & @xmath808 & @xmath809 & 18 & + bri  0021@xmath10214 & 006.1027 & @xmath810 & 51071.24 & 0.0866(40 ) & @xmath10.0804(38 ) & 0.1330(60 ) & 0.1550(70 ) & @xmath811 & @xmath812 & 26 & + lhs  1070a & 006.1841 & @xmath813 & 51542.05 &",
    "0.1295(25 ) & @xmath10.1330(50 ) & 0.6401(31 ) & 0.6537(30 ) & @xmath814 & @xmath815 & 6 & + pc  0025 + 0447 & 006.9249 & @xmath816 & 51768.41 & 0.0138(16 ) & 0.0105(4 ) & @xmath10.0008(3 ) & 0.0105(4 ) & @xmath817 & @xmath818 & 8 & + lp  349 - 25ab & 006.9842 & @xmath819 & 54687.57 & 0.0696(9 ) & 0.4039(10 ) & @xmath10.1654(15 ) & 0.4365(9 ) & @xmath384 & @xmath820 & 1 & young ?",
    "+ 2massw  j0030300@xmath1145033 & 007.6256 & @xmath821 & 51840.16 & 0.0374(45 ) & 0.2450(35 ) & @xmath10.0282(18 ) & 0.2466(36 ) & @xmath822 & @xmath823 & 31 & + sdssp  j003259.36 + 141036.6 & 008.2474 & @xmath824 & 51878.20 & 0.0300(50 ) & 0.2730(70 ) & 0.0391(35 ) & 0.2760(70 ) & @xmath825 & @xmath826 & 31 & + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & 008.5116 & @xmath827 & 55051.60 & 0.0687(14 ) & @xmath10.0167(10 ) & @xmath10.3588(8 ) & 0.3592(8 ) & @xmath385 & @xmath828 & 1 & + 2massw  j0036159 + 182110 & 009.0674 & @xmath829 & 51872.12 & 0.1142(8 ) & 0.8991(6 ) & 0.1200(16 ) & 0.9071(6 ) & @xmath830 & @xmath831 & 8 & + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & 012.5873 &",
    "@xmath832 & 55050.57 & 0.0946(24 ) & 1.1506(21 ) & 0.9391(21 ) & 1.4851(21 ) & @xmath386 & @xmath833 & 1 & + rg  0050@xmath12722 & 013.2279 & @xmath834 & 51128.04 & 0.0460(100 ) & 0.0562(48 ) & 0.0901(45 ) & 0.1063(45 ) & @xmath835 & @xmath836 & 27 & + cfbds",
    "j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & 014.7961 & @xmath837 & 55068.57 & 0.1032(21 ) & 0.8847(11 ) & 0.0440(12 ) & 0.8858(11 ) & @xmath387 & @xmath838 & 1 & + sdssp  j010752.33 + 004156.1 & 016.9684 & @xmath839 & 51789.23 & 0.0641(45 ) & 0.6280(70 ) & 0.0914(36 ) & 0.6350(70 ) & @xmath840 & @xmath841 & 31 & + cti  012657.5 + 280202 & 021.9132 & @xmath842 & 50753.20 & 0.0305(5 ) & @xmath10.1334(3 ) & @xmath10.1348(3 ) & 0.1896(2 ) & @xmath843 & @xmath844 & 8 & + l  726 - 8ab & 024.7550 & @xmath845 & 51026.33 & 0.3750(40 ) & 3.2771(6 ) & 0.5908(6 ) & 3.3299(6 ) & @xmath846 & @xmath847 & 12 & + 2mass  j01490895 + 2956131 & 027.2873 & @xmath848 & 50755.30 & 0.0444(7 ) & 0.1757(8 ) & @xmath10.4021(7 ) & 0.4388(7 ) & @xmath849 & @xmath850 & 8 & + sdss  j015141.69 + 124429.6 & 027.9232 & @xmath851 & 50704.37 & 0.0467(34 ) & 0.7418(42 ) & @xmath10.0368(21 ) & 0.7427(42 ) & @xmath852 & @xmath853 & 31 & + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925ab & 031.3725 & @xmath854 & 51869.20 & 0.0506(15 ) & 0.4344(8 ) & 0.0549(8 ) & 0.4378(8 ) & @xmath855 & @xmath856 & 8 & triple + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & 031.9285 & @xmath857 & 51774.32 & 0.0293(40 ) & 0.1588(31 ) & @xmath10.0143(39 ) & 0.1595(30 ) & @xmath858 & @xmath859 & 20 & + 2massi  j0243137@xmath1245329 & 040.8072 & @xmath860 & 51129.17 & 0.0936(36 ) & @xmath10.2878(35 ) & @xmath10.2076(29 ) & 0.3548(41 ) & @xmath861 & @xmath862 & 31 & + bri  b0246@xmath11703 & 042.1708 & @xmath863 & 51026.38 & 0.0620(50 ) & 0.0210(90 ) & @xmath10.2730(120 ) & 0.2740(120 ) & @xmath864 & @xmath865 & 27 & + tvlm  831 - 154910 & 042.5486 & @xmath866 & 51116.18 & 0.0302(45 ) & 0.0660(50 ) & @xmath10.0559(44 ) & 0.0870(60 ) & @xmath867 & @xmath868 & 26 & + tvlm  831 - 161058 & 042.8053 & @xmath869 & 51788.42 & 0.0177(22 ) & 0.2340(70 ) & 0.0399(43 ) & 0.2380(70 ) & @xmath870 & @xmath871 & 26 & + tvlm  831 - 165166 & 042.9277 & @xmath872 & 51084.21 & 0.0195(39 ) & 0.4010(110 ) & 0.1970(70 ) & 0.4470(110 ) & @xmath873 & @xmath874 & 26 & + tvlm  832 - 10443 & 043.1095 & @xmath875 & 51789.29 & 0.0360(4 ) & @xmath10.1752(2 ) & @xmath10.1032(3 ) & 0.2033(1 ) & @xmath876 & @xmath877 & 8 & + teegarden s  star & 043.2535 & @xmath878 & 51486.22 & 0.2592(9 ) & 3.4228 & @xmath13.8081 & 5.1203 & @xmath879 & @xmath880 & 11 & + pso  j043.5395 + 02.3995 & 043.5401 & @xmath881 & 55584.29 & 0.1710(450 ) & 2.5490(110 ) & 0.2310(110 ) & 2.5590(110 ) & @xmath882 & @xmath883 & 19 & + denis - p  j0255.0@xmath14700 & 043.7649 & @xmath884 & 51153.08 & 0.2014(39 ) & 0.9996(27 ) & @xmath10.5655(37 ) & 1.1485(22 ) & @xmath885 & @xmath886 & 7 & + tvlm  832 - 42500 & 045.6455 & @xmath887 & 51084.34 & 0.0363(40 ) & 0.6720(190 ) & 0.3630(140 ) & 0.7640(210 ) & @xmath888 & @xmath889 & 26 & + lp  412 - 31 & 050.2486 & @xmath890 & 50747.41 & 0.0689(6 ) & 0.3493(5 ) & @xmath10.2557(6 ) & 0.4329(3 ) & @xmath891 & @xmath892 & 8 & + 2massw  j0326137 + 295015 & 051.5570 & @xmath893 & 50771.36 & 0.0310(15 ) & @xmath10.0188(8 ) & 0.0668(8 ) & 0.0694(8 ) & @xmath894 & @xmath895 & 8 & + 2massi  j0328426 + 230205 & 052.1777 & @xmath896 & 50748.33 & 0.0331(42 ) & 0.0126(26 ) & @xmath10.0597(49 ) & 0.0610(49 ) & @xmath897 & @xmath898 & 31 & + lspm  j0330 + 5413 & 052.7038 & @xmath899 & 51172.21 & 0.1038(14 ) & @xmath10.1510 & @xmath10.0050 & 0.1511 & @xmath900 & @xmath901 & 18 & + lp  944 - 20 & 054.8967 & @xmath902 & 51154.22 & 0.2014(42 ) & 0.3240(80 ) & 0.2960(70 ) & 0.4390(80 ) & @xmath903 & @xmath904 & 27 & + 2masp  j0345432 + 254023 & 056.4299 & @xmath905 & 51530.21 & 0.0371(5 ) & @xmath10.0960(3 ) & @xmath10.0357(4 ) & 0.1024(3 ) & @xmath906 & @xmath907 & 8 & + lhs  1604 & 057.7502 & @xmath908 & 51828.37 & 0.0681(19 ) & 0.0086(11 ) & @xmath10.4724(10 ) & 0.4725(10 ) & @xmath909 & @xmath910 & 21 & over - lum .",
    "+ 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & 063.8381 & @xmath911 & 55070.64 & 0.1752(17 ) & 2.2143(12 ) & 0.5361(12 ) & 2.2782(12 ) & @xmath388 & @xmath912 & 1 & + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & 065.9517 & @xmath913 & 54341.64 & 0.0721(11 ) & @xmath10.3276(5 ) & 0.0912(5 ) & 0.3401(5 ) & @xmath389 & @xmath914 & 1 & + lhs  191 & 066.5830 & @xmath915 & 51569.05 & 0.0584(18 ) & @xmath10.1182(16 ) & @xmath11.0154(17 ) & 1.0223(17 ) & @xmath916 & @xmath917 & 21 & + lhs  197 & 071.5771 & @xmath918 & 51545.16 & 0.0523(10 ) & 1.0258(7 ) & @xmath10.6345(7 ) & 1.2062(7 ) & @xmath919 & @xmath920 & 21 & + lsr  j0510 + 2713 & 077.5838 & @xmath921 & 50786.31 & 0.1007(16 ) & @xmath10.2149 & @xmath10.6339 & 0.6694 & @xmath922 & @xmath923 & 18 & + lhs  1742a & 077.6623 & @xmath924 & 50755.39 & 0.0134(10 ) & 0.7727(3 ) & @xmath10.3075(3 ) & 0.8316(3 ) & @xmath925 & @xmath926 & 21 & subdwarf + lsr  j0515 + 5911 & 078.8789 & @xmath927 & 51197.13 & 0.0657(13 ) & 0.1127 & @xmath11.0093 & 1.0156 & @xmath928 & @xmath929 & 18 & + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & 079.7498 & @xmath930 & 54366.66 & 0.0437(8 ) & @xmath10.0700(5 ) & @xmath10.2756(5 ) & 0.2844(5 ) & @xmath390 & @xmath931 & 1 & + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & 083.2228 & @xmath932 & 51238.10 & 0.0423(18 ) & 2.0441(15 ) & @xmath11.6654(15 ) & 2.6367(16 ) & @xmath933 & @xmath934 & 23 & subdwarf + lhs  207 & 084.5527 & @xmath935 & 51822.51 & 0.0451(14 ) & 0.8412(6 ) & @xmath10.8581(6 ) & 1.2016(6 ) & @xmath936 & @xmath937 & 21 & + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & 084.9667 & @xmath938 & 51116.34 & 0.0761(22 ) & 0.1643(22 ) & 0.3159(32 ) & 0.3561(35 ) & @xmath939 & @xmath940 & 31 & + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & 089.8314 & @xmath941 & 54519.25 & 0.0966(10 ) & 0.5718(16 ) & @xmath10.3330(16 ) & 0.6617(16 ) & @xmath391 & @xmath942 & 1 & over - lum .",
    "+ 2mass  j06411840@xmath14322329 & 100.3267 & @xmath943 & 51271.04 & 0.0560(60 ) & 0.2160(90 ) & 0.6130(90 ) & 0.6490(90 ) & @xmath944 & @xmath945 & 2 & + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & 105.1533 & @xmath946 & 54513.30 & 0.0867(12 ) & 0.1424(7 ) & @xmath10.5546(7 ) & 0.5726(7 ) & @xmath392 & @xmath947 & 1 & + eso  207 - 61 & 106.9720 & @xmath948 & 51600.09 & 0.0541(45 ) & @xmath10.0100(60 ) & 0.3910(70 ) & 0.3910(70 ) & @xmath949 & @xmath950 & 27 & + lhs  1901ab & 107.7987 & @xmath951 & 54513.31 & 0.0742(10 ) & 0.3544(9 ) & @xmath10.5662(9 ) & 0.6680(9 ) & @xmath393 & @xmath952 & 1 & + 2mass  j07193188@xmath15051410 & 109.8828 & @xmath953 & 51615.10 & 0.0326(24 ) & 0.1981(33 ) & @xmath10.0614(38 ) & 0.2074(33 ) & @xmath954 & @xmath955 & 2 & + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & 110.6137 & @xmath956 & 55257.50 & 0.2428(24 ) & @xmath10.9037(17 ) & 0.3518(14 ) & 0.9698(17 ) & @xmath957 & @xmath958 & 17 & + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & 111.8297 & @xmath959 & 55125.63 & 0.1125(9 ) & 1.0471(9 ) & @xmath10.7641(9 ) & 1.2962(9 ) & @xmath394 & @xmath960 & 1 & + lhs  234 & 115.0801 & @xmath961 & 50894.11 & 0.1070(16 ) & 1.1440(19 ) & @xmath10.5530(27 ) & 1.2706(16 ) & @xmath962 & @xmath963 & 6 & + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & 116.6764 & @xmath964 & 54517.34 & 0.0811(9 ) & @xmath10.3659(7 ) & @xmath10.0527(5 ) & 0.3697(7 ) & @xmath395 & @xmath965 & 1 & + lp  423 - 31 & 118.0996 & @xmath966 & 50752.50 & 0.0544(10 ) & 0.1813 & @xmath10.3562 & 0.3997 & @xmath967 & @xmath968 & 11 & + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0ab & 121.3814 & @xmath969 & 54428.60 & 0.0431(10 ) & @xmath10.4583(7 ) & 0.0498(7 ) & 0.4610(7 ) & @xmath396 & @xmath970 & 1 & + denis  j081730.0@xmath1615520 & 124.3750 & @xmath971 & 51545.24 & 0.2030(130 ) & @xmath10.3300(500 ) & 1.0970(430 ) & 1.1470(420 ) & @xmath972 & @xmath973 & 3 & + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & 126.3320 & @xmath974 & 50822.40 & 0.0938(10 ) & @xmath10.5097(16 ) & @xmath10.2884(19 ) & 0.5856(14 ) & @xmath975 & @xmath976 & 8 & + ulas  j082707.67@xmath1020408.2 & 126.7820 & @xmath977 & 53736.50 & 0.0260(31 ) & 0.0267(27 ) & @xmath10.1089(24 ) & 0.1122(23 ) & @xmath978 & @xmath979 & 20 & + lhs  248 & 127.4562 & @xmath980 & 50846.25 & 0.2758(30 ) & @xmath11.1390 & @xmath10.6056 & 1.2900 & @xmath981 & @xmath982 & 29 & + sdssp  j083008.12 + 482847.4 & 127.5344 & @xmath983 & 51192.31 & 0.0764(34 ) & @xmath11.0060(60 ) & @xmath10.7698(48 ) & 1.2670(70 ) & @xmath984 & @xmath985 & 31 & + lhs  2021 & 127.6357 & @xmath986 & 51610.13 & 0.0598(45 ) & @xmath10.5002(34 ) & @xmath10.4487(36 ) & 0.6720(22 ) & @xmath987 & @xmath988 & 7 & + lhs  2026 & 128.1270 & @xmath989 & 51144.29 & 0.0508(6 ) & 0.1648(3 ) & @xmath10.4691(3 ) & 0.4972(3 ) & @xmath990 & @xmath991 & 21 & + 2mass  j08354256@xmath10819237 & 128.9274 & @xmath992 & 51201.24 & 0.1170(110 ) & @xmath10.5200(90 ) & 0.2850(100 ) & 0.5930(80 ) & @xmath993 & @xmath994 & 2 & + sdssp  j083717.22@xmath1000018.3 & 129.3217 & @xmath995 & 51259.68 & 0.0340(130 ) & @xmath10.0150(80 ) & @xmath10.1720(170 ) & 0.1730(170 ) & @xmath996 & @xmath997 & 31 & + lhs  2034 & 130.1240 & @xmath998 & 51105.50 & 0.0713(11 ) & @xmath10.8132(6 ) & @xmath10.4480(6 ) & 0.9284(6 ) & @xmath999 & @xmath1000 & 21 & + lhs  2065 & 133.4008 & @xmath1001 & 51173.27 & 0.1173(15 ) & @xmath10.5096(9 ) & @xmath10.2004(10 ) & 0.5476(9 ) & @xmath1002 & @xmath1003 & 21 & +",
    "2massi  j0856479 + 223518ab & 134.1992 & @xmath1004 & 54428.62 & 0.0324(10 ) & @xmath10.1869(10 ) & @xmath10.0132(8 ) & 0.1874(10 ) & @xmath398 & @xmath1005 & 1 & + lp  368 - 128 & 135.0983 & @xmath1006 & 51123.47 & 0.1569(27 ) & @xmath10.5097(37 ) & @xmath10.5823(34 ) & 0.7739(22 ) & @xmath1007 & @xmath1008 & 14 & + ulas  j090116.23@xmath1030635.0 & 135.3176 & @xmath1009 & 53736.50 & 0.0626(26 ) & @xmath10.0386(23 ) & @xmath10.2612(28 ) & 0.2640(28 ) & @xmath1010 & @xmath1011 & 20 & + denis - p  j0909.9@xmath10658 & 137.4896 & @xmath1012 & 51185.36 & 0.0425(42 ) & @xmath10.1839(26 ) & 0.0207(30 ) & 0.1851(25 ) & @xmath1013 & @xmath1014 & 2 & + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742ab & 140.0506 & @xmath1015 & 54427.66 & 0.0344(8 ) & @xmath10.1889(7 ) & @xmath10.1985(7 ) & 0.2740(8 ) & @xmath399 & @xmath1016 & 1 & + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & 141.5642 & @xmath1017 & 54513.41 & 0.0437(11 ) & 0.0102(5 ) & @xmath10.2163(5 ) & 0.2165(5 ) & @xmath400 & @xmath1018 & 1 & + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & 144.3953 & @xmath1019 & 51636.28 & 0.1634(18 ) & 0.9411(12 ) & @xmath11.3155(12 ) & 1.6174(12 ) & @xmath1020 & @xmath1021 & 23 & low - z ? + 2mass  j09393548@xmath12448279 & 144.8979 & @xmath1022 & 51584.13 & 0.1873(46 ) & 0.5734(23 ) & @xmath11.0447(25 ) & 1.1917(25 ) & @xmath1023 & @xmath1024 & 5 & low - z ? + tvlm  262 - 111511 & 145.5939 & @xmath1025 & 50926.24 & 0.0340(60 ) & 0.1680(80 ) & @xmath10.2000(90 ) & 0.2610(120 ) & @xmath1026 & @xmath1027 & 26 & + ulas  j094806.06 + 064805.0 & 147.0252 & @xmath1028 & 53736.50 & 0.0272(42 ) & 0.1990(70 ) & @xmath10.2740(70 ) & 0.3390(70 ) & @xmath1029 & @xmath1030 & 20 & + tvlm  262 - 70502 & 147.9487 & @xmath1031 & 50931.23 & 0.0256(40 ) & 0.0969(47 ) & @xmath10.1760(70 ) & 0.2010(80 ) & @xmath1032 & @xmath1033 & 26 & + 2mass  j09522188@xmath11924319ab & 148.0912 & @xmath1034 & 50931.11 & 0.0338(30 ) & @xmath10.0611(35 ) & @xmath10.1016(28 ) & 0.1186(21 ) & @xmath1035 & @xmath1036 & 7 & + 2mass  j10043929@xmath13335189 & 151.1637 & @xmath1037 & 51300.99 & 0.0550(60 ) & 0.2435(37 ) & @xmath10.2533(37 ) & 0.3514(37 ) & @xmath1038 & @xmath1039 & 2 & + tvlm  263 - 71765 & 152.7510 & @xmath1040 & 51230.33 & 0.0319(29 ) & @xmath10.1330(60 ) & @xmath10.1490(60 ) & 0.2000(70 ) & @xmath1041 & @xmath1042 & 26 & + ssspm  j1013@xmath11356 & 153.2806 & @xmath1043 & 51214.24 & 0.0203(20 ) & 0.0691(13 ) & @xmath11.0249(13 ) & 1.0272(13 ) & @xmath1044 & @xmath1045 & 23 & subdwarf + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839ab & 154.2818 & @xmath1046 & 54514.44 & 0.0302(14 ) & 0.0479(5 ) & @xmath10.1178(5 ) & 0.1272(5 ) & @xmath401 & @xmath1011 & 1 & + ulas  j101821.78 + 072547.1 & 154.5908 & @xmath1047 & 53736.50 & 0.0250(20 ) & @xmath10.1837(26 ) & @xmath10.0151(31 ) & 0.1843(26 ) & @xmath1048 & @xmath1049 & 20 & + 2mass  j10185879@xmath12909535 & 154.7450 & @xmath1050 & 51243.10 & 0.0353(32 ) & @xmath10.3401(20 ) & @xmath10.0939(26 ) & 0.3529(19 ) & @xmath1051 & @xmath1052 & 2 & + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & 155.2902 & @xmath1053 & 54514.45 & 0.0299(13 ) & @xmath10.1626(6 ) & @xmath10.0745(7 ) & 0.1789(6 ) & @xmath402 & @xmath1054 & 1 & + tvlm  213 - 2005 & 155.3643 & @xmath1055 & 51175.45 & 0.0301(4 ) & @xmath10.3856(1 ) & 0.0514(7 ) & 0.3890(1 ) & @xmath1056 & @xmath1057 & 8 & + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & 161.9744 & @xmath1058 & 50842.42 & 0.0947(38 ) & @xmath11.6620(70 ) & @xmath10.4741(42 ) & 1.7280(80 ) & @xmath1059 & @xmath1060 & 31 & + lhs  292 & 162.0524 & @xmath1061 & 51203.31 & 0.2203(36 ) & 0.6162 & @xmath11.5252 & 1.6450 & @xmath1062 & @xmath968 & 29 & + lhs  2314 & 162.2641 & @xmath1063 & 51586.21 & 0.0411(23 ) & @xmath10.3651(15 ) & @xmath10.4623(15 ) & 0.5891(14 ) & @xmath1064 & @xmath1065 & 21 & + wolf  359 & 164.1203 & @xmath1066 & 51604.20 & 0.4191(21 ) & @xmath13.8467 & @xmath12.6935 & 4.6960 & @xmath1067 & @xmath1068 & 29 & + denis - p  j1058.7@xmath11548 & 164.6995 & @xmath1069 & 50897.23 & 0.0577(10 ) & @xmath10.2529(5 ) & 0.0414(4 ) & 0.2563(5 ) & @xmath1070 & @xmath1071 & 8 & + ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 & 165.5410 & @xmath1072 & 51264.16 & 0.0181(5 ) & @xmath10.0671(6 ) & @xmath10.0140(6 ) & 0.0686(6 ) & @xmath1073 & @xmath1074 & 25 & twa + lhs  2351 & 166.5791 & @xmath1075 & 51589.22 & 0.0481(31 ) & @xmath10.3290(90 ) & 0.3720(90 ) & 0.4970(120 ) & @xmath1076 & @xmath1077 & 27 & + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & 167.5412 & @xmath1078 & 54514.50 & 0.0521(12 ) & @xmath10.2171(7 ) & @xmath10.2809(7 ) & 0.3550(7 ) & @xmath403 & @xmath1079 & 1 & + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & 168.7033 & @xmath1080 & 55280.39 & 0.1792(14 ) & @xmath13.0189(11 ) & @xmath10.3840(16 ) & 3.0432(11 ) & @xmath404 & @xmath1081 & 1 & + lhs  2397aab & 170.4539 & @xmath1082 & 54520.49 & 0.0730(21 ) & @xmath10.4869(23 ) & @xmath10.0614(18 ) & 0.4908(23 ) & @xmath405 & @xmath1083 & 1 & + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & 176.6441 & @xmath1084 & 54514.51 & 0.0349(10 ) & 0.0256(7 ) & 0.0894(8 ) & 0.0930(8 ) & @xmath406 & @xmath1085 & 1 & + ulas  j115038.79 + 094942.9 & 177.6616 & @xmath1086 & 53736.50 & 0.0170(80 ) & @xmath10.1070(160 ) & @xmath10.0320(80 ) & 0.1120(160 ) & @xmath1087 & @xmath1088 & 20 & + lhs  2471 & 178.4695 & @xmath1089 & 51607.32 & 0.0703(27 ) & 0.2572(19 ) & @xmath10.8536(18 ) & 0.8915(18 ) & @xmath1090 & @xmath1091 & 21 & + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254b & 181.8894 & @xmath1092 & 51300.18 & 0.0191(4 ) & @xmath10.0642(4 ) & @xmath10.0226(4 ) & 0.0681(4 ) & @xmath1093 & @xmath1094 & 10 & twa , planet + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & 181.8894 & @xmath1092 & 51300.18 & 0.0191(4 ) & @xmath10.0642(4 ) & @xmath10.0226(4 ) & 0.0681(4 ) & @xmath1093 & @xmath1094 & 10 & twa + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008ab & 182.4851 & @xmath1095 & 54513.52 & 0.0458(10 ) & 0.2661(5 ) & @xmath10.3554(6 ) & 0.4440(6 ) & @xmath407 & @xmath1096 & 1 & + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & 184.2963 & @xmath1097 & 51208.26 & 0.0908(22 ) & @xmath11.0544(17 ) & 0.0756(18 ) & 1.0571(17 ) & @xmath1098 & @xmath1099 & 28 & + bri  b1222@xmath11222 & 186.2176 & @xmath1100 & 50903.27 & 0.0586(38 ) & @xmath10.2610(110 ) & @xmath10.1870(110 ) & 0.3220(110 ) & @xmath1101 & @xmath1102 & 27 & + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466ab & 186.4763 & @xmath1103 & 50998.97 & 0.0751(25 ) & 0.3849(19 ) & @xmath10.6282(26 ) & 0.7368(29 ) & @xmath1104 & @xmath1105 & 28 & + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & 187.0639 & @xmath1106 & 54514.54 & 0.0448(18 ) & 0.1344(9 ) & @xmath10.1853(9 ) & 0.2289(9 ) & @xmath408 & @xmath1107 & 1 & + 2mass  j12373919 + 6526148 & 189.4133 & @xmath1108 & 51250.47 & 0.0961(48 ) & @xmath11.0020(80 ) & @xmath10.5250(60 ) & 1.1310(90 ) & @xmath1109 & @xmath1110 & 31 & + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537ab & 189.8645 & @xmath1111 & 54513.53 & 0.0424(21 ) & 0.1252(11 ) & @xmath10.0004(10 ) & 0.1252(11 ) & @xmath409 & @xmath1112 & 1 & + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & 193.7247 & @xmath1113 & 51202.38 & 0.0849(19 ) & @xmath10.4787(20 ) & 0.1301(34 ) & 0.4961(18 ) & @xmath1114 & @xmath1115 & 8 & + ssspm  j1256@xmath11408 & 194.0586 & @xmath1116 & 51238.21 & 0.0188(19 ) & @xmath10.7399(13 ) & @xmath11.0006(14 ) & 1.2445(14 ) & @xmath1117 & @xmath1118 & 23 & subdwarf + sdss  j125637.13@xmath1022452.4 & 194.1549 & @xmath1119 & 51220.27 & 0.0111(29 ) & @xmath10.5121(19 ) & @xmath10.2977(19 ) & 0.5923(19 ) & @xmath1120 & @xmath1121 & 23 & subdwarf + kelu-1ab & 196.4168 & @xmath1122 & 54514.56 & 0.0497(24 ) & @xmath10.2992(12 ) & @xmath10.0041(15 ) & 0.2992(12 ) & @xmath410 & @xmath1123 & 1 & + lspm  j1314 + 1320ab & 198.5850 & @xmath1124 & 51573.43 & 0.0610(28 ) & @xmath10.2424 & @xmath10.1856 & 0.3053 & @xmath1125 & @xmath1126 & 18 & + ulas  j131508.42 + 082627.4 & 198.7851 & @xmath1127 & 53736.50 & 0.0430(80 ) & @xmath10.0600(90 ) & @xmath10.0960(90 ) & 0.1130(100 ) & @xmath1128 & @xmath1129 & 20 & + sdssp  j132629.82@xmath1003831.5 & 201.6242 & @xmath1130 & 51212.34 & 0.0500(60 ) & @xmath10.2260(80 ) & @xmath10.1070(60 ) & 0.2510(90 ) & @xmath1131 & @xmath1132 & 31 & + 2massw  j1328550 + 211449 & 202.2293 & @xmath1133 & 51321.15 & 0.0310(38 ) & 0.2192(17 ) & @xmath10.4282(18 ) & 0.4811(18 ) & @xmath1134 & @xmath1135 & 8 & + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & 203.9728 & @xmath1136 & 55287.48 & 0.0999(16 ) & @xmath10.1908(14 ) & @xmath10.2024(14 ) & 0.2782(12 ) & @xmath411 & @xmath1137 & 1 & + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & 206.6931 & @xmath1138 & 51943.33 & 0.0683(23 ) & @xmath10.5032(32 ) & @xmath10.1143(19 ) & 0.5160(33 ) & @xmath1139 & @xmath1140 & 28 & + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330ab & 211.2071 & @xmath1141 & 54515.60 & 0.0421(11 ) & 0.3448(10 ) & @xmath10.0108(14 ) & 0.3450(10 ) & @xmath412 & @xmath1142 & 1 & + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & 214.1009 & @xmath1143 & 55307.42 & 0.1097(13 ) & 0.0952(14 ) & 0.1329(14 ) & 0.1635(14 ) & @xmath413 & @xmath1144 & 1 & low - z ?",
    "+ lsr  j1425 + 7102 & 216.2713 & @xmath1145 & 51318.21 & 0.0134(5 ) & @xmath10.6050(3 ) & @xmath10.1599(10 ) & 0.6258(2 ) & @xmath1146 & @xmath1147 & 9 & subdwarf + lhs  2919 & 217.0175 & @xmath1148 & 51227.42 & 0.0828(41 ) & @xmath10.3584 & @xmath10.4742 & 0.5944 & @xmath1149 & @xmath1150 & 18 & + lhs  2924 & 217.1801 & @xmath1151 & 51612.34 & 0.0908(13 ) & @xmath10.3457(4 ) & @xmath10.7079(4 ) & 0.7878(4 ) & @xmath1152 & @xmath1153 & 21 & + lhs  2930 & 217.6578 & @xmath1154 & 51251.47 & 0.1038(14 ) & @xmath10.8025(7 ) & 0.1668(6 ) & 0.8197(7 ) & @xmath1155 & @xmath1156 & 21 & + sdss  j143517.20@xmath1004612.9 & 218.8217 & @xmath1157 & 51285.21 & 0.0100(50 ) & 0.0220(80 ) & 0.0100(60 ) & 0.0250(90 ) & @xmath1158 & @xmath1159 & 31 & + sdss  j143535.72@xmath1004347.0 & 218.8989 & @xmath1160 & 51285.21 & 0.0160(60 ) & 0.0218(46 ) & @xmath10.1050(90 ) & 0.1080(90 ) & @xmath1161 & @xmath1162 & 31 & + lhs  377 & 219.7513 & @xmath1163 & 51614.38 & 0.0284(8 ) & @xmath10.0115(2 ) & @xmath11.2158(3 ) & 1.2159(3 ) & @xmath1164 & @xmath1165 & 21 & subdwarf + 2massw  j1439284 + 192915 & 219.8682 & @xmath1166 & 50609.26 & 0.0696(5 ) & @xmath11.2298(7 ) & 0.4067(22 ) & 1.2953(2 ) & @xmath1167 & @xmath1168 & 8 & + ssspm  j1444@xmath12019 & 221.0861 & @xmath1169 & 50941.14 & 0.0617(21 ) & @xmath12.8939(25 ) & @xmath11.9549(25 ) & 3.4924(25 ) & @xmath1170 & @xmath1171 & 23 & subdwarf + sdssp  j144600.60 + 002452.0 & 221.5026 & @xmath1172 & 51641.24 & 0.0455(33 ) & 0.1800(70 ) & @xmath10.0655(41 ) & 0.1910(70 ) & @xmath1173 & @xmath1174 & 31 & + lhs  3003 & 224.1596 & @xmath1175 & 50990.95 & 0.1590(50 ) & @xmath10.4700(100 ) & @xmath10.8440(120 ) & 0.9660(130 ) & @xmath1176 & @xmath1177 & 27 & + cfbds  j145829 + 10134ab & 224.6225 & @xmath1178 & 55283.56 & 0.0313(25 ) & 0.1740(21 ) & @xmath10.3818(25 ) & 0.4196(26 ) & @xmath414 & @xmath1179 & 1 & + tvlm  513 - 46546 & 225.2841 & @xmath1180 & 51613.40 & 0.0944(6 ) & @xmath10.0246(3 ) & @xmath10.0579(4 ) & 0.0629(4 ) & @xmath1181 & @xmath1182 & 8 & + tvlm  513 - 42404 & 225.5888 & @xmath1183 & 51320.26 & 0.0350(100 ) & @xmath10.1210(90 ) & @xmath10.0380(70 ) & 0.1270(90 ) & @xmath1184 & @xmath1185 & 26 & + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & 225.8321 & @xmath1186 & 54575.47 & 0.1572(22 ) & 0.0901(16 ) & 0.5618(16 ) & 0.5690(16 ) & @xmath415 & @xmath1187 & 1 & + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & 226.0493 & @xmath1188 & 55050.24 & 0.0461(15 ) & 0.3737(19 ) & @xmath10.3692(20 ) & 0.5253(19 ) & @xmath416 & @xmath1189 & 1 & over - lum .",
    "+ 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & 226.9487 & @xmath1190 & 50936.22 & 0.1364(6 ) & @xmath10.1615(15 ) & @xmath10.8885(6 ) & 0.9031(5 ) & @xmath1191 & @xmath1192 & 8 & + tvlm  868 - 110639 & 227.5702 & @xmath1193 & 51257.27 & 0.0612(47 ) & @xmath10.4050(120 ) & 0.0240(60 ) & 0.4060(120 ) & @xmath1194 & @xmath1195 & 26 & + tvlm  513 - 8328 & 228.5856 & @xmath1196 & 50613.29 & 0.0241(45 ) & @xmath10.1130(80 ) & @xmath10.0480(70 ) & 0.1230(90 ) & @xmath1197 & @xmath1198 & 26 & + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1ab & 233.5711 & @xmath1199 & 54515.65 & 0.0249(11 ) & @xmath10.0799(7 ) & @xmath10.0361(8 ) & 0.0877(7 ) & @xmath417 & @xmath1200 & 1 & + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & 233.7083 & @xmath1201 & 54515.66 & 0.0624(13 ) & 0.0934(10 ) & @xmath10.2600(13 ) & 0.2763(13 ) & @xmath418 & @xmath1202 & 1 & + denis - p  j153941.9@xmath1052042 & 234.9246 & @xmath1203 & 51256.33 & 0.0645(34 ) & 0.6013(27 ) & 0.1047(34 ) & 0.6104(26 ) & @xmath1204 & @xmath1205 & 2 & + wisepa  j154151.66@xmath1225025.2 & 235.4649 & @xmath1206 & 55665.00 & 0.3500(1100 ) & @xmath10.7800(2300 ) & @xmath10.2100(2600 ) & 0.8500(2300 ) & @xmath1207 & @xmath1208 & 16 & + 2mass  j15462718@xmath13325111 & 236.6133 & @xmath1209 & 51003.16 & 0.0880(19 ) & 0.1211(23 ) & 0.1901(23 ) & 0.2254(22 ) & @xmath1210 & @xmath1211 & 28 & + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236ab & 238.2585 & @xmath1212 & 54576.51 & 0.0751(9 ) & @xmath10.3858(7 ) & 0.1662(8 ) & 0.4201(7 ) & @xmath419 & @xmath1213 & 1 & + lsr  j1610@xmath10040ab & 242.6208 & @xmath1214 & 51243.36 & 0.0310(3 ) & @xmath10.7942(21 ) & @xmath11.2090(14 ) & 1.4465(2 ) & @xmath1215 & @xmath1216 & 9 & subdwarf + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & 246.0599 & @xmath1217 & 51290.23 & 0.0909(12 ) & @xmath10.3728(16 ) & @xmath10.0091(19 ) & 0.3730(16 ) & @xmath1218 & @xmath1219 & 28 & + 2mass  j16262034 + 3925190 & 246.5848 & @xmath1220 & 50932.43 & 0.0299(11 ) & @xmath11.3815(10 ) & 0.2394(10 ) & 1.4021(10 ) & @xmath1221 & @xmath1222 & 23 & subdwarf + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & 247.1624 & @xmath1223 & 54576.52 & 0.0751(9 ) & 0.4123(8 ) & @xmath10.4430(8 ) & 0.6052(8 ) & @xmath420 & @xmath1224 & 1 & + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & 248.1213 & @xmath1225 & 50607.36 & 0.0656(21 ) & 0.2931(9 ) & @xmath10.0538(10 ) & 0.2980(9 ) & @xmath1226 & @xmath1227 & 8 & + lhs  3241 & 251.6315 & @xmath1228 & 51316.27 & 0.0843(8 ) & @xmath10.3690 & @xmath10.3945 & 0.5402 & @xmath1229 & @xmath1230 & 11 & + wise  j164715.57 + 563208.3 & 251.8159 & @xmath1231 & 51308.41 & 0.1160(290 ) & @xmath10.1660(90 ) & 0.2420(80 ) & 0.2940(80 ) & @xmath1232 & @xmath1233 & 16 & very red + 2massw  j1658037 + 702701 & 254.5159 & @xmath1234 & 51626.38 & 0.0539(7 ) & @xmath10.1468(7 ) & @xmath10.3133(9 ) & 0.3460(9 ) & @xmath1235 & @xmath1236 & 8 & + denis - p  j170548.3@xmath1051645 & 256.4514 & @xmath1237 & 51268.32 & 0.0450(120 ) & 0.1110(100 ) & @xmath10.1150(100 ) & 0.1600(100 ) & @xmath1238 & @xmath1185 & 2 & + 2massi  j1711457 + 223204 & 257.9406 & @xmath1239 & 50614.33 & 0.0331(48 ) & 0.0310(70 ) & @xmath10.0042(39 ) & 0.0310(80 ) & @xmath1240 & @xmath1241 & 31 & + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & 262.0481 & @xmath1242 & 54576.59 & 0.0387(7 ) & 0.0358(5 ) & @xmath10.0183(5 ) & 0.0402(5 ) & @xmath421 & @xmath1243 & 1 & + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & 263.8045 & @xmath1244 & 54576.60 & 0.0667(14 ) & 0.1496(7 ) & @xmath10.3192(8 ) & 0.3525(8 ) & @xmath422 & @xmath1245 & 1 & + wisep  j174124.27 + 255319.6 & 265.3526 & @xmath1246 & 51645.39 & 0.1820(380 ) & @xmath10.4880(160 ) & @xmath11.4760(160 ) & 1.5550(160 ) & @xmath1247 & @xmath1248 & 16 & + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404ab & 267.5533 & @xmath1249 & 54576.60 & 0.0303(10 ) & @xmath10.0151(8 ) & 0.1433(9 ) & 0.1441(9 ) & @xmath423 & @xmath1250 & 1 & + 2mass  j17502484@xmath10016151 & 267.6035 & @xmath1251 & 51257.41 & 0.1085(26 ) & @xmath10.3992(32 ) & 0.1957(33 ) & 0.4445(32 ) & @xmath1252 & @xmath1253 & 2 & + sdssp  j175032.96 + 175903.9 & 267.6372 & @xmath1254 & 51260.48 & 0.0362(45 ) & 0.1780(70 ) & 0.1000(50 ) & 0.2040(80 ) & @xmath1255 & @xmath1256 & 31 & + lp  44 - 162 & 269.3142 & @xmath1257 & 51316.33 & 0.0524(11 ) & 0.0130 & 0.3292 & 0.3295 & @xmath1258 & @xmath1230 & 18 & + 2massi  j1835379 + 325954 & 278.9079 & @xmath1259 & 50923.48 & 0.1765(5 ) & @xmath10.0807(13 ) & @xmath10.7547(11 ) & 0.7590(11 ) & @xmath1260 & @xmath1261 & 22 & + lp  335 - 12 & 279.8879 & @xmath1262 & 51638.45 & 0.0793(20 ) & 0.0798 & @xmath10.2183 & 0.2324 & @xmath1263 & @xmath1264 & 18 & + lp  44 - 334 & 280.0099 & @xmath1265 & 51319.46 & 0.0593(22 ) & @xmath10.0330 & 0.1891 & 0.1920 & @xmath1266 & @xmath1267 & 18 & + 2massw  j1841086 + 311727 & 280.2859 & @xmath1268 & 50924.44 & 0.0236(19 ) & 0.0594(32 ) & 0.0416(26 ) & 0.0726(37 ) & @xmath1269 & @xmath1270 & 31 & + ce  507 & 280.8016 & @xmath1271 & 51620.40 & 0.0655(25 ) & @xmath10.1557(42 ) & @xmath10.3615(28 ) & 0.3936(24 ) & @xmath1272 & @xmath1273 & 7 & + lhs  3406 & 280.8422 & @xmath1274 & 51288.50 & 0.0707(8 ) & @xmath10.1187(4 ) & 0.5940(4 ) & 0.6057(4 ) & @xmath1275 & @xmath1276 & 21 & over - lum . + scr  j1845@xmath16357ab & 281.2726 & @xmath1277 & 51693.19 & 0.2595(11 ) & 2.5919(18 ) & 0.6175(27 ) & 2.6644(17 ) & @xmath1278 & @xmath1279 & 14 & + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243ab & 281.7648 & @xmath1280 & 54314.36 & 0.0298(11 ) & 0.1244(10 ) & @xmath10.0621(11 ) & 0.1391(10 ) & @xmath424 & @xmath1281 & 1 & + lsr  j2036 + 5059 & 309.0902 & @xmath1282 & 51702.31 & 0.0216(13 ) & 0.7552(13 ) & 1.2578(13 ) & 1.4671(13 ) & @xmath1283 & @xmath1284 & 23 & subdwarf + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8ab & 313.1477 & @xmath1285 & 54314.45 & 0.0339(8 ) & 0.3997(6 ) & 0.1527(7 ) & 0.4279(6 ) & @xmath425 & @xmath1286 & 1 & + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586ab & 315.3143 & @xmath1287 & 51671.49 & 0.0301(34 ) & 0.1440(29 ) & @xmath10.1509(30 ) & 0.2085(37 ) & @xmath1288 & @xmath1289 & 31 & + lp  397 - 10 & 319.0262 & @xmath1290 & 51004.42 & 0.0484(11 ) & 0.0680 & 0.1789 & 0.1914 & @xmath1291 & @xmath1292 & 11 & + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m18 & 319.6323 & @xmath1293 & 51437.04 & 0.0470(80 ) & 0.4090(70 ) & @xmath10.4700(80 ) & 0.6230(90 ) & @xmath1294 & @xmath1295 & 27 & + lspm  j2124 + 4003 & 321.1348 & @xmath1296 & 51689.39 & 0.0667(13 ) & 0.5441 & 0.4455 & 0.7032 & @xmath1297 & @xmath1298 & 11 & + hb  2124@xmath14228 & 321.8589 & @xmath1299 & 51410.09 & 0.0290(60 ) & 0.1280(70 ) & @xmath10.1140(60 ) & 0.1720(90 ) & @xmath1300 & @xmath1301 & 27 & + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m20 & 322.5359 & @xmath1302 & 51410.11 & 0.0370(160 ) & 0.0630(60 ) & @xmath10.4370(80 ) & 0.4410(80 ) & @xmath1303 & @xmath1304 & 27 & + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158ab & 323.0480 & @xmath1305 & 54314.50 & 0.0360(7 ) & 0.0194(14 ) & @xmath10.1225(7 ) & 0.1240(7 ) & @xmath426 & @xmath1306 & 1 & + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518ab & 325.1220 & @xmath1307 & 54314.49 & 0.0325(11 ) & @xmath10.0686(8 ) & @xmath10.0828(8 ) & 0.1075(8 ) & @xmath1308 & @xmath1309 & 1 & + lspm  j2158 + 6117 & 329.6441 & @xmath1310 & 51448.32 & 0.0592(22 ) & 0.7923 & 0.1061 & 0.7993 & @xmath1311 & @xmath809 & 11 & + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & 331.5952 & @xmath1312 & 54635.61 & 0.0357(12 ) & 0.0130(9 ) & @xmath10.0319(11 ) & 0.0344(11 ) & @xmath428 & @xmath1313 & 1 & + grh  2208@xmath120 & 332.7083 & @xmath1314 & 50998.35 & 0.0247(5 ) & @xmath10.2068(11 ) & @xmath10.6600(4 ) & 0.6917(2 ) & @xmath1315 & @xmath1316 & 8 & + tvlm  890 - 60235 & 335.7731 & @xmath1317 & 51742.31 & 0.0194(22 ) & @xmath10.0706(16 ) & @xmath10.0165(28 ) & 0.0725(15 ) & @xmath1318 & @xmath1319 & 26 & + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & 336.1839 & @xmath1320 & 54316.47 & 0.0862(11 ) & 0.4686(5 ) & @xmath10.8648(6 ) & 0.9836(6 ) & @xmath429 & @xmath1321 & 1 & very red + lhs  523 & 337.2267 & @xmath1322 & 50989.35 & 0.0888(49 ) & @xmath10.3166 & @xmath11.0357 & 1.0830 & @xmath1323 & @xmath1324 & 29 & + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387ab & 338.6734 & @xmath1325 & 51096.09 & 0.0031(6 ) & @xmath10.0017(5 ) & @xmath10.0031(5 ) & 0.0035(5 ) & @xmath1326 & @xmath1327 & 30 & lkh@xmath46  233 + lp  460 - 44 & 338.9544 & @xmath1328 & 50725.17 & 0.0435(36 ) & 0.3234 & 0.0423 & 0.3262 & @xmath1329 & @xmath1330 & 11 & + ulas  j223955.76 + 003252.6 & 339.9823 & @xmath1331 & 53736.50 & 0.0100(50 ) & 0.1250(50 ) & @xmath10.1080(50 ) & 0.1660(50 ) & @xmath1332 & @xmath1333 & 20 & + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & 343.0458 & @xmath1334 & 54318.51 & 0.0632(16 ) & 0.3972(23 ) & 0.1443(36 ) & 0.4226(20 ) & @xmath430 & @xmath1335 & 1 & + sdssp  j225529.09@xmath1003433.4 & 343.8711 & @xmath1336 & 51393.27 & 0.0162(26 ) & @xmath10.0362(14 ) & @xmath10.1763(25 ) & 0.1799(26 ) & @xmath1337 & @xmath1338 & 31 & + 2mass  j23062928@xmath10502285 & 346.6220 & @xmath1339 & 51075.18 & 0.0826(26 ) & 0.9221(22 ) & @xmath10.4719(32 ) & 1.0358(18 ) & @xmath1340 & @xmath1341 & 7 & + apmpm  j2330@xmath14737 & 352.5672 & @xmath1342 & 51834.07 & 0.0727(33 ) & @xmath10.5648(46 ) & @xmath10.9741(34 ) & 1.1261(26 ) & @xmath1343 & @xmath1344 & 7 & + apmpm  j2331@xmath12750 & 352.8406 & @xmath1345 & 51341.43 & 0.0691(21 ) & 0.0772(20 ) & 0.7598(13 ) & 0.7637(13 ) & @xmath1346 & @xmath1347 & 7 & + apmpm  j2344@xmath12906 & 355.8833 & @xmath1348 & 51126.01 & 0.0323(46 ) & 0.3412(39 ) & @xmath10.2233(48 ) & 0.4077(29 ) & @xmath1349 & @xmath1350 & 7 & + 2massi  j2356547@xmath1155310 & 359.2282 & @xmath1351 & 51011.33 & 0.0690(34 ) & @xmath10.4434(21 ) & @xmath10.6002(25 ) & 0.7462(29 ) & @xmath1352 & @xmath1353 & 31 & + apmpm  j2359@xmath16246 & 359.6786 & @xmath1354 & 51526.09 & 0.0480(22 ) & 0.5728(25 ) & 0.0836(38 ) & 0.5789(25 ) & @xmath1355 & @xmath1356 & 7 & +      2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & 000.9277 & @xmath1357 & 55050.53 & 0.0257(9 ) & 0.2808(9 ) & @xmath10.1415(8 ) & 0.3145(10 ) & @xmath1358 & @xmath1359 & 30 & over - lum . + gj  1001bc & 001.1452 & @xmath1360 & 51392.29 & 0.0769(40 ) & 0.6436(32 ) & @xmath11.4943(21 ) & 1.6270(18 ) & @xmath1361 & @xmath1362 & 14 & + hd  1160b & 003.9887 & @xmath1363 & 51872.27 & 0.0097(5 ) & 0.0211(5 ) & @xmath10.0142(4 ) & 0.0255(5 ) & @xmath1364 & @xmath1365 & 30 & young + lhs  1070bc & 006.1841 & @xmath813 & 51542.05 & 0.1295(25 ) & @xmath10.1325(49 ) & 0.6401(31 ) & 0.6537(30 ) & @xmath814 & @xmath815 & 6 & + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191ab & 006.2652 & @xmath1366 & 51123.26 & 0.0228(9 ) & 0.2750(7 ) & 0.0117(8 ) & 0.2752(7 ) & @xmath1367 & @xmath1368 & 30 & + hd  3651b & 009.8291 & @xmath1369 & 50726.24 & 0.0904(3 ) & @xmath10.4607(3 ) & @xmath10.3695(3 ) & 0.5905(3 ) & @xmath1370 & @xmath1371 & 30 & + gj  1048b & 038.9997 & @xmath1372 & 51128.19 & 0.0470(9 ) & 0.0836(10 ) & 0.0136(8 ) & 0.0848(10 ) & @xmath1373 & @xmath1374 & 30 & + @xmath84  pic  b & 086.8212 & @xmath1375 & 51518.17 & 0.0514(1 ) & 0.0046(1 ) & 0.0831(2 ) & 0.0832(2 ) & @xmath1376 & @xmath1377 & 30 & @xmath84  pic + cd-35  2722  b & 092.3301 & @xmath1378 & 51470.29 & 0.0470(30 ) & @xmath10.0085(47 ) & @xmath10.0615(41 ) & 0.0622(41 ) & @xmath1379 & @xmath1380 & 32 & ab  dor + gl  229b & 092.6443 & @xmath1381 & 51191.20 & 0.1738(10 ) & @xmath10.1371(5 ) & @xmath10.7142(8 ) & 0.7272(8 ) & @xmath1382 & @xmath1383 & 30 & + ab  pic  b & 094.8038 & @xmath1384 & 51506.26 & 0.0217(7 ) & 0.0144(8 ) & 0.0446(8 ) & 0.0469(8 ) & @xmath1385 & @xmath1386 & 30 & tuc - hor + hd  46588b & 101.6148 & @xmath1387 & 51236.15 & 0.0560(3 ) & @xmath10.0991(2 ) & @xmath10.6037(3 ) & 0.6118(3 ) & @xmath1388 & @xmath1389 & 30 & + hd  49197b & 102.3389 & @xmath1390 & 51122.39 & 0.0223(6 ) & @xmath10.0359(7 ) & @xmath10.0496(6 ) & 0.0612(6 ) & @xmath1391 & @xmath1392 & 30 & + hd  65216bc & 118.4222 & @xmath1393 & 51550.16 & 0.0281(6 ) & @xmath10.1229(7 ) & 0.1455(7 ) & 0.1905(7 ) & @xmath1394 & @xmath1395 & 30 & + hip  38939b & 119.5055 & @xmath1396 & 51218.22 & 0.0540(11 ) & 0.3620(6 ) & @xmath10.2457(7 ) & 0.4375(6 ) & @xmath1397 & @xmath1398 & 30 & + wd  0806@xmath1661b & 121.8111 & @xmath1399 & 51538.20 & 0.0522(17 ) & 0.3403(29 ) & @xmath10.2896(33 ) & 0.4468(18 ) & @xmath1400 & @xmath1401 & 24 & + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & 132.6495 & @xmath1402 & 54428.61 & 0.0301(8 ) & @xmath10.1442(6 ) & @xmath10.0126(6 ) & 0.1447(6 ) & @xmath397 & @xmath1403 & 1 & + gl  337cd & 138.0612 & @xmath1404 & 50770.48 & 0.0491(5 ) & @xmath10.5246(5 ) & 0.2457(4 ) & 0.5793(6 ) & @xmath1405 & @xmath1406 & 30 & + lp  261 - 75b & 147.7729 & @xmath1407 & 50897.30 & 0.0160(70 ) & @xmath10.1000(70 ) & @xmath10.1610(90 ) & 0.1890(110 ) & @xmath1408 & @xmath1409 & 31 & young + hd  89744b & 155.5620 & @xmath1410 & 50908.18 & 0.0254(3 ) & @xmath10.1199(3 ) & @xmath10.1389(3 ) & 0.1835(3 ) & @xmath1411 & @xmath1412 & 30 & + gl  417bc & 168.1070 & @xmath1413 & 50943.25 & 0.0456(4 ) & @xmath10.2490(4 ) & @xmath10.1510(4 ) & 0.2912(4 ) & @xmath1414 & @xmath1415 & 30 & young + 2massw  j1200329 + 204851 & 180.1372 & @xmath1416 & 51325.16 & 0.0340(110 ) & @xmath10.1264 & 0.2710 & 0.2990 & @xmath1417 & @xmath1418 & 29 & + lhs  330 & 187.3095 & @xmath1419 & 51219.49 & 0.0396(11 ) & @xmath11.2007(3 ) & 0.1357(4 ) & 1.2083(3 ) & @xmath1420 & @xmath1421 & 21 & + ross  458c & 195.1739 & @xmath1422 & 54572.50 & 0.0855(15 ) & @xmath10.6163(15 ) & @xmath10.0136(10 ) & 0.6164(15 ) & @xmath1423 & @xmath1424 & 30 & young ? + hd  114762b & 198.0826 & @xmath1425 & 50837.48 & 0.0259(8 ) & @xmath10.5796(5 ) & @xmath10.0022(4 ) & 0.5796(5 ) & @xmath1426 & @xmath1427 & 30 & subdwarf + 2mass  j13204159 + 0957506 & 200.1733 & @xmath1428 & 51620.35 & 0.0259(16 ) & @xmath10.2511(13 ) & @xmath10.1431(12 ) & 0.2890(14 ) & @xmath1429 & @xmath1430 & 30 & + 2mass  j13204427 + 0409045 & 200.1845 & @xmath1431 & 51603.35 & 0.0323(9 ) & @xmath10.5089(8 ) & 0.2028(8 ) & 0.5478(8 ) & @xmath1432 & @xmath1433 & 30 & + ulas  j141623.94 + 134836.3 & 214.0998 & @xmath1434 & 54598.50 & 0.1097(13 ) & 0.0952(13 ) & 0.1329(14 ) & 0.1635(14 ) & @xmath413 & @xmath1144 & 1 & low - z ? + sdss  j141659.78 + 500626.4 & 214.2495 & @xmath1435 & 51604.38 & 0.0219(6 ) & @xmath10.2993(5 ) & 0.1854(5 ) & 0.3521(5 ) & @xmath1436 & @xmath1437 & 30 & + bd  + 01  2920b & 215.8369 & @xmath1438 & 55220.02 & 0.0582(5 ) & 0.2240(4 ) & @xmath10.4777(4 ) & 0.5276(4 ) & @xmath1439 & @xmath1440 & 30 & low - z ?",
    "+ gd  165b & 216.1629 & @xmath1441 & 51638.29 & 0.0317(25 ) & @xmath10.2182 & @xmath10.1260 & 0.2520 & @xmath1442 & @xmath1443 & 29 & + proxima  cen & 217.4288 & @xmath1444 & 51615.33 & 0.7699(5 ) & @xmath13.7738(4 ) & 0.7705(20 ) & 3.8517(1 ) & @xmath1445 & @xmath1446 & 4 & + denis - p  j144137.3@xmath1094559ab & 220.4049 & @xmath1447 & 51251.40 & 0.0364(36 ) & @xmath10.1981(29 ) & @xmath10.0156(44 ) & 0.1987(29 ) & @xmath1448 & @xmath1449 & 7 & + g  239 - 25b & 220.5902 & @xmath1450 & 51298.32 & 0.0932(13 ) & @xmath10.3017(13 ) & @xmath10.0361(16 ) & 0.3038(13 ) & @xmath1451 & @xmath1452 & 30 & + hd  130948bc & 222.5659 & @xmath1453 & 51305.23 & 0.0550(3 ) & 0.1439(4 ) & 0.0327(3 ) & 0.1476(4 ) & @xmath1454 & @xmath1455 & 30 & young ? + gl  569bab & 223.6218 & @xmath1456 & 51336.17 & 0.1036(17 ) & 0.2760(18 ) & @xmath10.1217(16 ) & 0.3016(18 ) & @xmath1457 & @xmath1458 & 30 & + gl  570d & 224.3123 & @xmath1459 & 50949.25 & 0.1712(9 ) & 1.0305(10 ) & @xmath11.7151(9 ) & 2.0009(8 ) & @xmath1460 & @xmath1461 & 30 & + tvlm  513 - 42404b & 225.5888 & @xmath1462 & 51320.26 & 0.0350(100 ) & @xmath10.1210(90 ) & @xmath10.0380(70 ) & 0.1270(90 ) & @xmath1184 & @xmath1185 & 26 & + ulas  j150457.65 + 053800.8 & 226.2411 & @xmath1463 & 52757.75 & 0.0538(28 ) & @xmath10.6087(32 ) & @xmath10.5026(33 ) & 0.7895(31 ) & @xmath1464 & @xmath1465 & 30 & + gl  584c & 230.8443 & @xmath1466 & 51597.42 & 0.0560(8 ) & 0.1171(4 ) & @xmath10.1717(4 ) & 0.2078(5 ) & @xmath1467 & @xmath1468 & 30 & + hr  6037b & 244.2728 & @xmath1469 & 48347.50 & 0.0192(4 ) & @xmath10.0460(3 ) & @xmath10.0840(3 ) & 0.0958(3 ) & @xmath1470 & @xmath1471 & 30 & young + gj  618.1b & 245.1089 & @xmath1472 & 51694.10 & 0.0299(27 ) & @xmath10.4153(19 ) & @xmath10.0219(17 ) & 0.4159(19 ) & @xmath1473 & @xmath1474 & 30 & + vb  8 & 253.8971 & @xmath1475 & 51279.32 & 0.1545(7 ) & @xmath10.8147(6 ) & @xmath10.8691(6 ) & 1.1912(6 ) & @xmath1476 & @xmath1477 & 21 & + gj  660.1b & 258.2134 & @xmath1478 & 51268.41 & 0.0501(36 ) & 0.1809(47 ) & @xmath10.6938(35 ) & 0.7169(34 ) & @xmath1479 & @xmath1480 & 30 & + sdss  j175805.46 + 463311.9 & 269.5227 & @xmath1481 & 50973.38 & 0.0710(19 ) & @xmath10.0166(23 ) & 0.5801(17 ) & 0.5803(17 ) & @xmath1482 & @xmath1483 & 30 & + pz  tel  b & 283.2745 & @xmath1484 & 51836.02 & 0.0194(10 ) & 0.0176(11 ) & @xmath10.0836(8 ) & 0.0855(8 ) & @xmath1485 & @xmath1486 & 30 & @xmath84  pic + vb  10 & 289.2401 & @xmath1487 & 51390.22 & 0.1701(8 ) & @xmath10.5888(8 ) & @xmath11.3691(8 ) & 1.4903(8 ) & @xmath1488 & @xmath1489 & 21 & + hr  7329b & 290.7134 & @xmath1490 & 51823.01 & 0.0207(2 ) & 0.0256(2 ) & @xmath10.0827(2 ) & 0.0866(2 ) & @xmath1491 & @xmath1492 & 30 & @xmath84  pic + gl  758b & 290.8918 & @xmath1493 & 51658.43 & 0.0635(4 ) & 0.0833(3 ) & 0.1622(3 ) & 0.1824(3 ) & @xmath1494 & @xmath1495 & 30 & + gj  1245b & 298.4795 & @xmath1496 & 50977.46 & 0.2202(15 ) & 0.4023(4 ) & @xmath10.4661(4 ) & 0.6157(2 ) & @xmath1497 & @xmath1498 & 13 & + hr  7672b & 300.9799 & @xmath1499 & 51683.40 & 0.0563(4 ) & @xmath10.3927(3 ) & @xmath10.4059(3 ) & 0.5648(3 ) & @xmath1500 & @xmath1501 & 30 & + gl  802b & 310.8300 & @xmath1502 & 51351.40 & 0.0635(13 ) & 0.8779(10 ) & 1.7222(10 ) & 1.9330(10 ) & @xmath1503 & @xmath1504 & 15 & + hd  203030b & 319.7425 & @xmath1505 & 50748.13 & 0.0245(7 ) & 0.1326(8 ) & 0.0084(6 ) & 0.1328(8 ) & @xmath1506 & @xmath1507 & 30 & young + hn  peg  b & 326.1186 & @xmath1508 & 51081.26 & 0.0559(5 ) & 0.2296(5 ) & @xmath10.1133(4 ) & 0.2561(5 ) & @xmath1509 & @xmath1510 & 30 & young + wolf  940b & 326.6618 & @xmath1511 & 54385.50 & 0.0835(39 ) & 0.7619 & @xmath10.5139 & 0.9190 & @xmath1512 & @xmath1513 & 29 & + @xmath238  ind  bab & 331.0438 & @xmath1514 & 51490.11 & 0.2761(3 ) & 3.9609(2 ) & @xmath12.5392(2 ) & 4.7050(2 ) & @xmath1515 & @xmath1516 & 30 & + g  216 - 7b & 339.3857 & @xmath1517 & 51096.12 & 0.0512(16 ) & 0.0187(17 ) & @xmath10.3423(13 ) & 0.3429(13 ) & @xmath1518 & @xmath1519 & 30 & + hr  8799d & 346.8694 & @xmath1520 & 48347.50 & 0.0254(7 ) & 0.1079(6 ) & @xmath10.0496(5 ) & 0.1188(6 ) & @xmath1521 & @xmath1522 & 30 & planet , young + hr  8799b & 346.8694 & @xmath1520 & 48347.50 & 0.0254(7 ) & 0.1079(6 ) & @xmath10.0496(5 ) & 0.1188(6 ) & @xmath1521 & @xmath1522 & 30 & planet , young + hr  8799c & 346.8694 & @xmath1520 & 48347.50 & 0.0254(7 ) & 0.1079(6 ) & @xmath10.0496(5 ) & 0.1188(6 ) & @xmath1521 & @xmath1522 & 30 & planet , young + hr  8799e & 346.8694 & @xmath1520 & 48347.50 & 0.0254(7 ) & 0.1079(6 ) & @xmath10.0496(5 ) & 0.1188(6 ) & @xmath1521 & @xmath1522 & 30 & planet , young + 2mass  j23310161@xmath10406193ab & 352.7567 & @xmath1523 & 51114.07 & 0.0383(5 ) & 0.1792(6 ) & @xmath10.1914(6 ) & 0.2622(6 ) & @xmath1524 & @xmath1525 & 30 & + apmpm  j2354@xmath13316c & 358.5387 & @xmath1526 & 51386.34 & 0.0442(18 ) & @xmath10.3173(25 ) & @xmath10.4062(22 ) & 0.5154(15 ) & @xmath1527 & @xmath1528 & 24 & +      sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & /t4.5 & @xmath1529 & @xmath1530 $ ] & @xmath1531 & @xmath1532 & @xmath1533 & @xmath1534 & & @xmath1535 & @xmath1536 & @xmath1537 & 1 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 86 , 95 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & m7.5/ & @xmath1538 & @xmath1539 $ ] & @xmath1540 $ ] & @xmath1541 $ ] & @xmath1542 $ ] & & & @xmath1543 & @xmath1544 & @xmath1545 & 156 ; 30 ; 1 , 2 + gj  1001b & /l5 & @xmath1546 & & @xmath1547 & @xmath1548 & @xmath1549 $ ] & & & @xmath1550 $ ] & @xmath1551 $ ] & @xmath1552 & 66 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 94 + gj  1001c & /l5 & @xmath1546 & & @xmath1553 & @xmath1554 & @xmath1555 $ ] & & & @xmath1556 $ ] & @xmath1557 $ ] & @xmath1558 & 66 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 94 + lsr  j0011 + 5908 & m6.5/ & @xmath1559 & & & & & & & @xmath1560 & @xmath1561 & @xmath1562 & 102 ; 102 ; 2 + hd  1160b & / & @xmath1563 & & & & & @xmath1564 & & @xmath1565 & @xmath1566 & @xmath1567 & 156 ;  ; 126 + bri  0021@xmath10214 & m9.5/m9.5 & @xmath1568 & & @xmath1569 & @xmath1570 & @xmath1571 & @xmath1572 & & @xmath1573 & @xmath1574 & @xmath1575 & 149 ; 49 , 79 ; 2 , 93 , 90 + lhs  1070b & m8.5/ & @xmath1576 & & @xmath1577 & @xmath1578 & @xmath1579 $ ] & @xmath1580 & & @xmath1581 $ ] & @xmath1582 $ ] & @xmath1583 & 26 ; 99 ; 1 , 2 , 90 + lhs  1070c & m9.5/ & @xmath1576 & & @xmath1584 & @xmath1585 & @xmath1586 $ ] & @xmath1587 & & @xmath1588 $ ] & @xmath1589 $ ] & @xmath1590 & 26 ; 99 ; 1 , 2 , 90 + lhs  1070a & m6/ & @xmath1576 & & @xmath1591 & @xmath1592 & @xmath1593 & @xmath1594 & & @xmath1595 & @xmath1596 & @xmath1597 & 26 ; 99 ; 1 , 2 , 90 + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191a & / & @xmath1598 & & & & & & & & & & 156 ;  ; 2 + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191b & / & @xmath1598 & & & & & & & & & & 156 ;  ; 2 + pc  0025 + 0447 & m9.5/ & @xmath1599 & & & & & & & @xmath1600 & @xmath1601 & @xmath1602 & 33 ; 79 ; 2 + lp  349 - 25a & /m7 : & @xmath1603 & & @xmath1604 $ ] & @xmath1605 $ ] & @xmath1606 $ ] & @xmath1607 & & @xmath1608 $ ] & @xmath1609 $ ] & @xmath1610 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 42 , 132 + lp  349 - 25b & /m8 : & @xmath1603 & & @xmath1611 $ ] & @xmath1612 $ ] & @xmath1613 $ ] & @xmath1614 & & @xmath1615 $ ] & @xmath1616 $ ] & @xmath1617 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 42 , 132 + 2massw  j0030300@xmath1145033 & l7/ & @xmath1618 & @xmath1619 $ ] & @xmath1620 & @xmath1621 & @xmath1622 & & & @xmath1623 & @xmath1624 & @xmath1625 & 157 ; 82 ; 1 , 2 , 86 + sdssp  j003259.36 + 141036.6 & /l8 & @xmath1626 & @xmath1627 $ ] & @xmath1628 & @xmath1629 & @xmath1630 & @xmath1631 & & @xmath1632 & @xmath1633 & @xmath1634 & 157 ; 49 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 93 + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & /t8.5 & @xmath1635 & @xmath1636 & @xmath1637 & @xmath1638 & @xmath1639 & & & & & & 1 ; 32 , 159 ; 159 + 2massw  j0036159 + 182110 & l3.5/l4 : & @xmath1640 & @xmath1641 $ ] & @xmath1642 & @xmath1643 & @xmath1644 & @xmath1645 & & @xmath1646 & @xmath1647 & @xmath1648 & 33 ; 49 , 82 ; 1 , 2 , 86 , 93 + hd  3651b & /t7.5 & @xmath1649 & @xmath1650 $ ] & @xmath1651 & @xmath1652 & @xmath1653 & & & @xmath1654 $ ] & @xmath1655 $ ] & @xmath1656 $ ] & 156 ; 116 ; 1 , 106 + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & /t7 & @xmath1657 & @xmath1658 $ ] & @xmath1659 & @xmath1660 & @xmath1661 & & & @xmath1662 & @xmath1663 & @xmath1664 & 1 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 97 + rg  0050@xmath12722 & m8/ & @xmath1665 & & & & & & & @xmath1666 & @xmath1667 & @xmath1668 & 150 ; 79 ; 2 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & /t8.5 & @xmath1669 & @xmath1670 & @xmath1671 & @xmath1672 & @xmath1673 $ ] & & & @xmath1674 $ ] & @xmath1675 $ ] & @xmath1676 & 1 ; 32 ; 1 , 36 + sdssp  j010752.33 + 004156.1 & l8/l5.5 & @xmath1677 & @xmath1678 $ ] & @xmath1679 & @xmath1680 & @xmath1681 & @xmath1682 & & @xmath1683 & @xmath1684 & @xmath1685 & 157 ; 49 , 61 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + cti  012657.5 + 280202 & m8.5/ & @xmath1686 & & & & & & & @xmath1687 & @xmath1688 & @xmath1689 & 33 ; 79 ; 2 + l  726 - 8a & m5.5/ & @xmath1690 & & & & & & & @xmath1691 & @xmath1692 & @xmath1693 & 50 ; 77 ; 2 , 63 + l  726 - 8b & m6/ & @xmath1690 & & & & & & & @xmath1694 & @xmath1695 & @xmath1696 & 50 ; 77 ; 2 , 63 + 2mass  j01490895 + 2956131 & m9.5/ & @xmath1697 & & & & & & & @xmath1698 & @xmath1699 & @xmath1700 & 33 ; 81 ; 2 + sdss  j015141.69 + 124429.6 & /t1 & @xmath1701 & @xmath1702 $ ] & @xmath1703 & @xmath1704 & @xmath1705 & @xmath1706 & & @xmath1707 & @xmath1708 & @xmath1709 & 157 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 93 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925a & /l7.5 : . &",
    "@xmath1710 & & @xmath1711 $ ] & @xmath1712 $ ] & @xmath1713 $ ] & & & @xmath1714 $ ] & @xmath1715 $ ] & @xmath1716 & 33 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 93 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925b & /l6.5 : . &",
    "@xmath1710 & & @xmath1717 $ ] & @xmath1718 $ ] & @xmath1719 $ ] & & & @xmath1720 $ ] & @xmath1721 $ ] & @xmath1722 & 33 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 93 + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & /t4.5 & @xmath1723 & @xmath1724 $ ] & @xmath1725 & @xmath1726 & @xmath1727 & & & @xmath1728 & @xmath1729 $ ] & @xmath1730 $ ] & 118 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + gj  1048b & l1/l1 & @xmath1731 & & & @xmath1732 $ ] & @xmath1733 $ ] & & & & @xmath1734 & @xmath1735 & 156 ; 53 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j0243137@xmath1245329 & /t6 & @xmath1736 & @xmath1737 $ ] & @xmath1738 & @xmath1739 & @xmath1740 & @xmath1741 & & @xmath1742 & @xmath1743 & @xmath1744 & 157 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 86 , 95 + bri  b0246@xmath11703 & m8/ & @xmath1745 & & @xmath1746 & @xmath1747 & @xmath1748 & & & @xmath1749 & @xmath1750 & @xmath1751 & 150 ; 80 ; 2 , 90 + tvlm  831 - 154910 & / & @xmath1752 & & & & & & & @xmath1753 & @xmath1754 & @xmath1755 & 149 ;  ; 2 + tvlm  831 - 161058 & m8/ & @xmath1756 & & & & & & & @xmath1757 & @xmath1758 & @xmath1759 & 149 ; 160 ; 2 + tvlm  831 - 165166 & / & @xmath1760 & & & & & & & @xmath1761 & @xmath1762 & @xmath1763 & 149 ;  ; 2 + tvlm  832 - 10443 & m8/ & @xmath1764 & & & & & & & @xmath1765 & @xmath1766 & @xmath1767 & 33 ; 33 ; 2 + teegarden s  star & m6/ & @xmath1768 & @xmath1769 $ ] & @xmath1770 $ ] & @xmath1771 $ ] & @xmath1772 $ ] & & & @xmath1773 & @xmath1774 & @xmath1775 & 47 ; 66 ; 1 , 2 + pso  j043.5395 + 02.3995 & /t8 & @xmath1776 & & @xmath1777 & @xmath1778 & @xmath1779 & & & @xmath1780 & @xmath1781 & @xmath1782 & 109 ; 109 ; 109 + denis - p  j0255.0@xmath14700 & l8/l9 & @xmath1783 & @xmath1784 $ ] & @xmath1785 $ ] & @xmath1786 $ ] & @xmath1787 $ ] & & & @xmath1788 & @xmath1789 & @xmath1790 & 27 ; 14 , 84 ; 1 , 2 + tvlm  832 - 42500 & m6.5/ & @xmath1791 & & & & & & & @xmath1792 & @xmath1793 & @xmath1794 & 149 ; 51 ; 2 + lp  412 - 31 & m8/ & @xmath1795 & & & & & & & @xmath1796 & @xmath1797 & @xmath1798 & 33 ; 79 ; 2 + 2massw  j0326137 + 295015 & l3.5/ & @xmath1799 & & & & & & & @xmath1800 & @xmath1801 & @xmath1802 & 33 ; 81 ; 2 + 2massi  j0328426 + 230205 & l8/l9.5 & @xmath1803 & @xmath1804 $ ] & @xmath1805 & @xmath1806 & @xmath1807 & @xmath1808 & & @xmath1809 & @xmath1810 & @xmath1811 & 157 ; 82 , 86 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 93 + lspm  j0330 + 5413 & / & @xmath1812 & & & & & & & @xmath1813 & @xmath1814 & @xmath1815 & 102 ;  ; 2 + lp  944 - 20 & m9/ & @xmath1816 & @xmath1817 $ ] & @xmath1818 & @xmath1819 & @xmath1820 & @xmath1821 & & @xmath1822 & @xmath1823 & @xmath1824 & 150 ; 151 ; 1 , 2 , 90 + 2masp  j0345432 + 254023 & l0/l1 : & @xmath1825 & @xmath1826 $ ] & @xmath1802 & @xmath1827 & @xmath1828 & @xmath1829 & & @xmath1830 & @xmath1831 & @xmath1832 & 33 ; 49 , 81 ; 1 , 2 , 92 , 93 + lhs  1604 & m8/ & @xmath1833 & & @xmath1834 & @xmath1571 & @xmath1835 & & & @xmath1836 & @xmath1837 & @xmath1838 & 123 ; 160 ; 2 , 90 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & t8/t8 & @xmath1839 & @xmath1840 $ ] & @xmath1841 & @xmath1842 & @xmath1843 & @xmath1844 & & @xmath1845 & @xmath1846 & @xmath1847 & 1 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5a & /l6.5 : & @xmath1848 & & @xmath1849 $ ] & @xmath1850 $ ] & @xmath1851 & & & @xmath1852 $ ] & @xmath1853 $ ] & @xmath1854 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5b & /t2 & @xmath1848 & & @xmath1855 $ ] & @xmath1856 $ ] & @xmath1857 & & & @xmath1858 $ ] & @xmath1859 $ ] & @xmath1860 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lhs  191 & m6.5/ & @xmath1861 & & & & & & & @xmath1862 & @xmath1797 & @xmath1863 & 123 ; 77 ; 2 + lhs  197 & m6/ & @xmath1864 & & & & & & & @xmath1865 & @xmath1866 & @xmath1867 & 123 ; 131 ; 2 + lsr  j0510 + 2713 & m8/ & @xmath1868 & & & & & & & @xmath1869 & @xmath1870 & @xmath1871 & 102 ; 102 ; 2 + lhs  1742a & esdm5.5/ & @xmath1872 & & @xmath1873 & @xmath1874 & @xmath1875 & & & @xmath1876 & @xmath1877 & @xmath1878 & 123 ; 51 ; 2 , 90 + lsr  j0515 + 5911 & m7.5/ & @xmath1879 & & & & & & & @xmath1880 & @xmath1881 & @xmath1882 & 102 ; 102 ; 2 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372a & /l6 : & @xmath1883 & & @xmath1884 $ ] & @xmath1885 $ ] & @xmath1886 $ ] & & & @xmath1887 $ ] & @xmath1888 $ ] & @xmath1889 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372b & /t4 & @xmath1883 & & @xmath1890 $ ] & @xmath1891 $ ] & @xmath1892 $ ] & & & @xmath1893 $ ] & @xmath1894 $ ] & @xmath1895 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & sdl7/ & @xmath1896 & & & & & & & @xmath1897 & @xmath1898 & @xmath1899 & 139 ; 15 ; 2 + lhs  207 & m6/ & @xmath1900 & & & & & & & @xmath1901 & @xmath1643 & @xmath1902 & 123 ; 131 ; 2 + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & l5/l5 & @xmath1903 & @xmath1904 $ ] & @xmath1905 & @xmath1906 & @xmath1907 & @xmath1908 & & @xmath1909 & @xmath1910 & @xmath1911 & 157 ; 44 , 49 ; 1 , 2 , 91 , 93 + @xmath84  pic  b & / & @xmath1912 & & & & & @xmath1913 & & & & @xmath1914 & 156 ;  ; 9 , 31 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & t5/t4.5 & @xmath1915 & @xmath1916 $ ] & @xmath1917 & @xmath1918 & @xmath1919 & @xmath1920 & & @xmath1921 & @xmath1922 & @xmath1923 & 1 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + cd-35  2722  b & /l4 : & @xmath1924 & & @xmath1925 & @xmath1926 & @xmath1927 & & & & & & 158 ; 158 ; 158 + gl  229b & /t7p & @xmath1928 & @xmath1929 & @xmath1930 & @xmath1931 & @xmath1931 & @xmath1932 & & & & & 156 ; 14 ; 57 , 67 , 94 + ab  pic  b & /l0.5 : . & @xmath1933 & & @xmath1934 $ ] & @xmath1935 $ ] & @xmath1936 $ ] & & & @xmath1937 & @xmath1938 & @xmath1939 & 156 ; 9 ; 1 , 23 + 2mass  j06411840@xmath14322329 & l1.5/ & @xmath1940 & & & & & & & @xmath1941 & @xmath1942 & @xmath1943 & 4 ; 137 ; 2 + hd  46588b & /l9 : & @xmath1944 & & & & & & & @xmath1945 & @xmath1946 & @xmath1947 & 156 ; 113 ; 2 + hd  49197b & /l4 : & @xmath1948 & & & & & & & @xmath1949 & @xmath1950 & @xmath1951 & 156 ; 120 ; 120 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266a & /l3 : & @xmath1952 & & @xmath1953 $ ] & @xmath1786 $ ] & @xmath1954 $ ] & & & @xmath1955 $ ] & @xmath1956 $ ] & @xmath1957 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266b & /l6.5 : . &",
    "@xmath1952 & & @xmath1958 $ ] & @xmath1959 $ ] & @xmath1960 $ ] & & & @xmath1961 $ ] & @xmath1962 $ ] & @xmath1963 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + eso  207 - 61 & m9/ & @xmath1964 & & & & & & & @xmath1965 & @xmath1668 & @xmath1966 & 150 ; 138 ; 2 + lhs  1901a & /m7 : & @xmath1967 & & @xmath1968 $ ] & @xmath1969 $ ] & @xmath1970 $ ] & & & @xmath1971 $ ] & @xmath1972 $ ] & @xmath1973 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 42 + lhs  1901b & /m7 : & @xmath1967 & & @xmath1974 $ ] & @xmath1975 $ ] & @xmath1976 $ ] & & & @xmath1977 $ ] & @xmath1978 $ ] & @xmath1979 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 42 + 2mass  j07193188@xmath15051410 & l0/ & @xmath1980 & & & & & & & @xmath1981 & @xmath1851 & @xmath1982 & 4 ; 137 ; 2 + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & /t9 & @xmath1983 & @xmath1984 & @xmath1985 & @xmath1986 & @xmath1987 & @xmath1988 & & @xmath1989 & & & 98 ; 32 ; 2 , 115 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & t8/t7 & @xmath1990 & @xmath1991 $ ] & @xmath1992 & @xmath1993 & @xmath1994 & @xmath1995 & & @xmath1996 & @xmath1997 & @xmath1998 & 1 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 + lhs  234 & m6.5/ & @xmath1999 & & @xmath2000 & @xmath2001 & @xmath2002 & @xmath2003 & & @xmath2004 & @xmath2005 & @xmath2006 & 26 ; 65 ; 2 , 90 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032a & l0/ & @xmath2007 & & @xmath2008 & @xmath2009 & & & & & & @xmath1648 & 1 ; 10 ; 1 , 2 , 87 , 93 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032b & l1.5/ & @xmath2007 & & @xmath1759 & @xmath2010 & & & & & & @xmath2011 & 1 ; 10 ; 1 , 2 , 87 , 93 + lp  423 - 31 & m7/ & @xmath2012 & & & & & & & @xmath2013 & @xmath2014 & @xmath2015 & 47 ; 134 ; 2 + hd  65216b & / & @xmath2016 & & & & & & & & & @xmath2017 & 156 ; ",
    "; 124 + hd  65216c & / & @xmath2016 & & & & & & & & & @xmath2018 & 156 ;  ; 124 + hip  38939b & /t4.5 & @xmath2019 & & @xmath2020 & @xmath2021 & @xmath2022 & & & @xmath2023 & @xmath2024 & @xmath2025 & 156 ; 35 ; 2 , 35 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0a & /l4 : & @xmath2026 & & @xmath2027]$ ] & @xmath2028]$ ] & @xmath2029]$ ] & & & @xmath2030]$ ] & @xmath2031]$ ] & @xmath2032]$ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 , 95 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0b & /t5 & @xmath2026 & & @xmath2033]$ ] & @xmath2034]$ ] & @xmath2035]$ ] & & & @xmath2036]$ ] & @xmath2037]$ ] & @xmath2038]$ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 , 95 + wd  0806@xmath1661b & / & @xmath2039 & & & & & & & & & & 147 ;  ;  + denis  j081730.0@xmath1615520 & /t6 & @xmath2040 & & & & & & & @xmath2041 & @xmath2042 & @xmath2043 & 5 ; 5 ; 2 + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & l7.5/l6 & @xmath2044 & @xmath2045 $ ] & @xmath2046 & @xmath2047 & @xmath2048 & @xmath2049 & & @xmath2050 & @xmath2051 & @xmath2052 & 33 ; 49 , 82 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + ulas  j082707.67@xmath1020408.2 & /t5.5 & @xmath2053 & @xmath2054 & @xmath2055 & @xmath2056 & @xmath2057 & & & & & & 118 ; 112 ; 112 + lhs  248 & m6.5/ & @xmath2058 & & & & & & & @xmath2059 & @xmath2060 & @xmath2061 & 155 ; 77 ; 2 + sdssp  j083008.12 + 482847.4 & l8/l9 : & @xmath2062 & @xmath2063 $ ] & @xmath2064 & @xmath2065 & @xmath2066 & @xmath2067 & & @xmath2068 & @xmath2069 & @xmath1922 & 157 ; 49 , 84 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lhs  2021 & m6.5/ & @xmath2070 & & & & & & & @xmath2071 & @xmath2072 & @xmath1867 & 27 ; 27 ; 2 + lhs  2026 & m6/ & @xmath2073 & & & & & & & @xmath2074 & @xmath2075 & @xmath2076 & 123 ; 65 ; 2 + 2mass  j08354256@xmath10819237 & l5/ & @xmath2077 & @xmath2078 $ ] & @xmath2079 $ ] & @xmath2080 $ ] & @xmath2081 $ ] & & & @xmath2082 & @xmath2083 & @xmath2076 & 4 ; 29 ; 1 , 2 + sdssp  j083717.22@xmath1000018.3 & t0/t1 & @xmath2084 & @xmath2085 $ ] & @xmath2086 & @xmath2087 & @xmath2088 & & & @xmath2089 $ ] & @xmath2090 $ ] & @xmath2091 $ ] & 157 ; 14 , 84 ; 1 , 91 + lhs  2034 & m6/ & @xmath512 & & & & & & & @xmath2092 & @xmath2093 & @xmath2094 & 123 ; 78 ; 2 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716a & /l6.5 : & @xmath2095 & & @xmath1727 & @xmath2096 & @xmath2097 & & & @xmath2098 $ ] & @xmath2099 $ ] & @xmath2100 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716b & /l8.5 : & @xmath2095 & & @xmath2101 & @xmath2102 & @xmath2103 & & & @xmath2104 $ ] & @xmath2105 $ ] & @xmath2106 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lhs  2065 & m9/m9 & @xmath2107 & & @xmath2108 & @xmath2109 & @xmath2110 & @xmath2111 & & @xmath2112 & @xmath2113 & @xmath2114 & 123 ; 49 , 77 ; 2 , 57 , 133 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518a & / & @xmath2115 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ;  ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518b & / & @xmath2115 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ;  ; 1 , 2 + lp  368 - 128 & m6/ & @xmath2116 & & & & & & & @xmath2117 & @xmath2118 & @xmath2119 & 66 ; 66 ; 2 + ulas  j090116.23@xmath1030635.0 & /t7.5 & @xmath2120 & @xmath2121 & @xmath2122 & @xmath2123 & & & & & & & 118 ; 112 ; 112 + denis - p  j0909.9@xmath10658 & l0/ & @xmath2124 & & & & & & & @xmath2125 & @xmath2126 & @xmath1668 & 4 ; 84 ; 2 + gl  337c & /l8.5 : & @xmath2127 & & @xmath2128 $ ] & @xmath2129 $ ] & @xmath2130 $ ] & & & @xmath2131 $ ] & @xmath2132 $ ] & @xmath2133 & 156 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + gl  337d & /l7.5 : : & @xmath2127 & & @xmath2134 $ ] & @xmath2135 $ ] & @xmath2136 $ ] & & & @xmath2137 $ ] & @xmath2138 $ ] & @xmath2139 & 156 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742a & /l5.5 : & @xmath2140 & & @xmath2141 $ ] & @xmath2142 $ ] & @xmath2143 $ ] & & & @xmath2144 $ ] & @xmath2145 $ ] & @xmath2146 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742b & /l9 : . &",
    "@xmath2140 & & @xmath2147 $ ] & @xmath2148 $ ] & @xmath2149 $ ] & & & @xmath2150 $ ] & @xmath2151 $ ] & @xmath2152 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9a & /t3.5 : & @xmath2153 & & @xmath2154 $ ] & @xmath2155 $ ] & @xmath2156 $ ] & & & @xmath2157 $ ] & @xmath2158 $ ] & @xmath2159 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9b & /t5 : & @xmath2153 & & @xmath2160 $ ] & @xmath2161 $ ] & @xmath2162 $ ] & & & @xmath2163 $ ] & @xmath2164 $ ] & @xmath2165 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & t7/t6p & @xmath2166 & @xmath2167 $ ] & @xmath2168 & @xmath2169 & @xmath2170 & @xmath2171 & & @xmath2172 & @xmath2173 & @xmath2174 & 139 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 + 2mass  j09393548@xmath12448279 & /t8 & @xmath2175 & @xmath2176 & @xmath2177 & @xmath2178 & @xmath2179 & & & @xmath2180 & @xmath2181 & @xmath2182 $ ] & 17 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 96 + tvlm  262 - 111511 & m8/ & @xmath2183 & & & & & & & @xmath2184 & @xmath2185 & @xmath2186 & 149 ; 160 ; 2 + ulas  j094806.06 + 064805.0 & /t7 & @xmath2187 & @xmath2188 & @xmath2189 & @xmath2190 & & & & & & & 118 ; 112 ; 112 + lp  261 - 75b & l6/ & @xmath2191 & & & & & & & @xmath2192 & @xmath2193 & @xmath2194 & 157 ; 82 ; 2 + tvlm  262 - 70502 & / & @xmath2195 & & & & & & & @xmath2196 & @xmath2197 & @xmath1793 & 149 ;  ; 2 + 2mass  j09522188@xmath11924319a & / & @xmath2198 & & & & & & & & & & 27 ;  ; 2 + 2mass  j09522188@xmath11924319b & / & @xmath2198 & & & & & & & & & & 27 ;  ; 2 + 2mass  j10043929@xmath13335189 & l4/ & @xmath2199 & & & & & & & @xmath2200 & @xmath2201 & @xmath2202 & 4 ; 54 ; 2 + tvlm  263 - 71765 & m8/ & @xmath2203 & & & & & & & @xmath2204 & @xmath2205 & @xmath2206 & 149 ; 160 ; 2 + ssspm  j1013@xmath11356 & sdm9.5/ & @xmath2207 & @xmath2208 $ ] & @xmath2209 $ ] & @xmath2210 $ ] & @xmath2211 $ ] & & & @xmath2212 & @xmath2213 & @xmath2214 & 139 ; 15 , 141 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839a & /l1.5 : & @xmath2215 & & @xmath2216 $ ] & @xmath2217 $ ] & @xmath2218 $ ] & & & @xmath2219 $ ] & @xmath2220 $ ] & @xmath2221 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839b & /l3 : & @xmath2215 & & @xmath2222 $ ] & @xmath2223 $ ] & @xmath2224 $ ] & & & @xmath2225 $ ] & @xmath2226 $ ] & @xmath2227 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + ulas  j101821.78 + 072547.1 & /t5 & @xmath2228 & @xmath2229 & @xmath2230 & @xmath2231 & @xmath2232 & & & & & & 118 ; 112 ; 112 + 2mass  j10185879@xmath12909535 & l1/ & @xmath2233 & & & & & & & @xmath2234 & @xmath2235 & @xmath2236 & 4 ; 54 ; 2 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1a & /t0 : & @xmath2237 & & @xmath2238 & @xmath2239 & @xmath2240 $ ] & & & @xmath2241 $ ] & @xmath2158 $ ] & @xmath2242 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 91 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1b & /t5 & @xmath2237 & & @xmath2243 & @xmath2244 & @xmath2245 $ ] & & & @xmath2246 $ ] & @xmath2247 $ ] & @xmath2248 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 91 + tvlm  213 - 2005 & / & @xmath2249 & & & & & & & @xmath2250 & @xmath2251 & @xmath2252 & 33 ;  ; 2 + hd  89744b & l0/ & @xmath2253 & @xmath2254 $ ] & @xmath2255 $ ] & @xmath2256 $ ] & @xmath2257 $ ] & & & @xmath2258 & @xmath2259 & @xmath2260 & 156 ; 161 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2261 & @xmath2262 $ ] & @xmath2263 & @xmath1843 & @xmath2264 & & & @xmath1683 & @xmath2265 & @xmath2266 $ ] & 157 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lhs  292 & m6.5/m6.5 & @xmath2267 & & @xmath2268 & @xmath2269 & @xmath2270 & @xmath2271 & & @xmath2272 & @xmath2273 & @xmath2274 & 155 ; 49 , 78 ; 2 , 93 , 133 + lhs  2314 & m6/ & @xmath2275 & & @xmath2276 & @xmath2277 & @xmath2278 & & & @xmath2279 & @xmath2280 & @xmath2281 & 123 ; 131 ; 2 , 90 + wolf  359 & m6/m6 & @xmath2282 & @xmath2283 $ ] & @xmath2284 & @xmath2285 & @xmath2286 & @xmath2287 & & @xmath2288 & @xmath2289 & @xmath2290 & 155 ; 49 , 77 ; 1 , 2 , 93 , 133 + denis - p  j1058.7@xmath11548 & l3/l3 & @xmath2291 & @xmath2292 $ ] & @xmath2293 & @xmath2294 & @xmath2295 & @xmath2296 & & @xmath2297 & @xmath2298 & @xmath2299 & 33 ; 49 , 81 ; 1 , 2 , 92 , 93 + ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 & m8.5/ & @xmath2300 & @xmath2301 $ ] & @xmath2302 $ ] & @xmath2303 $ ] & @xmath2304 $ ] & & & @xmath2305 & @xmath2306 & @xmath2307 & 148 ; 144 ; 1 , 2 + lhs  2351 & m6/ & @xmath2308 & & & & & @xmath2309 & & @xmath2310 & @xmath2311 & @xmath1902 & 150 ; 131 ; 2 , 90 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & /t5.5 & @xmath2312 & @xmath2313 $ ] & @xmath2314 & @xmath2315 & @xmath2316 & @xmath2317 & & @xmath2318 & @xmath2319 & @xmath2320 $ ] & 1 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 , 95 + gl  417b & /l4.5 : & @xmath2321 & & @xmath2322 $ ] & @xmath2323 $ ] & @xmath2324 $ ] & & & @xmath2325 $ ] & @xmath2326 $ ] & @xmath2327 $ ] & 156 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + gl  417c & /l6 : & @xmath2321 & & @xmath2328 $ ] & @xmath2329 $ ] & @xmath2330 $ ] & & & @xmath2331 $ ] & @xmath1889 $ ] & @xmath2332 $ ] & 156 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & /t7.5 & @xmath2333 & @xmath2334 $ ] & @xmath2335 & @xmath2336 & @xmath2337 & & & @xmath2338 & @xmath2339 & @xmath2340 $ ] & 1 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 97 + lhs  2397aa & m8/ & @xmath2341 & & @xmath2342 & @xmath2343 & & @xmath2344 & & & & @xmath2345 & 1 ; 41 ; 1 , 2 , 41 , 93 + lhs  2397ab & / & @xmath2341 & & @xmath2346 & @xmath2347 & & @xmath2348 & & & & @xmath2260 & 1 ; 41 ; 1 , 2 , 41 , 93 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053a & /l3 : & @xmath2349 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053b & /l3 : & @xmath2349 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + ulas  j115038.79 + 094942.9 & /t6.5 & @xmath2350 & @xmath2351 & @xmath2352 & @xmath2353 & @xmath2354 & & & & & & 118 ; 129 ; 129 + lhs  2471 & m6.5/ & @xmath2355 & & & & & & & @xmath2356 & @xmath2357 & @xmath2358 & 123 ; 33 ; 2 + 2massw  j1200329 + 204851 & m7/ & @xmath2359 & & & & & & & @xmath2360 & @xmath2252 & @xmath2361 & 155 ; 52 ; 2 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254b & /l1 : : . &",
    "@xmath2362 & & @xmath2363 $ ] & @xmath2364 $ ] & @xmath2365 $ ] & @xmath2366 & & @xmath2367 & @xmath2368 & @xmath2369 & 38 ; 128 ; 1 , 22 , 122 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & m8/m8.5 : & @xmath2362 & @xmath2370 $ ] & @xmath2371 $ ] & @xmath2372 $ ] & @xmath2373 $ ] & @xmath2374 & & @xmath2375 & @xmath2376 & @xmath2377 & 38 ; 22 , 55 ; 1 , 22 , 71 , 122 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008a & /t2.5 & @xmath2378 & & @xmath2336 & @xmath2379 & @xmath2380 & & & @xmath2381 $ ] & @xmath2382 $ ] & @xmath2383 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 108 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008b & /t6.5 : & @xmath2378 & & @xmath2384 & @xmath2385 & @xmath2386 & & & @xmath2387 $ ] & @xmath2388 $ ] & @xmath2389 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 108 + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & t7/t7.5 & @xmath2390 & @xmath2391 $ ] & @xmath2392 & @xmath2393 & @xmath2394 & @xmath2395 & & @xmath2396 & @xmath2397 & @xmath2398 $ ] & 152 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + bri  b1222@xmath11222 & m9/ & @xmath2399 & & & & & & & @xmath2400 & @xmath2277 & @xmath2401 & 150 ; 79 ; 2 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466a & /t5.5 & @xmath2402 & & @xmath2403 & @xmath2404 & @xmath2405 & & & @xmath2406 $ ] & @xmath2407 $ ] & @xmath2408 $ ] & 152 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466b & /t8 & @xmath2402 & & @xmath2409 & @xmath2410 & @xmath2411 & & & @xmath2412 $ ] & @xmath2413 $ ] & @xmath2414 $ ] & 152 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547a & /l5.5 : & @xmath2415 & & @xmath2416 $ ] & @xmath2417 $ ] & @xmath2418 $ ] & & & @xmath2419 $ ] & @xmath2420 $ ] & @xmath2421 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 92 , 93 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547b & /l5.5 : & @xmath2415 & & @xmath2422 $ ] & @xmath2423 $ ] & @xmath2424 $ ] & & & @xmath2425 $ ] & @xmath2426 $ ] & @xmath2427 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 92 , 93 + lhs  330 & m6/m6 & @xmath2428 & & & & & @xmath2429 & & @xmath2430 & @xmath2431 & @xmath2432 & 123 ; 28 , 49 , 131 ; 2 , 90 + 2mass  j12373919 + 6526148 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2433 & @xmath2434 $ ] & @xmath2435 & @xmath2436 & @xmath2437 & & & @xmath2438 & @xmath2439 & @xmath2440 $ ] & 157 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 97 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537a & / & @xmath2441 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ;  ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537b & / & @xmath2441 & & & & & & & & & & 1 ;  ; 1 , 2 + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & t2/t2 & @xmath2442 & @xmath2443 $ ] & @xmath2444 & @xmath2445 & @xmath2446 & @xmath2447 & & @xmath2448 & @xmath2449 & @xmath1802 & 33 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 91 , 93 + ssspm  j1256@xmath11408 & / & @xmath2450 & & & & & & & @xmath2451 & @xmath2452 & @xmath2453 & 139 ;  ; 2 + sdss  j125637.13@xmath1022452.4 & sdl3.5/ & @xmath2454 & @xmath2455 $ ] & @xmath2456 $ ] & @xmath2457 $ ] & & & & @xmath2458 & @xmath2459 & & 139 ; 18 ; 1 , 2 + ross  458c & /t8 & @xmath2460 & @xmath2461 & @xmath2462 & @xmath2463 & @xmath2464 & & & & & & 156 ; 32 ; 56 + kelu-1a & /l2 : & @xmath2465 & & @xmath2466 & @xmath2467 & @xmath2468 & & & @xmath2469 $ ] & @xmath2470 $ ] & @xmath2471 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 , 90 , 104 + kelu-1b & /l4 : & @xmath2465 & & @xmath2472 & @xmath2473 & @xmath2474 & & & @xmath2475 $ ] & @xmath2476 $ ] & @xmath1551 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 93 , 90 , 104 + hd  114762b & /d / sdm9 : & @xmath2477 & @xmath2478 $ ] & @xmath2479 $ ] & @xmath2480 $ ] & @xmath2481 $ ] & & & @xmath2482 & @xmath2483 & @xmath2484 & 156 ; 11 ; 1 , 127 + lspm  j1314 + 1320a & / & @xmath2485 & & & & & & & & & & 102 ;  ; 2 + lspm  j1314 + 1320b & / & @xmath2485 & & & & & & & & & & 102 ;  ; 2 + ulas  j131508.42 + 082627.4 & /t7.5 & @xmath2486 & @xmath2487 & @xmath2488 & @xmath2489 & @xmath2490 & & & & & & 118 ; 129 ; 129 + 2mass  j13204159 + 0957506 & m7.5/ & @xmath2491 & & & & & & & @xmath2492 & @xmath2493 & @xmath2494 & 156 ; 137 ; 2 + 2mass  j13204427 + 0409045 & l3::/ & @xmath2495 & & & & & & & @xmath2496 & @xmath2497 & @xmath2498 & 156 ; 137 ; 2 + sdssp  j132629.82@xmath1003831.5 & l8:/l5.5 & @xmath2499 & @xmath2500 $ ] & @xmath2501 & @xmath2502 & @xmath2503 & & & @xmath2504 & @xmath2505 & @xmath2506 & 157 ; 44 , 86 ; 1 , 2 , 86 + 2massw  j1328550 + 211449 & l5/ & @xmath2507 & & & & & & & @xmath2508 & @xmath2509 & @xmath2510 & 33 ; 81 ; 2 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & /t8.5 & @xmath2511 & @xmath2512 & @xmath2513 & @xmath2514 & @xmath2515 & & & & & & 1 ; 32 ; 19 + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2516 & @xmath2517 $ ] & @xmath2518 & @xmath2519 & @xmath2520 & & & @xmath2521 & @xmath2522 & @xmath2523 & 152 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 153 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330a & /l9 : & @xmath2524 & & @xmath2525 $ ] & @xmath2526 $ ] & @xmath2527 $ ] & & & @xmath2528 $ ] & @xmath2529 $ ] & @xmath2530 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330b & /t5 & @xmath2524 & & @xmath2531 $ ] & @xmath2532 $ ] & @xmath2533 $ ] & & & @xmath2534 $ ] & @xmath2535 $ ] & @xmath2536 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + ulas  j141623.94 + 134836.3 & /t7.5p & @xmath2537 & @xmath2538 & @xmath2539 & @xmath2540 & @xmath2541 & & & @xmath2542 $ ] & @xmath2543 $ ] & @xmath2544 $ ] & 1 ; 21 ; 1 , 21 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & l6/l6p : : & @xmath2537 & @xmath2545 & @xmath2546 & @xmath2547 & @xmath2548 & & & @xmath2549 & @xmath2550 & @xmath2551 & 1 ; 12 ; 2 , 21 + sdss  j141659.78 + 500626.4 & /l5.5 : : & @xmath2552 & @xmath2553 $ ] & @xmath2554 & @xmath2555 & @xmath2556 & & & @xmath2557 & @xmath2558 & @xmath2559 & 156 ; 24 ; 1 , 2 , 24 + bd  + 01  2920b & /t8p & @xmath2560 & @xmath2561 & @xmath2562 & @xmath2563 & @xmath2564 $ ] & & & & & & 156 ; 130 ; 1 , 130 + gd  165b & l4/l3 : : & @xmath2565 & @xmath2566 & @xmath2567 & @xmath2568 & @xmath2569 & @xmath2570 & & @xmath2571 & @xmath2572 & @xmath2573 & 155 ; 49 , 81 ; 2 , 67 , 72 , 93 + lsr  j1425 + 7102 & sdm8/ & @xmath2574 & & & & & & & @xmath2575 & @xmath1801 & @xmath2576 & 34 ; 15 , 101 ; 2 + lhs  2919 & m7.5/ & @xmath2577 & & & & & & & @xmath2578 & @xmath2579 & @xmath2580 & 102 ; 102 ; 2 + lhs  2924 & m9/m9 & @xmath2581 & @xmath2582 $ ] & @xmath2583 & @xmath2584 & @xmath2585 & @xmath2586 & & @xmath2587 & @xmath2588 & @xmath2589 & 123 ; 62 , 89 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + proxima  cen & m5.5/ & @xmath2590 & & & & & & & @xmath2591 & @xmath2592 & @xmath2593 & 6 ; 64 ; 2 + lhs  2930 & m6.5/ & @xmath1812 & & & & & & & @xmath2594 & @xmath2595 & @xmath2596 & 123 ; 78 ; 2 + sdss  j143517.20@xmath1004612.9 & l0/ & @xmath2597 & & & & & & & @xmath2598 & @xmath2599 & @xmath2600 & 157 ; 61 ; 2 + sdss  j143535.72@xmath1004347.0 & l3/l2.5 & @xmath2601 & & @xmath2602 & @xmath2603 & @xmath2604 & & & @xmath2605 & @xmath2606 & @xmath2607 & 157 ; 61 , 86 ; 2 , 86 + lhs  377 & sdm7/ & @xmath2608 & @xmath2609 $ ] & @xmath2610 & @xmath1982 & @xmath2611 & @xmath2612 & & @xmath2613 & @xmath2614 & @xmath2611 & 123 ; 51 ; 1 , 2 , 90 + 2massw  j1439284 + 192915 & l1/ & @xmath2615 & @xmath2616 $ ] & @xmath2617 & @xmath2618 & @xmath2619 & @xmath2620 & & @xmath2621 & @xmath2622 & @xmath2623 & 33 ; 81 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + denis - p  j144137.3@xmath1094559a & / & @xmath2624 & & & & & & & & & & 27 ;  ; 2 + denis - p  j144137.3@xmath1094559b & / & @xmath2624 & & & & & & & & & & 27 ;  ; 2 + g  239 - 25b & /l0 : & @xmath2625 & & & & & & & & & & 156 ; 46 ;  + ssspm  j1444@xmath12019 & d / sdm9/ & @xmath2626 & & & & & & & @xmath2627 & @xmath2628 & @xmath2629 & 139 ; 15 , 143 ; 2 + sdssp  j144600.60 + 002452.0 & l6/l5 & @xmath2630 & & @xmath2631 & @xmath2632 & @xmath2633 & & & @xmath2634 & @xmath1684 & @xmath2635 & 157 ; 49 , 61 ; 2 , 93 + hd  130948b & /l4 : & @xmath2636 & & @xmath2637 & @xmath2638 & @xmath2639 & & & & & & 156 ; 58 ; 40 , 41 + hd  130948c & /l4 : & @xmath2636 & & @xmath2640 & @xmath2641 & @xmath2642 & & & & & & 156 ; 58 ; 40 , 41 + gl  569ba & /m8.5 & @xmath2643 & & @xmath2644 & @xmath2645 & @xmath2646 & @xmath2647 & & @xmath2648 $ ] & @xmath2649 $ ] & @xmath2650 $ ] & 156 ; 62 , 88 ; 1 , 42 , 45 , 88 + gl  569bb & /m9.0 & @xmath2643 & & @xmath2651 & @xmath2652 & @xmath2653 & @xmath2654 & & @xmath2655 $ ] & @xmath2656 $ ] & @xmath2657 $ ] & 156 ; 62 , 88 ; 1 , 42 , 45 , 88 + lhs  3003 & m7/m7 & @xmath2658 & & @xmath2659 & @xmath2660 & @xmath2661 & @xmath2662 & & @xmath2663 & @xmath2664 & @xmath2665 & 150 ; 49 , 79 ; 2 , 93 , 90 + gl  570d & t7/t7.5 & @xmath2666 & @xmath2667 $ ] & @xmath2668 & @xmath2669 & @xmath2335 & @xmath2670 & & @xmath2671 & @xmath2672 & @xmath2673 & 156 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 48 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134a & /t9 & @xmath2674 & & @xmath2675 & @xmath2676 & @xmath2677 & & & & & & 1 ; 110 ; 37 , 110 , 154 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134b & /@xmath14t10 & @xmath2674 & & @xmath2678 & @xmath2679 & @xmath2680 & & & & & & 1 ; 110 ; 37 , 110 , 154 + tvlm  513 - 46546 & m8.5/m8.5 & @xmath2681 & & @xmath2682 & @xmath2108 & @xmath2683 & @xmath2684 & & @xmath2685 & @xmath2686 & @xmath2687 & 33 ; 49 , 79 ; 2 , 93 , 90 + tvlm  513 - 42404 & / & @xmath2688 & & @xmath2689 & @xmath2690 & @xmath2197 & & & @xmath2691 & @xmath1547 & @xmath2201 & 149 ;  ; 2 , 90 + tvlm  513 - 42404b & / & @xmath2688 & & @xmath2692 & @xmath2693 & @xmath2694 & & & @xmath2695 & @xmath2696 & @xmath2697 & 149 ;  ; 2 , 90 + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & t6/t5 & @xmath2698 & @xmath2699 $ ] & @xmath2700 & @xmath2701 & @xmath2702 & @xmath2703 & & @xmath2704 & @xmath2705 & @xmath2706 & 1 ; 13 , 14 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & /t7 & @xmath2707 & & @xmath2708 & @xmath2709 & @xmath2710 & & & & & & 1 ; 24 ; 24 + ulas  j150457.65 + 053800.8 & /t6p : & @xmath2711 & @xmath2712 & @xmath2713 & @xmath2714 & @xmath2715 & & & & & & 156 ; 125 ; 145 + 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & l5/l5.5 & @xmath2716 & @xmath2717 $ ] & @xmath2718 & @xmath2719 & @xmath2720 & @xmath2721 & & @xmath2722 & @xmath2723 & @xmath2724 & 33 ; 82 , 86 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + tvlm  868 - 110639 & m9/ & @xmath2725 & & @xmath2299 & @xmath2726 & @xmath2727 & @xmath2728 & & @xmath2729 & @xmath2730 & @xmath2731 & 149 ; 28 , 79 ; 2 , 90 + tvlm  513 - 8328 & / & @xmath2732 & & @xmath2733 & @xmath2734 & @xmath2048 & & & @xmath1981 & @xmath2735 & @xmath2736 & 149 ;  ; 2 , 90 + gl  584c & l8/l8 & @xmath2737 & @xmath2738 $ ] & @xmath2739 & @xmath2740 & @xmath2741 & @xmath2742 & & @xmath2743 & @xmath2744 & @xmath2745 & 156 ; 49 , 82 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1a & /t0 : & @xmath2746 & & @xmath2747 & @xmath2748 & @xmath2749 & & & @xmath2750 $ ] & @xmath2751 $ ] & @xmath2752 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 105 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1b & /t5.5 & @xmath2746 & & @xmath2753 & @xmath2754 & @xmath2755 & & & @xmath2756 $ ] & @xmath2757 $ ] & @xmath2758 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 105 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227a & /t4.5 & @xmath2759 & & @xmath2760 & @xmath2761 & @xmath2762 & & & @xmath2763 $ ] & @xmath2764 $ ] & @xmath2765 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 , 107 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227b & /t5 & @xmath2759 & & @xmath2766 & @xmath2767 & @xmath2768 & & & @xmath2769 $ ] & @xmath2770 $ ] & @xmath2771 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 , 107 + denis - p  j153941.9@xmath1052042 & l4:/l2 & @xmath2772 & & & & & & & @xmath2773 & @xmath2774 & @xmath2775 & 4 ; 74 , 84 ; 2 + wisepa  j154151.66@xmath1225025.2 & /y0 & @xmath2776 & & @xmath2777 & @xmath2778 & & & & & & & 85 ; 32 ; 85 + 2mass  j15462718@xmath13325111 & /t5.5 & @xmath2779 & @xmath2780 $ ] & @xmath2781 $ ] & @xmath2782 $ ] & @xmath2783 $ ] & & & @xmath2784 & @xmath2785 & @xmath2786 & 152 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236a & /t6.5 & @xmath2787 & & @xmath2788 & @xmath2789 & @xmath2790 & & & @xmath2791 $ ] & @xmath2792 $ ] & @xmath2793 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 86 , 95 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236b & /t7.5 & @xmath2787 & & @xmath2794 & @xmath1652 & @xmath2795 & & & @xmath2796 $ ] & @xmath2797 $ ] & @xmath2798 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 86 , 95 + lsr  j1610@xmath10040a & / & @xmath2799 & & & & & & & & & & 34 ;  ; 2 + lsr  j1610@xmath10040b & / & @xmath2799 & & & & & & & & & & 34 ;  ; 2 + hr  6037b & /m9 : & @xmath2362 & & & & & & & & & @xmath2800 & 156 ; 68 ; 68 + gj  618.1b & l2.5/ & @xmath2801 & & & & & & & @xmath2802 & @xmath2803 & @xmath2804 & 156 ; 161 ; 2 + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & /t6 & @xmath2805 & @xmath2806 $ ] & @xmath2807 & @xmath2808 & @xmath2809 & @xmath2810 & & @xmath2811 & @xmath2812 & @xmath2813 $ ] & 152 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 , 146 + 2mass  j16262034 + 3925190 & sdl4/ & @xmath2814 & @xmath2815 $ ] & @xmath2816 $ ] & @xmath2817 $ ] & @xmath2818 $ ] & & & @xmath2819 & @xmath2820 & @xmath2821 & 139 ; 15 ; 1 , 2 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & /t7 & @xmath2787 & @xmath2822 $ ] & @xmath2823 & @xmath2824 & @xmath1652 & & & @xmath2825 & @xmath2826 & @xmath2827 & 1 ; 24 ; 1 , 2 , 24 + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & l8/l7.5 & @xmath2828 & @xmath2829 $ ] & @xmath2830 & @xmath2831 & @xmath2832 & @xmath2833 & & @xmath2834 & @xmath2835 & @xmath2836 & 33 ; 49 , 81 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lhs  3241 & m6.5/ & @xmath2837 & & & & & & & @xmath2838 & @xmath1870 & @xmath2839 & 47 ; 134 ; 2 + wise  j164715.57 + 563208.3 & /l9p & @xmath2840 & & & & & & & @xmath2841 & @xmath2842 & @xmath2843 & 85 ; 85 ; 85 + vb  8 & m7/ & @xmath2844 & @xmath2845 $ ] & @xmath2846 $ ] & @xmath2847 $ ] & @xmath2848 $ ] & & & @xmath2849 & @xmath2850 & @xmath2851 & 123 ; 62 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j1658037 + 702701 & l1/ & @xmath2852 & & & & & & & @xmath2853 & @xmath2854 & @xmath1755 & 33 ; 52 ; 2 + denis - p  j170548.3@xmath1051645 & l0.5/l4 & @xmath2855 & @xmath2856 $ ] & @xmath2857 $ ] & @xmath2858 $ ] & @xmath2859 $ ] & & & @xmath2860 & @xmath2861 & @xmath2862 & 4 ; 74 , 137 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j1711457 + 223204 & l6.5/ & @xmath2863 & @xmath2864 $ ] & @xmath2865 $ ] & @xmath2866 $ ] & @xmath2867 $ ] & & & @xmath2868 & @xmath2869 & @xmath2870 & 157 ; 82 ; 1 , 2 + gj  660.1b & / & @xmath2871 & & & & & & & @xmath2872 & @xmath2873 & @xmath2874 & 156 ;  ; 2 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859a & /l5 : & @xmath2875 & & @xmath2876 $ ] & @xmath2877 $ ] & @xmath2878 $ ] & & & @xmath2879 $ ] & @xmath2880 $ ] & @xmath2881 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859b & /l7 : & @xmath2875 & & @xmath2882 $ ] & @xmath2883 $ ] & @xmath2884 $ ] & & & @xmath2885 $ ] & @xmath2886 $ ] & @xmath2887 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + lspm  j1735 + 2634a & /m7.5 & @xmath2888 & & @xmath2889 $ ] & @xmath2890 $ ] & @xmath2891 $ ] & & & @xmath2892 $ ] & @xmath2893 $ ] & @xmath2894 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + lspm  j1735 + 2634b & /l0 : & @xmath2888 & & @xmath2895 $ ] & @xmath2896 $ ] & @xmath2897 $ ] & & & @xmath2898 $ ] & @xmath2899 $ ] & @xmath2900 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + wisep  j174124.27 + 255319.6 & t9/t9 & @xmath2901 & @xmath2902 & & & & & & @xmath2903 & @xmath2904 & @xmath2905 & 85 ; 85 ; 85 + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404a & /m6.5 : & @xmath2906 & & @xmath2907 $ ] & @xmath2908 $ ] & @xmath2909 $ ] & & & @xmath2910 $ ] & @xmath2911 $ ] & @xmath2912 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404b & /m8.5 : & @xmath2906 & & @xmath2913 $ ] & @xmath2914 $ ] & @xmath2915 $ ] & & & @xmath2916 $ ] & @xmath2917 $ ] & @xmath2918 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + 2mass  j17502484@xmath10016151 & /l5.5 & @xmath2919 & @xmath2920 $ ] & @xmath2921 $ ] & @xmath2922 $ ] & @xmath2923 $ ] & & & @xmath2853 & @xmath2924 & @xmath2925 & 4 ; 75 ; 1 , 2 + sdssp  j175032.96 + 175903.9 & /t3.5 & @xmath2926 & @xmath2927 $ ] & @xmath2928 & @xmath2929 & @xmath2930 & & & @xmath2931 & @xmath2932 & @xmath2933 & 157 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 93 + lp  44 - 162 & m7.5/ & @xmath2934 & & & & & & & @xmath2935 & @xmath2936 & @xmath2937 & 102 ; 52 ; 2 + sdss  j175805.46 + 463311.9 & /t6.5 & @xmath2938 & @xmath1678 $ ] & @xmath2239 & @xmath2264 & @xmath2939 & & & @xmath2940 & @xmath2941 & @xmath2942 & 156 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 86 + 2massi  j1835379 + 325954 & m8.5/ & @xmath2943 & & & & & & & @xmath2944 & @xmath2945 & @xmath2946 & 135 ; 135 ; 2 + lp  335 - 12 & m6.5/ & @xmath2947 & & & & & & & @xmath2578 & @xmath2948 & @xmath2949 & 102 ; 134 ; 2 + lp  44 - 334 & m6.5/ & @xmath2950 & & & & & & & @xmath2951 & @xmath2952 & @xmath2949 & 102 ; 136 ; 2 + 2massw  j1841086 + 311727 & l4p/ & @xmath2953 & & & & & & & @xmath2954 & @xmath2955 & @xmath2956 & 157 ; 82 ; 2 + ce  507 & m6/ & @xmath2957 & & & & & & & @xmath2958 & @xmath2959 & @xmath1973 & 27 ; 27 ; 2 + lhs  3406 & m8/m5.5 & @xmath2960 & & @xmath2724 & @xmath2961 & @xmath2962 & @xmath2963 & & @xmath2964 & @xmath1863 & @xmath2965 & 123 ; 30 , 49 ; 2 , 90 + scr  j1845@xmath16357a & m8.5/m8.5 & @xmath2966 & & & & & & & @xmath2967 & @xmath2968 & @xmath2969 & 66 ; 65 , 73 ; 2 , 73 + scr  j1845@xmath16357b & /t6 & @xmath2966 & & & & & & & @xmath2970 & @xmath2971 & @xmath2972 & 66 ; 65 , 73 ; 2 , 73 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243a & /m6 & @xmath2814 & & @xmath2973 $ ] & @xmath2974 $ ] & @xmath2975 $ ] & & & @xmath2976 $ ] & @xmath2977 $ ] & @xmath2978 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243b & /m7 & @xmath2814 & & @xmath2979 $ ] & @xmath2980 $ ] & @xmath2981 $ ] & & & @xmath2982 $ ] & @xmath2983 $ ] & @xmath2984 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + pz  tel  b & / & @xmath2985 & & @xmath2986 & @xmath2987 & @xmath2988 & & & @xmath2989 & @xmath2987 & @xmath2988 & 156 ;  ; 7 + vb  10 & m8/ & @xmath2990 & @xmath2991 $ ] & @xmath2992 $ ] & @xmath2993 $ ] & @xmath2994 $ ] & & & @xmath2995 & @xmath2996 & @xmath2997 & 123 ; 62 ; 1 , 2 + hr  7329b & m7.5/m7.5 & @xmath2998 & & & @xmath2999 & & & & & & & 156 ; 59 , 114 ; 114 + gl  758b & / & @xmath3000 & & @xmath3001 & @xmath3002 & & @xmath3003 & & & & & 156 ;  ; 70 + gj  1245b & m6/m6 & @xmath3004 & & & & & & & @xmath3005 & @xmath3006 & @xmath3007 & 60 ; 49 , 77 ; 2 + hr  7672b & /l4 : : & @xmath3008 & & & & & & & & @xmath3009 & @xmath3010 & 156 ; 103 ; 8 , 103 + lsr  j2036 + 5059 & sdm7.5/ & @xmath3011 & @xmath3012 $ ] & @xmath3013 $ ] & @xmath3014 $ ] & @xmath3015 $ ] & & & @xmath1666 & @xmath3016 & @xmath1942 & 139 ; 15 , 100 ; 1 , 2 + gl  802b & / & @xmath3017 & & & & & & & @xmath3018 & @xmath3019 & @xmath3020 & 69 ;  ; 69 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8a & /l8.5 : . &",
    "@xmath3021 & & @xmath3022 & @xmath3023 & @xmath3024 & & & @xmath3025 $ ] & @xmath3026 $ ] & @xmath3027 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8b & /t1.5 & @xmath3021 & & @xmath3022 & @xmath3028 & @xmath3029 & & & @xmath3030 $ ] & @xmath3031 $ ] & @xmath3032 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586a & /l7 : & @xmath3033 & & @xmath3034 $ ] & @xmath3035 $ ] & @xmath3036 & & & @xmath3037 $ ] & @xmath3038 $ ] & @xmath3039 $ ] & 157 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 87 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586b & /l8 : & @xmath3033 & & @xmath3040 $ ] & @xmath3041 $ ] & @xmath3042 & & & @xmath3043 $ ] & @xmath3044 $ ] & @xmath3045 $ ] & 157 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 24 , 87 + lp  397 - 10 & m6/ & @xmath3046 & & & & & & & @xmath3047 & @xmath3048 & @xmath3049 & 47 ; 134 ; 2 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m18 & m8.5/ & @xmath3050 & & & & & & & @xmath3051 & @xmath1982 & @xmath3052 & 150 ; 111 ; 2 + hd  203030b & /l7.5 & @xmath3053 & & @xmath3054 & @xmath3055 & & & & & & @xmath3056 & 156 ; 121 ; 121 + lspm  j2124 + 4003 & m6.5/ & @xmath3057 & & & & & & & @xmath3058 & @xmath3059 & @xmath3060 & 47 ; 100 ; 2 + hb  2124@xmath14228 & m7.5/ & @xmath3061 & & & & & & & @xmath3062 & @xmath2617 & @xmath3063 & 150 ; 137 ; 2 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m20 & / & @xmath3064 & & & & & & & @xmath3065 & @xmath3066 & @xmath3067 & 150 ;  ; 2 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158a & /l4.5 : . &",
    "@xmath3068 & & @xmath3069 $ ] & @xmath3070 $ ] & @xmath3071 $ ] & & & @xmath3072 $ ] & @xmath3073 $ ] & @xmath3074 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158b & /l8.5 : . &",
    "@xmath3068 & & @xmath3075 $ ] & @xmath3076 $ ] & @xmath3077 $ ] & & & @xmath3078 $ ] & @xmath3079 $ ] & @xmath3080 & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518a & /m8 & @xmath3081 & & @xmath3082 $ ] & @xmath3083 $ ] & @xmath3084 $ ] & & & @xmath3085 $ ] & @xmath3086 $ ] & @xmath2895 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518b & /m9.5 & @xmath3081 & & @xmath3087 $ ] & @xmath3088 $ ] & @xmath3089 $ ] & & & @xmath3090 $ ] & @xmath3091 $ ] & @xmath3092 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 , 87 + hn  peg  b & /t2.5 & @xmath3093 & @xmath3094 $ ] & @xmath2239 & @xmath3095 & @xmath2604 & & & @xmath3096 & @xmath3097 & @xmath3098 & 156 ; 116 ; 1 , 2 , 116 + wolf  940b & /t8.5 & @xmath3099 & @xmath3100 & @xmath3101 & @xmath3102 & @xmath3103 & & & & & & 155 ; 20 , 32 ; 20 + lspm  j2158 + 6117 & m6/ & @xmath3104 & & & & & & & @xmath3105 & @xmath3106 & @xmath3107 & 47 ; 100 ; 2 + @xmath238  ind  ba & /t1 & @xmath3108 & & @xmath3109 & @xmath2281 & @xmath1751 & @xmath3110 & & @xmath3111 & @xmath3112 & @xmath2731 & 156 ; 76 ; 2 , 76 + @xmath238  ind  bb & /t6 & @xmath3108 & & @xmath3113 & @xmath3114 & @xmath3115 & @xmath3116 & & @xmath1965 & @xmath3117 & @xmath3118 & 156 ; 76 ; 2 , 76 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705a & m8/ & @xmath3119 & & @xmath3120 $ ] & @xmath3121 $ ] & @xmath3122 $ ] & & & @xmath3123 $ ] & @xmath2303 $ ] & @xmath3124 & 1 ; 39 ; 1 , 2 , 39 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705b & m8/ & @xmath3119 & & @xmath3125 $ ] & @xmath3126 $ ] & @xmath3127 $ ] & & & @xmath3128 $ ] & @xmath2922 $ ] & @xmath1966 & 1 ; 39 ; 1 , 2 , 39 + grh  2208@xmath120 & m7.5/ & @xmath3129 & & & & & & & @xmath1830 & @xmath3130 & @xmath3131 & 33 ; 33 ; 2 + tvlm  890 - 60235 & m7/ & @xmath3132 & & & & & & & @xmath3133 & @xmath3134 & @xmath3135 & 149 ; 160 ; 2 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & l4.5/l3.5 & @xmath3136 & @xmath3137 $ ] & @xmath3138 & @xmath3139 & @xmath3140 & @xmath3141 & & @xmath3142 & @xmath3143 & @xmath3144 & 1 ; 82 , 86 ; 1 , 2 , 57 , 86 + lhs  523 & m6.5/ & @xmath3145 & & & & & & & @xmath3146 & @xmath3147 & @xmath3148 & 155 ; 77 ; 2 + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387a & /m6 : & @xmath3149 & & @xmath3150 $ ] & @xmath3151 $ ] & @xmath3152 $ ] & @xmath3153 & & @xmath3154 $ ] & @xmath3155 $ ] & @xmath3156 & 156 ; 3 ; 1 , 2 , 3 + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387b & /m6 : & @xmath3149 & & @xmath2327 $ ] & @xmath3157 $ ] & @xmath3158 $ ] & @xmath3159 & & @xmath3160 $ ] & @xmath3161 $ ] & @xmath3162 & 156 ; 3 ; 1 , 2 , 3 + lp  460 - 44 & m7/ & @xmath3163 & & & & & & & @xmath3164 & @xmath3165 & @xmath3166 & 47 ; 52 ; 2 + g  216 - 7b & m9.5/ & @xmath3167 & & & & & & & @xmath3168 & @xmath3169 & @xmath3170 & 156 ; 83 ; 2 + ulas  j223955.76 + 003252.6 & /t5.5 & @xmath3171 & @xmath3172 & @xmath3173 & & & & & & & & 118 ; 112 ; 112 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4a & /l4.5 : . &",
    "@xmath3174 & & @xmath3175 $ ] & @xmath3176 $ ] & @xmath3177 $ ] & & & @xmath3178 $ ] & @xmath3179 $ ] & @xmath1785 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4b & /t3.5 : & @xmath3174 & & @xmath2142 $ ] & @xmath3180 $ ] & @xmath3181 $ ] & & & @xmath3182 $ ] & @xmath3183 $ ] & @xmath3184 $ ] & 1 ; 1 ; 1 , 2 + sdssp  j225529.09@xmath1003433.4 & l0:/ & @xmath3185 & & @xmath3186 & @xmath3187 & @xmath3188 & & & @xmath3189 & @xmath3190 & @xmath3191 & 157 ; 140 ; 2 , 93 + 2mass  j23062928@xmath10502285 & m7.5/ & @xmath3192 & & & & & & & @xmath3193 & @xmath3194 & @xmath3195 & 27 ; 52 ; 2 + hr  8799d & / & @xmath3196 & & @xmath3197 & @xmath3198 & & @xmath3199 & & & & @xmath3200 & 156 ;  ; 43 , 117 + hr  8799e & / & @xmath3196 & & & @xmath3201 & & @xmath3202 & & & & @xmath3203 & 156 ;  ; 43 , 119 + hr  8799b & / & @xmath3196 & & @xmath3204 & @xmath3205 & & @xmath3206 & & & & @xmath3207 & 156 ;  ; 43 , 117 + hr  8799c & / & @xmath3196 & & @xmath3208 & @xmath3209 & & @xmath3210 & & & & @xmath3211 & 156 ;  ; 43 , 117 + apmpm  j2330@xmath14737 & m6/m8.5 & @xmath3212 & & & & & & & @xmath3213 & @xmath3214 & @xmath3215 & 27 ; 111 ; 2 + 2mass  j23310161@xmath10406193a & / & @xmath3216 & & & & & & & & & & 156 ;  ; 2 , 25 + 2mass  j23310161@xmath10406193b & / & @xmath3216 & & & & & & & & & & 156 ;  ; 2 , 25 + apmpm  j2331@xmath12750 & m7.5/m9.5 & @xmath3217 & & & & & & & @xmath3218 & @xmath3219 & @xmath3220 & 27 ; 111 ; 2 + apmpm  j2344@xmath12906 & m6.5/ & @xmath3221 & & & & & & & @xmath3222 & @xmath3223 & @xmath3224 & 27 ; 111 ; 2 + apmpm  j2354@xmath13316c & m8.5/m8 & @xmath3225 & @xmath3226 $ ] & @xmath3227 $ ] & @xmath1541 $ ] & @xmath3228 $ ] & & & @xmath3229 & @xmath3230 & @xmath3231 & 147 ; 16 , 142 ; 1 , 2 + 2massi  j2356547@xmath1155310 & /t5.5 & @xmath3232 & @xmath3233 $ ] & @xmath3234 & @xmath1842 & @xmath3235 & & & @xmath1683 & @xmath3236 & @xmath3237 & 157 ; 14 ; 1 , 2 , 86 + apmpm  j2359@xmath16246 & / & @xmath3238 & & & & & & & @xmath3239 & @xmath3049 & @xmath3240 & 27 ;  ; 2 +      sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & /t4.5 & @xmath1529 & 13.72(3 ) & 13.07(3 ) & 12.56(9 ) & 12.50(3 ) & & & & & & & 1 ; 9 ; 60 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & m7.5/ & @xmath1538 & & & & & & 11.67(3 ) & 11.50(2 ) & 10.97(10 ) & @xmath149.02 & & 106 ; 23 ; 2 + lsr  j0011 + 5908 & m6.5/ & @xmath1559 & & & & & & 8.86(2 ) & 8.63(2 ) & 8.41(3 ) & 7.93(12 ) & & 65 ; 65 ; 2 + bri  0021@xmath10214 & m9.5/m9.5 & @xmath1568 & 9.94(3 ) & 9.91(3 ) & 9.72(3 ) & 9.55(3 ) & & 10.17(2 ) & 9.90(2 ) & 9.41(4 ) & @xmath148.80 & & 101 ; 33 , 50 ; 2 , 80 + pc  0025 + 0447 & m9.5/ & @xmath1599 & & & & & & 14.62(4 ) & 14.14(5 ) & @xmath1412.24 & @xmath148.89 & & 25 ; 50 ; 2 + 2massw  j0030300@xmath1145033 & l7/ & @xmath1618 & & & & & & 13.66(3 ) & 13.26(3 ) & @xmath1412.27 & @xmath149.15 & & 107 ; 53 ; 2 + sdssp  j003259.36 + 141036.6 & /l8 & @xmath1626 & & & & & & 14.26(3 ) & 13.67(4 ) & @xmath1412.22 & @xmath148.98 & & 107 ; 33 ; 2 + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & /t8.5 & @xmath1635 & 16.28(3 ) & 14.49(3 ) & 14.82(5 ) & 13.91(6 ) & & 17.47(29 ) & 14.50(8 ) & @xmath1412.06 & @xmath148.68 & & 1 ; 24 , 108 ; 2 , 108 + 2massw  j0036159 + 182110 & l3.5/l4 : & @xmath1640 & 10.19(3 ) & 10.24(3 ) & 10.10(3 ) & 10.06(3 ) & & 10.52(2 ) & 10.24(2 ) & 9.93(5 ) & @xmath148.51 & & 25 ; 33 , 53 ; 2 , 80 + hd  3651b & /t7.5 & @xmath1649 & 15.38(4 ) & 13.62(2 ) & 14.04(12 ) & 13.45(14 ) & & & & & & & 106 ; 74 ; 74 + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & /t7 & @xmath3241 & 14.82(5 ) & 13.57(3 ) & 13.32(17 ) & 13.00(22 ) & & 15.54(5 ) & 13.55(4 ) & 11.90(21 ) & @xmath148.84 & & 1 ; 9 ; 2 , 61 + rg  0050@xmath12722 & m8/ & @xmath1665 & & & & & & 12.17(2 ) & 11.87(2 ) & 11.52(16 ) & @xmath148.93 & & 102 ; 50 ; 2 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & /t8.5 & @xmath1669 & & & & & & 17.07(15 ) & 13.68(4 ) & 11.65(23 ) & @xmath149.10 & & 1 ; 24 ; 2 + sdssp  j010752.33 + 004156.1 & l8/l5.5 & @xmath1677 & & & & & & 12.69(2 ) & 12.17(3 ) & 11.45(20 ) & @xmath148.88 & & 107 ; 33 , 40 ; 2 + cti  012657.5 + 280202 & m8.5/ & @xmath1686 & & & & & & 12.46(2 ) & 12.19(2 ) & 11.98(20 ) & @xmath149.16 & & 25 ; 50 ; 2 + 2mass  j01490895 + 2956131 & m9.5/ & @xmath1697 & & & & & & 11.56(2 ) & 11.31(2 ) & 10.78(7 ) & 9.13(38 ) & & 25 ; 52 ; 2 + sdss  j015141.69 + 124429.6 & /t1 & @xmath1701 & 14.06(3 ) & 13.91(3 ) & 13.62(11 ) & 13.34(18 ) & & 14.59(3 ) & 13.89(4 ) & 12.48(40 ) & @xmath148.71 & & 107 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & /t4.5 & @xmath1723 & 15.59(6 ) & 14.98(5 ) & 14.67(20 ) & 14.17(19 ) & & 16.39(8 ) & 15.07(8 ) & @xmath1412.84 & @xmath149.04 & & 76 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2massi  j0243137@xmath1245329 & /t6 & @xmath1736 & 13.90(3 ) & 12.95(4 ) & 12.71(5 ) & 12.27(5 ) & & 14.67(3 ) & 12.92(3 ) & 11.56(12 ) & @xmath149.25 & & 107 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + bri  b0246@xmath11703 & m8/ & @xmath1745 & & & & & & 11.17(2 ) & 10.98(2 ) & 10.80(7 ) & @xmath149.01 & & 102 ; 51 ; 2 + tvlm  831 - 154910 & / & @xmath1752 & & & & & & 11.69(2 ) & 11.45(2 ) & 11.03(16 ) & @xmath148.83 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + tvlm  831 - 161058 & m8/ & @xmath3242 & & & & & & 12.41(2 ) & 12.17(2 ) & 12.14(29 ) & @xmath148.69 & & 101 ; 109 ; 2 + tvlm  831 - 165166 & / & @xmath1760 & & & & & & 13.08(2 ) & 12.85(3 ) & 12.71(46 ) & @xmath149.27 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + tvlm  832 - 10443 & m8/ & @xmath1764 & & & & & & 11.65(2 ) & 11.39(2 ) & 10.92(9 ) & @xmath148.91 & & 25 ; 25 ; 2 + teegarden s  star & m6/ & @xmath1768 & 7.12(1 ) & 7.10(2 ) & 7.05(1 ) & 7.02(1 ) & & 7.32(3 ) & 7.06(2 ) & 6.90(2 ) & 6.72(8 ) & & 32 ; 44 ; 2 , 80 + pso  j043.5395 + 02.3995 & /t8 & @xmath1776 & & & & & & 15.76(5 ) & 12.74(3 ) & 11.48(14 ) & @xmath149.44 & & 67 ; 67 ; 2 + denis - p  j0255.0@xmath14700 & l8/l9 & @xmath1783 & 10.29(2 ) & 10.20(2 ) & 9.89(1 ) & 9.61(1 ) & & 10.73(2 ) & 10.17(2 ) & 9.16(3 ) & 8.68(28 ) & & 20 ; 9 , 56 ; 2 , 80 + tvlm  832 - 42500 & m6.5/ & @xmath1791 & & & & & & 12.54(2 ) & 12.27(3 ) & 11.90(23 ) & @xmath149.38 & & 101 ; 35 ; 2 + lp  412 - 31 & m8/ & @xmath1795 & & & & & & 10.35(2 ) & 10.15(2 ) & 9.87(5 ) & 9.09(54 ) & & 25 ; 50 ; 2 + 2massw  j0326137 + 295015 & l3.5/ & @xmath1799 & & & & & & 13.19(3 ) & 12.76(3 ) & @xmath1412.39 & @xmath149.01 & & 25 ; 52 ; 2 + 2massi  j0328426 + 230205 & l8/l9.5 & @xmath1803 & & & & & & 14.15(3 ) & 13.60(4 ) & @xmath1412.41 & @xmath148.82 & & 107 ; 53 , 58 ; 2 + lspm  j0330 + 5413 & / & @xmath1812 & & & & & & 9.03(2 ) & 8.83(2 ) & 8.64(2 ) & 8.31(25 ) & & 65 ;  ; 2 + lp  944 - 20 & m9/ & @xmath1816 & 8.87(3 ) & 8.79(1 ) & 8.59(1 ) & 8.42(1 ) & & 9.13(2 ) & 8.81(2 ) & 8.27(2 ) & 8.00(11 ) & & 102 ; 103 ; 2 , 80 + 2masp  j0345432 + 254023 & l0/l1 : & @xmath1825 & & & & & & 12.35(2 ) & 12.09(2 ) & 12.14(44 ) & @xmath148.90 & & 25 ; 33 , 52 ; 2 + lhs  1604 & m8/ & @xmath1833 & & & & & & 9.97(2 ) & 9.76(2 ) & 9.59(4 ) & @xmath148.60 & & 77 ; 109 ; 2 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & t8/t8 & @xmath1839 & 14.10(4 ) & 12.29(3 ) & 12.87(7 ) & 12.11(5 ) & & 15.11(4 ) & 12.26(3 ) & 11.13(11 ) & @xmath148.64 & & 1 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  191 & m6.5/ & @xmath1861 & & & & & & 10.46(2 ) & 10.24(2 ) & 9.93(5 ) & @xmath149.01 & & 77 ; 48 ; 2 + lhs  197 & m6/ & @xmath1864 & & & & & & 10.55(2 ) & 10.31(2 ) & 9.98(5 ) & 9.03(47 ) & & 77 ; 82 ; 2 + lsr  j0510 + 2713 & m8/ & @xmath1868 & & & & & & 9.29(2 ) & 9.13(2 ) & 8.91(3 ) & 8.76(44 ) & & 65 ; 65 ; 2 + lhs  1742a & esdm5.5/ & @xmath3243 & & & & & & 13.73(3 ) & 13.51(4 ) & @xmath1412.32 & @xmath148.82 & & 77 ; 35 ; 2 + lsr  j0515 + 5911 & m7.5/ & @xmath1879 & & & & & & 10.02(2 ) & 9.81(2 ) & 9.48(4 ) & 9.19(54 ) & & 65 ; 65 ; 2 + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & sdl7/ & @xmath1896 & 13.37(3 ) & 13.22(2 ) & 13.23(10 ) & 13.03(10 ) & & 13.80(3 ) & 13.25(3 ) & @xmath1412.56 & @xmath149.28 & & 90 ; 10 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  207 & m6/ & @xmath1900 & & & & & & 11.13(2 ) & 10.88(2 ) & 10.69(7 ) & @xmath148.84 & & 77 ; 82 ; 2 + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & l5/l5 & @xmath1903 & 11.49(3 ) & 11.60(3 ) & 11.35(4 ) & 11.20(5 ) & & 11.87(2 ) & 11.58(2 ) & @xmath1411.41 & @xmath148.42 & & 107 ; 31 , 33 ; 2 , 80 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & t5/t4.5 & @xmath1915 & 12.67(3 ) & 11.93(3 ) & 11.73(3 ) & 11.42(3 ) & & 13.39(3 ) & 11.90(2 ) & 11.02(17 ) & @xmath149.06 & & 1 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j06411840@xmath14322329 & l1.5/ & @xmath1940 & & & & & & 12.07(2 ) & 11.78(2 ) & 11.21(9 ) & @xmath149.58 & & 4 ; 86 ; 2 + hd  46588b & /l9 : & @xmath1944 & & & & & & 13.71(3 ) & 13.08(3 ) & 11.72(16 ) & @xmath149.48 & & 106 ; 72 ; 2 + eso  207 - 61 & m9/ & @xmath1964 & & & & & & 11.83(2 ) & 11.56(2 ) & 11.34(10 ) & @xmath149.48 & & 102 ; 89 ; 2 + 2mass  j07193188@xmath15051410 & l0/ & @xmath3244 & & & & & & 12.44(2 ) & 12.22(2 ) & 11.54(10 ) & @xmath148.99 & & 4 ; 86 ; 2 + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & /t9 & @xmath1983 & 14.28(5 ) & 12.19(4 ) & & & & 15.19(5 ) & 12.21(3 ) & 10.39(8 ) & @xmath149.15 & & 62 ; 24 ; 2 , 73 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & t8/t7 & @xmath1990 & 14.41(3 ) & 13.01(3 ) & 13.24(6 ) & 12.64(11 ) & & 15.24(5 ) & 12.96(3 ) & 11.90(28 ) & @xmath148.33 & & 1 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  234 & m6.5/ & @xmath1999 & & & & & & 9.06(2 ) & 8.82(2 ) & 8.59(2 ) & 8.21(22 ) & & 19 ; 43 ; 2 + lp  423 - 31 & m7/ & @xmath2012 & & & & & & 9.61(2 ) & 9.45(2 ) & 9.26(3 ) & 8.95(46 ) & & 32 ; 83 ; 2 + hip  38939b & /t4.5 & @xmath2019 & & & & & & 15.92(8 ) & 13.96(5 ) & 12.49(35 ) & @xmath149.24 & & 106 ; 27 ; 2 + wd  0806@xmath1661b & / & @xmath2039 & 19.65(15 ) & 16.88(5 ) & & & & @xmath1419.41 & 17.68(41 ) & 12.53(16 ) & 10.18(52 ) & & 98 ;  ; 2 , 75 + denis  j081730.0@xmath1615520 & /t6 & @xmath2040 & & & & & & 12.96(2 ) & 11.24(2 ) & 9.68(3 ) & 9.43(41 ) & & 5 ; 5 ; 2 + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & l7.5/l6 & @xmath2044 & 11.70(3 ) & 11.59(3 ) & 11.16(3 ) & 10.93(3 ) & & 12.08(2 ) & 11.56(2 ) & 10.39(7 ) & 9.03(49 ) & & 25 ; 33 , 53 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  248 & m6.5/ & @xmath2058 & 6.84(2 ) & 6.84(4 ) & 6.76(5 ) & 6.74(1 ) & & 7.03(3 ) & 6.82(2 ) & 6.63(2 ) & 6.47(6 ) & & 105 ; 48 ; 2 , 80 + sdssp  j083008.12 + 482847.4 & l8/l9 : & @xmath2062 & & & & & & 12.91(2 ) & 12.46(3 ) & 11.71(21 ) & @xmath149.05 & & 107 ; 33 , 56 ; 2 + lhs  2021 & m6.5/ & @xmath2070 & 10.32(2 ) & 10.35(1 ) & 10.24(1 ) & 10.20(1 ) & & 10.51(2 ) & 10.33(2 ) & 10.19(10 ) & @xmath148.56 & & 20 ; 20 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  2026 & m6/ & @xmath2073 & & & & & & 10.91(2 ) & 10.70(2 ) & 10.59(8 ) & @xmath148.87 & & 77 ; 43 ; 2 + 2mass  j08354256@xmath10819237 & l5/ & @xmath2077 & & & & & & 10.39(2 ) & 10.03(2 ) & 9.47(3 ) & @xmath148.49 & & 4 ; 22 ; 2 + sdssp  j083717.22@xmath1000018.3 & t0/t1 & @xmath2084 & 14.76(3 ) & 14.60(3 ) & 14.41(13 ) & 14.22(14 ) & & 15.40(5 ) & 14.69(7 ) & @xmath1412.82 & @xmath149.18 & & 107 ; 9 , 56 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  2034 & m6/ & @xmath512 & & & & & & 9.80(2 ) & 9.63(2 ) & 9.46(5 ) & @xmath148.92 & & 77 ; 49 ; 2 + lhs  2065 & m9/m9 & @xmath3245 & 9.41(3 ) & 9.39(3 ) & 9.22(3 ) & 9.13(3 ) & & 9.61(2 ) & 9.38(2 ) & 8.93(3 ) & 9.17(51 ) & & 77 ; 33 , 48 ; 2 , 80 + lp  368 - 128 & m6/ & @xmath2116 & & & & & & 8.23(3 ) & 8.03(2 ) & 7.80(2 ) & 7.96(22 ) & & 44 ; 44 ; 2 + ulas  j090116.23@xmath1030635.0 & /t7.5 & @xmath2120 & & & & & & 17.77(31 ) & 14.60(7 ) & @xmath1412.08 & @xmath148.63 & & 76 ; 69 ; 2 + denis - p  j0909.9@xmath10658 & l0/ & @xmath2124 & & & & & & 12.21(2 ) & 11.96(2 ) & 11.30(15 ) & @xmath148.57 & & 4 ; 56 ; 2 + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & t7/t6p & @xmath2166 & 13.10(4 ) & 11.64(5 ) & 12.32(3 ) & 11.73(5 ) & & 14.07(3 ) & 11.66(2 ) & 10.75(9 ) & @xmath148.53 & & 90 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j09393548@xmath12448279 & /t8 & @xmath2175 & 13.76(2 ) & 11.66(2 ) & 12.96(3 ) & 11.89(3 ) & & 15.03(4 ) & 11.64(2 ) & 10.71(9 ) & @xmath149.20 & & 12 ; 9 ; 2 , 12 + tvlm  262 - 111511 & m8/ & @xmath2183 & & & & & & 12.77(3 ) & 12.48(3 ) & 12.59(46 ) & @xmath149.04 & & 101 ; 109 ; 2 + tvlm  262 - 70502 & / & @xmath2195 & & & & & & 12.90(3 ) & 12.67(3 ) & 12.57(40 ) & @xmath149.27 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + 2mass  j10043929@xmath13335189 & l4/ & @xmath3246 & & & & & & 12.28(8 ) & 12.00(7 ) & 12.67(54 ) & @xmath149.22 & & 4 ; 37 ; 2 + tvlm  263 - 71765 & m8/ & @xmath2203 & & & & & & 12.07(2 ) & 11.84(2 ) & 11.48(15 ) & @xmath149.34 & & 101 ; 109 ; 2 + ssspm  j1013@xmath11356 & sdm9.5/ & @xmath2207 & & & & & & 13.78(3 ) & 13.55(4 ) & 12.68(51 ) & @xmath148.49 & & 90 ; 10 , 94 ; 2 + 2mass  j10185879@xmath12909535 & l1/ & @xmath2233 & & & & & & 12.54(2 ) & 12.36(3 ) & 12.13(28 ) & @xmath148.78 & & 4 ; 37 ; 2 + tvlm  213 - 2005 & / & @xmath2249 & & & & & & 12.06(2 ) & 11.84(2 ) & 11.47(15 ) & @xmath149.23 & & 25 ;  ; 2 + hd  89744b & l0/ & @xmath3247 & & & & & & 13.19(3 ) & 12.95(3 ) & @xmath1412.14 & @xmath149.06 & & 106 ; 110 ; 2 + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2261 & 14.39(6 ) & 12.95(5 ) & 13.52(7 ) & 12.91(10 ) & & 15.43(4 ) & 12.97(3 ) & 11.72(29 ) & @xmath149.17 & & 107 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  292 & m6.5/m6.5 & @xmath3248 & 7.51(3 ) & 7.51(3 ) & 7.46(3 ) & 7.42(3 ) & & 7.71(2 ) & 7.51(2 ) & 7.30(2 ) & 7.03(9 ) & & 105 ; 33 , 49 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  2314 & m6/ & @xmath2275 & & & & & & 11.38(2 ) & 11.17(2 ) & 11.11(14 ) & @xmath148.82 & & 77 ; 82 ; 2 + wolf  359 & m6/m6 & @xmath2282 & & & & & & 5.81(6 ) & 5.49(3 ) & 5.48(2 ) & 5.31(3 ) & & 105 ; 33 , 48 ; 2 + denis - p  j1058.7@xmath11548 & l3/l3 & @xmath2291 & 11.76(3 ) & 11.77(3 ) & 11.60(3 ) & 11.50(3 ) & & 12.07(3 ) & 11.77(2 ) & 11.42(16 ) & @xmath149.05 & & 25 ; 33 , 52 ; 2 , 80 + ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 & m8.5/ & @xmath2300 & & & & & & 11.44(2 ) & 10.79(2 ) & 9.39(3 ) & 8.02(19 ) & & 99 ; 97 ; 2 + lhs  2351 & m6/ & @xmath2308 & & & & & & 11.10(2 ) & 10.86(2 ) & 10.64(9 ) & @xmath148.71 & & 102 ; 82 ; 2 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & /t5.5 & @xmath2312 & 14.71(4 ) & 13.88(3 ) & 13.43(7 ) & 13.21(16 ) & & 15.53(5 ) & 13.92(5 ) & 12.12(32 ) & @xmath149.16 & & 1 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & /t7.5 & @xmath2333 & 14.01(5 ) & 12.23(3 ) & 13.22(17 ) & 12.25(22 ) & & 15.37(5 ) & 12.24(3 ) & 10.97(11 ) & @xmath149.15 & & 1 ; 9 ; 2 , 61 + lhs  2471 & m6.5/ & @xmath3249 & & & & & & 10.02(2 ) & 9.82(2 ) & 9.61(4 ) & @xmath148.61 & & 77 ; 25 ; 2 + 2massw  j1200329 + 204851 & m7/ & @xmath2359 & & & & & & 11.61(2 ) & 11.40(2 ) & 11.32(14 ) & @xmath148.95 & & 105 ; 36 ; 2 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & m8/m8.5 : & @xmath2362 & 11.30(8 ) & 11.00(8 ) & 10.64(10 ) & 10.12(10 ) & & 11.56(2 ) & 11.01(2 ) & 9.46(3 ) & 8.03(13 ) & & 28 ; 17 , 38 ; 2 , 88 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254b & /l1 : : . & @xmath2362 & & & & & & 11.56(2 ) & 11.01(2 ) & 9.46(3 ) & 8.03(13 ) & & 28 ; 79 ; 2 + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & t7/t7.5 & @xmath2390 & 14.19(4 ) & 13.23(3 ) & 13.34(7 ) & 12.95(18 ) & & 15.29(5 ) & 13.20(4 ) & 11.69(24 ) & @xmath148.93 & & 104 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + bri  b1222@xmath11222 & m9/ & @xmath2399 & & & & & & 11.01(2 ) & 10.79(2 ) & 10.44(8 ) & @xmath148.57 & & 102 ; 50 ; 2 + lhs  330 & m6/m6 & @xmath2428 & & & & & & 11.17(2 ) & 10.89(2 ) & 10.72(7 ) & @xmath149.05 & & 77 ; 21 , 33 , 82 ; 2 + 2mass  j12373919 + 6526148 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2433 & 14.39(3 ) & 12.93(3 ) & 13.42(6 ) & 12.78(11 ) & & 15.48(5 ) & 12.95(3 ) & 12.05(24 ) & @xmath149.22 & & 107 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & t2/t2 & @xmath2442 & 12.63(3 ) & 12.39(3 ) & 11.99(5 ) & 11.75(5 ) & & 13.31(3 ) & 12.40(3 ) & 10.73(9 ) & 8.87(39 ) & & 25 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + ssspm  j1256@xmath11408 & / & @xmath2450 & & & & & & 13.12(3 ) & 12.87(3 ) & @xmath1412.21 & @xmath149.15 & & 90 ;  ; 2 + sdss  j125637.13@xmath1022452.4 & sdl3.5/ & @xmath2454 & & & & & & 15.21(4 ) & 15.11(10 ) & @xmath1412.71 & @xmath148.86 & & 90 ; 13 ; 2 + ross  458c & /t8 & @xmath2460 & & & & & & 16.01(7 ) & 13.74(4 ) & 11.64(19 ) & @xmath149.20 & & 106 ; 24 ; 2 + 2mass  j13204159 + 0957506 & m7.5/ & @xmath2491 & & & & & & 12.42(3 ) & 12.19(2 ) & 12.19(25 ) & @xmath149.40 & & 106 ; 86 ; 2 + 2mass  j13204427 + 0409045 & l3::/ & @xmath2495 & & & & & & 13.16(3 ) & 12.88(3 ) & @xmath1412.27 & @xmath149.14 & & 106 ; 86 ; 2 + sdssp  j132629.82@xmath1003831.5 & l8:/l5.5 & @xmath2499 & & & & & & 13.27(2 ) & 12.75(3 ) & 12.36(30 ) & @xmath149.37 & & 107 ; 31 , 58 ; 2 + 2massw  j1328550 + 211449 & l5/ & @xmath2507 & & & & & & 13.58(3 ) & 13.37(3 ) & @xmath1412.42 & @xmath149.22 & & 25 ; 52 ; 2 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & /t8.5 & @xmath2511 & 15.95(3 ) & 13.91(3 ) & 14.34(5 ) & 13.37(6 ) & & 16.88(13 ) & 13.86(4 ) & 12.17(29 ) & @xmath149.10 & & 1 ; 24 ; 2 , 14 + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath2516 & 14.53(5 ) & 13.60(3 ) & 13.40(11 ) & 13.13(17 ) & & 15.48(5 ) & 13.57(3 ) & 12.15(26 ) & @xmath149.20 & & 104 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + ulas  j141623.94 + 134836.3 & /t7.5p & @xmath2537 & 14.69(5 ) & 12.76(3 ) & & & & 16.12(20 ) & 12.79(4 ) & 12.19(23 ) & @xmath149.11 & & 1 ; 16 ; 2 , 16 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 &",
    "l6/l6p : : & @xmath2537 & 10.99(7 ) & 10.98(5 ) & & & & 11.35(2 ) & 11.02(2 ) & 10.26(4 ) & @xmath148.67 & & 1 ; 7 ; 2 , 16 + sdss  j141659.78 + 500626.4 & /l5.5 : : & @xmath2552 & & & & & & 14.70(3 ) & 14.41(4 ) & 13.19(41 ) & @xmath149.76 & & 106 ; 18 ; 2 + bd  + 01  2920b & /t8p & @xmath2560 & 16.77(3 ) & 14.71(1 ) & & & & 18.01(29 ) & 14.85(7 ) & @xmath1412.66 & @xmath149.41 & & 106 ; 81 ; 2 , 81 + gd  165b & l4/l3 : : & @xmath3250 & & & & & & 13.20(2 ) & 13.04(3 ) & @xmath1412.88 & @xmath149.60 & & 105 ; 33 , 52 ; 2 + lsr  j1425 + 7102 & sdm8/ & @xmath2574 & & & & & & 13.89(3 ) & 13.66(3 ) & @xmath1412.67 & @xmath149.63 & & 26 ; 10 , 64 ; 2 + lhs  2919 & m7.5/ & @xmath2577 & & & & & & 9.81(2 ) & 9.60(2 ) & 9.39(3 ) & 8.98(33 ) & & 65 ; 65 ; 2 + lhs  2924 & m9/m9 & @xmath2581 & 10.16(3 ) & 10.16(3 ) & 9.97(3 ) & 9.81(3 ) & & 10.43(2 ) & 10.17(2 ) & 9.68(3 ) & 9.26(38 ) & & 77 ; 41 , 59 ; 2 , 80 + proxima  cen & m5.5/ & @xmath2590 & & & & & & 4.20(9 ) & 3.57(3 ) & 3.83(2 ) & 3.66(2 ) & & 6 ; 42 ; 2 + lhs  2930 & m6.5/ & @xmath1812 & & & & & & 9.55(2 ) & 9.34(2 ) & 9.12(2 ) & 9.13(34 ) & & 77 ; 49 ; 2 + sdss  j143517.20@xmath1004612.9 & l0/ & @xmath2597 & & & & & & 15.08(4 ) & 14.88(7 ) & 12.90(54 ) & 9.25(46 ) & & 107 ; 40 ; 2 + sdss  j143535.72@xmath1004347.0 & l3/l2.5 & @xmath2601 & & & & & & 14.79(3 ) & 14.56(6 ) & @xmath1412.27 & @xmath149.26 & & 107 ; 40 , 58 ; 2 + lhs  377 & sdm7/ & @xmath2608 & & & & & & 12.30(3 ) & 12.05(3 ) & 11.67(11 ) & @xmath149.18 & & 77 ; 35 ; 2 + 2massw  j1439284 + 192915 & l1/ & @xmath2615 & 10.91(2 ) & 10.93(3 ) & 10.82(3 ) & 10.67(2 ) & & 11.19(2 ) & 10.95(2 ) & 10.53(5 ) & @xmath149.00 & & 25 ; 52 ; 2 , 80 + ssspm  j1444@xmath12019 & d / sdm9/ & @xmath2626 & & & & & & 11.46(2 ) & 11.21(2 ) & 10.97(9 ) & @xmath149.08 & & 90 ; 10 , 96 ; 2 + sdssp  j144600.60 + 002452.0 & l6/l5 & @xmath2630 & & & & & & 13.24(2 ) & 12.90(3 ) & 12.42(29 ) & @xmath149.30 & & 107 ; 33 , 40 ; 2 + lhs  3003 & m7/m7 & @xmath2658 & 8.47(3 ) & 8.49(3 ) & 8.39(3 ) & 8.36(3 ) & & 8.69(2 ) & 8.49(2 ) & 8.27(2 ) & 8.12(27 ) & & 102 ; 33 , 50 ; 2 , 80 + gl  570d & t7/t7.5 & @xmath2666 & 13.80(5 ) & 12.12(3 ) & 12.77(11 ) & 11.97(7 ) & & 14.82(3 ) & 12.11(2 ) & 10.86(8 ) & @xmath149.19 & & 106 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + tvlm  513 - 46546 & m8.5/m8.5 & @xmath2681 & & & & & & 10.35(2 ) & 10.05(2 ) & 9.62(3 ) & 9.07(34 ) & & 25 ; 33 , 50 ; 2 + tvlm  513 - 42404 & / & @xmath2688 & & & & & & 13.27(3 ) & 13.06(3 ) & 12.20(22 ) & @xmath149.44 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + tvlm  513 - 42404b & / & @xmath2688 & & & & & & 13.87(3 ) & 13.59(4 ) & 13.10(50 ) & @xmath148.84 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & t6/t5 & @xmath2698 & & & & & & 13.51(2 ) & 11.72(2 ) & 10.53(5 ) & @xmath149.09 & & 1 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & /t7 & @xmath2707 & 15.44(3 ) & 14.01(3 ) & 14.37(4 ) & 13.76(7 ) & & 16.39(7 ) & 14.06(4 ) & 12.69(34 ) & @xmath149.36 & & 1 ; 18 ; 2 , 61 + ulas  j150457.65 + 053800.8 & /t6p : & @xmath2711 & & & & & & 16.48(8 ) & 14.23(4 ) & @xmath1412.43 & @xmath149.04 & & 106 ; 78 ; 2 + 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & l5/l5.5 & @xmath2716 & 10.27(3 ) & 10.40(3 ) & 10.14(3 ) & 9.99(3 ) & & 10.67(2 ) & 10.38(2 ) & 9.62(4 ) & @xmath148.78 & & 25 ; 53 , 58 ; 2 , 80 + tvlm  868 - 110639 & m9/ & @xmath2725 & & & & & & 10.94(2 ) & 10.67(2 ) & 10.16(5 ) & 8.84(28 ) & & 101 ; 21 , 50 ; 2 + tvlm  513 - 8328 & / & @xmath2732 & & & & & & 12.61(2 ) & 12.35(2 ) & 11.93(15 ) & @xmath149.60 & & 101 ;  ; 2 + gl  584c & l8/l8 & @xmath2737 & & & & & & 13.49(2 ) & 12.97(3 ) & 11.79(14 ) & @xmath149.21 & & 106 ; 33 , 53 ; 2 + denis - p  j153941.9@xmath1052042 & l4:/l2 & @xmath2772 & & & & & & 12.00(2 ) & 11.74(2 ) & 11.65(23 ) & @xmath148.88 & & 4 ; 46 , 56 ; 2 + wisepa  j154151.66@xmath1225025.2 & /y0 & @xmath2776 & 16.73(4 ) & 14.23(2 ) & & & & 16.74(17 ) & 14.25(6 ) & @xmath1412.31 & @xmath148.89 & & 57 ; 24 ; 2 , 57 + 2mass  j15462718@xmath13325111 & /t5.5 & @xmath2779 & & & & & & 15.30(5 ) & 13.44(4 ) & 11.10(13 ) & 8.06(20 ) & & 104 ; 9 ; 2 + gj  618.1b & l2.5/ & @xmath2801 & & & & & & 13.04(3 ) & 12.66(3 ) & 12.04(30 ) & @xmath149.10 & & 106 ; 110 ; 2 + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & /t6 & @xmath2805 & 14.30(4 ) & 13.08(3 ) & 13.25(8 ) & 12.84(9 ) & & 15.12(4 ) & 13.09(3 ) & 12.50(45 ) & @xmath149.06 & & 104 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j16262034 + 3925190 & sdl4/ & @xmath2814 & & & & & & 13.46(3 ) & 13.09(3 ) & @xmath1412.44 & @xmath149.24 & & 90 ; 10 ; 2 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & /t7 & @xmath2787 & 15.25(3 ) & 13.86(3 ) & 14.14(5 ) & 13.55(7 ) & & 16.43(9 ) & 13.96(4 ) & 11.90(21 ) & @xmath149.23 & & 1 ; 18 ; 2 , 61 + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & l8/l7.5 & @xmath2828 & 12.70(3 ) & 12.65(3 ) & 12.24(5 ) & 12.00(5 ) & & 13.12(3 ) & 12.62(3 ) & 11.99(24 ) & @xmath149.33 & & 25 ; 33 , 52 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  3241 & m6.5/ & @xmath2837 & & & & & & 9.38(2 ) & 9.15(2 ) & 8.95(2 ) & 9.10(37 ) & & 32 ; 83 ; 2 + wise  j164715.57 + 563208.3 & /l9p & @xmath2840 & 13.25(2 ) & 13.13(2 ) & & & & 13.60(2 ) & 13.09(2 ) & 12.06(9 ) & @xmath149.62 & & 57 ; 57 ; 2 , 57 + vb  8 & m7/ & @xmath2844 & 8.37(2 ) & 8.38(1 ) & 8.28(2 ) & 8.24(2 ) & & 8.59(2 ) & 8.36(2 ) & 8.13(2 ) & 7.86(18 ) & & 77 ; 41 ; 2 , 80 + 2massw  j1658037 + 702701 & l1/ & @xmath2852 & & & & & & 11.60(2 ) & 11.38(2 ) & 10.83(5 ) & @xmath149.59 & & 25 ; 36 ; 2 + denis - p  j170548.3@xmath1051645 & l0.5/l4 & @xmath2855 & & & & & & 11.65(2 ) & 11.40(2 ) & 11.00(21 ) & 8.12(36 ) & & 4 ; 46 , 86 ; 2 + 2massi  j1711457 + 223204 & l6.5/ & @xmath2863 & & & & & & 14.35(3 ) & 13.81(4 ) & @xmath1412.60 & @xmath149.17 & & 107 ; 53 ; 2 + wisep  j174124.27 + 255319.6 & t9/t9 & @xmath2901 & 14.43(2 ) & 12.39(2 ) & & & & 15.38(5 ) & 12.33(3 ) & 10.83(9 ) & @xmath148.60 & & 57 ; 57 ; 2 , 57 + 2mass  j17502484@xmath10016151 & /l5.5 & @xmath2919 & & & & & & 11.18(2 ) & 10.90(2 ) & 10.41(7 ) & @xmath149.14 & & 4 ; 47 ; 2 + sdssp  j175032.96 + 175903.9 & /t3.5 & @xmath3251 & 14.95(3 ) & 14.46(3 ) & 14.15(23 ) & 13.93(23 ) & & 15.80(6 ) & 14.48(6 ) & @xmath1412.67 & @xmath149.14 & & 107 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + lp  44 - 162 & m7.5/ & @xmath2934 & & & & & & 10.13(2 ) & 9.89(2 ) & 9.67(2 ) & 9.81(33 ) & & 65 ; 36 ; 2 + sdss  j175805.46 + 463311.9 & /t6.5 & @xmath2938 & & & & & & 15.68(4 ) & 13.82(3 ) & 12.94(39 ) & @xmath149.57 & & 106 ; 9 ; 2 + 2massi  j1835379 + 325954 & m8.5/ & @xmath2943 & 8.55(2 ) & 8.55(1 ) & 8.39(1 ) & 8.29(1 ) & & 8.80(2 ) & 8.54(2 ) & 8.16(2 ) & 7.89(13 ) & & 84 ; 84 ; 2 , 80 + lp  335 - 12 & m6.5/ & @xmath2947 & & & & & & 9.75(2 ) & 9.51(2 ) & 9.27(3 ) & @xmath148.69 & & 65 ; 83 ; 2 + lp  44 - 334 & m6.5/ & @xmath2950 & & & & & & 9.77(2 ) & 9.55(2 ) & 9.33(2 ) & 9.43(39 ) & & 65 ; 85 ; 2 + 2massw  j1841086 + 311727 & l4p/ & @xmath2953 & & & & & & 13.60(3 ) & 13.26(3 ) & 12.12(19 ) & @xmath149.15 & & 107 ; 53 ; 2 + ce  507 & m6/ & @xmath2957 & & & & & & 9.58(3 ) & 9.39(2 ) & 9.30(4 ) & @xmath149.09 & & 20 ; 20 ; 2 + lhs  3406 & m8/m5.5 & @xmath2960 & & & & & & 10.07(2 ) & 9.87(2 ) & 9.62(3 ) & 9.33(43 ) & & 77 ; 23 , 33 ; 2 + vb  10 & m8/ & @xmath3252 & 8.29(2 ) & 8.30(3 ) & 8.15(1 ) & 8.14(0 ) & & 8.47(2 ) & 8.25(2 ) & 8.08(2 ) & @xmath148.43 & & 77 ; 41 ; 2 , 80 + gj  1245b & m6/m6 & @xmath3004 & & & & & & 7.18(7 ) & 6.97(3 ) & 6.85(2 ) & 6.76(9 ) & & 39 ; 33 , 48 ; 2 + lsr  j2036 + 5059 & sdm7.5/ & @xmath3011 & & & & & & 12.70(2 ) & 12.48(3 ) & 11.86(21 ) & @xmath149.30 & & 90 ; 10 , 63 ; 2 + lp  397 - 10 & m6/ & @xmath3046 & & & & & & 10.62(2 ) & 10.42(2 ) & 10.21(5 ) & @xmath148.72 & & 32 ; 83 ; 2 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m18 & m8.5/ & @xmath3050 & & & & & & 12.04(2 ) & 11.77(2 ) & 11.27(14 ) & @xmath148.85 & & 102 ; 68 ; 2 + lspm  j2124 + 4003 & m6.5/ & @xmath3057 & & & & & & 9.17(2 ) & 8.99(2 ) & 8.86(2 ) & @xmath148.88 & & 32 ; 63 ; 2 + hb  2124@xmath14228 & m7.5/ & @xmath3061 & & & & & & 11.90(2 ) & 11.67(2 ) & 11.36(16 ) & @xmath148.96 & & 102 ; 86 ; 2 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m20 & / & @xmath3253 & & & & & & 12.93(2 ) & 12.69(3 ) & @xmath1412.40 & @xmath149.08 & & 102 ;  ; 2 + hn  peg  b & /t2.5 & @xmath3254 & 13.72(4 ) & 13.39(2 ) & 13.08(10 ) & 12.58(11 ) & & & & & & & 106 ; 74 ; 74 + wolf  940b & /t8.5 & @xmath3099 & 16.44(3 ) & 14.43(3 ) & 15.38(15 ) & 14.36(8 ) & & 16.72(12 ) & 14.24(5 ) & @xmath1412.79 & @xmath148.71 & & 105 ; 15 , 24 ; 2 , 61 + lspm  j2158 + 6117 & m6/ & @xmath3104 & & & & & & 10.22(2 ) & 10.01(2 ) & 9.74(4 ) & 8.98(30 ) & & 32 ; 63 ; 2 + grh  2208@xmath120 & m7.5/ & @xmath3129 & & & & & & 12.89(3 ) & 12.59(3 ) & 12.10(29 ) & @xmath149.27 & & 25 ; 25 ; 2 + tvlm  890 - 60235 & m7/ & @xmath3132 & & & & & & 12.87(3 ) & 12.64(3 ) & 12.60(50 ) & @xmath148.83 & & 101 ; 109 ; 2 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & l4.5/l3.5 & @xmath3255 & 11.05(3 ) & 11.14(3 ) & 10.85(3 ) & 10.81(3 ) & & 11.36(2 ) & 11.12(2 ) & 10.65(9 ) & @xmath148.57 & & 1 ; 53 , 58 ; 2 , 80 + lhs  523 & m6.5/ & @xmath3145 & & & & & & 9.65(2 ) & 9.44(2 ) & 9.24(3 ) & @xmath148.32 & & 105 ; 48 ; 2 + lp  460 - 44 & m7/ & @xmath3256 & & & & & & 11.16(2 ) & 10.95(2 ) & 10.61(7 ) & @xmath148.91 & & 32 ; 36 ; 2 + g  216 - 7b & m9.5/ & @xmath3167 & & & & & & 11.71(2 ) & 11.43(2 ) & 11.01(9 ) & @xmath148.98 & & 106 ; 55 ; 2 + sdssp  j225529.09@xmath1003433.4 & l0:/ & @xmath3185 & & & & & & 14.04(3 ) & 13.76(5 ) & @xmath1411.92 & @xmath148.88 & & 107 ; 92 ; 2 + 2mass  j23062928@xmath10502285 & m7.5/ & @xmath3192 & & & & & & 10.04(2 ) & 9.80(2 ) & 9.53(4 ) & @xmath148.40 & & 20 ; 36 ; 2 + apmpm  j2330@xmath14737 & m6/m8.5 & @xmath3212 & & & & & & 10.05(2 ) & 9.84(2 ) & 9.57(4 ) & @xmath148.56 & & 20 ; 68 ; 2 + apmpm  j2331@xmath12750 & m7.5/m9.5 & @xmath3217 & & & & & & 10.40(2 ) & 10.16(2 ) & 9.85(5 ) & 9.11(51 ) & & 20 ; 68 ; 2 + apmpm  j2344@xmath12906 & m6.5/ & @xmath3221 & & & & & & 12.15(2 ) & 11.86(2 ) & 11.64(15 ) & 9.40(48 ) & & 20 ; 68 ; 2 + apmpm  j2354@xmath13316c & m8.5/m8 & @xmath3225 & & & & & & 11.61(2 ) & 11.39(2 ) & 11.21(15 ) & @xmath148.68 & & 98 ; 11 , 95 ; 2 + 2massi  j2356547@xmath1155310 & /t5.5 & @xmath3232 & 14.69(4 ) & 13.69(3 ) & 13.57(8 ) & 13.21(17 ) & & 15.58(6 ) & 13.71(4 ) & 12.40(42 ) & @xmath149.09 & & 107 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + apmpm  j2359@xmath16246 & / & @xmath3238 & & & & & & 10.29(2 ) & 10.08(2 ) & 9.69(3 ) & 8.47(23 ) & & 20 ;  ; 2 +     +   + gj  1001bc & l5/l4.5 & @xmath1546 & 10.36(3 ) & 10.47(3 ) & 10.14(3 ) & 10.13(3 ) & & 10.75(2 ) & 10.49(2 ) & 9.87(5 ) & @xmath149.09 & & 44 ; 54 , 58 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191ab & l4:/ & @xmath1598 & & & & & & 11.74(2 ) & 11.57(2 ) & 11.22(9 ) & @xmath149.55 & & 106 ; 23 ; 2 + lp  349 - 25ab & m8/m8 & @xmath1603 & & & & & & 9.31(2 ) & 9.05(2 ) & 8.79(3 ) & 8.65(37 ) & & 1 ; 30 , 36 ; 2 + l  726 - 8ab & m6/ & @xmath1690 & & & & & & 5.05(7 ) & 4.57(4 ) & 4.76(2 ) & 4.62(3 ) & & 34 ; 48 ; 2 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925ab & l7/l5.5 : : & @xmath1710 & & & & & & 12.21(2 ) & 11.78(2 ) & 10.82(9 ) & @xmath148.47 & & 25 ; 52 , 58 ; 2 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & l7.5/t0 & @xmath1848 & 11.73(3 ) & 11.58(3 ) & 11.30(3 ) & 11.01(3 ) & & 12.18(2 ) & 11.58(2 ) & 10.57(8 ) & 8.99(46 ) & & 1 ; 9 , 22 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & l7/t1p & @xmath1883 & & & & & & 13.39(3 ) & 12.82(3 ) & 11.90(19 ) & @xmath148.62 & & 1 ; 9 , 56 ; 2 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & l3.5/ & @xmath1952 & & & & & & 10.68(2 ) & 10.38(2 ) & 9.72(4 ) & @xmath148.68 & & 1 ; 100 ; 2 + lhs  1901ab & m7/m7 & @xmath1967 & & & & & & 8.93(2 ) & 8.68(2 ) & 8.47(2 ) & 8.03(18 ) & & 1 ; 30 , 65 ; 2 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & l0.5/l1 & @xmath2007 & 9.86(3 ) & 9.90(5 ) & 9.72(3 ) & 9.57(3 ) & & 10.12(2 ) & 9.86(2 ) & 9.45(4 ) & @xmath148.81 & & 1 ; 53 , 58 ; 2 , 80 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0ab & l4/l9.5 & @xmath2026 & 12.44(3 ) & 12.43(3 ) & 12.32(3 ) & 12.10(3 ) & & 12.88(2 ) & 12.45(3 ) & 11.87(22 ) & @xmath149.03 & & 1 ; 40 , 60 ; 2 , 60 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & l6/ & @xmath2095 & & & & & & 13.51(3 ) & 12.95(3 ) & 11.63(20 ) & @xmath148.79 & & 1 ; 52 ; 2 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518ab & l3:/ & @xmath2115 & & & & & & 13.33(3 ) & 12.98(3 ) & 12.01(31 ) & @xmath148.38 & & 1 ; 22 ; 2 + gl  337cd & l8/t0 & @xmath2127 & 12.50(4 ) & 12.33(4 ) & 11.96(9 ) & 11.95(6 ) & & 13.23(3 ) & 12.48(3 ) & 11.33(17 ) & 8.79(48 ) & & 106 ; 9 , 110 ; 2 , 80 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742ab & l6.5/t0p & @xmath2140 & & & & & & 13.30(3 ) & 12.83(3 ) & 12.41(41 ) & @xmath149.21 & & 1 ; 9 , 53 ; 2 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & /t4.5 & @xmath2153 & 14.48(3 ) & 13.71(3 ) & 13.55(11 ) & 13.32(6 ) & & 15.24(4 ) & 13.69(3 ) & 12.77(40 ) & @xmath149.32 & & 1 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2mass  j09522188@xmath11924319ab & m7/ & @xmath2198 & & & & & & 10.67(2 ) & 10.47(2 ) & 10.19(6 ) & @xmath149.15 & & 20 ; 36 ; 2 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839ab & l2:/l1 & @xmath2215 & 12.03(3 ) & 12.05(3 ) & 11.85(4 ) & 11.70(3 ) & & 12.29(2 ) & 12.05(3 ) & 11.44(19 ) & 9.00(54 ) & & 1 ; 22 , 111 ; 2 , 80 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & t3.5/t3 & @xmath2237 & 14.16(3 ) & 13.80(3 ) & 13.58(12 ) & 13.16(11 ) & & 14.74(4 ) & 13.74(4 ) & @xmath1412.06 & @xmath149.16 & & 1 ; 9 , 56 ; 2 , 80 + gl  417bc & l4.5/ & @xmath2321 & & & & & & 11.97(2 ) & 11.64(2 ) & 11.09(12 ) & @xmath148.54 & & 106 ; 53 ; 2 + lhs  2397aab & m8/ & @xmath2341 & & & & & & 10.35(3 ) & 10.09(3 ) & 9.58(4 ) & 8.58(29 ) & & 1 ; 50 ; 2 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & l3/ & @xmath2349 & & & & & & 12.01(2 ) & 11.71(2 ) & 11.28(14 ) & @xmath148.73 & & 1 ; 52 ; 2 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008ab & t3.5/t3 & @xmath2378 & 14.02(3 ) & 13.49(3 ) & 13.33(3 ) & 13.06(7 ) & & 14.66(4 ) & 13.47(4 ) & 11.83(25 ) & @xmath149.06 & & 1 ; 9 , 56 ; 2 , 66 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466ab & t6/t6 & @xmath2402 & 13.84(3 ) & 12.75(3 ) & 12.84(10 ) & 12.24(3 ) & & 14.70(4 ) & 12.71(3 ) & 11.22(12 ) & 9.10(48 ) & & 104 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & l5/l6 : : & @xmath2415 & & & & & & 12.01(2 ) & 11.68(2 ) & 11.17(15 ) & @xmath149.11 & & 1 ; 52 , 58 ; 2 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537ab & l5/ & @xmath2441 & & & & & & 12.03(2 ) & 11.66(2 ) & 11.17(9 ) & @xmath149.40 & & 1 ; 53 ; 2 + kelu-1ab & l2/ & @xmath2465 & 10.92(6 ) & 10.90(5 ) & 10.73(3 ) & 10.61(3 ) & & 11.24(2 ) & 10.91(2 ) & 10.38(6 ) & @xmath149.34 & & 1 ; 52 ; 2 , 80 + lspm  j1314 + 1320ab & m7/ & @xmath2485 & & & & & & 8.56(2 ) & 8.34(2 ) & 8.15(2 ) & 8.06(19 ) & & 65 ; 65 ; 2 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330ab & t0/t2.5 & @xmath2524 & & & & & & 13.81(3 ) & 12.87(3 ) & 11.74(16 ) & @xmath148.95 & & 1 ; 70 , 71 ; 2 + denis - p  j144137.3@xmath1094559ab & l0.5/ & @xmath3257 & & & & & & 12.32(2 ) & 12.08(2 ) & 12.29(30 ) & @xmath149.37 & & 20 ; 56 ; 2 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134ab & /t9 & @xmath3258 & & & & & & @xmath1418.81 & 15.66(12 ) & @xmath1413.13 & @xmath149.11 & & 1 ; 24 ; 2 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1ab & /t3.5 & @xmath2746 & & & & & & 15.49(4 ) & 14.45(5 ) & 13.00(43 ) & @xmath149.69 & & 1 ; 18 ; 2 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & t6/t5.5 & @xmath2759 & 13.63(5 ) & 12.71(3 ) & 12.73(5 ) & 12.36(8 ) & & 14.01(3 ) & 12.62(3 ) & 11.65(27 ) & @xmath148.82 & & 1 ; 8 , 9 ; 2 , 80 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236ab & /t7 & @xmath2787 & 14.42(3 ) & 13.08(3 ) & 13.30(10 ) & 12.65(10 ) & & 15.30(5 ) & 13.02(3 ) & 12.35(39 ) & @xmath149.04 & & 1 ; 9 ; 2 , 80 + lsr  j1610@xmath10040ab & sd?m6p/ & @xmath2799 & & & & & & 11.64(3 ) & 11.52(2 ) & 11.32(16 ) & @xmath149.03 & & 26 ; 26 , 87 ; 2 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & l7/ & @xmath2875 & 12.72(4 ) & 12.66(3 ) & 12.29(5 ) & 12.13(4 ) & & 13.11(2 ) & 12.64(2 ) & 11.86(13 ) & @xmath149.79 & & 1 ; 53 ; 2 , 80 + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & m7.5/ & @xmath2888 & & & & & & 9.88(2 ) & 9.64(2 ) & 9.38(3 ) & @xmath149.39 & & 1 ; 91 ; 2 + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404ab & m7.5/m8 & @xmath2906 & & & & & & 11.48(2 ) & 11.25(2 ) & 10.90(7 ) & @xmath149.50 & & 1 ; 1 , 36 ; 2 + scr  j1845@xmath16357ab & m8.5/m8.5 & @xmath2966 & & & & & & 8.14(2 ) & 7.81(2 ) & 7.38(2 ) & 7.08(7 ) & & 44 ; 43 , 45 ; 2 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243ab & m6.5/ & @xmath2814 & & & & & & 10.66(2 ) & 10.47(2 ) & 10.32(4 ) & @xmath149.42 & & 1 ; 22 ; 2 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8ab & /t1 : & @xmath3021 & & & & & & 14.19(3 ) & 13.52(4 ) & 12.46(48 ) & @xmath148.54 & & 1 ; 18 ; 2 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586ab & l7.5/l6.5 : & @xmath3259 & & & & & & 14.10(3 ) & 13.56(4 ) & 12.62(46 ) & @xmath148.64 & & 107 ; 18 , 53 ; 2 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158ab & l6/ & @xmath3068 & & & & & & 13.06(3 ) & 12.63(3 ) & @xmath1412.04 & @xmath149.15 & & 1 ; 23 ; 2 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518ab & m8.5/ & @xmath3081 & & & & & & 11.54(3 ) & 11.31(2 ) & 10.72(9 ) & @xmath148.76 & & 1 ; 36 ; 2 + @xmath238  ind  bab & /t2.5 & @xmath3108 & 9.97(3 ) & 9.44(4 ) & 9.39(4 ) & 8.98(5 ) & & 10.61(2 ) & 9.43(2 ) & 8.36(2 ) & 7.96(17 ) & & 106 ; 93 ; 2 , 80 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & m8/m8 & @xmath3119 & & & & & & 11.06(2 ) & 10.83(2 ) & 10.53(9 ) & 8.77(44 ) & & 1 ; 21 , 29 , 36 ; 2 + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387ab & m6:/m6.4 : & @xmath3149 & & & & & & 10.92(2 ) & 10.33(2 ) & 8.36(4 ) & 5.68(6 ) & & 106 ; 3 ; 2 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & /l7.5 & @xmath3260 & & & & & & 12.17(2 ) & 11.72(2 ) & 11.04(13 ) & @xmath149.19 & & 1 ; 46 ; 2 + 2mass  j23310161@xmath10406193ab & m8/ & @xmath3216 & & & & & & 11.61(2 ) & 11.37(2 ) & 11.10(12 ) & @xmath149.14 & & 106 ; 36 ; 2 +      l  726 - 8a & m5.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3261 & @xmath3262 & @xmath3263 & & + proxima  cen & m5.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3264 & @xmath3265 & @xmath3266 & & 33b + lhs  1742a & esdm5.5/ & & @xmath3267 & @xmath3268 & @xmath3269 & & & @xmath3267 & @xmath3270 & @xmath3271 & & + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387a & /m6 : & & @xmath3272 $ ] & @xmath3273 $ ] & @xmath3274 $ ] & @xmath3275 & & @xmath3276 $ ] & @xmath3277 $ ] & @xmath3278 & & 3 + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387b & /m6 : & & @xmath3279 $ ] & @xmath3280 $ ] & @xmath3281 $ ] & @xmath3282 & & @xmath3283 $ ] & @xmath3284 $ ] & @xmath3285 & & 3 + ce  507 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3286 & @xmath3287 & @xmath3288 & & + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243a & /m6 & & @xmath3289 $ ] & @xmath3290 $ ] & @xmath3291 $ ] & & & @xmath3292 $ ] & @xmath3293 $ ] & @xmath3294 $ ] & & 9 , 43 , 82 + gj  1245b & m6/m6 & & & & & & & @xmath3295 & @xmath3296 & @xmath3297 & & 80 + l  726 - 8b & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3298 & @xmath3299 & @xmath3300 & & + wolf  359 & m6/m6 & @xmath3301 $ ] & @xmath3302 & @xmath3303 & @xmath3304 & @xmath3305 & & @xmath3306 & @xmath3307 & @xmath3308 & & 49 , 80 + lspm  j2158 + 6117 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3309 & @xmath3310 & @xmath3311 & & + lhs  197 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3312 & @xmath3313 & @xmath3314 & & + lhs  2034 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3315 & @xmath3316 & @xmath3317 & & + lhs  330 & m6/m6 & & & & & @xmath3318 & & @xmath3319 & @xmath3320 & @xmath3321 & & + lp  397 - 10 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3322 & @xmath3323 & @xmath3324 & & + lp  368 - 128 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3325 & @xmath3326 & @xmath3327 & & + lhs  1070a & m6/ & & @xmath3328 & @xmath3329 & @xmath3330 & @xmath3331 & & @xmath3332 & @xmath3333 & @xmath3334 & & 1 , 50 , 51 , 48 + lhs  207 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3335 & @xmath3336 & @xmath3337 & & + apmpm  j2330@xmath14737 & m6/m8.5 & & & & & & & @xmath3338 & @xmath3339 & @xmath3340 & & + teegarden s  star & m6/ & @xmath3341 $ ] & @xmath3342 $ ] & @xmath3343 $ ] & @xmath3344 $ ] & & & @xmath3345 & @xmath3346 & @xmath3347 & & + lhs  2026 & m6/ & & & & & & & @xmath3348 & @xmath3349 & @xmath3350 & & 60 + lhs  2314 & m6/ & & @xmath3351 & @xmath3352 & @xmath3353 & & & @xmath3354 & @xmath3355 & @xmath3356 & & + lhs  2351 & m6/ & & & & & @xmath3357 & & @xmath3358 & @xmath3359 & @xmath3360 & & + lspm  j2124 + 4003 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3361 & @xmath3362 & @xmath3363 & & + lp  44 - 334 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3364 & @xmath3365 & @xmath3366 & & + lsr  j0011 + 5908 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3367 & @xmath3368 & @xmath3369 & & + lhs  3241 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3370 & @xmath3371 & @xmath3372 & & + lhs  234 & m6.5/ & & @xmath3315 & @xmath3373 & @xmath3374 & @xmath3375 & & @xmath3376 & @xmath3377 & @xmath3378 & & + lhs  248 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3379 & @xmath3380 & @xmath3381 & & 49 + lp  335 - 12 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3382 & @xmath3383 & @xmath3384 & & + lhs  2471 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3385 & @xmath3386 & @xmath3387 & & + lhs  191 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3388 & @xmath3389 & @xmath3390 & & + lhs  523 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3391 & @xmath3392 & @xmath3393 & & + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404a & /m6.5 : & & @xmath3394 $ ] & @xmath3395 $ ] & @xmath3396 $ ] & & & @xmath3397 $ ] & @xmath3398 $ ] & @xmath3399 $ ] & & 43 , 81 + lhs  2021 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3400 & @xmath3401 & @xmath3402 & & + lhs  292 & m6.5/m6.5 & & @xmath3403 & @xmath3404 & @xmath3405 & @xmath3406 & & @xmath3407 & @xmath3408 & @xmath3409 & & 49 + lhs  2930 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3410 & @xmath3411 & @xmath3412 & & + apmpm  j2344@xmath12906 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3413 & @xmath3414 & @xmath3415 & & + tvlm  832 - 42500 & m6.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3416 & @xmath3417 & @xmath3418 & & + lp  423 - 31 & m7/ & & & & & & & @xmath3368 & @xmath3419 & @xmath3420 & & 2 + lhs  1901a & /m7 : & & @xmath3421 $ ] & @xmath3422 $ ] & @xmath3423 $ ] & & & @xmath3424 $ ] & @xmath3425 $ ] & @xmath3426 & & 26 , 69 + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243b & /m7 & & @xmath3427 $ ] & @xmath3428 $ ] & @xmath3429 $ ] & & & @xmath3430 $ ] & @xmath3431 $ ] & @xmath3432 $ ] & & 9 , 43 , 82 + lhs  1901b & /m7 : & & @xmath3433 $ ] & @xmath3434 $ ] & @xmath3435 $ ] & & & @xmath3436 $ ] & @xmath3437 $ ] & @xmath3438 & & 26 , 69 + lp  349 - 25a & /m7 : & & @xmath3439 $ ] & @xmath3440 $ ] & @xmath3441 $ ] & @xmath3442 & & @xmath3443 $ ] & @xmath3444 $ ] & @xmath3445 & & 26 , 27 , 43 + 2massw  j1200329 + 204851 & m7/ & & & & & & & @xmath3446 & @xmath3447 & @xmath3448 & & 81 + tvlm  890 - 60235 & m7/ & & & & & & & @xmath3449 & @xmath3450 & @xmath3451 & & + lp  460 - 44 & m7/ & & & & & & & @xmath3452 & @xmath3453 & @xmath3454 & & 81 + lhs  377 & sdm7/ & @xmath3455 $ ] & @xmath3456 & @xmath3457 & @xmath3458 & @xmath3459 & & @xmath3460 & @xmath3461 & @xmath3458 & & 31 + vb  8 & m7/ & @xmath3462 $ ] & @xmath3463 $ ] & @xmath3464 $ ] & @xmath3465 $ ] & & & @xmath3466 & @xmath3467 & @xmath3468 & & 36 + lhs  3003 & m7/m7 & & @xmath3469 & @xmath3470 & @xmath3471 & @xmath3472 & & @xmath3473 & @xmath3474 & @xmath3475 & & 36 + hr  7329b & m7.5/m7.5 & & & @xmath3476 & & & & & & & & 59 + lp  44 - 162 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3477 & @xmath3478 & @xmath3479 & & 81 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & m7.5/ & @xmath3480 $ ] & @xmath3481 $ ] & @xmath3482 $ ] & @xmath3483 $ ] & & & @xmath3484 & @xmath3485 & @xmath3486 & & + lsr  j0515 + 5911 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3487 & @xmath3488 & @xmath3489 & & + lsr  j2036 + 5059 & sdm7.5/ & @xmath3490 $ ] & @xmath3491 $ ] & @xmath3492 $ ] & @xmath3428 $ ] & & & @xmath3493 & @xmath3494 & @xmath3495 & & 79 + hb  2124@xmath14228 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3496 & @xmath3497 & @xmath3498 & & + lhs  2919 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3499 & @xmath3500 & @xmath3501 & & + 2mass  j13204159 + 0957506 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3502 & @xmath3503 & @xmath3504 & & + apmpm  j2331@xmath12750 & m7.5/m9.5 & & & & & & & @xmath3505 & @xmath3506 & @xmath3507 & & + lspm  j1735 + 2634a & /m7.5 & & @xmath3508 $ ] & @xmath3509 $ ] & @xmath3510 $ ] & & & @xmath3511 $ ] & @xmath3512 $ ] & @xmath3513 $ ] & & 1 , 46 + 2mass  j23062928@xmath10502285 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3514 & @xmath3515 & @xmath3516 & & 6 , 32 , 81 + grh  2208@xmath120 & m7.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3517 & @xmath3518 & @xmath3404 & & + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & m8/m8.5 : & @xmath3519 $ ] & @xmath3520 $ ] & @xmath3521 $ ] & @xmath3522 $ ] & @xmath3523 & & @xmath3524 & @xmath3525 & @xmath3526 & & 17 , 85 + tvlm  831 - 161058 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3527 & @xmath3528 & @xmath3529 & & + lhs  1604 & m8/ & & @xmath3335 & @xmath3530 & @xmath3531 & & & @xmath3532 & @xmath3533 & @xmath3534 & & 2 + lhs  3406 & m8/m5.5 & & @xmath3535 & @xmath3346 & @xmath3536 & @xmath3537 & & @xmath3348 & @xmath3538 & @xmath3539 & & + lsr  j0510 + 2713 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3540 & @xmath3541 & @xmath3542 & & + lsr  j1425 + 7102 & sdm8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3543 & @xmath3544 & @xmath3392 & & + lp  349 - 25b & /m8 : & & @xmath3545 $ ] & @xmath3546 $ ] & @xmath3547 $ ] & @xmath3548 & & @xmath3549 $ ] & @xmath3550 $ ] & @xmath3551 & & 26 , 27 , 43 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705a & m8/ & & @xmath3552 $ ] & @xmath3553 $ ] & @xmath3554 $ ] & & & @xmath3555 $ ] & @xmath3556 $ ] & @xmath3557 & & 6 , 20 , 23 , 43 + tvlm  832 - 10443 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3558 & @xmath3559 & @xmath3560 & & + tvlm  263 - 71765 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3561 & @xmath3562 & @xmath3563 & & + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518a & /m8 & & @xmath3564 $ ] & @xmath3565 $ ] & @xmath3566 $ ] & & & @xmath3567 $ ] & @xmath3568 $ ] & @xmath3569 $ ] & & 6 , 9 , 20 , 32 , 43 + lp  412 - 31 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3570 & @xmath3571 & @xmath3572 & & 21 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705b & m8/ & & @xmath3573 $ ] & @xmath3574 $ ] & @xmath3575 $ ] & & & @xmath3576 $ ] & @xmath3577 $ ] & @xmath3578 & & 6 , 20 , 23 , 43 + vb  10 & m8/ & @xmath3579 $ ] & @xmath3580 $ ] & @xmath3342 $ ] & @xmath3581 $ ] & & & @xmath3582 & @xmath3583 & @xmath3584 & & 36 + lhs  2397aa & m8/ & & @xmath3585 & @xmath3586 & & @xmath3587 & & & & @xmath3588 & & 25 , 28 , 43 + bri  b0246@xmath11703 & m8/ & & @xmath3589 & @xmath3590 & @xmath3591 & & & @xmath3592 & @xmath3593 & @xmath3594 & & + tvlm  262 - 111511 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3595 & @xmath3596 & @xmath3597 & & + rg  0050@xmath12722 & m8/ & & & & & & & @xmath3598 & @xmath3599 & @xmath3600 & & + ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 & m8.5/ & @xmath3601 $ ] & @xmath3602 $ ] & @xmath3603 $ ] & @xmath3604 $ ] & & & @xmath3605 & @xmath3606 & @xmath3607 & & 19 + lhs  1070b & m8.5/ & & @xmath3608 & @xmath3609 & @xmath3610 $ ] & @xmath3611 & & @xmath3612 $ ] & @xmath3613 $ ] & @xmath3614 & & 1 , 50 , 51 , 48 + apmpm  j2354@xmath13316c & m8.5/m8 & @xmath3615 $ ] & @xmath3616 $ ] & @xmath3617 $ ] & @xmath3618 $ ] & & & @xmath3619 & @xmath3620 & @xmath3621 & & + gl  569ba & /m8.5 & & @xmath3622 & @xmath3623 & @xmath3624 & @xmath3625 & & @xmath3626 $ ] & @xmath3627 $ ] & @xmath3628 $ ] & & 26 , 40 , 43 , 45 , 64 , 84 , 89 + cti  012657.5 + 280202 & m8.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3629 & @xmath3630 & @xmath3631 & & + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404b & /m8.5 : & & @xmath3632 $ ] & @xmath3633 $ ] & @xmath3634 $ ] & & & @xmath3635 $ ] & @xmath3636 $ ] & @xmath3637 $ ] & & 43 , 81 + 2massi  j1835379 + 325954 & m8.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3638 & @xmath3639 & @xmath3640 & & + tvlm  513 - 46546 & m8.5/m8.5 & & @xmath3641 & @xmath3642 & @xmath3643 & @xmath3644 & & @xmath3645 & @xmath3582 & @xmath3646 & & 21 + scr  j1845@xmath16357a & m8.5/m8.5 & & & & & & & @xmath3218 & @xmath3582 & @xmath3646 & & 4 , 39 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m18 & m8.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3647 & @xmath3648 & @xmath3649 & & + hd  114762b & /d / sdm9 : & @xmath3650 $ ] & @xmath3651 $ ] & @xmath3652 $ ] & @xmath3653 $ ] & & & @xmath3654 & @xmath3655 & @xmath3656 & & 72 + bri  b1222@xmath11222 & m9/ & & & & & & & @xmath3657 & @xmath3658 & @xmath3659 & & 21 + tvlm  868 - 110639 & m9/ & & @xmath3660 & @xmath3661 & @xmath3662 & @xmath3663 & & @xmath3664 & @xmath3400 & @xmath3267 & & + lhs  2065 & m9/m9 & & @xmath3665 & @xmath3666 & @xmath3667 & @xmath3668 & & @xmath3669 & @xmath3670 & @xmath3671 & & 21 + hr  6037b & /m9 : & & & & & & & & & @xmath3672 & & 37 + lhs  2924 & m9/m9 & @xmath3673 $ ] & @xmath3674 & @xmath3675 & @xmath3676 & @xmath3677 & & @xmath3678 & @xmath3679 & @xmath3680 & & 36 + ssspm  j1444@xmath12019 & d / sdm9/ & & & & & & & @xmath3681 & @xmath3682 & @xmath3683 & & + eso  207 - 61 & m9/ & & & & & & & @xmath3684 & @xmath3685 & @xmath3686 & & + gl  569bb & /m9.0 & & @xmath3687 & @xmath3688 & @xmath3689 & @xmath3690 & & @xmath3691 $ ] & @xmath3692 $ ] & @xmath3693 $ ] & & 26 , 40 , 43 , 45 , 64 , 84 , 89 + lp  944 - 20 & m9/ & @xmath3694 $ ] & @xmath3695 & @xmath3696 & @xmath3697 & @xmath3698 & & @xmath3699 & @xmath3700 & @xmath3701 & & 2 + bri  0021@xmath10214 & m9.5/m9.5 & & @xmath3702 & @xmath3703 & @xmath3704 & @xmath3705 & & @xmath3706 & @xmath3707 & @xmath3708 & & 78 + lhs  1070c & m9.5/ & & @xmath3709 & @xmath3710 & @xmath3711 $ ] & @xmath3712 & & @xmath3713 $ ] & @xmath3714 $ ] & @xmath3715 & & 1 , 50 , 51 , 48 + 2mass  j01490895 + 2956131 & m9.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3716 & @xmath3717 & @xmath3411 & & 21 + ssspm",
    "j1013@xmath11356 & sdm9.5/ & @xmath3718 $ ] & @xmath3719 $ ] & @xmath3720 $ ] & @xmath3721 $ ] & & & @xmath3722 & @xmath3723 & @xmath3724 & & 2 + pc  0025 + 0447 & m9.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3725 & @xmath3726 & @xmath3727 & & + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518b & /m9.5 & & @xmath3728 $ ] & @xmath3729 $ ] & @xmath3730 $ ] & & & @xmath3731 $ ] & @xmath3732 $ ] & @xmath3733 $ ] & & 6 , 9 , 20 , 32 , 43 + g  216 - 7b & m9.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3734 & @xmath3735 & @xmath3736 & & 78 + sdss  j143517.20@xmath1004612.9 & l0/ & & & & & & & @xmath3737 & @xmath3738 & @xmath3739 & & 6 , 32 + lspm  j1735 + 2634b & /l0 : & & @xmath3740 $ ] & @xmath3741 $ ] & @xmath3628 $ ] & & & @xmath3742 $ ] & @xmath3743 $ ] & @xmath3744 $ ] & & 1 , 46 + 2mass  j07193188@xmath15051410 & l0/ & & & & & & & @xmath3745 & @xmath3746 & @xmath3747 & & + sdssp  j225529.09@xmath1003433.4 & l0:/ & & @xmath3748 & @xmath3749 & @xmath3750 & & & @xmath3751 & @xmath3752 & @xmath3753 & & + 2masp  j0345432 + 254023 & l0/l1 : & @xmath3754 $ ] & @xmath3755 & @xmath3756 & @xmath3382 & @xmath3757 & & @xmath3758 & @xmath3675 & @xmath3759 & & 6 , 32 + hd  89744b & l0/ & @xmath3760 $ ] & @xmath3761 $ ] & @xmath3762 $ ] & @xmath3763 $ ] & & & @xmath3764 & @xmath3765 & @xmath3766 & & 2 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032a & l0/ & & @xmath3767 & @xmath3768 & & & & & & @xmath3769 & & 7 , 43 , 75 + denis - p  j0909.9@xmath10658 & l0/ & & & & & & & @xmath3770 & @xmath3771 & @xmath3772 & & 6 + denis - p  j170548.3@xmath1051645 & l0.5/l4 & @xmath3773 $ ] & @xmath3774 $ ] & @xmath3775 $ ] & @xmath3776 $ ] & & & @xmath3777 & @xmath3778 & @xmath3779 & & 76 + ab  pic  b & /l0.5 : . & & @xmath3780 $ ] & @xmath3781 $ ] & @xmath3782 $ ] & & & @xmath3783 & @xmath3784 & @xmath3785 & & 18 + 2massw  j1658037 + 702701 & l1/ & & & & & & & @xmath3786 & @xmath3787 & @xmath3788 & & 76 + gj  1048b & l1/l1 & & & @xmath3789 $ ] & @xmath3790 $ ] & & & & @xmath3791 & @xmath3792 & & 2 + 2mass  j10185879@xmath12909535 & l1/ & & & & & & & @xmath3793 & @xmath3794 & @xmath3795 & & + 2massw  j1439284 + 192915 & l1/ & @xmath3796 $ ] & @xmath3797 & @xmath3798 & @xmath3799 & @xmath3800 & & @xmath3801 & @xmath3802 & @xmath3803 & & 6 , 75 , 78 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254b & /l1 : : . & & @xmath3804 $ ] & @xmath3805 $ ] & @xmath3806 $ ] & @xmath3807 & & @xmath3808 & @xmath3809 & @xmath3810 & & 17 , 85 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839a & /l1.5 : & & @xmath3811 $ ] & @xmath3812 $ ] & @xmath3813 $ ] & & & @xmath3814 $ ] & @xmath3815 $ ] & @xmath3816 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 32 , 43 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032b & l1.5/ & & @xmath3817 & @xmath3818 & & & & & & @xmath3819 & & 7 , 43 , 75 + 2mass  j06411840@xmath14322329 & l1.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3820 & @xmath3821 & @xmath3822 & & + kelu-1a & /l2 : & & @xmath3823 & @xmath3824 & @xmath3825 & & & @xmath3826 $ ] & @xmath3827 $ ] & @xmath3828 $ ] & & 29 , 53 + gj  618.1b & l2.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3829 & @xmath3830 & @xmath3831 & & 2 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839b & /l3 : & & @xmath3832 $ ] & @xmath3833 $ ] & @xmath3834 $ ] & & & @xmath3835 $ ] & @xmath3836 $ ] & @xmath3837 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 32 , 43 + sdss  j143535.72@xmath1004347.0 & l3/l2.5 & & @xmath3838 & @xmath3839 & @xmath3840 & & & @xmath3841 & @xmath3842 & @xmath3843 & & 6 , 32 + 2mass  j13204427 + 0409045 & l3::/ & & & & & & & @xmath3844 & @xmath3845 & @xmath3846 & & + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266a & /l3 : & & @xmath3847 $ ] & @xmath3848 $ ] & @xmath3849 $ ] & & & @xmath3850 $ ] & @xmath3851 $ ] & @xmath3852 $ ] & & 1 , 43 , 76 + denis - p  j1058.7@xmath11548 & l3/l3 & @xmath3853 $ ] & @xmath3854 & @xmath3855 & @xmath3856 & @xmath3857 & & @xmath3858 & @xmath3859 & @xmath3860 & & 78 + sdss  j125637.13@xmath1022452.4 & sdl3.5/ & @xmath3861 $ ] & @xmath3862 $ ] & @xmath3863 $ ] & & & & @xmath3864 & @xmath3865 & & & + 2massw  j0326137 + 295015 & l3.5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3866 & @xmath3867 & @xmath3868 & & + 2massw  j0036159 + 182110 & l3.5/l4 : & @xmath3869 $ ] & @xmath3870 & @xmath3871 & @xmath3872 & @xmath3873 & & @xmath3874 & @xmath3875 & @xmath3876 & & 6 , 55 , 75 , 78 + cd-35  2722  b & /l4 : & & @xmath3877 & @xmath3878 & @xmath3879 & & & & & & & 88 + hd  49197b & /l4 : & & & & & & & @xmath3880 & @xmath3881 & @xmath3882 & & 67 + hd  130948b & /l4 : & & @xmath3883 & @xmath3884 & @xmath3885 & & & & & & & 24 , 43 , 73 + 2massw  j1841086 + 311727 & l4p/ & & & & & & & @xmath3886 & @xmath3887 & @xmath3888 & & 6 , 32 + 2mass  j16262034 + 3925190 & sdl4/ & @xmath3889 $ ] & @xmath3890 $ ] & @xmath3891 $ ] & @xmath3892 $ ] & & & @xmath3893 & @xmath3894 & @xmath3895 & & + kelu-1b & /l4 : & & @xmath3896 & @xmath3897 & @xmath3898 & & & @xmath3899 $ ] & @xmath3900 $ ] & @xmath3901 $ ] & & 29 , 53 + hd  130948c & /l4 : & & @xmath3902 & @xmath3903 & @xmath3904 & & & & & & & 24 , 43 , 73 + denis - p  j153941.9@xmath1052042 & l4:/l2 & & & & & & & @xmath3905 & @xmath3906 & @xmath3907 & & 76 + 2mass  j10043929@xmath13335189 & l4/ & & & & & & & @xmath3908 & @xmath3909 & @xmath3910 & & + gd  165b & l4/l3 : : & @xmath3911 & @xmath3912 & @xmath3913 & @xmath3914 & @xmath3915 & & @xmath3916 & @xmath3917 & @xmath3918 & & 2 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0a & /l4 : & & @xmath3919]$ ] & @xmath3920]$ ] & @xmath3921]$ ] & & & @xmath3922]$ ] & @xmath3923]$ ] & @xmath3924]$ ] & & + hr  7672b & /l4 : : & & & & & & & & @xmath3925 & @xmath3926 & & 52 + gl  417b & /l4.5 : & & @xmath3927 $ ] & @xmath3928 $ ] & @xmath3929 $ ] & & & @xmath3930 $ ] & @xmath3931 $ ] & @xmath3932 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 32 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & l4.5/l3.5 & @xmath3933 $ ] & @xmath3934 & @xmath3935 & @xmath3936 & @xmath3937 & & @xmath3938 & @xmath3939 & @xmath3940 & & 32 , 76 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4a & /l4.5 : .",
    "& & @xmath3941 $ ] & @xmath3942 $ ] & @xmath3943 $ ] & & & @xmath3944 $ ] & @xmath3945 $ ] & @xmath3946 $ ] & & 1 , 77 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158a & /l4.5 : . & & @xmath3947 $ ] & @xmath3948 $ ] & @xmath3949 $ ] & & & @xmath3950 $ ] & @xmath3951 $ ] & @xmath3952 & & 1 , 83 + gj  1001b & /l5 & & @xmath3953 & @xmath3954 & @xmath3955 $ ] & & & @xmath3956 $ ] & @xmath3957 $ ] & @xmath3958 & & 1 , 35 + 2mass  j08354256@xmath10819237 & l5/ & @xmath3959 $ ] & @xmath3960 $ ] & @xmath3961 $ ] & @xmath3962 $ ] & & & @xmath3963 & @xmath3964 & @xmath3965 & & 76 + gj  1001c & /l5 & & @xmath3966 & @xmath3967 & @xmath3968 $ ] & & & @xmath3969 $ ] & @xmath3970 $ ] & @xmath3971 & & 1 , 35 + 2massw  j1328550 + 211449 & l5/ & & & & & & & @xmath3972 & @xmath3973 & @xmath3974 & & 6 , 75 + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & l5/l5 & @xmath3975 $ ] & @xmath3976 & @xmath3977 & @xmath3978 & @xmath3979 & & @xmath3980 & @xmath3981 & @xmath3982 & & 6 , 32 + 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & l5/l5.5 & @xmath3983 $ ] & @xmath3984 & @xmath3985 & @xmath3986 & @xmath3987 & & @xmath3988 & @xmath2400 & @xmath3989 & & 6 , 75 , 76 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859a & /l5 : & & @xmath3990 $ ] & @xmath3991 $ ] & @xmath3992 $ ] & & & @xmath3993 $ ] & @xmath3994 $ ] & @xmath3995 & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 15 , 32 , 43 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547a & /l5.5 : & & @xmath3996 $ ] & @xmath3997 $ ] & @xmath3998 $ ] & & & @xmath3999 $ ] & @xmath4000 $ ] & @xmath4001 & & 1 , 6 , 11 , 63 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547b & /l5.5 : & & @xmath4002 $ ] & @xmath4003 $ ] & @xmath4004 $ ] & & & @xmath4005 $ ] & @xmath4006 $ ] & @xmath4007 & & 1 , 6 , 11 , 63 + 2mass  j17502484@xmath10016151 & /l5.5 & @xmath4008 $ ] & @xmath4009 $ ] & @xmath4010 $ ] & @xmath4011 $ ] & & & @xmath4012 & @xmath4013 & @xmath4014 & & 2 + sdss  j141659.78 + 500626.4 & /l5.5 : : & @xmath4015 $ ] & @xmath4016 & @xmath4017 & @xmath4018 & & & @xmath4019 & @xmath4020 & @xmath4021 & & + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742a & /l5.5 : & & @xmath4022 $ ] & @xmath4023 $ ] & @xmath4024 $ ] & & & @xmath4025 $ ] & @xmath4026 $ ] & @xmath4027 & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 43 , 65 , 75 + lp  261 - 75b & l6/ & & & & & & & @xmath4028 & @xmath4029 & @xmath4030 & & 6 , 32 + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & l6/l6p : : & @xmath4031 & @xmath4032 & @xmath4033 & @xmath4034 & & & @xmath4035 & @xmath4036 & @xmath4037 & & + gl  417c & /l6 : & & @xmath4038 $ ] & @xmath4039 $ ] & @xmath4040 $ ] & & & @xmath4041 $ ] & @xmath4042 $ ] & @xmath3848 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 32 + sdssp  j144600.60 + 002452.0 & l6/l5 & & @xmath4043 & @xmath4044 & @xmath4045 & & & @xmath4046 & @xmath4047 & @xmath4048 & & + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372a & /l6 : & & @xmath4049 $ ] & @xmath4050 $ ] & @xmath4051 $ ] & & & @xmath4052 $ ] & @xmath4053 $ ] & @xmath4054 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925b & /l6.5 : . & & @xmath4055 $ ] & @xmath4056 $ ] & @xmath4057 $ ] & & & @xmath4058 $ ] & @xmath4059 $ ] & @xmath4060 & & 1 , 6 , 8 , 42 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716a & /l6.5 : & & @xmath4061 & @xmath4062 & @xmath4063 & & & @xmath4064 $ ] & @xmath4065 $ ] & @xmath4066 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 15 , 43 , 75 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5a & /l6.5 : & & @xmath4067 $ ] & @xmath4068 $ ] & @xmath4069 & & & @xmath4070 $ ] & @xmath4071 $ ] & @xmath4072 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266b & /l6.5 : . & & @xmath4073 $ ] & @xmath4074 $ ] & @xmath4075 $ ] & & & @xmath4076 $ ] & @xmath4077 $ ] & @xmath4078 $ ] & & 1 , 43 , 76 + 2massi  j1711457 + 223204 & l6.5/ & @xmath4079 $ ] & @xmath4080 $ ] & @xmath4081 $ ] & @xmath4082 $ ] & & & @xmath4083 & @xmath4084 & @xmath4085 & & 6 , 32 + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & sdl7/ & & & & & & & @xmath4086 & @xmath4087 & @xmath4088 & & + 2massw  j0030300@xmath1145033 & l7/ & @xmath4089 $ ] & @xmath4090 & @xmath4091 & @xmath4092 & & & @xmath4093 & @xmath4094 & @xmath4095 & & 6 , 32 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859b & /l7 : & & @xmath4096 $ ] & @xmath4097 $ ] & @xmath4098 $ ] & & & @xmath4099 $ ] & @xmath4100 $ ] & @xmath4101 & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 15 , 32 , 43 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586a & /l7 : & & @xmath4102 $ ] & @xmath4103 $ ] & @xmath4104 & & & @xmath4105 $ ] & @xmath4106 $ ] & @xmath4107 $ ] & & 6 , 32 , 43 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925a & /l7.5 : . & & @xmath4108 $ ] & @xmath4109 $ ] & @xmath4110 $ ] & & & @xmath4111 $ ] & @xmath4112 $ ] & @xmath4113 & & 1 , 6 , 8 , 42 + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & l7.5/l6 & @xmath4114 $ ] & @xmath4115 & @xmath4116 & @xmath4117 & @xmath4118 & & @xmath4119 & @xmath4120 & @xmath4121 & & 6 , 75 , 76 + hd  203030b & /l7.5 & & @xmath4122 & @xmath4123 & & & & & & @xmath4124 & & 68 + gl  337d & /l7.5 : : & & @xmath4125 $ ] & @xmath4126 $ ] & @xmath4127 $ ] & & & @xmath4128 $ ] & @xmath4129 $ ] & @xmath4130 & & 1 , 13 + sdssp  j003259.36 + 141036.6 & /l8 & @xmath4131 $ ] & @xmath4132 & @xmath4133 & @xmath4134 & @xmath4135 & & @xmath4136 & @xmath4137 & @xmath4138 & & + 2massi  j0328426 + 230205 & l8/l9.5 & @xmath4139 $ ] & @xmath4140 & @xmath4141 & @xmath4142 & @xmath4143 & & @xmath4144 & @xmath4145 & @xmath4146 & & 6 , 32 + sdssp  j132629.82@xmath1003831.5 & l8:/l5.5 & @xmath4147 $ ] & @xmath4148 & @xmath4149 & @xmath4150 & & & @xmath4151 & @xmath4152 & @xmath4153 & & + sdssp  j010752.33 + 004156.1 & l8/l5.5 & @xmath4154 $ ] & @xmath4155 & @xmath4156 & @xmath4157 & @xmath4158 & & @xmath4159 & @xmath4160 & @xmath4161 & & 76 + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & l8/l7.5 & @xmath4162 $ ] & @xmath4163 & @xmath4164 & @xmath4165 & @xmath4166 & & @xmath4167 & @xmath4168 & @xmath4169 & & 6 , 75 + denis - p  j0255.0@xmath14700 & l8/l9 & @xmath4170 $ ] & @xmath4171 $ ] & @xmath4172 $ ] & @xmath4173 $ ] & & & @xmath4174 & @xmath4175 & @xmath4176 & & 78 + gl  584c & l8/l8 & @xmath4177 $ ] & @xmath4178 & @xmath4179 & @xmath4180 & @xmath4181 & & @xmath4182 & @xmath4183 & @xmath4184 & & 2 + sdssp  j083008.12 + 482847.4 & l8/l9 : & @xmath4185 $ ] & @xmath4186 & @xmath4187 & @xmath4188 & @xmath4189 & & @xmath4190 & @xmath4191 & @xmath4188 & & 76 , 78 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586b & /l8 : & & @xmath4192 $ ] & @xmath4193 $ ] & @xmath4194 & & & @xmath4195 $ ] & @xmath4196 $ ] & @xmath4197 $ ] & & 6 , 32 , 43 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8a & /l8.5 : . & & @xmath4198 & @xmath4199 & @xmath4200 & & & @xmath4201 $ ] & @xmath4202 $ ] & @xmath4203 $ ] & & 86 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158b & /l8.5 : . & & @xmath4204 $ ] & @xmath4205 $ ] & @xmath4206 $ ] & & & @xmath4207 $ ] & @xmath4208 $ ] & @xmath4209 & & 1 , 83 + gl  337c & /l8.5 : & & @xmath4210 $ ] & @xmath4211 $ ] & @xmath4212 $ ] & & & @xmath4213 $ ] & @xmath4205 $ ] & @xmath4214 & & 1 , 13 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716b & /l8.5 : & & @xmath4215 & @xmath4216 & @xmath4217 & & & @xmath4218 $ ] & @xmath4219 $ ] & @xmath4220 $ ] & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 15 , 43 , 75 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742b & /l9 : . & & @xmath4221 $ ] & @xmath4222 $ ] & @xmath4223 $ ] & & & @xmath4224 $ ] & @xmath4225 $ ] & @xmath4226 & & 1 , 6 , 9 , 43 , 65 , 75 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330a & /l9 : & & @xmath4227 $ ] & @xmath4228 $ ] & @xmath4229 $ ] & & & @xmath4230 $ ] & @xmath4231 $ ] & @xmath3905 & & 1 , 58 + hd  46588b & /l9 : & & & & & & & @xmath4232 & @xmath4233 & @xmath4234 & & + wise  j164715.57 + 563208.3 & /l9p & & & & & & & @xmath4235 & @xmath4236 & @xmath4237 & & + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1a & /t0 : & & @xmath4238 & @xmath4239 & @xmath4240 $ ] & & & @xmath4241 $ ] & @xmath4242 $ ] & @xmath4243 & & 1 , 14 , 43 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1a & /t0 : & & @xmath4244 & @xmath4245 & @xmath4246 & & & @xmath4247 $ ] & @xmath4248 $ ] & @xmath4249 $ ] & & 54 + @xmath238  ind  ba & /t1 & & @xmath4250 & @xmath4251 & @xmath4252 & @xmath2703 & & @xmath4253 & @xmath4254 & @xmath4255 & & 41 , 66 + sdssp  j083717.22@xmath1000018.3 & t0/t1 & @xmath4256 $ ] & @xmath4257 & @xmath4258 & @xmath4259 & & & @xmath4260 $ ] & @xmath4261 $ ] & @xmath4262 $ ] & & 14 + sdss  j015141.69 + 124429.6 & /t1 & @xmath4263 $ ] & @xmath4264 & @xmath4265 & @xmath4266 & @xmath4267 & & @xmath4268 & @xmath4269 & @xmath4270 & & 14 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8b & /t1.5 & & @xmath4198 & @xmath4271 & @xmath4272 & & & @xmath4273 $ ] & @xmath4274 $ ] & @xmath4275 $ ] & & 86 + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & t2/t2 & @xmath4276 $ ] & @xmath4277 & @xmath4278 & @xmath4279 & @xmath4280 & & @xmath4281 & @xmath4282 & @xmath4016 & & 14 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5b & /t2 & & @xmath4283 $ ] & @xmath4284 $ ] & @xmath4285 & & & @xmath4286 $ ] & @xmath4287 $ ] & @xmath4288 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008a & /t2.5 & & @xmath4289 & @xmath4290 & @xmath4291 & & & @xmath4292 $ ] & @xmath4293 $ ] & @xmath4294 $ ] & & 56 + hn  peg  b & /t2.5 & @xmath4295 $ ] & @xmath4296 & @xmath4297 & @xmath4298 & & & @xmath4299 & @xmath4300 & @xmath4301 & & 47 + sdssp  j175032.96 + 175903.9 & /t3.5 & @xmath4302 $ ] & @xmath4303 & @xmath4304 & @xmath4305 & & & @xmath4306 & @xmath4307 & @xmath4308 & & 14 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4b & /t3.5 : & & @xmath4309 $ ] & @xmath4310 $ ] & @xmath4311 $ ] & & & @xmath4210 $ ] & @xmath4312 $ ] & @xmath4313 $ ] & & 1 , 77 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9a & /t3.5 : & & @xmath4314 $ ] & @xmath4315 $ ] & @xmath4316 $ ] & & & @xmath4317 $ ] & @xmath4318 $ ] & @xmath4319 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372b & /t4 & & @xmath4320 $ ] & @xmath4321 $ ] & @xmath4322 $ ] & & & @xmath4323 $ ] & @xmath4324 $ ] & @xmath4325 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & t5/t4.5 & @xmath4326 $ ] & @xmath4327 & @xmath3934 & @xmath4120 & @xmath4328 & & @xmath2492 & @xmath4329 & @xmath4330 & & 12 , 55 + sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & /t4.5 & @xmath4331 $ ] & @xmath4332 & @xmath4333 & @xmath4334 & @xmath4335 & & @xmath4336 & @xmath4337 & @xmath4338 & & 2 + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & /t4.5 & @xmath4339 $ ] & @xmath4340 & @xmath4341 & @xmath4342 & & & @xmath4343 & @xmath4344 $ ] & @xmath4345 $ ] & & 14 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227a & /t4.5 & & @xmath4346 & @xmath4347 & @xmath4348 & & & @xmath4349 $ ] & @xmath4350 $ ] & @xmath4351 & & 12 , 43 , 55 + hip  38939b & /t4.5 & & @xmath4352 & @xmath4353 & @xmath4354 & & & @xmath4355 & @xmath4356 & @xmath4357 & & + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1b & /t5 & & @xmath4358 & @xmath4359 & @xmath4360 $ ] & & & @xmath4361 $ ] & @xmath4362 $ ] & @xmath4363 & & 1 , 14 , 43 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330b & /t5 & & @xmath4364 $ ] & @xmath4365 $ ] & @xmath3090 $ ] & & & @xmath4366 $ ] & @xmath4367 $ ] & @xmath4368 & & 1 , 58 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0b & /t5 & & @xmath4369]$ ] & @xmath4370]$ ] & @xmath4371]$ ] & & & @xmath4372]$ ] & @xmath4373]$ ] & @xmath4374]$ ] & & + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9b & /t5 : & & @xmath4375 $ ] & @xmath4376 $ ] & @xmath4377 $ ] & & & @xmath4378 $ ] & @xmath4379 $ ] & @xmath4380 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227b & /t5 & & @xmath4381 & @xmath4382 & @xmath4383 & & & @xmath4384 $ ] & @xmath4385 $ ] & @xmath4386 & & 12 , 43 , 55 + ulas  j101821.78 + 072547.1 & /t5 & @xmath4387 & @xmath4388 & @xmath4389 & @xmath4390 & & & & & & & + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & t6/t5 & @xmath4391 $ ] & @xmath4392 & @xmath4393 & @xmath4394 & @xmath4395 & & @xmath4396 & @xmath4397 & @xmath4398 & & 14 + ulas  j223955.76 + 003252.6 & /t5.5 & @xmath4399 & @xmath4400 & & & & & & & & & 2 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1b & /t5.5 & & @xmath4401 & @xmath4402 & @xmath4403 & & & @xmath4404 $ ] & @xmath4405 $ ] & @xmath4406 $ ] & & 54 + ulas  j082707.67@xmath1020408.2 & /t5.5 & @xmath4407 & @xmath4408 & @xmath4409 & @xmath4410 & & & & & & & 2 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466a & /t5.5 & & @xmath4411 & @xmath4412 & @xmath4413 & & & @xmath4414 $ ] & @xmath4415 $ ] & @xmath4416 $ ] & & 1 , 12 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & /t5.5 & @xmath4417 $ ] & @xmath4418 & @xmath4419 & @xmath4420 & @xmath4421 & & @xmath4422 & @xmath4423 & @xmath4424 $ ] & & 14 + 2massi  j2356547@xmath1155310 & /t5.5 & @xmath4425 $ ] & @xmath4426 & @xmath4427 & @xmath4428 & & & @xmath4429 & @xmath4430 & @xmath4431 & & 12 + 2mass  j15462718@xmath13325111 & /t5.5 & @xmath4432 $ ] & @xmath4433 $ ] & @xmath4434 $ ] & @xmath4435 $ ] & & & @xmath4436 & @xmath4437 & @xmath4438 & & 12 + denis  j081730.0@xmath1615520 & /t6 & & & & & & & @xmath4439 & @xmath4440 & @xmath4441 & & + 2massi  j0243137@xmath1245329 & /t6 & @xmath4442 $ ] & @xmath4443 & @xmath4444 & @xmath4445 & @xmath4446 & & @xmath4447 & @xmath4448 & @xmath4449 & & 14 + scr  j1845@xmath16357b & /t6 & & & & & & & @xmath4450 & @xmath4451 & @xmath4452 & & 4 , 39 + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & /t6 & @xmath4453 $ ] & @xmath4454 & @xmath4455 & @xmath4456 & @xmath4457 & & @xmath4458 & @xmath4459 & @xmath4460 $ ] & & 14 + @xmath238  ind  bb & /t6 & & @xmath4461 & @xmath4462 & @xmath4463 & @xmath4464 & & @xmath4465 & @xmath4466 & @xmath4467 & & 41 , 66 + ulas  j150457.65 + 053800.8 & /t6p : & @xmath4468 & @xmath4469 & @xmath4470 & @xmath4471 & & & & & & & 2 + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & t7/t6p & @xmath4472 $ ] & @xmath4473 & @xmath4474 & @xmath4475 & @xmath4476 & & @xmath4477 & @xmath4478 & @xmath4479 & & 12 + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath4480 $ ] & @xmath4481 & @xmath4482 & @xmath4483 & & & @xmath4484 & @xmath4485 & @xmath4486 & & 6 + ulas  j115038.79 + 094942.9 & /t6.5 & @xmath4487 & @xmath4488 & @xmath4489 & @xmath4490 & & & & & & & 2 + sdss  j175805.46 + 463311.9 & /t6.5 & @xmath4491 $ ] & @xmath4492 & @xmath4493 & @xmath4494 & & & @xmath4495 & @xmath4496 & @xmath4497 & & + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath4498 $ ] & @xmath4499 & @xmath4500 & @xmath4501 & & & @xmath4502 & @xmath4503 & @xmath4504 $ ] & & 12 + 2mass  j12373919 + 6526148 & t7/t6.5 & @xmath4505 $ ] & @xmath4506 & @xmath4507 & @xmath4508 & & & @xmath4509 & @xmath4510 & @xmath4511 $ ] & & 12 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236a & /t6.5 & & @xmath4512 & @xmath4513 & @xmath4514 & & & @xmath4515 $ ] & @xmath4516 $ ] & @xmath4517 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008b & /t6.5 : & & @xmath4518 & @xmath4519 & @xmath4520 & & & @xmath4521 $ ] & @xmath4522 $ ] & @xmath4523 $ ] & & 56 + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & /t7 & & @xmath4524 & @xmath4525 & @xmath4526 & & & & & & & 2 + gl  229b & /t7p & @xmath4527 & @xmath4528 & @xmath4529 & @xmath4529 & @xmath4530 & & & & & & 33 + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & /t7 & @xmath4531 $ ] & @xmath4532 & @xmath4533 & @xmath4534 & & & @xmath4535 & @xmath4536 & @xmath4537 & & 2 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & /t7 & @xmath4538 $ ] & @xmath4539 & @xmath4540 & @xmath4541 & & & @xmath4542 & @xmath4543 & @xmath4544 & & + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & t8/t7 & @xmath4545 $ ] & @xmath4546 & @xmath4547 & @xmath4548 & @xmath4549 & & @xmath2396 & @xmath4550 & @xmath4551 & & 14 + ulas  j094806.06 + 064805.0 & /t7 & @xmath4552 & @xmath4553 & @xmath4554 & & & & & & & & 2 + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & t7/t7.5 & @xmath4555 $ ] & @xmath4556 & @xmath4557 & @xmath4558 & @xmath4559 & & @xmath4560 & @xmath4561 & @xmath4562 $ ] & & 12 , 14 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236b & /t7.5 & & @xmath4563 & @xmath4541 & @xmath4564 & & & @xmath4565 $ ] & @xmath4566 $ ] & @xmath4567 $ ] & & 1 , 14 + gl  570d & t7/t7.5 & @xmath4568 $ ] & @xmath4569 & @xmath4570 & @xmath4571 & @xmath4572 & & @xmath4573 & @xmath4574 & @xmath4575 & & 12 + hd  3651b & /t7.5 & @xmath4576 $ ] & @xmath4577 & @xmath4578 & @xmath4579 & & & @xmath4580 $ ] & @xmath4581 $ ] & @xmath4582 $ ] & & 2 + 2mass",
    "j11145133@xmath12618235 & /t7.5 & @xmath4583 $ ] & @xmath4584 & @xmath4585 & @xmath4586 & & & @xmath4587 & @xmath4588 & @xmath4589 $ ] & & 2 + ulas  j090116.23@xmath1030635.0 & /t7.5 & @xmath4590 & @xmath4591 & @xmath4592 & & & & & & & & 2 + ulas  j131508.42 + 082627.4 & /t7.5 & @xmath4593 & @xmath4594 & @xmath4595 & @xmath4596 & & & & & & & 2 + ulas  j141623.94 + 134836.3 & /t7.5p & @xmath4597 & @xmath4598 & @xmath4599 & @xmath4600 & & & @xmath4601 $ ] & @xmath4602 $ ] & @xmath4603 $ ] & & + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466b & /t8 & & @xmath2338 & @xmath4604 & @xmath4605 & & & @xmath4606 $ ] & @xmath4607 $ ] & @xmath4608 $ ] & & 1 , 12 + ross  458c & /t8 & @xmath4609 & @xmath4610 & @xmath4611 & @xmath4612 & & & & & & & 2 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & t8/t8 & @xmath4613 $ ] & @xmath4614 & @xmath4615 & @xmath4616 & @xmath4617 & & @xmath4618 & @xmath4619 & @xmath4620 & & 14 + 2mass  j09393548@xmath12448279 & /t8 & @xmath4621 & @xmath4622 & @xmath4623 & @xmath4624 & & & @xmath4625 & @xmath4626 & @xmath4627 $ ] & & 2 + pso  j043.5395 + 02.3995 & /t8 & & @xmath4628 & @xmath4629 & @xmath4630 & & & @xmath4631 & @xmath4632 & @xmath4633 & & + bd  + 01  2920b & /t8p & @xmath4634 & @xmath4635 & @xmath4636 & @xmath4637 $ ] & & & & & & & + ulas  j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & /t8.5 & @xmath4638 & @xmath4639 & @xmath4640 & @xmath4641 & & & & & & & 2 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & /t8.5 & @xmath4642 & @xmath4643 & @xmath4644 & @xmath4645 & & & & & & & 2 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & /t8.5 & @xmath4646 & @xmath4647 & @xmath4648 & @xmath4649 $ ] & & & @xmath4650 $ ] & @xmath4651 $ ] & @xmath4652 & & 22 + wolf  940b & /t8.5 & @xmath4653 & @xmath4654 & @xmath4655 & @xmath4656 & & & & & & & 16 + wisep  j174124.27 + 255319.6 & t9/t9 & @xmath4657 & & & & & & @xmath4658 & @xmath4659 & @xmath4660 & & 30 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134a & /t9 & & @xmath4661 & @xmath4662 & @xmath4663 & & & & & & & 57 + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & /t9 & @xmath4664 & @xmath4665 & @xmath4666 & @xmath4667 & @xmath4668 & & @xmath4669 & & & & 10 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134b & /@xmath14t10 & & @xmath4670 & @xmath4671 & @xmath4672 & & & & & & & 57 + wisepa  j154151.66@xmath1225025.2 & /y0 & & @xmath4673 & @xmath4674 & & & & & & & & + pz  tel  b & / & & @xmath4675 & @xmath4676 & @xmath4677 & & & @xmath4675 & @xmath4676 & @xmath4677 & & 5 + apmpm  j2359@xmath16246 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4678 & @xmath4679 & @xmath4680 & & + hd  1160b & / & & & & & @xmath4681 & & @xmath4682 & @xmath4683 & @xmath4684 & & 71 + tvlm  831 - 154910 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4685 & @xmath4686 & @xmath4687 & & + lspm  j0330 + 5413 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4688 & @xmath4689 & @xmath4690 & & + ssspm  j1256@xmath11408 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4691 & @xmath4692 & @xmath4693 & & + tvlm  831 - 165166 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4694 & @xmath4695 & @xmath4696 & & + tvlm  213 - 2005 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4697 & @xmath4698 & @xmath4699 & & + tvlm  513 - 8328 & / & & @xmath4700 & @xmath4701 & @xmath4702 & & & @xmath4703 & @xmath4704 & @xmath4705 & & + hd  65216b & / & & & & & & & & & @xmath4706 & & 70 + tvlm  262 - 70502 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4707 & @xmath4708 & @xmath4709 & & + gj  660.1b & / & & & & & & & @xmath4710 & @xmath4711 & @xmath4712 & & + hd  65216c & / & & & & & & & & & @xmath4713 & & 70 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m20 & / & & & & & & & @xmath4714 & @xmath4715 & @xmath4716 & & + @xmath84  pic  b & / & & & & & @xmath4717 & & & & @xmath4718 & & 44 + tvlm  513 - 42404 & / & & @xmath4719 & @xmath4720 & @xmath4721 & & & @xmath4722 & @xmath4723 & @xmath4724 & & + tvlm  513 - 42404b & / & & @xmath4725 & @xmath4726 & @xmath4727 & & & @xmath4728 & @xmath4729 & @xmath4730 & & + gl  802b & / & & & & & & & @xmath4731 & @xmath4732 & @xmath4733 & & 38 , 74 + hr  8799e & / & & & @xmath4734 & & @xmath4735 & & & & @xmath4736 & & 62 + lhs  2397ab & / & & @xmath4737 & @xmath4738 & & @xmath4739 & & & & @xmath4740 & & 25 , 28 , 43 + hr  8799c & / & & @xmath4741 & @xmath4742 & & @xmath4743 & & & & @xmath4744 & & 61 + hr  8799d & / & & @xmath4745 & @xmath4746 & & @xmath4747 & & & & @xmath4748 & & 61 + hr  8799b & / & & @xmath4749 & @xmath4750 & & @xmath4751 & & & & @xmath4752 & & 61 + gl  758b & / & & @xmath4753 & @xmath4754 & & @xmath4755 & & & & & & 87 +      proxima  cen & m5.5/ & & & & & & 8.63(9 ) & 8.00(3 ) & 8.26(1 ) & 8.09(2 ) & & 30 + lhs  1742a & esdm5.5/ & & & & & & 9.36(17 ) & 9.14(17 ) & & & & + ce  507 & m6/ & & & & & & 8.66(9 ) & 8.47(9 ) & 8.38(9 ) & & & + wolf  359 & m6/m6 & & & & & & 8.92(5 ) & 8.60(3 ) & 8.59(1 ) & 8.42(3 ) & & 39 , 56 + gj  1245b & m6/m6 & & & & & & 8.89(7 ) & 8.68(3 ) & 8.56(3 ) & 8.47(9 ) & & 56 + lp  397 - 10 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.05(5 ) & 8.85(5 ) & 8.64(7 ) & & & + lspm  j2158 + 6117 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.08(8 ) & 8.87(8 ) & 8.60(9 ) & 7.84(31 ) & & + lhs  330 & m6/m6 & & & & & & 9.16(6 ) & 8.88(6 ) & 8.71(9 ) & & & + lhs  2034 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.07(4 ) & 8.90(4 ) & 8.73(6 ) & & & + lhs  197 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.14(5 ) & 8.90(5 ) & 8.57(6 ) & 7.62(47 ) & & + lp  368 - 128 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.21(5 ) & 9.01(4 ) & 8.78(4 ) & 8.94(22 ) & & + apmpm  j2330@xmath14737 & m6/m8.5 & & & & & & 9.36(10 ) & 9.15(10 ) & 8.88(11 ) & & & + lhs  207 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.40(7 ) & 9.15(7 ) & 8.96(10 ) & & & + teegarden s  star & m6/ & 9.19(1 ) & 9.17(2 ) & 9.12(1 ) & 9.09(1 ) & & 9.39(3 ) & 9.13(2 ) & 8.97(2 ) & 8.79(8 ) & & + lhs  2026 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.44(3 ) & 9.23(3 ) & 9.12(8 ) & & & 46 + lhs  2314 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.45(12 ) & 9.24(12 ) & 9.18(19 ) & & & + lhs  2351 & m6/ & & & & & & 9.51(14 ) & 9.27(14 ) & 9.05(17 ) & & & + lspm  j2124 + 4003 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 8.29(5 ) & 8.11(5 ) & 7.98(5 ) & & & + lp  44 - 334 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 8.64(8 ) & 8.41(8 ) & 8.19(8 ) & 8.30(40 ) & & + lhs  3241 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.01(3 ) & 8.78(3 ) & 8.58(3 ) & 8.73(37 ) & & + lsr  j0011 + 5908 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.03(3 ) & 8.80(3 ) & 8.58(4 ) & 8.10(12 ) & & + lhs  234 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.21(4 ) & 8.97(4 ) & 8.74(4 ) & 8.36(22 ) & & + lp  335 - 12 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.25(6 ) & 9.01(6 ) & 8.77(6 ) & & & + lhs  248 & m6.5/ & 9.04(3 ) & 9.04(5 ) & 8.96(6 ) & 8.94(3 ) & & 9.23(4 ) & 9.02(3 ) & 8.83(3 ) & 8.67(6 ) & & 39 + lhs  2471 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.26(9 ) & 9.05(9 ) & 8.84(9 ) & & & + lhs  191 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.29(7 ) & 9.07(7 ) & 8.76(8 ) & & & + lhs  523 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.39(12 ) & 9.18(12 ) & 8.98(12 ) & & & + lhs  292 & m6.5/m6.5 & 9.23(5 ) & 9.23(5 ) & 9.18(5 ) & 9.14(5 ) & & 9.43(4 ) & 9.23(4 ) & 9.02(4 ) & 8.74(10 ) & & 39 + lhs  2021 & m6.5/ & 9.20(17 ) & 9.23(17 ) & 9.12(17 ) & 9.08(17 ) & & 9.39(17 ) & 9.21(17 ) & 9.07(19 ) & & & + apmpm  j2344@xmath12906 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.70(32 ) & 9.41(32 ) & 9.19(35 ) & 6.95(57 ) & & + lhs  2930 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 9.63(4 ) & 9.42(4 ) & 9.20(4 ) & 9.21(34 ) & & + tvlm  832 - 42500 & m6.5/ & & & & & & 10.34(24 ) & 10.07(24 ) & 9.70(33 ) & & & + lp  423 - 31 & m7/ & & & & & & 8.29(4 ) & 8.13(4 ) & 7.94(5 ) & 7.63(46 ) & & 2 + 2massw  j1200329 + 204851 & m7/ & & & & & & 9.25(82 ) & 9.04(82 ) & 8.96(83 ) & & & 57 + tvlm  890 - 60235 & m7/ & & & & & & 9.31(25 ) & 9.08(25 ) & 9.04(56 ) & & & + lp  460 - 44 & m7/ & & & & & & 9.35(18 ) & 9.14(18 ) & 8.80(19 ) & & & 57 + lhs  377 & sdm7/ & & & & & & 9.57(7 ) & 9.32(7 ) & 8.94(13 ) & & & 28 + vb  8 & m7/ & 9.31(2 ) & 9.32(1 ) & 9.22(2 ) & 9.18(2 ) & & 9.53(2 ) & 9.30(2 ) & 9.07(2 ) & 8.81(18 ) & & 32 + lhs  3003 & m7/m7 & 9.48(8 ) & 9.50(8 ) & 9.40(8 ) & 9.37(8 ) & & 9.70(7 ) & 9.50(7 ) & 9.28(7 ) & 9.13(28 ) & & 32 + lp  44 - 162 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 8.73(5 ) & 8.49(5 ) & 8.27(5 ) & 8.41(33 ) & & 57 + 2massi  j0003422@xmath1282241 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 8.72(8 ) & 8.55(8 ) & 8.02(13 ) & & & + lsr  j0515 + 5911 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.11(5 ) & 8.90(5 ) & 8.57(6 ) & 8.28(54 ) & & + hb  2124@xmath14228 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.21(50 ) & 8.98(50 ) & 8.67(52 ) & & & + lsr  j2036 + 5059 & sdm7.5/ & & & & & & 9.37(13 ) & 9.15(13 ) & 8.53(25 ) & & & 55 + lhs  2919 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.40(11 ) & 9.19(11 ) & 8.98(11 ) & 8.57(35 ) & & + 2mass  j13204159 + 0957506 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.49(14 ) & 9.26(14 ) & 9.26(29 ) & & & + apmpm  j2331@xmath12750 & m7.5/m9.5 & & & & & & 9.60(7 ) & 9.36(7 ) & 9.05(8 ) & 8.31(50 ) & & + 2mass  j23062928@xmath10502285 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.62(7 ) & 9.38(7 ) & 9.11(8 ) & & & 5 , 29 , 57 + grh  2208@xmath120 & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.85(5 ) & 9.55(5 ) & 9.06(29 ) & & & + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254 & m8/m8.5 : & 7.70(9 ) & 7.40(9 ) & 7.05(11 ) & 6.52(11 ) & & 7.97(5 ) & 7.41(5 ) & 5.86(5 ) & 4.43(14 ) & & 16 , 60 + tvlm  831 - 161058 & m8/ & & & & & & 8.65(27 ) & 8.41(27 ) & 8.38(40 ) & & & + lhs  1604 & m8/ & & & & & & 9.14(6 ) & 8.93(6 ) & 8.76(7 ) & & & 2 + lhs  3406 & m8/m5.5 & & & & & & 9.32(3 ) & 9.12(3 ) & 8.87(4 ) & 8.58(43 ) & & + lsr  j0510 + 2713 & m8/ & & & & & & 9.31(4 ) & 9.15(4 ) & 8.93(5 ) & 8.78(44 ) & & + tvlm  832 - 10443 & m8/ & & & & & & 9.43(3 ) & 9.17(3 ) & 8.70(9 ) & & & + lsr  j1425 + 7102 & sdm8/ & & & & & & 9.52(9 ) & 9.29(9 ) & & & & + lp  412 - 31 & m8/ & & & & & & 9.54(3 ) & 9.34(3 ) & 9.06(5 ) & 8.28(54 ) & & 19 + tvlm  263 - 71765 & m8/ & & & & & & 9.59(20 ) & 9.36(20 ) & 9.00(25 ) & & & + vb  10 & m8/ & 9.44(2 ) & 9.45(3 ) & 9.30(1 ) & 9.29(1 ) & & 9.62(2 ) & 9.40(2 ) & 9.23(2 ) & & & 32 + bri  b0246@xmath11703 & m8/ & & & & & & 10.12(19 ) & 9.93(19 ) & 9.75(20 ) & & & + tvlm  262 - 111511 & m8/ & & & & & & 10.43(40 ) & 10.14(40 ) & 10.25(61 ) & & & + rg  0050@xmath12722 & m8/ & & & & & & 10.49(51 ) & 10.19(51 ) & 9.84(53 ) & & & + ssspm  j1102@xmath13431 & m8.5/ & & & & & & 7.73(6 ) & 7.08(6 ) & 5.68(7 ) & 4.31(20 ) & & 17 + cti  012657.5 + 280202 & m8.5/ & & & & & & 9.88(4 ) & 9.61(4 ) & 9.40(20 ) & & & + apmpm  j2354@xmath13316c & m8.5/m8 & & & & & & 9.84(9 ) & 9.62(9 ) & 9.44(17 ) & & & + 2massi  j1835379 + 325954 & m8.5/ & 9.78(2 ) & 9.78(1 ) & 9.62(1 ) & 9.52(1 ) & & 10.03(2 ) & 9.77(2 ) & 9.39(2 ) & 9.12(13 ) & & + tvlm  513 - 46546 & m8.5/m8.5 & & & & & & 10.23(2 ) & 9.93(2 ) & 9.49(3 ) & 8.94(34 ) & & 19 + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m18 & m8.5/ & & & & & & 10.39(38 ) & 10.12(38 ) & 9.62(41 ) & & & + tvlm  868 - 110639 & m9/ & & & & & & 9.87(17 ) & 9.60(17 ) & 9.09(17 ) & 7.77(33 ) & & + bri  b1222@xmath11222 & m9/ & & & & & & 9.85(14 ) & 9.63(14 ) & 9.28(16 ) & & & 19 + lhs  2065 & m9/m9 & 9.76(4 ) & 9.74(4 ) & 9.57(4 ) & 9.48(4 ) & & 9.96(3 ) & 9.73(3 ) & 9.28(4 ) & 9.52(51 ) & & 19 + lhs  2924 & m9/m9 & 9.95(4 ) & 9.95(4 ) & 9.76(4 ) & 9.60(4 ) & & 10.22(4 ) & 9.96(4 ) & 9.47(4 ) & 9.05(38 ) & & 32 + ssspm  j1444@xmath12019 & d / sdm9/ & & & & & & 10.41(8 ) & 10.16(8 ) & 9.92(12 ) & & & + eso  207 - 61 & m9/ & & & & & & 10.50(18 ) & 10.23(18 ) & 10.01(21 ) & & & + lp  944 - 20 & m9/ & 10.39(5 ) & 10.31(5 ) & 10.11(5 ) & 9.94(5 ) & & 10.65(5 ) & 10.33(5 ) & 9.79(5 ) & 9.52(12 ) & & 2 + 2mass  j01490895 + 2956131 & m9.5/ & & & & & & 9.80(4 ) & 9.55(4 ) & 9.02(8 ) & 7.37(38 ) & & 19 + bri  0021@xmath10214 & m9.5/m9.5 & 9.63(11 ) & 9.60(11 ) & 9.41(11 ) & 9.24(11 ) & & 9.86(10 ) & 9.59(10 ) & 9.10(11 ) & & & 54 + pc  0025 + 0447 & m9.5/ & & & & & & 10.32(26 ) & 9.84(26 ) & & & & + g  216 - 7b & m9.5/ & & & & & & 10.26(7 ) & 9.98(7 ) & 9.56(11 ) & & & 54 + ssspm",
    "j1013@xmath11356 & sdm9.5/ & & & & & & 10.32(21 ) & 10.09(22 ) & 9.22(55 ) & & & 2 + 2mass  j07193188@xmath15051410 & l0/ & & & & & & 10.01(16 ) & 9.79(16 ) & 9.11(19 ) & & & + sdssp  j225529.09@xmath1003433.4 & l0:/ & & & & & & 10.09(36 ) & 9.81(36 ) & & & & + sdss  j143517.20@xmath1004612.9 & l0/ & & & & & & 10.09(151 ) & 9.89(151 ) & 7.91(160 ) & 4.26(158 ) & & 5 , 29 + 2masp  j0345432 + 254023 & l0/l1 : & & & & & & 10.20(4 ) & 9.94(4 ) & 9.99(44 ) & & & 5 , 29 + hd  89744b & l0/ & & & & & & 10.21(4 ) & 9.97(4 ) & & & & 2 + denis - p  j0909.9@xmath10658 & l0/ & & & & & & 10.35(22 ) & 10.10(22 ) & 9.44(26 ) & & & 5 + denis - p  j170548.3@xmath1051645 & l0.5/l4 & & & & & & 9.89(67 ) & 9.64(67 ) & 9.24(70 ) & 6.36(76 ) & & 52 + 2massw  j1207334@xmath1393254b & /l1 : : . & & & & & & 7.97(5 ) & 7.41(5 ) & 5.86(5 ) & 4.43(14 ) & & 16 , 60 + 2massw  j1658037 + 702701 & l1/ & & & & & & 10.26(3 ) & 10.04(3 ) & 9.49(6 ) & & & 52 + 2mass  j10185879@xmath12909535 & l1/ & & & & & & 10.28(20 ) & 10.10(20 ) & 9.87(34 ) & & & + 2massw  j1439284 + 192915 & l1/ & 10.12(3 ) & 10.14(3 ) & 10.03(3 ) & 9.88(3 ) & & 10.40(3 ) & 10.16(3 ) & 9.74(5 ) & & & 5 , 51 , 54 + 2mass  j06411840@xmath14322329 & l1.5/ & & & & & & 10.80(23 ) & 10.51(23 ) & 9.94(24 ) & & & + gj  618.1b & l2.5/ & & & & & & 10.42(20 ) & 10.04(20 ) & 9.42(36 ) & & & 2 + 2mass  j13204427 + 0409045 & l3::/ & & & & & & 10.71(7 ) & 10.43(7 ) & & & & + denis - p  j1058.7@xmath11548 & l3/l3 & 10.57(5 ) & 10.58(5 ) & 10.41(5 ) & 10.31(5 ) & & 10.88(5 ) & 10.58(4 ) & 10.23(16 ) & & & 54 + sdss  j143535.72@xmath1004347.0 & l3/l2.5 & & & & & & 10.82(98 ) & 10.59(99 ) & & & & 5 , 29 + 2massw  j0326137 + 295015 & l3.5/ & & & & & & 10.65(11 ) & 10.22(11 ) & & & & + sdss",
    "j125637.13@xmath1022452.4 & sdl3.5/ & & & & & & 10.44(63 ) & 10.34(64 ) & & & & + 2massw  j0036159 + 182110 & l3.5/l4 : & 10.48(3 ) & 10.53(3 ) & 10.39(3 ) & 10.35(3 ) & & 10.81(3 ) & 10.53(3 ) & 10.22(5 ) & & & 5 , 42 , 51 , 54 + 2massw  j1841086 + 311727 & l4p/ & & & & & & 10.46(18 ) & 10.12(18 ) & 8.98(26 ) & & & 5 , 29 + 2mass  j16262034 + 3925190 & sdl4/ & & & & & & 10.84(8 ) & 10.47(8 ) & & & & + gd  165b & l4/l3 : : & & & & & & 10.70(17 ) & 10.54(18 ) & & & & 2 + 2mass  j10043929@xmath13335189 & l4/ & & & & & & 10.97(24 ) & 10.69(24 ) & 11.36(59 ) & & & + denis - p  j153941.9@xmath1052042 & l4:/l2 & & & & & & 11.05(12 ) & 10.79(12 ) & 10.70(26 ) & & & 52 + 2massw  j2224438@xmath1015852 & l4.5/l3.5 & 10.73(4 ) & 10.82(4 ) & 10.53(4 ) & 10.49(4 ) & & 11.04(3 ) & 10.80(3 ) & 10.33(9 ) & & & 29 , 52 + 2mass  j08354256@xmath10819237 & l5/ & & & & & & 10.74(21 ) & 10.38(21 ) & 9.82(21 ) & & & 52 + 2massw  j1328550 + 211449 & l5/ & & & & & & 11.04(27 ) & 10.83(27 ) & & & & 5 , 51 + sdssp  j053951.99@xmath1005902.0 & l5/l5 & 10.90(7 ) & 11.01(7 ) & 10.76(7 ) & 10.61(8 ) & & 11.28(7 ) & 10.99(7 ) & & & & 5 , 29 + 2massw  j1507476@xmath1162738 & l5/l5.5 & 10.94(3 ) & 11.07(3 ) & 10.81(3 ) & 10.66(3 ) & & 11.34(2 ) & 11.05(2 ) & 10.29(4 ) & & & 5 , 51 , 52 + 2mass  j17502484@xmath10016151 & /l5.5 & & & & & & 11.36(6 ) & 11.08(6 ) & 10.59(9 ) & & & 2 + sdss  j141659.78 + 500626.4 & /l5.5 : : & & & & & & 11.40(7 ) & 11.11(7 ) & 9.89(41 ) & & & + sdssp  j144600.60 + 002452.0 & l6/l5 & & & & & & 11.53(16 ) & 11.19(16 ) & 10.71(33 ) & & & + sdss  j141624.08 + 134826.7 & l6/l6p : : & 11.19(7 ) & 11.18(6 ) & & & & 11.55(3 ) & 11.22(3 ) & 10.46(5 ) & & & + 2massi  j1711457 + 223204 & l6.5/ & & & & & & 11.95(33 ) & 11.41(33 ) & & & & 5 , 29 + 2massw  j0030300@xmath1145033 & l7/ & & & & & & 11.52(27 ) & 11.12(27 ) & & & & 5 , 29 + 2mass  j05325346 + 8246465 & sdl7/ & 11.50(10 ) & 11.35(9 ) & 11.36(14 ) & 11.16(14 ) & & 11.93(10 ) & 11.38(10 ) & & & & + 2massi  j0825196 + 211552 & l7.5/l6 & 11.56(4 ) & 11.45(4 ) & 11.02(4 ) & 10.79(4 ) & & 11.94(3 ) & 11.42(3 ) & 10.25(7 ) & 8.89(49 ) & & 5 , 51 , 52 + sdssp  j003259.36 + 141036.6 & /l8 & & & & & & 11.66(39 ) & 11.07(39 ) & & & & + 2massi  j0328426 + 230205 & l8/l9.5 & & & & & & 11.75(28 ) & 11.20(28 ) & & & & 5 , 29 + sdssp  j010752.33 + 004156.1 & l8/l5.5 & & & & & & 11.72(16 ) & 11.20(16 ) & 10.48(25 ) & & & 52 + sdssp  j132629.82@xmath1003831.5 & l8:/l5.5 & & & & & & 11.76(28 ) & 11.24(28 ) & 10.85(41 ) & & & + gl  584c & l8/l8 & & & & & & 12.23(4 ) & 11.71(4 ) & 10.53(14 ) & & & 2 + denis - p  j0255.0@xmath14700 & l8/l9 & 11.81(5 ) & 11.72(5 ) & 11.41(4 ) & 11.13(4 ) & & 12.25(5 ) & 11.69(5 ) & 10.68(5 ) & 10.20(28 ) & & 54 + 2massw  j1632291 + 190441 & l8/l7.5 & 11.78(8 ) & 11.73(8 ) & 11.32(9 ) & 11.08(9 ) & & 12.20(8 ) & 11.70(8 ) & 11.07(25 ) & & & 5 , 51 + sdssp  j083008.12 + 482847.4 & l8/l9 : & & & & & & 12.33(10 ) & 11.88(10 ) & 11.13(23 ) & & & 52 , 54 + hd  46588b & /l9 : & & & & & & 12.45(3 ) & 11.82(3 ) & 10.46(16 ) & & & + wise  j164715.57 + 563208.3 & /l9p & 13.57(60 ) & 13.45(60 ) & & & & 13.92(60 ) & 13.41(60 ) & 12.38(61 ) & & & + sdss  j015141.69 + 124429.6 & /t1 & 12.41(16 ) & 12.26(16 ) & 11.97(19 ) & 11.69(24 ) & & 12.94(16 ) & 12.24(16 ) & 10.83(43 ) & & & 13 + sdssp  j083717.22@xmath1000018.3 & t0/t1 & 12.41(114 ) & 12.25(114 ) & 12.06(115 ) & 11.86(115 ) & & 13.05(114 ) & 12.33(114 ) & & & & 13 + sdssp  j125453.90@xmath1012247.4 & t2/t2 & 12.28(6 ) & 12.04(6 ) & 11.64(7 ) & 11.40(7 ) & & 12.96(6 ) & 12.05(6 ) & 10.38(10 ) & 8.52(38 ) & & 13 + hn  peg  b & /t2.5 & 12.46(4 ) & 12.13(3 ) & 11.82(10 ) & 11.32(11 ) & & & & & & & 38 + sdssp  j175032.96 + 175903.9 & /t3.5 & 12.75(28 ) & 12.26(28 ) & 11.95(36 ) & 11.73(36 ) & & 13.60(28 ) & 12.28(28 ) & & & & 13 + 2massi  j0559191@xmath1140448 & t5/t4.5 & 12.60(4 ) & 11.86(4 ) & 11.65(4 ) & 11.35(4 ) & & 13.32(4 ) & 11.82(3 ) & 10.95(17 ) & & & 11 , 42 + sdss  j000013.54 + 255418.6 & /t4.5 & 12.97(7 ) & 12.32(7 ) & 11.81(11 ) & 11.75(7 ) & & & & & & & 2 + sdss  j020742.48 + 000056.2 & /t4.5 & 12.93(31 ) & 12.31(31 ) & 12.01(36 ) & 11.51(36 ) & & 13.72(32 ) & 12.40(32 ) & & & & 13 + hip  38939b & /t4.5 & & & & & & 14.58(9 ) & 12.62(7 ) & 11.15(35 ) & & & + 2massw  j1503196 + 252519 & t6/t5 & & & & & & 14.49(4 ) & 12.70(4 ) & 11.51(6 ) & & & 13 + sdss  j111010.01 + 011613.1 & /t5.5 & 13.29(6 ) & 12.46(6 ) & 12.01(9 ) & 11.79(17 ) & & 14.11(7 ) & 12.50(7 ) & 10.70(32 ) & & & 13 + 2massi  j2356547@xmath1155310 & /t5.5 & 13.88(12 ) & 12.88(11 ) & 12.76(13 ) & 12.40(20 ) & & 14.77(12 ) & 12.90(12 ) & 11.59(43 ) & & & 11 + 2mass  j15462718@xmath13325111 & /t5.5 & & & & & & 15.02(7 ) & 13.16(6 ) & 10.82(14 ) & 7.78(21 ) & & 11 + 2massi  j0937347 + 293142 & t7/t6p & 14.17(5 ) & 12.71(6 ) & 13.39(4 ) & 12.80(6 ) & & 15.14(4 ) & 12.73(3 ) & 11.82(9 ) & & & 11 + denis  j081730.0@xmath1615520 & /t6 & & & & & & 14.50(14 ) & 12.78(14 ) & 11.22(14 ) & 10.97(43 ) & & + 2massi  j0243137@xmath1245329 & /t6 & 13.76(9 ) & 12.81(9 ) & 12.57(10 ) & 12.13(10 ) & & 14.53(9 ) & 12.78(9 ) & 11.42(15 ) & & & 13 + ulas  j150457.65 + 053800.8 & /t6p : & & & & & & 15.13(14 ) & 12.88(12 ) & & & & 2 + sdssp  j162414.37 + 002915.6 & /t6 & 14.09(5 ) & 12.87(4 ) & 13.04(9 ) & 12.63(9 ) & & 14.91(5 ) & 12.88(4 ) & 12.29(45 ) & & & 13 + sdssp  j134646.45@xmath1003150.4 & t7/t6.5 & 13.70(9 ) & 12.77(8 ) & 12.57(13 ) & 12.30(19 ) & & 14.65(9 ) & 12.74(8 ) & 11.32(27 ) & & & 5 + 2massi  j1047538 + 212423 & t7/t6.5 & 14.27(11 ) & 12.83(10 ) & 13.40(11 ) & 12.79(13 ) & & 15.31(10 ) & 12.85(9 ) & 11.60(30 ) & & & 11 + 2mass  j12373919 + 6526148 & t7/t6.5 & 14.30(11 ) & 12.84(11 ) & 13.33(12 ) & 12.69(15 ) & & 15.39(12 ) & 12.86(11 ) & 11.96(25 ) & & & 11 + sdss  j175805.46 + 463311.9 & /t6.5 & & & & & & 14.94(7 ) & 13.08(6 ) & 12.20(39 ) & & & + sdss  j150411.63 + 102718.3 & /t7 & 13.76(8 ) & 12.33(8 ) & 12.69(8 ) & 12.08(10 ) & & 14.71(10 ) & 12.38(8 ) & 11.01(35 ) & & & 2 + 2massi  j0727182 + 171001 & t8/t7 & 14.67(3 ) & 13.27(3 ) & 13.50(6 ) & 12.90(11 ) & & 15.50(5 ) & 13.22(3 ) & 12.16(28 ) & & & 13 + sdss  j162838.77 + 230821.1 & /t7 & 14.63(4 ) & 13.24(4 ) & 13.52(6 ) & 12.93(7 ) & & 15.81(9 ) & 13.34(5 ) & 11.28(21 ) & & & + 2mass  j00501994@xmath13322402 & /t7 & 14.70(7 ) & 13.45(6 ) & 13.20(18 ) & 12.88(23 ) & & 15.42(7 ) & 13.43(7 ) & 11.78(22 ) & & & 2 + ulas  j141623.94 + 134836.3 & /t7.5p & 14.89(6 ) & 12.96(4 ) & & & & 16.32(20 ) & 12.99(5 ) & 12.39(23 ) & & & + 2massi  j1217110@xmath1031113 & t7/t7.5 & 13.98(7 ) & 13.02(6 ) & 13.13(9 ) & 12.74(19 ) & & 15.08(7 ) & 12.99(7 ) & 11.48(25 ) & & & 11 , 13 + gl  570d & t7/t7.5 & 14.97(5 ) & 13.29(3 ) & 13.94(11 ) & 13.14(7 ) & & 15.99(3 ) & 13.28(2 ) & 12.03(8 ) & & & 11 + hd  3651b & /t7.5 & 15.16(4 ) & 13.40(2 ) & 13.82(12 ) & 13.23(14 ) & & & & & & & 2 + 2mass  j11145133@xmath12618235 & /t7.5 & 15.28(5 ) & 13.50(3 ) & 14.49(17 ) & 13.52(22 ) & & 16.64(5 ) & 13.51(3 ) & 12.24(11 ) & & & 2 + ulas  j090116.23@xmath1030635.0 & /t7.5 & & & & & & 16.75(32 ) & 13.58(11 ) & & & & 2 + 2mass  j09393548@xmath12448279 & /t8 & 15.12(6 ) & 13.02(6 ) & 14.32(6 ) & 13.25(6 ) & & 16.39(7 ) & 13.00(6 ) & 12.07(10 ) & & & 2 + ross  458c & /t8 & & & & & & 15.67(8 ) & 13.40(6 ) & 11.30(19 ) & & & 2 + 2massi  j0415195@xmath1093506 & t8/t8 & 15.32(5 ) & 13.51(4 ) & 14.09(7 ) & 13.33(5 ) & & 16.33(5 ) & 13.48(4 ) & 12.35(11 ) & & & 13 + bd  + 01  2920b & /t8p & 15.59(4 ) & 13.53(2 ) & & & & 16.83(29 ) & 13.67(7 ) & & & & + pso  j043.5395 + 02.3995 & /t8 & & & & & & 16.93(65 ) & 13.91(65 ) & 12.65(66 ) & & & + ulas",
    "j003402.77@xmath1005206.7 & /t8.5 & 15.47(5 ) & 13.68(5 ) & 14.01(7 ) & 13.10(7 ) & & 16.65(29 ) & 13.69(9 ) & & & & 2 + cfbds  j005910.90@xmath1011401.3 & /t8.5 & & & & & & 17.14(16 ) & 13.75(6 ) & 11.72(23 ) & & & 20 + ulas  j133553.45 + 113005.2 & /t8.5 & 15.95(5 ) & 13.91(5 ) & 14.34(6 ) & 13.37(7 ) & & 16.88(13 ) & 13.86(5 ) & 12.17(29 ) & & & 2 + wolf  940b & /t8.5 & 16.05(11 ) & 14.04(11 ) & 14.99(18 ) & 13.97(13 ) & & 16.33(16 ) & 13.85(11 ) & & & & 15 + wisep  j174124.27 + 255319.6 & t9/t9 & 15.73(48 ) & 13.69(48 ) & & & & 16.68(49 ) & 13.63(48 ) & 12.13(49 ) & & & 27 + ugps  j072227.51@xmath1054031.2 & /t9 & 16.21(5 ) & 14.12(5 ) & & & & 17.12(5 ) & 14.14(4 ) & 12.32(8 ) & & & 9 + wisepa  j154151.66@xmath1225025.2 & /y0 & 19.46(80 ) & 16.96(80 ) & & & & 19.47(82 ) & 16.98(80 ) & & & & + apmpm  j2359@xmath16246 & / & & & & & & 8.70(10 ) & 8.49(10 ) & 8.10(11 ) & 6.88(25 ) & & + tvlm  831 - 154910 & / & & & & & & 9.09(33 ) & 8.85(33 ) & 8.43(37 ) & & & + lspm  j0330 + 5413 & / & & & & & & 9.11(4 ) & 8.91(4 ) & 8.72(4 ) & 8.39(25 ) & & + tvlm  213 - 2005 & / & & & & & & 9.45(4 ) & 9.23(4 ) & 8.86(15 ) & & & + ssspm  j1256@xmath11408 & / & & & & & & 9.49(22 ) & 9.24(22 ) & & & & + tvlm  513 - 8328 & / & & & & & & 9.52(42 ) & 9.26(42 ) & 8.84(45 ) & & & + tvlm  831 - 165166 & / & & & & & & 9.53(46 ) & 9.30(46 ) & 9.16(65 ) & & & + tvlm  262 - 70502 & / & & & & & & 9.94(35 ) & 9.71(35 ) & 9.61(53 ) & & & + @xmath157hb88@xmath158 $ ]  m20 & / & & & & & & 10.79(126 ) & 10.55(126 ) & & & & + tvlm  513 - 42404 & / & & & & & & 10.99(71 ) & 10.78(71 ) & 9.92(75 ) & & & + tvlm  513 - 42404b & / & & & & & & 11.59(72 ) & 11.31(72 ) & 10.82(88 ) & & & + wd  0806@xmath1661b & / & 18.24(17 ) & 15.47(9 ) & & & & & 16.27(42 ) & 11.12(17 ) & 8.77(52 ) & & +     +   + 2mass  j22344161 + 4041387ab & m6:/m6.4 : & & & & & & 3.36(41 ) & 2.77(41 ) & 0.80(41 ) & -1.88(42 ) & & 3",
    "+ l  726 - 8ab & m6/ & & & & & & 7.92(7 ) & 7.44(5 ) & 7.63(3 ) & 7.49(4 ) & & + lsr  j1610@xmath10040ab & sd?m6p/ & & & & & & 9.10(3 ) & 8.98(3 ) & 8.78(16 ) & & & + 2massi  j1847034 + 552243ab & m6.5/ & & & & & & 8.03(8 ) & 7.84(8 ) & 7.69(9 ) & & & 8 , 36 , 58 + lspm  j1314 + 1320ab & m7/ & & & & & & 7.49(10 ) & 7.27(10 ) & 7.08(10 ) & 6.99(21 ) & & + lhs  1901ab & m7/m7 & & & & & & 8.28(4 ) & 8.03(4 ) & 7.82(4 ) & 7.38(18 ) & & 23 , 50 + 2mass  j09522188@xmath11924319ab & m7/ & & & & & & 8.32(19 ) & 8.12(19 ) & 7.84(20 ) & & & + 2massw  j1750129 + 442404ab & m7.5/m8 & & & & & & 8.89(7 ) & 8.66(7 ) & 8.31(10 ) & & & 36 , 57 + lspm  j1735 + 2634ab & m7.5/ & & & & & & 9.00(5 ) & 8.76(5 ) & 8.50(5 ) & & & 1 , 37 + lp  349 - 25ab & m8/m8 & & & & & & 8.52(3 ) & 8.26(3 ) & 8.00(4 ) & 7.86(37 ) & & 23 , 24 , 36 + 2massw  j2206228@xmath1204705ab & m8/m8 & & & & & & 8.82(8 ) & 8.59(8 ) & 8.29(12 ) & 6.53(45 ) & & 5 , 18 , 21 , 36 + 2mass  j23310161@xmath10406193ab & m8/ & & & & & & 9.52(4 ) & 9.28(4 ) & 9.02(12 ) & & & 5 , 8 , 18 , 29 + lhs  2397aab & m8/ & & & & & & 9.67(7 ) & 9.41(7 ) & 8.90(7 ) & 7.90(29 ) & & 22 , 25 , 36 + 2massw  j2140293 + 162518ab & m8.5/ & & & & & & 9.10(8 ) & 8.87(8 ) & 8.28(12 ) & & & 5 , 8 , 18 , 29 , 36 + scr  j1845@xmath16357ab & m8.5/m8.5 & & & & & & 10.21(2 ) & 9.88(2 ) & 9.45(2 ) & 9.15(7 ) & & 4 , 33 + 2massi  j0746425 + 200032ab & l0.5/l1 & 9.40(4 ) & 9.44(6 ) & 9.27(4 ) & 9.11(4 ) & & 9.66(3 ) & 9.40(3 ) & 8.99(5 ) & & & 6 , 36 , 51 + denis - p  j144137.3@xmath1094559ab & l0.5/ & & & & & & 10.12(22 ) & 9.88(22 ) & 10.09(37 ) & & & 5 , 8 , 48 + kelu-1ab & l2/ & 9.40(12 ) & 9.38(12 ) & 9.21(11 ) & 9.09(11 ) & & 9.72(11 ) & 9.39(11 ) & 8.86(12 ) & & & 26 , 40 + 2massi  j1017075 + 130839ab & l2:/l1 & 9.43(11 ) & 9.45(11 ) & 9.25(11 ) & 9.10(11 ) & & 9.69(10 ) & 9.45(11 ) & 8.84(22 ) & 6.40(55 ) & & 1 , 5 , 29 , 36 + 2massw  j1146345 + 223053ab & l3/ & & & & & & 9.72(7 ) & 9.42(7 ) & 8.99(15 ) & & & 5 , 8 , 48 , 51 + 2massi  j0856479 + 223518ab & l3:/ & & & & & & 10.88(7 ) & 10.53(7 ) & 9.56(32 ) & & & 5 , 29 + 2mass  j07003664 + 3157266ab & l3.5/ & & & & & & 10.37(4 ) & 10.07(4 ) & 9.41(5 ) & & & 1 , 36 , 52 + 2mass  j00250365 + 4759191ab & l4:/ & & & & & & 8.53(9 ) & 8.36(9 ) & 8.01(12 ) & & & 52 + sdss  j080531.84 + 481233.0ab & l4/l9.5 & 10.61(6 ) & 10.60(6 ) & 10.49(6 ) & 10.27(6 ) & & 11.05(5 ) & 10.62(6 ) & 10.04(23 ) & & & + gl  417bc & l4.5/ & & & & & & 10.27(3 ) & 9.94(3 ) & 9.39(12 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 29 + 2massw  j1239272 + 551537ab & l5/ & & & & & & 10.17(11 ) & 9.80(11 ) & 9.31(14 ) & & & 5 , 29 + gj  1001bc & l5/l4.5 & 9.79(12 ) & 9.90(12 ) & 9.57(12 ) & 9.56(12 ) & & 10.18(11 ) & 9.92(11 ) & 9.30(12 ) & & & 1 , 31 + denis - p  j1228.2@xmath11547ab & l5/l6 : : & & & & & & 10.27(9 ) & 9.94(9 ) & 9.43(17 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 10 , 47 + 2masss  j0850359 + 105716ab & l6/ & & & & & & 10.90(7 ) & 10.34(7 ) & 9.02(21 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 8 , 14 , 36 , 51 + 2massi  j2132114 + 134158ab & l6/ & & & & & & 10.84(5 ) & 10.41(5 ) & & & & 1 , 59 + denis - p  j020529.0@xmath1115925ab & l7/l5.5 : : & & & & & & 10.73(7 ) & 10.30(7 ) & 9.34(11 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 7 , 35 + 2massw  j1728114 + 394859ab & l7/ & 10.66(6 ) & 10.60(5 ) & 10.23(6 ) & 10.07(6 ) & & 11.05(4 ) & 10.58(4 ) & 9.80(13 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 8 , 14 , 29 , 36 + denis - p  j225210.73@xmath1173013.4ab & /l7.5 & & & & & & 11.17(6 ) & 10.72(6 ) & 10.04(14 ) & & & 1 , 53 + 2mass  j21011544 + 1756586ab & l7.5/l6.5 : & & & & & & 11.50(25 ) & 10.95(25 ) & 10.01(52 ) & & & 5 , 29 , 36 + 2massw  j0920122 + 351742ab & l6.5/t0p & & & & & & 10.98(6 ) & 10.51(6 ) & 10.09(41 ) & & & 1 , 5 , 8 , 36 , 48 , 51 + sdssp  j042348.57@xmath1041403.5ab & l7.5/t0 & 11.02(4 ) & 10.87(4 ) & 10.59(4 ) & 10.30(4 ) & & 11.47(4 ) & 10.87(4 ) & 9.86(9 ) & 8.28(46 ) & & 1 , 13 + gl  337cd & l8/t0 & 10.96(5 ) & 10.79(5 ) & 10.42(9 ) & 10.41(6 ) & & 11.69(4 ) & 10.94(4 ) & 9.79(17 ) & 7.25(48 ) & & 1 , 12 + 2mass  j05185995@xmath12828372ab & l7/t1p & & & & & & 11.59(5 ) & 11.02(5 ) & 10.10(19 ) & & & 1 , 13 + sdss  j205235.31@xmath1160929.8ab & /t1 : & & & & & & 11.84(6 ) & 11.17(6 ) & 10.11(48 ) & & & 61 + 2mass  j14044948@xmath13159330ab & t0/t2.5 & & & & & & 11.93(6 ) & 10.99(6 ) & 9.86(17 ) & & & 1 , 45 + @xmath238  ind  bab & /t2.5 & 12.18(3 ) & 11.64(4 ) & 11.60(4 ) & 11.18(5 ) & & 12.81(2 ) & 11.64(2 ) & 10.56(2 ) & 10.16(17 ) & & 34 , 49 + sdss  j102109.69@xmath1030420.1ab & t3.5/t3 & 11.54(10 ) & 11.18(10 ) & 10.96(15 ) & 10.54(15 ) & & 12.12(10 ) & 11.12(10 ) & & & & 1 , 13 , 36 + 2mass  j12095613@xmath11004008ab & t3.5/t3 & 12.32(6 ) & 11.79(6 ) & 11.63(6 ) & 11.36(8 ) & & 12.96(6 ) & 11.77(6 ) & 10.13(25 ) & & & 43 + sdss  j153417.05 + 161546.1ab & /t3.5 & & & & & & 12.47(10 ) & 11.43(11 ) & 9.98(44 ) & & & 41 + sdss  j092615.38 + 584720.9ab & /t4.5 & 12.68(6 ) & 11.91(6 ) & 11.75(12 ) & 11.52(8 ) & & 13.44(7 ) & 11.89(6 ) & 10.97(40 ) & & & 1 , 13 + 2massi  j1534498@xmath1295227ab & t6/t5.5 & 12.61(7 ) & 11.69(5 ) & 11.71(7 ) & 11.34(9 ) & & 12.99(5 ) & 11.60(5 ) & 10.63(27 ) & & & 11 , 36 , 42 + 2mass  j12255432@xmath12739466ab & t6/t6 & 13.22(8 ) & 12.13(8 ) & 12.22(12 ) & 11.62(8 ) & & 14.08(8 ) & 12.09(8 ) & 10.60(14 ) & 8.48(49 ) & & 1 , 11 + 2massw  j1553022 + 153236ab & /t7 & 13.80(4 ) & 12.46(4 ) & 12.68(10 ) & 12.03(10 ) & & 14.68(6 ) & 12.40(4 ) & 11.73(39 ) & & & 1 , 13 + cfbds  j145829 + 10134ab & /t9 & & & & & & & 13.14(21 ) & & & & 44 +      @xmath4756 & spt & @xmath13.51560@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.95444@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath13.26895 & 2.79438@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath11.26151@xmath010@xmath4759 & 2.85027@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath12.52638@xmath010@xmath4761 & 0.40 + @xmath4762 & spt & @xmath12.83129@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.63986@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath12.74405 & 2.32771@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath11.03332@xmath010@xmath4759 & 2.27641@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath11.94920@xmath010@xmath4761 & 0.39 + @xmath4763 & spt & @xmath12.97306@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.69138@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath12.85705 & 2.45209@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath11.10960@xmath010@xmath4759 & 2.51601@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath12.24083@xmath010@xmath4761 & 0.38 + @xmath4764 & spt & @xmath11.52200@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.01248@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath11.63930 & 1.35177@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath15.84342@xmath010@xmath4765 & 1.25731@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath11.04935@xmath010@xmath4761 & 0.40 + @xmath4766 & spt & 8.89928 & @xmath11.96584@xmath010@xmath4758 & 5.30581@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath12.93191@xmath010@xmath4765 & 5.46366@xmath010@xmath4767 & 0.00000 & 0.00000 & 0.28 + & & & & & & & & + @xmath4768 & spt & @xmath19.67994 & 8.16362 & @xmath11.33053 & 1.11715@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath14.82973@xmath010@xmath4765 & 1.00820@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath17.84614@xmath010@xmath4769 & 0.40 + @xmath4770 & spt & @xmath11.17526@xmath010@xmath4757 & 9.00279 & @xmath11.50370 & 1.29202@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath15.80847@xmath010@xmath4765 & 1.29363@xmath010@xmath4760 & @xmath11.11499@xmath010@xmath4761 & 0.40 + @xmath4771 & spt & 1.10114@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath18.67471@xmath010@xmath4758 & 1.34163@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath16.42118@xmath010@xmath4765 & 1.06693@xmath010@xmath4760 & 0.00000 & 0.00000 & 0.43 + & & & & & & & & + @xmath1573.6@xmath158 $ ] & spt & 9.34220 & @xmath13.35222@xmath010@xmath4758 & 6.91081@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath13.60108@xmath010@xmath4765 & 6.50191@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.29 + @xmath1574.5@xmath158 $ ] & spt & 9.73946 & @xmath14.39968@xmath010@xmath4758 & 7.65343@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath13.63435@xmath010@xmath4765 & 5.82107@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.22 + @xmath1575.8@xmath158 $ ] & spt & 1.10834@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath19.01820@xmath010@xmath4758 & 1.29019@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath16.22795@xmath010@xmath4765 & 1.03507@xmath010@xmath4760 & & & 0.32 + @xmath1578.0@xmath158 $ ] & spt & 9.97853 & @xmath15.29595@xmath010@xmath4758 & 8.43465@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath14.12294@xmath010@xmath4765 & 6.89733@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.27 + & & & & & & & & + w1 & spt & 7.14765 & 3.55395@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath14.38105@xmath010@xmath4765 & @xmath13.33944@xmath010@xmath4760 & 1.58040@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.39 + w2 & spt & 7.46564 & 1.92354@xmath010@xmath4758 & 1.14325@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath18.81973@xmath010@xmath4760 & 1.78555@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.35 + w3 & spt & 7.81181 & 6.64242@xmath010@xmath4759 & 2.01740@xmath010@xmath4759 & @xmath11.28563@xmath010@xmath4765 & 2.37656@xmath010@xmath4767 & & & 0.43 + w4 & spt & 7.78974 &",
    "1.14630@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath12.16042@xmath010@xmath4765 & & & & & 0.76 + & & & & & & & & + spt & @xmath4764 & 2.61198@xmath010@xmath4772 & @xmath11.20348@xmath010@xmath4772 & 2.28908@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath12.30427@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.29813 & @xmath13.87650@xmath010@xmath4759 & 4.78483@xmath010@xmath4760 & 1.08 + spt & @xmath4771 & 3.16377@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath19.80581@xmath010@xmath4757 & 1.09318@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath15.04080@xmath010@xmath4758 & 8.33390@xmath010@xmath4765 & 0.00000 & 0.00000 & 1.20 + spt & @xmath4766 & 9.42393@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath13.26016@xmath010@xmath4773 & 4.10902@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath12.21930 & 4.38768@xmath010@xmath4759 & 0.00000 & 0.00000 & 1.26 + spt & @xmath1573.6@xmath158 $ ] & 7.37848@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath12.50242@xmath010@xmath4773 & 3.08566@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath11.62281 & 3.11677@xmath010@xmath4759 & & & 0.79 + spt & @xmath1574.5@xmath158 $ ] & 3.46964@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath19.45512@xmath010@xmath4757 & 7.99261 & @xmath11.57271@xmath010@xmath4758 & @xmath13.36767@xmath010@xmath4765 & & & 0.98 + spt & @xmath1575.8@xmath158 $ ] & 1.87732@xmath010@xmath4772 & @xmath16.47450@xmath010@xmath4773 & 8.19571@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath14.49580 & 9.07889@xmath010@xmath4759 & & & 1.08 + spt & @xmath1578.0@xmath158 $ ] & 2.79433@xmath010@xmath4772 & @xmath19.82793@xmath010@xmath4773 & 1.27367@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath17.19295 & 1.50118@xmath010@xmath4758 & & & 1.14 + spt & w1 & 5.54038@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath11.83014@xmath010@xmath4773 & 2.19510@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath11.11687 & 2.07063@xmath010@xmath4759 & & & 1.18 + spt & w2 & 3.65904@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath11.07813@xmath010@xmath4773 & 1.06860@xmath010@xmath4757 & @xmath13.71750@xmath010@xmath4758 & 2.55541@xmath010@xmath4765 & & & 1.29 + spt & w3 & @xmath11.39856@xmath010@xmath4773 & 1.37418@xmath010@xmath4773 & @xmath13.28946@xmath010@xmath4757 & 2.98984 & @xmath19.21404@xmath010@xmath4759 & & & 2.42 +      m6 & @xmath4774 & 0.13 & & 2 & & @xmath4775 & 0.27 & 0.12 & 5 & & @xmath4776 & 0.28 & 0.13 & 5 & & @xmath4777 & 0.34 & 0.16 & 5 & & @xmath4778 & 0.29 & 0.07 & 4 + m6.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4779 & 0.16 & 0.03 & 3 & & @xmath4780 & 0.20 & 0.06 & 3 & & @xmath4781 & 0.15 & 0.01 & 3 & & @xmath4782 & 0.15 & & 2 + m7 & @xmath4783 & & & 1 & & @xmath4784 & 0.42 & 0.33 & 5 & & @xmath4785 & 0.40 & 0.31 & 5 & & @xmath4786 & 0.36 & 0.29 & 5 & & @xmath4787 & & & 1 + m7.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4788 & & & 1 & & @xmath4789 & & & 1 & & @xmath4790 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + m8 & @xmath4791 & & & 1 & & @xmath4792 & 0.26 & 0.12 & 6 & & @xmath4793 & 0.23 & 0.11 & 6 & & @xmath4794 & 0.26 & & 5 & & @xmath4795 & & & 1 + m8.5 & @xmath4796 & & & 1 & & @xmath4797 & 0.19 & 0.13 & 5 & & @xmath4798 & 0.21 & 0.15 & 5 & & @xmath4799 & 0.20 & 0.14 & 5 & & @xmath4800 & 0.27 & 0.12 & 3 + m9 & @xmath4801 & 0.29 & 0.10 & 2 & & @xmath4802 & 0.30 & 0.22 & 5 & & @xmath4803 & 0.32 & 0.24 & 5 & & @xmath4804 & 0.33 & 0.25 & 5 & & @xmath4805 & 0.25 & 0.15 & 5 + m9.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4806 & 0.19 & 0.01 & 3 & & @xmath4807 & 0.21 & 0.06 & 3 & & @xmath4808 & 0.16 & 0.05 & 3 & & @xmath4809 & 0.14 & & 2 + l0 & @xmath4810 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath4811 & 0.18 & 0.14 & 5 & & @xmath4812 & 0.14 & 0.09 & 5 & & @xmath4813 & 0.15 & 0.09 & 4 & & @xmath4814 & & & 1 + l0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l1 & @xmath4815 & & & 1 & & @xmath4816 & & & 1 & & @xmath4817 & 0.09 & & 2 & & @xmath4818 & 0.11 & 0.03 & 2 & & @xmath4819 & & & 1 + l1.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4820 & 0.27 & 0.27 & 2 & & @xmath4821 & 0.21 & 0.18 & 2 & & @xmath4822 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l2 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4823 & & & 1 & & @xmath4824 & & & 1 & & @xmath4825 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l2.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l3 & @xmath4826 & & & 1 & & @xmath4827 & 0.27 & 0.22 & 3 & & @xmath4828 & 0.28 & 0.25 & 3 & & @xmath4817 & 0.29 & 0.27 & 3 & & @xmath4829 & & & 1 + l3.5 & @xmath4830 & & & 1 & & @xmath4831 & & & 1 & & @xmath4832 & & & 1 & & @xmath4833 & & & 1 & & @xmath4834 & & & 1 + l4 & @xmath4835 & & & 1 & & @xmath4836 & 0.24 & 0.15 & 5 & & @xmath4837 & 0.24 & 0.13 & 5 & & @xmath4838 & 0.29 & 0.22 & 5 & & @xmath4839 & & & 1 + l4.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4840 & 0.24 & 0.28 & 3 & & @xmath4841 & 0.20 & 0.22 & 3 & & @xmath4842 & 0.28 & 0.39 & 3 & & & & & 0 + l5 & @xmath4843 & 0.14 & & 3 & & @xmath4844 & 0.48 & 0.46 & 6 & & @xmath4845 & 0.39 & 0.37 & 6 & & @xmath4846 & 0.34 & 0.35 & 6 & & @xmath4818 & 0.05 & & 2 + l5.5 & @xmath4847 & 0.10 & & 2 & & @xmath4848 & 0.27 & 0.26 & 5 & & @xmath4849 & 0.28 & 0.29 & 5 & & @xmath4850 & 0.24 & 0.25 & 5 & & & & & 0 + l6 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4851 & 0.48 & 0.57 & 3 & & @xmath4852 & 0.37 & 0.43 & 3 & & @xmath4853 & 0.35 & 0.51 & 3 & & & & & 0 + l6.5 & @xmath4854 & & & 1 & & @xmath4855 & 0.23 & 0.15 & 4 & & @xmath4856 & 0.18 & 0.17 & 4 & & @xmath4857 & 0.24 & 0.30 & 4 & & & & & 0 + l7 & @xmath4858 & & & 1 & & @xmath4859 & 0.29 & 0.26 & 3 & & @xmath4860 & 0.34 & 0.34 & 3 & & @xmath4861 & 0.35 & 0.38 & 3 & & & & & 0 + l7.5 & @xmath4862 & & & 1 & & @xmath4863 & 0.20 & & 3 & & @xmath4864 & 0.16 & 0.21 & 3 & & @xmath4865 & 0.42 & 0.41 & 2 & & @xmath4866 & & & 1 + l8 & @xmath4867 & 0.41 & 0.28 & 8 & & @xmath4868 & 0.39 & 0.28 & 9 & & @xmath4869 & 0.36 & 0.27 & 9 & & @xmath4870 & 0.33 & 0.28 & 9 & & @xmath4871 & 0.36 & 0.26 & 6 + l8.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4872 & 0.18 & 0.20 & 4 & & @xmath4873 & 0.06 & & 4 & & @xmath4874 & 0.11 & 0.10 & 4 & & & & & 0 + l9 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4875 & 0.34 & 0.27 & 2 & & @xmath4876 & 0.24 & 0.19 & 2 & & @xmath4877 & 0.25 & 0.19 & 2 & & & & & 0 + l9.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4878 & 0.27 & 0.39 & 2 & & @xmath4879 & 0.41 & 0.59 & 2 & & @xmath4880 & 0.26 & 0.38 & 2 & & & & & 0 + t0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t1 & @xmath4881 & & & 1 & & @xmath4882 & 0.16 & 0.30 & 2 & & @xmath4883 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath4884 & 0.07 & & 2 & & @xmath4885 & 0.02 & & 2 + t1.5 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4886 & & & 1 & & @xmath4887 & & & 1 & & @xmath4888 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t2 & @xmath4889 & & & 1 & & @xmath4890 & 0.19 & 0.27 & 2 & & @xmath4891 & 0.14 & 0.20 & 2 & & @xmath4892 & 0.19 & 0.28 & 2 & & @xmath4893 & & & 1 + t2.5 & @xmath4894 & & & 1 & & @xmath4895 & 0.34 & 0.58 & 2 & & @xmath4896 & 0.36 & 0.60 & 2 & & @xmath4897 & 0.23 & 0.38 & 2 & & & & & 0 + t3 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t3.5 & @xmath4898 & & & 1 & & @xmath4886 & 0.35 & 0.38 & 3 & & @xmath4899 & 0.19 & 0.14 & 3 & & @xmath4900 & 0.29 & 0.31 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t4 & & & & 0 & & @xmath4901 & & & 1 & & @xmath4902 & & & 1 & & @xmath4903 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t4.5 & @xmath4904 & 0.00 & & 2 & & @xmath4905 & 0.28 & 0.29 & 4 & & @xmath4906 & 0.34 & 0.35 & 4 & & @xmath4907 & 0.43 & 0.45 & 4 & & @xmath4908 & & & 1 + t5 & @xmath4909 & 0.10 & & 2 & & @xmath4910 & 0.32 & 0.32 & 7 & & @xmath4911 & 0.35 & 0.38 & 7 & & @xmath4912 & 0.39 & 0.41 & 7 & & @xmath4861 & & & 1 + t5.5 & @xmath4913 & 0.35 & 0.25 & 4 & & @xmath4914 & 0.32 & 0.34 & 6 & & @xmath4915 & 0.26 & 0.25 & 6 & & @xmath4916 & 0.29 & 0.26 & 6 & & @xmath4917 & & & 1 + t6 & @xmath4918 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath4919 & 0.15 & 0.16 & 3 & & @xmath4920 & 0.20 & 0.22 & 3 & & @xmath4921 & 0.33 & 0.37 & 3 & & @xmath4922 & 0.22 & 0.16 & 3 + t6.5 & @xmath4923 & 0.39 & 0.31 & 4 & & @xmath4924 & 0.31 & 0.32 & 6 & & @xmath4925 & 0.47 & 0.46 & 6 & & @xmath4926 & 0.66 & 0.67 & 6 & & & & & 0 + t7 & @xmath4927 & 0.33 & 0.27 & 4 & & @xmath4928 & 0.25 & 0.13 & 4 & & @xmath4929 & 0.34 & 0.16 & 4 & & @xmath4930 & 0.15 & 0.12 & 3 & & @xmath4931 & & & 1 + t7.5 & @xmath4932 & 0.64 & 0.61 & 6 & & @xmath4933 & 0.65 & 0.70 & 7 & & @xmath4934 & 0.70 & 0.77 & 7 & & @xmath4935 & 0.83 & 0.80 & 6 & & @xmath4936 & 0.28 & 0.11 & 2 + t8 & @xmath4937 & 0.08 & 0.05 & 2 & & @xmath4938 & 0.35 & 0.46 & 3 & & @xmath4939 & 0.32 & 0.43 & 3 & & @xmath4940 & 0.31 & 0.46 & 3 & & @xmath4941 & & & 1 + t8.5 & @xmath4942 & 0.36 & 0.45 & 4 & & @xmath4943 & 0.33 & 0.37 & 4 & & @xmath4944 & 0.33 & 0.36 & 4 & & @xmath4945 & 0.48 & 0.54 & 4 & & & & & 0 + t9 & @xmath4946 & 0.54 & 0.43 & 2 & & @xmath4947 & 0.66 & 0.75 & 2 & & @xmath4948 & 0.66 & 0.74 & 2 & & @xmath4949 & 0.54 & 0.48 & 2 & & @xmath4950 & & & 1 +      m6 & @xmath4951 & 0.27 & 0.25 & 16 & & @xmath4952 & 0.27 & 0.26 & 16 & & @xmath4953 & 0.28 & 0.28 & 16 + m6.5 & @xmath4954 & 0.44 & 0.44 & 16 & & @xmath4955 & 0.45 & 0.44 & 16 & & @xmath4956 & 0.44 & 0.43 & 16 + m7 & @xmath4957 & 0.45 & 0.48 & 8 & & @xmath4958 & 0.45 & 0.47 & 8 & & @xmath4959 & 0.44 & 0.46 & 8 + m7.5 & @xmath4960 & 0.30 & 0.31 & 9 & & @xmath4961 & 0.32 & 0.33 & 9 & & @xmath4962 & 0.33 & 0.34 & 9 + m8 & @xmath4963 & 0.46 & 0.34 & 11 & & @xmath4964 & 0.46 & 0.34 & 11 & & @xmath4965 & 0.44 & 0.35 & 12 + m8.5 & @xmath4966 & 0.20 & 0.20 & 9 & & @xmath4967 & 0.23 & 0.23 & 9 & & @xmath4968 & 0.22 & 0.23 & 9 + m9 & @xmath4969 & 0.29 & 0.26 & 7 & & @xmath4970 & 0.31 & 0.29 & 7 & & @xmath4971 & 0.30 & 0.30 & 8 + m9.5 & @xmath4972 & 0.14 & 0.12 & 6 & & @xmath4973 & 0.20 & 0.20 & 6 & & @xmath4974 & 0.22 & 0.23 & 6 + l0 & @xmath4975 & 0.21 & 0.17 & 6 & & @xmath4792 & 0.18 & 0.11 & 6 & & @xmath4976 & 0.15 & 0.12 & 7 + l0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l1 & @xmath4846 & 0.01 & & 3 & & @xmath4977 & 0.07 & 0.06 & 4 & & @xmath4978 & 0.11 & 0.12 & 4 + l1.5 & @xmath4979 & 0.41 & 0.31 & 2 & & @xmath4980 & 0.32 & 0.22 & 2 & & @xmath4774 & 0.23 & 0.22 & 3 + l2 & @xmath4981 & & & 1 & & @xmath4982 & & & 1 & & @xmath4983 & & & 1 + l2.5 & @xmath4984 & & & 1 & & @xmath4985 & & & 1 & & @xmath4986 & & & 1 + l3 & @xmath4987 & 0.20 & 0.19 & 4 & & @xmath4988 & 0.22 & 0.25 & 4 & & @xmath4989 & 0.22 & 0.26 & 4 + l3.5 & @xmath4990 & 0.13 & 0.22 & 2 & & @xmath4991 & 0.01 & & 2 & & @xmath4992 & 0.04 & & 2 + l4 & @xmath4993 & 0.20 & & 6 & & @xmath4994 & 0.43 & 0.37 & 7 & & @xmath4995 & 0.28 & 0.23 & 7 + l4.5 & @xmath4996 & 0.23 & 0.25 & 3 & & @xmath4997 & 0.20 & 0.23 & 3 & & @xmath4998 & 0.28 & 0.39 & 3 + l5 & @xmath4999 & 0.44 & 0.46 & 7 & & @xmath5000 & 0.36 & 0.37 & 7 & & @xmath5001 & 0.31 & 0.35 & 7 + l5.5 & @xmath5002 & 0.27 & 0.27 & 5 & & @xmath5003 & 0.28 & 0.29 & 5 & & @xmath5004 & 0.26 & 0.26 & 5 + l6 & @xmath5005 & 0.47 & 0.57 & 3 & & @xmath5006 & 0.38 & 0.44 & 3 & & @xmath5007 & 0.34 & 0.52 & 3 + l6.5 & @xmath5008 & 0.19 & 0.01 & 4 & & @xmath5009 & 0.16 & 0.11 & 4 & & @xmath5010 & 0.19 & 0.21 & 4 + l7 & @xmath5011 & 0.40 & 0.45 & 3 & & @xmath5012 & 0.38 & 0.37 & 3 & & @xmath4861 & 0.33 & 0.37 & 3 + l7.5 & @xmath5013 & 0.11 & 0.08 & 2 & & @xmath5014 & 0.20 & 0.19 & 2 & & @xmath5015 & 0.25 & 0.36 & 3 + l8 & @xmath5016 & 0.30 & 0.09 & 9 & & @xmath5014 & 0.33 & 0.16 & 9 & & @xmath5017 & 0.30 & 0.20 & 9 + l8.5 & @xmath5018 & 0.21 & 0.20 & 4 & & @xmath5019 & 0.08 & & 4 & & @xmath5020 & 0.16 & 0.15 & 4 + l9 & @xmath5021 & 0.40 & 0.48 & 3 & & @xmath5022 & 0.28 & 0.32 & 3 & & @xmath5023 & 0.36 & 0.43 & 3 + l9.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0 & @xmath5024 & 0.09 & & 2 & & @xmath5025 & 0.25 & 0.34 & 2 & & @xmath5026 & 0.33 & 0.54 & 2 + t0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t1 & @xmath5027 & 0.30 & 0.59 & 2 & & @xmath5028 & 0.16 & 0.28 & 2 & & @xmath5029 & 0.02 & & 2 + t1.5 & @xmath5030 & & & 1 & & @xmath5031 & & & 1 & & @xmath5032 & & & 1 + t2 & @xmath5033 & 0.17 & 0.24 & 2 & & @xmath5034 & 0.13 & 0.18 & 2 & & @xmath5035 & 0.12 & 0.17 & 2 + t2.5 & @xmath5036 & 0.69 & 1.10 & 2 & & @xmath5037 & 0.41 & 0.59 & 2 & & @xmath5038 & 0.66 & 1.06 & 2 + t3 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t3.5 & @xmath5039 & 0.33 & 0.35 & 3 & & @xmath5040 & 0.16 & 0.12 & 3 & & @xmath5041 & 0.47 & 0.50 & 3 + t4 & @xmath5042 & & & 1 & & @xmath5043 & & & 1 & & @xmath5044 & & & 1 + t4.5 & @xmath5045 & 0.28 & 0.26 & 4 & & @xmath5046 & 0.29 & 0.28 & 4 & & @xmath5047 & 0.39 & 0.45 & 4 + t5 & @xmath4912 & 0.31 & 0.32 & 6 & & @xmath4911 & 0.38 & 0.41 & 6 & & @xmath5048 & 0.41 & 0.41 & 6 + t5.5 & @xmath5049 & 0.32 & 0.31 & 5 & & @xmath5050 & 0.36 & 0.32 & 5 & & @xmath5051 & 0.32 & 0.30 & 5 + t6 & @xmath5052 & 0.11 & 0.09 & 5 & & @xmath5053 & 0.17 & 0.19 & 5 & & @xmath5054 & 0.33 & 0.50 & 5 + t6.5 & @xmath5055 & 0.32 & 0.31 & 6 & & @xmath5056 & 0.61 & 0.64 & 6 & & @xmath5057 & 0.71 & 0.73 & 6 + t7 & @xmath5058 & 0.03 & & 3 & & @xmath5059 & 0.27 & 0.19 & 3 & & @xmath5060 & 0.38 & 0.29 & 3 + t7.5 & @xmath5061 & 0.55 & 0.47 & 5 & & @xmath5062 & 0.53 & 0.45 & 5 & & @xmath5063 & 0.83 & 0.73 & 5 + t8 & @xmath5064 & 0.44 & 0.38 & 2 & & @xmath5065 & 0.39 & 0.31 & 2 & & @xmath5066 & 0.28 & 0.15 & 2 + t8.5 & @xmath5067 & & & 1 & & @xmath5068 & & & 1 & & @xmath5069 & & & 1 + t9 & @xmath5070 & 0.45 & 0.16 & 2 & & @xmath5071 & & & 1 & & @xmath5072 & & & 1 +      m6 & @xmath5073 & & & 1 & & @xmath5074 & & & 1 & & @xmath5075 & & & 1 & & @xmath5076 & & & 1 + m6.5 & @xmath5077 & 0.10 & & 3 & & @xmath5078 & 0.11 & & 3 & & @xmath5079 & 0.11 & & 3 & & @xmath5080 & 0.10 & 0.00 & 3 + m7 & @xmath5081 & 0.12 & & 2 & & @xmath5082 & 0.12 & 0.03 & 2 & & @xmath5083 & 0.12 & 0.02 & 2 & & @xmath5084 & 0.13 & 0.03 & 2 + m7.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + m8 & @xmath5085 & & & 1 & & @xmath5086 & & & 1 & & @xmath5087 & & & 1 & & @xmath5088 & & & 1 + m8.5 & @xmath5089 & & & 1 & & @xmath5090 & & & 1 & & @xmath5091 & & & 1 & & @xmath5092 & & & 1 + m9 & @xmath5093 & 0.32 & 0.22 & 3 & & @xmath5094 & 0.29 & 0.19 & 3 & & @xmath4958 & 0.28 & 0.18 & 3 & & @xmath5095 & 0.24 & 0.16 & 3 + m9.5 & @xmath5096 & & & 1 & & @xmath5097 & & & 1 & & @xmath5098 & & & 1 & & @xmath5099 & & & 1 + l0 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l1 & @xmath5100 & & & 1 & & @xmath5101 & & & 1 & & @xmath5102 & & & 1 & & @xmath5103 & & & 1 + l1.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l2 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l2.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l3 & @xmath5104 & & & 1 & & @xmath5105 & & & 1 & & @xmath5106 & & & 1 & & @xmath5107 & & & 1 + l3.5 & @xmath5108 & & & 1 & & @xmath5109 & & & 1 & & @xmath5110 & & & 1 & & @xmath5111 & & & 1 + l4 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l4.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l5 & @xmath5112 & 0.03 & & 2 & & @xmath5113 & 0.05 & & 2 & & @xmath5114 & 0.04 & & 2 & & @xmath4818 & 0.04 & & 2 + l5.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l6 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l6.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l7 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l7.5 & @xmath5115 & & & 1 & & @xmath5116 & & & 1 & & @xmath5117 & & & 1 & & @xmath5118 & & & 1 + l8 & @xmath5119 & 0.02 & & 2 & & @xmath5120 & 0.01 & & 2 & & @xmath4866 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath5121 & 0.03 & & 2 + l8.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l9 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l9.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t1 & @xmath5122 & 0.01 & & 2 & & @xmath5123 & 0.01 & & 2 & & @xmath5124 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath5125 & 0.12 & & 2 + t1.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t2 & @xmath5126 & & & 1 & & @xmath5127 & & & 1 & & @xmath5128 & & & 1 & & @xmath5129 & & & 1 + t2.5 & @xmath5130 & & & 1 & & @xmath5131 & & & 1 & & @xmath5132 & & & 1 & & @xmath4980 & & & 1 + t3 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t3.5 & @xmath5133 & & & 1 & & @xmath5134 & & & 1 & & @xmath5135 & & & 1 & & @xmath5136 & & & 1 + t4 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t4.5 & @xmath5137 & 0.03 & & 2 & & @xmath5138 & 0.00 & & 2 & & @xmath5139 & 0.14 & & 2 & & @xmath5140 & 0.17 & & 2 + t5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t5.5 & @xmath5141 & 0.42 & 0.38 & 2 & & @xmath5142 & 0.30 & 0.27 & 2 & & @xmath5143 & 0.53 & 0.47 & 2 & & @xmath5144 & 0.43 & 0.32 & 2 + t6 & @xmath5145 & 0.24 & 0.21 & 2 & & @xmath5146 & 0.05 & & 2 & & @xmath5147 & 0.34 & 0.27 & 2 & & @xmath5148 & 0.36 & 0.29 & 2 + t6.5 & @xmath5149 & 0.34 & 0.30 & 3 & & @xmath5150 & 0.04 & & 3 & & @xmath5151 & 0.46 & 0.41 & 3 & & @xmath5152 & 0.26 & 0.17 & 3 + t7 & @xmath4911 & 0.04 & & 3 & & @xmath5153 & 0.11 & 0.13 & 3 & & @xmath5154 & 0.18 & 0.18 & 3 & & @xmath5155 & 0.02 & & 3 + t7.5 & @xmath5156 & 0.60 & 0.58 & 4 & & @xmath5157 & 0.21 & 0.21 & 4 & & @xmath5158 & 0.57 & 0.56 & 4 & & @xmath5159 & 0.33 & 0.24 & 4 + t8 & @xmath5160 & & & 1 & & @xmath5161 & & & 1 & & @xmath5162 & & & 1 & & @xmath5163 & & & 1 + t8.5 & @xmath5164 & 0.31 & 0.28 & 3 & & @xmath5165 & 0.18 & 0.15 & 3 & & @xmath5166 & 0.50 & 0.49 & 3 & & @xmath5167 & 0.45 & 0.42 & 3 + t9 & @xmath5168 & 0.34 & 0.50 & 2 & & @xmath5169 & 0.30 & 0.39 & 2 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 +      m6 & @xmath5170 & 0.25 & 0.25 & 14 & & @xmath5171 & 0.25 & 0.24 & 14 & & @xmath5172 & 0.24 & 0.24 & 14 & & @xmath5173 & 0.48 & 0.11 & 5 + m6.5 & @xmath5174 & 0.46 & 0.46 & 15 & & @xmath5175 & 0.45 & 0.44 & 15 & & @xmath5176 & 0.41 & 0.39 & 15 & & @xmath5177 & 0.67 & 0.25 & 8 + m7 & @xmath5178 & 0.49 & 0.54 & 6 & & @xmath5179 & 0.47 & 0.51 & 6 & & @xmath5180 & 0.47 & 0.51 & 6 & & @xmath5181 & 0.79 & 0.37 & 3 + m7.5 & @xmath5182 & 0.35 & 0.37 & 8 & & @xmath5183 & 0.34 & 0.36 & 8 & & @xmath5184 & 0.34 & 0.39 & 8 & & @xmath5185 & 0.13 & & 4 + m8 & @xmath5186 & 0.58 & 0.52 & 9 & & @xmath4953 & 0.56 & 0.50 & 9 & & @xmath5187 & 0.60 & 0.46 & 9 & & @xmath5188 & 0.35 & & 2 + m8.5 & @xmath5189 & 0.23 & 0.19 & 5 & & @xmath5190 & 0.21 & 0.17 & 5 & & @xmath5191 & 0.09 & 0.03 & 5 & & @xmath5192 & 0.13 & & 2 + m9 & @xmath5193 & 0.34 & 0.34 & 6 & & @xmath5194 & 0.31 & 0.31 & 6 & & @xmath5195 & 0.35 & 0.33 & 6 & & @xmath5196 & 0.82 & 0.68 & 4 + m9.5 & @xmath5197 & 0.27 & 0.31 & 4 & & @xmath5198 & 0.20 & 0.23 & 4 & & @xmath5199 & 0.29 & 0.25 & 3 & & & & & 0 + l0 & @xmath5200 & 0.12 & & 6 & & @xmath5201 & 0.12 & & 6 & & @xmath5202 & 0.88 & 0.07 & 4 & & & & & 0 + l0.5 & @xmath5203 & & & 1 & & @xmath5204 & & & 1 & & @xmath5205 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l1 & @xmath5206 & 0.08 & 0.09 & 3 & & @xmath5207 & 0.06 & 0.07 & 3 & & @xmath5208 & 0.19 & 0.17 & 3 & & & & & 0 + l1.5 & @xmath5209 & & & 1 & & @xmath5210 & & & 1 & & @xmath5211 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l2 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l2.5 & @xmath5212 & & & 1 & & @xmath5213 & & & 1 & & @xmath5214 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l3 & @xmath5215 & 0.09 & 0.09 & 3 & & @xmath5216 & 0.09 & 0.08 & 3 & & @xmath5217 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l3.5 & @xmath5218 & 0.11 & 0.20 & 2 & & @xmath5219 & 0.22 & 0.42 & 2 & & @xmath5220 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l4 & @xmath5221 & 0.18 & 0.15 & 3 & & @xmath5222 & 0.12 & & 3 & & @xmath5223 & 0.47 & & 2 & & & & & 0 + l4.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l5 & @xmath5224 & 0.27 & 0.37 & 4 & & @xmath4812 & 0.30 & 0.40 & 4 & & @xmath5225 & 0.34 & 0.21 & 2 & & & & & 0 + l5.5 & @xmath5226 & 0.03 & & 2 & & @xmath5227 & 0.02 & & 2 & & @xmath5228 & 0.49 & 0.90 & 2 & & & & & 0 + l6 & @xmath5229 & & & 1 & & @xmath5230 & & & 1 & & @xmath5231 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l6.5 & @xmath5232 & & & 1 & & @xmath5233 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l7 & @xmath5234 & & & 1 & & @xmath5235 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l7.5 & @xmath5236 & & & 1 & & @xmath5237 & & & 1 & & @xmath5238 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l8 & @xmath5239 & 0.29 & 0.29 & 8 & & @xmath4972 & 0.31 & 0.31 & 8 & & @xmath5240 & 0.27 & 0.11 & 6 & & & & & 0 + l8.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + l9 & @xmath5241 & & & 1 & & @xmath5242 & & & 1 & & @xmath5243 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + l9.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t0.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t1 & @xmath5244 & 0.07 & & 2 & & @xmath5245 & 0.06 & & 2 & & @xmath5246 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t1.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t2 & @xmath5247 & & & 1 & & @xmath5248 & & & 1 & & @xmath5249 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t2.5 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t3 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t3.5 & @xmath5250 & & & 1 & & @xmath5251 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t4 & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 & & & & & 0 + t4.5 & @xmath5252 & 0.61 & 0.60 & 2 & & @xmath5253 & 0.16 & & 2 & & @xmath5254 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t5 & @xmath5255 & & & 1 & & @xmath5256 & & & 1 & & @xmath5257 & & & 1 & & & & & 0 + t5.5 & @xmath5258 & 0.47 & 0.56 & 3 & & @xmath5259 & 0.33 & 0.39 & 3 & & @xmath5260 & 0.48 & 0.47 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t6 & @xmath5261 & 0.23 & 0.33 & 3 & & @xmath5146 & 0.06 & 0.02 & 3 & & @xmath5262 & 0.57 & 0.67 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t6.5 & @xmath5263 & 0.34 & 0.38 & 4 & & @xmath5264 & 0.14 & 0.14 & 4 & & @xmath5265 & 0.39 & 0.30 & 4 & & & & & 0 + t7 & @xmath5266 & 0.20 & 0.24 & 3 & & @xmath5267 & 0.10 & 0.12 & 3 & & @xmath5268 & 0.45 & 0.48 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t7.5 & @xmath5269 & 0.77 & 0.72 & 4 & & @xmath5270 & 0.27 & 0.25 & 4 & & @xmath5271 & 0.40 & 0.25 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t8 & @xmath5272 & 0.63 & 0.63 & 3 & & @xmath5273 & 0.27 & 0.03 & 3 & & @xmath5274 & 0.71 & 0.78 & 3 & & & & & 0 + t8.5 & @xmath5275 & 0.34 & 0.35 & 4 & & @xmath5276 & 0.08 & 0.05 & 4 & & @xmath5277 & 0.31 & & 2 & & & & & 0 + t9 & @xmath5278 & 0.31 & 0.41 & 2 & & @xmath5279 & 0.36 & 0.56 & 2 & & @xmath5280 & 0.13 & & 2 & & & & & 0 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first results from our high - precision infrared ( ir ) astrometry program at the canada - france - hawaii telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we measure parallaxes for 83 ultracool dwarfs ( spectral types m6t9 ) in 49 systems , with a median uncertainty of 1.1  mas ( 2.3% ) and as good as 0.7  mas ( 0.8% ) . </S>",
    "<S> we provide the first parallaxes for 48 objects in 29 systems , and for another 27 objects in 17 systems , we significantly improve upon published results , with a median ( best ) improvement of 1.7@xmath0 ( 5@xmath0 ) . </S>",
    "<S> three systems show astrometric perturbations indicative of orbital motion ; two are known binaries ( 2mass  j0518@xmath12828ab and 2mass  j1404@xmath13159ab ) and one is spectrally peculiar ( sdss  j0805 + 4812 ) . in addition , we present here a large set of keck adaptive optics imaging that more than triples the number of binaries with l6t5 components that have both multi - band photometry and distances . our data enable an unprecedented look at the photometric properties of brown dwarfs as they cool through the l / t transition . going from @xmath2l8 to @xmath2t4.5 , </S>",
    "<S> flux in the @xmath3 and @xmath4 bands increases by @xmath20.7  mag and @xmath20.5  mag , respectively ( the @xmath3- and @xmath4-band `` bumps '' ) , while flux in the @xmath5 , @xmath6 , and  bands declines monotonically . </S>",
    "<S> this wavelength dependence is consistent with cloud clearing over a narrow range of temperature , since condensate opacity is expected to dominate at 1.01.3  . </S>",
    "<S> interestingly , despite more than doubling the near - ir census of l / t transition objects , we find a conspicuous paucity of objects on the color  magnitude diagram just blueward of the late - l / early - t sequence . </S>",
    "<S> this `` l / t gap '' occurs at @xmath70.3  mag , @xmath80.4  mag , and implies that the last phases of cloud evolution occur rapidly . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we provide a comprehensive update to the absolute magnitudes of ultracool dwarfs as a function of spectral type using a combined sample of 314 objects . </S>"
  ]
}