{
  "article_text": [
    "the _ herschel _ key program debris ( dust emission via a bias free reconnaissance in the infrared / submillimeter ) has observed a large sample of nearby stars to discover and characterise extrasolar analogues to the solar system s asteroid and kuiper belts , collectively known as `` debris disks . ''",
    "the 3.5 m _",
    "mirror diameter provides 6 - 7  resolution at 70 - 100@xmath0 m , and as a consequence our survey has resolved many disks around stars in the solar neighbourhood for the first time .",
    "here we present resolved images of the 99 herculis circumbinary disk .",
    "this system is particularly interesting because unlike most debris disk+binary systems , the binary orbit is well characterised .",
    "the combination of a known orbit and resolved disk means we can compare their ( different ) inclinations and consider circumbinary particle dynamics and formation scenarios .    this system is a first step toward building on the binary debris disk study of @xcite .",
    "their _ spitzer _",
    "study found that debris disks are as common in binary systems as in single systems , but tend not to have separations in the 3 - 30au range .",
    "however , only some of their systems had detections at multiple wavelengths to constrain the disk location and none were resolved , making the true dust location uncertain",
    ". resolved systems such as 99 her remove this ambiguity , and provide crucial information on the disk location , stability and dynamics .",
    "this paper is laid out as follows .",
    "we first consider the stellar and orbital properties of the 99 her system , including the possibility of a third component .",
    "then we consider the _ herschel _ image data and several different models that can explain it .",
    "finally , we discuss the implications of these models for the formation of the system .",
    "the binary 99 herculis ( hd 165908 , hip 88745 , gj 704ab , ads 11077 ) contains the 37@xmath1 closest f star primary within the volume limited unbiased nearby stars sample @xcite .",
    "the catalogue of components of doubles and multiple systems ( ccdm j18071 + 3034 , * ? ? ? * ) lists three components , but using hipparcos proper motions @xcite find that the 93  distant c component is not bound to the system .",
    "the binary pair has been known since 1859 , and consists of an f7v primary orbited by a k4v secondary .",
    "the primary is known to be metal poor with [ fe / h ] @xmath2 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and has an age consistent with the main - sequence .      .99 her orbital elements , system mass and 1@xmath3 uncertainties .",
    "the ascending node @xmath4 is measured anti - clockwise from north .",
    "the longitude of pericenter is measured anti - clockwise from the ascending node , and projected onto the sky plane has a position angle of 163@xmath5 ( i.e. is slightly different to 41 + 116 because the orbit is inclined ) . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     we now analyse the pacs images using 2d gaussian models to estimate the disk size , inclination , and position angle .",
    "a 2d gaussian fits the star - subtracted pacs 100@xmath0 m image fairly well , with major and minor full - width half - maxima of 17.7 and 12.8  at a position angle of @xmath6 .",
    "quadratically deconvolving from the 6.7  fwhm beam assuming a circular ring implies an inclination of @xmath7 from face - on and an estimated diameter of 250au .",
    "gaussian fitting to star - subtracted images at both 70 and 160@xmath0 m yields similar results .    as noted above , estimation of uncertainties in these parameters is non - trivial due to correlated noise , but made easier by the constant depth of our survey . by inserting the best fit gaussian to the star - subtracted image of the 99 her disk from the 100@xmath0 m image into 438 other 100@xmath0 m maps at high coverage positions offset from the intended target ,",
    "we obtain a range of fit parameters for hundreds of different realisations of the same noise .",
    "this process yields an inclination of @xmath8 and pa of @xmath9 .",
    "repeating the process , but using the best fit gaussian for the 70@xmath0 m image yields an inclination of @xmath10 and pa of @xmath11 .",
    "though the inclination of the disk is similar to the binary , the position angle is significantly different from the binary line of nodes of @xmath12 .",
    "this difference means that the disk and binary orbital planes are misaligned .    as a check on the above approach",
    ", we can correct for the correlated noise directly .",
    "@xcite show that for a map that has sufficiently many dithers ( corresponding in our case to many timeline samples across each pixel ) , a noise `` correction '' factor of @xmath13 can be derived , where @xmath14 is the ratio of natural to actual pixel scales and is 3.2 for our pacs maps . a correction factor of 3.6 for the measured pixel to pixel noise is therefore required when estimating the uncertainty on a fitted gaussian .",
    "including this factor at 70@xmath0 m and calculating the uncertainty by the standard @xmath15 method yields an inclination of @xmath16 and a pa of @xmath11 . at 100@xmath0 m",
    "the result is an inclination of @xmath17 and a pa of @xmath18 .",
    "these results are therefore almost exactly the same as the empirical method used above and therefore lead to the same conclusion of misalignment .    as will become apparent in  [ s : spatial ]",
    ", there is reason to believe that the disk plane could be perpendicular to the binary pericenter direction .",
    "the projection of the binary pericenter direction on the sky plane has a pa of @xmath19 , and a line perpendicular to this has a pa of @xmath20 .",
    "therefore , the observed disk position angle of about 72@xmath5 is consistent with being at 90@xmath5 to the binary pericenter direction .",
    ", @xmath21 , & @xmath22 colours , and @xmath23 and @xmath24 stromgren indices were fitted but are not shown here ) .",
    "black triangles mark upper limits from iras at 60 and 100@xmath0m.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    the combination of all photometry for 99 her allows modelling of the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) .",
    "the model is separated into two components ; a stellar atmosphere and a disk . due to being fairly bright ( @xmath25mag ) the system",
    "is saturated in the 2mass catalogue . however , sufficient optical photometry for each individual star and the pair exists @xcite , as well as infra - red measurements of the ab pair from akari and iras .",
    "these data were used to find the best fitting stellar models via @xmath26 minimisation .",
    "this method uses synthetic photometry over known bandpasses and has been validated against high s / n mips 24@xmath0 m data for debris targets , showing that the photospheric fluxes are accurate to a few percent for afg - type stars .",
    "the stellar luminosities ( @xmath27 , @xmath28 ) and ir fluxes of the individual components are consistent with the fit for the pair ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "the fit for the ab pair is shown in figure [ fig : sed ] .",
    "the spatial structure of the disk can be modelled with dust at a single radial distance of 120au ( i.e. thin compared to _",
    "herschel s _ resolution ,  [ s : spatial ] ) , so disk sed modelling can be decoupled from the resolved modelling once this radial distance is known . because we have measurements of the disk emission at only five wavelengths",
    ", we can not strongly constrain the grain properties and size distribution .",
    "we fit the data with a blackbody model , and then compare the data with several `` realistic '' grain models .    in fitting a blackbody",
    "we account for inefficient grain emission at long wavelengths by including parameters @xmath30 and @xmath31 , where the blackbody is modified by a factor @xmath32 for wavelengths longer than @xmath30 .",
    "the best fitting model has a temperature of 49k and fractional luminosity @xmath33 .",
    "the spire data are near the confusion limit of about 6mjy , so the parameters @xmath31 and @xmath30 are unconstrained within reasonable limits by the data ( based on previous sub - mm detections for other disks we fix them to @xmath34 m and @xmath35 in figure [ fig : sed ] @xcite ) .    assuming that grains absorb and emit like blackbodies , the radial dust distance implied by 49k is 45au . because the disk is observed at a radius of 120au ( i.e. is warmer than expected for blackbodies at 120au ) , the dust emission has at least some contribution from grains small enough to emit inefficiently in the 70 - 350@xmath0 m wavelength range .",
    "because the sed alone is consistent with a pure blackbody ( i.e. with @xmath36 ) , we can not make such a statement without the resolved images .",
    "however , actually constraining the grain sizes is difficult because temperature and emission are also affected by composition .",
    "we fit the data by generating disk seds for grains at a range of semi - major axes and choosing the one with the lowest @xmath26 .",
    "if the dust semi - major axis is different from the observed semi - major axis of 120au the model parameters are changed and the model recalculated , thus iterating towards the best fit .",
    "we model the dust with a standard diameter ( @xmath37 ) distribution @xmath38 where @xmath39 ( equivalently @xmath40 where @xmath41 is mass * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , with the minimum size set by the blowout limit for the specific composition used ( about 1.4@xmath0 m ) and a maximum size of 10 cm .",
    "the size distribution probably extends beyond 10 cm , but objects larger than 10 cm contribute negligibly to the emission because the size distribution slope means that smaller grains dominate .",
    "preliminary tests found that icy grains provided a much better fit than silicates . to refine the grain model",
    "so the sed and resolved radius agree , we introduced small amounts of amorphous silicates to the initially icy model .",
    "the grains are therefore essentially ice mixed with a small fraction ( @xmath42 ) of silicate .",
    "the icy grain model is shown as a dotted line in figure [ fig : sed ] .",
    "this model has a total dust surface area of 14au@xmath43 and a mass of order 10@xmath44 if the size distribution is extrapolated up to 1000 km size objects .",
    "the parameters from of this model are degenerate for the data in hand ; for example the size distribution could be shallower and the fraction of silicates higher ( e.g. @xmath45 and @xmath46 ) .",
    "if we allow the minimum grain size to be larger than the blowout limit , the disk is well fit by amorphous silicate grains with @xmath39 and @xmath47 m .",
    "the disk spectrum can even be fit with a single size population of 25@xmath0 m icy grains .",
    "however , the predictions for the flux at millimeter wavelengths depend on the size distribution , with lower fluxes for steeper size distributions . therefore , grain properties and size distribution can be further constrained in the future with deep ( sub)mm continuum measurements .    in summary",
    ", it is hard to constrain the grain sizes or properties .",
    "there is a difference in the required minimum grain size that depends on composition .",
    "because icy grains are reflective at optical wavelengths , a detection of the disk in scattered light could constrain the albedo of particles , and therefore their composition .",
    "the pacs images of the 99 her disk are resolved , which allows modelling of the spatial distribution of grains that contribute to the observed emission at each wavelength .",
    "we compare synthetic images with the _ herschel _ observations in several steps : i ) generate a three dimensional distribution of surface area @xmath48 , where the coordinates are centered on the primary star .",
    "ii ) generate a radial distribution of grain emission properties . because the sed can be modelled with blackbody grains at 49k and the spatial structure modelled with a narrow ring",
    ", there is no real need for a radial temperature dependence and the grain properties are only a function of wavelength : @xmath49 .",
    "practically , we use a radial temperature dependence @xmath50 centered on the primary , normalised so that the disk ring temperature is 49k .",
    "this approach ensures that temperature differences due to non - axisymmetries ( negligible for 99 her ) are automatically taken into account .",
    "iii ) generate a high resolution model as viewed from a specific direction .",
    "the emission in a single pixel of angular size @xmath51 from a single volume element in the three dimensional model @xmath52 viewed along a vector @xmath53 is @xmath54 , where @xmath55 , so @xmath56 is the length of the volume element , and @xmath57 is the distance to the particles from earth @xcite .",
    "the emission is derived by integrating along the line of sight @xmath53 for each pixel in the synthetic image .",
    "the photospheric fluxes for each star ( decreased by the factors noted in  [ s : obs ] ) are placed in the relevant pixels at this step .",
    "iv ) convolve the high resolution model with a high resolution telescope+instrument beam , for which we use interpolated and rotated pacs images of the star arcturus .",
    "v ) degrade the resolution to match the data .",
    "vi ) generate a map of residuals , defined by @xmath58 , where the uncertainty is the pixel to pixel rms for that observation .",
    "we compute the model @xmath26 from pixels in a square crop around the disk .",
    "a minor consideration is that in the general circumbinary case the disk temperature is not axisymmetric because the disk orbits the center of mass , not the primary .",
    "an axisymmetric disk is therefore subject to a temperature asymmetry such that it will be slightly hotter , and therefore brighter , where the distance to the primary is smallest .",
    "this `` binary offset '' asymmetry will rotate with the primary , and will be most pronounced in the coplanar case .",
    "the result of this effect is similar to the offset caused by perturbations from an eccentric object (  pericenter glow  * ? ? ?",
    "however , the pericenter glow is offset towards the pericenter of the perturbing object , so does not rotate unless the perturbing object s pericenter precesses .",
    "the offset from the primary and the pericenter glow are completely independent effects .",
    "therefore , if the pericenter glow effect is present , it will reinforce and cancel the binary offset effect , depending on the relative magnitude of each each offset .",
    "the magnitude of the binary offset effect is negligibly small ( @xmath591% ) because the disk radius is much larger than the binary separation . because our model is centered on the system center of mass this effect is taken into account anyway .",
    "we discuss the effect of the binary on pericenter glow in ",
    "[ s : dyn ] .",
    "to fit the data requires a handful of parameters , some are required for all models and some are model specific .",
    "the disk surface area , temperature , radius , width , and total opening angle are the five physical parameters for a ring .",
    "the sky position angle and inclination are two further parameters that set the orientation , but can be fixed if the disk plane is assumed to be aligned with the binary .",
    "in addition each observation has the stellar ra and dec as parameters to allow for the 2  @xmath60 pointing accuracy of _ herschel_. the position at 160@xmath0 m is tied to the 100@xmath0 m position .",
    "there are therefore eleven possible parameters to fit for the resolved observations at 70 , 100 , and 160@xmath0 m .",
    "we fix the disk temperature to 49k in all cases .    from the basic analysis (  [ s : basic ] ) , a simple ring coplanar with the binary does not appear a viable option .",
    "to emphasise this point we show 70 and 100@xmath0 m images of the best fitting coplanar model in figure [ fig : copl ] .",
    "this model was generated by the steps outlined above , and the rightmost three panels are the results of steps iv ( convolved model ) , iii ( high resolution model ) , and vi ( residuals ) .",
    "we fix the disk width to 20au , the opening angle to 5@xmath5 , and the position angle and inclination to the binary plane , so there are six free parameters ( surface area , radius , and two pairs of ra / dec sky positions ) .",
    "while we include the 160@xmath0 m data in the fitting , it does not constrain the fit strongly due to low s / n and always shows @xmath612@xmath3 residual structure due to the offset peak . for comparison with the models below ,",
    "the @xmath26 value for all three pacs bands is 4278 with 3797 degrees of freedom .",
    "the positive and negative residuals ( rightmost panels ) show that the disk ansae in the model have the wrong orientation at both wavelengths .",
    "it is clear that any structure symmetric about the binary line of nodes will not be consistent with the observations because the position angle is significantly different .",
    "an alternative explanation for the misalignment between the observed position angle and the binary line of nodes could be that the dust does in fact lie in the binary plane , but that the particles are on eccentric orbits with common pericenter directions ( i.e. the disk is elliptical and offset from the binary ) . in principle , the observations can constrain the eccentricity and pericenter direction . however , this model fails because the eccentricity needed to match the observed position angle is too extreme .",
    "in order to obtain an ellipse that lies in the binary orbital plane and has a position angle and aspect ratio similar to the observations requires eccentricities @xmath620.4 .",
    "the eccentricity of these particles is so high that i ) the ring is significantly offset from the star and ii ) the ring has an extreme pericenter glow asymmetry at all wavelengths caused by particles residing at different stellocentric distances .",
    "because the pacs 70@xmath0 m image shows that the star lies very near the disk center , such a strong offset is ruled out .",
    "we now consider two relatively simple models that account for the misalignment between the disk and binary orbital planes .",
    "the first is based on the expected secular evolution of circumbinary particles , and the second is a simple misaligned ring where the disk position angle and inclination are free parameters .      in this section",
    "we consider a ring inspired by the secular evolution of circumbinary particles .",
    "this approach ensures that the disk is stable over the stellar lifetime and encompasses the particle dynamics dictated by the binary .",
    "we first outline the dynamics of circumbinary particles , and then show the model for the 99 her disk .",
    "particle dynamics are important for evolution and stability in the 99 her system .",
    "a circumbinary disk will have its inner edge truncated , while circumstellar disks around either component can be truncated at their outer edges .",
    "in addition , secular perturbations lead to precession of test particles nodes coupled with inclination variations .",
    "we explore these dynamics using the _ swift hjs _ integrator .",
    "in general , disk truncation allows us to place limits on possible locations for disk particles .",
    "however , in the case of 99 her there is no evidence for disk components orbiting only one star , and the apparent circumbinary disk extent lies well beyond @xmath6130 - 60au stability limit at any inclination @xcite .",
    "circumbinary particles also undergo long - term dynamical evolution due to secular perturbations .",
    "because the binary has a small mass ratio and high eccentricity , the dynamics are not well described by the circular restricted three - body problem , commonly applied in the case of debris disks perturbed by planets .",
    "similar dynamics have previously been explored in the context of the hd 98800 system @xcite and more generally @xcite .",
    "these studies show that the inclination ( @xmath63 ) and line of nodes ( @xmath4 ) of circumbinary particles evolve due to perturbations from the binary .",
    "depending on the binary eccentricity and particle inclination , @xmath4 can circulate ( increase or decrease continuously ) or librate ( oscillate about 90 or @xmath64 ) .",
    "particles with low inclinations stay on low inclination orbits , thus sweeping out a roughly disk or torus - like volume over long timescales .",
    "higher inclination particles are subject to nodal libration and large inclination variations , thus sweeping out large parts of a sphere around the binary .",
    "most importantly for 99 her , the orbits of particles with @xmath65 ( or @xmath64 ) and on near polar orbits will not change much due to secular evolution , thus sweeping out a polar ring .    ) and line of nodes ( @xmath4 ) space .",
    "particles begin at dots and move along the curves due to perturbations from the binary .",
    "particles that would appear reflected in the x axis duplicate the spatial distribution so are not shown .",
    "crosses show the current location of particles in the two interpretations of the transient ring model (  [ s : ring ] ) . over time",
    "these particles will sweep out curves similar to particles 4 and 11 .",
    "the long term structure of the transient ring will therefore appear similar to either panel 4 or 11 in figure [ fig : swift ] , depending on which inclination is correct.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    figure [ fig : sec ] shows the secular evolution of 23 particles on initially circular orbits in complex inclination space .",
    "all particles have initial nodes of 90@xmath5 relative to the binary pericenter and inclinations spread evenly between 0 and 180@xmath5 and are integrated for 1gyr ( i.e. there are no other significant effects on such long timescales ) . at 120au ,",
    "the time taken for a particle to complete one cycle of secular evolution ( make a loop in figure [ fig : sec ] ) varies in the range 2 - 7@xmath66 years , with larger loops taking longer .",
    "these times will also scale with particle semi - major axis .",
    "particles 1 - 12 are those with initial inclinations between 0 - 90@xmath5 that are sufficient to describe the range of spatial structures as we can not distinguish between pro / retrograde orbits .",
    "the particles can be split into two groups ; those with low inclinations whose nodes circulate ( 13 ) and those with high inclinations whose nodes librate about 90@xmath5 ( 412 ) .",
    "the dividing line ( separatrix ) between these families for the binary eccentricity of 0.76 is @xmath67 when @xmath68 ( or @xmath64 , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . while particles in the first group have @xmath69 when @xmath68 , their inclinations when @xmath70 ( or @xmath71 ) can be as high as @xmath72",
    "thus , particles near the separatrix will sweep out an entire spherical shell during their secular evolution .",
    "similarly , particles near the separatrix but in the second group also sweep out a spherical shell , though the orbital evolution is different .        to visualise the structures swept out by these families of particles due to secular perturbations , figure [",
    "fig : swift ] shows the resulting debris structures for particles that follow each of the trajectories 1 - 12 from figure [ fig : sec ] ( left to right and down ) .",
    "the structures are oriented as they would be seen on the sky in the 99 her system ( i.e. have the same orientation with respect to the binary orbit shown in figure [ fig : sys ] ) .",
    "each structure was generated by taking the relevant particle at each time step and spawning 1000 additional particles spread randomly around the orbit .",
    "this process was repeated for every time step , thus building up the spatial density of a family of particles that follow a specific curve in figure [ fig : sec ] .",
    "these structures are optically thin , which makes interpreting them somewhat difficult .",
    "we have included a scaled version of the binary orbit from figure [ fig : sys ] in some panels in an attempt to make the orientations clearer .",
    "the first ( top left ) panel shows a circular orbit coplanar with the binary .",
    "the pa is the binary line of nodes , and figure [ fig : copl ] shows why a disk in the plane of the binary is not a satisfactory match to the observations .",
    "the second and third panels are still symmetric about the binary orbital plane , but have a wider range of inclinations and are an even poorer match to the observations .",
    "panel 3 shows that while particle inclinations are restricted for @xmath73 , they can be large for @xmath74 and result in a `` butterfly '' structure when viewed down the binary pericenter direction .",
    "the remaining panels are for particles 4 - 12 , whose nodes librate and for which the plane of symmetry is perpendicular to the binary pericenter direction . in panel 4",
    "the range of nodes and inclinations is so large that a particle sweeps out nearly an entire spherical shell during a cycle of secular evolution ( i.e. the particle is near the separatrix ) .",
    "this range decreases as the initial inclination nears a polar orbit , at which point the orbital elements do not evolve and the resulting structure appears in panel 12 as a simple ring .",
    "the key difference from the ring in panel 1 is that this ring s position angle is perpendicular to the sky projection of the binary pericenter direction , and as noted in ",
    "[ s : basic ] is therefore similar to the observed pa in the pacs images .",
    "secular perturbations from the binary also affect the long term evolution of particle eccentricities and pericenter longitudes .",
    "these effects are taken into account by our @xmath75-body approach .",
    "however , we noticed that the eccentricities imposed ( `` forced '' ) on the particles are lower than would be expected for a lower mass companion .",
    "further @xmath75-body simulations of coplanar particles show that for 99 her with a mass ratio of 0.49 the forced eccentricity at 120au is about 0.03 , but if the mass ratio were 0.05 the forced @xmath76 is 0.1 .",
    "this lack of significant eccentricity forcing is visible by its absence in figure [ fig : swift ] , where the structures would be much broader if there were a large range of particle eccentricities .",
    "for example , if the mass of the secondary in the 99 her system were significantly smaller , the model in panel 1 would become broader and offset from the binary center of mass , resulting in a small pericenter glow effect .",
    "this dependence suggests that a circumbinary disk s structure may help constrain the binary mass ratio in cases where it is uncertain .",
    "however , we can not apply this idea to make a better estimate of the 99 her mass ratio because the pacs observations do not have enough resolution .",
    "in addition , at high inclinations the particle behaviour is more complicated , because polar particles switch between pro and retrograde orbits and do not follow simple circles in complex eccentricity space .",
    "we now use the models from figure [ fig : swift ] to fit the pacs observations .",
    "the model has only seven free parameters ; the particle semi - major axis and initial inclination , the surface area of dust , and the same four ra / dec positions .",
    "the dust temperature is fixed to 49k .",
    "using a semi - major axis of 120au , each panel was compared to the pacs images , setting the surface area in grains for each model to obtain the least residual structure . of these we found that panel 9 was the best fit , shown in figure [ fig : polar ] .",
    "these particles follow near - polar orbits so we call this model a `` polar ring . ''",
    "we find @xmath77 . in terms of @xmath26",
    "the results for panels 8 and 10 are similar , but slightly higher .",
    "the uncertainty in the initial inclination is therefore about 10@xmath5 , and for the semi - major axis about 10au .",
    "this model is much better than the coplanar model of figure [ fig : copl ] , with no overlapping residual structure at 70 and 100@xmath0 m .",
    "the particles likely occupy a wider range of orbits than a single semi - major axis with some non - zero eccentricity , which may account from some minor ( 2@xmath3 ) structure in the residuals at the disk ansae at 70@xmath0 m .",
    "however , given that this model stems directly from the secular evolution , has very few free parameters , and accounts for the structure in all pacs images , we consider it a plausible explanation .",
    "a simple circular ring is a natural model to fit to the observations .",
    "this model has eight free parameters , with the width of the ring fixed at 20au and the opening angle fixed to 5@xmath5 . as expected from the simple analysis in ",
    "[ s : basic ] the position angle of this ring is not aligned with the binary line of nodes , and is therefore misaligned with the binary orbit .",
    "the interpretation depends on the orientation of the best fit . a misaligned ring with polar orbits and the correct line of nodes",
    "would be considered further evidence in favour of the above polar ring model .",
    "a ring with a non - polar orientation will be spread into a broad structure like one of the panels in figure [ fig : swift ] by secular perturbations",
    ". the ring can not be long - lived and could therefore be the aftermath of a recent collision , seen after the collision products have sheared into a ring , but before secular perturbations destroy the ring structure .",
    "thus we call this model a `` transient ring . ''",
    "this model is shown in figure [ fig : ring ] , and is a reasonable match to the pacs observations .",
    "however , the residuals at 70@xmath0 m show that the ring produces a structure that is slightly too elliptical , compared to the more rectangular structure that is observed and reproduced by the polar ring .",
    "this model also has less emission at the stellar position than is observed . for this model @xmath78 .",
    "the disk is inclined 53@xmath5 from face - on and the pa is 81@xmath5 .",
    "the uncertainties are similar to those derived for the gaussian fits in  [ s : basic ] .",
    "the minimum relative inclination between the disk and binary orbital planes is therefore 32 degrees , with a line of nodes with respect to the binary orbit of 139@xmath5",
    ".    however , the inclination between the disk and binary plane could also be 87@xmath5 if the disk were mirrored in the sky plane , which means that the particles have near - polar orbits .",
    "these orbits are nearly the same as panel 12 of figure [ fig : swift ] ( the narrow polar ring ) because the line of nodes with respect to the binary orbit is 276@xmath5 .",
    "these two interpretations correspond to two points in figure [ fig : sec ] , shown as crosses . over time",
    "the particles would spread around to make two more lines similar to those drawn .",
    "the particles in the lower inclination case are close to the separatrix , and would therefore sweep out a near - spherical shell like panel 4 of figure [ fig : swift ] . in this case",
    ", the long term evolution produces structures that have the wrong position angle and are a poor match to the observations .",
    "the higher inclination case is very nearly a polar ring and would look very similar to panel 11 .",
    "such a result is expected because we found above that the polar ring model works well , and argues in favour of the polar - ring interpretation .",
    "we can in fact improve this simple ring model by increasing the total disk opening angle ( i.e. allowing a larger range of inclinations ) , which emulates the range of inclinations that result from the secular evolution .",
    "we find a best fit when the particle inclinations are 25@xmath5 ( total opening angle of 50@xmath5 ) , where @xmath79 .",
    "this model looks very similar to the preferred polar ring model above , but is not generated in the same way , and will therefore change somewhat due to secular perturbations over time because the disk is not perfectly polar .",
    "we strongly favour the polar ring model as the best explanation of the disk structure surrounding 99 her .",
    "the polar ring is stable for the stellar lifetime , and takes the secular dynamics into account .",
    "the transient ring model , where the disk orientation is not fixed , also finds that the disk particles can have polar orbits .",
    "however , because the ring could be mirrored in the sky plane and appear the same , the ring could be misaligned with the binary orbital plane by about 30@xmath5 . based on @xmath26 and the residuals the polar ring is marginally preferable over the transient ring .",
    "however , given that a more realistic model with a range of particle radii and inclinations could improve the fit in each case , we do not assign much importance to the relatively small @xmath26 differences . instead",
    ", we consider several constraints on the collisional evolution that argue against the transient ring interpretation .    by considering the timescales for collisions and secular evolution",
    ", we can estimate the likelihood of observing the products of a collision as a transient ring before it is spread into a broader structure .",
    "based on the observed radius and total cross - sectional area , the collisional lifetime of grains just above the blowout size is about a million years @xcite .",
    "the emission could last much longer if larger objects exist in the size distribution , and the lifetime scales with the maximum size as @xmath80 , so depends on the size of the largest fragment created in the collision .",
    "if the largest fragments are at least 1 mm in size the lifetime is at least 50myr , and we would expect the collisional cascade to be detectable for this length of time . the secular precession timescale is about 0.5myr , and it is reasonable to assume that the ring structure would be erased by secular perturbations within 10 secular timescales .",
    "thus , the collisional products would be observable as a ring for only 5myr .",
    "because the collision time is longer than the secular time , the collision products would spend at most a tenth of their lifetime appearing as a misaligned ring , and the remainder as a broader structure .",
    "that is , assuming such a collision did occur , we have less than a 1:10 chance of observing the collision products as a ring that looks like the _ herschel _ observations .    while 1:10 is not unreasonable , this estimate does not consider the object that must be destroyed to generate the observed dust or the plausibility of a 1 mm maximum size . to produce the observed fractional luminosity , a parent body of at least 600 km in diameter",
    "must be broken into blowout sized grains . with the more realistic assumption that the collision produced a range of grain sizes ,",
    "the parent body must be larger , about 2000 km if grains were as large as the 1 mm assumed above ( assuming @xmath81 ) . under the more realistic assumption of a wide range of fragment sizes , up to 1 km say , the parent body would need to be roughly earth - sized . however , for such large fragments the dust lifetime would be 50gyr and the chance of observing the structure as a ring very unlikely ( 1:10,000 ) .",
    "we can estimate the ability of collisions to smash large objects into small pieces by considering their strength and possible collision velocities .",
    "the specific energy needed for catastrophic disruption , where the largest collision product is half the original mass ( i.e. very large ) , is roughly @xmath82erg / g for objects 2000 km in size @xcite .",
    "the energy needed to disrupt an object so that the collision products are all very small must be larger .",
    "the maximum collision energy possible for circular orbits is for a collision between two equal sized objects on pro and retrograde orbits .",
    "the collision energy assuming such an impact at twice the orbital velocity of a few km / s at 100au is a few @xmath83erg / g .",
    "therefore , only in the most optimistic ( highest velocity ) case is the collision energy sufficient to catastrophically disrupt 2000 km objects . in the even of a disruption",
    ", the lifetime of the collision products will be very long because the largest remnant is about 1000 km in size . in the more realistic case where collision velocities are set by object eccentricities and inclinations , disruption of large objects at large semi - major axes",
    "is even more difficult .",
    "this difficulty , combined with the smaller amount of starlight intercepted at such distances means that single collisions only produce a minor increase over the background level of dust @xcite .",
    "these probability and collision arguments suggest that a single collision is an extremely unlikely explanation for the origin of the observed dust .",
    "the polar ring model does not have these issues .",
    "the secular evolution of particles in the 99 her system means that particles on polar orbits suffer only minor changes in inclination and node ( fig [ fig : sec ] ) .",
    "these orbits are therefore stable over the stellar lifetime so the dust could be the steady state collision products of the polar planetesimal belt .",
    "initial misalignment is therefore the only special requirement for the polar ring model .",
    "the excellent agreement between the pacs data and a simple model generated by particles on these orbits argues strongly in favour of this interpretation .",
    "the question is then shifted to one of the origin of the misalignment .",
    "most binaries are thought to form through fragmentation and subsequent accretion during collapse of a molecular cloud ( for a recent review see * ? ? ?",
    "the resulting binary systems should be aligned with their protoplanetary disks when the separations are of order tens of au @xcite .",
    "given the 16au separation of the 99 her system , it therefore seems that interactions during the subsequent phase of dynamical cluster evolution are a more likely cause of a misaligned disk .",
    "there are several ways that such a configuration could arise from interactions in a young stellar cluster .",
    "a close encounter in which a binary captures some material from the outer regions of a circumstellar disk hosted by another star seems possible .",
    "this `` disk exchange '' scenario requires an encounter where the binary pericenter is perpendicular to the circumstellar disk plane , and that the encounter distance and geometry captures material into orbits similar to those observed for the debris disk ( e.g. most likely a prograde rather than retrograde encounter ) .",
    "an alternative scenario is a stellar exchange reaction , where a binary encounters a single star that harbours a circumstellar disk . during the exchange one of the binary components",
    "is captured by the originally single star , and the other leaves ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the post - encounter configuration is then a binary surrounded by a circumbinary disk .",
    "if the binary pericenter direction were perpendicular to the disk plane it could represent a young analogue of the 99 her system .",
    "such an encounter would require that the disk is not irreparably damaged by large stellar excursions during the exchange @xcite , but may also present a way to clear inner disk regions , thus providing a possible reason that the 99 her disk resides at 120au and not closer , where it could still be stable ( see   [ s : dyn ] ) .",
    "both scenarios require some degree of tuning ; the encounters must happen with specific geometries to produce the observed relative binary and disk orientations .",
    "however , differences in the surface brightness between the different models in figure [ fig : swift ] mean there could be some selection bias towards more disk - like structures .",
    "the advantage of the disk exchange scenario is that the cross section for interaction at a distance of about 100au is much higher than for stellar exchange , which would need to have an encounter distance similar to the binary semi - major axis . with a factor of about ten difference in the encounter impact parameter for each scenario ,",
    "the close encounter is therefore about 100 times more likely than the exchange ( ignoring other constraints on geometry , configuration etc . ) .    in the absence of detailed simulations of encounter outcomes ,",
    "some data exist to help distinguish between these two scenarios .",
    "the minimum inclination of the stellar pole for the 99 her primary relative to the binary orbital plane is @xmath84 @xcite .",
    "the inclination difference is therefore different from the binary plane with 95% confidence , and is a hint that the system may be the result of an exchange .",
    "however , the scatter in inclination differences for binaries with separations similar to that of 99 her is about 20@xmath5 @xcite , which may indicate that systems with this separation are in fact aligned and the uncertainties were underestimated , or that this scatter is the intrinsic level of misalignment at these separations .    though 99 herculis is the first clear case of misalignment between binary and disk planes , the gg tauri system may show a similar signature .",
    "the gg tau system consists of an aa / ab binary surrounded by a circumbinary ring , and a more distant ba / bb pair that may be bound .",
    "it is not clear if the inner binary is misaligned with the circumbinary disk , but is suggested because if they are aligned the ring s inner edge is too distant to be set by the binary .",
    "however , there could also be problems if they are misaligned , because the expected disk scale height due to perturbations from the binary may be inconsistent with observations .",
    "though uncertain , the possible misalignment between the binary and ring planes shows that gg tau could be a young analogue of 99 her - like systems .",
    "we have modelled the resolved circumbinary debris disk in the 99 her system .",
    "this disk is unusual because it appears misaligned with the binary plane .",
    "it can be explained as either an inclined transient ring due to a recent collision , or more likely a ring of polar orbits .",
    "the transient ring is shown to be implausible from collisional arguments . while the inclined ring can not exist on long ( secular ) timescales , the polar ring can .",
    "there appear to be two possible formation scenarios for the polar ring model , which both invoke stellar encounters .",
    "the binary may have captured material from another stars circumstellar disk , or a new binary may have formed in a stellar exchange where one of the systems already contained a circumstellar disk .    while many binary and multiple systems are known to have debris disks , none are resolved and have orbits characterised as well as 99 herculis .",
    "future efforts should characterise this system further to test our interpretation and attempt to find more examples .",
    "a sample of resolved circumbinary disks would test whether disk - binary misalignment is a common outcome of star formation and cluster evolution , with implications for planetary systems around both single and binary stars .",
    "we are grateful to the referee for a thorough reading of the manuscript , especially for noting that previous 99 her visual orbits have the wrong ascending node .",
    "this research has made use of the washington double star catalog maintained at the u.s .",
    "naval observatory , and the swiftvis @xmath75-body visualisation software developed by mark lewis .",
    "we also thank herve beust for use of the hjs code , and paul harvey for comments on a draft of this article .                                                      , d.  w. , kim , s. , trilling , d.  e. , larson , h. , cotera , a. , stapelfeldt , k.  r. , wahhaj , z. , fajardo - acosta , s. , padgett , d. , & backman , d. 2010 , , 710 , l26 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010apj...710l..26k [ ]                          , s. 2010 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "434 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xix , ed .",
    "y.  mizumoto , k .-",
    "morita , & m.  ohishi , 139 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010aspc..434..139o [ ]    , m.  a.  c. & esa , eds .",
    "1997 , esa special publication , vol .",
    "1200 , the hipparcos and tycho catalogues .",
    "astrometric and photometric star catalogues derived from the esa hipparcos space astrometry mission http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1997esasp1200.....p [ ]        , g.  l. , riedinger , j.  r. , passvogel , t. , crone , g. , doyle , d. , gageur , u. , heras , a.  m. , jewell , c. , metcalfe , l. , ott , s. , & schmidt , m. 2010 , , 518 , l1 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010a&a...518l...1p [ ]            , m. , prieur , j .- l . , pansecchi , l. , argyle , r.  w. , sala , m. , basso , s. , ghigo , m. , koechlin , l. , & aristidi , e. 2008 , astronomische nachrichten , 329 , 54 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2008an....329...54s [ ]          , d.  e. , stansberry , j.  a. , stapelfeldt , k.  r. , rieke , g.  h. , su , k.  y.  l. , gray , r.  o. , corbally , c.  j. , bryden , g. , chen , c.  h. , boden , a. , & beichman , c.  a. 2007 , , 658 , 1289 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2007apj...658.1289t [ ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present resolved _ </S>",
    "<S> herschel _ images of a circumbinary debris disk in the 99 herculis system . </S>",
    "<S> the primary is a late f - type star . </S>",
    "<S> the binary orbit is well characterised and we conclude that the disk is misaligned with the binary plane . </S>",
    "<S> two different models can explain the observed structure . </S>",
    "<S> the first model is a ring of polar orbits that move in a plane perpendicular to the binary pericenter direction . </S>",
    "<S> we favour this interpretation because it includes the effect of secular perturbations and the disk can survive for gyr timescales . </S>",
    "<S> the second model is a misaligned ring . </S>",
    "<S> because there is an ambiguity in the orientation of the ring , which could be reflected in the sky plane , this ring either has near - polar orbits similar to the first model , or has a 30 degree misalignment . </S>",
    "<S> the misaligned ring , interpreted as the result of a recent collision , is shown to be implausible from constraints on the collisional and dynamical evolution . because disk+star systems with separations similar to 99 herculis should form coplanar , possible formation scenarios involve either a close stellar encounter or binary exchange in the presence of circumstellar and/or circumbinary disks . </S>",
    "<S> discovery and characterisation of systems like 99 herculis will help understand processes that result in planetary system misalignment around both single and multiple stars .    circumstellar matter  stars : individual : 99 herculis , hd 165908 , hip 88745 , gj704ab </S>"
  ]
}