{
  "article_text": [
    "proteins are important building blocks of life .",
    "they have multiple properties due to the interplay of their four structural levels : primary ( sequence of aminoacids ) , secondary ( alpha helices , beta sheets , etc . ) tertiary ( arrangements of secondary structures in space ) and quaternary ( self assembly of supramolecular structures ) .",
    "the primary structure is fixed by covalent bonds and is therefore very stable .",
    "the other levels of order are governed by much weaker interactions ( hydrogen bonds , dipolar interactions , etc . ) and are therefore sensitive to changes in the environment such as temperature , ph , etc .",
    "understanding the formation of these structures is an important step in the understanding of their overall properties .",
    "moreover it is strongly suspected that misfoldings are responsible for serious diseases @xcite.we focus here on the formation of alpha helices from random coils in a much simplified system : the poly(l - glutamic acid ) ( pga ) .",
    "the helical parts are optically active and their population can be easily and accurately measured by circular dichroism .",
    "this transition is usually analysed in terms of a theory due to zimm and bragg @xcite ( or variants thereof @xcite ) . in this theory",
    "an elementary segment of the chain can exist in two states : either as as disordered chain or as a loop .",
    "a free energy difference between these states comprises energy and entropy terms :    @xmath0    where @xmath1 and @xmath2 can be considered as independent of the temperature in a first approach .",
    "( a more complete description @xcite introduced a linear temperature variation in @xmath1 and a logarithmic one in @xmath2 .",
    "the non linearity in the log function in the range from 280k to 370k is too small to be seen so that the equation applies with a different meaning of e and s ) .",
    "we choose the energy unit such that @xmath3 . in the absence of other interactions , the relative ratio of states",
    "would be given by a boltzmann factor @xmath4 .",
    "in addition , zimm and bragg introduced an interaction between neighbouring elements which facilitates the formation of a new loop beside an existing one and therefore the transition of the whole chain .",
    "the problem is therefore similar to the 1d ising model and can be solved .",
    "many sets of data have been analysed using this model @xcite and significant cooperation parameters determined even though a glance at the figures shows a rather poor fit to the data .",
    "a new set of measurements using solutions with added polyethyleneglycol ( peg ) and at ph=3.75 have been performed using state - of - the - art equipment @xcite and will be the basis of our analysis .",
    "the results are plotted in figure 1 .    without peg ,",
    "the transition occurs at low temperature and only a part of it can be studied .",
    "the addition of peg shifts the transition to higher temperatures but modifies the system .",
    "the figure suggests however that these modifications do not change qualitatively the basic mechanism .",
    "a more clear picture can be obtained by plotting the data in a different way : eq1 can be rewritten as : @xmath5=\\delta e / t - \\delta s\\ ] ]    where @xmath6 is the fraction of helices . in the absence of cooperativity a plot of @xmath7 vs @xmath8 would be a straight line and strong cooperativity would lead to a sigmoidal shape .",
    "computing the helical fraction is , however , not straightforward because it requires the knowledge of the asymptotic values reached by the curves of fig 1 at high and low temperature , corresponding to fractions of helices of 0% and 100% .",
    "these are the optical properties of given molecular conformations and should not vary appreciably with temperature .",
    "the high temperature limit can be safely assessed for the data with 0% and 5% of peg .",
    "a value of @xmath9 has been published @xcite for the helix maximum contribution ( difference between the upper and lower asymptotes ) .",
    "we allowed for a variation of a few degrees of each of these values to get the most consistent pattern .    , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 and @xmath14 peg .",
    "red lines are fits using the 3state non - cooperative model . ]",
    "we notice first that all the curves of fig 2 have a similar shape : two linear parts at low and high temperature matched by a smooth crossover .",
    "obviously the data can not be fitted by any of the shapes predicted by the theory of zimm and bragg .",
    "however , the presence of two straight asymptotes hints to the occurence of two transition free energies implying three thermodynamic states .",
    "the fraction of helices , in the absence of cooperativity , is easily computed from boltzmann factors : @xmath15 or @xmath16 taking the coil state as the reference one .",
    "( the curvature of the lines implies that only one state is optically active . )    each curve can be fit very accurately using 6 independent parameters .",
    "the values found for the limiting values and the energies are reasonable .",
    "however , many of these values can not be considered as precisely determined . the high helicity side of the peg poor samples and the low helicity side of the peg rich samples are not sufficiently present in the experimentally accessible range .",
    "moreover a slight change in a limit value leads to a change in the corresponding energy without altering significantly the quality of the fit . among the many possible ways of constraining the fit , we choosed to explore a possibility suggested by the figures namely constant energies ( slopes ) for all concentrations .",
    "the trial energies are taken from the best fit of the ` best balanced ' curve at 10% peg .",
    "they are @xmath17 and @xmath18 or @xmath19 and @xmath20 the fit of the experimental data with this formula can be considered as quite satisfactory for all the samples including peg as can be seen in fig 1 and fig 2 . the data without peg",
    "however did exhibit a systematic deviation and a different set of values of energies had to be found .",
    "the values are @xmath21 and @xmath22 or @xmath23 and @xmath24 .",
    "this fit is the one plotted in fig 1 and fig 2 .",
    "this ` constant energy ' constraint is only a heuristic and fits with constant entropies and adjustable energies are as good .",
    "the results of a similar study have been published a few years ago@xcite .",
    "the main difference is that its authors used short peg chains while koutsioubas et al .",
    "@xcite use long peg chains .",
    "these data ( picked from the published figure ) can be plotted using the same process ( figure 3 ) .",
    "a look at figure 3 reveals similarities and differences .",
    "first the pattern of two transitions matched by a crossover is kept , but the third state is much less conspicuous .",
    "we shall therefore not try to perform any quantitative analysis for this state .",
    "the energy difference between the coil and helix states ( slope of the data at small 1/t ) is equal to that observed for long chains .",
    "a striking feature is that the addition of some short peg has always a roughly constant effect , while the shift of the data due to adding long peg clearly levels - off . to illustrate this point",
    "we have plotted the temperature @xmath25 vs. the fraction of peg for all the curves ( figure 5 ) .",
    "the data can not be compared one to one because of the different ph but the trend of the curves seems significant .",
    "the idea is that a peptide can interact with more and more small molecules when the concentration of these molecules is increased , while the excluded volume effects prevent this for macromolecules .",
    "this shift has therefore probably an entropic origin . a mechanism related to osmotic stress , as suggested by stanley and strey @xcite should depend on the concentration of peg but not on the length of the chains .",
    "at which the ratio @xmath26 vs peg concentration .",
    "blue squares : long peg chains , red triangles : short peg chains ]",
    "the presence of a third state betweem coil and helix should not be too surprising .",
    "indeed the amino acids involved are very prone to interacting with each other leading to different structures . a hairpin structure , precursor of a beta sheet ,",
    "could be a likely hypothesis .",
    "a similar study with different lengths of another peptide molecules ( aeaaka ) has been published @xcite .",
    "our analysis of the data from the published figures shows that the third state is not visible for the shortest chains ( up to 26 residues ) but seems to appear for the longer ones ( 32 or more residues ) .",
    "this clearly favors a third state induced by a self interaction of the chains .",
    "the characterisation of the third state by neutron or x - ray scattering can be envisionned but the simultaneous presence of several conformations would make the unraveling of the spectra difficult . a x - ray study by muroga et al @xciteconcluded that the observed data did not fit with what was expected for a coil when a coil was expected .",
    "indeed the observed spectra decrease more slowly than expected at large wavevector indicating a more compact state of the scattering objects .",
    "a study of the dynamics of the helix - coil transition for pga also concluded that this process was not a two - state process.@xcite",
    "the first conclusion of this study is that the sharpening of the transition due to first neighbour interaction as predicted by zimm and bragg @xcite is nowhere seen .",
    "instead the consideration of three states in mere chemical equilibrium describes accurately the data .",
    "the nature of the third state , which may have a significant importance in health related problems remains to be investigated as well as the exact interaction of pga with peg .",
    "the evidence of excluded volume effects indicates a direct interaction .",
    "circular dichroism measurements for peg concentrations between @xmath27 and @xmath10 could be useful for this purpose .",
    "99 chiti f. and dobson c. m. annu .",
    "75 , 333 ( 2006 ) zimm b. h. and bragg j. k. j.chem .",
    "phys 31 , 526 ( 1959 ) grosberg a. and khokhlov a. , statistical physics of macromolecules ( aip press , new york ) 1994 .",
    "lifson s. and roig a. j. chem . phys . 34,1963 ( 1961 )",
    "farago o. and pincus p. eur .",
    "phys j. e 8 , 393 , 2002 ghosh k. and dill k. a. j. am .",
    "131 , 2306 ( 2009 ) muoz v. and serrano l. j. mol .",
    "245 , 297 ( 1995 ) scholtz j. m. , qian h.,york e. j. stewart j. m. and baldwin r. l. biopolymers 31 , 1463 ( 1991 ) baldwin r. l. biophysical chemistry 55 127(1995 ) 4427 .",
    "stanley c. b. and strey h. h. , biophys .",
    "j. , 94,4427 ( 2008 ) koutsioubas a. , lairez d. , combet s. , fadda g. , longeville s. and zalczer g. arxiv.org/abs/1112.4676    su j. , hodges r. and kay c. , biochemistry , 33 ( 1994 ) 15501 .",
    "muroga y. , tagawa h. , hiragi y. , ueki t. , kataoka m. , izumi y. and amemiya y. macromolecules 21 , 2756 ( 1988 ) sharma s. thesis , university of liverpool , uk ( 2006 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a careful analysis of measurements of circular dichroism of poly(l - glutamic acid ) ( pga ) shows that the data can be very accurately described by introducing a third state for the pga configuration , in addition to the helix and coil ones , and considering a simple equilibrium between these three states , without cooperativity . </S>",
    "<S> the third state is more conspicuous when high molecular weight polyethyleneglycol ( peg ) is added . </S>",
    "<S> excluded volume effects shown by differences in presence of short and long peg chains indicate a direct interaction of peg and pga rather than an osmotic effect . </S>"
  ]
}