{
  "article_text": [
    "following the discovery of solar oscillations in the 1960s @xcite , there has been a multitude of observational evidence brought forward verifying the existence of wave motion in the solar atmosphere @xcite . in more recent years",
    ", the role of these oscillations is often closely linked to the search for efficient heating mechanisms of the upper solar atmosphere ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "wave phenomena in the lower solar atmosphere ( photosphere and chromosphere ) can exist in a variety of different structures , and importantly exhibit various modes of oscillation @xcite .",
    "magneto - acoustic , alfvn , sausage , and kink modes have recently been observed in a wide range of solar features @xcite .",
    "importantly , however , is the fact that the majority of these wave phenomena exist in structures which are highly magnetic in nature , such as active regions , pores , and magnetic bright points ( mbps ) .",
    "indeed , @xcite found photospheric oscillations to preferentially exist in intrinsically magnetic intergranular lanes . in the sun s atmosphere ,",
    "magnetic field lines clump into tight bundles forming highly - structured wave guides , which allow oscillatory motion to be readily channelled along these structures @xcite . at any one time",
    "it is estimated that up to 2.2% of the entire solar surface is covered by mbps @xcite , and with their intrinsic magnetic field strengths exceeding one kilogauss @xcite , they may provide the basis of a suitable mechanism for efficient energy transport into the higher layers of the sun s atmosphere .    acoustic events occurring in the lower solar atmosphere are often closely examined in an attempt to determine the mechanisms behind , and the energy fluxes associate with , such wave phenomena . @xcite utilised high - resolution ground - based observations to investigate the relation between upwardly propagating acoustic waves and co - spatial chromospheric brightenings , while @xcite suggested how acoustic modes may be excited stochastically by non - adiabatic fluctuations in the gas pressure near the solar surface .",
    "highly energetic acoustic waves have been detected by @xcite using spectropolarimetric data taken with the imax / sunrise balloon experiment , with energy fluxes exceeding 7000  wm@xmath1 in the low photosphere .",
    "contrarily , @xcite and @xcite examined the presence of acoustic oscillations in the solar chromosphere , and concluded that the energy flux of these waves was not sufficiently high to constitute the dominant atmospheric heating mechanism .",
    "however , due to telemetry restrictions , the use of data obtained from space - based instrumentation limited their search to oscillations with periods longer than 25  s. this may have resulted in a considerable fraction of energy , at short periods ( @xmath210  s ) , being overlooked @xcite .",
    "moreover , the contribution functions associated with the filter bandpasses used by @xcite and @xcite are very extended , and must therefore be taken into further consideration @xcite .",
    "thus , the direct role of acoustic waves in the heating of the solar atmosphere remains uncertain @xcite . to understand the presence of wave phenomena in the sun s outer atmosphere ,",
    "it is imperative to study the photospheric counterpart of these oscillations , and establish how ubiquitous these fundamental waves are in the lower solar atmosphere . in this paper",
    ", we utilise a high cadence multi - wavelength data set to investigate propagating wave phenomena detected in observations and simulations of the lower solar atmosphere .",
    "the observational data presented here are part of a sequence obtained during 13:46  14:47  ut on 2009 may 28 , with the dunn solar telescope at sacramento peak , new mexico .",
    "we employ the rapid oscillations in the solar atmosphere ( rosa ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) six - camera system to image a @xmath3 region positioned at solar disk center .",
    "a spatial sampling of @xmath4 per pixel was used for the rosa cameras , to match the telescope s diffraction - limited resolution in the blue continuum to that of the ccd .",
    "this results in images obtained at longer wavelengths being slightly oversampled .",
    "however , this was deemed desirable to keep the dimensions of the field - of - view the same for all rosa cameras .    during the observations ,",
    "high - order adaptive optics @xcite were used to correct wavefront deformations in real - time .",
    "the acquired images were further improved through use of the kisip speckle reconstruction algorithm @xcite , utilising @xmath5 restorations . combining consistently excellent atmospheric seeing conditions with speckle image reconstruction , a 2-pixel diffraction - limited resolution of @xmath6100  km",
    "is achieved for both g - band and 4170 blue continuum imaging . for the purposes of this paper ,",
    "only observations acquired through the photospheric g - band and 4170 blue continuum filters will be presented , each with a post - reconstruction cadence of 0.528  s. the g - band and 4170 blue continuum filters have central wavelengths of 4305.5 and 4170.0 , in addition to full - width half - maximums of 9.2 and 52.0 , respectively . to insure accurate coalignment in all bandpasses ,",
    "broadband time series were fourier co - registered and de - stretched using a @xmath7 grid , equating to a @xmath61.7@xmath8 separation between spatial samples @xcite .",
    "we utilise the muram @xcite radiative magneto - hydrodynamic ( mhd ) code to investigate whether well - understood magnetoconvection processes can produce comparable phenomena to those detected in our observational time series .",
    "this code solves large - eddy radiative three - dimensional mhd equations on a cartesian grid , and employs a fourth - order runge - kutta scheme to advance the numerical solution in time .",
    "the numerical domain has a physical size of @xmath9  mm@xmath10 in the horizontal direction , 1.4  mm in the vertical direction , and is resolved by @xmath11 grid cells , respectively .",
    "our starting point for the simulations is a well - developed non - magnetic ( @xmath12 ) snapshot of photospheric convection taken approximately 2000  s ( about 8 convective turnover timescales ) from the initial plane - parallel model .",
    "a uniform vertical magnetic field of 200  g was introduced at this stage , and a sequence of 872 snapshots recorded , each separated by a time interval of @xmath22  s. the resulting sequence , which is used for further radiative diagnostics , covers approximately 30  min of physical time , corresponding to @xmath24  6 granular lifetimes .",
    "full details of the simulation parameters and domain characteristics can be found in @xcite .",
    "the broadband filters used in the optical observations allow us to neglect the effects of line - of - sight velocities and magnetic fields in the radiative diagnostics . due to",
    "a lack of detailed information on absorption line profiles contained within the filter bandpasses , precise computation of the wavelength dependence of emergent intensity within each filter is not necessary .",
    "thus a simplified and computationally efficient approach of calculating the transmitted filter intensities is used .",
    "the methodology , similar to that used by @xcite , is based on the atlas9 spectral synthesis package of @xcite .",
    "continuum and line opacity tables were calculated for a realistic solar chemical composition , incorporating a microturbulent velocity , @xmath13  kms@xmath14 , and subsequently extracted from the atlas9 package using the subset codes xnfdf and dfsynthe .",
    "this procedure takes into account absorption by diatomic ch molecules . to avoid some of the problems highlighted by @xcite , the line opacity wavelength grid between 4290  4400   was made denser , and centered at the wavelength of the g - band filter transmission maximum .",
    "the delo solver @xcite was used to numerically integrate the corresponding radiative transport equations for all @xmath15 vertical rays of the 872 photospheric snapshots , allowing the computation of the intensity spectra within the 4170 and g - band filter bandpasses .",
    "calculated spectra were then convolved with the g - band and 4170 filter transmission functions to obtain a true intensity time series , which is directly comparable with our observational data .",
    "a more in - depth discussion of the methodology outlined here can be found in @xcite .",
    "a natural feature of the numerical simulation is the ability to determine wavelength - dependent contribution functions of emergent radiation for the filter bandpasses which reside within its 1.4  mm vertical domain .",
    "using previously obtained continuum intensities , as well as continuum and line band absorption coefficients , we determined the corresponding continuum and `` band depression '' ( defined as @xmath16 , where @xmath17 and @xmath18 are the emergent and continuum intensities , respectively ) contribution functions for our observational g - band ( 4305.5 central wavelength , 9.2 bandpass ) and 4170 continuum ( 4170.0 central wavelength , 52.0 bandpass ) filters .",
    "the band depression contribution functions were calculated from the rosseland means of the continuum and line absorption coefficients , and based on the definition provided by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "overall , the sun was very quiet on 2009 may 28 , with no active regions , pores or large - scale magnetic activity present on disk .",
    "however , our rosa field - of - view , positioned at the center of the solar disk , contained numerous collections of mbps , providing an ideal opportunity to examine these kilogauss structures without the line - of - sight effects associated with off disc - center observations .",
    "figure  [ fig1 ] shows simultaneous g - band and 4170 continuum snapshots , revealing a wealth of mbps , which are particularly visible as intensity enhancements in the g - band filtergram .",
    "following speckle image reconstruction , and to assist identification of inherently bright and dim structures , each of the g - band and 4170 continuum images were normalised to their mean . to examine the throughput of each filter ,",
    "an intensity histogram was created by binning pixel intensities into intervals of 0.05 normalised units .",
    "the upper panels of figure  [ fig2 ] plot histograms of the number of pixels ( as a percentage of the total number of pixels ) versus normalised intensity , summed over the entire 61 minute duration of the data set ( in excess of @xmath19 individual pixels ) .",
    "it is clear from the upper - left panel of figure  [ fig2 ] that the g - band mean is close to its modal value .",
    "however , for the 4170 continuum observations , the modal value of the images lies below the filter average , suggesting a degree of positive skew in the transmitted intensities .",
    "a measurement of the skewness can be determined through the calculation of fisher and pearson coefficients of skewness , given by , @xmath20 @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the pixel intensity , @xmath23 is the mean , and @xmath24 is the median , calculated over @xmath25 independent measurements . while a symmetric distribution will yield a skewness coefficient equal to zero , fisher and pearson statistics for the 4170 continuum image sequence yield skewness coefficients of 0.39 and 0.36 , respectively .",
    "a potential weakness of the fisher coefficient is its sensitivity to anomalous measurements occurring at the extreme ends of the intensity scale .",
    "however , consistency with the more robust pearson coefficient indicates the presence of a well defined , and positively skewed , 4170 continuum transmission profile .    through examination of figure  [ fig1 ] ,",
    "it is clear that mbps do not exhibit the same large contrast in 4170 continuum images that they do in simultaneous g - band snapshots .",
    "this can also be verified from the upper - right panel of figure  [ fig2 ] , where the occurrence of 4170 continuum intensities falls to zero beyond 1.7 times the mean , compared with g - band intensities often exceeding twice the image mean .",
    "interestingly , an intensity histogram of isolated mbp structures ( lower - left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) reveals that the most commonly occurring mbp intensity is identical ( @xmath61.1 times the image mean ) in both bandpasses .",
    "however , an extended high - intensity tail is pronounced in the g - band mbp histogram , resulting in a high feature contrast for these structures .",
    "this elevated contrast is due to its continuum formation level being depressed into deeper ( and hotter ) layers of the photosphere , where stronger magnetic fields and reduced ch abundances exist .",
    "an extended upper intensity range , and subsequently high feature contrast , of g - band mbp observations makes them ideal for the detection and tracking of such highly magnetic structures . as a result",
    ", we applied the mbp detection and tracking algorithms of @xcite and @xcite to create binary maps for each of the g - band images .",
    "these binary images are used to pinpoint the exact locations within our field - of - view where mbps exist , thus allowing their intensity fluctuations to be precisely examined as a function of time .    to investigate whether a shift of mbp intensities to lower values directly contributes to the positive skewness observed in the 4170 continuum transmission profile , the mbp binary maps were utilised to mask out locations containing these small - scale structures .",
    "the lower - right panel of figure  [ fig2 ] displays the resulting intensity histogram for non - mbp areas .",
    "it is clear that the extended g - band high - intensity tail is no longer present , in addition to a substantially reduced profile width near the 4170 continuum maximum .",
    "determination of the fisher and pearson statistics for the 4170 continuum image sequence containing no mbps yield skewness coefficients of 0.20 and 0.18 , respectively .",
    "these values are significantly reduced from those derived from the entire field - of - view , indicating that the lower mbp intensities found in 4170 continuum observations directly contributes to the positive skew found in the transmission profile .      following the methodology of @xcite ,",
    "the wavelet analysis routines of @xcite were applied to both the g - band and 4170 continuum time series to search for the presence of oscillatory behaviour .",
    "considerable oscillatory power , in both bandpasses , was present throughout the entire field - of - view , with enhanced concentrations at the locations of mbps . due to the image plate scales and camera dimensions being identical for g - band and 4170 continuum data , no further co - alignment or de - stretching between data sets was required to provide accurate structural alignment .",
    "this can be verified visually through the examination of figure  [ fig1 ] .",
    "subsequently , to test the propagation of oscillatory phenomena between the two filters , coherence and phase information between simultaneous g - band and 4170 continuum pixels were extracted .",
    "the resulting data array contained oscillation period ( 1.056 \\{nyquist } @xmath26 1830  seconds ) , power as a percentage above the background , coherence ( 0.0 for incoherent waves @xmath26 1.0 for coherent oscillations ) , and phase angle ( @xmath27 ) for each of the @xmath28 imaging pixels . following this nomenclature ,",
    "a negative phase angle can be interpreted as an oscillation observed in the 4170 continuum leading one also detected in the g - band .",
    "a time - averaged g - band image is shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig3 ] , contoured , in the middle panel , with the locations of propagating ( i.e. a non - zero phase shift ) waves .",
    "approximately 1% of the observational field - of - view contains propagating waves , with a preferential existence of these oscillations in locations of increased magnetic field strength , such as mbps ( right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) .    to evaluate whether a preferential phase angle existed between g - band and 4170 continuum oscillations , an occurrence plot , as a function of period and phase angle ,",
    "was generated for all periodicities which displayed coherence values above 0.85 . to differentiate between oscillations occurring in mbp structures from those occurring in the intergranular lanes ,",
    "the mbp binary maps created above were utilised . by multiplying through each period , power , coherence , and phase angle value by the corresponding pixel binary , an occurrence plot based on where the oscillation was generated can be displayed .",
    "the upper panels of figure  [ fig4 ] show the occurrence distributions for oscillations generated in both mbp and non - mbp regions .",
    "it is clear that a negative phase shift exists in both panels , with peak occurrences at a phase angle of @xmath0 .",
    "positive phase angles do exist , suggesting g - band oscillations lead their 4170 continuum counterparts in these instances .",
    "however , a clear majority of detections ( 73% for mbp structures and",
    "71% for non - mbp regions ) exhibit negative phase shifts , implying a preference for 4170 continuum oscillations to lead their g - band counterparts .",
    "a non - zero phase shift between the detected oscillations suggests that the observed wave phenomena are generated at distinctly different heights in the solar atmosphere , and implies the presence of propagating waves .",
    "previous observational and theoretical studies of propagating wave phenomena have indicated their potential for transporting energy away from the solar surface , and into higher atmospheric layers ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the simulated g - band and 4170 continuum time series , first interpolated on to a constant - cadence grid , were subjected to the same rigorous wavelet and mbp detection routines as described above . following the evaluation of period , power , coherence , and phase angle between the simulated data , we are able to create a simulation - specific occurrence plot as a function of period and phase angle , as for the observational data .",
    "the middle panels of figure  [ fig4 ] show the occurrence distributions for oscillations generated in simulated mbp ( left ) and non - mbp ( right ) regions . as with the observational time series ( upper panels of fig .  [ fig4 ] )",
    ", it is clear that a negative phase shift appears preferential .",
    "the peak occurrences are consistent with the observational data , at a phase angle of @xmath29 . in the simulated occurrence plot",
    ", 96% of mbp structures display a negative phase shift , compared with 95% for non - mbp regions . also of interest",
    "is the number of pixels undergoing oscillations in both the observational and simulated time series . incorporating both mbp and non - mbp oscillations , a total of @xmath30 observational pixels ( 0.8% of the @xmath31 total pixels )",
    "are observed to oscillate , compared with @xmath32 simulated pixels ( 8.1% of the @xmath33 total pixels )",
    ". the higher occurrence rate of oscillations in the simulated data is most likely a result of the noise - free time series .",
    "detector dark current , readout noise , and processing abnormalities will reduce the coherence levels of oscillations detected in our observational dataset , and thus place them below our strict 0.85 threshold . also noticeable in the middle panels of figure  [ fig4 ]",
    "is the reduced spread of phase angles for the simulated occurrence plots . to investigate whether this is a direct consequence of the noise - free time series ,",
    "noise consistent with the observational dataset was added , and the occurrence plots recreated .",
    "the acquired dataset has a combined photon and read noise of @xmath21% with respect to the observational count rates .",
    "the resulting image signal - to - noise ratio , @xmath34 , can be calculated as @xmath35 , where @xmath36 is the signal mean and @xmath37 is the standard deviation of the noise @xcite .",
    "a signal mean of @xmath65000 counts , combined with a dark frame standard deviation count of @xmath619 , provides an observational @xmath38 .",
    "the addition of 1% noise to the simulated dataset did not modify the occurrence plots by a significant margin .",
    "however , when the noise level was increased to 5% , the peak occurrence phase angle and oscillation period remained consistent with the noise - free time series , but with a significantly larger spread of phase angles ( lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ) .",
    "a noise level of 5% provides a simulated @xmath39 , still well above the rose threshold for feature disambiguation @xcite .",
    "thus , simulated features remain well defined following the addition of 5% noise , yet display a marked increase in the spread of recovered phase angles between the two filter bandpasses . under these conditions ,",
    "80% of mbp structures display a negative phase shift , compared with 79% for non - mbp regions , indicating a closer resemblance to the observational time series .",
    "again , these results imply that , even in the simulated domain , there is a preference for 4170 continuum oscillations to lead their g - band counterparts .",
    "an important point to raise is how these oscillations are generated .",
    "often , oscillations are produced in simulated time series through the addition of an input driver ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , in this instance , no specific driver has been added to our time series .",
    "this implies that longitudinal oscillations readily arise as a natural consequence of convective motions , and their interaction with the magnetic field in the solar photosphere ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "such oscillations have been studied observationally by @xcite , who suggested these signatures are the result of events occurring just beneath the photosphere , which subsequently convert into atmospheric longitudinal oscillations .",
    "theoretical approaches ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have indicated that transient acoustic waves are excited at the top of the convective zone , and immediately above convective overshoot regions .",
    "thus , the detection of an abundant array of frequencies over a range of photospheric structures , including mbps and intergranular lanes , coupled with the rapid development of these oscillatory phenomena , further indicates how the ubiquity of oscillations may be traced back to magnetoconvective processes occurring throughout the solar photosphere .",
    "the contribution functions for our g - band and 4170 continuum filters are displayed in figure  [ fig5 ] , for both mbp and granular structures , in addition to an average of the entire field - of - view .",
    "our numerical domain is positioned in such a way that the visible solar surface , roughly defined as the horizontal geometrical layer which is physically close to the optical layer of radiation formation , is located approximately 600  km below the upper boundary ( i.e. at a domain height of 800  km ; * ? ? ?",
    "initially , a peak subtraction method was utilised to estimate the height separation between the two filter bandpasses .",
    "this process involved establishing the height at which the 4170 continuum exhibited its largest contribution , and subtracting this from the simultaneous ( and co - spatial ) peak contribution height for the g - band filter .",
    "this always resulted in positive distances , ranging from approximately 0  km at the center of granules , to over 200  km in some intergranular lanes and mbps ( upper - right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] ) .",
    "however , from figure  [ fig5 ] , it is clear that the contribution functions for both g - band and 4170 continuum filters are considerably asymmetric .",
    "a prolonged tail , present in the g - band contribution functions , suggests that more emphasis should be placed on these extended heights , in order to accurately represent potential height separations .",
    "thus , a center - of - gravity ( cog ) method was chosen to provide a more robust calculation of the distance between the two filter bandpasses .",
    "for each bandpass , the cog was calculated from the corresponding contribution function ( cf ) using , @xmath40 where @xmath41 represents individual measurements along the simulation s vertical domain , up to a maximum height , @xmath42 , corresponding to 1.4  mm .",
    "the cog measurement for the 4170 continuum bandpass was then subtracted from the simultaneous ( and co - spatial ) cog value derived for the g - band filter . under this regime ,",
    "all estimated distances were again positive",
    ". however , now a minimum height separation of approximately 60  km exists , even for contribution functions acquired at the center of granular cells , where the previous method estimated a 0  km separation .",
    "this is a direct result of the inclusion of the extended g - band contribution tail seen in figure  [ fig5 ] .",
    "the upper - left panel of figure  [ fig6 ] displays a 2-dimensional representation of the estimated atmospheric height separation between g - band and 4170 continuum filter bandpasses using the cog method .",
    "interestingly , this approach does not provide the same maximum separation distance as found in the peak subtraction method . using the cog approach , a maximum separation of approximately 170  km",
    "was found for some intergranular lanes and mbp structures , compared to a distance of nearly 220  km using the peak separation method .",
    "nevertheless , the two methods provide similar conclusions , whereby the g - band is formed above the 4170 continuum , particularly in regions where strong magnetic field concentrations are expected , such as intergranular lanes and mbps . in these locations , an average height separation of @xmath655  km and @xmath683  km",
    "is found for the peak subtraction and cog methods , respectively .",
    "furthermore , it is interesting to see how , in the locations of mbps , the peaks of the g - band and 4170 continuum contribution functions lie below the layer corresponding to the visible solar surface .",
    "this is consistent with the detailed models of @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , who describe how the creation of mbps is a result of the tenuous interplay between hot photospheric plasma and evacuated magnetic flux tubes .",
    "the formation height for each filter bandpass can also be estimated by applying these techniques to the averaged field - of - view contribution functions . using the peak subtraction method , a formation height of @xmath285  km and @xmath240  km above the visible surface ( located at @xmath2800  km in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] ) is found for g - band and 4170 continuum filters , respectively .",
    "when the cog method is utilised , the formation heights of g - band and 4170 continuum bandpasses becomes modified slightly to @xmath2100  km and @xmath225  km , respectively .",
    "it must be noted that these are lower limits of the height of formation .",
    "molecular and atomic line absorption profiles , which exist in the filter s spectral bandpasses , will contribute to the overall radiation absorption , thus shifting the total ( continuum @xmath43 line ) contribution functions .",
    "as a result , this will push radiation formation ranges upwards towards the cooler regions of the solar photosphere . consequently , while the g - band will continue to be formed above the 4170 continuum , the exact formation heights will be based on the lower limits established above .",
    "this has important consequences for the phase angles determined between simultaneous g - band and 4170 continuum oscillations .",
    "since the height separation between the 4170 continuum and the g - band is always positive , a negative phase shift can be attributed to an upwardly propagating wave , such as those studied numerically by @xcite .",
    "conversely , a positive phase shift will suggest the presence of a downwardly propagating wave , with a potential explanation incorporating aspects of wave reflection .",
    "however , the discrepancy between the amount of reflected waves in the observational ( @xmath228% with positive phase angles ) and simulated ( @xmath25% with positive phase angles ) time series may be related to the upper boundary conditions applied to the numerical simulations , in addition to noise aspects discussed above .",
    "the simulated upper boundary is at least partially reflective , but rigidly corresponds to a constant height in the photosphere .",
    "contrarily , in the real sun , this reflective layer can vary as a function of time and spatial position , potentially leading to a broader scatter of phase differences for the reflected wave .      while it is clear from figure  [ fig4 ] that a spread of oscillation frequencies is present in the data",
    ", it is important to investigate how individual photospheric structures affect the detected frequency . following the procedures detailed in @xcite , power spectra for the g - band and 4170 continuum observations and simulations",
    "are shown as a function of oscillation frequency and spatial wavenumber in the upper panels of figures  [ fig7 ] & [ fig8 ] , respectively . in each spectra",
    ", the majority of oscillatory power is associated with low frequencies and large spatial scales , consistent with solar p - mode oscillations @xcite .",
    "these lower - left portions of the observational and simulated spectra reveal power approaching six and ten orders of magnitude above the quiescent background , respectively , highlighting the considerable power associated with these waves . moving to smaller spatial scales ( i.e. higher wavenumbers ) , it is clear that higher oscillation frequencies tend to be associated with these structures .",
    "this effect is particularly pronounced in the upper panels of figure  [ fig7 ] , where a diagonal band of high oscillatory power is seen to stretch diagonally away from the lower - left corner of the power spectra .",
    "this can be verified in figure  [ fig4 ] , where oscillations down to @xmath6110  s can be detected in small - scale mbp structures , compared to a @xmath6160  s lower limit on typically larger , non - mbp regions .",
    "it is interesting to note that almost no oscillations with periodicities below 100  s are detected simultaneously in the g - band and 4170 continuum datasets .",
    "this applies to both the observational and simulated data , but may be related to the broad filter widths used .",
    "recently , @xcite detected upwardly propagating waves in the lower solar atmosphere with periodicities as short as 70  s. the authors utilised 2-d spectral imaging techniques to obtain a time series with an extremely narrow equivalent bandpass ( @xmath618  m ) .",
    "contrarily , the contribution functions extracted from our numerical simulations extend over a range of atmospheric heights due to the broad nature of our g - band and 4170 continuum filters , potentially decreasing and/or smoothing wave signals with periods shorter than 100  s. this does not necessarily mean that waves with periodicities below 100  s do not occur individually in either the g - band or 4170 continuum datasets .",
    "however , it does indicate that if these waves exist , we do not detect their propagation between atmospheric layers since no coherent signals can be determined .",
    "the phase distribution displayed in the lower panel of figure  [ fig7 ] reveals a shift of @xmath4410@xmath45 between g - band and 4170 continuum oscillations , apparent down to a spatial scale of @xmath20.4@xmath8 ( wavenumber 15  arcsec@xmath14 ) .",
    "this spatial size is consistent with typical ( roundish ) mbp diameters , and forms an upper wavenumber limit beyond which the phase distribution becomes dominated by noise .",
    "these measurements are in agreement with the occurrence plots presented in figure  [ fig4 ] , and reiterate the presence of upward propagating wave phenomena .",
    "examination of the lower panel of figure  [ fig7 ] reveals a frequency `` fork '' for wavenumbers below 4  arcsec@xmath14 ( spatial size of approximately @xmath46 ) .",
    "this `` fork '' constitutes a continual linear downward trend of upwardly propagating waves ( negative phases ) for oscillation frequencies as a function of spatial wavenumber , in addition to a visible plateau at frequencies ranging from 4  7  mhz , which includes the 3  min ( @xmath65.5  mhz ) p - mode oscillation .",
    "a plateau suggests that the frequency of detected oscillations is no longer dependent on the increasing size of the spatial dimension , at least up to the @xmath670@xmath8 limit imposed by our field - of - view . as a result , upwardly propagating 3  minute oscillations appear to be ubiquitous over granular ( and larger ) spatial scales .",
    "this agrees with the theoretical work of @xcite , who demonstrate how 3  minute oscillations are free to propagate upwards from the solar surface as a consequence of their frequency residing above the acoustic cut - off value .",
    "a 3  minute periodicity overlaps with the solar p - mode spectrum , which has been shown by @xcite to exist as a result of coherent pressure drivers up to spatial scales consistent with supergranular cells ( @xmath250@xmath8 ) .",
    "thus , our results indicate an abundance of upwardly propagating longitudinal waves which cover the majority of our field - of - view , and suggests these wave forms are a direct result of a coherent ( supergranular ) p - mode driver .",
    "interestingly , a similar phase plateau is not apparent in the simulated frequency - wavenumber diagram ( lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig8 ] ) .",
    "this may be a direct result of the reduced field - of - view of the simulated time series . with an overall size of @xmath47  arcsec@xmath10 ,",
    "compared to the observational field - of - view of @xmath48  arcsec@xmath10 , information occurring on large spatial scales ( i.e. low wavenumbers ) will be lost .",
    "evanescent waves are a phenomenon known to exist in the frequency - wavenumber diagram in locations of very low frequency and small wavenumber @xcite .",
    "these waves cover the global 5 minute oscillation ( @xmath23  mhz ) , and are not expected to show signals of upward propagation .",
    "positioned on either side of the evanescent region are locations in the frequency - wavenumber diagram where acoustic and gravity waves thrive @xcite . to investigate which regime best matches",
    "our detected wave phenomena , theoretical curves incorporating acoustic , evanescent , and gravity wave regimes , were over - plotted in the phase diagrams of figures  [ fig7 ] &  [ fig8 ] . in order to do this ,",
    "the pressure , @xmath49 , and density , @xmath50 , were first extracted from our numerical simulations . then , the sound speed , @xmath51 , can be determined for each grid cell in our numerical domain using , @xmath52 where @xmath53 is the ratio of specific heats , here taken as 5/3 .",
    "the pixelised sound speeds were then convolved with our bandpass - specific contribution functions to determine an accurate representation of the sound speeds typically contained within our filtergrams .",
    "a two - dimensional representation of the derived sound speeds is shown in the right panel of figure  [ fig9 ] , with an spatial average of 10.1  kms@xmath14 . using this value for the sound speed , and following the steps outlined in @xcite",
    ", we derived the limiting curves for acoustic- and gravity - wave regimes .",
    "these frequency - wavenumber contours are over - plotted in the phase diagrams of figures  [ fig7 ] &  [ fig8 ] , with the locations of acoustic , evanescent , and gravity wave regimes annotated .",
    "close inspection of the lower panel in figure  [ fig7 ] reveals how there are no upwardly propagating waves ( i.e. negative phase angles ) in areas of the diagram with frequencies less than @xmath23  mhz ( 5  min ) and wavenumbers less than @xmath24  arcsec@xmath14 ( 1.6@xmath8 ) , consistent with previous studies of evanescent waves . in this portion of the frequency - wavenumber diagram , only downwardly propagating waves appear to prevail . a similar trend",
    "is detected in the simulated time series ( lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig8 ] ) , where downwardly propagating waves dominate for wavenumbers less than @xmath24  arcsec@xmath14 and frequencies less than @xmath22.5  mhz .",
    "slight differences between the observational and simulated frequency - wavenumber diagrams at these extreme limits of frequency and wavenumber may again be a result of the reduced field - of - view size and time series length for the simulated data . nevertheless , the observational and simulated phase distributions ( lower panels of figs .",
    "[ fig7 ] & [ fig8 ] ) reveal identical trends , whereby propagating waves , best described as acoustic phenomena , with a similar phase angle increase in frequency with decreasing spatial size .",
    "a phase difference of @xmath0 ( as found in our observational time series ) , in conjunction with the most commonly occurring periodicity of 390  s , results in a time lag of 8.7  s between 4170 continuum and g - band atmospheric heights .",
    "utilising a traversed distance of 55  83  km , estimated through a comparison of g - band and 4170 continuum mbp contribution functions in our radiative mhd simulations , an average propagation speed of @xmath54  kms@xmath14 is found .",
    "this derived wave speed is close to typical photospheric sound speeds , and reveals how , at least in the photospheric regime , the detected oscillations are linear in nature .",
    "here we present high - cadence observations and simulations of the solar photosphere .",
    "each dataset demonstrates a wealth of oscillatory behaviour , with high concentrations found in highly magnetic regions , such as magnetic bright points ( mbps ) , visible as periodic intensity fluctuations with periods in the range 110  600  s. using a high - resolution radiative magneto - hydrodynamic ( mhd ) code to simulate photospheric magnetoconvection , we detect a wealth of upwardly propagating acoustic waves over a range of frequencies and wavenumbers .",
    "results of the mhd simulations are consistent with those found in our observational time series , confirming that current mhd simulations are able to accurately replicate propagating wave phenomena in the lower solar atmosphere , without the need of an external driver .",
    "we suggest how the ubiquity of these oscillations may be traced back to magnetoconvective processes occurring in the upper layers of the sun s convection zone .",
    "we are able to estimate the average height of formation of our g - band and 4170 continuum filters by convolving the filter bandpasses with the radiative output of our simulation .",
    "this provides minimum g - band and 4170 continuum formation heights of 100  km and 25  km , respectively .",
    "we find that longitudinal oscillations exhibit a dominant phase delay of @xmath0 between g - band and 4170 continuum observations , suggesting the presence of upwardly propagating waves .",
    "almost no propagating waves with periods less than 100  s are detected in either observational or simulated data .",
    "this does not necessarily mean that these high - frequency oscillations do not occur individually in either bandpass .",
    "however , it does indicate that if these waves exist , we do not detect their propagation between atmospheric layers since no coherent signals can be determined .",
    "more than 73% of mbps ( 73% from observations , 96% from simulations ) display upwardly propagating wave phenomena , helping to explain the ubiquitous nature of mhd waves in the outer solar atmosphere .",
    "dbj thanks the science and technology facilities council ( stfc ) for a post - doctoral fellowship .",
    "phk is grateful to the northern ireland department of education and learning for a phd studentship .",
    "djc thanks the csun college of science for start - up funding related to this project .",
    "solar physics research at qub is supported by stfc .",
    "the rosa project is supported by the european office of aerospace research & development .",
    "afram , n. , unruh , y.  c. , solanki , s.  k. , schssler , m. , lagg , a. , vgler , a.  2011 , , 526 , a120 beck , c. , schmidt , w. , rezaei , r. , & rammacher , w. , 2008 , , 479 , 213 bello gonzlez , n. , flores soriano , m. , kneer , f. , & okunev , o. , 2009 , , 508 , 941 bello gonzlez , n. , flores soriano , m. , kneer , f. , okunev , o. , & shchukina , n. , 2010a , , 522 , a31 bello gonzlez , n. , franz , m. , martnez pillet , v. , et al . , 2010b , , 723 , l134 bogdan , t.  j. , et al . , 2003 , , 599 , 626 cally , p.  s. , & goossens , m. , 2008 , , 251 , 251 carlsson , m. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , , 59 , 663 carlsson , m. , & stein , r.  f. , 1997 , , 481 , 500 cauzzi , g. , reardon , k. , rutten , r.  j. , tritschler , a. , & uitenbroek , h. , 2009 , , 503 , 577 crockett , p.  j. , jess , d.  b. , mathioudakis , m. , & keenan , f.  p. , 2009",
    ", , 397 , 1852 crockett , p.  j. , mathioudakis , m. , jess , d.  b. , shelyag , s. , keenan , f.  p. , & christian , d.  j. , 2010 , , 722 , l188 de pontieu , b. , et al . , 2007 , , 59 , 655 deforest , c.  e. , 2004 , , 617 , l89 deubner , f .-",
    "l . , 1975a , , 44 , 371 deubner , f .-",
    ", 1975b , , 40 , 333 deubner , f .-",
    "l . , fleck , b. , marmolino , c. , & severino , g. , 1990 , , 236 , 509 duvall , t.  l. , jr . , harvey , j.  w. , libbrecht , k.  g. , popp , b.  d. , & pomerantz , m.  a. , 1988 , , 324 , 1158 edwin , p.  m. , & roberts , b. , 1983 , , 88 , 179 erdlyi , r. , malins , c. , tth , g. , & de pontieu , b. , 2007 , , 467 , 1299 fedun , v. , shelyag , s. , & erdlyi , r. , 2011a , , 727 , 17 fedun , v. , shelyag , s. , verth , g. , mathioudakis , m. , & erdlyi , r. , 2011b , annales geophysicae , 29 , 1029 fossum , a. , & carlsson , m. , 2005 , , 435 , 919 frazier , e.  n. , 1968 , , 68 , 345 goode , p.  r. , strous , l.  h. , rimmele , t.  r. , & stebbins , r.  t. , 1998 , , 495 , l27 gurtovenko , e. , ratnikova , v. , & de jager , c. , 1974 , , 37 , 43 hasan , s.  s. , & van ballegooijen , a.  a. , 2008 , , 680 , 1542 hoekzema , n.  m. , rimmele , t.  r. , & rutten , r.  j. , 2002 , , 390 , 681 jess , d.  b. , andi , a. , mathioudakis , m. , bloomfield , d.  s. , & keenan , f.  p. , 2007a",
    ", , 473 , 943 jess , d.  b. , mcateer , r.  t.  j. , mathioudakis , m. , keenan , f. p. , andic , a. , & bloomfield , d. s. , 2007b , , 476 , 971 jess , d.  b. , mathioudakis , m. , crockett , p.  j. , & keenan , f.  p. , 2008",
    ", , 688 , l119 jess , d.  b. , mathioudakis , m. , erdlyi , r. , crockett , p.  j. , keenan , f.  p. , & christian , d.  j. , 2009 , science , 323 , 1582 jess , d.  b. , mathioudakis , m. , christian , d.  j. , crockett , p.  j. , & keenan , f.  p. , 2010a",
    ", , 719 , l134 jess , d.  b. , mathioudakis , m. , christian , d.  j. , keenan , f.  p. , ryans , r.  s.  i. , & crockett , p.  j. , 2010b , , 261 , 363 kalkofen , w. , 2007 , , 671 , 2154 keys , p. h. , mathioudakis , m. , jess , d. b. , shelyag , s. , crockett , p. j. , christian , d. j. , & keenan , f. p. , 2011",
    ", , 740 , l40 kitiashvili , i.  n. , kosovichev , a.  g. , mansour , n.  n. , & wray , a.  a. , 2011 , , 727 , l50 kneer , f. , & bello gonzlez , n. , 2011 , , 532 , a111 krijger , j.  m. , rutten , r.  j. , lites , b.  w. , straus , t. , shine , r.  a. , & tarbell , t.  d. , 2001 , , 379 , 1052 kurucz , r.  l. , cdrom leighton , r.  b. , 1960 , aerodynamic phenomena in stellar atmospheres , 12 , 321 lites , b.  w. , & chipman , e.  g. , 1979 , , 231 , 570 magain , p. , 1986",
    ", , 163 , 135 moretti , p.  f. , cacciani , a. , hanslmeier , a. , messerotti , m. , oliviero , m. , otruba , w. , severino , g. , & warmuth , a. , 2001 , , 372 , 1038 morton , r.  j. , erdlyi , r. , jess , d.  b. , & mathioudakis , m. , 2011 , , 729 , l18 rees , d.  e. , durrant , c.  j. , & murphy , g.  a. , 1989 , , 339 , 1093 rimmele , t.  r. , 2004 , , 5490 , 34 rimmele , t.  r. , goode , p.  r. , harold , e. , & stebbins , r.  t. , 1995 , , 444 , l119 rose , a. , 1948 , journal of the optical society of america ( 19171983 ) , 38 , 196 snchez almeida , j. , bonet , j.  a. , viticchi , b. , & del moro , d. , 2010 , , 715 , l26 schssler , m. , shelyag , s. , berdyugina , s. , vgler , a. , & solanki , s.  k. , 2003 , , 597 , l173 schroeder , d.  j. , 2000 , astronomical optics / daniel j.  schroeder .",
    "san diego : academic press , c2000 shelyag , s. , fedun , v. , keenan , f.  p. , erdlyi , r. , & mathioudakis , m. , 2011a , annales geophysicae , 29 , 883 shelyag , s. , keys , p. , mathioudakis , m. , & keenan , f.  p. , 2011b",
    ", , 526 , a5 shelyag , s. , mathioudakis , m. , keenan , f.  p. , & jess , d.  b. , 2010 , , 515 , a107 shelyag , s. , schssler , m. , solanki , s.  k. , berdyugina , s.  v. , vgler , a. , 2004 , , 427 , 335 shelyag , s. , et al .",
    ", 2011c , , to be submitted skartlien , r. , stein , r.  f. , & nordlund ,  . , 2000 , , 541 , 468 souffrin , p. , 1966",
    ", annales dastrophysique , 29 , 55 spruit , h.  c. , 1976 , , 50 , 269 stein , r.  f. , & leibacher , j. , 1974 , , 12 , 407 stein , r.  f. , & nordlund ,  .",
    ", 1991 , challenges to theories of the structure of moderate - mass stars , 388 , 195 stix , m. , 1970 , , 4 , 189 straus , t. , fleck , b. , jefferies , s.  m. , et al .",
    ", 2008 , , 681 , l125 taroyan , y. , & erdlyi , r. , 2009 , , 149 , 229 torrence , c. , & compo , g.  p. , 1998",
    ", bulletin of the american meteorological society , 79 , 61 vecchio , a. , cauzzi , g. , reardon , k.  p. , janssen , k. , & rimmele , t. , 2007 , , 461 , l1 vgler , a. , shelyag , s. , schssler , m. , cattaneo , f. , emonet , t. , & linde , t. , 2005 , , 429 , 335 wedemeyer , s. , freytag , b. , steffen , m. , ludwig , h .-",
    "g . , & holweger , h. , 2003 , astronomische nachrichten , 324 , 410 wedemeyer , s. , freytag , b. , steffen , m. , ludwig , h .-",
    "g . , & holweger , h. , 2004 , , 414 , 1121 wger , f. , von der lhe , o. , & reardon , k. , 2008 , , 488 , 375"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present high - cadence observations and simulations of the solar photosphere , obtained using the rapid oscillations in the solar atmosphere imaging system and the muram magneto - hydrodynamic code , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> each dataset demonstrates a wealth of magneto - acoustic oscillatory behaviour , visible as periodic intensity fluctuations with periods in the range 110  600  s. almost no propagating waves with periods less than 140  s and 110  s are detected in the observational and simulated datasets , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> high concentrations of power are found in highly magnetised regions , such as magnetic bright points and intergranular lanes . </S>",
    "<S> radiative diagnostics of the photospheric simulations replicate our observational results , confirming that the current breed of magneto - hydrodynamic simulations are able to accurately represent the lower solar atmosphere . </S>",
    "<S> all observed oscillations are generated as a result of naturally occurring magnetoconvective processes , with no specific input driver present . </S>",
    "<S> using contribution functions extracted from our numerical simulations , we estimate minimum g - band and 4170 continuum formation heights of 100  km and 25  km , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> detected magneto - acoustic oscillations exhibit a dominant phase delay of @xmath0 between the g - band and 4170 continuum observations , suggesting the presence of upwardly propagating waves . </S>",
    "<S> more than 73% of mbps ( 73% from observations , 96% from simulations ) display upwardly propagating wave phenomena , suggesting the abundant nature of oscillatory behaviour detected higher in the solar atmosphere may be traced back to magnetoconvective processes occurring in the upper layers of the sun s convection zone . </S>"
  ]
}