{
  "article_text": [
    "the classic paradigm of disk galaxy formation posits that these systems arise through the dissipative collapse of rotating gas clouds @xcite .",
    "if the timescales for star formation and viscosity coincide , then the resultant luminosity distributions within these galaxies should fall off exponentially in the radial direction @xcite and stellar ages should either be approximately constant or decrease with galactocentric radius @xcite .",
    "alternatively , an exponential luminosity distribution could arise from a combination of supernovae feedback , variation in the angular momentum distribution of halo gas and inefficient star formation at low gas densities @xcite .",
    "either way , galaxies showing such surface brightness profiles are commonly referred to as `` type i '' disks @xcite .",
    "statistical studies of luminosity profiles in field galaxies ( @xcite , hereafter pt06 ; @xcite , hereafter er08 ) have revealed that type i disks in the field are rare ( type i fraction , @xmath3 20% ; @xcite , hereafter gu11 ) .",
    "disk galaxy luminosity profiles are instead mostly characterized by two exponentials ( `` type ii '' ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , the outer exponential being shallower than the inner one ; the type ii fraction , @xmath4 , is roughly 50% ( gu11 ) .",
    "the transition between those two ( nearly ) exponential parts of a galaxy luminosity profile is referred to as the `` break '' radius .",
    "the opposing case , where the outer disk profile is shallower beyond the break is referred to as a `` type iii '' disk @xcite and occurs with a frequency comparable to field type is ( @xmath5 30% ; gu11 ) .",
    "it is worthwhile to note that the fractions of the three disk galaxy types within other environments ( groups , clusters ) remain poorly known ( but see @xcite and @xcite ) .    the nature of type iiis is not yet well understood but some have speculated that their breaks represent either the transition from the disk to an outer spheroid @xcite or the aftermath of minor mergers onto gas - rich disks which promoted stars from the progenitors to the remnants outskirts @xcite .",
    "conversely , the range of morphology in spiral disks with type ii breaks in pt06 suggests that a variety of mechanisms can generate such breaks in disk galaxies , yet only that pertaining to truncated star - forming disks , for so - called classical truncations ( hereafter `` type ii - ct '' disks ) , has been studied in earnest thus far .",
    "the ensuing discussion provides a broad overview of our current knowledge about the formation of such galaxies .",
    "the luminosity profile breaks in type ii - cts have historically been attributed to either angular momentum thresholds during the formation of disk galaxies @xcite , angular momentum redistribution via subsequent secular evolution of assembled disks @xcite , or a density - dependent star formation law @xcite .",
    "although the redistribution scenario can account for the large scatter in the age - metallicity plane for stars within the solar neighbourhood @xcite ( chemical evolution models without redistribution fail to reproduce the observed scatter ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , the fact that uv emission is frequently detected beyond the optical extent of many disk galaxies ( including type iis ; @xcite ; @xcite ) strongly suggests that in - situ star formation contributes on some level to building the stellar mass in their outer regions .",
    "thus it is quite likely that some hybrid of the above scenarios ( angular momentum redistribution plus density - dependent star formation ) is likely responsible for the existence of type ii - ct disks .",
    "various models have been proposed to explain the redistribution of angular momentum that may assist in the formation of type ii - ct disks .",
    "one such model attributes this redistribution to an increase in the random velocities of disk stars caused by gravitational interactions with molecular clouds @xcite , but it fails to reproduce the aforementioned scatter in the galactic age - metallicity relation @xcite .",
    "alternatively , individual disk stars can have their angular momentum redistributed by changing the guiding centers of their orbits .",
    "so - called `` radial migrations '' of stars can be produced by a number of mechanisms , the first being postulated by @xcite in the context of resonant scatterings of disk stars off of transient spiral density waves . given a superposition of several spiral patterns , sellwood & binney showed that significant displacements ( @xmath6 4 kpc ) of guiding centers could be achieved .",
    "@xcite further argued that an overlap of bar and spiral arm resonances could drastically enhance the efficiency of migration within a milky way - like disk , mixing it within @xmath13 gyr ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "lastly , @xcite showed that radial migrations of stars to the outskirts of galaxy disks could arise via tidal perturbations during the pericenter passages of dwarf satellites ( sgr dsph ; see also @xcite ) .",
    "although its efficiency remains to be quantified , this mechanism fits quite naturally within the current cosmological paradigm .",
    "overall , and given the many mechanisms through which radial migrations can be incited , can observations of external galaxies distinguish between them ?",
    "sellwood & binney s resonant scattering mechanism was revisited by @xcite ( hereafter r08 ) through their high - resolution simulation of an idealized galaxy disk which included both gas and star formation .",
    "their disk rapidly developed a type ii - ct break that persisted over several dynamical times , the origin of which was linked to the combination of angular momentum conservation within the collapsing gas cloud , a surface density threshold in their star formation recipe and radial migrations populating the region beyond the break with inner disk stars .",
    "given the inside - out growth of the inner disk and that the diffusion length for stars scales with the square - root of their age , r08 found that the stellar age profile of their simulated disk was described by both a negative and positive gradient interior and exterior to its break , respectively . in the wake of that study ,",
    "@xcite ( hereafter ms09 ) and @xcite ( hereafter sb09 ) investigated the formation of type ii - ct breaks in the context of _ cosmological _ simulations .",
    "while these authors also found `` u - shaped '' age profiles for their model disks associated with rapid decreases in the gas densities beyond their break radii , sb09 showed that the decrease in their simulation arose from the onset of a warp in the gas disk at the break rather than an angular momentum threshold ( it is physically well - motivated ) .",
    "it is also worth stressing that the above simulations focussed on relatively isolated systems ; comparable simulations for cluster galaxies are currently lacking .",
    "while the above simulations of type ii - ct disk formation uniformly suggest that these galaxies are described by u - shaped stellar age profiles , such radial age inversions have only been explicitly detected in three type ii galaxies so far ( ngc 2684 , ngc 6155 and ngc 7437 ) by @xcite , while the age profiles for the remaining type iis in their sample which could be measured beyond their respective breaks ( ic 1132 , ngc 4904 , ngc 6691 ) do not exhibit a significant increase with radius in those regions .",
    "furthermore , amongst their positive detections , these authors found that the inversion occurs well within the break in all cases .",
    "other detections of inverted age profiles have also been achieved through studies of the resolved stellar populations of three nearby type ii galaxies ( m33 , ngc 4244 and ngc 7793 ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , albeit by somewhat indirect means , such as surface brightness profiles for different age groups of stars or distributions of stellar age / star formation rate for several hst fields . @xcite and @xcite have both claimed age inversion detections in larger samples of nearby and distant type ii galaxies , respectively , given that their colour profiles invert at their break radii .",
    "these findings , however , were benchmarked on optical colours , the translation of which into ages is frought with uncertainty due to the well - known age - metallicity degeneracy .",
    "signal - to - noise constraints also required stacked colour profiles rather than those of individual galaxies ( as we do here ) .",
    "lastly , in their stellar population analysis of s0 galaxies , @xcite found that nearly a quarter of their sample exhibited very old ages in their outskirts , consistent with the above predictions and detections of u - shaped age profiles .    despite their intrinsic uncertainties ,",
    "stellar population data are in principle ideal to test the predictions of existing disk galaxy formation models .",
    "such a test represents a key step towards a definitive picture of many observable properties of disk galaxies , including type ii - ct breaks and whether they arise from a density - dependent star formation law , angular momentum thresholds or redistribution , or some combination thereof .",
    "the intent of this work is to present such a test in the context of all three types of disk galaxies by taking advantage of our recent analysis of both the luminosity and stellar population profiles of virgo cluster galaxies @xcite .",
    "although hydrodynamic models of disk galaxies which include radially - resolved stellar age information only exist for field environments , comparing their predictions against our data can still be insightful towards fashioning an understanding of the role of environment on the evolution of these galaxies ( nature versus nurture ) and constraining future models of cluster evolution .",
    "specifically , we aim to increase the number of explicit detections of u - shaped age profiles in all disk galaxy types , thereby bolstering the empirical evidence that radial migrations are a generic aspect of galaxy evolution , whilst simultaneously drawing attention to cases of non - detections and the very plausible notion that other evolutionary processes ( perhaps tied to environmental effects , such as ram pressure stripping ) may either prevent or obliterate age inversions in galaxies .",
    "the latter goal is made all the more imperative given the intriguing results achieved by @xcite described above . to our knowledge ,",
    "the present work is a first attempt towards explicitly studying stellar populations as a function of disk galaxy type in the context of current generation galaxy formation models and within the cluster environment .",
    "we highlight in various aspects of our database of virgo galaxies luminosity and stellar population profiles which pertain to this study and present , in , our data analysis in the context of type i , ii and iii disk galaxy formation models .",
    "conclusions are presented in .",
    "we examine in the appendix the recent claim by erwin et  al .",
    "( 2012 ; hereafter er12 ) that cluster s0 galaxies do not exhibit type ii breaks .",
    "our investigation into the origins of the three principal disk galaxy types in dense environments stems from our recent analysis of the radially - resolved colours and stellar populations of a complete , magnitude - limited sample of 283 virgo cluster galaxies spanning all manner of morphological types and surface densities @xcite .",
    "this analysis was facilitated by the availability of optical ( @xmath7 ) and near - infrared ( @xmath8 ) luminosity profiles for the aforementioned sample from @xcite . in @xcite",
    ", we appealed to stellar population models corresponding to an exponential star formation history of variable timescale and a broad range of metallicities to homogeneously convert those optical - infrared luminosity profiles into estimates of the underlying mean stellar age and metallicity profiles for all 283 galaxies .",
    "these luminosity , age and metallicity profiles thence enabled the present work",
    ". the reader may consult @xcitevirgo ] for the presentation of our luminosity profiles and @xcite for further details about our adopted stellar population models and the derivation of our age and metallicity profiles .",
    "our type i , ii and iii sub - samples are drawn from the 85 disk galaxies in the virgo cluster survey of @xcite .",
    "their morphological types were taken from the nasa extragalactic database ( ned ; sa@xmath9sm , i m morphologies ) . for reasons described in the appendix ,",
    "the 55 s0 galaxies in the mcdonald et  al .",
    "sample were left out of this analysis . of the initial sample of 85 disk galaxies",
    ", we discarded fourteen on account of severe dust extinction ( which would skew their stellar population diagnostics ) , another four due to clear signs of strong overlap / interaction with neighbouring systems or contamination by a bright foreground star/  region ( yielding artificial type iii luminosity profiles ) , and three others which were too faint for their stellar populations to be reliably modelled .",
    "these various cuts leave us with a sample of 64 bona fide , largely non - interacting virgo cluster disk galaxies with low to moderate attenuation and high - quality optical - infrared luminosity profiles , in order to analyse both the broad structures and stellar populations of their disks .",
    "the @xmath10 luminosity profiles for each of our disk galaxies were inspected visually by the authors and classified according to their type i / ii / iii features and following the detailed schemes of pt06 and er08 ( but see footnote 7 in . ) .",
    "specifically , a galaxy was assigned a type i , ii or iii class if its luminosity profile could be adequately described by a single exponential drop - off from the intermediate to outer regions of the galaxy ( type i ) , or exhibits a sharp break from an inner exponential section to either a steeper ( type ii ) , or yet a shallower ( type iii ) one at some common radius amongst all bands .",
    "if the aforementioned break is not seen at all bands , _ including _ the near - infrared , or if it occurs in a section of the luminosity profile that is dominated by sky errors ( where the profile point - to - point fluctuations are comparable to sky flux errors ) , then no physical or statistical basis exists for claiming that the associated galaxy be classified as anything other than a type i. on that basis , many of our galaxies are better classified as type is rather than iiis since profile breaks in the latter typically occur at low surface brightnesses ( 27 - 28  at @xmath11-band ) where sky errors are dominant .",
    "fortunately , these issues do not affect our reported type ii disks .",
    "altogether , we find that our sample of virgo cluster disk galaxies consists of @xmath120 type is , 22 type iis and @xmath122 type iiis .",
    "shows the @xmath11-band images for our type ii sub - sample , where the ellipses denote the locations of the breaks ( red ) and probable extents of the bars ( green ; if present , as gauged by eye ) in these systems , while in we present the fractions of our type i , ii and iii sub - samples contributed by each of the principal disk morphological types ( sa@xmath9sb , sbc@xmath9sm and i m ) , normalized to our total disk sample ( the sum of all of the fractions is unity ) . the morphological breakdown in shows that our type i and iii sub - samples are largely comprised of late - type disks and irregulars , and early- and late - type disks , respectively , while our type ii sub - sample contains a range of morphologies .",
    "conversely , also shows that our early - type disks are mostly described by type iii profiles , while our late - type disks and irregulars are comprised of nearly - equal fractions of type i@xmath9iii and type i@xmath9ii profiles , respectively .",
    "these results conflict with gu11 , er08 and pt06 who found that 28%/27%/10% , 21%/48%/60% and 51%/24%/30% of s0@xmath9sb / sb0@xmath9sbb / sb@xmath9sdm galaxy types possess type i , ii and iii profiles , respectively , and that the fraction of type is and iis per morphological bin decreases and increases from early to late galaxies , respectively , while that for type iiis varies between 20% ( sa , sd , sm ) and 50% ( s0 , sb ) .",
    "_ the resolution of this conflict most likely lies in the fact that pt06 , er08 and gutirrez et  al .  targeted field galaxies , whereas our sample is drawn from a cluster environment_. indeed , er12 recently reported a complete dearth of type ii profiles amongst virgo s0s , while @xcite showed that multiple fly - bys between cluster galaxies ( so - called `` harassment '' ) can transform type i disks into type iiis .",
    "these evidences , paired with our type i / ii / iii statistics , provide initial support for the main theme of the present paper : that the evolution of disk galaxies is substantially ( and verifiably ) different in field versus cluster environments ( see   5 in er12 ) .",
    "this conclusion should stand even if deeper optical imaging for larger samples of virgo disk galaxies @xcite should reveal an increase in the number of type iii systems within this cluster ( at the expense of the type i fraction ) , as it is truly the relative absence of type ii disks in virgo that stands out .",
    "we present in figures  [ fig : sbprfs - typei]-[fig : sbprfs - typeiii ] the @xmath10 surface brightness profiles of our type i , ii and iii systems ( @xmath12 = blue , @xmath13 = green , @xmath11 = orange , @xmath8 = black ) . the virgo cluster catalog ( vcc ) galaxy numbers from @xcite , detailed morphological classifications from ned , and , for our type iis alone , specific type class ( ii-o.ct ) have been included in all panels , as well as the break locations for our type ii and iii sub - samples ( red vertical lines ) .",
    "we also show in each panel the 1@xmath14 sky error envelope of the @xmath11-band dataset ( black continuous line ) to illustrate the importance of such envelopes in evaluating the behaviour of disk galaxies luminosity profiles in their outskirts : again , if the extrapolation of the inner ( mostly exponential ) profile to the galaxy s outskirts falls within its sky error envelope , then no statistical basis exists for claiming that that disk is anything but a type i. other cautionary cases also exist .",
    "for instance , the apparent type ii breaks found at 30 in the profiles for vcc 1326 and 1811 ( both type is ) are due to the isophotal contours intercepting the edge of a bar and spiral arm at these locations , respectively , while the apparent type iii break at 25 in the profiles for vcc 1508 ( a type ii ) most likely marks the transition from its bulge to its disk .",
    "this and many other galaxies in our type ii sub - sample do appear to host type iii breaks further out in their disks however , but we nevertheless retain them in that sub - sample ( and simply identify them as type ii+iiis ) as we suspect that they fell into the cluster as type iis but developed their type iii breaks via harassment @xcite . the existence of these exceptional cases reinforces the notion that classification of disk galaxy luminosity profiles remains a somewhat subjective process , and as such , must be performed and interpreted with care .    as to the role that sky error envelopes play in determining a disk galaxy s type , we examine in our appendix the recent claim by er12 that roughly half of all bright virgo s0s possess type iii disks .",
    "it will be found that , at least for those galaxies where our respective samples overlap , many of er12 s type",
    "iii detections depend critically on the assumed sky level and could be labeled as pure srsic  systems with @xmath15 . still ,",
    "their reported lack of type ii systems and existence of at least some disk upturns ( type iiis ) in cluster s0 galaxies appears to be genuine .",
    "the mean stellar age profiles of our 20 type i galaxies are shown in , where galactocentric radii have been expressed in terms of both physical ( kpc ; bottom axis ) and effective ( r@xmath16 ; top axis ) units , assuming a distance of 17 mpc to the virgo cluster @xcite .",
    "we find that the majority of these galaxies are characterized by age gradients ( change in age per unit radius ) which are either positive or flat ( 40% and 35% of our type i sub - sample , respectively ) .",
    "this contrasts with most type i formation models which predict that these galaxies form from inside - out @xcite , implying that they should harbour _ negative _ age gradients , whereas such gradients are only found in two of our type is ( 10% ) .",
    "some nuances in these models actually allow for flat @xcite or positive @xcite age gradients within purely exponential disks depending on whether star formation begins during or after the assembly of the gas disk , or if gas - rich minor mergers / accretion events occur at late epochs , respectively .",
    "unfortunately , high - resolution hydrodynamic models to tackle the case of disk galaxy formation and/or evolution within the cluster environment are still lacking .",
    "based on the above observations , one then wonders if existing models ( largely geared towards isolated galaxies and most often predicting negative age gradients ) can reproduce the high frequency of positive and flat age gradients when cast in the context of denser galaxy environments .",
    "short of appropriate models to compare our observations , we may speculate that the preponderance of flat and positive age gradients in virgo type is is an artifact of the galaxy environment ; cluster galaxies experience a variety of physical processes that field galaxies do not . for instance , by removing the gas from and thereby quenching star formation in the outskirts of a galaxy disk , it is conceivable that ram pressure stripping via the inter - cluster medium could evolve a negative age gradient into either a flat or positive one .",
    "the two possible outcomes would depend upon the galaxy s ability to retain a central gas reservoir thus maintaining star formation there .",
    "our knowledge of these galaxies neutral gas deficiencies , def@xmath17 is a popular metric for measuring the degree of ram pressure stripping suffered by cluster galaxies ; @xcite ] remains incomplete however , while the type is with flat or positive age gradients whose def@xmath17 values are known @xcite a range of neutral gas deficiencies @xmath18 1 dex .",
    "this seems inconsistent with our above hypothesis .",
    "since def@xmath17 measures the atomic gas content of cluster disks relative to their field ( isolated ) counterparts , galaxies having more positive def@xmath17 values would have presumably lost proportionally more of their cold gas to ram pressure than systems with more negative def@xmath17 values and , therefore , should host more evolved stellar populations throughout their volumes .",
    "galaxy - galaxy or galaxy - cluster harassment @xcite , on the other hand , may offer an attractive alternative , at least for flat age gradients , if the tidal forces can promote effective mixing of stellar disks .",
    "we revisit this issue in .",
    "even more tantalizing than the ( unexpected ) high incidence of flat and positive age gradients in virgo type is is the existence of u - shaped age profiles in the remaining three ( 15% ) galaxies from this sub - sample ( vcc 0583 , 1410 and 1566 in ) , akin to those found in simulations of field type ii - ct disks ( r08 ; ms09 ; sb09 ) .",
    "the hallmarks of such age profiles  their minima  are identified ( where they occur ) in by the blue vertical lines .",
    "although the location of each age minimum was determined by eye , its manifestation was only deemed legitimate if the age gradient interior and exterior to it was computed to be negative and positive , respectively .",
    "that is , an age profile minimum is deemed meaningful only if a statistically genuine u - shape can be defined for the profile . with this in mind , we measured the age gradients interior and exterior to each of the identified minima in ( via bootstrap linear least - squares fitting ) and found that they all satisfy the above stipulations and , most importantly , they are statistically different from zero . to avoid the effects of atmospheric blurring in our interior age gradient measurements , we neglected the centralmost data point from each of the galaxy age profiles ; in @xcite we showed that , for each galaxy in our sample , this data point encloses the maximum seeing disk .",
    "the age gradients and locations of age profile minima ( r@xmath19 , where applicable ) for our type i sub - sample are presented in tables [ tbl : agegrads]-[tbl : typeidat ] , respectively , while the fractions of these galaxies which exhibit u - shaped age profiles , or not , are shown in , for the sake of completeness .",
    "no error on the inner age gradient for vcc 0583 is quoted because the number of data points interior to its age minimum was too low to bootstrap the profile fit in that region ; the value of that gradient for vcc 0583 in was instead obtained via a simple linear least - squares fit .",
    "our discovery of statistically - significant inversions in the age profiles in three members of our type i sub - sample challenges existing formation models for these galaxies ; the latter models have never predicted such stellar population trends . although sites of recent star formation in disk galaxies ( spiral arms ) could presumably depress the mean stellar ages in those regions , such effects , on their own , should not create the kind of _ global _ minima that we have found in these galaxies age profiles .",
    "moreover , ours is not the first detection of such peculiar behaviour in the stellar populations of type i disks .",
    "for instance , @xcite found that the stellar metallicity profile for the canonical ( field ) type i disk galaxy , ngc 300 , inverts from a negative gradient to a positive one , analogous to our findings for our three peculiar type is , albeit at a much larger galacto - centric radius ( 10 kpc ) and in terms of metallicity rather than age .",
    "guided by simulations which suggest that u - shaped radial distributions of stellar population properties in disk galaxies are a telltale sign of stellar migrations , we might speculate that these virgo type is represent a sub - population of type iis whose outer disks were fully populated by a very efficient migration episode .",
    "clearly though , the existence of this peculiar galaxy population ought to motivate further exploration of type i galaxy formation models .",
    "the mean stellar age profiles of our 22 type ii galaxies are shown in .",
    "we find that the behaviours of these galaxies profiles are most often described by either positive age gradients or statistically - significant u - shapes ( each amounting to 36% of the sub - sample ; ) , where the latter are reminiscent of predictions from current models of type ii - ct disk formation .",
    "the locations of the breaks and age minima in our type ii systems are shown ( where applicable ) by the red and blue ellipses in and the orange and blue vertical lines in , respectively .",
    "as for our type i sub - sample , detections of u - shaped age profiles were only deemed legitimate if the age gradients interior and exterior to each of the minima identified in were measured via bootstrap linear fitting to be negative and positive , respectively , and statistically different from zero . in all identified cases ,",
    "the fitted gradients agree with these criteria , as seen from .",
    "although the central data points from these galaxies inner age profiles were typically neglected during this procedure , we preserved them for vcc 1021 and 1654 in order to measure their inner age gradients ; as before though , no bootstrap errors are reported for them in . while these two galaxies inner gradients should be treated as upper limits",
    ", their specific values do not affect our conclusions .",
    "we summarize in pertinent information for our type ii sub - sample , including the locations of their breaks ( r@xmath20 ) and age profile minima ( r@xmath19 ; where applicable ) , both of which are listed in terms of physical units ( kpc ) and relative to these galaxies @xmath8-band effective radii , r@xmath21 , from @xcite .",
    "the profile breaks are located within the effective radii for half of this sub - sample , while the remainder of our type iis exhibit their breaks mostly within the 1 - 2 r@xmath21 annulus . in terms of physical units ,",
    "however , the distribution of break radii seems bimodal , with these galaxies clustering about r@xmath20 < 2 kpc or r@xmath20 = 5 - 6 kpc . for those type iis with u - shaped age profiles",
    ", we find that they do not distinguish themselves from the whole sub - sample in terms of either r@xmath20 or any of the non - parametric quantities measured by @xcite ( concentration , luminosity , surface brightness , size ) .",
    "moreover , while their distribution of r@xmath19 is concentrated within 1.5 r@xmath21 , it is spread over a much wider range in terms of physical units ( @xmath10.5 - 8.5 kpc ) .",
    "thus this special sub - population of virgo type iis can not be linked to any specific disk galaxy structural properties .",
    "also provides the morphologies and detailed luminosity profile classifications of our type ii galaxies , from which we infer that the type ii phenomenon amongst cluster galaxies is rarely associated with a bar .",
    "this should not necessarily be interpreted as suggesting that a bar has little effect on these galaxies outskirts though , as a significant fraction of our type ii sub - sample bears morphological features which are consistent with previous bar activity ( rings , lenses ) .",
    "moreover , many of the latter systems exhibit u - shaped age profiles .",
    "the detailed profile classifications in were determined following pt06 s and er08 s scheme , whereby the designations `` i '' and `` o '' refer to the break occurring interior or exterior to the bar ( if present ) , while `` ab '' and `` olr '' indicate whether the break is related to either strong @xmath22 outer - disk asymmetries or an outer lindblad resonance ( ring ) , respectively . if both the `` ab '' and `` olr '' designations may be ruled out for any given galaxy , it is deemed to possess a classical truncation ( `` ct '' ) . the detailed classifications for our type iis show that this phenomenon within the cluster environment is most often attributed to an asymmetry in the disk ( @xmath23 = 0.5 ) , while classical truncations account for just under a third ( @xmath24 = 0.33 ) of the type ii breaks we detect .",
    "the distribution of detailed type ii classes amongst virgo disks also appears to be at odds with observations for field disks ( albeit for late - type morphologies alone ) , for which most type ii breaks represent classical truncations ( @xmath24 = 0.5 ) , followed by disk asymmetries and resonances in roughly equal proportions ( @xmath25 = 0.2 ; pt06 ) .",
    "this discrepancy , however , may also be accounted for by the nature of our sample since cluster galaxies have likely suffered tidal interactions more often throughout their evolution than field galaxies ( and would therefore host asymmetric disks ) , which is to suggest that dense galaxy environments preferentially favour the development of different type ii classes ( unlike findings for field spirals ) .    for those type ii galaxies in our sub - sample which exhibit u - shaped age profiles ,",
    "we wish to compare the locations of their age minima against those of their breaks , given that simulations of type ii - ct disks in the field suggest that these locations should coincide ( the luminosity profile break and age profile inversion phenomena are causally - connected ) .",
    "we plot in the bivariate distribution of r@xmath19 against r@xmath20 for the eight virgo type iis which exhibit statistically - significant age minima , where the dashed line is a one - to - one relation . for simplicity , we have plotted the two sets of locations in terms of these galaxies @xmath8-band effective radii .",
    "the points are coloured according to galaxy morphologies ( orange = sa@xmath9sbc , green = sc@xmath9sm , blue = i m ) , while the point types correspond to detailed type ii classifications ( triangle = i , circle = ct , square = ab , cross = olr ) , with open and solid points denoting barred and unbarred systems , respectively",
    ".    shows a clear correlation between the breaks and age minima locations for type ii galaxies in the virgo cluster .",
    "a bootstrap linear fit to the data yields a pearson correlation coefficient of @xmath13 = + 0.92 and a slope of + 1.59 @xmath26 0.30 .",
    "the existence of such a correlation , never reported before , expands on results from type - ii ct disk formation simulations by suggesting that u - shaped age profiles accompany the formation of _ all _ manner of type ii breaks in disk galaxies , particularly those whose breaks are associated with either a bar or disk asymmetry ( which drive the observed correlation ) . whether all classes of type ii disks follow a unified r@xmath19-r@xmath20 correlation is an issue to be explored further by models and observations aimed at a global understanding of the type ii phenomenon .",
    "for instance , it will be of interest to explore why the observed correlation is not one - to - one ( the best - fit slope differs from unity at the 2@xmath14 level ) .",
    "does the fact that r@xmath19 falls either within or outside of r@xmath20 for most of the eight galaxies plotted in signal that some new mechanisms must be accounted for in future simulations ? in this sense , it is noteworthy that @xcite find that two of their three u - shaped age profile detections have the minima occuring well inside of these galaxies corresponding _ type ii - ct _ breaks .",
    "conversely , the one type ii - ct from our sample which appears in lies almost directly on top of the 1:1 lime , as found in simulations of this particular type ii class .",
    "the existence of an r@xmath19-r@xmath20 correlation amongst all virgo type ii disks suggests that a common physical mechanism is responsible for both phenomena in any given type ii galaxy . in the case of classical truncations",
    ", r08 argued that the break in their simulated type ii disk resulted from the combination of angular momentum conservation within the collapsing gas cloud , an assumed surface density threshold for star formation and resonant scattering of stars to radii beyond the truncation of the galaxy s star - forming disk .",
    "since older stars would have more time to diffuse to greater distances than younger ones , r08 naturally found that the break in their galaxy coincided with an inversion in its age profile . on the other hand , while very similar mechanisms were considered in sb09 s simulation , these authors offered another explanation for the origin of their galaxy s break , whereby the rapid decline in star formation beyond the break radius ( also seen in r08 ) was due to the onset of a warp in the gas disk rather than angular momentum conservation ( as in r08 ) .",
    "although radial migrations still deposited a significant number of stars beyond the break in sb09 s simulation , these authors identified that the age minimum in their simulated galaxy was robust to whether radial migrations are invoked or not .",
    "unfortunately , we could not assess with our data the level at which radial migrations contribute to the r@xmath19-r@xmath20 correlation reported here since each of the recent simulations of type ii disk formation predict u - shaped age profiles within them and have only addressed the case of classical truncations thus far .    while ours is not the first report of a connection between type ii breaks and u - shaped age profiles , we have found evidence to suggest that this connection extends to _ all _ classes of type iis ( not just type ii - cts ) through explicit age determinations .",
    "to our knowledge , the only previous detections of u - shaped age profiles in type iis are from @xcite",
    ". other previous similar age gradient studies of disk galaxies either only treated one galaxy at a time @xcite or were hampered by signal - to - noise constraints and uncertain age determinations ( due to the age - metallicity degeneracy at optical wavelengths , which is lifted by use of near - infrared fluxes , as we have done here ) @xcite .",
    "if the observed r@xmath19-r@xmath20 correlation among virgo type iis truly indicates that the formation of type ii breaks and u - shaped age profiles is causally connected , then the paucity of age minima reported in clearly demands an explanation ( positive , flat and negative gradients describe the age profiles for 36% , 14% and 14% of our type ii sub - sample , respectively ) .",
    "this absence is most acutely noticed amongst the seven type ii - cts in our sub - sample since u - shaped age profiles seem to be a robust prediction from the multiple simulations of these galaxies formation performed thus far , yet we find such a profile in only one of these systems ( vcc 0865 ) .",
    "of course , our comparison could be flawed by the fact that those simulations all addressed type ii - ct formation within the field , while the environment in which our cluster galaxies reside likely plays a significant role in their evolution .",
    "it is however worth recalling that in their stellar population analysis of _ field _ type iis , @xcite found that three of their six systems also lack u - shaped age profiles .",
    "these two arguments then suggest that some mechanism(s ) ( perhaps environmentally - triggered ; harassment ) either inhibit the formation of , or erase the age minima within , all type ii classes .",
    "for instance , the age profiles for five of the eight virgo type iis exhibiting positive age gradients ( vcc 0522 , 0945 , 1126 , 1726 and 2058 ) are fairly flat in their interiors but climb to relatively old ages in their outskirts ; perhaps these galaxies age profiles once more closely resembled that of vcc 1987 ( ) .",
    "therefore , two fundamental issues for the future exploration of type ii formation models prevail : ( i ) whether u - shaped age profiles are expected in all type ii galaxy classes , and ( ii ) under what conditions are such age profiles prevented or simply erased ?",
    "the mean stellar age profiles for the remaining disk galaxy type in our sample , the type iiis ( of which we have 22 ) , are shown in . unfortunately , since type iii breaks typically occur at low surface brightnesses ( @xmath127 - 28 ) , our age profiles for these galaxies often fail to extend to , or much beyond , their break radii .",
    "still , over the radial extent probed by their age profiles , we find that ( similar to the case of our type ii sub - sample ) virgo type iiis are described by a variety of age gradients : 23% are flat , 32% are positive , 18% are negative and 27% are u - shaped ( ) ; the inner and outer gradients measured for those galaxies having u - shaped age profiles are listed in , while the break and age inversion radii ( where applicable ) for our entire type iii sub - sample can be found in . given that hydrodynamical simulations of type iii disk formation are scant ( @xcite ; and predictions of their stellar population properties are sorely lacking ) , the only possible extrapolation to our observations is that a variety of age gradients likely implies a corresponding variety of formation channels .",
    "it will be of interest to see whether future type iii disk formation models can reproduce our observed age gradient distribution and if environmentally - triggered processes ( harassment ) are needed to achieve such an agreement .",
    "arguably the most interesting result to come out of our inspection of the age profiles for virgo type iiis is that a significant fraction ( 27% ) of them exhibit statistically - significant u - shapes , akin to those seen in formation models of type ii - ct disks . in this case , however , we find that the minima systematically occur well inside these galaxies breaks , as judged from the locations of the orange ( breaks ) and blue ( minima ) lines in .",
    "this agrees with @xcite who found that the stacked ( optical ) colour profile for type iiis in the field exhibits an inversion at roughly half the distance to their break radii . as for our type is and iis , we verified ( through bootstrap linear fits ) that each of proposed minima in our type iii sub - sample were defined by statistically - meaningful negative and positive age gradients leading into and out of them , respectively ( ) .",
    "since simulations of type ii - ct formation suggest that radial migrations foster u - shaped age profiles within these galaxies , we might speculate that a similar process is responsible for such profiles within type iii disks .",
    "in fact , @xcite have shown that a type iii luminosity profile could be produced through a minor merger onto a gas - rich disk , whereby the stars found beyond the remnant s break come predominantly from the progenitor disk .",
    "thus , the merger event effectively incites a migration of stars from the inner regions of the progenitor to the outer regions of the remnant . assuming the progenitor forms inside - out",
    ", this migratory process should raise the mean age of stars in the remnant s outskirts , thus giving rise to a u - shaped age profile . a minor merger origin for type iii disks",
    "is further supported by the observation that five of the six virgo type iiis exhibiting u - shaped age profiles also host bars , a phenomenon well known to be created , at least in part , by the pericenter passages of dwarf satellites .",
    "furthermore , dynamical simulations of barred galaxies have revealed that an age minimum should appear in the vicinity of the bar s ultra - harmonic and outer lindblad resonances @xcite . the bars in these virgo type iiis",
    "may then have played a key role in driving the radial migrations that we suspect were a principal component of their formation and might also explain why their age minima are found well into their interior regions . despite our best efforts though , understanding these observations would clearly benefit from more extensive type iii formation models .",
    "the data - model comparisons carried out in each of the three previous sections all point to the common interpretation that the evolution of disk galaxies is likely very different in field and cluster environments . while this idea is already well ingrained , our comparisons of the mean stellar age profiles for all types of virgo disk galaxies against predictions from hydrodynamic simulations for field galaxies ( and along with the fractions of each disk type as a function of environment ; )",
    "further bolster this claim .",
    "our argument can be extended with a plot in of the differential distribution of ( projected ) cluster - centric radii for our entire virgo disk galaxy sample , where galaxies have been binned and coloured according to their age gradients ( flat , positive , negative , u - shaped ) .",
    "the point types represent their luminosity profiles shape : type i , ii , iii .",
    "the coloured vertical lines correspond to the median value of each distribution . despite global projection effects , shows that virgo cluster galaxies with flat and positive age gradients are located preferentially closer to the cluster center than those with negative and u - shaped gradients .",
    "given our expectations that , in the field , type i disks would harbour negative age gradients and type ii and iii disks would have u - shaped gradients , a simple overall explanation is that all of these galaxies initially formed like their field counterparts , but upon entering the cluster , their ( local ) environments transformed their age gradients into flat and/or positive ones .",
    "conceptually speaking , such a transformation could be induced by ram pressure stripping and harassment ; processes which would conceivably quench the star formation in these galaxies outer disks ( thereby raising the mean stellar age there ) and radially mix the stellar populations throughout their disks ( thereby flattening any pre - existing gradients ) . in order to better understand the observations presented here though",
    ", environmentally - driven processes must be considered in future simulations of disk galaxy formation . moreover , the observational case for a cluster - centric radial dependence of age gradients in disk galaxies could be improved ( or disproved as the case may be ) with deep , multi - band imaging for a larger sample of cluster galaxies with more accurate distances @xcite .",
    "we have analysed the luminosity and mean stellar age profiles for a complete , magnitude - limited sample of disk galaxies drawn from the virgo cluster and shown that each of the three major disk galaxy types in this cluster can harbour statistically - meaningful inversions ( `` u - shapes '' ) in their age profiles , akin to those predicted by recent high - resolution simulations of type ii disk galaxy formation in the field @xcite . since the inversions found in the simulated galaxies were formed , in part , by radial migrations of disk stars ( and lacking guidance from simulations of cluster galaxies ) , we speculate that stellar migrations are a generic feature of galaxy formation , independent of both the disk galaxy type and the particular agent by which migrations are achieved ( bar , spiral arm , satellite ) . however , the fact that all of our cluster disk galaxiess , most notably six of our seven classically - truncated type iis ( as well as disks found in _ field _ environments ; @xcite ) , do not exhibit inversions in their age profiles and given the reduced fraction of type ii systems in the virgo cluster relative to the field , suggests that the significance of stellar migrations is likely sensitive to other prominent factors involved in galaxy evolution , such as environmentally - driven processes in clusters ( harassment ) .",
    "equally interesting is that , in the absence of u - shaped age profiles , most of our galaxies are described by age profiles having either flat or positive gradients , as opposed to the negative gradients generically predicted by formation models of exponential disks .",
    "we still interpret this observation as supporting a picture of disk galaxy evolution where environment plays a principal role .",
    "we have also shown that , for those type ii cluster galaxies in our sample which exhibit significant inversions in their age profiles , the locations of their luminosity profile breaks and age minima are correlated .",
    "this finding tentatively confirms the predictions of simulations of classically - truncated type iis @xcite and sets the stage for further simulation work since the above correlation suggests that process(es ) causing _ all _ manners of type ii breaks in disk galaxies would also generate inverted age profiles .",
    "however , while the simulations imply a direct ( 1:1 ) correspondence between the light profile break and age inversion radii , we find a significantly steeper slope ( @xmath27 ) for those two parameters .",
    "this result may indicate additional physics at play in the age profile inversion phenomenon or simply reflect some uncertainty in our ( visual ) assessment of those breaks and/or minima .",
    "still , although our hypothesis for a _ unified _ `` light profile break - age profile inversion '' correlation amongst all type ii disks is new , it complements previous findings of age inversions in _ classically - truncated _ type iis well inside of their respective breaks .    our results on the stellar populations of all three disk galaxy types within the cluster environment",
    "pose a challenge to current galaxy formation models , which we are likely explained by environmentally - induced evolutionary processes still missing in such models . in particular , future models may possibly reproduce the distribution of disk galaxy types and the respective mixture of age gradients in cluster galaxies once effects like ram pressure stripping and harassment have been accounted for .    in an appendix , we concur with @xcite that type ii breaks are seemingly absent in cluster s0 galaxies",
    ". we also view many of their type iii classifications as either single @xmath15 srsic profiles , bona fide disk upturns or type i disk systems with a faint stellar halo .",
    "the latter ought to be routinely detected in galaxy images reaching below @xmath28 , as in m31 @xcite .",
    "we thank peter erwin , kelly foyle , brad gibson and robert thacker for comments on an earlier version of this paper which led to valuable improvements .",
    "the referee s thoughtful suggestions also improved the content and clarity of our paper .",
    "j.r . and s.c .",
    "acknowledge financial support from the national science and engineering council of canada through a postgraduate scholarship and a discovery grant , respectively .",
    "is supported by the ministerio de ciencia e innovacion ( micinn ) of spain through the ramon y cajal programme . p.s.b . also acknowledges a marie curie intra - european reintegration grant within the 6th european framework program .",
    "support for this work was provided to m.m . by nasa through sao award number 2834-mit - sao-4018 , which is issued by the chandra x - ray observatory on behalf of nasa under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "we noted in that the 55 s0 galaxies from the @xcite sample were left out of our analysis . this is due to the complicated interpretation of their surface brightness profiles where the bulge component is typically dominant . according to the nir bulge - disk decompositions of @xcite , nearly two - thirds of the 55 s0s in our parent sample exhibit exponential - like profiles ( within their sky error envelopes ) .",
    "thus , without additional chemical or dynamical information , these structures could either be viewed as bulge- or disk - like . given the inherent challenges with analyzing s0 s faint outer disks and their acute sensitivity to sky levels , accurate modelling of their bulges via multi - band bulge - disk decompositions would be required in the pursuit of such a goal , a level of detail which lies beyond the scope of the present work ( see also @xcite ) .    given the non - trivial interpretation of the outer disks in s0 galaxies ,",
    "it seems prudent to examine the recent claims by er12 about virgo cluster s0 disks . using optical imaging largely from the sloan digital sky survey , as well as some of their own observations ,",
    "er12 compared the incidence of type ii breaks in field and cluster s0s to find that such features are entirely absent in the cluster s0s ( at least down to a limiting surface brightness of @xmath29 27 ) .",
    "rather , these authors find that the luminosity profiles of cluster s0s are evenly distributed between the type i and iii classes .",
    "shows the @xmath10 surface brightness profiles for the 18 s0 galaxies from our parent sample which overlap with er12 s virgo sample .",
    "our classification of pure exponential ( type i ) luminosity profiles for vcc 654 , 778 , 784 , 1253 , 1720 , 1813 and 2092 agrees with er12 .",
    "other luminosity profile shapes , such as er12 s type iiis , are however less clearly agreed upon .",
    "for instance , vcc 523 , 1154 , 1196 and 1537 have no discernible profile break or outer disk component and are modeled as a single srsic  structure in @xcite ; er12 instead view them as type iii systems ( with breaks located at 27 , 119 , 63and 29 ) .",
    "er12 also identify type iii profiles ( breaks ) in vcc 355 ( 83 ) , 759 ( 190 ) , 1827 ( 54 ) and 1902 ( 58 ) , yet our sky error envelopes , as shown in , make them consistent with both a single exponential or a type iii disk . an issue with our profile shape assessments",
    "is the relatively low signal - to - noise of the sdss images at levels where type iii breaks are normally detected .",
    "whether galaxies with outer profile upturns are viewed as a smooth srsic   bulge plus a type iii disk or a srsic  bulge plus a type i disk and a stellar halo depends highly on the nature of the isophotal fitting in the inner parts ( whether isophotes have concentric [ erwin ] or variable [ us ] position angles ) , the accuracy of sky subtraction , and the ability to distinguish a stellar disk from a stellar halo .",
    "this is not to say that disk profile upturns , or `` anti - truncated '' disks , are unexpected .",
    "these may result from a component which is actually independent from the disk itself , such as a stellar halo ( as seen in m31 ; @xcite ) or other accreted external material .",
    "such profile upturns , or disk / halo transitions , are typically seen at surface brightnesses below @xmath30  @xcite . with a typical limit of @xmath31  @xcite",
    ", our own sdss profiles are barely deep enough to assess the presence of disk / halo structures .",
    "the latter is clearly of tremendous interest , though once again , beyond the scope of the present study .",
    "type iii upturns may also be purely confined to the disk , as confirmed by spiral - arm structure which appears to extend beyond the type iii break radius ( ngc 3982 in @xcite ; see their fig .",
    "models which explain type iii disks via mechanisms other than pure accretion include harassment or minor mergers .",
    "the harassment simulations of @xcite show clearly the evolution of a type i disk into a type iii system .",
    "the minor merger models of @xcite also show that the `` outer light excess '' comes from disk stars in the original primary galaxy that gained angular momentum from the minor merger process .",
    "all things considered , though , the generation of a type iii profile always requires an external agent .    in summary , while we do not find type iii systems in our virgo cluster sample of s0 galaxies @xcite , we concur with er12 s important claim that type ii breaks are seemingly absent in s0 cluster galaxies .",
    "the latter is confirmed by examination of our virgo cluster sample @xcite .",
    "99 abadi , m.  g. , moore , b. , & bower , r.  g.   1999 , , 308 , 947 azzollini , r. , trujillo , i. , & beckman , j.  e.  2008 , , 679 , l69 bakos , j. , trujillo , i. , & pohlen , m.   2008 , apjl , 683 , l103 barker , m.  k. , ferguson , a.  m.  n. , cole , a.  a. , et  al .",
    "2011 , , 410 , 504 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. , & tammann , g.  a.  1985 , , 90 , 1681 bird , j.  c. , kazantzidis , s. , & weinberg , d.  h.  2012 , , 420 , 913 bland - hawthorn , j. , vlaji , m. , freeman , k.  c. , & draine , b.  t.  2005 , , 629 , 239 bournaud , f. , elmegreen , b.  g. , & elmegreen , d.  m.  2007 , , 670 , 237 courteau , s. , widrow , l.  m. , mcdonald , m. , et  al .",
    "2011 , , 739 , 20 debattista , v.  p. , mayer , l. , carollo , c.  m. , et  al .",
    "2006 , apj , 645 , 209 de grijs , r. , kregel , m. , & wesson , k.  h.  2001 , , 324 , 1074 de jong , r.  s. , seth , a.  c. , radburn - smith , d.  j. , et  al .",
    "2007 , , 667 , l49 dressler , a.  1980 , , 236 , 351 dutton , a.  a.  2009 , , 396 , 121 edvardsson , b. , andersen , j. , gustafsson , b. , et  al .  1993 , , 275 , 101 elmegreen , b.  g. , & parravano , a.  1994 , , 435 , l121 erwin , p. , beckman , j.  e. , & pohlen , m.   2005 , , 626 , l81 erwin , p. , pohlen , m. , & beckman , j.  e.   2008 , , 135 , 20  [ er08 ] erwin , p. , gutirrez , l. , & beckman , j.  e.  2012 , , 744 , l11  [ er12 ] fall , s.  m. , & efstathiou , g.  1980 , mnras , 193 , 189 ferguson , a.  m.  n. , & clarke , c.  j.   2001 , , 325 , 781 ferrarese , l. , ct , p. , cuillandre , j .- c .",
    ", et  al .  2012 , , 200 , 4 foyle , k. , courteau , s. , & thacker , r.  j.   2008 , mnras , 386 , 1821 freeman , k.  c.  1970 , , 160 , 811 gavazzi , g. , boselli , a. , van driel , w. , & oneil , k.  2005 , , 429 , 439 gil de paz , a. , madore , b.  f. , boissier , s. , et  al .",
    "2005 , , 627 , l29 gutirrez , l. , erwin , p. , aladro , r. , & beckman , j.  e.  2011 , , 142 , 145 hall , m. , courteau , s. , dutton , a.  a. , mcdonald , m. , & zhu , y.  2012 , , submitted haynes , m.  p. , & giovanelli , r.   1984 , , 89 , 758 haywood , m.  2008 , , 388 , 1175 kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .  1989 ,",
    "apj , 344 , 685 lin , d.  n.  c. , & pringle , j.  e.  1987 , , 320 , l87 maltby , d.  t. , gray , m.  e. , aragn - salamanca , a. , et  al .",
    "2011 , , 1649 martnez - serrano , f.  j. , serna , a. , domnech - moral , m. , & domnguez - tenreiro , r.   2009 , , 705 , l133  [ ms09 ] mccarthy , i.  g. , frenk , c.  s. , font , a.  s. , et  al .  2008 , , 383 , 593 mcdonald , m. , courteau , s. , & tully , r.  b.  2009 , , 394 , 2022 mcdonald , m. , courteau , s. , tully , r.  b. , & roediger , j.  2011 , , 414 , 2055 mei , s. , blakeslee , j.  p. , ct , p. , et  al .",
    "2007 , , 655 , 144 minchev , i. , & famaey , b.  2010 , , 722 , 112 moll , m. , & daz , a.  i.  2005 , , 358 , 521 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a.  1996 , nature , 379 , 613 moore , b. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , & stadel , j.  1999 , , 304 , 465 naab , t. , & ostriker , j.  p.  2006",
    ", , 366 , 899 nordstrm , b. , mayor , m. , andersen , j. , et  al .",
    "2004 , , 418 , 989 pohlen , m. , dettmar , r .- j . , ltticke , r. , & aronica , g.  2002 , , 392 , 807 pohlen , m. , & trujillo , i.  2006 , a&a , 454 , 759  [ pt06 ] prochaska chamberlain , l.  c. , courteau , s. , mcdonald , m. , & rose , j.  a.  2011 , , 412 , 423 quillen , a.  c. , minchev , i. , bland - hawthorn , j. , & haywood , m.  2009 , , 397 , 1599 radburn - smith , d.  j. , rokar , r. , debattista , v.  p. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 753 , 138 robertson , b. , yoshida , n. , springel , v. , & hernquist , l.  2004 , , 606 , 32 roediger , e. , & hensler , g.  2005 , , 433 , 875 roediger , j.  c. , courteau , s. , mcdonald , m. , & macarthur , l.  a.  2011 , , 416 , 1983 roediger , j.  c. , courteau , s. , macarthur , l.  a. , & mcdonald , m.  2011 , , 416 , 1996 rokar , r. , debattista , v.  p. , stinson , g.  s. , et  al .",
    "2008 , , 675 , l65  [ r08 ] snchez - blzquez , p. , courty , s. , gibson , b.  k. , & brook , c.  b.  2009 , , 398 , 591  [ sb09 ] schaye , j.  2004 , , 609 , 667 sellwood , j.  a. , & binney , j.  j.   2002 , , 336 , 785 slyz , a.  d. , devriendt , j.  e.  g. , silk , j. , & burkert , a.  2002 , , 333 , 894 spitzer , l. , jr .",
    ", & schwarzschild , m.  1953 , , 118 , 106 thilker , d.  a. , bianchi , l. , meurer , g. , et  al .",
    "2007 , , 173 , 538 van den bosch , f.  c.  2001 , , 327 , 1334 van der kruit , p.  c.  1979 , , 38 , 15 van der kruit , p.  c.  1987 , a&a , 173 , 59 vlaji , m. , bland - hawthorn , j. , & freeman , k.  c.  2009 , , 697 , 361 vollmer , b. , cayatte , v. , balkowski , c. , & duschl , w.  j.  2001 , , 561 , 708 wielen , r.  1977 , , 60 , 263 wielen , r. , fuchs , b. , & dettbarn , c.   1996 , , 314 , 438 williams , b.  f. , dalcanton , j.  j. , dolphin , a.  e. , holtzman , j. , & sarajedini , a.  2009 , , 695 , l15 wozniak , h.  2007 , , 465 , l1 yoachim , p. , rokar , r. , & debattista , v.  p.  2010",
    ", , 716 , l4 yoachim , p. , rokar , r. , & debattista , v.  p.  2012",
    ", , 752 , 97 younger , j.  d. , cox , t.  j. , seth , a.  c. , & hernquist , l.  2007 , , 670 , 269      ccc 0583 & -5.70 & + 1.78 @xmath26 0.51 1410 & -2.13 @xmath26 0.40 & + 3.05 @xmath26 0.38 1566 & -6.88 @xmath26 1.80 & + 0.56 @xmath26 0.30 0596 & -0.32 @xmath26 0.02 & + 0.05 @xmath26 0.02 0849 & -3.61 @xmath26 0.72 & + 1.25 @xmath26 0.42 0865 & -0.19 @xmath26 0.04 & + 0.56 @xmath26 0.02 1021 & -2.04 & + 1.29 @xmath26 0.29 1654 & -1.09 & + 4.72 @xmath26 0.95 1929 & -0.58 @xmath26 0.18 & + 0.54 @xmath26 0.07 1943 & -0.59 @xmath26 0.16 & + 0.35 @xmath26 0.11 1987 & -0.40 @xmath26 0.03 & + 0.48 @xmath26 0.02 0692 & -2.04 @xmath26 0.78 & + 0.88 @xmath26 0.30 0912 & -0.78 @xmath26 0.34 & + 0.31 @xmath26 0.04 1379 & -0.60 @xmath26",
    "0.11 & + 1.10 @xmath26 0.11 1686 & -1.82 @xmath26 0.37 & + 2.26 @xmath26 1.18 1811 & -1.67 @xmath26 0.46 & + 0.54 @xmath26 0.23 2012 & -0.28 @xmath26 0.08 & + 0.42 @xmath26 0.35 [ tbl : agegrads ]    ccrrr 0510 & sd & 1.495 & ... & ... 0583 & i m & 1.594 & 1.795 &",
    "1.126 0825 & i m & 1.492 & ... & ... 0857 & sb(r)b & 3.209 & ... & ...",
    "0980 & i m & 2.272 & ... & ... 1047 & sb(rs)a & 1.831 & ... & ...",
    "1410 & scd & 0.985 & 1.469 & 1.492 1448 & i m & 3.120 & ... & ...",
    "1450 & ib(s)m & 2.647 & ... & ... 1524 & sab(s)m & 3.179 & ... & ...",
    "1566 & sdm & 2.510 & 1.257 & 0.501 1569 & scd & 1.320 & ... & ... 1585 & ibm & 1.645 & ... & ...",
    "1588 & sab(rs)cd & 2.619 & ... & ... 1678 & sm & 2.412 & ... & ...",
    "1684 & scd & 1.615 & ... & ... 1825 & i m & 0.860 & ... & ... 1890 & i m & 1.673 & ... & ... 1897 & sd & 2.157 & ... & ... 1931 & i m & 1.530 & ... & ... [ tbl : typeidat ]    cccrrrrr 0522 & sab(r)a & o - olr+iii & 2.396 & 3.297 & 1.376 & ... & ... 0596 & sab(s)bc & o - ab+iii & 8.398 & 8.242 & 0.981 & 8.554 & 1.019 0620 & sm & ab & 1.157 & 0.577 & 0.497 & ... & ... 0664 & ib(s)m & o - ct & 2.014 & 5.357 & 2.660 & ... & ... 0792 & s(rs)b & ct+iii & 4.019 & 5.769 & 1.434 & ... & ...",
    "0849 & sab(s)c & ab+iii & 1.720 & 2.102 & 1.222 & 1.790 & 1.041 0865 & sd & ct+iii & 6.716 & 5.522 & 0.822 & 5.188 &",
    "0.773 0945 & i m & ab & 1.947 & 1.154 & 0.592 & ... & ... 1021 & iabm & i+iii & 1.273 & 0.824 & 0.604 & 0.587 & 0.428 1126 & sb & ct+iii & 2.280 & 3.297 & 1.445 & ... & ... 1200 & i m & ab & 1.412 & 0.742 & 0.437 & ... & ... 1508 & sb(rs)d & o - ct+iii & 2.486 & 5.769 & 2.321 & ... & ... 1532 & sb(rs)c & o - ab+iii & 2.510 & 1.648 & 0.657 & ... & ... 1555 & sab(s)c & o - ab & 20.877 & 13.187 & 0.632 & ... & ... 1654 & iabm & o - ab & 1.110 & 0.742 & 0.666 & 0.571 & 0.513 1696 & s(r)d & ct+iii & 3.043 & 6.181 & 2.031 & ... & ...",
    "1726 & i m & ab & 1.738 & 1.484 & 0.838 & ... & ...",
    "1929 & sab(s)dm & o - olr+iii & 2.871 & 2.225 & 0.775 & 1.664 & 0.580 1943 & sab(rs)bc & i+iii & 2.151 & 2.225 & 1.034 & 2.741 & 1.276 1952 & i m & ab & 0.959 & 1.154 & 1.204 & ... & ... 1987 & sab(rs)cd & o - ab+iii & 4.940 & 6.593 & 1.335 & 8.554 & 1.732 2058 & s(rs)bc & ct+iii & 4.026 & 4.533 & 1.126 & ... & ... [ tbl : typeiidat ]    ccrrrrr 0483 & s(rs)c & 3.551 & 9.885 & 2.784 & 4.176 & 1.176 0692 & sb(rs)ab & 2.372 & 4.943 & 2.083 & 2.984 & 1.258 0809 & sdm & 2.252 & 5.769 & 2.562 & ... & ... 0912 & sb(rs)ab & 2.461 & 12.356 & 5.022 & 1.942 & 0.789 1110 & s(s)ab & 3.955 & 20.605 & 5.209 & ... & ... 1326 & sb(s)a & 2.084 & 4.531 & 2.174 & ... & ... 1358 & sa & 1.188 & 3.709 & 3.121 & ... & ... 1379 & sab(s)d & 3.260 & 8.238 & 2.527 & 3.818 & 1.171 1393 & sbcd & 1.742 & 4.121 & 2.365 & ... & ... 1479 & sb(rs)ab & 1.839 & 4.119 & 2.240 & ... & ... 1486 & sab(s)b & 0.900 & 4.121 & 4.579 & ... & ... 1575 & ibm & 2.143 & 2.883 & 1.346 & 0.568 & 0.265 1615 & sb(rs)b & 5.427 & 16.484 & 3.037 & ... & ... 1686 & ibm & 2.750 & 9.061 & 3.295 & 1.485 & 0.540 1727 & sab(rs)b & 4.563 & 18.123 & 3.972 & ... & ... 1757 & sab(s)a & 1.614 & 5.766 & 3.573 & ... & ...",
    "1811 & sab(rs)b & 1.562 & 4.119 & 2.637 & 2.188 & 1.401 1972 & sab(rs)c & 7.806 & 6.181 & 0.792 & ... & ... 2012 & scd & 2.416 & 5.766 & 2.387 & 3.214 & 1.330 2023 & sc & 2.663 & 4.533 & 1.702 & ... & ...",
    "2042 & sabd & 1.930 & 2.059 & 1.067 & ... & ... 2070 & s(s)ab & 2.742 & 9.066 & 3.306 & ... & ... [ tbl : typeiiidat ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new stellar age profiles , derived from well - resolved optical and near - infrared images of 64 virgo cluster disk galaxies , whose analysis poses a challenge for current disk galaxy formation models . </S>",
    "<S> our ability to break the age - metallicity degeneracy and the significant size of our sample represent key improvements over complementary studies of field disk galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> our results can be summarized as follows : first , and contrary to observations of disk galaxies in the field , these cluster galaxies are distributed almost equally amongst the three main types of disk galaxy luminosity profiles ( i / ii / iii ) , indicating that the formation and/or survival of type ii breaks is suppressed within the cluster environment . </S>",
    "<S> second , we find examples of statistically - significant inversions ( `` u - shapes '' ) in the age profiles of all three disk galaxy types , reminescent of predictions from high - resolution simulations of classically - truncated type ii disks in the field . </S>",
    "<S> these features characterize the age profiles for only about a third ( @xmath036% ) of each disk galaxy type in our sample </S>",
    "<S> . an even smaller fraction of cluster disks ( @xmath111% of the total sample ) , exhibit age profiles which decrease outwards ( negative age gradients ) . instead , </S>",
    "<S> flat and/or positive age gradients prevail ( @xmath250% ) within our type i , ii and iii sub - samples . </S>",
    "<S> these observations thus suggest that while stellar migrations and inside - out growth can play a significant role in the evolution of _ all _ disk galaxy types , other factors contributing to the evolution of galaxies can overwhelm the predicted signatures of these processes . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret our observations through a scenario whereby virgo cluster disk galaxies formed initially like their bretheren in the field but which , upon falling into the cluster , were transformed into their present state through external processes linked to the environment ( ram pressure stripping , harassment ) . </S>",
    "<S> current disk galaxy formation models , which have largely focused on _ field _ galaxies , fail to reproduce these results , thus calling for adequate hydrodynamical simulations of dense galaxy environments if we are to understand cluster disks . </S>",
    "<S> the current paper highlights numerous constraints for such simulations . in the appendix </S>",
    "<S> , we confirm the claim by @xcite that type ii breaks are absent in virgo cluster s0s and discuss the detection of type iii breaks in such galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}