{
  "article_text": [
    "at the time of this symposium , corot has observed about 125 selected bright stars ( 5.4@xmath0m@xmath19.5 ) with a 1s sampling time and a noise level dominated by the photon counting noise ( approximately @xmath2 ) and about 130000 fainter ones ( 11@xmath0m@xmath116 ) with a 512s sampling time and a noise level about 2 times the photon noise ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "these observations are composed of long runs ( 140 - 170 days ) for 40% , intermediate runs ( 60 - 80 days ) for 24% and short runs ( 20 - 30 days ) for 36% ( see fig.1 ) .",
    "they all show a duty cycle larger than 90% .",
    "the stars observed cover a large variety of masses and evolution stages ( see fig.2 ) as planed in the original scientific programme ( see michel et al .",
    "a practical objective for corot was to characterize stellar oscillations by measuring with precision mode parameters ( frequencies , amplitudes , lifetimes , ... ) . in this respect ,",
    "the solar - type pulsators were the most challenging and one of the first success of corot was to perform measurements of mode parameters for solar - type oscillations in stars other than the sun .",
    "the first observations of early f stars like hd  49933 and hd  181420 ( see appourchaux et al . 2008 ,",
    "barban et al . 2009 ) revealed amplitudes only slightly lower than expected , but lifetimes shorter by a factor 3 .",
    "since then , observations have been extended with succes to more evolved stars like hd49385 ( see deheuvels et al .",
    "2010 , and these proceedings ) , but also to stars closer to the sun in terms of mass and evolution stage like hd  52265 ( see ballot et al .",
    "2011 , and these proceedings ) or hd  43587 ( boumier et al . these proceedings ) and recently to hd  42618 , a g type star with a large separation @xmath4hz , presently the closest to the sun for which individual modes are measured ( see fig.3 ) .    for self sustained ( opacity driven )",
    "pulsators , the corot data allowed to characterize modes hundred times smaller in amplitude than what was previously done , on time scales unaccessible so far ( see e.g. poretti et al . , briquet et al .",
    ", neiner et al . , these proceedings ) .    finally ,",
    "for many stars accross the hr diagram , the corot light curves revealed signature of phenomena other than oscillations , like spots or granulation in f stars , but also probably in hot o stars ( blomme et al .",
    "2011 ) and red giant stars ( carrier et al . 2009 ) and possibly in a stars ( kallinger & matthews 2010 ) .",
    "then , the pattern of mixed - modes characterizing the stellar core was also revealed in kepler and corot data ( beck et al .",
    "2011 ; mosser et al .",
    "2011 ) . as shown by bedding et al .",
    "( 2011 ) and by mosser et al .",
    "( 2011 ) , this pattern depends on the evolutionary stage .",
    "the differences are detected in the seismic data and then allow to discriminate red giants burning hydrogen in shell ( red giant branch ) from those burning helium in the core ( red giant horizontal branch ) , which are undistinguishable from their surface fundamental parameters .",
    "the corot data have given a strong push to stellar seismology and the domain is gaining rapidly in maturity .",
    "as anticipated , they allow to address open questions of stellar physics in a new light .",
    "it is also very appealing to see how these data may find applications in various connex domains beyond stellar physics . among the first most obvious ones ,",
    "the link between stars and planets problematics and the potential contribution to galactic population study have been stressed in the programme of this symposium ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> about 2 years ago , back in 2009 , the first corot symposium was the occasion to present and discuss unprecedented data revealing the behaviour of stars at the micromagnitude level . </S>",
    "<S> since then , the observations have been going on , the target sample has enriched and the work of analysis of these data keeps producing first rank results .    </S>",
    "<S> these analyses are providing the material to address open questions of stellar structure and evolution and to test the so many physical processes at work in stars . based on this material , </S>",
    "<S> an increasing number of interpretation studies is being published , addressing various key aspects : the extension of mixed cores , the structure of near surface convective zones , magnetic activity , mass loss , ... definitive conclusions will require cross - comparison of results on a larger ground ( still being built ) , but it is already possible at the time of this second corot symposium , to show how the various existing results take place in a general framework and contribute to complete our initial scientific objectives . </S>",
    "<S> a few results already reveal the potential interest in considering stars and planets globally , as it is stressed in several talks at this symposium . </S>",
    "<S> it is also appealing to consider the fast progress in the domain of red giants and see how they illustrate the promising potential of space photometry beyond the field of stellar physics , in connex fields like galactic dynamics and evolution . </S>"
  ]
}