{
  "article_text": [
    "the notion of cognitive dissonance as the unpleasant motivational state that results from the inconsistency between people s behaviors and cognitions was put forward by the stanford psychologist leon festinger about five decades ago @xcite . as first noted by festinger , to reduce this dissonance people seek to rationalize their behaviors by overvaluing their choices and undervaluing the rejected alternatives .    the recognition that cognitive dissonance plays a key role in people",
    "s behavior when choosing between alternatives led to the introduction of the so - called free - choice paradigm @xcite : since the selected alternative is unlikely to be perfect , and the rejected one is likely to have some desirable properties , making an irreversible choice between them leads to the feeling of discomfort associated to cognitive dissonance .",
    "interestingly , the literature on the free - choice problem has focused exclusively on the _ post - decision _ changes in the assessment of the values of the alternatives , i.e. , overvaluing our choices @xcite , a finding that is closely related to the basic human bias of overestimating what we own , the so - called endowment effect @xcite .    in this contribution",
    "we begin the exploration of a different research vein , namely , the characterization of the emotions people feel at the very moment they are prompted to make a decision or to choose between two qualitatively different alternatives ",
    "these are the emotions of cognitive dissonances .",
    "of course , the quantitative characterization of emotions  whether associated to cognitive dissonances or not  is itself a major research problem to which there is no consensual solution at the moment @xcite .",
    "here we follow russell s suggestion that whenever a measure of emotion is needed one should use scales of pleasure - displeasure and arousal - sleepiness @xcite . accordingly",
    ", we have presented a questionnaire containing 10 choice - questions to 34 participants and asked them to rate the intensity and the hedonicity ( pleasantness ) of the emotions elicited by those choices . in a second part of the experiment",
    ", we ask the participants to write a single emotion word that best describes the nature of the experienced emotion .",
    "the main drawback of our experimental procedure is that by registering the degrees of arousal and pleasantness only , we discard _ a priori _ other dimensions that may also be important to characterize the emotions of cognitive dissonance .",
    "nevertheless , even within this limited scenario we can test whether those emotions can be described by the circumplex model of affect , in which emotions are arranged in a circular form with two bipolar dimensions interpreted as the degree of pleasure and the degree of arousal @xcite . in that sense",
    ", emotions mix together in a continuous manner like hues around the color circle @xcite . a reorientation and , consequently , reinterpretation of the axes of the circumplex model as positive affect and negative affect has been suggested to correct for the fact that there were few emotions in the neutral middle region of the pleasantness - unpleasantness axis @xcite .",
    "we found that the measures of arousal @xmath0 and pleasantness @xmath1 obtained from the questionnaires are not independent quantities , contrary to the prediction of the circumplex model .",
    "most remarkably , however , we found that the axes determined by the directions of the first and second principal components of the matrix of data were in fact associated to actual dimensions of pleasantness and arousal according to the emotion words used by the participants .",
    "in addition , the central region of the @xmath2 plane where the circumplex model predicts emotions should be absent is fittingly described by the word _ indecision _ by the majority of the participants .",
    "hence in the context of the experiment reported here we conclude that our characterization of the emotions of cognitive dissonance is consistent with the predictions of the circumplex model .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows . in sect .",
    "[ sec : method ] we describe the procedure used to apply the questionnaires with the choice questions to the participants .",
    "the items of the questionnaires are presented in the appendix . in sect .",
    "[ sec : res ] we present a statistical study of the answers to the choice questions , emphasizing the differences due to the gender of the participants .",
    "the correspondence between emotion words and the regions in the @xmath2 plane is obtained using a clustering algorithm and the suitability of the circumplex model to represent our data is discussed in that section too . finally , sect .",
    "[ sec : conc ] summarizes our main conclusions .",
    "an abridged version of the present paper was published in @xcite .",
    "as is previous studies @xcite , mental experience was explored in interviews where participants answered printed questionnaires ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "thirty - four anonymous participants ( who were referred to by numbers only ) , 17 men ( age @xmath3 yr . ) and 17 women ( age @xmath4 yr . ) were presented two questionnaires each containing ten items .",
    "both questionnaires presented the same items , but the participant was asked to rate experienced pleasantness or hedonicity ( @xmath1 ) from one and intensity ( @xmath0 ) from the other .",
    "all items described a decision to be made among two conflicting motivations and the participant was to rate analogically the magnitude of her / his experience .",
    "questionnaire e explored emotion : a horizontal line was present below the item with a zero mark on its left end .",
    "the participant was to pencil a small vertical mark at that line rating the intensity of the experienced feeling .",
    "the distance from the zero mark would indicate the magnitude of the experience , denoted by @xmath0 .",
    "after rating the magnitude of the emotion , the participant wrote one word describing the nature of the experienced emotion , e.g. , curiosity , surprise , joy , indifference , anger , etc .. we were able to obtain the emotion words from 33 of the 34 participants .",
    "questionnaire h explored hedonicity : as before , a horizontal line was present below the item but with a zero on its middle , a minus ( - ) sign at the left end and a plus ( + ) sign at the right end .",
    "the participant was to pencil a small vertical mark on the right side of that line if the feeling was pleasant , or on the left side if unpleasant .",
    "the distance from the middle ( zero mark ) of the line would indicate the magnitude of the experienced hedonic feeling , denoted by @xmath1 .",
    "thus , the hedonic and magnitude feelings were measured quantitatively in millimeters , as well as recorded semantically . in order to minimize a possible influence of answering one questionnaire on the response to the other questionnaire , questionnaires e and h",
    "were presented separately over time spans that varied from about one hour to half a day , depending on the availability of the participant ; 17 of them received questionnaire e first , then questionnaire h and the other 17 started with questionnaire h. the first questionnaire was presented in the morning period with the care to keep the gender of the participants balanced , and the second questionnaire was presented in the afternoon .",
    "the ten items describing decisions to be made covered a broad range of motivations , from minor decisions in the daily life ( e.g. , how about movie or theater for tonight ? ) to clear but non - vital problems ( e.g. , would you go for a high - gain but risky investment or for a low - gain but secure one ? ) and finally to vital problems ( e.g. , would you go for radical surgery or for life - long therapy to treat a severe illness ? ) .",
    "the ten items are presented in the appendix .",
    "our analysis of the answers to the questionnaire items is greatly facilitated by the fact that they can be represented in a two dimensional arousal - pleasantness @xmath5 graph .",
    "so we begin our study by presenting a scatter plot showing the raw data ( sect .",
    "[ sp ] ) and then proceed to a more detailed account of the gender - dependent distribution of answers for each choice question ( sect .  [ qd ] ) .",
    "the assignment of emotion names to each item of the questionnaire allows us to use those names to tag points in the @xmath5 plane and then define the distances between emotion words as the euclidean distance between points in that plane .",
    "given these distances we use a hierarchical clustering algorithm to partition the emotion names into 8 categories ( sect .",
    "[ emotion ] ) .",
    "a summary of the main results is presented in sect .",
    "[ discussion ] .",
    "our first task is to turn the analogical measures @xmath0 and @xmath1 into dimensionless quantities . recalling that the degree of arousal @xmath0 takes on positive values only and the degree of pleasantness @xmath1 takes on positive as well as negative values",
    ", we can rescale these measures by their maximum and minimum values so that @xmath6 $ ] and @xmath7 $ ] , without loss of generality . in order to facilitate the visual inspection of the spread of these quantities in a two dimensional graph ,",
    "we have equated the sizes of the domains of @xmath0 and @xmath1 .    in fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] we show that two - dimensional graph ( scatter plot ) where the symbols indicate the values of the properly rescaled degrees of arousal @xmath8 and pleasantness @xmath1 for the 340 points associated to the 10 choice questions of the 34 participants , as described in the previous section .",
    "we have separated the answers  for simplicity we will refer to a coordinate @xmath9 as an answer to a corresponding choice question  according to the gender of the participants so that the crosses in fig .  [ fig:1 ] represent men s answers and the circles , women s . in particular , the mean degrees of arousal and pleasantness associated to men s answers are @xmath10 ( standard deviation @xmath11 ) and @xmath12 ( standard deviation @xmath13 ) , respectively , whereas for women s we find @xmath14 ( standard deviation @xmath15 ) and @xmath16 ( standard deviation @xmath17 ) . regardless of gender , these statistical measures yield @xmath18 ( standard deviation @xmath19 ) and @xmath20 ( standard deviation @xmath21 ) , which are also presented in the scatter plot of fig .  [ fig:1 ] .",
    "interestingly , in the average , women exhibited a higher degree of arousal but a lower degree of pleasantness than men .",
    "the histograms exhibiting the distribution of @xmath0 and @xmath1 values were presented in @xcite ; here we just mention that about @xmath22 of the @xmath1 values are very close to its mean value so @xmath23 is actually the most likely value of @xmath1 ( visual inspection of the scatter plot confirms this claim ) , whereas only about @xmath24 of the values of @xmath0 are very close to its mean @xmath25 .      in order to better acquaint the readers with the participants answers to the ten choice questions , we present in figs .",
    "[ fig:2 ] and [ fig:3 ] the degrees of arousal and pleasantness separated by gender for each question .",
    "in addition , tables [ table1 ] and [ table2 ] exhibit the mean values of those degrees ; the standard deviations can be estimated by visual inspection of the figures . to appreciate the underlying structure of the participant",
    "answers we compare them with a null model in which @xmath0 and @xmath1 are chosen randomly and uniformly in the ranges @xmath26 $ ] and @xmath27 $ ] . in this case",
    "the null model mean degree of arousal associated to a given item is a sum of 34 independent random variables uniformly distributed in @xmath26 $ ] and so it has mean @xmath28 and standard deviation @xmath29 .",
    "the same is true for the null model mean degree of pleasantness except that its mean is zero .",
    "inspection of tables [ table1 ] and [ table2 ] indicate that for some items the range of variation of the participants answers is far greater than that predicted by the null model .",
    ".mean degree of arousal for men ( @xmath30 ) , women @xmath31 and gender - independent ( @xmath25 ) for the ten choice questions .",
    "the last column shows a sample of the null model .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ table7 ]      to conclude our analysis we partition the 340 points in the scatter plot of fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] into 8 clusters using ward s minimum variance hierarchical clustering algorithm .",
    "note that , except for the emotion words used only once and so represented by a single point in the scatter graph , this partition is different from the clustering of the 77 words into the 8 categories summarized in table [ table6 ] . the resulting partition together with the location of the emotion name categories given in table [ table7 ] are exhibited in fig .  [ fig:5 ] .",
    "that figure together with table [ table6 ] allow us to offer an interpretation for the 8 emotion name categories , namely , i ( pleasure ) , ii ( uneasiness ) , iii ( indifference ) , iv ( displeasure ) , v ( desire ) , vi ( indecision ) , vii ( furor ) , and viii ( disappointment ) .",
    "of course , although there is a considerable degree of arbitrariness in the naming of these categories we have chosen names that are representative of the _ majority _ of the member words of a category .",
    "a few words are in order about fig .",
    "[ fig:5 ] which summarizes the main results of our analysis of the participants answers to the items of the questionnaires presented in the appendix .",
    "category vi is located at the center of the @xmath32 plane and so correspond to answers which are inconsiderable from both the arousal and the pleasantness dimensions . in addition , the list of emotion words used to describe those answers comprehends pairs of antagonistic words such as _ discomfort _ and _ serenity _ , and _ interest _ and _",
    "boredom_. overall there is a well - balanced mixture of positive and negative emotion words which cancel out and in the average one get neutral words such as _ incertitude _ and _ indecision _ which we think provide a very good description for category vi : it is not associated to any particular emotion name .",
    "this is a most interesting situation because one of the predictions of the circumplex model of affect is exactly an empty region in the center of the @xmath32 plane @xcite .",
    "another interesting point , is that classes i ( pleasure ) and iv ( displeasure ) are diametrically opposed , though not along the @xmath1 axis as one would expect .    as pointed out in sect .",
    "[ qd ] , our finding that the measures @xmath0 and @xmath1 are correlated , in spite of the experimental effort to minimize their influences on each other , prompts us to look for a set of uncorrelated variables to describe the experimental points of the scatter plot shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] .",
    "this is easily achieved using principal component analysis ( pca ) and the results are exhibited by the orthogonal straight lines in fig .",
    "[ fig:5 ] .",
    "the first principal component has the slope @xmath33 and the second has the slope @xmath34 , so they are really orthogonal ; they look distorted because the figure is not a square .",
    "most interestingly , the principal component corresponds to the effective dimension of pleasantness since categories i and iv are roughly located at its opposite extremes .",
    "the interpretation of the second principal component is more difficult .",
    "categories vii ( furor ) and ii ( uneasiness ) fall very close to that axis which seems to represent a decrease in arousal ( furor is more intense than uneasiness ) but the lack of points in the other extreme of this axis prevents a more assertive interpretation .    in summary , given the pca reorientation of the axis and the interpretation of category vi as a ` non - emotion ' class we found that our characterization of cognitive dissonance emotions is consistent with the circumplex model of affect .",
    "decision - making in situations of conflicting motivations ( cognitive dissonance ) is a source of emotion , usually described as a feeling of discomfort that results from holding two conflicting thoughts simultaneously in the mind .",
    "these decisions appear to be made in the hedonic dimension of consciousness ; the hedonic experience taking place as an actual or an expected reward . in this paper",
    "we made a step toward exploring a new type of emotions , aesthetic emotions related to knowledge or more specifically , emotions of cognitive dissonance related to contradictions between two pieces of knowledge .",
    "these emotions could _ in principle _ be different from basic emotions . whereas specific words exist to name basic emotions , there are no specific words for most emotions of cognitive dissonance .",
    "this fact might be a reason that these emotions have not been systematically studied in the psychological literature .",
    "although the expression ` cognitive dissonance ' has been used for a long time @xcite , emotions of cognitive dissonance have not been recognized as a special type of emotions different in principle from basic emotions . by presenting to participants questions as alternative mental choices",
    ", our paper presents the first steps to address the intricate issue of distinguishing experimentally between aesthetic and basic emotions .    on the one hand",
    ", it can be argued that there is a fundamental theoretical difference between basic and aesthetic emotions .",
    "following @xcite , basic emotions can be considered as feelings and mental states related to neural signals , which indicate to various brain regions satisfaction or dissatisfaction of fundamental organism needs .",
    "mechanisms measuring these needs we call instincts . hence basic emotions are mostly related to bodily needs , whereas aesthetic emotions are related to the need for knowledge .",
    "in addition , @xcite argues that emotions of cognitive dissonance could be in some way similar to musical emotions .    on the other hand ,",
    "the experimental study reported here failed to uncover any distinction between basic and cognitive dissonance emotions ; rather we found that the latter can be described remarkably well by the circumplex model , which is a structural model proposed to describe basic emotions @xcite .",
    "it might well be that our experimental setup centered on the record of the degrees of arousal @xmath0 and pleasantness @xmath1 elicited by the choice questions is not sensitive enough for the fine distinctions required to differentiate details of aesthetic emotions .",
    "the measurement of other emotion dimensions in addition to @xmath0 and @xmath1 may be necessary for achieving that fine distinction , if indeed it exists .    to conclude , we note that understanding the underlying psychological structure of emotions is germane for the development of robotic systems capable of exhibiting as well as recognizing emotion - like responses @xcite . in fact",
    ", according to our results and , more generally , in conformity with the predictions of the circumplex model of affect @xcite , the combination of two quantities  the degree of arousal @xmath0 and the degree of pleasantness @xmath1  can explain a large part of the spectrum of human emotional experience .",
    "hence the design of artificial neural networks with sensors and estimators for these two quantities may be an efficient manner to mimic human - like emotion responses in machines .",
    "the neural network models for decision making based on positive or negative affect directed at objects or potential actions @xcite can be viewed as examples of work in this research direction .",
    "the research at so carlos was supported by the southern office of aerospace research and development ( soard ) , grant fa9550 - 10 - 1 - 0006 , and conselho nacional de desenvolvimento cientfico e tecnolgico ( cnpq ) .",
    "the 10 items of questionnaire e aiming at measuring the degree of arousal of the evoked emotion are presented below .",
    "we note that the questions were formulated in french ( the participants were native french speakers ) , so the following items are a nonliteral translation of the original items .    1 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer red or white wine to accompany duck with orange ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 2 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer cinema or theater ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 3 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer the sea or the mountain for the holiday season ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 4 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer to receive a large amount of money in a single parcel or the same amount in small parcels ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 5 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer a secure but relatively poorly paid job or a very well - paid job but at risk of loss of employment ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 6 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer to hear a violin or a piano sonata ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 7 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : if your employer requires you to learn a scandinavian language , which one would you prefer , norwegian or swedish ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 8 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : in order to treat a serious illness would you opt for a quick surgery or for a life - long therapy ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 9 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : do you prefer a comprehensive but very expensive insurance or a cheaper one but with many gaps ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max 10 .",
    "focus on what you feel when you are asked to make the following choice : would you vote for a right wing party , which guarantees citizen s security , or for a left wing party , which promotes an egalitarian society ?",
    "do you feel an emotion at the idea of this choice ?",
    "indicate its intensity on the line below .",
    "+ 0 ( 1,0 ) 180 max    in order to measure the degree of pleasantness felt by the participants in making those choices , they were presented the same ten - questions questionnaire and after reading each item they were asked to rate their pleasure by penciling a small vertical mark on the straight line      here the - sign indicates a most unpleasant choice and the + sign a most pleasant one , and the distance from zero is the analog magnitude rating of hedonicity .",
    "this set of questions comprises questionnaire h as described in sect . [",
    "sec : method ] .",
    "bonniot - cabanac , m .- c . , & cabanac , m. ( 2010 ) . do government officials decide more rationally than the rest of us ?",
    "a study using participants from the legislature , the executive , and the judiciary .",
    "_ social behavior & personality _ , _ 38 _ , 11471152 .",
    "botti , s. , & iyengar , s. s. ( 2004 ) . the psychological pleasure and pain of choosing",
    ": when people prefer choosing at the cost of subsequent outcome satisfaction . _ journal of personality and social psychology _ , _ 87 _ , 312326",
    "fontanari , j.f .",
    ", bonniot - cabanac , m .- c . ,",
    "cabanac , m. , & perlovsky , l.i .",
    "emotions of cognitive dissonance .",
    "_ proceedings of the 2011 international joint conference on neural networks ( ijcnn ) _",
    ". 95102 ) .",
    "grossberg , s. , & levine , d. s. ( 1987 ) .",
    "neural dynamics of attentionally modulated pavlovian conditioning : blocking , interstimulus interval , and secondary reinforcement . _ applied optics _ , _ 26 _ , 50155030 .",
    "russell , j. a. ( 1989 ) .",
    "measures of emotion . in : r. plutchik , & h. kellerman ( eds . ) , _ emotion : theory , research , and experience _",
    "4 : the measurement of emotions , pp . 83 - 111 ) .",
    "new york : academic press .",
    "russell , j. a. , & feldman barrett , l. ( 1999 ) .",
    "core affect , prototypical emotional episodes , and other things called emotion : dissecting the elephant .",
    "_ journal of personality and social psychology _ , _ 76 _ , 805819 .",
    "shultz , t. r. , lveill , e. , & lepper , m. r. ( 1999 ) .",
    "free choice and cognitive dissonance revisited : choosing `` lesser evils '' versus `` greater goods '' .",
    "_ personality and social psychology bulletin _",
    ", _ 25 _ , 4048 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cognitive dissonance is the stress that comes from holding two conflicting thoughts simultaneously in the mind , usually arising when people are asked to choose between two detrimental or two beneficial options . in view of the well - established role of emotions in decision making , here we investigate whether the conventional structural models used to represent the relationships among basic emotions , such as the circumplex model of affect , can describe the emotions of cognitive dissonance as well . </S>",
    "<S> we presented a questionnaire to 34 anonymous participants , where each question described a decision to be made among two conflicting motivations and asked the participants to rate analogically the pleasantness and the intensity of the experienced emotion . </S>",
    "<S> we found that the results were compatible with the predictions of the circumplex model for basic emotions . </S>"
  ]
}