{
  "article_text": [
    "non - starforming galaxies in clusters exhibit a tight sequence in colour - magnitude space known as the red sequence ( eg .",
    "visvanathan 1978 ; bower et al .",
    "1992 ) , which is in place as early as @xmath12 ( eg . bell et al .",
    "2004 , mei et al . 2006 ) .",
    "less understood is how the number of red sequence galaxies and their distribution with stellar mass / absolute magnitude evolves with cosmic time .",
    "understanding the assembly history of the red sequence is critical as these galaxies represent the bulk of the stellar mass in clusters at the present epoch .",
    "a useful metric for probing this assembly history is the ratio of the number of luminous red sequence galaxies ( giants ) to the number of faint red sequence galaxies ( dwarfs ) .",
    "this is essentially a non - parametric representation of the luminosity function using only 2 bins and is commonly referred to as the giant - to - dwarf ratio ( gdr ) .",
    "there is an ongoing debate regarding the presence or absence of evolution in the gdr and/or its reciprocal the dwarf - to - giant ratio ( dgr ) .",
    "de lucia et al . ( 2007 ) for instance , finds significant evolution in the gdr , amounting to a change from gdr@xmath13 to gdr@xmath14 over the redshift range @xmath15 .",
    "the analysis of low redshift ( @xmath16 ) cluster data by capozzi et al .",
    "( 2010 ) supports the extrapolation of this trend to lower redshift .",
    "stott et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) also find strong evolution in the dgr using somewhat brighter absolute magnitude limits for the definition of dwarfs .",
    "in contrast , crawford et al . (",
    "2009 ) look at 59 clusters at redshift @xmath17 and , though they do not measure the gdr directly , conclude that there is little evolution in the faint - end slope of the luminosity function .",
    "andreon ( 2008 ) , in an analysis of 28 clusters in the redshift range @xmath18 , asserts that the dgr is consistent with no evolution .",
    "more specifically , he states that the strong trend observed by de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) can be ruled out .",
    "andreon ( 2008 ) discusses some of the differences between his analysis and those of de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , arguing that their selection of filters that do not bracket the 4000 angstrom break over the entire range of redshifts introduces systematic errors that mimic evolution .",
    "furthermore , he argues that in the work of stott et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) the use of control fields taken in separate filter sets than the cluster fields causes significant systematics related to the interloper - removal process .",
    "the selection of target clusters may also be important .",
    "the andreon ( 2008 ) clusters are all spectroscopically confirmed and identified in x - rays , while those used in de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) are not and may contain line - of - sight superpositions at the low - mass end .    perhaps the most significant difference between andreon ( 2008 ) and others is the use of a bayesian approach to fit the luminosity function of red sequence galaxies , which is then converted to a dgr to facilitate comparison with the literature . it is stated that this is a superior method because it uses all of the available data , particularly at the faint - end of the luminosity function , beyond the limits of the de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) definition of a dwarf galaxy ( the most common definition ) .",
    "we suspect however , that there are distinct disadvantages to the andreon ( 2008 ) type approach because in forcing the parametric form of the luminosity function one is introducing an undesirable model dependence and it may therefore be incorrect to compare with non - parametric results .",
    "moreover , a procedure that takes all available data and allows the fitted domain to vary from cluster to cluster potentially creates a systematic bias .",
    "this is because the clusters that are sampled to the faintest absolute magnitudes will have more stringent constraints on their faint end slope than those that are truncated at a brighter limit .    with so many subtle differences between the various ways that the gdr has been measured in the literature it may be no surprise that there appears to be some disagreement . our analysis ,",
    "however , is carried out on observations taken in a single filter pair , from a single telescope / instrument ( including control fields ) , and with a sample of exclusively x - ray - confirmed clusters .",
    "these attributes allow us to avoid many of the criticisms mentioned above .",
    "moreover , we calculate the effect of many potential sources of systematics ( @xmath7-correction , projected distance from the brightest cluster galaxy ( bcg ) , colour selection method , colour error bias and the presence of large scale structure ) to estimate their role in the apparent disagreements in the literature . when coupled with the sheer number of clusters in our sample , this survey provides the most accurate and robust measure of the gdr over this redshift range to date .",
    "if indeed there is an evolving gdr in galaxy clusters , it becomes interesting to investigate the mechanism(s ) responsible for driving that evolution .",
    "for instance , gas - poor ( dry ) merging of galaxies at the bright end of the red sequence could lead to a depletion of the giant population . in competition with this process",
    ", star - forming galaxies move onto the red sequence through the quenching of ongoing star formation and the resulting colour transformation . however , the observed downsizing behavior of stellar mass assembly ( bell et al . 2004 , juneau et al . 2005 , bundy et al . 2005 , faber et al .",
    "2007 , scarlata et al . 2007 ) suggests that this effect may become less important with decreasing redshift as the specific star formation rate at a fixed galaxy mass declines . while these mechanisms are complementary in that they act to reduce the number of giants with respect to dwarfs , their relative importance as a function of look - back time is poorly constrained .",
    "the detailed behaviour of these mechanisms is likely an important benchmark for galaxy formation models .",
    "for example , gilbank & balogh ( 2008 ) show that the galform model of bower et al .",
    "( 2006 ) is unable to reproduce both the observed dgr evolution and the dgr difference between cluster and field populations .    as mentioned above ,",
    "all of our clusters are confirmed in x - rays and the majority of them have x - ray temperature measurements , which can be used as independent mass proxies .",
    "this information is necessary for disentangling any cluster mass dependence and allows us , for the first time , to properly probe the mechanism(s ) that drive gdr evolution at these redshifts .",
    "the layout of the paper is as follows . in  [ data ]",
    "we discuss the data , along with some tests for completeness and data quality to ensure that our measurements are not significantly biased by systematics . in  [ analysis ]",
    "we describe the data reduction and analysis procedure used to measure the red sequence and extract from it the gdr . following this ,  [ dgr ]",
    "discusses the results of our gdr analysis along with tests of how varying the selection method can affect the gdr measurement and a detailed comparison with previous results from the literature . in ",
    "[ clusterprops ] we discuss the potential dependence of the gdr on cluster mass as implied by the x - ray temperature .",
    "an investigation of the mechanisms responsible for gdr evolution is in  [ driver ] .",
    "finally ,  [ conclusions ] contains our conclusions . throughout this paper",
    "we assume a cosmology parameterized by @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21km / s / mpc .     band for the clusters abell119 at @xmath22(a ) and rxj1524 at @xmath23 ( b & c ) .",
    "the black polygons illustrate our star removal procedure .",
    "the red triangles and blue squares represent all of the giant and dwarf galaxies respectively ( see  [ dgr ] for details of the selection procedure ) . for clarity",
    "we show only 5% of regular objects but 100% of the selected giants and dwarfs .",
    "the @xmath6 giant and dwarf selection limits are shown by the red and blue dashed lines .",
    "the solid vertical magenta line shows the equivalent size of a @xmath22 galaxy measuring 10 \" after taking into account the psf and the change in angular diameter distance .",
    "the ( c ) panel shows only the giants , dwarfs and fainter galaxies ( black pentagons ) that also matched the red sequence colour selection ( see  [ dgr ] ) .",
    "the large size of these fainter galaxies with respect to the stellar distribution indicates a clear separation of stars and red sequence galaxies based on our selection criteria.,width=336 ]     for details ) .",
    "the data are complete up to this limit for the full redshift range investigated.,width=336 ]",
    "the data for this paper are obtained using the megacam wide - field imager on the canada - france - hawaii telescope ( cfht ) with the @xmath0 and @xmath1 optical filter set .",
    "the cluster sample is comprised of 101 clusters with redshift @xmath24 and is assembled from 3 subsamples : 58 clusters from the multi - epoch nearby cluster survey ( meneacs ) , 32 clusters from the canadian cluster comparison project ( cccp ) and 11 additional clusters from the cfht archive .",
    "the megacam field is nearly square , subtending approximately 3450 arcseconds on a side . with the clusters centered in the field of view these data",
    "cover projected distances out to 1.49 mpc from the cluster center at the lowest redshift and 11.05 mpc at the highest redshift .    to clarify the characteristics of our sample , for the purpose of comparison with other studies , we discuss here some of the selection strategies employed in the sub - samples .",
    "the meneacs clusters are selected from the bax x - ray galaxy cluster database and represent all clusters in the database that are observable from cfht , with redshift @xmath25 and x - ray luminosity @xmath26 erg s@xmath27 .",
    "there are 55 clusters satisfying these criteria , to which we add 3 clusters with the slightly relaxed criteria , @xmath28 erg s@xmath27 and @xmath29 for a total of 58 .",
    "the cccp consists of 50 clusters in the redshift range @xmath30 , selected from the cluster catalog of horner ( 2001 ) .",
    "the cccp clusters all have x - ray temperatures @xmath31 kev and are selected such that they fully sample the observed scatter in the @xmath32 vs @xmath3 plane . for the purpose of maintaining a uniform observational configuration ,",
    "we restrict the current analysis to the 32 cccp clusters observed with megacam @xmath0 and @xmath1 .",
    "lastly , as mentioned above , we add 11 clusters from the cfht archive that are also observed with this instrumental configuration .",
    "all of our data are initially calibrated with cfht s elixir software pipeline .",
    "the elixir analysis includes a photometric zeropoint that is determined for each individual run . to account for non - photometric conditions ,",
    "the magnitudes of objects in common between exposures are compared .",
    "for the cccp photometric conditions were requested and the comparison of exposures indicates that the uncertainty in the zeropoints are @xmath33 magnitudes , which implies an impact on the colour that is smaller .",
    "the meneacs data are obtained over many queue runs , most of which were during photometric conditions .",
    "the results for clusters that overlap with sdss show agreement within @xmath34 magnitudes .",
    "the archival data were reprocessed using the same technique of comparing magnitudes of objects common to multiple exposures and similarly , we find that the uncertainty on individual zeropoints is @xmath33 magnitudes .    from the combined sample of 101 clusters , we remove 4 from the analysis because of their low richness ( see  [ bgcolcor ] ) leaving a total of 97 .",
    "basic information for our targets is listed in table [ tab : targets ] .",
    "further details on the cccp survey will be presented in a future paper ( hoekstra in prep . ) , while a more detailed description of the meneacs survey can be found in sand et al .",
    "the largest seeing disc of our images has a fwhm of 1.0 \" with the majority being significantly smaller .",
    "for background determination , we make use of the cfht legacy survey ( cfhtls ) deep images .",
    "these data are processed and hosted by s. gwyn ( see gwyn 2008 for details ) and consist of four fields that are not targeted at , nor dominated by , individual galaxy clusters .",
    "the cfhtls deep fields are observed using the same instrument and filters as our targeted observations but to greater depth . as such",
    ", they provide excellent control fields for statistical background subtraction ( discussed further in  [ dgr ] ) .    [ cols= \" < , > , > , > \" , ]     [ tab : gdr2 ]      one of the issues that complicates the comparison of gdr ( and dwarf - to - giant ratio ) between studies is the varying selection criteria used to define the dwarf and/or giant populations .",
    "the @xmath7-correction method , the projected cluster - centric distance within which to include galaxies in the dwarf and giant populations as well as the maximum colour - residual with respect to the cmr that defines a red sequence member are examples of parameters that often vary between different studies . in this section , we compute the gdr using a range of selection criteria to see how much of the apparent discrepancy can be explained through these choices .    to examine",
    "how our results depend on the adopted @xmath7-correction described above , we compare the gdrs obtained using two different @xmath7-correction methods .",
    "the results are plotted in figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]a .",
    "the first @xmath7-correction method ( k0 ) is the one outlined above using the cb07 models and assumes solar metallicity and a template age that is determined by matching the observed @xmath5 colour .",
    "the next method ( k2 ) uses the @xmath7-correction code of chilingarian , melchior and zolotukhin ( 2010 ) which has been shown to agree with the empirically derived corrections of blanton & roweis ( 2007 ) up to z=0.5 .",
    "we also show the results of neglecting the @xmath7-correction completely ( no k ) .                the differences in gdr between one @xmath7-correction method and another are typically smaller than the gdr error in an individual redshift bin .",
    "moreover , the selection of either k - correction method does not affect the conclusions regarding the presence or absence of a trend with redshift , only how strong this evolution might be .",
    "however , neglecting the @xmath7-correction would lead to a contradictory view of the redshift evolution in gdr .",
    "although it is not shown in figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]a , we also test the effect of neglecting the evolution correction ( ie .",
    "@xmath35 , see  [ kpluse ] ) .",
    "we find that contrary to neglecting the @xmath7-correction , this leads to a significant steepening of the gdr vs @xmath36 relation ( @xmath37 ) .",
    "therefore , to obtain a flat gdr vs @xmath36 by varying the @xmath38-correction would require @xmath38 to be parameterized with a significantly stronger redshift dependence than what we have assumed here .",
    "such corrections are unreasonable for the early - type galaxies that make up the red sequence .    figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]b shows the effect on gdr of varying the aperture size ( @xmath39 ) , centred on the bcg , within which to count red sequence galaxies .",
    "the data shown in the figure are for galaxies within a projected radius of 500 kpc , 750 kpc , 1000 kpc , 1250 kpc and 1500 kpc .",
    "the variation in the results , most notable in the lowest redshift bin , is all within the error in each individual bin .",
    "this shows that the gdr is insensitive to aperture choice on these scales ( up to a factor of 3 in bcg - centric distance ) . choosing instead a scaled radius ( eg .",
    "@xmath40 ) to measure gdr would yield similar results . using @xmath41 ( evrard et al .",
    "1996 ) and the @xmath3 data shown in table [ tab : gdr ] , we calculate that the mean value of @xmath40 changes by at most a factor of 1.33 when comparing any pair of redshift bins .",
    "since this is well within the factor of 3 range in aperture size over which the gdr measurement is robust , we conclude that the use of scaled radii to measure gdr does not alter the conclusions regarding gdr evolution .",
    "we also note that the largest apertures show the smallest gdr errors .",
    "this is expected since they are based on poisson statistics and the gdr is a ratio . as the number of galaxies in the population increases , the error as a percentage on that number decreases .",
    "we argue , however , that it is better to use a smaller aperture such as @xmath42kpc because the potential for systematic error introduced by the background subtraction procedure , which is not included in the error estimates shown in figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]b , grows as the aperture size increases .",
    "it is also interesting to examine the differences in the gdr between the cluster centre and cluster outskirts .",
    "such a discussion does not fit well in this section however , which is intended to assess the possible variation in gdr introduced by commonly used selection criteria . for a discussion of the gdr in the inner vs outer parts of clusters",
    "we refer the reader to  [ driver ] .",
    "we consider the possibility that bcg position may be a poor indicator of the cluster centre as a function of redshift .",
    "depending on the radial profile of the gdr , this effect could potentially mimic gdr evolution . to test this",
    ", we measure the gdr in @xmath25 clusters using a centre position that is offset between 0 to 6.5 arcminutes from the bcg .",
    "this shift corresponds roughly to 750 kpc at @xmath43 .",
    "the results are consistent with those obtained using the bcg as the cluster centre , indicating that the gdr evolution is unaffected by centreing errors on these angular scales .",
    "we show in figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]c how varying the colour selection criteria affects the measurement of the gdr .",
    "here we compare several cases of two distinct selection criteria .",
    "the first requires galaxies to be within @xmath44 , which is the assumed criteria throughout the rest of this work , but we also show here the results for @xmath45 and @xmath46 .",
    "the second selection method that we investigate is based on the observed scatter in @xmath5 of the red sequence ( @xmath47 ) , assuming a gaussian distribution about the best fit colour - magnitude relation .",
    "figure [ fig : gdr_selcut]c shows the gdr of galaxies that lie within @xmath48 and @xmath49 .",
    "the effect of colour selection criteria is larger than that introduced by the @xmath39 selection criteria and comparable to the effect of varying the @xmath7-correction method .",
    "however , the change in gdr is always smaller than the error in an individual redshift bin , which demonstrates that the choice of a particular colour criterion does not affect conclusions about the presence of evolution .",
    "( red squares ) .",
    "we also show various data from the literature .",
    "note that the gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) values have been adjusted to be comparable directly with ours ( see text for description).,width=307 ]    the disagreements in the literature regarding the evolution of the gdr / dgr are primarily driven by the interpretation of various results and not necessarily by disagreements among the data themselves . in a study based on dgr data culled from the available literature , gilbank and balogh ( 2008 )",
    "show that if one neglects the @xmath50 clusters of andreon ( 2008 ) , where the filters do not bracket the 4000 angstrom break , dgr vs @xmath36 data is fit reasonably well by a single power law in @xmath51 .",
    "andreon ( 2008 ) puts forth an important caution that one must be careful to account for the presence of an intrinsic scatter in dgr from one cluster to another so as not to be biased by outliers .",
    "andreon ( 2008 ) reports an intrinsic scatter @xmath52 , arguing that this is enough to reject trends as steep @xmath53 found in de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , where @xmath54 was not taken into account .",
    "the author also provides a caveat that the observed spiral morphologies of some nearby red sequence galaxies ( eg . butcher & oemler 1984 ) indicate recent star formation , colour transformation and red sequence buildup .",
    "however , the associated gdr evolution , if any , is not steep enough to be detected in small samples of @xmath55 clusters . to contribute to this discussion we compare these result with our own for @xmath56 clusters .    as discussed in  [ gdrresults ]",
    "we find @xmath57 , @xmath58 and @xmath54 consistent with zero .",
    "if the large scale structure term is neglected in the gdr uncertainty we obtain a @xmath59 which is consistent with the value inferred by andreon ( 2008 ) .",
    "our best fit slope is significant , though not as steep as that found in de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) . figure [ fig : gdr ] shows how our results compare with those from the literature .",
    "the large square symbols indicate the error - weighted mean gdr for our sample in several redshift bins .",
    "the solid blue line shows our best fit linear relation described above .",
    "data taken from the literature are overplotted .",
    "the gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) results are based on slightly different magnitude limits for defining dwarfs and giants than those used here . to make a fairer comparison we compute the gdr by applying their magnitude cuts to our data ,",
    "then calculate a correction based on the difference between the best fit @xmath60 and @xmath61 from those obtained using our default cuts .",
    "we apply this correction to the gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) values and plot the ` extrapolated ' values in figure [ fig : gdr ] .",
    "there is very good agreement between our results and the ` extrapolated ' values of gilbank et al . ( 2008 ) despite the difference in redshift range and cluster masses probed .",
    "our gdr values are also in agreement with the low redshift gdr results of capozzi et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , which are based on sdss cluster catalogs and the de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) magnitude limits . when compared directly to the de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) results our data do not seem to agree .",
    "however , there is an important difference between the two analyses .",
    "the magnitudes used in this paper are taken from sextractor s mag_auto parameter , which attempts to follow the shape of the galaxy surface brightness profiles . the de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) magnitudes are extracted using apertures of 1.0 `` , significantly smaller than the sizes within which our magnitudes are calculated . using a 1.0 ''",
    "fixed aperture truncates the galaxies at smaller radii , effectively reducing their fluxes .",
    "this imparts a stronger bias against the giants than dwarfs , since the former are intrinsically more extended on the sky leading to a reduction in the value of the gdr and a steepening of the gdr vs @xmath36 relation .",
    "we are not able to fully reproduce an analogous gdr measurement to that of de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) because of the different angular resolution scales of cfht and hst . as an instructional exercise",
    "we remeasure our gdr values using a 3.0 \" aperture size for galaxy magnitudes , which is more suitable given the spatial resolution of cfht .",
    "we verify that this leads to a significant reduction in the gdr values compared to our default extraction method .",
    "the resulting best fit to the fixed - aperture gdr vs @xmath36 relation has a slope @xmath62 , which represents a steepening of @xmath63 .",
    "we also note that because this effect operates more noticeably at lower redshifts as the angular sizes of galaxies grow and the truncation becomes more extreme , it may provide an explanation for the very steep redshift trend seen by de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) .     with clusters coded by x - ray temperature information .",
    "the solid black line shows the best fit linear relation found in  [ gdrresults ] .",
    "the gdr evolution can be represented by a single function of redshift regardless of @xmath64 for the full range of temperature and redshift probed by our sample.,width=307 ]",
    "as we discuss in the previous section , the gdr data can be modelled by a linear trend with @xmath36 . after accounting for large - scale structure in the background ,",
    "we find no intrinsic scatter .",
    "this is qualitatively consistent with the results of lu et al .",
    "( 2009 ) who find that the large - scale structure uncertainty comprises a significant portion of the uncertainty in dgr for individual clusters .",
    "this result is consistent with a gdr that is a function of redshift only and is independent of any other global cluster properties , at least over the range of redshift and cluster mass investigated in this paper .",
    "several authors in the literature , however , have presented evidence for a dependance of gdr on global properties related to cluster mass .",
    "for instance , de lucia et al .",
    "( 2007 ) find a higher gdr in their @xmath65 km / s sample than that in their @xmath66 km / s sample , with a difference in gdr of about 0.1 to 0.2 .",
    "they also analyze data from the sdss for clusters at @xmath67 and find that this @xmath47 dependence is reversed .",
    "gilbank et al .",
    "( 2008 ) find an elevated and flatter gdr for poorer clusters .",
    "capozzi et al .",
    "( 2010 ) argue that there may be a weak correlation between the gdr and cluster x - ray luminosity .",
    "furthermore , as the gdr is different in the field ( gilbank & balogh 2008 ) , some mass dependence might be expected . because our cluster sample is not a representative sample",
    ", it may be that some portion of the observed gdr evolution arises as a consequence of potential covariance between redshift and cluster mass ( more high mass systems at high @xmath36 ) .",
    "however , given the good agreement between our gdr results and those based on cluster samples with lower mean mass ( eg . gilbank et al .",
    "2008 and capozzi et al .",
    "2010 ) we do not expect this to be the case .",
    "nonetheless , in this section we investigate this possibility in more detail .     for clusters in the range @xmath68 .",
    "solid and dashed lines correspond to the best fit relations for dwarfs and giants respectively.,width=307 ]    many of the previous results that indicate a dependence on cluster mass are based on using cluster richness as a mass proxy .",
    "one problem with using richness is that there is a large scatter in the mass - richness relation of up to @xmath69% in mass at a given richness ( rozo et al .",
    "2009 ) . moreover , the richness , which is approximately the number of dwarfs plus giants ( @xmath70 ) and the gdr ( @xmath71 ) are by construction naturally covariant .",
    "a better proxy for cluster mass is the x - ray temperature of the hot intra - cluster medium ( @xmath3 ) , which predicts the mass with significantly lower scatter ( 36% in mass at a fixed @xmath3 inside @xmath40 ) and is independent of galaxy counting .",
    "a subset of the clusters in our sample have been observed with the advanced satellite for cosmology and astrophysics ( asca ) and analyzed by horner ( 2001 ) . for maximum consistency",
    "we take @xmath3 values from the horner ( 2001 ) catalog for as many of our clusters as possible ( 59 systems ) .",
    "we supplement this with an additional 15 @xmath3 measurements from the bax x - ray galaxy cluster database giving us a total of 72 .",
    "a complete listing of the @xmath3 data is given in table [ tab : gdr ] .",
    "in the analysis that follows , we scale the @xmath3 values by @xmath72 to account for evolution in the cosmic background density .",
    "we make no attempt to adjust the x - ray data for the presence of cool - cores or cluster - cluster mergers .    to investigate the effect of @xmath64 on gdr evolution we show in figure [ fig : gdr_t3 ] the plot of gdr vs @xmath36 after separating the data into 3 different @xmath64 categories .",
    "the data points in figure [ fig : gdr_t3 ] coded by @xmath73 ( red circles ) , @xmath74 ( blue snowflakes ) and no @xmath3 information ( black crosses ) .",
    "error bars have been omitted for clarity but are listed in table [ tab : gdr ] .",
    "figure [ fig : gdr_t3 ] shows that indeed there are more high @xmath64 systems at the high @xmath36 end of our sample and conversely more low @xmath64 systems at the low @xmath36 end . despite this selection effect",
    "however , the data in each @xmath64 category are consistent with the same best fit gdr vs @xmath36 relation found in section [ gdrresults ] . specifically , we find that the best fit parameters are ( @xmath75 , @xmath76 ) for the high @xmath64 clusters , ( @xmath77 , @xmath78 ) for the low @xmath64 clusters and ( @xmath79 , @xmath80 ) for the clusters with no @xmath3 information . this consistency is compatible with a gdr , and gdr evolution that do not depend on cluster mass over the range of mass and redshift probed by our sample .",
    "a subset of 27 clusters in our sample are part of a more detailed campaign to measure the masses using a combined x - ray + weak lensing method .",
    "we compare the gdr directly to the weak - lensing masses ( taken from hoekstra et al . in prep . ) but find no evidence for a correlation .",
    "this is consistent with the result obtained using @xmath64 as a mass proxy . from the x - ray portion of the analysis we obtain central entropy values ( @xmath81 ) for the subset ( taken from mahdavi et al . in prep . ) .",
    "the value of @xmath81 is often used to discriminate between cool - core and non - cool - core clusters , so it is interesting to examine if / how the gdr varies with @xmath81 .",
    "we find no correlation between these two parameters , however , indicating that the gdr is similar between cool - core and non - cool - core clusters .",
    "lastly , we consider the gdr as a function of the projected distance between the bcg and the peak of the cluster x - ray emission , an indicator of the dynamical state of the cluster . using values from bildfell et al .",
    "( 2008 ) we find no evidence for a correlation between gdr and bcg to x - ray peak distance .",
    "these results are all consistent with , and expected for a gdr vs @xmath36 relation that shows no intrinsic scatter .",
    "the physical mechanism(s ) responsible for the evolution in the gdr for @xmath82 is not evident .",
    "the two main processes affecting red sequence galaxies often discussed in the literature are dry mergers , which reduces the number of galaxies on the red sequence and late - time quenching of star formation , which increases the number of galaxies on the red sequence .",
    "both of these mechanisms are taking place in and around clusters but the extent to which they operate and how their behavior may change with redshift remains elusive .",
    "bell et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and faber et al .",
    "( 2007 ) argue that both quenching and dry merging are required to explain observations of the red sequence buildup since @xmath83 .",
    "observational evidence for dry mergers of early type galaxies at @xmath84 is presented in van dokkum ( 2005 ) and tran et al .",
    "( 2005 ) . on the other hand , work by cimatti et al .",
    "( 2006 ) and scarlata et al .",
    "( 2007 ) argue that the buildup of the red sequence since @xmath85 and @xmath83 , respectively , can be explained by the late - time quenching of star formation alone . with the exception of tran et al .",
    "( 2005 ) however , these studies are based on samples containing galaxies in the field and not exclusively on cluster galaxies where the high - density local environment may be important . to investigate this further",
    ", we examine the evolution of the dwarf and giant populations separately .",
    "we showed in  [ clusterprops ] that the gdr is not strongly dependent on cluster mass ( or @xmath3/e(z ) ) .",
    "when considered independently however , @xmath86 and @xmath87 are both expected to scale with cluster mass ; similar to the known scaling between richness and @xmath3 ( yee & ellingson 2003 ) .",
    "such a scaling is implied by the existence of a mass - richness relation .",
    "this effect must be accounted for before we examine the evolution of the dwarf and giant populations separately .",
    "we show in figure [ fig : ngd_tx ] the dependence of galaxy number @xmath86 and @xmath87 on @xmath64 .",
    "the data are fit using a linear relation between number density and @xmath64 . to minimize the effect of the correlation between @xmath64 and @xmath36 imposed by our sample selection",
    ", we only fit clusters in the range @xmath68 .",
    "we find a best fit slope @xmath88 kev@xmath27 for the giants and @xmath89 kev@xmath27 for the dwarfs . based on this temperature dependence",
    "we correct all @xmath86 and @xmath87 values to a common @xmath90 kev .",
    "we plot the corrected values as a function of redshift in figure [ fig : ngd]a .",
    "the data are combined using a constant number of clusters in each bin ( horizontal error bars indicate bin limits ) .",
    "both the number of dwarfs and the number of giants increase from @xmath2 up to @xmath91 , with the dwarfs showing the more dramatic evolution . from @xmath91 to @xmath92 the numbers of dwarfs and giants remain relatively constant . below @xmath93",
    "the number of dwarfs remains constant but the number of giants begins to decrease significantly .",
    "the results suggest that the gdr evolution at @xmath11 is dominated by mergers between giant galaxies .",
    "when considered with gdr results at higher redshift , the data support a transition in the dominant mechanism governing gdr evolution , which is often attributed to quenching in dwarfs .",
    "this interpretation could also explain the findings of lu et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , who measure a rapid dgr evolution at @xmath94 and then a flattening of the relation out to @xmath95 .",
    "though not discussed in their work , figure 19 of lu et al .",
    "( 2009 ) clearly shows a reduction in the number of giants from @xmath93 to @xmath96 .",
    "given the evidence supporting merger - driven evolution at low redshift , it is natural to ask whether this result is compatible with theoretical predictions .",
    "the orbit of a galaxy about the cluster centre will decay with time due to dynamical friction .",
    "the relevant timescale for the orbital decay of an individual galaxy can be expressed as :    @xmath97^{-1 }   \\label{eqn : tdyn }   \\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    with line - of - sight velocity dispersion @xmath98 , cluster core radius @xmath99 , galaxy mass @xmath100 and the galaxy s v - band mass - to - light ratio @xmath101 . for a giant galaxy with @xmath102 and a @xmath103 orbiting near the centre of a cluster where @xmath104 km / s and @xmath105 mpc the expected timescale is @xmath106 gyr . over the redshift range of our data ( @xmath24 )",
    "the total change in cosmic time is @xmath107 gyr , which we use as an estimate of the elapsed interaction time .",
    "this is considered to be a conservative estimate because these clusters are likely assembled at much earlier epochs .",
    "since @xmath108 we should indeed expect to see the signature of the most massive galaxies merging together on these timescales .",
    "this prediction is in good qualitative agreement with the decrease in the number of giants galaxies at low redshift in figure [ fig : ngd]a .",
    "furthermore , quenching is expected to become less important at late times due to the declining specific star formation rate ( at fixed galaxy mass ) in newly accreted field galaxies ( eg .",
    "juneau et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "if the gdr evolution seen at low redshift is driven by orbital decay and mergers in the giant population then we might expect to see less of this effect taking place in the cluster outskirts , where the density of the ambient medium is lower .",
    "to test this we plot in figure [ fig : ngd]b the number of giants and dwarfs ( adjusted to @xmath90 kev ) in an annulus with the range of projected radii 750 kpc @xmath109 1500 kpc .",
    "the number of giants rises from @xmath110 and peaks near @xmath111 declining and flattening below @xmath112 .",
    "the number of dwarfs generally increases from @xmath110 to @xmath113 but the distribution is somewhat noisier than similar data at smaller projected cluster - centric distance ( figure [ fig : ngd]a ) .",
    "the triggering of star formation as galaxies fall into the cluster , pre - processing of galaxies in groups , and the increased contamination by interloper galaxies may all affect the number counts in the cluster outskirts and complicate their interpretation considerably .",
    "it is difficult to explain all of the features of figure [ fig : ngd ] in the context of mergers and quenching alone .",
    "the rate of newly infalling cluster galaxies , as it depends on redshift and galaxy mass , is also likely to be a key ingredient .",
    "the merger tree models of de lucia et al .",
    "( 2011 ) indicate that up to @xmath114% of the massive galaxies ( @xmath115 ) that fall into clusters do so after @xmath116 . taking this into consideration",
    ", it may be more appropriate to describe the gdr evolution at low redshift as competition between the galaxy infall rate and the effects of dynamical friction , with quenching as a secondary effect .    for a final check we compare in figure [ fig : gdr_an ] the gdr evolution in the cluster outskirts ( 750 kpc @xmath109 1500 kpc ) with that in the cluster centre ( @xmath117 kpc ) .",
    "we note however , that the data are slightly incomplete at the lowest redshifts where the field of view of megacam extends only to 1490 kpc from the bcg ( see  [ data ] ) .",
    "the results indicate that the gdr evolution , as measured in the cluster interior and outskirts , are in good agreement with each other .",
    "this suggests that the physical mechanism(s ) responsible for driving the gdr evolution operate both at large and small cluster - centric distance .",
    "this may simply reflect the fact that clusters are assembled from groups and that infalling galaxies are likely to have already undergone some processing in high - density environments .",
    "kpc ( default region ) , while open symbols represent the gdr in the range @xmath118 kpc @xmath119 kpc.,width=307 ]      to test the interpretation of a merger - driven gdr evolution at @xmath11 , we measure the integrated stellar mass of giants ( @xmath120 ) and dwarfs ( @xmath121 ) , separately , as a function of @xmath36 . we rearrange equation [ eqn : obscuts ] to obtain @xmath122-corrected @xmath123 values for individual galaxies which are then converted to @xmath1-band luminosities @xmath124 assuming an @xmath1-band absolute magnitude for the sun @xmath125 .",
    "the luminosities of interloper galaxies are calculated in a similar way using the cfhtls deep background populations described in  [ bgcolcor ] . the integrated dwarf or giant luminosity",
    "is obtained for each cluster by summing @xmath126 values for a given population and then subtracting the appropriate background .",
    "we also apply the colour error correction described in  [ bgcolcor ] . to convert the luminosity to a stellar mass we assume a universal stellar mass - to - light ratio in the @xmath1-band of @xmath127 , which is obtained from the scaling relation of zibetti et al .",
    "( 2009 ) for elliptical galaxies with @xmath128 .",
    "we note however , that the exact normalization is unimportant for our purpose , as we are primarily interested in the relative change in stellar mass .",
    "to make a fairer comparison of the masses , we fit the @xmath129 versus @xmath64 relation ( for @xmath68 ) and correct to a common cluster temperature of @xmath130 kev .",
    "this procedure is analogous to that in  [ driver ] regarding the number densities .",
    "we show in figure [ fig : mgd ] the @xmath64-corrected values of @xmath120 and @xmath121 as a function of redshift .",
    "the data reveal that the mean stellar mass in dwarf galaxies ( @xmath131 ) increases from @xmath2 to @xmath111 and remains roughly constant for @xmath132 .",
    "in contrast , the mean stellar mass in giants ( @xmath133 ) is roughly constant from @xmath2 to @xmath93 and then declines at @xmath134 .    in  [ driver ]",
    "we propose that the decrease in the number of giants at @xmath11 can be explained by a significant number of giant - giant mergers ( merger scenario ) .",
    "if this is the case then one might expect @xmath133 to remain constant over this redshift range .",
    "however , there are several reasons why mergers may act to deplete the integrated stellar mass .",
    "tidal features created in mergers are believed to contribute to the production of intra - cluster stars ( ics ) , which are not gravitationally bound to any particular galaxy and make up @xmath135 of the stellar mass in clusters ( gal - yam et al .",
    "2003 ; gonzalez et al .",
    "2005 ; zibetti et al .",
    "2005 ; krick & berstein 2007 , sand et al .",
    "furthermore , the existence of a tight relationship between effective radius and mean effective surface brightness ( kormendy 1977 ) implies that as elliptical galaxies grow , they become increasingly diffuse . consequently , the fraction of a galaxy s stellar mass that is below our detection threshold may be a function of the number of mergers that galaxy has undergone .",
    "we see from figure [ fig : ngd ] that there is a 30@xmath13613% reduction in the number density of giants from @xmath93 to @xmath113 .",
    "the corresponding reduction in @xmath133 over this period is 38@xmath13614% .",
    "assuming the merger scenario is correct , a sizeable fraction of the stellar mass involved in a giant - giant mergers , up to 100% in some cases , must be shifted to the ics or drop below our detection threshold . as a caveat to these statistics , gonzalez et al .",
    "( 2007 ) finds that the ics fraction scales inversely with the velocity dispersion of the cluster . if ics production is much more efficient in the lowest mass clusters then this effect may be exacerbating the observed drop in @xmath133 at @xmath11 , where our sample is dominated by clusters with low @xmath3 . to test this we repeat our measurement using only those clusters with @xmath137 kev . with this selection ,",
    "the drop in @xmath133 at @xmath134 is less pronounced and @xmath133 is consistent with a constant value over all @xmath36 .",
    "these results are suggestive but their interpretation is limited by the large standard deviation within each bin .",
    "because of the above mentioned considerations we are unable to confirm / deny the merger scenario with the integrated stellar masses alone . to make",
    "progress requires measurement of the ics fraction for all of the clusters in our sample and better constraints on the redshift - dependance of the ics fraction , both of which are outside the scope of this paper .",
    "individual clusters are shown as smaller , lighter symbols , while binned data is shown as larger , darker symbols .",
    "error bars on binned data indicate the bin width ( horizontal ) and the standard deviation within the bin ( vertical ) .",
    "the mass in dwarf galaxies is roughly constant , while the mass in giants is decreasing below @xmath11.,width=307 ]",
    "we analyzed a large sample of 97 galaxy clusters observed in @xmath0 and @xmath1 with cfht - megacam .",
    "after carefully accounting for several observational biases and statistically removing interloper galaxies using @xmath0 and @xmath1 galaxy catalogs generated from the cfhtls deep fields as a control , we measured the gdr in galaxy clusters over the range @xmath24 .",
    "we find several interesting results , the most important of which we summarize below .",
    "we detect evolution in the gdr over the redshift range @xmath24 , which can be parametrized by a simple linear relation with @xmath36 ( @xmath138 ) .",
    "the best fit parameters are @xmath139 and @xmath58 with an estimate for the intrinsic scatter in the relation that is consistent with zero . neglecting the uncertainty introduced by the presence of large - scale structure leads to a perceived intrinsic scatter of @xmath59 , which is consistent with previous estimates ( andreon et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "varying the method of selecting dwarf and giant galaxies by altering the bcg - centric distance threshold , colour selection criteria or @xmath7-correction prescription does not change the gdr significantly .",
    "so long as one makes reasonable choices about the selection criteria and @xmath7-correction , then varying these parameters can not hide the signature of an evolving gdr .",
    "the gdr values found here agree well with the those from the literature that are derived directly , solely from measurements of the number of luminous and faint galaxies .",
    "however , our gdr results are not in agreement with those that are inferred from parametric fits to the luminosity function ( eg . andreon 2008 , crawford et al . 2009 )",
    ".    the gdr does not correlate with cluster mass estimates via x - ray temperature or weak - lensing .",
    "similarly , we find no evidence for a correlation between gdr and the central entropy of the icm or the dynamical state of the cluster ( bcg to x - ray peak offset ) .",
    "this is further validated by the good agreement between our gdr values and those found in studies based on lower mass clusters ( eg .",
    "gilbank et al .",
    "2008 , capozzi et al .",
    "these result agree with our finding that the intrinsic scatter in gdr vs @xmath36 is consistent with zero . when considered individually however , both the number of dwarfs and the number of giants are strongly correlated with @xmath64 , which is expected from the known correlation between richness and @xmath3 ( yee & ellingson 2003 ) .",
    "separate inspection of the evolving number of dwarfs and giants , after correcting to a common @xmath64 , suggests a change in the primary physical mechanism responsible for the evolution in the gdr over the redshift range @xmath24 . from @xmath2 to @xmath111 we observe an overall increase in the number of both dwarfs and giants , with a more rapid increase among the dwarfs .",
    "below @xmath93 however , the number of dwarfs is roughly constant , while the number of giants decreases significantly .",
    "to explain the transition at @xmath93 , we argue for a significant number of mergers within the giant population , caused by orbital decay due to dynamical friction .",
    "this is supported by calculations of the expected orbital decay time for giant galaxies , which yield timescales smaller than the span in look - back time of our sample . in this scenario ,",
    "the gdr is governed by the competition between mergers , which become dominant at @xmath134 , versus the processes that act to increase the relative number of dwarf galaxies on the red sequence , such as the late - time quenching of star formation and the redshift dependence of the accreted - galaxy mass function .",
    "we consider the latter to be particularly important given the results of de lucia et al .",
    "( 2011 ) indicating that up to 50% of @xmath115 galaxies fall into clusters at @xmath140 .",
    "a gdr evolution that is driven by a reduction in the number of giants at @xmath141 could also explain why crawford et al .",
    "( 2009 ) find no evolution in the faint - end slope of the luminosity function at low redshift .    to test the merger - driven gdr scenario , we measure the integrated stellar mass in giants and dwarfs as a function of redshift . we find that @xmath131 increases from @xmath2 to @xmath111 and remains roughly constant for @xmath132 , while @xmath133 is roughly constant from @xmath2 to @xmath93 and then declines at @xmath134 . because of the large scatter present in the values of @xmath120 at fixed @xmath36 and the uncertainty regarding the production of ics , it is not possible to confirm nor deny the merger scenario with this measurement alone . to make progress requires measurement of the ics fractions of clusters in our sample and better constraints on the evolution of the ics .",
    "the results presented in this paper clearly indicate an evolving gdr in our sample of 97 galaxy clusters at intermediate redshift .",
    "we are cautious , however , not to over - interpret the data in light of the fact that the sample is incomplete .",
    "correlation between the gdr and global cluster properties , along with a covariance between said properties and @xmath36 in our sample , could be misinterpreted as an enhancement of the gdr evolution .",
    "the data presented in  [ clusterprops ] , however , along with the good agreement with the literature values over a range of sample selection properties , and an intrinsic scatter that is consistent with zero , all indicate that this effect is negligible . a future study of the gdr using a sample that represents an evolutionary sequence of clusters ( c.f .",
    "hart et al .",
    "2011 ) , along with spectroscopic redshifts for identifying cluster members would be useful to confirm / deny these findings and allow for a clearer interpretation that is unaffected by potential selection biases .",
    "numerical models of cluster formation that focus on the competition between mergers of existing cluster members versus the recent infall of new cluster galaxies , as it depends on galaxy mass and redshift , would be valuable for assessing the proposed mechanisms for driving gdr evolution .",
    "cb would like to acknowledge some very helpful discussions with gabriella de lucia , michael balogh , simone weinmann , ting lu , stephen gwyn and diego capozzi .",
    "cb and hh acknowledge support from marie curie international reintegration grant ( number 230924 ) .",
    "hh also acknowledges support from a vidi grant from the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo , grant number 639.042.814 ) .",
    "ab and cb would like to acknowledge support from nserc through the discovery grant program .",
    "they would also like to thank john criswick for support through his generous gifts to the ab and to the department of physics and astronomy , university of victoria .",
    "this research has made use of the x - rays clusters database ( bax ) which is operated by the laboratoire dastrophysique de tarbes - toulouse ( latt ) , under contract with the centre national detudes spatiales ( cnes ) .",
    "finally , cb , hh and ab thank the lorentz centre in leiden for hospitality and support over the course of the spring 2010 and summer 2011 workshops during which time a significant fraction of the research reported here was carried out .",
    "andreon s. , 2008 , mnras , 286 , 1045 + barkhouse w. , yee h. , lopez - cruz o. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 1471 + beers t. , flynn k. , gebhardt k. , 1990 , aj , 100 , 32 + bell e. et al . , 2004 , apj , 608 , 752 + bertin e , arnouts s. , 1996 , a&as , 317 , 393 + bertin e. , mellier y. , radovich m. , missionnier g. , didelon p. , morin b. , 2002 , aspc , 281 , 228 + bildfell c. , hoekstra h. , babul a. , mahdavi a. , 2008 , mnras , 389 , 1637 + bundy k. , ellis r. , coselice c. , 2005 , apj , 625 , 621 + butcher h. , oemler a. , 1984 , apj , 285 , 426 + bower r. , lucey j. , ellis r. , 1992 , mnras , 254 , 601 + bower r. , benson a. , malbon r. , helly j. , frenk c. , baugh c. , cole s. , lacey c. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 645 + capozzi d. , collins c. , stott j. , 2010 , mnras , 403 , 1274 + cardelli j. , clayton g. , mathis j. , 1989 , apj , 345 , 245 + cimatti a. , daddi e. , renzini a. , 2006 , a&a , 453l , 29 + crawford s. , bershady m. , hoessel j. , 2009 , apj , 690 , 1158 + de lucia g. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 374 , 809 + de lucia g. , blaizot j. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 2 + de lucia g. , weinmann s. , poggianti b. , aragon - salamanca a. , zaritsky d. , 2011 , arxiv:1111.6590v1 + evrard a. , metzler c. , navarro j. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 494 + faber s. et al . , 2007 , apj , 665 , 265 + fukugita m. , ichikawa t. , gunn j. , doi m. , shimasaku k. , schneider d. , 1996 , aj , 111 , 1748 + gal - yam a. , maoz d. , guhathakurta p. , filippenko a. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 1087 + gilbank d. , yee h. , ellingson e. , gladders m. , loh y. , barrientos l. , barkhouse w. , 2008 , apj , 673 , 742 + gilbank d. , balogh m. , 2008 , mnras , 385l,116 + gonzalez a. , zabludoff a. , zaritsky d. , 2005 , apj , 618 , 195 + gwyn s. , 2008 , pasp , 120 , 212 + hansen s. , sheldon e. , wechsler r. , koester b. , 2009 , apj , 699 , 1333 + hart q. , stocke j. , evrard a. , ellingson e. , barkhouse w. , 2011 , apj , 740 , 59 + hoekstra h. , 2007 , mnras , 379 , 317 + horner d. , 2001 , phdt , 88 + juneau s. et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 619l , 135 + kodama t. , arimoto n. , 1997 , a&a , 320 , 41 + kormendy j. , 1977 , apj , 218 , 333 + krick j. , bernstein r. , 2007 , aj , 134 , 466 + lu t. , gilbank d. , balogh m. , bognat a. , 2009 , mnras .",
    "399 , 1858 + markwardt c. , 2009 , aspc , 411 , 251 + mei s. et al . , 2006 , apj , 644 , 759 + pimbblet k. , smail i. , kodama t. , couch w. , edge a. , zabludoff a. , ohely e. , 2002 , mnras , 331 , 333 + rozo e. et al . , 2009 , apj , 699 , 768 + scarlata c. et al . , 2007 , apjs , 172 ,",
    "494 + sand d. et al .",
    ", 2011 , 729 , 142 + sand d. et al . , 2012 , apj , 746 , 163 + sarazin c. , 1998 , x - ray emission from clusters of galaxies , cambridge university press + schlegel d. , finkbeiner d. , davis m. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 525 + stott j. , smail i. , edge a. , ebeling h. , smith g. , kneib j. , pimbblet k. , 2007 , apj , 661 , 95 + tran k. , van dokkum p. , franx m. , illingworth g. , kelson d. , schreiber n. , 2005 , apj , 627 + van dokkum p. , 2005",
    ", aj , 130 , 2647 + visvanathan n. , 1978 , a&a , 67 , l17 + williams m. , bureau m. , cappellari m. , 2010 , mnras , 409 , 1330 + yee h. , ellingson e. , 2003 , apj , 585 , 215 + zibetti s. , white s. , schneider d. , brinkmann j. , 2005 , mnras , 358 , 949 + zibetti s. , charlot s. , rix h. , mnras , 400 , 1181 +",
    "as mentioned in  [ redseq ] we use the biweight estimator of beers et al .",
    "( 1990 ) to fit the colour - magnitude relation ( cmr ) for the galaxy distribution inside a projected radius of 500 kpc from the bcg .",
    "lacking spectroscopic redshifts for the cluster galaxies , we begin the fitting procedure by estimating a region in the cmd that is likely to be minimally contaminated by interloper galaxies . to the points lying inside this region we then apply a red sequence fitting procedure similar to that used by pimbblet et al .",
    "we first determine the probability that a galaxy belongs to the field population using equation [ eqn : pfield ] :      where @xmath143 is the surface density of field galaxies , @xmath144 is the surface density of cluster galaxies and both are functions of @xmath6 and @xmath5 .",
    "the surface densities are estimated by generating a 2-d histogram of galaxies in colour - magnitude space using a bin height and width of @xmath145 and @xmath146 .",
    "the denominator in equation [ eqn : pfield ] is calculated using galaxies within a projected radius of 500 kpc from the bcg where there is a mix of the cluster and field populations , while the numerator is calculated using galaxies that are outside a projected radius of 1.5 mpc where the sample should be more dominated by the field population .",
    "we chose the 1.5 mpc limit in order to be as far away from the bcg as possible while maintaining a large enough field - sampling region at the low redshift end of the survey @xmath147 . at this redshift roughly 45% of",
    "the image is available for estimating the field population . with",
    "each galaxy assigned a probability of being a field member ( @xmath148 ) and a probability of being a cluster member ( @xmath149 ) we then fit the red sequence to the points inside the selection box .",
    "we randomly reject points inside the initial selection box based on their probability of being members of the field and then perform an unweighted , linear least - squares fit on the remaining data .",
    "this procedure is repeated 100 times .",
    "we take the median values of these 100 solutions as the best fitting slope and intercept parameters with their errors determined by the standard deviation .",
    "the results of the red sequence fitting for a subset of 20 randomly selected clusters are plotted in figure [ fig : redseq_b ] . in each panel",
    "we show , for a given cluster , the best fit red sequence , a model red sequence for comparison and the dwarf / giant magnitude limits at the corresponding redshift .",
    "the model red sequence is constructed assuming that the correlation between galaxy colour and magnitude is driven solely by an increasing metallicity with stellar mass .",
    "we use the charlot & bruzual ( 2007 ) synthetic stellar population code ( hereafter cb07 ) with a salpeter initial mass function and a single burst of star formation at @xmath150 to compute synthetic galaxy colours over a range of metallicities .",
    "each model cmr also contains a small contribution ( @xmath151 by mass ) of ultra metal - poor stars , which maraston et al .",
    "( 2009 ) find is necessary to reproduce the @xmath5 colour of early type galaxies at similar redshifts . without this component",
    "the models are up to 0.1 magnitudes too blue .",
    "the model is then calibrated to reproduce the magnitude vs metallicity relation kodama & arimoto ( 1997 ) .",
    "it can be seen from figure [ fig : redseq_b ] that the model cmr is in qualitative agreement with the observations , including their evolution .",
    "the model cmr slope however is typically shallower than the best fit cmr and this difference in slope can vary appreciably from cluster to cluster .",
    "this is likely a consequence of the over - simplicity of calibration to a fixed magnitude metallicity relation and the use of a single stellar population .",
    "we take the model as illustrative only and for the purposes of classifying giants and dwarfs we use the cmr as defined by the fit ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze deep @xmath0 and @xmath1 band data of 97 galaxy clusters imaged with megacam on the canada - france - hawaii telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we compute the number of luminous ( giant ) and faint ( dwarf ) galaxies using criteria based on the definitions of de lucia et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2007 ) . </S>",
    "<S> due to excellent image quality and uniformity of the data and analysis , we probe the giant - to - dwarf ratio ( gdr ) out to @xmath2 . with x - ray temperature ( @xmath3 ) information for the majority of our clusters , </S>",
    "<S> we constrain , for the first time , the @xmath3-corrected giant and dwarf evolution separately . </S>",
    "<S> our measurements support an evolving gdr over the redshift range @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> we show that modifying the @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7-correction used to define dwarf and giant selection do not alter the conclusion regarding the presence of evolution . </S>",
    "<S> we parameterize the gdr evolution using a linear function of redshift ( @xmath8 ) with a best fit slope of @xmath9 and normalization @xmath10 . </S>",
    "<S> contrary to claims of a large intrinsic scatter , we find that the gdr data can be fully accounted for using observational errors alone . </S>",
    "<S> consistently , we find no evidence for a correlation between gdr and cluster mass ( via @xmath3 or weak lensing ) . </S>",
    "<S> lastly , the data suggest that the evolution of the gdr at @xmath11 is driven primarily by dry merging of the massive giant galaxies , which when considered with previous results at higher redshift , suggests a change in the dominant mechanism that mediates the gdr .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd </S>"
  ]
}