{
  "article_text": [
    "in most countries , learning microscopic origin of nature is considered to be an important topic in science education . however , there are not so many student experiments or demonstrations which exhibit the existence of individual atom in direct and intuitive manner .",
    "the cloud chamber experiment is a rare exception ; it provides most direct and intuitive way to convince students existence of microscopic particles .",
    "beautiful tracks of particles draw audience s attention and interest .",
    "various chambers have been developed and used in classroom @xcite .",
    "most of simple chambers seem to be based on the results of needles and nielsen @xcite and cowan @xcite , which use a block of dry ice and a beaker filled with ethanol vapour .",
    "the great simplicity of their chamber enables students to make diy chamber at home or classroom .",
    "such a chamber works well if one uses a radioactive source .    from spring 2008 , one of the authors ( s.z . )",
    "has been working on classroom experiment program using cloud chamber .",
    "an one - day experiment course had been given for local junior high school students . from spring 2011 , some students ( rest of the authors ) have joined this project as a part of super science high school ( ssh ) activity .",
    "the typical setting of a chamber is shown in figure [ typicalchamber ] .",
    "a chamber is not so large ; smallest example is a glass laboratory dish with radius 5 cm and height 1 cm .",
    "a standard chamber we have used is a round glass container with radius 8.5 cm and 8.0 cm high @xcite .",
    "such chambers require a _ radioactive source . _",
    "it is very hard to find particle tracks of background radiation in this kind of chamber .",
    "one will find few tracks in a minute only in very dark room .    in japan",
    ", people s attention to radioactivity is increased much after the fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster following the tohoku earthquake and tsunami on 11 march 2011 .",
    "large part of public unease or fear about radioactivity is due to insufficient education about radioactivity , since curricula of primary and secondary schools lack serious and extensive study of radioactivity .",
    "after the tohoku earthquake , people have been nervous about radioactivity . in particular , parents do not wish their children to join scientific activity using radioactive source , even if it is relatively safe one such as a gas mantle with thorium .",
    "therefore , we think it is very important to develop a sensitive cloud chamber which _ does not require any radioactive source . _ the chamber should be simple , small , portable and cheap since our aim is educational applications such as student experiment course or a workshop for citizens in tohoku area .    in this article",
    ", we would like to present a construction of a cloud chamber works well without radioactive sources .",
    "there is only minor modification from a typical chamber shown in this section , but its performance is remarkable .",
    "we also present a result of a performance test .",
    "the construction of our cloud chamber is shown in figure [ fig : chamber ] . a major difference from a common chamber is use of a black anodised aluminium heat",
    "sink as a bottom plate instead of a metal plate .",
    "its dimension is 134 mm @xmath0 134 mm @xmath0 20 mm , weight is 622 g , and a side with fins is placed downward . as we see later ,",
    "the heat sink greatly improves performance of our chamber .",
    "our method has an additional advantage that the heat sink plays a role of supporting base of the chamber which prevents direct contact of side wall with refrigerant .",
    "clear walls without a bottom and a top are placed on the heat sink .",
    "walls and top are made of square , 5 mm thick acrylic plates .",
    "top plate is removable . a piece of black felt e is placed along three sides of a box . upper half of it is soaked with ethanol .",
    "total amount of ethanol is about 10 g for each experiment .",
    "light from pc projector is introduced from a face without a piece of black felt .",
    "all of the above instruments are placed on a shallow styrofoam tray b. liquid nitrogen can be directory poured into this box to this tray .",
    "powder of dry ice can be used also . in this case , a heat sink is placed above powdered dry ice .        in the placement",
    "mentioned above , tracks of particles can be observed from above . figure [ fig : working ] is a photo of our cloud chamber in operation .",
    "a pc projector is slanted to obtain fine view of particle tracks .    in closing this section",
    ", we would like to mention that our result is not new .",
    "an advantage of our chamber is good performance in spite of its smallness and simpleness .",
    "in fact , various examples of sensitive chambers have been known in japan .",
    "very large and expensive chambers for display are available in some science museums @xcite .",
    "a glass chamber presented in the beginning of this section is also available as a product by rado ltd .",
    "a use of a small heat sink with liquid nitrogen is first presented in @xcite .",
    "another example of a sensitive chamber is given in @xcite .",
    "surprisingly , the very simple construction presented in the previous section is enough to see many particle tracks without any radioactive sources . external electric field is also unnecessary .",
    "we would like to describe operation of a cloud chamber . to begin with",
    ", liquid nitrogen was poured to the styrofoam box .",
    "our lab was at room temperature , so the temperature of the bottom heat sink rises as liquid nitrogen evaporates . during the observation ,",
    "this change of the temperature was measured by a thermocouple .",
    "a result is shown in figure [ fig : bottomtemp ] .",
    "obtained data fits well to a quadratic curve .",
    "particle tracks begin to appear in few minutes . here",
    "we present our result with a video @xcite uploaded to youtube .",
    "figure [ fig : alphabeta ] is captured image from the video .",
    "most thin and wiggy tracks , such as the left picture of figure [ fig : alphabeta ] frequently seen in the chamber , can be considered as those of beta particles .",
    "we can see long tracks since the bottom plate is cooled uniformly .",
    "some of long tracks are slightly curved even though no external magnetic field is imposed .",
    "we think it is due to multiple collision with atoms in the air .",
    "an alpha particle also can be observed as a short , thick line such as the right picture in figure [ fig : alphabeta ] .",
    "one can see that many droplets are formed along a track and fall down toward bottom of the chamber .",
    "although many tracks are seen in the video , there should be no influence of fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster , since in our city ( yokote , akita , japan ) has never observed apparent rise of air dose rate since 11th march .",
    "obtaining of high quality video is important both for scientific analysis and publication on the web .",
    "the later is especially important in for education , since lower quality videos found in the web are not enough to tell the beauty and excitement that people must feel in this experiment .",
    "we find that a digital slr camera ( in our case , eos kiss x3 ) is very useful for this purpose .",
    "it has larger ccd and better lens required for high quality video . in our experiment , a camera is directly put on the top plate as in figure [ fig : camera ] , but use of rigid is better if available .",
    "a qualitative evaluation of the performance of a chamber will be useful for development of new cloud chamber and finding better working condition .",
    "in fact , some test runs tells us that numbers of particle tracks seems to differ for each run . using a recorded video @xcite , we counted all tracks seen in the chamber regardless of its length , width and shape . therefore alpha particles , beta particles and other particles are not distinguished .",
    "figure [ fig : countpermin ] shows a relation between count per 10 seconds and elapsed time .",
    "we observe that , although fluctuation is large , the count is independent of the bottom temperature until it reaches to ` critical ' value .",
    "our observation shows the fall of the count begins around @xmath1 degrees .    ,",
    "@xmath2 and @xmath3 degrees respectively .",
    "black and white are converted .",
    ", scaledwidth=90.0% ]    while a number of particle tracks does not change below critical temperature , a number of background droplets affects visibility of particle tracks .",
    "many droplets are seen at lower temperature as shown in the left of figure [ fig : droplets ] .",
    "contrast of whole image is reduced at such low temperature .",
    "we also found that alpha particle tracks become thinner at lower temperature , as mentioned in @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", it becomes hard to identify particle tracks at high temperature .",
    "therefore , the best temperature range for observation should be middle region in figure [ fig : countpermin ] .",
    "we expect our cloud chamber will be useful for various application to education , for example , a student research project or demonstrations in public . in particular , it will be important to measure numbers of particle tracks in a city where dose rate is still high . also not examined in this paper , the high quality video enables us various computer analysis such as qualitative evaluation of amount of condensation or automatic counting of particle tracks",
    ". such kind of analysis will be useful for a student s research projects .",
    "we would like to thank hiroki kanda of tohoku university for useful comments at the beginning of our project , ichiro itoh of yokote seiryo gakuin h.s . for providing a voltage multiplier , ryoko yamaishi for support in lab .",
    "we also thank kenichiro aoki of keio university for careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "this work is supported by saito kenzo honour fund and the super science high school funding from japan science and technology agency .",
    "99    andy foland s cloud chamber page http://w4.lns.cornell.edu/~adf4/cloud.html , how to build a cloud chamber !",
    "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pewtysxftqk , how to make a diffusion cloud chamber http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvcdaa_vvvg needels t s and neilsen c e 1950 a continuously sensitive cloud chamber rev .",
    "21 976 cowan e w 1950 a continuously sensitive cloud chamber rev .",
    "21 991 rado ltd .",
    "http://www.kiribako-rado.co.jp/goods-m.html mori y 1994 let s see positorn in a cloud chamber using liquid nitorogen toray science education award 26 18 , hayashi h 2007 a sensitive cloud chamber in magnetic field as a teaching material of atomic physics j. phys .",
    "55 297 sensitive cloud chamber http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hcv3fdz1rfk y mori http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mwm-wo7dokw http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9swciiqwvm slatis h 1957 on diffusion cloud chambers nucl . instrum . 1 213"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a sensitive diffusion cloud chamber which does not require any radioactive sources . a major difference from a commonly used chamber </S>",
    "<S> is use of a heat sink as its bottom plate . </S>",
    "<S> a result of a performance test of the chamber is given . </S>"
  ]
}