{
  "article_text": [
    "many galaxies in the universe today are in their twilight years , with low star formation rates compared to the already assembled stellar mass . as an example , the specific star formation rate ( ssfr , the star formation rate divided by the stellar mass ) of our own galaxy is @xmath18gyr@xmath12 , which means that at its present growth rate it would take the milky way @xmath19gyr to double its stellar mass .",
    "by contrast , at @xmath20 global star formation rates were much higher than they are today ( e.g. , lilly et  al . 1996 ; madau et  al .",
    "1996 ; geach et  al .",
    "2008 ) and it was probably during this epoch that @xmath21 galaxies assembled the bulk of their stellar mass .",
    "recent studies have shown that the star formation rate of distant galaxies is correlated with their stellar mass , and that the relation of star formation rate with mass evolves with redshift ( e.g. , zheng et  al .",
    "2007 ; damen et  al . 2009 ; noeske et  al . 2007 ;",
    "elbaz et  al .",
    "2007 ; daddi et  al . 2007 ; karim et  al . 2011 ) . using high spatial resolution imaging ,",
    "it has also been shown that star formation rates correlate with the structural properties of the existing stellar populations : galaxies that are actively forming stars typically have low sersic index and surface density , whereas quiescent galaxies have high sersic index and surface density ( e.g. , kauffmann et  al .",
    "2003 ; franx et  al . 2008 ; wuyts et  al . 2011",
    "; van dokkum et  al . 2011 ; bell et  al .",
    "2012 ) .    these global relations",
    "tell us _ which _ galaxies are growing at a particular cosmic epoch , but not _ where _ they are growing , that is , which structural components are being built up . in order to address the where , we need to know the spatial distributions of both the existing stellar population ( representing a galaxy s history ) and of the ongoing star formation ( representing a galaxy s future ) .",
    "star formation can be traced by the  line emission , as it scales with the quantity of ionizing photons produced by hot young stars ( kennicutt 1998 ) .",
    "the stellar mass of a galaxy can be traced using the rest - frame optical or near - ir stellar continuum emission .",
    "obtaining  and stellar continuum maps of distant galaxies with @xmath22kpc resolution is challenging , and has so far only been possible with integral field units ( ifus ) on 810 m class telescopes ( e.g. , genzel et  al .",
    "2008 ; law et  al . 2009",
    "; wright et  al . 2009 ; wisnioski et  al .",
    "2011 ; stark et  al .",
    "2008 ; jones et  al . 2010 ; yuan et  al . 2011 ; kriek et  al .",
    "these studies have shown that many star forming galaxies at @xmath23 are clumpy and irregular in their @xmath24 emission .",
    "this is also seen in the rest - frame uv ( e.g. , lotz et  al .",
    "2006 ; ravindranath et  al .",
    "2006 ) . for a small sample of @xmath23 galaxies observed with the nicmos camera on the hubble space telescope ( hst ) , frster schreiber et  al .",
    "( 2011a , 2011b ) showed that the spatial extent of their stars and star formation was very similar , even though individual clumps of star formation do not necessarily coincide with clumps of already - existing stars .    here",
    "we build on these studies by analyzing a sample of 57 galaxies with high resolution  and stellar continuum maps at @xmath25 , a time during which galaxies probably transitioned from the clumpy , irregular morphologies commonly seen at @xmath26 to the regular morphologies of normal galaxies at @xmath27 .",
    "this study has become possible owing to the near - ir imaging and slitless spectroscopic capabilities provided by the new wfc3 camera on hst . as shown in this _ letter _ , wfc3 can provide maps of emission lines and continuum emission at @xmath28 spatial resolution .",
    "these data are complementary to ground - based ifu studies , as they provide continuum and line maps with a stable , high strehl ratio psf at the expense of having very low spectral resolution .",
    "we use these data , taken as part of the 3d - hst survey , to determine where and with what intensity galaxies at @xmath0 are building up their stellar mass .",
    "we assume h@xmath29 km s@xmath12mpc@xmath12 , @xmath30 , and @xmath31 .",
    "h@xmath8 maps are created from the spatially resolved spectra of 3d - hst , a 248-orbit treasury program on the hubble space telescope ( brammer et al .",
    "2012 , van dokkum et  al .",
    "2011 ) . together with data taken in a previous program , 3d - hst",
    "will cover the five well - studied extra - galactic fields that are also covered by the candels imaging program ( grogin et  al .",
    "2011 ; koekemoer et  al . 2011 ) : aegis , cosmos , goods - north , goods - south , and uds . the data presented in this paper are based on the @xmath32 pointings , roughly half of the full data set , that were obtained prior to june 2011 ( see van dokkum et  al .",
    "2011 , brammer et al .",
    "2012 ) .",
    "the wfc3 g141 grism provides spatially resolved spectra of all sources in the field .",
    "the wavelength range of the g141 grism , @xmath33 m , covers the h@xmath8 emission line for galaxies in the redshift range @xmath34 .",
    "the survey also provides broad - band near - infrared imaging in the f140w filter , which samples the rest - frame @xmath2 band for @xmath25 .",
    "high spatial resolution maps of @xmath24 and continuum emission taken with the same camera under the same conditions is a key strength of this program as it allows a direct comparison of the structural features present in the distribution of the light of stars and of star formation .",
    "the spatial resolution is @xmath35 , sampled with @xmath36 pixels , corresponding to 0.5kpc at @xmath0 .",
    "the data reduction uses the axe code ( kmmel et  al .",
    "2009 ) with modifications , and is described in brammer et al .",
    "redshifts and @xmath24 equivalent widths ( ews ) were determined from summed , one - dimensional spectra , as described in detail in brammer et al .",
    "( 2012 ) . along with these measurements ,",
    "the software provides drizzled two - dimensional images of the galaxies in the f140w band and drizzled two - dimensional spectra .    .",
    "no extinction correction is applied to the derived sfrs . in this study",
    "we consider galaxies with @xmath1(the large , red circles ) .",
    "the errorbars shown here and in all subsequent figures denote the typical uncertainties .",
    "[ sel ] ]    targets were selected to have redshifts @xmath37 , total f140w magnitude @xmath38 and rest - frame @xmath1 ; we thus focus here on the objects that are among the galaxies most actively forming stars relative to their existing stellar mass , during a transitional epoch in which galaxies were assembling the structure we see today .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ sel ] , which shows the distribution of the selected galaxies in the sfr  mass diagram ( see e.g. , wuyts et  al .",
    "stellar masses were derived using the fast code ( kriek et  al .",
    "2009a ) ( see brammer et  al .",
    "2012 ) and star formation rates were determined from the  luminosities using the kennicutt ( 1998 ) relation .",
    "these criteria further ensure reliable and high s / n measurements of the line emission . due to the nature of slitless grism spectroscopy , a spectrum can be contaminated by flux from overlapping spectra from the object s neighbors . as a final criterion we limited the sample to objects for which the estimated contamination is less than 5% of the measured flux .",
    "the final sample comprises 57 galaxies .",
    "we note that no selection on environment was made .",
    "three of the galaxies in this sample have x - ray fluxes @xmath39  erg / s which means that they almost certainly host agn .",
    "we did not remove these galaxies from plots but marked them by open symbols . as we show later in fig .",
    "[ moneyplot ] , these objects have unique morphological signatures in the 2d spectra as their  line widths exceed the pixel size of @xmath40  km / s .          the combination of the wfc3 camera s high native spatial resolution and the grism s @xmath41 point source spectral resolution yields a spectrum that is best envisaged as images of a galaxy taken at @xmath42   increments ( 23  after drizzling ) and placed next to each other on the detector .",
    "thus , an emission feature in a high spatial resolution slitless spectrum is essentially an image of a galaxy at that wavelength . to create an emission line map of a galaxy",
    ", we masked the emission line and fit a polynomial to the continuum of its collapsed , one - dimensional spectrum .",
    "this model fit was then scaled and subtracted row - by - row from the two - dimensional spectrum ; the residual is a map of the galaxy in the light of the @xmath24 line .",
    "[ exmaps ] shows emission line maps and their corresponding f140w ( rest - frame optical ) images for eight representative galaxies which illustrate trends seen in the full sample . inspecting the  maps and the continuum maps , we find that the spatial distribution of broadly follows the spatial distribution of stellar light . however , as has been seen previously at higher redshift , h@xmath8 often appears to be clumpier and more asymmetric than its stellar counterpart ( genzel et  al . 2008 ; law et  al .",
    "2009 , 2011 ; frster schreiber et  al .",
    "2011a , 2011b ) . in the next section",
    "we quantify the spatial extent of the @xmath24 and stellar continuum emission by measuring their sizes .",
    "several uncertainties in the interpretation of the line maps should be emphasized here .",
    "first ,  @xmath43 and [ nii ] @xmath44 are not resolved with the g141 grism , and  and [ sii ] @xmath45 are barely resolved .",
    "the unknown ratios of these lines lead to uncertainties in , but also in the h@xmath8 morphologies , as the line ratios almost certainly vary with position ( genzel et  al . 2008 ; cresci et  al .",
    "2010 ; yuan et  al . 2011 ; queyrel et  al .",
    "a second systematic uncertainty is dust attenuation .",
    "differential extinction could affect the spatial distribution in the maps and the resulting size measurements .",
    "third , the position of the h@xmath8 emission relative to the continuum emission in the wavelength ( `` @xmath46 '' ) direction is degenerate with the redshift of the object .",
    "finally , the f140w filter contains the h@xmath8 line , introducing a built - in correlation between the emission line maps and the continuum maps .",
    "this effect is small , as for galaxies in our sample the @xmath24 line typically contributes only @xmath47 to the f140w flux .",
    "a first order parameterization of the  distribution is its effective radius ( or half - light radius ) .",
    "the standard method for determining sizes of distant galaxies is to fit two - dimensional sersic ( 1968 ) models , convolved with the point spread function ( e.g. , peng et  al .",
    ". however , such parametric methods do not provide meaningful results for the  images , as they are typically clumpy and often have asymmetrical or centrally - depressed light profiles ( shapley 2011 ) .",
    "instead , we measured effective radii ( half - light radii ) for both the  images and the rest - frame optical continuum images as follows .",
    "we first deconvolved the images , using empirical psfs and a variation of the clean algorithm .",
    "we verified that the key results do not depend on the deconvolution algorithm .",
    "next , growth curves were calculated using circular apertures centered on the luminosity - weighted mean @xmath46 and @xmath48 positions . the  center was not forced to coincide with the f140w center .",
    "the effective radii were defined as the radii containing 50% of the maximum growth curve value . from varying the deconvolution algorithm and the sky determination we estimate typical errors of @xmath49 dex .",
    "we find that the  sizes span a very large range , from 1kpc to 15kpc .",
    "the immediate implication is that star formation in strongly star - forming galaxies at @xmath0 occurs on a large range of physical scales , from the sizes of compact objects ( such as bulges ) to those of large disks . in fig .",
    "[ moneyplot ] we compare the h@xmath8 sizes to the rest - frame optical sizes of the galaxies .",
    "this comparison provides information on where galaxies are growing : galaxies for which the effective radius of star formation is equal to their stellar continuum radius should experience little structural change , as their current growth follows their past growth .",
    "galaxies for which @xmath50 have star formation which is more extended than their assembled stellar mass , implying that their growth began with a smaller central region and has proceeded outward : inside - out growth .",
    "this might be expected if gas is accreted onto a galaxy and then cools onto the galaxy s disk ( e.g. , brooks et  al .",
    "galaxies that have @xmath51 have star formation which is more concentrated than their stars , which might happen after a gas - rich merger producing a central star burst .",
    "thus , the location of a galaxy on a  size vs.  rest - frame optical size diagram provides information about where it s growing .    as is clear from fig .",
    "[ moneyplot ] the @xmath24 sizes generally track the f140w ( rest - frame @xmath2 band ) sizes but are typically somewhat larger . excluding the three agn , the median ratio of star formation size to rest - frame optical size for our sample is @xmath52 , where the @xmath53 error was derived from bootstrap resampling .",
    "the ratio has an rms scatter of @xmath54dex , which implies that there is a considerable range in the spatial properties of growth for the galaxies in this sample .",
    "this scatter reflects partly the fact that for a given stellar continuum size there is a range in  sizes .",
    "it also reflects the fact that the relation between  size and rest - frame @xmath2 band size appears slightly steeper than linear . dividing the galaxies into two subsamples based on their  sizes",
    "shows that the smallest 50% of galaxies have median @xmath55 , while the largest 50% have median @xmath56 .",
    "that is , galaxies with extended @xmath24 emission in an absolute sense also tend to have @xmath24 which is more extended relative to their already - constructed stellar component .",
    "the range of values of the  to stellar continuum radius suggest that we may be observing the construction of different structural components in different galaxies : from a central concentration to an extended disk around a previously formed central concentration .",
    "( fig .  1 ) and",
    "the blue region indicates the surface density incompleteness implied by this limit .",
    "the points shown are uncorrected for dust attenuation and the arrow shows the estimated dust correction . the median extinction derived from sed fitting to the continuum is black and the additional attenuation estimated to exist toward hii regions is gray ( calzetti et  al .",
    "( 2000 ) ) .",
    "the star formation surface densities span a range of a factor of @xmath57 .",
    "[ ssfrsd ] ]    the star formation surface density , i.e. , the star formation rate per unit area , is thought to be a key parameter in probing the physics driving the conversion of gas to stars ( genzel et  al .",
    "2010 ; daddi et  al .",
    "2010 ; wuyts et  al .",
    "2011 ; rodighiero et  al .",
    "star formation surface densities are generally determined from stellar continuum sizes , under the assumption that star formation occurs over the same area as the emitted stellar continuum light . here , however , we have measured @xmath58 (  ) , the radius over which star formation is occurring , and we can directly determine    @xmath59 i.e. , the star formation rate divided by the area covered by the line - emitting gas . the scatter in fig .",
    "[ moneyplot ] implies that star formation surface densities determined from continuum radii ( as done in e.g. , wuyts et  al .",
    "2011 ) have typical errors of @xmath60 dex .    in fig .",
    "[ ssfrsd ] we show @xmath61(sfr ) as a function of  size .",
    "it is clear that there is a very large range .",
    "small galaxies have much higher star formation densities than large galaxies but that is mostly driven by our sample selection .",
    "the compact objects have @xmath62m@xmath11yr@xmath12kpc@xmath13 and the most extended objects have @xmath63m@xmath11yr@xmath12kpc@xmath13 , implying the simultaneous build - up of both extended and compact features with high and low star formation surface densities .    .",
    "these galaxies have high gas mass fractions ",
    "lines of 20% , 50% , and 80% gas fraction are shown .",
    "the arrow shows the estimated dust correction as described in fig .",
    "[ ssfrsd ] .",
    "the error bar indicates the typical error .",
    "[ sdgas ] ]    the star formation surface densities ( see fig .",
    "[ ssfrsd ] ) of these galaxies can be used to infer gas surface densities using the kennicutt ( 1998 ) relation . comparing their inferred gas surface densities to their stellar surface densities ( fig .",
    "[ sdgas ] ) suggests that most galaxies in this sample have high gas mass fractions @xmath64 , even without dust correction . the median dust correction as derived from sed fitting",
    "is shown in black and the additional attenuation estimated to exist toward hii regions is shown in gray ( calzetti et  al .",
    "2000 ) . given the uncertainty introduced by the magnitude of this possible dust correction , it will be interesting to measure these gas densities directly ( e.g. , tacconi et  al .",
    "2010 ; daddi et  al .",
    "the high gas fractions imply the presence of large masses of gas to convert to stars .",
    "this conversion is occurring rapidly ; the stellar masses and star formation rates of the galaxies imply typical doubling times of @xmath65myr assuming no dust correction , or @xmath66 myr using the maximum dust correction .",
    "using new data from the 3d - hst survey , we have constructed high - resolution maps of stellar continuum and  emission to uncover where galaxies are growing and at what intensities .",
    "we find that the  emission generally tracks optical light but is slightly more extended .",
    "the immediate implication is that the galaxies have gradients in their stellar population properties , e.g. , in @xmath67 , metallicity , or age .",
    "we can not reliably determine the cause of the gradient without additional data , particularly on the dust distributions .",
    "however , the most straightforward interpretation is that the youngest stars have a more extended distribution than older stars , and that the galaxies grow inside - out .",
    "this result was expected from the observed size evolution of star forming galaxies ( e.g. , williams et  al . 2010 ) and consistent with theoretical expectations ( sales et  al .",
    "2009 ; dutton & van den bosch 2011 ) .",
    "interestingly , this size difference has not been seen in ifu observations of @xmath68 galaxies ( frster schreiber et  al .",
    "more compact galaxies , on the other hand , do not appear to be in the process of growing their radii with a median @xmath69 of one .",
    "the star formation surface densities of the galaxies , representing the intensity of star formation , show a range of two orders of magnitude .",
    "all galaxies have very high gas fractions , @xmath70 .",
    "thus , we see the build - up of very compact and very extended components with high gas fractions , implying that these components are in the early phases of assembly . it is tempting to suggest that the galaxies with extended , low surface density star formation are in the process of building their disks while galaxies with compact , high surface density star formation are building bulges or compact early - type galaxies .",
    "it is not clear how the compact galaxies and the large galaxies are related .",
    "a possible interpretation for the large range in properties is that we are looking at an evolutionary sequence in which the compact , rapidly star - forming galaxies are the young stages of the extended galaxies . for instance , galaxies could rapidly build up their bulges through compact star formation and then subsequently more slowly grow their extended disks by continuous gas accretion .",
    "however , the reverse may also be possible ( e.g. dekel et  al .",
    "2009 , hopkinset  al . 2011 ) .",
    "it may also be that some of the compact , high - intensity star - forming galaxies will evolve into compact quiescent galaxies similar to those seen frequently at higher redshifts ( e.g. , van dokkum et  al .",
    "2008 ) . in this context",
    "it is interesting to note that the total baryonic surface densities of the densest objects ( @xmath71 ) approach the densities of early - type galaxies at @xmath0 ( franx et  al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "this study can be expanded upon in many ways .",
    "the galaxies selected for this paper represent the most actively star - forming galaxies at the peak epoch of global star formation . in future papers",
    "we intend to include more typical star - forming galaxies at this epoch .",
    "it will also be interesting to extend this study to both higher and lower redshifts : it may be that the properties of galaxies are very similar at fixed , independent of redshift .",
    "as noted in  2 , both dust extinction and the contribution of [ nii ] and [ sii ] to the line emission are fundamental uncertainties in both the quantities measured and spatial distribution of  flux . assessing the contribution of [ nii ] requires mapping on a spectrograph with higher spectral resolution such that  and [ nii ] are distinguishable .",
    "differential dust extinction could conceivably be corrected using spatially - resolved maps of balmer decrements ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the build - up of galaxies at @xmath0 using maps of  and stellar continuum emission for a sample of 57 galaxies with rest - frame  equivalent widths @xmath1  in the 3d - hst grism survey . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the  emission broadly follows the rest - frame @xmath2-band light but that it is typically somewhat more extended and clumpy . </S>",
    "<S> we quantify the spatial distribution with the half - light radius . the median  effective radius @xmath3 is @xmath4 </S>",
    "<S> kpc but the sizes span a large range , from compact objects with @xmath5kpc to extended disks with @xmath6kpc . comparing  sizes to continuum sizes , we find @xmath7 for the full sample . </S>",
    "<S> that is , star formation , as traced by h@xmath8 , typically occurs out to larger radii than the rest - frame r - band stellar continuum ; galaxies are growing their radii and building up from the inside out . </S>",
    "<S> this effect appears to be somewhat more pronounced for the largest galaxies . using the measured  sizes , we derive star formation rate surface densities , @xmath9 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that @xmath9 ranges from @xmath10m@xmath11yr@xmath12kpc@xmath13 for the largest galaxies to @xmath14m@xmath11yr@xmath12kpc@xmath13 for the smallest galaxies , implying a large range in physical conditions in rapidly star - forming @xmath15 galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we infer that all galaxies in the sample have very high gas mass fractions and stellar mass doubling times @xmath16myr . </S>",
    "<S> although other explanations are also possible , a straightforward interpretation is that we are simultaneously witnessing the rapid formation of compact bulges and large disks at z@xmath17 .    . </S>"
  ]
}