{
  "article_text": [
    "hertzsprung - russell ( hr ) or colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) in combination with theoretical models can be used , in principle , to determine the age distribution of stars in a cluster .",
    "measurable luminosity spreads in these diagrams have been found in many , if not all , young nearby and massive clusters measured to date .",
    "they can be interpreted as real age spreads provided other sources of luminosity scatter can be defined accurately and their effects taken properly into account .",
    "these sources include , but may not be limited to , observational errors , differential extinction and reddening , distance uncertainties , field star contamination , unresolved multiplicity , variability and position shifts in the cmd due to the accretion process . the difficulties associated with identifying and quantifying this long list of possible non age dependent contributors to the luminosity spread has seriously hampered work in this field and created skepticism or ambiguity as to the reality of any claimed significant age spread in these clusters @xcite .",
    "+        in the specific case of the starburst cluster of radius @xmath4 located in the giant hii region ngc  3603 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter npg02 ) at a distance from the sun of @xmath5 kpc ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a complete discussion ) , the question of its age and possible spread has been hotly debated for some time .",
    "this cluster is one of the most compact and luminous massive star clusters in the milky way ( mw ) , with a bolometric luminosity of 100 times that of the orion cluster , and a possible nearby prototype of the extragalactic starburst clusters like ngc  2070 in the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) .",
    "@xcite were the first to suggest on the basis of theoretical isochrones on a reasonably deep @xmath6 cmd , the existence of a small ( @xmath7 myr ) real age spread around an average age of 2.5 myr in mainly relatively massive main sequence ( ms ) stars with star formation seemingly propagating roughly from north to south .",
    "some time later , on the other hand , @xcite using near infrared ( ir ) @xmath8 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 ground based observations argued that their data were consistent with a single burst of star formation and that the cluster was actually a coeval group of stars of age 1 - 2 myr with no need for any significant age spread .",
    "this conclusion essentially was echoed , with some variations , by subsequent investigators ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter sb04 ) . + more recently , @xcite , although supporting these later conclusions for the most massive stars ( @xmath11 ) in the core , argue that lower mass objects ( @xmath12 ) may have a larger spread of 1 - 4 myr .",
    "* hereafter hem08 ) , also find for the lower mass pre - main sequence ( pms ) stars an average age of 0.7 myr with a possible spread of only @xmath13 myr , but that for the heavier ms stars an upper age limit of 2.5 myr is appropriate .",
    "@xcite instead show that most intermediate mass pms stars in the core of the cluster have an age of 1 myr but with a sparse population of low mass stars of age about 4 myr .",
    "+ finally , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter b10 ) , working in the visible , using a much larger sample of stars and exploiting the technique of separating pms cluster members from field objects on or near the zero age main sequence ( zams ) using the h@xmath14 line in emission @xcite conclude that the single age or starburst hypothesis is not consistent with their data .",
    "instead they indicate that the pms cluster members distribute themselves essentially continuously across a wide range of ages between 1 and 30 - 40 myr with a peak at a few myr .",
    "this conclusion could , in principle , be negatively affected by the possible errors in isochronal ages discussed above .",
    "+ in any case , this large uncertainty in the correct age attribution of the cluster stars is a very important issue to resolve as it affects the crucial question of how and where star formation occurs in the progenitor giant molecular cloud ( gmc ) of which the compact starburst cluster is only a small part . in particular",
    ", one can ask whether star formation in these clusters occurs in a slow ( @xmath15 myr ) or fast ( @xmath16 myr ) mode and if it is localized or distributed over a large volume of the cloud . in this context",
    ", an important question left unanswered is whether or not the older h@xmath14 emitting stars detected by b10 actually belong to the starburst cluster or whether they are part of a more spatially distributed population belonging to the much larger gmc surrounding it , much like the situation , for example , of the cluster tr  14 and tr  15 in the carina nebula @xcite .",
    "+ in order to tackle these issues , we have analyzed deep near ir wide field camera 3 ( wfc3 ) and high acuity wide field k - band imager ( hawk - i ) images of the starburst cluster in ngc  3603 ( from now on simply referred to as ngc  3603 ) .",
    "the wfc3 ir and hawk - i datasets represent a significant improvement in accuracy in a wavelength region where high instrument sensitivity and lower interstellar gas extinction should lead to a much better determination and understanding of the variables involved in establishing the sources of the luminosity spread observed in the visible . in particular , the ir is best suited to minimize the effects of colour and luminosity shifts due to the accretion process in these pms stars . in the visible cmd ,",
    "the ultraviolet ( uv ) excess emission in the @xmath17 band from this process results in younger stars looking older and , thus , possibly biasing the putative age spread . in the ir cmd ,",
    "on the other hand , the ir excess works in the opposite direction making older stars look younger with the result that the oldest population can not be contaminated by even older objects that do nt exist .",
    "in addition , these two datasets allow us to sample the entire cluster together with its surroundings well into the vast majority of its stellar population . in this paper",
    ", we will consider and attempt to quantify the possible measurable sources of scatter in the hr diagram of the cluster , investigating evidence for and against age spread , and we will try to demonstrate that the scatter is most likely due to a real age effect and not to the `` nuisance '' sources listed above . + the plan of the paper is the following . in sect .",
    "2 we present the observations of ngc  3603 obtained with wfc3 and hawk - i , while in sect .  3",
    "we describe the data reduction processes used to derive the sources final catalogue . in sect .",
    "4 we present the analysis done on the cmds with the histograms representing the number of pms stars in the cluster in each age interval , as a function of age and our derivation of the structure and the spatial distribution of the cluster . in sect .  5",
    ", we analyze the sources of uncertainty that can bias our work and we discuss how the results can be affected .",
    "finally , we summarize and discuss our results in sect .  6 .",
    "the photometric data used in this work consist of a series of deep multi - band images acquired with the wfc3 on board the hubble space telescope ( hst ) and hawk - i on the very large telescope ( vlt ) . observations obtained with these two instruments are described in the next subsections .",
    "the wfc3 consists of two detectors , one optimized for observations in the wavelength range 200 to 1000 _ nm _ ( uvis channel ) and the other between 0.9 and 1.7 @xmath18 m ( ir channel ) .",
    "the uvis detector consists of @xmath19 thinned , backside illuminated , uv optimized e2v ccds covering a field of view ( fov ) of @xmath20 at a plate scale of @xmath21/px .",
    "the ir detector is a @xmath22 teledyne hgcdte fpa , mbe grown , substrate removed detector offering a total fov of @xmath23 at a pixel resolution of @xmath24 .",
    "a more detailed description of the wfc3 and its current performance can be found in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "+ the wfc3 data used in this work are part of the early release science ( ers ) observations obtained by the wfc3 scientific oversight committee for the study of star forming regions in nearby galaxies ( program i d number 11360 ) .",
    "ngc  3603 was observed using both the uvis and ir channels .",
    "the uvis and ir datasets were presented in b10 and in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter s11 ) , respectively . briefly , in the ir",
    ", ngc  3603 was observed through the f110w ( _ j _ band ) and f160w ( _ h _ band ) broadband filters , the f127 m , f139 m and f153 m medium - band filters , and the f128n narrow band filter .",
    "three images were acquired for each band in order to allow for the removal of cosmic rays , hot pixels , and other detector blemishes .",
    "details on the total exposures for each band are reported in table  2 of s11 .",
    "the position of the wfc3 field is shown in fig .",
    "[ figfov ] .",
    "the wfc3 @xmath8 band image of the cluster has been presented in fig .  1 of s11 and a five colour composite image can be found in the hubble heritage site : http://heritage.stsci.edu/2010/22/index.html .",
    "+      in addition to the wfc3 data , we used a series of observations obtained with hawk - i , in order to sample the cluster stellar population beyond the central region in the ir .",
    "hawk - i ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is a near - ir imager at the eso 8 m ( vlt - ut4 , yepun ) equipped with a mosaic of four hawaii 2rg @xmath25 pixel detectors with a scale of @xmath26 per pixel .",
    "the camera has a total fov on the sky of @xmath27 with a small cross - shaped gap of @xmath28 between the four detectors .",
    "the observations of ngc  3603 were performed in march 2009 , in visitor mode , and retrieved from the eso archive ( proposal i d : 082.c-0889(a ) , pi nrnberger ) .",
    "the observing conditions were generally good , with an average seeing measured on image of @xmath29 .",
    "the data are derived from images taken through the standard broadband @xmath30 , and @xmath31 filters . +",
    "a total of five fields were observed , one roughly centred on the cluster and four fields sampling the external regions around the cluster core ( see fig .  [ figfov ] ) covering a total area of about 337 @xmath32 .",
    "each frame acquired through the @xmath9 and @xmath31 filters is the combination of 6 exposures each 10 sec long , while frames taken with the @xmath8 filter are the result of 2 and 1 exposures each 30 and 60 sec long , respectively .",
    "for each filter and pointing the observation was repeated with a random dithering pattern and jitter box width of @xmath33 until reaching a total exposure time of 10 min for each filter . as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ figfov ] , each field has a region of overlap with the adjacent ones , so that it is possible to check the accuracy of the astrometric and photometric calibrations .",
    "the photometry of the entire wfc3 dataset was performed on the flat - fielded ( flt ) images following a standard point spread function ( psf ) fitting procedure with daophot ii / allstar @xcite package .",
    "an accurate psf model for each image was obtained adopting a first - order polynomial on about 150 isolated and well exposed stars homogeneously distributed in the fov .",
    "a master list of stars was obtained using stars detected in the f110w image ( the deepest of the ir dataset ) and was then used as input for allframe @xcite to perform an accurate psf fitting on all the images .",
    "all the magnitude values for each star were normalized to a reference frame and averaged together , and the photometric errors were derived as the standard deviation of the repeated measurements .",
    "the magnitudes were finally transformed into the vegamag photometric system by adopting the recipe described in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* , see s11 for details ) .",
    "the number of objects detected at least in one of the five filters is 9693 .",
    "+ the final wfc3 catalogue , obtained imposing that stars have been measured in each filters ( i.e. : f110w , f160w , f127 m , f128n , f139 m and f153 m ) , contains 8831 stars .",
    "saturation of the wfc3 images occurs at @xmath34 and @xmath35 , while stars are detected at @xmath36 accuracy down to @xmath37 and @xmath38 , respectively . at the distance and typical age of ngc  3603",
    ", these limiting magnitudes correspond roughly to cluster members with masses in the range between 0.5 and 3.5 @xmath1 , according to the models of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafer dc09 ) .",
    "+ photometry in the core region , out to a distance of @xmath39 from the cluster centre derived by sb04 and adopted also in b10 is severely affected by strong camera saturation due to the high concentration of very bright young massive o - b stars .",
    "we decided to excise this region from our analysis , so the final catalogue does not include stars inside it , due to the fact that the completeness in this part is very low ( see sect .  [ completeness ] for the discussion about completeness in the wfc3 and hawk - i fields ) and",
    "the photometric uncertainty is very high in the detected stars .",
    "after this cut , the final wfc3 catalogue contains 8553 stars .",
    "+ for what concerns the hawk - i data , we used standard iraf routines to process them .",
    "for all filters , we derived a sky image from a median combination of the dithered images that we subtracted from each frame . to normalize the pixel - to - pixel response ,",
    "all frames were divided by a normalized twilight flat . finally , all the flat- and sky - corrected frames have been averaged in a single image for each of the three filters . in what follows",
    ", we refer to a frame as a combination of these sets .",
    "aperture photometry was performed independently on each frame using the aperture photometry code sextractor @xcite and adopting a fixed aperture radius of 4 pixels ( @xmath40 ) .",
    "the lists of magnitudes for each filter were then combined with the requirement that each star had to be measured at the same time in the @xmath41 and @xmath31 bands .",
    "the mosaic of the five pointings samples a total of 110347 stars from the magnitude @xmath34 down to @xmath42 in an area of @xmath43 around the cluster centre .",
    "we estimate that objects as faint as @xmath44 , @xmath45 and @xmath46 are detected at a @xmath47 .",
    "+ more than 10000 stars from the two micron all sky survey ( 2mass , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) catalogue , from a total sample of @xmath48 2mass sources in the area of the hawk - i fields , were used as photometric and astrometric standards to obtain accurate photometric calibration of the @xmath30 and @xmath31 bands , and to transform the instrumental relative position of stars into j2000 celestial coordinates .",
    "the hawk - i catalogue sampling the cluster central regions was adopted as catalogue of secondary astrometric standards in order to properly find an astrometric solution for the wfc3 catalogue .",
    "we estimate that the global uncertainty in the astrometric solution relative to 2mass is @xmath49 .",
    "magnitudes @xmath30 and @xmath31 of all the frames have been calibrated using the stars in common with 2mass , typically @xmath50 stars for each of them , and the results of the calibration have been checked comparing the magnitude values for the stars in common between different fields , i.e. : the stars in the overlapping region .",
    "each overlapping strip contains @xmath51 stars , except in the case of field f2 and f5 , where the stars in common are @xmath52 .",
    "the differences in the independent calibration for the magnitudes @xmath30 and @xmath31 are of order @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 , respectively reassuring us about the precision of the calibration through 2mass .",
    "+ to compare magnitudes derived from the wfc3 and from hawk - i , and to build a single catalogue containing all the sources in the fov , it is necessary that one of the magnitudes system is translated into the other , due to the different filters between wfc3 and hawk - i .",
    "the @xmath8 and @xmath9 ( f110w and f160w ) magnitudes in the wfc3 system have been transformed to the hawk - i ( 2mass ) system , using empirical transformations , derived from 3308 stars in common between the two fields .",
    "in particular , we obtained the _ new _ @xmath8 and @xmath9 adopting the following equations : @xmath56 the final total catalogue , obtained combining wfc3 and hawk - i fields , with the obvious prescription of not double counting the stars in the overlap regions , contains 112265 stars .",
    "for those stars having both a wfc3 and hawk - i measurement , only the more precise 2mass calibrated wfc3 magnitude is retained in the final catalogue .      as the last step of the reduction process , we calculated the completeness in the wfc3 field and in four hawk - i fields , from f1 to f4 , selecting a different frame in each field , in order to avoid a possible bias .",
    "we do not calculate the completeness in each frame because the crowding conditions in the observed external fields are not critical and are very homogeneous in general .",
    "this suggests that the completeness level should be not very different from frame to frame . on the contrary , since the wfc3 field is very crowded and , as we have mentioned above , the central region is affected by strong camera saturation , due to the high concentration of very bright young massive o - b stars , the situation is more complex . + we performed extensive artificial star experiments in one frame for each field assumed to be representative of the whole field sample following the recipe described in @xcite .",
    "a total of nearly 150000 artificial test stars were added to each selected field .",
    "the artificial stars where uniformly distributed in each run into grids of cells so that the minimum distance between two artificial star is of the order of @xmath57 full width half maximum ( fwhm ) , in order to leave the crowding conditions unaltered .",
    "the test stars were distributed in magnitude according to a luminosity function similar to the observed one but monotonically increasing also beyond the limit of the photometry and with a colour distribution covering the full colour ranges of the observed stars .",
    "the entire reduction procedure has been repeated in the same way on each synthetically enriched image .",
    "we derive that the completeness factors for the four hawk - i frames are the same within the errors in the range of magnitude analyzed ( @xmath58 ) .",
    "this is not unexpected since the crowding conditions are nearly similar , and in any case very far from the critical conditions found in the central region of the cluster .",
    "furthermore , the spatial distribution of stars is very homogeneous so there is no expected variation of completeness with position .",
    "this result provides robust support for taking the derived completeness as representative of the whole hawk - i fields , except the f5 , since it has been demonstrated that the observed field - to - field variations have minimal impact on the overall completeness . concerning the wfc3 , the completeness factor , @xmath59 , is @xmath60 for @xmath61 , in the external regions , while falls to lower values in the central ones due to crowding and saturation ( see top panels of fig .",
    "[ cf ] ) . as stated before , in the hawk - i fields instead , the behaviour of @xmath59 is more linear and we derive a @xmath62 for @xmath61 in all the four analyzed frames ( see bottom panels of fig .  [ cf ] ) .",
    "the completeness situation for field f5 is slightly different due its dependence on distance from the centre . in the external regions of this field ,",
    "the completeness is similar to what we found for the other hawk - i fields , i.e. @xmath63 for @xmath61 , while it decreases in the crowded central portion of the field , in the region of overlap with the wfc3 field .",
    "however , it is worth noting that in this specific region , as mentioned at the end of the previous section ( sec",
    ".  [ data ] ) , we retain in the final catalogue only stars from the wfc3 catalogue , so the reference completeness is that of the wfc3 shown in the top panels of fig .",
    "these panels show that there is no variation with position and/or radial distance from the centre , so the combination of these two effects makes it unnecessary to consider the completeness variation encountered in the field f5 , and to consider it in the same way as the other hawk - i fields .",
    "the result of the reduction process described above is shown in the form of two observed @xmath64 cmds in fig .",
    "[ cmdraw ] . in the left panel",
    ", we have the cmd of the wfc3 field , representative of the central region of the cluster , while in the right panel we have the cmd of a frame of the f1 hawk - i field ( f1_3 , see for a visual reference fig .  [ figfov ] ) , well outside the nominal @xmath4 radius of the cluster ( npg02 ) .",
    "the hawk - i field is chosen such that the areas are the same for a meaningful comparison .",
    "+ photometric colour and magnitude uncertainties are reported in both cmds .",
    "the errors for the wfc3 cmd were derived as the simple standard deviations of the repeated measurements of the wfc3 field magnitudes , while photometric errors for the hawk - i field have been derived from the mean values of the @xmath65 distribution , derived from the incompleteness simulations . in the wfc3 cmd ,",
    "two distinct and well separated features are clearly visible : on the blue side , the almost vertical sequence around @xmath66 bending to the red at @xmath67 , is consistent with a suitably reddened zams of field and cluster stars ( see also sec .  [ profile ] and [ dens_map ] ) .",
    "on the red side , the wide clump of stars around @xmath68 less evident at brighter magnitudes , but well populated from @xmath69 to @xmath70 is consistent with the position of cluster pms stars . in support of this conjecture , in the right panel ,",
    "the hawk - i cmd clearly shows only the corresponding zams of the field stars with no sign of the pms clump .",
    "hence , the different number of stars and the different shape of the two cmds are not due to crowding , photometric uncertainties or completeness but to the different population of stars we are observing .",
    "the data discussed above were dereddened using different approaches for the two datasets .",
    "b10 and s11 obtained dereddened magnitudes of the stars in the wfc3 fov by exploiting the extinction study of ngc  3603 by sb04 .",
    "these authors found that the value @xmath71 is representative of the very centre of the cluster while there is an increase toward the external regions . adopting the total - to - selective extinction ratio ( @xmath72 ) value of 3.55 , suggested by sb04",
    ", b10 estimated that the value @xmath73 is representative of the mean visual extinction in the area sampled by the wfc3 observations .",
    "s11 adopted this value of @xmath74 and the extinction law of @xcite to derive the following extinction for @xmath8 and @xmath9 magnitudes : @xmath75 and @xmath76 , respectively .",
    "following s11 , we adopted these values to correct the magnitudes of stars in our catalogue for the wfc3 field .",
    "+ concerning the hawk - i fields , instead , we adopted the approach suggested by hem08 , namely that in the observed cmds for each field , we determine the position of the mean ridge line of the zams that is the predominant feature present in the external cmds as seen for example in the right panel of fig .  [ cmdraw ] . as a theoretical template , we adopt the zams by dc09 .",
    "the idea is that , if there is a discrepancy in the two zams ( observed vs theoretical ) , the only free parameter that allows us to shift the mean ridge line in the colour - magnitude plane representing the observed zams is the extinction @xmath74 .",
    "therefore we used a @xmath77 test to derive the @xmath74 value for which the difference in colour and magnitude between the mean ridge line representing the observed zams and the theoretical zams is minimum . this process has been applied to each frame of hawk - i fields so that we can obtain a frame - to - frame reddening correction .",
    "we observed that fields on the northern side ( f1 and some frames of f4 ) have a lower extinction respect to the central field and , above all , resepect to the southern ones .",
    "+ in detail , we have that the mean value of extinction , @xmath78 , for each field is the following : @xmath79 for f1 , @xmath80 for f2 , @xmath81 for f3 , @xmath82 for f4 and finally @xmath83 for f5 .",
    "thus it is clear that the choice of a single value of @xmath74 for all the hawk - i fields would lead to an overestimate of the extinction in the majority of frames and more in general in the observed fields .",
    "+ in conclusion , the magnitudes of stars in the final catalogue have been corrected in the appropriate manner , depending on their position .",
    "all the results in the following , if not explicitly said , have been obtained using this reddening correction obtained with the prescription described above .",
    "the dereddened data were used to determine the age distribution of pms stars in the cluster . in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] , we show the dereddened @xmath84 extinction corrected @xmath8 magnitude ) ] cmd of the entire cluster , namely a region with a radius of @xmath4 from the cluster centre , derived exploiting the wfc3+hawk - i catalogue .",
    "we use here the radius for the cluster given by npg02 . the position of the zams is taken from dc09 for solar metallicity ( dashed line ) , having adopted a distance modulus @xmath85 ( see hem08 and references therein ) .",
    "together with the zams we also plot the pms theoretical isochrones of dc09 , for ages @xmath86 myr .",
    "this set of isochrones is characterized by a non grey atmosphere and @xmath87 , where @xmath14 is the parameter representing the convection efficency ( see sect .",
    "[ diff_model ] and the appendix [ appendix ] for a detailed description of the prescriptions and processes necessary to obtain them ) .",
    "stars located above the 2 myr isochrone , i.e. @xmath88 and @xmath89 , are mainly stars younger than 1 - 2 myr .",
    "in addition , a small fraction of these are probably stars having a different reddening respect to the mean value adopted in this work so that they have been corrected with a wrong value of reddening and they would need in principle to be shifted in the cmd .",
    "note that the photometric uncertainty of our data ( see crosses in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] ) confirms that it is possible to assign relative ages to these stars with an accuracy of a factor of 2 .",
    "+ in principle , age histograms are an excellent tool to determine the age distribution of stars in clusters . to obtain them , we need to count objects in each age interval limited by the position of the isochrones in cmds .",
    "the process is not trivial in the ir because , as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] , isochrones are not always parallel to each other , in contrast with what happens in the visible ( see for example fig .  3 of b10 ) . in the ir",
    ", they start to cross at @xmath90 , so we must exclude stars fainter than this limit , considering only brighter sources in our analysis .",
    "in fact , without this magnitude cut , older pms stars , on the blue side of the cmd , would be artificially more numerous than younger ones .",
    "on the other hand , the brightest magnitude we can consider is reached at @xmath91 by the 2 myr isochrone .",
    "+ thus , the actual magnitude range , in which we can perform our counts , is @xmath92 corresponding roughly to a mass range from 1 to 3 @xmath1 .",
    "this sample corresponds to @xmath93 ( @xmath94 ) of the total number of the stars detected in the cluster .",
    "we used as a lower age limit the isochrone of 2 myr because younger isochrones cross the older ones at brighter magnitudes ( the 1 myr isochrone crosses the 2 myr one at @xmath95 ) , thus reducing the range of analysis .",
    "moreover , we selected this lower limit also because at lower magnitudes ( i.e. @xmath96 ) the completeness factor @xmath59 is much lower and the photometric uncertainties on the @xmath97 colour are comparable , if not bigger , than the typical isochrone separation ; so our conservative choice eliminates the possibility of systematic errors in the age determination of stars .",
    "we also decided to use the zams as the blue colour limit since , as we will see clearly in the density profile and maps shown in sect .",
    "[ dens_map ] , a good fraction of old ( @xmath98 myr ) cluster pms stars are actually located near the zams and would be excluded from our sample using a redder limit .",
    "the corresponding age distribution of the stars in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] is shown in the form of a logarithmic histogram in fig .",
    "this figure clearly shows that star formation in ngc  3603 has been ongoing for at least 20 - 30 myr and no visible gaps are present , or at least evident , with the level of age resolution we adopted ( a logarithmic bin of 0.3 , corresponding to a factor of 2 in age ) .      to test the results obtained with the dc09 theoretical models in the ir",
    ", we compared them with the histogram obtained in the uv with the same models . in the top panels of fig .",
    "[ uvir ] , we show the @xmath99 and @xmath64 cmds in the wfc3 fov , with , superimposed , 2 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 30 myr isochrones , from dc09 . as already said ,",
    "we observe that in the uv cmd the isochrones are parallel to each other and so it is possible to extend the analysis to redder colours ( i.e. : younger stars ) , while in the ir cmd we are limited by the shape of the isochrones that at a given magnitude ( depending on the model ) start to cross each other . to have a direct comparison between the resulting histograms , therefore , we excluded the age range from 1 to 2 myr given by the uv theoretical models and we limited the analysis to the magnitude range @xmath100 .",
    "the bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ uvir ] show the logarithmic histograms representing the age distribution of stars in the two cases . in both histograms ,",
    "the age spread is present and the two distributions are quite similar in shape within the adopted age uncertainty of a factor of two .      with these data in hand , one can begin to determine more precisely the physical structure of the cluster . to do this , we first plot the number of stars in each age bin shown in fig .",
    "[ hist ] inside annular rings 0.4 wide progressing in steps of 0.4 from the cluster center out to a distance of 4.8 well outside the nominal cluster radius . in fig .",
    "[ proftot ] we show this radial distribution for the stars in each age bin . with these data",
    "we can confirm that the cluster itself is totally contained within the reference radius of @xmath4 obtained by npg02 since star number counts decrease until this value and remain constant at larger radii .",
    "stars in all the age ranges studied show the same behaviour , indicating that all the pms stars in our sample ( old and young ) definitely belong to the cluster ngc  3603 as defined in sect .  [ intro ] .",
    "thus , all recent star formation is confined to the compact cluster .",
    "+ these results also show that the objects located near the zams in the cmd of fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] are not field stars , but most of them belong to the cluster population .",
    "in fact , if we assume that all the stars in the older bins , i.e. near the zams , belong to the field and not to the cluster and considering a uniform contamination in the region , we would expect to obtain a flat profile , in contrast with what we observe . as expected , young stars ( age @xmath101 myr ) in the considered mass range are the most numerous ones , and they are concentrated towards the central region of the cluster ( see also sect .",
    "[ dens_map ] ) .",
    "this result is similar to that found in the massive cluster 30 doradus , in the lmc @xcite and ngc  346 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* in the small magellanic cloud ( smc ) ) . on the other hand , the cumulative radial distributions of young stars , defined as all the pms stars in our sample with ages between 2 and 10 myr ( @xmath102 myr ) and old stars , all pms stars with ages between 10 and 30 myr ( @xmath103 myr ) plotted in fig .",
    "[ cumprof ] yield an unexpected result .",
    "although both curves are steeper within @xmath104 and tend to flatten beyond this radius , the old / young ratio plotted in fig .  [ cumratio ] obtained from these two distributions is almost flat , i.e. old stars are radially distributed roughly in the same way as the young ones .",
    "this is further evidence supporting our previous result that these stars are members of the cluster but it also shows that star formation in ngc  3603 seems to have proceeded on average uniformly across the cluster ( but see the next section for more details on this issue ) .",
    "+    however , fig .",
    "[ proftot ] does not give us any information about the azimuthal distribution because the number of objects is integrated over the whole area of the rings .",
    "therefore , to better characterize the structure of the cluster , we divided each ring in two sectors of 180 degrees each , facing eastward and westward ( with respect to the right ascension of the cluster centre ) and successively also northward and southward ( with respect to the declination of the cluster centre ) .",
    "we tried also to divide each ring in four sectors , but we concluded that the number of objects would drop too much providing results with poor statistics so we decided to keep the separation in the two halves described above .",
    "the results of these star count profiles are shown in fig .",
    "[ profsep ] , where it is evident that the distribution of stars in the cluster is not spherically symmetric .",
    "actually , stars younger than 20 myr seem more extended in the south - east ( se ) direction than in the north - west ( nw ) one .",
    "to better study and characterize the spatial distribution of the cluster and to get a direct visual impression of the bi - dimensional shape and distribution of the stars of different ages , we derived density maps obtained using the same age intervals as in the previous sections ( see for example fig .  [ proftot ] ) .",
    "this allows us , in particular , to look for any possible differences in spatial distribution between young and old stars . to generate the density maps , we divided the whole fov in a grid , with a step of @xmath105 , and we counted stars inside each bin .",
    "in this way , we derived a local number density for each point across our fov .",
    "as a first step , we calculated a mean density for the  background analyzing only the external fields ; in this way we obtained a mean density , @xmath106 , and a standard deviation , @xmath107 that we used to derive the final maps shown in fig .",
    "[ map ] . in the density maps",
    ", we plotted with different colours the regions where the density is @xmath108 , @xmath109 , @xmath110 , @xmath111 and @xmath112 over the background for each age interval , independently of the number of stars observed .",
    "we also show a contour without colour , representing the region for which the density is @xmath113 , to show that stars are really concentrated in the central region and do not extend outside the nominal radius of @xmath4 .",
    "+ in fig .",
    "[ map ] , where we zoomed the central region of the cluster , two aspects are easily observed : as already stated before , stars preferentially extend in the se direction , rather than in the north or west ones .",
    "moreover , it seems that the density peaks of young and old stars are located in different positions in the field .",
    "indeed , if we observe the top left panel of fig .",
    "[ map ] , we see that the centre of the cluster coincides also with the density peak of stars with age between 2 and 5 myr . on the other hand , moving towards older ages , we see in the top right panel of fig .  [ map ] that the region of highest density seems to be more extended with a curious shape with two lobes that encompass the centre of the cluster .",
    "stars between 10 and 20 myr in the bottom left panel of fig .",
    "[ map ] show two peaks in the central region with the one located in the se more pronounced . finally , in the bottom right panel of fig .  [ map ]",
    "we find again a single peak of density not spatially coincident with the centre of the cluster , but rather located towards the se .",
    "+ in conclusion , all the stars in the cluster are distributed in a flattened oblate spheroidal pattern with the major axis oriented in an approximate se - nw direction and with a flattening or length of the equatorial radius decreasing with increasing age .",
    "the density peak also shifts towards the se with increasing age .",
    "the origin of this peculiar asymmetry is unclear but could be related to the possible tidal effects on the cluster stars by the massive gas clumps located above and below the cluster @xcite .",
    "it may also be a reflection of the effects of sequential triggering or positive feedback of the first older generation on the younger one due to winds and shocks compressing the molecular clouds surrounding the core .",
    "the substantial tail of young stars extending to the se of the density peak towards the prominent pillar in that direction may be tracing the region where the latter effect is most pronounced .",
    "+ curiously , the most massive stars in the core of the cluster also seem to lie along a line oriented in the same direction .",
    "taken at face value , the results described so far clearly point to the cluster stars in this mass range having a continuous age spread of at least @xmath98 myr , with the star formation rate increasing continuously up to at least within @xmath2 myr of the present time . however",
    ", this result could be seriously affected by the uncertainties listed in sect .",
    "[ intro ] . in this section , these uncertainties are considered in detail and their effect measured as accurately as possible to determine if they could alter the results described above .      in our analysis",
    "so far , the possibly tried and true method of applying to all the stars an average correction for reddening in an appropriately chosen wide area was used , but this approach may lead to substantial errors if reddening changes significantly on much smaller spatial scales . in order to take this possible patchy or differential reddening into account , (",
    "* hereafter p11 ) used the wfc3 h@xmath14 , paschen@xmath114 filters and broad / medium bands for the line continuum to compute the _ balmer _ decrement of the gas per pixel . by applying the @xcite reddening law ( @xmath115 )",
    ", they derived a two - dimensional map of colour - excess , @xmath116 per pixel , across the wfc3 fov . because the brighter stars in the core of ngc  3603 ( @xmath117 pc ) are saturated",
    ", p11 could not measure the colour excess associated with the core .",
    "they adopted a fixed @xmath118 mag , which is the median value of the colour excess within an annulus ( @xmath119 pc ) centred on the core .",
    "this is justified by the fact that , according to sb04 ( see their fig .",
    "5 ) , the colour excess within 1 pc from the core changes by only 0.05 mag . + as discussed in p11 , there are two sources of uncertainty in this process : the first comes from the photon noise of the images , and it varies on average from @xmath120 at @xmath121 mag to @xmath122 mag at @xmath123 mag . the second source of uncertainty is systematic and is due to the contribution of emission lines to the flux in the broad / medium filters used to subtract the continuum underlying the h@xmath14 and paschen@xmath114 lines .",
    "an estimated line contamination of about 10% in all broad / medium filters increases the colour excess by 0.05 mag on average .",
    "the adopted extinction law also contributes to the systematic uncertainties . by replacing the @xcite extinction law with that of @xcite ,",
    "the colour excess becomes smaller by 0.1 mag . on average ,",
    "the systematic uncertainty is of the same order or smaller than the uncertainty due to photon noise . + here",
    ", we assume that the dust distribution in ngc  3603 affects the gas and the stars in a similar way .",
    "therefore , we adopt the reddening map of p11 and read from it the @xmath116 at the spatial position of each star detected in the @xmath124 and @xmath125 images . we assume the @xcite extinction law with @xmath126 ( from sb04 ) and correct for extinction the @xmath8 and @xmath9 magnitudes of the detected stars .",
    "an uncertainty of 0.1 mag on the @xmath116 derived by p11 translates into @xmath127 mag .",
    "the result of this correction for the average plus the differential reddening for the central wfc3 field is shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ cfrebv ] . for comparison , on the left panel of fig .",
    "[ cfrebv ] , we show the usual cmd obtained with the correction adopted so far ( _ i.e. _ : correction with the mean value @xmath128 for all the stars in the wfc3 fov ) . +    as is evident from the comparison between the two cmds dereddened in different ways , the correction for differential reddening ( right panel of fig .",
    "[ cfrebv ] ) does not have a dramatic impact on the overall distribution of stars in the @xmath64 plane indicating a ) that the local dust distribution is relatively uniform , b ) that most of the cluster stars lie behind the absorbing dust and c ) that applying an average total extinction to the outer hawk - i fields will not significantly affect the observed scatter of the stars there either once the appropriate local value of @xmath74 is determined .",
    "the age histogram obtained using star by star correction in the wfc3 field is shown in fig .",
    "[ histebv ] ( dashed line ) , together with that using a mean value for @xmath74 ( @xmath128 , solid line ) .",
    "+    an error in the assumption that the @xmath116 of the stars is the same as that of the gas does not affect the observed stellar distribution or scatter in the cmd , as it can only translate it slightly up or down in the direction almost parallel to the isochrones , shown in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] .",
    "this uncertainty in other words would affect the mass determination , but only very marginally the age determination ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "the same can be said also for our assumed value of @xmath72 ; the use of other extinction ratios present in literature could only shift the whole cmd , but this collective effect can not erase the observed age spread .      .",
    "[ comphist ]    another source of uncertainty could be an error in the correct location of stars in the ir cmd due to reprocessing of photospheric emission by dust in a circumstellar cloud or disc surrounding the object .",
    "this effect gives rise to an excess that would need to be corrected for .",
    "a good handle on this effect can be obtained by looking for indications of accretion activity in the pms stars of ngc  3603 by means of measurements of the h@xmath14 and paschen@xmath114 line emission ( contained in wfc3 f656n and f128n filters , respectively ) in accreting objects ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "+ among the 412 objects with h@xmath14 emission found in b10 , 255 have an ir counterpart .",
    "exploiting the f127 m and f128n filters , and with a simple colour cut , @xmath129 , we found 802 objects with paschen@xmath114 excess ( a detailed description of the selection criterion and of the properties of these stars is beyond the scope of this paper and will be presented in a future work ) .",
    "thus , the final number of stars showing an h@xmath14 and/or paschen@xmath114 excess , is 1057 .",
    "we removed them from the catalogue and we compared the age distribution obtained with and without them .",
    "we show this comparison in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ histpb ] , where the dashed line is the histogram between 2 and 30 myr obtained without them and the solid line is that showed in fig .",
    "[ histebv ] , with all the objects and a mean @xmath74 . +",
    "another possibility we explored is to quantify numerically in terms of magnitude the value of this excess and to shift objects in the cmd by the appropriate amount .",
    "@xcite , studying a sample of classical t tauri stars , argued that they possess significant non - photospheric excess in the @xmath8 and @xmath9 bands , and derived that the mean excess in @xmath8 and @xmath9 is @xmath130 and @xmath131 , respectively .",
    "the age distribution obtained after applying these magnitude shifts to the 802 stars with paschen@xmath114 excess is shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ histpb ] .",
    "this is compared as in the left panel with the histogram with all the objects .",
    "looking at both cases , it is evident that the trend observed is the same , either that we remove the stars or that we shift them .",
    "moreover , the comparison with the histogram with all the objects does not show significant discrepancies .",
    "hence , the three histograms are fully consistent within the poisson uncertainties .",
    "we can conclude that the source of uncertainty due to ir excess in accreting stars is not a relevant problem in our work , and can not appreciably change the results reported here .      in this paper",
    "we derive the ages of the stars of ngc  3603 using standard hydrostatic stellar models .",
    "this procedure rests on the assumption that neither the residual accretion after the protostellar phase nor the uncertainty in the zero point of ages affect the results in a strong way . in any case , the theoretical description of moderately low mass objects is affected by uncertainties in the description of some physical inputs , in particular convection and treatment of boundary conditions . + since the low mass stars in the pms are fully convective and over - adiabatic , any change in the convective model substantially alters the location of the track in the theoretical hr plane .",
    "the use of a less efficient treatment of convection ( lower @xmath14 ) leads to a larger temperature gradients , so that , for a given luminosity , the structure readjusts on a more expanded configuration , with a subsequent shift of the track to lower effective temperatures . + in order to see the effect of the efficiency of convection on the age spread of ngc  3603 we computed a set of models with three different values of the parameter @xmath132 relation observed in young open clusters stars , while the last one allows a fit of the solar radius for non - rotating models ] .",
    "the path followed by the theoretical pms tracks on the hr diagram is also dependent on the boundary conditions used to fit the numerical integration of the structural equations of the interior with the atmosphere .",
    "in fact , the use of a non grey atmospheric treatment shifts the tracks to cooler t@xmath133 within an extended interval of masses and ages @xcite . in order to show the effect of grey models on the age of the stars ,",
    "for each choice of @xmath14 we have also calculated models with a grey approximation .",
    "+ in fig .",
    "[ compmod ] we compare the shape of isochrones of different ages , in various models from dc09 , which differ in the type of atmosphere , grey or not grey , and in the value of the parameter of the convection efficency @xmath14 .",
    "moreover , we add to the comparison the model from ( * ? ? ? * adopted by b10 and s11 ) .",
    "+ the effect on the age histograms of the extreme cases is shown in fig .",
    "[ comphist ] , while in fig .",
    "[ prof1 ] and fig .",
    "[ prof2 ] we show what happens to our radial profile distributions using the non grey atmosphere and adopting @xmath134 and @xmath135 .",
    "+ all these models assume that protostars reach their birthline by constant or slowly varying accretion .",
    "recently , however , doubts have been expressed as to the validity of this assumption when it was realized that if , instead , protostars gain mass mainly by repeated but short lived episodes of disc accretion , it may be possible for them to end up with much smaller radii and , therefore , fainter than expected in the previous steady state accretion models .",
    "this would have the effect of making them look much older than they really are and biasing the cluster isochronal age distribution .",
    "unfortunately , it is not yet clear at all what this means in practice since the first analyses yield contradicting results @xcite .",
    "+ moreover , @xcite have argued persuasively that the cold episodic accretion models used so far are unrealistic , in which case this scenario would end up yelding uncertainties of only @xmath136 myr in the age of low mass pms stars well within the measured age uncertainties of the older stars in our sample . but",
    "until these issues are clarified by more theoretical and observational work , movement of some young stars across the cmd due to episodic accretion can not be ruled out and even seems plausible , but it is quite unlikely that it would affect such a large number of older stars in our sample .",
    "individual stars may vary in colour and luminosity somewhat of course , but there is no indication from a comparison of our recent observations with the large number of past ones that there have been any significant changes in the shape or position of the pms sequence in ngc 3603 that would alter in any way the conclusion discussed here .",
    "the effect of uncertainties in the distance to ngc 3603 at a level of @xmath13 mag in the distance modulus ( hem08 ) translates into a vertical displacement of @xmath137 mag in the ir cmd shown in fig .",
    "[ cmdiso ] .",
    "although this small shift could in principle have an effect as large as a factor of two on the absolute ages derived through comparison with the isochrones , this would apply in a systematic way to all objects in the field and therefore would not eliminate the age spread revealed by the cmd .",
    "this can be easily observed in fig .",
    "[ histd ] where we showed the usual histogram , obtained with a distance modulus of 13.90 mag , compared with the two extremes in the distance estimates ( @xmath138 mag , dashed lines )",
    ". finally , depth effects are also negligible as the cluster diameter of 10 parsec represents at most a depth variation of 10@xmath139 of the cluster distance .",
    "unresolved binaries can affect the uncertainties in the cluster age spread by mimicking slightly brighter objects in the cmd and thereby being mistaken for younger objects than observed .",
    "in other words , correction for unresolved binaries would tend to flatten the age histogram shown in fig .",
    "[ hist ] by moving objects from the `` young '' to the `` old '' bins",
    ". a precise estimate of the magnitude of this effect is difficult in the case of ngc  3603 because its binary fraction and mass ratios have not been reliably measured so far but .",
    "nonetheless , hem08 have carried out a very detailed analysis of the effects that unresolved binaries would have on the observed mass function of ngc  3603 obtained with ground based imaging . in their simulations , these authors assume for ngc  3603 a binary fraction similar to that of the orion nebula cluster , owing to the the similar age and massive - star population of the two clusters , and they rescale it accordingly for the different distance to ngc  3603 . following hem08 , for the mass range of interest in our work ( @xmath140 @xmath1 ) we should assume a binary fraction of @xmath141% and a mass ratio somewhere between 0.5 and 1 ( see hem08 for details ) . note that since the limiting spatial resolution on our case is that of the hawk - i photometry , the direct comparison with the ground - based study of hem08 is applicable . with these values ,",
    "the corresponding correction to the age histograms shown in fig .",
    "[ comphist ] for this effect would be far less than the error for each bin due to the uncertainties in the theoretical models and , therefore , of no practical consequence to the overall uncertainties in the measurement .",
    "a similar result is obtained considering the probability of optical binaries namely unresolved binaries due to projection effects that , with the resolution of the wfc3 , we estimate to be less than 1% in the central wfc3 field with , therefore , negligible consequence on the measured age spread .",
    "in this work , we set out to answer three basic questions concerning the stellar population of the ngc  3603 cluster :    1 .   is the age spread discovered by b10 real or apparent ? 2 .",
    "is the age spread discovered by b10 cluster wide or confined to the central quarter covered by the wfc3 observations ?",
    "3 .   and , if real , do the older stars actually belong to the cluster ngc  3603 or to the wider hii region surrounding it ?    with the data presented here , it seems reasonable to assert that the age spread is indeed real and not due to other known sources of luminosity scatter in the cmd , and that it is cluster wide .",
    "in addition the older stars ( @xmath142 myr ) belong to the cluster and not to the surrounding field .",
    "this means that , at least in the ngc  3603 cluster , star formation is relatively slow , progressive and , to our limited temporal resolution , continuous .",
    "it started some 20 - 30 myr ago and extended almost to the present time uniformly across the entire cluster . in some areas of the cluster ( irs  9 , for example ) star formation is still ongoing probably because of triggering due to the impact of the winds from the hot , massive stars in the core @xcite .",
    "an important corollary to our present study is that we find good evidence for an asymmetric spatial distribution of the intermediate mass cluster members varying with age that is most likely due to the by now well established fact that star formation tends to occur in compact knots or cores of gas and dust located along long filaments in the natal molecular cloud .",
    "this hypothesis is made particularly plausible in our case since the large scale distribution of gas and dust in the ngc 3603 gmc is elongated in a roughly ns direction @xcite while on a smaller scale around the star cluster , the orientation of the molecular material tends to lie in the se - nw direction roughly coinciding with that of the major axis of the oblate spheroid .",
    "the reason for the observed variation with age in this case would simply be due to the drift of the older stars away for their birhplace .",
    "m.c . and f.p .",
    "acknowledge the financial support of asi through the asi - micela ae grant .",
    "we thank p. grandi and p. malaguti for useful discussions and suggestions and for their support of the project and m. mutchler for precious assistance in data preparation and reduction .",
    "this paper is based on early release science observations made by the wfc3 scientific oversight committee .",
    "we are indebted to the members of this committee for their support and encouragement in every facet of our work .",
    "this publication makes use of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "allard , f. , & hauschildt , p.h . , 1997 , the nextgen model grids .",
    "web location : http://hobbes.hs.uni-hamburg.de/yeti/mdwarfs.html bhm - vitense , e. 1958 , z. astroph , 46 , 1    allard , f. , hauschildt , p.h .",
    ", & schweitzer a. , 2000 , apj , 539 , 366    baraffe , i. , chabrier , g. , & gallardo , j. , 2009 , apjl , 702 , l27    beccari , g. , et al . , 2010 ,",
    "apj , 720 , 1108 ( b10 )    bellazzini , m. , fusi pecci , f. , messineo , m. , monaco , l. , & rood , r.  t. , 2002 , aj , 123 , 1509    bertin , e. , & arnouts , s. , 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393    cardelli , j.a . ,",
    "clayton , g.c . , & mathis , j.s .",
    ", 1989 , apj , 345 , 245    cieza , l.a .",
    ", kessler - silacci , j.e . ,",
    "jaffe , d.t .",
    ", harvey , p.m. , & evans ii , n.j . , 2005 , aj , 635 , 422    dantona , f. , & montalbn , j. , 2003 , a&a , 412 , 213    de marchi , g. , panagia , n. , & romaniello , m. , 2010 , apj , 715 , 1    de marchi , g. , panagia , n. , romaniello , m. , sabbi , e. , sirianni , m. , prada moroni , p.g .",
    ", & deglinnocenti , s. , 2011a , apj , 740 , 11    de marchi , g. , panagia , n. , & sabbi , e. , 2011b , apj , 740 , 10    de marchi , g. , et al . , 2011c , apj , 739 , 27    de pree , c.g . , nysewander , m.c . , & goss , w.m . , 1999 , aj , 117 , 2902    di criscienzo , m. , ventura , p. , & dantona , f. , 2009 , a&a , 496 , 223 ( dc09 )    dotter , a. , 2007 , phdt , 17d    eisenhauer , f. , quirrenbach , a. , zinnecker , h. , & genzel , r. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 278    fitzpatrick , e.l . , 1999 , pasp , 111 , 63    grevesse , n. , & sauval , a.j . , 1999 , a&a , 347 , 348 g    harayama , y. , eisenhauer , f. , & martins , f. , 2008 , apj , 675 , 1319 ( hem08 )    hartmann , l. , 2003 , apj , 585 , 398    hartmann , l. , zhu , z. , & calvet , n. , 2011 , arxiv1106.3343    heiter , u. , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "a&a , 392 , 619    hillenbrand , l.a . , 2009 , in the age of stars , proceedings of the international astronomical union , iau symposium , 258 , 81    hosokawa , t. , offner , s.s.r .",
    ", & krumholz , m.r . , 2011 ,",
    "apj , 738 , 140    jeffries , r.d .",
    ", proocedings of jenam10 : star clusters in the era of large sueveys , in press , 2011 , arxiv1102.4752j    kalirai , j.s . , et al . , 2009 , instrument science report wfc3 , 2009 - 30 , 20 pages , 30    kissler - patig , m. , et al . , 2008 , a&a , 491 , 941    mackenty , j.w . ,",
    "kimble , r.a .",
    ", oconnell , r.w . , & townsend , j.a . , 2010 , in optical , infrared and millimeter wave , edited by oschmann j.m .",
    ", clampin m.c . ,",
    "macewen , h.a . , proocedings of the spie , vol .",
    "7731 , 77310    melena , n.w . ,",
    "massey , p. , morrell , n.i .",
    ", & zangari , a.m. , 2008 , aj , 135 , 878    melnick , j. , tapia , m. , & terlevich , r. , 1989 , a&a , 213 , 89    montalbn , j. , dantona , f. , kupka , f. , & heiter , u. , 2004 , a&a , 416 , 1081    natta , a. , testi , l. , & randich , s. , 2006 , a&a , 452 , 245    nrnberger , d.e.a .",
    ", & petr - gotzens , m.g . , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 537 ( npg02 )    nrnberger , d.e.a . , bronfman , l. , yorke , h.w .",
    ", & zinnecker , h. , 2002 , a&a , 394 , 253    pang , x. , pasquali , a. , & grebel , e.k . , 2011 ,",
    "aj , 142 , 132 ( p11 )    preibisch , t. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "a&a , 530 , a34    rochau , b , brandner , w. , stolte , a. , gennaro , m. , gouliermis , d. , da rio , n. , dzyurkevich , n. , & henning , t. , 2010 , apjl , 716 , l90    siess , l. , dufour , e. , & forestini , m. , 2000 , a&a , 358 , 593    skrutskie , m.f . , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "aj , 131 , 1163    spezzi , l. , et al . , 2011 , apj , 731 , 1 ( s11 )    stetson , p.b . , 1987 , pasp , 99 , 191    stetson , p.b . , 1994 , pasp , 106 , 250    stolte , a. , brandner , w. , brandl , b. , zinnecker , h. , & grebel , e.k . , 2004 , aj , 128 , 765    sung , h. , & bessell , m.s . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 127 , 1014 ( sb04 )    ventura , p. , dantona , f. , & mazzitelli , i. , 2008 , ap&ss , 316 , 93    wong , m.h . ,",
    "et al . , 2010 , wide field camera 3 instrument handbook , version 2.0 , baltimore : stsci",
    "the isochrones are determined by interpolating among evolutionary sequences of models of different mass , calculated by means of the aton code for stellar evolution @xcite .",
    "the evolutions are followed from a fully convective configuration , with initial central temperatures @xmath143 in the range @xmath144 , until the beginning of the core h - burning phase . both the deuterium and lithium pms burning are followed .",
    "+ the chemistry used is @xmath145 ; the distribution of the heavy elements follows the solar mixture by @xcite .",
    "the initial mass fraction of deuterium is @xmath146 .",
    "these models are based on up to date physics and updated non grey atmosphere models were used based on the nextgen models by @xcite , complemented by the low gravity models by @xcite . following a suggestion by @xcite , we match the atmospheric grid with the interior integration at @xmath147 .",
    "this choice should minimize the consistency problems related to the different eos and opacities adopted in the interior and in the atmosphere , and to the absence of turbolence pressure in the atmospheric modeling .",
    "+ the temperature gradient within regions unstable to convection is found by the mixing length theory , with the free parameter @xmath87 .",
    "this choice for @xmath14 accounts for the smaller efficiency of convection in the pms phase , as indicated by the location in the hr diagram of the few objects for which the mass is known , and by the lithium vs mass pattern detected in young open clusters @xcite .",
    "the l and @xmath148 values , are then transformed into the different observational magnitudes using the synthetic colour transformations kindly provided by ( see * ? ? ? * and references therein ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used new , deep , visible and near infrared observations of the compact starburst cluster in the giant hii region ngc  3603 and its surroundings with the wfc3 on hst and hawk - i on the vlt to study in detail the physical properties of its intermediate mass ( @xmath0 1 - 3 @xmath1 ) stellar population . </S>",
    "<S> we show that after correction for differential extinction and actively accreting stars , and the study of field star contamination , strong evidence remains for a continuous spread in the ages of pre - main sequence stars in the range @xmath2 to @xmath3 myr within the temporal resolution available . </S>",
    "<S> existing differences among presently available theoretical models account for the largest possible variation in shape of the measured age histograms within these limits . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that this isochronal age spread in the near infrared and visible colour - magnitude diagrams can not be reproduced by any other presently known source of astrophysical or instrumental scatter that could mimic the luminosity spread seen in our observations except , possibly , episodic accretion . </S>",
    "<S> the measured age spread and the stellar spatial distribution in the cluster are consistent with the hypothesis that star formation started at least 20 - 30 myrs ago progressing slowly but continuously up to at least a few million years ago . </S>",
    "<S> all the stars in the considered mass range are distributed in a flattened oblate spheroidal pattern with the major axis oriented in an approximate south - east - north - west direction , and with the length of the equatorial axis decreasing with increasing age . </S>",
    "<S> this asymmetry is most likely due to the fact that star formation occurred along a filament of gas and dust in the natal molecular cloud oriented locally in this direction . </S>"
  ]
}