{
  "article_text": [
    "light bridge ( lb ) is bright structures crossing the umbra during the evolution of sunspots .",
    "lb is associated to the breakup of sunspots in the decay or the assembly of sunspots in complex active regions @xcite .",
    "@xcite classified lb as `` photospheric,''``penumbral , '' and `` umbral '' lb according its intensity and fine structure .",
    "another classification is as follows @xcite : strong lb , which separates umbral core and is further distinguished as photospheric or penumbral , and faint lb , which is faint narrow lane with in the umbra and most likely consists of umbral dots .    at present , the formation and magnetic properties of lb are not understood completely . a common mechanism to explain the formation of lb is that field - free convection penetrates umbra from sub - photosphere and forms a cusp - like magnetic field @xcite .",
    "@xcite revealed the formation of a lb due to the intrusion of umbral dots basing on data obtained from h@xmath1 satellite . magnetic field in lb",
    "is revealed weaker and more inclined than that of surround umbra @xcite . *",
    "based * on h@xmath1 observation of the magnetic field in a lb accompanied by long - lasting chromospheric plasm ejections , @xcite suggest that current - carrying highly twisted magnetic flux tubes are trapped below a cusp - shape magnetic structure along the lb .",
    "in addition , by a detail analysis of the stokes spectra @xcite , it is found that the field strengths and inclinations increase and decrease with height , which suggest a canopy - like structure above the lb .",
    "it is undoubted that the plasm contained in lb have a temperature higher than that in surrounding umbra because of the brightness of lb .",
    "observations indicate that there are remarkable plasma ejections or h@xmath0 surge activities in chromosphere along lb @xcite . additionally , over the site of lb the bright enhancement in 1600   images and heating of coronal loops in 171   images from transition region and coronal explorer ( * trace * ) was founded recently @xcite , which observations suggest that lb is a steady heat source in the chromosphere .",
    "@xcite using g - band and ca ii images obtained from h@xmath1 studied dynamics and brightness enhancements of lb , and pointed to the possibility that lb could be the sites for heating the overlying chromosphere , but can not rule out the likelihood of coronal phenomena . in this paper ,",
    "a coronal jet originates from the site of lb is presented , which means that the interaction between lb and umbra can also create coronal dynamic activities .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : firstly , the description of observations and data used will be introduced in section  [ s - obser and data ] ; secondly , the results are shown in section  [ s - results ] ; at last , the short discussions and conclusions will be given in section  [ s - conl ] .",
    "jet studied here is near disk center ( heliographic coordinates  s17w23 ) , it occurred during about 20:00 - 21:00 ut on 29 mar 2011 .",
    "the observatory data , which used to study this jet , were obtained by atmospheric imaging assembly ( aia ) @xcite and helioseimic and magnetic imager ( hmi ) @xcite on board the sdo and by solar optical telescope ( sot ) on board h@xmath1 @xcite .",
    "aia takes full - disk image in 10 wavelengths with a pixel size of 0.59 arcsec . in this paper , aia 171     and 1700     data at level 1 with 45 s cadence",
    "hmi includes full - disk magnetograms , continuum intensities , dopplergrams with spatial resolution of 0.5 arcsec . in this paper , light - of -sight ( los ) magnetograms and continuum intensity",
    "are used for this analysis .",
    "g - band and ca ii ( with spatial resolution of 0.1 arcsec ) and los magnetogram ( with spatial and temporal resolution 0.16 arcsec and 15 min , respectively ) observed by sot / h@xmath1 are used in this work .",
    "the data processing in the work are all based on standard solar software ( ssw _ e.g _ , fg_prep.pro , aia_prep.pro ) . for example , dark subtraction , flat fielding , the correction of bad pixels and cosmic - ray removal were done for filtergram images obtained by sot .",
    "fig  [ fig1 ] shows the location of this jet , it occurs during about 20:00 - 21:00 ut on 29 mar 2011 .",
    "the left image is full - disk aia 171     image at 20:40 ut , and the region where jet occurs is drawn by a white rectangle , the right image is amplified sub - region of left image , where the jet ( highlight by white region ) can be seen obviously .",
    "it is found that the jet has already separated in two parts along its direction of propagation as time going on , the former part ejects toward space and the latter one falls back along magnetic field lines where it created .",
    "fig  [ fig2 ] shows the process of coronal jet from 20:00 to 21:07 ut , with peak at 20:45 ut using aia 171     images .",
    "the field of view is 162 arcsec for all images .",
    "the blue arrow in each frame points to the evolution of this jet , includes the start ( a , b ) , maximum ( c , d ) and decay ( e , f ) phases . in image",
    "( d ) the jet has already separated two parts along its direction of propagation , the former part(yellow arrow ) ejects toward space away from the sun , the latter one ( blue arrow ) becomes a back - flow along magnetic field lines and gives rise to the intensity enhancement of the site where jet originated , which can be seen in image ( e ) indicates by a red arrow .",
    "the velocity of back - flow is about 198 km / s , which is calculated from these aia 171     images , however the effect of project are not considered . to see",
    "the intensity enhancement resulted from the back - flow , fig  [ fig21 ] shows the evolution of 1700    images from 20:53 to 20:59 ut .",
    "the intensity enhancement indicated by a blue arrow in panel ( e ) should be caused by the back - flow corresponding the latter part of jet .    in order to know the circumstances of lower atmosphere corresponding to the site where jet created",
    ", fig  [ fig3 ] gives the aia 171     ( a ) and 1700    ( b ) images , hmi los magnetogram ( c ) and continuum intensity ( d ) images and g - band ( e ) and ca ii ( f ) sot / h@xmath1 images together .",
    "these images are aligned by heliospheric coordinate and combined by correlation of feature points ( cross - correlation function idl ) .",
    "the contour lines plotted on each image are los magnetic field , where the levels of magnetic field contours are -80 to -50 and 200 - 800 g , and red / green contours are positive / negative magnetic flux , while in image ( f ) the yellow contour are positive one , the blue rectangle indicates the site of jet originated . from the continuum intensity , g - band and 1700    image ,",
    "it can be seen clearly that the jet has its root near lb , which can be seen from the intensity enhancement of image ( b ) and ( f ) indicated by a white arrow , this intensity enhancement is due to mass falling back along magnetic field lines .",
    "additionally , from image ( c ) it can be found that there is no evident negative magnetic flux , which opposite the main positive magnetic flux nearby the root of jet . to see the fine structure of magnetic field on the photospheric associated with jet eruption more clearly",
    ", the high spatial resolution ( 0.16 arcsec ) los magnetic field observed by sot / h@xmath1 is shown in fig  [ fig4 ] , here the field of view is 40 @xmath2 40 arcsec@xmath3 . where the levels of magnetic field contours are -80 to -50 and 200 - 800 g , and red / green contours are positive / negative magnetic flux , which is consistent with those of hmi los magnetic field in fig  [ fig4 ] .",
    "it is found that there is no evident negative magnetic flux near the site where jet eruption from the high spatial resolution images of los magnetic field .    in order to find the change in lb during jet ejected ,",
    "the evolution of maximal intensity and width of lb are studied using 1700     images .",
    "six slits are selected along lb ( the right image of fig  [ fig5 ] , which is an example observed at time 20:30:08 ut ) .",
    "the profile of intensity of each slit is fitted using gaussian function , then the half width and the height of gaussian function is as the width and maximal intensity of lb , respectively ( in left image of fig  [ fig5 ] , the dot line is profile of intensity and the solid line is gaussian fit to the intensity , the numbers of slit are corresponding those of the profile of intensity labeled using different color ) .",
    "it can be found that the results of gaussian fit are reasonable and acceptable , because there is no evident deviations between the true profiles and the fitted profile .    using the above method to calculate a serial of 1700     images , the evolution of maximal intensity and width of lb are plotted in fig  [ fig6 ] and  [ fig7 ] , respectively , during 16:00 - 22:30 ut .",
    "the time interval between two yellow vertical lines is 20:00 - 21:00 ut . from fig",
    "[ fig6 ] , it can be found that before jet creates there is no evident changes of maximal intensity ; by the time of jet onset the maximal intensity begin to increase slightly , but this increase is not evident ; during the jet ejects the evolutions of maximal intensity are different among six slits , for slit of ( 1 ) ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) it increase slightly but not evidently , for slit of ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) it do not change almost , however on the whole they have a trend of increase for maximal intensity during jet ejects ; when jet finishes the maximal intensity reach to maximum , which is caused by the back - flow of jet , after that time it begin to decrease . from fig  [ fig7 ] , it can be found that before and during jet ejects there is no evident rule can be obtained , however after jet finishes there is a jump of the width of lb , which is also caused by the back - flow of jet , and then narrows down to normal width as before quickly .",
    "the above results confirm that this jet has its root near lb , thus , the interaction between lb and main sunspot may be a direct reason for the creation of this jet .",
    "the width of lb ( @xmath4 500 km ) plotted in fig  [ fig7 ] is consistency the previous result @xcite .    the hmi continuum intensity images are also studied by the same method as above to know the properties of lb on photosphere during jet erupts . similar to fig  [ fig5 ] , six slits in continuum intensity image are selected and shown in the right frame of fig  [ fig8 ] , where the observation obtained at the time 20:29:59 ut is used as an example .",
    "after gaussian fit for a serial of continuum intensity images , the evolution of maximal intensity and width of lb on the photosphere are plotted in fig  [ fig9 ] and  [ fig10 ] , respectively . on the whole , the maximal intensities increase slightly before and during jet ejects , then they displays a decrease after jet finishes . on the photosphere the change trend of the width of lb can not be rule out before and during jet eject , and different slits shows different change .",
    "however there is a common fact that the width of lb is broaden at some extent after jet finishes .",
    "it is also found that the width of lb on the photosphere ( @xmath4 800 km ) is broader than that of on 1700   image ( @xmath4 500 km ) .",
    "using multi - spectral images observed by h@xmath1 and sdo newly launched satellites , the evolution of a lb accompanying coronal jet eruption is studied.it is reveal that this coronal jet ( ejected during 20:00 to 21:07 ut on mar 29 2011 , with peak at 20:45 ut ) is related to lb .",
    "it suggest that interaction between lb and main umbra not only have low atmospheric response ( previous studies include h@xmath0 surge , coronal loops enhancement ) but can also has more dynamic high atmospheric or coronal activities .",
    "the evolutions of lb during jet eruption are studied basing on the 1700   images and photospheric continuum intensity images in this paper . on the whole the intensity and width of",
    "lb show no evident change before and during jet eject , however there are evident change after jet finishes , which means that lb can also has dynamic coronal response not only chromospheric response ( chromospheric brighten and h@xmath0 surge ) .",
    "it is also find that the width of lb displayed on the photosphere is broader than that displayed on 1700     image .",
    "the evolutions of intensity and width of lb at different atmosphere can only give us a change trend during jet ejects .",
    "it is noted that lb companying coronal jet is seldom for study so far .",
    "thus , it is expected that more available scientific data for similar analysis in not far future .",
    "normally jet is regard as the phenomenon of magnetic reconnection .",
    "the exist of opposite magnetic flux is required for reconnection models , but from light - of - sight magnetic field it is found that there is no evident opposite magnetic flux exist in the region where jet originated for this event .",
    "thus , there should be the magnetic components in lb that can provide the essential condition for magnetic reconnection .",
    "accurately , the basic condition for magnetic reconnection is the opposite magnetic flux and anomalous resistance .",
    "generally , the opposite magnetic flux in fact is two magnetic topologies and the anomalous resistance is usually caused by some instabilities . here ,",
    "the main sunspot and the lb can be considered two magnetic systems and the instability maybe more easy exist at the boundary between main sunspot and lb . for this jet event ,",
    "the opposite magnetic flux maybe below the resolution of magnetic field observed . or likes @xcite , highly twist magnetic field is trapped in lb that can provide condition for magnetic reconnection .",
    "also it should be noted that magnetic reconnection do not always require the opposite magnetic flux , such as component reconnection ( there are some angle differences between the two magnetic components ) .",
    "however there may be more deep physics mechanism for magnetic reconnection , which can be studied in future , when we get high spatial and temporal resolution vector magnetic field that can show more fine magnetic structure of lb .",
    "plasma and magnetic field fill the whole sun , and there is a phenomenon of magnetic freezing in the region of strong magnetic field ( namely , the region of sunspot ) .",
    "hence , the plasma should flow along magnetic field line .",
    "sunspot and lb should be considered as two magnetic systems .",
    "previous studies @xcite show that magnetic field in lb is weaker and more inclined than that of surround umbra . for a unipolar sunspot studied here",
    ", the magnetic field line should have radial shape , and the stronger magnetic field the more vertical .",
    "lb is another magnetic system , the distribution of magnetic field line should be more inclined .",
    "thus , the plasma flow the field line of individual magnetic system of sunspot and lb .",
    "the fine topology of magnetic field of lb is unknown for us due to the restrictions of observatory .",
    "maybe the field lines along the axis of lb or field lines surround the axis of lb .",
    "hence the plasma maybe flow along the axis of lb or they surround the axis of lb . either field lines along lb or they surround lb , they should be considered as another magnetic system comparing to that of main sunspot , which different from the main sunspot .",
    "thus , there can exist the basic condition for magnetic reconnection at the boundary between sunspot and lb , and jet unavoidable become the results of magnetic reconnection .",
    "_ hinode _ is a japanese mission developed and launched by isas / jaxa , collaborating with naoj as a domestic partner , nasa and stfc ( uk ) as international partners .",
    "scientific operation of the _ hinode _ mission is conducted by the _ hinode _",
    "science team organized at isas / jaxa .",
    "this team mainly consists of scientists from institutes in the partner countries .",
    "support for the post - launch operation is provided by jaxa and naoj ( japan ) , stfc ( u.k . ) , nasa , esa , and nsc ( norway ) .",
    "this work was partly supported by the national natural science foundation of china ( grant nos .",
    "10611120338 , 10673016 , 10733020 , 10778723 , 11003025,11103037 and 10878016 ) , national basic research program of china ( grant no .",
    "2011cb8114001 ) and important directional projects of chinese academy of sciences ( grant no .",
    "klcx2-yw - t04 ) .",
    "katsukawa , y. , yokoyama , t. , berger , t.e .",
    ", ichimoto , k. , kubo , m. , lites , b.w . , nagata , s. , shimizu , t. , a.shine , r. , suematsu , y. , d.tarbell , t. , m.title , a. & sueta , s. katsukawa , y. , 2007 , , 59 , 577    kosugi , t. , matsuzaki , k. , sakao , t. , shimizu , t. , sone , y. , tachikawa , s. , hashimoto , t. , minesugi , k. , ohnishi , a. , yamada , t. , tsuneta , s. , hara , h. , ichimoto , k. , suematsu , y. , shimojo , m. , watanabe , t. , davis , j.m . ,",
    "hill , l.d . ,",
    "owens , j.k . ,",
    "title , a.m. , culhane , j.l .",
    ", harra , l. , doschek , g.a . , & golub , l. 2007 , , 243 , 3                      tsuneta , s. , suematsu , y. , ichimoto , k. , shimizu , t. , otsubo , m. , nagata , s. , katsukawa , y. , title , a. , tarbell , t. , shine , r. , rosenberg , b. , hoffmann , c. , jurcevich , b. , levay , m. , lites , b. , elmore , d. , matsushita , t. , kawaguchi , n. , mikami , i. , shimada , s. , hill , l. , & owens , j. 2008 , , 249 , 167"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> chromospheric brighten and h@xmath0 surge are the evident and common phenomena along sunspot light bridge . in this paper , a coronal jet ejects from sunspot light bridge is presented . using the data from the solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) and hinode satellites , it is confirmed that the jet has the root near light bridge , this suggests that the jet may be a result of reconnection between main sunspot and light bridge . </S>",
    "<S> due to the processing of jet ejects , the intensity and width of light bridge have some changes at some extent . </S>",
    "<S> this also suggests that jet is related to the interaction between light bridge and umbra , possibly magnetic reconnection or heat plasma trapped in light bridge escaping and moving along field line . </S>"
  ]
}