{
  "article_text": [
    "planets discovered using the radial velocity ( rv ) method have dominated the total exoplanet count until recently , when the transit method has made increasing contributions .",
    "the long time baseline of rv surveys has allowed the detection more diverse orbital geometries than achievable by ground - based transit surveys .",
    "the kepler mission , however , with its multi - year baseline , can begin to probe into parameter space previously reserved for rv studies . at longer periods ,",
    "orbits tend to diverge significantly from the circular case beyond a semi - major axis of @xmath0  au @xcite , although there may be small observational biases that skew this distribution @xcite .",
    "this insight has led to numerous attempts to account for eccentricity in the context of planet formation and orbital stability @xcite and the influence of tidal circularization @xcite .",
    "it has been shown how eccentricity distribution effects transit probabilities @xcite and projected yields of transit surveys @xcite .",
    "this influence is minor for the ground - based surveys since they are primarily sensitive to giant planets in short - period orbits .",
    "however , the kepler mission is expected to be impacted by this distribution since it probes out to much longer periods with a much reduced disadvantage of a window function that affects observations from the ground @xcite .",
    "a comparison of the kepler results in the context of eccentricity and transit durations with the rv distribution has been suggested by @xcite and @xcite and carried out by @xcite , but initial planet candidate releases by the kepler project do not provide enough period sensitivity @xcite .",
    "the most recent release of kepler planet candidates by @xcite increases the total number of candidates to more than 2,300 and the time baseline probed to beyond 560 days .",
    "this has several implications for studies of eccentricity distributions .",
    "the kepler mission is sensitive to planets significantly smaller than those accessible by current rv experiments and thus allows a more in - depth study of the dependence of eccentricity on the planet mass / size and multiplicity .",
    "if the eccentricity distributions of kepler and rv planets were found to be substantially different then this may reveal a selection effect in the way kepler candidates are selected which is biased against eccentric orbits .",
    "a direct comparison of the two distributions , provided they are consistent for the planet mass / size region where their sensitivities overlap , will allow a more exhaustive investigation of orbital eccentricity to be undertaken .    here",
    "we present a study of the eccentricity distribution of planets discovered with the rv method and the complete list of kepler planet candidates .",
    "we calculate expected transit durations for circular orbits and compare them with either calculated or measured eccentric transit durations (  [ eqns ] ) .",
    "our results show that the measured transit durations from rv data (  [ rv ] ) and the kepler candidates (  [ kepler ] ) are consistent with having the same distribution .",
    "we estimate the impact parameter distribution for the kepler candidates and show that their mean eccentricity decreases with decreasing planet size (  [ correlation ] ) , which supports the hypothesis that smaller planets tend to be found in multiple systems in near - circular orbits .",
    "we discuss additional astrophysical aspects in  [ discussion ] and conclude in  [ conclusion ] .",
    "a concise description of exoplanetary transit modeling and associated parameters is presented elsewhere @xcite . here",
    "we concentrate on the relevant details to our analysis : transit duration and eccentricity . the transit duration for a circular orbit",
    "is given by @xmath1 where @xmath2 is the orbital period , @xmath3 is the semi - major axis , @xmath4 is the orbital inclination , and @xmath5 and @xmath6 are the stellar and planetary radii respectively .",
    "the impact parameter of a transit is given by @xmath7 and is defined as the projected separation of the planet and star centers at the point of mid - transit .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     finally , we investigate a sample of the outliers with particularly large deviations from the circular model ( @xmath8  hours ) .",
    "these candidates are shown in table [ ecctab ] .",
    "since the kepler data frequently do not contain any secondary eclipse , @xmath9 and @xmath10 are unknown .",
    "we calculate transit duration @xmath11 as a function of @xmath9 and @xmath10 via equation [ scaling ] .",
    "we then produce a grid of @xmath12 for all values of @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "locations where the grid values are approximately equal to 1 are possible solutions for which the measured transit duration in the kepler candidate catalog is consistent with certain values of @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "an example of this is shown in figure [ evsw ] where we present results of the above calculations as an intensity map for koi  1230.01 . in order to be compatible with the kepler measured duration",
    ", the eccentricity of the planet must be at least 0.34 .",
    "this process is repeated for each of the candidates in table [ ecctab ] in which we report the minimum required eccentricity @xmath13 for each candidate .",
    "it is worth noting , however , that these minimum eccentricities are not singular values but rather distributions , as can be seen by the gray - scale in figure [ evsw ] .",
    "the uncertainties depend highly upon the various random errors in the measured values of the kepler candidates catalogue , including @xmath4 .",
    "for example , the stellar radius of koi  2481.01 would need to be @xmath14% of the catalogue value in order for it to be in a circular orbit and the duration discrepancy to be reduced to zero .",
    "using @xmath15 by @xmath16 using @xmath11 .",
    "thus , a value of 1 ( peak intensity ) corresponds to the best solution (  [ kepler]).,width=309 ]    further of interest in table [ ecctab ] are the relatively short - period planets koi  1894.01 and koi  2133.01 .",
    "one normally expects a transit duration of several hours for period such as these .",
    "however , the values of @xmath15 and @xmath16 shown in this table imply a @xmath17 larger than 20 hours ! this does not appear to make sense until one considers the stellar radius .",
    "note from equation [ duration ] that , for an edge - on orbit and small @xmath6 , the transit duration scales linearly with the size of the star .",
    "for these two candidates , the stellar radii are 8.6 and 9.3 solar radii respectively thus resulting in a large @xmath16 and a significant eccentricity required to be consistent with observations .",
    "note , however , that we have assumed @xmath18 .",
    "as one increases the impact parameter , the predicted transit duration will decrease and thus become closer to its measured value .",
    "results for individual cases extracted from the global distribution , such as those in table [ ecctab ] , must therefore be treated with caution .",
    "we mentioned in section [ kepler ] that the analysis of the kepler objects included only candidates for which @xmath19 .",
    "here we perform a separate study by repeating the calculations of @xmath16 for the kepler candidates for a range of planetary radii .",
    "we allow the candidate sample to include all radii larger than @xmath20 to @xmath21 and calculate the mean of the @xmath16 distribution in each case .",
    "we show our results in figure [ mean ] .     for the kepler candidates as a function of minimum planetary radius included in the sample (  [ correlation]).,width=309 ]",
    "an interpretation of this figure is that the eccentricity distribution of exoplanets remains relatively flat until we probe below planets the size of neptune . at that point",
    "the eccentricity distribution of the orbits becomes rapidly and significantly more circular .",
    "this is not unexpected since we understand from the solar system that the inefficiency of tidal dissipation ( the quality factor @xmath22 ) is much larger for high - mass than for low - mass planets @xcite , resulting in shorter tidal circularization time scales for smaller planets .",
    "one aspect of the kepler candidate sample that may influence this result is that they are dominated by planets at smaller semi - major axes since these have much larger transit probabilities . as indicated by @xcite and @xcite ,",
    "multi - planet systems comprise a large proportion of the total kepler candidate sample and these systems in particular are less prone to be false - positives .",
    "the findings that planet occurrence increases with decreasing planet mass ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ) then suggests that smaller planets find stable architectures in systems with circular orbits and without large planets in eccentric orbits .",
    "this lends credence to two scenarios : ( 1 ) core accretion forming terrestrial planets in circular orbits , and ( 2 ) disk instability and capture scenario explaining the existence of giant planets in eccentric orbits .",
    "a potential alternative explanation for the dependence of @xmath16 upon @xmath23 is a correlation between planetary radii and semi - major axes in the kepler sample due to completeness .",
    "smaller planets in closer orbits would be more likely to have had their orbits circularized leading to their domination of the sample .",
    "we do not , however , see such an effect but instead find no correlation between planet size and period in the kepler catalog for the selected range of orbital periods .",
    "thus , we conclude that this effect is not the cause of the observed radius / eccentricity correlation .",
    "there are various sources of potential systematic noise inherent in the data used to perform this analysis .",
    "for example , we have not taken the stellar limb - darkening into account when considering transit durations . however , since we only consider the total transit duration ( first contact to last contact ) , this will be a negligible effect .    for the kepler candidates , the primary source of uncertainty arises from the stellar parameters that are used to derive many of the planetary candidate parameters .",
    "the primary difficulties arise from the stellar radii whose precision is usually worse than @xmath2410% , even when spectra are available .",
    "our assumption is that these uncertainties are not significantly biased in one direction of the other and thus only add white noise to the overall statistical properties .",
    "one method to test this assumption is to consider multi - candidate systems for which a change in the stellar radius will effect all calculated transit durations in a similar way .",
    "for example , koi  157 ( kepler-11 ) has 6 detected planet candidates with measured transit durations that are shorter than predicted , and with an estimated host star radius of 1.06  @xmath25 .",
    "three of those discrepancies are quite small making them almost consistent with a circular orbit , as noted by @xcite . attempting to force circular orbits by reducing the stellar radius",
    "slightly makes 2 of the planets consistent with a circular orbit but leaves the other durations highly discrepant .",
    "a more global test of the assumption is the application of a range of uniform scaling factors to the stellar radii to try to produce transit durations consistent with circular orbits for the bulk of the distribution .",
    "these corrections did not change the distribution shown in figure [ keplercand ] , leading to the conclusion that our calculated @xmath16 values are not affected by systematically incorrect stellar radii .    considering the uncertainties in the radii of the kepler host stars , our limits on the eccentricities of the specific kepler candidates discussed in section [ kepler ]",
    "should be treated in that context . indeed ,",
    "this is why we concentrate our comments on the global distribution of all the kepler objects and their parameters , rather than on individual cases .",
    "furthermore , the kepler sample is only complete to @xmath26  au with declining completeness beyond this to @xmath27  au .",
    "thus , the number of candidates beyond 0.5  au is smaller but still sufficient for a valid comparison to be made .",
    "one aspect of the kepler candidates that was not taken into account was the multiplicity of the systems .",
    "as suggested at the conclusion of the previous section , the multiplicity may indeed play a significant role in stabilizing planets in approximately circular orbits , particularly for those in the low mass / size regime .",
    "this is true of the radial velocity planets also , some of which are known to lie in multiple systems of super - earth mass planets and with relatively circular orbits such as the system orbiting hd  10180 @xcite .    in section [ intro ]",
    "we mentioned the eccentricity bias found by @xcite due to low - amplitude signals in rv samples .",
    "this is a small but real effect which depends upon the sampling rate and has the consequence of under - estimating the number of near - circular orbits .",
    "@xcite develop a figure - of - merit and find that only @xmath28% of the planets considered in their sample are affected by this bias .",
    "the samples studied here are two small to detect such an effect , but we mention it here as a consideration for future similar work for which the sample sizes and , more particularly , the period range explored have grown substantially .    finally , a minor impact on the stellar radii that should be noted is the one due to the relation between planet frequency and stellar metallicity .",
    "@xcite explored the mass - metallicity relationship for stars that harbor planets and found a positive correlation of planet frequency with both stellar mass and metallicity , in accordance with the findings of @xcite .",
    "this positive correlation was also found empirically for m dwarfs by @xcite . for a given stellar mass ,",
    "a larger metallicity leads to a smaller radius in order to reach hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the implication for this study is that many of the kepler host stars will have relatively high metallicity leading to an over - estimated radius .",
    "however , this effect is at the level of a few percent and not expected to interfere with the results of this study .",
    "by conducting a transit survey that is sensitive to long enough periods , it is expected that one will eventually reproduce the eccentricity distribution found amongst radial velocity planets .",
    "this has not been possible until very recently , when the kepler presented a large sample of long - period planets candidates , providing the incentive for this study and a similar one by @xcite . for individual planets ,",
    "the eccentricity may be discerned via asymmetry in the shape of ingress and egress @xcite .",
    "this requires exquisite photometry and is highly sensitive to @xmath10 .",
    "we have shown here the consistency of the kepler candidates eccentricity distribution with their rv planets counterparts .",
    "the correlation of eccentricity with planet size is also an expected result based upon the discoveries of small planets in multiple systems and indicates that there is an empirical approach from which to both reverse - engineer formation scenarios and predict future stability patterns .",
    "the authors would like to thank rory barnes , eric ford , andrew howard , and suvrath mahadevan for several useful discussions .",
    "we would also like to thank the anonymous referee , whose comments greatly improved the quality of the paper .",
    "this research has made use of the exoplanet orbit database and the exoplanet data explorer at exoplanets.org .",
    "this research has also made use of the nasa exoplanet archive , which is operated by the california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration under the exoplanet exploration program .",
    "barnes , j.w . , 2007 , pasp , 119 , 986 batalha , n.m . , et al . , 2012 , apjs , submitted ( arxiv:1202.5852 ) borucki , w.j . , et al . , 2011 , apj , 728 , 117 borucki , w.j . , et al . , 2011 , apj , 736 , 19 butler , r.p . , et al . , 2006 , apj , 646 , 505 burke , c.j . , 2008 , apj , 679 , 1566 fischer , d.a . , valenti , j. , 2005 , apj , 622 , 1102 ford , e.b . , quinn , s.n . , veras , d. , 2008 , apj , 678 , 1407 ford , e.b . ,",
    "rasio , f.a . , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 686 , 621 goldreich , p. , soter , s. , 1966 , icarus , 5 , 375 howard , a.w . , et al . , 2010 , science , 330 , 653 johnson , j.a . ,",
    "aller , k.m . ,",
    "howard , a.w . , crepp , j.r . , 2010 , pasp , 122 , 905 juri , m. , tremaine , s. , 2008 , apj , 686 , 603 kane , s.r .",
    ", gelino , d.m . , 2012 ,",
    "pasp , 124 , 323 kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2008 , apj , 689 , 492 kane , s.r . , von braun , k. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1096 kipping , d.m . , 2008 , mnras , 389 , 1383 lissauer , j.j . ,",
    "et al . , 2011 , nature , 470 , 53 lissauer , j.j .",
    ", et al . , 2011 , apjs , 197 , 8 lissauer , j.j . ,",
    "et al . , 2012 , apj , 750 , 112 lovis , c. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "a&a , 528 , 112 malmberg , d. , davies , m.b . , 2009 , mnras , 394 , l26 mandel , k. , agol , e. , 2002 , apj , 580 , l171 matsumura , s. , takeda , g. , rasio , f.a . , 2008 , apj , 686 , l29 moorhead , a.v . , et al . , 2011 , apjs , 197 , 1 plavchan , p. , bilinski , c. , currie , t. , 2012 , apjl , submitted ( arxiv:1203.1887 ) pont , f. , husnoo , n. , mazeh , t. , fabrycky , d. , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 1278 seager , s. , malln - ornelas , g. , 2003 , apj , 585 , 1038 shen , y. , turner , e.l .",
    ", 2008 , apj , 685 , 553 smalley , b. , 2005 , mem .",
    ", 8 , 130 terrien , r.c . , mahadevan , s , bender , c.f . ,",
    "deshpande , r. , ramsey , l.w . ,",
    "bochanski , j.j . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , 747 , l38 von braun , k. , kane , s.r . ,",
    "ciardi , d.r .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 702 , 779 wang , j. , ford , e.b . , 2011 , mnras , 418 , 1822 wright , j.t . ,",
    "et al . , 2011 , pasp , 123 , 412 zakamska , n.l . , pan , m. , ford , e.b .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 410 , 1895"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the eccentricity distribution of exoplanets is known from radial velocity surveys to be divergent from circular orbits beyond 0.1  au . </S>",
    "<S> this is particularly the case for large planets where the radial velocity technique is most sensitive . </S>",
    "<S> the eccentricity of planetary orbits can have a large effect on the transit probability and subsequently the planet yield of transit surveys . </S>",
    "<S> the kepler mission is the first transit survey that probes deep enough into period - space to allow this effect to be seen via the variation in transit durations . </S>",
    "<S> we use the kepler planet candidates to show that the eccentricity distribution is consistent with that found from radial velocity surveys to a high degree of confidence . </S>",
    "<S> we further show that the mean eccentricity of the kepler candidates decreases with decreasing planet size indicating that smaller planets are preferentially found in low - eccentricity orbits .    </S>",
    "<S> planetary systems  techniques : photometric  radial velocities </S>"
  ]
}