{
  "article_text": [
    "high resolution observations of the gas and young stars within nearby massive spiral galaxies have shown that there is a tight correlation between the surface density of star formation and the surface density of molecular gas within these galaxies ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , similar observations of the star formation rate and the molecular gas surface density in low - metallicity environments , such as dwarf galaxies , tell a rather different story .",
    "carbon monoxide ( co ) , the most commonly - used tracer of molecular gas , is difficult to detect in low metallicity gas , and even when detected , the ratio of the observed star formation rate to the co luminosity is much larger than in higher metallicity regions ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "if one assumes that the conversion factor between co luminosity and h@xmath0 mass  the so - called ` x - factor '  is the same in these systems as in the milky way , then these observations imply that there is a much larger amount of star formation per unit of molecular gas in low metallicity regions than in the milky way .",
    "observations of larger `` main - sequence '' star - forming galaxies at @xmath3 by @xcite also show that the ratio of the star - formation rate to the co luminosity increases with decreasing metallicity , leading to a similar conclusion .",
    "these results are the opposite of what one would naively expect , given the crucial role that metals and dust play in regulating the temperature of star - forming clouds in the local ism .",
    "if , as is widely believed , the presence of large amounts of cold gas is a prerequisite for star formation , then one would expect star formation to become less effective as the metallicity is reduced , owing to the loss of coolants from the gas , as well as the reduced effectiveness of dust shielding .",
    "indeed , recent work by @xcite has shown that galaxy formation models in which the star formation efficiency decreases with decreasing metallicity do a much better job of describing the specific star formation rates of high redshift galaxies than models in which the star formation rate is independent of metallicity .    one way to avoid this apparent contradiction",
    "is to adopt an x - factor with a strong dependence on metallicity . in this picture",
    ", one assumes that the co luminosity per unit h@xmath0 mass in low - metallicity environments is much smaller than in the milky way , implying that the actual reservoir of molecular gas present in such regions is much larger than one would predict from applying the galactic x - factor to the observed co emission . in other words , rather than having anomalously large star formation efficiencies , low metallicity dwarf galaxies and other similar systems may simply be strongly deficient in co. this idea has considerable theoretical support from numerical models of the dependence of the x - factor on metallicity ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and also some observational support from direct measurements of the x - factor in the low metallicity environment of the small magellanic cloud @xcite .",
    "if this model is correct , then it implies that the observations are not giving us an accurate picture of the relationship between the gas surface density and the star formation rate in these low - metallicity systems , and that the question of the star formation efficiency of the gas remains unresolved .",
    "therefore , in order to explore the extent to which the star formation rate within a typical gravitationally - bound molecular cloud depends on the metallicity of the cloud , we have performed a series of numerical simulations of the chemical , thermal and dynamical evolution of model clouds with a wide range of metallicities .",
    "the layout of the remainder of our paper is as follows . in section 2",
    ", we describe the approach used for our numerical simulations and the initial conditions that we adopt . in section 3",
    ", we present our main results , and in section 4 , we discuss what these results imply regarding the dependence of the star formation rate on metallicity . finally , we give our conclusions in section 5 .",
    "the simulations described in this paper were performed using a modified version of the gadget 2 smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) code @xcite .",
    "our modifications include a sink particle algorithm for treating gravitationally collapsing regions that become too small to resolve @xcite , the inclusion into the equation of motion of an optional confining pressure term @xcite , a treatment of gas - phase chemistry ( described in more detail below ) , as well as radiative heating and cooling from a number of atomic and molecular species @xcite , and an approximate treatment of the attenuation of the galactic interstellar radiation field ( isrf ) .",
    "the effects of magnetic fields are not included .",
    "our treatment of the gas - phase chemistry combines the hydrogen chemistry network introduced in @xcite with the treatment of co formation and destruction proposed by @xcite .",
    "this combined network was tested against other simplified chemical networks for co formation and destruction by @xcite , who showed that it does a very good job of reproducing the results of more complex networks ( e.g.  @xcite ) for c@xmath4 , c and co , while incurring only one - third of the computational cost .",
    "our treatment of h@xmath0 formation on dust grains follows that of @xcite , but we have verified that in the conditions studied in this paper , we would get very similar results if we were to use a more modern treatment such as that in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "further details regarding our treatment of the chemistry can be found in @xcite .",
    "note that the simulations presented in this paper do not include the effects of the freeze - out of co onto dust grains . in galactic star - forming clouds , co freeze - out has been shown to have only a very minor effect on the thermal balance of the gas @xcite , and we expect it to be even less important in lower metallicity clouds , as the dust temperatures in these clouds will generally be somewhat higher than in the typical galactic case .",
    "we assume in the majority of our simulations that our clouds are illuminated by the standard interstellar radiation field ( isrf ) , as parameterized by @xcite in the ultraviolet and by @xcite at longer wavelengths .",
    "the effects of varying the strength of the isrf are examined in section  [ isrf ] . to treat dust extinction , h@xmath0 self - shielding , co self - shielding and the shielding of co by h@xmath0",
    ", we use the treecol algorithm @xcite , as described in @xcite .",
    "this algorithm provides us with an approximate 4@xmath5 steradian map of the column densities of hydrogen nuclei , h@xmath0 and co seen by each sph particle , discretized into 48 equal - area pixels . to convert from the hydrogen column density to the dust extinction",
    ", we use the relationship @xmath6 @xcite , where we have assumed that the extinction scales linearly with the total metallicity . to convert from the h@xmath0 and co column densities to the shielding factors due to h@xmath0 self - shielding , co self - shielding and the shielding of co by h@xmath0 , we use conversion factors from @xcite for h@xmath0 self - shielding and @xcite for the other two terms .",
    "the initial state of our cloud is a uniform sphere with a total mass of 10@xmath7 and an initial hydrogen nuclei number density @xmath8 , giving it an initial radius of approximately 6  pc .",
    "this cloud mass is typical of a small , nearby molecular cloud , such as e.g.  the perseus or taurus molecular clouds .",
    "we have chosen to focus on the behaviour of a relatively small molecular cloud for two main reasons .",
    "first , it is simpler to simulate a small cloud with the required mass resolution than it would be to simulate a much larger cloud , since the required number of sph particles scales linearly with the cloud mass .",
    "second , a small molecular cloud will typically have a larger ratio of thermal to gravitational energy than a larger cloud , and so it is reasonable to expect that varying the metallicity will have more influence on the star formation rate in a small cloud than in a large one .",
    "we show in section  [ rate ] below that large variations in the metallicity have only a small effect on the star formation rate , and because we are focussing on the case where we expect the metallicity variations to have the greatest effect , we can reasonably conclude that they will have even less effect in larger molecular clouds .    to model the gas making up the cloud , we use two million sph particles , giving us a particle mass of @xmath9 and a mass resolution of @xmath10 .",
    "we showed in @xcite that this mass resolution is sufficient to accurately determine the star formation rate , but that it does not allow us to draw strong conclusions regarding the form of the low - mass end of the stellar initial mass function .",
    "we inject bulk ( non - thermal ) motions into the cloud by imposing a turbulent velocity field that has a initial power spectrum @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the wavenumber .",
    "the energy in the turbulence is initially equal to the gravitational energy in the cloud , meaning that the initial root mean squared turbulent velocity is around 3 kms@xmath13 . during the simulation",
    ", the turbulence is allowed to freely decay via shocks and compression - triggered cooling .",
    "we set the initial gas temperature to 20  k and the initial dust temperature to 10  k , but these values both alter rapidly once the simulation begins , as the gas and dust relax towards thermal equilibrium .",
    "we consider five different metallicities in this study : @xmath14 and @xmath15 . in our solar metallicity runs , we adopt the values @xmath16 and @xmath17 for our total oxygen and carbon abundances relative to hydrogen @xcite . in the lower metallicity runs ,",
    "we assume that @xmath18 and @xmath19 scale linearly with the metallicity .",
    "we also assume that our dust abundance scales linearly with @xmath20 , but for simplicity assume that its properties remain the same ( i.e.  we do not change the form of the extinction curve as we move to lower @xmath20 , merely the overall normalization ) . in every simulation , we assume that all of the available carbon starts in the form of c@xmath4 and that all of the available oxygen starts in neutral atomic form . for each metallicity",
    ", we perform two simulations , one in which the hydrogen is initially fully molecular , and a second in which it is initially fully atomic .",
    "we denote the simulations that start with molecular hydrogen by labels of the form z@xmath21-m , where @xmath21 refers to the metallicity ( e.g.  z1-m corresponds to solar metallicity , z01-m to @xmath22 , etc . ) , while for the simulations starting with atomic hydrogen , we use labels of the form z@xmath21-a .    finally , we note that the cosmic ray ionization rate of atomic hydrogen in most of our simulated clouds was @xmath23 .",
    "the cosmic ray ionization rates for the other major chemical species tracked in our chemical model were assumed to have the same ratio relative to the rate for atomic hydrogen as given in the umist99 chemical database @xcite .",
    "we explore the effects of varying @xmath24 in section  [ cosmic ] .",
    "we first examine how the star formation rate in our model clouds varies as we vary the metallicity . as in @xcite , we use the total mass of gas incorporated into sink particles as a proxy for the mass of stars formed . although the limited mass resolution of our simulations means that the total number of sinks formed is probably not well - resolved , we have shown in previous work that our adopted resolution is sufficient to accurately determine the star formation rate @xcite .    in the upper panel of figure  [ fig : sfrate ] , we show how the mass in sinks varies with time in the five runs in which the hydrogen starts in the form of h@xmath0 , i.e.  runs z1-m , z03-m , z01-m , z003-m and z001-m . in run z1-m ,",
    "the solar metallicity run , the first sink forms at @xmath25 . for comparison ,",
    "the free - fall time of the cloud at its initial mean density is slightly longer , @xmath26 .",
    "however , the turbulence in the cloud creates overdense regions that are able to collapse more rapidly than the cloud as a whole , and so it is not particularly surprising that @xmath27 .",
    "once star formation has begun , it proceeds steadily , with the total mass of stars reaching @xmath28 after another 0.5  myr ( table  [ timing ] ) .",
    "measured from the start of the simulation , the star formation efficiency per free - fall time of the cloud at this point is approximately 0.02 , consistent with recent estimates of this quantity by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we halt the simulation shortly after this point because we do not include the effects of stellar feedback in our models and hence expect them to become increasingly inaccurate as the mass incorporated into stars increases , and as the individual stars approach the main sequence .",
    ", width=307 ]    .star formation timescales in the different runs [ timing ] [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      + * note : * sfr@xmath29 is the star formation rate of the cloud per unit co luminosity , normalized to the value in run z1-m .",
    "sfr@xmath30 is the star formation rate of the cloud per unit h@xmath0 mass , normalized in a similar fashion .",
    "how do we reconcile these results with recent work showing that galaxy formation models in which the star formation efficiency declines with decreasing metallicity do a far better job of reproducing observations of the kennicutt - schmidt relation and the star formation rate per unit mass in low - mass galaxies than models in which the efficiency is independent of metallicity ?",
    "( see e.g.  the models of @xcite , @xcite or @xcite ) .",
    "it is important to note at this point that there are at least two ways in which the metallicity of the gas could have a strong influence on the star formation rate that are not addressed by our current models .",
    "first , our models assume that the gas has already been assembled into a gravitationally - bound cloud , and do not address how this actually occurred . however , it is not unreasonable to expect that the process of cloud assembly may have some sensitivity to metallicity .",
    "for example , consider the classical picture of the two - phase neutral interstellar medium , as described in detail in e.g.  @xcite .",
    "models of the two - phase medium show that if we reduce both the dust and gas - phase metallicities , but keep all of the other environmental parameters ( e.g.  the cosmic ray ionization rate or the strength of the interstellar radiation field ) constant , then the minimum ism density required in order to allow for the existence of a cold neutral phase increases ( see e.g.  figure 6 in * ? ? ?",
    "since the existence of a cold neutral phase is an obvious pre - requisite for star formation , this result highlights one way in which the metallicity of the gas may affect the star formation rate on large scales : by making it more difficult to produce cold gas , we also make it more difficult to produce stars , and hence reduce the star formation rate .",
    "this idea has some support from numerical models of turbulence in the low metallicity ism ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) , but deserves to be studied in more detail .    the second main way in which the metallicity of the gas may affect the star formation rate is through the influence of stellar feedback .",
    "it is plausible that stellar feedback , particularly in the form of uv radiation , may become more effective at suppressing star formation as we reduce the metallicity of the gas , owing to the decrease in the cooling rate of the clouds and their reduced ability to shield themselves from the uv radiation .",
    "the results presented in section  [ isrf ] for an interstellar radiation field that was ten times stronger than our default value give some support to this idea , as in this case we do find a delay in the onset of star formation in our @xmath31 simulation .",
    "however , the effect is relatively small , suggesting that if we want to significantly reduce the star formation efficiency of the cloud , a large enhancement in the radiation field strength will be necessary .",
    "on the other hand , @xcite argue that stellar feedback should actually be _ less _ effective at lower metallicities . in their model",
    ", they assume that stellar winds from massive stars are the most important form of feedback , and these are well known to grow weaker with decreasing metallicity ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , implying that stellar wind feedback will also become less effective .",
    "feedback models in which radiation pressure from massive stars plays a leading role also predict that feedback will become less effective as z decreases , owing to the reduction in the ability of the dust to trap the radiation ( a.  kravtsov , private communication ) .",
    "it is therefore safe to say that the jury is still out regarding the overall influence of metallicity on the effectiveness of stellar feedback , and whether the reduced efficacy of star formation at low metallicities that is apparently required by galaxy formation models can be explained by a change in the effectiveness of stellar feedback .",
    "we have shown in this paper that the star formation rate of individual , gravitationally bound clouds does not have a strong dependence on the metallicity of the gas making up those clouds .",
    "although changes in the metallicity lead to pronounced changes in the chemical composition of the clouds and their temperature distribution , the effect on the star formation rate is comparatively small : two orders of magnitude decrease in the metallicity delays the onset of star formation by less than a single cloud free - fall time .",
    "our results provide strong support for a picture in which the high values observed for the star formation rate per unit co luminosity in many low metallicity systems are caused primarily by a large deficit in the amount of co present in comparison to more metal - rich systems , rather than by an increase in the star formation efficiency in the lower metallicity systems .",
    "we also find evidence that the star formation rate per unit h@xmath0 mass should increase with decreasing metallicity , although the strength of this effect depends quite strongly on the assumptions we make regarding the initial chemical composition of our model clouds , and on the strength of the incident uv radiation field .",
    "observational confirmation of this effect will be difficult , because at metallicities @xmath32 the size of the effect appears to be smaller than the typical observational uncertainty in the amount of h@xmath0 present in the gas ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * who conclude that their inferred h@xmath0 column densities are uncertain to within a factor of 23 ) .",
    "nevertheless , efforts to test the model by determining the star formation rate per unit h@xmath0 mass in very low metallicity systems would be very valuable , as the increase that our models predict distinguishes them from many other models of star formation in gmcs in which the star formation rate per unit h@xmath0 mass remains constant ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "another interesting result of our simulations is the demonstration that in low metallicity clouds , the co abundance is highly time - dependent .",
    "co forms efficiently in these clouds only at very high gas densities , and these densities are reached only within gravitationally collapsing pre - stellar cores .",
    "prior to the onset of gravitational collapse , the co content of these clouds is typically very small , meaning that they will have low average co luminosities and high co - to - h@xmath0 conversion factors .",
    "once gravitational collapse begins , however , the co content of the clouds increases significantly , leading to higher co luminosities and hence lower co - to - h@xmath0 conversion factors .",
    "one way of testing this prediction would be to compare the values of x@xmath29 derived for starless and star - forming clouds in low metallicities galaxies : if our models are correct , we would expect the starless clouds to have systematically higher values of x@xmath29 than the star - forming clouds .",
    "finally , it is important to remember that our results do not by themselves imply that the star formation rate in galaxies is independent of metallicity .",
    "if decreasing the metallicity of the ism makes it harder to form gravitationally bound clouds , then it will tend to decrease the galactic star formation rate even if  as demonstrated here  the rate at which stars form within the individual clouds is barely affected .",
    "similarly , if stellar feedback becomes more effective at lower metallicity , then one would again expect the galactic star formation rate to be smaller .",
    "a definitive answer to the question of the influence of metallicity on the star formation rate within galaxies is unlikely to be obtained before we can model the whole cloud lifecycle , from assembly to dispersion .",
    "the results presented here represent a small but important step towards this ultimate goal .",
    "the authors would like to thank c.  dobbs , n.  gnedin , r.  klessen , a.  kravtsov , m.  krumholz , a.  kritsuk , s.  madden , m.  norman , r.  shetty and a.  wolfe for stimulating discussions regarding aspects of the work presented in this paper .",
    "they would also like to thank the anonymous referee for suggestions that helped to improve the paper .",
    "the authors acknowledge financial support from the baden - wrttemberg - stiftung for contract research via grant p - ls - spii/18 , and the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) via sfb project 881 , `` the milky way system '' ( sub - projects b1 and b2 ) and priority program 1573 , `` physics of the interstellar medium '' .",
    "the gadget simulations discussed in this paper were performed on the _ ranger _ cluster at the texas advanced computing center , using time allocated as part of teragrid project tg - mca99s024 .",
    "the radiative transfer modelling discussed in section  [ observe ] was performed on the _ kolob _ cluster at the university of heidelberg , which is funded in part by the dfg via emmy - noether grant ba 3706 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of molecular clouds in metal - poor environments typically find that they have much higher star formation rates than one would expect based on their observed co luminosities and the molecular gas masses that are inferred from them . </S>",
    "<S> this finding can be understood if one assumes that the conversion factor between co luminosity and h@xmath0 mass is much larger in these low metallicity systems than in nearby molecular clouds . </S>",
    "<S> however , it is unclear whether this is the only factor at work , or whether the star formation rate of the clouds is directly sensitive to the metallicity of the gas .    to investigate this , </S>",
    "<S> we have performed numerical simulations of the coupled dynamical , chemical and thermal evolution of model clouds with metallicities ranging from @xmath1 to @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the star formation rate in our model clouds has little sensitivity to the metallicity . </S>",
    "<S> reducing the metallicity of the gas by two orders of magnitude delays the onset of star formation in the clouds by no more than a cloud free - fall time and reduces the time - averaged star formation rate by at most a factor of two . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> the chemical state of the clouds is highly sensitive to the metallicity , and at the lowest metallicities , the clouds are completely dominated by atomic gas . </S>",
    "<S> our results confirm that the co - to - h@xmath0 conversion factor in these systems depends strongly on the metallicity , but also show that the precise value is highly time - dependent , as the integrated co luminosity of the most metal - poor clouds is dominated by emission from short - lived gravitationally collapsing regions . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we find evidence that the star formation rate per unit h@xmath0 mass increases with decreasing metallicity , owing to the much smaller h@xmath0 fractions present in our low metallicity clouds .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : ism  ism : clouds  ism : molecules  stars : formation </S>"
  ]
}