{
  "article_text": [
    "recommender systems help to overcome information overload by providing personalized suggestions based on the user s history / user s interest .",
    "because recommender systems can increase user experience by providing more relative information or even find information user ca nt find otherwise , they are deployed on many websites , especially e - commerce websites @xcite . according to relying on the content of the item to be recommended or not , the underlying recommendation algorithms are generally classified into two main categories : content based and collaborative filtering ( cf ) recommendations . in this paper , we focus on the collaborative filtering algorithms . in the essence , they make recommendations to the current user by fusing the opinions of the users who have similar choices or tastes . it is a more natural way of personalization because people are social animals .",
    "there are always persons who share common interests with us that reliable recommendations can be made upon .",
    "the problem settings of collaborative filtering are simply described as follows .",
    "the user set is denoted as @xmath0 and the item set is denoted as @xmath1 .",
    "users give ratings @xmath2 $ ] to the items that they have seen indicating their preference .",
    "so the ratings form a rating matrix @xmath3 where the unknown ratings are left as @xmath4 .",
    "each row of the rating matrix represents a user and each column represents an item .",
    "the goal of collaborative filtering is therefore to choose and recommend the items that the current user would probably like most according to this rating matrix .",
    "the existing cf algorithms are divided into two categories : memory - based methods and model - based methods .",
    "memory - based cf algorithms directly use the rating matrix for recommendation .",
    "they predict the unknown preference by first finding similar users or similar items denoted as user neighbors and item neighbors , respectively ; by fusing these already known and similar ratings they can guess the unknown ratings . on the other hand , model - based cf algorithms learn an economical models representing the rating matrix .",
    "these models are refereed to as user profile or item profile .",
    "recommendation thus becomes easy and intuitive on these lower dimension attributes .",
    "whilst considered to be one of most successful recommendation methods , collaborative filtering suffers from two severe problems , namely sparsity and scalability @xcite .",
    "please note that for a single user it is impossible for her to rate all the items and it is impossible for a single item been rated by all the user either . actually , most values in the rating matrix are unknown , i.e. , @xmath4 .",
    "since our recommendations are solely depending on this very sparse rating matrix , how to leverage these data to generate good recommendations is challenging . on the other hand ,",
    "real - world recommender systems often have millions of users and items . for many recommendation algorithms ,",
    "the training model needs hours even days to be updated . unchanging and outdated recommendations are likely to disappoint our users .",
    "so we require the algorithms to be as fast as possible in both training and recommendation phases . in real world recommender systems ,",
    "another practical but often overlooked issue related to high quality recommendation is how to consider the evolution of user interests over time .",
    "take news recommender systems such as google personalized news for example , there are at least two reasons to consider time effects in their recommendation algorithms @xcite .",
    "first , people always want to read the latest news . to recommend a piece of news happened ten days ago",
    "is not likely of equal interest as the news happened just now .",
    "( using a slicing time window to cut the old news off may be one trivial solution , but obviously not the ideal solution . )",
    "more importantly , people s tastes are always changing .",
    "a young man would like to see recommendations about digital cameras if he plans to buy one .",
    "but after he already owns it , he will not take interest in the recommendations on buying a new digital camera .",
    "so time factors are of vital importance for the success of recommender systems in many applications , especially e - commerce , advertisement and news services .    to recommend using these sparse and evolving preference data , we propose a novel collaborative filtering algorithm named ant collaborative filtering ( acf ) which is inspired by ant colony optimization algorithms .",
    "similar to other swarm intelligence algorithms , acf could handle very sparse rating data by virtue of pheromone transmission and is a natural extension of other cf techniques in recommender systems in which preferences keep changing .",
    "we make an analogy of users to ants which carry specific pheromone initially .",
    "when the user rates a movie or simply reads a piece of news on the web , our algorithm links the user and the item by the mechanism of pheromone transmission from the user to the item and vice versa .",
    "so the types of pheromone and their amounts constitute a clear clue of historical preference and turn out to be a strong evidence for finding similar users and items .",
    "the remainder of this paper is structured as follows : we first introduce some preliminaries . in section [ section3 ]",
    "we present our ant collaborative filtering algorithm and in section [ section4 ] we improve this algorithm using dimension reduction technique . in section [ section5 ] , some related works are described .",
    "we then report the experimental results on two different datasets in section [ section6 ] .",
    "finally , we conclude the paper with some future works .",
    "the majority of collaborative filtering algorithms follows the rating prediction manner , i.e. , predicting the ratings for all the unseen items for the current user and then recommend the items with the highest prediction scores .",
    "yet an alternative view of the recommendation task is to generate a top @xmath5 list of items that the user is most likely interested in , where @xmath5 is the length of final recommendation list . in this",
    "regard , collaborative filtering can be directly cast as a relevance ranking problem @xcite .",
    "these two types of algorithms are called rating - based and ranking - based recommendations , respectively .",
    "one of the disadvantages of rating - based cf algorithms is that they can not make good recommendations in the situation of implicit user preference data .",
    "we should notice that explicit user rating data that rating - based algorithms rely on are not always available or are far from enough . in most cases ,",
    "users express their preference by implicit activities ( such as a single click , browsing time , etc . ) instead of giving a rating . as the consequence of lack of these rating data ,",
    "rating - based cf algorithms can not work properly . in this sense ,",
    "ranking - based algorithms are as important as rating - based algorithms , if not more important .",
    "@xcite proposed an item ranking algorithm by computing their similarity with the items that the customers have already bought .",
    "@xcite proposed a learning to rank algorithm that can find a function @xmath6 that correctly ranks the items as many as possible for the users .",
    "for every item pair @xmath7 and @xmath8 , if user @xmath9 likes @xmath7 more than @xmath8 , we have @xmath10 , otherwise the ranking error increases .",
    "although similar algorithms have been applied to ranking problem for search engine , the size of both users and items in recommender systems makes this personal ranking algorithm intimidating for implementation .    in general ,",
    "ranking - based cf hasnt been paid enough attention to in academia although it is already popular in commercial recommender systems compared to rating - based recommendation .",
    "we deem the reason for this is that it is relatively difficult to define a proper loss function as their rating prediction counterpart . in this paper ,",
    "both types of algorithms are concerned .",
    "recommendation activity often involves two disjoint sets of entities : the user set @xmath0 and the items set @xmath11 .",
    "a natural representation of these two groups is by means of bipartite graph @xcite , where one set of nodes are items and the other set are users .",
    "links go only between nodes of different sets , in case that the user selects the item or rates the item .",
    "the rating matrix of collaborative filtering domain therefore could be elegantly represented by this weighed undirected bipartite graph and the original matrix is actually the adjacency matrix of this graph . as for implicit preference matrix ,",
    "the generated bipartite graph is unweighted and undirected .",
    "the two scenarios are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : bipartite ] ( a ) and ( b ) .        for rating prediction problem , we are interested in finding the user neighbors and item neighbors in both modes of the graph simultaneously . for ranking - based recommendation",
    ", we are interested in finding the missing edges between the two partite indicating potential interests between user and item . hereafter , we cast the cf problem as bipartite graph mining problem without special explanation .",
    "the data in recommender systems keep changing .",
    "not only new users and new items are continuously added to the system , the preferences of existing users and the features of existing items are also changing over time . to make better recommendations , algorithms should update the learned model efficiently and appropriately . by `` efficiently ''",
    "we mean the algorithm has the ability for fast or even real - time update . on the other hand , ``",
    "appropriately '' means we must take time factor into consideration when deciding on what to recommend to the users . for example , we can not expect users are equally satisfied with the recommendations of a very old movie and a brand new movie , even they have similar ratings .    in spite of its importance ,",
    "time factors gain little attention in recommendation research area until recently .",
    "the authors of @xcite proposed an incremental update method to compute the proximity of any two given nodes in the bipartite graph changing on the year base .",
    "@xcite analyzed the evolution of ratings in the netflix movie recommender system .",
    "it proposed two cf algorithms that consider time effects : item - item neighborhood method and rating matrix factorization method .",
    "both the methods are elaboratively tailored for netflix movie rating data and achieve the best results so far .    as pointed out in @xcite ,",
    "preference evolution is subtle and delicate . for a single user ,",
    "what we can use are often just a few preference instances inundated by millions of non - relevant data .",
    "the above mentioned methods have been designed and tested for special recommendation scenarios . however , in a more general sense , a robust recommendation algorithm considering time evolution for a wider range of applications including both rating - based and ranking - based recommender systems is still absent and is the main focus of our research .",
    "before proceeding on a more detailed description , we first introduce notations and ant colony algorithm which sheds some light on our proposed methods .    .notations [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     for all the algorithms in the above experiments we use batched training data without considering time influence . since the personalize recommendations such as book and music recommendation performances are heavily depending on the time , results can be further improved by updating our iacf model using preference data in their original time order .",
    "the iacf with and without considering time sequence are referred to as time and timeless version .",
    "we choose 15 time points within the time span , denoted as @xmath12 from @xmath13 to @xmath14 .",
    "the results are shown in the fig .",
    "[ fig : time ] . from the results we could see a clear increase of precision as time goes on .",
    "it means when users keep using our recommender systems , the recommendation will be more and more accurate .",
    "recommendation is becoming of more importance for many internet services .",
    "we have seen plenty of researches concerning on improving the accuracy of recommendation algorithms on static , rating - based data . but as pointed out in the very recent paper @xcite , improved accuracy is not a panacea , there are also other challenges for collaborative filtering .",
    "scalability is one of most mentioned concerns and time effects are also a indispensable factor to be considered in dynamic recommender systems . in this paper",
    ", we proposed a novel cf algorithm inspired by the ant colony behavior . by pheromone transmission between users and items and evaporation of those pheromones on both users and items over time , acf could flexibly reflect the latest user preference and thus make most reliable recommendations .    in a nutshell ,",
    "our major contributions are :    * it introduced the concepts in ant colony optimizations ( such as pheromone , evaporation and etc . ) into recommendation domain and proposed an incremental , scalable collaborative filtering algorithm that can nicely handle sparse and evolving rating data ; * it fused dimension reduction with the ant collaborative filtering algorithm above mentioned ; * the algorithm proposed in this paper could recommend with both strategies : rating - based and ranking - based recommendation which are used in explicit user preference and implicit user preference scenarios respectively ; * last but not least , acf algorithm is easy to be deployed on distributed computational resources , even in a peer - to - peer environment , which means a higher scalability and more importantly , user privacy protection .",
    "there are also some unexplored possibilities to improve the algorithm proposed in this paper .",
    "first , the initialization of pheromones does affect the final recommendation results as shown in the dimension reduction version of acf .",
    "there may be other initialization schemes that we can make further improvements .",
    "second , evaporation is an interesting while hard - to - tune mechanism that applications should find the most suitable rate to their own needs .",
    "last but not least , bipartite based ranking methods including ours are flexible and can often fuse user preference data other than user ratings @xcite .",
    "this is also a promising direction .",
    "we thank state key laboratory of computer science for subsidizing our research under the grant number : cszz0808 , the national science and technology major project under grand number:2010zx01036 - 001 - 002 - 2 and the grand project network algorithms and digital information of the institute of software , chinese academy of sciences under grant number : yocx285056 .",
    "10 j. wang , s. robertson , a.p .",
    "de vries , and m.j.t . reinders .",
    "probabilistic relevance ranking for collaborative filtering . in _ information retrieval _",
    "11(6 ) : 477 - 497 , 2008 . b. marlin .",
    "collaborative filtering : a machine learning perspective .",
    "master s thesis , university of toronto , 2004 .",
    "aggarwal , j.l .",
    "wolf , k .-",
    "wu , and p.s .",
    "yu . horting hatches an egg : a new graph - theoretic approach to collaborative filtering . in _ proceedings of the fifth acm sigkdd _ : 201 - 212 , 1999 .",
    "t. zhou , j. ren , m. medo , and y. zhang .",
    "bipartite network projection and personal recommendation . in _",
    "physical review e ( statistical , nonlinear , and soft matter physics ) _ , 76(4 ) , 2007 .",
    "deng , m.r .",
    "lyu , and i. king .",
    "a generalized co - hits algorithm and its application to bipartite graphs . in _ proceedings of the 15th acm sigkdd conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , 2009 .",
    "mirza , b.j .",
    "keller , and n. ramakrishnan .",
    "studying recommendation algorithms by graph analysis . in _ journal of intelligent information systems _",
    "20(2 ) : 131 - 160 , 2003 .",
    "p. han , b. xie , f. yang , and r.m .",
    "an adaptive spreading activation scheme for performing more effective collaborative recommendation . in _ proceeding of international conference on database and expert systems applications _ : 95 - 104 , 2005 .",
    "z. huang , h. chen , and d. zeng .",
    "applying associative retrieval techniques to alleviate the sparsity problem in collaborative filtering . in _",
    "acm transactions on information systems _",
    "22(1 ) : 116 - 142 , 2004 . n. craswell , and m. szummer .",
    "random walks on the click graph . in _ proceedings of the 30th annual international acm sigir conference _ : 239 - 246 , 2007 .",
    "marina meila , jianbo shi . learning segmentation by random walks . in _ proceedings of advances in neural information processing systems _ : 873 - 879 , 2000 .",
    "m. dorigo .",
    "optimization , learning and natural algorithms .",
    "ph.d.thesis , politecnico di milano , italy , 1992 .",
    "j. wu , and k. aberer . swarm intelligent surfing in the web . in _ proceedings of international conference on web engineering _ : 277 - 284 , 2003 .",
    "a. das , m. datar , a. garg , and s. rajaram .",
    "google news personalization : scalable online collaborative filtering . in _ proceedings of the 16th www conference _",
    ": 271 - 280 , 2007 . j. ben schafer , joseph a. konstan , john riedl .",
    "e - commerce recommendation applications . data",
    "mining and knowledge discovery , vol . 5 ( 1 - 2 ) , 2001:115 - 153 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recommender systems require their recommendation algorithms to be accurate , scalable and should handle very sparse training data which keep changing over time . inspired by ant colony optimization , we propose a novel collaborative filtering scheme : ant collaborative filtering that enjoys those favorable characteristics above mentioned . with the mechanism of pheromone transmission between users and items , </S>",
    "<S> our method can pinpoint most relative users and items even in face of the sparsity problem . by virtue of the evaporation of existing pheromone </S>",
    "<S> , we capture the evolution of user preference over time . </S>",
    "<S> meanwhile , the computation complexity is comparatively small and the incremental update can be done online . </S>",
    "<S> we design three experiments on three typical recommender systems , namely movie recommendation , book recommendation and music recommendation , which cover both explicit and implicit rating data . </S>",
    "<S> the results show that the proposed algorithm is well suited for real - world recommendation scenarios which have a high throughput and are time sensitive </S>",
    "<S> .    @restonecol </S>"
  ]
}