{
  "article_text": [
    "the majority of stars reside in binary and higher multiplicity systems @xcite , and are observed to exist both in the field as well as in dense stellar environments such as globular clusters and galactic nuclei . in dense clusters the dynamical evolution of binaries can be strongly affected by encounters with others stars . in the field , encounters with other stars are rare , and do not affect the binary evolution .",
    "such binaries may still dynamically evolve if they reside in triple ( or higher multiplicity ) systems .",
    "the inner binary in a triple can be affected by the perturbation of the third , outer companion , and evolve through long term secular processes .",
    "in particular , triples in which the relative inclination between the orbit of the inner binary and the outer binary is high can evolve through kozai - lidov oscillations @xcite in which the eccentricity and inclination of the inner binary significantly change in a periodic / quasi - periodic manner .    in this study",
    "we explore the evolution of binaries in the environments of smbhs which are thought to reside at the center of most galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; throughout this paper we focus on galactic nuclei similar to the galactic center ( gc ) of our own galaxy .",
    "close to the center , where the gravitational potential is dominated by the mass of the smbh , binaries are bound to the smbh and effectively form a triple system , in which the binary orbit around the smbh is the outer orbit of the triple .",
    "binaries near a smbh may therefore evolve both through gravitational scattering by other stars in the dense nuclear cluster , as well as through secular evolution in the smbh - stellar binary triple system  @xcite .",
    "various types of binaries exist in such environments , including both main - sequence ( ms ) binaries , compact object ( co ) such as white dwarf ( wds ) , neutron star ( ns ) or stellar black hole ( bh ) binaries or mixed co - ms binaries . in this paper",
    "we focus on co - binaries , their evolution into short periods and the way in which they may become potentially observable gw sources for the advanced laser interferometer gw observatory ( ligo ) . scattering with other stars is also accounted for , but only in the sense of the lifetime of binaries in the gc , i.e. we do not follow the evolution of binaries which are disrupted ( evaporated ) through encounters with other stars at timescales shorter than the relevant secular timescales ( kozai evolution ) .    in the following we begin with a discussion of binaries in the gc and their expected properties ( section [ sec : binaries ] )",
    ", we then discuss the relevant timescales for the evolution of stars and binaries in galactic nuclei ( section [ sec : time - scales ] ) . in section [ sec : gw - sources ]",
    "we discuss the secular evolution of binaries near a smbh , and their potential coalescence due to a combined kozai cycles - gw loss mechanism ; we then calculate the type and properties of the gw sources which form through this process . the secular evolution of other types of binaries is briefly discussed in section [ sec : kctf ] .",
    "we summarize our results in section  [ sec : summary ] .",
    "at present , little is known about binaries in the gc .",
    "massive binaries can be currently detected only by observations of stellar variability @xcite , which can mainly detect eclipsing or ellipsoidal variable binaries @xcite .",
    "the fraction of such binaries among o - stars outside the gc is @xmath2 @xcite .",
    "@xcite conducted a variability survey of the central @xmath3 of the gc and found one such binary ( also observed by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) among 15 massive stars ( @xmath4 ) ; a fraction consistent with the galactic one .",
    "other binary candidates were also found : a colliding wind binary @xcite and another eclipsing binary @xcite .",
    "although these data are still insufficient for drawing strong conclusions about the total massive binary fraction in the gc , they do suggest that it is comparable to that observed outside the gc , among massive binaries . for reference ,",
    "the massive binary fraction in the solar neighborhood is very high ( @xmath5 ; @xcite ) , and most massive binaries have semi - major axes of up to a few au . given our poor understanding of binary formation , it is unknown whether star formation in the unusual gc environment results in similar binary properties .",
    "no observational data exist regarding low mass binaries in the gc .",
    "little is known about compact binaries in the gc , though the observed overabundance of x - ray sources in the central pc @xcite suggests they are not rare but their properties and origin are not known .",
    "we focus on binaries very close to the smbh , where secular kozai evolution affects the binary dynamics . however , this population is continuously destroyed through various processes  ( evaporation , mergers , disruption ) .",
    "we therefore first discuss the binary population outside the central region near the smbh ( @xmath6pc ) , which serves as a continuous source term repopulating the binaries in the central region .",
    "we then discuss the processes which can repopulate binaries in the central region , both from populations outside and from in - situ formation of new binaries .      in the following we discuss the binary population outside the central region near the smbh ( @xmath6pc ) .",
    "this binary population serves as a source term for binaries in the central region on which we focus , which are continuously destroyed through various processes .    the binary fraction and semi - major axis distribution of observed main sequence stars in the solar neighborhood have been analyzed in many binary surveys ( e.g. @xcite and references within ) . for compact objects the observational data is still lacking",
    "however , many theoretical analysis have been done using stellar evolution and binary synthesis codes .",
    "most of these studies focused on close binaries , usually in the context of cvs , x - ray binaries or gravitational waves sources ( which are relatively short lived and compose only a very small fraction of the binary population ) , and did not analyze the general distribution , which is needed for our analysis .",
    "nevertheless , the general semi - major axis distribution of cos binaries have been found for isolated ( i.e. not taking into account dynamical effects which could be important in dense stellar environments ) wd - ms binaries @xcite and bh binaries @xcite . for nss , one can use the observed pulsar binaries population as found in the atnf pulsar catalog ( at http://www.atnf.csiro.au/research/pulsar/psrcat/ ; * ? ? ?",
    "the initial period distribution we consider for the different binary populations is shown in fig .",
    "[ f : bin - period ] .",
    "these distributions do not take into account dynamical evolution of binaries in the dense environment near the smbh , mainly important in evaporating wide binaries ( so called soft binaries ; @xcite ) due to distant stellar encounters .",
    "they also do not account for the long term evolution of close compact object binaries due to gw emission .",
    "we account for these evolutionary aspects using simplified methods .",
    "the primordial binary fraction ( not taking into account dynamical evolution such as evaporation of the binaries due to encounters ) , @xmath7 , is different for the different binary types , ms , wd , ns or bh binaries .",
    "it depends both on the progenitors binary fraction , @xmath8 ( i.e. bhs and nss progenitors are high mass stellar binaries whereas wd binary progenitors have lower masses ) and fraction of surviving binaries , @xmath9 , after going through their evolutionary stages .    the binary fraction of massive stars ( @xmath10 ) is more than two times that of lower mass stars ( @xmath11 ; @xcite ) .",
    "stellar evolution further changes these fractions .",
    "thus , for obtaining @xmath7 we either take the observed binary fractions in the solar neighborhood ( in the cases of ms binaries and ns binaries ) or use the theoretical models for the survivability of the different binaries @xcite to find @xmath9 , and multiply it by the progenitors binary fractions @xmath8 ( i.e. @xmath12 ) .",
    "we finally get @xmath13 ( for high and low mass ms stars , wds , nss and bhs respectively ) as the evolution of lower mass stars ( and wds ) changes the semi - major axis distribution of the binaries but does not result in their disruption , whereas the evolution of bhs and nss results in most cases in the binary disruption .",
    "we adopt these initial binary fractions throughout our calculations .",
    "the fractions of co binaries used here already account for the initial high binary fraction and the stellar evolution of these binaries .",
    "however , these binary fractions are also expected to be reduced due to dynamical encounters with other stars and through coalescence due to gw emission ( for compact objects ) and tidal friction . in the following calculations ( specifically in section [ sec : merger_frac ] )",
    "we assume the initial co binary fractions ( @xmath7 ) in the gc are similar to those obtained here , where the effects due to dynamical encounters and kozai evolution of compact binaries are accounted for in a simplified manner , as we discussed later on .",
    "evolution due to tidal frction which is important for ms stars will be discussed elsewhere , and is only shortly discussed here .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]     * other replenishment processes : * various other processes may affect the replenishment rate of compact binaries and/or their progenitors in the gc . in the following we qualitatively discuss such processes , but we do not account for them in our rates estimates ( beside star formation , effectively integrated in into the assumptions used in the observations based estimates ) , as their complete analysis is beyond the scope of this paper .    _ _ triple disruption _ _ * * : * * @xcite ( 2009 ; see also ginsburg and perets 2011 ) suggested that disruption of triple stars could leave behind a binary in a close orbit around the smbh ; this could serve as a continuous source of replenished binaries close to the smbh .",
    "this study estimated a triple disruption rate which is @xmath14 % of the binary disruption rate of massive stars ( ob stars ; we do not consider disruption of triple compact objects as these are likely to be rare ) . in half of these cases a binary",
    "is captured around the smbh , where its companion is ejected . if the s - stars observed close to the smbh in the gc",
    "arise from a binary disruptions and/or similarly the observed population of hvss arise from such processes , then these could be used to calibrate the binary and hence triple disruption rates .",
    "capture rate calculations by @xcite(2007 ; see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , suggest that the binary disruption scenario ( induced by massive perturbers scattering ) could be consistent with the observed number of the young b - stars in the gc ( and similar processes are likely to be at work in other galaxies ; @xcite ) .",
    "if this is the case then binaries are continuously replenished into close regions around the smbh ( and into eccentric orbits around the smbh ) , and our use of the observed number of b - stars could be justified , with some important differences .",
    "only @xmath15 % of the observed b - stars would be the result of triple disruption and would actually be binaries . on the other hand the captured binaries are likely to have smaller separations than typical binaries in the field , which are more likely to form compact binary progenitors that would efficiently merge .",
    "taken together , it is likely that such a replenishment mechanism would produce a gw rate which is 10 - 20 times lower then the high estimate for the ns stars .",
    "this scenario , however , is not likely to produce progenitors massive enough to form sbhs , such as the observed young o / wr stars in the gc ( which reside in a disk like configuration and have low eccentricities ) .",
    "gw rate from bhs coalescence are therefore not likely to gain much from this process .",
    "_ in - situ star - formation : _ * * as mentioned above , our gc contains a large population of young massive o - stars , many of which reside in a stellar disk .",
    "these stars were most likely to form in - situ following the fragmentation of a gaseous disk formed from an in - falling gaseous clump ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "such stars formation burst may occur continuously throughout the evolution of the stellar cusp around the smbh . as mentioned earlier eclipsing and close binaries are observed among the gc young stars , suggesting star formation as an additional process which can repopulate the binary population of the gc .",
    "continuous formation of binaries in the gc is part of the assumptions made in our high gw rate estimate .",
    "the other assumptions in the high estimate are related to the binary population properties and their distribution around the smbh .",
    "although some pioneering work have been done on the properties of binaries formed in the gc @xcite , these are generally unknown .",
    "another important issue is whether the orbits of binaries formed in a disk could later dynamically evolve to achieve close approach to the smbh , where efficient secular evolution as studied here can occur .",
    "although the o - stars observed in the disks are not observed closer than 0.05 pc to the smbh , various mechanisms were suggested for their inward migration closer to the smbh .",
    "@xcite discussed the disk migration of binaries through similar migration scenario of planets in gaseous disks ; they show that the binaries do not only migrate but also shrink their inner orbit and possibly merge before they finish their migration .",
    "madigan et al . @xcite proposed that binaries ( and single stars ) could be excited to high eccentricities through an eccentric disk instability scenario , and their periapsis approach could become small enough for the binaries to be disrupted .",
    "both these mechanisms suggest the existence of binaries at close approach to the smbh . in the disk migration scenario",
    "the binaries orbit around the smbh are likely to be relatively circular , and the binaries loose their orbital energy and migrate on a short timescale of the order @xmath16 yrs ; it is not clear , however , whether the gaseous disk enabling the migration would extend close to the smbh , and/or allow for migration in the innermost regions . in the eccentric disk instability binaries remain at large semi - major axis orbits around the smbh , but gradually increase their eccentricity , and therefore come closer to the smbh only at periapsis .",
    "the timescale for the close approach is relatively short , @xmath17 , and binaries may be left at eccentric orbits at the end of this process .    _ cluster infall : _ * * nuclear stellar clusters may result from the continuous infall of globular clusters that disperse close or in the close vicinity of the smbh ( see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "in particular such clusters may harbor an inner core cluster of bhs that formed during the cluster evolution .",
    "if these bhs are retained in the cluster this mechanism may contribute to the bhs population in the gc .",
    "further work needs to be done to explore the implications of this scenario to the replenishment of binaries in the gc . *",
    "*    _ resonant relaxation : _ in our discussion on replenishment processes above we considered the replenishment of binaries through non - resonant relaxation processes in which stars diffuse through random encounters with other stars .",
    "resonant relaxation could change the eccentricities and inclination of stars much faster than regular relaxation .",
    "one may therefore consider the timescale @xmath18 for diffusional replenishment to be the scalar resonant relaxation timescale @xmath19 , which could be much shorter than the non - resonant relaxation timescale assumed in the low estimate ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : times ] ) ; this could raise the low estimates by 1 - 2 orders of magnitude .",
    "for the high estimate , resonant relaxation may support the assumption that the distribution of stars rapidly achieve a steady state thermal distribution of eccentricities , as assumed in our models .",
    "the role of the much faster vrr , which changes the inclination of an orbit around the smbh is less clear .",
    "it depends on the dynamical effect on the inner binary inclination in respect to its orbit around the smbh .",
    "we may consider two extreme possibilities .",
    "if the binary orbit conserves its mutual inclination , i.e. acts as a stiff object , than vrr would not affect the secular evolution of the inner binary . however , if the binary orbit plays the role of a gyroscope , an initial co - planer configuration ( e.g. zero mutual inclination ) , in which kozai evolution is ineffective , could be transformed into a high mutual inclination configuration at which kozai evolution plays an important role . to further complicate the problem , the timescales for vrr could be short enough as to be comparable to the kozai timescale , in which case the coupling of both processes",
    "should be considered .",
    "all of the above mentioned issues for vrr of binaries require a dedicated study which is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "in the previous sections we discussed the secular evolution of co binaries near a smbh . a similar secular evolution could be important for stellar binaries and/or ms star - co binaries . in these cases",
    "gw emission which served to dissipate energy and induce the inspiral of the co binaries is not likely to play an important role .",
    "however , binary stars can dissipate energy through tidal friction .",
    "the secular evolution of the triple system , smbh - stellar binary , can therefore lead to a similar outcomes to those studied in the context of stellar triples ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite first suggested that kozai cycles and tidal friction in triples can induce their inspiral and the formation of compact binaries .",
    "later studies by @xcite suggested that short period binaries typically form through this process ( which could be even more effective than previously though when accounting for octupole approximation ; @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite suggested that such process can induce mergers of binary stars and the formation of blue stragglers .",
    "such mergers could be therefore a possible source of young stars at the galactic center  @xcite .",
    "similarly other types of close binaries and their products could be formed in a similar way .",
    "we may therefore expect that the perturbative effect of smbhs on binaries provide an efficient channel for the formation of close binaries and their products , such as x - ray binaries as well supernovae and gamma ray bursts ( following the merger of two wds or ns , or through the formation of a wd accreting binary ; see also @xcite ) .",
    "we note , that the binary fractions of ms stars are generally higher than those of cos , as discussed in section 2 , and tidal fraction is more efficient in inducing binary shrinkage / coalescence than is gw emission .",
    "taken together , we therefore expect the rate of shrinkage / merger of ms stars to higher than our estimtes of co binary mergers .",
    "since this study focuses on secular evolution of co binaries , we postpone futher quantitative discussion of the evolution of binaries with ms star components to another study .",
    "in this study we explored the secular evolution of compact binaries orbiting a massive black hole , and considered the effects of the stellar environment of the binaries .",
    "we have shown that the smbh can drive the binary ( inner ) orbit into high eccentricities , at which point the bhs can efficiently coalesce through gw emission , at times shorter that the evaporation times of the binaries in the hostile stellar environment of the smbh .",
    "such coalescing binaries can have non - negligible eccentricity when they enter the ligo band , and therefore have a unique observable signature .",
    "in addition we found that binaries at very close orbits to the smbh can interact with it on dynamical timescale and present peculiar evolution leading to several gw pulses over a short timescale .",
    "the latter sources are likely to be rare , and not be detected with current or planned instruments .",
    "finally , we note that similar processes can be important for the formation and merger of close stellar binaries , in which cases the gw dissipation leading to a the binary inspiral is replaced with tidal friction .",
    "we are extremely grateful to s. mikkola who wrote the archain integrator .",
    "we thank s.  prodan for a careful reading of an earlier version of this paper .",
    "we thank k.  cannon , c. hopman , b. kocsis , d. merritt , a.  mrou , n. murray , harald pfeiffer and y.  wu for useful comments .",
    "fa acknowledges partial support from harvard / cfa predoctoral fellowship during the summer 2011 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the environment near super massive black holes ( smbhs ) in galactic nuclei contains a large number of stars and compact objects . </S>",
    "<S> a fraction of these are likely to be members of binaries . here </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the binary population of stellar black holes and neutron stars near smbhs and focus on the secular evolution of such binaries , due to the perturbation by the smbh . </S>",
    "<S> binaries with highly inclined orbits in respect to their orbit around the smbh are strongly affected by secular kozai processes , which periodically change their eccentricities and inclinations ( kozai - cycles ) . during periapsis approach , at the highest eccentricities during the kozai - cycles , </S>",
    "<S> gravitational wave emission becomes highly efficient . </S>",
    "<S> some binaries in this environment can inspiral and coalesce at timescales much shorter than a hubble time and much shorter than similar binaries which do not reside near a smbh . </S>",
    "<S> the close environment of smbhs could therefore serve as catalyst for the inspiral and coalescence of binaries , and strongly affect their orbital properties . </S>",
    "<S> such compact binaries would be detectable as gravitational wave  ( gw ) sources by the next generation of gw detectors ( e.g. advanced- ligo ) . </S>",
    "<S> about @xmath0% of such nuclear merging binaries will enter the ligo observational window while on orbit that are still very eccentric  ( @xmath1 ) . the efficient gravitational wave analysis for such systems would therefore require the use of eccentric templates . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that binaries very close to the smbh could evolve through a complex dynamical ( non - secular ) evolution leading to emission of several gw pulses during only a few yrs ( though these are likely to be rare ) . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we note that the formation of close stellar binaries , x - ray binaries and their merger products could be induced by similar secular processes , combined with tidal friction rather than gw emission as in the case of compact object binaries . </S>"
  ]
}