{
  "article_text": [
    "rocky exoplanets have been discovered by transit surveys .",
    "a primary transit happens when a planet passes in front of its host star and blocks a part of the star , so that the depth of the transit corresponds to the ratio between the planetary radius and the stellar radius .",
    "the planet s radius together with its mass provides the mean density and clues on its interior structure ( see rogers & seager 2010 and references therein ) .",
    "a few exoplanets have been suggested to have rocky surfaces , because the mass and radius constraints indicate that the planets are predominantly rocky with no extensive atmosphere envelope , i.e. , likely rocky surfaces .",
    "corot-7b opens up the possibility of close - in airless rocky exoplanets ( lger et al .",
    "2009 ; queloz et al .",
    "2009 ) . due to the small star - planet distance , corot-7b",
    "may have molten or even vaporized metals on its sub - stellar surface ( lger et al .",
    "recently observations of transits of 55 cnc e , a 8-@xmath4 planet around a g8v star , determine the planetary radius to be 2.1 @xmath5 , which suggests that it can be a rocky planet ( winn et al .",
    ", 2011 ; demory et al . , 2011 ) .",
    "the kepler mission , with unprecedented photometric precision , is very powerful in discovering small - size transiting exoplanets .",
    "kepler-10b , a 4.5-@xmath4 planet , is the first rocky exoplanet discovered by kepler ( batalha et al .",
    "kepler recently discovered several planets with size in thesuper earth \" regime , including kepler-11b ( lissauer et al .",
    "2011 ) , kepler-18b ( cochran et al . 2012 ) , kepler-20b ( gautier et al . 2012 ) and notably kepler-22b in its host star s habitable zone ( borucki et al .",
    "2012 ) . due to uncertainties of the planets radii and masses , however , the composition of these kepler super - earths is ambiguous",
    ". they can be predominantly rocky like earth , or have significant gas envelope like neptune .",
    "also , kepler has detected earth - sized transiting planets , kepler-20e and kepler-20f , with no constraints on their masses due to difficulties of followup radial - velocity observations ( fressin et al .",
    "2012 ) . with the progress of the kepler mission ,",
    "other transit surveys and followup observations , more and more exoplanets that potentially have rocky surfaces will be discovered and confirmed .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to identify mineral - specific spectral features that would allow characterization of the surface composition of airless rocky exoplanets .",
    "the analogs of airless or nearly airless rocky exoplanets in the solar system are the moon , mars , mercury and asteroids , whose surface compositions have been studied extensively by spectroscopy of reflected solar radiation and planetary thermal emission ( see pieters & englert 1993 and de pater & lissauer 2001 and extensive references therein ) . for investigations of the solar system in 1970s and 1980s ,",
    "the rocky bodies were still spatially unresolved or poorly resolved with resolution of a few thousand kilometers , and spectra of reflected solar radiation in the near - infrared ( nir ) and spectra of planetary emission in the mid - infrared ( mir ) were the only information to infer their surface composition .",
    "thanks to prominent absorption features of specific minerals , notably olivine , pyroxene and ices , infrared spectroscopy provided significant constraints on the surface composition of rocky planets of the solar system ( e.g. , pieters & englert 1993 ) .",
    "we propose that using infrared spectroscopy to characterize mineral composition is applicable to study solid surfaces of exoplanets .",
    "both reflected stellar radiation and planetary thermal emission from an exoplanet are potentially observable by secondary eclipses if the planet is transiting , as well as by direct imaging ( e.g. , seager & sasselov 2000 ; seager 2010 ) .",
    "still , characterization of exoplanetary surfaces is very different from the investigation of the solar system analog surfaces , due to the fact that an exoplanet can not be spatially resolved and the spectroscopy of exoplanets is limited to very low spectral resolutions , probably broad - band photometry in the near term . as a result , it is essential to focus on the most prominent spectral features in the disk - averaged radiation from an exoplanet .",
    "we develop a theoretical framework to compute disk - integrated spectra of airless rocky exoplanets that self - consistently treats reflection and thermal emission and investigate the spectral features that can be used to interpret the mineral composition on exoplanetary surfaces .",
    "so far , the study of spectral features due to exoplanets surfaces has been limited to features in the reflected light by vegetation ( see seager et al .",
    "2005 for the  red - edge \" ) and a liquid water ocean ( e.g. , ford et al .",
    "2001 ; cowan et al .",
    "2009 ) . in this paper",
    "we employ a generalized approach to investigate spectral features of solid materials on an exoplanet s surface , with a consistent treatment of reflected stellar irradiation and planetary thermal emission .",
    "we focus on airless rocky exoplanets with solid surfaces , whose surface temperatures are lower than the melting temperature of silicates and other common minerals ( @xmath6 - 2000 k ) .",
    "this surface temperature requirement ensures that the planetary thermal emission and the reflected stellar radiation can be separated in wavelengths .",
    "as shown in figure [ substellar ] , kepler-22b , kepler-20f and kepler-11b can have an unmelted silicate surface .",
    "moreover , a large number of kepler planetary candidates have the orbital distances that permit unmelted silicate surfaces . in this paper",
    "we do not consider close - in rocky exoplanets that have molten lava surfaces , such as the case of corot-7b .",
    "once melted , crystal - field features , such as fe@xmath7 electronic transition at 1 @xmath0 m , will no longer persist in the same manner as in crystalline minerals .",
    "_ in situ _ measurements of active lava flow in hawaii confirm that nir spectra of molten lava are dominated by black - body emission ( e.g. , flynn & mouginis - mark 1992 )",
    ". we will address the spectral features of molten lava on close - in rocky exoplanet in a seperate paper .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in ",
    "2 we describe the background of geological surface remote sensing and the application in the study of the reflectance spectra of solar system rocky planets . in ",
    "3 we define several types of planetary solid surfaces and describe a theoretical framework to compute the disk - average reflection and thermal emission spectra of an airless rocky exoplanet . ",
    "4 contains the results of the paper in which we present reflection and thermal emission spectra of exoplanets with various types of crust , and summarize the most prominent and diagnostic features . in   5 we discuss the effect of atmospheres , the effect of space weathering , detection potential of the proposed spectra , and the connection between the surface characterization and the planetary formation and evolution .",
    "we summarize the paper in   6 .",
    "the spectral reflectances of minerals have features specific to their chemical compositions and crystal structures . from the visible to the nir wavelengths ( vnir ; 0.3 - 3 @xmath0 m ) , minerals such as pyroxene , olivine and hematite",
    "create prominent absorption features in reflection data , mostly due to electronic transitions of transition element ions ( i.e. , fe@xmath7 , fe@xmath8 , ti@xmath8 , etc . ) in the the crystal structures of minerals ( burns 1993 ) .",
    "for example , fe@xmath7 in the crystal field of olivine absorbs strongly at 1 @xmath0 m .",
    "position , strength , and number of features of the 1-@xmath0 m absorption band are diagnostic of the relative proportions of the mg and fe cations in olivines ( e.g. , sunshine & pieters 1998 ) . in the ultraviolet ( uv ) and visible wavelengths , many minerals , such as hematite ( fe@xmath9o@xmath10 ) ,",
    "have strong charge - transfer absorption bands , making them very dark ( e.g. , clark 1999 ) . for secondary minerals , typically formed by interactions with water , their volatile components , such as hydroxyl ( oh ) , water ( h@xmath9o ) , and carbonates ( co@xmath11 ) ,",
    "absorb strongly in the nir due to overtone and combination absorptions from vibrations , i.e. bands and stretches of components in the crystal structure ( e.g. , farmer 1974 ) .",
    "see table [ mineral_list ] for a list of common minerals on terrestrial planet surfaces and their key features in the nir reflectance spectroscopy .",
    ".common minerals on terrestrial planet surfaces and their key features in the nir reflectance spectroscopy .",
    "spectra used are from representative samples of average grain diameters less than 200 @xmath0 m , comparable to lunar soil ( duke et al . , 1970 ) .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ crust_bb ]      the nir j band ( 1.1 - 1.4 @xmath0 m ) is sensitive to the detection of ultramafic crusts that contain ferrous igneous minerals on an exoplanet s surface . in the j band ,",
    "surface absorbers include olivine and pyroxene ( see figure [ rc ] )",
    ". made of these two types of minerals , the ultramafic crust leads to a distinctive j - band geometric albedo significantly lower than the h band and the k band ( see figure [ crust_scatter ] and table [ crust_bb ] ) , unique in our set of representative surfaces .",
    "we define a key parameter for characterization of surface composition as the difference between the k - band geometric albedo ( @xmath12 ) and the j - band geometric albedo ( @xmath13 ) .",
    "this parameter basically describes the  color \" of exoplanetary surfaces in the nir wavelengths .",
    "note that thermal emission may contribute to the apparent geometric albedo , as shown by figure [ fullcase ] and table [ crust_bb ] . by saying  color \" we refer to the true geometric albedo with component of thermal emission properly removed .",
    "for an exoplanet completely covered by ultramafic crust , @xmath14 , whereas all other crustal types give value less than 0.1 ( see table [ crust_bb ] ) .",
    "it is therefore very likely that an ulframafic surface on exoplanets will stand out in the reflectance spectra .",
    "macroscopic mixtures between the ultramafic surface and other types of surfaces linearly lowers the spectral contrast of the j - band absorption feature . when mixed with other surfaces that have relatively flat spectra , such as basalt and granite",
    ", the j band feature of an ultramafic surface will appear to be shallower .",
    "as shown in figure [ crustmix ] , the key parameter @xmath15 depends linearly on the percentage of ultramafic crust on the planet s surface .",
    "a detection of @xmath16 indicates that more than a half of the planetary surface need to be covered by ultramatic materials .",
    "the nir h band ( 1.5 - 1.8 @xmath0 m ) is suitable for the detection of water ice on an exoplanet s surface . at the h band ,",
    "the most prominent absorber is water ice .",
    "in fact , water ice absorption in the h band is so strong that small amount ( 10% ) of water ice on a very reflective surface can significantly reduce the planetary geometric albedo .",
    "an ice - rich surface is the only type of surface in our sample that has lower albedo in h band than in j band ( table [ crust_bb ] ) . as a result ,",
    "if one observes a high j - band albedo and a low h - band albedo for an airless exoplanet , it is very likely that water ice exists on the planet s surface . if @xmath17 , more than half of the planetary surface is likely to be ice - rich ( see figure [ crustmix ] ) .    the nir k band ( 2 - 2.4 @xmath0 m ) is sensitive to water ice and hydrated minerals on an exoplanet s surface .",
    "we find that ice - rich surfaces and aqueously altered surfaces produce strong k - band absorption , which leads to a k - band albedo smaller than the j - band albedo ( see figure [ crust_scatter ] ) .",
    "for example , for a generally reflective surface in k band , e.g. , plagioclase- or olivine - rich , a small amount of water ice ( 10% ) can reduce the planetary geometric albedo significantly . as shown in figure",
    "[ crustmix ] , the key parameter @xmath15 depends linearly on the percentage of clay crust on the planet s surface .",
    "a detection of @xmath18 indicates that more than a half of the planetary surface need to be covered by hydrated materials .",
    "if the exoplanet has a thin atmosphere , molecular nir absorptions will introduce additional features in its reflection and thermal emission spectra ( e.g. mars reflectance spectra in figure [ ss ] ) .",
    "common molecules that actively absorb at nir in an rocky exoplanet s atmosphere include h@xmath9o , co@xmath9 , co , ch@xmath19 , nh@xmath10 , so@xmath9 , etc ( e.g. , seager & deming 2010 ) . based on the hitran molecular absorption line database , for an atmosphere of earth - like temperature and pressure , 18 parts - per - million ( ppm ) of h@xmath9o or 173 ppm of ch@xmath19 can produce an integrated optical depth larger than unity in the j band ( hu & seager , in preparation ) .",
    "similarly , 32 ppm of ch@xmath19 can produce an integrated optical depth larger than unity in the h band ; and 104 ppm of co@xmath9 , or 4 ppm of ch@xmath19 , or 5 ppm of nh@xmath10 can produce an integrated optical depth larger than unity in the k band ( hu & seager , in preparation ) .    for the broad - band infrared photometry , the effect of atmospheres on characterization of surface composition can be very serious .",
    "for example , we have demonstrated that water ice on the planet s surface produce h - band absorption , or negative @xmath20 .",
    "however , water vapor in the planet s atmosphere absorbs in j band , which will reduce the apparent contrast of the surface - related h - band feature . for another example",
    ", a j - band absorption feature in reflectance spectra can be interpreted as absorption of olivine and pyroxene on the surface , or as the absorption of water vapor in the atmosphere . without any prior knowledge on the planet s atmosphere",
    ", it could be hard to draw conclusive surface compositions from broad - band spectrophotometry observations .",
    "there are two possible ways to break the surface - atmosphere degeneracy in the exoplanet reflection spectra .",
    "first , observing the primary transit can determine the atmospheric composition of the exoplanet via transmission spectroscopy ( e.g. , seager & deming 2010 ) .",
    "the surface minerals do not induce any spectral features in the transmission of stellar radiation observable in primary transit .",
    "the difficulty of this approach is that the magnitude of atmospheric signal from the primary transit is proportional to the atmospheric scale height ( e.g. , miller - ricci et al .",
    "2009 ; seager 2010 ) , therefore for a terrestrial - like atmosphere the signal may be too low to be detected .",
    "second , high - resolution spectroscopy , rather than spectrophotometry , can distinguish a surface absorption from an atmospheric absorption . for reflection ,",
    "the iron - related absorption in silicates are typically very wide and smooth in wavelength ( see figure [ fullcase ] ) , but the atmospheric molecular features are typically narrow and only occur at specific wavelengths ; for thermal emission , the silicate vibrational features have particular shapes which can hardly be produced by any plausible temperature structures in the planetary atmosphere ( see figure [ fullcase ] and figure [ kepler20f ] for an example of kepler-20f ) . as a result , one can break the surface - atmosphere degeneracy in the exoplanet reflection spectra by achieving high spectral resolution .    in the extreme case , the refractory rocks may even be vaporized on the dayside and form a metal vapor atmosphere , as suggested for corot-7b by schaefer & fegley ( 2010 ) and lger et al .",
    "it has been shown that metal vapor atmospheres create narrow and strong metal transition lines in the visible wavelengths ( e.g. , seager & sasselov 2000 ) .",
    "it is therefore unlikely that metal vapor atmospheres impede spectral characterization of the surface beneath .",
    "the surface of an airless planet is subject to space weathering .",
    "the processes of space weathering include collision of galactic cosmic rays , sputtering from solar wind particles , bombardment of micrometeorites , etc .",
    "space weathering will produce a thin layer of nanophase iron on mineral grain surfaces and agglutinates in the regolith , altering surface spectral properties significantly . in general ,",
    "as a surface matures due to space weathering , it becomes darker , redder , and the depth of its diagnostic absorption bands is reduced ( pieters et al .",
    "1993 ; hapke 2001 ) .",
    "the broad - band diagnostic features considered in this paper will be subdue for an exoplanet covered by space - weathered ( mature ) surfaces .",
    "we present several reflectance spectra of selected mature lunar and martian surfaces in figure [ moonmars ] .",
    "fe@xmath7 absorption features at 1 @xmath0 m and 2 @xmath0 m become very shallow for the mature lunar mare ( e.g. , figure [ moonmars ] vs. figure [ rc ] ) .",
    "we see that space weathering is very effective in reducing the diagnostic features .",
    "nonetheless , various mechanisms can refresh a planet s surface in the course of evolution , which include impact cratering , volcanism , plate tectonics , etc . as a result",
    ", the fact that space weathering reduces the 1-@xmath0 m and 2-@xmath0 m spectral feature makes this detection indicative of active or recent re - surfacing on the planet .",
    "finally , for weathered surfaces the slope of reflectance spectra could be broadly diagnostic of the composition of weathering products and the nature of weathering . as shown in figure [ moonmars ] , after space weathering , the reflectance spectrum from the basaltic lunar mare have a steep upward slope , as expected .",
    "in contrast , the basaltic martian lowlands become bluer after weathering .",
    "the downward slope in the spectra of mature martian lowlands likely indicates silica and nanophase iron oxides coatings caused by chemical reactions in thin films of water on basaltic rocks ( mustard et al . , 2005 ) .",
    "although weathering reduces the contrast of spectral features , it causes slopes in reflectance spectra relevant to understanding planetary surface processes .",
    "the characterization of airless rocky exoplanets solid surfaces is not inherently more difficult than the characterization of their atmospheres . via the thermal emission ,",
    "the silicate , iron - oxide and metal - rich surfaces manifest themselves differently in the planetary spectra , with a spectral contrast comparable to that of atmospheric co@xmath9 or o@xmath10 features .",
    "the secondary transit signal of an exoplanet is larger if the planet is closer to its host star .",
    "as shown in figure [ substellar ] , however , an airless rocky planet can not be too close to the star in order to keep its surface solid , which limits the potential occultation depth of the planet . for an earth - sized planet around a g type star , the occultation depth can be larger than 10 ppm in mir , and the surface characterization by transits requires a photometric precision of 2 ppm in mir ( see figure [ kepler20f ] for an example of kepler-20f ) . such precision and corresponding signal - to - noise ratio may be attainable by the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) if the telescope would observe all transits in its 5-year nominal mission time ( belu et al .",
    "much higher secondary transit depths may be possible if the rocky exoplanets are discovered to orbit around m dwarfs , because m dwarfs have smaller radius and surface temperature compared to solar - type stars .",
    "m dwarfs are the most feasible targets for the characterization of rocky exoplanets atmospheres ( e.g. , seager & deming 2010 ) , the same for the characterization of rocky exoplanet s surfaces .",
    "for instance , an earth - sized planet at a 0.02-au orbit of an m dwarf with effective temperature of 3000 k and size of 0.5 @xmath21 can have solid silicate surfaces ( figure [ substellar ] ) , and the secondary transit depth ranges from 50 to 100 ppm in the mid - infrared .",
    "such planets , if discovered , may be proven to have certain type of silicate surfaces ( e.g. , ultramafic versus granitoid ) or iron - oxide surfaces by mir spectroscopy .",
    "the possibility of rocky super - earths should not be neglected .",
    "a number of transiting exoplanets with size of about 2 @xmath5 have been detected , and the mass and radius constraints can not exclude the possibility of a silicate - dominant composition ( e.g. , lissauer et al . 2011 ; gautier et al .",
    "2012 ; borucki et al .",
    "notably , kepler-11b and kepler-22b may have solid silicate surfaces according to their orbital semi - major axis ( figure [ substellar ] ) .",
    "the secondary transit depths are 20 - 40 ppm for kepler-11b and 5 - 10 ppm for kepler-22b in the mid - infrared . as an application of our theoretical model , the contrast of the silicate features",
    "is computed to be 10 ppm in the 7 - 13 @xmath0 m band for kepler-11b and 2 ppm in the 15 - 25 @xmath0 m band for kepler-22b .",
    "furthermore , large planets around m dwarfs , although not yet discovered , have the best potential for surface characterization .",
    "for example , a 2-@xmath5 planet orbiting at 0.02 au around a 0.5-@xmath21 m star having effective temperature of 3000 k , the secondary transit depth is up to @xmath2210 parts - per - million ( ppm ) at vnir ( @xmath23 @xmath0 m ) , and up to 300 ppm in mir .",
    "the planet s thermal emission flux at @xmath24 @xmath0 m can vary between 200 and 300 ppm for different types of crust . as a comparison",
    ", the warm spitzer has achieved the photometric precision as high as 65 ppm for bright stars such as 55 cnc ( e.g. demory et al . 2011 ) .",
    "characterization of rocky exoplanets surfaces via the thermal emission is therefore possible with current spacebased facilities if suitable targets are discovered .",
    "surface characterization by vnir reflectance of rocky exoplanets is beyond the reach of current observation technology .",
    "the occultation depth of secondary eclipse at vnir is fundamentally limited by the melting temperature of silicate rocks . to maintain a solid surface ,",
    "the exoplanet s surface temperature should be lower than the melting temperature . averaging the emissivity over the stellar - radiation wavelengths and the thermal - emission wavelengths , the local energy balance equation for surface temperature ( eq . [ localbalance ] )",
    "can be solved to give the planet s sub - stellar temperature ( @xmath25 ) as @xmath26 where @xmath27 and @xmath28 are the planck mean emissivity in the wavelength ranges of stellar and planetary emission , respectively .",
    "algebra from equation ( [ tsurf ] ) and equation([ag ] ) gives the following expression of the occultation depth : @xmath29 without considering the thermal emission , @xmath30 is the true geometric albedo of the planet and is in the order of unity .",
    "we see that the occultation depth increases rapidly with the surface temperature and the radius of the planet . for an earth - like exoplanet around a sun - like star ,",
    "having surface temperature of 1000 k , the secondary occultation depth is about 0.1 ppm . even for close - in rocky planets around m dwarfs ( see figure [ fullcase ] ) , the vnir reflection only leads to a transit depth in the order of 10 ppm . to characterize surface compositions by measuring secondary transits ,",
    "the required photometric precision is in the order of 1 ppm .",
    "photometric precision is fundamentally limited by the photon noise and the stellar variability . for kepler observing a star of v mag of 13 , the photometric precision per 6.5-hour transit is about 20 ppm ( koch et al . 2010 ) .",
    "therefore , the required photometric precision for surface characterization by vnir reflectance is currently not possible .",
    "the photometric precision might be significantly improved by accumulating a large number of transits , with spacebased broad - band photometry instruments observing certain key objects for long periods , which requires a comprehensive understanding of noises , systematics , and stellar variability .    in the future",
    ", direct imaging can be suitable for characterizing solid surfaces of exoplanets .",
    "if direct imaging could spatially resolve the exoplanetary system , long - cadence observations can be carried out to obtain low - resolution spectra of the planet s reflection and thermal emission .",
    "specific absorption features of mafic minerals , water ice and hydrated minerals in the reflection , as well as silicate and iron - oxide features in the thermal emission presented in this paper could stand out with broad - band photometry , and might be detectable by direct imaging .",
    "planetary radius and mass inferred from primary transits and radial velocity measurements constrain the density of transiting exoplanets .",
    "the assemblage of minerals comprising the surface of a rocky planetary body provides additional valuable constraints on understanding exoplanet interior structure and geologic evolution .",
    "planetary surface composition depends on the bulk composition of the exoplanet , the history and nature of magmatic and thermal processes , and the subsequent interaction of produced solids with atmospheric volatiles and/or the space environment .",
    "we list as follows , in the order of detection likelihood , several type of planetary surfaces and their implications on the planet s interior structure and geological history",
    ".    a silicate surface , detectable via the prominent silicate features in the mir thermal emission , will resolve the ambiguity of whether or not the planet has a significant envelope of volatiles . due to the uncertainties in the measurements of mass and radius , the constraints of planetary interior are always ambiguous with various interpretation acceptable by data ( e.g. , rogers & seager 2010 ) .",
    "theoretical studies of the volatile evolution may provide additional but indirect constraints ( see fressin et al .",
    "2012 for an example of kepler-20e and kepler-20f ) . with the detection of planetary thermal emission in mir and the identification of surface silicate features described in this paper",
    ", the possibility of significant volatile envelope can be readily excluded , and the planet can be confirmed to have silicate surface and mantle . the surface characterization enabled by mir spectroscopy will therefore provide an essential dimension of constraints on the interpretation of mass - radius relationship of the planet .",
    "a surface bright in vnir , inferred from low equilibrium temperature , is likely to have felsic composition .",
    "although the overall vnir reflectivity is largely controlled by unknown factors such as surface roughness and weathering processes , no known surface process can increase the surface reflectivity .",
    "in other words , the detection of a bright surface indicates that the surface is intrinsically bright when fresh .",
    "as shown in figure [ fullcase ] , a bright surface can be feldspathic , granitoid , and clay ; all are silica - rich ( termed  felsic \" ) . a felsic surface on a planet of size larger than mars is probably produced by slow intrusion of molten lava , which indicates plate - tectonics and potential geological setting for the origins of life ( best & christiansen 2001 ; southam et al . 2007 ) .",
    "a caveat here is that high vnir reflectivity can also be attributed to atmospheric effects , such as bright clouds and hazes .",
    "a careful study , probably with transmission spectra , needs to be carried out to distinguish a bright solid surface against a bright cloud deck .    an ultramafic surface indicated by the 1-@xmath0 m absorption feature in reflectance spectra implies either mantle overturn of the planet or very high temperature lavas . for rocky planets such as mars and earth ,",
    "mantle pressures lead to the retention of al in garnet , making it unavailable for feldspar formation .",
    "consequently , the predicted primary crust composition , following mantle overturn to form a stable density stratrification , is dominated by mg - rich olivines and pyroxenes ( elkins - tanton et al . , 2005 ) . as the surface matures , the 1-@xmath0 m absorption feature diminishes .",
    "as a result , if strong 1-@xmath0 m feature is identified from the j - band absorption , one may infer that the lava eruption or mantle overturn was geologically recent .",
    "the key indicator mineral is olivine and its strong contrast in the j - band due to the 1-@xmath0 m absorptions makes detection possible .",
    "a surface with hydrous materials , indicated by signature absorption features of ice or oh , implies substantial volatile inventory and constrains the planetary temperature to less than @xmath22700 k over geologic time to retain these materials on the surface .",
    "hydrous materials , such as clays , would indicate liquid water having interacted with the crust , a parameter relevant to the habitability of the planet .",
    "we have developed a theoretical framework to investigate reflection and thermal emission spectra of airless rocky exoplanets .",
    "we have modeled representative planetary surface types as fully covered by particulate mineral assemblages , whose mineral compositions depend on formation and evolutionary history of the planet .",
    "the most prominent spectral features and their geological implications are listed in the order of detectability .    *",
    "the silicate surface leads to si - o vibrational features in both the 7 - 13 @xmath0 m band and the 15 - 25 @xmath0 m band .",
    "the silicate features are universal for all rocky surfaces , the magnitude of which can be as large as 20 k in terms of brightness temperature for an airless earth analog .",
    "the silicate features allow unambiguous detection of rocky exoplanets via mid - infrared spectroscopy .",
    "* iron - oxidation leads to fe - o vibrational features in the 15 - 25 @xmath0 m band , which indicates an oxidized surface geochemical environment . *",
    "the location of emissivity maxima at the short - wavelength edge ( 7 - 9 @xmath0 m ) of the main silicate feature uniquely indicates the silica content , which can be used to determine whether the surface is ultramafic , mafic or felsic .",
    "the location of the emissivity maxima may be found via photometry using 3 or more narrow - bands in the 7 - 9 @xmath0 m region . * the iron crystal - field electron band at 1 @xmath0 m is indicative of olivine and pyroxene minerals . in terms of nir broad - band photometry",
    ", the difference between the j - band geometric albedo and the k - band geometric albedo ( @xmath1 ) may distinguish ultramafic surfaces with these minerals , implying either mantle overturn of the planet or very high temperature lavas .",
    "* the oh vibrational bands beyond 2 @xmath0 m are indicative of either surface water ice or hydrated minerals , which indicates extant or past water on the planet s surface . a broad vibrational absorption band at 1.5 @xmath0 m is diagnostic of water ice on the surface .",
    "we propose that observations of rocky exoplanet reflection and thermal emission will provide valuable information on the planet s surface mineral composition .",
    "broad - band photometry of secondary eclipses in mir may be able to identify a planetary surface of silicates or iron oxides ( i.e. , a rocky surface ) via prominent spectral features .",
    "the required photometry precision is 2 ppm for planets around g stars and 20 ppm for planets around m stars .",
    "next - generation space infrared facilities , such as the jwst , will likely be able to identify silicate surfaces around sun - like stars . reflected stellar light",
    "can also be used to uniquely determine the mineral composition of an exoplanet s surface , and is particularly useful for identifying ferrous or hydrated surface compositions .",
    "the occultation depth of the secondary eclipse in vnir , however , is very small and beyond the reach of current technology .",
    "the required photometric precision for surface characterization via reflection is less than 0.1 part per million for an earth - sized exoplanet around a sun - like star , and 1 part per million for an earth - sized exoplanet around an m dwarf .",
    "although reflection of earth - sized rocky planets are difficult to observe , planets as large as 55 cnc e , if orbiting around m dwarfs , are best targets for long - period spacebased photometric monitoring .",
    "eventually , the unique identification of minerals on exoplanets surfaces may rely upon direct imaging .",
    "there are degeneracies among surface - related absorption features and atmospheric features , which may be broken by achieving high spectral resolution or by observing the primary transit and obtaining the transmission spectra .",
    "the surface mineral composition provides important constraints on the composition and the geological history of the exoplanet , which will constitute a new dimension of exoplanet characterization .",
    "belu , a. r. , selsis , f. , morales , j .- c . , ribas , i. , cossou , c. , rauer , h. , 2011 , a&a , 525 , a83 blewett , d. t. , lucey , p. g. , hawke , b. r. , 1997 , icarus , 129 , 217 blewett , d. t. , et al . , 2011 , science , 333 , 1856    brown , s. m. , elkins - tanton , l. t. , 2009 , earth & planetary science letters , 286 , 446 borucki , w. j. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "apj , 736 , 19 borucki , w. j. , et al . , 2012 , apj , in press , astro - ph/1112.1640 burns , r. , 1993 , mineralogical applications of crystal field theory , ed .",
    "2nd , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk    calvin , w. m. , clark , r. n. , 1991 , icarus , 89 , 305 cheek , l. c. , pieters , c. m. , dyar , m. d. , milam , k. a. , 2009 , abstract of lunar and planetary science conference , 40 , 1928 christensen , p. r. , bandfield , j. l. , hamilton , v. e. , howard , d. a. , lane , m. d. , piatek , j. l. , ruff , s. w. , stefanov , w. l. , 2000 , journal of geophysical research , 105 , 9735 clark , r. n. , 1999 , chapter 1 : spectroscopy of rocks and minerals , and principles of spectroscopy , in manual of remote sensing , volume 3 , remote sensing for the earth sciences , ( a.n .",
    "rencz , ed . )",
    "john wiley and sons , new york    clark r. n. , swayze g. a. , wise r. , livo e. , hoefen t. , kokaly r. , sutley s.j .",
    ", 2007 , usgs digital spectral library splib06a : u.s . geological survey , digital data series 231 , http://speclab.cr.usgs.gov/spectral.lib06 .",
    "cochran w. d. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , apjs , in press , astro - ph/1110.0820 cowan , n. b. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 700 , 915 crow , c. a. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , apj , 729 , 130 demory , b .- o .",
    ", et al . , 2011 , a&a , in press des marais , d. j. , et al . , 2002 , astrobiology , 2 , 2    duke , m. b. , woo , c. c. , bird , m. l. , sellers , g. a. , finkelman , r. b. , 1970 , science , 167 , 648 elkins - tanton , l. t. , hess , p. , parmentier , e. m. , 2005 , jgr , 110 , e12s01 farmer , v.c . , 1974 , the infra - red spectra of minerals , ( v.c .",
    "farmer , ed . )",
    "mineralogical society , london    flynn , l. p. , mouginis - mark , p. j. , 1992 , geophysical research letters , 19 , 1783 ford e. b. , seager s. , turner e. l. , 2001 , nature , 412 , 885 fressin , f. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , nature , 482 , 195 gautier , t. n. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , apj , in press , astro - ph/1112.4514 greenhagen , b. t. , et al . , 2010 ,",
    "science , 329 , 1507    glotch , t. d. , et al .",
    ", 2010 , science , 329 , 1510 hamilton , v. e. , 2009 , chemie der erde , 70 , 7 hapke , b. , 1981 , journal of geophysical research , 86 , 3039 hapke , b. , 1993 , theory of reflectance and emittance spectroscopy , cambridge university press , cambridge    hapke , b. , 2001 , journal of geophysical research , 106 , 10039 hapke , b. , 2002 , icarus , 157 , 523 hazen , r. m. , papineau , d. , bleeker , w. , downs , r. t. , ferry , j. m. , mccoy , t. j. , sverjensky , d. a. , yang , h. , 2008 , am .",
    "mineralogist , 93 , 1693 head , j. w. , et al . , 2011 , science , 333 , 1853    kirkland , l. e. , herr , k. c. , adams , p. m. , 2003 , journal of geophysical research , 108 , 5137 koch , d. g. , et al . , 2010 , apj , 713 , l79 lger a. , et al .",
    ", 2009 , a&a , 506 , 287 lger a. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , icarus , 213 , 1 lissauer j. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , nature , 470 , 53 mccord , t. b. , westphal , j. a. , 1971 , apj , 168 , 141 mccord , t. b. , clark , r. n. , hawke , b. r. , mcfadden , l. a. , owensby , p. d. , pieters , c. m. , adams , j. b. , 1981 , jgr , 86 , 10883 mccord , t. b. , clark , r. n. , singer , r. b. , 1982 , jgr , 87 , 3021 miller - ricci , e. , seager , s. , sasselov , d. , 2009 , apj , 690 , 1056 murcray , f. h. , murcray , d. g. , williams , w. j. , 1970 , jgr , 75 , 2662 mustard , j. f. , pieters , c. m. , 1989 , jgr , 94 , 13619 mustard , j. f. , et al . , 2005 , science , 307 , 1594 nittler , l. r. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , science , 333 , 1847 paige , d. a. , et al .",
    ", 2010 , space science review , 150 , 125 de pater , i. , lissauer , j. j. , 2001 , planetary sciences , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk    pieters , c. m. , 1978 , proc . lunar planet .",
    "9 , 2825 pieters , c. m. , 1986 , review of geophysics , 24 , 557 pieters , c. m. , englert , p. a. j. , 1993 , remote geochemical analysis : elemental and mineralogical composition , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk    pieters , c. m. , fischer , e. m. , rode , o. , basu , a. , 1993 , journal of geophysical research , 98 , 20817 pieters , c. m. , et al . ,",
    "2000 , meteorit .",
    ", 35 , 1101 queloz , d. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "a&a , 506 , 303 relab spectral database , 2010 , keck / nasa reflectance experiment laboratory , brown university , providence , ri .",
    "rogers , l. a. , seager , s. , 2010 , apj , 712 , 974 salisbury , j. w. , 1993 , mid - infrared spectroscopy : laboratory data , in remote geochemical analysis : elemental and mineralogical composition , pieters . c. m. , englert , p. a. , ed . , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk        seager s. , turner e. l. , schafer j. , ford e. b. , 2005 , astrobiology , 5 , 372 singer , r. b. , mccord , t. b. , clark , r. n. , 1979 , jgr , 84 , 8415 skok , j. r. , mustard , j. f. , murchie , s. l. , wyatt , m. b. , ehlmann , b. l. , 2010 , jgr , 115 , e00d14 sprague , a. l. , 2000 , asp conference series , 196 , 167 sprague , a. l. , emery , j. p. , donaldson , k. l. , russell , r. w. , lynch , d. k. , mazuk , a. l. , 2002 , meteorites & planetary science , 37 , 1255 sobolev , v. v. , 1975 , light scattering in planetary atmospheres , pergamon press , ny    southam , g. , rothschild , l. j. , westall , f. , 2007 , space science review , 129 , 7 sunshine , j. m. , pieters , c. m. , 1998 , journal of geophysical research , 103 , 13675 taylor , a. , l. , kozlowski , r. w. h. , lebofsky , l. a. , 1988 , geophysical research letters , 15 , 808 taylor , s. r. , 1989 , tectonophysics , 161 , 147 vilas , f. , 1985 , icarus , 64 , 133 walter , l. s. , salisbury , j. w. , 1989 , jgr , 94 , 9203 warren , p. h. , 1985 , annual review of earth & planetary science , 13 , 201 winn , j. n. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , apj , in press wyatt , m. b. , hamilton , v. e. , mcsween , h. y. , christensen , p. r , taylor , l. a. , 2001 , j. geophys .",
    ", 106 , 14711         km in diameter , data from mccord et al .",
    "reflectivity is normalized to be 1 at 1 @xmath0 m and offset for clarity .",
    "absorption of olivine and pyroxene ( ) manifests in the lunar mare spectrum at 1 @xmath0",
    "m and 2 @xmath0 m , and also shows in the mars spectra at 1 @xmath0 m .",
    "mars atmospheric imprints a deep absorption band at 2 @xmath0 m .",
    "mars spectra also contain strong charge - transfer absorption of at wavelengths shorter than 0.75 @xmath0 m , wide absorption feature from 1.4 to 1.7 @xmath0 m , attributed to water ice on the surface , and a weak absorption near 2.2 @xmath0 m , interpreted as hydrated minerals .",
    ", scaledwidth=80.0% ]    .",
    "bidirectional reflectance spectra measured at incidence angle @xmath32 , scattering angle @xmath33 and phase angle @xmath34 ( clark et al . 2007 ; relab 2010 ;",
    "calvin & clark 1991 ) are used to derive the radiance coefficient .",
    "plagioclase ( non - iron - bearing ) has a bright and flat nir spectrum and hematite has a dark and flat nir spectrum .",
    "mafic minerals , i.e. , olivine and pyroxene , have a deep and wide electronic absorption at 1 @xmath0 m . in addition",
    ", pyroxene has an absorption near 2 @xmath0 m , and the band center location depends on its calcium content .",
    "water ice has deep and wide vibrational absorption bands at 1.5 @xmath0 m and 2 @xmath0 m , whereas hydrated minerals have narrow vibrational absorption bands at 1.4 , 1.9 and 2.3 @xmath0m.,scaledwidth=40.0% ]        .",
    "we use the planetary parameters of fressin et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and find that in the kepler s bandpass the secondary transit depth is less than 1 part - per - millon ( ppm ) .",
    "sub - stellar temperatures listed in the figure are self - consistently computed in the model , and we verify that except for the granitoid and clay the surfaces are solid anywhere on the planet .",
    "we note that the si - o features lead to variations in secondary transit depth as large as 2 ppm in both the 7 - 13 @xmath0 m band and the 15 - 25 @xmath0 m band , for ultramafic and granitoid surfaces .",
    "the iron - oxide feature in the 15 - 25 @xmath0 m band and the pyrite feature at @xmath35 @xmath0 m are also evident .",
    ", scaledwidth=80.0% ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate spectra of airless rocky exoplanets with a theoretical framework that self - consistently treats reflection and thermal emission . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a silicate surface on an exoplanet is spectroscopically detectable via prominent si - o features in the thermal emission bands of 7 - 13 @xmath0 m and 15 - 25 @xmath0 m . </S>",
    "<S> the variation of brightness temperature due to the silicate features can be up to 20 k for an airless earth analog , and the silicate features are wide enough to be distinguished from atmospheric features with relatively high - resolution spectra . the surface characterization </S>",
    "<S> thus provides a method to unambiguously identify a rocky exoplanet . furthermore , </S>",
    "<S> identification of specific rocky surface types is possible with the planet s reflectance spectrum in near - infrared broad bands . </S>",
    "<S> a key parameter to observe is the difference between k band and j band geometric albedos ( @xmath1 ) : @xmath2 indicates that more than half of the planet s surface has abundant mafic minerals , such as olivine and pyroxene , in other words primary crust from a magma ocean or high - temperature lavas ; @xmath3 indicates that more than half of the planet s surface is covered or partially covered by water ice or hydrated silicates , implying extant or past water on its surface . also , surface water ice can be specifically distinguished by an h - band geometric albedo lower than the j - band geometric albedo . </S>",
    "<S> the surface features can be distinguished from possible atmospheric features with molecule identification of atmospheric species by transmission spectroscopy . </S>",
    "<S> we therefore propose that mid - infrared spectroscopy of exoplanets may detect rocky surfaces , and near - infrared spectrophotometry may identify ultramafic surfaces , hydrated surfaces and water ice . </S>"
  ]
}