{
  "article_text": [
    "the observed upper limit on the radio brightness temperatures of compact self - absorbed radio sources has till recently been thought to be an inverse compton limit @xmath4  k ( kellermann & pauliny - toth 1969 ) .",
    "the argument is that at brightness temperature @xmath5  k energy losses of radiating electrons due to inverse compton effects become so large that these result in a rapid cooling of the system , thereby bringing the synchrotron brightness temperature quickly below this limit . however it has been shown ( singal 1986 , 2009b ) that it is the diamagnetic effects that limit the maximum brightness temperatures to the somewhat lower equipartition value , @xmath6  k , which also happens to be a minimum energy configuration for the system . due to the diamagnetic effects",
    "the energy in the magnetic fields can not be less than a certain fraction of that in the relativistic particles and then an upper limit on brightness temperature follows naturally . since brightness temperatures do not ever exceed the equipartition value @xmath7  k , inverse compton effects do not even enter into picture .",
    "but brightness temperatures much larger than @xmath8  k have been inferred for the variable sources , violating the incoherent brightness temperature limit .",
    "this excess in brightness temperatures in the case of centimetre variables has been explained in terms of a bulk relativistic motion of the emitting component ( rees 1966,1967 ; woltjer 1966 ) , while in the case of metre variables this excess is explained in terms of slow interstellar scintillation ( refraction ) effects ( shapirovskaya 1982 ; rickett et al .",
    "the relativistic doppler factors required to explain the excess in temperatures were initially thought to be @xmath9 , similar to the ones required for explaining the superluminal velocities seen in some compact radio sources ( cohen et al .",
    "1971 , 1977 ; whitney et al .",
    "singal & gopal - krishna ( 1985 ) and readhead ( 1994 ) pointed out that under the conditions of equipartition of energy between magnetic fields and relativistic particles in a synchrotron radio source , much higher doppler factors are needed to successfully explain the variability events .",
    "however , the idv implying temperatures up to @xmath0  k raises uncomfortable theoretical questions ( quirrenbach et al .",
    "1992 ; wagner & witzel 1995 ) , as doppler factors needed to explain observations seem too high ( @xmath10 ) .",
    "an attempt has been made to explain idv by the interstellar scintillations ( wambsganss et al .",
    "1989 ) . but close correlations between radio and optical variations seen in some cases rule out that all the rapid radio variations are due to interstellar scattering ( wagner & witzel 1995 )",
    ". one alternative could be the coherence emission models ( see benford & lesch 1998 and the references therein ) .",
    "high brightness temperatures for idv s , like in case of curvature radiation models proposed for pulsars , could be achieved if bunches of non - thermal particles are somehow formed that radiate in phase giving rise to coherent synchrotron emission .    in this paper",
    "we show that there is a relation between the maximum possible brightness temperature and the gyro radii of radiating electrons and that an upper limit on the maximum brightness temperature is obtained for a self - absorbed incoherent synchrotron radio source from a limit on the size of its gyro orbits . even though it may appear to give a more conservative limit on the brightness temperature as compared to the limit of @xmath11  k derived for inverse compton losses or due to the equipartition condition , all the same it is a more robust value as it involves no further assumptions about the source than just the applicability of the standard synchrotron theory .",
    "we also show that , unlike in case of curvature radiation models proposed in pulsars , in the synchrotron radiation mechanism the oppositely charged particles would contribute together to the coherent phenomenon without the need to form separate bunches of opposite charges .",
    "however we also show that bunches would get dispersed over dimensions larger than a wavelength in times much shorter than the gyro orbital period and that a coherent emission by bunches can not be a plausible explanation of the high brightness temperatures seen in extragalactic radio sources which show variability over periods of a few hours or more .    unless otherwise specified we have used cgs system of units throughout .",
    "a relativistic electron of rest mass @xmath12 and a lorentz factor @xmath13 , gyrating in a uniform magnetic field @xmath14 with a gyro frequency @xmath15 , emits most of its radiation in a frequency band around its characteristic synchrotron frequency given by ( rybicki & lightman 1979 ) , @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the angle between the magnetic field and the charge velocity while @xmath18 is the perpendicular field component . accordingly , with the assumption that almost all the radiation from an electron is at a frequency @xmath19 , we can write , @xmath20 gyro radius of the relativistic electron s orbit is , @xmath21 where equation ( 1 ) is used to express @xmath22 in terms of @xmath23 .",
    "@xmath24 here @xmath25 is the typical wavelength of radiation from an electron of lorentz factor @xmath13 .",
    "an expression for the maximum brightness temperature can be found from the detailed synchrotron theory .",
    "we assume the specific intensity @xmath26 has a usual power law in the optically thin part of the spectrum , i.e. , @xmath27 , arising from a power law energy distribution of radiating electrons @xmath28 , with @xmath29 .",
    "for definiteness we shall assume @xmath30 , corresponding to spectral index @xmath31 . for simplicity",
    "we also assume a uniform magnetic field @xmath14 . but none of the results derived here depend critically on these assumptions .    the maximum brightness temperature in the literature is usually considered to be at the turnover point in the synchrotron spectrum where the intensity peaks and that usually lies in the optically thin part of the spectrum ( optical depth @xmath32 ) . but as shown by singal ( 2009a , b ) peak of the brightness temperature actually lies deep within the optically thick region ( @xmath33 ) .    the specific intensity in a synchrotron self - absorbed source is given by , @xmath34 , \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath35 values are tabulated in pacholczyk ( 1970 ) .",
    "using rayleigh - jeans law for the specific intensity , @xmath36 we can determine the maximum brightness temperature ( for @xmath30 ) from singal ( 2009a , b ) as @xmath37    using equation 2 we can write @xmath38 in terms of the typical lorentz factor @xmath39 of the electrons radiating at the maximum brightness temperature as @xmath40 which is in conformity with the fact that in an incoherent emission , where relativistic particles radiate independently of each other , thermodynamics constrains the brightness temperature @xmath41 to be @xmath42 where @xmath43",
    "erg / deg is boltzmann constant and @xmath44 is kinetic temperature of the radiating particles ( scheuer and williams 1968 ; altschuler 1989 ) , implying thereby , @xmath45 .    now from equations 4 and 8 we get the gyro - orbit size as , @xmath46 using average value of @xmath47 , we can write , @xmath48",
    "thus an upper limit to the brightness temperature at an observing wavelength @xmath25 can be found if the gyro - orbit size of the corresponding radiating electrons is constrained , e.g. , from an upper limit on the inferred size of the radiating source component .",
    "now if try to explain the observed radio variability data of agns in terms of purely an incoherent synchrotron radiation , we get some very unexpected results . for the idv at ghz frequencies , the inferred brightness temperatures turn out to be @xmath49  k ( quirrenbach et al . 1992 ) , implying @xmath50  cm , the size of the known universe .",
    "we can understand it also like this .",
    "a brightness temperature @xmath49  k could be achieved only if the kinetic temperature of the radiating particles exceeds this value , implying @xmath51 .",
    "also the relation between frequency and gyro - frequency @xmath52 can be translated into that between wavelength and gyro - radius as @xmath53 or @xmath54 .",
    "therefore for ghz frequencies ( @xmath55 cm ) we get @xmath50  cm .",
    "the source size on the other hand can not be much larger than @xmath56  cm from the causality arguments for these variability events , and thus their gyro - orbit sizes also can not exceed this value ( a part can not be larger than the whole ! ) .",
    "this fact alone makes it imperative that some extraneous factor like relativistic beaming or interstellar refraction or some coherent phenomena are invoked to explain these high brightness temperatures .    from the size limits of @xmath57  cm on the diameter of the gyro orbit",
    ", we immediately get a gyro limit on the brightness temperature @xmath58  k ( equation 10 ) .",
    "this gyro temperature limit is arrived at using just the applicability of the standard synchrotron theory , without any a - priori assumption about the equipartition conditions in the source or even the inverse compton effects . even in the static compact synchrotron sources , where no variability is observed",
    ", the gyro - orbit diameter has to be still smaller than the observed source size .",
    "actually the gyro - orbit diameter will have to be very much smaller than the observed source size .",
    "it is not just a question of `` a part being not larger than the whole '' , in order to apply the self - absorbed synchrotron theory , one has to assume a large number of synchrotron orbits along the line of sight within the total source extent , for the optical depth to exceed unity .",
    "therefore the typical gyro orbit has to be perhaps many orders of magnitude smaller than the total source extent , and the gyro temperature limit @xmath59 will then move close to @xmath60  k.    the arguments usually offered in the literature against very high @xmath41 values are based on the inverse compton catastrophe where an incoherent synchrotron source can not sustain these for long as the extremely large inverse compton losses would very rapidly bring them to the incoherent brightness temperature limit .",
    "but from the gyro - size arguments we can say that an incoherent synchrotron source in the first place could not have ever achieved such extremely high brightness temperatures . even though the derived temperatures limits may appear somewhat conservative than those derived from inverse compton effects or the equipartition conditions , but the values derived here much more robust as these involve no further assumptions about the source than just the applicability of the standard synchrotron theory",
    "we can reverse the roles and employ the observed maximum @xmath41 values along with equations 7 , 8 and 10 to estimate gyro - orbit sizes and some typical numbers inside compact synchrotron sources . for the brightness temperature seen in vlbi observations , @xmath61  k ( kellermann & pauliny - toth 1969 ) .",
    "then we get a gyro radius @xmath62 cm , implying a gyro orbital period @xmath63 sec , for the electrons radiating near the turnover frequency @xmath64  hz .",
    "this gives @xmath65 and @xmath66 gauss .",
    "we can make an order of magnitude estimate of the number density of particles in the source , by noting that near the spectral turnover , where @xmath67  k , there is an equipartition of energy between particles and magnetic fields ( singal 1986 , 2009b ) .",
    "also this is the region where the energy density of photons , @xmath68 , approaches that of magnetic fields ( kellermann & pauliny - toth 1969 ) .",
    "we can estimate @xmath68 as , @xmath69 thus one can get the number density of radiating charges @xmath70 , and with @xmath71 , we get @xmath72 . for @xmath73",
    "ghz , we get a typical number density @xmath74 to @xmath75 @xmath76 .",
    "it has been shown that synchrotron radiation process does not allow maser type coherent emission ( pacholczyk 1970 ; rybicki & lightman 1979 ) .",
    "alternate coherence emission models have been proposed in the literature ( cocke & pacholczyk 1975 ; cocke et al .",
    "1978 ; colgate & petschek 1978 ; benford & lesch 1998 and the references therein ) . coherent emission could be achieved if bunches of non - thermal particles are somehow formed , which radiate in phase through antenna mechanism . as an example , in the case of pulsar magnetosphere there are models of curvature radiation where coherence emission by bunches has been proposed to explain extremely high brightness temperatures observed in pulsars .",
    "could similar models succeed in the case of synchrotron radiation in idv s ?",
    "now in an overall neutral plasma there may be oppositely charged particles , e.g. , a pair plasma comprising electrons and positrons .",
    "the contributions of electrons and positrons are indistinguishable in incoherent synchrotron cases .",
    "however , it is important to know if opposite charges occupying the same phase space cancel each other s contribution to the synchrotron radiation ? in the pulsar models , electrons and positrons can cancel each others radiation fields .",
    "the biggest hurdle in those models is to form stable bunches of sizes less than a wavelength for each type of charges , with bunches of opposite charges separated from each other by more than a wavelength ( melrose 1992 ) .",
    "not only such bunches of the like - charges may be unstable but strong electrostatic attraction between oppositely charged bunches tends to hinder the formation of such bunches .",
    "but it turns out that in the synchrotron case one need not separate the positive and negative charges in an overall neutral plasma .",
    "the radiation fields of electrons and positrons lying in the same phase space do not cancel each other .",
    "the radiation field for a moving charge , derived from the linard - wiechert potentials , is given by ( jackson 1975 ) , @xmath77 equation 12 can be derived also from first principles using coulomb s law and the lorentz transformations including relativistic doppler factors ( singal 2011 ) , without going through linard - wiechert potentials . in the case of gyration in a magnetic field * b * , the acceleration is given by @xmath78 , from which we get , @xmath79 which is independent of the sign of the charge .",
    "thus charges of opposite sign lying in the same phase space , i.e. moving together with the same velocity , will have opposite acceleration vectors in the magnetic field @xmath80 and consequently give rise to similar electric fields at the observer towards direction",
    "* n*. the radiation fields from electrons and positrons within a bunch will augment each other , and bunches of oppositely charged particles separated from each other by more than a wavelength are not necessary for coherence purpose . in the case of curvature radiation models ,",
    "both type of charges undergo similar acceleration as they follow the curvature of the magnetic field lines and their radiation fields , being in opposite directions , get cancelled .",
    "but in the synchrotron case the accelerations are of opposite signs , resulting in electric fields being in the same direction even from opposite charges . thus a very big hurdle ,",
    "viz . forming and maintaining separate bunches of oppositely charged particles , faced in the curvature radiation models , can be avoided in the coherence emission models in the synchrotron case .    in a synchrotron source ,",
    "all electrons gyrate in a clock - wise fashion ( looking along the magnetic field vector ) . now",
    "radiation at an observational frequency @xmath23 arises mostly from electrons with @xmath13 given by equation 2 and the radiated power lies in a cone of opening angle @xmath81 .",
    "thus only charges contributing effectively to the radiation at any instant are the ones that are moving within a narrow angle @xmath82 with respect to the line of sight to the observer .    during every gyration cycle an electron radiates towards the observer for a time interval @xmath83 , but",
    "due to doppler effect , the radiation to the observer appears as a pulse of duration @xmath84 ( rybicki & lightman 1979 ) .",
    "then the pulse width in space will be of length @xmath85 and the average electric field stronger by a factor @xmath86 within the pulse window than without .",
    "thus two electrons moving towards the observer with a projected distance @xmath87 apart will have their pulses arriving at the observer separated by a time interval @xmath88 .",
    "thus the pulse windows will overlap , with the fourier components adding in phase , only if the electrons are less than a projected distance @xmath25 of each other .",
    "however if the two charges are separated by a distance more than @xmath25 then there will not be any overlap in their main pulse windows , and their fields will not add in phase .",
    "thus for a coherence to occur , the charges have to form a bunch lying within a region of length @xmath85 along the line of sight and thereby radiating in phase towards the observer .",
    "the lateral width @xmath89 of the coherence volume for charges radiating in a cone of opening angle @xmath82 , can be calculated from the condition @xmath90 or @xmath91 , which gives a lateral cross - section @xmath92 .",
    "the coherence volume will be in the shape of a chapati , with a thickness @xmath25 and a lateral cross - section @xmath93 .",
    "this gives us a total coherence volume @xmath94 .",
    "a somewhat more rigorous approach yields @xmath95 ( melrose 1992 ) .",
    "thus for coherence emission to take place there has to be a bunch of charged particles in the coherence volume , and for every gyro period @xmath96 this bunch will radiate towards the observer coherently for a time @xmath97 .",
    "it should be noted that an electron and positron pair emitting coherently is not co - located with concentric gyro orbits , since while spiraling in opposite sense , whenever the pair crosses each other , their velocity vectors will be pointing in opposite directions and the two will never be in the same phase space . for coherence emission",
    ", both type of charges must be at the some location , having similar velocity vectors , and thus radiating in the same direction ( like two circles touching each other externally with a common tangent ) .",
    "now pairs of such bunches of oppositely charged particles , will each radiate towards the observer for a short duration @xmath98 , and after spiraling in opposite directions will again come together after the gyro period @xmath96 , radiating in the same direction and thus becoming part of the same bunch radiating coherently as far as the observer is concerned .",
    "a bunch of charges may radiate coherently only as long as the bunch stays together within dimensions less than a wavelength . in that case",
    "the observed coherent emission could attain brightness temperatures much above the theoretical limit for the incoherent synchrotron emission .",
    "the coherent emission will last as long as the bunch survives .",
    "but as we discuss below there are serious difficulties with the stability of the bunches .",
    "the bunches are too short - lived and that their coherent emission at most may last over time intervals only of the order of a gyro - orbit period @xmath96 ( @xmath3 sec , section 3 ) . on the other hand the variable extragalactic sources show idv periods of a few hours .",
    "any coherence phenomenon _ to explain these variabilities _ , must also last over similar time scales .",
    "however , as we argue below , a bunch , where a number of charges moving together occupy a region smaller than a wavelength , can not be a stable configuration over such time scales in a synchrotron case .",
    "a tiny velocity dispersion , implying small spread in lorentz factor @xmath13 , would make the bunch disperse in a time interval much smaller than the gyro - orbit period .",
    "the gyro frequency @xmath99 is inversely proportional to @xmath13 .",
    "then two charges with a difference @xmath100 in lorentz factors will differ in their gyro period @xmath96 by , @xmath101 thus two charges , starting from the same location , will be about a distance @xmath102 apart after one gyro orbit .",
    "this will result in charges in a bunch getting spread over regions @xmath103 in time @xmath96 .",
    "as @xmath104 ( equation  3 , with average value of @xmath47 ) , it means @xmath105 .",
    "it can be written in terms of the velocity dispersion @xmath106 , as for relativistic particles ( @xmath107 ) , @xmath108 .",
    "thus due to dispersion @xmath106 in velocity of the charges within the bunch , their gyro - orbit sizes also have a dispersion @xmath109 . as for the relativistic particles emitting synchrotron emission , @xmath110 , we see that just within a gyro orbital period a bunch will get spread over regions larger than @xmath25 , even for @xmath106 as low as @xmath111 , i.e. , for velocity dispersion of the order only a fraction of a mm / sec .",
    "normally a bunch with a velocity dispersion @xmath106 would get spread over a region @xmath112 in a time period @xmath113 and for the coherence to be effective , particles in a bunch should remain confined to within a wavelength @xmath25 which would require that that @xmath114 .",
    "now there will be @xmath115 gyro orbits in time @xmath113 , so from equation  13 a bunch will get spread over a region @xmath116 in time @xmath113 .",
    "thus due to the difference in gyro - orbit periods the bunch would get spread over a region larger by a factor @xmath117 than due to just dispersion @xmath106 in velocity . or in other words a bunch will get spread over the region @xmath112 in a much shorter time @xmath118 . effectively any such bunch ,",
    "even if somehow formed , will get dispersed over regions larger than a wavelength in a gyro orbital period @xmath63 sec , thus altogether destroying or at least largely diminishing the coherence capability of the bunch within fraction of a second .",
    "thus even if coherent emission due to bunches does give rise to high brightness temperatures , the bunches will get dispersed in a very short time ( @xmath3 sec ) and the emission will drop on a similar time scale , not what is actually observed .",
    "in other words even if theoretical models based on coherent synchrotron emission by bunches could achieve extremely high brightness temperatures seen in idv s , this high brightness will be short - lived by many orders of magnitude than what actual observations show and it looks quite implausible that coherent emission by bunches could consistently account for the observed variability time scales of a few hours or more .    since the flux - density variability could be a substantial fraction of the total flux - density of the source , it is essential that there will have to be large number of bunches spread over the source extent . above discussion",
    "is applicable to each and every bunch and thus to the sum total of their emission in the whole source .",
    "of course different bunches will be randomly located with respect to each other and thus would not be in phase with each other , so coherence between various bunches is not expected in any case .",
    "could it be that there were formation of new bunches in succession in response to , say , some local instability , and which could then account for longer time scales of the observed variability ?",
    "actually each of these bunches will last for a short time interval and their statistical addition will still have the primary time scale of the individual bunches .",
    "consider for example a variability event where the flux - density reaches some peak value before declining on the time scale of hours .",
    "all the bunches that may be contributing to the peak flux - density would get dispersed very fast and the flux - density too would then decline equally fast . only in a very contrived situation",
    "will the individual bunches follow each other so systematically that the resultant variability curve will have smooth shape lasting for many order of magnitude larger than that of the individual bunch time scale .",
    "in general the variability curves will show the sharp time scales of bunches .",
    "of course all electrons in certain region might not be contributing to the bunch , but then the coherence emission will be proportional to the square of the number of bunched electrons only and for which the survival of the bunches is necessary for a lasting coherent emission .",
    "one could envisage a combination of coherence and relativistic beaming , but if the dominant emission is due to coherence then all the difficulties discussed above would remain still valid .",
    "we have shown that there is a relation between maximum possible brightness temperature and the gyro radii of radiating electrons and that an upper limit on the maximum brightness temperature is obtained for a self - absorbed incoherent synchrotron radio source from the size of its gyro orbits . even though it may appear to give a more conservative limit on the brightness temperature as compared to the limit of @xmath11  k derived for inverse compton losses or due to the equipartition condition , all the same it is a more robust value as it involves no further assumptions about the source than just the applicability of the standard synchrotron theory .",
    "we have also shown that , unlike in case of curvature radiation models proposed in pulsars , in the synchrotron radiation mechanism the oppositely charged particles lying in the same phase space would contribute together to the coherent phenomenon without the need to form separate bunches for particles with opposite charges .",
    "however we have also shown that bunches are short - lived and get dispersed over dimensions larger than a wavelength in times shorter than the gyro orbital period .",
    "thus even if theoretically a coherent emission by bunches could attain high brightness temperatures seen in extragalactic radio sources , still it can not be a plausible explanation of the observed variability which lasts over periods of a few hours or more .",
    "altschuler , d. r. 1989 , fundamentals of the cosmic physics , 14 , 37 benford , g. , & lesch , h. 1998 , mnras , 301 , 414 cocke , w. j. , & pacholczyk , a. g. 1975 , apj , 195 , 279 cocke , w. j. , pacholczyk , a. g. , & hopf , f. a. 1978 , apj , 226 , 26 cohen , m. h. , cannon , w. , purcell , g. h. , shaffer , d. b. , broderick , j. j. , kellermann , k. i. , & jauncey , d. l. 1971 , apj , 170 , 207 cohen , m. h. et al .",
    "1977 , nature , 268 , 405 colgate , s. a. , petschek , a. g. 1978 , in pittsburgh conference on bl lac objects , ( pittsburgh : univ .",
    "pittsburgh ) , p. 349",
    "jackson , j. d. 1975 , classical electromagnetism , ( new york : wiley ) kellermann , k. i. , & pauliny - toth , i. i. k. 1969 , apj , 155 , l71 melrose , d. b. 1992 , phil .",
    "a , 341 , 105 pacholczyk , a. g. 1970 , radio astrophysics ( san francisco , ca : freeman ) quirrenbach , a. , et al .",
    "1992 , a&a , 258 , 279 readhead , a. c. s. 1994 , apj , 426 , 51 rees , m. j. 1966 , nature , 211 , 468 rees , m. j. 1967 , mnras , 135 , 345 rickett , b. j. , coles , w. a. , & bourgois , g. 1984 , a&a , 134 , 390 rybicki , g. b. , & lightman , a. p. 1979",
    ", radiative processes in astrophysics ( new york : wiley ) shapirovskaya , n. ya 1982 , soviet astr . , 26 , 151 scheuer , p. a. g. , & williams , p. j. s. 1968 , ara&a , 6 , 297 singal , a. k. 1986 , a&a , 155 , 242 singal , a. k. 2009a , in ap&ss proc . , turbulence , dynamos , accretion disks , pulsars and collective plasma processes , ed .",
    "s. s. hasan , r. t. gangadhara , & v. krishan ( berlin : springer ) , 273 singal , a. k. 2009b , apj , 703 , l109 singal , a. k. 2011 , am .",
    "j. phys . , 79 , 1036 singal , a. k. , & gopal - krishna 1985 , mnras , 215 , 383 wagner , s. j. , & witzel , a. 1995 , ara&a , 33 , 163 wambsganss , j. , schneider , p. , quirrenbach , a. , & witzel , a. 1989 , a&a , 224 , l9 whitney , a. r. et al .",
    "1971 , science , 173 , 225 woltjer , l. 1966 , apj , 146 , 597"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that an upper limit on the maximum brightness temperature for a self - absorbed incoherent synchrotron radio source is obtained from the size of its gyro orbits , which in turn must lie well within the confines of the total source extent . </S>",
    "<S> these temperature limits are obtained without recourse to inverse compton effects or the condition of equipartition of energy between magnetic fields and relativistic particles . for radio variables , the intra - day variability ( idv ) </S>",
    "<S> implies brightness temperatures @xmath0  k in the co - moving rest frame of the source . </S>",
    "<S> this , if interpreted purely due to an incoherent synchrotron emission , would imply gyro radii @xmath1  cm , the size of the universe , while from the causality arguments the inferred maximum size of the source in such a case is @xmath2 cm . </S>",
    "<S> such high brightness temperatures are sometimes modeled in the literature as some coherent emission process where bunches of non - thermal particles are somehow formed that radiate in phase . </S>",
    "<S> we show that , unlike in case of curvature radiation models proposed in pulsars , in the synchrotron radiation mechanism the oppositely charged particles would contribute together to the coherent phenomenon without the need to form separate bunches of the opposite charges . at the same time </S>",
    "<S> we show that bunches would disperse over dimensions larger than a wavelength in time shorter than the gyro orbital period ( @xmath3 sec ) . </S>",
    "<S> therefore a coherent emission by bunches can not be a plausible explanation of the high brightness temperatures inferred in extragalactic radio sources showing variability over a few hours or longer . </S>"
  ]
}