{
  "article_text": [
    "information has always been a valuable article but it has always been difficult to obtain . these days , we have an unprecedented advantage of having huge and rich data collections at our fingertips . on the other hand , we still need more efficient tools for data management to be able to locate the desired information in the vast amounts of resources . with the emergence of complex data types such as multimedia , traditional retrieval methods based on attribute matching are no longer satisfactory . therefore , a new approach to searching has been proposed , exploiting the concept of similarity between complex objects . in recent years , we have witnessed intensive research in the field of indexing methods and search algorithms for similarity - based retrieval . as a result",
    ", state - of - the - art search systems already support quite complex similarity queries with a number of features that can be adjusted according to individual user s preferences .",
    "to communicate with such a system , it is either possible to employ low - level programming tools , or a higher - level communication interface that shields users from the implementation details employed by the particular search engine .",
    "as the low - level tools can only be used by a limited number of specialists , the high - level interface becomes a necessity when common users shall be allowed to issue advanced queries or adjust the parameters of the retrieval process . in this paper",
    ", we are proposing such high - level interface in a form of a structured query language that allows users to issue actual queries over complex data .    the motivation to study",
    "query languages arose from the development of our own framework for similarity searching called messif  @xcite .",
    "the system currently supports a wide spectrum of retrieval algorithms and is used to support several multimedia search applications , such as large - scale image search , automatic image annotation , or gait recognition .",
    "so far , users are allowed only to select the query object via a graphical interface , and the choice of the actual search methods as well as its parameters and other settings are hard - coded into the system . to improve the usability of our systems",
    ", we decided to provide the framework with a query language that would allow advanced users to express their preferences without having to deal with the technical details .",
    "after a thorough study of existing solutions we came to a conclusion that none of them suits our specific needs .",
    "therefore , we decided to propose a new language based on and extending the existing ones .",
    "at the same time , it was our desire to design the language in such a way that it could be also used by other systems .",
    "consequently , we present here an sql - based query language which can be used to formulate a wide range of similarity queries , as we demonstrate on examples from various application domains . building on a thorough analysis of previous studies and our long - time experience with both theory and practice of similarity search systems ,",
    "we have proposed its structure so that it supports all fundamental query types and can be easily extended .",
    "the language can be used by programmers or advanced users to issue queries in a standard declarative way , shielding them from the execution details . for less advanced users",
    ", we expect the language to be wrapped - up into a visual interface .",
    "the language is designed in a general way as to allow flexibility and extensibility .",
    "the paper is further organized as follows .",
    "first , we review the related work in section 2 . in the following section ,",
    "we analyze the requirements for a multimedia query language , taking into account current trends in information retrieval research , lessons learned from other language proposals , and the functionality of the messif framework .",
    "next , we discuss the fundamental design decisions that determined the overall structure of the language in section 4 .",
    "section 5 introduces both the theoretical model of the language and its syntax and semantics .",
    "section 6 presents several real - world queries over multimedia data , formulated in our language .",
    "finally , we outline the future work in section 7 .",
    "the problem of defining a formal apparatus for similarity queries has been recognized and studied by the data processing community for more than two decades , with various research groups working on different aspects of the problem .",
    "some of these studies focus on the underlying algebra , others deal with the query language syntax .",
    "query languages can be further classified as sql - based , xml - based , and others with a less common syntax .",
    "we shall briefly survey all these research directions .",
    "similarity algebra as a tool for theoretical modeling and transformations of similarity queries was first introduced in  @xcite .",
    "the authors define general abstractions for objects and similarity measures , present basic algebra operations and discuss their properties .",
    "later works add new similarity operations  @xcite or study the integration of similarity - based querying into established data models , e.g. relational model  @xcite .",
    "while these studies provide a valuable insight into the principles of similarity searching , the algebraic operations used to express the queries are not meant to be employed by users during a search session .",
    "the majority of the early proposals for practical query languages are based on sql or its object - oriented alternative , oql  @xcite .",
    "paper @xcite describes moql , a multimedia query language based on oql which supports spatial , temporal and containment predicates for searching in image or video . however , similarity - based searching is not supported in moql .",
    "the authors of @xcite introduce new operators sim and match for object similarity and concept - object relevance , respectively .",
    "however , it is not possible to limit the similarity or define the way it is evaluated . in @xcite , a more flexible similarity operator for near and nearest neighbors is provided but it still does not allow to choose the similarity measure .",
    "much more mature extensions of relational dbms and sql are presented in  @xcite .",
    "the concept of  @xcite enables to integrate similarity queries into sql , using new data types with associated similarity measures and extended functionality of the select command .",
    "the authors also describe the processing of such extended sql and discuss optimization issues . even though the proposed sql extension is less flexible than we need , the presented concept is sound and elaborate .",
    "the study  @xcite only deals with image retrieval but also presents an extension of the postgresql database management system that enables to define feature extractors , create access methods and query objects by similarity .",
    "this solution is less complex than the previous one but on the other hand , it allows users to adjust the weights of individual features for the evaluation of similarity .",
    "recently , we could also witness interest in xml - based languages for similarity searching .",
    "in particular , the mpeg committee has initiated a call for proposal for mpeg query format ( mpqf ) .",
    "the objective is to enable easier and interoperable access to multimedia data across search engines and repositories .",
    "as described in  @xcite , the mpqf consists of three fundamental parts  input query type , output query type , and query management tools .",
    "the format supports various query types ( by example , by keywords , etc . ) , spatial - temporal queries and queries based on user preferences .",
    "it also supports result formatting and foresees service discovery functionality . from among various proposals",
    "we may highlight  @xcite which presents an mpeg-7 query language that also allows to query ontologies described in owl syntax .",
    "last of all , let us mention several efforts to create easy - to - use query tools that are not based on either xml or sql .",
    "the authors of  @xcite propose to issue queries via filling table skeletons and issuing weights for individual clauses , with the complex queries being realized by specifying a ( visual ) condition tree . in  @xcite ,",
    "a simple language based on lucene query syntax is proposed .",
    "finally , @xcite describes a rich ontological query language that works with structured english sentences but requires advanced image segmentation and domain knowledge .",
    "our objective , as mentioned previously , is to create a query language that can be used to define advanced queries over multimedia or other complex data types .",
    "the language will be implemented on top of the messif software , which is a framework for creating similarity - based retrieval systems .",
    "naturally , we also want the language to be general and extensible , so that it can be employed in a wide range of applications . to achieve this , we first need to define the desired functionality of such a language .    in this section , we study the following three issues that are closely related to the language design : ( 1 ) the current trends in multimedia information retrieval , which reveal the advanced features that should be supported by the language ; ( 2 ) existing query languages and their philosophies , so that we can profit on previous work ; and ( 3 ) the messif framework architecture , which should be compatible with the language . after a thorough analysis of these sources",
    "we compose a structured list of requirements .",
    "contemporary science distinguishes two basic approaches to searching in digital data  the attribute - based searching  @xcite that is used in the traditional dbms , and the similarity - based retrieval  @xcite . in the first case ,",
    "queries are defined by a set of strict conditions that are applied on attributes of data objects and the qualifying objects are returned . in similarity - based retrieval ,",
    "queries are usually defined by an example object and objects most similar to it form the response .",
    "the similarity can be described by a distance function , the smallest distance representing the best similarity .",
    "alternatively , the similarity can be expressed as a score where higher scores denote more similar objects .",
    "since these two approaches are interchangeable , we will use the distance terminology from now on .",
    "the most commonly used similarity queries are the _ k - nearest neighbors query _",
    "( knn ) and the _ range query _ ; the first restricts the number _ k _ of the most similar objects to be retrieved , the second limits the search by the maximum distance of a qualifying object .",
    "however , there exist a number of other query types , such as various sorts of _ similarity join _ , _ reverse nearest neighbor query _ , _ skyline query _ , _ distinct knn query _ , etc .",
    "@xcite    in order to enable efficient retrieval , any search method needs to be backed by a suitable data management structure .",
    "the indices used for attribute - based and similarity - based retrieval are substantially different .",
    "the traditional solutions used in relational databases employ index trees that organize data using the total ordering property of individual data domains . in content - based searching ,",
    "the data domains frequently do not have this property and the objects need to be organized with respect to mutual distances only . in consequence , the indices for similarity searching usually can not support attribute - based queries and vice - versa .",
    "therefore , these two approaches to searching need to be considered as independent and complementary .",
    "the attribute - based approach is long - established and well - tuned but it is known to be unsuitable for complex data such as multimedia , since exact match queries can only find binary - identical content and the metadata is often not expressive enough or not available at all .",
    "similarity - based methods enable to search the complex data in a more natural way but they also have some limitations .",
    "the retrieval methods typically employ low - level content descriptors , such as color histograms in case of an image , which are far from human understanding of the object .",
    "the discrepancy between the object descriptor level and human - perceived semantic level is often denoted as the _ semantic gap _ problem  @xcite , which is one of the major challenges in multimedia retrieval nowadays .",
    "recent works  @xcite suggest that promising results can be achieved by combining the two above - mentioned approaches together .",
    "attribute - based and simila - rity - based retrieval are orthogonal to each other and their composition can cover both the content of the object and its semantics .",
    "let us consider the following query : _ retrieve all information about a flower similar to this photo , which grows in the alps and blossoms in spring _ , which includes both an example data object and strict conditions on some of its metadata .",
    "such query can be evaluated in several ways  the system can first execute a content - based query and then filter the results , or start with the attribute restrictions , or evaluate several separate sub - queries and combine their results .",
    "each of these execution plans may be suitable in different situations .",
    "therefore , an advanced query interface should allow users to define how a combined query should be processed .",
    "support for both types of searching , the various query types and their combinations needs to be part of a query language .",
    "an important issue connected with complex data searching is the formulation of a search task .",
    "frequently it is not possible to define the query in a precise way .",
    "instead , a user may describe the desired result by several conditions together with a specification of their importance .",
    "typically , the individual conditions may have weights assigned to them . with the query - by - example paradigm ,",
    "it is also often difficult to obtain a really representative query object . to overcome this ,",
    "it is necessary to support queries with multiple examples as well as iterative searching with relevance feedback .",
    "moreover , it is desirable to allow users to alter the definition of object similarity , as this may vary for different people and situations .",
    "there may also be additional parameters of the search process that users want to control , such as the cost / precision ratio for large data processing .",
    "apart from including the features mentioned so far , which are perceived as necessary in most studies , the language should allow easy integration of other functionality that may be needed in applications , such as new query types or search algorithms .      in this section ,",
    "we analyze the main requirements and functionality that can be encountered in various works on query languages surveyed in the related work .",
    "some of the requests were formulated explicitly , especially in the mpeg query format , others were picked from the design of the individual languages .",
    "the identified features fall into the following categories :    * support for similarity queries : many of the existing studies focus on introducing query language primitives for basic similarity queries  the knn query , range query , and several types of similarity joins are mostly considered .",
    "typically , a special primitive is designed for each query type .",
    "different keywords are introduced in the individual languages .",
    "* integration of attribute - based and similarity queries : the need for combining the two approaches to searching is recognized in various proposals .",
    "most often , the integration is performed by incorporating the similarity search algorithms into a relational dbms . *",
    "support for spacio - temporal queries : some of the languages , including the mpeg query format , give special attention to queries concerning spatial and temporal characteristics of a multimedia object . in  @xcite",
    ", a set of operators is designed to support this type of queries .",
    "* adjustability of searching : there are a number of parameters of the search process that users may want to adjust .",
    "the ones that are most frequently supported in existing proposals are the weighting of search conditions and the definition of a distance function . *",
    "optimization issues : optimization strategies strive to maximize the efficiency of query processing by evaluating the individual search operations in the most suitable order . to allow optimization",
    ", it is necessary to understand the priority of operators , their evaluation costs and the equivalences of expressions .",
    "several optimization rules can be found in  @xcite concerning knn , range and join query operators . as observed in  @xcite , the more specialized operators we introduce , the more precise optimization rules can be defined and vice versa . * output formatting : in relational dbms ,",
    "output formatting options are limited to the choice of attributes and the ordering of tuples .",
    "proposals of  @xcite expand this with the result paging option and result layout specification , respectively .",
    "* service discovery : as the mpeg query format aims at creating a uniform access interface to various search services , it also provides functionality for service discovery .",
    "in particular , it allows to ask the search engine for supported query types , metadata , media types and expressions , and to inquire about system usage conditions .",
    "metric similarity search implementation framework ( messif )  @xcite is a java - based object - oriented library that eases the task of implementing metric similarity search systems .",
    "it provides various modules that are commonly needed by search engines such as memory and disk storage backends , network communication tools , statistics gathering and logging tools , and so on .",
    "the framework also offers an extensible way of defining data types and their associated metric similarity functions and provides implementations of several common data types and their typical distances , e.g. vectors with @xmath0 metrics .",
    "messif - enabled indexing methods that utilize only the generic properties of the similarity functions are then applicable to any such data type .",
    "finally , the framework offers generic hierarchy of data manipulation and querying operations .",
    "typical engine operations such as insertion or range and knn queries are of course implemented as well as various other queries including the similarity join or combined and multi - object queries .",
    "the definition of new operations is also possible and easy .",
    "when executing an operation , the framework automatically chooses the evaluation plan either by using an index structure that is able to answer the given query efficiently or by a sequential scan if there are no usable indexes .",
    "moreover , the precise or approximate evaluation strategy ( typically early - termination or pruning relaxation ) can be specified for most queries and taken into consideration by the framework while evaluating the queries .",
    "overall , the framework offers functionality of specifying the data type , the metric function , the type of similarity query and its evaluation strategy by means of programming api . by defining the query language we would allow to utilize this functionality without the need for actual java coding .",
    "obviously , there are a number of features that need to be considered in the design of a query language for advanced multimedia searching .",
    "unfortunately , not all of them can be fully satisfied as it is hardly possible to provide a language that is general , extensible , and simple at the same time . in order to gain more insight into the problem",
    ", we try to identify the main involved parties and summarize their concerns :    * `` user interest '' : the most obvious party is the end - users , who are often mainly interested in easy usability of the language . for a typical non - expert user , we should create a tool that allows to formulate any query they might need while keeping it simple .",
    "* `` application interest '' : for the authors of a specific application , it is vital that the language supports the operations that are requested by the application .",
    "apart from those , all other functionality is rather an obstacle as it makes the language unnecessarily complex to both implement and use . *",
    "`` system interest '' : the underlying search system is responsible for efficient evaluation of queries . for this purpose , it is advantageous that query reformulation and optimization strategies are available and the language philosophy complies with the underlying data structures and algorithms . the language needs to support all the functionality provided by the search system . *",
    "`` interoperability interest '' : in many real - world - use scenarios it is necessary to combine information from several sources to get the desired knowledge .",
    "therefore , it is desirable to have a tool that can be employed to query across multiple search services .",
    "a language designed for this purpose needs to be general and extensible .    as we explained in the introduction ,",
    "our primary objective is to create a communication interface to a retrieval system that is used in a number of diverse applications and supports a wide range of search settings . for this purpose ,",
    "the system and user points of view are most important .",
    "interoperability is desirable but not critical whereas the single - application viewpoint is not relevant at all .",
    "most of all , we require the language to support all the functionality enabled by messif . the usability and optimization issues are the second most important .",
    "we are aware of the fact that language suited to these priorities will not be the most convenient for amateur users . however , we are more interested in providing extended functionality for advanced users and rely on additional software to support beginners .",
    "table  [ table : requirements ] summarizes the requirements identified earlier and the priority levels we assign to them .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the final example presents a content - based search nested into a complex expression of the traditional sql .",
    "the two main contributions of this paper are the analysis of requirements for a query language , and the proposal of a query language for retrieval over complex data domains .",
    "the presented language is backed by a general model of data structures and operations , which is applicable to a wide range of search systems that offer different types of content - based functionality . moreover ,",
    "the support for data indexing and query optimization is inherently contained in the model .",
    "the simseql language extends the standard sql by new primitives that allow to formulate content - based queries in a flexible way , taking into account the functionality offered by a particular search engine .",
    "the proposal of the language was influenced by the messif framework that offers the functionality of executing complex similarity queries on arbitrary index structures but lacks a user - friendly interface for advanced querying .",
    "having laid the formal foundations of the query interface here , we will proceed with the implementation of a language parser which will translate the query into messif for the actual evaluation .    in the future , we plan to research the possibilities of adapting the existing optimization strategies to utilize the reformulation capabilities of the proposed extension .",
    "furthermore , we would like to create an intuitive ( graphical ) query formulation tool and , possibly , a conversion mechanism into the mpeg7 query format for inter - system communication .",
    "also , the syntax for the various service discovery tools needs to be established .",
    "10 [ 1]`#1 `              batko , m. , novak , d. , zezula , p. : messif : metric similarity search implementation framework . in : first international delos conference , revised selected papers .",
    "lncs , vol . 4877 , pp .",
    "springer ( 2007 )    belohlvek , r. , vychodil , v. : query systems in similarity - based databases : logical foundations , expressive power , and completeness . in : shin ,",
    "s.y . , ossowski , s. , schumacher , m. , palakal , m.j . , hung , c.c .",
    "pp . 16481655 .",
    "acm ( 2010 )            gao , l. , wang , m. , wang , x.s . ,",
    "padmanabhan , s. : expressing and optimizing similarity - based queries in sql . in : atzeni ,",
    "p. , chu , w.w . ,",
    "lu , h. , zhou , s. , ling , t.w .",
    "( eds . ) er .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , vol . 3288 , pp .",
    "464478 . springer ( 2004 )          pein , r. , lu , j. , wolfgang , r. : an extensible query language for content based image retrieval based on lucene . in : computer and information technology , 2008 .",
    "8th ieee international conference on ( july 2008 )        smeulders , a. , worring , m. , santini , s. , gupta , a. , jain , r. : content - based image retrieval at the end of the early years . pattern analysis and machine intelligence ,",
    "ieee transactions on 22(12 ) , 1349 1380 ( dec 2000 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> for complex data types such as multimedia , traditional data management methods are not suitable . </S>",
    "<S> instead of attribute matching approaches , access methods based on object similarity are becoming popular . </S>",
    "<S> recently , this resulted in an intensive research of indexing and searching methods for the similarity - based retrieval . nowadays , many efficient methods are already available , but using them to build an actual search system still requires specialists that tune the methods and build the system manually . </S>",
    "<S> several attempts have already been made to provide a more convenient high - level interface in a form of query languages for such systems , but these are limited to support only basic similarity queries . in this paper , we propose a new language that allows to formulate content - based queries in a flexible way , taking into account the functionality offered by a particular search engine in use . to ensure this , the language is based on a general data model with an abstract set of operations . </S>",
    "<S> consequently , the language supports various advanced query operations such as similarity joins , reverse nearest neighbor queries , or distinct knn queries , as well as multi - object and multi - modal queries . </S>",
    "<S> the language is primarily designed to be used with the messif framework for content - based searching but can be employed by other retrieval systems as well . </S>"
  ]
}