{
  "article_text": [
    "planets are thought to be formed in a protoplanetary disc around a young star .",
    "a planet growing by the accretion of planetesimals exchanges the angular momentum with disc gas and moves in the disc @xcite .",
    "this is called the type  i migration of a planet .",
    "the type  i migration is caused by the torques acting on a planet by a disc .",
    "the torque is composed of the lindblad torque and the corotation torque . the lindblad torque is due to the two spiral density waves excited by the planet in the disc @xcite , while the corotation torque is exerted by the gas in the horseshoe region of the planet @xcite .",
    "the sum of the lindblad torque and the corotation torque determines the total torque acting on the planet .",
    "the lindblad torque is exerted by the disc gas at the lindblad resonances , which are located inside and outside the orbit of the planet .",
    "the angular momentum of the planet is increased and decreased by the inner and outer lindblad torques , respectively .",
    "the magnitude of the negative outer lindblad torque is a little larger than that of the positive inner lindblad torque in a disc @xcite .",
    "the lindblad torque becomes negative , leading to the inward migration of a planet .",
    "the corotation torque exerted by the disc gas in the horseshoe orbit of a planet depends on the vortensity distribution and the entropy distribution of the disc gas .",
    "the vortensity related corotation torque is small compared with the lindblad torque @xcite , on the other hand , the entropy related corotation torque can become larger than the magnitude of the negative lindblad torque .",
    "@xcite showed that the corotation torque becomes positive in a disc with the high opacity , reducing the migration velocity of a planet .",
    "this process was recognized and intensively studied by many researchers @xcite .",
    "the positive corotation torque cancels the negative lindblad torque when the entropy distribution has steep negative slope .",
    "it was also shown that a planet in an adiabatic disc with the steeper negative slope starts to migrate even outward .",
    "the corotation torque significantly decreases in an adiabatic disc after a few libration time of a planet because the entropy distribution becomes uniform within the horseshoe region @xcite . without the sustained corotation torque , only the lindblad torque is eventually exerted on a planet in an adiabatic disc , leading to the inward migration of a planet with earth mass in @xmath2  yrs @xcite",
    "this is a serious problem in the core accretion model of planet formation .",
    "the lifetime of a disc , @xmath3  yrs , is much longer than the timescale of the type  i migration , making the survival of planets in a disc difficult .",
    "however , recent radial velocity surveys of extrasolar planets show that a significant fraction of solar - type stars may harbor close - in super - earths @xcite .",
    "population synthesis models have great difficulties to reproduce the observed semimajor axis distribution of extrasolar planets once the type  i migration is included .",
    "the reduction of the migration velocity of a planet is required @xcite .",
    "the viscosity of a disc prevents the saturation of the corotation torque @xcite .",
    "@xcite investigated the planet - disc interactions in an optically thick accretion disc , taking into account the viscous heating and the radiative cooling .",
    "they found the disc gas reaches a steady state , of which the temperature distribution has the very steep slope in a region where ice exists in a condensed form .",
    "the corotation torque becomes always positive in this region and the direction of the planet migration becomes outward .",
    "@xcite comprehensively examined the various mechanisms to halt planet migration in a disc around a young star .",
    "they showed that the planet migration is halted at the ice line , inside of which all the ice is evaporated and solid particles are composed of rocks and metals .",
    "the slope of the temperature distribution becomes steep in the inner region .",
    "the positive corotation torque becomes large enough to make the total torque positive . on the other hand ,",
    "the temperature distribution beyond the ice line is too shallow to cancel the negative lindblad torque by the corotation torque .",
    "a planet inside and outside of the ice line is expected to move outward and inward , respectively .",
    "they showed that the ice line is the location to stop the planet migration in an optically thick accretion disc .",
    "@xcite showed that the torque is dependent on the magnitude of the viscosity .",
    "the viscosity modifies the density of gas near a planet and decreases the torque density .",
    "@xcite also showed that the corotation torque becomes very small when they consider a disc with high viscosity . in this study , we systematically examine the total torque acting on a planet by an optically thick accretion disc .",
    "it is not clear if the positive corotation torque can always exceed the negative lindblad torque when we include viscosity in a disc .",
    "we make global two - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations to study the effect of the dissipation processes such as the viscosity and the radiation on the total torque .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in the section  2 ,",
    "we describe the basic equations and a disc model we presume in this study .",
    "the dissipative terms due to the viscosity and the radiation are included in the basic equations .",
    "the temperature of the disc is determined by the energy balance between the viscous heating and the radiative cooling .",
    "the rate of the radiative cooling is dependent on the opacity of the disc , which changes around the ice line . in the section  3 ,",
    "we show the results of the two - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations .",
    "we show the corotation torque decreases with an increase in the viscosity .",
    "the total torque acting on the planet depends on the radiative cooling rate and the viscous heating rate .",
    "we further derive the analytical formula to relate the viscosity and the opacity when the total torque exerted on the planet becomes zero .",
    "we summarize the results in the section  4 .",
    "a planet excites density waves in a disc and changes the density distribution of the disc .",
    "we examine the torque exerted on a planet by an optically thick accretion disc . a planet with 5 earth masses rotates around a solar mass star in a fixed circular orbit .",
    "the position vector of the planet from the star is denoted by @xmath4 .",
    "the problem is limited to a two - dimensional flow , where all physical quantities ( e.g. , the surface density ) depend on @xmath5 and @xmath6 , where @xmath5 is the distance from the star and @xmath6 is the angle between the @xmath7-axis and the position vector .",
    "governing equations for the gas are the mass conservation , the navier - stokes equations , and the energy equation with dissipative terms due to the viscosity and the radiation .",
    "we use a cylindrical coordinate where the star is located at the center of the coordinate .",
    "the mass of the planet is much smaller than that of the star and we neglect the indirect term .",
    "the mass conservation equation and the navier - stokes equations read @xmath8 @xmath9 @xmath10 where @xmath11 is the gas surface density , @xmath12 is the vertically integrated pressure ; @xmath13 and @xmath14 are the radial and tangential velocities of the gas ; @xmath15 is the gravitational potential .",
    "we consider a less massive disc and neglect the self - gravity of the gas .",
    "the gravitational potential of the star and the planet is given by @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the mass of the sun , @xmath18 is the mass of the planet , @xmath19 is the angle between @xmath20 and @xmath21 , and @xmath22 is the scale height of the disc at the location of the planet .",
    "the scale height is given by @xmath23 where @xmath24 and @xmath25 are , respectively , the isothermal sound velocity and the keplerian angular velocity at @xmath26 .",
    "the smoothing length parameter , @xmath27 , is introduced to include the effect of the scale height of a disc .",
    "it is noted that the small softening parameter leads to the strong corotation torque @xcite .",
    "@xcite examined the torque acting on a planet with several earth masses in an optically thin disc and found the torques calculated by the simulations with @xmath28 agree with that obtained by a linear analysis .",
    "we adopt @xmath28 in this study .",
    "the last terms in the navier - stokes equations describe the radial and azimuthal components of the viscous forces : @xmath29 and @xmath30 where @xmath31 , @xmath32 , and @xmath33 are the components of the stress tensor and are , respectively , given by @xmath34 @xmath35 and @xmath36 the gas is assumed to be ideal and the equation of state is given by @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the boltzmann constant , @xmath39 is the mid - plane temperature , @xmath40 is the mass of a hydrogen atom , and @xmath41 is the mean molecular weight of the gas .",
    "we set up @xmath422.34 .",
    "the energy equation of the gas disc reads @xmath43 where @xmath44 is the specific energy of the gas given with the pressure by @xmath45 in eq.(@xmath46 ) , @xmath47 is the ratio of the specific heats at constant pressure and volume .",
    "we use @xmath48 for a two - dimensional disc as given by @xcite .",
    "the energy of the gas is increased by the viscous heating term .",
    "the viscous heating term , @xmath49 , is given by @xmath50 on the other hand , the energy of the gas is decreased by the radiative cooling term of the disc , @xmath51 .",
    "the radiative cooling term , @xmath51 , is given by @xmath52 where @xmath53 is the stefan - boltzmann constant and @xmath54 is an effective temperature of a disc .",
    "the radiative flux in a radial direction is neglected because it is much smaller than @xmath51 by a factor of @xmath55 .",
    "the effective temperature is related to the mid - plane temperature of the disc as @xcite @xmath56 with @xmath57 where @xmath58 is the optical depth of a disc .",
    "the optical depth of a disc is defined by @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the best fit function of the opacity @xcite and @xmath61 is the so - called grain content factor introduced by @xcite .",
    "micron size dust particles are the main source of the opacity .",
    "collisions between particles might produce a large number of small dust particles , increasing the opacity of a disc @xcite .",
    "the opacity might decrease due to capture of small dust particles by large particles .",
    "it is valuable to study the torque acting on a planet in a disc with various values of @xmath61 .",
    "we treat @xmath61 as a parameter of the simulations and consider the discs with @xmath62 .",
    "the opacity strongly depends on the temperature of a disc @xcite : @xmath63 equation  ( @xmath64 ) was derived from the available opacity data , which incorporates small particles found in interstellar medium .",
    "dust particles are composed of rocks and metals in a region of disc with @xmath65 , while ice is added to form dust particles in a region of disc with @xmath66 . in the transition region between the cold and the hot region , the ice is evaporating .",
    "we divide a disc into three regions : the region  1 with @xmath67 , the region  2 with @xmath68 , and the region  3 with @xmath69 .",
    "for the later convenience , we write all the quantities in a non - dimensional form using the unit length @xmath70= 1  au , the unit mass @xmath17 , and the unit time @xmath71 where @xmath72 is the kepler frequency at 1  au .",
    "the normalized quantities are denoted by a tilde ( e.g. , @xmath73 ) .",
    "@xcite obtained images of protoplanetary discs around t tauri stars in taurus using the thermal emission of dust .",
    "they found that the surface density distributions of protoplanetary discs are described by the power - law distribution with the power - law index of 0 - 1 .",
    "the surface densities of the discs at 100  au are in a range between 0.1 and 10  @xmath74 . in this study",
    "we adopt a disc model , of which the initial condition is given by the power - law distribution : @xmath75 where @xmath76 is the surface density at @xmath70 and is set to be 100  @xmath0 .",
    "@xcite also found disc radii expand with time , suggesting that most of the gas migrates toward inward a central star by transporting the angular momentum outward .",
    "we adopt an accretion disc model developed by @xcite , in which the accretion rate of gas is constant throughout a disc .",
    "the viscosity @xmath77 is expressed by a power - law function of the distance from the central star to satisfy the constant accretion rate of a disc as @xmath78 where @xmath79 is the kinematic viscosity at @xmath70 and we set @xmath80 and @xmath81 is a viscous strength factor .",
    "the value of @xmath79 is approximately equivalent to 0.05 in terms of the alpha coefficient of @xcite .",
    "the accretion rate of a disc with the kinematic viscosity , @xmath79 , and the surface density given by eq .",
    "( @xmath82 ) becomes @xmath83 .",
    "observations of discs suggest that the accretion rates of discs are @xmath84 @xcite .",
    "we treat @xmath81 as another parameter in addition to @xmath61 to consider discs with various accretion rates of @xmath85 .",
    "two parameters , @xmath61 and @xmath81 , determine the structure of a disc .",
    "we derive the temperature distribution of an optically thick accretion disc following @xcite .",
    "the temperature distribution of the disc is determined by the balance between the viscous heating term , @xmath49 , and the radiative cooling term , @xmath51 .",
    "assuming that the viscous heating is due to the keplerian motion , we have @xmath49 given by @xmath86 applying eqs .",
    "( @xmath87)-(@xmath64 ) to @xmath51 with the assumption of @xmath88 , we obtain the temperature distribution of the disc from @xmath89 as @xmath90 where @xmath91 and @xmath92 are the distances from the star to the boundary of the regions  1 and 2 and that of the regions  2 and 3 , respectively . for later convenience",
    ", the power - law indexes of the temperature distribution in the @xmath93-region are denoted by @xmath94 ( e.g. , @xmath95 ) .",
    "figure  @xmath96 shows the surface density distribution and the temperature distribution of the disc with @xmath97 .",
    "it is seen from this figure that the temperature distribution has three different slopes .",
    "the boundary between the regions  1 and 2 and that between the regions  2 and 3 are located at 1.4  au and 2.5  au , respectively .",
    "the temperature distribution is nearly flat in the region  2 ( @xmath98 ) .",
    "the power - law indexes of the temperature distributions are given by @xmath99 in the region  1 and @xmath100 in the region  3 .",
    "the larger viscosity and/or opacity increase the temperature of the disc .",
    "the boundary positions move outward with increases in the viscosity and/or opacity .",
    "the location of the boundary is expressed by the two parameters , @xmath61 and @xmath81 , and the boundary position between the regions  1 and 2 is given by @xmath101 the boundary position between the regions  2 and 3 is given by @xmath102 in the case of @xmath103 .",
    "this boundary positions were derived by @xcite as well .",
    "it is noted that the boundary position also depends on the surface density .",
    "we plot the boundary positions of the regions  1 and 2 , @xmath104 , as a function of @xmath61 and @xmath81 in fig.@xmath105 .",
    "the solid , dashed , dot - dashed , and dotted curves correspond to @xmath106 , 1.4 , 1.2 , and 0.8 , respectively .",
    "it is found that the boundary position between the regions  1 and 2 ranges from 0.5  au to 2.5  au .",
    "the filled circles represent the parameter sets @xmath107 used in our numerical simulations .",
    "a planet generates density waves in a disc inside and outside of the orbit of the planet .",
    "the inner and outer density waves exert the positive and negative torques on the planet , respectively .",
    "the gravity of an outer density wave is a little stronger than that of an inner density wave because an outer density wave is closer to the planet due to the pressure gradient of a disc , leading to the negative lindblad torque @xcite .",
    "another torque acts on the planet by a gas element in the horseshoe orbit of the planet @xcite .",
    "when a gas element in the horseshoe orbit approaches a planet , the angular momentum is exchanged between the gas element and the planet .",
    "this is called the corotation torque .",
    "the entropy of the gas is expressed as @xmath108 , where @xmath109 .",
    "the corotation torque is dependent on the entropy distribution of a disc .",
    "it was shown that the corotation torque consists of linear and non - linear corotation torque .",
    "the non - linear corotation torque comes from the outgoing boundaries of the horseshoe region , that is the separatrix @xcite . in a non - barotropic disc ,",
    "the vortensity is changed after the horseshoe u - turn .",
    "the enhanced corotation torque is not due to the adiabatic compression , but comes from a singular streamline at the separatrix . since the change of the vortensity is proportional to the radial entropy gradient of a disc , the large corotation torque is induced in a disc with the large magnitude of @xmath110 .",
    "@xcite showed that the positive corotation torque is comparable with the negative lindblad torque when @xmath111 in an adiabatic disc .",
    "the total torque acting on a planet is determined by the sum of the negative lindblad torque and the corotation torque .",
    "the disc we consider in the section  2.2 has the surface density distribution with @xmath103 and the temperature distribution with @xmath99 in the region  1 , @xmath112 in the region  2 , and @xmath113 in the region  3 .",
    "the power - law indexes of the entropy distribution are calculated as @xmath114 in the region  1 , @xmath115 in the region  2 , and @xmath116 in the region  3 .",
    "@xcite found that the total torque acting on a planet in an adiabatic disc becomes positive when @xmath117 .",
    "we apply this to the optically thick disc and predict that a planet migrates outward in the regions  1 and 3 while it moves inward toward the star in the region  2 .",
    "planets in the regions  1 and 2 are expected to move toward the boundary of the regions  1 and 2 .",
    "this might help forming larger planets .",
    "however , it is not clear whether a planet still moves outward in the region  1 even if dissipative processes are included in a disc .",
    "we make a number of numerical simulations to examine the torque acting on a planet in a disc with dissipative processes due to the viscosity and the radiation .",
    "we use two - dimensional equidistant grids in @xmath5 and @xmath6 with a resolution of ( @xmath118 , @xmath119 ) = ( 640 , 3072 ) .",
    "the inner and outer radii of the disc are given by @xmath1200.4 and @xmath121 , respectively .",
    "the damping boundary conditions @xcite , where all components are relaxed towards their initial state , are used in order to reduce wave reflection from these boundaries .",
    "all the quantities in the inner and outer boundaries are always fixed to be the initial values .",
    "we develop a two - dimensional global hydrodynamic computer program with the gravitational forces of a star and a planet and a dissipative term @xcite .",
    "the basic equations are solved simultaneously using the finite volume method with an operator splitting procedure .",
    "the source terms , which include the gravity , the viscous force , and the radiation , are computed with a second order runge - kutta scheme .",
    "the advection terms are calculated with a second order muscl - hancock scheme and an exact riemann solver @xcite .",
    "the angular momentum of the disc gas is transferred to the planet .",
    "the transfer rate of the angular momentum from the disc gas at @xmath5 to the planet is given by @xmath122 by integrating the torque density over the radial distance , we obtain the total torque acting on the planet from the disc : @xmath123 the torque and the torque density are normalized by @xmath124 and @xmath125 , where @xmath124 is @xmath126 .",
    "we consider two adiabatic discs that have the temperature distributions with the power - law indexes @xmath127 and @xmath128 , which correspond to that of the region  1 and the region  2 of the optically thick disc , respectively .",
    "the power - law index of the temperature distribution is expressed as @xmath129 .",
    "both discs have the initial surface density with @xmath103 .",
    "hereafter we call the adiabatic disc with @xmath130 and that with @xmath131 the disc  a and the disc  b , respectively . the power - law index of the entropy distribution of the disc  a is @xmath132 and that of the disc  b is @xmath133 .",
    "@xcite found that the corotation torque increases with a decrease in the power index of the entropy distribution in an adiabatic disc .",
    "figure  @xmath134 shows the radial distribution of the torque density exerted on the planet in the adiabatic discs at @xmath135 , where @xmath136 is the rotational period of the planet .",
    "the planet is located at 1  au in the disc  a and 2  au in the disc  b. the large corotation torque is exerted on the planet in the disc  a due to the large entropy gradient , making the total torque positive .",
    "on the other hand , the corotation torque in the disc  b is too weak to cancel the negative lindblad torque .",
    "the normalized total torques become 3.0 and @xmath137 in the disc  a and the disc  b , respectively .",
    "the half width of the horseshoe region , @xmath138 , is estimated as @xcite    @xmath139    where @xmath140 is the earth mass and @xmath22 is the scale height of the disc at @xmath141 : @xmath142 @xcite showed that the half width of the horseshoe region of a planet scales with @xmath143 as long as the flow around a planet remains linear .",
    "figure @xmath144 shows the half width of the horseshoe region given by the numerical simulations ( the filled circles ) together with the half width of the horseshoe region given by eq.(@xmath145 ) ( the curve ) .",
    "both half widths agree well except the large planet mass .",
    "@xcite found the planet mass when the flow linearity breaks in a 2d simulation .",
    "the non - linearity of the flow around a planet becomes clear when the mass of the planet becomes larger than @xmath146 .",
    "the numerical results also start to diverge from the half width given by eq.(@xmath145 ) when the mass of the planet becomes larger than 10  earth masses .",
    "the ratios of the magnitude of the corotation torque to that of the lindblad torque are 1.6 and 0.6 in the disc  a and the disc  b , respectively .",
    "nearly the same lindblad torques act on the planet in both discs .",
    "the corotation torque determines the magnitude and sign of the total torque exerted on the planet .",
    "we perform the simulation to find the torque density exerted on the planet in the optically thick accretion disc with @xmath147 .",
    "the temperature distribution is the same as that of fig .",
    "the boundary position between the regions  1 and 2 is 1.4  au and that between the regions  2 and 3 is 2.5  au .",
    "figure  @xmath148 shows the radial distributions of the torque density acting on the planets in the region  1 ( panel ( a ) ) and in the region  2 ( panel ( b ) ) at @xmath149 .",
    "the planets are located at 1  au in the region  1 and 2  au in the region   2 .",
    "the radial distribution of the torque density in the region  1 is similar to that in the disc  a. the torque density has a local maximum and a local minimum at @xmath150 .",
    "the distances from the planet to the local maximum and minimum can be approximated by the scale height of the disc in the region  1 , indicating that this torque corresponds to the lindblad torque .",
    "the flow pattern within the horseshoe region is modified by the viscosity and the vortensity is no longer conserved during the u - turn .",
    "the vortensity is radially transferred by the viscosity .",
    "we compare the vortensity distributions of the inviscid disc , that is the adiabatic disc , and the accretion disc with non - vanishing viscosity .",
    "figure @xmath151 shows the contour of the vortensity within the horseshoe region of the planet .",
    "it is seen from fig .",
    "@xmath151 that the location of the minimum vortensity moves inward toward the central star when the viscosity is included .",
    "the viscosity plays an important role to diffuse the vortensity . in a disc with the low viscosity ,",
    "the corotation torque is dominated by the non - linear corotation torque .",
    "the non - linear corotation torque decreases with the increasing viscosity .",
    "the radiation restores the entropy distribution of a disc and is important to prevent the saturation of the corotation torque .",
    "@xcite derived the analytical expression of the corotation torque acting on a planet by a disc with viscosity and thermal diffusivity . in this study ,",
    "the cooling due to the radiation is compensated by the viscous heating .",
    "the radiation only works to maintain the thermal structure of a disc .",
    "our numerical results are compared with the analytical expression of the corotation torque given by @xcite in fig .",
    "we remove the contribution of thermal diffusivity in the analytical expression .",
    "our results agree well with the analytical result . in this study ,",
    "the radiation affects the corotation torque exerted on a planet through the disc temperature profile . however , it is important to note that radiation significantly influences the corotation torque as pointed by @xcite .",
    "the timescale for the gas to spread across the horseshoe width by the viscosity is defined by @xmath153 we substitute eqs .",
    "( @xmath154 ) and ( @xmath145 ) into eq .",
    "( @xmath155 ) to estimate the viscous timescale for the disc with @xmath156 at @xmath157 1  au : @xmath158 we consider the pressure effect of the gas disc and obtain the turnover time along the horseshoe orbit in front of the planet at @xmath157 1  au @xcite : @xmath159    the viscous timescale is nearly equal to the turnover time in the disc with @xmath156 .",
    "the effect of the viscosity on the corotation torque then starts to be important .",
    "note that the cooling timescale by the radiation is the same with the viscous timescale in the disc .",
    "the torque density near the orbit of the planet in the region  2 is smaller than that in the disc  b. @xcite used a local shearing box calculation and studied the gravitational interactions between a planet and an optically thin disc , taking into account of energy dissipation by radiation .",
    "they found that the oval shape of the density contour profile near a planet is tilted with respect to the direction toward the central star .",
    "the asymmetry of the density structure increases the one - side torque .",
    "they showed that the density contour is less inclined with the decreasing opacity .",
    "the adiabatic disc can be considered to have much larger opacity than the region  2 , yielding the larger torque density near the planet .",
    "@xcite have derived the torque formula for the lindblad torque and the corotation torque exerted on a planet by a disc with viscosity and thermal diffusion .",
    "we find that the corotation and lindblad torques obtained in our simulation agree with those calculated from their torque formula within 30  % .",
    "the total torque is given by the sum of the lindblad torque and the corotation torque .",
    "the total torque becomes @xmath160 in the region  1 and it is slightly smaller than that in the disc  a , @xmath161 . the density enhancement is reduced as the vortensity smears by the viscosity .",
    "however , the viscosity is too small to remove the corotation torque .",
    "planets accumulate at the ice line as suggested by @xcite .",
    "we further examine the effect of the viscosity of a disc on the torque density exerted on the planet , using the large value of the viscosity , @xmath162 .",
    "we utilize the same surface density distribution and the temperature distribution given by fig .",
    "figure  @xmath163 shows the radial distribution of the torque density exerted on the planet in the region  1 at @xmath135 .",
    "the corotation torque is lost because the viscosity is large enough to smear the density enhancement . in this case",
    ", the viscous timescale becomes much shorter than the turnover time ( see eqs.(@xmath164 ) and ( @xmath165 ) ) .",
    "the total torque becomes negative ( @xmath166 ) , leading to the inward migration of the planet in the region  1 .",
    "the density contours around the planet are shown to make clear the effect of the viscosity on the torque density .",
    "figure  @xmath167 shows the contours of the density fluctuations , @xmath168 , around the planet ( a ) in the disc  a , ( b ) in the region  1 of the disc with @xmath169 , and ( c ) in the region  1 of the disc with @xmath170 .",
    "the enhancement of the density in the horseshoe orbit in the panel  ( b ) is similar to that in the panel  ( a ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the density in the horseshoe region is considerably reduced in the panel  ( c ) because of the larger viscosity .",
    "the corotation torque decreases because the viscous timescale is much shorter than the turnover time in the case of @xmath162 .",
    "moreover , the inner and outer spiral density waves are damped by the viscosity as well .",
    "this results in the small lindblad torque .",
    "the corotation torque decreases in an adiabatic disc because the entropy of the gas in the horseshoe orbit of the planet tends to become uniform after the synodic period of the planet @xcite .",
    "this is called the saturation of the corotation torque and happens in an adiabatic disc .",
    "the corotation torque does not saturate in a viscous disc because the vortensity is transferred from the horseshoe region to the outer region of the disc by viscosity @xcite .",
    "figure  @xmath171 shows the time evolutions of the total torque acting on the planet in the adiabatic disc ( the disc  a ) and in the optically thick accretion disc with @xmath147 ( the region  1 ) , which are represented by the solid and dotted curves , respectively .",
    "the total torque increases with time at the beginning of the simulation and reaches a steady state around @xmath172 .",
    "the total torque decreases in the adiabatic disc by the saturation , on the other hand , the total torque remains the same in the optically thick accretion disc .",
    "we do not have to worry about the saturation because we consider the planet in a disc with the viscosity .",
    "we examine the effect of the boundary of the regions of the disc on the total torque by changing the position of the planet .",
    "figure  @xmath173 shows the total torques acting on the planets at the different positions in the optically thick accretion discs .",
    "the filled circles and triangles correspond to the total torques on the planet in the discs with @xmath174 ( 1.0 , 1.0 ) and ( 10 , 0.1 ) , respectively .",
    "the total torque on the planet in the region  1 is nearly independent of @xmath73 .",
    "the effect of the boundary of the regions on the total torque is very small .",
    "the total torque in the region  2 decreases a little with @xmath73 . the analytical formula for the normalized corotation torque @xcite depends on the scale height and the viscous coefficient , and the corotation torque decreases with increasing @xmath73 in the region  2",
    "this agrees with our numerical results .",
    "we perform a number of numerical simulations of gravitational interactions between the planet and the optically thick accretion discs .",
    "figure  @xmath175 shows the magnitude and sign of the total torques exerted on the planet in the region  1 of the discs with various parameters of @xmath61 and @xmath81 .",
    "the planet is located at 1  au when @xmath106 , @xmath176 , and 1.2 , and at 0.7  au when @xmath177 , respectively .",
    "the open and filled marks denote the positive and negative total torques acting on the planets , respectively .",
    "we obtain the largest magnitude of the total torques , @xmath178 , from the simulations with the same boundary position of @xmath104 .",
    "the total torques are plotted as circles , squares , and triangles when @xmath179 , @xmath180 , and latexmath:[$0.1 | \\tilde{\\gamma}|_{\\rm{max } }   >    decreasing @xmath61 and @xmath81 and its sign changes from negative to positive .",
    "we find the small decrease in the corotation torque when the viscous timescale is nearly equal to the turnover time as shown in fig .",
    "the corotation torque on the planet decreases with the viscosity of the disc and vanishes when the viscous timescale becomes much shorter than the turnover time as shown in fig .",
    "we find that the positive corotation torque cancels the negative lindblad torque to have the zero total torque when @xmath182 .",
    "we use the temperature distribution of the region  1 of the disc to find the viscous timescale : @xmath183 using @xmath184 , we obtain @xmath185 the dashed and dot curves in fig .",
    "@xmath175 are drawn using eq .",
    "( @xmath186 ) .",
    "we consider the two positions of the planet , @xmath187 and @xmath188 .",
    "substituting @xmath187 and @xmath188 into eq .",
    "( @xmath186 ) , we draw the dashed and dotted curves , respectively . the whole region is separated into the two regions by the curves .",
    "the positive total torque and the negative total torque can be found in one of the regions .",
    "we conclude that the corotation torque is moderately damped by the viscosity when @xmath189 and cancels the negative lindblad torque .",
    "the opacity of the disc increases with @xmath61 .",
    "energy dissipates ineffectively in the disc with large @xmath61 , increasing the mid - plane temperature and the scale height .",
    "the viscous timescale of the disc with large @xmath61 decreases because the width of the horseshoe region decreases with the increasing scale height ( see eq.(@xmath145 ) ) . in the disc with large @xmath61 ,",
    "the viscosity quickly damps the corotation torque and the negative lindblad torque becomes dominant .",
    "moreover , it is valuable to mention the effect of the surface density at 1  au , @xmath76 , on eq .",
    "( @xmath186 ) . in this study , we set @xmath76 to be constant",
    ". since the accretion rate and the optical depth are proportional to the surface density , @xmath190 and @xmath191 also increases with @xmath76 .",
    "hence , the coefficient of @xmath81 on the right hand side of eq .",
    "( @xmath186 ) changes by @xmath76 .",
    "additionally , one can find from eq .",
    "( @xmath186 ) that the planet mass has a large effect on the threshold at which the total torque becomes zero .",
    "we examine the effect of the planet mass on the total torque .",
    "figure  @xmath192 shows the total torque exerted on the planet with 3  earth masses and that with 7.5  earth masses in the panels ( a ) and ( b ) , respectively .",
    "the planet is located at @xmath193 in both cases .",
    "the half width of the horseshoe region increases with the planet mass .",
    "it takes longer time to damp the density enhancement in the horseshoe region of the planet with large mass .",
    "the larger viscosity is required to reduce the corotation torque acting on the massive planet .",
    "we have studied the type  i migration of a planet in an optically thick accretion disc .",
    "the gravitational interactions between a planet and disc gas excite spiral density waves inside and outside of the orbit of the planet in the disc .",
    "the waves attract the planet gravitationally and exert torques on the planet .",
    "the negative torque by the outer density wave is a little larger than the positive torque by the inner density wave because the outer wave is closer to the planet than the inner wave due to the negative pressure gradient .",
    "the sum of the torques by the density waves ( the lindblad torque ) becomes negative , leading to the inward migration of the planet @xcite .",
    "the corotation torque is very important to planetary migration because it might be able to halt the inward migration or reverse its direction @xcite . in a non - barotropic disc",
    ", it is found that the entropy related non - linear corotation torque plays an essential role .",
    "the non - linear corotation torque comes from the density enhancement due to the generated vortensity at the outgoing separatrices @xcite .",
    "the entropy related corotation torque is proportional to the radial gradient of the entropy of a disc . a disc with the steep entropy gradient yields the large positive corotation torque .",
    "@xcite showed that the positive corotation torque cancels the negative lindblad torque when the power - law index of the entropy distribution of the disc becomes @xmath111 , that is the critical power - law index of the entropy distribution .",
    "the radiation from the central star can not reach the mid - plane of an optically thick disc .",
    "the temperature of the mid - plane of an optically thick accretion disc is determined by the energy balance between the viscous heating and the radiative cooling .",
    "the rate of the cooling by the radiation is sensitive to the opacity of the disc .",
    "micron size dust particles provide the sources of the opacity .",
    "the opacity changes with the temperature through the sublimation of ice .",
    "we utilize the opacity law frequently used in other researches and find that the disc is divided into three regions : from the region  1 with the highest temperature to the region  3 with the lowest temperature .",
    "the boundary positions of the regions are dependent on the viscosity and the opacity of the disc .",
    "the boundary between the regions  1 and 2 is located between 0.5  au and 2.5  au .",
    "each region has the different power - law indexes of the temperature and entropy distributions .",
    "the power - law indexes of the entropy distribution in the regions  1 and 3 are lower than the critical power - law index of @xmath194 , while the power - law index in the region  2 is higher .",
    "we found that the total torque exerted on the planet by the adiabatic disc becomes positive in the regions  1 and 3 and becomes negative in the region  2 , as expected .",
    "this means that the planet moves outward in the regions  1 and 3 , while it moves inward toward the central star in the region  2 .",
    "planets might accumulate at the boundary between the regions  1 and 2 in the adiabatic disc .",
    "dissipative processes change the magnitude of the corotation torque @xcite . in a viscous disc ,",
    "the vortensity is transferred radially as shown in fig .",
    "the viscosity is responsible for the decrease in the corotation torque .",
    "the radiation has an impact on the evolution of the entropy as well and keeps the entropy gradient within the horseshoe region .",
    "the corotation torque depends on these dissipative processes due to the viscosity and the radiation @xcite .",
    "the positive total torque exerted on the planet by an adiabatic disc might become negative once some dissipative processes are included .",
    "we include the viscosity and radiation into the adiabatic disc and calculate the total torque exerted on the planet in an optically thick accretion disc .",
    "we focus on the planet in the regions  1 and 2 .",
    "the magnitudes of the opacity and the viscosity are expressed with the two parameters , @xmath61 and @xmath81 , respectively .",
    "the opacity and the viscosity increase with @xmath61 and @xmath81 . the large mass accretion rate of the disc is found in the disc with large @xmath81 .",
    "the temperature of the disc increases when the energy of the disc dissipates ineffectively ( large @xmath61 ) , resulting in the narrow horseshoe region .",
    "the viscosity decreases the enhancement of the density in the horseshoe region .",
    "the corotation torque gets smaller when the viscosity is larger .",
    "the total torque exerted on the planet by the optically thick accretion disc depends on the two parameters .",
    "we have made a number of numerical simulations of gravitational interactions between the planet and the optically thick accretion disc with various parameter sets of @xmath61 and @xmath81 .",
    "the total torque always becomes negative in the region  2 , leading to the inward migration of the planet .",
    "the total torque becomes positive in the region  1 , if the effect of the dissipation is small .",
    "the dissipative processes work effectively and the total torque becomes zero when the timescale for the viscosity is half of the turnover time of the planet in the horseshoe orbit , @xmath195 .",
    "this equation is written with the parameters as @xmath196 , considering @xmath76 as a parameter . in the optically thick accretion disc with @xmath197 and the surface density of 100  @xmath198 at 1",
    "au , the accretion rate of the disc is required to be smaller than @xmath199/yr for the planet to move outward .",
    "our study suggests that planets with 5  earth masses might accumulate and drive further growth of the planets at the boundary between the regions  1 and 2 in the optically thick accretion disc .",
    "the small accretion rate of gas is required for small planets to move outward .",
    "we are grateful for valuable comments from t.  tanigawa and the anonymous referee whose comments help to improve our manuscript .",
    "we thank nakazawa nagare projects members ( t.  tanigawa , a.  nouda , y.  ujiie , y.  s.  yun , and y.  yamaguchi ) for fruitful comments on the simulation program .",
    "useful discussion with y.  nakagawa is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "this study is supported by the cps running under the auspices of the mext global gcoe program entitled `` foundation of international center for planetary science . '' some of the numerical simulations were carried out on the general - purpose pc farm at center for computational astrophysics , cfca , of national astronomical observatory of japan .",
    "99 alibert y. , mordasini c. , benz , w. , winisdoerffer c. , 2005 , a&a , 434 , 343 ayliffe b. a. , bate m. r. , 2010 , mnras , 408 , 876 ayliffe b. a. , bate m. r. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 576 baruteau c. , masset f. , 2008 , apj , 672 , 1054 birnstiel t. , dullemond c. p. , brauer f. , 2010 , a&a , 513 , a79 de val - borro m. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 529 goldreich p. , tremaine s. , 1979 , apj , 233 , 857 goldreich p. , tremaine s. , 1980 , apj , 241 , 425 hartmann l. , calvet n. , gullbring e. , dalessio p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 495 , 385 hasegawa y. , pudritz r.e . , 2011 , mnras , 417 , 1236 .",
    "hubeny i , 1990 , apj , 307 , 395 inaba s. , barge p. , daniel e. , guillard h. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 365 kitamura y. , momose m. , yokogawa s. , kawabe r. , tamura m. , ida s. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 357 kley w. , crida a. , 2008 , a&a , 487 , l9 li h. , finn j.m .",
    ", lovelace r.v.e . ,",
    "colgate s.a .",
    ", 2000 , apj , 533 , 1023 lin d. n. c. , papaloizou j. , 1985 , protostars and planets ii , 981 lo curto , g. et al . , 2010 , a&a , 512 , 48l masset f. s. , dangelo g. , kley w. , 2006 , apj , 652 , 730 masset f. , casoli j. , 2009 , apj , 703 , 857 masset f. , casoli j. , 2010 , apj , 723 , 1393 mayor m. et al . , 2009 , a&a , 507 , 487 mizuno h. , 1980 , prog .",
    "phys . , 64 , 544 mordasini c. , alibert y. , benz w. , naef d. , 2009 , a&a , 501 , 1161 morohoshi k. , tanaka h. , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 915 muto t. , inutsuka s. , 2009 , apj , 701 , 18 paardekooper s .- j . ,",
    "mellema , g. , 2006 , a&a , 459 , l17 paardekooper s .- j . ,",
    "mellema , g. , 2008 , a&a , 478 , 245 paardekooper s .- j . ,",
    "papaloizou j.c.b . , 2008 ,",
    "a&a , 485 , 877 paardekooper s .- j . ,",
    "papaloizou j.c.b . , 2009a , mnras , 394 , 2283 paardekooper s",
    ".- j . , papaloizou j.c.b . , 2009b , mnras , 394 , 2297 paardekooper s .- j . , baruteau c. , crida a. , kley w. , 2010 , mnras , 401 , 1950 paardekooper s .- j .",
    ", baruteau c. , kley w. , 2011 , mnras , 410 , 293 pringle j.e . , 1981 , annual rev . in astrophys . ,",
    "19 , 137 sgransan d. et al . , 2011 , a&a , 534 , 58 shakura , n.i . ,",
    "sunyaev , r.a .",
    ", 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 tanaka h , takeuchi t , ward w. , 2002 , apj , 565 , 1257 toro e.f . , 1999 , in riemann solvers and numerical methods for fluid dynamics . a practical introduction ( springer ) ward w. , 1986 , icarus , 67 , 164 ward w. , 1991 , lpi , 22 , 1463 ward w. , 1997 , icarus , 126 , 261 yamada k. , inaba s. , 2011 , mnras , 411 , 184",
    "we examine the dependence of the total torque on the power - law index , @xmath200 , of the surface density distribution of the disc .",
    "figure  @xmath201 shows the time evolutions of the total torque exerted on the planet by the disc with @xmath103 and the disc with @xmath202 .",
    "both discs have parameters of @xmath203 .",
    "the solid and dashed curves represent the total torques acting on the planet by the discs with @xmath103 and @xmath202 , respectively .",
    "the total torques increase at the beginning of the simulations and eventually reach steady states in both discs .",
    "the total torque by the disc with @xmath204 becomes approximately 1.5  times as large as that by the disc with @xmath103 .",
    "the torque densities by the disc with @xmath103 and by the disc with @xmath202 are plotted as the solid and dashed curves , respectively , in fig .",
    "the inner and outer lindblad torques increase and decrease with a decrease in @xmath200 , respectively , leading to the smaller lindblad torque .",
    "the analytical formula for the lindblad torque , @xmath206 , is given by @xcite @xmath207 the temperature distribution of the region  1 of the optically thick accretion disc has the power - law index , @xmath208 .",
    "hence , we have for the lindblad torque in the region  1 :      the analytical formula suggests that the lindblad torque increases with a decrease in @xmath200 and agrees with numerical results .",
    "the corotation torque becomes a little larger in the disc with @xmath202 , compared with that in the disc with @xmath103 .",
    "this increase in the corotation torque is also suggested by the analytical formula for the corotation torque formula .",
    "we can derive the relation between @xmath61 and @xmath81 when the total torque becomes zero , using the same procedure explained in the section  3.2 .",
    "using @xmath184 , we have @xmath210"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the torque acting on a planet embedded in an optically thick accretion disc , using global two - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations . </S>",
    "<S> the temperature of an optically thick accretion disc is determined by the energy balance between the viscous heating and the radiative cooling . </S>",
    "<S> the radiative cooling rate depends on the opacity of the disc . </S>",
    "<S> the opacity is expressed as a function of the temperature . </S>",
    "<S> we find the disc is divided into three regions that have different temperature distributions . </S>",
    "<S> the slope of the entropy distribution becomes steep in the inner region of the disc with the high temperature and the outer region of the disc with the low temperature , while it becomes shallow in the middle region with the intermediate temperature . </S>",
    "<S> planets in the inner and outer regions move outward owing to the large positive corotation torque exerted on the planet by an adiabatic disc , on the other hand , a planet in the middle region moves inward toward the central star . </S>",
    "<S> planets are expected to accumulate at the boundary between the inner and middle regions of the adiabatic disc . </S>",
    "<S> the positive corotation torque decreases with an increase in the viscosity of the disc . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the positive corotation torque acting on the planet in the inner region becomes too small to cancel the negative lindblad torque when we include the large viscosity , which destroys the enhancement of the density in the horseshoe orbit of the planet . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to the inward migration of the planet in the inner region of the disc . </S>",
    "<S> a planet with 5  earth masses in the inner region can move outward in a disc with the surface density of 100  @xmath0 at 1  au when the accretion rate of a disc is smaller than @xmath1/yr .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    hydrodynamics - radiative transfer - planets and satellites : formation - planetary systems : gravitational interactions - planetary systems : accretion disc . </S>"
  ]
}