{
  "article_text": [
    "no progenitor system for a type ia supernova ( sn ia ) has ever been identified , nor do we know the exact nature or natures of the progenitors .",
    "we do know that sne ia are explosions of carbon / oxygen core white dwarfs ( wds ) , and that is the extent of our current knowledge on the progenitor systems . we do not know the type of astrophysical system within which the wd comes to gain mass .",
    "one possibility is a binary in which the wd accretes mass from a non - degenerate companion star in the single - degenerate ( sd ) channel @xcite ; another is through the merger of two wds in the double - degenerate ( dd ) channel @xcite . yet another is the `` double - detonation '' model , in which a sub - chandrasekhar mass wd detonates following a detonation of an accumulated helium layer on the surface ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "resolving this issue is important because the characteristics of the companion and the mass transfer process create the environment within which the explosion occurs .",
    "theoretical arguments can be marshalled to support or reject the hypothesis that most  are produced through the sd channel , and the same is true for the dd channel .",
    "for example , sds can produce explosions with the characteristic typical of  ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) , while it has proved difficult to do the same for dd models .",
    "even though the majority of the dd mergers may result in an accretion induced collapse to a neutron star @xcite , some of these mergers may instead produce  @xcite . while neither channel appears capable of reproducing the measured rates of  in galaxies , the distribution of times after star formation associated with the dd models is a better fit to the measured delay time distribution @xcite .",
    "observational evidence has not yet been able to provide a resolution .",
    "the mass distribution of wds in the solar neighborhood provides some evidence that mergers occur @xcite . yet , while radial velocity surveys have identified a significant binary wd merger population @xcite , there is no confirmed binary wd system with a total mass above @xmath1 ( @xmath2 ) and a merger time shorter than a hubble time .",
    "observational tests of the sd scenario would seem potentially more direct .",
    "several post - explosion investigations , for example , detect circumstellar material likely to have been ejected from the progenitor binary ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "observations of the supernova remnant , rcw 86 , which appears to have been associated with an , find features best explained by an explosion into a cavity created by a single - degenerate progenitor system .",
    "however , the true nature of rcw 86 , whether it is a core - collapse or a ia explosion , remains questionable ( see the discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "sne  ia are rare , so we discover them at large distances from us .",
    "furthermore , the progenitor systems , even in sd models , are predicted to be dimmer than typical progenitors of core - collapse supernovae , therefore impossible to detect in pre - exlosion images of most sne  ia host galaxies .",
    "thus , nearby  are particularly valuable to progenitor studies .",
    "the supernova 2011fe occurred in the galaxy m101 , which , at @xmath3  mpc , is relatively nearby .",
    "pre - explosion images were able to rule out the presence of a giant donor star @xcite ; the results of radio observations are consistent with this conclusion , placing limits on pre - explosion winds @xcite .",
    "all other sd models , including those with subgiant or main - sequence donors , are allowed by the full complement of pre- and post - explosion observations .",
    "one of the last sne  ia to occur in the milky way was `` tycho s '' supernova ( sn 1572 ) , whose remnant is measured to be @xmath4  kpc away .",
    "this is close enough to allow us to discover the widowed companion to the exploded wd , should it exist .",
    "@xcite identified a g2 dwarf as the ex - companion .",
    "however , this identification remains controversial @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite extended the progenitor search to a supernova remnant in the lmc , snr  0509 - 67.5 .",
    "based on a relatively short _ hubble space telescope ( hst ) wide field camera 3 _ exposure of the snr , they rule out any ex - companion star brighter than v = 26.9 mag in the central error circle . given the distance to the lmc , this corresponds to sources brighter than @xmath5 mag .",
    "@xcite argue that this magnitude limit excludes all sd progenitors and that the only remaining possibility is that of a dd merger system , with no companion left behind .    in this paper",
    "we point out that , if the effects of angular momentum carried by matter falling toward the wd are included , a wide range of sd progenitor models are allowed .",
    "these  models are reviewed in  2 . in ",
    "3 we revisit the analysis of possible widowed donors in snr  0509 - 67.5 , and review the implications for the study of other  remnants in  4 .",
    "the term `` single - degenerate model '' refers to diverse classes of binary systems within which a wd may accrete matter and achieve the critical mass .",
    "the donor may be drawn from a broad range of stellar types .",
    "orbital separations may be close enough that the donor fills its roche lobe , or wide enough that mass transfer occurs through winds .",
    "matter may be accreted through a disk , or not .",
    "the common feature is that the wd should be able to retain enough of the matter it accretes to allow it to eventually achieve the critical mass needed for explosion .",
    "mass retention is generally thought to require that incoming matter undergo nuclear burning .",
    "quasi - steady nuclear burning requires high rates of accretion , generally above a few times @xmath6  yr@xmath7 @xcite .",
    "matter can also be retained with the somewhat lower accretion rates consistent with recurrent novae @xcite .",
    "note however , that high rates of mass infall would be required even if nuclear burning were not an issue , because the types of donors which can donate enough mass to a co wd to allow it to achieve @xmath8 would necessarily donate mass at high rates for extended periods @xcite .    in almost all accretion scenarios ,",
    "infalling matter carries angular momentum .",
    "the wd therefore accretes both mass and angular momentum .",
    "while the accretion of mass has been considered in detail , in terms of both the burning of infalling mass and the evolution toward explosion , the increase in angular momentum is a difficult problem that has been less well studied . while results for some detailed models have been computed ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , there are uncertainties about important physical elements , such as the relative roles of viscosity , magnetic fields , and gravitational radiation in promoting both spin - up and spin - down ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "recently , the signficance of the issue of angular momentum transfer has been linked to the appearance of the progenitor binary both pre- and post - explosion , using physical arguments independent of the details of the relevant processes @xcite .",
    "it is important to note that much theoretical and observational work needs to be done to understand the effects of angular momentum .",
    "for example , several sets of calculations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have been conducted to determine the range of accretion rates that allow the wd to burn incoming material or that are associated with nova .",
    "these have all assumed spherical symmetry , which does not hold if the wd spins at a rate of a few tenths of a hertz .",
    "furthermore , the calculations apply to wds mith mass below the chandrasekhar mass .",
    "thus , the accretion calculations must be extended if we are to understand the details of how matter accretes onto spinning wds of all masses , including massive wds .",
    "several other questions must also be addressed , including the effects of a delay time to explosion on the internal state of the wd . on the observational front ,",
    "searches for fast spinning wds are needed . in this paper",
    "we focus on the specific issue of the effects spin - up / spin - down would have on the detectability of the widowed companion to a wd that explodes .",
    "@xcite introduced classes of spin - up / spin - down binary models for accreting wds , and studied their implications for the detectability of the widowed companions .",
    "briefly , in the sd channel , sne  ia explosions result from wds retaining the accreted mass .",
    "the angular momentum of the wd must increase because of accretion .",
    "there are several examples of fast spinning wds in close binary systems , mostly in intermediate polars , e.g. , the dwarf nova wz sge ( 27.87 s ) , the nova - like ae aqr ( 33.06 s ) , and the nova remnant v842 cen ( 56.82 s ) .",
    "the likely progenitors of sne ia have mass transfer rates that are several orders of magnitude higher than those inferred for intermediate polars .",
    "the retention of mass should spin mass - gaining wds to even shorter periods than measured for intermediate polars .",
    "the wd in hd 49798 is one such system ; it has a 13-s spin period 1.28 @xmath9 wd with a hot subdwarf companion @xcite .",
    "spin - up can increase the value of the critical mass , @xmath8 needed for explosion @xcite .",
    "if @xmath8 has increased , the wd may not explode even after its mass has become equal to @xmath1 .",
    "if the mass of the wd can not reach @xmath8 , then the explosion must be delayed until the wd can spin down , reducing the value of @xmath8 to the actual value of the wd s mass . by `` spin - down ''",
    "we mean that the wd has either lost angular momentum or changed its internal angular momentum profile so that the required central density can be achieved .",
    "spin - down begins when the mass transfer rate becomes low enough that genuine mass gain is no longer possible .",
    "the need for a spin - down time , can mean that the donor has different properties at the time of explosion from those it would have had had the explosion occurred at the time when the mass of the wd reached @xmath10      consider the case in which the donor is a giant during the phase in which it contributes mass at a high enough rate to promote nuclear burning .",
    "because a giant loses mass at higher rates as it evolves , the wd is very likely to continue gaining mass and angular momentum until the envelope of the giant donor is exhausted . at that point ,",
    "mass transfer ceases , and the first - formed wd can begin to spin down and to cool after mass transfer , just as its companion , the degenerate core of the donor star , also begins to cool . at the time of explosion ,",
    "the remnant of the donor is a wd , less massive than the one that exploded .",
    "it has been cooling for a time equal to the time the massive wd needed to spin down .",
    "its mass and temperature can therefore be used to measure the spin - down time .",
    "@xcite argues that the amount of hydrogen left on the donors in these systems is below the current detection limits , providing a potential explanation for the lack of hydrogen in  spectra .",
    "consider the case in which the donor is a main - sequence star . in this case",
    "the donor must be more massive than the wd when it first fills its roche lobe , in order for enough mass to be donated at an accretion rate high enough to promote nuclear burning and to bring a carbon - oxygen wd to the chandrasekhar mass . as the mass of the donor star decreases and the mass of the wd increases , the rate of mass transfer declines .",
    "once the mass ratio reverses , mass transfer continues at a high rate until the donor star achieves thermal equilibrium . during this interval ,",
    "much of the accreted mass continues to be burned ; instead of being processed in a quasisteady manner , however , it may burn episodically during recurrent novae . once the donor star achieves thermal equiliburium ,",
    "its thermal readjustment no longer drives mass transfer , which must then proceed through the agency of magnetic braking , producing a mass - transfer rate that starts at about @xmath11  yr@xmath7 and declines as the donor continues to lose mass .",
    "the wd can no longer retain the accreted mass and is free to spin down . by the time of explosion",
    ", the companion star may still be donating mass at a low rate . just prior to explosion",
    ", the system will be a cataclysmic variable ( cv ) , with a low - mass donor .",
    "the mass of the donor can provide a rough measure of the spin - down time .",
    "if the donor is a subgiant at the time during which it donates mass at a high - enough rate to promote lasting mass gain by its wd companion , then elements of both scenarios apply . like the case",
    "in which the donor is a main - sequence star , the mass accretion rate will decline sometime after the mass ratio reverses .",
    "but , as in the giant - donor case , the donor will run out of envelope after an interval of mass transfer .",
    "thus , depending on the spin - down time , the system may be a catclysmic variable ( similar to ae aqr , which we will discuss below ) just prior to explosion , or else it may consist of a wd ( likely a he wd ) orbiting the massive wd .",
    "the general trend is that the donor star will be less massive and less luminous at the time of explosion if spin - up / spin - down occurs .",
    "the physical characteristics of the system are determined by the spin - down time .",
    "the relationship between the properties of the widowed donor to the spin - down time is fortunate , because it has the potential to provide a way to estimate the spin - down time of real systems .",
    "first - principles estimates have proved difficult , and the spin - down time is not well constrained at present .",
    "theoretically , spin - down times are uncertain by several orders of magnitude ; estimates range from @xmath12@xmath0 to @xmath13@xmath14 years @xcite .",
    "for example , @xcite show that the timescale for the secular decrease of the spin rate of an accreting magnetized wd in cvs is ( @xmath15 .",
    "unfortunately , observations of spinning - down wds are scarce .",
    "the best example of a wd currently spinning down is ae aqr , which contains a 0.79 @xmath16 0.16 @xmath9 wd and a 0.50 @xmath16 0.10 @xmath9 k5 dwarf companion in a 9.9 h orbit @xcite .",
    "the wd in ae aqr is currently spinning down at a rate @xmath17 s s@xmath7 @xcite , which corresponds to a spin - down time of @xmath18 years @xcite .",
    "the evolutionary history of ae aqr exactly parallels that of sd progenitors that experience spin up : it apparently had a high mass transfer rate , allowing the wd to gain mass ; it is now spinning down .",
    "the mass gained was , however , not enough to bring the wd to a mass near @xmath1 .",
    "there is evidence that other wds in cvs have gained mass .",
    "for example , @xcite study the mass distribution of wds in intermediate polars and show that the average wd mass of their sample is 0.88 @xmath16 0.25 @xmath9 .",
    "this is significantly larger than the average mass of the wds in the solar neighborhood @xcite .",
    "in addition , seven of the 17 systems in the @xcite study have wd masses above 1 @xmath9 .",
    "ae aqr is perhaps the best example of a cv with a wd of mass smaller than @xmath1 that appears to have followed the evolutionary track we suggest .",
    "in fact , since binaries in which a wd achieves the critical mass must be a small minority of binaries in which the wd accretes matter , we expect ae aqr to be an example of many other members of its class .",
    "this system demonstrates that , even though angular momentum and its attendant physics are difficult to compute , spin - up / spin - down is realized in nature .",
    "snr 0509 - 67.5 is a 400-year - old sn ia remnant in the lmc .",
    "based on its light echo and x - ray spectrum , @xcite and @xcite demonstrate that snr 0509 - 67.5 originated from an exceptionally bright  that synthesized @xmath19 of @xmath20ni .",
    "its youth and location means that it provides a unique opportunity to determine the nature of its progenitor and to take an important step toward resolving the so - called progenitor puzzle .",
    "it is possible the wd whose explosion created snr 0509 - 67.5 accreted mass from a companion .",
    "if so , that donor star likely survived the explosion , and is moving away from its site with a speed comparable to its former orbital speed .",
    "it would presently lie within about @xmath21 of the explosion site , if its transverse velocity is smaller than @xmath22  km  s@xmath7 .",
    "the lmc is close enough that we can , in principle , detect this newly `` widowed '' donor star .    using 1010 , 696 , and 800 s exposures in the @xmath23 , and @xmath24 filters taken with the _ hst wide field camera 3 _ , @xcite rule out ex - companion stars down to @xmath25 mag in the central 1.4@xmath26 region .",
    "this magnitude limit corresponds to @xmath5 mag at the lmc s distance , ruling out a wide range of possible donors .",
    "this limit , however , does not take into account the extinction in the line of sight to the lmc ( @xmath27 mag , a. pagnotta 2012 , private communication ) .",
    "hence , the absolute magnitude limit achieved by the current _ hst _ observations is at @xmath28 mag , as shown in figure 1 .    to use this limit to place constraints on the flux from the widowed donor ,",
    "it is important to locate the position at which the explosion occurred .",
    "we need to be certain that no stars lie close enough to the explosion site to be identified as possible ex - donors .",
    "had the event occurred in a uniform medium , the supernova remnant would likely exhibit axial symmetry , making it possible to uniquely identify a center , which would be the most likely point of explosion . in the case of snr 0509 - 67.5",
    ", it exhibits an asymmetric spatial pattern indicating that the surrounding medium is not uniform .",
    "simulations can reproduce the pattern and identify the true site of the explosion ( s. reynolds 2012 , private communication ) .",
    "@xcite instead studied the geometry of the remnant to identify the likely explosion site , in a manner that also considers the asymmetry .",
    "should the supernova have occurred at a position offset from the one identified geometrically , then , instead of a definite null detection , there could be a set of candidates for the widowed donor , shown in figure 1 of @xcite . in this case",
    ", each candidate would correspond to a possible binary model , and each would place different possible limits on the spin - down time . if one of these candidates was observed to have high proper motion and/or to be enriched in materials expected from the explosion , then the progenitor would be identified and the binary model could be unique . in the discussion below , we assume that the geometrical work produces the correct result , so that there are no candidate ex - donors down to the flux probed by the hst observations . if this is not the case , and there are candidate donors , then each would need to be studied separately .",
    "this more complex process will certainly apply to the sites of other remnants of sne  ia .",
    "@xcite conclude that all possible donor stars had been eliminated , proving that the progenitor was a dd system whose components merged .",
    "if , however , the wd gained mass from a companion , it would likely have also gained angular momentum .",
    "it may therefore have a higher critical mass and may need to spin down to decrease the value of @xmath8 to the current value of its mass .",
    "after the spin - down episode , the donor star could be dim enough by the time of explosion that it would not have have been detected in the existing data .",
    "the unknown spin - down timescales for fast spinning massive wds are therefore extremely important for the visibility of ex - companion star in snr 0509 - 67.5 . here",
    "we consider two cases , a red-/sub - giant companion and a main - sequence star companion .",
    "for giants and some subgiants , the mass transfer rate will not decrease , and spin - down can not start before the giant s envelope is depleted .",
    "the giant donor becomes a wd that cools during spin down @xcite .",
    "figure 1 displays the absolute magnitude versus the ( cooling age ) spin - down time for ex - companion wds .",
    "if the spin - down takes longer than @xmath0 years , such ex - donors are likely to be very dim today , requiring deep imaging observations . ruling out present - day he - core ( @xmath29 ) wds would rule out an ex - donor on the red giant branch ; allowing higher mass present - day wds would indicate ex - donors on the asymptotic giant branch .",
    "for spin - down times of @xmath30 years , the current _ hst _ observations allow ex - donors that are wds with @xmath31 . for spin - down times of @xmath32 years , only low - mass he - core wds are ruled out ; higher mass wds with @xmath33 would be hidden in the current data . for",
    "even longer spin - down times of @xmath34 years , the current data can not rule out even the lowest mass he - core wds .",
    "figure 2 displays the ruled - out ex - companion wds for a given spin - down time ; c / o core wds may be hiding in the center of this remnant if the spin - down times are longer than about @xmath0 years .",
    "figure 3 shows the evolution of the ex - companion main - sequence stars to ( super-)chandrasekhar - mass wd explosions .",
    "we consider 1.79 and 1.39 @xmath9 wds .",
    "for each value of the wd mass , we have assumed that the low-@xmath35 phase begins when the donor star is @xmath36 less massive than its wd companion .",
    "this value is uncertain , since it depends on issues such as the readjustment of the donor star , the generation of radiation from the vicinity of the accreting wd , and its effect on the donor .",
    "once magnetic braking becomes the dominant driver of orbital evolution and mass transfer , the system will have entered the realm of cvs , which have been well studied , using both theory and observations .",
    "nevertheless , there are significant uncertainties about key issues such as magnetic braking , and the possible `` bloating '' of the donor star . to illustrate that there is a range of possibilities , we show , for each value of the initial donor mass , the results for two different values of the magnetic braking parameter , @xmath37 ( cf",
    "36 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as described in the caption .",
    "the limits placed by a non - detection in the current data mean that a main - sequence star with mass larger than approximately @xmath38 would have been detected if the spin - down time is shorter than about @xmath39  years to @xmath40 years .",
    "thus , it is possible that the donor star would not have been detected , if the spin - down time is in this range or longer .",
    "it is important to push the limit on the mass of the widowed donor to even lower values .",
    "the reason for this is that the evolution of the cv slows down considerably for values of the donor mass of about @xmath41 magnetic breaking ceases , and the further evolution of the orbit is governed by gravitational radiation , which is generally a slower process .",
    "thus , if we could establish that the donor had a mass of less than @xmath42 then the spin down time would have to be larger than @xmath43  years .",
    "nearby  remnants provide us the best opportunity to identify the progenitor systems . the discovery of an ex - companion star in these remnants would be direct evidence of an sd progenitor .",
    "hence , any process that can hide such companions is important .",
    "@xcite discuss one such mechanism , the spin - up / spin - down channel , in which the recently widowed companion has @xmath0 to @xmath14 years to evolve during the spin - down phase and before the explosion .",
    "revisiting the available data on snr 0509 - 67.5 , we demonstrate that the current magnitude limit of the _ hst _ observations , @xmath25 mag , is relatively shallow to reject an sd progenitor that had to spin - down before an explosion . however , deeper imaging observations with the _",
    "hst wfc3 _ can achieve magnitude limits that are more meaningful for ex - companion star searches .",
    "figure 1 demonstrates that an @xmath44 mag search , @xmath45 mag at the lmc s distance , would identify or rule - out all c / o and he - core wds for spin - down times of @xmath46 years and @xmath47 wds for @xmath48 years .",
    "these observations would also be sensitive to all ex - companion main - sequence stars with @xmath49 for spin - down times of up to @xmath14 years .",
    "even deeper limits can be achieved with the _ james webb space telescope_. if the donor star is detected in such observations , this would be an important first , that would allow us to model the progenitor and determine the spin - down time .",
    "if no ex - companions are detected , this would suggest either a double - degenerate progenitor system or a double detonation event with an undetectably faint present - day helium - core wd companion @xcite . in either case",
    ", the result would be the most concrete clue to the nature of any sn  ia progenitor , and would provide the most direct insight yet to the solution of the sne  ia progenitor puzzle .",
    "another complication in the studies of  remnants arises due to the uknown center of the explosion . based on hydrodynamic simulations , @xcite",
    "demonstrate that in the presence of a nonuniform external density region there can be a significant shift in the apparent geometric center of a remnant away from the explosion center .",
    "if the remnant is smaller than the width of the density transition , it maintains a circular shape but the apparent center shifts . @xcite and @xcite detect a large asymmetry in the infrared brightness profile of snr 0509 - 67.5 ; one hemisphere of this remnant is brighter than the other side by a factor of five in the _ spitzer _ 24 @xmath50 m images .",
    "this brightness difference is most likely due to the forward shock running into material that is several times denser than in other places @xcite .",
    "therefore , there is indirect evidence from the infrared observations that the instellar medium in the explosion site is nonuniform and the apparent center of this remnant has likely shifted from its original location .",
    "a comparison of the _ hst _ images of snr 0509 - 67.5 ( see figure 1 in * ? ? ? * ) and the hydrodynamic simulations ( see figures 10 and 11 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) show that the apparent center is likely to shift toward the low - density side .",
    "hence , the real explosion site for snr 0509 - 67.5 is likely to the right of the current geometric center .",
    "@xcite consider such a shift based on the geometric appearance and the ellipticity of the remnant .",
    "however , @xcite argue that the geometric center corrected for the ellipticity of the remnant may not represent the actual center of a ia remnant and that detailed hydrodynamical simulations are required to constrain the actual explosion site ( s. reynolds 2012 , private communication ) .",
    "there are several targets , e.g. stars b , c , e , and i , to the right of the 3@xmath51 error circle as measured by @xcite .",
    "the absolute magnitudes and the @xmath52 colors of these stars are consistent with 0.5 - 1 @xmath9 main - sequence stars .",
    "hence , one of these could be the ex - companion star to snr 0509 - 67.5 that evolved as a cv during the spin - down phase of the exploding wd .",
    "until hydrodynamic simulations for this remnant are available , a main - sequence ex - companion can not be ruled out for snr 0509 - 67.5 .",
    "recent studies based on the delay time distribution of  @xcite and the merger rate of double wd systems @xcite suggest that double wds may contribute significantly to  events .",
    "therefore , there is a tendency in the community toward searching for more evidence for such progenitor systems .",
    "one way to identify a double wd progenitor is to search for and rule - out ex - companion stars in  remnants . proving that something does not exist is obviously difficult , and such claims require extra - ordinary evidence . in this paper , we revisited the evidence for absence of an ex - companion star in the young lmc  remnant snr 0509 - 67.5 .",
    "we demonstrate that in the spin - up / spin - down model , the wd needs @xmath53 years before an ia explosion , which lets the companion to evolve into either a faint wd ( if the companion starts as a subgiant ) or a low - mass main - sequence star ( if the companion starts as a main - sequence star ) .",
    "the current limits on the ex - companions are not stringent enough to rule out faint wds and @xmath54 main - sequence stars in snr 0509 - 67.5 .",
    "hence , the absence of evidence for an ex - companion star in this remnant , as well as other  remnants , does not provide the evidence of absence for such companions .",
    "future deep imaging observations can detect or rule out the majority of the c / o wd ex - companions and low - mass main - sequence stars for plausiable spin - down times of @xmath55 years .",
    "if a companion is detected , this would be a first , and it would constrain the uncertain spin - down times for wds near the chandrasekhar mass . a non - detection",
    "can , in principle , rule out the sd channel even in the spin - up / spin - down models .",
    "however , until such observations are obtained , we consider an sd progenitor for snr 0509 - 67.5 still possible .",
    "we thank c. badenes for useful discussions .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for pointing out that double detonations from stably transferring ( i.e. , non - merging ) he - rich degenerate donors are not ruled out ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> type ia supernovae ( ) play important roles in our study of the expansion and acceleration of the universe , but because we do not know the exact nature or natures of the progenitors , there is a systematic uncertainty that must be resolved if sne ia are to become more precise cosmic probes . no progenitor system has ever been identified either in the pre- or post - explosion images of a ia event . there have been recent claims for and against the detection of ex - companion stars in several  remnants . these studies , however , usually ignore the angular momentum gain of the progenitor wd , which leads to a spin - up phase and a subsequent spin - down phase before explosion . for spin - down timescales greater than @xmath0 years </S>",
    "<S> , the donor star could be too dim to detect by the time of explosion . </S>",
    "<S> here we revisit the current limits on ex - companion stars to snr 0509 - 67.5 , a 400 year old remnant in the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) . </S>",
    "<S> if the effects of possible angular momentum gain on the wd are included , a wide range of single - degenerate progenitor models are allowed for this remnant . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the current absence of evidence for ex - companion stars in this remnant , as well as other  remnants , does not necessarily provide the evidence of absence for ex - companions . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss potential ways to identify such ex - companion stars through deep imaging observations . </S>"
  ]
}