{
  "article_text": [
    "the host galaxies of core - collapse supernovae ( ccsne ) give crucial information when trying to determine the progenitors of these explosions , and have led to some important breakthroughs in the study of ccsne .",
    "these include the almost exclusive presence of ccsne in late - type galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) implying progenitors which only occur in young stellar populations .",
    "more recently , host properties played an important role in the discovery of a new classification of supernovae termed ` calcium - rich ' , and showing spectroscopic characteristics of ccsne yet originating in regions devoid of star - formation @xcite .",
    "even more information can be gathered on the possible supernova progenitors of the various subtypes of ccsne , by looking at the specific site of the sn explosion within the host galaxy .",
    "the ccsne group divides broadly into type ii ( snii ) and types ib and ic ( snibc ) , distinguished by the presence or lack of hydrogen in their spectra respectively @xcite .",
    "the snii subclass can be further divided into iip , iil , iin , iib which will be discussed later ; for a review of supernova classifications see @xcite .",
    "many studies have investigated the association of these ccsne subtypes with spiral arms or hii regions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , with more recent studies benefiting from increased statistics ( e.g. * ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these analyses indicated that snibc are both more strongly associated with hii regions implying higher mass progenitors , and more centrally concentrated within galaxies , when compared to type ii sne , indicating a metallicity dependence with observed sn - type .",
    "both interpretations can be explained theoretically by mass - loss via radiatively - driven stellar winds whose effectiveness increases with progenitor mass @xcite , or high metallicity environments ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in @xcite ,",
    "henceforth haj10 , the current authors carried out a study on the distributions of ccsne types in both ` undisturbed ' and ` disturbed ' host galaxies .",
    "this study concluded that within the disturbed systems an excess of snibc existed within the central regions when compared to those of type ii . a case study on arp 299 , a so - called ` supernova - factory '",
    "@xcite , also carried out by the authors ( @xcite henceforth a11 ) , found the same unusual central excess of stripped - envelope supernovae ( se - sne ) .",
    "these results have ignited a discussion into the role selection effects can play within host galaxy studies .",
    "the analysis within this paper will concentrate on se - sne against snii+iip ( consistent with a11 ) ; where snii are all type ii supernovae without sub - classifications , and se - sne include all type ib , ic , ib / c , iib and iil . any type iin supernovae ( sniin ) within the sample have been omitted from the analysis and discussion due to uncertainties in their progenitor stars , and often in their classification ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the accumulation of subtypes into the se - sne group , rather than the snibc and snii groups of haj10 , comes as a result of recent studies into the progenitors of ccsne and the emergence of a sequence of progenitor envelope - stripping @xcite , or mass loss @xcite .",
    "the sequence has type iip retaining their entire stellar envelope , followed by an increasing loss of stellar envelope material from iil , to iib , ib and ic , which have lost both their hydrogen and helium layers .",
    "the interpretation for this increased envelope stripping has been debated .",
    "theoretical studies suggest that it could be due to an increase in the progenitor mass ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the metallicity of the environment ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the presence of a binary companion ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or stellar rotation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "observational evidence for any one particular theory is difficult to determine , though there is evidence for both metallicity ( @xcite hereafter aj09 , @xcite ) , and progenitor mass @xcite playing a substantial role in the stripping of stellar envelopes prior to explosion .",
    "the best observational constraints would come from direct detections of ccsne progenitors on pre - explosion images .",
    "although this technique has had great success in a number of cases ( e.g. @xcite , see @xcite for a review on the topic ) , the need for very nearby events severely limits the statistics available from these studies , which thus far have only had success with the much more common type ii subclasses . in reality",
    "the cause is likely to be a combination of all of these effects .",
    "the nature of all ccsne , having high - mass , short - lived progenitors , provides a direct probe of recent or on - going star - formation within their host galaxies .",
    "the differences between the different subtypes also allows constraints to be placed on this star - formation .",
    "so investigations into the host galaxies of ccsne provide insights both ways : into the possible progenitors of the supernovae themselves , and , into the mode of star formation in the host .",
    "our previous papers , culminating in @xcite , have established a probable mass sequence for ccsne progenitors .",
    "building on this the aim of this paper is to test the robustness of the authors previous study into the variation of ccsne distributions with environment ( haj10 ) .",
    "we will present the data and host galaxy study sample in section 2 , followed by a new analysis of the radial distribution of ccsne within their hosts in section 3 .",
    "a rigorous investigation into possible selection effects present within the sample will be discussed in section 4 .",
    "section 5 will explore possible interpretations of the results , namely the effects of sne environment metallicity , and the overall metallicity gradients of the hosts ; the contribution of stellar rotation and binarity to the possible progenitor population ; and the possibility of a modified initial mass function ( imf ) preferentially producing the most massive stars in the central regions of ` disturbed ' host galaxies .",
    "finally , in section 6 we will summarise the results and present our preferred interpretation and any possible implications .",
    "our data are drawn from observations of host galaxies indicated by sn discoveries contained within the padova - asiago sn catalogue and iau sn catalogues .",
    "such catalogues inherently contain biases with some resulting from initial sne studies which targeted bright star - forming galaxies , rather than the ` blind ' searches many groups are currently pursuing ( e.g. palomar transient factory ( ptf ) , @xcite ; pan - starrs , @xcite ) .",
    "our analysis contains 218 host galaxies containing 280 ccsne of all subtypes , and although biases still persist within this sample , until such sufficiently large samples are accumulated through ` blind ' searches , this is the best analysis possible .",
    "the large sample within this study also enables us to cover more of the rarer subtypes of sne , but given the selection effects contained in the sample we do not claim that the relative numbers found here are representative of the universe as a whole , and the conclusions drawn from the data are not dependent upon statistical completeness .",
    "these host galaxies have been observed over 15 years of observations in both sne - related and h@xmath0 galaxy studies .",
    "this provides us with a heterogeneous and randomly sampled selection of the to - date , observed local ( median host recession velocity @xmath11918  kms@xmath2 ) ccsne .",
    "all galaxies have h@xmath0 narrow - band and _ r-_broad band imaging , and come from the following facilities : the mpg / eso 2.2 m telescope at la silla , chile ; and the liverpool telescope ( lt ) , jacobus kapteyn telescope ( jkt ) and isaac newton telescope ( int ) all on la palma , the canary islands .",
    "the data were reduced in a standard manner using routines in _ starlink _ and iraf . for more detailed information on the observations and data",
    "reduction process refer to aj08 and anderson et al .",
    "2012 ( submitted ) .",
    "when analysing host galaxies by a characteristic such as disturbance , classification errors can become problematic . in haj10 the classification of galaxy disturbance was carried out by two independent visual inspections of the host galaxy images .",
    "although more quantitative methods exist for classifying galaxy disturbance , namely through the degree of asymmetry @xcite , the classification within this study assesses such a wide range of parameters that it is better done via an eye - ball study than any one quantitative single measure .",
    "the visual classification schemes described in @xcite and @xcite have been widely used ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and in this paper we adopt a similar technique , attributing galaxy characteristics to levels of disturbance .",
    "although the most disturbed galaxy systems often also show signs of merger - triggered starbursts in the nuclei , there are undoubtedly some galaxies which show signs of interaction without displaying such energetic star - formation . for the reanalysis presented in this paper the authors themselves reclassified each galaxy within the sample as ` disturbed ' or ` undisturbed ' based on a number of characteristics .",
    "an ` extreme ' sample of disturbed galaxies was chosen , which contained hosts undergoing a major interaction with another galaxy , or a which had large degree of asymmetry indicating a recent tidal interaction with another system . a larger sample of ` disturbed ' galaxies ( including the ` extreme ' systems above ) included those displaying at least two signs of minor interactions .",
    "these signs were ; presence in a group with minor interaction , minor degrees of asymmetry , shells , tails , irregular structure ( small irregular systems are not included in this analysis - this irregular structure is within a larger star - forming galaxy ) , a double nucleus , extreme or irregular dust patterns or a clumpy morphology .",
    "a full list of classifications for each galaxy in our sample is presented in table 1 .",
    "the full table is available online through the supplementary material .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ , > \" , ]     the resulting conclusion from this discussion is that metallicity can not drive the excess of se - sne within the central regions of interacting systems",
    ". therefore alternate explanations must be pursued .",
    "the progenitors of ccsne are widely discussed to arise from both binary and rotating stars ( see @xcite , respectively ) .",
    "the relative contributions from each mechanism have been discussed extensively in the literature ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . even for models where binarity is important",
    ", metallicity and mass may play an significant role @xcite .    however , if we are to attempt to explain the central excess of se - sne in disturbed galaxies in terms of binarity , we must analyse whether binary fraction can be increased in such environments .",
    "it is possible to analyse previous high density star forming regions , by looking at present day globular clusters , which are thought to be remnants of previous starburst episodes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a recent study by @xcite found that within merging galaxies the dynamical heating of star clusters was an order of magnitude higher in interacting galaxies than isolated ones , due to tidal shocks driven by the increased density .",
    "this dynamical heating is sufficient to destroy star clusters at a higher rate than new clusters are formed so that the total number of stellar clusters in a merger remnant is @xmath1 2 - 50  per cent of the amount in the progenitor discs .",
    "however , within these shock heated regions the massive clusters we would expect to host ccsne , are more likely to survive .",
    "studies have shown that there is in fact an anti - correlation between binary fractions of stars and the absolute luminosity ( mass ) of the cluster @xcite .",
    "massive star clusters are known to have on average higher densities and larger velocity dispersions @xcite .",
    "the fraction of surviving binaries is thought to be dominated by binary ionisation and evaporation @xcite , and so within high density regions binaries are more likely to be disrupted through close encounters , which are both more frequent and have higher mean kinetic energies @xcite .",
    "however , during encounters between binary systems and a massive single star the secondary star is usually ejected , therefore in clusters with high collisional rates there will be an increase in the number of equal mass binaries .",
    "@xcite found that this increased fraction is not noticeable , with an exchange process of only a few per cent over the entire cluster .",
    "therefore this suggests that the massive clusters which survive galaxy interactions contain fewer binary systems .",
    "if these same arguments apply in the high - mass stellar regime then the excess of central se - sne can not be explained in terms of an increased binary fraction .      in haj10 , we characterised the modified imf required to accommodate our sn observations in terms of a ( radically ) modified power - law index .",
    "however , there is to our knowledge no theoretical motivation for an imf that is flat or even rising with mass , and simply changing the slope does not naturally explain the almost complete absence of sniip we find .",
    "our results are more naturally accommodated by suppressing low mass sf , up to some limit that might vary from starburst to starburst , while leaving the form of the high - mass end of the imf unchanged . to satisfy our observations",
    ", the requirement is that this limit should be sufficiently high to prevent formation of snii progenitors in central regions of most ( but not all ) of our ` disturbed ' galaxies . above this limit",
    ", the imf can take the standard form ; this is unconstrained by our observations .",
    "this concurs with the theoretical models of @xcite who find that in starburst galaxies the jeans mass increases , which affects the turnover of the imf by pushing it to higher initial masses .",
    "this ` starburst ' imf is close to what is required to give the relative numbers of se- and iip sne found in our study .",
    "the imf calculated for the @xcite ` starburst ' simulation would lead to a strongly suppressed number of snii relative to se - sne , at least approximately consistent with the results presented here , under the assumption that progenitor mass differentiates these sn types .    further discussion on this form of modified imf and its implications in the wider field of astronomy will be presented in a future paper ( james et al . in preparation ) .",
    "this paper has presented the results of a re - analysis of haj10 , including increased statistics and a deeper analysis of the characteristics of disturbance .",
    "the results found can be summarised as follows :    * we find a remarkable excess of se - sne within the central regions of ` disturbed ' galaxies .",
    "this confirms the main result from haj10 , and is an absolute excess even with respect to the star formation as traced by h@xmath0 emission . *",
    "the central excess is enhanced when we compare the snibc against sniip populations , as expected if a sequence of increased envelope - stripping exists from sniip - iil - iib - ib - ic .",
    "* we have found no preferential ` loss ' of sniip within the sample , both in terms of absolute and apparent discovery magnitudes , or with redshift within such a local sample of host galaxies .",
    "therefore selection effects based around the sne population studied here can not drive the results found within this analysis . *",
    "the overall differences in galaxy morphology imply interaction timescales far in excess of those required to select the ` stripped - envelope dominated ' starburst phase within our sample .",
    "therefore we conclude that there are no selection effects present within our host galaxies which could drive the central excess of se - sne in disturbed galaxies presented here .",
    "* metallicity gradients within host galaxies can not explain this result , as our disturbed sample are likely to have either a small gradient , or none at all .",
    "furthermore , the metallicities of the local environments of the snibc within this sample are consistent with results published data . *",
    "the effects of stellar rotation and binarity have been discussed and no evidence has been found to indicate that either mechanism would be increased sufficiently within our host environments to explain the excess of se - sne found . *",
    "our preferred explanation is that within the _ central regions of disturbed galaxies a modified imf exists which preferentially produces the most massive stars _",
    ", seen here in through the excess of se - sne .",
    "* the radial distributions of snib and snic within ` undisturbed ' galaxies are statistically very different ( p=0.004 ) .",
    "this could be driven by metallicity gradients in these undisturbed galaxies , or radial variations in other properties ( binarity or stellar rotation ) driving envelope loss in progenitor stars .",
    "this should be investigated in future studies .",
    "the results of this investigation further constrain the progenitors of different ccsne subtypes , and highlight the need to gather as much information as possible on the specific host galaxy environment , where direct detections are impossible .",
    "we maintain that in different environments the main mass - loss mechanism in place to produce stripped - envelope supernovae can differ ; most notably a metallicity driven wind in ` undisturbed ' hosts and a modified imf in the central regions of ` disturbed ' host galaxies .",
    "further discussion of the implications of a modified imf in the central regions of ` disturbed ' host galaxies is to follow ( james et al . in prep ) .",
    "we wish to thank john eldridge , steve smartt and paul crowther for useful suggestions and feedback following our earlier papers in this area .",
    "smh would also like to thank joanne bibby for her invaluable advice and knowledge on spectral data reduction .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the liverpool telescope is operated on the island of la palma by liverpool john moores university in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias with financial support from the uk science and technology facilities council .",
    "the isaac newton telescope is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias . also based on observations made with the eso 2.2  m telescope at the la silla observatory ( programme i d 084.d.0195 ) .",
    "jpa acknowledges fellowship funding from fondecyt , project number 3110142 , and partial support from by iniciativa cientifica milenio through the millennium center for supernova science ( p10 - 064-f ) .",
    "paj and smh acknowledge the uk science and technology facilities council for research grant and research studentship support , respectively .                arcavi i. , gal - yam a. , kasliwal m.  m. , quimby r.  m. , ofek e.  o. , kulkarni s.  r. , nugent p.  e. , cenko s.  b. , bloom j.  s. , sullivan m. , howell d.  a. , poznanski d. , filippenko a.  v. , law n. , hook i. , jnsson j. , blake s. , cooke j. , dekany r. , rahmer g. , hale d. , smith r. , zolkower j. , velur v. , walters r. , henning j. , bui k. , mckenna d. , jacobsen j. , 2010 , apj , 721 , 777    armus l. , mazzarella j.  m. , evans a.  s. , surace j.  a. , sanders d.  b. , iwasawa k. , frayer d.  t. , howell j.  h. , chan b. , petric a. , vavilkin t. , kim d.  c. , haan s. , inami h. , murphy e.  j. , appleton p.  n. , barnes j.  e. , bothun g. , bridge c.  r. , charmandaris v. , jensen j.  b. , kewley l.  j. , lord s. , madore b.  f. , marshall j.  a. , melbourne j.  e. , rich j. , satyapal s. , schulz b. , spoon h.  w.  w. , sturm e. , u , v. , veilleux s. , xu k. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 559                                  elias - rosa n. , van dyk s.  d. , li w. , silverman j.  m. , foley r.  j. , ganeshalingam m. , mauerhan j.  c. , kankare e. , jha s. , filippenko a.  v. , beckman j.  e. , berger e. , cuillandre j.  c. , smith n. , 2011 , apj , 742 , 6              fraser m. , maund j.  r. , smartt s.  j. , botticella m .-",
    ", dallora m. , inserra c. , tomasella l. , benetti s. , ciroi s. , eldridge j.  j. , ergon m. , kotak r. , mattila s. , ochner p. , pastorello a. , reilly e. , sollerman j. , stephens a. , taddia f. , valenti s. , 2012 , submitted , arxiv:1204.1523                                                    law n.  m. , kulkarni s.  r. , dekany r.  g. , ofek e.  o. , quimby r.  m. , nugent p.  e. , surace j. , grillmair c.  c. , bloom j.  s. , kasliwal m.  m. , bildsten l. , brown t. , cenko s.  b. , ciardi d. , croner e. , djorgovski s.  g. , van eyken j. , filippenko a.  v. , fox d.  b. , gal - yam a. , hale d. , hamam n. , helou g. , henning j. , howell d.  a. , jacobsen j. , laher r. , mattingly s. , mckenna d. , pickles a. , poznanski d. , rahmer g. , rau a. , rosing w. , shara m. , smith r. , starr d. , sullivan m. , velur v. , walters r. , & zolkower j. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1395                  maund j.  r. , fraser m. , ergon m. , pastorello a. , smartt s.  j. , sollerman j. , benetti s. , botticella m.  t. , bufano f. , danziger i.  j. , kotak r. , magill l. , stephens a.  w. , valenti s. , 2011 , apjl , 739 , l37                                  perets h.  b. , gal - yam a. , mazzali p.  a. , arnett d. , kagan d. , filippenko a.  v. , li w. , arcavi i. , cenko s.  b. , fox d.  b. , leonard d.  c. , moon d .- s . , sand d.  j. , soderberg a.  m. , anderson j.  p. , james p.  a. , foley r.  j. , ganeshalingam m. , ofek e.  o. , bildsten l. , nelemans g. , shen k.  j. , weinberg n.  n. , metzger b.  d. , piro a.  l. , quataert e. , kiewe m. , poznanski d. , 2010 , nature , 465 , 322                  rau a. , kulkarni s.  r. , law n.  m. , bloom j.  s. , ciardi , d. , djorgovski g.  s. , fox d.  b. , gal - yam a. , grillmair c.  c. , kasliwal m.  m. , nugent p.  e. , ofek e.  o. , quimby r.  m. , reach w.  t. , shara m. , bildsten l. , cenko s.  b. , drake a.  j. , filippenko a.  v. , helfand d.  j. , helou g. , howell d.  a. , poznanski d. & sullivan m. 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1334"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents an analysis of core - collapse supernova distributions in isolated and interacting host galaxies , paying close attention to the selection effects involved in conducting host galaxy supernova studies . </S>",
    "<S> when taking into account all of the selection effects within our host galaxy sample , we draw the following conclusions :    1 .    within interacting , or ` disturbed ' , systems there is a real , and statistically significant , increase in the fraction of stripped - envelope supernovae in the central regions . </S>",
    "<S> a discussion into what may cause this increased fraction , compared to the more common type iip supernovae , and type ii supernovae without sub - classifications , is presented . </S>",
    "<S> selection effects are shown not to drive this result , and so we propose that this study provides direct evidence for a high - mass weighted initial mass function within the central regions of disturbed galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> + 2 .    within ` undisturbed ' spiral galaxies the radial distribution of type ib and </S>",
    "<S> type ic supernovae is statistically very different , with the latter showing a more centrally concentrated distribution . </S>",
    "<S> this could be driven by metallicity gradients in these undisturbed galaxies , or radial variations in other properties ( binarity or stellar rotation ) driving envelope loss in progenitor stars . </S>",
    "<S> this result is not found in ` disturbed ' systems , where the distributions of type ib and ic supernovae are consistent . </S>",
    "<S> +    [ firstpage ]    galaxies : interactions  galaxies : fundamental parameters - galaxies : starburst  supernovae : general </S>"
  ]
}