{
  "article_text": [
    "for over a century , the @xmath0  cep stars are known to be variable on time scales of hours ( frost 1902 ) , but it took half a century longer to understand the nature of their variability , radial and nonradial pulsations ( ledoux 1951 ) . nowadays ,",
    "about 300 members of this class of pulsating star are known ( stankov & handler 2005 , pigulski & pojmaski 2008 ) .    because of the simultaneous presence of radial and nonradial oscillation modes in these stars , and their rather simple overall structure ( basically a convective core and a radiative envelope ) , their potential as asteroseismic targets is evident .",
    "asteroseismology is the inference of the interior structure of pulsating stars .",
    "this is accomplished by measuring their oscillation frequencies , comparing them with the eigenfrequencies of corresponding stellar models , and then fine - tuning those models to match the observed frequencies ( see , e.g. , aerts et al .",
    "2010 , handler 2012 ) .",
    "besides the sun , the @xmath0  cep stars were the first main sequence pulsators for which clear constraints on their inner structure could be obtained asteroseismically ( for a heavily abbreviated literature , see aerts et al .",
    "2003 , pamyatnykh et al .",
    "2004 , handler et al .",
    "2009 , aerts et al .",
    "results indicate that further increases in heavy - element opacities are needed , and some stars have been shown to rotate faster in their interior than on the outside .",
    "these first successful studies were in most cases intentionally biased towards bright , slowly rotating stars .",
    "slowly rotating @xmath0  cep stars driven by the @xmath6 mechanism tend to have higher pulsation amplitudes ( stankov & handler 2005 ) and therefore offer better possibilities for mode identification . obviously , effects of rotation on the observed frequencies of axisymmetric modes of oscillation are also smaller , and rotationally split m - mode patterns would not overlap in frequency .",
    "this way of approaching asteroseismology of @xmath0  cep stars proved to be sound .",
    "therefore it appears reasonable to investigate targets that pose more difficult initial conditions , but that may also be more rewarding astrophysically .",
    "v2052 oph ( hr 6684 , @xmath7 , b2iv - v ) was discovered as a @xmath0 cep pulsator by jerzykiewicz ( 1972 ) , and its dominant mode identified as radial ( heynderickx , waelkens & smeyers 1994 , cugier , dziembowski & pamyatnykh 1994 ) .",
    "neiner et al .  ( 2003 ) carried out an extensive multiwavelength spectroscopic and spectropolarimetric study of v2052 oph that revealed several interesting properties of this star . besides the detection of a second , nonradial , pulsation mode",
    ", these authors could derive an accurate rotation period of @xmath8  d. v2052 oph also possesses a dipole magnetic field . based on new data of superior quality , neiner et al .",
    "( 2012a ) determined @xmath9 , that the magnetic field is likely off - centred , and that he patches are present close to the magnetic poles . because of the presence of a radial pulsation mode ( that allows the determination of the mean stellar density ) , and of the known rotation period that makes it spin about twice as fast as the most `` rapidly '' rotating seismically well studied @xmath0  cep star ( 12 lac , desmet et al .",
    "2009 ) , it was deemed worthwhile to devote a large observational effort to v2052 oph . to this end ,",
    "the present paper reports photometric results of a multisite campaign , whereas a companion paper ( briquet et al .",
    "2012 ) deals with contemporaneous spectroscopy .    located only a few degrees in the sky from v2052 oph is another @xmath0  cep star , v986 oph ( hr 6747 , @xmath10 , b0iiin ) , with an interesting history in the literature .",
    "it is among the longest - period variables ( @xmath11  d , e.g. , jerzykiewicz 1975 ) of its class , and among the most luminous and hence most massive ( jones & shobbrook 1974 , stankov & handler 2005 ) .",
    "it is also a rapid rotator ( @xmath12 , abt , levato & grosso 2002 ) and has been classified as a single - lined spectroscopic binary ( @xmath13  d , @xmath14 , fullerton , bolton & penrod 1985 ) .",
    "frequency analyses published by different authors indicate variability with periods between 7 to 8 hours , but all studies noted that further photometric variability is present .",
    "however , no good explanation of its physical cause could be obtained ( see cuypers , balona & marang ( 1989 ) for a detailed discussion ) .",
    "furthermore , spectroscopic studies ( fullerton et al .  1985 ,",
    "stateva , niemczura & iliev 2010 ) implied that the short period variation is due to a mode of rather high spherical degree ( @xmath1 , 6 or 8) .",
    "v986 oph was also photometrically monitored during this multisite campaign , in the hope to gain understanding of its variability .",
    "our photometric observations were carried out at seven different observatories on five continents , from 11 march - 6 september 2004 .",
    "an overview of the campaign observations is given in table  1 .",
    "in most cases , single - channel differential photoelectric photometry was acquired but at sierra nevada observatory a simultaneous @xmath15 photometer was used . at observatories where no strmgren @xmath16 filters were available we used johnson @xmath17 , with strmgren @xmath18 as possible complement . finally , as the photometer at the mercator telescope has geneva filters installed permanently , we used this filter system . in the three seasons preceding this campaign , 72.7 hours of geneva photometry",
    "had been obtained with the mercator telescope .",
    "these are included here as well .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]     @xmath19 is the visual magnitude , whereas the other parameters are colour indices with respect to the @xmath20 band magnitude ( golay 1972 ) .    using the standard values in the two photometric systems as input for photometric calibrations",
    ", we must proceed with caution .",
    "first , the geneva colours of the star are somewhat out of the range of the calibrations by knzli et al .",
    "( 1997 ) . extrapolating their grids ,",
    "one arrives at @xmath21  k , log  @xmath22 .",
    "second , the mean strmgren colours listed in the gcpd and the calibrations implemented by napiwotzki et al .",
    "( 1993 ) yield @xmath23  k , log  @xmath24 .",
    "the latter values however imply a stellar mass in excess of @xmath25 , inconsistent with its b0iiin spectral type .",
    "more reliable seems to be the @xmath26  k value from the calibration of the @xmath27 $ ] index by napiwotzki et al .",
    "( 1993 ) .",
    "daszyska - daszkiewicz ( 2001 ) determined @xmath28k , log  @xmath29 , @xmath30=0.0 $ ] , and @xmath31 from iue and visual fluxes .",
    "the value for reddening is consistent with @xmath32 from strmgren photometry , but the effective temperature is much lower , and the surface gravity higher than from the photometric calibrations .",
    "these parameters rather imply a @xmath33 star , but the large error bar on log  @xmath34 would allow masses up to @xmath35 .    for the purpose of example",
    ", we continue with @xmath36  k , log  @xmath37 .",
    "we proceeded similar as we did for v2052  oph , computing theoretical photometric amplitudes of the @xmath38 modes , but for models with masses between 25 and 36 @xmath39 in steps of 1 @xmath39 , and in a temperature range of @xmath40 .",
    "a frequency range of @xmath41  was considered for nonradial modes , and @xmath42  for radial modes ( to restrict the number of possible radial overtones ) .",
    "the comparison between the observed and computed amplitude ratios and a @xmath43 analysis are shown in fig .",
    "7 , where we have restricted ourselves to the strmgren data because the oscillation was not present at a significant level in the geneva measurements .",
    "amplitude ratios , normalised at @xmath18 . in the upper two panels , the filled circles with error bars are the observed amplitude ratios .",
    "the full line in the uppermost panel is the theoretical predictions for radial modes , the dashed line for dipole modes , and the dashed - dotted lines for quadrupole modes . in the middle panel ,",
    "the full line is for @xmath4 modes , the dashed line for @xmath1 , the dashed - dotted lines for @xmath44 , the dotted lines for @xmath45 , and the dashed - triple - dotted lines are for @xmath46 modes .",
    "the thin error bars denote the uncertainties in the theoretical amplitude ratios .",
    "the lowest panel shows the results of a @xmath43 analysis of the amplitudes.,width=321 ]    the results of this process clearly argue against a radial pulsation mode . considering nonradial modes ,",
    "the observed amplitude ratios imply that the dominant signal in the light curve is most likely due to an @xmath47 or 7 mode .",
    "the lowest @xmath43 , but also the smallest geometrical cancellation , then favour an identification as @xmath4 , if taken at face value . adopting a lower mass , as implied by the @xmath48 values by daszyska - daszkiewicz ( 2001 ) results in a qualitatively consistent picture with @xmath47 or 7 as the modes best reproducing the observed amplitude ratios . we refer to the discussion of the credibility of this mode identification near the end of sect",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , the presence of a radial mode in the star s pulsation spectrum allows to derive its mean density , provided the radial overtone is known . to this end",
    ", model evolutionary tracks were computed with the warsaw - new jersey stellar evolution code , for a rotational velocity of 80 on the zams ( to match the rotation period ) and other input parameters as specified in sect .",
    "nonadiabatic mode frequencies were calculated with the warsaw pulsation code ( e.g. , see pamyatnykh et al .",
    "( 1998 ) for a description of these codes ) , and models sought that had a radial mode at the observed frequency .",
    "8 shows the result of this procedure in the form of a theoretical hr diagram .",
    "cep ( dashed - dotted line ) and slowly pulsating b ( spb ) star ( dotted line ) instability strips ( pamyatnykh & ziomek 2007 ) are shown .",
    "the thin full lines connect models with radial modes at the observed frequency ; `` f '' stands for the fundamental mode , `` 1h '' for the first overtone.,width=321 ]    the effective temperature and luminosity derived for v2052 oph in sect .",
    "4.1 is in best agreement with the hypothesis that the radial mode is the fundamental , but it can not be excluded that it is the first overtone . in the first case , the stellar radius would be @xmath49r@xmath50 and the inclination of the rotation axis thus @xmath2 , given the star s rotation period and @xmath51 . these values change to @xmath52r@xmath50 and @xmath53 if the radial mode was the first overtone .",
    "unfortunately , the scarcity of additional pulsation modes and their unknown azimuthal order leave meager prospects for asteroseismic constraints other than deriving the mean stellar density .    attempting to fit the @xmath1 mode frequencies with models of the same radial mode period but varying mass gave a number of possible solutions . unsurprisingly , if the radial mode was the fundamental , models of lower mass appear more likely because these are more evolved ( cf .",
    "8) and therefore have more mixed modes of @xmath1 . if the radial mode was assumed to be the first overtone , no such preference was seen .",
    "the only statement we can make is that the two @xmath1 modes are unlikely to be rotationally split m - modes of the same radial overtone unless allowing for differential interior rotation .",
    "the same conclusion was reached by briquet et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , with their independent model approach and identifications of @xmath54 .",
    "the reason for this finding is that the effect of the coriolis and centrifugal forces on the rotational frequency splitting are very similar at the given rotation rate and for @xmath1 , no matter whether the mode under consideration is a p , g or mixed mode .",
    "neiner et al .  ( 2003 ) determined a very precise rotation period for the star despite a non - optimal temporal distribution of their data in terms of annual aliasing problems .",
    "the rotation period we have obtained is consistent within the errors with the more precise one by neiner et al .   (",
    "2003 ) , and accurate enough to rule out that their value is affected by aliases .",
    "therefore we confirm 3.638833  d as the best available rotation period of v2052  oph .    in fig .  4",
    ", the phase of minimum rotational light variation coincides with minimum magnetic field strength and minimum uv spectral line equivalent width , as determined by neiner et al .",
    "( 2012a ) . in @xmath55 and @xmath20",
    "there is also a double maximum , as in the uv line strength .",
    "the shape of these variations indicates that both magnetic poles are seen during a rotation cycle , i.e. the sum of the angles of the inclination of the rotation axis and the magnetic obliquity @xmath56 must exceed @xmath57 .",
    "neiner et al .  ( 2012a ) determined @xmath58 to be @xmath59 from modelling stokes profiles .",
    "this is consistent with the inclination of the rotation axis we obtained with a stellar radius corresponding to radial fundamental mode pulsation , but not with the value assuming the radial mode is the first overtone .",
    "we therefore rule out the latter possibility . using @xmath60 , where @xmath61 is the ratio of the minimum and maximum magnetic field strength of the rotation cycle , and the @xmath61 values determined by neiner et al .",
    "( 2012a ) , we obtain @xmath62 .",
    "as mentioned , the light curve of v2052 oph shows rotational modulation ( fig .",
    "4 ) in phase with the magnetic field and uv wind variations . this could be due to spots at the surface of the star ( such as those suggested by neiner et al .",
    "2012a ) or magnetically confined clouds in the circumstellar environment ( e.g.  townsend & owocki 2005 ) . using the magnetic field value ( @xmath63  g , neiner et al .",
    "2012a ) , the wind velocity estimated in uv data ( @xmath64 , neiner et al .  2003 ) , the stellar parameters from sect .  4.1 and above ( @xmath65 m@xmath66 , @xmath67 r@xmath66 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 ) , and a mass loss typical of a b2 star ( @xmath70 m@xmath66  yr@xmath71 ) , we derived the magnetic confinement parameter @xmath72 ( see ud - doula & owocki 2002 ) of v2052 oph .",
    "we obtained that @xmath73 , the alfven radius is @xmath74 , and the kepler radius is @xmath75 .",
    "this implies that magnetic confinement should occur ( @xmath76 ) at the magnetic equator between @xmath77 and @xmath78 .",
    "indeed in this region wind particles get trapped in closed field loops and remains centrifugally supported . above @xmath78 material escapes as the wind streches field lines open .",
    "below @xmath77 material lacks sufficient centrifugal support and falls back onto the star , but this transient material can still create a dynamical magnetosphere ( ud - doula , owocki & townsend 2008 , petit et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "however , a centrifugally supported magnetosphere usually produces h@xmath79 emission and such emission has never been observed in v2052 oph .",
    "moreover , oskinova et al .",
    "( 2011 ) showed that v2052 oph is only very weakly x - ray luminous .",
    "a centrifugally supported magnetosphere could exist without producing h@xmath79 or much x - ray emission if the density or temperature of the wind was not appropriate or if the confinement timescale was too long ( see , e.g. , neiner et al .",
    "2012b for a more detailed discussion of the emission measure in magnetospheres ) .",
    "v2052 oph is not the only magnetic @xmath0  cep star known .",
    "telting , aerts & mathias ( 1997 ) spectroscopically detected rotationally equally split frequencies around the dominant radial pulsation mode of @xmath0  cep itself , and discussed whether these could be temperature spots on the surface or due to a magnetically distorted oblique pulsation mode ( the magnetic field was reported by henrichs et al .",
    "2000 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "no such rotational frequency splitting has been reported for @xmath80  cma ( saesen , briquet & aerts 2006 , fourtune - ravard et al .",
    "both stars have a single or dominant radial mode , such as v2052 oph . for our target ,",
    "we find no signals at frequencies split by one or two times the rotation frequency around the radial pulsation , within a limit of 0.2 mmag in amplitude .      in sect .",
    "3.2 we remarked that the residual scatter in our light curves prewhitened by the single coherent frequency is considerably higher than that in the other time series from this campaign .",
    "since the two comparison stars are farther apart from each other on the sky as v986 oph is from either of them , this can not be due to residual data reduction errors .",
    "furthermore , the scatter in colour light curves of v986 oph , e.g. @xmath81 , is much less than the residual scatter in the individual passbands , and virtually the same as in the differential comparison star data in the same filter combination .",
    "we therefore conclude that this high apparent scatter in the light curves actually represents intrinsic variability of v986 oph , and that this kind of variability is not dominated by changes in the stellar effective temperature .",
    "the main variability frequency we found is consistent with the one in the 1987 data by cuypers et al .",
    "( 1989 ) , and the amplitude is comparable .",
    "however , these authors also remarked on the presence of longer - term light variations on time scales longer than half a day .",
    "we do not find coherent variability on such time scales in the complete data set .",
    "we therefore subdivided our measurements into chunks comparable to the extent of the data by cuypers et al .",
    "( 1989 ) and analysed the residuals after prewhitening the main periodicity .",
    "longer - term variability is present , but we find nothing periodic .",
    "unfortunately , our data have too low a duty cycle for invoking techniques such as time - fourier analysis to search for some possible short - lived periodic variations .",
    "v986 oph is not the first case of a @xmath0  cep star for which unknown additional variability besides that of pulsational origin has been found .",
    "jerzykiewicz ( 1978 ) and handler et al .",
    "( 2006 ) discussed this problem for the star 12 ( dd ) lac ( 11.5 m@xmath50 ) , jerzykiewicz et al .",
    "( 2005 ) for @xmath82  eridani ( 9.6 m@xmath50 ) , and handler et al .",
    "( 2005 ) for @xmath83oph ( @xmath84 m@xmath50 ) , where it seems present at a lower level .",
    "on the other hand , for v2052 oph we did not find such evidence , and it is hardly , if at all present in the most photometry of @xmath85  peg ( 8.5 m@xmath50 , handler et al .",
    "one might therefore speculate that the more massive the star , the stronger this additional variability .",
    "in this context it is very interesting that blomme et al .",
    "( 2011 ) analysed corot light curves of three o stars and also found some apparently incoherent variability , in all three targets .",
    "these authors suggested that it could be due to subsurface convection , granulation or wind variability . on the other hand , balona et al .",
    "( 2011 ) suggested that the low frequencies observed in the amplitude spectra of kepler b - type stars are due to many simultaneous gravity mode oscillations with high spherical degree .",
    "the present data for v986 oph do not allow us to distinguish between those possibilites , and also not to argue against pulsation in modes of high spherical degree , because those would not generate strong colour variability ( cf .",
    "daszyska - daszkiewicz & pamyatnykh 2012 ) . however , we do point out that this presently unexplained variability may occur in stars with masses down to 9m@xmath50 .",
    "some authors have ( e.g. , jerzykiewicz 1975 ) questioned the membership of v986 oph to the class of @xmath0  cep stars due to its long variability period . because the star rotates rapidly ,",
    "several possibilities need to be considered . with the temperature and luminosity estimate for v986 oph from the photometric data in sect .",
    "4.2 the star would have a radius of @xmath86r@xmath50 , which yields a rotation period of about two days assuming @xmath87 . as the critical ( break - up ) rotational velocity of such massive stars is around 400 , the rotation frequency can not exceed 0.7 . for the possibility of a @xmath88m@xmath50 , star , this upper limit increases to 2.7 .",
    "therefore we rule out that the single coherent signal we found in the light curves of v986 oph is due to rotation .    another hypothesis would be a g mode frequency rotationally split into the p / mixed mode domain .",
    "however , because of the large uncertainties in the stellar mass and effective temperature , we can not reach a conclusion for this possibility and stay with the assumption that v986 oph is a @xmath0  cephei star .",
    "the frequency of the single coherent variability signal has changed from the first published observations , as summarized by jerzykiewicz ( 1975 ) . up to his paper ,",
    "the frequency was quoted as 3.44or somewhat higher .",
    "later , fullerton et al .  ( 1985 ) gave two different periods for the different seasons 1980 and 1984 , the latter consistent with the 3.29frequency determined by cuypers et al .",
    "( 1989 ) and us .",
    "therefore this frequency must have changed some time in the 1980 s , by an amount too large to be explicable by stellar evolution .",
    "most likely , it is just due to a change of the dominant pulsation mode of the star , which has been observed in at least one other @xmath0  cep star before ( jerzykiewicz & pigulski 1996 ) .",
    "concerning the amplitude , the published light range is of the order of 0.02 to 0.03 mag .",
    "this is comparable to what we see in our data ( cf .",
    "fig .  1 ) .",
    "however , the amplitude of the main periodicity may have dropped , or the larger values reported in the literature , based on much smaller data sets , are biased by the incoherent variability .",
    "jerzykiewicz ( 1975 ) already remarked on the unusually low @xmath89 amplitude ratio from the viewpoint of @xmath0  cep pulsation , as manifested in the data of hill ( 1967 ) .",
    "our observed @xmath90 amplitude ratio is consistent with that , and can be best explained with an odd - l mode of fairly high degree ( @xmath91 ) .",
    "such a mode identification is unexpected for two reasons .",
    "first , geometrical cancellation is very strong for modes with odd spherical degree larger than one ( daszyska - daszkiewicz et al .",
    "second , for such a rapidly rotating star one would naively expect a preference for @xmath92 modes due to the distortion of the stellar shape . however , as demonstrated by townsend ( 2003 ) , our implicit assumption that the geometry of the pulsation mode of v986 oph can be described in the form of a single spherical harmonic may not be correct . also , the photometric amplitudes of rapidly rotating stars depend on the azimuthal order of the modes as well as the aspect under which they are viewed ( townsend 2003 ) .",
    "our most likely mode identification as @xmath4 is therefore uncertain and calls for a high - resolution spectroscopic investigation .",
    "this would also serve to derive more reliable values of the stellar temperature and surface gravity than we have available .",
    "in particular , it would be interesting to confirm or reject the high stellar mass we inferred .",
    "in an attempt to understand the pulsational behaviour of @xmath0  cep stars that are more complicated than those previously studied with asteroseismic methods ( slow rotators with fairly large amplitudes ) , we have carried out an extensive multisite campaign .",
    "results from the photometric investigation were however insufficient to perform a detailed asteroseismic study , as only three pulsation modes were detected for v2052 oph , and one for v986 oph .    however , it is interesting that the nonradial modes present are of higher spherical degree than commonly found .",
    "we are aware of only a few cases with observationally identified @xmath4 ( e.g. , briquet et al .",
    "2009 ) or @xmath1 modes ( e.g. , aerts , waelkens & de pauw 1994 ) , and these stars tend to rotate more rapidly than those dominated by modes of low spherical degree .",
    "therefore the often - made assumption that @xmath0  cep pulsation modes detected photometrically from the ground are @xmath93 needs to be questioned . in the context of highly sensitive space photometry this assumption is of course even more doubtful . since the amplitude reduction due to geometrical cancellation of",
    "sufficiently high - l pulsation modes only goes as @xmath94 ( e.g. , daszyska - daszkiewicz et al .",
    "2002 ) , the gain in the number of oscillation frequencies detected is offset by the larger uncertainty in mode typing .",
    "photometric identifications of modes with high spherical degree become largely degenerate for even and odd modes with @xmath95 .",
    "this situation can be relieved by obtaining simultaneous spectroscopy .",
    "the amplitude ratios and phase shifts between the radial velocity and light curves allow some separation between high - l modes ( daszyska - daszkiewicz & pamyatnykh 2012 ) , and of course line - profile variations offer a multitude of possibilities for identifying modes ( e.g. , telting 2008 and references therein ) .",
    "it therefore seems that if we are to understand the interior structure of more rapidly rotating @xmath0  cep stars than those studied so far , all observationally and theoretically available tools need to be exploited .",
    "photometric measurements need to be made in multiple passbands , and ( simultaneous ) spectroscopic observations must be acquired .",
    "the interpretation of these data may require the inclusion of the effects of rotation on a star - to - star basis because observables can be affected to the extent that mode identifications , a prerequisite for asteroseismology , may be erroneous ( see townsend 2003 ) .",
    "however , to shed light on important astrophysical problems , such as internal angular momentum transport , such concerted efforts will be worthwhile .",
    "this work has been supported by the austrian fonds zur frderung der wissenschaftlichen forschung under grant r12-n02 .",
    "ku acknowledges financial support by the spanish national plan of r&d for 2010 , project aya2010 - 17803 .",
    "gh thanks jadwiga daszyska - daszkiewicz and patrick lenz for helpful discussions , and luis balona for permission to use his software .",
    "eg acknowledges support from the austrian science fund ( fwf ) , project number p19962-n16 .",
    "mb is a f.r.s .- fnrs postdoctoral researcher , belgium .",
    "this work is based in part on observations made with the mercator telescope , operated on the island of la palma by the flemish community , at the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias , and at the south african astronomical observatory .",
    "daszyska - daszkiewicz j. , pamyatnykh a. a. , 2012 , in _ impact of new instrumentation and new insights in stellar pulsations _ eds .",
    "l.  a.  balona et al .",
    ", astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    "series , in press ( arxiv:1112.2572 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report a multisite photometric campaign for the @xmath0 cep stars v2052 oph and v986 oph . </S>",
    "<S> 670 hours of high - quality differential photoelectric strmgren , johnson and geneva time - series photometry were obtained with eight telescopes on five continents during 182 nights . </S>",
    "<S> frequency analyses of the v2052 oph data enabled the detection of three pulsation frequencies , the first harmonic of the strongest signal , and the rotation frequency with its first harmonic . </S>",
    "<S> pulsational mode identification from analysing the colour amplitude ratios confirms the dominant mode as being radial , whereas the other two oscillations are most likely @xmath1 . combining seismic constraints on the inclination of the rotation axis with published magnetic field analyses </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the radial mode must be the fundamental . </S>",
    "<S> the rotational light modulation is in phase with published spectroscopic variability , and consistent with an oblique rotator for which both magnetic poles pass through the line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> the inclination of the rotation axis is @xmath2 and the magnetic obliquity @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> the possibility that v2052 oph has a magnetically confined wind is discussed . </S>",
    "<S> the photometric amplitudes of the single oscillation of v986 oph are most consistent with an @xmath4 mode , but this identification is uncertain . </S>",
    "<S> additional intrinsic , apparently temporally incoherent , light variations of v986 oph are reported . </S>",
    "<S> different interpretations thereof can not be distinguished at this point , but this kind of variability appears to be present in many ob stars . </S>",
    "<S> the prospects of obtaining asteroseismic information for more rapidly rotating @xmath0  cep stars , which appear to prefer modes of higher @xmath5 , are briefly discussed .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : variables : other  stars : early - type  stars : oscillations  stars : individual : v2052 oph , v986 oph  stars : magnetic field  stars : rotation </S>"
  ]
}