{
  "article_text": [
    "the recent report @xcite of a binary millisecond pulsar in a 2.2  h orbit featuring a jupiter - like mass companion with a lower bound for the mean density of @xmath0 is both important and challenging for stellar evolution theory .",
    "indeed , the role of the pulsar wind and illumination feedback have been deemed as important @xcite , but it was not clear whether the interplay of all the effects is enough to reproduce the observed features . in order to account for the existence of the psr  j1719 - 1438 system we have looked for an evolutionary scenario in which a normal star evolves losing most of its mass and reaching the observed configuration .",
    "we have considered close binary systems composed by an accreting neutron star ( ns ) orbiting together with a normal donor star .",
    "we attempt to answer the full history of these systems below , and report the first complete results in this work .",
    "in the case of this kind of systems , the donor star evolves essentially as an isolated object up to the moment at which its radius @xmath1 nearly equals the radius of the roche lobe @xmath2 .",
    "this phenomenon is usually referred to as the onset of the roche lobe overflow ( rlof ) . near rlof ,",
    "tidal dissipation forces the orbit to become circular with an period @xmath3 , a starting point for the calculations . for the case of low mass donor stars with masses fulfilling the condition @xmath4",
    ", the radius of a sphere with the volume of the roche lobe can be approximated by    @xmath5    where @xmath6 is the semiaxis of the circular orbit . since that moment on , the donor star transfers mass across the lagrangian point @xmath7 towards the ns .",
    "this process , in turn , makes the orbit to evolve . at present",
    "it is not clear how much of the matter transferred from the donor star is effectively accreted by the ns .",
    "hereafter we define @xmath8 as the fraction of transferred material that is accreted by the ns ( @xmath9 , but always below the eddington limit @xmath10 ; see , e.g. , @xcite ) . if @xmath11 some material is lost by the system carrying away the specific angular momentum of the secondary . as the value of @xmath8",
    "is not critical in determining the evolution of this kind of systems @xcite , hereafter we shall assume an average value of @xmath12 .",
    "this value of @xmath8 has been usually assumed , for example in @xcite , and more recently in population synthesis calculations by @xcite .",
    "also , gravitational radiation @xcite and magnetic braking are known to provide relevant angular momentum sinks .",
    "@xmath13 due to rlof is described by the expression given by ,    @xmath14    where @xmath15 is a smooth function of @xmath16 and @xmath17 , and @xmath18 is the pressure scale height at the photosphere ( for further details , see ) .",
    "the above given description corresponds to the standard treatment for the evolution of low mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) ; see , e.g. , @xcite .",
    "however , as it will be clear below , these ingredients are _ not _ enough to account for the formation of a binary pair like psr  j1719 - 1438 .",
    "another effect that drives further mass loss from the donor star is the evaporating wind , driven by the pulsar radiation .",
    "following @xcite , we include this effect by considering    @xmath19    where the pulsar s spin down luminosity @xmath20 is given by @xmath21 ( @xmath22 is the moment of inertia of the ns , @xmath23 is its spin period and @xmath24 its spindown rate ) , @xmath25 is the escape velocity from the donor star surface and @xmath26 is an efficiency factor that will be set to 0.1 as in @xcite .",
    "as we shall be concerned with very short orbital periods , a relevant phenomenon to be considered is irradiation feedback .",
    "when the donor star transfers mass onto the ns , it releases an accretion luminosity that illuminates the donor star with a flux @xmath27 , where @xmath28 is a constant that accounts for the fact that neither all the luminosity has to be released as electromagnetic radiation , nor has to be emitted isotropically .",
    "the radiation incident onto the donor star partially blocks the release of its internal energy , modifying its evolution .",
    "this problem has been addressed by . here",
    "we shall assume the validity of the point - source model , i.e. , that the accreting ns is the only source of radiation incident onto the donor star .    in order to compute the evolution of these systems",
    "we have employed our detailed ( henyey ) evolutionary code described in @xcite and @xcite , which has been modified to incorporate irradiation feedback and evaporating winds as described above . for a compact binary system to be an adequate candidate to account for the properties of psr  j1719 - 1438 , it must have a very close orbit .",
    "the rlof will occur during the hydrogen core burning stage ; this is usually classified as a class a mass transfer episode @xcite ( whereas class b and c episodes correspond to the cases in which the onset of the rlof occurs after the exhaustion of core hydrogen and helium respectively ) .",
    "an exploration of the parameter space defining a particular compact binary system ( @xmath29 ) indicates that there exists a restricted region of which that leads to the formation of systems like psr  j1719 - 1438 .",
    "for example , there is a narrow range for the initial orbital period : if @xmath3 is too short ( say , @xmath30 0.5 d ) even at the minimum radius ( on the zams ) , the donor star would be transferring mass . on the other side ,",
    "if @xmath3 is larger than about @xmath31 0.9 d , the system evolves on an orbit that widens enough to allow for the formation of a low - mass ( @xmath32 ) helium white dwarf ( hewd ) - millisecond pulsar pair ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "thus , the values of @xmath3 leading to objects on converging orbits is very restricted .",
    "if the formation of the psr  j1719 - 1438 system proceeded the way we considered here , @xmath3 should have fallen in this interval referred above depends on the particular physical ingredients assumed in our computations that are certainly not fully known .",
    "the related present uncertainties should affect the precise value of the period interval , although it will be still within a narrow range . ] . furthermore , as we shall see below , the system has to evolve for a quite a long time to reach mass values as low as those indicated by observations .",
    "this , in turn , imposes a lower limit for its initial mass : if it is very low , the system would need to evolve for a time in excess of the age of the universe . for more massive stars",
    ", there exists a limit imposed by the stability of the mass transfer at the onset of the rlof ( for further details see @xcite ) .",
    "this set of conditions strongly suggests that these systems should be rare .",
    "observations of the pulsar signal are quite stable , and thus do not suggest that psr  j1719 - 1438 is undergoing a rlof episode ( @xcite ; m. bailes , private communication ) . thus , the donor star should be smaller than its corresponding roche lobe . if rlof were the only process giving rise to mass loss from the donor star , this fact would be very difficult to account for .",
    "it is well known that low mass wds behave like polytropic spheres of index @xmath33 . for these structures ,",
    "the mass - radius relation is @xmath34 .",
    "therefore , the star expands in response to mass loss .",
    "this behavior continues as long as the equation of state is dominated by electron degeneracy .",
    "as the star experiences further mass loss , it lowers its density and the degree of degeneracy ; and non - ideal effects become more important .",
    "eventually , the mass - radius relation changes , and there is a mass value for which the radius passes through a maximum . for example , if the object has a helium dominated composition this corresponds to an object with a mass of @xmath35 , which has a radius of @xmath36 ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) . as the less massive object in the system losses mass ( and angular momentum )",
    ", we arrive to a situation in which the orbit gets wider while keeping @xmath37 .",
    "when the donor star reaches the maximum - radius mass value , a further mass loss will force the star to contract , _ detaching _ the donor star from its roche lobe ( notice that for these mass values of the donor star , the timescale of orbital evolution due to gravitational radiation is too long to lead the donor star into contact ) .    if mass loss / transfer were only due to rlof episode(s ) , in reaching the observed configuration , the system would need a timescale in excess of the age of the universe .",
    "a natural way out of this apparent paradox is provided by the evaporating wind described above . as a matter of fact , during the advanced stages of evolution",
    "in which the donor star mass becomes very low ( @xmath38 ) , such evaporating wind dominates the donor star mass losses and the orbital evolution , even if the system is still on rlof conditions .",
    "this effect makes the orbit to become wider than it would be if we consider rlof solely , making the star to _ detach _ from its roche lobe before reaching mass values as low as that corresponding to the maximum radius for its composition . in order to explore the plausibility of this scenario we have computed the evolution of several systems assuming a solar composition donor star with an initial mass value of @xmath39 , a `` canonical '' ns of @xmath40 , and some values for the initial orbital period that lead to this kind of binary systems @xmath41 0.75  d , 0.80  d and 0.85  d. we considered evolutionary sequences with and without irradiation feedback . in this paper",
    "we shall not discuss the process of formation of main sequence - ns cbss from which we star out our calculations .",
    "also , we should warn the reader that it is expected to be possible to arrive to a configuration like that of psr  j1719 - 1438 from other initial conditions , different from the ones we assumed .",
    "these processes have been discussed by @xcite and references therein .",
    "the work by noticed several problems in the formation of the system and attempted to model the outcome varying the donor and its wind .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : periodos ] we show the orbital period of the system as a function of the donor mass .",
    "it is remarkable that irradiation feedback does not induce any dramatic effect on such a relation .",
    "the observed period for psr  j1719 - 1438 indicates that for each model two solutions exist : one with @xmath42 , ( while the orbit is shrinking ) and other with @xmath43 ( while the orbit is expanding ) . in view of the mass function of this system @xcite ,",
    "@xmath44    ( where @xmath45 is the orbital period , @xmath46 is the semiaxis of the pulsar orbit and @xmath47 is the inclination angle of the orbit with respect to the line of sight ) , it is difficult to consider the first solution as physically plausible . for @xmath48 , we would need @xmath49 , which has a very low probability , whereas for the other solution we still need small but tolerable values of @xmath50 .",
    "notice that because at late times the evaporating wind dominates mass loss / transfer ( see below ) , it accelerates the evolution of the system ( as compared with the standard case in which this effect is ignored ) making it possible to reach a configuration compatible with the observed state of psr  j1719 - 1438 within a long but acceptable timescale of 6 - 7  gyr .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "[ fig : mdots ] the mass transfer rate for the case of @xmath51  0.8  d , with and without irradiation feedback . due to irradiation",
    ", the donor star undergoes cyclic mass transfer episodes in a way similar to that found by . notice that this oscillating behavior is restricted to an intermediate stage of evolution . despite the uncertainties associated with the present treatment of irradiation feedback @xcite",
    ", it is a fortunate situation that the final properties of the system are largely independent of the former .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "[ fig : radios ] the evolution of the donor and the roche lobe radii , demonstrating that the system ultimately detaches around 6  gyr . finally , in fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_prom ] we show the evolution of the mean density of the donor star @xmath52 .",
    "we find that since ages  @xmath314  gyr on ( well before detachment from the roche lobe ) , @xmath52 overcomes the lower limit deduced from observations .    regarding the final internal composition of the donor star , it depends on the value of @xmath3 . for the shortest possible initial orbital periods ,",
    "core hydrogen burning is quenched by mass loss ( internal temperature falls down fast enough to appreciably slow down nuclear activity ) and the final hydrogen abundance is @xmath53 by mass . for the largest @xmath3 for which cbss evolve to a black widow configurations , compatible with the characteristics of the psr  j1719 - 1438 system ,",
    "hydrogen is almost absent being a helium - dominated composition .",
    "it is worth to remark that for the formation path we addressed in this paper , no other composition is possible for the donor star interior .",
    "the conclusion of this study is to identify a definite new path for the evolution of binary systems evolving into planet - like - millisecond pulsars pairs , featuring @xmath54 for the donor star and a mean density @xmath55 for it .",
    "our calculations show self - consistently that this is indeed possible , even for objects composed by a mixture of hydrogen and helium , without the need of postulating a carbon interior , on a reasonable timescale .",
    "the initial conditions for this evolution are actually quite stringent , as identified above ; otherwise the outcome of the evolution is very different .    finally , the exciting possibility that the companion of the millisecond pulsar psr  j1719 - 1438 is _ not _ a wd - like but a truly exotic object ( i.e. composed of some form of quark matter ) should not be overlooked",
    "this would easily explain why there is no modulation even for an edge - on inclination . actually , in the latter case the stringent photometric limits derived in @xcite using keck - lris instrument can not be used to place constraints to the inclination , because the absence of signal is a quite natural outcome . in other words , for the cases of a strange quark matter nugget or structured strangelet chunk , the size of the companion would be too small to detect any photometric signal .",
    "the exotic model also predicts that no carbon / helium lines should be ever observed associated to the companion .",
    "in addition , the lack of detection of evaporation signatures @xcite would be naturally accommodated .",
    "finally , and because of angular momentum considerations , we expect that the orbit angular momentum @xmath56 of the quark companion to be aligned with the spin of the pulsar `` born in original spin '' , e.g. , @xcite .",
    "these are quite strong , albeit straightforward predictions to be checked in futures studies addressing the nature of this system .",
    "the proposals of extended exotic stars ( strangelet dwarfs , @xcite ; and strange dwarfs , @xcite ) , would need an evaluation of their surface properties , which would still depend on the existence or absence of a normal matter atmosphere to reprocess the incident pulsar radiation .",
    "this would be difficult to distinguish from conventional helium or carbon wds .",
    "however , in these scenarios there is no link between the evolution of the system and the final masses and period , and the millisecond pulsar could be very young and not recycled at all .",
    "we would like to thank to our referee , chris belczynski , for his prompt and constructive report that helped us to improve the original version of this paper .",
    "o.g.b is member of the carrera de investigador of the cic - pba agency and m.a.d.v .",
    "is member of the carrera de investigador , conicet , argentina .",
    "j.e.h . has been supported by fapesp ( so paulo , brazil ) and cnpq , brazil funding agencies .",
    "landau , l.  d. , & lifshitz , e.  m.  1975 , course of theoretical physics - pergamon international library of science , technology , engineering and social studies , oxford : pergamon press , 1975 , 4th rev.engl.ed . ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the existence of millisecond pulsars with planet - mass companions @xcite in close orbits is challenging from the stellar evolution point of view . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate in detail the evolution of binary systems self - consistently , including mass transfer , evaporation and irradiation of the donor by x - rays feedback , demonstrating the existence of a new evolutionary path leading to short periods and compact donors as required by the observations of psr  j1719 - 1438 . </S>",
    "<S> we also point out the alternative of an exotic nature of the companion planet - mass star . </S>"
  ]
}