{
  "article_text": [
    "radial velocity surveys searching for exoplanets have been operating for more than 15 years since the first exoplanet discovery @xcite .",
    "one of the most important discoveries of these surveys is that many stars host multiple planets within a few au ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , most of the detected planetary companions are massive since such planets produce higher radial velocity signals .",
    "recent years have seen the discovery of a new class of low - mass exoplanets  super - earths with masses less than ten times the earth s  from radial velocity surveys ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "although the number of super - earths discovered by radial velocity surveys is growing rapidly ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , their number is not yet high enough to extract statistical information about the abundance and general architectures of planetary systems including low - mass planets .",
    "the _ kepler _ mission ( which we will often refer to simply as _",
    "kepler ) _ provides the first statistically - significant survey of gas giants , neptune - size planets , super - earths and terrestrial planets orbiting other stars @xcite . monitoring 156,000 stars for periodic dips in the light curves ,",
    "_ kepler _ is sensitive to planets as small as one earth radius @xcite .",
    "the relative numbers of systems with single and multiple transiting planets is a sensitive function of the intrinsic multiplicity of planetary systems and the relative inclinations between planet orbits and thus hold important information about planetary system architectures",
    ".    the target stars of _ kepler _ are typically too faint for follow - up observations of all but the largest planets , so detections by _ kepler _ are generally referred to as planet candidates , unless their masses can be determined by radial velocity measurements ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or transit timing variations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , due to the high photometric precision , fewer than 10% of the planetary candidates are believed to be false candidates @xcite .",
    "the strong clustering of planet candidates into multiple systems is further evidence for the physical nature of the detections , since false positives caused by binary stars would be distributed evenly among the _ kepler _ target stars @xcite .",
    "the first four months of _ kepler _ data revealed 1235 planetary candidates @xcite while that number had grown to 2321 after sixteen months",
    "@xcite  253 of earth size ( @xmath1 ) , 712 of super - earth size ( @xmath2 ) , 1078 of neptune size ( @xmath3 ) , 207 of jupiter size ( @xmath4 ) and 71 with sizes larger than jupiter ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "a large fraction of those planets are in multiple systems @xcite  245 host stars show double transits , 84 show triple transits , 27 show quadruple transits , 8 show quintuple transits and 1 shows sextuple transits .",
    "@xcite used an alternative data reduction algorithm to analyse the _ kepler _ data and found several new transit signals , upgrading one of the planet host stars to a new candidate sextuple system .",
    "the _ kepler _ data has already led to new knowledge about the characteristics of the innermost parts of planetary systems .",
    "individual systems such as the sextuple kepler-11 , with masses determined by transit timing variations @xcite , show that small planets can have a variety of densities and hence represent distinct classes of planets .",
    "statistical analysis of _ kepler _ data gives constraints on formation and migration processes .",
    "@xcite showed that there is a difference between the size distributions of shorter and longer period planets .",
    "the apparent lack of planets of around three earth radii in size , relative to both smaller and larger planets , in orbits shorter than 7 days may be evidence of either sublimation of volatiles or inefficient gas accretion in neptune - mass planets migrating to close orbits .",
    "transit observations are mainly biased by the orbital alignment with the line of sight ( affecting all planets ) and stellar and instrumental noise ( affecting mainly smaller planets ) .",
    "the orbital alignment bias is relatively independent of planet size , since stellar radius and planetary semi - major axis dominate the transit probability .",
    "the transit bias is thus less complicated than the bias in radial velocity detections .",
    "together with the sensitivity down to earth - sized planets , this makes the _ kepler _ data well suited for studies of planetary system architectures .",
    "the goal of this paper is to find underlying planetary system architectures that explain the absolute and relative number of single and multiple transits in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "our approach differs from that of other authors .",
    "@xcite used the _ kepler _ data to parameterise the population of planets in terms of their sizes and semi - major axes .",
    "they found that the majority of the observed double - transit systems and a substantial fraction of the observed single - transit systems could arise from relatively flat systems of higher multiplicity , while the remaining single - transit systems come from a second distinct population .",
    "@xcite looked at the problem from a statistical approach .",
    "they concluded that the inversion from observed transits to underlying populations is in principle degenerate in the mutual inclination parameter , in that solutions consisting of a combination of single - planet systems and very densely populated systems ( up to 40 planets within 0.5 au ) of nearly isotropic orbits can yield the observed transit rates .",
    "it is nevertheless not clear that these nearly isotropic solutions are physical , in that most planets need to be in very densely packed systems , with few or no planetary systems of low multiplicity .",
    "@xcite used an approach similar to @xcite and find that their assumption that planetary occurrence is an independent statistical process is not supported by the data . in this paper",
    "we use an alternative approach to constraining underlying planetary system architectures .",
    "we use the triple - transit systems observed by the _ kepler _ mission as templates for physical planetary systems and perform synthetic transit observations to derive the relative number of single , double and triple transits as a function of the mutual inclination between the planet orbits .",
    "we thus work close to the original data and do not have to go through steps of interpretation and analysis of the statistical properties of planet sizes and orbits to fit these with distribution functions .",
    "our paper is organized as follows . in ",
    "[ s : selection ] we explain how we select the underlying planet population by using the triple - transit systems observed by the _ kepler _ mission as templates . in  [ s : rates ] we perform synthetic transit observations of these systems , weighting each template system by the inverse of the triple - transit probability .",
    "we compare the synthetic transits with the _ kepler _ data in  [ s : fit ] and find that there is a good match in radii and semi - major axes between the synthetic double and triple transits and the _ kepler _ data . however",
    ", the synthetic single transits do not match those observed ",
    "the synthetic catalogue contains too few single transits ( by about a factor of three ) and it completely lacks planets having large radii ( between the sizes of neptune and jupiter ) which have been found by the _ kepler _ mission .",
    "this suggests that in addition to the population of three - planet systems ( seen in double and triple transits ) , there is a second , distinct population of planetary systems containing larger planets .",
    "we discuss the properties of this second population in ",
    "[ s : second ] .",
    "we explore the hypothesis that planetary systems form with a range of masses and that the most massive are inherently unstable to planet - planet interactions .",
    "we perform @xmath0-body simulations of mass - boosted versions of the _ kepler _ triple - planet templates in  [ s : stability ] .",
    "the typical result is that two planets collide and merge and leave a moderately inclined double - planet system .",
    "while this second population in principle can produce the large planets seen in single - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data , this does not explain an additional excess of small planets ( smaller than four earth radii ) among the single - transit systems , nor the lack of gas giants in double - transit and triple - transit systems . in ",
    "[ s : multiple ] we relax the assumption that all planetary systems are triple , constructing single - planet and double - planet systems by removing one or two planets from the triple - planet templates , and show that this does not change the necessity for a dichotomy of planetary systems in nature to explain the data .",
    "we conclude in  [ s : conclusions ] , proposing that the main part of the dichotomy between systems showing single transits and systems showing double transits and triple transits arose already during planet formation , when the migration or formation of a large planet suppressed the formation of additional planets in sub - au orbits .",
    "we will in this paper make the assumption that an @xmath6-multiple system observed by the _ kepler _",
    "mission can be used as a template for a physical @xmath6-multiple system . a system with @xmath6 transiting planets observed by the _ kepler",
    "_ mission may in reality have more planets than the observed @xmath6 , especially further from the star where the transit probability is low , but a reduction in planet number produces a system that is equally physical , as such reduction very rarely leads to dynamical instabilities .",
    "we sometimes use the notation @xmath6t-@xmath7p for observing @xmath6 transiting planets in an intrinsically @xmath7-multiple system .    to get a uniform and unbiased sample of planetary systems , we first apply a number of selection criteria to the planets in the 16-months _ kepler _ data :    1",
    ".   the signal - to - noise ratio must be larger than 16 .",
    "the planet period must be shorter than 240 days .",
    "the planet radius must be smaller than 22.4 earth radii .",
    "the first criterion ensures that the sample is close to being complete and that no size bins are dominated by fortuitous detections , an important issue when comparing observations of synthetic planetary systems to the _ kepler _ data .",
    "we follow @xcite and choose a limiting signal - to - noise ratio of 16 .",
    "the second criterion includes only planets seen to transit at least twice in the 16-month data .",
    "the third criterion ensures that only planetary - mass objects are selected , applying a maximum radius of @xmath8 earth radii , as proposed by @xcite .",
    "selection criteria are applied on a planet - by - planet basis , so dense systems may become sparser after the selection criteria .",
    "the triple system koi-284 has two planets in very similar orbits .",
    "we exclude this system because the two planets likely orbit the two different stellar components of a binary @xcite .",
    "another peculiar system is koi-191 , an originally quadruple system with a jupiter - sized and an earth - sized planet very close to each other .",
    "however , the small planet has a low signal - to - noise ratio and is excluded by criterion 1 above , reducing koi-191 to a regular triple - transit system .",
    "@xcite reported a similarly curious quadruple system , koi-2248 , with two very close planets , but the detections of two of the four planets have a low signal - to - noise ratio , and hence koi-2248 reduces to a regular double - transit system after applying our selection criteria .",
    "[ f : selected ] shows the triple - transit , double - transit , and single - transit systems present in the _ kepler _ data after applying selection criteria .",
    "we do not consider higher - order systems since these are too few to serve as a statistically significant template base for the synthetic systems .",
    "the number of triple systems is reduced from originally 84 to 62 , the number of double systems is reduced from 245 to 187 , while the number of single systems is reduced from 1425 to 1183 .",
    "the orbital periods and radii of the selected planets are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : rp_p ] . while planets in systems with two or three transits are statistically similar , planets in systems with only a single transit are clearly on average significantly larger than the planets in higher - order systems @xcite .",
    "the goal of the paper is to perform simulated transit observations of populations of synthetic planetary systems to find the intrinsic population of planetary systems that matches the _ kepler _ data .",
    "we use the triple planetary systems observed by _ kepler _ , after application of selection criteria to make the sample uniform ( see  [ s : selection ] ) , as templates for physical systems and assume that stars have either zero planets or a planetary system with the radii and semi - major axes of one of the triple - planet systems observed by _",
    "kepler_. although crude , the assumption of planetary systems having either zero or three planets turns out to give a very good fit to the observed double - transit systems .",
    "our approach is also very straight - forward to apply to the data , in that we do not need to go through complex steps of extracting statistical information about planetary sizes and semi - major axes from the data .",
    "we will later relax the assumption that planetary systems are always triple and show that this does not change the conclusions ( see  [ s : multiple ] ) .",
    "all the template planetary `` systems '' are limited to a maximum semi - major axis of approximately 0.5 au .",
    "while this is much smaller than the expected total extent of planetary systems in general , the _ kepler _ data shows a surprising population density and variety in these relatively close orbits .",
    "we choose triple - transit systems as templates , since denser systems ( quadruple and beyond ) are observed in very low numbers and are hence much more affected by small number statistics than the triple - transit systems .",
    "as discussed in the introduction , @xcite showed that very densely populated systems of nearly isotropic orbits can in principle explain the _ kepler _ data , but we will in this paper assume that systems more dense than three planets are rare and hence do not contribute significantly to the triple transits in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "this assumption is discussed further in ",
    "[ s : conclusions ] .",
    "the orbits of all three planets are initially put in the same plane .",
    "we assume that the orbits have very low eccentricities between 0 and 0.01 ( a good approximation to the statistical properties of the _ kepler _ transit durations , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for each planet in a triple system",
    "we then choose an inclination angle distributed evenly between 0 and @xmath9 . here",
    "@xmath9 is a measure of the opening angle of the system .",
    "we incline the orbital plane of the planet by this angle relative to the initial , common orbital plane .",
    "afterwards we choose a random angle between 0 and @xmath10 and rotate around the axis perpendicular to the original plane to get a random longitude of ascending node and argument of periapsis .",
    "[ f : inclination_distribution ] shows how a chosen @xmath11 yields a distribution in relative inclinations between planet pairs .",
    "we have taken pairs of planetary orbits and inclined and rotated the planes as described above .",
    "the distribution peaks at a mutual inclination around @xmath12 .",
    "the maximum relative inclination between any two planets , @xmath13 , is obtained by first inclining both planetary orbital planes by @xmath9 and then choosing opposite longitudes of the ascending node .",
    "we calculate the probabilities for an observer to see each of the planets transiting by considering 1,000 random realisations of each triple - planet system , for a given value of @xmath9 , from a large number of random directions .",
    "we choose directions uniformly distributed on the unit sphere and calculate the total number of single , double and triple transits as well identifying which planets are involved .",
    "using @xmath6 t systems as templates for @xmath6p systems requires us to take into account that the @xmath6 t system was observed at all .",
    "take for example an observed system with three planets close to the star and another observed system with three planets far away from the star .",
    "these two transiting systems can be used as templates for two physical systems .",
    "however , if the wide system is ten times less likely to be observed than the tight system , then we must convert the two observed transiting systems into one tight synthetic planetary system and ten wide synthetic planetary systems .",
    "we need to go through a number of steps from the transit probability of individual planets to calculating the number of single , double and triple transits that are observed .",
    "we use a notation defined as following .",
    "* probability that planet @xmath6 transits in system @xmath7 :    @xmath14    * probability of exactly _",
    "i _ transits in system _ j _ :    @xmath15    * mean weighted probability of an @xmath6-transit :    @xmath16    * weight of system @xmath7 :    @xmath17    here @xmath18 is the radius of the host star in system @xmath7 and @xmath19 is the semi - major axis of planet @xmath6 in system @xmath7 , with @xmath20 denoting the inner planet , @xmath21 the middle , and @xmath22 the outer planet .",
    "the probability @xmath23 that planet @xmath6 is seen to transit in system @xmath7 is then given by equation ( [ eq : ptransit ] ) , ignoring the small contribution of the planetary radius to the transit probability .",
    "the probability that system @xmath7 shows exactly @xmath6 planets transiting is denoted @xmath24 ( equation [ eq : ptransit2 ] ) .",
    "this probability is a ( complicated ) function of the mutual inclination parameter @xmath9 .",
    "so far we have not considered the relative weight of the systems , but as explained above , the fact that the _ kepler _ mission observes a given triple - transit system automatically requires that systems with low triple - transit probabilities are more frequent among the target stars than systems with high triple - transit probabilities .",
    "hence we define @xmath25 as the mean weighted probability that any given host star shows exactly @xmath6 planets transiting , given by a straight - forward weighting in equation ( [ eq : pweighted ] ) .",
    "the weighting function is defined in equation ( [ eq : weight ] ) .",
    "this choice ensures that each triple - transit system in the _ kepler _ data will be observed exactly once in the synthetic observations .",
    "effectively @xmath26 is the number of randomly oriented copies of system @xmath7 among the _ kepler _ target stars .",
    "we thus implicitly assume that higher - order planetary systems do not contribute significantly to the observed triple - transit systems .",
    "the probabilities of observing each of the _ kepler _ triple - transit systems , @xmath27 using the above notation , are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : weighting ] . the highest triple - transit probability  approximately @xmath28 at @xmath29 and @xmath30 at @xmath11 ,",
    "is obtained for the koi-1835 system , with three close - in planets orbiting a relatively large host star of radius 1.66 @xmath31 .",
    "another noteworthy system is koi-961 which has three small planets very close to the star , with periods 0.45 days , 1.22 days and 1.87 days .",
    "however , the probability of _ kepler _ seeing three transits from this system is not as high as one might expect , since the radius of the host star is low ( 0.17 solar radii , see * ? ? ?",
    "the contrast between the lowest and highest triple - transit probability is around 10 for a mutual inclination parameter of @xmath29 and 250 for @xmath11 .",
    "planets in wide orbits are much more likely to be inclined out of view as @xmath9 is increased , compared to planets in tight orbits .",
    "the transit detection algorithm described in  [ s : rates ] allows us to calculate the number of single , double and triple transits arising from the triple - planet templates and to compare the results with the _ kepler _ data .",
    "we vary the mutual inclination parameter @xmath9 between 0 and 10 degrees , in steps of 1 degree . each synthetic triple - planet system",
    "is given a weight equal to the inverse triple - transit probability at the given inclination parameter .",
    "the resulting numbers of single - transit and double - transit systems produced are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : n2n3_n1n3 ] .",
    "we normalize the number of single - transit and double - transit systems by the number of triple - transit systems . matching those ratios to the _ kepler _",
    "data , the correct absolute number of transits can be obtained by assuming that a fraction @xmath32 of the @xmath33 _ kepler _ target stars host triple - planet systems .",
    "it is clear from fig .",
    "[ f : n2n3_n1n3 ] that we can not simultaneously reproduce both the number of double - transit and single - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data . reproducing the correct fraction of single - transit systems",
    "overproduces the number of double - transit systems by a factor two , while a faithful reproduction of double - transit systems will only produce 1/3 of the observed single - transit systems .",
    "an important property of fitting synthetic transits to observed transits is that no system produces a negative number of transits .",
    "hence no population of planets is allowed to overproduce the number of single , double or triple transits found in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "that puts a hard limit of @xmath34 to avoid overproduction of double - transit systems @xcite .",
    "however , this would be in some conflict with the measured coplanarity of systems such as the sextuple kepler-11 where the mutual inclination is around one degree @xcite . ] .",
    "the radius and semi - major axis distribution of the synthetic transits are compared to the observed transits in fig .",
    "[ f : rp_a_dist ] .",
    "we focus on a mutual inclination parameter of @xmath11 which approximately matches the ratio of double - transit to triple - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "the radii of planets in our observed triple - transit systems in fig .",
    "[ f : rp_a_dist ] match by definition the observed distribution of planet radii in the template triple - planet systems .",
    "a similarly good correspondence is found in the double - transit systems .",
    "this way the triple - planet systems can both produce the correct relative number of double - to - triple transits and the at the same time reproduce the size distribution of the planets in double - transit and triple - transit systems .    however",
    ", planets in single - transit systems seen in the _ kepler _ data include a much larger fraction of planets having larger radii ( between the radii of neptune and jupiter ) .",
    "the synthetic systems almost entirely lack planets with such large sizes .",
    "in addition , the number of single - transit systems produced from the triple - planet templates is about a factor of three lower than that observed .",
    "a higher number of single - transit systems could in principle be produced by choosing a higher mutual inclination parameter @xmath35 in fig .",
    "[ f : n2n3_n1n3 ] , however this would not produce a good match to the observed distribution of planetary radii , as evidenced in fig .",
    "[ f : rp_a_dist ] .",
    "[ f : rp_a_dist ] also shows the distribution of semi - major axis of the synthetic planets and the _ kepler _ data .",
    "again there is a perfect match , by definition , for triple - transit systems , whereas single - transit and double - transit systems have planets that are on the average a bit further from the star in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "this discrepancy is nevertheless minor .",
    "the inability for the template triple - planet systems to explain simultaneously the double - transit and single - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data implies that there is a dichotomy in the underlying planetary systems . on the one hand",
    "there is a population of triple - planet systems with small planets which faithfully reproduces all triple - transit and double - transit systems , but only 1/3 of the single - transit systems .",
    "an additional second population of planetary systems , distinct from the _ kepler _ triple - transit systems , produces the remaining single - transit systems .",
    "the cumulative distribution and probability distribution functions of the planetary radii for observed and synthetic single - transit systems , in terms of the absolute number of planets , are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : rp_dist_diff_1 t ] .",
    "we choose a mutual inclination parameter of @xmath11 which matches the number of double - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "the synthetic data misses around 750 single - transit systems .",
    "of these approximately 500 are small ( smaller than four earth radii ) while 250 are large ( larger than four earth radii ) .",
    "more insight into the second population of planets needed to produce the missing single - transit systems is gained by considering the number of single - transit , double - transit and triple - transit systems as we increase the mutual inclination parameter @xmath9 .",
    "we maintain the triple - planet systems as templates for illustration , although we show in the next section that unstable triple - planet systems evolve to stability by having two or more planets collide .    in fig .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_n3t_beta ] we show the transit number for a mutual inclination parameter up to 40@xmath36 .",
    "we maintain the normalisation that the 62 triple - transit systems found in the _ kepler _ 16-months data after applying selection criteria must be produced at the mutual inclination parameter @xmath37 .",
    "the transit numbers @xmath38 are thus defined as @xmath39 with @xmath40 to match _ kepler _ observations . here",
    "the @xmath25 are the mean @xmath6-transit probabilities per system , with each system weighted by its triple - transit probability at @xmath41 .",
    "the normalisation with @xmath42 and @xmath43 at @xmath41 implies that the population of planetary systems with mutual inclination angle @xmath9 formed with @xmath41 , just like the flat population discussed above , and then later heated up to have a higher mutual inclination parameter of @xmath44 .",
    "the normalisation further implies that the equation for the transit number can be simplified as @xmath45 with the short hand notation @xmath46 and @xmath47 .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_n3t_beta ] shows that the number of triple - transit systems falls rapidly with increasing @xmath9 and is unimportant ( less than 10% of the value at @xmath29 ) at mutual inclinations above @xmath48 .",
    "the number of double - transit systems falls much more slowly .    in the isotropic limit where planetary orbits are independent we have @xmath49 these numbers can be calculated from the output of the synthetic transit observations .",
    "the isotropic limits are shown in dashed lines in fig .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_n3t_beta ] . in this limit",
    "there are 937 single - transit systems , 34 double - transit systems and 0.5 triple - transit systems . at @xmath50",
    "there are nevertheless still 67 double - transit systems , while the number of single - transit systems has risen to almost 900 . in order to produce the 750 missing single - transit systems from a population of triple - planet systems of high mutual inclination",
    ", a mutual inclination parameter of at least 20@xmath36 would be needed .",
    "this high opening angle would as a side effect produce more than 100 double - transit systems additional to the ones produced from the low - mass triple systems , enough to push the number of synthetic double - transit systems significantly beyond the observed number . these extra double - transit systems would furthermore have the characteristic large planetary radii of the single - transit systems , in conflict with the excellent radius match that we find between observed double - transit systems and synthetic double - transits from the _ kepler _ triple - systems .",
    "hence it is very difficult for a population of mutually inclined , massive planets in triple systems to explain the observed dichotomy between systems showing one transit and systems showing two or three transits .    in the following",
    "we explore the hypothesis that the second population constituted the upper end of a continuous distribution of planetary birth masses , and that these systems of massive planets became unstable to planet - planet interaction and lost one planet by collision or ejection , turning into double - planet systems with a moderately high inclination between the planetary orbits .",
    "a higher mutual inclination will favour observations of single transits over observations of double transits , and this way a second population of double - planet systems can contribute to the missing single - transit systems without polluting the double - transit systems which are already produced from low - mass triple - planet systems .    for our hypothesis",
    "it is not important whether the massive planets formed in situ close to their host stars or whether they formed further out and migrated in due to gravitational torques from the gaseous protoplanetary disk .",
    "the nebula from which the solar system planets formed did not contain enough mass close to the star to form the solid cores of multiple gas giants there @xcite , although this property is a direct consequence of the observed lack of massive planets in sub - au orbits in the solar system .",
    "extrasolar protoplanetary disks are observed to contain a wide range of masses , up to 10 times higher than the minimum mass solar nebula , although such massive disks are relatively rare @xcite .",
    "migration of massive planets occurs on the viscous time - scale of the protoplanetary disk @xcite , on the order of a million years , but still much shorter than the relevant time - scale for planetary instability that we find  [ s : massboost ] .",
    "hence from the view of planetary instability in situ formation and migration both happen close to instantaneously .",
    "a possible way to get a moderately or highly inclined population of massive planets , as discussed in the previous section , is through the intrinsic instability of planetary systems .",
    "if planetary systems are born with a range of characteristic masses , depending for example on the mass or metallicity of the protoplanetary disk , then the systems of higher mass can be pushed over the instability limit for planet - planet interaction .",
    "planet - planet interactions have been studied in a wide range of contexts , e.g.  by intrinsic instability after gas accretion @xcite , in connection with scattering of planetesimal belts @xcite and after perturbation by a passing star @xcite .",
    "long - term integration of triple systems shows that the separation in terms of mutual hill radii is an important parameter to determine the stability of planetary systems @xcite .",
    "the mutual hill radius of two planets of mass @xmath51 and @xmath52 and semi - major axis @xmath53 and @xmath54 can be defined as @xmath55 we choose to define the hill radius at the mean of the planetary semi - major axes , following convention in the literature , although we note that this definition does not converge towards the hill radius of a single massive planet orbited by a massless test particle in the limit @xmath56 .",
    "the motion of two planets on circular orbits is stable to their mutual gravity when the relative separation @xmath57 @xcite .",
    "triple - planet systems do not display a similar abrupt transition from instability to stability .",
    "the logarithm of the time - scale for instability increases approximately linearly , @xmath58 , as the mean mutual separation @xmath59 of the inner and outer planet pairs is increased . for systems of three low - mass planets ,",
    "@xcite find @xmath60 and @xmath61 .",
    "stability over at least @xmath62 years then implies @xmath63 .    in fig .",
    "[ f : delta_triple ] we show the mutual separation of planet neighbours , in units of their mutual hill radii , for the _ kepler _ triple - transit systems ( after applying our selection criteria ) .",
    "the masses are based on a simple mass - radius relationship proposed by @xcite to fit the planets in the solar system as well as the transiting exoplanets with known masses , @xmath64 the radius - mass relationship increases monotonically up to planets of around the mass of jupiter , and then turns over with a relatively constant radius for higher - mass planets .",
    "the high - radius branch can not be easily inverted to obtain the mass , but the triple - planet systems in the _ kepler _ data contain very few planets above 10 earth radii , so the degenerate mass - radius relationship is not an issue for our calculations .",
    "all systems in fig .",
    "[ f : delta_triple ] are stable or at the edge of stability over @xmath62 years when using their nominal masses .",
    "the maximum mean hill separation is approximately 45 , but 89% of the systems have @xmath65 .",
    "the lack of systems of high hill separation is likely partially an observational bias , since widely spaced systems are less likely to be observed in triple transit .",
    "higher - mass versions of the _ kepler _ triple - planet templates would , with a sufficient mass boost , be unstable to planet - planet scattering .",
    "these systems would not show up in the triple - transit systems observed by the _",
    "mission because they have lost one or more planets by ejection or collisions ( between planets or with the host star ) , leaving behind excited remnants of the original systems .",
    "we investigate the stability of mass - boosted triple - transit _ kepler _ systems by performing @xmath0-body simulations using the orbital dynamics code mercury @xcite .",
    "we define the mass boost as @xmath66 where @xmath67 is the mass of planet @xmath6 from an approximate mass - radius relationship and @xmath68 is the boosted mass .",
    "the mercury code uses a symplectic integrator to achieve conservation of linear and angular momentum and is thus an optimal tool for evolving planetary systems for a high number of orbital periods .",
    "the triple - planet systems observed by the _",
    "mission have been carefully checked for dynamical instability using the nominal planetary masses @xcite . here",
    "we report results of orbital integration of mass - boosted counterparts to the observed triple - planet systems . in fig .",
    "[ f : timescale ] we plot the results of @xmath0-body simulations of four representative systems from the template triple - planet systems ",
    "koi-156 , koi-757 , koi-829 and koi-408 .",
    "these systems are indicated with orange dots in fig .",
    "[ f : delta_triple ] .",
    "we run each system for a number of mass boosts and monitor the time for the first close encounter between two planets .",
    "we consider this the relevant time - scale for instability of the planetary system .",
    "each system is run for 40 random initialisations of the planetary orbits .",
    "the different implementations show instability at different times , but the median time - scale increases monotonously with the mean hill separation between planet neighbours , @xmath69 .",
    "we stop the simulations either after @xmath70 years or after @xmath62 years .",
    "results can be extrapolated to @xmath71 years , which we take as an upper limit for the age of the _ kepler _ target stars .",
    "although the extrapolation has a large scatter between the individual systems , as noted by @xcite who performed similar mass - boosted simulations of the uranian moon system , the overall statistical trend for the instability time - scale to increase rapidly with increased hill separation is robust .",
    "[ f : timescale ] shows that the systems need @xmath72 in order to become unstable within @xmath71 years .",
    "this limit is much lower than found by @xcite from integrations of triple systems of objects with masses comparable to planetary embryos ( @xmath73 ) . as noted in @xcite ,",
    "increasing the characteristic planetary mass , while maintaining the mean hill separation , leads to systematically longer instability time - scales . in fig .  [",
    "f : mass_massboost ] we show the intrinsic masses of the planets in the triple - planet template systems , based on the approximate mass - radius relationship in equation ( [ eq : massrad ] ) , as a function of the mean of the semi - major axis .",
    "we also indicate the masses of the systems when boosted to expected instability at a mean hill separation of @xmath74 .",
    "the mass - boosted systems have characteristic planetary masses between 0.1 and 10 jupiter masses , with the majority of the planets between 0.3 and 3 jupiter masses .",
    "there are three possible ( non - exclusive ) outcomes when a planetary system becomes unstable : 1 ) the system may eject one or more planets ; 2 ) two or more planets may collide ; or 3 ) one or more planets may be scattered into the host star . the relative frequency of these three outcomes is a function of the ratio of the planetary orbital speeds to their surface escape speeds , the square of which is often referred to as the safronov number ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) @xmath75 note that this definition is the inverse of the one used in @xcite . in our definition , for planetary systems having @xmath76 , planet - planet scatterings can result in the ejection of planets .",
    "however for systems where @xmath77 , collisions will be common as a significant deflection would only occur for close encounters ( between two point masses ) with minimum separations smaller than the planetary radii .",
    "the surface escape speed for a jupiter - like planet is about 60 km / s , whereas the orbital speed at 1 au around a solar - mass star is 32 km / s ; and at 0.1 au about 100 km / s . hence unstable planetary systems containing planets of jovian mass will eject planets if their orbits have semi - major axes around or above 1 au , whilst systems containing planets or tighter orbits around 0.1 au will undergo planetary collisions ( leading to mergers ) or have planets scattered into their host stars .",
    "collisions are thus expected to be the most common event for the mass - boosted planets in the _ kepler _ data .    in fig .",
    "[ f : final ] we show the result of integrating koi-408 with a mass boost of 150 ( corresponding to a mean hill separation @xmath78 ) .",
    "the bottom panel shows the semi - major axes of the planets after planetary instability has relaxed the system to a stable configuration .",
    "the @xmath79-axis shows the results of forty initial representations of the mass - boosted system , sorted by increasing time for instability .",
    "the most common result is that the inner and middle planets collide . only in systems having a long instability time - scale",
    "do we find collisions involving all three planets .",
    "the middle and top plots show the associated eccentricities and mutual inclinations .",
    "eccentricities up to 0.3 are common , while the mutual inclination varies from a few degrees to up to 30 degrees . this way the typical inclination is increased significantly by planet - planet scattering , so that the resulting double - planet systems produce many observed single transits .",
    "high eccentricities are also common among giant exoplanets observed in radial velocity surveys @xcite and our results show that planet - planet scattering _ in situ _ in the inner au can cause both high eccentricities and inclinations .",
    "[ f : colltype ] shows the fate of planets in all four dynamically evolved systems as a function of the mass boost ( and the eccentricity and inclination for selected systems ) .",
    "green denotes planet - planet collisions , blue denotes planet - star collisions and red ejections .",
    "the most common events are planet - planet collisions , as expected for these close - in systems .",
    "ejections are far less common , but their frequency increases with increasing mass boost .",
    "collisions with the star are very rare .",
    "the result of planet - planet scattering is most often a collision between two planets , reducing the number of planets from three to two . taking this result as a recipe",
    ", we can create the double - planet systems arising from dynamical instability of triple systems by removing a planet from the template triple - planet systems .",
    "the probabilities for individual planets to transit remain unchanged since the ( small ) effect of the planetary radius is ignored when calculating the transit probability , although the number of single - transit , double - transit and triple - transit systems change when a planet is removed ( the latter number obviously falls to zero ) .",
    "the resulting transit numbers are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_reduced_beta ] .",
    "we experiment by removing either the middle planet or the outer or inner planet . for simplicity",
    "we maintain the original planetary orbits , although a more detailed analysis should put a planet resulting from a collision on an intermediate orbit between the two colliding planets .",
    "the dashed lines in fig .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_reduced_beta ] furthermore show the result of removing the smallest planet in the systems .",
    "triple transits vanish in all these two - planet systems . as the inclination parameter @xmath9",
    "is increased the number of single transit - transit systems increases at the cost of double - transit systems .",
    "the removal of a _",
    "random _ planet in each system would reduce the number of single - transit systems to 2/3 and the number of double - transit systems to 1/3 compared to the template triple - planet systems .",
    "thus we expect that the ratio of single - transit to double - transit systems will approximately double compared to the full systems , independently of @xmath9 .",
    "[ f : n1t_n2t_reduced_beta ] shows that it is possible to observe 600 single - transit systems , with only 10 double - transit systems accompanying , if @xmath9 is moderately high at around 40 degrees .",
    "this way the massive double - planet systems resulting from planetary instability of triple - planet systems can produce a large number of single - transit systems with massive planets and at the same time avoid polluting the double - transit systems with planets from the massive population .",
    "the considerations in the previous section have an inherent problem in that the majority of the missing planets in single - transit systems are small ( smaller than four earth radii ) and thus would not contribute to making a system unstable .",
    "[ f : mass_massboost ] shows that only systems with characteristic planetary masses between 0.1 and 10 jupiter masses can undergo dynamical instability .",
    "planetary instability of triple - planet systems of high birth masses can in principle result in a population of double - planet systems that produce the 250 observed single - transit systems containing large planets ( more than four times the radius of the earth ) , if the high - mass population represented approximately 50% of the number of low - mass triple - planet systems that have survived intact until today .",
    "[ f : delta_triple ] shows that there is a void of planetary systems with mean mutual hill separation @xmath80 .",
    "this corner may have been occupied after planet formation and become unstable to planet - planet scattering as the gaseous protoplanetary disk dissipated . extrapolating",
    "the number of systems between @xmath81 and @xmath82 and between @xmath83 and @xmath84 to @xmath85 shows that a significant number of systems could have formed there .",
    "however , the high - mass systems can not explain the surplus of single - transit systems with smaller planets .",
    "double - transit systems and triple - transit systems also display a general lack of high - mass planets ( see fig .",
    "[ f : rp_p ] ) , a property that is difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that some systems are simply born with high - mass planets , since triple - planet systems could have one or two massive planets and still be stable over long time - scales .    a route to producing the single - transit systems with small planets without making too many double - transit and triple - transit systems ( which are already produced from the triple - planet system templates ) is to consider additional components of double - planet and single - planet systems , together with the triple - planet templates .",
    "choosing a random inclination parameter even smaller than @xmath11 for the triple - planet systems , the number of double - transit systems arising from the triple - planet templates can be reduced .",
    "additional populations of double - planet and single - planet systems must then be present to produce the remaining single - transit and double - transit systems . in fig .",
    "[ f : multiple_population ] we show the resulting system architectures .",
    "we make the assumption that all systems have the same mutual inclination parameter , a reasonable assumption since we have already shown that the double - transit and triple - transit systems in the _ kepler _ data are statistically similar with regards to planetary sizes and orbits .",
    "we can then reconstruct the intrinsic number of single , double and triple systems by requiring first that the triple - planet systems must produce all the triple - transit systems , then that the double - planet systems must produce the double - transit systems that are not already produced by the triple - planet systems , and finally that the single - planet systems must produce the single - transit systems not produced by double - planet and triple - planet systems .",
    "we create sparser systems from the triple - planet templates by removing one or two random planets from each system .",
    "[ f : multiple_population ] shows that as the mutual inclination parameter is varied from @xmath86 to @xmath87 , the number of triple - planet systems increases from 3,000 to over 8,000 . at the same time",
    "their contribution to double - transit and single - transit systems increases .",
    "this happens at the expense of double - planet systems whose number falls from approximately 5,000 to less than zero at @xmath11 .",
    "the number of single - planet systems increases from slightly above 20,000 to almost 27,000 as @xmath9 increases from @xmath86 to @xmath87 .",
    "this implies that a significant fraction , more than 20% , of the 156,000 _ kepler _ target stars have detectable planets within 0.5 au , and that the majority of planet - hosting stars have only a single planet in this region .",
    "we caution , however , that this number relies strongly on the assumption that rich systems of moderate or high mutual inclination do not contribute significantly to the observed transits .",
    "systems of higher multiplicity than three are ignored in the above analysis . without performing full synthetic transit observations on such systems , which is undesirable since their number and statistical significance is low , we can derive useful limits to their contribution to triple , double and single transits by considering the case @xmath29 .",
    "completely flat systems have the property that the probability that system @xmath7 ( of multiplicity @xmath88 ) displays exactly @xmath6 transits is @xmath89 the transit of the outermost planet always implies that all @xmath88 planets transit ( equation [ eq : pij_flat_1 ] ) , while the transit of planet @xmath6 ( with @xmath90 ) corresponds to exactly @xmath6 planets transiting only if planet @xmath91 does not transit ( equation [ eq : pij_flat_2 ] ) .    analysing this way the 14 quadruple - transit systems which are present in the _ kepler _ data after our selection criteria , we find that the intrinsic population of quadruple - planet systems is around 400 , far less than the 3,000 triple - planet systems present at @xmath29 ( see fig .  [",
    "f : multiple_population ] ) .",
    "these 400 quadruple - planet systems produce 14 quadruple transits , 8 triple - transits , 16 double transits and 30 single - transits , using the two transit - rate equations above . a similar analysis on the 4 quintuple - transit systems yields an underlying population of 130 quintuple - planet systems , which give rise to 2.3 quadruple - transit systems , 3.4 triple - transit systems , 4.9 double - transit systems and 9.3 single transit systems .",
    "while systems of higher multiplicity than three must be present in the _ kepler _ target stars , we can conclude that if the planetary systems are intrinsically very flat , then their contribution to the total number of planetary systems as well as to the lower - order transit systems is low .",
    "however , if the intrinsic mutual inclinations are non - zero , then a large fraction of the observed triple - transit systems may arise from more crowded planetary systems @xcite .",
    "planetary systems can nevertheless not be made arbitrarily flat , unless the eccentricities in the system are equally low .",
    "secular oscillations cause exchange between eccentricity and inclination and hence do not allow very flat systems .",
    "still , the need for very flat triple - planet systems ( as well as some systems of higher multiplicity ) , with additional populations of low - mass single - planet and double - planet systems is appealing in that the abundance of planetary systems is continuous in the multiplicity .",
    "this paper sets out to construct underlying planetary system architectures that explain the systems of single and multiple transiting planets in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "one of the most robust features of the _ kepler _ data is that there is a dichotomy between the planets in systems displaying two or three transits and the planets in systems displaying only one transit .",
    "double - transit and triple - transit systems have mostly small ( less than four earth radii ) planets , while the single - transit systems host both small planets and an additional population of large planets .",
    "the dichotomy between large planets in single systems and small planets in systems with a wide range of multiplicities was also detected in the transit synthesis models of @xcite and of @xcite , but we confirm it here using an alternative approach to constructing synthetic planetary systems . in this approach",
    "we assume that the systems of three transiting planets observed by the _ kepler _",
    "mission can serve as templates for physical planetary systems .",
    "we thus work close to the original data and do not have to go through steps of interpretation and analysis of the statistical properties of planet sizes and orbits to fit these with distribution functions .",
    "we furthermore assume that systems with three transits inherently arise from physical triple - planet systems .",
    "this assumption may in reality not hold , since quadruple - planet systems and higher contribute to triple transits . however , we argue that it is reasonable to assume that denser systems are rare and thus only make minor contributions to observed triple - transit systems .",
    "the same assumption also excludes the isotropic solutions of @xcite where planets are either in single systems or in extremely packed systems with almost isotropic orbits .",
    "we explore the underlying hypothesis that triple - planet systems form with a range of characteristic masses and that the systems of high mass are inherently unstable .",
    "using @xmath0-body simulations we find that the most likely outcome of planetary instability is collision between two of the planets .",
    "collisions are more likely than ejections because the planetary orbits are so close to the host stars .",
    "the resulting double - planet systems have moderate mutual inclinations and would produce a number of single transits from large planets .",
    "we find that the instability time - scale is very long unless we use high mass boosts .",
    "triple - planet systems would need to have characteristic planetary masses between 0.1 and 10 jupiter masses in order to produce dynamical instability within 10 billion years .",
    "another generic problem with invoking a second population of massive planets to explain the observed large planets in single - transit systems is that the observed double - transit and triple - transit systems generally lack planets above four earth radii , while these systems could remain stable with one or even two gas - giant planets .",
    "we consider this a major weakness for the hypothesis that the large planets in single - transit systems are a result of planetary instability of the high - end tail of planetary birth sizes .",
    "we find instead that the dichotomy can be seen as the contrast between a continuous population of almost flat systems with one or more small planets within 0.5 au versus a population of inherently single systems with large planets . in this picture",
    "the excess of large planets in single - transit systems may arise already at the planet formation stage , when the formation or migration of a massive gas giant in a system suppresses the formation of additional ( small and large ) planets ( as proposed by * ? ? ?",
    "this scenario is sketched in fig .",
    "[ f : sketch ] .",
    "such a mechanism has been put forward to have frustrated the growth of mars in the solar system during jupiter s period of inwards migration @xcite , but may have been even more effective in extrasolar systems where gas giants have migrated to sub - au orbits .",
    "the _ kepler _ dichotomy appears to be ultimately controlled by the metallicity of the host star , as gas - giant planets in sub - au orbits are mainly present above a threshold metallicity around the solar value @xcite , while neptune - sized planets , super - earths and terrestrial planets are found in the _ kepler _ data around stars with a wide range of metallicities @xcite .",
    "we would like to thank darin ragozzine , aviv ofir , andrew youdin , and yoram lithwick for useful discussions .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for many insightful comments that helped improve the manuscript .",
    "aj was partially funded by the european research council under erc starting grant agreement 278675pebble2planet and by the swedish research council ( grant 20103710 ) .",
    "rpc was funded by a marie - curie intra - european fellowship ( grant 252431 ) under the european commission s fp7 framework .",
    "mbd was supported by the swedish research council ( grants 2008-4089 and 2011-3991 ) .",
    "computer simulations were performed using the platon cluster at lunarc center for scientific and technical computing at lund university .",
    "some simulation hardware was purchased with grants from the royal physiographic society of lund .",
    "andrews , s.  m. , & williams , j.  p.  2005",
    ", , 631 , 1134 batalha , n.  m. , borucki , w.  j. , bryson , s.  t. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 729 , 27 batalha , n.  m. , rowe , j.  f. , bryson , s.  t. , et al .",
    "2012 , arxiv:1202.5852 binney , j. , & tremaine , s.  2008 , galactic dynamics : second edition , princeton university press borucki , w.  j. , et al .",
    "2010 , science , 327 , 977 borucki , w.  j. , et al .  2011a , , 728 , 117 borucki , w.  j. , et al .",
    "2011b , , 736 , 19 buchhave , l. , latham , d.  w. , johansen , a. , bizzarro m. , et al .",
    "2012 , nature , 486 , 375 butler , r.  p. , marcy , g.  w. , fischer , d.  a. , et al .  1999 , , 526 , 916 chambers , j.  e. , wetherill , g.  w. , & boss , a.  p.  1996 , icarus , 119 , 261 chambers , j.  e.  1999 , , 304 , 793 duncan , m.  j. , & lissauer , j.  j.  1997 , icarus , 125 , 1 fabrycky , d.  c. , et al .",
    "2012 , arxiv:1202.6328 fischer , d.  a. , & valenti , j. 2005 , , 622 , 1102 ford , e.  b. , & rasio , f.  a.  2008 , , 686 , 621 fressin , f. , torres , g. , rowe , j.  f. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 482 , 195 gladman , b.  1993 , icarus , 106 , 247 hayashi , c.  1981 , progress of theoretical physics supplement , 70 , 35 howell , s.  b. , everett , m.  e. , sherry , w. , horch , e. , & ciardi , d.  r. 2011 , , 142 , 19 latham , d.  w. , rowe , j.  f. , quinn , s.  n. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 732 , l24 lin , d.  n.  c. , bodenheimer , p. , & richardson , d.  c.  1996 , , 380 , 606 lissauer , j.  j. , et al .  2011a , , 470 , 53 lissauer , j.  j. , ragozzine , d. , fabrycky , d.  c. , et al .",
    "2011b , , 197 , 8 lissauer , j.  j. , marcy , g.  w. , rowe , j.  f. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 750 , 112 lovis , c. , sgransan , d. , mayor , m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 528 , a112 malmberg , d. , davies , m.  b. , & heggie , d.  c.  2011 , , 411 , 859 mayor , m. , & queloz , d.  1995 , , 378 , 355 mayor , m. , marmier , m. , lovis , c. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1109.2497 moorhead , a.  v. , ford , e.  b. , morehead , r.  c. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 197 , 1 morton , t.  d. , & johnson , j.  a.  2011 , , 738 , 170 muirhead , p.  s. , johnson , j.  a. , apps , k. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 747 , 144 ofir , a. , & dreizler , s.  2012 , arxiv:1206.5347 ragozzine , d. , & holman , m.  j.  2010 , arxiv:1006.3727 rasio , f.  a. , & ford , e.  b.  1996 , science , 274 , 954 raymond , s.  n. , armitage , p.  j. , & gorelick , n.  2009 , , 699 , l88 rivera , e.  j. , lissauer , j.  j. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 634 , 625 safronov , v.  s. , & zvjagina , e.  v.  1969 , icarus , 10 , 109 santos , n.  c. , israelian , g. , & mayor , m.  2004 , , 415 , 1153 smith , a.  w. , & lissauer , j.  j.  2009 , icarus , 201 , 381 sousa , s.  g. , santos , n.  c. , israelian , g. , mayor , m. , & udry , s. 2011 , , 533 , a141 tremaine , s. , & dong , s.  2011 , arxiv:1106.5403 udry , s. , & santos , n.  c.  2007 , , 45 , 397 udry , s. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 469 , l43 walsh , k.  j. , morbidelli , a. , raymond , s.  n. , obrien , d.  p. , & mandell , a.  m.  2011 , , 475 , 206 weidenschilling , s.  j. , & marzari , f.  1996 , , 384 , 619 weissbein , a. , steinberg , e. , & sari , r.  2012 , arxiv:1203.6072 wright , j.  t. , upadhyay , s. , marcy , g.  w. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 693 , 1084 youdin , a.  n.  2011 , , 742 , 38 zakamska , n.  l. , & tremaine , s.  2004 , , 128 , 869            and with a random longitude of ascending node .",
    "the absolute maximum relative inclination is @xmath92 , obtained for a planet pair whose orbits are both inclined by the angle @xmath9 but with opposite longitude of ascending node .",
    "the distribution peaks at a mutual inclination around @xmath12 . ]        . the same ratio in the _ kepler _ data , after applying selection criteria , is indicated by a star .",
    "it is not possible for any value of @xmath9 to get simultaneously the observed fraction of double - transit and single - transit systems . ]            , normalised to match the number of observed triple - transit systems at @xmath11 .",
    "the isotropic limits are indicated with dashed lines .",
    "triple - transit systems are quickly suppressed when increasing @xmath9 , but almost isotropic inclinations are needed to suppress double - transit systems .",
    "hence is is difficult for a second population of highly inclined triple - planet systems to avoid overproducing ( massive ) double - transit systems . ]      , with big crosses indicating the median instability time - scale and pluses the mean ( the bar shows the standard deviation ) .",
    "individual mass boosts are printed next to the mean , while the top axis shows the mass boost for koi-156 .",
    "the number of implementations of each system that are stable for more than either @xmath70 or @xmath62 years are shown at the top of the plot next to an upwards - pointing arrow .",
    "most systems need a mean hill radius separation @xmath94 to become unstable within @xmath71 years . ]",
    "-axis shows the results of forty initial representations of the mass - boosted system , sorted by increasing time for instability .",
    "an empty column at position 31 is used to separate systems with two remaining planets from systems with one remaining planet .",
    "typically the middle planet collides with the inner planet , or in cases where the system falls apart slowly , all three planets merge .",
    "the middle and top panels show the eccentricities and mutual inclinations of the post - encounter systems .",
    "the resulting eccentricity is typically @xmath95@xmath96 , while the mutual inclination ranges between 1 and 30 degrees . ]",
    "( horizontal axis ) and system multiplicity ( yellow bars : single - planet systems , red bars : double - planet systems , blue bars : triple - planet systems ) .",
    "here we have relaxed the assumption that all planetary systems are triple and allowed for both single - planet , double - planet , and triple - planet systems .",
    "increasing @xmath9 , the number of triple - planet systems increases , as does their contribution to single and double transits .",
    "the number of double - planet systems decreases slowly as @xmath9 increases , eventually dropping below zero for @xmath11 ( not shown ) .",
    "the necessary population of large single - planet systems is marked with a dotted line . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the planet candidates discovered by the _ kepler _ mission provide a rich sample to constrain the architectures and relative inclinations of planetary systems within approximately 0.5 au of their host stars . </S>",
    "<S> we use the triple - transit systems from the _ kepler _ 16-months data as templates for physical triple - planet systems and perform synthetic transit observations , varying the internal inclination variation of the orbits . </S>",
    "<S> we find that all the _ kepler _ triple - transit and double - transit systems can be produced from the triple - planet templates , given a low mutual inclination of around five degrees . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis shows that the _ kepler _ data contains a population of planets larger than four earth radii in single - transit systems that can not arise from the triple - planet templates . </S>",
    "<S> we explore the hypothesis that high - mass counterparts of the triple - transit systems underwent dynamical instability to produce a population of massive double - planet systems of moderately high mutual inclination . </S>",
    "<S> we perform @xmath0-body simulations of mass - boosted triple - planet systems and observe how the systems heat up and lose planets by planet - planet collisions , and less frequently by ejections or collisions with the star , yielding transits in agreement with the large planets in the _ kepler _ single - transit systems . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting population of massive double - planet systems can nevertheless not explain the additional excess of low - mass planets among the observed single - transit systems and the lack of gas - giant planets in double - transit and triple - transit systems . </S>",
    "<S> planetary instability of systems of triple gas - giant planets can be behind part of the dichotomy between systems hosting one or more small planets and those hosting a single giant planet . </S>",
    "<S> the main part of the dichotomy , however , is more likely to have arisen already during planet formation when the formation , migration or scattering of a massive planet , triggered above a threshold metallicity , suppressed the formation of other planets in sub - au orbits . </S>"
  ]
}