{
  "article_text": [
    "jupiter - family comet 103p / hartley 2 became one of the best - studied comets of all time when , in late-2010 , it simultaneously passed very close to the earth and was the subject of a flyby by the _ epoxi _ spacecraft ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "first results have already been published for _ epoxi _ spacecraft data @xcite , radar observations of the nucleus @xcite , composition of the coma @xcite , and morphology of the coma @xcite . these and earlier results will undoubtedly be discussed in more detail elsewhere in this special issue ; in the interest of brevity , we restrict our discusion to those results having bearing on our current work .",
    "we obtained both photometry and imaging of hartley 2 , and discuss the observations and reductions in section  [ sec : obs ] . in section  [ sec : photometry ]",
    "we discuss our photoelectric photometer measurements acquired during the 1991 , 1997/98 , and 2010/11 apparitions . due to unfavorable viewing geometry",
    ", we did not observe hartley 2 on its two other known apparition , 1986 ( when it was discovered ) or 2004 .",
    "previous investigators @xcite found a typical composition and a low dust - to - gas ratio . assuming that hartley 2 had a comparable active fraction to other comets ( @xmath010% ) , it was inferred to have a rather large nucleus ( of order a few km ) .",
    "the  flyby conclusively showed that hartley 2 has a small nucleus ( effective radius of 0.57@xmath30.02 km ; @xcite ) , confirming the conclusions of remote studies of the nucleus @xcite",
    ".  also revealed that the active fraction of the nucleus is relatively low and thus its `` hyperactivity '' necessitates an extended source of volatiles .",
    "numerous new water production measurements have recently been published in support of  and are compared with our measurements .",
    "we also follow up our previous investigation of the cn coma morphology in the 2010/2011 apparition .",
    "we discovered the existence of time - varying cn coma structures and used the repetition of these structures to measure a rotation period @xcite . in @xcite , henceforth `` paper 1 '' , we interpreted the morphology as likely being due to two `` jets '' whose appearance varied as the nucleus rotated , and evolved during the apparition .",
    "we used repetitions in the morphology to measure rotation periods monthly from 2010 august through 2010 november and determined that the rotation period was increasing during this time from @xmath016.7 hr in august to @xmath018.7 hr in november .",
    "we noted that the morphology did not exactly repeat from cycle to cycle , but repeated better after 3 , 6 , 9 ... cycles and inferred that it was in non - principal axis rotation with a component period roughly three times as long as the measured rotation period .",
    "similar coma morphology and rotation periods were reported by @xcite , whose images covered a comparable range of dates ( 2010 september 1 through december 15 ) .",
    "@xcite acquired snapshot imaging near perigee , reporting similar cn morphology and showing that the c@xmath2 coma morphology also resembled the cn coma morphology .",
    "et al . _ also reported the existence of a much smaller - scale dust jet in the sunward direction .",
    "a similar feature is visible in movies made from  hri images posted on the  website . @xcite",
    "obtained cn and c@xmath2 images near the time of the  flyby , finding a similar periodicity as we reported and noting the agreement of the cn and c@xmath2 morphology . in section  [ sec : gas_morphology ] we intercompare the coma morphology exhibited by various gas species ( cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , oh , and nh ) in 2010 october and november , and discuss the dust morphology , in particular looking for evidence of the dust jet .",
    "finally , in section  [ sec : disc ] we discuss our results and how they fit into the larger body of knowledge about hartley 2 acquired by  and numerous remote observers .",
    "we summarize our findings in section  [ sec : summary ] and briefly discuss their application to future modeling efforts .",
    "the goals of our studies of hartley 2 have varied , with composition and production rate studies the emphasis of the 1991 and 1997/98 apparitions and multiwavelength imaging the emphasis in 2010/11 ( with production rate and compositional monitoring a secondary emphasis ) .",
    "thus , our techniques and instrumentation have varied .",
    "the production rate and composition studies continue to be made with a traditional photoelectric photometer .",
    "this provides superior signal - to - noise for bulk coma measurements as compared to a ccd and also ensures continuity with earlier data sets .",
    "the imaging necessarily requires use of a ccd .",
    "all photometer observations were obtained with the hall 42-in ( 1.1-m ) telescope at lowell observatory except for one night in 1997 which was made using lowell s 0.9-m telescope at perth observatory .",
    "imaging observations were acquired with either the hall 42-in or the 31-in ( 0.8-m ) telescopes at lowell observatory . in total , we acquired two nights of photometry in 1991 , four nights of photometry in 1997/98 , 13 nights of photometry in 2010/11 , and 39 nights of imaging in 2010/11 .",
    "the observing circumstances for all nights of imaging and photometry are given in tables  [ t : imaging_circ ] and [ t : phot_circ ] , respectively .",
    "the photometers used had emi 6256 photomultiplier tubes and pulse counting systems except for the sole night ( 1997 december 1 ) at perth observatory where a dc amplifier was employed . the hale - bopp ( hb ) narrowband filter set @xcite was utilized in 1997 and later , superceding the international halley watch ( ihw ) set @xcite used in 1991 .",
    "hb filters were also used for the ccd observations , along with a broadband cousins r filter for increased signal - to - noise for dust measurements .",
    "the narrowband comet filters used for both our photometry and imaging isolate emission from daughter gas species ( oh , nh , cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 ) or reflected solar continuum from dust ( continuum filters in the uv ( uc ) , blue ( bc ) , green ( gc ) , and red ( rc ) ) .",
    "the comet filters are regularly used to study dust and coma in comets ( e.g. , @xcite ) . using the method described in @xcite and @xcite ,",
    "we `` decontaminate '' the data by removing the underlying signal due to reflected solar continuum ( and in the case of cn and nh , contamination from c@xmath2 as well ) from gas bandpasses to yield pure gas and pure dust data .",
    "the 1.1-m images were obtained using an e2v ccd231 - 84 chip with 4k@xmath44k pixels which was binned 2@xmath42 at the telescope , resulting in a pixel scale of 0.74 arcsec .",
    "the 0.8-m images were obtained with an e2v ccd42 - 40 chip with 2k@xmath42k pixels and a pixel scale of 0.46 arcsec . at times images",
    "were rebinned by an additional factor of 2 during processing to improve the effective signal - to - noise ; the final pixel scales of these images were 1.48 arcse for 1.1-m images and 0.92 arcsec for 0.8-m images .",
    "earlier studies of hartley 2 had concluded that it has a small , `` hyperactive '' nucleus ( e.g. , @xcite ) , so our imaging program focused on coma morphology rather than direct nucleus studies . throughout the apparition , we regularly monitored the comet in broadband r and narrowband cn filters , with occasional narrowband blue continuum ( bc ) images as well .",
    "on photometric nights we used additional hb narrowband filters , increasing the variety and frequency as the comet brightened and shorter exposure times were possible .",
    "images using an h@xmath1o@xmath5 filter were only obtained on 2010 november 4 , in support of concurrent _ chandra _ observations being conducted by @xcite ; they are not discussed further in this paper .",
    "see table  [ t : imaging_circ ] for a list of the filters used on a given night .",
    "exposure times varied by filter and with the comet s brightness , but ranged from as long as 900 s ( oh in september ) to as short as 30 s ( r in november ) .",
    "most r , oh , and cn images were obtained in sets of 310 images while most images in other filters were obtained as single images . all 1.1-m images were guided at the comet s rate of motion while all 0.8-m images were tracked at the comet s rate of motion ( the 0.8-m does not have guiding capability ) .",
    "the hb filters are parfocal and since the primary goal of the imaging campaign was gas coma morphology , we focused for these filters rather than for the r - band .",
    "our entire hartley 2 campaign coincided with a separate effort to measure the nucleus lightcurve of 10p / tempel 2 @xcite .",
    "as tempel 2 s period is known precisely , and is near 9 hr and changing by @xmath0 + 0.005 hr per orbit @xcite , we required regular monitoring of its lightcurve over many months to detect a change in the period .",
    "fortunately , tempel 2 generally set as hartley 2 was rising , but occasionally we split time on both objects .",
    "thus , our temporal coverage of hartley 2 was slightly less complete than it might have otherwise been , but this did not significantly affect any science results on hartley 2 .",
    "we removed the bias and applied a flat field following standard reduction techniques .",
    "we observed hb narrowband standard stars @xcite on all photometric nights .",
    "for these nights , we followed our standard photometric procedures @xcite to determine flux calibrations and process the narrowband images into pure gas and pure dust images .",
    "as discussed in paper 1 , there was not significant contamination from the dust continuum in cn images .",
    "this allowed us to make morphological assessments of cn images on non - photometric nights ( when we could not generate fully `` decontaminated '' images ) .",
    "we normally only observe additional species on photometric nights , but obtained images in other filters despite non - photometric conditions on november 4 in support of the  flyby",
    ". we centroided by fitting a two - dimensional gaussian to the apparent photocenter of each image .",
    "as discussed in paper 1 , the jets observed in hartley 2 can pull the centroid away from the nucleus .",
    "however , the central condensation generally dominated over any coma features and we estimate that our centroids are accurate to better than 1.5 arcsec .",
    "we investigated various enhancement techniques ( e.g. , @xcite ) but utilized division by an azimuthal median profile for all images shown in this paper .",
    "an observational set for photometry consisted of five gas filters ( oh , nh , cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 ) along with two ( 3650 and 4845  ) or three ( 3448 , 4450 , and 5260  ) continuum filters associated with the ihw or hb filter sets , respectively .",
    "three observational sets were obtained in 1991 , four sets in 1997/98 , and 55 sets in 2010/11 in support of , with multiple sets often obtained on a single night .",
    "photometer entrance aperture diameters ranged between 24 and 156 arcsec while projected aperture radii ranged from as small as 1950 km near perigee in 2010 october to as large as 47,900 km , with a median radius of 10,500 km .",
    "our standard procedures were used in data acquisition and basic reductions ( see @xcite ) , with appropriate changes associated with the newer hb filters ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) ; and improved decontamination for the ihw filters ( cf .",
    "gas fluorescence efficiencies that vary with heliocentric velocity are listed in table  [ t : phot_circ ] ; sources are given in @xcite . to extrapolate the resulting column abundances to total coma abundances ,",
    "a standard haser model was applied , using the scalelengths given in @xcite , and then gas production rates ( @xmath6 ) were computed by dividing the total abundances by the assumed daughter lifetimes .",
    "finally , water production rates were computed from the oh results using our empirical conversion ( @xcite ; also see @xcite ) . to quantify the dust",
    ", we continue to use the quantity   and , as appropriate , we have now applied a phase correction to the phase angle , @xmath7 , listed in table  [ t : phot_circ ] ( see @xcite ) to obtain @xmath8(0)@xmath9 .",
    "one - sigma uncertainties based on the photon statistics associated with each data point were computed for the resulting @xmath6s and s. these were generally fairly small except for early and late in the 2010/11 apparition when we were attempting to extend the temporal coverage as much as possible and hartley 2 was quite faint .",
    "we first present our photometric results for the three apparitions for which we have data . in table",
    "[ t : phot_flux ] we list emission band and continuum fluxes ( as logarithms ) along with the resulting gas column abundances , m(@xmath10 ) , while the derived gas production rates and   values for each continuum point are given in table  [ t : phot_rates ] as well as the vectorial - equivalent water production rate in the rightmost column . note that although the 1-@xmath11 uncertainties are unbalanced in log - space , we only list the `` + '' log value for clarity and to save space ; the `` @xmath12 '' values can be computed knowing that the percent uncertainties are balanced .",
    "the derived production rates for each gas species and  for the green continuum are plotted as logarithms in figure  [ fig : phot1 ] as a function of time from perihelion .",
    "the two most obvious characteristics are that the earlier apparitions generally have higher production rates than the most recent apparition and that all species exhibit a bulk asymmetry about perihelion , with values higher after but by varying amounts . as is usual for jupiter - family comets ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) , the heliocentric distance dependancies for the gas species ( log @xmath6 vs log ) are significantly steeper than a canonical @xmath13 ( or @xmath14 if adjusting for gas outflow velocities ) . based solely on the 2010/11 apparition , the slopes for the carbon - bearing species range from @xmath123.4 to @xmath124.1 before perihelion and from @xmath123.2 to @xmath123.5 after , while oh is @xmath124.6 prior to and @xmath124.0 after , and nh has an uncertain value of @xmath127.1 before and @xmath124.9 after perihelion ( see table  [ t : table5 ] ) .",
    "the -dependancy for the dust , @xmath15 , before perihelion is quite similar to those exhibited by the carbon - bearing species , especially if one normalizes to 0  phase angle . specifically , the three continuum points have values for the slopes from @xmath122.8 to @xmath123.6 ( self - consistent given the large uncertainties ) when using  while somewhat higher values from @xmath123.4 to @xmath124.1 using @xmath8(0)@xmath16@xmath10 .",
    "although the adjustment for phase angle has a larger effect after perihelion  going from @xmath121.0 to @xmath121.2 without adjustment to @xmath121.7 to @xmath121.9 when normalized  as seen in other comets , including 19p / borrelly @xcite and 67p / churyumov - gerasimenko @xcite , the -dependancies for dust are much shallower than that of the gas species following perihelion .",
    "as we suggested in borrelly s case , the very shallow slope after perihelion is likely due to the release of larger , very slow moving grains near perihelion and peak water production , and these grains remain in the inner coma far longer than the more typical micron - sized dust particles . note that @xmath15 also exhibits the usual trend with aperture size , where larger apertures yield smaller values , indicating that the dust spatial distribution with projected distance from the nucleus is steeper than the canonical 1/@xmath10 . since our projected aperture sizes were generally larger when the comet was at larger heliocentric distances , the -dependences just - discussed would have been even shallower had an adjustment for aperture size been performed , thereby magnifying the post - perihelion effect .",
    "returning to the earlier apparitions of the 1990s , we first note that all observational sets from 1997/98 are higher than corresponding data from 2010 except for the sole continuum point after perihelion that can be explained by a combination of aperture and phase angle effects .",
    "the measured offset between these two apparitions ranges between about a factor of 1.5 and 2.0 among all species , far more than can be explained by the change in solar flux caused by the increase in perihelion distance from 1.032 au in 1997 to 1.059 au in 2010 . while our data are even sparser in 1991 , with only three data sets on two nights , the measured offset is much greater , corresponding to a factor of 34 as compared to 2010 .",
    "again , this is far greater than expected due to solar illumination ",
    "perihelion was 0.953 au in 1991 , resulting in only a 25% difference . to examine this further",
    ", we next intercompare a variety of water measurements from all three apparitions .      as indicated in section  [ sec : phot_obs ] , we can compute vectorial - equivalent water production rates from our haser - model oh production rates , and we plot these in figure  [ fig : phot2 ] .",
    "we also overlay all other published water production values , including when available the uncertainties .",
    "we were surprised at the large amount of dispersion , even when only examining one apparition at a time .",
    "while some of this dispersion is likely due to differences in modeling parameters , some due to species - related issues ( data are from direct water measurements in the ir , oh in the near - uv and radio , and h in the far - uv ) , and some due to varying dilutions by older material associated with an extremely large range of effective aperture sizes for the measurements , there remains a great deal of variability within some individual data sets , especially as compared to the apparent smooth curve with time evident in our own data .",
    "looking in detail first at the 2010/11 apparition , the variability seen in the most comprehensive data set from _",
    "soho_/swan @xcite is sometimes very small ( @xmath17 t = @xmath1227 to @xmath1210 day ) but other times more than a factor of two in only a few days . and",
    "while it first appears that our data are systematically higher than that from _ soho_/swan , a closer examination reveals excellent agreement when data were obtained near - concurrently , such as at @xmath17 t of @xmath1228/@xmath1227 day , + 19 day , and + 46 day ( where the _",
    "soho_/swan point is nearly invisible due to the overlap ) .",
    "other data sets , such as keck @xcite , also suggest considerable short - term variability during some intervals in the apparition .",
    "based on the ensemble of data , we conclude that our own smooth curve during 2010/11 was partly caused by having only one successful night of photometry on the majority of our observing runs , due to a combination of relatively poor weather and our focus towards obtaining imaging data ( section 4 ) .",
    "another factor is simple random chance ; for instance our data sets from nov 16 ( + 19 days ) and dec 13 ( + 46 days ) are in complete agreement with other data on those nights .",
    "however , in neither case are these data similar in value to data obtained during the prior @xmath010 days .    turning next to 1997/98 , _",
    "soho_/swan @xcite again provides the most complete record , with one interval after perihelion showing a long steady decline while at other times much larger variability is evident . also , in 1997 , _",
    "soho_/swan measurements are systematically higher than ours , opposite of the case in 2010 , but our two pre - perihelion data points each occur at minima of the _ soho_/swan data set .",
    "when looked at together , it becomes clear that there was a much greater drop in production rates between 1997 and 2010 , by about a factor of 3 , than our data alone suggested .",
    "by extension , this would also indicate a smaller change took place between 1991 and 1997 , and this is consistent with the only other published data point from 1991 ( _ hst _ ; @xcite ) , along with an unpublished _ iue _ measurement taken within the week that was stated by weaver et al . to be similar in value . allowing for the change in perihelion distances by comparing the 1991 data with an extrapolated heliocentric distance trend post - perihelion , our 1991 data are about 50% higher while the _ hst _ ( and _ iue _ ) points are nearly 90% higher than 1997 .",
    "while the sparseness of the 1991 data and the large variability that is expected to be present make this result somewhat uncertain , the data are suggestive that water production rates were @xmath070% greater in 1991 than in 1997 .    from these water data ,",
    "we conclude that there was a large ( @xmath03@xmath4 ) decrease in water vaporization between 1997 and 2010 ( an interval of two orbits ) , and a smaller ( @xmath01.7@xmath4 ) decrease between 1991 and 1997 ( a single orbit ) , which implies a relatively consistent drop of about 40% from one apparition to the next .",
    "there is also considerable evidence for a stochastic amount of variability in water production as a function of time .",
    "there were intervals when variability was small , smooth , and exhibited trends consistent with the change in distance from the sun , and other times when variability was far larger and apparently sporadic .",
    "another striking comparison is the opposite trends evident in the soho data sets in the 3 - 4 weeks immediately after perihelion in 1997 versus 2010 .",
    "given the evidence from the  mission that there were several isolated source regions on the nucleus , coupled with evidence for a complex rotational state and a changing rotational period of at least one of the rotational components , we conclude that at least one source region experiences a very complicated solar illumination from a combination of these rotational effects .",
    "we further suggest that the intervals of smooth trends interrupted by intervals of much larger variability may be directly associated with the beat between the two periods , and how this beat changed with the changing period(s ) .",
    "the absolute values of the water production can also yield a nominal surface area of vaporization .",
    "our values in 2010 near perihelion and the  encounter imply an active area of 34 km@xmath18 , just below the measured nucleus surface area of @xmath04.2 km@xmath18 ( based on a mean radius of 0.58@xmath30.02 km from @xcite ) .",
    "note that far more surface area than exists on the nucleus would have been required to produce the amount of water detected in the 1990s .",
    "the significance of this will be returned to in section  [ sec : disc ] .",
    "the composition of hartley 2 , based on the abundance ratios of the minor gas species computed using the ratios of their respective production rates with respect to oh , are given in table 5 .",
    "here we also provide our standard uncertainties , the @xmath11 of the data , which we have tabulated in our previous single comet papers , along with the @xmath11 of the mean .",
    "the former describes the dispersion of the data , due to observational errors , modeling effects , and intrinsic variations in the comet itself , while the latter better describes how well each mean ratio is determined .",
    "hartley 2 s composition clearly places it in the middle of the `` typical '' classification from @xcite , consistent with our result from the 1991 apparition that was included in ahearn et al . using this same classification scheme , @xcite find the same result from their spectroscopic observations .",
    "the comet is also classified as `` typical '' by @xcite using his own definition of compositional classes .    determining a single mean value for",
    "the dust - to - gas ratio is more problematic for several reasons , including the trend in @xmath15 values with aperture size , the much shallower -dependence following perihelion , and phase angle effects .",
    "since the first two issues are incorporated in our calculation of the uncertainties of the data for the dust - to - gas ratio , we make no further adjustments . regarding phase angle effects",
    ", we compute both an unadjusted value , i.e. /@xmath6(oh ) , for direct comparison to other comets in @xcite , along with a normalized value to 0  phase angle . our results for the green continuum were @xmath1225.84 and @xmath1225.44 , respectively , corresponding to a relatively low dust - to - gas ratio , especially as compared to other jupiter - family comets .",
    "finally , based on the three continuum points we measure , the dust is nearly grey in color , with reddening of less than 10% per 1000     through most of the apparition .",
    "however , at the end of october , when our projected apertures were smallest , the color in the uv was as high as 30% per 1000   .",
    "this result is consistent with that by @xcite who detect a stronger reddening in the inner - most coma , but note that the reddening decreases with distance and also varies with direction in the coma and that the dust is blue in some locations .",
    "paper 1 focused on hartley 2 s cn coma morphology .",
    "we summarize the relevant results here to place the morphology observed in oh , nh , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , and dust into context .",
    "we observed two cn features , generally towards the north and south . in august and",
    "september only the northern feature was seen , and had the appearance of a nearly face - on spiral . in october ,",
    "november , and december the morphology was roughly an hourglass shape , with outward motion visible and the relative brightnesses of the northern and southern features varying . in january the signal - to - noise was poor and only the southern feature was detected .",
    "the cn morphology varied smoothly during a night and similar , but not identical , morphology was seen on subsequent nights .",
    "the similar morphology allowed us to estimate a rotation period during the august to november runs , and the period increased by @xmath02 hr ( from @xmath016.7 hr to @xmath018.7 hr ) during this time .",
    "the differences in morphology implied the existence of small deviations from a principal axis rotation .",
    "the morphology repeated much better 3 , 6 , 9 ... cycles apart than it did 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 ... cycles apart , implying a component rotation period @xmath03@xmath4 the `` primary '' rotation period .",
    "similar morphology was reported by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , and the changing rotation period and non - principal axis rotation were confirmed by other observers ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "cn is generally the gas species of choice for investigations of gas coma features with narrowband filters because it is vastly brighter than oh or nh and has a better contrast relative to the dust than c@xmath1 , c@xmath2 , or nh . cn jets were first detected in the coma of 1p / halley @xcite and jets and/or fans have now been detected in numerous other comets , e.g. , c/1995 o1 hale - bopp @xcite , c/2004 q2 machholz @xcite , 8p / tuttle @xcite , and c/2007 n3 lulin @xcite .",
    "the coma morphology of the other gas species has only been published for a few very bright comets , e.g. , 1p / halley @xcite and c/1995 o1 hale - bopp @xcite .",
    "hartley 2 s very small geocentric distance during the 2010/11 apparition allowed us to observe it with unusually high spatial resolution , making a multiwavelength study of coma morphology highly desirable .",
    "as listed in table  [ t : imaging_circ ] , we obtained c@xmath1 and c@xmath2 images on photometric nights from august through november , oh images on photometric nights from september through november , and nh images on photometric nights in october and november ( although the lone october nh image is unusable due to a tracking error ) .",
    "the comet was easily detectable in all of these raw images and after removal of dust contamination .",
    "however , sufficient signal - to - noise to allow meaningful analysis of the enhanced images was only possible in october and november for species other than cn .",
    "we show cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , oh , nh , and dust on november 2 and 3 in figure  [ fig : gas_morph1 ] ; comparable data were obtained on october 16 and november 7 but are not shown .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : gas_morph1 ] , the c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 morphology looked generally similar to the cn morphology . on november 2",
    ", all three species exhibited an hourglass - like shape , with a stronger feature to the north and a fainter feature to the south ; the southern feature can be seen leaving the nucleus towards the southwest . on november 3 ,",
    "the cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 showed a somewhat different hourglass shape , with the the southern feature much brighter relative to the northern feature than on november 2 .",
    "all three species were much fainter along the sun - tail line ( roughly east - west ) than along the axis of the hourglass feature .",
    "the cn signal was typically lowest in the tailward direction , whereas the c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 signals were typically slightly fainter in the sunward direction .",
    "the overall bulk brightness of c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 varied in correlation with the bulk cn brightness , e.g. , generally brighter to the north on november 2 and generally brighter to the south on november 3 .    in order to quantify the differences between the gas species ,",
    "we show their spatial profiles in figure  [ fig : profiles ] .",
    "we plot the flux ( as measured on decontaminated , but not enhanced , images ) on november 2 as a function of distance from the nucleus in 10@xmath19 wide wedges centered along position angles ( pas ) of : 10@xmath19 ( perpendicular to the sunward direction , to the north ) , 100@xmath19 ( the sunward direction ) , 190@xmath19 ( perpendicular to the sunward direction , to the south ) , and 280@xmath19 ( the tailward direction ) .",
    "these profiles extend to the edges of the images shown in figure  [ fig : gas_morph1 ] .",
    "the inner @xmath0800 km are not plotted as there are very few pixels in each wedge at these distances , causing small fluctuations to be exaggerated .",
    "the northern and southern cn profiles were @xmath020% and @xmath010% brighter than the sunward profile , respectively .",
    "the cn tailward profile was roughly the same brightness as the sunward profile .",
    "the c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 profiles were both brightest to the north , followed by the south , then tailward , and finally sunward . the north , south , and tailward profiles were 1030% brighter than the sunward profile .",
    "note that these brightnesses are along the line of sight and are products of projection effects , each species parentage , and excess velocities acquired .",
    "thus , brightness enhancements in a particular direction relative to the sunward direction ( which did not have any obvious jets ) are likely only lower limits , and the actual ratio of the material originating from the nucleus in each direction may be substantially higher .",
    "dividing the c@xmath1 and c@xmath2 images by the cn images revealed minimal differences in their morphologies , with the primary feature ( the hourglass shape ) disappearing in quotient images .",
    "as is clearly evident in figure  [ fig : profiles ] , the c@xmath2 does not extend as far as the other gas species .",
    "this was partially due to the higher signal - to - noise in cn and c@xmath1 as compared to c@xmath2 , however , it was mostly due to the differing lifetimes of the species and their respective parentages ; c@xmath2 and its parents have much shorter lifetimes than either c@xmath1 or cn and their respective parents ( cf .",
    "c@xmath1 appeared quite similar to cn but was more diffuse because it has multiple parents and grandparents , whereas cn is primarily a daughter species .",
    "the multiple parentages of c@xmath1 cause its radial profile to be flatter than the profiles of either cn or c@xmath2 .",
    "owing to the shorter observing window when the comet was brightest and the desire to acquire images in a large number of filters , we usually only acquired one or two c@xmath1 or c@xmath2 images per night . thus , we can not investigate how the morphology of these species compares as a function of rotation period .",
    "however , on every night in which we saw cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 with sufficient signal - to - noise to discern varitions in the coma , the morphologies appeared to be completely consistent except for the parentage and lifetime effects discussed above .",
    "this leads us to conclude that the c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 species exhibit the same rotational and seasonal morphology as cn and therefore originate from the same source region(s ) on the surface .",
    "near the nucleus , the nh displayed some of the hourglass morphology of cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 .",
    "the features appeared to originate from separate northern and southern sources , although the distinction between the features in the tailward direction was less obvious than for cn , c@xmath2 , or c@xmath1 .",
    "the relative brightness of the northern and southern features varied in correlation with changes in the brightness of these features in cn .",
    "nh had a strong asymmetry in brightness of the sunward and tailward hemispheres , with the tailward hemisphere always being substantially brighter .",
    "the bulk brightness of the nh images displayed little variation from night to night .",
    "the radial profiles demonstrate the extent of the tailward brightness enhancement , as the north , west , and south profiles all remained at least 20% higher than the eastern ( sunward ) profile to the edge of the images displayed in figure  [ fig : gas_morph1 ] . as with c@xmath1 ,",
    "the nh radial profiles were rather flat due to its being primarily a granddaughter species .",
    "we used the photometry to determine the amount of reddening to apply in order to properly remove the underlying continuum from the nh .",
    "however , it is likely that the continuum was somewhat over - removed in the innermost coma ( @xmath203000 km ) because the dust was increasingly reddened at progressively smaller distances from the nucleus , resulting in the unusually flat profile .",
    "the morphology most different from cn was oh . the oh morphology near the nucleus showed only hints of the hourglass shape .",
    "unlike the other gas species , the feature did not have distinct northern and southern components , but was essentially continuous from the north through the west ( tailward ) to the south .",
    "the relative brightnesses of the north and south features of the hourglass vary much less than the other gas species . like",
    "nh , the tailward hemisphere was much brighter than the sunward hemisphere .",
    "furthermore , at larger distances the oh was brighter toward the north on all four nights in november , and the bulk brightness did not vary significantly from night to night .",
    "the tailward profile was @xmath035% higher than the sunward profile , while the northern and southern profiles were 2025% higher than the sunward profile .",
    "the striking differences between the coma morphologies of oh and cn was seen on every night in which we have usable oh data , as shown in figure  [ fig : gas_morph2 ] . in each of these images",
    "the oh signal near the nucleus showed hints of the hourglass shape seen in cn ( although the faint cn feature near the nucleus and towards the southeast on november 4 is absent in oh ) .",
    "the tailward oh hemisphere was always much brighter than the sunward hemisphere , and the dust tail ( bc ) almost perfectly bisected the oh distribution in all images , including october 16 when the geometry was substantially different .",
    "the hemispheric brightness asymmetry and the lack of variation in the bulk brightness from night to night suggest that there is a smearing across rotational phase in the oh signal , and that the changing viewing geometry was primarily responsible for the changes in oh morphology between october and november .    as with c@xmath1 and c@xmath2",
    ", we typically only acquired one or two sets of oh and nh on a given night so we can not determine the morphology throughout an entire rotation cycle .",
    "however , during each night in which we observed oh and nh , their bulk coma morphologies looked similar  concentrated in the tailward hemisphere  and distinctly different than cn , c@xmath1 , or c@xmath2 .",
    "the consequences of these determinations will be returned to in section  [ sec : disc ] .",
    "the dust morphology of hartley 2 was dominated by the tail throughout the apparition .",
    "figure  [ fig : r_morph ] shows enhanced r - band images monthly from 2010 august through 2011 january .",
    "this same shape was seen , albeit with lower signal - to - noise , in the narrowband continuum filters : uv , blue , green , and red . in all cases",
    "the dominant feature was roughly straight and in the anti - sunward direction ( the pa of the sun is labeled on each panel ) .",
    "it does not vary with rotational phase and is consistent with the expected position of the dust tail , confirming that it is the dust tail .",
    "overall , the brightness of the dust systematically decreased as a function of pa from the tailward direction to the sunward direction .",
    "radial profiles of the four fundamental directions are shown in figure  [ fig : profiles ] .",
    "we detected a very faint sunward facing dust jet near the nucleus , as also reported by @xcite and @xcite . while difficult to see in figures  [ fig : gas_morph1 ] and [ fig : gas_morph2 ] , it can be seen in the bc profile in figure  [ fig : profiles ] , as the sunward profile is slightly higher than the northern or southern profiles out to @xmath01600 km .",
    "the jet was nearly radial and showed minimal change in shape , position angle , or extent during the course of a night , but varied somewhat from night to night .",
    "we show examples of the jet near the start and end of the night in enhanced continuum images on 2010 november 2 , 3 , 4 , and 7 in figure  [ fig : dust_jet ] .",
    "the jet s appearance was relatively similar on november 2 and 7 , pointing nearly due east at pas of @xmath095@xmath19 and @xmath0100@xmath19 , respectively .",
    "it had a slightly different appearance on november 3 and 4 , when it was to the southeast at pas of @xmath0115@xmath19 and @xmath0125@xmath19 , and extended farther than on november 2 or 7 . at its maximum extent ( on november 3 ) , the dust jet was visible to 2025 arcsec from the nucleus , although signal - to - noise and our enhancement techniques may have prevented us from seeing it extend farther .",
    "hints of the dust jet were apparent in the october 16 and 17 continuum images , but the extent was much smaller ( @xmath2010 arcsec ) than in early november despite better signal - to - noise .",
    "the lack of a firm detection in october may have been because the jet was inactive or it may simply have been due to projection effects .",
    "the dust jet was not detectable in our data from other months , presumably due to the significantly lower signal - to - noise and larger geocentric distance as compared to 2010 october and november . at no time",
    "did we observe a corresponding gas feature .",
    "surprisingly , the dust jet was easier to detect in our narrowband dust images  blue continuum ( bc ) , green continuum ( gc ) , and red continuum ( rc )  than in the broadband r images .",
    "we applied several additional enhancement techniques to the r - band images in an effort to study the dust jet with more temporal resolution than the continuum images offered .",
    "however , we could not consistently detect the dust jet in consecutive r - band images despite the r - band images having a higher signal - to - noise than the continuum images .",
    "all of our hartley 2 observations were focused for the hb narrowband filters , resulting in a typical r - band fwhm of @xmath06 arcsec .",
    "given the faintness of the dust jet , this r - band defocusing appears to have been sufficient to obscure the dust jet .",
    "since , as was the case for c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , oh , and nh , we only obtained narrowband dust images occasionally , we do not have full rotational coverage .",
    "thus we can not determine how the dust jet varied with rotation , but our limited data exhibit a slower rate of change than was exhibited by the gas jet(s ) .",
    "the coma morphologies varied across the five gas species we observed . at one extreme was cn whose morphology was dominated by an hourglass shaped feature . at the opposite extreme was oh , whose morphology appeared to be an amalgamation of the cn hourglass feature and the tail - dominated dust . in between these extremes were c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 , whose morphologies were generally quite similar to the cn , and the nh , which appeared to be intermediate to the cn and the oh . the presence of the hourglass shape exhibited clearly in cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 , and to a lesser extent by nh and oh suggests that all five species originate from the same source region(s ) on the nucleus .",
    "this is supported by the observation that the relative brightness of the northern and southern features in cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , and nh vary in concert , and also that the cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 morphologies are in agreement from night to night .",
    "the relative brightness of the oh hourglass features did not vary as much as the other gas species , and oh also exhibited more near - nucleus coma signal in the tailward direction than the other species .",
    "the hemispheric asymmetry of oh and nh as well as the relative uniformity of their bulk brightness ( after enhancement ) suggest that a substantial fraction of the oh and nh is derived from small icy grains which survived long enough to be subject to radiation pressure and swept tailward .",
    "the infilling of oh and nh throughout the tailward hemisphere is likely due to the velocities in random directions acquired by the parent molecules as they leave the grains .",
    "observed numerous individual chunks up to @xmath020 cm in radius within 30 km of the nucleus @xcite and @xcite reported a significant population of large ( @xmath21 cm ) dust grains near the nucleus .",
    "_ suggest that these large grains break up into @xmath01 @xmath22 m solid grains , with the smaller grains providing the surface area necessary to explain hartley 2 s `` hyperactivity . ''",
    "the bulk brightness enhancement of the oh and nh in the tailward hemisphere supports this model , with the micron - sized grains containing the water and ammonia that eventually produced the oh and nh .    revealed distinctly different terrain on the nucleus , with a smooth `` waist '' connecting two rougher lobes @xcite .",
    "ahearn _ et al_. determined that different material was coming from these two regions , with h@xmath1o vapor coming primarily from the waist and co@xmath1 , h@xmath1o ice , and organics coming primarily from an end .",
    "thus , it is likely that the cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , oh , and nh originate near an end of a lobe , presumably from one or more of the many active regions observed by .",
    "another very strong constraint is the observation from our photometry that the ratios of the minor species to water are normal ; therefore , the vast majority of all of our observed species must be originating at the same time and location .",
    "the differences in the bulk morphology between the nh and oh and the cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 can be explained if the icy grains containing oh and nh are separated from the parents / grandparents of cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 ( either as smaller grains or simply as vapor ) soon after being released from the nucleus .",
    "such a scenario suggests that there may have been an intrinsic difference in the protosolar grains out of which hartley 2 formed , with the parents of oh and nh ( primarily water and ammonia , respectively ) preferentially being contained in larger grains ( and possibly intermixed as `` dirty '' ice ) while the parents of cn , c@xmath1 , and c@xmath2 were contained in smaller grains or were deposited primarily on the surface of larger grains .",
    "it is somewhat troubling that such a difference in grain compositions has never been detected in other comets ( especially in light of hartley 2 s `` typical '' composition ) , but given the relative uniqueness of hartley 2 s `` hyperactivity , '' it is not surprising that it may have exhibited other unusual properties ; note that no other comet showing hyperactivity has been visited by a spacecraft .",
    "the mechanism for lifting large grains , suggested to be co@xmath1 @xcite , may be vigorous enough to lift off large chunks of the surface _ in toto _",
    ", likely resulting in a considerably different removal of material than the canonical model of cometary activity which envisions gas leaving through pores in the surface and entraining small bits of dust in the process .",
    "conversely , very few comets have been imaged in nh and/or oh owing to their low signal and high atmospheric extinction .",
    "thus , the different coma morphologies of oh and nh compared with the carbon bearing species may not , in fact , be unusual .    as discussed in section  [ sec : dust_morphology ] , the dust jet showed little variation during a night but changed somewhat from night to night , always being in the same general direction .",
    "these two points are consistent with the apparent non - principal axis rotation of the nucleus ( cf .",
    "@xcite ; paper 1 ) .",
    "the first point suggests that the source of the jet might be located near the comet s total angular momentum vector , the axis around which the nucleus was apparently `` precessing '' with a period near 18.3 hr at the time ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) , resulting in little change in the morphology over a night .",
    "the second point could be caused by hartley 2 s longer `` rotation '' period of @xmath055 hr at the time of the observations .",
    "this would not have much effect on the jet s appearance over the course of one night ( only @xmath010% of a 55 hr period ) , but would cause changes from night to night ( when the rotational phase had changed by roughly 45% ) .",
    "the lack of a gas feature corresponding to the dust jet implies that the dust is lifted from the surface by some other volatile .",
    "the most likely candidates are co and , more likely , co@xmath1 , which @xcite concluded drives activity on hartley 2 .",
    "presumably this source has little to no cn , c@xmath2 , c@xmath1 , oh , or nh since no corresponding gas jet was seen ; their absence implies that the source has a different composition than the source(s ) of the hourglass features and suggests some heterogeneity of the hartley 2 nucleus .",
    "we do not see evidence of radiation pressure affecting the dust jet , which implies we are primarily seeing large dust grains .",
    "the velocity dispersion of large grains would be expected to mask much of the rotational signature of the dust jets .",
    "since we do not see any evidence of dust jets near the locations of the hourglass features in the gas , we infer that the gas jet(s ) do not have substantial quantities of large grains .",
    "instead , the jet(s ) likely lifts small grains which are rapidly pushed tailward ; a similar population of small dust grains subject to radiation pressure is likely present in the dust jet and goes similarly undetected .",
    "we next turn to the observation ( section  [ sec : composition ] ) that the production rates have trended downwards steadily from 1991 to 1997/98 to 2010/11 even after accounting for the increase in perihelion distance between apparitions .",
    "we speculate that this may be due to the relative youth of the nucleus . in the early twentieth century , hartley 2 had a perihelion distance ( @xmath23 ) near 2 au and an orbital period near 9 yr .",
    "close approaches to jupiter in 1947 and 1971 caused a drop in the perihelion distance , putting hartley 2 in an orbit reaching @xmath01 au .",
    "if the primary driver of activity was something more volatile than h@xmath1o such as co@xmath1 as suggested by @xcite ( co is less likely due to the extremely low abundance ; @xcite ) , then the injection into a smaller-@xmath23 orbit may be rapidly depleting the co@xmath1 . since vigorous activity",
    "is required to lift off large chunks of particles necessary to produce the `` hyperactivity '' , a rapid decrease in the production of co@xmath1 would cause a correspondingly large drop in the production rate of h@xmath1o .",
    "the factor of 1.53 drop in the production rates between 1997/98 and 2010/11 spanned two perihelion passages ( we are not aware of any published production rate measurements from the 2004 apparition ) , allowing additional time for production from such areas to decrease .",
    "as there were no systematic surveys that would have been sensitive to this intrinsically faint comet on earlier , less favorable , apparitions , we can not place meaningful constraints on the production rates prior to its discovery in 1986 .",
    "if a similar rate of decrease in production rate occurred between 1971 and 1991 , hartley 2 may have been as much as a factor of 810 more active in 1971 ( when it was first perturbed into the current orbit ) than in 2010/11 .",
    "an alternative , but less likely , explanation for the decreased production rates since 1997/98 may simply be that the illumination of active regions was different between the apparitions .",
    "hartley 2 exhibited a rapid spin - down coupled with non - principal axis rotation during the 2010/11 apparition ( cf .",
    "it is possible that on previous orbits the interplay of the complex rotation and the apparently increasing and decreasing component periods ( cf .",
    "the supporting online materials from @xcite ) could result in a different illumination of one or more active regions .",
    "this might include the sun reaching a higher altitude , variations in topography causing less shadowing , the exposure of additional active regions , or the sun remaining above an active region s local horizon longer .",
    "however , the nucleus complex rotation state should minimize seasonal effects ; unless the nucleus was very recently ( since 1997/98 ) excited into the present non - principal axis rotation state , large changes in the production rates due entirely to geometry are considered unlikely .",
    "we have presented photometry and imaging of 103p / hartley 2 obtained at lowell observatory ( and one night at perth observatory ) from 1991 through 2011 .",
    "the photometry includes three apparitions as no data were obtained on the 2004 apparition .",
    "we find a secular decrease in brightness from the 1991 apparition to the 1997/98 apparition and then to the 2010/11 apparition and a signficant seasonal effect , with the comet reaching peak brightness @xmath010 days after perihelion and the rate of brightening steeper than the rate of fading .",
    "we find similar results when compiling published water production rates from the literature , consistent with about a 40% decrease each orbit .",
    "hartley 2 s composition is `` typical , '' in agreement with the results of other investigators .",
    "we propose two scenarios for the relatively large decrease in production rates : that production rates are dropping rapidly owing to the rapid depletion of co@xmath1 ( due to the decrease in perihelion distance in the mid - twentieth century ) or , less likely , that the `` complex '' nucleus rotation resulted in progressively less illumination reaching the primary active regions from 1991 to 1997/98 to 2010/11 .",
    "our imaging covered the 2010/11 apparition and focused on the gas coma morphology .",
    "we previously reported on our extensive cn data set ( paper 1 ) and analyze here the morphology exhibited by other gas species ( oh , nh , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 ) as well as the dust .",
    "we find that c@xmath2 and c@xmath1 exhibit coma morphology generally similar to what we previously reported for cn , with an hourglass shape in october and november that followed the rotational changes exhibited by cn , and little excess signal in the tailward direction .",
    "we conclude that differences between the cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 coma morphologies can be explained by their different lifetimes and parentages .",
    "the oh and nh coma morphologies differ from cn , c@xmath2 , and c@xmath1 ; while oh and nh show evidence of the hourglass shape near the nucleus , they are relatively uniform in brightness ( after enhancement ) throughout the tailward hemisphere , and the brightness in the tailward hemisphere does not vary appreciably with rotation . we conclude that oh and nh are produced from water and ammonia ices that were contained in small grains which shielded the ices long enough to be affected by radiation pressure and driven in the anti - sunward direction .",
    "we speculate on possible explanations for why the oh and nh , but not the cn , c@xmath2 , or c@xmath1 , behave in this manner , concluding that all five species most likely originate from the same source region(s ) near the end of a lobe of the nucleus ( where  saw significant active regions ) but may have come from aggregates of different sized grains or grains and vapor .",
    "lower velocities and/or a range of velocities associated with a variety of particle sizes would also naturally cause a dilution of the rotational signature of oh and nh as compared to that seen in the carbon bearing species .",
    "we detect the faint sunward - facing dust jet reported by @xcite and @xcite in our continuum images .",
    "this jet is much smaller than the hourglass shaped gas feature and does not vary appreciably during a night , although it does vary from night to night .",
    "no corresponding gas feature was seen at the location of the dust jet , possibly implying that it is driven by co@xmath1 .",
    "the dust jet may originate from a source near the total angular momentum vector .",
    "the  flyby and supporting observations of hartley 2 have revealed that it is an unusual comet which is highly active relative to its nucleus size , has a population of large grains in the inner coma , and is in non - principal axis rotation with evolving component periods .",
    "as one of a small handful of comets to have been visited by a spacecraft , hartley 2 represents a rare opportunity to link the macroscopic coma morphology and abundances observed remotely with the nucleus shape and active regions observed _ in situ _ via sophisticated modeling .",
    "the strongest constraints on such models are likely the direction of the nucleus long axis as seen by  during the flyby ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) and the alignment of the rotational angular momentum at the time of the arecibo observations @xcite .",
    "however , any comprehensive jet modeling should also incorporate the constraints discussed here and in paper 1 .",
    "these include the morphological changes during a night ( outward motion of the material and the sense of rotation ) , differences in morphology from night to night ( due to the non - principal axis rotation ) , and evolution of the morphology from month to month ( due to the changing viewing geometry ) .",
    "it is only by satisfying these varied constraints that a model can produce a coherent description of comet hartley 2 .",
    "we appreciate the work of anita cochran and nalin samarasinha in carefully refereeing this manuscript and making helpful suggestions to improve the paper .",
    "we are indebted to the following people for help in collecting data : robert millis ( 1991 ) ; tony farnham ( 1997/1998 lowell data ) ; peter birch ( 1997 perth data ) ; len bright , brian skiff , larry wasserman , and edward schwieterman ( 2010/2011 imaging data ) .",
    "we thank allison bair for help in producing table  [ t : table5 ] and for comparisons with preliminary results of the forthcoming comet database paper .",
    "office space was generously provided for mmk by both the university of maryland department of astronomy and johns hopkins university applied physics laboratory while he conducted this work .",
    "this work has been supported by numerous nasa grants over the years , most recently nnx08ao42 g and nnx09ab51 g .      , m.  f. , m.  j.  s. belton , w.  a. delamere , l.  m. feaga , d.  hampton , j.  kissel , k.  p. klaasen , l.  a. mcfadden , k.  j. meech , h.  j. melosh , p.  h. schultz , j.  m. sunshine , p.  c. thomas , j.  veverka , d.  d. wellnitz , d.  k. yeomans , s.  besse , d.  bodewits , t.  j. bowling , b.  t. carcich , s.  m. collins , t.  l. farnham , o.  groussin , b.  hermalyn , m.  s. kelley , m.  s. kelley , j .- y .",
    "li , d.  j. lindler , c.  m. lisse , s.  a. mclaughlin , f.  merlin , s.  protopapa , j.  e. richardson ,  and j.  l. williams 2011 . .",
    "* 332 * , 13961400 .                                                            , k.  j. , m.  f. ahearn , j.  a. adams , p.  bacci , j.  bai , l.  barrera , m.  battelino , j.  m. bauer , e.  becklin , b.  bhatt , n.  biver , d.  bockele - morvan , d.  bodewits , h.  bhnhardt , j.  boissier , b.  p. bonev , w.  borghini , j.  r. brucato , e.  bryssinck , m.  w. buie , h.  canovas , d.  castellano , s.  b. charnley , w.  p. chen , p.  chiang , y .- j .",
    "choi , d.  j. christian , y .- l .",
    "chuang , a.  l. cochran , p.  colom , m.  r. combi , i.  m. coulson , j.  crovisier , n.  dello russo , k.  dennerl , k.  dewahl , m.  a. disanti , m.  facchini , t.  l. farnham , y.  fernndez , h.  g. florn , u.  frisk , t.  fujiyoshi , r.  furusho , t.  fuse , g.  galli , d.  a. garca - hernndez , a.  gersch , z.  getu , e.  l. gibb , m.  gillon , e.  guido , r.  a. guillermo , e.  hadamcik , o.  hainaut , h.  b. hammel , d.  e. harker , j.  k. harmon , w.  m. harris , p.  hartogh , m.  hashimoto , b.  husler , t.  herter , a.  hjalmarson , s.  t. holland , m.  honda , s.  hosseini , e.  s. howell , n.  howes , h.  h. hsieh , h .- y .",
    "hsiao , d.  hutsemkers , s.  m. immler , w.  m. jackson , s.  v. jeffers , e.  jehin , t.  j. jones , m.  d.  j. ovelar , h.  m. kaluna , t.  karlsson , h.  kawakita , j.  v. keane , l.  d. keller , m.  s. kelley , d.  kinoshita , n.  n. kiselev , j.  kleyna , m.  m. knight , h.  kobayashi , h.  a. kobulnicky , l.  kolokolova , m.  kreiny , y .- j . kuan , m.  kppers , j.  m. lacruz , w.  b. landsman , l.  m. lara , a.  lecacheux , a.  c. levasseur - regourd , b.  li , j.  licandro , r.  ligustri , z .- y .",
    "lin , m.  lippi , d.  c. lis , c.  m. lisse , a.  j. lovell , s.  c. lowry , h.  lu , s.  lundin , k.  magee - sauer , p.  magain , j.  manfroid , e.  mazzotta epifani , a.  mckay , m.  d. melita , h.  mikuz , s.  n. milam , g.  milani , m.  min , r.  moreno , b.  e.  a. mueller , m.  j. mumma , m.  nicolini , m.  c. nolan , h.  l. nordh , p.  b. nowajewski , odin team , t.  ootsubo , l.  paganini , c.  perrella , j.  pittichov , e.  prosperi , y.  l. radeva , w.  t. reach , a.  j. remijan , m.  rengel , t.  e. riesen , m.  rodenhuis , d.  p. rodrguez , r.  w. russell , d.  k. sahu , n.  h. samarasinha , a.  snchez caso , a.  sandqvist , g.  sarid , m.  sato , d.  g. schleicher , e.  w. schwieterman , a.  k. sen , d.  shenoy , j .- c .",
    "shi , y.  shinnaka , j.  skvarc , c.  snodgrass , m.  l. sitko , s.  sonnett , s.  sosseini , g.  sostero , s.  sugita , b.  m. swinyard , s.  szutowicz , n.  takato , p.  tanga , p.  a. taylor , g .-",
    "tozzi , r.  trabatti , j.  m. trigo - rodrguez , c.  tubiana , m.  de val - borro , w.  vacca , b.  vandenbussche , j.  vaubaillion , f.  p. velichko , s.  f. velichko , r.  j. vervack , jr .",
    ", m.  j. vidal - nunez , g.  l. villanueva , c.  vinante , j .- b .",
    "vincent , m.  wang , l.  h. wasserman , j.  watanabe , h.  a. weaver , p.  r. weissman , s.  wolk , d.  h. wooden , c.  e. woodward , m.  yamaguchi , t.  yamashita , p.  a. yanamandra - fischer , b.  yang , j .- s .",
    "yao , d.  k. yeomans , t.  zenn , h.  zhao ,  and j.  e. ziffer 2011 . .",
    "* 734 * , l1 .                                , l.  m. , m.  f. ahearn , d.  g. schleicher , t.  l. farnham , j.  p. mcmullin , m.  c.  h. wright , j.  m. veal , l.  e. snyder , i.  de pater , j.  r. forster , p.  palmer , y.  kuan , w.  r. williams , c.  c. cheung , and b.  r. smith 2002 . .  *",
    "157 * , 193204 .",
    "+ 2010 aug 13&03:2811:48&1.1&@xmath1275.9&1.46&0.57&30&22&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc&photometric + 2010 aug 14&03:0311:48&1.1&@xmath1274.9&1.45&0.56&30&21&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc&photometric + 2010 aug 15&03:1512:10&1.1&@xmath1273.9&1.45&0.55&30&20&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 aug 16&07:4011:54&1.1&@xmath1272.8&1.44&0.54&31&19&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 aug 17&07:4811:01&1.1&@xmath1271.9&1.43&0.53&31&18&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 sep 9&02:5312:16&1.1&@xmath1248.9&1.25&0.33&37&357&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh&photometric + 2010 sep 10&02:3612:09&1.1&@xmath1248.0&1.24&0.32&37&357&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh&photometric + 2010 sep 11&02:3312:08&1.1&@xmath1247.0&1.24&0.31&37&356&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh&photometric + 2010 sep 12&02:3312:11&1.1&@xmath1246.0&1.23&0.31&38&356&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 sep 13&02:3512:11&1.1&@xmath1244.9&1.22&0.30&38&355&r , cn , bc , c3&clouds + 2010 oct 12&03:1212:34&0.8&@xmath1215.9&1.08&0.13&49&43&r , cn&photometric + 2010 oct 13&03:1312:43&0.8&@xmath1214.9&1.08&0.13&49&48&r , cn&photometric + 2010 oct 14&03:1312:40&0.8&@xmath1213.9&1.08&0.13&50&52&r , cn&photometric + 2010 oct 15&03:0605:33&0.8&@xmath1213.1&1.07&0.13&50&56&r , cn&clouds + 2010 oct 16&05:0112:21&1.1&@xmath1211.9&1.07&0.12&51&61&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh , uc , nh&thin cirrus + 2010 oct 17&05:0012:38&1.1&@xmath1210.9&1.07&0.12&51&65&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 oct 19&10:5612:24&1.1&@xmath128.8&1.07&0.12&52&73&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2010 oct 31&07:1012:36&0.8&@xmath243.2&1.06&0.14&58&99&r , cn&thin cirrus + 2010 nov 1&07:1512:45&0.8&@xmath244.2&1.06&0.14&59&100&r , cn&thin cirrus + 2010 nov 2&06:4512:54&1.1&@xmath245.2&1.06&0.15&59&102&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh , uc , nh , rc&photometric + 2010 nov 2&07:2710:32&0.8&@xmath245.1&1.06&0.15&59&102&r , cn&photometric + 2010 nov 3&06:4113:01&1.1&@xmath246.2&1.06&0.15&59&103&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh , uc , nh , rc&photometric + 2010 nov 4&06:3913:07&1.1&@xmath247.2&1.06&0.16&59&104&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh , uc , h20+,rc&thin cirrus + 2010 nov 5&07:4410:45&0.8&@xmath248.1&1.06&0.16&59&105&r , cn&photometric + 2010 nov 6&07:4110:58&0.8&@xmath249.1&1.07&0.16&59&106&r , cn&thin cirrus + 2010 nov 7&06:4813:09&1.1&@xmath2410.2&1.07&0.17&59&107&r , cn , bc , c3,c2,gc , oh , uc , nh , rc&photometric + 2010 nov 10&07:5913:11&0.8&@xmath2413.2&1.07&0.18&58&109&r , cn&clouds + 2010 nov 12&07:5612:30&0.8&@xmath2415.2&1.08&0.19&58&111&r , cn&clouds + 2010 nov 13&08:0913:10&0.8&@xmath2416.2&1.08&0.20&57&112&r , cn&clouds + 2010 nov 16&08:0813:08&0.8&@xmath2419.2&1.09&0.21&56&114&r , cn&photometric + 2010 nov 26&07:4512:43&0.8&@xmath2429.2&1.13&0.26&51&123&r , cn&photometric + 2010 nov 27&07:4812:46&0.8&@xmath2430.2&1.14&0.27&50&124&r , cn&photometric + 2010 dec 9&07:0213:19&1.1&@xmath2442.2&1.21&0.33&42&136&r , cn , bc&thin cirrus + 2010 dec 10&06:4808:50&1.1&@xmath2443.1&1.21&0.34&41&137&r , cn , bc&thin cirrus + 2010 dec 15&08:5709:13&1.1&@xmath2448.1&1.25&0.36&38&143&cn&clouds + 2011 jan 7&04:0210:51&1.1&@xmath2471.1&1.42&0.51&25&179&r , cn , bc&clouds + 2011 jan 8&07:1207:57&1.1&@xmath2472.1&1.43&0.52&25&181&r , cn&clouds + 2011",
    "jan 9&07:0908:47&1.1&@xmath2473.1&1.44&0.53&25&183&r ,",
    "cn&clouds + 2011 jan 11&04:0110:50&1.1&@xmath2475.1&1.45&0.54&24&187&r , cn , bc&thin cirrus + [ t : imaging_circ ]         + 1991&oct&11.44&+30.2&1.050&1.063&56.4&+0.47&+10.5&@xmath1214.507&@xmath1213.121&@xmath1212.370 + 1997&nov&2.13&@xmath1249.1&1.241&1.019&50.9&+0.47&@xmath1212.7&@xmath1214.735&@xmath1213.328&@xmath1212.648 + 1997&dec&1.53&@xmath1219.7&1.071&0.918&58.8&+0.46&@xmath126.5&@xmath1214.839&@xmath1213.177&@xmath1212.489 + 1997&dec&4.16&@xmath1217.1&1.062&0.908&59.4&+0.46&@xmath125.8&@xmath1214.818&@xmath1213.172&@xmath1212.495 + 1998&feb&26.23&+66.9&1.370&1.091&45.7&+0.46&+14.4&@xmath1214.504&@xmath1213.397&@xmath1212.642 + 2010&jul&12.35&@xmath12107.9&1.742&0.958&29.0&+0.38&@xmath1215.4&@xmath1215.215&@xmath1213.607&@xmath1212.943 + 2010&aug&11.30&@xmath1278.0&1.480&0.588&29.9&+0.38&@xmath1214.7&@xmath1215.011&@xmath1213.471&@xmath1212.799 + 2010&aug&12.24&@xmath1277.0&1.472&0.578&30.0&+0.38&@xmath1214.7&@xmath1215.006&@xmath1213.466&@xmath1212.793 + 2010&sep&7.21&@xmath1251.1&1.266&0.344&35.8&+0.42&@xmath1212.4&@xmath1214.745&@xmath1213.346&@xmath1212.670 + 2010&sep&30.16&@xmath1228.1&1.128&0.189&44.4&+0.46&@xmath128.1&@xmath1214.870&@xmath1213.220&@xmath1212.519 + 2010&oct&1.17&@xmath1227.1&1.123&0.183&44.7&+0.46&@xmath127.9&@xmath1214.873&@xmath1213.215&@xmath1212.516 + 2010&oct&31.30&+3.0&1.060&0.140&58.2&+0.47&+1.0&@xmath1214.857&@xmath1213.223&@xmath1212.597 + 2010&nov&16.38&+19.1&1.091&0.211&56.0&+0.47&+5.8&@xmath1214.650&@xmath1213.135&@xmath1212.400 + 2010&dec&13.34&+46.1&1.232&0.352&39.3&+0.44&+11.6&@xmath1214.561&@xmath1213.272&@xmath1212.527 + 2011&jan&5.34&+69.1&1.405&0.497&26.0&+0.35&+14.2&@xmath1214.532&@xmath1213.417&@xmath1212.668 + 2011&feb&1.17&+95.9&1.635&0.742&21.8&+0.31&+15.3&@xmath1214.656&@xmath1213.558&@xmath1212.793 + 2011&feb&2.25&+97.0&1.645&0.754&21.8&+0.31&+15.3&@xmath1214.662&@xmath1213.564&@xmath1212.799 + 2011&feb&23.14&+117.9&1.831&1.025&24.2&+0.33&+15.4&@xmath1214.757&@xmath1213.658&@xmath1212.896 +",
    "[ t : phot_circ ]         + 1991&oct&8.50&35.3&4.13&@xmath129.70&@xmath1210.55&@xmath129.85&@xmath1210.12&@xmath129.88&@xmath1213.42& ... &@xmath1213.22&32.34&30.03&29.99&29.40&29.98 + 1991&oct&11.44&35.3&4.13&@xmath129.78&@xmath1210.72&@xmath129.99&@xmath1210.29&@xmath1210.00&@xmath1213.45& ... &@xmath1213.27&32.23&29.90&29.88&29.25&29.89 + 1997&nov&2.13&81.4&4.48&@xmath1210.37&@xmath1211.33&@xmath1210.71&@xmath1210.81&@xmath1210.67&@xmath1214.33&@xmath1213.87&@xmath1213.88&31.83&29.47&29.40&28.84&29.33 + 1997&dec&1.53&109.9&4.56& ... & ...",
    "&@xmath129.89&@xmath1210.31&@xmath129.90& ... &@xmath1213.29& ... & ... & ... &29.97&29.12&29.88 + 1997&dec&4.16&146.7&4.68&@xmath129.54&@xmath1210.26&@xmath129.74&@xmath1210.19&@xmath129.75&@xmath1213.00&@xmath1213.06&@xmath1213.17&32.64&30.28&30.12&29.23&30.01 + 1998&feb&26.23&114.7&4.66&@xmath129.92&@xmath1211.24&@xmath1210.48&@xmath1210.91&@xmath1210.51&@xmath1213.62&@xmath1213.57&@xmath1213.81&32.11&29.68&29.69&28.88&29.63 + 2010&jul&12.32&97.2&4.53&@xmath1211.65&@xmath1212.55&@xmath1211.65&@xmath1211.69&@xmath1211.79&@xmath20@xmath1214.7&@xmath1214.39&@xmath1214.28&30.98&28.47&28.71&28.21&28.45 + 2010&jul&12.38&97.2&4.53&@xmath1211.60&@xmath1213.74&@xmath1211.68&@xmath1211.72&@xmath1211.76&@xmath1214.65&@xmath1214.55&@xmath1214.44&31.03&27.28&28.68&28.17&28.48 + 2010&aug&11.30&97.2&4.32&@xmath1210.99&@xmath1211.85&@xmath1211.15&@xmath1211.15&@xmath1211.16&@xmath1214.36&@xmath1214.23&@xmath1214.22&31.01&28.60&28.64&28.18&28.52 + 2010&aug&11.31&97.2&4.32&@xmath1211.01&@xmath1211.91&@xmath1211.14&@xmath1211.15&@xmath1211.17&@xmath1214.24&@xmath1214.09&@xmath1214.24&30.99&28.55&28.64&28.17&28.51 + 2010&aug&12.20&155.9&4.51&@xmath1210.66&@xmath1211.34&@xmath1210.86&@xmath1211.00&@xmath1210.85&@xmath1215.13&@xmath1214.21&@xmath1215.02&31.32&29.09&28.90&28.31&28.80 + 2010&aug&12.23&97.2&4.31&@xmath1210.98&@xmath1211.89&@xmath1211.16&@xmath1211.20&@xmath1211.18&_und_&@xmath1214.40&@xmath1214.28&31.00&28.55&28.61&28.11&28.48 + 2010&aug&12.26&97.2&4.31&@xmath1210.99&@xmath1211.90&@xmath1211.20&@xmath1211.15&@xmath1211.15&@xmath1214.43&@xmath1214.15&@xmath1214.34&30.99&28.54&28.57&28.16&28.51 + 2010&aug&12.28&48.6&4.01&@xmath1211.49&@xmath1212.36&@xmath1211.67&@xmath1211.59&@xmath1211.67&@xmath1214.62&@xmath1214.58&@xmath1214.44&30.49&28.08&28.09&27.72&27.98 + 2010&sep&7.13&62.4&3.89&@xmath1210.60&@xmath1211.57&@xmath1210.92&@xmath1210.76&@xmath1210.92&@xmath1214.06&@xmath1213.71&@xmath1213.68&30.67&28.29&28.27&27.97&28.15 + 2010&sep&7.18&62.4&3.89&@xmath1210.60&@xmath1211.60&@xmath1210.92&@xmath1210.72&@xmath1210.93&@xmath1214.22&@xmath1213.69&@xmath1213.73&30.66&28.27&28.27&28.01&28.14 + 2010&sep&7.22&62.4&3.89&@xmath1210.61&@xmath1211.57&@xmath1210.93&@xmath1210.74&@xmath1210.92&@xmath1214.14&@xmath1213.71&@xmath1213.74&30.66&28.30&28.26&27.98&28.15 + 2010&sep&7.24&97.2&4.08&@xmath1210.29&@xmath1211.25&@xmath1210.63&@xmath1210.50&@xmath1210.61&@xmath1214.13&@xmath1213.53&@xmath1213.58&30.98&28.62&28.56&28.23&28.46 + 2010&sep&7.26&62.4&3.89&@xmath1210.62&@xmath1211.63&@xmath1210.95&@xmath1210.78&@xmath1210.92&@xmath1214.09&@xmath1213.71&@xmath1213.73&30.65&28.24&28.24&27.95&28.15 + 2010&sep&7.28&155.9&4.29&@xmath129.96&@xmath1210.96&@xmath1210.32&@xmath1210.45&@xmath1210.28&_und_&@xmath1213.43&@xmath1213.82&31.30&28.91&28.88&28.28&28.80 + 2010&sep&30.11&62.4&3.63&@xmath1210.24&@xmath1211.02&@xmath1210.46&@xmath1210.22&@xmath1210.42&@xmath1213.54&@xmath1213.08&@xmath1213.12&30.63&28.21&28.06&27.89&28.03 + 2010&sep&30.17&48.6&3.52&@xmath1210.43&@xmath1211.25&@xmath1210.61&@xmath1210.37&@xmath1210.60&@xmath1213.56&@xmath1213.17&@xmath1213.20&30.45&27.97&27.91&27.73&27.85 + 2010&sep&30.19&155.9&4.03&@xmath129.57&@xmath1210.36&@xmath129.76&@xmath129.73&@xmath129.76&@xmath1213.05&@xmath1212.74&@xmath1212.81&31.31&28.86&28.76&28.38&28.69 + 2010&sep&30.20&97.2&3.82&@xmath129.91&@xmath1210.71&@xmath1210.10&@xmath129.97&@xmath1210.10&@xmath1213.32&@xmath1212.94&@xmath1212.96&30.96&28.52&28.42&28.13&28.35 + 2010&oct&1.17&97.2&3.81&@xmath129.86&@xmath1210.63&@xmath129.98&@xmath129.84&@xmath1210.04&@xmath1213.33&@xmath1212.88&@xmath1212.94&30.99&28.56&28.51&28.24&28.38 + 2010&oct&31.27&62.4&3.50&@xmath129.90&@xmath1210.70&@xmath1210.06&@xmath129.74&@xmath129.94&@xmath1213.14&@xmath1212.66&@xmath1212.72&30.70&28.26&28.28&28.05&28.20 + 2010&oct&31.28&126.7&3.81&@xmath129.30&@xmath1210.12&@xmath129.53&@xmath129.32&@xmath129.41&@xmath1212.80&@xmath1212.40&@xmath1212.46&31.29&28.84&28.80&28.47&28.73 + 2010&oct&31.30&48.6&3.39&@xmath1210.04&@xmath1210.87&@xmath1210.25&@xmath129.90&@xmath1210.13&@xmath1213.23&@xmath1212.80&@xmath1212.83&30.56&28.10&28.09&27.89&28.01 + 2010&oct&31.30&38.5&3.29&@xmath1210.20&@xmath1211.06&@xmath1210.42&@xmath1210.06&@xmath1210.30&@xmath1213.35&@xmath1212.89&@xmath1212.91&30.40&27.91&27.92&27.74&27.84 + 2010&oct&31.32&97.2&3.69&@xmath129.54&@xmath1210.34&@xmath129.75&@xmath129.49&@xmath129.62&@xmath1212.95&@xmath1212.52&@xmath1212.55&31.06&28.62&28.59&28.30&28.52 + 2010&nov&16.31&97.2&3.87&@xmath129.47&@xmath1210.36&@xmath129.63&@xmath129.69&@xmath129.74&@xmath1212.94&@xmath1212.66&@xmath1212.71&31.27&28.87&28.87&28.48&28.78 + 2010&nov&16.32&62.4&3.68&@xmath129.80&@xmath1210.72&@xmath129.94&@xmath129.91&@xmath1210.06&@xmath1213.17&@xmath1212.87&@xmath1212.91&30.94&28.51&28.55&28.26&28.46 + 2010&nov&16.35&38.5&3.47&@xmath1210.15&@xmath1211.06&@xmath1210.28&@xmath1210.22&@xmath1210.42&@xmath1213.41&@xmath1213.08&@xmath1213.12&30.60&28.17&28.22&27.95&28.10 + 2010&nov&16.39&77.8&3.77&@xmath129.63&@xmath1210.49&@xmath129.77&@xmath129.79&@xmath129.88&@xmath1213.01&@xmath1212.77&@xmath1212.82&31.12&28.74&28.73&28.39&28.64 + 2010&nov&16.40&97.2&3.87&@xmath129.48&@xmath1210.34&@xmath129.63&@xmath129.65&@xmath129.74&@xmath1213.08&@xmath1212.69&@xmath1212.75&31.27&28.89&28.86&28.52&28.78 + 2010&nov&16.41&48.6&3.57&@xmath129.98&@xmath1210.85&@xmath1210.11&@xmath1210.03&@xmath1210.22&@xmath1213.37&@xmath1212.96&@xmath1213.01&30.76&28.38&28.39&28.15&28.30 + 2010&nov&16.42&62.4&3.68&@xmath129.80&@xmath1210.68&@xmath129.94&@xmath129.90&@xmath1210.06&@xmath1213.31&@xmath1212.87&@xmath1212.91&30.95&28.55&28.56&28.27&28.46 + 2010&nov&16.43&126.7&3.99&@xmath129.29&@xmath1210.15&@xmath129.45&@xmath129.53&@xmath129.55&@xmath1212.96&@xmath1212.59&@xmath1212.66&31.45&29.08&29.05&28.64&28.97 + 2010&nov&16.45&77.8&3.77&@xmath129.63&@xmath1210.50&@xmath129.76&@xmath129.77&@xmath129.87&@xmath1213.19&@xmath1212.77&@xmath1212.84&31.12&28.74&28.73&28.40&28.65 + 2010&dec&13.27&38.5&3.69&@xmath1210.38&@xmath1211.42&@xmath1210.65&@xmath1210.61&@xmath1210.81&@xmath1213.87&@xmath1213.41&@xmath1213.42&30.72&28.39&28.42&28.12&28.26 + 2010&dec&13.28&48.6&3.79&@xmath1210.19&@xmath1211.28&@xmath1210.47&@xmath1210.48&@xmath1210.63&@xmath1213.66&@xmath1213.32&@xmath1213.29&30.91&28.53&28.60&28.25&28.44 + 2010&dec&13.34&77.8&4.00&@xmath129.86&@xmath1210.91&@xmath1210.16&@xmath1210.21&@xmath1210.26&@xmath1213.48&@xmath1213.09&@xmath1213.11&31.24&28.91&28.91&28.51&28.81 + 2010&dec&13.35&24.5&3.50&@xmath1210.70&@xmath1211.77&@xmath1210.96&@xmath1210.88&@xmath1211.14&@xmath1214.12&@xmath1213.59&@xmath1213.61&30.40&28.04&28.11&27.84&27.93 + 2010&dec&13.36&48.6&3.79&@xmath1210.19&@xmath1211.28&@xmath1210.47&@xmath1210.43&@xmath1210.61&@xmath1213.74&@xmath1213.29&@xmath1213.34&30.92&28.53&28.60&28.29&28.46 + 2010&dec&13.37&97.2&4.09&@xmath129.71&@xmath1210.81&@xmath1210.02&@xmath1210.09&@xmath1210.12&@xmath1213.34&@xmath1213.03&@xmath1213.10&31.40&29.01&29.05&28.64&28.95 + 2010&dec&13.38&126.7&4.21&@xmath129.54&@xmath1210.60&@xmath129.86&@xmath129.98&@xmath129.94&@xmath1213.20&@xmath1212.92&@xmath1213.00&31.57&29.22&29.21&28.74&29.13 + 2010&dec&13.40&62.4&3.90&@xmath1210.02&@xmath1211.10&@xmath1210.31&@xmath1210.32&@xmath1210.43&@xmath1213.56&@xmath1213.24&@xmath1213.28&31.08&28.71&28.76&28.40&28.64 + 2010&dec&13.41&77.8&4.00&@xmath129.86&@xmath1210.90&@xmath1210.15&@xmath1210.18&@xmath1210.25&@xmath1213.52&@xmath1213.14&@xmath1213.20&31.24&28.91&28.92&28.54&28.82 + 2011&jan&5.30&62.4&4.05&@xmath1210.39&@xmath1211.69&@xmath1210.88&@xmath1210.93&@xmath1210.94&@xmath1214.12&@xmath1213.64&@xmath1213.65&30.99&28.57&28.63&28.21&28.54 + 2011&jan&5.31&38.5&3.84&@xmath1210.71&@xmath1212.08&@xmath1211.24&@xmath1211.19&@xmath1211.33&@xmath1214.14&@xmath1213.84&@xmath1213.73&30.66&28.17&28.26&27.95&28.15 + 2011&jan&5.36&77.8&4.15&@xmath1210.20&@xmath1211.55&@xmath1210.74&@xmath1210.84&@xmath1210.78&@xmath1213.78&@xmath1213.47&@xmath1213.49&31.17&28.71&28.77&28.30&28.71 + 2011&jan&5.37&97.2&4.24&@xmath1210.06&@xmath1211.39&@xmath1210.59&@xmath1210.69&@xmath1210.64&@xmath1213.81&@xmath1213.43&@xmath1213.45&31.31&28.87&28.92&28.44&28.84 + 2011&feb&1.13&62.4&4.23&@xmath1210.91&@xmath1212.46&@xmath1211.29&@xmath1211.43&@xmath1211.40&@xmath1214.35&@xmath1214.02&@xmath1214.15&30.94&28.29&28.69&28.19&28.56 + 2011&feb&1.14&97.2&4.42&@xmath1210.57&@xmath1211.82&@xmath1210.99&@xmath1211.09&@xmath1211.13&@xmath1214.08&@xmath1213.68&@xmath1213.62&31.28&28.92&29.00&28.53&28.83 + 2011&feb&1.21&97.2&4.42&@xmath1210.59&@xmath1211.94&@xmath1211.01&@xmath1211.11&@xmath1211.07&@xmath1214.13&@xmath1213.83&@xmath1213.96&31.25&28.81&28.97&28.51&28.90 + 2011&feb&2.23&126.7&4.54&@xmath1210.42&@xmath1211.95&@xmath1210.88&@xmath1211.01&@xmath1210.96&@xmath1214.30&@xmath1213.79&@xmath1213.81&31.45&28.81&29.13&28.63&29.02 + 2011&feb&2.26&48.6&4.12&@xmath1211.11&@xmath1212.96&@xmath1211.58&@xmath1211.64&@xmath1211.71&@xmath1214.53&@xmath1214.04&@xmath1214.16&30.75&27.81&28.42&28.00&28.27 + 2011&feb&23.11&62.4&4.37&@xmath1211.34&@xmath1212.58&@xmath1211.74&@xmath1211.63&@xmath1211.83&@xmath1214.72&@xmath1214.22&@xmath1214.35&30.89&28.55&28.63&28.37&28.51 + 2011&feb&23.13&77.8&4.46&@xmath1211.19&@xmath1213.05&@xmath1211.55&@xmath1211.58&@xmath1211.63&@xmath1214.42&@xmath1214.22&@xmath1214.26&31.03&28.08&28.82&28.42&28.71 + 2011&feb&23.15&97.2&4.56&@xmath1211.00&@xmath1212.34&@xmath1211.39&@xmath1211.48&@xmath1211.51&@xmath1214.43&@xmath1213.82&@xmath1213.95&31.23&28.79&28.98&28.52&28.84 + 2011&feb&23.18&62.4&4.37&@xmath1211.32&@xmath1212.78&@xmath1211.67&@xmath1211.66&@xmath1211.89&@xmath1214.75&@xmath1214.21&@xmath1214.06&30.91&28.34&28.70&28.33&28.45 + [ t : phot_flux ]         + 1991&oct&8.50&+27.2&0.014&4.13&28.50.01&26.42.01&25.99.00&25.33.00&26.18.00&2.43.01& ... &2.39.01&28.63 + 1991&oct&11.44&+30.2&0.021&4.13&28.39.01&26.28.01&25.88.00&25.17.01&26.08.00&2.42.02& ... &2.36.01&28.51 + 1997&nov&2.13&@xmath1249.1&0.094&4.48&27.55.01&25.39.02&24.98.01&24.46.02&25.10.01&1.39.13&1.52.04&1.53.03&27.64 + 1997&dec&1.53&@xmath1219.7&0.030&4.56& ... & ... &25.42.00&24.75.01&25.52.00& ... &1.80.02 & ... & ... + 1997&dec&4.16&@xmath1217.1&0.026&4.68&28.06.01&25.85.00&25.44.00&24.82.01&25.52.00&2.28.02&1.89.01&1.80.01&28.18 + 1998&feb&26.23&+66.9&0.137&4.66&27.62.02&25.38.04&25.06.01&24.36.04&25.20.01&2.07.09&1.79.05&1.57.05&27.69 + 2010&jul&12.32&@xmath12107.9&0.241&4.53&26.77.09&24.48.21&24.33.04&23.73.12&24.27.06&@xmath201.2&1.19.14&1.32.11&26.78 + 2010&jul&12.38&@xmath12107.9&0.241&4.53&26.82.07&23.30.89&24.30.03&23.69.11&24.30.06&1.26.28&1.04.18&1.16.14&26.83 + 2010&aug&11.30&@xmath1278.0&0.170&4.32&27.05.02&24.87.05&24.50.01&23.90.04&24.58.02&1.19.16&1.00.10&1.03.09&27.10 + 2010&aug&11.31&@xmath1278.0&0.170&4.32&27.03.02&24.82.05&24.51.01&23.90.04&24.57.02&1.32.12&1.13.07&1.01.09&27.08 + 2010&aug&12.20&@xmath1277.1&0.168&4.51&27.06.02&25.04.03&24.49.08&23.86.08&24.58.01&0.20.79&0.80.15&0.01.44&27.11 + 2010&aug&12.23&@xmath1277.0&0.168&4.31&27.05.02&24.83.06&24.48.02&23.84.05&24.55.02&_und_&0.81.15&0.96.11&27.10 + 2010&aug&12.26&@xmath1277.0&0.168&4.31&27.04.02&24.82.05&24.45.02&23.89.04&24.58.02&1.11.17&1.06.08&0.90.11&27.09 + 2010&aug&12.28&@xmath1277.0&0.168&4.01&27.03.03&24.86.07&24.44.02&23.79.05&24.53.03&1.23.14&0.94.11&1.10.08&27.08 + 2010&sep&7.13&@xmath1251.1&0.102&3.89&27.31.01&25.19.03&24.72.01&24.14.02&24.80.01&1.32.09&1.34.03&1.39.02&27.40 + 2010&sep&7.18&@xmath1251.1&0.102&3.89&27.31.01&25.16.03&24.72.01&24.19.01&24.80.01&1.16.10&1.36.02&1.34.03&27.39 + 2010&sep&7.22&@xmath1251.0&0.102&3.89&27.30.01&25.19.02&24.71.01&24.16.01&24.81.01&1.24.09&1.35.03&1.34.03&27.39 + 2010&sep&7.24&@xmath1251.0&0.102&4.08&27.31.01&25.18.02&24.71.01&24.19.01&24.81.01&1.06.12&1.33.02&1.30.03&27.39 + 2010&sep&7.26&@xmath1251.0&0.102&3.89&27.29.01&25.13.03&24.69.01&24.13.01&24.80.01&1.29.07&1.34.02&1.34.02&27.37 + 2010&sep&7.28&@xmath1251.0&0.102&4.29&27.31.01&25.14.04&24.72.02&24.04.04&24.83.00&_und_&1.22.03&0.85.07&27.39 + 2010&sep&30.11&@xmath1228.2&0.052&3.63&27.64.01&25.47.01&24.87.01&24.37.01&25.05.00&1.48.03&1.61.01&1.59.01&27.75 + 2010&sep&30.17&@xmath1228.1&0.052&3.52&27.64.01&25.43.01&24.90.00&24.37.01&25.05.01&1.57.03&1.63.01&1.62.01&27.75 + 2010&sep&30.19&@xmath1228.1&0.052&4.03&27.66.00&25.45.01&24.94.00&24.39.00&25.07.00&1.57.02&1.55.01&1.50.01&27.77 + 2010&sep&30.20&@xmath1228.1&0.052&3.82&27.65.00&25.45.01&24.92.00&24.37.01&25.05.00&1.51.03&1.56.01&1.56.01&27.76 + 2010&oct&1.17&@xmath1227.1&0.050&3.81&27.70.00&25.52.01&25.03.00&24.50.00&25.10.00&1.48.03&1.60.01&1.57.01&27.81 + 2010&oct&31.27&+3.0&0.025&3.50&27.89.02&25.71.01&25.27.00&24.69.00&25.40.00&1.70.03&1.85.01&1.81.01&28.02 + 2010&oct&31.28&+3.0&0.025&3.81&27.97.01&25.76.01&25.30.00&24.72.00&25.42.00&1.73.03&1.80.01&1.76.01&28.10 + 2010&oct&31.30&+3.0&0.025&3.39&27.94.01&25.74.01&25.27.00&24.69.01&25.39.00&1.71.03&1.82.01&1.81.01&28.07 + 2010&oct&31.30&+3.0&0.025&3.29&27.95.01&25.73.01&25.27.01&24.68.01&25.39.00&1.70.03&1.83.01&1.83.01&28.07 + 2010&oct&31.32&+3.1&0.025&3.69&27.93.00&25.74.01&25.26.00&24.69.00&25.40.00&1.69.02&1.80.01&1.78.01&28.05 + 2010&nov&16.31&+19.0&0.038&3.87&27.87.01&25.70.01&25.27.00&24.66.01&25.38.00&1.90.06&1.85.02&1.83.02&27.98 + 2010&nov&16.32&+19.1&0.038&3.68&27.85.01&25.67.02&25.27.00&24.67.01&25.38.00&1.87.06&1.84.02&1.83.01&27.97 + 2010&nov&16.35&+19.1&0.038&3.47&27.87.01&25.70.01&25.28.00&24.65.01&25.37.01&1.84.04&1.85.01&1.82.01&27.98 + 2010&nov&16.39&+19.1&0.038&3.77&27.87.00&25.74.00&25.29.00&24.68.00&25.40.00&1.93.01&1.85.01&1.82.01&27.99 + 2010&nov&16.40&+19.1&0.038&3.87&27.86.00&25.73.00&25.27.00&24.70.00&25.39.00&1.76.02&1.83.01&1.79.01&27.98 + 2010&nov&16.41&+19.1&0.038&3.57&27.86.00&25.73.01&25.28.00&24.70.00&25.40.00&1.78.02&1.86.01&1.83.01&27.97 + 2010&nov&16.42&+19.2&0.038&3.68&27.86.00&25.71.01&25.28.00&24.68.00&25.38.00&1.73.02&1.84.01&1.83.01&27.97 + 2010&nov&16.43&+19.2&0.038&3.99&27.86.00&25.72.00&25.28.00&24.70.00&25.40.00&1.77.02&1.82.01&1.77.01&27.98 + 2010&nov&16.45&+19.2&0.038&3.77&27.87.00&25.73.00&25.29.00&24.70.00&25.41.00&1.75.02&1.84.01&1.80.01&27.99 + 2010&dec&13.27&+46.0&0.091&3.69&27.68.03&25.61.04&25.18.01&24.55.02&25.22.01&1.71.11&1.84.03&1.84.02&27.77 + 2010&dec&13.28&+46.0&0.091&3.79&27.71.02&25.58.02&25.19.01&24.54.01&25.24.01&1.82.06&1.83.02&1.88.01&27.80 + 2010&dec&13.34&+46.1&0.091&4.00&27.69.01&25.60.01&25.18.00&24.57.01&25.28.00&1.79.05&1.86.01&1.85.01&27.78 + 2010&dec&13.35&+46.1&0.091&3.50&27.70.01&25.60.03&25.20.01&24.55.01&25.23.01&1.65.06&1.86.01&1.85.02&27.79 + 2010&dec&13.36&+46.1&0.091&3.79&27.71.01&25.58.02&25.20.00&24.59.01&25.26.01&1.74.04&1.86.01&1.83.01&27.80 + 2010&dec&13.37&+46.1&0.091&4.09&27.70.00&25.54.01&25.17.00&24.58.01&25.27.00&1.83.03&1.81.01&1.77.01&27.79 + 2010&dec&13.38&+46.1&0.091&4.21&27.69.00&25.56.01&25.16.00&24.58.01&25.28.00&1.86.03&1.81.01&1.76.01&27.77 + 2010&dec&13.40&+46.1&0.091&3.90&27.69.01&25.57.01&25.18.00&24.56.01&25.26.00&1.81.03&1.80.01&1.78.01&27.78 + 2010&dec&13.41&+46.1&0.091&4.00&27.70.01&25.61.01&25.19.00&24.60.01&25.29.00&1.76.05&1.81.02&1.77.02&27.79 + 2011&jan&5.30&+69.0&0.148&4.05&27.42.01&25.25.04&24.88.01&24.21.03&24.99.01&1.51.11&1.67.03&1.67.03&27.48 + 2011&jan&5.31&+69.0&0.148&3.84&27.45.02&25.22.06&24.85.01&24.22.03&24.95.02&1.70.08&1.67.03&1.81.02&27.51 + 2011&jan&5.36&+69.1&0.148&4.15&27.45.01&25.23.03&24.87.01&24.19.02&25.01.01&1.75.06&1.74.03&1.73.03&27.51 + 2011&jan&5.37&+69.1&0.148&4.24&27.44.01&25.23.03&24.88.01&24.24.02&24.99.01&1.63.08&1.68.03&1.68.03&27.50 + 2011&feb&1.13&+95.9&0.214&4.23&27.17.04&24.77.17&24.74.02&24.02.07&24.81.03&1.59.17&1.59.07&1.48.09&27.20 + 2011&feb&1.14&+95.9&0.214&4.42&27.21.02&25.08.07&24.76.01&24.15.05&24.79.02&1.67.14&1.74.05&1.82.04&27.24 + 2011&feb&1.21&+95.9&0.214&4.42&27.19.01&24.97.07&24.73.01&24.14.04&24.85.02&1.61.12&1.58.05&1.48.07&27.21 + 2011&feb&2.23&+97.0&0.216&4.54&27.19.01&24.78.12&24.71.02&24.14.06&24.80.02&1.34.27&1.52.07&1.53.07&27.22 + 2011&feb&2.26&+97.0&0.216&4.12&27.16.03&24.46.29&24.64.03&23.95.09&24.69.04&1.53.19&1.69.06&1.59.07&27.19 + 2011&feb&23.11&+117.8&0.263&4.37&26.96.05&24.86.19&24.52.04&24.05.10&24.60.06&1.46.28&1.62.09&1.51.11&26.96 + 2011&feb&23.13&+117.9&0.263&4.46&26.95.04&24.23.40&24.56.03&24.00.09&24.65.05&1.66.20&1.53.11&1.51.11&26.95 + 2011&feb&23.15&+117.9&0.263&4.56&26.99.03&24.78.16&24.58.03&24.01.11&24.63.04&1.55.23&1.84.05&1.73.07&27.00 + 2011&feb&23.18&+117.9&0.263&4.37&26.98.04&24.66.24&24.59.04&24.02.10&24.54.06&1.43.28&1.63.08&1.81.05&26.98 + [ t : phot_rates ]         + nh&@xmath127.08@xmath30.98&@xmath124.92@xmath30.27&@xmath122.18&+0.01&+0.09 + cn&@xmath123.44@xmath30.18&@xmath123.20@xmath30.10&@xmath122.55&+0.01&+0.07 + c@xmath2&@xmath123.93@xmath30.25&@xmath123.20@xmath30.13&@xmath123.15&+0.01&+0.07 + c@xmath1&@xmath124.10@xmath30.10&@xmath123.45@xmath30.09&@xmath122.46&+0.01&+0.07 + uc&@xmath122.85@xmath31.26&@xmath121.19@xmath30.19&@xmath1225.88&+0.03&+0.23 + bc&@xmath123.55@xmath30.60&@xmath120.99@xmath30.13&@xmath1225.81&+0.04&+0.25 + gc&@xmath123.35@xmath31.25&@xmath120.97@xmath30.17&@xmath1225.84&+0.04&+0.26 + uc&@xmath123.39@xmath31.28&@xmath121.91@xmath30.20&@xmath1225.43&+0.03&+0.21 + bc&@xmath124.03@xmath30.63&@xmath121.71@xmath30.15&@xmath1225.44&+0.04&+0.22 + gc&@xmath123.84@xmath31.26&@xmath121.68@xmath30.19&@xmath1225.48&+0.03&+0.21 + [ t : table5 ]        .",
    "other oh - based results include _ hst_/fos data by @xcite , data from the _ swift _ satellite ( bodewits private communication ; @xcite ) , and radio oh measurements from nancey @xcite .",
    "forbidden oxygen data were obtained by @xcite at the 1997 apparition , while the granddaughter hydrogen was measured using the lyman alpha line with _",
    "soho_/swan ( @xcite ; @xcite ) . in the ir ,",
    "water measurements have become more common , with space - based data from _",
    "iso_/isophot @xcite and _ herschel _ @xcite , and ground - based data with keck / nirspec @xcite .",
    "see the key to associate the symbols with these references ; only the first author is listed in the key due to space constraints . as discussed in the text ,",
    "the ensemble of data indicate a larger drop in production rates between 1997/98 and 2010/11 and a larger amount of variability than we inferred from our own data alone .",
    ", width=604 ]       from the nucleus within a 10@xmath19 wide wedge centered on a given position angle ( pa ) .",
    "the wedges are centered at pas 10@xmath19 ( green ) , 100@xmath19 ( black ) , 190@xmath19 ( red ) , and 280@xmath19 ( blue ) .",
    "the sun is at a pa of 102@xmath19 .",
    "the species is given in the top right corner of each plot .",
    "the flux has units of erg cm@xmath13 s@xmath26 for the gas species and erg cm@xmath13 s@xmath26 @xmath26 for bc .",
    "a 1/@xmath10 profile is shown as a dashed line in the bc plot .",
    "note that the slopes of the gas species can be compared directly , as they are plotted with the same @xmath17log(flux ) , but with different ranges.,height=642 ]          8,000 km across , centered on the nucleus , enhanced by division of an azimuthal median profile , and smoothed with a boxcar smooth .",
    "north is up , east is left , and the position angle ( pa ) of the sun is near 105@xmath19 ( exact pas for each night are given in table  [ t : imaging_circ ] ) .",
    "all images have the same stretch",
    ". the dust jet can be seen at pas of @xmath095@xmath19 on november 2 , @xmath0115@xmath19 on november 3 , @xmath0125@xmath19 on november 4 , and @xmath0100@xmath19 on november 7 .",
    "diagonal streaks are trailed stars and the bright white area in the west half of each image is the dust tail.,width=226 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on photometry and imaging of comet 103p / hartley 2 obtained at lowell observatory from 1991 through 2011 . </S>",
    "<S> we acquired photoelectric photometry on two nights in 1991 , four nights in 1997/98 , and 13 nights in 2010/11 . </S>",
    "<S> we observed a strong secular decrease in water and all other observed species production in 2010/11 from the 1991 and 1997/98 levels . </S>",
    "<S> we see evidence for a strong asymmetry with respect to perihelion in the production rates of our usual bandpasses , with peak production occurring @xmath010 days post - perihelion and production rates considerably higher post - perihelion . </S>",
    "<S> the composition was `` typical , '' in agreement with the findings of other investigators . </S>",
    "<S> we obtained imaging on 39 nights from 2010 july until 2011 january . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , after accounting for their varying parentage and lifetimes , the c@xmath1 and c@xmath2 coma morphology resemble the cn morphology we reported previously . </S>",
    "<S> these species exhibited an hourglass shape in october and november , and the morphology changed with rotation and evolved over time . </S>",
    "<S> the oh and nh coma morphology showed hints of an hourglass shape near the nucleus , but was also enhanced in the anti - sunward hemisphere . this tailward brightness enhancement did not vary significantly with rotation and evolved with the viewing geometry . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that all five gas species likely originate from the same source regions on the nucleus , but that oh and nh were derived from small grains of water and ammonia ice that survived long enough to be affected by radiation pressure and driven in the anti - sunward direction . </S>",
    "<S> we detected the faint , sunward facing dust jet reported by other authors , and did not detect a corresponding gas feature . </S>",
    "<S> this jet varied little during a night but exhibited some variations from night to night , suggesting it is located near the total angular momentum vector . </S>",
    "<S> overall , our imaging results support the conclusions of other authors that hartley 2 s `` hyperactivity '' is caused by icy particles of various sizes that are lifted off the surface and break up in the coma to greatly increase the effective active surface area .    * keywords * : comets ; comets , coma ; comets , composition </S>"
  ]
}