{
  "article_text": [
    "during the last few years , our understanding of the structure , organization and evolution of magnetic fields in the very quiet sun ( the regions outside active regions and the network ) has become increasingly clear .",
    "magnetic fields in the quietest areas of the sun are relatively weak and organized at small spatial scales , which yields weak polarization signals that are difficult to observe . until very recently , the general picture of the structure of its magnetism was rather rough : a `` turbulent '' disorganized field @xcite .",
    "it is now clear that even in very quiet areas , magnetic fields may organize as coherent loops at granular and subgranular scales ( @xmath21000  km ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , that these small loops are dynamic @xcite , that they pervade the quiet solar surface and may even connect with upper atmospheric layers @xcite .",
    "yet , this picture is still incomplete .",
    "for example , we lack a complete mapping of the full magnetic field vector on extended fields of view , because the linear polarization signals are intrinsically weak ( they are second order on the transverse magnetic field component ) , and high spatial resolution maps on linear polarization are rather patchy @xcite , which has led to incomplete ( and sometimes , physically problematic ) characterizations of the topology of the field @xcite .    here we look for and trace small magnetic loops on extended regions of the quiet sun observed with the highest spatial resolution .",
    "loop - like structures are a natural configuration of the magnetic field due to its solenoidal character . while they can be traced as single , individual , coherent entities , they characterize the magnetic field at large , and their statistics and evolution may shed some light on the origin of the very quiet sun magnetism , in particular , on the operation or not of local dynamo action @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "the organization of the field at small scales affect the organization of the magnetic field at larger scales and in higher atmospherics layers @xcite , and dynamics @xcite .",
    "we find evidence for the small scale loops appearing rather irregularly , as in bursts and clumps .",
    "moreover , wide regions of the very quiet sun show very low magnetic activity and no apparent sign of organized loops at the detection level of the instruments .",
    "these extremely quiet ( _ dead calm _ ) regions are an intrinsic characteristic of the statistical distribution of these events .",
    "this paper is devoted to the analysis of disk center quiet sun observations obtained with the imax instrument @xcite onboard the sunrise balloon borne observatory @xcite .",
    "imax is a fabry - prot interferometer with polarimetric capabilities at the fei line at 5250.2  .",
    "we analyze two different data sets .",
    "both have the same properties except that they trace different regions of the quiet sun and were observed at different times , being times series of 22 and 31 min duration .",
    "they consist of five filtergrams taken at @xmath640 , @xmath680 and + 227 m from the fei 5250.2  line center .",
    "the field of view is 46.8@xmath7 ( 35.6@xmath835.6 mm@xmath1 ) , 20 times larger than the one observed by @xcite .",
    "the spatial resolution is of about 0@xmath9.15 - 0@xmath9.18@xmath9 .",
    "the time cadence is 32 s ( note that it is 28 s in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , allowing a noise level of @xmath10 and @xmath11 i@xmath12 in the circular and linear polarization , respectively ( i@xmath12 being the continuum intensity ) .",
    "we look for small magnetic loops in the data set : coherent structures that appear as a dipole in the longitudinal magnetogram ( i.e. , adjacent positive and negative patches in stokes-@xmath13 maps ) , and a linear polarization patch between them ( see figure 1 ) , and that remain identifiable for several ( at least 2 ) time frames ( @xmath141 minute ) .",
    "we looked for small magnetic loops by direct visual inspection .",
    "a systematic search was performed in both field - of - views ( fovs ) at all times , for these structures by one of the authors ( mjmg ) , recording the position and evolution at different times of every single event .",
    "the method was validated by selecting a small area ( @xmath15  mm@xmath1 ) and independently looking for such structures by a different observer ( rms ) . in this control region ,",
    "the first observer found @xmath16 loops , the second one @xmath17 .",
    "@xmath18 of them were found by both observers . from those values ,",
    "the actual number of loops @xmath19 on the area may be estimated by the laplace ratio ( or lincoln - petersen index ) for population estimates : @xmath20 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; a better , less biased , estimate being @xmath21 @xcite .",
    "the variance of this estimate is @xmath22=4.9 $ ] @xcite .",
    "these formulae have been used in the literature to estimate the size of ecological populations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the number of errors in a message @xcite.the main difficulty for applying the method to our case is that the objects to be counted ( the loops as defined in the first paragraph of this section ) may not be unambiguous . to guarantee that this condition is fulfilled ( i.e. , that both observers were identifying and counting the same objects )",
    ", both observers went again over all the structures found in the area by both , and they had to agree over all the events to be counted as loops .",
    "from this analysis we conclude that the total number of magnetic structures that we find in the whole dataset could be understimated by @xmath335% .",
    "we note that the most clear cases ( those with the strongest polarization signals , lasting longer , and clearly isolated from neighbouring magnetic patches ) were often found by both observers in the control area .",
    "the 35% discrepancy is due to those events found by one observer but not the other ; these cases correspond to the most subtle ( often bordering the detection limit ) events .",
    "we identify 497 small magnetic loops emerging in the observed regions .",
    "taking into account the total time of observation and the spatial area covered , this amounts to an emergence rate of small dipoles of 0.25  loops  h@xmath4  arcsec@xmath5 , rising up to 0.34  loops  h@xmath4  arcsec@xmath5 when we apply the correction for undetected ( although present in the data ) loops given above .",
    "these values are one order of magnitude larger than the previous estimation found by @xcite , but compatible with mart ' inez gonzlez ( 2007 ) and mart ' inez gonzlez et al .",
    "there are several reasons for the discrepancy .",
    "first , the former study covered a relatively small area and , if the emergence is not strictly uniform ( as we shall discuss below ) , the rate can be greatly understimated .",
    "this fact was already pointed out in @xcite , where it was noted that there was evidence for preferential emergence regions .",
    "the reason why the studies in the near - ir and this letter are in agreement is because , either having a better zeeman sensitivity ( mart ' inez gonzlez et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and mart ' inez gonzlez et al .",
    "( 2010 ) used the more sensitive most importantly to linear polarization spectral line of fe  i at 1.5  @xmath23 m ) or having a better spatial resolution makes both studies more sensitive , inducing the identification of more ( weaker and/or smaller ) structures in the field .",
    "both opposite polarity feet and the linearly polarized bridge between them were tracked during the full loop phase . in most cases ( 60% of the events ) , the loop collides or merges to some degree with a neighbouring structure and we could not trace further its individual evolution . this is a common case because at our level of sensitivity and at such spatial resolution , most of the pixels in the fov show circular polarization , and many , both linear and circular . for the remaining 40% of the cases",
    ", the loop individual history could be traced beyond ( and before ) their complete loop phase ( i.e. , when both three polarization patches are seen simultaneously ) . in nearly half of these cases ( 56% ) , both footpoints and linear polarization appear and/or disappear simultaneously because the structure falls below the detection level of the instrument ( or it submerges ) .",
    "we named this population of loops as `` low - lying '' ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this population of loops is very particular of the quiet sun . in 42% of the cases ,",
    "linear polarization precedes the detection of both footpoints and then disappears before them too .",
    "@xcite computed the line - of - sight velocity of the loops using the stokes @xmath13 zero - crossing shift and verified that all the loops having this very same time evolution were rising @xmath24-loops .",
    "we have no reasons for thinking that the loops found in imax are a different population .",
    "however , we can not compute the stokes @xmath13 velocity in the imax data sets analyzed in this paper , hence , the identification of these loops as rising @xmath24-loops can be put in doubt . in just 3 instances ( 2% ) , we found that first the opposite polarities appear , then the linear polarization between them , and everthing disappears , wich could be interpreted as the emergence of a u - loop , or , more probably ( considering the local evolution of the flow ) , a submergence of an @xmath24-loop .",
    "figure [ ejemplos ] display four examples of small loops found in the imax data .",
    "note that , for the sake of clarity , we have only drawn the contours of interest , avoiding circular and linear polarization patches adjacent to the loop structure .",
    "the time runs from top to bottom , the time cadence being irregular .",
    "the first and third columns represent typical loops in which the linear polarization disappears at some point in the evolution of the loop while the footpoints stay in the photosphere ( probably rising @xmath24-loops ) .",
    "these two loops have , however , some peculiarities that differentiate them .",
    "the loop in the first column appears at the border of an expanding granule .",
    "as the granule expands , the entire loop is dragged by the plasma flow .",
    "the loop in the third column contains a linear polarization signal with a gap in between .",
    "these two peculiarities are a consequence of the spatial resolution of the imax data that allows us to trace the dynamics of the linear polarization .",
    "the loop in the second column of fig .",
    "[ ejemplos ] has another linear polarization patch with a curious dynamics .",
    "it seems that , somehow , the negative footpoint is disconected from the positive one ( i.e. , the loop breaks ) and that it connects somewhere else to the right of the positive footpoint .",
    "of course , it is just a visual impression .",
    "the example in the fourth column is an example of two loops appearing very close in time and in space .",
    "they also disappear more or less at the same time , hence , one could think this is an evidence of a sea - serpent magnetic field line .",
    "note also that the rightmost loop rotates .",
    "all the observed dipoles are smaller than @xmath25  mm ( center - to - center distance between the two opposite polarity patches ) , becoming increasingly more abundant at smaller scales , with most of the observed dipolar structures being @xmath26  mm ( figure 2a ) .",
    "this is barely three times the spatial resolution limit of imax , which suggests that the detection and our statistics might be limited by the instrument .",
    "the tilt angle of these dipoles is uniformly distributed , meaning that it does not follow the hale s polarity law .",
    "this last result is consistent with @xcite and even with the behaviour of the smallest ephemeral regions .",
    "figure 2b displays the distance between footpoints with respect to the separation between them at the initial time .",
    "therefore , positive values mean that the footpoints separate with time and negative ones indicate that the footpoints approach each other . in average",
    ", the distance grows linearly with time with a velocity of @xmath27 km s@xmath4 , comparable to typical granular values .",
    "this indicates that the loops passively follow the granular flows , as expected from weak magnetic features @xcite .",
    "the magnetic properties of these small dipoles are represented in fig . 2c and 2d .",
    "they are obtaining inverting the data in the weak field approximation following @xcite .",
    "the magnetic flux has been computed in the area containing the observed signal .",
    "the frontier has been defined by eye ( as an isocontour of magnetic flux density ) and hence is slightly different for the different structures .",
    "the magnetic flux density is the mean value of the magnetic flux densities in this same region .",
    "the magnetic flux of the loops can be explained with a power law using the exponent found by @xcite .",
    "this means that the population of small dipoles follows the population of magnetic fields in the quiet sun . but",
    "looking at the histogram of magnetic flux densities , the loops are located at the end tail of the histogram ; it is mostly in the range 10 - 20  mx  cm@xmath4 i.e .",
    ", 10 - 20  g if the magnetic field were uniformly distributed and volume filling .",
    "this is compatible with the results of @xcite who state that , in the quiet sun , the larger the signal the larger the degree of organization of magnetic fields .",
    "although small scale loops are found all over the observed areas , their spatial distribution does not seem to be completely uniform ( fig .",
    "it can be observed that , at some locations , loops appear repeatedly and succesively as in bursts , forming clusters , a behaviour that has been noticed before by mart ' inez gonzlez & bellot rubio ( 2009 ) , who pointed out that , often , the appearence of loops made it more likely that new ones were later detected nearby . on the other hand ,",
    "extended areas seem to be noticeably empty of such events , as if voids appeared in the distribution .",
    "however , this may be deceiving since voids are also formed even in strictly uniform distributions of points @xcite .",
    "a quantitative analysis to determine if these voids are statistically significant was performed .",
    "this requires on the first place , an unambiguous definition of ` void ' , a non - trivial task in itself ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and discussions therein ) .",
    "we adopted the simplest definition here and considered only voids of circular shape : the largest empty circle that can be fitted in a given region of the point field equivalently , an empty circle limited by three points of the distribution .",
    "if the loops appeared uniformly on the solar surface , then the probability of finding a void of area between @xmath29 and @xmath30 within the field of view ( square surface of area @xmath31 ) would be ( see appendix ) : @xmath32 where @xmath33 , @xmath34 is the surface density of points , and @xmath35 is the total number of voids espected in the fov , which is given by equation  ( a1 ) .",
    "for the two data sets studied here @xmath36  mm ( which is slightly smaller than the nominal fov because we have excluded the apodized exterior area ) , and @xmath37  mm@xmath5 . note that we only need a single value of @xmath34 since the number of loops detected in both data sets are very similar ( i.e. , 248 and 249 events ) .",
    "figure 4 shows the number of voids per unit area in both datasets and for the corresponding poisson distribution . except for the smallest areas ,",
    "the distribution of large circular voids in the first dataset is not significantly different from the uniform one . on the second data",
    "set , however , apart from the overabundance of small scale voids , large circular voids seem to be significatively more abundant than a strictly uniform distribution would suggest .",
    "actually , for the parameters found for these observations , the probability of finding a circle with an area lager than @xmath38  mm@xmath1 ( equivalently , diameter larger than @xmath39  mm ) is very low ( @xmath40 ; see the inset plot in fig .",
    "we conclude , therefore , that there is statistical evidence for the two voids marked in figure  3a to be real and not due to chance .",
    "moreover , the oberabundance of small voids is interpreted in terms of a clumpy structuring ( see how loops appear in clumps , like a gurgle phenomena , in fig 3 ) .    in order to relate the distribution of loops ( and the voids ) to the global magnetism in the observed area , fig .",
    "3 shows the integrated longitudinal ( in black and white ) and transverse ( in yellow ) magnetograms for the two observations .",
    "when dealing with the linear polarization , one has to remind that it is a biased estimator of the transversal field component . in the plot ,",
    "this bias is statistically partially removed as follows : we compute the bias for a percentile 95 when the observations are pure noise ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see ) ( note that this bias value depend on each pixel , i.e. , on the actual intensity profile ) .",
    "this means that the `` real '' transverse magnetic will be below this bias value with a probability of 95% .",
    "we have decided to put all the values smaller than this bias to 0 .",
    "figure 3 shows only the statistically significant patches of linear polarization appearing at all the observed times .",
    "the positions of the loops do not seem to be clearly correlated with the longitudinal magnetogram , but the voids encircled by the loops show less magnetic activity than other areas in the fov . considering the correlation with linear polarization , it suggests that most of the linear polarization signals that are detected are associated to loop structures embeded in the formation region .",
    "it is known that even in very quiet areas of the sun magnetic fields may organize naturally forming loops at granular scales . in this study",
    "we extended this observation to the smallest spatial scales observable ( 100 - 1000  km ) , finding an increasing number of loops at smaller scales up to the resolution limit .",
    "this finding suggests that the organization of magnetic fields might continue beyond that limit .",
    "we can not reconstruct the complete magnetic field topology because 1 ) the finite spatial resolution of our observations is ( perhaps inherently ) above the organization scale of the magnetic fields , and 2 ) we lack linear polarimetric sensitivity , which gives us only fragmentary information on the transversal ( horizontal ) component of the magnetic fields . due to these limitations the loop structures that we observe are biased towards relatively large and relatively strong with respect to the magnetic flux density in the neighbouring areas .",
    "we found evidence that the loops thus detected are not randomly distributed on the solar surface , but rather that they may appear in bursts , and that they are noticiable absent from extended areas which are , also , only weakly magnetized .",
    "it is not yet clear what is the nature of the magnetic fields in the quiet sun what are the fundamental physical mechanisms involved in their generation and evolution .",
    "the presence of these _ dead calm _ areas in the quiet sun ( and small scale loops hotspots ) represent an important constrain on the origin of magnetic fields in the very quiet sun and on the dominant dynamic and magnetic mechanisms taking place there .",
    "it is thought that the magnetism of the quiet sun can be the result of the emergence of underlying organized magnetic fields @xcite or the dragging of the overlying canopy fields @xcite .",
    "it would then be necessary to understand why there are emergence hotspots and dead calm areas .",
    "another possibility is that they are just recycling of the decay of active regions as they diffuse and migrate to the poles .",
    "but it seems unlikely that such random walking would lead to the kind of organized structures and to the spatial patterns reported here .",
    "it is also possible that they are linked to some type of dynamo action taking place in the solar surface @xcite .",
    "it seems now clear that coherent velocity patterns are a requisite for dynamo action to take place @xcite .",
    "the most obvious coherent velocity pattern in the solar surface is granulation .",
    "if this velocity pattern is involved in some dynamo action , it is reasonable that it forms coherent magnetic structures ( such as the loops ) , although these does not need to be organized at the same granular scales ; it could well be that they form intermittent patterns as the ones observed here . actually , theoretical considerations @xcite and laboratory experiments @xcite support the idea that the onset of turbulent dynamo action may be highly intermittent and bursty .",
    "finally , it could just be that these small scale loops represent the far tail of a continous range of structures from a global dynamo , just lying at the other end from sunspots .",
    "their spatial statistics would then reflect the velocity patterns on the last ( shallowest ) layers of magnetic field emergence .",
    "future models that we construct to understand the generation of magnetic fields in the very quiet sun have to explain the spatio - temporal coherences that we report .",
    "further work is needed to extend these results in larger areas of the sun and along the solar cycle .",
    "we specially thank dr .",
    "juan betancort rijo for very helpful discussions on the determination of the statistics of voids , which have improved the paper and strengthen the conclusions",
    ". we also thank valent ' in mart ' inez pillet for helpful discussions .",
    "eliot hijano enjoyed a summer research grant at the instituto de astrof ' isica de canarias .",
    "financial support by the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness through projects aya2010 - 18029 ( solar magnetism and astrophysical spectropolarimetry ) and consolider - ingenio 2010 csd2009 - 00038 is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "we derive equation ( 1 ) adapting to our case some arguments of the strategy by @xcite .",
    "the probability that three points @xmath41 distributed at random ( uniformly ) on an square with area @xmath42 , have coordinates between @xmath43 and @xmath44 , @xmath45 and @xmath46 ( @xmath47 and @xmath48 ) , is @xmath49 .",
    "with the change of variables @xmath50 , @xmath51 , we may express the probability for the center of circumcircle of the three points to lie between @xmath52 and @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 , its radius between @xmath56 and @xmath57 , and the azimutal angles of each point between @xmath58 and @xmath59 , then , as @xmath60 , where @xmath61 is the determinant of the jacobian matrix .",
    "the probability of one such a circle to lie between the bounds of the large square and its radius to be between @xmath56 and @xmath57 is @xmath62 , where @xmath52 and @xmath54 have been integrated betwen @xmath56 and @xmath63 , and @xmath58 between 0 and 2@xmath64 , taking into account that the integral of the angular part of @xmath65 is @xmath66 .",
    "alternatively , the probability density of the area @xmath33 of such a circle is @xmath67 .    on the other hand , in a homogeneous poisson field with density @xmath68",
    "( @xmath69 points randomly distributed over an area @xmath70 ) , the probability of finding @xmath71 points in a region of area @xmath29 is @xmath72 .",
    "therefore , the probability of the circumcircle of three points to be void is @xmath73 .",
    "finally , @xmath69 points determine @xmath74 ( @xmath75 ) different triplets ( hence , possible circles ) , and the number of void circles with areas between @xmath29 and @xmath30 within the square bounds is @xmath76 .",
    "the total number of void circles is : @xmath77,\\ ] ] where @xmath78 and @xmath79 is the error function @xcite .",
    "the probability of voids of area @xmath29 with our constrains is then the number of voids of area @xmath29 divided by the total number : @xmath80      we specially thank dr .",
    "juan betancort rijo for very helpful discussions on the determination o f the statistics of voids , which have improved the paper and strengthen the conclusions .",
    "the c ontribution of eliot hijano to this work was in the frame of the summer grants offered by the instituto de astrof ' isica de canarias .",
    "financial support by the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness through projects aya2010 - 18029 ( solar magnetism and astrophysical spectrop olarimetry ) and consolider - ingenio 2010 csd2009 - 00038 is gratefully acknowledged .                          , j.  m. , pearce , f. , foster , c. , platen , e. , brunino , r. , neyrinck , m. , basilakos , s. , fairall , a. , feldman , h. , gottlber , s. , hahn , o. , hoyle , f. , mller , v. , nelson , l. , plionis , m. , porciani , c. , shandarin , s. , vogeley , m.  s. , & van de weygaert , r. 2008 , , 387 , 933        , s. , beeck , b. , pietarila , a. , schssler , m. , solanki , s.  k. , martnez pillet , v. , bonet , j.  a. , del toro iniesta , j.  c. , domingo , v. , barthol , p. , berkefeld , t. , gandorfer , a. , knlker , m. , schmidt , w. , & title , a.  m. 2010 , , 723 , l149          , r. , & tsuneta , s. 2009 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "415 , the second hinode science meeting : beyond discovery - toward understanding , ed .",
    "b.  lites , m.  cheung , t.  magara , j.  mariska , & k.  reeves , 132                          , v. , del toro iniesta , j.  c. , lvarez - herrero , a. , domingo , v. , bonet , j.  a. , gonzlez fernndez , l. , lpez jimnez , a. , pastor , c. , gasent blesa , j.  l. , mellado , p. , piqueras , j. , aparicio , b. , balaguer , m. , ballesteros , e. , belenguer , t. , bellot rubio , l.  r. , berkefeld , t. , collados , m. , deutsch , w. , feller , a. , girela , f. , grauf , b. , heredero , r.  l. , herranz , m. , jernimo , j.  m. , laguna , h. , meller , r. , menndez , m. , morales , r. , orozco surez , d. , ramos , g. , reina , m. , ramos , j.  l. , rodrguez , p. , snchez , a. , uribe - patarroyo , n. , barthol , p. , gandorfer , a. , knoelker , m. , schmidt , w. , solanki , s.  k. , & vargas domnguez , s. 2011 , , 268 , 57            , f. , berhanu , m. , monchaux , r. , aumatre , s. , chiffaudel , a. , daviaud , f. , dubrulle , b. , bourgoin , m. , odier , p. , plihon , n. , pinton , j .- f . ,",
    "volk , r. , fauve , s. , mordant , n. , & ptrlis , f. 2008 , physical review letters , 101 , 074502"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze two regions of the quiet sun ( @xmath0  mm@xmath1 ) observed at high spatial resolution ( @xmath2100  km ) in polarized light by the imax spectropolarimeter onboard the sunrise balloon . </S>",
    "<S> we identify 497 small - scale ( @xmath3400  km ) magnetic loops , appearing at an effective rate of 0.25  loop  h@xmath4  arcsec@xmath5 ; further , we argue that this number and rate are underestimated by @xmath330% . however , we find that these small dipoles do not appear uniformly on the solar surface : their spatial distribution is rather filamentary and clumpy , creating _ </S>",
    "<S> dead calm _ areas , characterized by a very low magnetic signal and a lack of organized loop - like structures at the detection level of our instruments , that can not be explained as just statistical fluctuations of a poisson spatial process . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that this is an intrinsic characteristic of the mechanism that generates the magnetic fields in the very quiet sun . </S>",
    "<S> the spatio - temporal coherences and the clumpy structure of the phenomenon suggest a recurrent , intermittent mechanism for the generation of magnetic fields in the quietest areas of the sun . </S>"
  ]
}