{
  "article_text": [
    "an understanding of the nature and distribution of matter on small ( @xmath4 1 mpc ) scales is essential to modern astrophysics .",
    "measuring the shapes of galaxy mass profiles reveals the presence of dark matter ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and its interactions with baryonic matter ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "separating total mass into luminous and dark components can constrain cosmological parameters ( e.g. the baryon fraction @xmath5 ) and place estimates on the efficiency of star - formation in galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "observing changes in any of these quantities over cosmological time is a key component in studying galaxy evolution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while there are many techniques capable of measuring mass on small scales , gravitational lensing stands out as an especially powerful choice . unlike other methods , lensing directly measures",
    "a total ( baryonic + dark matter ) mass without requiring this mass to be luminous or in any specific dynamical state .",
    "furthermore , a lensing analysis is not limited to the local universe , but rather can be applied to systems located over a wide range of cosmological distances .",
    "strong gravitational lensing , in particular , can provide a wealth of information about the nature of galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite and references therein ) . with typical image separations of @xmath6 1  arcsec",
    ", galaxy - scale strong lenses produce mass estimates close to the centre of galaxies , giving information about both the baryon - dominated luminous core and the inner regions of the dark matter halo .",
    "this relatively small angular size ( corresponding to physical scales of 5 - 10 kpc at typical lensing - galaxy redshifts ) decreases the probability of foreground interlopers contaminating the line of sight  a problem that can bias mass estimates obtained from group and cluster - scale strong lenses , and can strongly dilute the signal measured from weak lensing  suggesting that the observed lensing signal will be dominated by the mass of the lensing galaxy .    in this paper",
    ", we investigate the galaxy - scale gravitational lens b1938 + 666 .",
    "first discovered as part of the jodrell bank  very large array astrometric survey ( jvas ; @xcite ) , initial radio observations of b1938 + 666  showed a quadruply - imaged background source , configured into a partial einstein ring , along with a second , doubly - imaged component @xcite .",
    "follow - up imaging in the near - infrared ( nir ) and optical uncovered a bright red object that was thought to be the galaxy lensing the radio emission @xcite .",
    "this emission was later shown by nir _ hubble space telescope _",
    "( _ hst _ ) imaging to be composed of the light from both the lensing galaxy and a complete einstein ring of the background source galaxy @xcite . @xcite measured a redshift of @xmath7  0.881 for the lensing galaxy from optical spectroscopy , while @xcite determined a redshift of @xmath8  2.059 for the source from co observations .    as",
    "b1938 + 666  has an einstein ring , its lensing mass model can be determined to high precision .",
    "@xcite showed that , when compared with two - image quasar or arc lens systems , constraints from an einstein ring can be used to break degeneracies between the monopole moment of the gravitational potential and higher order terms .",
    "removing these degeneracies allows for a more robust measurement of the slope of the lensing galaxy s mass profile and , when combined with time delay information , can provide an unambiguous measurement of the hubble constant ( e.g. @xcite ) . at the same time , with so many constraints placed on the model , einstein ring lenses are sensitive to perturbations from the smooth gravitational potential of the lens galaxy @xcite .",
    "satellite galaxies and dark matter sub - haloes that orbit the main lensing galaxy can give rise to these perturbations , and while these objects are often too faint to be directly observed , gravitational lensing can be used to detect them indirectly through their mass signatures . in this way ,",
    "careful scrutiny of einstein ring lenses ( or those with extended gravitational arcs ) provides one of the best opportunities to reveal the presence of , and constrain the properties of , extragalactic substructure @xcite .",
    "this would serve as a direct test of the @xmath9cdm numerical simulations that predict this substructure ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and would thus advance our understanding into the nature of galaxy formation and evolution . for the reasons described above , we choose to study b1938 + 666  using high - resolution , nir adaptive optics ( ao ) as part of the strong lensing at high angular resolution program ( sharp ) .",
    "this new project aims to obtain high resolution images of lens systems to study the mass distributions of lensing galaxies between 0.3  @xmath10  1 to an unprecedented detail with state - of - the - art imaging and lens modelling techniques .",
    "in this first paper , we focus on a comparison between imaging data taken with space- and ground - based observatories , in particular , we determine the relative benefits for lens modelling",
    ". we also present a new smooth mass model for our test system b1938 + 666 that is used to determine the properties of the lens galaxy and give a robust estimate of the magnification of the nir component of the background galaxy .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section",
    "[ sharp ] , we describe the wider goals of the sharp survey since this is the first paper in the series . in section [ obs ] ,",
    "we briefly describe the new and archival multi - wavelength imaging data for b1938 + 666 , new ir spectroscopy of the lensed source and the techniques used to reduce them . in section",
    "[ results ] , we present the results of lens modelling .",
    "we discuss our results in section [ discussion ] . finally , we summarize and conclude in section [ conclusions ] .",
    "measurements describing the relative fraction of substructure within the b1938 + 666  lensing galaxy are presented in a companion paper @xcite .    throughout this paper ,",
    "we assume a cosmological model of @xmath11 kms@xmath12 mpc@xmath12 , @xmath13 , and @xmath14 .",
    "all magnitudes presented in this work are ab magnitudes .",
    "the image separations seen in galaxy - scale lenses are typically on the order of an arcsecond .",
    "thus , observing these systems with high angular resolution instruments can provide unambiguous estimates of individual image positions and magnitudes , information that is critical when measuring mass distributions with gravitational lensing .",
    "furthermore , any improvements in angular resolution compared to traditional ground - based imaging will provide enhanced detectability of faint objects with small angular extent , and improved sensitivity to small - scale perturbations of the surface brightness of lensed extended emission . at optical and nir wavelengths , there are currently two techniques for obtaining the necessary data : space - based imaging with _",
    "hst _ and ground - based ao imaging .",
    "the sharp survey utilizes both approaches in order to build up a statistically significant sample of lens systems for which deep high - resolution imaging has been obtained .",
    "a particular focus of the sharp survey is to detect and measure the mass of substructures associated with the lensing galaxies , without regard to whether the substructures are luminous or dark .",
    "numerical simulations of galaxy formation predict a large amount of substructure for a galaxy - mass halo , with a mass fraction of @xmath15 510  per cent of the total halo mass contained in substructures with masses between 4  @xmath16  10@xmath17 and 4  @xmath18  10@xmath19 @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the simulations converge on a substructure mass function of @xmath20 , where @xmath211.9  @xmath22  0.1 ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "@xcite have shown that a bayesian analysis of a sample of lenses that have been surveyed for substructure down to some mass threshold can provide meaningful constraints on @xmath23 and the slope of the mass function , @xmath24 .",
    "given a sample of @xmath630 lens systems , a mass detection threshold of 3  @xmath18  10@xmath25 or better , and a reasonable prior on @xmath24 , good constraints on @xmath23 are obtained .",
    "note that even the non - detection of substructure down to the mass limit provides useful information for constraining @xmath26 and @xmath24 , especially as the mass detection limit becomes smaller .",
    "we are therefore pursuing two complementary methods for detecting substructure in lens systems , both of which utilize deep , high - resolution imaging .",
    "the first is to detect luminous satellites directly , thus fixing the location of the substructure .",
    "the substructure can therefore be included in the mass model of the lens and its mass can be determined ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this method is most effective for lens systems with either four lensed images or extended lensed emission .",
    "the other approach is to detect substructures through their gravitational effects on extended lensed emission ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "thus , the sharp sample consists of lens systems with quadruply imaged quasar lenses and lenses with partial or complete einstein rings .",
    "results on two four - image lenses have been reported by @xcite and @xcite . here",
    "we report the results for b1938 + 666 , which has an almost complete einstein ring .",
    "a detailed description of the sharp sample will be presented by fassnacht et al .",
    "( in preparation ) .",
    "we observed the b1938 + 666  system on ut 2010 june 29 and 30 with the nirc2 camera on the keck - ii telescope , using the laser guide star ( lgs ) ao system .",
    "we used the narrow camera , with a field - of - view of 10 arcsec  @xmath18  10 arcsec , and a pixel scale of 0.01 arcsec .",
    "the tip - tilt correction was obtained through simultaneous observation of a magnitude r = 15 star at a distance of 18 arcsec from the lens .",
    "we observed the system using both the h and k@xmath27 filters .",
    "details of the observations are given in table [ tbl : obs ] .",
    ".a summary of the b1938 + 666 optical and infrared imaging observations .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tbl : modeling_results ] +",
    "we now discuss our results .",
    "first , we give a comparison of modelling the gravitational lens system using high angular resolution data from space- and ground - based telescopes .",
    "we then discuss the properties of the lensing galaxy and the magnification of the background source that we infer from our model .",
    "finally , we investigate the possibility of there being a second gravitationally lensed source for this system .",
    "the precision and accuracy of mass model constraints from extended sources on strong gravitational lens galaxies is set by three conditions : ( i ) the number of independent resolution elements across the lensed images ( and their multiplicity ) , ( ii ) the average snr of the lensed - image surface brightness distribution and ( iii ) the level of surface brightness structure in the lensed source .",
    "while the first two conditions set the level of information contained in the lensed images and how well , in principle , the mass model of the lens galaxy can be constrained , the third condition determines the level of covariance ( i.e. , degeneracy ) in the mass model , where more structured sources in general lead to a lower level of covariance between model parameters .",
    "one of the goals of this paper has been to illustrate points ( i ) and ( ii ) by comparing the results of high snr _ hst _ f160w - band data with both lower resolution and pixel - sampling , and lower snr keck ao imaging data with higher resolution and sampling .",
    "we implicitly assume that the intrinsic source structure in the f160w- , h- , and k@xmath27-bands is very much correlated .    despite the fact that the results of the modelling of the three very different data sets are promisingly similar and the errors are small , we do note that there are differences .",
    "in particular , there are discrepancies between the axis ratio and position angle ( pa ) of the lens mass distribution , and the external shear strength and pa ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : posterior ] ) .",
    "some tension between these quantities can be expected , as they are strongly covariant ( i.e. , the external shear mimics the flattening of the lens potential / mass - distribution ) and lack of information combined with errors on the data can lead to biases in the maximum - likelihood solutions and the posterior probability distributions of individual parameters .",
    "this is especially true for b1938 + 666 , where a nearly circular mass distribution and largely featureless einstein ring conspire to add uncertainty to the lens model .",
    "specifically , the circularly symmetric mass distribution ( coupled with nearly coaxial foreground and background galaxies ) makes it difficult to constrain the lensing galaxy s mass slope  increasing the covariances between other parameters  while the smooth light distribution lacks the contrast needed to differentiate between small - scale variations on the model .",
    "thus , even moderate variations in parameter space can leave the lensed light distribution relatively unchanged , allowing significantly different models to fit the data equally well .",
    "looking at the marginalized probability distributions in fig .",
    "[ fig : posterior ] it is obvious that there is a strong covariance between the lens strength ( @xmath28 ) and mass slope ( @xmath29 ) , especially in the h - band and nicmos models .",
    "this is why model discrepancies are the strongest between these data sets .",
    "however , we note that these degeneracies , and the parameter uncertainties in general , are much smaller from the higher - resolution ( but lower snr ) keck ao data .",
    "this implies that at least for some systems , ground - based ao data can `` out - perform '' space - based data in precision  and most likely also in accuracy  due to the better sampled lens image structure .",
    "of course , this does not suggest that higher snr data is unnecessary : of the two ao - based models , the k@xmath27-band data ( with its relatively higher snr ) provides much tighter constraints on individual parameters than the h - band model , and indeed , even breaks the mass - slope degeneracy found in the h - band and nicmos models .",
    "rather , the comparison simply shows that , between snr and image resolution , resolution seems to dominate any limitations on model precision .",
    "one has to be careful , though , when attempting to generalize this conclusion to other lens systems , because the result depends critically on the complex interplay between snr , spatial resolution , and source structure .",
    "it could very well be that lens systems with highly - structured sources ( e.g. , space - based b- or u - band data , where star formation could be strong and the sources could be more structured ) could out - perform the higher resolution k@xmath27-band ao data .",
    "this interplay is currently under study . in cases where there is similar data , and",
    "a bright star is available , however , our results show that ground - based ao data can perform significantly better than their space - based _ hst _ data sets in constraining lens models .",
    "as we show in the companion paper , the higher resolution provided by ao imaging was also very powerful in the discovery of a low - mass substructure in this lens system @xcite .",
    "the b1938 + 666  lensing galaxy is clearly seen in the optical and nir data sets ( fig .",
    "[ fig : imgs ] ) , and its surface brightness distribution is well - modelled by a single elliptical srsic profile ( see section [ sb - model ] ) . excluding the hst v - band photometry",
    ", we find the galaxy to have i@xmath30h and h@xmath30k@xmath27 colours of 1.9 and 0.4 magnitudes , respectively , after galactic reddening corrections .",
    "we model these colours with the @xcite stellar population code and , assuming a solar metallicity and no dust , find consistency with an old ( @xmath31  4  gyr ) stellar population .",
    "the foreground galaxy s isophotal regularity , colours , and absorption line spectrum measured by @xcite suggest that the lens has an early - type morphology ; this is consistent with the previous analysis of @xcite based only on the nicmos f160w - band imaging .",
    "we use the @xcite 4  gyr stellar population model to compute the v - band absolute magnitude and to estimate the stellar mass within the einstein radius .",
    "the luminosity is found to be @xmath32  3  @xmath18  10@xmath33 and the stellar template has a v - band stellar mass - to - light ratio of 1.54 , implying a stellar mass within the einstein radius of @xmath34  4.7  @xmath18  10@xmath35 if a chabrier initial mass function ( imf ) is assumed .",
    "we can compare this to the _ total _ mass within the einstein radius from lensing , and we find a dark - matter mass fraction of @xmath36  0.55 within the einstein radius .",
    "if we instead use a salpeter imf to describe the stellar population , the stellar mass within the einstein radius becomes @xmath34   8.2  @xmath18  10@xmath35 , leading to a dark - matter mass fraction of @xmath36  0.2 .",
    "ideally , we would like to compute the stellar - to - total mass fraction within an aperture physically associated with the lensing galaxy .",
    "therefore , we use two methods to estimate the effective radius from the more robustly measured lensing data .",
    "first , we employ the relationship between the power - law density slope and effective radius found by @xcite and correct for early - type galaxy growth rates ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "there are several significant caveats , including evolution of the power - law slope ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and large uncertainties on these relationships ; nevertheless , we find that the effective radius is consistent with being the same size as the einstein radius .",
    "motivated by this , we check if the assumption that the effective radius of 0.45  arcsec ( i.e. , equivalent to the einstein radius ) is consistent with measurements of the fundamental plane .",
    "we use the velocity dispersion inferred from the lensing model as a proxy for the stellar velocity dispersion and apply a passive evolution correction to the luminosity as determined by the @xcite 4  gyr template .",
    "we find that , again correcting for size evolution , our assumption that the effective radius and einstein radius are co - incident yields consistency with the fundamental plane presented by @xcite .",
    "the gravitational lens models also provide an estimate of the source surface brightness distribution , after correcting for the lensing effect . from the pixelated reconstruction , we find that the source is composed of two components at nir wavelengths ( in agreement with the parametrized source distribution discussed in section [ sb - model ] ) .",
    "one component is a high surface brightness region with a projected size of @xmath6  0.8 kpc , the second component is more extended , up to @xmath61.6  kpc in projected size , and has a lower surface brightness .",
    "we defer any detailed discussion about the nature of the nir source reconstruction  especially with respect to the agn and molecular gas components traced by the emission at radio wavelengths  to a follow - up paper .    to estimate the total magnification of the nir source from the gravitational lens models , we compare the model emission found in the lensing plane to that found in the source plane .",
    "we use the _ hst _ nicmos data set for this calculation because these data have the most robust measurement of the extended light distribution of the source galaxy ; the ao data sets will have some light artificially pushed into an extended envelope ( thus leading to a greater chance of confusion between source and lens galaxy light ) due to the fact that ao strehl ratios are less than unity .",
    "additionally , the brightness of the sky background at nir wavelengths can hide faint , extended emission at the outer edge of the source galaxy , leading to a biased magnification estimate .    overall",
    ", we find that the total magnification factor of the nir emission is @xmath6  13 .",
    "we note that a magnification of 176 has been previously reported for b1938 + 666 from a simple point - source model ( see @xcite for some details ) .",
    "this larger magnification was used by @xcite for their analysis of the molecular gas properties of b1938 + 666 , and they found that the co ( 32 ) line intensity for b1938 + 666 , and hence the molecular gas mass , was about an order of magnitude lower than for other quasars at a similar epoch .",
    "this large discrepancy is almost certainly due to the magnification of the gas emission being over - estimated . however , although we find a smaller magnification for the nir emission region for this source , some caution should be taken when applying this value to other wavebands , particularly if the emission has a different size , or position with respect to the lensing caustics produced by the lens ; only spatially resolved imaging and a good lens model can give a robust estimate of the magnification for any particular emission region of a gravitationally lensed source .      in @xcite",
    "we presented the detection of a low - mass substructure in the b1938 + 666 system from the distorting effect the substructure has on the lensed arc .",
    "we do not find any evidence of luminous , and probably more massive , substructure in the residual images for the system , which is consistent with the @xcite analysis . to determine an upper limit on the brightness of any luminous substructure",
    ", we add a series of simulated point sources between 24.5  @xmath37  28 to an image of the lens system from which both the lens galaxy and the einstein ring emission have been subtracted . for our point source model",
    ", we choose the empirical psf star used in the lens modelling , as this would accurately represent how a point source object would appear in the image .",
    "one example simulation is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : psim ] .",
    "we choose a point source model over other models  such as gaussian or srsic profiles  because we have no inherent knowledge about the morphologies of these objects , and because the typical small size of satellites relative to a parent galaxy , coupled with the high redshift of the b1938 + 666  lensing galaxy , suggests that these objects would be likely unresolved in our data .",
    "additionally , since a point source object has a higher surface brightness than an extended object of the same magnitude , a point - source limiting magnitude represents a robust limit to the lowest luminosity that can possibly be observed , placing a hard limit on the luminous properties of any substructure that is independent of morphology .",
    "we generate a total of 1000 simulated images , randomizing both the magnitudes and positions of the point sources , and then use sextractor @xcite to detect the added satellites .",
    "we consider a point source to be detected if sextractor locates an object within 5 pixels and 1.5 magnitudes of the actual position and magnitude of the simulated object .",
    "compiling the results into magnitude bins , we find that we are able to recover the majority ( i.e. @xmath38  50  per cent ) of the simulated objects down to an apparent magnitude of k@xmath39   26.1 , which we take to be our detection limit ( see fig . [",
    "fig : plimit ] ) . converting this value to the rest - frame v - band corresponds to an object that has an absolute magnitude of @xmath4016.2 , which is fainter than the magellanic clouds ( @xmath4118.5 , @xmath4217.1 ) , but approximately three times brighter than the sagittarius dwarf satellite ( @xmath4315 ; @xcite ) .",
    "26.1 bin ( represented by the dashed line ) .",
    "we therefore treat this as our limiting magnitude.,width=302 ]          there are two faint arclet structures that can be seen just outside the einstein ring on the eastern side of the k@xmath27 image ( fig .",
    "[ fig : imgs ] ; bottom middle panel ) . to enhance the signal of these arclets",
    ", we apply a gaussian filter ( @xmath44  6.5 pixels ) to smooth the data , followed by a laplacian filter to increase the contrast around bright flux peaks .",
    "[ fig : arcs ] shows a high - contrast image of the original data and an image showing the results of applying gaussian and laplacian filters . while the two arcs are barely detectable above the noise in the unprocessed data , the arcs are clearly visible in the filtered image .",
    "as the arclets are so faint in the original k@xmath27-band data , we do not formally consider them in our lens model .",
    "however , taking into account the enhanced image , it is possible  given their positions and orientations relative to the lensing galaxy  that these arclets are actually multiple images of a second background source .",
    "there are three possible scenarios : the arclets are not being lensed ; the arclets are images of a strongly - lensed source that is associated with the primary ring ( e.g. , an additional component of the galaxy being lensed into the ring , a nearby galaxy , or more images of the ring ",
    "although this would lead to an extremely peculiar image configuration that we do not expect to arise from well - behaved lensing mass distributions ) ; or the arclets are images of a second source being strongly lensed but at a completely different redshift than the einstein ring galaxy .",
    "we can investigate these scenarios by using the lens models that have been fitted to the einstein ring .",
    "we first use our best lens model to cast the emission from the einstein ring and the two arclets back to the source plane .",
    "as expected , the arclets do not fall on the einstein ring source .",
    "however , the two arclets also are not mapped to a coincident location on the source plane , indicating that if they are at the same redshift as the einstein ring galaxy they are not multiple images of the same source .",
    "the possibility that the arclets correspond to images of a strongly - lensed source at a different redshift is intriguing ; such double - plane lens systems provide very tight constraints to the mass - density slope of the lens and can give useful constraints on cosmological parameters ( see @xcite for details ) . to investigate this possibility",
    "we must rescale the lens strength of our mass model , where the scaling is directly proportional to the ratio of angular diameter distances between the lens and the two sources .",
    "we find that the two arclets can be mapped to approximately the same location in the source plane if the lens strength is increased by a factor of @xmath6  1.85 .",
    "such a large scaling factor requires an unrealistically high redshift for the source , although two caveats exist that could mitigate this concern : the galaxy being lensed into the einstein ring can contribute to the lensing , and the mass profile could deviate from the central power law that was found from the einstein ring fit .    in any case , some estimate of the redshifts of the two potential gravitational arcs will need to be obtained to determine their nature .",
    "this will likely require extensive followup with deep , high - resolution spectroscopy . while this is difficult with current telescopes ( especially because arclet b is so faint ) , future instruments such as the _ james webb space telescope _",
    "( _ jwst _ ) , the thirty meter telescope ( tmt ) , or the european - extremely large telescope ( e - elt ) should provide the resolution and light - gathering power necessary to achieve this goal .",
    "we have presented a new mass model for the gravitational lens system b1938 + 666 , using a grid - based bayesian reconstruction technique on high resolution ground - based ao and space - based _ hst _ data , as part of the strong - lensing at high angular resolution program ( sharp ) .",
    "we find that the smooth component of the lensing galaxy s mass profile is well - fitted by a ( nearly isothermal ) power - law distribution , while its light profile ( and that of the source galaxy ) can be described by srsic components .",
    "a more in - depth analysis of the mass model , characterizing the amount of substructure present in the system , is presented in a companion paper to this work @xcite .",
    "the model is consistent over three independent nir data sets  due largely to the constraints provided by a bright einstein ring  and agrees well with previously reported results . when compared to models derived from traditional ground - based imaging , though , the high - resolution models are significantly more precise .",
    "the relative improvement in precision varies from data set to data set .",
    "thus , by generating both ao- and _ hst_-based models , we have provided a quantitative comparison between instruments .",
    "overall , we find that the uncertainties on the model parameters derived from the ao data sets are smaller than those measured from the _ hst _ , by as much as an order of magnitude .",
    "this suggests that ao data are better at constraining lens models than equivalent _",
    "hst _ data ( at least in cases where the lens and source galaxies are red and have reasonably smooth light profiles ) , and therefore , that ao observations of lens systems can lead to a better description of those systems mass distributions .",
    "however , confirmation of this result will require a much larger data set and will be explored in a future paper ( sharp ii ; fassnacht et al .",
    ", in prep ) .",
    "djl and cdf acknowledge support from nsf - ast-0909119 .",
    "the centre for all - sky astrophysics is an australian research council centre of excellence , funded by grant ce110001020 .",
    "sv is supported by a pappalardo fellowship at the massachusetts institute of technology and is grateful to the helena klyuver female visitor program for funding her stay at astron , during which part of this work was carried out .",
    "lvek is supported ( in part ) through an nwo - vidi program subsidy ( project number 639.042.505 ) .",
    "all of the authors would like to extend thanks to astron for the warm hospitality ( and financial support ) during the sharp workshop , held in dwingeloo , the netherlands .",
    "this research was supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "nsf - phy11 - 25915 .",
    "the data presented herein were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "the authors wish to recognize and acknowledge the very significant cultural role and reverence that the summit of mauna kea has always had within the indigenous hawaiian community .",
    "we are most fortunate to have the opportunity to conduct observations from this mountain .",
    "the results present herein were also based on observations collected with the nasa / esa _ hst _ , obtained at stsci , which is operated by aura , under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "auger m.  w. , treu t. , bolton a.  s. , gavazzi r. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , marshall p.  j. , bundy k. , moustakas l. a. , 2009 , apj , 705 , 1099 auger m.  w. , treu t. , gavazzi r. , bolton a.  s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , marshall p.  j. , 2010 , apj , 721 , l163 auger m.  w. , treu t. , brewer b. j. , marshall p. j. , 2011 , mnras , 411 , l6 barkana r. , 1998 , apj , 502 , 531 barvainis r. , ivison r. , 2002 , apj , 571 , 712 behroozi p.  s. , conroy c. , wechsler r.  h. , 2010 , apj , 717 , 379 bertin e. , arnouts s. , 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393 blumenthal g.  r. , faber s.  m. , flores r. , primack j.  r. , 1986 , apj , 301 , 27 bolton a. s. , burles s. , koopmans l. v. e. , treu t. , moustakas l. a. , 2006 , apj , 638 , 703 bolton a.  s. et al . , 2012 ,",
    "apjl , submitted ( arxiv:1201.2988 ) bosma a. , 1999 , aspc , 182 , 339 browne i.  w.  a. , wilkinson p.  n. , patnaik a.  r. , wrobel j.  m. , 1998 , mnras , 293 , 257 bruzual g. , charlot s. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 conroy c. et al . , 2007 , apj , 654 , 153 de blok w.  j.  g. , mcgaugh s.  s. , 1997 , mnras , 290 , 533 diemand j. , kuhlen m. , madau p. , 2007 ,",
    "apj , 667 , 859 diemand j. , kuhlen m. , madau p. , zemp m. , moore b. , potter d. , stadel j. , 2008 , nat , 454 , 735 dutton a.  a. , et al . , 2011 , mnras , 417 , 1621 feroz f. , hobson m.  p. , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 384 , 449 fukugita m. , hogan c.  j. , peebles p.  j.  e. , 1998 , apj , 503 , 518 gavazzi r. , treu t. , rhodes j.  d. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , bolton a.  s. , burles s. , massey r.  j. , moustakas l.  a. , 2007 , apj , 667 , 176 gavazzi r. , treu t. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , bolton a.  s. , moustakas l.  a. , burles s. , marshall p.  j. , 2008 , apj , 677 , 1046 gnedin o.  y. , kravtsov a.  v. , klypin a.  a. , nagai d. , 2004 , apj , 616 , 16 heymans c. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 371 , l60 hoekstra h. , yee h.  k.  c. , gladders m.  d. , 2004 , apj , 606 , 67 king l.  j. , browne i.  w.  a. , muxlow t.  w.  b. , narasimha d. , patnaik a.  r. , porcas r.  w. , wilkinson p.  n. , 1997 , mnras , 289 , 450 king l.  j. et al . , 1998 , mnras , 295 , l41 kochanek c.  s. , 2006 , glsw.conf , 91 kochanek c.  s. , keeton c.  r. , mcleod b.  a. , 2001 , apj , 547 , 50 koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1136 lagattuta d.  j. et al . , 2010 , apj , 716 , 1579 lagattuta d.  j. , auger m.  w. , fassnacht c.  d. , 2010 , apj , 716 , l185 mandelbaum r. , seljak u. , kauffmann g. , hirata c.  m. , brinkmann j. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 715 mckean j.  p. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 378 , 109 more a. , mckean j. p. , more s. , porcas r. w. , koopmans l. v. e. , garrett m. a. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 174 mclean i.  s. , et al . , 1998 , spie , 3354 , 566 napolitano n.  r. , romanowsky a.  j. , tortora c. , 2010 , mnras , 405 , 2351 newman a.  b. , ellis r.  s. , treu t. , bundy k. , 2010 , apj , 717 , l103 patnaik a.  r. , browne i.  w.  a. , wilkinson p.  n. , wrobel j.  m. , 1992 , mnras , 254 , 655 riechers d.  a. , 2011 , apj , 730 , 108 rhoads j.  e. , malhotra s. , kundic t. , 1996 , aj , 111 , 642 rubin v.  c. , peterson c.  j. , ford w.  k. jr . , 1980 , apj",
    ", 239 , 50 ruff a.  j. , gavazzi r. , marshall p.  j. , treu t. , auger m.  w. , brault f. , 2011 , apj , 727 , 96 schulz a.  e. , mandelbaum r. , padmanabhan n. , 2010 , mnras , 408 , 1463 srsic j.  l. , 1963 , baaa , 6 , 41 springel v. et al . , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1685 suyu s.  h. , halkola a. , 2010 , a&a , 524 , a94 suyu s.  h. , marshall p.  j. , auger m. w. , hilbert s. , blandford r.  d. , koopmans l. v. e. , fassnacht c. d. , treu t. , 2010 , mnras , 711 , 201 suyu s.  h. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , 750 , 10 tollerud e.  j. , bullock j.  s. , strigari l.  e. , willman b. , 2008 , apj , 688 , 277 tonry j.  l. , kochanek c.  s. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 1078 van albada t.  s. , sancisi r. , 1986 , rspta , 320 , 447 vegetti s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2009a , mnras , 392 , 945 vegetti s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2009b , mnras , 400 , 1583 vegetti s. , czoske o. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2010 , mnras , 407 , 225 vegetti s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , bolton a. , treu t. , gavazzi r. , 2010 , mnras , 408 , 1969 vegetti s. , lagattuta d. j. , mckean j. p. , auger m. w. , fassnacht c. d. ,",
    "koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2012 , nat , 481 , 341 wilkinson p.  n. , browne i.  w.  a. , patnaik a.  r. , wrobel j.  m. , sorathia b. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 790"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new mass models for the gravitational lens system b1938 + 666 , using multi - wavelength data acquired from keck adaptive optics ( ao ) and _ hubble space telescope _ ( _ hst _ ) observations . </S>",
    "<S> these models are the first results from the strong - lensing at high angular resolution program ( sharp ) , a project designed to study known quadruple - image and einstein ring lenses using high - resolution imaging , in order to probe their mass distributions in unprecedented detail . here , we specifically highlight differences between ao- and _ hst_-derived lens models , finding that  at least when the lens and source galaxies are both bright and red , and the system has a high degree of circular symmetry  </S>",
    "<S> ao - derived models place significantly tighter constraints on model parameters . using this improved precision , </S>",
    "<S> we infer important physical properties about the b1938 + 666  system , including the mass density slope of the lensing galaxy ( @xmath0 ) , the projected dark matter mass fraction within the einstein radius ( @xmath1 ) , and the total magnification factor of the source galaxy ( @xmath2 ) . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , we measure an upper - limit constraint on luminous substructure ( @xmath3 ) , based on the non - detection of bright satellite galaxies in all data sets . finally , we utilize the improved image resolution of the ao data to reveal the presence of faint arcs outside of the primary einstein ring . the positions and orientations of these arcs raise the intriguing possibility that b1938 + 666  has a second source galaxy , located at a more distant redshift . however , future work is needed to verify this hypothesis .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : individual ( jvas b1938 + 666 )  gravitational lensing : strong </S>"
  ]
}