{
  "article_text": [
    "contrast limits for the direct imaging of extrasolar planets from ground based adaptive optics ( ao ) observations are currently set by the presence of static and slow - varying aberrations in the optical path that leads to the science instrument @xcite .",
    "these aberrations , due to the non - common path error between the wavefront sensor and the science camera are responsible for the presence of long lasting speckles in the image . because extrasolar planets are unresolved sources , it is difficult to discriminate them among these speckles .",
    "one family of techniques , called differential imaging , is aimed at calibrating out some of these static aberrations , by using either sky rotation ( angular differential imaging , or adi ) , polarization ( pdi ) , or wavelength dependence of the speckles ( spectral differential imaging or sdi ) . of these",
    ", adi @xcite seems very well adapted to the problem of the detection of extrasolar planets , and has been successful , most notably producing the image of the planetary system around hr 8799 @xcite .",
    "adi uses the rotation of the sky that naturally happens while tracking with an alt - azimuthal telescope around transit .",
    "the position of static and slowly varying speckles , tied to the diffraction by the pupil , remains stable over long timescales , while the image of planetary companions rotates around the one of the host star .",
    "the rotation of the field only leads to sufficient linear displacement for angular separations of the order of one arcsecond . and",
    "in practice , below 0.5 arcsecond , the performance of adi quickly degrades below the threshold where planets can be detected .",
    "one way to complement adi toward small angular separation , is to use a deformable mirror ( dm ) to modulate speckles and introduce the diversity that will distinguish them from genuine structures like planets and lumps in disks .",
    "this type of technique is regularly used for high contrast experiments @xcite , and appears as the technique of choice for a space borne mission dedicated to the direct imaging of high contrast planets .",
    "this is also the approach we propose to use for the detection of extrasolar planets at small angular separation during ground - based adaptive optics ( ao ) observations . in that scope",
    "we are integrating and testing the subaru coronagraphic extreme ao ( scexao ) project , whose optics have been described by @xcite and @xcite .    in comparison with other extreme - ao projects @xcite",
    ", scexao implements an aggressive piaa - coronagraph using a remapping of the pupil @xcite optimized for high - contrast detection at small angular separations ( down to 1 @xmath0 ) .",
    "laboratory high - contrast experiments relying on piaa have demonstrated high contrast imaging capabilitty in the 2 - 4 @xmath0 angular separation range , and achieved raw contrast of @xmath1 and beyond @xcite , that are several orders of magnitude beyond what a ground based instrument is expected to produce @xcite . from a reasonably good starting point , these experiments can produce high contrast images in a fairly small number of iterations , using electric field conjugation ( efc ) framework that relies on an acute knowledge of the system s complex amplitude response matrix @xcite . ultimately , these techniques seem implementable at the telescope once an extreme ao system produces a continuous stream of stable high - strehl images .",
    "they remain for now limited to the pampered environment of the laboratory . at this stage of its development",
    "( what is refered to as scexao phase 1 ) , scexao does not include a fully functioning high order wavefront sensor .",
    "the 32x32 dm it implements can be nevertheless used to actively generate speckle diversity and supplement adi at small angular separations .",
    "scexao phase 1 relies on iterative speckle nulling , to produce a dark hole @xcite in the field .",
    "the phase induced amplitude apodization ( piaa ) coronagraph is a high - contrast imaging device that enables the detection of faint sources down to angular separation @xmath2 1 @xmath0 .",
    "a piaa is made of a set of aspheric optics designed to apodize the pupil by geometrically redistributing the light while preserving the overall collimation of the beam for an on - axis source . because it alters the pupil ,",
    "the point spread function ( psf ) of one such system is however no longer translation invariant .",
    "on scexao , the impact of the piaa on the pupil is quite dramatic as it goes as far as filling the void left by the 30 % central obscuration of the subaru telescope pupil , to produce a apodized pupil better suited for high contrast imaging .",
    "the impact for off - axis sources is therefore also quite spectacular as it produces strongly elongated pineapple - shaped psfs beyond a few @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "while successful wavefront control experiments using piaa have already been reported @xcite , these experiments have all been using a dm located downstream of the piaa . the outer working angle ( owa ) of this type of control",
    "is imposed by the total number of available actuators across one pupil diameter . by placing the dm downstream of the remapping optics ,",
    "the owa is reduced by a factor @xmath2 3 , due to the plate scale change induced by the remapping @xcite .",
    "the resulting @xmath3 owa ( since there are 32 actuators across the pupil ) would be a very serious limitation for any direct imaging instrument . instead , the scexao project implements a complete piaa - coronagraph , with a dm located before any of the remapping optics ( cf .",
    "[ fig : configs ] ) . after the focal plane mask ,",
    "a copy of the piaa optics plugged backwards ( refered to as the inverse piaa ) is introduced to undo the remapping of the pupil after the focal plane mask .",
    "this setup allows to recover the wide field of view imaging capability of the instrument .",
    "the scexao instrument is a flexible platform , installed after subaru telescope s facility ao system , and designed to be used with the coronagraphic imager hiciao @xcite , and increase the size of the parameter space currently explored by the seeds survey @xcite , toward small angular separations .",
    "the infrared arm of scexao alone @xcite supports multiple optical configurations ( cf .",
    "[ fig : configs ] ) , from straightfoward imager ( with or without a focal plane mask ) , to a complete piaa - coronagraph .",
    "@xcite have already demonstrated that the inverse piaa once aligned and conjugated to the piaa , indeed restores wide field of view imaging capability of the system , at least up to 20 @xmath0 , which is beyond the outer working angle defined by the number of dm actuators across the instrument pupil . with this in mind , it seems reasonable to assume that the remapping optics should therefore be completely transparent for the wavefront control .",
    "the results presented in this paper demonstrate that indeed , with a complete piaa - coronagraph ( including the inverse piaa ) , a simple wavefront control loop ( speckle nulling ) converges while being oblivious to the two remappings of the pupil .      to illustrate the impact of the remapping optics on the wavefront control , we use three distinct optical configurations of the scexao infrared arm , shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : configs ] . the reader will observe that in its current implementation , the 32x32 mems dm of scexao is not located in a pupil plane .",
    "this design was chosen for the simplicity of the optical layout , as well as to minimize the total number of reflections in the system .",
    "the design however also has some drawbacks .",
    "first , it requires to be somewhat conservative with the beam size projected on the dm , to account for beam walk effects that would otherwise significantly vignet the field .",
    "the dm also needs to be horizontally tilted ( @xmath224@xmath4 ) , so the density of actuators is not the same in horizontal and vertical directions . in practice , instead of illuminating all 32 available actuators across one pupil diameter , the beam spreads over a 27.2 x 24.8 actuator ellipse .",
    "scexao can afford to have its dm away from the pupil since it is used downstream from an ao system that not only stabilizes the pupil , but also considerably reduces the total amount of aberrations the system needs to correct for .    while the dm is always part of the optical train , both the piaa and the inverse piaa",
    "are mounted on motorized stages that can swing in and out of the beam with excellent repeatability , thus allowing for quick alternance between three configurations : no remapping , piaa only and piaa + inverse piaa ( cf .",
    "[ fig : configs ] ) . in a speckle control loop ,",
    "the dm is used to introduce spatial frequencies that destructively interfere with speckles induced by wavefront aberrations from the input beam .",
    "the dm can also be used to create speckles , and in turn , provide a very instructive demonstration of how ( cf .",
    "[ fig : remap ] ) aberrations propagate through the scexao coronagraph .",
    "panel ( a ) of fig .",
    "[ fig : remap ] shows the 32x32 volt - map sent to the dm for this experiment .",
    "in addition to the volt - map that has been determined to produce the best output wavefront in the absence of input aberrations ( what will now be refered to as the dm flat - map ) , two sine waves of amplitude 0.4 radians and maximal spatial frequency ( in the nyquist sense ) are added , along the horizontal and vertical directions .",
    "these additional sine functions on the dm create four bright speckles , clearly visible in the focal plane visible on panel ( b ) of fig .",
    "[ fig : remap ] , in the absence of remapping optics .",
    "the oversized focal plane mask effectively hides the brightest area , but in the absence of lyot stop , the diffraction by the spider arms bearing the secondary mirror of the telescope are left . because the speckles result from the highest spatial frequency that can be introduced by the dm , their locations in the image also mark the edges of the region that can be controlled by the dm . in the absence of amplitude defects , appropriate actuation of the dm",
    "could clear the speckles over the entire 27.2 x 24.8 @xmath0 box centered on the on - axis target . in practice , because the beam includes amplitude as well as phase defects , the dm can only operate over a half of this entire region . for the results reported in this work , we arbitrarily chose to work on the left - hand side of the field .",
    "speckles located beyond 13.6 @xmath0 along the horizontal axis and 12.4 @xmath0 along the vertical axis simply will not be affected by the the dm .",
    "note that with a 0.04 arcsecond diffraction limit in the h - band , 12.4 @xmath0 on the subaru telescope closely matches the range of angular separation where adi becomes usable ( @xmath5 arcsecond ) .",
    "the introduction of the piaa dramatically impacts the structure of these image ( cf . panel ( c ) of fig . [",
    "fig : remap ] ) .",
    "while the diffraction spikes created by the spider remain , most of the diffraction rings due to the sharp edge of the telescope pupil disappear , and are more effectively hidden by the focal plane mask whose size now better matches the on - axis psf . off - axis , however , the bright diffraction - limited images of introduced speckles are turned into complex pineapple - shaped aberrated structures .",
    "the benefit of the piaa remapping will be better demonstrated when comparing the performance of the speckle nulling loop with and without using the remapping optics in section [ sec : vmaps ] .",
    "the complete piaa - coronagraph ( configuration 3 ) includes after the focal plane mask , a copy of the piaa optics mounted backwards to restore the geometry of the pupil back to what it was like before entering the coronagraph . from geometric optics",
    "principles only , one expects this restoration to be perfect , but diffraction and the presence of the occulting mask in the focal plane will impact the output wavefront .",
    "panel ( d ) of fig .",
    "[ fig : remap ] shows the resulting   will however show that speckle control can be achieved within the entire control region of the dm .",
    "to test the impact of the remapping ( piaa + inverse piaa ) optics for a focal plane based wavefront control loop , we use a simple iterative speckle nulling algorithm @xcite , able to handle up to a dozen speckles simultaneously .",
    "this approach seems fairly inefficient in comparison with more sophisticated electric field conjugation ( efc ) approaches that can achieve the same result in just a few iterations @xcite .",
    "speckle nulling was nevertheless chosen because of its robustness and ease of implementation .",
    "indeed , complete efc - based techniques rely on the knowledge of a response matrix that relates the complex amplitude of the on - axis source in the focal plane to the input wavefront . with an extreme ao loop effectively stabilizing the wavefront entering the coronagraph into something predictable ,",
    "this matrix is likely to be quite stable , and therefore reliable .",
    "however in its first phase of deployment at the telescope , scexao does not include the fast wavefront sensor . the simple speckle nulling approach should , despite the presence of a dynamic atmospheric component , calibrate out the wavefront features responsible for the presence of static speckles in the images @xcite .",
    "iterative speckle nulling works as follows : in a given image , up to @xmath6 speckles are identified and their positions marked , relative to the central source . with a conventional imaging system ,",
    "to each speckle position corresponds a two - component @xmath7 spatial frequency on the dm , while its brightness indicates the amplitude a@xmath8 of this spatial frequency .",
    "the only real unknown is the phase @xmath9 of each speckle , that can take any value between 0 and 2@xmath10 . in the following four acquisitions , to each speckle is added a speckle probe of same amplitude a@xmath8 , but each time with a different phase : 0 , @xmath10/2 , @xmath10 and 3@xmath10/2 .",
    "the intensity of the four speckles resulting from the interference of the original speckle and the probes is used to determine its true phase @xmath11 . for the next image ,",
    "also used as the input for the next iteration , a spatial frequency of opposite phase @xmath12 and of amplitude @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is the loop gain ( @xmath15 ) is added so as to suppress the speckle .",
    "the result of a series of 50 such speckle nulling iterations is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : spkn ] .",
    "the starting point , shown in the left panel , shows the structure of the speckles due to amplitude and phase defects that filtered through the coronagraph .",
    "one will observe that all ring like structures due to the sharp inner and outer edge of the pupil have been erased from the image , showing that the piaa - focal plane mask - inverse piaa combination achieves its purposes .",
    "although faint ( the average contrast over the entire control region is @xmath16 ) , the most striking features can almost entirely be attributed to the spider arms bearing the secondary .",
    "after about 50 speckle nulling iterations ( cf .",
    "right panel of fig .",
    "3 ) , the average contrast inside the control region is brought down to @xmath17 .",
    "the algorithm manages to suppress the diffraction features due to the spider arms , along which the gain in raw contrast is over @xmath18 .",
    "overall , the speckle nulling loop improves the contrast by a factor 10 over the entire control region .",
    "[ fig : vmap ] shows the dm voltmaps resulting from the speckle nulling algorithm for the lyot - coronagraph ( left panel ) and the piaa - coronagraph ( right panel ) configurations of scexao . despite being ignorant of the pupil geometry ,",
    "the speckle nulling produces a dm voltage induced phase pattern that resembles the original telescope simulator pupil .",
    "in addition to the spider vanes , in the lyot configuration , the algorithm attempts to cancel the diffraction rings induced by the sharp inner and outer edge of the pupil . the corresponding voltmap exhibits some sharp voltage changes from one actuator to its direct neighbor near the projection of these edges on the dm . despite these sharp changes , this configuration fails to seriously cancel the innermost rings that would require more range than the dm can actually provide .",
    "the piaa - coronagraph voltmap on the other hand , exhibits smoother features near the edge of the pupil , and only the effort to interfere with the speckle due to the spider vanes are really obvious .",
    "the coronagraph succeeds in relieving the wavefront control device by effectively suppressing a major fraction of the diffraction in the focal plane .",
    "note that the regions of the dm that obviously fall outside of the pupil do not need to be actuated at all .",
    "a more sophisticated dm control software should regularize the dm shape so as to preserve stroke on the dm .      to further characterize the performance of the scexao coronagraph , and estimate its inner working angle , we look at the evolution of the throughput as a function of the position of the source relative to the focal plane across the field . while applying the dm voltage map resulting from a sequence of speckle nulling iterations , the source is translated along the horizontal axis .",
    "[ fig : snaps ] shows six snapshots of the psf as it moves across the `` dark hole '' created by the speckle nulling loop for the first 5 @xmath0 away from on - axis . within 1 @xmath0 and a little beyond ,",
    "ring - like structures remain erased by the coronagraph . at 2 @xmath0 ,",
    "the core of the psf clears the coronagraph and diffraction rings re - appear in the image . beyond 2 @xmath0 ,",
    "the structure of the psf is essentially translation invariant , and only the shadow of the focal plane mask betrays the presence of the coronagraph .    to complete this qualitative analysis of post coronagraph images , fig .",
    "[ fig : thrpt ] shows a curve of the system throughput , integrated over the left hand side of the field , as the sources is moved across the entire 14 @xmath0 control region , and slightly beyond .",
    "the 100 % throughput reference is determined on - axis by removing the focal plane mask .",
    "matching our qualitative description of snapshots in fig .",
    "[ fig : snaps ] , we confirm that within 1 @xmath0 , the throughput only varies at the percent level .",
    "the most rapid variation of throughput happens around 2 @xmath0 , where the psf core clears the focal plane mask as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : snaps ] : the throughput quickly rises from a few percent to 60 % .    one convenient definition of the inner working angle ( iwa ) of a coronagraph is the angular separation at which its transmission reaches 50 % @xcite . according to the measurements summarized in fig .",
    "[ fig : thrpt ] , scexao s current iwa is 2.2 @xmath0 .",
    "the focal plane mask currently used is 40 % oversized , compared to the 1.6 @xmath0 iwa the piaa optics have been manufactured for .",
    "it will therefore be replaced before scexao s next observing run .",
    "we have , for the first time , demonstrated focal plane wavefront control capability in a complete piaa - focal plane mask - inverse piaa system . using a simple iterative speckle nulling algorithm",
    ", we successfully produced a high contrast region in the field ( the so - called dark hole ) , and therefore confirmed that the complete set of remapping optics ( piaa and inverse piaa ) are transparent to the focal plane based wavefront control .",
    "we have also confirmed that the outer working angle allowable by the number of actuators of the deformable mirror is preserved during the double remapping .",
    "this implies that piaa - type coronagraphs can be very well be used on ground and space - based telescopes with no loss of outer working angle and do not require complex wavefront control algorithms .",
    "high performance high efficiency coronagraphy therefore does not translate into increased system complexity .",
    "note that while we tested piaa with a large mask imposing a 2.2 @xmath0 inner working angle ) , the conclusions of this paper will hold for more iwa - optimized piaa coronagraphs , including the piaacmc @xcite that exhibit iwa @xmath19 . combined with focal plane based wavefront control to what this paper demonstrates ,",
    "such aggressive designs make coronagraphy onboard small telescopes ( @xmath22 meters ) in space a relevant option for the direct detection of extrasolar planets .",
    "they also offer the potential for imaging reflected light planets at very small separation with the forthcoming generation of extrely large telescopes .",
    "one should also note that the moderate contrast level results presented here were achieved in monochromatic light . yet at the @xmath20 to @xmath21 raw contrast level ground - based extreme ao systems will give access to , speckle nulling remains a valid option in polychromatic light .",
    "the coronagraph currently in place in scexao does not take into account the spider vanes in the pupil , while these are responsible for most of the light observed in the final focal plane of the instrument .",
    "consequently , the wavefront control algorithm must use pupil phase introduced by the deformable mirror to remove , over half of the focal plane , light diffracted by the spider vanes , as shown in figure [ fig : vmap ] .",
    "this approach is simply not suitable in a broad spectral band , and the scexao coronagraph will be updated to a piaacmc type coronagraph to solve this issue .    finally , while the results presented in this paper demonstrate the raw contrast required for ground - based system , it is unclear to which extent the approach adopted in this work is suitable for the @xmath22 contrast level that future space - based missions hope to reach in order to image and study earth - like planets . while remapping propagation effects specific to the piaa coronagraph",
    "can be included in the wavefront control algorithm @xcite , it is unknown to which extent such effects need to be accounted for .",
    "the approach presented in this paper should be tested , both in simulations and in laboratory experiments , at higher contrast that required for a ground - based system .",
    "this work will be conducted over the next two years on existing piaa coronagraph testbeds .      , r. , pluzhnik , e. , witteborn , f.  c. , et  al .",
    "2011 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol . 8151 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series                        , k.  w. , suzuki , r. , tamura , m. , et  al .",
    "2008 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol . 7014 ,",
    "society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series    , b. , guyon , o. , giveon , a. , kuhnert , a. , & niessner , a. 2011 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol .",
    "8151 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series    , j.  e. , belikov , r. , pueyo , l. , et  al .",
    "2011 , in techniques and instrumentation for detection of exoplanets v. edited by shaklan , stuart",
    ". proceedings of the spie , volume 8151 , pp . 81510e-81510e-16 ( 2011 ) . ,",
    "8151      , b.  a. , graham , j.  r. , palmer , d.  w. , et  al .",
    "2008 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol . 7015 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series            , f. , guyon , o. , garrel , v. , et  al .",
    "2011 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol . 8151 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the piaa is a now well demonstrated high contrast technique that uses an intermediate remapping of the pupil for high contrast coronagraphy ( apodization ) , before restoring it to recover classical imaging capabilities . </S>",
    "<S> this paper presents the first demonstration of complete speckle control loop with one such piaa coronagraph . </S>",
    "<S> we show the presence of a complete set of remapping optics ( the so - called piaa and matching inverse piaa ) is transparent to the wavefront control algorithm . </S>",
    "<S> simple focal plane based wavefront control algorithms can thus be employed , without the need to model remapping effects . using the subaru coronagraphic extreme ao ( scexao ) instrument built for the subaru telescope , </S>",
    "<S> we show that a complete piaa - coronagraph is compatible with a simple implementation of a speckle nulling technique , and demonstrate the benefit of the piaa for high contrast imaging at small angular separation . </S>"
  ]
}