{
  "article_text": [
    "cloud storage is a major component of the virtualization process . in cloud storage ,",
    "a customer stores its data on the facilities of a cloud provider and can then access them through the internet .",
    "the cloud replaces the customer s data infrastructure and allows the cloud purchaser to pursue an outsourcing strategy : it is a major example of the iaas ( infrastructure as a service ) paradigm .",
    "cloud storage service is paid for though a periodic fee related to the amount of data stored .",
    "several papers have been devoted to the economical analysis of the migration from an owned infrastructure to the cloud @xcite .",
    "the profitability of migration relies heavily on the price required by the cloud provider : too high a price erodes the profit margins and may make infrastructure ownership the best business proposition . since the migration decision must be evaluated in the long run @xcite , any decision has to be based on forecasts for future prices . given the long evaluation window , there is a significant probability of taking the wrong decision . in @xcite ,",
    "the value - at - risk metric was employed to analyse the extent of such risk .",
    "the cloud purchaser has to deal with such a risk and look for mitigating strategies .    in @xcite",
    "a technology - based strategy has been proposed to reduce the problems due to price hikes , through the application of raid - like techniques ( _ redundant array of independent disks _ ) .",
    "that strategy is not free , since it involves managing multiple storage contracts and the extra storage costs to achieve redundancy .",
    "here we propose an insurance - based strategy , which may be employed as either an alternative or an accompanying strategy for any technology - based solution .",
    "it calls for the cloud purchaser underwriting an insurance policy to hedge against price increases .",
    "actually , since a downward trend is expected for cloud storage prices , our insurance approach achieves protection against any upward deviation from the downward trend .",
    "we envisage an insurance contract covering a long - term migration strategy .",
    "since a major issue is the cost associated to the strategy , we derive a pricing formula for the insurance contract and evaluate the resulting price for several realistic scenarios . we show that the insurance price ( the _ premium _ ) grows nearly quadratically with the length of the coverage period as long as this is below one year , but grows more slowly , though faster than linearly , over longer coverage periods .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section [ fluct ]",
    ", we review the current cloud storage market and describe a model for future price fluctuations .",
    "the insurance policy and the pricing formula are described in section [ insur ] . in section [ sample ] , we set some sample scenarios and evaluate the resulting premium .",
    "in order to get established as an operational paradigm , cloud storage must be economically profitable both for the cloud provider and for the cloud purchaser .",
    "costs for the cloud purchaser are determined by the prices offered by the cloud provider , which in turn are lower bounded by its costs .",
    "such costs pose different constraints on the two parties .",
    "cloud providers must set prices at least so high as to recover their costs : costs represent a lower bound for prices . instead",
    ", cloud purchasers seek prices lower than their costs ( otherwise they would stay with their data center ) : costs represent an upper bound for prices . whatever the role of the party , we expect costs to vary over time , under the influence of a number of factors ( e.g. , cost of disks , operational expenses , level of competition )",
    "likewise , we expect prices to reflect those changes and vary as well",
    ". we can model the fluctuations of price through a stochastic model . in this section ,",
    "starting from data derived from the market of disks and storage facilities , we describe the stochastic model we employ for future cloud storage prices .",
    "all the most important providers charge a fixed price for each time period ( either a month or a year ) , with a maximum amount of storage space .",
    "( increased in brackets ) .",
    "we have examined the price plans offered by major cloud providers , which offer separate plans for business customers and consumers , one of the main differences being that consumers can access their data from just one computer .",
    "since the unit price decreases as the amount of stored data increases , we have taken the least cost for each provider , i.e. , that corresponding to the maximum amount of data .",
    "the results of this analysis are summarized in table [ table : avprice ] , the prices being expressed in euros per gb and per month ( prices in us dollars have been converted into euros through a conversion rate of 1.3 ) .",
    "prices show a significant dispersion around their average value , though we must recognize that the price itself is just one of the characteristics of the service bundle : different prices may reflect quite different service features .",
    ".unit prices of cloud providers [ cols=\"<,^,^ \" , ]     we can further analyse that issue by observing the normalized individual monthly premium @xmath0 to be paid at time 0 to cover a single monthly period @xmath1 months ahead . in figure",
    "[ fig : p2 ] , we report the resulting curve for a contract covering five years . over the relatively short period of 1 year",
    ", the monthly premium grows roughly linearly .",
    "the premium for the first month is just 3.6% of the current price , but grows up to 35.6% for the premium to be paid for the twelfth month .",
    "because of the quasi - linear growth of the monthly premium , we expect the cumulative premium @xmath2 to grow as the sum of an arithmetic series , i.e. , roughly as the square of the number of months .",
    "instead , when we look at the trend over a longer policy duration , the growth of the monthly premium becomes quite less than linear ( and correspondingly the growth of the cumulative premium will be quite less than quadratic ) .",
    "for the farthest month , the monthly premium reaches nearly 90% of the current storage price .",
    "finally , we consider the effect of the volatility @xmath3 of cloud storage prices and the duration of the insurance contract .    as to the former quantity , in section [ fluct ] we obtained an estimate for the dispersion of prices , which impacts on the premium :",
    "an incorrect estimate of the volatility would distort the insurance price . in figure",
    "[ fig : vareff ] , we draw the relation between the premium and the volatility of cloud storage prices for the two contract durations considered so far , using the premium for the minimum value of the variance considered ( 0.01 ) as the baseline value . for both durations , the larger the uncertainty on the storage price ( larger variance ) , the larger the premium .",
    "but the effect is negligible for the longer duration : over the whole range considered for the standard deviation of prices , the premium increases by 1.83% if the duration is 1 year , but just by 0.12% if the duration is 5 years .",
    "another relevant issue is the impact of the contract duration on the premium . in the four typical cases reported in table [ table : insprice ] ,",
    "we observe a very large difference between the premium for 1 year and 5 years .",
    "this is due to the cumulative nature of the pricing formula ( [ premprice ] ) : the overall contract is actually the aggregation of a number of monthly contracts , a number that grows with the contract duration .",
    "we expect a roughly quadratic price growth for the shortest durations , and between linear and quadratic for the longer ones . in figure",
    "[ fig : dureff ] , we show the actual relation between premium and duration for a typical case , where we have applied the risk - free rates pertaining to the duration .",
    "the curve confirms the trend expected according to our above considerations .",
    "cloud storage prices are subject to changes , exposing the cloud purchaser to upward price fluctuations . but switching back from the cloud to in - house infrastructure is neither fast nor cheap , and neither is switching to another cloud provider . we have introduced an insurance scheme that protects the cloud purchaser against cloud prices exceeding the expected ones .",
    "we provide an insurance pricing formula , which delivers the premium for an insurance policy covering a sequence of monthly claims .",
    "the resulting premium has been evaluated for some realistic scenarios and grows first quadratically with the number of months and then more slowly .",
    "the premium for a single month is initially a very small fraction of the current monthly cloud storage price , but can become even 90% of that when the covered month is 5 years from now .",
    "the impact of the dispersion of storage prices on the premium is quite small for short durations and practically negligible for longer ones .",
    "h.  abu - libdeh , l.  princehouse , and h.  weatherspoon .",
    "racs : a case for cloud storage diversity . in _ proceedings of the 1st acm symposium on cloud computing , socc 2010 , indianapolis , indiana , usa _ ,",
    "pages 229240 , june 10 - 11 , 2010 .",
    "l.  mastroeni and m.  naldi .",
    "long - range evaluation of risk in the migration to cloud storage . in _",
    "13th ieee conference on commerce and enterprise computing , cec 2011 _ , pages 260266 , september 5 - 7 , 2011 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> when a company migrates to cloud storage , the way back is neither easy nor cheap . </S>",
    "<S> the company is then locked up in the storage contract and exposed to upward market prices , which reduce the company s profit and may even bring it below zero . </S>",
    "<S> we propose a protection means based on an insurance contract , by which the cloud purchaser is indemnified when the current storage price exceeds a pre - defined threshold . by applying the financial options theory </S>",
    "<S> , we provide a formula for the insurance price ( the premium ) . by using historical data on market prices for disks , </S>",
    "<S> we apply the formula in realistic scenarios . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the premium grows nearly quadratically with the length of the coverage period as long as this is below one year , but grows more slowly , though faster than linearly , over longer coverage periods . </S>"
  ]
}