{
  "article_text": [
    "merging is a natural process in hierarchical cosmological models and plays a significant role for the assembly of massive galaxies ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the most massive objects are elliptical galaxies , which are considered to start forming their stars at a redshift of @xmath21 in a dissipative environment and can rapidly become very massive ( @xmath22 ) by @xmath23 @xcite .",
    "their subsequent evolution is not fully understood yet , as these ellipticals are observed to be already quiescent at @xmath20 , on average 4 - 5 times smaller , and a factor of two less massive than their low redshift descendants .",
    "this rapid size evolution eventually proceeds in an inside - out fashion in the absence of significant star formation an is accompanied by an evolution in the light ( and eventually mass ) distribution @xcite .",
    "this growth process is distinctively different from the star formation driven inside - out growth of disk galaxies .",
    "in addition , there is growing observational evidence that high redshift ellipticals are more flattened with exponential like surface brightness distributions ( @xmath24 ) whereas their potential present day massive descendants are rounder and have more concentrated profiles shapes with @xmath6 @xcite .",
    "direct observations of massive compact and quiescent high redshift systems also provide new constraints on the formation histories of giant elliptical galaxies . at face value the dramatic difference in properties of massive quiescent galaxies at high and low redshift rules out a simple monolithic formation followed by simple passive evolution @xcite .",
    "the observations also rule out the formation of ellipticals in a single disk merger event , a scenario for massive ellipticals which might also suffer from other problems @xcite .",
    "even if the progenitor disks were gas - rich leading to a compact remnant @xcite those would have to evolve further by a separate process ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "in addition to the well studied stellar components there is evidence for the existence for dark matter within the half - light radii of ellipticals @xcite . gravitational lensing measurements of massive galaxies in the local universe predict , on average , @xmath25 30 per cent of the matter within the half - light radius of present day massive elliptical galaxies being dark matter @xcite . at high redshift , however , the situation is more uncertain @xcite as dark matter can not be measured directly .",
    "the naive expectation is that dark matter is much less important due to the dissipative nature of the early evolution .",
    "still , assuming its existence and collisionless nature , dark matter will eventually affect the distribution of stars during the further assembly of the galaxies ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the underlying idealized assumption for the study presented here is that present day massive elliptical galaxies ( @xmath26 ) since @xmath20 have grown predominantly by accreting stars that have formed in other galaxies and this process can be approximated by simulations of mergers of collisionless dry stellar systems .",
    "this assumption is not too far fetched as there is clear observational evidence for the predominance of old ( @xmath27 ) stellar populations in these galaxies , leaving little room for gas accretion and subsequent star formation ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "directly observed mergers , inferred merger rates , as well as stellar fine structure at large galactocentric radii are indicative of stellar merger and accretion events @xcite . on the theoretical side ,",
    "phenomenological as well as direct numerical studies predict that the late assembly of massive galaxies is dominated by the late accretion of stars that formed early @xcite ) . in a previous study @xcite used idealized merger simulations of spheroidal galaxies to re - investigate the effect of the galaxy merger mass - ratio - limited to the extreme cases of 1:1 and 1:10 - on the merger driven evolution of compact high - redshift spheroids .",
    "the main finding of this study was that both minor and major mergers lead to size growth and an increase of the dark matter fraction , however by different physical processes and at significantly different strengths .",
    "violent relaxation in major mergers mixes dark matter into the central regions and escaping particles limit the expected size growth even below the expected values . in 1:10 mergers on the other hand ,",
    "satellite particles are stripped at large radii where the initial host galaxies are dominated by dark matter . as a result the stellar effective radii and the dark matter fractions of the galaxies grow rapidly .    here",
    "we extend the @xcite study to focus on the inside - out growth including a moderate mass - ratio of 1:5 .",
    "this step is important for a number of reasons : the average stellar mass growth since @xmath20 is a factor of two .",
    "mergers with mass - ratios of 1:10 typically take a long time to complete and it is not clear whether ten of these mergers can even be completed in a hubble time .",
    "additionally , recent observationally estimated merger rates indicate more minor mergers for massive galaxies and at higher redshift but the rates are still low and it is not clear - also theoretically - whether there are enough minor mergers to explain the size growth @xcite .",
    "higher mass - ratio mergers result in a more rapid mass growth and fewer of them would be needed provided the size grows rapid enough .",
    "another reason to focus on mass - ratios of 1:5 was recently provided by direct cosmological simulations .",
    "three independent numerical studies have found that the average mass - weighted mass ratio of galaxy mergers building massive ellipticals is 1:4 - 1:5 , making this regime particularly interesting @xcite .    in section [ sims ]",
    "we give a short review of the initial galaxy models and the simulation parameters .",
    "in the subsequent sections [ sizeev ] , [ surfd ] , [ secfit ] , and [ dark2 ] we investigate the evolution of sizes , surface densities , profiles shapes and dark matter fractions , respectively .",
    "we discuss the results and conclude in section [ summary ] .",
    "( filled circles ) . for",
    "the second set of simulations with compact satellites ( open circles ) the sizes follow the @xmath28 relation ( red line ) by @xcite .",
    "the initial conditions are well separated from local mass - size relations of ellipticals @xcite .",
    ", width=321 ]    continuing the long line of research in this direction @xcite we present a set of simulations of dissipationless mergers of spheroidal galaxies with and without dark matter halos and with mass ratios of 1:1 , 1:5 , and 10:1 .",
    "details about the initial models and the simulations parameters for 1:1 and 1:10 mergers are presented in @xcite .",
    "the simulations were performed with the n - body / sph code @xmath29 @xcite . for the present study we have also performed comparison run with @xmath30 @xcite with identical results .",
    "here we only give a brief summary of the simulation setup .",
    "the initial galaxy models are isotropic , spherically symmetric one- and two - component systems following hernquist density profiles @xcite either for a model representing only the stellar component of the galaxy ( one - component , bulge - only ) or a bulge embedded in a massive dark matter halo ( two - component , bulge+halo ) .",
    "the host bulges have a stellar mass of @xmath31 and a scale radius of @xmath32 ( corresponding to a projected half - mass radius of @xmath33 ( @xcite ) realized with 100.000 particles .",
    "for the two - component cases we assume an additional dark matter halo with a total dark to stellar mass ratio of @xmath34 and a ratio of the scale radii of @xmath35 .",
    "the halo is realized with 1.000.000 particles resulting in equal - mass particles for both components .",
    "the gravitational softening length is set to @xmath36 for all particles .",
    "the stability of the initial n - body models was demonstrated in @xcite .",
    "the merging satellite galaxies are 5 ( mass - ratio 1:5 ) or 10 times ( mass - ratio 1:10 ) less massive than the host and have a correspondingly lower particle number . for our fiducial set of simulations",
    "we assume the same scale radius , @xmath37 , for all bulges , resulting in satellites being more diffuse than the host . for a second set of simulations we chose more compact satellites with scale radii of @xmath38 for the 1:5 mergers and @xmath39 for the 1:10 mergers following a @xmath20 mass - size relation @xcite .    the open and filled circles in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] indicate the location of the initial galaxy models in the mass - size plane compared to several published present day and high redshift mass - size relations .",
    "the initial massive host galaxies resemble typical massive and compact red nuggets at @xmath28 which are smaller than typical present day galaxies at @xmath40 ( red line from @xcite ) .",
    "however , for redshift two galaxies below @xmath41 ( which would be the minor merger partners ) there is no consistent size information available .",
    "therefore we assume two scenarios : a fixed size of @xmath2 for the satellites , similar to local galaxies ( see e.g. @xcite ) , indicated by the filled red and green circles . here",
    "the merging lower mass galaxies are diffuse spheroids with low phase space densities comparable to low mass disk - like galaxies .",
    "alternatively we use smaller sizes consistent with a simple continuation of the @xmath23 mass - size relation to lower masses ( open circles ) , resulting in compact spheroids .",
    "the first generation of equal - mass mergers are parabolic mergers of one- and two - component models of the initial host galaxies .",
    "the second generation is a re - merger of the duplicated , randomly oriented , first generation merger remnant , which was allowed to dynamically relax at the center .",
    "the randomly oriented galaxies approach each other on parabolic orbits with a pericenter distance of half the spherical half - mass radius of the progenitor remnants , i.e. the pericenter distances increase with each merger generation .",
    "the sequences of intermediate and minor mergers with initial mass - ratios of 1:5 ( 1:10 ) are also simulated with one- and two - component models . in the following we use the traditional convention to call all mergers with mass - ratios smaller than 1:4 minor mergers .",
    "initially , the mass - ratio is 1:5 ( 1:10 ) and the galaxies are set on parabolic orbits .",
    "the randomly oriented merger remnants of the first generations are then set on parabolic orbits with the initial satellite galaxy models and a mass - ratio of now 1:6 ( 1:11 ) , and so on .",
    "we perform 6 generations of 1:10 mergers and 5 generations of 1:5 mergers using satellites with fixed scale radii ( sat 1:5/1:10 , see fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) . for comparison",
    ", we also performed minor mergers of two - component models with compact satellites ( csat 1:5/1:10 , see fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) .",
    "again all parabolic orbits have pericenter distances of half the spherical half - mass radius of the bulge of the massive progenitor galaxy .",
    "the 1:10 bulge - only simulations have no dark matter halo and the in - falling satellites suffer less from dynamical friction .",
    "therefore the final coalescence takes by far the longest time .",
    "however , taking about @xmath42gyrs for 10 merger generations even this process could be completed by the present day assuming a @xmath28 progenitor .",
    "all other merger series are completed in less than @xmath43gyrs .",
    "after the completion of every merger , we allow the central region of the remnant to relax , before we compute the projected circular half - mass radii , @xmath44 , along the three principal axes and the bound stellar ( bulge ) mass , @xmath45 . in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] we show the evolution of the half - mass radius as a function of the bound stellar mass for 1:1 ( blue ) , 1:5 ( red ) , and 1:10 ( green ) merger hierarchies .",
    "the black line indicates the observed evolution , @xmath46m@xmath47 , in the mass - size plane from @xmath20 to the present day @xcite .",
    "the models here are idealized in the sense that they do not contain any dissipative component .",
    "if present , like in the real universe , this component would reduce the size growth per added mass @xcite .",
    "therefore we consider a model a failure if it occupies the the shaded area in fig .",
    "promising models have to lie above this line so that small amounts of gas - and therefore somewhat smaller sizes - can be tolerated .",
    "equal - mass mergers show an almost linear increase of size with mass , ( see also @xcite ) , independent of whether the stellar system is embedded in a dark matter halo or not ( blue solid and dashed lines ) .",
    "as discussed by @xcite , in mergers with dark matter halos the in - falling galaxy suffers more from dynamical friction in the massive dark matter halo of the companion galaxy , resulting in more energy transfer from the bulge to the halo , leading to a more tightly bound bulge with a smaller size ( blue solid line , fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) compared to the model without dark matter ( blue dashed line , fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) .",
    "if we combine the results of both major merger scenarios this yields a mass - size relation of @xmath48m@xmath49 which is comparable to the results of @xcite , who found a slightly smaller exponent ( @xmath50 ) for orbits with high angular momentum and an exponent @xmath51 for pure radial orbits .",
    "nevertheless , as the size grows at most linearly with mass , dissipationless major mergers can not be the main driver for the size evolution of early - type galaxies .",
    "as expected from simple virial estimates @xcite , the size evolution is stronger for bulge - only models with lower mass - ratios of 1:5 and 1:10 ( red and green lines in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) . however , except for the 1:10 mergers with a diffuse satellite ( green short dashed line ) , all minor mergers with bulge - only satellites are not efficient enough to escape the forbidden area .",
    "this behaviour is improved for minor mergers of two - component models , where bulges are embedded in a massive dark matter halos . for mass - ratios 1:5 and 1:10",
    "the size evolution is in excess of the observed evolution . in the case of 1:5 minor mergers with a less compact satellite ( red solid line ) ,",
    "we obtain a mass - size growth relation of @xmath52m@xmath53 with a similar or even larger exponent for both two - component 1:10 scenarios .",
    "therefore we consider all minor merger models ( 1:5 and 1:10 ) with dark matter halos and the diffuse 1:10 mergers to be consistent with observations even in more realistic models , where dissipational effects would reduce the size growth @xcite .",
    "the size growth via major mergers is too slow to fit observational data .",
    "we now take a closer look at the evolution of the surface densities of the merger remnants . in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] , we plot the stellar surface mass densities and cumulative stellar mass profiles after every 1:1 and 1:5 merger and every second 1:10 merger for bulge - only models ( top panels ) and bulge+halo models ( bottom panels ) . for equal - mass mergers",
    "there is mass growth at all radii , i.e. the lines are shifted more or less parallel to higher densities independent of the presence of a halo ( see e.g. @xcite for discussions on the weak but existing break of homology )",
    ". this evolution scenario would be in disagreement to observations of @xcite , which show , that early - type galaxies grow inside - out , i.e. the central densities stay constant and most of the mass assembles at larger radii , building up an extended envelope of stars .        the second column in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] depicts the surface densities and mass assembly of minor mergers with an initial mass ratio of 1:5 . for the bulge - only models ( top ) with a diffuse satellite ( sat 1:5 , fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) , the surface density stays nearly constant up to @xmath54kpc and increases mainly in the outer parts .",
    "this effect was already reported by @xcite as a possible explanation for abundance gradients in elliptical galaxies .",
    "the same scenario leads to an even stronger inside - out growth if the galaxies are surrounded by a dark matter halo ( bottom panel , second column ) . here",
    "the bulge particles get stripped at larger radii and the central surface density ( @xmath55 ) stays unaffected ; it only increases at radii @xmath56kpc . the size growth shown in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] is due to this build - up of a massive stellar envelope .",
    "the mass is added to large radii where , prior to the merger , the dark matter component was large .",
    "due to our accounting procedure the dark matter fraction within @xmath57 increases , even though the dark matter added in such mergers to the inner parts is negligible .",
    "the dotted lines in these panels show the four remnants , where the satellites are more compact ( csat 1:5 , fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) and lie an extension of the @xmath58 mass - size relation .",
    "obviously , the results are very similar .",
    "the six generations of minor mergers with an initial mass - ratio of 1:10 are shown in the right column of fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] . in the case of bulge - only models ( top panels ) , the surface density increases predominantly at larger radii , similar to the previous scenario , but now the satellite stars are even less bound compared to the 1:5 case and therefore are stripped at larger radii , even without a dark matter halo . if present , this effect is enhanced ( lower panels of right column ) , as the satellites first orbit through the massive dark matter halo - and lose stars - before they reach the center of the host .",
    "the surface densities are unaffected inside @xmath59kpc . in summary ,",
    "1:5 and 1:10 mergers lead to a significant change in the mass distribution of the galaxies with most of the stellar satellite material assembling at large radii .",
    "this picture hardly changes for compact satellites ( csat , dotted lines ) , although the scale lengths of the satellite stars are significantly smaller , they are more bound and resists the drag force of the host potential for a longer time .",
    "consequently , somewhat more material gets closer to the central regions . in summary",
    "a minor merger driven evolution scenario - in particular for 1:5 bulge+halo mergers - is in good agreement with the picture we get from observations .",
    "although we are definitely affected by poor numerical resolution at the very centers of the galaxies we note the differential effect that for minor mergers the central surface densities decline the most even as the outer surface densities ( and sersic indices ) increase in agreement with expectations from recent observations @xcite .",
    "the curvature of the light profiles of elliptical galaxies is an important parameter as it correlates with other observed properties of elliptical galaxies , such as the effective radius @xmath44 , the total luminosity and the stellar mass @xcite .",
    "we therefore use a sersic @xmath60 @xcite function to fit synthetic surface brightness profiles of our simulations , @xmath61 where the three free parameters are the effective surface brightness @xmath62 , the effective radius @xmath63 and the so called sersic index @xmath64 . here",
    ", @xmath65 corresponds to an exponential profile and @xmath66 to the familiar de vaucouleurs profile @xcite .",
    "the factor @xmath67 , is chosen such that the effective radius @xmath63 encloses half of the total luminosity .",
    "for the expected range of sersic indices , this factor can be approximated by the relation @xmath68 @xcite .",
    "we convert the projected surface mass densities discussed in section [ sizeev ] to a v - band surface brightness profile assuming a stellar age of @xmath69yr and solar metallicity @xmath70 @xcite which is then fitted with a sersic function ( see @xcite for details of the fitting procedure ) .",
    "those population properties are reasonable for present day massive ellipticals @xcite but not necessarily so for higher redshifts .",
    "however , details of the choice of population age and abundance are unimportant for the determination of the profile shape ( which are the same as for the surface density profiles ) as long as we assume a constant mass - to - light ratio ( for the stellar component ) with radius .",
    "figure [ fig4 ] shows examples of the sersic fits to the surface brightness profiles and the residuals of our fiducial bulge+halo mergers with mass - ratios of 1:1 ( left ) , 1:5 ( middle ) and 1:10 ( right ) .",
    "the profiles are fitted from @xmath71 to either @xmath72 or to a limiting surface brightness of @xmath73 mag / arcsec@xmath74 @xcite .",
    "the residuals are very small ( @xmath75mag / arcsec@xmath76 ) , except for the innermost regions , where the profiles are affected by insufficient sampling , softening and relaxation effects . the initial hernquist spheres ( black circles in all panels ) have a sersic index of @xmath77 ( see also @xcite ) . in all cases",
    "the fitted sersic profiles overestimate the central surface brightness leading to a slightly smaller fitted effective radius @xmath78 ( narrow vertical lines at the bottom of each surface brightness panel ) than the projected half - mass radius @xmath44 ( corresponding arrows ) presented in fig . [ fig2 ] .",
    "the differences are small and do not affect any conclusions in the paper",
    ".    in the case of 1:1 mergers of two - component models ( left panel , fig [ fig4 ] ) , we can see that the profile shape hardly changes for the remnants .",
    "the sersic index increases weakly from @xmath77 to @xmath79 with a corresponding increase of mass by a factor of about two , hardly enough to explain the very high numbers observers find for large massive elliptical galaxies ( @xmath80 , see @xcite ) .",
    "this picture changes dramatically for minor mergers where the sersic index increases rapidly to values of @xmath81 for a similar increase in mass .",
    "this is a direct consequence of the different evolution of the surface density profiles discussed in section [ surfd ] .     as a function of bound stellar mass ( the evolution for compact satellites is similar ) .",
    "all equal - mass mergers show a very weak evolution ( black lines ) .",
    "lower mass - ratios lead to a stronger evolution for 1:5 ( red dashed ) and 1:10 ( green dashed ) bulge - only models .",
    "the presence of a dark matter halos even enhances this effect as more stars are deposited at large radii ( red and green solid lines ) .",
    "the 1:5 two - component model shows the strongest evolution reaching values of @xmath82 after mass increase of only 50 per cent . for 1:10 mergers",
    "we only show the first generations with reasonable sersic fits .",
    "later generations can not be accurately fitted anymore ( see fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ) .",
    ", width=321 ]    in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] we show , for all fiducial bulge - only and bulge+halo models , the evolution of the sersic index as a function of the assembled bound stellar mass .",
    "there is only a moderate increase in sersic index for the equal - mass mergers .",
    "in contrast , after two generations of 1:5 mergers with a mass increase of of only 40 per cent the sersic index can be @xmath83 ( for the bulge+halo model ) and the final remnant reaches values of @xmath84 , which is in the range of the observed present day massive elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "the corresponding bulge - only minor merger scenarios ( red and green dashed lines in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] ) show similar but weaker trends yielding final sersic indices of @xmath85 .",
    "still , the overall evolution is much faster for two - component models .",
    "this again indicates that the merger mass - ratio and dark matter halos play an important role as they increase the effect of stripping at large radii in a way , that the accreted stellar mass assembles at the right regions of the host galaxy .",
    "in this section we investigate the dark matter fractions within the effective radii of our simulated merger remnants in the light of recent lensing observations , which predict an increasing dark matter fraction for more massive ellipticals @xcite , dynamical modeling @xcite and the possibly low dark matter fractions in high redshift galaxies @xcite . the dark matter fractions @xmath86 for all bulge+halo simulations @xmath87 are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] as a function of assembled stellar mass . here",
    "@xmath88 denotes the spherical half - mass radius of the stellar component and @xmath89 , @xmath90 are the halo mass and total mass within @xmath88 .",
    "we have already explained how the observable @xmath91 will increase simply by accounting , when the stars are added far out in the dark matter halo .",
    "the dark matter fraction increases rapidly with each subsequent minor merger generation regardless of the mass - ratio . for a mass increase of a factor of two the dark matter fractions increases by almost a factor two from @xmath12 per cent to @xmath92 per cent for minor mergers whereas equal - mass mergers only an increase to @xmath93 per cent .",
    "the strong evolution with added mass for minor mergers is a consequence of the rapid size growth ( fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) , which is in good agreement with @xcite .",
    "the evolution of @xmath86 correlates with the radii of the merger remnants .",
    "therefore the 1:5 scenario with more compact satellites ( red dashed line ) , which shows slightly weaker size growth than the fiducial case ( fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) , also has a slightly lower dark matter fraction . on the other hand",
    ", the 1:10 bulge+halo remnants grow rapidly in size and therefore have the highest dark matter fractions .",
    "it is easy to understand this trend .",
    "as noted , the dark matter is not pushed inwards ; rather we are adding stars to the outer , dark matter dominated parts of galaxies so naturally the amount of dark matter within the stars increases . a detailed analysis of this process can be found in @xcite .",
    ", within the spherical half - mass radius @xmath94 ( which is similar to the half mass radius ) for all bulge+halo models as a function of bound stellar mass of the merger remnants .",
    "equal - mass mergers show a weak increase of @xmath91 .",
    "a very rapid increase of @xmath91 is found for 1:5 ( red ) and 1:10 ( green ) mergers , with a similar evolution for compact satellites ( dashed lines ) .",
    "the evolution of @xmath91 for 1:5 mergers with mass is very similar to 1:10 mergers indicating that less events results in similar change of @xmath91 .",
    ", width=321 ]",
    "we present idealized binary merger simulations of spheroidal galaxies with initial mass - ratios of 1:1 , 1:5 , and 1:10 represented by pure bulges and bulges embedded in dark matter halos .",
    "the 1:5 mass - ratio is of particular interest as it is similar to the average mass weighted galaxy merger mass - ratio driving the assembly of massive galaxies recently published cosmological simulations and therefore those minor mergers ( or intermediate mass - ratio mergers , traditionally all mergers with mass ratios smaller than 1:4 are called minor mergers ) represent a typical growth mode @xcite . with this study",
    "we aim at assessing the effect of pure collisionless major and minor mergers on the structural evolution for an already existent , observed , high - redshift population of compact and massive galaxies ( see e.g. for a discussion on the effect of repeated minor mergers on disks ) .    confirming earlier studies we find that major mergers alone can not explain the observed size growth but minor mergers with mass - ratios of 1:5 or 1:10 show a significantly stronger size growth per added stellar mass @xcite .",
    "this effect is slightly enhanced for more diffuse satellites and significantly enhanced if the galaxies are surrounded by dark matter halos . in these cases",
    "the satellite stars are more efficiently stripped at larger radii , either because they are less bound or because they orbit in the deeper potential wells of the dark matter halos .",
    "the latter effect ( see @xcite for a detailed discussion ) leads to an inside - out size growth of @xmath95 already for mergers with a mass - ratio of 1:5 , in agreement with observations @xcite .",
    "overall , the picture is very similar to the dynamical friction driven galactic cannibalism described by @xcite as an explanation for bcg properties @xcite .",
    "the inside - out assembly of mass at larger radii results in a significant change of the surface density profiles which is here quantified by an increase of the sersic index @xmath64 . starting at a fiducial value of @xmath66 the increase is weak for major mergers but very strong for minor mergers of galaxies embedded in dark matter halos . in the most extreme case",
    "only two 1:5 mergers of bulges with dark matter halos change the sersic index from @xmath9 to @xmath96 at a concurrent stellar mass increase of only 40 per cent .",
    "we note that @xmath66 is the fiducial starting point of the specific simulation setup we have chosen .",
    "qualitatively a similar increase in sersic index is expected for smaller , and probably more realistic , starting values of @xmath97 for quiescent high redshift galaxies . in this case",
    "the maximum sersic index might not reach as high values as presented here but more accurate predictions are beyond the scope of idealized collisionless studies like the one presented here .",
    "major merger scenarios with disk - like progenitors do also result in an increase of the sersic index but accompanied by a very weak size increase or even a reduction in size in the presence of gas @xcite . here",
    "the increase in sersic index is partly driven by dissipative processes at the center of the remnants .",
    "consistent with the results presented here , even considering subsequent dry major mergers keep the sersic indices for the main stellar body low at @xmath98 .",
    "@xcite . therefore a minor merger driven scenario - the late addition of old stars at large radii - provides a powerful explanation for the predominance of high sersic indices of present day large and massive ellipticals @xcite some of which are most likely the descendants of compact red and dead flattened high - redshift galaxies with lower sersic indices @xcite .",
    "naturally , major mergers are also expected to happen during the assembly of massive galaxies .",
    "there is direct and indirect observational evidence for this but the expected rates are low ( @xmath99 since @xmath20 ) @xcite .",
    "a major merger will definitely dominate the late mass assembly history of the galaxy with a significant impact on its abundance gradients , kinematics and , eventually , morphology @xcite .",
    "however , as we have shown here , the expected evolution in size , surface density profile shapes and , eventually , dark matter fraction will be only moderate and not sufficient to evolve the compact high - redshift population into present day ellipticals .",
    "another argument against major mergers driving the size evolution is the apparent absence ( or very low number ) of massive compact galaxies in the present day universe @xcite . due to the low rates a significant number of massive galaxies",
    "will not have experienced any major merger since @xmath20 and would remain compact @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , a few massive compact have been found which eventually are relics of the high redshift population or have formed recently in a similar manner @xcite .",
    "consistent with our framework these galaxies have low sersic indices and our model predicts lower dark matter fractions compared to normal sized present day giant elliptical galaxies of similar mass .    the evolution of dark matter fractions within the observable stellar half - mass radius is also significantly different for major and minor mergers . in the equal - mass mergers presented here the dark matter fraction increases from the fiducial starting value of @xmath12 per cent to @xmath100 per cent for a stellar mass increase of a factor of two",
    "this increase is driven by mixing processes during the violent merger process which lead to a real change in the radial distribution of luminous and dark matter ( @xcite , see also @xcite ) .",
    "for the same increase in mass , minor mergers ( e.g. 1:5 ) result in a four times stronger increase of the dark matter fraction ( from @xmath12 per cent to @xmath16 per cent ) . here",
    "the host galaxy structure is only weakly affected but the effective radius of the stellar distribution increases significantly into regions which were ab - inito dominated by dark matter .",
    "therefore only the ruler with which the galaxies are measured is changing @xcite .",
    "we note that the exact numbers for the final dark matter fractions are determined by our choice of the initial dark matter fraction .",
    "our fiducial starting value of @xmath12 per cent might in reality be lower for massive high - redshift galaxies but also in this case we expect similar trends .",
    "there is evidence for the presence of dark matter in present day massive ellipticals , however the exact amount is uncertain @xcite .",
    "most recent lensing observations indicate dark matter fractions ( with large uncertainties ) in the range of 20 - 50 per cent with higher fractions for more massive galaxies @xcite .",
    "these trends are easy to reconcile in the context of an evolutionary scenario where the early formation of ellipticals is dominated by a dissipative formation with little dark matter at the center ( see @xcite for tentative observational evidence ) followed by a dissipationless assembly dominated by minor mergers naturally increasing the dark matter fractions . this increase would be larger for more massive galaxies which assemble more mass by late stellar mergers ( see e.g. @xcite ) . however , predicted dark matter fractions depend sensitively on assumptions about the stellar initial mass function and recent evidence for rising stellar mass - to - light ratios with stellar mass leave less room for the presence of dark matter @xcite .",
    "more quantitative predictions , some based on simple binary merger simulations of spheroids similar to the ones presented here , in a cosmological context have been attempted and come to varying conclusions ; some agree with observations @xcite , some highlight possible tension with observational trends @xcite . however , the quantitative predictive power of such studies is limited by construction as a realistic cosmological assembly of massive galaxies is very complex and many details depend on the model assumptions about the structure of the galaxies and the satellites , galaxy orbits , gas fractions , merger rates etc .",
    "qualitatively , however , our results are in good agreement with high - resolution cosmological simulations @xcite , which are supposedly the method of choice to evaluate these processes in more detail in the future .    the predictions of this simple - dark matter assisted - minor merger driven evolution model are in good qualitative agreement with careful observations of the structural redshift evolution of early - type galaxies @xcite .",
    "we note here that we have tested for the extreme case of compact progenitors . a significant fraction of high redshift ellipticals have larger sizes @xcite and would require relatively little evolution and less mergers .",
    "all the above effects are expected to be stronger for more massive galaxies which are expected to have a larger fraction of their stars acquired in accretion events .",
    "the most extreme cases would be centrals in galaxy clusters @xcite .",
    "if we are right , then certain definite and testable predictions can be made about the properties of the outer parts ( @xmath101 ) of normal giant ellipticals : since they are the result of accretion of low mass systems they should have considerably lower metallicities than the inner parts .",
    "steeper gradients at large radii then might imply a formation history dominated by minor mergers ( @xcite , see however @xcite for an alternative view ) .",
    "the stellar orbits at large radii should become radially biased @xcite and the dark matter fractions of massive ellipticals should increase rapidly at large radii .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for valuable comments on the manuscript .",
    "we also thank simon white for valuable discussions .",
    "this research was supported by the dfg cluster of excellence origin and structure of the universe and the dfg priority program spp 1177 .",
    "e.  f. , naab t. , mcintosh d.  h. , somerville r.  s. , caldwell j.  a.  r. , barden m. , wolf c. , rix h .- w .",
    ", beckwith s.  v. , borch a. , hussler b. , heymans c. , jahnke k. , jogee s. , koposov s. , meisenheimer k. , peng c.  y. , sanchez s.  f. , wisotzki l. , 2006a , , 640 , 241                        k. , scarlata c. , carollo c.  m. , ellis r.  s. , drory n. , hopkins p. , salvato m. , leauthaud a. , koekemoer a.  m. , murray n. , ilbert o. , oesch p. , ma c .- p .",
    ", capak p. , pozzetti l. , scoville n. , 2010 , , 719 , 1969                a. , cassata p. , pozzetti l. , kurk j. , mignoli m. , renzini a. , daddi e. , bolzonella m. , brusa m. , rodighiero g. , dickinson m. , franceschini a. , zamorani g. , berta s. , rosati p. , halliday c. , 2008 , , 482 , 21                  e. , renzini a. , pirzkal n. , cimatti a. , malhotra s. , stiavelli m. , xu c. , pasquali a. , rhoads j.  e. , brusa m. , di serego alighieri s. , ferguson h.  c. , koekemoer a.  m. , moustakas l.  a. , panagia n. , windhorst r.  a. , 2005 , , 626 , 680    i. , mccarthy p.  j. , abraham r.  g. , glazebrook k. , yan h. , mentuch e. , leborgne d. , savaglio s. , crampton d. , murowinski r. , juneau s. , carlberg r.  g. , jrgensen i. , roth k. , chen h .- w .",
    ", marzke r.  o. , 2009 , , 695 , 101                                                                                          m. , van dokkum p.  g. , franx m. , quadri r. , gawiser e. , herrera d. , illingworth g.  d. , labb i. , lira p. , marchesini d. , rix h .- w . , rudnick g. , taylor e.  n. , toft s. , urry c.  m. , wuyts s. , 2006 , , 649 , l71                                r.  j. , pearce h.  j. , dunlop j.  s. , cirasuolo m. , curtis - lake e. , bruce v.  a. , caputi k. , almaini o. , bonfield d.  g. , bradshaw e.  j. , buitrago f. , chuter r. , foucaud s. , hartley w.  g. , jarvis m.  j. , 2012 , arxiv e - prints                                                                                              s. , van dokkum p. , franx m. , labbe i. , frster schreiber n.  m. , wuyts s. , webb t. , rudnick g. , zirm a. , kriek m. , van der werf p. , blakeslee j.  p. , illingworth g. , rix h .- w .",
    ", papovich c. , moorwood a. , 2007 , , 671 , 285"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> there is observational evidence for inside - out growth of giant elliptical galaxies since @xmath0 , which is - in contrast to disk galaxies - not driven by in - situ star formation . </S>",
    "<S> many of the @xmath1 systems at high redshift have small sizes @xmath2 and surface brightness profiles with low sersic indices n. the most likely descendants at @xmath3 have , on average , grown by a factor of two in mass and a factor of four in size , indicating @xmath4 with @xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> they also have surface brightness profiles with @xmath6 . </S>",
    "<S> this evolution can be qualitatively explained on the basis of two assumptions : compact ellipticals predominantly grow by collisionless minor ( mass - ratio 1:10 ) or intermediate ( mass - ratio 1:5 ) dry mergers , and they are embedded in massive dark matter halos which support the stripping of merging satellite stars at large radii . </S>",
    "<S> we draw these conclusions from idealized collisionless mergers spheroidal galaxies - with and without dark matter - with mass ratios of 1:1 , 1:5 , and 1:10 . </S>",
    "<S> the sizes evolve as @xmath7 with @xmath8 for mass - ratios of 1:1 ( and 1:5 without dark matter halos ) and , while doubling the stellar mass , the sersic index increases from @xmath9 to @xmath10 . for minor mergers of galaxies embedded in dark matter halos , </S>",
    "<S> the sizes grow significantly faster and the profile shapes change more rapidly . surprisingly , already mergers with moderate mass - ratios of 1:5 , well motivated by recent cosmological simulations , give @xmath11 and after only two merger generations ( @xmath12 per cent added stellar mass ) the sersic index has increased to @xmath13 ( @xmath14 without dark matter ) , reaching a final value of @xmath15 after doubling the stellar mass . </S>",
    "<S> this is accompanied by a significant increase of the dark matter fraction ( from @xmath12 per cent to @xmath16 per cent ) within the stellar half - mass radius , driven by the strong size increase probing larger , dark matter dominated regions . for equal - mass mergers </S>",
    "<S> the effect is much weaker . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that only a few intermediate mass - ratio mergers ( @xmath17 with initial mass - ratios of 1:5 ) of galaxies embedded in massive dark matter halos can result in the observed concurrent inside - out growth and the rapid evolution in profile shapes . </S>",
    "<S> this process might explain the existence of present day giant ellipticals with sizes , @xmath18 , high sersic indices , @xmath19 , and a significant amount of dark matter within the half - light radius . </S>",
    "<S> apart from negative stellar metallicity gradients such a minor merger scenario also predicts significantly lower dark matter fractions for @xmath20 compact quiescent galaxies and their rare present day analogues .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxy </S>"
  ]
}