{
  "article_text": [
    "in spite of continuous progress , the current state of entanglement theory is still marked by a number of outstanding unresolved problems .",
    "these problems range from the complete classification of mixed - state bipartite entanglement to entanglement in systems with continuous degrees of freedom , and the classification and quantification of multipartite entanglement for arbitrary quantum states .",
    "+ in this paper , starting form two important works , + 1 ) torre ( 2010 ) and 2 ) zanardi ( 2001 ) , we will analyze the possible relationship among these elements :    1 .",
    "the degrees of freedom of the quantum system 2 .   the partitions of the quantum system 3 .",
    "the epistemic elements introduced from the procedures ( 1 ) and ( 2 )    as we know , the relationship between quantum systems ( qs ) and their possible quantum entangled systems ( qes ) is not a trivial question .",
    "there are many efforts to understand this dynamics .",
    "zanardi ( 2001 ) in his paper argues that the partitions of a possible system do not have an ontologically superior status with respect to any other : according zanardi given a physical system @xmath0 , the way to subdivide it in subsystems is in general by no means unique .",
    "we will analyze his conclusion in the following sections below .",
    "+ according zanardi the consequences of the * non uniqueness of the decomposition of a given system @xmath0 into subsystems * imply ( at the quantum level ) , a fundamental ambiguity about the very notion of entanglement that accordingly becomes a relative one .",
    "the concept of `` relative '' for an entangled system , has been developed by viola and barnun ( 2006 ) .",
    "they concentrate their efforts on this fundamental question : how can entanglement be understood in an arbitrary physical system , subject to arbitrary constraints on the possible operations one may perform for describing , manipulating , and observing its states ? in their papers , the authors proposed that entanglement is an inherently * relative concept * , whose essential features may be captured in general in terms of the relationships between different observers ( i.e. expectations of quantum observables in different , physically relevant sets ) .",
    "they stressed how the the role of the * observer * must be properly acknowledged in determining the distinction between entangled and unentangled states .      from a phenomenological point of view",
    ", the phenomenon of entanglement is quite simple .",
    "when two or more physical systems form an interaction , some correlation of a quantum nature is generated between the two of them , which persists even when the interaction is switched off and the two systems are spatially separated .",
    "quantum entanglement describes a non - separable state of two or more quantum objects and has certain properties which contradict common physical sense .",
    "while the concept of entanglement between two quantum systems , which was introduced by e. schrdinger ( 1936 ) is well understood , its generation and analysis still represent a substantial challenge .",
    "moreover , the problem of quantification of entangled states , is a long standing issue debated in quantum information theory . today the bipartite entanglement ( * two - level systems , i.e. qubits * ) is well understood and has been prepared in many different physical systems .",
    "the mathematical definition of entanglement varies depending on whether we consider only pure states or a general set of mixed states ( see giannetto 1995 : where it is discussed the reason why entanglement generally requires a density matrix formalism ) . in the case of pure states , we say that a given a state @xmath1 of @xmath2 parties is _ entangled _ if it is not a tensor product of individual states for each one of the parties , that is , @xmath3 for instance , in the case of @xmath4 qubits @xmath5 and @xmath6 ( sometimes called `` alice '' and `` bob '' ) the quantum state @xmath7 is entangled since @xmath8 . on the contrary , the state @xmath9 of @xmath2 constituent states is _ entangled _ if it is not a probabilistic sum of tensor products of individual states for each one of the subconstituents , that is , @xmath10 with @xmath11 being some probability distribution .",
    "otherwise , the mixed state is called _ separable_. the essence of the above definition of entanglement relies on the fact that entangled states of @xmath2 constituents can not be prepared by acting locally on each one of them , together with classical communication among them .",
    "entanglement is a genuinely quantum - mechanical feature which does not exist in the classical world .",
    "it carries non - local correlations between the different systems in such a way that they can not be described classically .",
    "as mentioned above , the recent work by torre ( 2010 ) is a fundamental paper which gives us the possibility to speculate about the nature and the classification of entangled states .",
    "the paper demonstrates that a state is factorizable in the hilbert space corresponding to some choice of degrees of freedom , and that this same state becomes entangled for a different choice of degrees of freedom .",
    "therefore , entanglement is not a special case , but is ubiquitous in quantum systems . according to the authors",
    ", one may erroneously think that there are two classes of states for the qs : 1 ) factorizable and 2 ) entangled , which correspond to qualitative difference in the behaviour of the system , close to classical in one case and with strong quantum correlations in the other .",
    "they argue that this is indeed wrong because factorizable states also exhibit entanglement with respect to _ other _ observables . in this sense , all states are entangled ; * entanglement is not an exceptional feature of some states but is ubiquitous in qm.*. + to sum up this conceptual analysis by torre and zanardi , we think that there is an unclear relationship among these elements :    1 .   factorizable states ( torre ) 2 .",
    "entangled states 3 .",
    "the ( choice ) of partitions of quantum system ( zanardi ) 4 .",
    "the role of the observer ( in determining the distinction between entangled and unentangled states )    we think that all points ( except the second point ) introduce epistemic elements in the analysis and in the classification of the quantum systems .",
    "we suggest that the second point is the key to understand the nature of the underlying physical reality .",
    "we argue in the next sections , that the conceptual analysis of torre and zanardi differs from what we suggest concerning the epistemic elements introduced in their papers .",
    "an important question is related at the property of factorizability of quantum state .",
    "is the factorizability tool an objective property ? briefly stored , is factorizability an objective property of the system or is it a feature of ( our ) description of system ( i.e. an epistemic property ) ? . with reference to torre s paper ( 2010 ) ,",
    "the authors show that factorizability and entanglement * are not preserved * in a change of the degrees of freedom used to describe the system , they demonstrate in detailed case that the factorizability of a state is a property that is * not * invariant under a change of the degrees of freedom that we use in order to describe the system . from mathematical point of view@xcite",
    ", they consider a quantum system with two subsystems @xmath12 that may correspond to two degrees of freedom @xmath5 and @xmath6 .",
    "the state of the system belongs then to the hilbert space @xmath13 and the two degrees of freedom are represented by operators @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "suppose it is given that the system has a factorizable , non entangled , state @xmath16 with @xmath17 and @xmath18 arbitrary states ( not necessarily eigenvectors of @xmath5 and @xmath6 ) in the spaces @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "then there exists a transformation of the degrees of freedom @xmath21 and @xmath22 that suggests a different factorization , @xmath23 , where the state is no longer factorizable : @xmath24 with @xmath25 and @xmath26 .",
    "the state becomes entangled with respect to the new degrees of freedom ; the factorizability of _ states _ is not invariant under a different factorization of the hilbert space .",
    "to conclude , they have shown that for any system in a factorizable state , it is possible to find different degrees of freedom that suggest a different factorization of the hilbert space where the same state becomes entangled ; for this reason they argued that every state , even for those factorizable , it is possible to find pairs of observables that will violate bell s inequalities .",
    "the figure above ( n.1 pag.2 ) summarize torre s thesis .",
    "+ the authors analyze also the inverse problem : the fact that the appearance of entanglement depends on the choice of degrees of freedom can find an interesting application in the `` disentanglement '' of a state ; one can , sometimes , transform an entangled state into a factorizable one by a judicious choice of the degrees of freedom . + to conclude , we think that the epistemic element is inherent in the possibility to `` choose '' the degrees of freedom of the quantum system : this possibility affects the classification of quantum states in entangled or factorizables .",
    "in fact , it is simple to ask these epistemological questions : a)what are the degrees of freedom for a quantum system ?",
    "b ) is it a complete set that describe all quantum properties ?",
    "can be a particle entangled in one context be factorizables in another context ?",
    "as we have seen , given a quantum system , the way to subdivide ( to partition ) it in subsystems in * not unique*. we call this first phase `` epistemic '' , as in fact we are able to decide how to partition the quantum system .",
    "the conclusion of this operation is most important of its premise : in fact if we find ( in the subsystems ) an entangled state , this state has an ontological nature * but only if referred * to that kind of particular partition carried .",
    "we have , in other words , an objective entangled state for an epistemic partitions ! for these reasons , the notions of an entangled state becomes a relative concept and the relativity of this concept is linked , to us , at the choice of partitions or degrees of freedom . at the same time , the property of the entangled state is objective .",
    "the figure above ( n.2 pag.3 ) represent our view of zanardi s problem .",
    "we have seen that quantum systems admit a variety of tensor product structures depending on the complete system of commuting observables chosen for the analysis ; as a consequence we have different notions of entanglement associated with these different tensor product .",
    "we notice that , in the determination of whether a state is factorizable or entangled , the factorization of the hilbert space is crucial and this factorization depends on the choice of the observables corresponding to the degrees of freedom . in the same way , as zanardi stressed , given a quantum system , the way to subdivide it ( via partitions ) in subsystems it is * not unique * ; the partitions of a possible system have not an ontologically superior status with respect to any other . based on these points , we argue , that the criteria of partitions and factorizability ( or partitions ) contain an a - priori epistemic element , the figure n.3 ( pag.3)summarize our position . in conclusion , we suggest that all quantum system exhibit an objective nature that is entangled , at basic level the underlying physical reality is entangled",
    ". a quantum state could be non - entangled if and only if it would be factorizable for every possible partition or choice of degrees of freedom , but this can never occur .",
    "the epistemic level emerges with the `` observer '' ( partitions or degree of freedom ) , the physicists and philosophers should consider these arguments in their debates .",
    "10 a. c. de la torre et al . :",
    "entanglement for all quantum states eur . j. phys .",
    "31 325 - 332 , doi : 10.1088/0143 - 0807/31/2/010 , 2010 zanardi p. : virtual quantum subsystems , phys .",
    "lett.87:077901 , 2001 .",
    "viola l. , barnun h. : invited contribution to the proceedings of the boston colloquium for philosophy of science on `` foundations of quantum information and entanglement '' , boston , march 2324 , 2006 ( arxiv : quant - ph/0701124v1 ) .",
    "schrdinger , e. : `` discussion of probability relations between separated systems '' , proceedings of the cambridge philosophical society , 31 : 555 - 563 ; 32 ( 1936 ) : 446 - 451 giannetto e. : some remarks on non - separability , in the foundations of quantum mechanics , c. garola a. rossi ( eds . ) , kluwer , dordrecht 1995 , 315 - 324"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this brief paper , starting from recent works , we analyze from a conceptual point of view this basic question : can the nature of quantum entangled states be interpreted ontologically or epistemologically ? according to some works , the degrees of freedom ( and the tool of quantum partitions ) of quantum systems permit us to establish a possible classification between factorizable and entangled states . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest , that the `` choice '' of degree of freedom ( or quantum partitions ) , even if mathematically justified introduces an epistemic element , not only in the systems but also in their classification . </S>",
    "<S> we retain , instead , that there are not two classes of quantum states , entangled and factorizable , but only a single class of states : the entangled states . </S>",
    "<S> in fact , the factorizable states become entangled for a different choice of their degrees of freedom ( i.e. they are entangled with respect to other observables ) . in the same way , there are no partitions of quantum systems which have an ontologically superior status with respect to any other . for all these reasons , both mathematical tools utilize(i.e quantum partitions or degrees of freedom ) </S>",
    "<S> are responsible for creating an improper classification of quantum systems . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we argue that we can not speak about a classification of quantum systems : all quantum states exhibit a uniquely objective nature , they are all entangled states </S>"
  ]
}