{
  "article_text": [
    "since the initial discovery of the magneto - rotational instability ( mri ) by @xcite over two decades ago , tremendous progress has been made in simulating astrophysical accretion disks .",
    "large - scale magneto - hydrodynamic ( mhd ) simulations have steadily improved their resolution and physical accuracy , leading to greater understanding of the fundamental physics of accretion . yet despite all this success , we are not much closer to reproducing x - ray observations of accreting black holes than we were after the original papers on the structure of their surrounding disks @xcite . from basic conservation laws , it is relatively easy to understand why the spectrum seen in some black holes can be ascribed to a multi - color disk model @xcite .",
    "however , it was realized very early on that a great deal of the power of both stellar - mass black holes and active galactic nuclei ( agn ) is in the form of high - energy x - rays well above the thermal peak @xcite .",
    "although it is now widely accepted that this hard flux comes from the inverse - compton scattering of seed photons from the disk through a hot corona @xcite , we still know little or nothing about the origin or detailed properties of this corona . in classical disk theory there is no particular reason even to suppose such a corona exists .",
    "consequently , almost all previous work has been perforce phenomenological .",
    "cartoon sketches are drawn to suggest the corona geometry , while parameterized models are used to divide the total dissipation between the disk and corona in an attempt to fit the data @xcite .",
    "numerous papers have shown that for both galactic black holes and agn the hard spectra commonly observed can be explained only if the coronal heating is spatially localized and inhomogeneous @xcite , but there are many geometries in which this can happen , and most of those proposed are arbitrary and without firm grounding in dynamics . at best they have drawn on qualitative arguments and analogy with the solar corona @xcite .",
    "one notable exception is @xcite , in which a similar method to our own is used to couple monte carlo radiative transfer to the global mhd simulations of @xcite .",
    "however , their simulations are non - relativistic , assume that the corona is radiatively inefficient , and treat the corona as dynamically decoupled from the disk proper , so that the thermal seed photon input is determined without any connection to coronal properties .",
    "recent advances in numerical simulation methods now allow us to approach this problem from an approach founded directly on disk dynamics .",
    "angular momentum transport , the central mechanism of accretion , can be calculated directly , as it arises from correlations induced by orbital shear in mhd turbulence stirred by the magneto - rotational instability @xcite .",
    "moreover , the same magnetic fields essential to creating internal stresses _ automatically _ rise buoyantly above the dense regions of the disk and dissipate , creating a hot corona .",
    "thus , the mechanisms treated by mhd simulations lead directly to physical processes that promise to explain coronal phenomenology .    until now",
    ", however , we have lacked the tools necessary for closing the loop and comparing the results of the simulations directly with the observations of coronal radiation . in this paper , by employing the radiative transfer code pandurata @xcite as a `` post - processor '' to simulation data generated by the general relativistic mhd code harm3d @xcite , we make a critical step toward bridging the gap between theory and observation . in so doing , we will attempt to answer the question , `` can the coronae predicted by mhd dynamics produce hard x - rays with the observed luminosity and spectra ? ''",
    "our answer to that question will be founded on genuine disk physics . whereas analytic disk models rely on dimensional analysis to describe the scaling of shear stress with pressure , direct calculation of the nonlinear development of the mri allows us to compute quantitatively the rate of angular momentum transfer through the actual magnetic stresses .",
    "thus , we can dispense with the greatest uncertainties of the traditional accretion model : the dependence of stress on local physical conditions ; the spatial distribution of dissipation ; and the inner boundary condition , which can now be moved _ inside _ the horizon , and thus made physically irrelevant because any numerical noise or physical information can not propagate outward to the main simulation .",
    "the rate of energy dissipation , rather than being guessed via some parameterized relation to pressure , can be easily monitored with the flux - conservative code harm3d , which contains an heuristic cooling function designed to generate thin disks @xcite .",
    "especially important to the question we raise about coronal radiation , dissipation in the corona is the direct result of explicit dynamical calculation , not a scaling guess about the strength of the magnetic field .",
    "while @xcite and subsequent phenomenological analyses have been restricted to steady - state , azimuthally- and vertically - averaged quantities , the mhd simulations provide dynamic , three - dimensional information about the fluid density , 4-velocity , magnetic pressure , gas pressure , and cooling at every point throughout the computational domain .",
    "the first step on the path from simulation to observation is to convert the code variables to physical units by specifying the black hole mass and accretion rate .",
    "we can then distinguish between the optically thick disk body and the optically thin corona .",
    "in so doing , we divide the total energy released into a portion associated with the disk body and a portion associated with the corona . to predict the spectrum radiated from the disk body",
    ", we make an assumption similar to one made by @xcite and @xcite , that energy dissipated in the disk is emitted as thermal radiation from the disk surface .",
    "to predict the spectrum radiated from the corona , we first demonstrate that other potentially relevant emission mechanisms ( e.g. , thermal bremsstrahlung , synchrotron ) are negligible .",
    "we then balance local energy dissipation and inverse - compton up - scattering of disk seed photons in order to find the equilibrium electron temperature and radiation intensity as functions of position throughout the corona .",
    "after both these steps have been accomplished , we use the distribution of coronal radiation we have just found to predict the hard x - ray illumination of the disk surface and the fe  k@xmath3 fluorescence line generated by absorption of those hard x - rays .",
    "as described in a companion paper @xcite , pandurata is a fully relativistic monte carlo radiation transport code that integrates photon trajectories from the disk surface , accounts for scattering through the hot corona , and transports them to their ultimate destination , either a distant observer or the black hole horizon . for efficient transport , pandurata tracks bundles of many photons along each geodesic path .",
    "these photon packets cover a wide range of energies , further increasing the efficiency in modeling the broad - band spectra expected from accreting black holes . while pandurata includes polarization effects in all its scattering calculations , the results in this paper focus on spectral features alone .    by varying the mass accretion rate",
    ", we can reproduce many of the features that define the three main accretion states described in @xcite : hard , thermal , and steep power law . although the results in this paper are based entirely on a single simulation whose structure most closely matches the classical predictions for a disk with @xmath4 , there is qualitative agreement with observations spanning the entire range of @xmath5 .",
    "we have also included a simple model for fluorescent line production and can reproduce fe k@xmath3 features similar to those seen in many galactic black holes and agn @xcite . for very low accretion rates , the vertically - integrated optical depth falls below unity in the inner regions , so for k@xmath3 production the disk is effectively truncated around @xmath6 .",
    "interestingly , the iron line profile appears to be independent of the location of the reflection edge , as long as it is inside the inner - most stable circular orbit ( isco ) .",
    "lastly , we include some rudimentary variability analysis , finding results consistent with a large body of observations : the low - hard state is more variable than the disk - dominated state , and in both the thermal - dominant and steep power law states the fractional rms amplitude increases with photon energy @xcite . on short time scales , the amplitude of fluctuations increases with observer inclination angle , consistent with the coronal hot spot model of x - ray variability .",
    "although , as we have outlined , numerical simulation data offer many advantages for spectral predictions , the current state of the art in computational astrophysics imposes certain limitations .",
    "two are of particular relevance here .",
    "the first is that practical and accurate algorithms for treating radiation forces simultaneously with mhd are still restricted to shearing - box models , and are not yet ready for application to global models @xcite . as a result , all 3d global simulations to date assume the disk is supported by a combination of gas and magnetic pressure alone , even though radiation forces can be an important influence on disk structure , often dominating the disk s support against the vertical component of gravity @xcite . although pandurata provides a fully relativistic radiation transport _ post - processor _ , its calculation is not incorporated directly into the harm3d simulation , and thus has no effect on the accretion dynamics .",
    "the second limitation is that because an adequate description of mhd turbulence requires a wide dynamic range in lengthscales @xcite , the spatial resolution necessary to simulate disks as thin as some of those likely to occur in nature remains beyond our grasp .",
    "thus , in some respects , our calculations represent an intermediate step toward drawing a complete connection between fundamental physics and output spectra .",
    "nonetheless , as we will discuss in detail below , they offer new insights , and , for certain parameter values , are already good enough approximations to permit direct comparison with observations .",
    "the data we analyze for this paper are drawn from the highest resolution simulation reported in @xcite and @xcite , designated `` thinhr '' in those papers .",
    "harm3d , the code used to generate the data , is an intrinsically conservative 3d mhd code in full general relativity ; this particular simulation was computed in a schwarzschild spacetime . because it uses a coordinate system based on kerr - schild , harm3d is able to place the inner boundary of the computation volume inside the black hole s event horizon , thus obviating the need for any guessed inner boundary conditions .",
    "the stress - energy conservation equation is modified to include a local cooling function ; that is , we write @xmath7 , where @xmath8 is the stress - energy tensor , @xmath9 is the specific 4-momentum , and @xmath10 is non - zero only for gravitationally - bound gas , and only when the local temperature is greater than a target temperature @xmath11 .",
    "when the temperature exceeds that threshold , the excess heat is radiated away on an orbital timescale .",
    "the target temperature @xmath11 is chosen so as to keep the disk s aspect ratio . ]",
    "@xmath12 close to a single pre - set value at all radii . in dimensionless code units , @xmath13 , where @xmath14 describes the correction to the vertical gravity due to relativistic effects @xcite . for the thinhr simulation ,",
    "the target scale height was @xmath15 .",
    "we took special pains to ensure the numerical quality of these simulations .",
    "every @xmath16 in time , so time has units of @xmath17 s , and distance has units of @xmath18 cm . ] , we measured the number of cells across the fastest growing mri wavelength in both the vertical and the azimuthal directions ( @xmath19 and @xmath20 ) . the minimum number",
    "to achieve the correct linear growth rate for vertical modes is 6 cells per @xmath19 @xcite ; to describe nonlinear behavior , at least 20 cells per @xmath20 and at least 10 per @xmath19 are necessary @xcite .",
    "the mass- and time - weighted values in thinhr were 25 ( vertical ) and 18 ( azimuthal ) .",
    "as discussed in @xcite , by this and several other measures , thinhr is the best - resolved global thin - disk accretion simulation in the literature . by examining the time - dependent hydrodynamic and radiative properties of the fluid at several fiducial radii",
    ", @xcite determined that the final @xmath21 of the thinhr simulation met the relevant criteria for inflow equilibrium in the inner disk .",
    "we therefore restrict our analysis of the simulation data to that period .    in studying simulations intended to represent statistically steady accretion ,",
    "it is important to recognize that when there is only a finite amount of mass on the grid , some of it must move out in order to absorb the angular momentum removed from accreted material .",
    "consequently , the radial range over which the disk can be said to be in inflow equilibrium is limited .",
    "for the simulations under consideration here , that range was typically @xmath22 . in @xcite ,",
    "the disk beyond this radius was simply replaced with a standard relativistic novikov - thorne ( n - t ) thin disk @xcite . that paper focused exclusively on thermal radiation , so a thin disk was an appropriate extrapolation of the simulation data beyond @xmath16 .",
    "here , we are primarily interested in the coronal properties of the accretion flow , for which there are no simple analytic solutions .",
    "therefore , we include the entire body of simulation data out to @xmath23 , beyond which the surface density of the gas begins to decrease rapidly , and the accretion disk is effectively truncated .    despite the fact that the disk is not strictly in inflow equilibrium outside of @xmath24 , the dissipation profile",
    "still roughly follows that expected for a classical disk .",
    "this can be seen in figure [ fig : harm_nt ] , where we plot the radial shell - integrated dissipation profile for the harm3d data , along with that given by n - t for the same accretion rate .",
    "unlike @xcite , here we make no attempt to normalize the dissipation profile by the radial mass accretion rate , which explains the somewhat larger deviation of harm3d from n - t outside @xmath25 shown in this figure than in figure  2 of @xcite .",
    "since the disk surface temperature scales like @xmath26 at large radius , and the corona temperature also decreases outward ( see below , fig .  [",
    "fig : te_r ] ) , we do not expect significant contribution to the x - ray flux from outside of @xmath27 .",
    "luminosity profile @xmath28 , integrated over @xmath29 and @xmath30 , and averaging over time .",
    "the solid curve is the harm3d data , and the dashed curve is the novikov - thorne prediction . for both cases ,",
    "the eddington - normalized accretion rate is @xmath31 . ]",
    "when comparing the harm3d predictions with real physical systems , the first step is to convert the fluid variables from dimensionless code units to physical cgs units .",
    "this conversion requires specifying the black hole mass @xmath32 , which sets the natural length and time scales , and the accretion rate @xmath33 , which determines the scale for the gas density , cooling rate , and magnetic pressure .",
    "one technique for enacting this conversion is described in the appendix of @xcite , where the actual ray - tracing calculation is done in dimensionless units , and only the final observed spectrum is converted to physical units .",
    "that approach works best for optically thin systems where a single emission mechanism is used throughout the accretion flow and the photons do not interact with the matter .    in this work , however , we are interested in very different radiation processes in the disk and the corona . therefore , before we even begin the pandurata ray - tracing calculation , a photospheric boundary must be defined to distinguish between the cool , dense disk and the relatively hot , diffuse corona .",
    "since the location of this photosphere is a function of the gas density , it will be different for different values of the accretion rate .",
    "for this reason , we must convert from code to physical units at the beginning of the calculation .",
    "there is only one consistent way to do this .",
    "following @xcite and @xcite , we relate the physical density to the code density by @xmath34 where @xmath35 @xmath36/g is the electron scattering opacity , and @xmath37 is the eddington - scaled accretion rate assuming a radiative efficiency @xmath38 . for thinhr ,",
    "the mean accretion rate in code units was @xmath39 .",
    "regardless of the exact value for @xmath40 used in the conversion from code units to cgs , pandurata itself results in an independent value for the radiative efficiency , which is listed in table [ table : l_cor ] . as shown there ,",
    "it is never far from @xmath41 when radiation from the outer disk is included .",
    ".[table : l_cor ] for a range of mass accretion rates : the bolometric radiative efficiency @xmath40 , the time - averaged fraction of total luminosity in the corona , the radius of the reflection edge @xmath42 , the disk - corona transition radius @xmath43 , and the height @xmath44 of the scattering photosphere ( averaged over @xmath45 ) .",
    "the dependence of @xmath40 on @xmath37 is in part an artifact of our model , as explained in the text .",
    "note also that emission outside @xmath46 , ignored here , adds an additional @xmath47 to the radiative efficiency .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     to get a better estimate of the local coronal effects on the light curves , we have also calculated phase - dependent light curves by calculating the flux seen by observers at different azimuths .",
    "the variability as a function of observer @xmath30 is a proxy for continuum fluctuations at high frequencies , comparable to the orbital frequency , where variability is often quite strong in the hard and steep power - law states @xcite . to estimate the amplitude of these modulations ,",
    "we construct many short light curves , one for each snapshot and inclination angle , and calculate the fractional rms amplitude for each light curve .",
    "we then average over all these snapshots , plotting the mean rms ( along with @xmath48 error bars ) in figure [ fig : rms_inc ] as a function of observer inclination for a range of energy bands .",
    "this procedure is roughly equivalent to measuring the variance in the observed light curves over a narrow frequency band corresponding to the orbital frequencies of the parts of the disk that contribute the most power . in order to resolve the high - energy fluctuations",
    ", we use a particularly large number of monte carlo photon packets , roughly @xmath49 rays per snapshot .    the fractional rms amplitude rises steadily with inclination , consistent with a non - axisymmetric source because relativistic beaming in the orbital direction is greatest for edge - on observers . in contrast ,",
    "the variability created by global axi - symmetric modes is greatest for face - on observers @xcite .",
    "similarly , @xcite did not find a strong correlation of fractional variability with inclination , likely due to the fact that they used an optically thin ray - tracing procedure , neglecting any coronal scattering .",
    "the fact that the rms amplitude increases with energy  as seen in observations @xcite  suggests that the variability is coming from the corona and not from the disk .",
    "any fluctuations in the seed photons would be smoothed out when propagating through a uniform corona , just as pulses from a lighthouse are dispersed in fog , and would give lower variability at high energy because larger numbers of scatterings are required for the seeds to reach high energy @xcite .",
    "combined , these results are highly suggestive of a coronal hot - spot model for high - frequency x - ray variability in black hole binaries .     fractional rms amplitude ( % ) for azimuthal variations in the observed flux for @xmath31 , as a function of viewer inclination and photon energy .",
    "the color code is the same as in figure [ fig : light_curves ] .",
    "the error bars correspond to the 1@xmath50 range of rms values calculated for each snapshot in time . ]",
    "the spectral states of galactic black hole binaries are roughly correlated with their bolometric luminosities in the sense that low luminosity states generally have hard spectra , while higher luminosities permit a broader range of spectral states but exhibit a preference for softer states @xcite .",
    "our model is able to reproduce this observed correlation , yet does so in a fashion that differs in several respects from classical disk theory . in our model ,",
    "increased accretion rate leads to a proportionately larger surface density , but leaves the scale height @xmath51 unchanged .",
    "the systematic shift in spectral shape with accretion rate is due to a change in how the corona and the thermal disk share the dissipation : as the accretion rate increases , the photosphere moves to larger multiples of @xmath51 , so that more of the dissipation occurs within the thermal disk .",
    "by contrast , in classical disk theory , both the surface density @xmath52 and @xmath51 are functions of accretion rate @xcite .",
    "as we will show in a moment , most of our parameter space lies in the radiation - dominated regime , in which classical disk theory predicts @xmath53 and @xmath54 .",
    "moreover , for the accretion rates we consider , classical disk theory assumes that @xmath55 the dissipation takes place inside the disk , leaving no room for a corona at all , and identifies the photosphere precisely with @xmath51 .",
    "these contrasts raise two questions : is there any @xmath56 at which our model and classical theory overlap ? and should the trends with @xmath56 predicted by the single - simulation model presented here be expected to carry over to global mhd simulations with different values of @xmath51 , corresponding to different values of @xmath56 ?",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : spectra_r ] , most of the light is produced in the range @xmath57@xmath58 for all the accretion rates we studied .",
    "our account of the predictions of conventional disk theory therefore centers on that range .",
    "according to this theory , radiation pressure exceeds gas pressure inside disks when the accretion rate is greater than @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the usual ratio of vertically - integrated fluid - frame stress to vertically - integrated pressure , @xmath61 is a function of radius that adjusts the vertically - integrated fluid - frame dissipation rate for both the net angular momentum flux through the disk and relativistic corrections , @xmath62 is a similar correction factor applied to the vertically - integrated fluid - frame stress , and @xmath14 ( usually slightly greater than unity ) introduces relativistic corrections into the vertical component of gravity ( notation as in krolik 1999 ) . because @xmath63 increases outward in this range of radii , @xmath64 rises only gradually with radius .",
    "thus , almost all the span of accretion rates we consider falls into the radiation - dominated regime .",
    "conventional analytic disk theory estimates disk thickness in the radiation - dominated limit by supposing that radiation provides all the disk s support against the vertical component of gravity and that all dissipated energy is conveyed outward by radiation flux @xcite .",
    "this pair of assumptions combined with the condition of hydrostatic equilibrium leads to the conclusion that all of the dissipation within the disk must be accomplished within a distance @xmath65 of the disk midplane .",
    "thus , for radiation - dominated disks , scale height and accretion rate are directly proportional , and one can be used as a proxy for the other .",
    "conventional theory also assumes that the density is constant for @xmath66 and zero outside @xmath67 @xcite . because this theory has no explicit place for coronae , it is unclear what luminosity it predicts for them , but presumably any corona begins outside @xmath67 .",
    "detailed stratified shearing box simulations of radiation - dominated disk segments @xcite have shown that @xmath67 does give an order of magnitude estimator of the vertical scale height of such disks , but , unsurprisingly , the density distribution is crudely exponential . because both gas and magnetic pressure can contribute to vertical support and some vertical energy transport",
    "is by radiation advection rather than diffusive flux , these simulations also find that the dissipation profile is more extended than indicated by conventional analytic theory .",
    "in particular , only about half the dissipation takes place within a distance @xmath67 of the midplane , and 90% of the dissipation is accomplished inside @xmath68 .",
    "the photosphere is generally found at 3@xmath69 .",
    "these simulations were conducted with surface densities @xmath70@xmath71  g  @xmath72 , a range relevant to the larger radius and smaller accretion rate portion of our parameter space , so the specific numbers quoted might require adjustment for smaller radii and larger accretion rates .",
    "the parallel set of facts about our simulated disk is that its density scale height is always @xmath73 , but the height of its photosphere is a multiple of @xmath51 that increases with @xmath56 , ranging from @xmath74 to @xmath75 as @xmath56 increases from 0.01 to 1.0 ( see table  [ table : l_cor ] ) .",
    "this is , of course , why the corona s share of the luminosity @xmath76 decreases with increasing @xmath56 in our model , as explained above in section [ section : cor_temp ] .",
    "having placed the two pictures side - by - side , we can now locate the parameters for which they resemble each other . because @xmath77 and @xmath63 scales with @xmath78 somewhat more slowly than linearly for schwarzschild spacetimes between @xmath79 and @xmath80 , while the simulation has @xmath81 , it is possible to match the simulation photosphere to the photosphere predicted by classical disk theory across this range of radii .",
    "we find approximate agreement when @xmath82 .",
    "we now turn to the question of what to expect from simulations with different @xmath83 , representing other values of @xmath56 . in the radiation - dominated regime ,",
    "classical theory predicts @xmath54 .",
    "the spectral predictions made here show the spectrum becoming more thermal as @xmath56 increases because increasing @xmath56 leads to a larger share of the total dissipation taking place inside the photosphere .",
    "thus , with regard to the proportion of the light in the thermal part of the spectrum , the central issue is whether , as @xmath56 and therefore @xmath51 increase , @xmath84 rises more or less rapidly than @xmath85 .",
    "if , as in our single - simulation model , the former increases more rapidly with @xmath56 than the latter , our predictions on this issue will be ( at least qualitatively ) vindicated ; if not , they will need revision .",
    "the most important scaling issue for the corona is likewise the fraction of the dissipation it receives . at the very crudest level , a global model for the corona would yield a luminosity @xmath86 , where the fraction @xmath87 of the dissipation going into the corona can be a function of @xmath37 ( e.g. , in our picture , a decreasing one with @xmath88 ) .",
    "our predictions for how the hard x - ray luminosity scales with @xmath56 therefore stand or fall on the relative scaling of @xmath44 and @xmath89 just as our predictions for the thermal portion do .",
    "the shape of the coronal spectrum depends in a general way on its mean temperature and optical depth , but the _ distribution _ of dissipation and density also play a significant role . to estimate how they might change in new simulations with a dependence of @xmath51 on @xmath37 mimicking",
    "the one predicted for radiation - dominated disks , we use the scaling argument of equation ( [ eqn : t_lu ] ) because it is actually quite general .",
    "although it assumes that the corona s total vertical optical depth is always unity , the way the coronal temperature falls as the photosphere is approached suggests that this is a reasonably good approximation , and one unlikely to be much affected by changes in disk parameters .",
    "its detailed development , leading to equation ( [ eqn : tscale ] ) , however , depends on an overall density scale that is @xmath90 , and this can change with parameters .",
    "nonetheless , for any relation between density and @xmath37 , within the corona one still finds that @xmath91 . the question is how the ratio of dissipation to photon density at the photosphere depends on @xmath37 .",
    "this ratio is , of course , simply @xmath87 .    as we emphasized earlier , the spectral shape is also influenced by the spatial distribution of heating , in the sense that greater inhomogeneity tends to yield harder spectra .",
    "the range of temperatures seen in the corona is primarily determined by the range in the local heating rate per unit mass . in our simulation",
    ", @xmath92 increases outward through the corona .",
    "it seems plausible that this trend would be reproduced in simulations with different scale heights because it largely reflects magnetic buoyancy , an effect that should be universal in magnetized accretion flows .",
    "however , the robustness of this trend can be checked when additional simulations with other scale heights are performed .",
    "similarly , we know of no reason why the statistics of inhomogeneity should change , but future simulations will reveal whether this is so .",
    "using the new radiation transport code pandurata , we have analyzed data from a high - resolution , 3d mhd simulation of accretion onto a schwarzschild black hole .",
    "because the mhd code harm3d is energy conserving , we are able to employ a cooling function that tracks the local dissipation of energy throughout the simulation volume . by combining the results from pandurata and harm3d ,",
    "we have for the first time been able to produce a global , self - consistent solution for the radiation field around an accreting black hole , and predicted  on the basis of real physics  the coronal luminosity .",
    "the major results from this work can be summarized as follows :    1 .",
    "we have shown  for the first time  that mhd turbulence in an accretion disk can lead to dissipation outside the disk s photosphere strong enough to power hard x - ray emission comparable in luminosity to the disk s thermal luminosity .",
    "this is a result long - expected , but never before demonstrated directly .",
    "2 .   for different values of the eddington - normalized accretion rate @xmath37 , the location of the photosphere changes , in turn varying the fraction of radiative power in the disk ( thermal ) and the corona ( inverse compton ) .",
    "the coronal temperature ranges from about 10 kev near the disk surface up to @xmath93300  kev in the upper , low - density corona . at a fixed optical depth above the photosphere",
    ", we find the corona temperature increases slowly with decreasing accretion rate .",
    "3 .   by varying @xmath37 from 0.01 to 1",
    ", we naturally reproduce x - ray spectra consistent with those observed in the hard , steep power - law , and thermal states of galactic black hole binaries .",
    "the spectra are characterized by a thermal peak around 1 kev and a high - energy power - law tail extending above 100 kev .",
    "although the fraction of the total heat released by the corona is never greater than @xmath94 , the highly inhomogeneous dissipation predicted by the mhd simulation provides the local concentration of heating necessary to create output spectra as hard as observed . in most cases",
    "there is evidence for a compton reflection hump between 30 kev and 100 kev .",
    "the fe k@xmath3 illumination profile of the disk follows the classical @xmath95 scaling at large radius , then flattens to @xmath96 in the inner disk . at lower values of @xmath37 , the disk begins to disappear inside the isco , and the line production is correspondingly reduced .",
    "the iron line profiles consist of both an absorption edge above 8.8 kev , and a broad emission line around 6.7 kev with a strong red - shifted tail .",
    "the shape of the line is dependent on observer inclination , and in all cases has a significant tail above 8 kev due to up - scattering of the line photons in the corona .",
    "+ the broad iron line profile appears to be only weakly dependent on the location of the disk inner edge , as most photons generated in the plunging region never reach the observer .",
    "thus iron lines may in fact be better at measuring the location of the isco than the disk s reflection edge .",
    "bulk comptonization plays a very minor role in the photon energetics , typically @xmath97 of the total seed luminosity . in the outer region of the disk @xmath98 ,",
    "the thermal seed photons carry more energy than the bulk kinetic energy in the coronal electrons .",
    "we have carried out some initial timing analysis of the simulated x - ray spectra , and find a number of trends that are consistent with observations : the fractional rms amplitude increases with decreasing luminosity , and for all accretion rates , the rms amplitude increases with photon energy . on short time",
    "scales , the variability increases with observer inclination and photon energy , as expected for a coronal hot - spot model of x - ray variability .",
    "although the progress made to date has been significant , this work is just the tip of the iceberg .",
    "we are currently in the process of analyzing new harm3d simulations , carried out with resolution comparable to that of thinhr , for a wide range of black hole spin parameters .",
    "this will allow us to explore both potential dependence of the disk / corona continuum spectrum on spin and greatly improve our understanding of the iron line as a probe of black hole spin , disk dynamics near the isco , and the nature of the plunging region .",
    "new simulations with high spin will also allow us to probe the properties of the relativistic jet , frequently seen in observations of the hard state , and most clearly present in simulations of spinning black holes @xcite .",
    "in other future work , simulations of disks with different @xmath83 profiles will expand the applicability of our models to a wider range of x - ray states and accretion rates .",
    "we will explore what parameters other than @xmath37 and @xmath83 determine the state of a given black hole . improving the physics of the fluorescent line , including ionization balance and more detailed excitation cross sections",
    "@xcite will make predictions of its strength and profile more reliable .",
    "including the energy lost to photoionization and compton recoil in the disk surface will also permit a better treatment of hard x - ray reprocessing and that energy s reemergence in disk continuum , processes relevant to agn",
    ".    we also plan on extending our preliminary variability analysis to the entire set of simulation data within thinhr s statistically steady epoch ( over 5000 snapshots in time ) , allowing for a more detailed study of high - frequency fluctuations and the possible identification of quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) , sometimes seen in galactic black holes in the steep power - law state @xcite .",
    "in addition to qpos , we should be able to characterize time lags between different energy bands as a function of frequency , and compare with a large body of observational results ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "these lags appear to scale like the light - crossing time for fluctuations in the thermal seed flux to propagate through the corona , and thus could be a powerful probe of the coronal geometry @xcite .",
    "we can also investigate the effects of finite light - travel time through the simulation volume , which was found to suppress variability in @xcite .",
    "pandurata was originally developed to study x - ray polarization @xcite , so that information comes along for free with all the calculations described in this paper .",
    "as techniques for high - sensitivity x - ray polarimetry continue to improve @xcite , polarization predictions will become observationally testable ; it will be interesting to compare predictions made from mhd simulations with the toy coronal models presented in @xcite . because our analysis includes broad - band spectra , line profiles , timing , and polarization information in a single self - consistent calculation , it is the ideal tool for integrating these complementary techniques for measuring black hole spin and probing the physical properties of the accretion flow .    despite the remarkable progress we have made in bridging the gap between simulation and observation ,",
    "there still exist numerous challenges and caveats .",
    "the state - of - the - art mhd simulations still do not include adequate thermodynamics or internal radiation transport coupled directly with the fluid dynamics .",
    "while much progress has been made in shearing - box simulations @xcite , there remain serious conceptual and computational obstacles to incorporating these advances into global simulations . in the short - run",
    ", @xmath99 profiles designed to mimic the mean effects of radiation pressure support can help , but in the long - run it will be necessary to include radiation forces explicitly in order to explore what effect they have on both temporal and spatial fluctuations in the structure of the corona .",
    "the ray - tracing tools described here are also lacking in certain regards . because of the photon - packet methodology used in pandurata ,",
    "we have been forced to use energy - independent scattering cross sections , which certainly breaks down at high photon energy .",
    "similarly , the angular distribution of fe  k@xmath3 lines emerging from the disk is assumed to be identical with the angular distribution of photons in the same packet reflected by electron scattering as given by @xcite .",
    "these shortcomings can be improved with relatively little effort , but at a cost to computational efficiency .    without a doubt , the most important next step is the direct comparison of our pandurata spectra with real x - ray data . to this end , we are fortunately blessed with a mass of archival data from _ rxte _ , _ chandra _ , _ xmm - newton _ , and _ suzaku _ with which to test our spectral models and improve upon earlier phenomenological analysis methods .",
    "99 arnaud , k.  a. 1996 , in _ astronomical data analysis software and systems v _ , asp conference series , 101 , 17 balbus , s.  a. , & hawley , j.  f. 1991 , apj , 376 , 214 balbus , s.  a. , & hawley , j.  f. 1998 , rmp , 70 , 1 bardeen , j.  m. , press , w.  h. , & teukolsky , s.  a. 1972 , apj 178 , 347 beckwith , k. , hawley , j. f. , & krolik , j.  h. 2008 , mnras , 390 , 21 black , j.k .",
    "et  al . , 2010 ,",
    "spie , 7732 , 77320x-1 blaes , o.m . ,",
    "hirose , s. & krolik , j.h .",
    "2011 , apj , 733 , 110 brenneman , l.  w. , & reynolds , c.  s. 2009 , apj , 702 , 1367 cackett , e.  m. , et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 720 , 205 carter , b. 1968 , phys .",
    ", 174 , 1559 chandrasekhar , s. 1960 , _ radiative transfer _ , dover , new york churazov , e. , gilfanov , m. , & revnivtsev , m. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 759 cui , w. , zhang , s.  n. , chen , w. , & morgan , e.  h. 1999 , apj , 512 , l43 cunningham , c.  t. 1976 , apj , 208 , 534 dabrowski , y. , & lasenby , a.  n. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 605 davis , s.w . , stone , j.m . & jiang , y .- f .",
    "2012 , apjs , 199 , 9 done , c. & kubota , a. 2006 , mnras , 371 , 1216 done , c. , gierlinski , m. , & kubota , a. 2007 , a & a rev , 15 , 1 duro , r. et  al .",
    "2011 , a&a , 533 , l3 elvis , m. , et al . 1978 ,",
    "mnras , 183 , 129 esin , a.  a. , mcclintock , j.  e. , & narayan , r. 1997 , apj , 489 , 865 esin , a.  a. , mcclintock , j.  e. , drake , j.  j. , garcia , m.  r. , haswell , c.  a. , hynes , r.  i. , & muno , m.  p. 2001 , apj , 555 , 483 fabian , a.  c. , rees , m.  j. , stella , l. , & white , n.  e. 1989 , mnras , 238 , 729 fabian , a.c .",
    "et al . 2012 , mnras fender , r.  p. , belloni , t. m. , & gallo , e. 2004 , mnras , 355 , 1105 galeev , a.a . ,",
    "rosner , r. & vaiana , g.s .",
    "1979 , apj , 229 , 318 garcia , j. , & kallman , t.  r. 2011 , apj , 718 , 695 garcia , j. , kallman , t.  r. , & mushotzky , r.  f. 2011 , apj , 731 , 131 george , i.m . &",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    "1991 , mnras 249 , 352 gierlinski , m. , & zdziarski , a.  a. 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1349 haardt , f. & maraschi , l. 1993 , apj , 413 , 507 haardt , f. , maraschi , l. , & ghisellini , g. 1994 , apj , 432 , l95 hawley , j.  f. , & krolik , j.  h. 2006 , apj , 641 , 103 hawley , j.  f. , guan , x. , & krolik , j.  h. 2011 , apj 738 , 84 hiemstra , b. , mendez , m. , done , c. , diaz trigo , m. , altamirano , d. , & casella , p. 2011",
    ", mnras , 411 , 137 hirose , s. , krolik , j.  h. , & stone , j.  m. 2006 , apj , 640 , 901 hirose , s. , krolik , j.  h. , & blaes , o. 2009 , apj , 691 , 16 jiang , y .- f . , stone , j.m .",
    "& davis , s.w .",
    "2012 , apjs , 199,14 kallman , t.  r. , palmeri , p. , bautista , m.  a. , mendoza , c. , & krolik , j.  h. 2004 , apjs , 155 , 675 kato , y. , mineshige , s. , & shibata , k. 2004 , apj , 605 , 307 kawanaka , n. , kato , y. , & mineshige , s. 2008 , pasj , 60 , 399 kawashima , t. et  al .",
    "2012 , apj , 752 , 18 krolik , j.  h. & hawley , j.  f. 2002 , apj , 573 , 754 krolik , j.  h. & kallman , t.  r. 1987 , apj , 320 , l5 kulkarni , a.  k. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 414 , 1183 laor , a. 1991 , apj , 376 , 90 liang , e.p.t . & price , r.h .",
    "1978 , apj , 218 , 247 martocchia , a. , matt , g. , karas , v. , belloni , t. & feroci , m. 2002 , a&a , 387 , 215 mcclintock , j.  e. , shafee , r. , narayan , r. , remillard , r.  a. , davis , s.  w. , li , l .- x . 2006 , apj , 652 , 518 mckinney , j.  c. , & gammie , c.  f. 2004 , apj , 611 , 977 miller , j.m .",
    "2002 , apj letts , 570 , l69 miller , j.  m. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 606 , l131 miller , j.  m. , homan , j. , & miniutti , g. 2006a , apj , 652 , l113 miller , j.  m. , et al . 2006b , apj , 653 , 525 miller , j.  m. 2007 , ara&a , 45 , 441 miller , j.  m. , pooley , g. g. , fabian , a.  c. , nowak , m.  a. , reis , r.  c. , cackett , e.  m. , pottschmidt , k. , wilms , j. 2012 , apj , 757 , 11 miniutti , g. et  al .",
    "2007 , pasj 59 , 315 mitsuda , k. , inoue , h. , koyama , k. , makishima , k. , matsuoka , m. , ogawara , y. , suzuki , k. , tanaka , y. , shibazaki , n. , & hirano , t. 1984 , pasj , 36 , 741 nandra , k. , oneill , p.m. , george , i.m . &",
    "reeves , j.n .",
    "2007 , mnras 382 , 194 noble , s.  c. , krolik , j.  h. , & hawley , j.  f. 2009 , apj 692 , 411 noble , s.  c. , & krolik , j.  h. 2009 , apj 703 , 964 noble , s.  c. , krolik , j.  h. , & hawley , j.  f. 2010 , apj 711 , 959 noble , s.  c. , krolik , j.  h. , schnittman , j.  s. , & hawley , j.  f. 2011 , apj 743 , 115 novikov , i.  d. , & thorne , k.  s. 1973 , in _ black holes _ , ed . c.  dewitt & b.  s. dewitt ( new york : gordon and breach ) nowak , m.  a. , vaughan , b. a. , wilms , j. , dove , j.  b. , & begelman , m.  c. 1999a , apj , 510 , 874 nowak , m.  a. , wilms , j. , & dove , j.  b. 1999b , apj , 517 , 355 oda , m. , gorenstein , p. , gursky , h. , kellogg , e. , schreier , e. , tananbaum , h. , & giacconi , r. 1971 , apj , 166 , l1 petrucci , p.  o. , merloni , a. , fabian , a. , haardt , f. , & gallo , e. 2001 , mnras , 328 , 501 ponti , g. et  al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 406 , 2591 poutanen , j. , krolik , j.  h. , & ryde , f. 1997 , mnras , 292 , l21 reis , r.  c. , fabian , a.  c. , ross , r.  r. , miniutti , g. , miller , j.  m. , & reynolds , c. s. 2008 , mnras , 387 , 1489 reis , r.  c. , fabian , a.  c. , ross , r.  r. , & miller , j.  m. 2009 , mnras , 395 , 1257 reis , r.  c. , fabian , a.  c. , & miller , j.  m. 2010 , mnras , 402 , 836 reis , r.c .",
    "2011 , mnras , 410 , 2497 reis , r.c . , miller , j.m .",
    ", reynolds , m.t . ,",
    "fabian , a.c . & walton , d.j .",
    "2012 , apj , 751 , 34 remillard , r. a. , & mcclintock , j.  e. 2006 , ara & a , 44 , 49 reynolds , c.  s. , & begelman , m.  c. 1997 , apj , 488 , 109 reynolds , c.  s. , & nowak , m.  a. 2003 , phys .",
    "reports , 377 , 389 reynolds , c.  s. , & fabian , a.  c. 2008 , apj , 675 , 1048 rybicki , g.  b. , & lightman , a.  p. 2004 , _ radiative processes in astrophysics _ ( weinheim : wiley - vch ) sano , t. , inutsuka , s. , turner , n.j . & stone , j.m .",
    "2004 , apj , 605 , 321 schnittman , j. d. 2005 , apj , 621 , 940 schnittman , j. d. , & rezzolla , l. 2006 , apj , 637 , l113 schnittman , j. d. , krolik , j.  h. , & hawley , j.  f. 2006 , apj , 651 , 1031 schnittman , j. d. , & krolik , j.  h. 2009 , apj , 701 , 1175 schnittman , j. d. , & krolik , j.  h. 2010 , apj , 712 , 908 schnittman , j. d. , & krolik , j.  h. 2013 , apj submitted [ arxiv:1302.3214 ] shakura , n.  i. , & sunyaev , r.  a. 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 shimura , t. , & takahara , f. 1995 , apj , 445 , 780 socrates , a. , davis , s. w. , & blaes , o. 2004 , apj , 601 , 405 socrates , a. 2010 , apj , 719 , 784 sorathia , k.a . , reynolds , c.s . , stone , j.m . & beckwith , k. 2012 , apj , 749 , 189 steiner , j.  f. , mcclintock , j.  e. , remillard , r.  a. , gou , l. , yamada , s. , & narayan , r. 2010 , apj , 718 , l117 stern , b.  e. , poutanen , j. svensson , r. , sikora , m. , & begelman , m.  c. 1995 , apj , 449 , l13 stepney , s. , & guilbert , p.  w. 1983 , mnras , 204 , 1269 svensson , r. , & zdziarski , a.  a. 1994 , apj , 436 , 599 tanaka , y. et  al .",
    "1995 , nature 375 , 659 titarchuk , l. , & shrader , c. 2002 , apj , 567 , 1057 turolla , r. , zane , s. , & titarchuk , l. 2002 , apj , 576 , 349 uttley , p. , wilkinson , t. , cassatella , p. , wilms , j. , pottschmidt , k. , hanke , m. , & bock , m. 2011 , mnras , 414 , l60 vaughan , s. , edelson , r. , warwick , r.  s. , & uttley , p. 2003 , mnras , 345 , 1271 vaughan , s. & fabian , a.c .",
    "2004 , mnras , 348 , 1415 walton , d.  j. , reis , r.  c. , cackett , e.  m. , fabian , a.  c. , & miller , j.  m. 2012 , mnras , 422 , 2510 wilkins , d.  r. , & fabian , a.  c. 2011 , mnras , 414 , 1269 wilkinson , t. , & uttley , p. 2009 , mnras , 397 , 666 you , b. , cao , x. & yuan , y. 2012 , arxiv:1210.2662 zdziarski , a.  a. , johnson , w.  n. , & magdziarz , p. 1996 , mnras , 283 , 193 zhu , y. , davis , s.  w. , narayan , r. , kulkarni , a.  k. , penna , r.  f. , & mcclintock , j.  e. 2012 , mnras accepted , [ arxiv:1202.1530 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a new global radiation transport code coupled to a general relativistic magneto - hydrodynamic simulation of an accreting , non - rotating black hole . for the first time </S>",
    "<S> , we are able to explain from first principles in a self - consistent way all the components seen in the x - ray spectra of stellar - mass black holes , including a thermal peak and all the features associated with strong hard x - ray emission : a power - law extending to high energies , a compton reflection hump , and a broad iron line . varying only the mass accretion rate , we are able to reproduce a wide range of x - ray states seen in most galactic black hole sources . </S>",
    "<S> the temperature in the corona is @xmath0 kev in a boundary layer near the disk and rises smoothly to @xmath1 kev in low - density regions far above the disk . even as the disk s reflection edge varies from the horizon out to @xmath2 as the accretion rate decreases , we find that the shape of the fe k@xmath3 line is remarkably constant . </S>",
    "<S> this is because photons emitted from the plunging region are strongly beamed into the horizon and never reach the observer . </S>",
    "<S> we have also carried out a basic timing analysis of the spectra and find that the fractional variability increases with photon energy and viewer inclination angle , consistent with the coronal hot spot model for x - ray fluctuations . </S>"
  ]
}