{
  "article_text": [
    "recent sub - millimeter observations revealed a dense ionized cloud of gas known as g2 , rapidly approaching , the black hole at the galactic center ( gillessen et al .",
    "the cloud is on a highly eccentric trajectory , with a 2011 distance from the black hole of @xmath4 cm .",
    "the pericentric passage , which is expected to occur in mid 2013 , will bring the cloud within @xmath5 cm from the supermassive black hole . given the mass of the black hole , which is determined through observations of nearby stellar orbits to be @xmath6 ( ghez et al .",
    "2008 ; gillessen et al .",
    "2009 ) , this pericentric distance is only @xmath7 , where the schwarzschild radius @xmath8 cm .",
    "the accretion flow around the black hole extends to the bondi radius @xmath9 ( e.g. , yuan , quataert & narayan 2003 ) and powers the multiwavelength emission observed from it . the flux at 1  ghz is @xmath10  jy , rising to @xmath11  jy at 500  ghz , before rapidly declining at higher frequencies .",
    "the radio emission has been successfully modeled as synchrotron radiation from relativistic electrons , either in a radiatively inefficient accretion flow ( adaf ) ( narayan , yi , & mahadevan 1995 ; zel , psaltis & narayan 2000 ) or in a jet ( falcke & markoff 2000 ) . at the lowest end of the spectrum  @xmath12ghz  the radio emission shows flux variability on a time scale of months to years with a root mean square amplitude @xmath13 , ( zhao et al .",
    "1989 ; falcke 1999 ; macquart & bower 2006 ) .    at its pericentric passage",
    ", the gas cloud will interact with the accretion flow , and this may significantly change its dynamics . here , we show that a bow shock is likely to develop as the cloud plows through the hot , tenuous plasma at @xmath14 . in ",
    "2 we calculate the properties of the bow shock and in  3 we estimate the energy distribution of electrons accelerated at this shock . in ",
    "4 we calculate the extra radio emission that will result from these accelerated electrons . for likely electron energy distributions , the additional emission is @xmath15jy at frequencies @xmath16  ghz .",
    "this is well above the quiescent emission from  and should be easily detectable .",
    "we also show that the flux increase will be accompanied by significant changes in the spectral index . in ",
    "5 we summarize our findings and argue that interferometric observations could resolve potential changes in the radio image of  caused by the interaction of the cloud with the accretion flow .",
    "we first calculate the dynamics of the interaction of the cloud g2 with the accretion flow around the black hole .",
    "since the orbit of g2 is highly eccentric , its velocity at pericenter will be @xmath17 the properties of the ambient gas at the pericentric distance @xmath14 can be obtained from adaf models of sgr a@xmath18 . within that context and using yuan et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and xu et al .",
    "( 2006 ) as a guide , gillessen et al .",
    "( 2012 ) estimated the gas density and temperature at @xmath19 to bek , but this small uncertainty is not important for what follows . ]",
    "to estimate the sound speed , we use the fact that the gas in the adaf is likely to have its bernoulli parameter close to zero ( narayan & yi 1994 ) .",
    "thus , @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the enthalpy per unit mass , @xmath23 is the adiabatic index , @xmath24 is the pressure , and @xmath25 the density of the gas . because the radial velocity @xmath26 is small compared to the azimuthal velocity @xmath27 , we ignore it .",
    "we also assume that @xmath28 is roughly half the keplerian value , which is appropriate for an adaf . under these assumptions ,",
    "we estimate the adiabatic sound speed of the gas , @xmath29 , to be @xmath30 the gas pressure is then given by @xmath31 finally , if we assume that the magnetic pressure is about 10% of the gas pressure , as is typical in an adaf , then we estimate the magnetic field strength in the ambient gas to be @xmath32 g .    there is currently no information on the relative orientation of the orbits of g2 and the ambient gas in the accretion flow",
    ". however , because the velocity @xmath33 of the cloud at pericenter is substantially larger than the local gas velocity @xmath27 , we expect the relative velocity at @xmath14 to be dominated by @xmath33 .",
    "thus , g2 will move with a mach number @xmath34 near pericenter .",
    "using rankine - hugoniot jump conditions for a non - relativistic shock , we estimate for the shocked gas , @xmath35    for a mach number @xmath34 , the magnetic field strength will be roughly doubled by compression in the shock , i.e. , @xmath36 g .",
    "similarly , the post - shock temperature will be a factor of a few larger than the temperature of the pre - shock gas .",
    "thus , the mean thermal energy of the shocked electrons should be close to @xmath37 , i.e. , the electrons will be quasi - relativistic .",
    "gillessen et al .  (",
    "2012 ) estimated the equivalent spherical size of the cloud in 2011 to be 15 mas , which corresponds to a physical radius of @xmath38  cm .",
    "as the cloud approaches the pericenter along its highly eccentric orbit , it is expected to be tidally stretched ( gillessen et al .",
    "2012 ; burkert et al .",
    "2012 ) , primarily along the direction of motion .",
    "we estimate the cross - sectional area @xmath39 of the bow shock using the frontal size of the cloud , which will remain approximately constant at @xmath40 .",
    "of g2 s motion through the hot accretion flow around  and temperature @xmath41 of this medium as a function of time .",
    "pericentric passage occurs in year 2013.5 .",
    "both @xmath42 and @xmath41 peak sharply around pericenter , and a bow shock should be present for approximately 6 months on either side of pericenter .",
    "since the orientation of the angular momentum vector of the accreting gas is not known , for simplicity the gas has been assumed to be at rest . ]",
    "[ fig : mach ]    figure [ fig : mach ] shows the mach number of g2 s motion through the ambient medium ( assuming that the medium is at rest ) and the temperature of the medium as a function of time .",
    "a bow shock will form when @xmath42 exceeds unity , which is expected to last for about a year around pericenter .",
    "the temperature of the medium , which has a significant effect on particle acceleration ( see  3 ) , is also strongly peaked around pericenter .",
    "taking the relative velocity between g2 and the ambient medium to be equal to @xmath33 , and conservatively taking the duration of the bow shock to be 6 months , we estimate the total number of shocked electrons to be @xmath43",
    "a variety of astrophysical evidence suggests that particles are accelerated efficiently via the fermi and shock - drift acceleration mechanisms in shocks ( e.g. , blandford & eichler 1987 ) . typically , these processes give rise to a non - thermal power - law tail in the energy distribution of the particles .",
    "the parameters of the bow shock of g2 correspond to an interesting regime that has not been well studied .",
    "the shock is non - relativistic , but the upstream electrons are quasi - relativistic ( @xmath44 ) . in addition , the shock has a modest mach number @xmath45 , and the upstream gas is fairly strongly magnetized , corresponding to an alfvenic mach number @xmath46 .",
    "we studied the acceleration of electrons in the bow shock of g2 by means of two - dimensional first - principles numerical simulations , with the particle - in - cell ( pic ) code tristan - mp ( spitkovsky 2005 ) .",
    "the simulation setup parallels very closely the one employed by riquelme & spitkovsky ( 2011 ) , with the magnetic field lying initially in the simulation plane , oriented at an oblique angle with respect to the flow velocity . for computational convenience , we chose a reduced mass ratio @xmath47 , but we tested that our results remain the same for larger mass ratios , when all the physical quantities are scaled appropriately . specifically , we ran simulations spanning the range @xmath48 , fixing the electron temperature ( equal to the proton temperature ) and the shock sonic and alfvenic mach numbers , and we measured the time in units of the inverse proton cyclotron frequency @xmath49 .",
    "we also checked the convergence of our results with respect to the spatial resolution and the number of computational particles per cell .",
    "we find that at the shock , a fraction of the incoming electrons are reflected backward by the shock - compressed magnetic field ( matsukiyo et al .",
    "2011 ) or by scattering off of electron whistler waves excited in the shock transition layer ( riquelme & spitkovsky 2011 ) . for quasi - relativistic electron temperatures ,",
    "the reflected electrons are fast enough to remain ahead of the shock , resisting advection downstream by the oblique pre - shock field .",
    "while the electrons gyrate around the shock , they are energized by shock - drift acceleration ( e.g. , begelman & kirk 1990 ) and form a local non - thermal population , just upstream of the shock .",
    "k , @xmath50 and @xmath51 . with time , the non - thermal component approaches a power - law tail with index @xmath52 ( dashed line ) and its cutoff energy steadily increases ( insert ) .",
    "( right ) electron energy spectrum at @xmath53 for different upstream temperatures ( therefore , different @xmath42 ) , with fixed @xmath51 and fixed flow velocity .",
    "the regime @xmath54 is relevant for the accretion flow around  at a distance @xmath14 from the black hole . ]",
    "[ fig : time ]    the temporal evolution of this population is shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig : time ] , for parameters relevant to the bow shock of g2 : @xmath55 , @xmath50 and @xmath51 . at late times , the shock - accelerated electrons populate a power - law tail with a slope of @xmath52 beyond an electron lorentz factor @xmath56 , containing roughly @xmath57 of the incoming electrons .",
    "the upper energy cutoff of the electron spectrum steadily increases with time , as shown in the left panel insert of figure  [ fig : time ] , suggesting that the distribution will asymptote at late times to a power - law with @xmath58 extending to very large values of @xmath59 .",
    "the counter streaming between the incoming flow and the shock - reflected electrons triggers the weibel filamentation instability ahead of the shock ( weibel 1959 , medvedev & loeb 1999 ) , with the wavevector perpendicular to the pre - shock field . by scattering off of the magnetic field generated by the weibel instability",
    ", the shock - reflected electrons are deflected back toward the shock , participating in a fermi - like acceleration process . in the downstream region , they populate a power - law tail of similar normalization and slope as the pre - shock spectrum shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig : time ] .",
    "the distribution of non - thermal electrons is sensitive to the electron temperature ahead of the shock .",
    "as shown in the right panel of figure  [ fig : time ] , the normalization of the power - law tail is reduced by almost one order of magnitude when the electron temperature decreases from @xmath60 ( red curve ) down to @xmath61 ( blue curve ) , with the flow velocity staying fixed .",
    "if the upstream plasma is colder , fewer electrons are reflected back at the shock ( matsukiyo et al .",
    "2011 ) , so a smaller fraction of the incoming electrons are injected in the shock - drift acceleration process . in the limit of cold upstream plasmas studied by riquelme & spitkovsky ( 2011 )",
    ", electrons are not efficiently reflected back from the shock ( black curve in figure  [ fig : time ] , for @xmath62 ) . in this case",
    ", the process of weibel - mediated acceleration described above does not operate and the resulting downstream non - thermal tail becomes steeper , with @xmath63 ( riquelme & spitkovsky 2011 ) .",
    "the acceleration efficiency of @xmath57 and the power - law index of @xmath64 that we find for the parameters of the bow shock of g2 , combined with our estimate for the total number of shocked electrons given in equation  ( [ eq : nsh ] ) , allows us to write the electron energy distribution as @xmath65 in the next section , we calculate the properties of the synchrotron emission that arises from this electron distribution .",
    "the peak of the synchrotron emission from an electron with a lorentz factor @xmath59 occurs at a frequency @xmath66 where we have scaled the result to the expected field strength of 0.06 g in the shocked medium .",
    "conversely , we can invert the above relation to infer the lorentz factor of the electrons that contribute predominantly to the emission at a particular frequency : @xmath67 the synchrotron power emitted by such electrons is @xmath68 the synchrotron cooling time is then @xmath69 the cooling time is substantially longer than the duration of the encounter for any value of the lorentz factor @xmath59 or , equivalently , any frequency @xmath70 of interest for radio or submm observations .",
    "thus , all the shocked electrons will contribute to the observed synchrotron emission .    to estimate the expected spectral flux from the shocked electrons , we use the electron lorentz factor distribution given in equation  ( [ eq : dndg ] ) and assume a distance @xmath71kpc to the galactic center .",
    "then , using the standard formula for synchrotron emission from a power - law distribution of electrons ( rybicki & lightman 1979 ) , we obtain @xmath72 this estimate is valid over the range of frequencies at which the synchrotron emission is optically thin .",
    "the predicted flux is fairly large and should be easily detected over a wide range of radio frequencies , provided particle acceleration in the bow shock is as efficient as the numerical simulations described in  3 indicate .    at low frequencies ,",
    "the synchrotron emission will be self - absorbed . using standard results ( rybicki & lightman 1979 )",
    ", we estimate the source function of the shocked electrons to be @xmath73 assuming a circular source of radius @xmath74 cm at distance @xmath75 , the limiting synchrotron flux due to self - absorption is @xmath76 the quiescent emission from sgr a@xmath18 is well below this level at frequencies above a ghz , so self - absorption should not interfere with our ability to observe the additional emission .",
    ".  [ eq : dndg ] ) .",
    "the hatched area bounded by dashed lines corresponds to a factor of three uncertainty each way in the number of accelerated electrons , i.e. , the acceleration efficiency is varied from 1.7% to 15% .",
    "the hatched region in the right panel shows the predicted radio flux for power - law indices in the range @xmath77 , keeping the fraction of accelerated electrons fixed at 5% . in both panels ,",
    "the turnover of the flux at low frequencies is caused by synchrotron self - absorption .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]   ( eq .  [ eq : dndg ] ) .",
    "the hatched area bounded by dashed lines corresponds to a factor of three uncertainty each way in the number of accelerated electrons , i.e. , the acceleration efficiency is varied from 1.7% to 15% .",
    "the hatched region in the right panel shows the predicted radio flux for power - law indices in the range @xmath77 , keeping the fraction of accelerated electrons fixed at 5% . in both panels ,",
    "the turnover of the flux at low frequencies is caused by synchrotron self - absorption .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]    [ fig : sgra_radio ]    in figure  [ fig : sgra_radio ] , we show the predicted radio emission from shock - accelerated electrons in the bow shock of g2 . in order to account for potential uncertainties in our estimates of shock parameters (  2 ) and our simulations of particle acceleration (  3 ) ,",
    "we explore the dependence of the expected flux enhancement on ( left panel ) the number of accelerated electrons and ( right panel ) the power - law index of the electron energy distribution .",
    "we also show in figure  [ fig : sgra_radio ] the measured quiescent flux at different frequencies , with the error bars indicating the degree of variability among different observations . at 1.4  ghz , the quiescent radio flux of sgr a@xmath18 is @xmath78jy , whereas we estimate that the flux enhancement could be as large as 10jy .",
    "the additional synchrotron emission ought to be easily detectable at ghz frequencies .",
    "note also that the spectral index is predicted to change substantially .",
    "the passage of the recently discovered cloud of gas g2 near  presents a unique opportunity to study the dynamics and properties of hot gas in the vicinity of the black hole at the galactic center . in this letter",
    ", we showed that a bow shock may form during the pericentric passage of the cloud , and we investigated the flux enhancement in the @xmath79  ghz frequency range that will arise as a result of particle acceleration in the shock front .",
    "we ran first - principles pic simulations for shock parameters appropriate to the bow shock and thereby obtained realistic estimates of the energy distribution of accelerated electrons . using these results , we calculated the likely synchrotron emission from the bow shock and found that the additional flux might exceed the quiescent emission from  by up to an order of magnitude at ghz frequencies .",
    "this suggests that there is a good chance of detecting enhanced radio emission as g2 plows through the ambient hot medium around the time of pericentric passage . since the cooling time of the accelerated electrons",
    "is estimated to be long , the enhanced emission should continue well after the encounter .",
    "there are order unity uncertainties in the parameters we have assumed for the bow shock , and hence the predictions made in this letter are not likely to be quantitatively accurate . we have allowed for some of these uncertainties while computing the hatched regions shown in the two panels in figure  [ fig : sgra_radio ] .",
    "an additional uncertainty is whether or not a bow shock will form in the first place .",
    "gillessen et al .",
    "( 2012 ) discuss a compression shock moving into the cloud , which will inevitably be accompanied by an external shock moving into the ambient medium , the bow shock in our model . in most models of g2 ( burkert et al .",
    "2012 ; miralda - escude 2012 ; schartmann et al .",
    "2012 ; murray - clay & loeb 2012 ) , the cloud retains some level of integrity during its pericentric passage and thus is likely to develop an external shock .",
    "however , if the cloud is completely shredded by kelvin - helmholtz or other instabilities before a bow shock forms , then our synchrotron emission estimates will no longer be valid .    given the pericentric distance of 3100  @xmath80 , which corresponds to a projected angle of @xmath2  mas , the bow shock emission should be displaced from the quiescent radio emission of  by the same amount . at wavelengths",
    "@xmath3  cm , this angular distance is larger than the size of the scattering ellipse of  ( bower et al .",
    "2006 ) and ought to be resolved by interferometric observations .",
    "the scatter - broadening of the radio image of  is believed to be caused by a compact foreground interstellar cloud that is at least @xmath81pc from the black hole ( frail et al .",
    "thus , the broadening is unlikely to be affected by any gas stripped from g2 during its pericentric encounter .",
    "in addition to the bow shock and the associated prompt radio synchrotron emission considered in this letter , it is expected that the cloud g2 will also shed mass as it interacts with the ambient hot gas .",
    "a likely early signature of the increase in the gas density at a few thousand @xmath80 is a change in the observed faraday rotation above a ghz , which may provide the first estimates of the increase in the mass accretion rate .",
    "as it moves inwards , this gas will cause the mass accretion rate on to the central black hole to be enhanced over a period of many years . such an increase could cause a secular change in the radio flux of  on a time scale of ten years to several decades , accompanied by changes in the `` silhouette '' of the black hole that could be monitored by future interferometers ( moscibrodzka et al .",
    "2012 ) .",
    "thanks a. loeb and n. stone for useful discussions and l.s .",
    "thanks a. spitkovsky for insightful comments .",
    "r.n . gratefully acknowledges support from nasa grant nnx11ae16 g , and f. . from nsf grant ast-1108753 .",
    "is supported by nasa through einstein postdoctoral fellowship grant number pf1 - 120090 awarded by the chandra x - ray center , which is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory for nasa under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "the simulations were performed on the odyssey cluster at harvard university , on the picscie - oit high performance computing center and visualization laboratory at princeton university , and on teragrid resources under contract no .",
    "tg - ast120010 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a dense ionized cloud of gas has been recently discovered to be moving directly toward the supermassive black hole , , at the galactic center . in june 2013 , at the pericenter of its highly eccentric orbit , the cloud will be approximately 3100 schwarzschild radii from the black hole and will move supersonically through the ambient hot gas with a velocity of @xmath0  km  s@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> a bow shock is likely to form in front of the cloud and could accelerate electrons to relativistic energies . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate via particle - in - cell simulations the energy distribution of the accelerated electrons and show that the non - thermal synchrotron emission from these electrons might exceed the quiescent radio emission from  by a factor of several </S>",
    "<S> . the enhanced radio emission should be detectable at ghz and higher frequencies around the time of pericentric passage and in the following months . </S>",
    "<S> the bow shock emission is expected to be displaced from the quiescent radio emission of  by @xmath2  mas . </S>",
    "<S> interferometric observations could resolve potential changes in the radio image of  at wavelengths @xmath3  cm . </S>"
  ]
}