{
  "article_text": [
    "the development of general - purpose gpus , able to perform tasks done previously by central processing units ( cpus ) offers an attractive alternative for their application in radio - astronomy .",
    "because the storage and off - line processing of such a vast amount of data is difficult and costly , the new generation of radio telescopes , such as lofar , requires high performance computing ( hpc ) solutions to process the enormous volumes of data that are typically produced during a survey for fast radio transients @xcite .",
    "real - time searches for radio transients , which use gpu technology to remove interstellar dispersion and detect radio bursts from astronomical sources in real - time are now possible .",
    "also it is important to note that real - time processing offers the possibility to react as fast as possible and to conduct follow - up observations of any event .",
    "we report here on the installation of a new backend which can be used with a single international lofar station .",
    "the lofar radio telescope designed and constructed by the netherlands institute for radio astronomy ( astron ) , is one of the largest radio telescopes ever built , using a new concept based on a vast array of omni - directional antennas grouped in 48 so - called stations .",
    "40 of these stations are distributed in an array split between a denser core region near exloo , the netherlands and extending out to remote stations within the netherlands .",
    "the remaining 8 international stations are located in the neighbouring countries : germany , france , sweden and the united kingdom .",
    "further stations can also be built and added to the array and currently a few stations are in planning stage in germany , poland and ireland .",
    "together with the dutch stations , they make the international lofar telescope ( ilt ) .",
    "the design of the lofar telescope allows for multi - frequency and wide - field multi - beam observations making it suitable for imaging and spectral studies of radio astronomical sources .",
    "details of system architecture and signal processing can be found in @xcite and a full description of lofar will soon be published ( van haarlem et  al . , in prep . ) .",
    "we limit the description only to the general information .",
    "lofar observes in the frequency range of 10 to 240 mhz . to cover such a wide frequency range and to avoid the frequency modulation ( fm ) broadcasting bands , two types of antennas are used .",
    "first , the low band antennae ( lba ) , can observe in the frequency range from 10 to 90 mhz , but they are optimised for a range of 30 to 90 mhz",
    ". the lower limit of 10 mhz is defined by transmission of radio waves through the earth s ionosphere .",
    "secondly , the high band antennae ( hba ) cover the frequency range from 110 to 240 mhz , and consist of 16 dipoles grouped into tiles of 4 by 4 dipoles each , which are phased together using an analogue beam - former within the tile itself .",
    "a single lofar station can be set to observe either using lba or hba antennas , but not both simultaneously .",
    "however , simultaneous observations with lba and hba can be obtained by using multiple stations simultaneously , one using lbas and one using hbas .",
    "the signals from individual stations are transported by a dedicated fibre - optic network to the center for information technology of the university of groningen where central processing facility ( cep ) which houses a bluegene / p supercomputer , a general purpose cluster for auxiliary processing and a long term storage archive .",
    "the main purpose of the cep is to correlate the station data and deliver a data product which can be further processed by the user .",
    "there are many ways in which the various parts of lofar ( antennas , tiles , stations ) can be combined to perform observations .",
    "the almost completely digital nature of the lofar signal processing chain means that it is highly flexible to suit a particular observational goal .",
    "pulsar observations are normally taken in a beam - formed mode , where data are recorded as a single beam pointing in the direction of the source of interest @xcite .",
    "the lofar international stations have the ability to be used independently to conduct targeted observations of known bright objects , or wide field monitoring of transient events .",
    "the international stations have greater sensitivity thanks to the doubled number of lba antennas and hba tiles compared to the dutch stations . during lofar operations",
    "the international stations might be not used as long baselines are not currently in demand , which makes them well suited to be used as standalone instruments . as opposed to standard observations within the lofar network , where all the data is normally sent to , and processed by cep",
    ", an independent backend has to be used to process the station data .",
    "this backend is called artemis : a project that is based on a versatile telescope backend using cpus and gpus for processing of time - series data in radio astronomy .",
    "the artemis backend is responsible for processing the beam - formed data coming from lofar station .",
    "the hardware is composed of standard off - the - shelf server nodes hosting gpus .",
    "these nodes perform ( in real - time ) all the operations necessary to discover short duration radio pulses from pulsars and fast transients @xcite , thanks to a modular software structure operating in a c++ scalable framework ( pelican , developed at the oerc ) .",
    "ampp ( artemis modular pelican pipelines ) is the software that was developed for receiving the data , further channelisation in finer frequency channels , generation of stokes parameters , excision of radio frequency interference , integration , real - time dispersion searches and detection of interesting signals across multiple telescopes , in high - throughput cpu and gpu code .",
    "the detailed description of the software and algorithms used for detection can be found in karastergiou et  al . in prep . ,",
    "@xcite and @xcite .                , b.  w. , hessels , j.  w.  t. , alexov , a. , anderson , k. , coenen , t. , hassall , t. , karastergiou , a. , kondratiev , v.  i. , kramer , m. , van leeuwen , j. , mol , j.  d. , noutsos , a. , romein , j.  w. , weltevrede , p. , fender , r. , wijers , r.  a.  m.  j. , bhren , l. , bell , m.  e. , broderick , j. , daw , e.  j. , dhillon , v.  s. , eislffel , j. , falcke , h. , griessmeier , j. , law , c. , markoff , s. , miller - jones , j.  c.  a. , scheers , b. , spreeuw , h. , swinbank , j. , ter veen , s. , wise , m.  w. , wucknitz , o. , zarka , p. , anderson , j. , asgekar , a. , avruch , i.  m. , beck , r. , bennema , p. , bentum , m.  j. , best , p. , bregman , j. , brentjens , m. , van de brink , r.  h. , broekema , p.  c. , brouw , w.  n. , brggen , m. , de bruyn , a.  g. , butcher , h.  r. , ciardi , b. , conway , j. , dettmar , r .- j . , van duin , a. , van enst , j. , garrett , m. , gerbers , m. , grit , t. , gunst , a. , van haarlem , m.  p. , hamaker , j.  p. , heald , g. , hoeft , m. , holties , h. , horneffer , a. , koopmans , l.  v.  e. , kuper , g. , loose , m. , maat , p. , mckay - bukowski , d. , mckean , j.  p. , miley , g. , morganti , r. , nijboer , r. , noordam , j.  e. , norden , m. , olofsson , h. , pandey - pommier , m. , polatidis , a. , reich , w. , rttgering , h. , schoenmakers , a. , sluman , j. , smirnov , o. , steinmetz , m. , sterks , c.  g.  m. , tagger , m. , tang , y. , vermeulen , r. , vermaas , n. , vogt , c. , de vos , m. , wijnholds , s.  j. , yatawatta , s. , & zensus , a. 2011 , , 530 , a80 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the low frequency array  lofar is a new radio telescope that is moving the science of radio pulsars and transients into a new phase . </S>",
    "<S> its design places emphasis on digital hardware and flexible software instead of mechanical solutions . </S>",
    "<S> lofar observes at radio frequencies between 10 and 240 mhz where radio pulsars and many transients are expected to be brightest . </S>",
    "<S> radio frequency signals emitted from these objects allow us to study the intrinsic pulsar emission and phenomena such as propagation effects through the interstellar medium . </S>",
    "<S> the design of lofar allows independent use of its stations to conduct observations of known bright objects , or wide field monitoring of transient events . </S>",
    "<S> one such combined software / hardware solution is called the advanced radio transient event monitor and identification system ( artemis ) . </S>",
    "<S> it is a backend for both targeted observations and real - time searches for millisecond radio transients which uses graphical processing unit ( gpu ) technology to remove interstellar dispersion and detect millisecond radio bursts from astronomical sources in real - time using a single lofar station . </S>"
  ]
}