{
  "article_text": [
    "this is a brief note to comment on some recent papers addressing the monoceros ring . as nothing new",
    "has been delivered on the matter , there is also nothing new to add .",
    "concretely , the new data produce no evidence requiring the interpretation of the monoceros over - density as a structure not belonging to the milky way .",
    "thus , there is no need to produce a full paper explaining why not . a simple note like the present one should be enough . since silence gives consent  as the proverb goes , here we break the silence and express our disagreement .",
    "the so called monoceros ring / stream is a hypothesis for explaining a reported over - density of stars ( with respect to some standard models of the milky way , such as the besanon model ; robin et al .",
    "2003 ) in a large area of the sky approximately parallel to the galactic plane , in the latitude range @xmath0 and spanning most of the second and third quadrants ( e.g. , ibata et al . 2003 ; conn et al .",
    "it has been conjectured that this structure would be due to the remnants of a dwarf galaxy cannibalized by the milky way .",
    "the core of the progenitor would be associated to a further over - density of stars identified in the canis major subregion of the monoceros ring ( martin et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "however , the over - density of stars in canis major was soon explained as an effect of the warped+flared disc of the milky way ( momany et al .",
    "2004 , 2006 ; lpez - corredoira 2006 ; lpez - corredoira et al .",
    "2007 ) with some features in the color - magnitude diagrams due to the warped norma ",
    "cygnus spiral arm ( carraro et al . 2005 , 2007 , 2008 ; moitinho et al .",
    "2006 ; piatti & clari 2008 ) .",
    "since then , in the last years , the subject of the extragalactic origin of canis major was mostly dropped in the literature .",
    "it seemed that the purely galactic explanation of the phenomenon had been mostly accepted .    concerning the monoceros ring as a whole , ibata et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and momany et al .",
    "( 2006 ) suggested that it can be explained by the flare of the galactic outer disc , and hammersley & lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) made explicit calculations showing how a flare in the thick disc ( an element not included in models such as the besanon model ) fits approximately the observed over - density in some regions of the anti - centre .",
    "the most recent deep surveys clearly show that there are stars out to at least @xmath1=20  kpc ( e.g. , momany et al .",
    "2006 , reyl et al .",
    "2009 , carraro et al .",
    "2010 ) . that the disc is flared , should not come as a surprise .",
    "it is expected ( momany et al .",
    "2006 ) and not an ad - hoc hypothesis such as the one of an extragalactic stream ( or a reported three - fold layer of streams ; li et al .",
    "2012 ) parallel to the plane .",
    "the explanations in terms of the structure of the milky way also contemplate the characteristics of the observed populations , including metallicities , kinematics and spatial densities .",
    "we find no observations leading to the necessity of considering the reported over - densities not naturally due to the structure the milky way .    lately , four recent papers ( sollima et al . 2011 ; meisner et al . 2012 ; conn et al . 2012 ; li et al . 2012 )",
    "revive the claims of an extra - galactic origin for the monoceros ring .",
    "below , we address the arguments and conclusions of these articles :    density distribution : : :    sollima et al .",
    "( 2011 ) affirm that no model of the milky way is able to    explain the density distribution of the monoceros structure .",
    "the    statement is puzzling since hammersley & lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) had    previously shown that a simple model of a flared thick disc does    explain approximately the density distribution under discussion .",
    "the    lines of sight considered in both studies were close to each other    [ one of the lines of sight of hammersley & lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) is    @xmath2 , @xmath3 , very close    to the first field of sollima et al .",
    "( 2011 ) in    @xmath4 , @xmath3 ] . while    sollima et al .",
    "( 2011 ) use the same model as hammersley &    lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) , sollima et al .",
    "( 2011 ) affirm that the model    does not produce a detectable over - density bump .",
    "figure 3 of sollima    et al .",
    "( 2011 ) shows synthetic colour - magnitude diagrams with no clear    main sequence .",
    "however , hammersley & lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) do    reproduce such a main sequence in monoceros at magnitudes between    @xmath6 and 22 , for a population of dwarfs with    @xmath7 between 0.36 and 0.49 .",
    "moreover , other authors    supporting the extra - galactic scenario ( e.g. , conn et al . 2012 ) could    also reproduce the density distribution with a flared thick disc .",
    "thus , we are led to impression that the calculations in sollima et al .",
    "( 2011 ) are in error and that a flared model can reproduce the    over - density .",
    "+    conn et al . (",
    "2012 ) also use the model of hammersley & lpez - corredoira    ( 2011 ) to fit the morphology of monoceros over - density and arrive to    conclusions roughly similar to those of hammersley & lpez - corredoira    ( 2011 ) . although considering different regions than hammersley &    lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) and achieving better fits with some different    parameters with respect to hammersley & lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) , conn    et al .",
    "( 2012 ) arrive to qualitatively similar results .",
    "interestingly ,    conn et al .",
    "( 2012 ) find that the over - density with respect to a    non - flared model starts at distances of around 5 - 7 kpc from the sun ,    whereas the regions closer to the anti - centre used by hammersley &    lpez - corredoira ( 2011 ) indicate a start at distances of 8 - 10 kpc .",
    "the    difference is likely due to some lopsidedness of the disc or    non - axisymmetry of the flare ( lpez - corredoira & betancort - rijo 2009 ) .    the analysis of the density carried out by li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) is much    simpler : the authors simply point out that the number of observed    stars is much higher than that expected from a `` canonical '' thick    disc , where by `` canonical '' it is meant a non - flared model , but they    can not exclude a flared disc .",
    "metallicity , stellar populations : : :    although observations and discussions on the metallicity of monoceros    were already presented in many previous papers , meisner et al .",
    "( 2012 ) ,    conn et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , and li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) revive the theme with new    data .",
    "these data yield the same results as before :    @xmath8\\approx -1.0 $ ] for the first two papers and    @xmath8\\approx -0.8 $ ] for li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) . surprisingly ,    and despite previous work",
    "( momany et al .",
    "2006 , hammersley &    lpez - corredoira 2011 ) , these new studies again affirm that such a    metallicity is incompatible with the populations of our galaxy .",
    "+    conn et al . (",
    "2012 ) argue that the thick disc should have an average    metallicity @xmath8\\approx -0.6 $ ] and no radial gradient .",
    "the argument is based on analyses of low @xmath1 and low    @xmath9 stars extrapolated to high @xmath1 and high    @xmath9 .",
    "but extrapolations can easily be inadequate : the    observed regions of monoceros are at @xmath10 kpc and    @xmath11 kpc for which there are no observations    constraining the thick disc which are independent of monoceros itself .    as discussed below , it is not surprising to find in this region stars    with a metallicity 0.2 - 0.4 dex lower than stars at smaller    @xmath1 and @xmath9 . the statement by conn et al .",
    "( 2012 ) that there is no radial metallicity gradient in the thick disc    is not strictly correct : as an example , in cheng et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , which    conn et al .",
    "( 2012 ) cite , it is shown that there is a significant    negative gradient for stars with @xmath12<0.2 $ ] ( cheng    et al .",
    "2012 , fig .",
    "4 ) , and monoceros has indeed a significant number of    stars with @xmath12<0.2 $ ] ( meisner et al . 2012 ) .",
    "vertical gradients are also detected in the nearby thick disc ( bilir    et al .",
    "2012 ) . in any case",
    ", a small average metallicity gradient of    @xmath13 dex / kpc in the radial and vertical directions    is enough to explain @xmath8\\approx -1.0 $ ] and can not be    excluded at the present .",
    "ironically , the besanon model of the milky    way  used in arguing for an extragalactic origin of monoceros in what    concerns predicted stellar densities and colour - magnitude diagrams     gives that the very outer thick disc should have an average    metallicity @xmath8 $ ] very close to -1.0 ( lpez - corredoira    et al .",
    "2007 , fig .",
    "3 ) .    +    li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) find that the monoceros ring population at    @xmath14 has a bluer turn - off than the disc    population which is closer at @xmath15 .",
    "this is also    expected since most monoceros stars are presumably thick disc stars    ( with some small contribution from halo stars ) , whereas closer stars    are a mixture of thin+thick disc with higher metallicity .",
    "the turnoff    colour of @xmath16 measured by li et al .",
    "( 2012 )    for monoceros is indeed very similar to the turnoff colour measured    for the thick disc : @xmath17 ( chen et al .",
    "there is no problem in interpreting this stellar population as    belonging to the thick disc .",
    "radial velocities : : :    li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) make an interesting point : that the line of sight    velocities in the range @xmath18 are    significantly higher than those expected from a canonical thick disc .",
    "in particular , that the average radial velocity at    @xmath4 is significantly different from zero . as    li et al .",
    "( 2012 ) state , all axisymmetric disc models predict a zero    average line - of - sight velocity directly towards the anti - centre ,    independently of rotation speed and distance to the stars , because at    that longitude we are looking perpendicularly to the circular motion    of the disc stars .",
    "li et al . ( 2012 ) interpret this non - zero detection    as proof against a thick disc origin for monoceros .",
    "however , the    assumption of perfectly circular orbits for the outer disc is not    unquestionable .",
    "in fact , many spiral galaxies exhibit some    non - axisymmetry / lopsidedness in their outer discs ( jog & combes 2009 ) .",
    "there is also the possible phenomenon of stellar migration ( roskar et    al .",
    "2008 ) which displaces stars to different radii in non - circular    orbits .",
    "a non - axisymmetric outer disc is not only a possibility , but    it is also most likely .",
    "thus , a non - zero average radial velocity    towards the anti - centre is not enough to discard the thick disc origin    of monoceros .",
    "we have shown how and why no new elements on the monoceros affair are brought by a number of recent papers ( sollima et al .",
    "2011 , conn et al .",
    "2012 , meisner et al .",
    "2012 , and li et al .",
    "we reaffirm that extrapolations are easily misleading and that * a model of the galaxy is not the galaxy*. the besanon model , despite being a very good model , is not correct in reproducing all the features of the outer disc . in particular",
    ", the besanon model assumes a disc stellar truncation at @xmath19 kpc . although some studies argue for a cut - off of the stellar disc at that distance ( e.g. , minniti et al .",
    "2012 ) , the deficit of outer in - plane stars is an expected artefact of assuming a non - flared disc .",
    "moreover , stars have been detected at @xmath20 kpc with higher densities than those expected from models with a closer disc cut - off ( e.g. , momany et al .",
    "2006 , reyl et al .",
    "2009 , carraro et al .",
    "the unnecessary assumption of a close cut - off produces a cascade of further assumptions and loose ends of which the most dramatic is that the majority of stars at far galacto - centric distances are extragalactic .",
    "certainly , the hypothesis of monoceros as an extragalactic tidal stream is not discarded , but there are no reasons to support it since it can be explained in terms of known features of our galaxy .",
    "such a strong claim should not be made without verifying the expected features , within the uncertainties , of the galaxy .",
    "this note is a cautionary tale on how models should not be over - interpreted .",
    "li et al . (",
    "2012 ) also discuss structures designated as the``anti - center stream '' and the `` eastern banded structure '' which do not look much better cases than monoceros , but these will not be discussed here .",
    "nonetheless , there are other tidal streams ( e.g. , sagittarius ) with solid observational support ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this is a brief note to comment on some recent papers addressing the monoceros ring . in our view </S>",
    "<S> , nothing new was delivered on the matter : no new evidence or arguments are presented which lead to think that the over - densities in monoceros must not be due to the flared thick disc of the milky way .    </S>",
    "<S> again , we restate that extrapolations are easily misleading and that a model of the galaxy is not the galaxy . raising and discussing exciting possibilities is healthy . </S>",
    "<S> however , enthusiasm should not overtake and produce strong claims before thoroughly checking simpler and more sensible possibilities within their uncertainties . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , claiming that a reported structure , such as the monoceros ring , is not galactic ( an exciting scenario ) should not be done without rejecting the possibility of being due to the well established warped and flared disc of the milky way ( simpler ) . </S>"
  ]
}