{
  "article_text": [
    "the basic pulsar phenomenon where a series of highly regular narrow pulses is observed has been explained from the very outset by invoking the lighthouse model . in this model",
    "the highly magnetized , rotating neutron star has a charge filled magnetosphere .",
    "the magnetic field surrounding the central star is characterized by a dipolar field with open and closed field line regions .",
    "the locus of the foot prints of the open field lines on the neutron star surface constitute the polar cap .",
    "it is believed that plasma is accelerated to relativistic velocities at the polar cap , which streams out along the open field lines giving rise to the observed coherent radio emission .",
    "this originate a few hundred kilometers above the stellar surface , and appear as narrow pulses due to the rotation of the neutron star .",
    "the plasma remains trapped in the closed field line regions thereby abstaining from the emission process .",
    "the known cases of emission from pulsars outside the main pulse are the interpulse , pre / post - cursor emission and the pulsar wind nebulae ( pwne ) .",
    "the interpulse and pre / post - cursors emission appear as temporal structures in the time series data .",
    "the interpulse emission ( located @xmath0 away from main pulse ) are usually associated with orthogonal rotators , the radio emission in the interpulse believed to originate from the opposite magnetic pole .",
    "the pre / post - cursor emission are located closer to the main pulse and connected via a bridge emission .",
    "they are highly polarized and their location in the magnetosphere is uncertain .",
    "the time series observations of pulsars are insensitive to any temporally constant background emission .",
    "the technique of gated interferometry , where the main pulse emission is blocked , can probe a constant background emission by mapping the off - pulse region .",
    "in the past gated interferometric studies have been employed to detect pwne from very energetic young pulsars with spindown energies @xmath1 @xmath2 erg s@xmath3  @xcite .    in recent studies we reported the detection of off - pulse emission from two long period pulsars based on gated interferometric observations with the giant metrewave radio telescope ( gmrt ) at 325 mhz  @xcite , ( hereafter paperi ) .",
    "our detection of off - pulse emission is a ` unique ' and surprising result because the two long period pulsars are relatively old and less energetic unlike the pulsars known to harbour pwn .",
    "also the pulse profiles do not show any temporal structures outside the main pulse .",
    "we concluded on heuristic grounds that the detected off - pulse emission is magnetospheric in origin based on outlandish expectations of ism densities to sustain a pwm for these pulsar energetics .",
    "in this paper we continue our previous investigations of off - pulse emission . in section  [ section2 ]",
    "we report the detection of off - pulse emission at widely separated times and frequencies ( see section  [ subsec2.1 ] ) and also account for the authenticity of these detections by carrying out a detailed test of the instrument to weed out possibility of the detected emission being a result of smearing of the pulsed signal across time ( see section  [ subsec2.2 ] ) . in section  [ section3 ]",
    "we study the flux variations which lead us to an upper limit of the size of the off - pulse emission region ( see section  [ subsec3.1 ] ) and we also obtain secure estimates of its spectral index @xmath4 ( see section [ subsec3.2 ] ) . based on our estimates of these properties",
    "we conclude a magnetopsheric origin for off - pulse emission .",
    "finally we discuss the results and their implications in section  [ section4 ] .    ]    ]",
    "we reported detection of off - pulse emission in paperi from two pulsars psr b0525 + 21 and b204516 based on single epoch observations at 325 mhz with the gmrt .",
    "we have now observed these two pulsars at 325 mhz and 610 mhz multiple times .",
    "the observations were carried out between january 2010 and august , 2011 ( see table  [ obs_detail ] ) .",
    "the specialized interferometric high time resolutions of 128/256 milliseconds supported by the gmrt correlator system were used for these observations .",
    "we observed the pulsars at both 325 mhz and 610 mhz frequency band . during the early months of 2011",
    "the gmrt correlator system was upgraded from the previously existing hardware backend ( ghb ) to a software backend ( gsb ) which is currently under use .",
    "the ghb was used with the lowest available time resolution of 131 msec and a bandwidth of 16 mhz split into 128 channels .",
    "the gsb initially operated at a lowest time resolution of 251 milliseconds over a 16 mhz bandwidth spread across 32 channels .",
    "the gsb was extended to operate at 125 milliseconds time resolution over 16 mhz bandwidth split into 256 channels .",
    "all these modes were used for our observations as documented in columns 1 to 6 of table  [ obs_detail ] .",
    "we used the technique of ` offline - gating ' discussed in paperi to image the on- and off - pulse regions . to summarize briefly , the interferometric time series data was folded with the periodicity of the pulsar to determine the on- and off - pulse phases ;",
    "a phase was assigned to each time record and two ` gates ' were put in to separate the on- and off - phase data , which were then imaged and the flux of the point source coincident with the pulsar position in each image measured . to check for the consistency of measured pulsar flux over different epochs of observations we compared the flux of the other point sources in the field which were within 10% ( within calibration errors ) for all observations .",
    "this indicates that any large variations in the on- and off - pulse flux were intrinsic effects .",
    "table  [ obs_detail ] gives the details of the experimental setup and also summarizes the results of the analysis .",
    "column 7 shows the angular resolution in the images . during each of these observations",
    "a point source was detected at the location of the pulsars in both the on- and off - pulse maps .",
    "the on - pulse flux , averaged over the pulse period ( all on - pulse flux reported in this paper are averaged over the entire period ) , are reported in column 8 while column 9 report the measured off - pulse flux .",
    "the ratio of the off - pulse flux and period averaged on - pulse flux is shown in column 10 .",
    "an example of off - pulse and on - pulse image for a single epoch at 610 mhz is shown in figure  [ fig_p1imag ] and  [ fig_p2imag ] .    thus in summary , in each of the multi - epoch and multi - frequency interferometric observations we have detected off - pulse emission from psr b0525 + 21 and b204516 . in our studies we used two different correlator systems , the ghb and gsb , and two different frequency bands , 325 mhz and 610 mhz bands , which make it extremely unlikely for the off - pulse to be a spurious detection .      in paperi",
    ", we discussed the possibility that off - pulse emission was a result of temporal leakage of the pulsed signal . to investigate this we recorded front end",
    "terminated 131 milliseconds interferometric data and estimated the autocorrelation of the noise signal for each baseline .",
    "we found that the observed autocorrelations were significantly lower ( 0.04% ) than the required levels ( around 1% ) to explain the observed off - pulse emission ( see paperi for details ) .",
    "however , the above experiment did not account for temporal leakages due to a strong pulsed signal as seen in pulsars . in order to investigate this effect",
    "a series of narrow single pulses with no off - pulse emission was required to be introduced in the receiver system . a broad - band pulsed noise source with a period of 4 seconds and a duty cycle of 32 millisecond",
    "was developed for this purpose .",
    "the power of the on - pulse signal was -5 dbm and the signal was down by 30 db in the off - state , which was significantly below the detected off - pulse emission .",
    "the noise source was radiated from an antenna in the central square of the gmrt .",
    "interferometric data was recorded with a time resolution of 251 milliseconds for about half an hour with the noise source switched on .",
    "since the noise source was in the near field , the geometrical delay calculations were vastly complicated ( it is a function of the distance of the individual antennas from the pulsed noise source ) .",
    "we did not correct for any geometrical delay in the correlator chain .",
    "this implied that only for a handful of cases ( 10 baselines ) the antennas were close enough for the coherence condition to hold and these baselines were used for the subsequent analysis as discussed below .",
    "if there was no leakage of the pulsed signal in time , the folded profile with increasing number of periods averaged together , for any baseline , would show a decrease in the off - pulse noise and an increase in the signal to noise ratio ( snr ) by a factor @xmath5 , where n is the number of folded periods .",
    "the interferometer measures the correlation between the voltages recorded by the individual elements  @xcite .",
    "+   + @xmath6 +   + where the quantity @xmath7 is related to the intensity of the incident signal and 2 t is the temporal resolution ( 251 msec ) .",
    "we assume that the system introduces a constant fractional leakage @xmath8 into the adjacent time bin ( this is the most likely situation , besides any other situation will lead to a lower snr ) .",
    "the correlation in the adjacent bin in such a scenario is given as : +   + @xmath9 +   + the statistics of the bins adjacent to the pulsed source is characterized by a mean(@xmath10 ) and rms ( @xmath11 ) given as : @xmath12 @xmath13 here the first bin is the @xmath14 bin from the pulsed source with n bins used for statistics ; @xmath7 is the correlation in the pulsed source bin .",
    "the statistics of the adjacent bins will be governed by a combination of gaussian statistics due to random noise and the constant leakage into adjacent bins . however for sufficient long averaging",
    "the effect of random noise will be overshadowed by the leakage term and the snr for the pulsed source would saturate at a constant level .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > \" , ]     ccccc pulsar & @xmath15&(@xmath16&(@xmath17&@xmath18 + & & & & + b0525 + 21 & -1.5@xmath190.1 & 0.139@xmath190.012 & 0.150@xmath190.015 & -1.38@xmath190.20 + b204516&-0.95@xmath190.12 & 0.118@xmath190.014 & 0.106@xmath190.015 & -1.12@xmath190.22 +    we have established that the off - pulse to on - pulse flux ratio remain constant at all timescales .",
    "this enables us to determine the off - pulse spectral index between 325 mhz and 610 mhz provided the on - pulse spectral index is known and both the emissions follow a power law spectrum .",
    "the off - pulse spectral index is given as : @xmath20 where @xmath18 and @xmath15 are the off - pulse and on - pulse spectral indices respectively and @xmath21 the off - pulse to on - pulse flux ratio at frequency @xmath22 .",
    "for the pulsar b0525 + 21 the spectrum between 400 mhz and 1.6 ghz is well known  @xcite shown in figure  [ fig_spectra ] , which is well approximated by a single power law spectrum with spectral index 1.5 ( linear fit in fig [ fig_spectra ] ) .",
    "the off - pulse spectral index is calculated using equation [ spect_indx ] and the off - pulse to on - pulse flux ratios given in table [ spec_indx ] .",
    "the off - pulse spectral index turns out to be 1.4 which is pretty steep and comparable to the on - pulse spectral index .    for the pulsar b204516 we once again determine the spectrum from the literature ( lorimer et al .",
    "1995 and maron et al .",
    "2000 ) over the frequency range 300 mhz to 10 ghz .",
    "in this case however the entire spectral range is not approximated by a single power law , with a clear break in the spectrum around 750 mhz ( see figure  [ fig_spectra ] ) .",
    "we determine the spectral index in this case by fitting two separate power laws above and below the break with spectral indices of 2.3 for the high frequency range and 0.95 for the low frequency regime .",
    "our observations at 325 and 610 mhz lie in the low frequency range and we use this to calculate the spectral index of off - pulse emission using equation  [ spect_indx ] which turns out to be 1.1 .",
    "this turns out to be steeper than the on - pulse spectra at the low frequency range .",
    "the discovery of radio emission in the off - phase of two long period pulsars psr b0525 + 21 and b204516 was reported in paperi .",
    "this emission , termed ` off - pulse emission ' , occur far away from the typical main pulse in the pulsar profile ( @xmath23 80  from the peak of main pulse ) .",
    "the off - pulse emission unlike other emissions away from the main - pulse do not appear as temporal structures in the pulsar profile but rather as a constant background emission .    in this paper",
    "we have focused on two important aspects :    \\(a ) the off - pulse emission is unique in pulsars and it is important to ascertain that by no means the emission arises due to any instrumental effect or errors during data analysis . in section  [ section2 ] we report detection of the off - pulse emission for b0525 + 21 and b204516 at widely separated times and different frequencies .",
    "we have conducted extensive tests and ruled out temporal leakage from a strong pulse as it passes through the gmrt receiver system as a possible source of off - pulse emission . with these tests we are now absolutely certain that the off - pulse emission has an astronomical origin .",
    "\\(b ) the next important step was to establish through observational arguments the nature of off - pulse emission . in section  [ section3 ]",
    "we demonstrate that for psr b0525 + 21 the off - pulse to on - pulse flux ratio is constant at both 325 and 610 mhz , which in turn gives a spectral index @xmath24 1.4 .",
    "we have also demonstrated that despite apparent variations in the long term off - pulse to on - pulse flux ratio for the pulsar b204516 , it actually remains constant at all timescales when the off - pulse flux variations are taken into account .",
    "this once again allowed us to determine the spectral index of @xmath25 1.1 .",
    "based on the observed properties of refractive scintillation , we derived the radio emission region of the off - pulse emission to have a maximum size of magnetospheric scale ( see section  [ subsec3.1 ] ) .",
    "the steep spectral index coupled with a highly compact emission region make it highly unlikely for the off - pulse emission to be a pwne .",
    "the off - pulse emission appear to be a completely new and hitherto undetected magnetospheric emission from pulsars .",
    "the estimated brightness temperature of the off - pulse emission is greater than 10@xmath26 k , assuming the emission to originate at the light cylinder .",
    "this strongly suggest a coherent radio emission process as the mechanism for explaining the off - pulse emission which leads to the next important question as to where and how does this off - pulse coherent emission originate in the pulsar magnetosphere ?",
    "currently we do not have any good answers to these questions but there are a few likely possibilities that can be considered .",
    "the basic pulsar models suggest that the power from the rotational energy in a neutron star is tapped and converted into the observed radiation .",
    "the rotating magnetic field of the neutron star acts like a unipolar inductor , creating high electric fields around the neutron star where charged particles are accelerated to relativistic velocities along the open field lines .",
    "this eventually leads to the pulsar radiation .",
    "a large number of models exist which try to establish the location of the charge accelerating regions and suggest physical mechanisms that can excite the coherent radio emission in pulsars .",
    "however here we will not go into the details of any of these models , but would like to point out as why finding the location of the emission region in the pulsar magnetosphere is central in unravelling the origin of the off - pulse emission .    in most pulsar theories the radio emission",
    "is excited due to development of plasma instabilities in the outflowing plasma .",
    "the main pulse emission arises around 500 km above the neutron star surface @xcite . at these heights",
    "the magnetic field is very strong , and the relativistic charged plasma particles are forced to move along the curved magnetic field lines .",
    "here the well known two - stream plasma instability naturally generates langmuir plasma waves .",
    "if the plasma is subjected to a non - stationary flow , then it leads to the modulational instability of langmuir waves which results in formation of relativistic charged solitons capable of emitting coherent curvature radiation  @xcite .",
    "the off- pulse emission on the other hand lies in the region outside the main pulse , and currently we are not certain about its exact location . for the emission to originate from open field lines , the location needs to be above the main pulse in regions where the open dipolar magnetic field lines diverge . as the pulsar rotates , this divergent region above the main pulse is sampled by the observer as the off - pulse emission .",
    "the other well known maser type plasma instability that can give rise to the coherent emission are the cyclotron cherenkov or cherenkov drift instability  @xcite .",
    "the instabilities are due to the interaction of the fast particles of the primary beam with the normal modes of the electron - positron plasma .",
    "these instabilities are known to operate close to the light cylinder and could be a viable source of off - pulse emission",
    ".    there might be other possible origin of the off - pulse emission which we will need to evaluate and understand in the future , however it is clear that this newly found off - pulse emission from low energetic slowly rotating neutron stars provide important clues in understanding the physical phenomenon operating in the pulsar magnetosphere .",
    "we would like to thank jayanta roy for developing the 128 millisecond interferometric mode of the gmrt software backend(gsb ) which were used as a part of these observations .",
    "we would also like to thank navnath shinde , sweta gupta , ajay vishwakarm , ajit kumar and other members of the gmrt engineering team for developing the pulsed noise source used in our studies .",
    "we thank the staff of the gmrt that made these observations possible .",
    "gmrt is run by the national centre for radio astrophysics of the tata institute of fundamental research .",
    "basu , r. , athreya , r. , mitra d. 2011 , , 728 , 157 blaskiewicz , m. ; cordes , j.m . ; wasserman , i. 1991 , , 370 , 643 frail , d.a . ,",
    "scharringhausen , b.r .",
    "1997 , , 480 , 364 gaensler , b.m . ; slane , p.o .",
    "2006 , , 44 , 17 goldreich , p. , julian , w. h. 1969 , , 157 , 869 gil , j. ; lyubarsky , y. ; melikidze , g.i .",
    "2004 , , 600 , 872 kazbegi , a.z . ;",
    "machabeli , g.z . ; melikidze , g.i .",
    "1987 , aujph , 40 , 755 kazbegi , a.z . ;",
    "machabeli , g.z . ; melikidze , g.i .",
    "1991 , , 253 , 377 kijak , j. ; gil , j. 1998 , , 299 , 855 kothes , r. ; landecker , t.l . ;",
    "reich , w. ; safi - harb , s. ; arzoumanian , z. 2008 , , 687 , 516 krzeszowski , k. ; mitra , d. ; gupta , y. ; kijak , j. ; gil , j. ; acharyya , a. 2009 , , 393 , 1617 lorimer , d.r . , yates , j.a . ,",
    "lyne , a.g .",
    ", gould , d.m .",
    "1995 , , 273 , 411 maron , o. ; kijak , j. ; kramer , m. ; wielebinski , r. 2000 , , 147 , 195 melikidze , g.i . ;",
    "gil , j.a . ; pataraya , a.d . 2000 , , 544 , 1081 mitra , d. ; gil , j. ; melikidze , g.i .",
    "2009 , , 696 , 141 rankin , j.m .",
    "1993 , , 405 , 285 rathnasree , n. , rankin , j. m. 1995 , , 452 , 814 rickett , b.j .",
    "1990 , , 28 , 561 ruderman , m. a. , sutherland , p. g. 1975 , , 196 , 51 stinebring , d.r . , condon , j.j , 1990 , , 352 , 207 stinebring , d.r .",
    ", smirnova t.v . , hankins , t.h . ,",
    "hovis , j.s .",
    ", kaspi , v.m . , kempner , j.c .",
    ", myers e. , nice d.j .",
    "2000 , , 539 , 300 thomson , a.r . , moran , j.m . , swenson g.w .",
    "1986 , interferometry and synthesis in radio astronomy ( wiley interscience , new york ) .",
    "weiler , k.w . ; sramek , r.a . , 1988 , , 26 , 295"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in basu et al . 2011 we reported the detection of off - pulse emission from two long period pulsars b0525 + 21 and b204516 . </S>",
    "<S> the pulsars were observed at a single epoch using the 325 mhz frequency band of the giant meterwave radio telescope ( gmrt ) . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we report a detailed study of the off - pulse emission from these two pulsars using multiple observations at two different frequencies , 325 mhz and 610 mhz bands of gmrt . </S>",
    "<S> we report detection of off - pulse emission during each observation and based on the scintillation effects and spectral index of off - pulse emission we conclude a magnetospheric origin </S>",
    "<S> . the magnetospheric origin of off - pulse emission gives rise to various interesting possibilities about its emission mechanism and raises questions about the structure of the magnetosphere . </S>"
  ]
}