{
  "article_text": [
    "low frequency quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) are commonly observed in the x - ray flux of both neutron star and black hole binaries ( nsbs and bhbs respectively ; collectively x - ray binaries xrbs ) .",
    "they are most clearly observed as strong , coherent features in the power spectral density ( psd ) which are lorentzian in shape and so can be described by amplitude ( i.e. fractional rms variability ) , centroid frequency ( @xmath0 ) and width ( @xmath1 ) .",
    "these properties are observed to be tightly correlated with the spectral properties of the source which vary dramatically as the source rises from quiescence to outburst before falling once more into quiescence ( see e.g. van der klis 2006 ; belloni 2010 ) .",
    "the physical processes behind this spectral evolution are comparatively well understood . the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) consists of three main components : a quasi - thermal disc , a power law ( with high and low energy cut - offs ) and a reflection spectrum . when the source flux is low ( low / hard state ) , the power law is hard ( photon index @xmath2 ) and dominates the sed . as the source flux increases , the power law softens and weakens while the disc and reflection spectra increase in luminosity ( intermediate state ) .",
    "eventually at the peak of the outburst , the disc completely dominates ( high / soft state ) , although sometimes there is also a strong high energy tail ( very high state ) .",
    "the disc spectrum is well explained by a standard thin disc ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) and the power law can be reproduced by compton up - scattering of disc photons by hot electrons in an optically thin corona .",
    "a fraction of the luminosity emitted from the corona will then reflect off the disc to give a reflection spectrum with the most obvious features being a strong iron k@xmath3 line and a @xmath4 kev hump ( see e.g. fabian et al 2000 ) .",
    "the truncated disc model , in which the thin disc only extends down to some radius @xmath5 , can naturally explain the evolution of the sed ( esin et al 1997 ; done , gierlinski & kubota 2007 ) .",
    "interior to @xmath5 is a large scale height , optically thin accretion flow ( hereafter , the flow ) which acts as the comptonising corona . as the source flux increases , the truncation radius moves inwards , thus increasing the flux of disc photons incident on the flow and softening the power law emission while simultaneously decreasing all characteristic timescales associated with @xmath5 . in this picture ,",
    "@xmath5 moves from @xmath6 ( in units of @xmath7 ) during the rise to outburst and back out again during the fall back to quiescence .",
    "qpos are observed in the psd during both the rise and the fall . during the rise ,",
    "the psd displays a qpo ( with harmonics ) superimposed on a broad band noise of variability .",
    "the broad band noise can be roughly characterised by two zero - centred lorentzians with widths @xmath8 and @xmath9 ( e.g. belloni , psaltis & van der klis 2002 ) .",
    "the qpo frequency moves from @xmath10 hz as the source flux increases and is correlated with rises in both @xmath8 and @xmath9 ( wijnands & van der klis 1999 ; psaltis , belloni & van der klis 1999 ) . for bhbs ,",
    "this is commonly classified as the type - c qpo .",
    "eventually the broad band noise disappears and the psd is dominated by a type - b qpo which has @xmath11 hz . before the source completely transitions into the high / soft state , type - a qpos are observed which are much broader and weaker features , typically centred at @xmath12 hz . during the fall , the same is observed in reverse ( see casella , belloni & stella 2005 for more details of the a , b , c classification system and belloni 2010 for a review of hysteresis behaviour ) . because these three types of qpo are not observed simultaneously ( even though the transition between type - a and type - b qpos can be very rapid ) and they occupy a similar frequency range , it is possible that they are driven by three different variants of the same underlying physical process .    nsbs display a similar phenomenology of qpo types and spectral transitions ( although the nomenclature is very different ; see e.g. van der klis 2005 for details ) .",
    "there is very strong evidence that the qpos in both classes of object are produced by the same process .",
    "the correlations between @xmath0 , @xmath8 and @xmath9 hold , with the same gradient , for both nsbs and bhbs ( wijnands & van der klis 1999 ; klein - wolt & van der klis 2008 ) with the only difference in frequency being entirely consistent with mass scaling ( ingram & done 2011 ) .",
    "the physical process responsible for driving the qpo remains poorly understood .",
    "there are many qpo mechanisms suggested in the literature ( e.g. fragile , mathews & wilson 2001 ; wagoner et al 2001 ; titarchuk & oscherovich 1999 ; cabanac et al 2010 ; tagger & pellat 1999 ; oneill et al 2011 ; kato 2008 ; wang et al 2012 ) .",
    "however , such a rich phenomenology means that these models are rarely able to explain all of the known qpo properties simultaneously . in ingram ,",
    "done & fragile ( 2009 ) , we suggested perhaps the most promising qpo model to date .",
    "based on the model of stella & vietri ( 1998 ) , we considered the qpo to result from lense - thirring precession .",
    "this is a relativistic effect which occurs because a spinning compact object drags spacetime as it rotates .",
    "the orbit of a particle which is outside the plane of black hole spin will therefore undergo precession because the starting point of the orbit rotates around the compact object .",
    "stella & vietri ( 1998 ) and stella , vietri & morsink ( 1999 ) showed that the lense - thirring precession frequency of a test mass at the truncation radius is broadly consistent with the qpo frequency .",
    "schnittman ( 2005 ) and schnittman , homan & miller ( 2006 ) developed this into a fully relativistic description of a misaligned ring , showing that its direct emission and iron line signature should be modulated on the precession frequency , which could be somewhat higher than observed . however , the real problem with these models is that the energy spectrum of the qpo is dominated by the comptonised emission ( sobolewska & zycki 2006 ; rodriguez et al 2004 ) , requiring that the qpo mechanism predominantly modulates the hot flow rather than the disc ( although the variability could be produced elsewhere before propagating into the flow ; wilkinson 2011 ) .",
    "we consider instead a global precession of the entire hot flow , which naturally explains the qpo spectrum .",
    "such global precession has been seen in recent numerical simulations ( fragile et al 2007 , fragile 2009 ) .",
    "we show in ingram , done & fragile ( 2009 ) that the predicted frequency range is completely consistent with the type - c qpo in bhbs and also in nsbs ( ingram & done 2010 ) .",
    "there are other more subtle properties that are naturally predicted by the precessing flow model .",
    "heil , vaughan & uttley ( 2011 ) show that the qpo frequency is linearly related to the source flux on short timescales ( @xmath13s ) .",
    "we show in ingram & done ( 2011 ) that propagating fluctuations in mass accretion rate which give rise to the broad band noise ( e.g. lybarskii 1997 ; arevalo & uttley 2006 ) will affect the moment of inertia of the flow leading the precession frequency to fluctuate .",
    "the linear relation with flux then occurs because both the flux _ and _ the precession frequency depend on mass accretion rate .",
    "although it is very encouraging that this property is predicted by the model , we still do not have unambiguous proof that the flow precesses - a qpo produced from any mode of the hot flow will also couple to fluctuations propagating through the hot flow , and should give an @xmath0-flux relation .",
    "the interpretation of the qpo as vertical precession requires a truncated disc as otherwise the flow could not cross the equatorial plane . the issue of whether or not the disc truncates is still somewhat controversial .",
    "the line clearly depends on the spectral state , with a very small narrow line seen in the dimmest low / hard states ( e.g. tomsick et al 2009 ) , and a very broad line when the source is very close to the transition to the soft state ( e.g. hiemstra et al 2011 ; a hard intermediate state just after the transition from the soft state ) .",
    "however , in the brighter low / hard states , nowak et al ( 2011 ) show that the broad iron line in cyg x-1 can be variously interpreted as implying a disc anywhere from @xmath14 ( for their obs 4 ) depending whether the continuum is thermal comptonisation , non - thermal comptonisation , multiple compton components or includes a jet contribution .",
    "fabian et al ( 2012 ) show another deconvolution of a similarly shaped spectrum from cyg x-1 , where the spectrum below 10  kev is dominated by highly ionised , highly smeared reflection , with a very small inner radius of @xmath15 and a very steep emissivity profile ( a.k.a .",
    "the lightbending model ) .",
    "we note that this lightbending geometry is inconsistent with the independent requirement on the un - truncated disc geometry that the source is beamed away from the disc in order to produce an intrinsically hard spectrum ( malzac , beloborodov & poutanen 2001 ) .",
    "the issue is clearly still very controversial , though we note that the rapid spectral variability can only currently be explained with an inhomogeneous comptonisation continuum model ( kotov et al 2001 ; arevalo & uttley 2006 ) , where the line profile is consistent with a truncated disc ( makishima et al 2008 ) .",
    "here we simply assume the truncated disc geometry , and use this to propose a distinctive test of a _ vertical precession _",
    "origin of the qpo . as a tilted flow precesses , the illumination pattern on the disc rotates .",
    "the resulting iron line is boosted and blue shifted at a time when the flow illuminates the approaching side of the disc , and red shifted when the flow illuminates the receding side of the disc . since this periodic rocking of the iron line is a requirement of the lense - thirring qpo model , this also offers a potentially unambiguous test of disc truncation .",
    "our geometry differs from the schnittman et al ( 2006 ) model , where a precessing inner disc ring producing the iron line and continuum .",
    "instead , we have a hot inner flow replacing the inner disc to produce the continuum , and precession of the entire hot flow produces a rotating illumination pattern which excites the iron line from the outer thin disc .    the paper is ordered as follows . in section [ sec : geometry ] , we define the accretion geometry assumed for the model . in section [ sec :",
    "model ] , we will calculate the implications of our assumed geometry on a very simple toy spectral model . in section",
    "[ sec : spec ] , we will take this further by introducing a reasonable spectral model before analysing the likelihood of observing this effect in section [ sec : obs ] .",
    "in this section , we outline the geometry used for our qpo model .",
    "we assume that the spin axis of the compact object is misaligned with that of the binary system as may be expected from supernova kicks ( fragos et al 2010 ) .",
    "due to frame dragging , the orbit of an accreting particle from the binary partner will precess around the spin axis of the compact object .",
    "the effect of frame dragging on an entire accretion flow depends on the dynamics of the flow .",
    "a thin accretion disc being fed by a binary partner out of the spin plane of the compact object will form a bardeen petterson configuration ( bardeen & petterson 1975 ) where the outer regions align with the binary partner and the inner regions align with the spin of the compact object , with a transition between the two regimes at @xmath16 .",
    "the value of @xmath16 is not well known , with analytical estimates ranging from @xmath17 ( see e.g. bardeen & petterson 1975 ; papaloizou & pringle 1983 ; fragile , mathews & wilson 2001 ) . in the thin disc regime ,",
    "warps caused by the misaligned black hole propagate in a viscous manner .",
    "this means that the time scale on which a warp is communicated is much longer than the precession period and therefore a steady configuration forms .",
    "in contrast , warps in a large scale height accretion flow are communicated by bending waves ( see e.g. lubow , ogilvie & pringle 2002 ; fragile et al 2007 ) which propagate on approximately the sound crossing timescale which is _ shorter _ than the precession period .",
    "for this reason , the hot flow can precess as a solid body with the precession period given by a surface density weighted average of the point particle precession period at each radius ( liu & melia 2002 ) , while a cool disc forms a stable warped configuration .",
    "this solid body precession of a hot flow has been seen explicitally in recent numerical simulations ( fragile et al 2007 ) for the special case of a large scale height flow which we consider here .",
    "the key aspect is that the flow angular momentum has to be misaligned with the black hole spin .",
    "yet the outer thin disc will warp into alignment with the black hole at @xmath16 .",
    "since this radius is poorly known , there are two possible scenarios .",
    "firstly @xmath16 may be small enough for the outer thin disc to still be aligned with the binary partner at the truncation radius . in this case",
    ", the hot flow is misaligned with the black hole spin by the intrinsic misalignment of the binary system which will naturally lead to solid body precession of the entire flow .",
    "secondly , if @xmath16 is large , the disc and hence hot flow are intrinsically aligned with the black hole spin .",
    "however , precession may be possible .",
    "the flow has a large scale height , so is sub - keplarian . at the truncation radius it overlaps with the keplarian disc ,",
    "so this overlap layer is probably kelvin - helmholtz unstable , producing turbulence .",
    "clumps forming from random density fluctuations in regions high above the midplane could temporarily mis - align the flow leading to intermittent precession .",
    "this predicted intermitency has the advantage of naturally explaining the observed random jumps in qpo phase ( miller & homan 2005 ; lachowicz & done 2010 ) .",
    "here we assume the first geometry i.e. assume that @xmath16 is very small .",
    "however , the effect of rotating illumination on the iron line is qualitatively the same in the second geometry , differing only in the details . in the next section ,",
    "we outline the geometry used .",
    "we work under the assumption that the central object is a black hole , but the geometry is valid for neutron stars also .      the geometry we consider for the two component accretion flow is illustrated in figure [ fig : schem ] .",
    "we assume that the disc has angular momentum vector set by the binary system , @xmath18 , and that this is misaligned with the spin axis of the black hole ( the z - axis ) by an angle @xmath19 . the flow angular momentum vector , @xmath20 , precesses around the z - axis with phase given by the precession angle , @xmath21 .",
    "the plane of the disc is the plane orthogonal to @xmath18 , while the plane of the flow is orthogonal to @xmath20 . in this coordinate system",
    ", the binary partner will orbit in the ` disc ' plane .",
    "the observer s position is described by an inclination angle , @xmath22 , and a viewer azimuth , @xmath23 , which can take the range of values @xmath24 and @xmath25 . here , @xmath22 is defined with respect to the binary ( i.e. the disc ) angular momentum vector and @xmath23 is defined with respect to the x - axis .",
    "the flow then precesses around a circle centred on the black hole spin axis , from being aligned with the disc when @xmath26 , to being misaligned by angle @xmath27 with respect to the disc when @xmath28 .",
    "we can define a vector @xmath29 which points from the black hole to any point on the disc plane .",
    "if the top of the flow is its brightest part , the region of the disc most strongly illuminated by the flow for a given @xmath21 is where the angle between @xmath29 and @xmath20 is smallest .",
    "the smallest this angle can ever be is for @xmath30 when @xmath28 ; i.e. this is the most that the flow angular momentum vector ever aligns with any azimuth of the disc plane .",
    "@xmath31 therefore defines the azimuth of the disc which sees the maximum illumination from the flow .",
    "material in the disc is spinning rapidly and , because precession is prograde , this orbital motion is anti - clockwise for our geometry .",
    "the viewer azimuth @xmath23 therefore specifies the direction with respect to the viewer in which disc material in the maximally illuminated region ( i.e. on the @xmath31 axis ) is moving . for @xmath32 ,",
    "the receding part of the disc is most strongly illuminated as the flow precesses . instead ,",
    "for @xmath33 the maximum illumination is on the patch directly in front of the black hole . for @xmath34",
    "the maximum illumination is on the approaching side of the disc , while for @xmath35 it it for the patch directly behind the black hole .",
    "we assume that the disc is razor thin and flat ( i.e. no flaring ) .",
    "the mathematical definitions for the geometry we use are outlined in appendix [ sec : geomcalc ] .",
    "= 7.5 cm    = 7.5 cm      unlike the disc , the flow has volume and scale height , so we must make some assumptions about its shape .",
    "we assume that it is a crushed sphere ; i.e. viewed from above it is circular but it has an elliptical cross section as illustrated in figure [ fig : ellipse ] .",
    "the semi - major axis of the ellipse is @xmath5 and the semi - minor axis is @xmath36 . we choose to parametrise this by defining a scaleheight , @xmath37 , such that @xmath38 .",
    "figure [ fig : ellipse ] also shows that we set an inner radius , @xmath39 , such that the core of the quasi - spherical flow is missing .",
    "this is to incorporate a flavour of the numerical simulations which show that shocks ( at the bending wave radius ) can truncate the inner region of the hot flow ( fragile et al 2007 ) .",
    "any point on the flow surface is then a distance @xmath40 away from the black hole , where @xmath40 is a function of the angle @xmath41 .",
    "we assume that each radius of the surface radiates the gravitational potential energy released at that radius ( i.e. we use a surface rather than a volume emissivity ) .",
    "this gives a simple analytic model where the central parts of the flow ( outside of @xmath39 ) are brighter than the outer parts , but that these bright regions are near the poles which gives a reasonable reflection fraction , @xmath42 while also giving a reasonable precession frequency ( set by @xmath39 , @xmath5 , @xmath43 , the surface density profile which we assume to be constant , and @xmath44 , where @xmath44 is the dimensionless spin parameter : equation 1 in ingram , done & fragile 2009 ) .",
    "note that , eventhough this is a simplified prescription , the most influential aspect of the flow geometry is where the brightest region lies . in nearly all imaginable geometries ,",
    "this point lies at the pole of the flow ( as it does for our geometry ) .",
    "thus our mathematically convenient assumptions for flow geometry should provide us with results not materially different from a far more difficult calculation assuming a geometry identical to the fragile et al ( 2007 ) simulation .",
    "more details of the flow geometry are presented in appendix [ sec : geomcalc ] .    fundamentally , the precession frequency modulates the continuum as the pole moves in and out of sight .",
    "the qpo maximum occurs when the pole faces the observer and the minimum when it faces away .",
    "thus the region of the disc preferentially illuminated is in front of the black hole ( from the point of view of the observer ) at the qpo maximum and behind for a qpo minimum .",
    "because precession is prograde , this means that the flow illuminates the approaching disc material during the rise to a qpo maximum ( because the pole has to first move towards us in order to face us ) and the receding material on the fall to a qpo minimum .",
    "below we calculate the self - consistent illumination pattern for the disc as a function of qpo phase for our assumed geometry .",
    "@xmath45    @xmath46    @xmath47    each flow surface element will radiate a luminosity @xmath48 over a semi - sphere ( because the element radiates _ away _ from the black hole ) .",
    "a disc surface element with area @xmath49 will intercept some fraction of this luminosity .",
    "this fraction can be calculated self - consistently from the projected area of the disc element .",
    "the disc element will not intercept any of the luminosity from the flow element if it makes an angle greater than @xmath50 with a vector which is orthogonal to the flow element and points away from the black hole ( i.e. if it is not in the unit semi - sphere of the flow element ) .",
    "also , as observers with @xmath51 , we only observe reflected photons which are intercepted by the _",
    "top _ of the disc .",
    "the total incident luminosity on the disc surface element is calculated by integrating over the surface of the entire flow .",
    "we do this calculation for every disc surface element over a full range of precession angles ( @xmath52 ) in order to build a picture of disc irradiation as a function of precession angle ( and therefore time ) .",
    "the details of this calculation are presented in appendix [ sec : disccalc ] . for simplicity",
    ", we use a euclidean metric i.e. assume that light travels in straight lines .",
    "this should be a fairly reasonable approximation because we assume a fairly large value of @xmath39 throughout the paper ( following dexter & fragile 2011 ; ingram & done 2012 ; fragile 2009 ) and so lightbending is not very significant ( e.g. fabian et al 1989 ) .    throughout the paper",
    ", we will use the values @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 ( we discuss our reasoning for these fiducial values in section [ sec : continuum ] ) .",
    "figure [ fig : discpic ] shows the resulting illumination pattern with @xmath56 , with snapshots taken at five different values of precession angle @xmath21 for an inclination angle of @xmath57 .",
    "the left hand plot shows the pattern as seen by an observer at @xmath58 , whereas the right hand plot shows this for @xmath59 .",
    "the luminosity is grouped into bins of equal logarithmic size with black , red , green , blue , cyan , magenta , yellow and orange representing the dimmest to brightest bins respectively .",
    "the flow is shown in grey with black gridlines included for clarity . in the top picture of each plot",
    ", we also include a straight black line to illustrate the orientation of the black hole spin axis .",
    "this is misaligned with @xmath60 by @xmath54 but , as figure [ fig : discpic ] demonstrates , the apparent misalignment between these two vectors depends on the viewing position .",
    "we clearly see the flow precess , with the pole of the flow moving in a circle around the black hole spin axis .",
    "as it does , the brightest part of the disc is always the region closest to the pole of the flow meaning that it _ rotates _ around the disc . because of our asymmetric geometry , the flow starts off aligned with the disc , is misaligned by @xmath27 when @xmath28 before aligning again for @xmath61 . for @xmath32 ,",
    "the maximum misalignment ( giving the maximum illumination of the disc ) is on the right hand ( receding ) side of the disc , while for @xmath62 it is directly in front of the black hole , but in both cases the illumination pattern rotates . in the next section",
    ", we will discuss how this will affect the observed iron k@xmath3 line .",
    "when the flow emission irradiates the disc , bound atoms in the disc will fluoresce to produce emission lines , the most prominent being the iron k@xmath3 line at @xmath63 kev ( george & fabian 1991 ; matt , perola & piro 1991 ) . however , this line is in the rest frame of the disc which is rotating rapidly meaning that a non face - on observer will see some regions of the disc moving towards them and others receding .",
    "doppler shifts mean that emission from the approaching side is blue shifted while that on the receding side is red shifted .",
    "also , length contraction along the line of motion beams the emission in that direction .",
    "thus the blue shifted emission from the approaching side is also boosted in comparison to the red shifted emission , leading to a broadened and skewed iron line .",
    "an additional energy shift is provided by time dilation and also gravitational redshift which combine to broaden the line even further ( fabian et al 1989 ; 2000 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : discpic ] clearly shows that , according to this model , the disc irradiation pattern _ rotates _ around the disc meaning that sometimes the brightest region of the disc is receding ( e.g. the @xmath58 , @xmath64 scenario in figure [ fig : discpic ] ) , and sometimes the brightest region is approaching ( e.g. the @xmath59 , @xmath65 scenario in figure [ fig : discpic ] ) .",
    "therefore , as the flow precesses , the iron line will periodically rock between red and blue shift . in this example , the material in the disc and the irradiation pattern are both rotating anti - clockwise . in general",
    ", they they could both be moving clockwise but the resulting pattern is the same ( maximum blueshift , qpo maximum , maximum redshift , qpo minimum ) .",
    "lense - thirring precession is prograde , so the disc and flow will never be rotating in opposite directions , making this periodic shifting of the iron line profile a unique prediction of the model .",
    "we use the illumination pattern on each surface element of the disc to set the amount of intrinsic iron line emission .",
    "we assume that this is a @xmath66function at @xmath67kev and then use the radius and azimuth of the surface element of the disc and the inclination of the observer to calculate the shifted line emission ( see appendix ) .",
    "figure [ fig : delta ] shows the iron line profile at five snapshots of time with black , red , green , blue and cyan lines corresponding to @xmath26 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 , @xmath70 and @xmath71 respectively .",
    "we use the same parameters as for figure [ fig : discpic ] .",
    "the details of this calculation are presented in appendix [ sec : ironcalc ] . for simplicity",
    ", we do not include light bending but this should not be a large effect for the comparatively large radii we consider .",
    "the left hand plot is for @xmath58 , @xmath56 ( i.e. corresponding to the left plot of figure [ fig : discpic ] ) and we see that the iron line does indeed rock between red and blue shift as the illumination pattern rotates .",
    "note that , for these parameters , the 2nd and 5th snapshots have an identical iron line profile , as do the 3rd and 4th snapshots .",
    "the right hand plot is for @xmath59 , @xmath56 ( i.e. corresponding to the right hand plot in figure [ fig : discpic ] ) .",
    "we see that the periodic rocking has a different phase and the peak flux of the blue wing is much larger .",
    "this is because , for the @xmath58 case , the approaching side of the disc is never the brightest part , whereas this does happen for the @xmath59 case .",
    "this movement of the iron line is obviously a very distinctive model prediction and so could provide a detectable , unambiguous signature of a vertically tilted , prograde precessing flow i.e. a clean test of a lense - thirring origin of the qpo .",
    "figure [ fig : delta2 ] shows the same thing but now @xmath72 .",
    "we see that doppler ( and relativistic ) boosting of the blue wing is now such a large effect that the red wing never dominates even when the flow is preferentially illuminating the receding material . as such",
    ", the motion of the iron line is different .",
    "crucially , although the exact shape of the iron line depends on the illumination pattern and thus the details of the assumed flow geometry , this dependence on truncation radius is really quite robust to changes in flow geometry .",
    "the differences between figures [ fig : delta ] and [ fig : delta2 ] are driven primarily by the difference in disc angular velocity ( i.e. the position of the truncation radius ) and not the details of the modelling .",
    "thus this effect could provide a robust diagnostic for the accretion flow geometry .      as the flow precesses , the luminosity seen by",
    "the observer will change periodically giving rise to a strong qpo ( with the quasi - periodicity provided by frequency jitter among other processes ; ingram & done 2012 ; heil , vaughan & uttley 2011 ; lachowicz & done 2010 ) .",
    "this is because the total surface area of the flow viewed by the observer changes and , also , some regions of the flow are brighter than others meaning that a trough in the light curve would typically occur when the brightest regions of the flow ( i.e. the poles ) are hidden .",
    "the calculation for this process is similar to that performed in section [ sec : discirr ] .",
    "each flow surface element emits a luminosity @xmath48 .",
    "the observer at @xmath22 , @xmath23 will see no luminosity from this surface element if they are not within the unit semi - sphere of the element , and we also remove luminosity from lines of sight which are obstructed by the disc",
    ". we can then integrate over every flow element to calculate the observed luminosity as a function of precession angle .",
    "the blue lines in figure [ fig : ratio ] show the observed luminosity expressed as a fraction of the total luminosity , @xmath73 , plotted against precession angle .",
    "we use the fiducial parameters @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 and consider the @xmath56 example .",
    "the solid line is for @xmath58 and the dashed line represents @xmath59 .",
    "as expected , the observed luminosity varies with precession angle and the phase depends on @xmath23 .",
    "the fractional rms is @xmath74 and @xmath75 for @xmath58 and @xmath59 respectively .",
    "these values are lower than the observed qpo rms values of @xmath76",
    ". however , the predicted values would be higher if we were to consider that the flow is fed by disc photons , the flux of which incident on the flow will change periodically as the flow precesses .",
    "we ignore this process here because it will affect the direct and reflected emission equally and so will not contribute to the rocking iron line effect .    for the green line",
    ", we plot the total luminosity incident on the disc ( which determines the iron line / reflected flux ) as a function of precession angle . because the disc is flat",
    ", this does not depend on @xmath23 .",
    "this effectively tracks the misalignment between flow and disc with the minimum reflection occurring when the flow is aligned ( @xmath26 ) and the maximum when the flow is misaligned by @xmath27 ( @xmath28 ) .",
    "hence the direct and intercepted emission are generally out of phase .",
    "the black lines show the reflection fraction ( intercepted / direct ) with the solid and dashed lines representing @xmath32 and @xmath77 respectively .",
    "this corresponds to the solid angle of the disc , and the time averaged ratio for @xmath58 is @xmath78 , and with @xmath79 for the @xmath59 case .",
    "these values are fairly representative of those observed for the low / hard state ( e.g. gierlinski et al 1999 ; zycki , done & smith 1998 ; gilfanov 2010 ) .",
    "note that large value of @xmath37 gives a reasonable reflection fraction but under predicts the qpo rms .",
    "if we had considered , for example , an overlap region between disc and flow , disc flares or a small disc scale height , we could have achieved a reasonable reflection fraction _ and _ the correct qpo rms ( for this we would also need to consider the variation in disc seed photons ) for a far lower value of @xmath37 .",
    "however , these effects are all very difficult to model and our assumed geometry should not significantly affect the final results .",
    "thus we choose the fiducial parameter values to give reasonable results for a simplified geometry .",
    "we now use a full reflected spectrum rather than just a line , and recalculate the effect of the rotating disc illumination pattern and varying effective area of the flow for this more realistic scenario .",
    "we consider the same two values of truncation radius as those considered previously , @xmath56 and @xmath72 .",
    "these values correspond to precession frequencies of @xmath80 hz and @xmath81 hz for the fiducial parameters , a spin of @xmath82 and a mass of @xmath83 ( i.e. @xmath84 and @xmath85 @xmath86 hz ) .",
    "they also correspond to different spectral states , with @xmath56 giving rise to a low / hard state ( lhs ) spectrum and @xmath72 leading to a soft intermediate state ( sims ) spectrum .",
    "the qpo in the lhs spectrum will be of type - c whereas it will be of type - b for the sims spectrum .      for both the lhs and sims spectra ,",
    "we include quasi - thermal disc emission , comptonised flow emission and a reflection spectrum .",
    "we use xspecv12 ( arnaud 1996 ) throughout .",
    "we describe the disc with diskbb ( mitsuda et al 1984 ) , and for simplicity we assume that this spectrum is constant .",
    "this is not strictly true .",
    "figure [ fig : discpic ] shows that the inner disc is periodically obstructed by the flow , giving a small periodicity in the hottest part of the disc emission . also , the non - reflected photons which illuminate the disc will thermalise and add to the intrinsic disc emission , and this additional thermal emission will vary in intensity , being stronger when the flow is at its maximum misalignment angle to the disc , and weakest when the flow is aligned with the disc .",
    "this additional thermal emission is also periodically redshifted / blueshifted in the same way as the line .",
    "however , these effects should be small as they are diluted by the much larger constant flux from the disc .",
    "we will investigate this in a future paper , as evidence for this may have been observed ( wilkinson 2011 ) .",
    "however , here we are interested in the iron line region and so ignore this potential contribution to the qpo in the disc spectrum .",
    "for the flow we assume that every element emits the same spectrum , meaning that the periodicity is in the normalisation of the flow spectrum .",
    "we describe the spectrum by the comptonisation model nthcomp ( zdziarski , johnson & magdziarz 1996 ; zycki , done & smith 1999 ) which produces a power law spectrum with high and low energy cut - offs governed by the electron temperature and disc photon temperature ( @xmath87 tied to the disc temperature ) respectively .",
    "we fix the normalisation of this by the angle averaged flux from the flow ( @xmath73 ) , to set the flux from each surface element of the flow .",
    "we then use the method described in section [ sec : continuum ] to determine the modulation of the observed continuum , to calculate the factor by which to multiply the normalisation of nthcomp as a function of phase angle .",
    "we use the method described in section [ sec : delta ] to calculate the illuminating flux from the flow at each surface element in the disc , and use this to set the normalisation of the illuminating nthcomp model .",
    "we describe the shape of the resulting reflected emission by rfxconv ( ross & fabian 2005 ; done & gierlinski 2006 ; magdziarz & zdziarski 1995 ; kolehmainen , done & diaz trigo 2011 ) .",
    "this is similar in form to the ireflect model in xspec but replaces the very approximate ionisation balance incorporated in this model with the much better ross & fabian ( 2005 ) calculations .",
    "this outputs a partially ionised ( parametrised by @xmath88 ) reflection spectrum , including the self consistent emission lines , for a general illuminating spectrum .",
    "we fix the inclination angle of the reflector at @xmath22 and abundances at solar .",
    "we calculate the reflected emission from this illuminating flux assuming @xmath89 .",
    "this is an underestimate as rfxconv assumes that the disc is illuminated isotropically , whereas in our geometry the illumination is preferentially at grazing incidence .",
    "however , the amount of reflection is also set by the unknown details of the shape of the flow , so this approximation is good enough to demonstrate the general behaviour of the model .    the reflected emission from each surface element",
    "is shifted in energy depending on the radius and azimuth ( see appendix [ sec : ironcalc ] ) .",
    "we sum the reflected emission from all the disc elements to derive the total reflected emission for each phase .",
    "this gives the correct relative normalisation of the continuum and reflected flux , and how this changes as a function of precession phase angle @xmath21 for a given set of model ( @xmath5 , @xmath39 , @xmath19 , @xmath37 , @xmath22 , @xmath23 ) and spectral ( @xmath87 , @xmath90 , @xmath91 , @xmath92 ) parameters .",
    ".summary of the parameters used for both the lhs and sims spectral models .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<,<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xmath93    @xmath94    the parameters used for each state are shown in table [ tab : parameters ] .",
    "we assume that @xmath87 , @xmath90 and disc ionisation increase as the rise to outburst continues whereas @xmath92 decreases , as is commonly observed . the resultant time averaged lhs ( @xmath56 ) spectrum has a @xmath95 kev flux of @xmath96 crab and @xmath97 ( or iron line equivalent with of 150  ev when fit by a diskline profile rather than a full reflected spectrum ) . for the sims ( @xmath72 ) spectrum , the flux is @xmath98 crab and the reflection has @xmath99 ( iron line equivalent width of @xmath100 ev ) with a much steeper continuum .",
    "these values are typical of those observed in the relevant states for fairly bright bhbs ( e.g. grs1915 + 104 in its qpo state : ueda et al 2010 , and the intermediate state of gx339 - 4 ; tamura et al 2012 ) , justifying our choice of parameters .    figure [ fig : speclhs ] shows the lhs spectrum as viewed from a position with @xmath59 and @xmath57 at five different snapshots in time .",
    "we use the same convention as for figures [ fig : delta ] and [ fig : delta2 ] with black , red , green , blue and cyan representing @xmath26 , @xmath68 , @xmath69 , @xmath70 and @xmath71 respectively .",
    "the top plot shows the total spectrum ( upper solid lines ) and its components , the constant disc ( black dotted line just seen in the lower left hand corner of the plot ) , variable flow ( dotted continuum lines just underneath the total spectra - the symmetry means that the red dotted line is the same as the cyan , while the green is the same as the blue ) and reflected spectra ( lower solid lines ) .",
    "we clearly see the flow continuum oscillate while the reflection spectrum rocks between red and blue shift , as well as changing in normalisation .",
    "the reflection spectrum is in phase with the continuum in this example because @xmath59 ( see figure [ fig : ratio ] ) but , in general , there is a phase difference between the two components .",
    "the lower left plot zooms in on the iron line region in the total spectrum , while the lower right plot shows the changes in the reflected emission .",
    "we see that the reflected spectrum displays similar behaviour to the corresponding @xmath66function ( right hand plot of figure [ fig : delta ] ) .",
    "the rocking movement in the underlying reflection spectrum is still visible in the total spectrum , though somewhat diluted by the changing continuum level .",
    "figure [ fig : specsis ] shows the same thing but for the sims . as for the @xmath66function iron line profile in section [ sec : delta ] , we see that the major effect is now the strength and position of the blue wing rather than a rocking motion from blue to red due to the much stronger doppler and relativistic boosting in the inner disc .",
    "non theless , there is still a clear periodic shift in the line shape with qpo phase , although the pronounced rocking of the iron line peak energy predicted for the lhs provides more of a ` smoking gun ' for the lense - thirring model .",
    "in this section , we consider how this effect may be best observed .",
    "one potential method is to look at phase lags between different energy bands .",
    "we could define a red wing energy band ( say @xmath101kev ) and a blue wing energy band ( say @xmath102kev ) and look for a phase lag between the two .",
    "however , figures [ fig : speclhs ] and [ fig : specsis ] show that , due to dilution from the periodically varying continuum , the energy shifting of the iron line is very subtle in the total spectrum .",
    "this means that the phase lag between red and blue wings is very small ( @xmath103 ) for our model and , consequently may be difficult to observe . instead , we consider phase resolved spectroscopy .",
    "= 7.5 cm    @xmath104      the random phase jumps and varying period characteristic of qpo light curves make phase resolved spectroscopy difficult . naively folding the light curve on the qpo period",
    "is not appropriate .",
    "it is , however , possible to isolate the maximum and minimum phase bins of the qpo by averaging over the brightest and faintest points in the light curve .",
    "miller & homan ( 2005 ) did this for two grs 1915 + 105 light curves , both containing a strong type - c qpo .",
    "this allowed them to compare the spectra corresponding to the qpo peak and trough .",
    "this analysis can be taken a step further because a rise will always follow a trough and a fall will always follow a peak .",
    "this simple phase binning can therefore provide four phase bins as opposed to two .",
    "crucially , our model predicts that the maximum red shift _ always _ follows the qpo peak and the maximum blue shift _",
    "always _ follows the qpo trough .",
    "this is because the pole of the flow ( which is the brightest region ) faces us , then is moving away from us , then faces away from us , then is moving towards us ( before facing us again ) .",
    "therefore the flow illuminates the observer , then the receding ( red shift ) part of the disc , then the region hidden to the observer then the approaching ( blue shift ) part of the disc .",
    "figure [ fig : sel ] shows the 2 - 20kev light curve of our lhs model with @xmath59 and @xmath57 .",
    "we define a peak as the brightest @xmath105 of the light curve and a trough as the faintest @xmath105 .",
    "these thresholds are shown as dashed lines .",
    "we can therefore isolate the trough , the blue rise , the peak and the red fall .",
    "this flux selection means that the majority of the counts lie in the more interesting rise and fall sections as opposed to the peak and trough ( unlike the flux selection of miller & homan who were interested in the peak and trough spectra ) .",
    "figure [ fig : sub ] ( top ) shows the result of averaging spectra belonging to each of these four phase bins .",
    "the green line is the trough spectrum , the blue line is the rise spectrum , the black line is the peak spectrum and the red line is the fall spectrum .",
    "all are plotted as a ratio to a power law with photon index @xmath106 .",
    "we use this photon index rather than @xmath107 because the reflection hump makes the total spectrum harder than the underlying comptonisation .",
    "as expected , the rise spectrum contains the most heavily blue shifted iron line and the fall spectrum contains the most heavily red shifted iron line .",
    "because we tie the normalisation of the power law across the four spectra , we can see that the peak spectrum has the highest flux , the trough spectrum has the lowest and the rise and fall have comparable flux .    in the bottom plot of figure [ fig : sub ] , we plot the red fall spectrum subtracted from the blue rise spectrum .",
    "we use the absolute spectrum in units of energy @xmath108 flux rather than a ratio to a power law .",
    "the solid line is for the example shown in the top plot where @xmath56 and the dotted line is for @xmath72 . when @xmath56 , the red wing of the iron line dominates during the fall meaning that the solid line in the bottom plot dips below zero for @xmath109 . during the fall , the blue wing dominates which gives rise to the hump in the @xmath110 region .",
    "due to doppler ( and relativistic ) boosting , the blue hump is larger than the red dip . when @xmath72 , the inner regions of the disc are moving much faster than the @xmath56 case and therefore boosting is a much more significant effect .",
    "so much so , in fact , that the red wing of the iron line never dominates over the blue wing , even during the fall .",
    "the dotted line in the bottom plot therefore contains no red dip but only a blue hump .",
    "the peak of the blue hump is lower for @xmath72 than for @xmath56 but the area under the line is greater .",
    "this is because the iron line is more heavily smeared in the @xmath72 case , again due to faster orbital motion closer to the black hole .",
    "for both the lhs and the sims , the difference in iron line profile between the qpo rise and the qpo fall is significant , offering the possibility of direct observation for a range of spectral states .",
    "note that this association of the rise with the bluest profile and the fall with the redest profile is robust as long as we are confident that the top ( pole ) of the flow is brighter than the sides .",
    "because type - b qpos provide a far cleaner signal than type - c qpos , which are always coincident with broad band variability , it will be easier to observe this effect for a source in the sims .",
    "however , the qpo phase dependence of the iron line is particularly distinctive for the lhs model . an enhanced blue wing on the qpo rise , as predicted for the sims model ,",
    "may feasibly be produced by some other process .",
    "a dominant red wing on the qpo fall and an enhanced blue wing on the rise , as predicted for the lhs model , can only realistically be produced by precession and a large truncation radius . moreover , an observation showing that the difference spectrum _",
    "changes _ between states as we predict ( i.e. the bottom plot of figure [ fig : sub ] ) would surely provide excellent evidence , not only of the precession model , but also that the truncation radius moves between the lhs and the sims . in the next section ,",
    "we assess the likelihood of achieving such observational confirmation .",
    "@xmath111    we test the feasibility of observation directly by simulating phase resolved spectra using the ftool fakeit .",
    "this adds poisson noise to a model before subtracting a representative background and deconvolving around a given response matrix .",
    "we simulate lhs spectra for 50 phase bins evenly spaced in precession phase angle , @xmath21 .",
    "we assume 100s exposure for each phase bin .",
    "this corresponds to 50 @xmath108 100s = 5ks of good time .",
    "we sort the simulated data into four phase bins just as we did with the model . for the simulated data ,",
    "there is just one qpo cycle with a long exposure but , for observational data there will be many short exposure qpo cycles to average over .",
    "as long as any fluctuations in the accretion geometry over this time are varying around an average value , the two processes should be equivalent to a good approximation .",
    "the top left plot in figure [ fig : ladandpca ] shows the result of simulating the response of the rossi x - ray timing explorer ( _ rxte _ ) proportional counter array ( pca ; top layer , detector 2 ) .",
    "we unfold the spectrum around a flat power law and , as for the model , take the ratio to a power law with photon index @xmath106 .",
    "we use the same model as that shown in the top plot of figure [ fig : sub ] ; i.e. @xmath56 , @xmath59 , @xmath57 . again",
    ", the green points are the trough , the blue points are the rise , the black points are the peak and the red points are the fall . although a shift in line energy is visible between the rise and fall spectra , it is unlikely to be statistically significant due to a high noise level and low spectral resolution .",
    "the two observations of grs 1915 + 105 studied by miller & homan ( 2005 ) were both observed with _ rxte _ and , as such , the data were of a comparable quality to our simulation .",
    "they fit the qpo peak and trough spectra with a simple continuum model plus a gaussian function for the iron line .",
    "when allowed to be free in the fits , the centroid energy of the gaussian was higher for the trough spectrum than for the peak spectrum in both observations .",
    "however , they were also able to achieve statistically acceptable results by fixing the centroid energy to the value measured for the total spectrum . therefore , although there is some evidence that the line energy shifts , it is by no means statistically significant",
    ". it should be possible to achieve a slightly more significant result with _",
    "data by comparing the rise and fall phases rather than the peak and trough , but this is always marginal in practice due to the limited energy resolution of _ rxte _ fast timing modes .    the top right plot of figure [ fig : ladandpca ] shows the same thing but for the _ xmm newton _",
    "european photon imaging pn camera ( epic - pn ) .",
    "the poisson noise level seems to be marginally worse compared with the simulated pca data .",
    "although the spectral resolution of the epic - pn is far better than that of the pca , its effective area is less ( @xmath112 0.05m@xmath113 compared with @xmath112 0.12m@xmath113 ) meaning that we require a very heavy re - binning to get a reasonable signal to noise .",
    "therefore , it may prove difficult to observe this effect using either _ rxte _ or _ xmm newton_. however , the number of counts in the rise and fall phase bins could be maximised by halving the peak and trough phase bins and adding them to either the rise or the fall ( i.e. the first half of the peak phase becomes part of the rise and the second half becomes part of the fall ) .",
    "a longer exposure is required to reduce the counting errors . in the bottom right hand panel of figure [ fig : ladandpca ]",
    ", we plot the result of assuming a 100ks exposure for the epic - pn .",
    "encouragingly , we see that the dominant red wing in the falling phase is indeed resolved .",
    "however , over such a long exposure time , parameters such as @xmath5 may have systematically moved and so care must be taken to take this into consideration .",
    "the size of the effect is also dependent on our assumptions",
    ". a smaller flow scaleheight would increase the size of this effect because the flux emitted from the poles of the flow would be an even greater fraction of the flux emitted from the entire flow .",
    "frame dragging could therefore have a larger effect on the iron line than we predict here making it easier to observe with current instruments than our simulations imply .",
    "however , it also must be noted that the continuum will be more complicated than we assume here with some qpo phase dependent spectral pivoting resulting from a variation in the flux of disc photons incident on the flow .",
    "this will make observation harder .",
    "the bottom left hand plot of figure [ fig : ladandpca ] shows the potential impact of the proposed mission _ loft _ ( the large observatory for x - ray timing ) .",
    "we use the ` required ' response of the large area detector ( lad ) , which is the principle instrument of the mission . because the lad has an exceptionally large effective area ( 10 - 12m@xmath113 ) , the results are far clearer than those provided by current missions .",
    "in fact , the noise level is so low with _ loft _ , it would be possible to constrain spectra for far more than four phase bins",
    ". we could also constrain these spectra for less than 5ks good time , meaning that we could conduct detailed studies of the evolution of the phase resolved spectra .      since we calculate 50 spectra for both the lhs and sims models ,",
    "it is simple to calculate the rms spectrum of the qpo .",
    "this is simply the standard deviation of each energy channel in absolute units ( i.e. not divided through by the average ) .",
    "figure [ fig : rms ] shows this for the lhs model ( top ) and the sims model ( bottom ) with the mean spectrum plotted in black and the qpo spectrum plotted in red . since the qpo spectrum is fairly sensitive to model assumptions , it provides a good way to constrain model parameters against observation . for the models we use here ,",
    "the misalignment angle @xmath19 is large and thus we see reflection features in the lhs qpo spectrum as the amount of reflection changes with qpo phase .",
    "by contrast , in the sims , the extent of the flow is so small ( @xmath53 and @xmath72 ) that even this large misalignment angle does not give rise to significant variability in the total reflection fraction .",
    "previous rms spectral analysis of the qpo have not looked at this in detail ( e.g. sobolewska & zycki 2006 ) .",
    "we plan to address this issue in a future work ( axelsson et al in preparation ) .",
    "the truncated disc / precessing inner flow model for the spectral timing properties of xrbs predicts a qpo phase dependence of the iron line profile .",
    "this results from the inner flow preferentially illuminating different regions of the disc as it precesses . when the brightest region of the disc is moving towards us ,",
    "the iron line will be blue shifted and boosted .",
    "when the brightest region is receding , the iron line will be red shifted . as the illumination pattern rotates around the disc , the iron line rocks between blue and red shift .",
    "this process always happens in a particular order with the most heavily blue shifted iron line profile following the qpo trough and the most heavily red shifted iron line profile following the qpo peak .",
    "it is possible to isolate the peaks and troughs in a light curve using a simple flux selection .",
    "the rising phase , which follows the trough , is predicted to have the bluest iron line and the falling phase , which follows the peak , is predicted to have the reddest iron line .",
    "we predict this qpo phase dependence of the iron line profile to be present for a large range of spectral states ( and therefore truncation radii ) .",
    "this means that it may be best to search for the effect in spectra containing type - b qpos which have very little broad band variability associated with them and therefore provide a much cleaner signal than type - c qpos .",
    "however , the nature of the iron line phase dependence changes with truncation radius . when it is large , the red wing can dominate over the blue wing during the fall from qpo peak to trough .",
    "when it is small , doppler and relativistic boosting from the rapidly moving inner regions of the disc means that the red wing can never dominate over the blue wing .",
    "the characteristic shape of the difference spectrum between rise and fall should therefore change as the spectrum evolves from the lhs to the sims .",
    "the dominant red wing of the qpo fall spectrum in the lhs ( the ` red dip ' in the difference spectrum ) is the most unique model prediction but if we wish to observe this , we must disentangle the underlying qpo signal from the broad band noise .",
    "this will be the subject of a future paper .",
    "an observation of the effect in both states , along with confirmation that the difference spectrum _ changes _ with state , would constitute excellent evidence , not only of the precession model , but also that the truncation radius moves between the lhs and the sims .",
    "quasi - periodic shifting of the iron line peak energy is a unique prediction of the lense - thirring precession model for the low frequency qpo in xrbs .",
    "we have shown that it may be possible to observe such an effect with current missions , but that _ loft _ will be able to measure this with precision , enabling us to place accurate constraints on the accretion geometry .",
    "ai acknowledges the support of an stfc studentship .",
    "ai thanks sergio campana for useful discussions and also work to measure the properties of the lhs and sims models .",
    "ai also thanks luigi stella and micheil van der klis for many useful discussions .    99    abramowicz m. , jaroszynski m. , sikora m. , 1978 , a&a , 63 , 221    arvalo p. , uttley p. , 2006 ,",
    "mnras , 367 , 801    arnaud k. , borkowski k.  j. , harrington j.  p. , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 462 , l75    ballantyne d.  r. , ross r.  r. , fabian a.  c. , 2001 , mnras , 327 , 10    bardeen j.  m. , petterson j.  a. , 1975 , apj , 195 , l65    belloni , t.  m.  2010 , lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag , 794 , 53    belloni t. , psaltis d. , van der klis m. , 2002 , apj , 572 , 392    cabanac c. , henri g. , petrucci p .- o . , malzac j. , ferreira j. , belloni t.  m. , 2010 , mnras , 404 , 738    casella p. , belloni t. , stella l. , 2005 , apj , 629 , 403    dexter j. , fragile p.  c. , 2011 , apj , 730 , 36    done c. , gierliski m. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 659    done c. , gierliski m. , kubota a. , 2007 , a&arv , 15 , 1    esin a.  a. , mcclintock j.  e. , narayan r. , 1997 , apj , 489 , 865    fabian a.  c. , rees m.  j. , stella l. , white n.  e. , 1989 , mnras , 238 , 729    fabian a.  c. , iwasawa k. , reynolds c.  s. , young a.  j. , 2000 , pasp , 112 , 1145    fabian a.",
    "c. , et al . , 2012 , mnras , 3135    fragile p.  c. , mathews g.  j. , wilson j.  r. , 2001 , apj , 553 , 955    fragile p.  c. , blaes o.  m. , anninos p. , salmonson j.  d. , 2007 , apj , 668 , 417    fragile p.  c. , 2009 , apj , 706 , l246    fragile p.  c. , meier d.  l. , 2009 , apj , 693 , 771    fragos t. , tremmel m. , rantsiou e. , belczynski k. , 2010 , apj , 719 , l79    george i.  m. , fabian a.  c. , 1991 , mnras , 249 , 352    gierliski m. , zdziarski a.  a. , poutanen j. , coppi p.  s. , ebisawa k. , johnson w.  n. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 496    gilfanov m. , 2010 , lnp , 794 , 17    heil l.  m. , vaughan s. , uttley p. , 2011",
    ", mnras , 411 , l66    hiemstra b. , mndez m. , done c. , daz trigo m. , altamirano d. , casella p. , 2011 ,",
    "mnras , 411 , 137    ibragimov a. , poutanen j. , gilfanov m. , zdziarski a.  a. , shrader c.  r. , 2005 , mnras , 362 , 1435    ingram a. , done c. , fragile p.  c. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , l101    ingram a. , done c. , 2010 , mnras , 405 , 2447    ingram a. , done c. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 2323    ingram a. , done c. , 2012 , mnras , 419 , 2369    kato s. , 2008 , pasj , 60 , 889    klein - wolt m. , van der klis m. , 2008 , apj , 675 , 1407    kolehmainen m. , done c. , daz trigo m. , 2011 , mnras , 416 , 311    lachowicz p. , done c. , 2010 , a&a , 515 , a65    liu s. , melia f. , 2002 , apj , 573 , l23    lubow s.  h. , ogilvie g.  i. , pringle j.  e. , 2002 , mnras , 337 , 706    lyubarskii y.  e. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 679    magdziarz p. , zdziarski a.  a. , 1995 , mnras , 273 , 837    makishima k. , maejima y. , mitsuda k. , bradt h.  v. , remillard r.  a. , tuohy i.  r. , hoshi r. , nakagawa m. , 1986 , apj , 308 , 635    makishima k. , et al . , 2008 , pasj , 60 , 585    malzac j. , beloborodov a.  m. , poutanen j. , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 417    matt g. , perola g.  c. , piro l. , 1991 , a&a , 247 , 25    miller j.  m. , homan j. , 2005 , apj , 618 , l107    mitsuda k. , et al . , 1984 , pasj , 36 , 741    nowak m.  a. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "apj , 728 , 13    oneill s.  m. , reynolds c.  s. , miller m.  c. , sorathia k.  a. , 2011 , apj , 736 , 107    papaloizou j.  c.  b. , pringle j.  e. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 1181    psaltis d. , belloni t. , van der klis m. , 1999 , apj , 520 , 262    rodriguez j. , corbel s. , hannikainen d.  c. , belloni t. , paizis a. , vilhu o. , 2004 , apj , 615 , 416    ross r.  r. , fabian a.  c. , 2005 , mnras , 358 , 211    schnittman j.  d. , 2005 , apj , 621 , 940    schnittman j.  d. , homan j. , miller j.  m. , 2006 , apj , 642 , 420    shakura n.  i. , sunyaev r.  a. , 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337    sobolewska m.  a. , ycki p.  t. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 405    stella l. , vietri m. , 1998 , apj , 492 , l59    stella l. , vietri m. , morsink s.  m. , 1999 , apj , 524 , l63    tagger m. , pellat r. , 1999 , a&a , 349 , 1003    tamura m. , kubota a. , yamada s. , done c. , kolehmainen m. , ueda y. , torii s. , 2012 , apj , 753 , 65    titarchuk l. , osherovich v. , 1999 , apj , 518 , l95    tomsick j.  a. , yamaoka k. , corbel s. , kaaret p. , kalemci e. , migliari s. , 2009 , apj , 707 , l87    ueda y. , et al . , 2010 , apj , 713 , 257    van der klis m. , 2005 , ap&ss , 300 , 149    van der klis , m.  2006 , compact stellar x - ray sources , 39    wagoner r.  v. , silbergleit a.  s. , ortega - rodrguez m. , 2001 , apj , 559 , l25    wang z .- y . ,",
    "huang c .- y .",
    ", wang d .- x . , wang j .- z .",
    ", 2012 , raa , 12 , 661    wijnands r. , van der klis m. , 1999 , apj , 514 , 939    wilkinson t. , 2011 , phd thesis , university of southampton    zdziarski a.  a. , johnson w.  n. , magdziarz p. , 1996 ,",
    "mnras , 283 , 193    zdziarski a.  a. , lubiski p. , smith d.  a. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , l11    ycki p.  t. , done c. , smith d.  a. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 561",
    "in order to perform our calculations , we must define some vectors using the coordinate system outlined in figure [ fig : schem ] .",
    "we represent the @xmath115 , @xmath116 and @xmath117 axes with the standard @xmath118 , @xmath119 and @xmath120 unit basis vectors .",
    "it then follows from figure [ fig : schem ] that @xmath121 the three vectors @xmath118 , @xmath31 and @xmath18 therefore form a right handed cartesian coordinate system : the disc basis vectors .",
    "we can define a vector , @xmath122 , which points from the origin ( the black hole ) to any point on the disc where @xmath123 note , because the disc is razor thin , there is no @xmath18 component ( i.e. @xmath124 ) and @xmath125 is simply the angle between @xmath126 and the x - axis .",
    "we also define a vector pointing from the origin to the observer using the disc basis vectors @xmath127    in order to describe points on the surface of the flow , we must define flow basis vectors .",
    "the ` z - axis ' of this right handed coordinate system is @xmath20 which precesses around @xmath120 as illustrated in figure [ fig : schem ] .",
    "the other two basis vectors , @xmath128 and @xmath129 , must therefore also precess with the flow .",
    "we use @xmath130 such that @xmath131 when @xmath26 but , as the precession angle unwinds , the axes move .",
    "we can then specify a point in the flow with the vector @xmath132 where @xmath133 here , @xmath41 is the angle between @xmath134 and @xmath20 and @xmath135 is the angle between @xmath136 and @xmath118 .    because our flow is elliptical with semi - minor axis in the @xmath20 direction and semi - major axis in the @xmath137 direction ,",
    "the distance from the origin to any point on the surface is @xmath138 because @xmath139 is uniquely determined by @xmath41 , we can define @xmath140 .",
    "we need to be able to write down the unit vector normal to the flow surface .",
    "we can do this using a few identities .",
    "imagine a triangle drawn between the two focuses of the ellipse , @xmath141 and @xmath142 , and any point on the circumference of the ellipse , @xmath143 .",
    "we know that the distance from the origin to either focus is @xmath144 and also that the three sides of the triangle add up to @xmath145 .",
    "we can define the angle between the line from @xmath143 to @xmath141 ( @xmath146 ) and the line from @xmath143 to @xmath142 ( @xmath147 ) as @xmath148 .",
    "we know that the surface area unit vector , @xmath149 , goes directly between these two lines such that the angle between @xmath150 and each line is @xmath151 .",
    "we can say that @xmath149 points from some point @xmath152 to the point on the flow surface , @xmath143 , in such a way that this condition is satisfied .",
    "say that @xmath153 is the distance from @xmath143 to @xmath142 and @xmath154 is the angle between the lines @xmath155 and @xmath156 .",
    "we can use the cosine rule a few times to show that @xmath157 and @xmath158 .",
    "it is then possible to show that @xmath159 where @xmath160 and @xmath161    we will also need to define a vector which points from a given point on the flow to a given point on this disc .",
    "this can be written as @xmath162 from this , it is simple to show that the distance between the two points is @xmath163 all of these vectors will become very useful for the following sections .",
    "so , we need to calculate what luminosity a disc element with surface area @xmath164 will intercept from a flow surface element emitting a luminosity @xmath48 over a semi - sphere ( because it only emits _ away _ from the rest of the flow )",
    ". we can then integrate over all flow elements to work out the total flow luminosity that the disc element intercepts . for the disc patch to see anything at all from a given flow element",
    ", it must pass two tests .",
    "first , does it lie in the unit semi - sphere of the flow element ; i.e. is @xmath165 . also ,",
    "because we are viewing the top of the system ( @xmath166 ) , we only see luminosity which has reflected off the _ top _ of the disc . therefore , we only count luminosity incident on the top of the disc in our integral .",
    "this means we require @xmath167 .",
    "if one of these conditions is nt met , the luminosity intercepted by the disc element is @xmath168 . if both are , we have @xmath169 we see that , the amount of luminosity intercepted depends on the projected area of the disc patch as seen by the flow element .",
    "if the patch is face - on as seen by the flow , @xmath170 and the projected area is @xmath49 .",
    "this area reduces as the patch turns away from the emitting flow element .",
    "the total luminosity incident on a disc patch is calculated by adding up the contribution from every flow element .",
    "we now need to calculate how much luminosity a telescope with effective area @xmath171 will intercept from a given flow element in order to again integrate over the whole flow . for the telescope to see any luminosity at all , two tests must again be passed .",
    "first of all , the viewer must be in the unit semi - sphere of the flow element .",
    "this means we require @xmath172 .",
    "we also wo nt see anything if the emission is blocked by the disc .",
    "we know the emission definitely wo nt be blocked by the disc if the flow element is above the disc ; i.e. @xmath173 .",
    "even if the element is below the disc plane , we still might be able to see through the hole in the centre of the disc .",
    "so , imagine a point on the flow which is below the disc plane , emitting along the vector @xmath174 . at some point",
    "it will intercept the disc plane .",
    "the distance between the flow element and the point where the vector crosses the disc plane is @xmath175 .",
    "this point will be a distance @xmath176 from the origin .",
    "we can write @xmath177 dotting both sides with @xmath18 and rearranging gives @xmath178 we then know that @xmath179 if @xmath180 , we still see the flow element through the hole in the disc . if not , it is hidden by the disc .",
    "so , if the unit - sphere and disc obstruction tests are not passed , the luminosity intercepted by the telescope is @xmath181 .",
    "otherwise , this is @xmath182 where @xmath183 is the distance to the source .",
    "note , because the telescope is so far away and is pointed straight at the black hole , we can say that the projected area of the telescope as seen by any flow element is @xmath171 .",
    "we then just set @xmath184 , because it only tells us about normalisation , and sum up the contribution from each flow element .",
    "a disc element at @xmath185 is rotating with keplerian velocity @xmath186 .",
    "an observer at @xmath22 , @xmath23 then sees the disc patch travelling towards them at a velocity of @xmath187 where @xmath188 .",
    "the tangent points of the disc will therefore travel towards the observer at a velocity of @xmath189 .",
    "this means that a photon emitted with energy @xmath190 with be red shifted by @xmath191^{1/2 }    }   \\right],\\ ] ] where @xmath192 ( fabian et al 1989 ; 2000 ) .    for a given precession angle , @xmath21 ,",
    "the flow luminosity incident on a disc patch described by @xmath176 and @xmath125 is @xmath193 .",
    "if this luminosity were all emitted at energy @xmath190 , the observer would see a luminosity , all at @xmath194 , of @xmath195 here , the approximations come from assuming light to travel in a straight line . throughout this paper ,",
    "we ignore gravitational light bending thus taking these to be good approximations .",
    "this should be apropriate since the inner radius of the flow is assumed to be @xmath53 throughout and light bending effects outside of this radius will be minimal .",
    "the total observed luminosity as a function of energy is calculated by summing the contribution from each disc patch .",
    "as the flow precesses and the function @xmath193 evolves , the observed iron line profile will change ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the clear characteristic timescale picked out by the low frequency quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) seen in many black hole and neutron star binaries has the potential to provide a very powerful diagnostic of the inner regions of the accretion flow . </S>",
    "<S> however , this potential can not be realised without a quantitative model for the qpo . </S>",
    "<S> we have recently shown that the same truncated disc / hot inner flow geometry which is used to interpret the spectral transitions can also directly produce the qpo from lense - thirring ( vertical ) precession of the hot inner flow . </S>",
    "<S> this correctly predicts both the frequency and spectrum of the qpo , and the tight correlation of these properties with the total spectrum of the source via a changing truncation radius between the disc and hot flow . </S>",
    "<S> this model predicts a unique iron line signature as a vertically tilted flow illuminates different azimuths of the disc as it precesses . </S>",
    "<S> the iron line arising from this rotating illumination is blue shifted when the flow irradiates the approaching region of the spinning disc and red shifted when the flow irradiates the receding region of the disc . </S>",
    "<S> this gives rise to a characteristic rocking of the iron line on the qpo frequency which is a necessary ( and probably sufficient ) test of a lense - thirring origin . </S>",
    "<S> this is also an independent test of disc truncation models for the low / hard state , as vertical precession can not occur if there is a disc in the midplane .    </S>",
    "<S> we show that it may be possible to observe this effect using archival data from the rossi x - ray timing explorer ( _ rxte _ ) or _ </S>",
    "<S> xmm newton_. however , a clean test requires a combination of moderate resolution and good statistics , such as would be available from a long xmm - newton observation or with data from the proposed esa mission _ </S>",
    "<S> loft_.    = -0.5 cm    [ firstpage ]    x - rays : binaries  accretion , accretion discs </S>"
  ]
}