{
  "article_text": [
    "different mechanisms have been proposed to explain blr variability in agn ( see for e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and the references therein ) .",
    "one of the most interesting possibilities involves the existence of a binary system in the core ( see for e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and the references therein ) .",
    "if black hole ( bh ) mass grows via major mergers we might expect to see the signature of a binary black hole in some or many active galaxies , if the merger process involves slow coalescence of the two components .",
    "ngc 4151 , one of the best studied seyfert galaxies , shows a complex sub - parsec structure .",
    "studies at radio , visible , and x - ray wavelengths indicate violent processes including ejection of gas .",
    "detection of outflow scales ranging from several hundred parsecs down to sub - parsec scales reveal collimated jets and biconical outflows ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and the references therein ) .",
    "violent variability in this active galactic nucleus ( agn ) has been monitored over many years @xcite .",
    "earlier work showed variation in the wings of the civ line @xcite that were associated to two localized emitting regions with line of sight velocities of -6100 and + 8500  with respect to the systemic velocity .",
    "these localized regions were thought to be the possible signatures of orbiting matter or of a two - sided jet .",
    "a radio jet or highly inclined disk ( length @xmath1 1 pc ) aligned perpendicular to the arcsec - scale radio jet was imaged at 6 cm @xcite .",
    "flux variations in the optical domain have been monitored over a much longer time ( over 100 years ) ( see for e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and the references therein ) .",
    "optical and uv emission is unresolved so clues about central structure come mainly from analysis of broad emission line profile .",
    "reverberation mapping studies ( see for e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and the references therein ) suggest a very compact broad line region ( blr ) with broad balmer lines responding to continuum changes within a few days . many authors claim to find long term periodicities in the flux variations of ngc 4151 @xcite of e.g. 15.8 years @xcite . compared to seyfert 1s , ngc 4151 has a harder x - ray spectrum and also similar to black - hole binaries in the hard state @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we analyze the h@xmath0  line shape and flux variability in ngc 4151 during period of more than 20 years in order to investigate the blr structure in ngc 4151 .",
    "the possibility of periodicity in the line profile variations leads us to interpret it in terms of binary system orbital motion at sub - parsec scale in the center of ngc 4151 .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section 2 we briefly describe our data set , method , and analysis used to detect periodicity in both the line flux and the shape of the profiles . in section 3 ,",
    "we discus possible scenarios for the obtained periodic variations , and give evidence of a sub - parsec supermassive binary bh system in the core of ngc 4151 . in section 4 ,",
    "we discuss alternative models , and implications of our results .",
    "finally , in section 5 , we summarize results and give conclusions .",
    "we analyzed 115 spectra of the h@xmath0  line profile in ngc 4151 covering more than 20 years .",
    "most of the spectra were obtained during a period of 11 years from 1996 to 2006 @xcite .",
    "this dataset was supplemented with : ( i ) agn watch spectra observed for three months beginning 1993 november 14 @xcite with the 1 m wise telescope , ( ii ) one spectrum from asiago 1.82 m ekar telescope of the padova astronomical observatory ( 1989 march 24 ) , which was equipped with a boller & chivens spectrograph and a 600 gr / mm grating yielded a resolution of 45 fwhm , with pa=90 , at the cassegrain focus and ( iii ) a spectrum from 1986 march 29 @xcite .",
    "all spectra were reduced to a common resolution of 15   ( about @xmath2 340 ) .",
    "the continuum was removed by subtracting a linear fit between 6265 and 6830  .",
    "all spectra were scaled to the flux of [ oi ] 6300 which is assumed constant at all epochs .",
    "we derived h@xmath0 light curves for the total flux ( see fig .",
    "1 ) as well as for the partial flux in 1000 velocity bins ( fig .",
    "we analyzed the light curves using lomb - scargle spectral analysis @xcite procedures .",
    "the lomb - scargle normalized periodogram @xcite is a powerful tool for finding and testing the significance of weak periodic signals embedded in otherwise random and unevenly sampled observations .",
    "the significance level ( i.e. the probability that the data contain a periodicity ) can be tested fairly rigorously by the statistic @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the so - called `` false alarm probability '' .",
    "this estimates the probability that the peak occurred in the presence of pure independently and normally ( gaussian ) distributed noise .",
    "a small value for the false - alarm probability indicates a significant periodic signal .",
    "resultant periodicities were subsequently tested by fitting with sine functions ( see fig .",
    "1 , bottom panel ) .    since",
    ", we detected the periodicity in the h@xmath0 line lightcurve ( see fig .",
    "1 ) , we tried to identify the parts of the line profiles that are most affected by those periodical variations . for that purpose",
    "we analyzed the light curves for each 1000  radial velocity bin of h@xmath0 spectra , with significance level above 90 % ( see fig .",
    "2 ) . since , we detected periodicity in certain light curves ( mainly in the core of the line for the velocity bins between -3000 and 4000 ) , we tried to uncover possible mechanisms that could produce such flux variations . for that purpose",
    "we tested many different line decomposition models , taking into account the parts of the line where we detected significant periodicity .",
    "we used gaussian analysis to measure profile shape variations .",
    "this was accomplished by fitting each h@xmath0 profile with the sum of gaussians assuming some constrains .",
    "the intensity ratio of narrow components ( h@xmath0 line , [ oi]6300,6364   , [ nii]6548,6584   , [ sii]6717,6731    and hei 6678    ) were modeled using spectra obtained during the minimum activity stage ( 2005 may 12 ) .",
    "they were fitted with sum of gaussian profiles assuming that the intensity ratios of the narrow lines did not change during the monitoring period .",
    "the widths of the narrow lines were assumed equal during each fit .",
    "the broad h@xmath0 profile was fit together with the narrow lines .",
    "we tested a number of models including those with more than one gaussian component ( see for e.g. * ? ? ? * ) and analyzed the light curves of the component fluxes as well as the radial velocity curves of each component during the monitoring period .",
    "the choice of component widths was not arbitrary .",
    "we started from the decomposition proposed in @xcite .",
    "we noticed that a two component model @xcite consisting of a very broad ( covering the far wings ) and broad ( covering the line core ) components could not properly explain an intermediate width feature visible on the h@xmath0 wing ( @xmath2 600 ) .",
    "r and vblr components are typical of population b agn @xcite while displaced subpeaks have been occasionally observed in this class @xcite .",
    "the intermediate width subpeak was observed on both the blue and red wings of h@xmath0 at different epochs but never at the same time leading us to interpret it as a single emitting component ( @xmath2 600 ) .",
    "we then tried many fits with different widths for each of the three h@xmath0 components and adopted a model that consists of : ( i ) a very broad component ( vbc ) corresponding to the far wings ( @xmath5 = 3400 ) , ( ii ) a central broad component ( cbc ) corresponding to the `` classical '' broad core of the line ( @xmath5 = 1700 ) and ( iii ) an intermediate width component ( bump ) appearing on either the blue or red wing of the h@xmath0 profile @xmath5 = 600 ) .",
    "the choice of gaussian component widths were made in such a way that each component width differs for at least two times , providing a clear identification of each component .",
    "we fit the h@xmath0  profile using three components with fixed widths .",
    "the cbc shift was fixed to the shift of the narrow lines .    to secure the identification of the gaussian components we adopted the model with three gaussians with several important limitations according to the shapes of profiles .",
    "we measured the width of the bump on profiles where it could be clearly isolated from other components .",
    "we found that the width of the bump s gaussian is around @xmath5=600 .",
    "we also tested the widths of other two components and found that the gaussian suitable to cover the central part of the line profiles ( cbc ) needed to be at least twice the width of the bump s gaussian .",
    "also , we fixed the shift of the cbc since we noticed that the shift of this component was showing very small variations ( smaller than the estimated errors for this parameter ) , since the very broad wings ( which were significantly building up in many profiles ) could be covered only with very broad gaussian ( at least twice the width of the cbc ) .",
    "we noticed that when the bump component is present on the red side of the profile , it was appearing either as a separated peak , or as feature that was making the red side of the cbc much steeper than the regular shape of the gaussian component that fit the core of the line ( cbc ) .",
    "when the bump component was appearing on the blue side , it was just changing the steepness of the blue side of the profile , making it much steeper than the shape of the gaussian of the cbc . in this way including the bump component was justified in our model .",
    "similarly , it was necessary to introduce the vbc gaussian to fit the far wings in some profiles , that also could not be reproduced by other two components",
    ". in the case where we vary the intensities of the cbc and the vbc , the position of the bump would shift , but for the solutions where the fit looks reasonable , the shifts of the bump are smaller than the estimated errors . for example , if intensities are changed for less than 5% , the shift of the bump is changed , but stays inside the error interval , while reduced @xmath6 increases for more than an order of magnitude .",
    "if the variations of intensities are even larger the fit becomes unreasonable , and do not follow the shape of the profile .",
    "examples of fits for two epochs are shown in fig .",
    "we noticed that the cbc and vbc give major contributions to the total flux of the line , and hence their lightcurves follow the total h@xmath0 line lightcurve . on these lightcurves ( see fig .",
    "4 . bottom ) one can identify one dominant peak in the interval of the modified julian date ( mjd ) between 50000 and 51000 mjd and another smaller peak between 52500 and 53000 mjd . since we found similar behavior in the lightcurves of all components , as well as in the continuum and the h@xmath0 line , we concluded that the flux variations are real in all components , and are not the caused by of the gaussian fitting procedure .",
    "more spectra from each observational campaign with corresponding fits are presented in figures 5 - 10 @xcite made simulations of h@xmath0 emission line profiles in the case of a supermassive binary black hole system with masses of @xmath7 and @xmath8 @xmath9 and the following orbital elements : 15.7 year period and semimajor axis of @xmath10 pc .",
    "it is not that obvious but one can see in their figure 18 that the emission line profiles show bump peak that appears on the blue side of the profile for the first part of the orbital period , and in the second part of the orbital period the bump peak starts to appear on the red side of the profile .",
    "also , one can see that the central peak is present in the most of profiles as well as the wider structure ( vbc ) even though we approximated it with a gaussian instead of more complex profile as seen in this figure ( probably a disk like emission profile ) . in our case",
    "there was no significant difference in the radial velocity curves and light curves in the case of fitting using a vbc gaussian instead of a vbc disk profile .",
    "we analyzed radial velocity variations in the vbc and bump components .",
    "we also fit radial velocity curves assuming keplerian orbits using the `` velocity '' code @xcite .",
    "the uncertainty in the position of the bump was estimated to be @xmath11 200  ( when detected on the blue side ) and @xmath11 70  ( on the red ) at 2@xmath5 confidence level ( @xmath12=0.99 ) . estimated uncertainties for radial velocity of the vbc",
    "were around @xmath11 300 .",
    "these errors were set by @xmath6  behavior when varying only the displacement from the best fit radial velocity and are regarded as minimum uncertainties .    to test the influence of the fitting procedure on the lightcurves and radial velocity curves we varied the widths of each component . for the bump we found that in some cases the fit becomes unreasonable if we change its width by more than 100 . for the change in the widths of the vbc and cbc , the radial velocity curves of the bump component did not change much ( a few times less than the estimated errors ) , even thought the vbc width was varied from 3000 to 4500 , and cbc from 1500 to 2000 .",
    "we noticed that for the broader vbc , the amplitude of the radial velocity curve of that component , became larger , but kept the same shape and behavior , and hence led to the similar orbital parameters .",
    "however , in that case the obtained mass ratio between secondary ( bump ) and primary ( vbc ) will vary between 0.2 ( for @xmath13 = 3000 ) and 0.6 ( for @xmath13 = 4500 ) .",
    "therefore , this method gives more reliable estimations of the orbital elements than those for the mass ratio .",
    "we are aware that , when the bump is close to the line core ( at @xmath14 0 ) its position is well constrained because of the model we build with three symmetric gaussians , since the bump is overwhelmed by the bc and vbc emission so as to become not visually identifiable .",
    "as the bump radial velocity changes sign rather suddenly , this condition occurs only for a few epochs .",
    "light curve analysis is presented in figs . 1 , and 2 .",
    "1 shows that the total flux could be well fit with a sine function with 5700 @xmath11 300 day periodicity .",
    "2 shows lomb - scargle analysis fluxes for each 1000  radial velocity bin of h@xmath0 with significance level above 90 % .",
    "the resultant values ranged from @xmath15 5000 to 6000 days ( see fig .",
    "2 ) .      the detection of a significant periodicity is a major result of this study .",
    "the analysis of the light curves showed a periodicity of nearly 16 years , which is in agreement with previous studies ( of 16 year periodicity ) obtained ( using different methods ) for a much earlier monitoring period , covering few earlier cycles ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "there are several possible sources of periodicity .",
    "apart from the orbital period ( @xmath16 ) , relevant timescales include the timescale associated with geodetic precession @xmath17 ( i.e. , precession of the bh spin around the total angular momentum of the system @xcite ) , and accretion disk precession due to a second massive black hole @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the accretion disk radius @xcite .",
    "measured parameters for ngc 4151 imply that the geodetic precession is @xmath20 yr . accretion disk precession is expected in any agn hosting a binary black hole and @xmath21 is much lower than the value estimated for geodetic precession .",
    "however for ngc 4151 @xmath22 is still significantly longer than the derived period .",
    "a third possibility is that radiation force induce a `` self - warping '' of the accretion disk ( obviating the necessity for a second black hole ) . in this case",
    "the period would be @xcite @xmath23 .",
    "the self - warping timescale is consistent with the observed @xmath12 and could , in principle , reinforce a periodic behavior also involving continuum fluxes .",
    "we analyzed radial velocity curves for the vbc and bump components , because we noticed large variations of their velocity shifts .",
    "4 indicates that the radial velocity curve can be well described with keplerian orbits in a binary system .",
    "the derived orbit is eccentric ( @xmath24 = 0.42 ) with a period of @xmath12 = 5776 days and longitude of pericenter @xmath25 .",
    "we note that orbital precession would be expected but we did not take it into account since the predicted @xmath26 per period in schwarzschild metric . using kepler s laws we estimated the semimajor axes : @xmath27 pc , @xmath28 pc and masses : @xmath29 and @xmath30 ( where @xmath31 is the inclination of the orbital plane ) .",
    "these results are in a good agreement with the corresponding theoretical results obtained using numerical simulations @xcite which showed simulations ( including the emission line profiles ) of an eccentric keplerian system with 15.7 year period , at 0.01 pc distance with similar total mass as found here .",
    "we also , estimated semimajor axes and masses for different inclination angles and found that an inclination of about @xmath32 yields semimajor axes of 0.0024 pc and 0.0094 pc , while the masses of each component are @xmath33 @xmath9and @xmath34 @xmath9 .",
    "our mass estimate is in good agreement with the values obtained from other methods e.g. reverberation mapping @xcite .",
    "the derived separation of two supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) of about 0.01 pc is expected from theoretical models for the evolution of binary smbhs @xcite .",
    "the derived period is in agreement with previous studies of optical variability in ngc 4151 @xcite , which indicate existence of previous cycles ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "if this model is correct then gravitational radiation should lead to coalescence @xcite in @xmath1 10@xmath35 yr .",
    "the evolution of a bbh system through merging is a topic of much recent research ( see * ? ? ? * for an exhaustive review ) .",
    "regardless of the evolutionary stages governed by stellar dynamics , there will be a final stage when dissipation of orbital energy is due to emission of gravitational radiation .",
    "when the binary separation is on sub - parsec scales , coalescence time scales @xmath36  imply that such binary configurations could be relatively long - lived in low - mass agns , if other mechanisms do not intervene ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "systems like ngc 4151 with a central supermassive black hole and a ( or perhaps , even more than one ) much less massive satellite could be common even if they are hard to find .    considering the relatively large uncertainty in radial velocity for the vbc",
    ", the mass ratio could be different than we have derived .",
    "in the most extreme case we could be observing some cloud of gas @xcite spiraling down toward the center of attraction , but then we should not expect a very long lifetime for such cloud due to dissipation making this scenario less probable , since several 16 year cycles are already reported ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* including the result of this paper ) . if the secondary object is compact but with a mass much smaller than the primary component , then its orbit would be defined with the bump component only , implying a distance of about 0.01 pc and the same period ( about 15.9 years and eccentricity of about 0.4 ) .",
    "if we assume that a second massive black hole is indeed present , then the pretty large value of eccentricity suggests an analogy with oj 287 @xcite , where its orbital motion is assumed to be an explanation of its flux variation .",
    "orbital motion of smbhs has been recently reported in 3c 66b @xcite and earlier in 3c390.3 @xcite .",
    "we are however , far from the extreme conditions proposed for oj 287 , a source with a black hole mass estimated to be @xmath1500 times larger then the one of ngc 4151 . as a consequence",
    ", we expect a small pericenter precession .",
    "energy loss due to gravitational radiation is very small if compared to oj 287 .",
    "nevertheless , this system is among the ones where further evolution is governed by gravitational losses .",
    "since these systems are expected to occur when the binary separation roughly corresponds to the size of the blr , extensive monitoring may reveal other cases ( we remark that the observational coverage of ngc 4151 is almost unique ) .",
    "if the component separation in a binary smbh system is sub - parsec : i.e. on the same order or smaller than the expected radius of the blr , we have justification for a cbc fixed to the rest frame as derived from the redshift of the narrow lines .",
    "this implies that the orbit of the binary smbh system is most probably located within the blr region .",
    "the estimated orbital velocities ( @xmath37 ; where @xmath31 represents inclination and @xmath38 the orbital phase ) are above 4000  for the bump and around 1000  for vbc for the quadrature phase ( where @xmath39 and the radial component is highest towards the observer ) .",
    "these are much larger than the typical speed of sound ( typically of order of tens to hundreds of ) expected for such conditions @xcite .",
    "therefore , one would expect them to produce shock waves in the blr @xcite .",
    "the epoch with maximum total flux ( see fig .",
    "1 , bottom panel ) , in the mjd interval between 50000 and 51000 , corresponds to the epoch when the bump ( secondary ) component is approaching the observer with supersonic velocity , producing shock waves in the direction of the observer ( see fig .",
    "4 ) , while a smaller flux maximum that follows afterwards ( mjd between 52000 and 53000 ) corresponds to the epoch when the approaching shock wave is produced by the vbc .",
    "the epochs where the fluxes are at minimum ( fig .",
    "4 ) correspond to the phase when the shock waves are propagating perpendicular to the line - of - sight direction ( conjunction phase ) .",
    "this is consistent with previous results @xcite : non - radiatively heated emission is needed to explain an excess of line emission with respect to the case of pure photoionization during the epoch of the flux maximum ( mjd between 50000 and 51000 ) .",
    "shocks can provide a suitable heating mechanism .    in other scenarios , involving self - warping and",
    "flares , one would expect circular concentric orbits with sinusoidally shaped radial velocities .",
    "this differs from the radial velocity curves in fig .",
    "4 that corresponds to the more eccentric keplerian orbits . also , the simulated light and radial velocity curves of an elliptical disk , single spiral arm or fragmented spiral arm presented in @xcite , could not describe well the shape of the light and radial velocity curves observed in ngc4151 .",
    "one of the alternative explanations for peaks or shoulders seen in the broad h@xmath0 profiles could be the emission of an accretion disk . to test such possibility we tried to fit the @xcite model of accretion disk into broad line profiles from different epochs , in such a way that the peak of the bump would be fitted with one of two peaks from the disk profile .",
    "we found that it could be possible to fit an accretion disk model in most of the profiles , but always with needing the additional components .",
    "for example , we could fit the disk profile into the core of the line in such way that the bump component would be covered with one of the peaks from the disk . in that case , the result for the inclination parameter is very small ( around 15 degrees ) , which is not that likely explanation due to much higher inclination of jets , around 60 - 70 degrees ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the variations in observed profiles could be explained assuming that the emission lines originate in the precessing accretion - ring , or precessing elliptical accretion - ring @xcite , with the variations of the width of the inner radius of emitting ring , or with the shift of the disk profile ( so the moving bump would be fitted with one of peaks from the disk profile ) . in all these cases it was necessary to involve additional components ( e.g. vbc and cbc ) .",
    "if the wider disk profiles were used to fit into the far wings , then the corresponding inclination would be around 45 degrees , covering the far wings of the profiles , as in the vbc in our model , resulting in a similar behavior to the vbc .",
    "this will include the need for the cbc and a bump component and with radial velocity curves similar to those in our simplified model with three gaussians .",
    "we found cases with a higher red peak than blue , that could not be explained with the circular disk model , but could be explained with elliptical disk model @xcite . for this alternative model , its precession could explain its rising and moving peaks .",
    "all alternative explanations must be consistent with the obtained periodicity ( see *  3.1 * ) .",
    "some other alternative explanations could be : orbital motion of a flare or a bright spot ( see for e. g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , self - warping accretion disk @xcite , precession of an eccentric circular and elliptical accretion disk , circular disk with spiral arm ( see for e. g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the precession of a bipolar outflow ( see for e. g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and an inhomogeneous disk ( see for e. g. * ? ? ?",
    "for the most of these scenarios we should expect more sinusoidal - like behavior of radial velocity curves ( see for e. g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which differs from fig .",
    "4 . for these alternative models ,",
    "more tests should be made , to prove or disprove any of them .",
    "the radial velocity curve is immediately consistent with orbital motion as we are able to fit it with an eccentric orbit .",
    "the idea of orbital motion seems the most plausible .",
    "it is a consequence of the favorable value of the argument of the periastron ( i.e. , a fortunate coincidence ) that we are able to see a sudden change in the radial velocity .",
    "it is however what is expected and observed in many binaries with highly eccentric orbits .",
    "we have analyzed the shape and flux variations in the h@xmath0 light curve for the seyfert galaxy ngc 4151 using observations spanning 20 years .",
    "we also studied variations in different parts of the line profile .",
    "lomb - scargle spectral analysis of these light curves suggest variations that can be satisfactorily fit with sine functions and indicating periodicity of about 5700 days for the total flux variation and around 5800 days for most of the 1000 h@xmath0 intervals .",
    "analysis of radial velocity curves for h@xmath0 emission line components ( vbc and bump ) reveal evidence for orbital motion consistent with the signature of a sub - parsec scale smbh system with orbital period of about 5780 days .    in this scenario",
    "periodic variations in the optical spectra of ngc 4151 could be generated by supersonic motions of the components through an extended broad line region .",
    "maxima in the flux variations correspond to phase when a shock wave is generated toward the observer .",
    "this mechanism is also able to explain the detected outbursts in the optical fluxes of emission lines and the continuum and is in agreement with reported shock heating during the period around the light curve maximum ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as the similarity of its x - ray spectra to black - hole binary spectra in the hard state @xcite .",
    "this interpretation is consistent with some previous theoretical results @xcite and would support the idea of bh mass growth by major merger rather than by slower accretion processes .",
    "if the phenomenology outlined by our analysis is indeed general for all similar agn then an important question arises : is binarity a necessary condition for agn ignition ?",
    "support for such an assumption could be related to changes in spectral type ( sy1sy1.5-sy2 ) manifested by ngc 4151 . the activity type of the galaxy changes from sy1 to sy1.5 when it is most active @xcite and to sy2 at its deep minimum phase , as it was in 1984 @xcite .",
    "different spectral types may be possible only at a certain phase of orbital motion in the binary smbh .",
    "this opens the question whether the different activity types of active galaxies correspond to different orbital phases of such systems and whether the binarity is a necessary condition for the activity switch - on .",
    "further monitoring is needed to assess the persistence ( or disappearance ) of the orbiting components .",
    "if our results would be confirmed by future monitoring campaigns or analysis on different sets of data , then ngc 4151 might become an important candidate for gravitational wave detection in the future .",
    "line profile ( solid line ) for two epochs : mjd 51203 ( up ) and 52621 ( down ) .",
    "three gaussian components : vbc ( @xmath5 = 3400 , shaded with gray ) , cbc ( @xmath5 = 1700 , shaded with line pattern ) and the bump ( @xmath5 = 600 , shaded with black ) component , are fitted in the broad profile .",
    "the dash - dotted line represents the narrow line template .",
    "the panel at the bottom of the plots represents residuals of the fit.,title=\"fig : \" ]   line profile ( solid line ) for two epochs : mjd 51203 ( up ) and 52621 ( down ) .",
    "three gaussian components : vbc ( @xmath5 = 3400 , shaded with gray ) , cbc ( @xmath5 = 1700 , shaded with line pattern ) and the bump ( @xmath5 = 600 , shaded with black ) component , are fitted in the broad profile .",
    "the dash - dotted line represents the narrow line template .",
    "the panel at the bottom of the plots represents residuals of the fit.,title=\"fig : \" ]     line , as well as fitted radial velocity curves for orbits of both components ( solid and dashed lines ) .",
    "middle : continuum flux light curves for ngc4151 at 512.5 nm , compiled from @xcite ( plusses ) , @xcite ( crosses ) , @xcite ( open squares ) , as well as at 656.3 nm from @xcite ( filled circles ) .",
    "bottom : light curves of the relative fluxes ( normalized to the flux of oi line ) with y errorbars of vbc ( doted line ) , cbc ( dashed line with open squares ) , bump component ( dashed line ) and the h@xmath0 line ( solid line ) . illustration of the corresponding orbital phases are presented above the radial velocity curve panel , assuming counter clockwise direction of each black hole motion and the direction toward the observer below the plots . ]",
    "line , as well as fitted radial velocity curves for orbits of both components ( solid and dashed lines ) .",
    "middle : continuum flux light curves for ngc4151 at 512.5 nm , compiled from @xcite ( plusses ) , @xcite ( crosses ) , @xcite ( open squares ) , as well as at 656.3 nm from @xcite ( filled circles ) .",
    "bottom : light curves of the relative fluxes ( normalized to the flux of oi line ) with y errorbars of vbc ( doted line ) , cbc ( dashed line with open squares ) , bump component ( dashed line ) and the h@xmath0 line ( solid line ) .",
    "illustration of the corresponding orbital phases are presented above the radial velocity curve panel , assuming counter clockwise direction of each black hole motion and the direction toward the observer below the plots . ]",
    "kaspi , s. , maoz , d. , netzer , h. , peterson , b. m. , alexander , t. , barth , a. j. , bertram , r. , cheng , f .- z .",
    ", chuvaev , k. k. , edelson , r. a. , filippenko , a. v. , hemar , s. , ho , l. c. , kovo , o. , matheson , t. , pogge , r. w. , qian , b .-",
    "smith , s. m. , wagner , r. m. , wu , h. , xue , s .-",
    "l . , 1996 , , 470 , 336 .                                                  press , w. h. , teukolsky , s. a. , vetterling , w. t. & flannery , b. p. , 1996 , numerical recipes in fortran 77 : the art of scientific computing .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge , new york , melbourne .",
    "rainer w. : velocity 1.3 , 1998 , a program to compute radial velocity curves for spectroscopic binary stars , determine best - fit solutions for measured radial velocity data , and plot the results , _",
    "http://www.ibiblio.org / pub / linux / science / astronomy_.        shapovalova , a.i . ,",
    "popovi , l. . ,",
    "collin , s. , burenkov , a.n . ,",
    "chavushyan , v.h . ,",
    "bochkarev , n.  g. bentez , e. , dultzin , d. , kovaevi , a. borisov , n. , carrasco , l. , len - tavares , j. mercado , a. , valdes , j.  r. , vlasuyk , v.  v. , zhdanova , v.  e. , 2008 , , 486 , 99 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> one of the most intriguing scenarios proposed to explain how active galactic nuclei are triggered involves the existence of a supermassive binary black hole system in their cores . here </S>",
    "<S> we present an observational evidence for the first spectroscopically resolved sub - parsec orbit of a such system in the core of seyfert galaxy ngc 4151 . using a method similar to those typically applied for spectroscopic binary stars we obtained radial velocity curves of the supermassive binary system , from which we calculated orbital elements and made estimates about the masses of components . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis shows that periodic variations in the light and radial velocity curves can be accounted for an eccentric , sub - parsec keplerian orbit of a 15.9-year period . </S>",
    "<S> the flux maximum in the lightcurve correspond to the approaching phase of a secondary component towards the observer . according to the obtained results we speculate that the periodic variations in the observed h@xmath0  line shape and flux are due to shock waves generated by the supersonic motion of the components through the surrounding medium . given the large observational effort needed to reveal this spectroscopically resolved binary orbital motion we suggest that many such systems may exist in similar objects even if they are hard to find . detecting more of them will provide us with insight into black hole mass growth process . </S>"
  ]
}