{
  "article_text": [
    "an important property of type  1 agns ( i.e.  broad line quasi stellar objects ; qsos ) is the existence of radio - loud ( rl ) and radio - quiet ( rq ) populations .",
    "one of the more controversial topics in qso studies is whether these rl and rq quasars form two _ physically distinct _",
    "populations of objects . on the one hand ,",
    "both types of quasars are likely powered by similar physical mechanisms ( e.g.  barthel 1989 ; urry & padovani 1995 ; @xcite ) , and their radio loudness has been shown to anti - correlate with accretion rates ( in eddington luminosity units ) onto their central supermassive black holes ( e.g.  @xcite ) . on the other hand , it has been demonstrated that , relative to rq quasars , rl quasars are likely to reside in more massive host galaxies ( e.g.  peacock , miller , & longair 1986 ; @xcite ) , and harbor more massive central black holes ( e.g.  laor 2000 ; lacy et al .",
    "2001 ; mclure & jarvis 2004 ) .",
    "however , mainly due to two problems , i ) severe selection biases , such as incompleteness in observed qsos samples , and ii ) the overwhelmingly high fraction of rq quasars , it is still unclear whether rl and rq quasars form two distinct populations of objects , or a continuous sequence ( as suggested by e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "here we focus on this problem .",
    "whether rl and rq quasars form two distinct populations can be studied by investigating the relation between their radio and optical emissions .",
    "this illuminates the relative importance of the likely dominant sources of electromagnetic radiation in these two wavelength windows , namely the relativistic jet and the accretion disk . @xcite",
    "first pointed out that the radio - to - optical flux density ratio for optically selected qsos appears bimodal ( the so - called quasar radio dichotomy ) , which suggests that qsos can be divided into two distinct , rl and rq , populations of objects .",
    "other authors found additional evidence for a dichotomy ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "however , several studies ( e.g.  @xcite ) disputed its existence .",
    "a bimodal distribution in quasar radio loudness would point to distinct physical properties of radio - loud and -quiet qsos , such as a different physical origin of radio emission ( jet vs.  corona ; @xcite ) , different black hole masses ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , accretion rates ( e.g.  @xcite ) and/or spins ( e.g.  @xcite ) , as well as host galaxy properties ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "the existence of two distinct quasar populations may then be linked to hierarchical structure growth in a @xmath1cdm universe in which dark matter halos and galaxy mergers play an important role ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the radio - to - optical flux density ratio as a measure of radio loudness was initially proposed by schmidt ( 1970 ) .",
    "a division between rl and rq quasars at a ratio of @xmath210 was found by kellermann et  al .",
    "( 1986 ) using rest - frame 5  ghz ( 6  cm ) radio and b - band optical flux densities . an alternative radio loudness definition is purely based on radio luminosity , e.g.  @xmath3 w hz@xmath4  @xcite .",
    "studies of large qso samples have yielded that the most rl qsos are @xmath5 times more luminous in radio than in optical ( e.g.  @xcite ) . on the other hand ,",
    "much deeper radio studies of smaller samples showed that rq qsos typically have a factor of @xmath6 weaker radio than optical emission ( e.g.  @xcite ) . using sdss @xcite and first @xcite data , @xcite",
    "have shown the existence of a peak at the high end of the radio - to - optical flux ratio distribution . however , because of the detection limits of both surveys , they could not detect a significant number of rq objects at radio wavelengths , and hence argued the existence of a secondary peak at the low end ( and thus bimodality ) based on two arguments : i ) the majority of sdss quasars ( @xmath7 ) were not detected in the first survey , thus they should lie at the low end of the radio loudness distribution , and ii ) deep radio studies showed that typical rq qsos have a factor of @xmath8 weaker radio emission than typical rl qsos , thus a secondary peak must exist .",
    "one of the most recent results on the quasar radio dichotomy comes from a stacking analysis of first 20  cm snapshot images at the positions of @xmath9 quasars from the sdss dr3 catalog @xcite .",
    "they showed that a shallow minimum exists between the rl and rq parts of the radio loudness distribution ; however , it was stressed that optical selection effects probably dominate the observed distribution of radio loudness .",
    "specifically , the authors discuss the difficulty of identification of sdss quasars at @xmath10 , where their colors are very similar to stellar colors ( see e.g. , @xcite ) , and support their claim by noting the strengthening of the bimodality for a subsample of quasars in that redshift range .",
    "@xcite have used monte carlo simulations of the quasar population in order to model the intrinsic radio loudness distribution .",
    "they have compared their simulated samples to three quasar samples ( 2df qrs , lbqs and pbqs ; see @xcite for details ) with first survey data and radio observations by @xcite .",
    "the three samples probe a wide range of radio loudness , but contain fewer than 200 radio - detected quasars in total .",
    "the authors reported that the best - fit radio - to - optical flux ratio distribution is a double - gaussian function with @xmath297% of the quasars in the rq , and @xmath23% in the rl component .",
    "however , they conclude that there is no minimum between the two gaussians , thus no bimodality exists ( but see @xcite for a different interpretation ) .    the main problems causing the discrepancies in literature regarding the existence or absence of a quasar radio loudness dichotomy lie either in the ambiguity of quasar selection , low number statistics , or severe selection biases linked to flux - limited samples ( because radio loudness is defined as a radio - to - optical flux ratio , i.e.  a ratio of two quantities drawn from flux limited samples ) . to properly address all of these biases , in the work presented here we utilize a monte carlo based approach similar to that in @xcite , but more robust and using a much larger sample of observed quasars ( the largest qso database currently available is the sdss quasar catalog ) .",
    "the outline of the paper is as follows . in section  [ sec : data ]  we present the data and our sample . in section  [ sec : algorithm ]  we outline our methodology and the simulation algorithms .",
    "we present our results in section  [ sec : results ] , and discuss them in section  [ sec : discussion ] .",
    "we summarize our conclusions in section  [ sec : summary ] . throughout the paper",
    "we report magnitudes in the ab system , for the optical as well as for the radio .",
    "we use standard cosmology ( @xmath11 km s@xmath4 mpc@xmath4 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 ) and quasar continuum spectrum defined as @xmath14 , where @xmath15 denotes frequency , @xmath16 is flux density and @xmath17 is the spectral index .",
    "for a robust study of the radio loudness of quasars it is necessary to use a large , statistically significant radio - optical sample of quasars that covers the broadest possible range in radio loudness .",
    "as quasars are rare objects ( e.g.  the space density of sdss quasars with @xmath18 is @xmath211  deg.@xmath19 ) a statistical sample can be assembled via large - area observations .",
    "on the other hand , achieving radio sensitivities over these fields deep enough to probe far into the radio - quiet regime with the current generation of radio interferometers is challenging , and unfeasible over fields larger than a few degrees .    because of",
    "the scaling of both radio and optical depth limits with surveyed areas , state - of - the - art surveys , such as e.g.  sdss - first ( @xmath29380  deg.@xmath20 , @xmath21 , @xmath22  mjy ; @xcite ) , stripe 82 ( 92  deg.@xmath20 , @xmath23 , @xmath24jy ; @xcite ) , cosmos ( 2  deg.@xmath20 , @xmath25 , @xmath26jy ; scoville et al .",
    "2007 ; schinnerer et al .  2007 ) , and vvds ( 1  deg.@xmath20 , @xmath27 , @xmath28jy ; @xcite ) cover a comparable radio loudness range , while smaller area surveys suffer from small number statistics in their optical quasar samples ( see e.g.  smoli ' c et al .  2008 ) . hence , for the analysis presented here we have utilized the largest available sample of quasars with radio coverage , drawn from the sdss and first sky surveys .    for the reasons outlined above",
    ", we use the sdss seventh data release quasar catalog @xcite .",
    "it contains 105,783 spectroscopically confirmed quasars taken from @xmath29,380  deg.@xmath20 of the sky .",
    "the catalog consists of objects with spectroscopy that 1 ) have reliable redshifts , 2 ) have at least one emission line with fwhm greater than 1000  km  s@xmath4  or interesting / complex absorption features , and 3 ) are more luminous than rest - frame @xmath29 ( in our cosmological model , assuming a power - law continuum with @xmath30 ) .",
    "the selection is based on sources @xmath31 magnitude and position in the multidimensional color - space based on five sdss photometric bands ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "the quasars in the sample have @xmath32 , but the majority of quasars are brighter than @xmath33 because the flux limit for the main spectroscopic sample is @xmath34 .",
    "in addition to the main spectroscopic sample , the catalog contains serendipitously identified quasars and sources selected for their proximity ( within 2  ) to a 1.4  ghz radio source drawn from the first survey .",
    "the rest of the quasars in the sample are matched to the first catalog to within a 2  radius .",
    "the radio flux densities at 20  cm ( 1.4 ghz ) are given in `` ab radio magnitudes '' : @xmath35 where @xmath36 is the radio flux density at 20  cm in jy .",
    "first is a radio survey at 1.4  ghz/20  cm , conducted with the karl g. jansky very large array ( vla ) in b - configuration @xcite .",
    "it has mapped approximately 10,000  deg.@xmath20 of the north galactic cap with a beam size of 5.4  and a typical rms sensitivity of 0.15 mjy / beam .",
    "flux density values used here are integrated over the two - dimensional gaussians fitted to each source . due to the lack of very short spacings in the vla b - configuration and the nature of the gaussian - fitting source detection algorithm ,",
    "fluxes for extended objects larger than about 10  are likely underestimated and split into multiple components in the first source catalog .",
    "we estimate that this does not significantly affect our sample as most of the radio - detected quasars are expected to be unresolved at the angular resolution of the first survey .",
    "multiple component sources are rare and in most cases radio - loud , which puts them high above the interesting transition region between rq and rl regimes ( e.g.  jiang et al .",
    "2007 ) . for a discussion of the distribution of integrated and peak flux densities and the extended source bias of first - detected sdss quasars",
    "we refer the reader to @xcite .",
    "nonetheless , we do take this effect into account statistically , using the first survey completeness correction derived specifically for sdss quasars ( see figure 1 in jiang et al .",
    "2007 , and references therein ) , taking into account both the source size and flux distribution .      following the sdss dr7 quasar sample notation ,",
    "hereafter we adopt the apparent radio magnitude ( @xmath37 ) for radio flux densities .",
    "the catalog lists 8,630 quasars with a radio detection within 2  from the optical source position . for radio",
    "luminosity here we use the 1.4  ghz/20  cm absolute radio magnitude ( @xmath38 ) , derived from the apparent radio magnitude using a k - correction of the form @xmath39 ( e.g.  richards et  al .",
    "2006 ) , assuming @xmath30 for each quasar ( e.g.  kimball & ivezi 2008 ) .",
    "for the optical luminosity we use the emission - line - corrected absolute magnitude in the rest - frame sdss @xmath31 band ( @xmath40  ) .",
    "the reason for this choice is that the sdss @xmath31-band was used to construct the flux - limited dr7 quasar sample and that @xmath31 magnitudes are available even for quasars at the highest redshift .",
    "prior to computing the absolute @xmath31 magnitudes for the quasar continua , we have corrected the cataloged apparent magnitudes for galactic extinction using the extinction maps of @xcite .",
    "to get continuum magnitudes , we subtract the contribution of emission lines to the @xmath31 band using a function derived by @xcite . using the mean sdss quasar spectrum ,",
    "they have calculated the contributions of major quasar emission lines ( above the power - law continuum ) as a function of redshift , up to @xmath41 . after the subtraction of this contribution to the @xmath31-band apparent magnitudes , we use the canonical k - correction with @xmath30 .",
    "given the high uncertainty of this correction for @xmath42 , hereafter we exclude 56 quasars with @xmath42 from our sample .",
    "for details of the calculation see section 5 and figure 15 in @xcite . in order to get a cleaner optical selection , we exclude the quasars selected only on the basis of their proximity to a first source . after the exclusion of those quasars , the @xmath43 quasars and those with uncertain photometry , we are left with 8,307 quasars in our main radio - optical subsample .",
    "our main optical sample consists of 98,544 quasars .",
    "if one had a complete volume - limited quasar sample with both rest - frame optical and radio luminosities , studies of the radio loudness distribution would be simple .",
    "for example , if radio and optical luminosities were linearly correlated ( regardless of the physics of such a setup ) , the radio - to - optical luminosity ratio distribution would be very narrow and the radio versus optical luminosity diagram would show a straight narrow band .",
    "another possible situation could be a broad distribution of the radio - to - optical luminosity ratio , with perhaps evidence for its two - component nature ( dichotomy ) , with or without evidence for a local minimum ( bimodality ) . in this case",
    ", the radio versus optical luminosity diagram would show a broadly dispersed line or two possibly overlapping lines , one for the rq and one for the rl quasars ( see the bottom two panels of figure  [ fig : models ] for an illustration ) .",
    "if the sampled redshift range was sufficiently broad , one could even perform such studies for subsamples selected from narrow redshift slices , and search for evidence of evolution in the inferred properties with cosmic time .",
    "unfortunately , such a complete sample does not exist .",
    "the main difficulty when working with real samples is that both optical and radio data are truncated at finite flux levels , and this strong selection effect must be properly accounted for .",
    "there are additional effects , such as k - corrections and optical variability , which can be handled to some extent , as discussed further below . in order to utilize existing samples",
    ", various statistical methods have been used in published work to account for the observational effects , as briefly reviewed in section  1 .",
    "here we use monte carlo simulations , with the following main logical steps :    1 .",
    "the main sample is defined at optical wavelengths , with various selection effects , and the main observable is the optical apparent magnitude .",
    "the sample also contains redshifts for all quasars and radio magnitudes for a subset of radio - detected quasars .",
    "the selection function for the sample is well known .",
    "only a subset of real optical sources from the main sample are detected at radio wavelengths , comprising the main radio - optical subsample .",
    "they have a certain distribution of radio magnitudes and , at least in principle , a different distribution of optical magnitudes than the main optical sample .",
    "the distributions of radio and optical magnitudes for the radio - optical subsample are the main constraints on models for the relationship between the radio and optical luminosities .",
    "3 .   given a quasar from the main optical sample with certain optical luminosity , a parametrized model generates its radio luminosity ( as detailed below ) . using its implied apparent radio magnitude and the radio selection function ,",
    "this object is either retained or rejected from the simulated radio - optical sample .",
    "starting with the main optical sample , the simulation produces a subset of quasars with simulated radio magnitudes  a simulated radio - optical subsample .",
    "the distribution of simulated radio magnitudes for this subsample , as well as its corresponding distribution of optical magnitudes , is compared to observed radio and optical magnitude distributions of the main radio - optical subsample , and utilized in a @xmath44 minimisation procedure to get the best - fit model parameters .",
    "although the monte carlo sample utilizes observed optical magnitudes , its radio magnitudes are generated stochastically .",
    "therefore , there is no object - to - object correspondence between the real radio - optical subsample and the simulated radio - optical subsample . for a good model",
    ", we expect a statistical agreement for two main quantities : i ) optical magnitude distribution , and ii ) radio magnitude distribution between the observed and simulated radio - optical subsamples . for simulating the radio luminosities we initially use four models independent of redshift and optical luminosity and the complete main sample presented in section  [ sec : mainsample ] .",
    "however , once we select the best model , we investigate the redshift evolution and dependence on optical luminosity for its parameters .",
    "the following subsection defines radio loudness and describes the models considered in this work .",
    "the rest of this section describes the simulation algorithm ( section [ sec : simul ] ) , the optimization strategy ( section [ sec : optimization ] ) and the evaluation of our method on purely artificial data ( section [ sec : artif ] ) .",
    "we use four different models for the relationship between the radio continuum luminosity at 1.4  ghz ( @xmath45 ) and optical continuum luminosity in the sdss  @xmath31 band ( @xmath46 ) .",
    "their relationship is parametrized using radio loudness ( @xmath47 ) defined as : @xmath48 here @xmath49 is either 0 or 1 and it selects one of the two different families of models that correspond to two common definitions of radio loudness found in the literature .",
    "for @xmath50 the distribution of radio loudness simply equals the distribution of radio luminosities ( thus rl quasars are defined as being more luminous than some threshold radio luminosity ; e.g.  @xcite , also examined in @xcite and @xcite ) , while for @xmath51 radio loudness is defined as the logarithm of the radio - to - optical luminosity ratio ( with rl quasars having this ratio greater than some threshold ; e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "each definition is suitable for a specific model of the relationship between radio and optical luminosities .",
    "we have considered four simple models for the radio luminosity : two in which it is independent of the optical luminosity and two in which it is directly proportional to the optical luminosity . in the former case radio loudness",
    "is properly defined with @xmath50 , @xmath52 and radio luminosity is modeled as @xmath53 . in the latter case , the proper definition of radio loudness is @xmath51 , @xmath54 , hence the radio luminosity model is @xmath55 . in both cases , we examine single- and double - gaussian distributions of radio loudness .",
    "the designations of the models in this paper and their basic descriptions ( where pdf stands for probability density function ) are :    * m1 : @xmath50 , @xmath56 has a gaussian pdf * m2 : @xmath50 , @xmath56 has a double gaussian pdf * m3 : @xmath51 , @xmath57 has a gaussian pdf * m4 : @xmath51 , @xmath57 has a double gaussian pdf    examples of all four models are plotted in figure  [ fig : models ] . models m1 and m3 are two - parameter models , with the free parameters being @xmath58 ( the mean of the gaussian ) and @xmath59 ( the width of the gaussian ) .",
    "models m2 and m4 have five free parameters : two for each gaussian ( @xmath60 , @xmath61 , @xmath62 and @xmath63 ) and an additional parameter @xmath64 , which determines the ratio between the integrals of the two gaussians . in all cases",
    "the overall normalization is determined automatically by the requirement that the number of radio - detected quasars in the simulated radio - optical samples matches the number in the observed sdss - first sample .",
    "-@xmath38 plane .",
    "the radio loudness distribution is a single gaussian for models m1 and m3 and a double gaussian for models m2 and m4 .",
    "note that , in general , the gaussians forming the two - component radio loudness distribution may exhibit complete , partial or no overlap , regardless of the model . in models",
    "m1 and m2 the radio absolute magnitude ( @xmath38 ) is independent of the optical absolute magnitude ( @xmath65 ) , while in models m3 and m4 @xmath38 is proportional to @xmath65 for every quasar . for clarity axis labels are shown only for the bottom - left panel , but they are the same for all panels .",
    "the dotted lines show where @xmath66 .",
    "[ fig : models ] ]    initially , we use these four models to simulate radio - optical samples based on the complete main optical sample of 98,544 sdss quasars and match them to the radio - optical subsample . later we search for redshift evolution and dependence of the radio loudness distribution shape on optical luminosity not by adjusting the models , but rather by separating the main sample into smaller samples constrained in redshift and optical luminosity .",
    "possible trends can then be inferred by observing how best - fit model parameters change between different subsamples .        for all radio loudness models that we have considered , the simulated radio magnitude  ( @xmath37 ) was calculated for each optically detected quasar in the main optical sample presented in section  [ sec : mainsample ] .",
    "this sample contains 98,544 optically detected quasars with all of the selection biases introduced by the dr7 quasar catalog , except for the radio - only selection which was eliminated from the catalog for this work .",
    "since we compare our simulated radio - optical subsamples to the radio - optical subsample of that catalog ( i.e.  to the sources also detected in the radio ) , this biased sample is indeed the most valid optical sample for our simulations .",
    "another option for the optical sample would be a simulated sample produced from an empirical luminosity function . however , such an approach suffers from two main problems : i ) a simulated optical sample would be free of selection biases ( assuming selection bias was properly corrected in the construction of the luminosity function ) and therefore we would additionally need to simulate the sdss optical selection ; and ii ) observed optical counts are difficult to simulate with proper uncertainties included ( e.g.  from photometry uncertainty , conversion between photometric bands , k - corrections , optical variability etc . ) unless the same uncertainties have been considered during the generation of the luminosity function ( see e.g.  @xcite for an approach that does involve substantial consideration of uncertainties ) .      in each simulation",
    ", we assign an apparent radio magnitude  ( @xmath37 ) to each quasar from the main optical sample .",
    "the apparent radio magnitude @xmath37 is calculated from the absolute radio magnitude @xmath38 , which is modelled according to equation  ( [ eq : rdef ] ) as @xmath67 where @xmath49 takes on values of 0 or 1 and @xmath47 is a random variable drawn from either a gaussian or a double - gaussian probability distribution , depending on the model ( see section  [ sec : models ] ) .    to convert from @xmath38 to @xmath37 we use a k - correction of the form @xmath39 ( e.g.  richards et al .",
    "2006 ) , assuming @xmath30 for each quasar ( e.g.  kimball & ivezi 2008 ) , and including corresponding uncertainties .",
    "thus , @xmath68 where @xmath69 is the distance modulus and @xmath70 is the k - correction for @xmath30 , both dependent on quasar s redshift .",
    "the last term is a normally distributed random variable accounting for uncertainties in k - corrections and photometry .",
    "its mean is zero and the standard deviation ( @xmath71 ) can be estimated by considering the scatter in the measured radio spectral indices ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "as the standard deviation in spectral indices is approximately 0.3 , it follows from the definition of the k - correction that @xmath72 for @xmath73 , where the number density of quasars is maximal .",
    "this uncertainty completely dominates the small photometric uncertainty ( typically 0.03 - 0.04 mag ) .    for our @xmath50 models ( m1 and m2 ) equation  ( [ eq : radioabsmag ] ) simplifies to @xmath74 , hence @xmath75 for our @xmath51 models ( m3 and m4 ) @xmath76 the absolute optical magnitude is @xmath77 where @xmath69 is the distance modulus , @xmath78 is the k - correction and the remaining two terms account for the scatter in k - correction , photometry ( normal distribution , @xmath79 ) , and variability ( exponential distribution , @xmath80 ) . the optical spectral index distribution with an average of @xmath81 and a standard deviation of 0.3 @xcite yields @xmath82 , taking into account that the optical photometric errors ( typically @xmath83 magnitude ) are negligible .",
    "optical variability scatter has an empirically determined exponential distribution with zero mean and @xmath84 @xcite . finally , inserting the expression for @xmath65 into equation  ( [ eq : tk1temp ] ) , the distance moduli cancel out , as well as the mean k - corrections ( because of our assumption of the same mean spectral index in the optical and radio bands ) , and",
    "the normally distributed uncertainties @xmath71 and @xmath85 add up in quadrature , yielding a convenient expression for @xmath37 in our @xmath51 models : @xmath86    our simulation algorithm assigns radio magnitudes to optically detected quasars by drawing random numbers from appropriate distributions specified by equations  ( [ eq : tk0 ] ) , for m1 and m2 , and  ( [ eq : tk1 ] ) , for m3 and m4 .",
    "each simulated radio - optical sample ( consisting of 98,544 quasars with apparent optical and radio magnitudes ) is then subjected to the radio selection function in order to produce a smaller subsample of radio - detected quasars corresponding to the observed radio - optical sample from sdss and first .",
    "all quasars fainter than the first flux limit at 1  mjy are rejected .",
    "some of the quasars above the first flux limit are randomly rejected in order to mimic survey incompleteness .",
    "this is performed by randomly choosing and excluding a number of quasars in narrow @xmath37-magnitude bins , with the fraction of excluded objects being determined by the completeness function of the survey up to its flux limit ( see figure  1 in @xcite ) . at the end of this procedure ,",
    "each simulated radio - optical subsample is one particular realization of the real radio - optical subsample drawn from sdss and first .",
    "the simulated radio - optical subsamples after radio selection have to consist of approximately 8,300 quasars to at least roughly match the observations , which sets the overall normalization for our models .",
    "each of the simulated radio - selected subsamples ( `` realizations '' hereafter ) is binned into 10 bins in @xmath37 , @xmath31 , @xmath87 and @xmath88 distributions .",
    "we chose to examine these four distributions to provide better constraints for our models ; in principle , weaker constraints , always consistent with those derived by using all four distributions , can be can be obtained with any subset of these distributions that includes either @xmath37 or @xmath89 .",
    "note that the @xmath89 distribution is a proxi to the radio loudness distribution in the case of @xmath51 ; otherwise it is just an additional constraint on the relation between @xmath37 and @xmath31 magnitudes .",
    "the bin values are added to a pool of realizations simulated with identical model parameters .",
    "the radio magnitude assignment , the selection procedure and the binning need to be repeated a large number of times for a given model and a set of its parameters in order to properly account for the stochasticity of particular realizations .",
    "the aim of this monte carlo procedure is to calculate the mean distributions of @xmath37 , @xmath31 , @xmath87 and @xmath89 for a given set of model parameters and derive their expected variance .",
    "we calculate the mean and the standard deviation of the number of simulated objects in each bin ( @xmath90 and @xmath91 in the equation below ) from a large number of realizations and compute the total @xmath44 with respect to the binned @xmath37 , @xmath31 , @xmath87 and @xmath89 distributions of the real sdss - first data .",
    "the @xmath44 is defined as @xmath92 where the sum runs over all 40 bins , while @xmath93 is the number of real quasars in a particular bin and @xmath90 and @xmath91 are the mean and the standard deviation for that bin , determined from the simulations as described above .",
    "although the four binned distributions are not entirely independent of each other ( in particular , @xmath89 is a linear combination of @xmath31 and @xmath37 ) , the tests on artificial data ( see section  [ sec : artif ] ) have shown that the number of degrees of freedom may be assumed as if the bins were independent .",
    "therefore , the number of degrees of freedom equals @xmath94 , where @xmath95 is the total number of bins used for evaluation and @xmath96 is the number of free parameters of a particular model .",
    "hereafter we refer to one evaluation of @xmath44 from its distribution given a large number of realizations , as a `` simulation '' and abbreviate the number of realizations per simulation with @xmath97 .",
    "it is a general property of monte carlo simulations to converge to an average result only after the experiment is repeated a large number of times .",
    "we test the convergence by examining how the means @xmath44 , standard deviations and minimum / maximum values for different simulations with same @xmath97 .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  [ fig : nstack ] for model m4 ( analogous results follow from any of the models considered here ) with a fixed arbitrarily chosen set of its parameters and a range of different @xmath97 .",
    "clearly , a larger number of realizations per simulation reduces the probability of getting outlying @xmath44 values that significantly deviate from the mean @xmath44 for the simulated model , but at the expense of computing time .",
    "we have found it more time - effective to work with a relatively small number of realizations in our optimization procedure and correct for the scatter in the @xmath44 values just before deriving the marginal probability density functions for model parameters ( see section [ sec : optimization ] ) . due to computing time constraints , we chose to calculate 1000 realizations per simulation as a reasonable compromise between accuracy and computing time .",
    "the calibration shown in figure [ fig : nstack ] shows that for @xmath98 one should expect variations with standard deviation of @xmath22% . for @xmath99",
    "the variation drops to 1.2% , which does not represent a significant improvement compared to @xmath98 .",
    "the computing time scales linearly with the number of realizations per simulation , so @xmath99 would require three times more computing time than @xmath98 .     to a unique value ( represented here as the mean @xmath44 for @xmath100 ) as the number of realizations per simulation ( @xmath97 ) increases .",
    "while smaller @xmath97 requires less computing time , such simulations have greater variance of @xmath44 between them . for",
    "each given number of realizations per simulation , the same model ( m4 here , with all parameters fixed ) was simulated 1000 times in order to find the mean ( large black rectangles ) , the standard deviation ( smaller black rectangles at the ends of black lines ) and minimum / maximum values of @xmath44 ( gray rectangles at the ends of gray dotted lines ) for a given @xmath97 .",
    "the insets show distributions of @xmath44 values for three selected @xmath97 values indicated in the upper left corner of each inset .",
    "the dashed vertical lines in the insets show the mean ( thick ) and the standard deviation ( thin lines ) .",
    "[ fig : nstack ] ]      since there is no a priori indication that the parameter space for our models is simple , e.g.  that there is a single minimum of the total @xmath44 , we began to search the parameter space with a random walk across a wide range of parameters .",
    "the algorithm we used to initially sample the parameter spaces with 2 to 5 dimensions , is a metropolis algorithm ( metropolis et al .",
    "several runs of the algorithm were used to identify the area around the global minimum of @xmath44 for each of the models .",
    "the program would then proceed to evaluate the region on a regular grid , so that marginal probability distributions could be estimated .",
    "we have used three levels of refinement of the grid in order to be able to sample well the narrow region around the global minimum of @xmath44 .",
    "since variations displayed in figure [ fig : nstack ] are expected to occur in the evaluation process , we needed to take into account the fact that some simulations resulted in @xmath44 values as low as the minimum @xmath44 value , although their mean @xmath44 would be much larger .",
    "for all parameter space points for which @xmath44 was found to be less than 5 @xmath101 ( recall that this is @xmath22% for @xmath98 ) above the lowest value found , the optimization would proceed to map the surrounding parameter space in more detail ( typically , with a factor of 3 more resolution in all dimensions ) .    for computation of the marginal probability density functions for model parameters , we assigned them the probability normally associated with @xmath44 values : @xmath102 where @xmath103 is a vector ( a set of coordinates ) in the parameter space of some model .",
    "the marginal probability of a certain parameter value is then the sum of the probabilities over all other parameter space dimensions .",
    "the probability density functions were normalized a posteriori so that the sum of probabilities of each bin in the parameter values equals unity . to cope with the problem of the internal scatter in @xmath44 values ( see section [ sec : chi2evaluation ] ) , we used a special procedure to compute realistic probability density functions which take into account that the computed @xmath44 may vary according to figure [ fig : nstack ] .",
    "first , we estimate the standard deviation of @xmath44 from the calculations illustrated in figure [ fig : nstack ] and described in the caption ; e.g.  the fractional standard deviation for @xmath98 is @xmath22% .",
    "then , we calculate the corrected marginal probability density functions by adding a normal random variate with standard deviation equal to 2% of the lowest @xmath44 value to the previously computed @xmath44 values , calculating the probability distributions in each case and repeating this procedure many times .",
    "this monte carlo method requires @xmath21000 repetitions for the resulting mean marginal probability density function to converge .",
    "we derive the asymmetric error bars on parameter values as intervals containing @xmath104% of the total probability around the median of the marginal probability density function for each parameter .      in order to evaluate our method and better",
    "understand the possible uncertainties and biases it involves , we first simulated artificial datasets resembling real data in all aspects , differing only in the fact that their radio loudness distributions are exactly known . treating them the exact same way as the observational data , we have reconstructed their model parameter values and compared them to the input ones .    for a set of artificial datasets constructed with the radio models presented in section  [ sec : models ] ,",
    "the parameters were reconstructed to within 3@xmath59 uncertainties in all trials .",
    "the distribution of the reconstructed parameters , normalized to their respective standard deviations , is displayed in figure  [ fig : testing ] .",
    "the lowest @xmath44 values reached in optimizations were @xmath105 , yielding a reduced @xmath44 of  @xmath21 if the problem has the number of degrees of freedom as if the fitted distributions were independent ( see section  [ sec : chi2evaluation ] ) .    we have also tried fitting an m4 ( @xmath51 ) model to artificial datasets constructed with model m2 ( @xmath50 ) .",
    "a good fit should not be possible in that case .",
    "the lowest @xmath44 values in most of these cases stayed above @xmath21000 .",
    "the fitted parameters present in both models ( e.g.  @xmath60 , @xmath62 ) would often be several standard deviations from their correct values .",
    "we consider this result to be an indication of what may be expected if none of the models considered in this work yield an adequate description of the observed data .",
    "tests performed with other models are consistent with the above results .    ) relative to the input parameters of our artificial datasets ( x@xmath106 ) , normalized to the derived standard deviation of the reconstructed parameters ( @xmath107 ) .",
    "the data is displayed for 20 optimizations on artificial samples constructed with model m4 , which has 5 free parameters .",
    "the vertical error bars represent poissonian noise .",
    "the solid black line marks the gaussian fitted to the data , which is a close match to the ideal gaussian with @xmath108 ( dashed line ) , verifying that with our method it is possible to reconstruct the model parameters as expected from statistics .",
    "[ fig : testing ] ]",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "our best - fit model hints at the possibility that there might exist two distinct populations of quasars , assuming that the double - gaussian parametrization is an appropriate one . considering the fraction of radio loudness distributions that show bimodality within 1@xmath59 confidence intervals of our best - fit model parameters , the probability that the global radio loudness distribution is bimodal is @xmath220% .",
    "therefore , we can neither confirm nor firmly exclude that the radio loudness distribution is bimodal .",
    "a more robust result , however , is that the radio loudness distribution of sdss - first quasars can be described much better with two gaussians than with a single one .",
    "this would imply that rl quasars obey a different relationship between radio and optical luminosity compared to rq quasars . in this paper",
    "we parametrize our models so that there is either no relationship between radio and optical luminosities ( @xmath50 models , m1 and m2 ) , or @xmath109 ( @xmath51 models , m3 and m4 ) for both types of quasars .",
    "the latter parametrization , for which we find a significantly better fit than for the former one , implies that the constant terms of the relationship ( parameters @xmath60 and @xmath62 , locations of the two guassian peaks in @xmath57 ) and its scatter ( @xmath61 and @xmath63 , widths of the gaussians in @xmath57 ) are different for the two classes of quasars . in general , the proportionality between the radio and optical luminosity might be different for each of the two quasar classes , but this type of a model was not considered in the work presented here .    investigating a possible dependence on redshift or optical luminosity in our sdss - first sample",
    ", we have found a statistically good fit when the full sample is divided into 16 subsamples , each fitted independently ( reduced @xmath44=291/224=1.3 , summed over the 16 subsamples ) .",
    "the parameters describing the rq gaussian ( @xmath60 and @xmath61 ) were found not to vary significantly , which is not unexpected since this gaussian is constrained only by its fall - off towards the rl regime . a possible trend with the absolute optical magnitude",
    "is suggested for the parameters describing the rl gaussian ( @xmath62 and @xmath63 ) and the radio - loud fraction ( @xmath64 ) .",
    "the optically bright quasars appear to be better described by an rl gaussian which is louder ( larger @xmath62 ) , a smaller dispersion ( @xmath63 ) and a lower radio - loud fraction ( @xmath64 ) than the optically faint quasars .",
    "there is a slight possibility that the trends are biased by the redshift - luminosity correlation inherent in all flux - limited surveys , but our method was designed specifically to avoid that kind of bias .",
    "our tests performed on artificial datasets ( see section  [ sec : artif ] ) lend confidence that model parameters can be recovered correctly to within statistical uncertainties under a variety of different conditions .    .",
    "note that bimodality seems to have been more prominent at high redshift and that it flattened out at low redshift .",
    "the same general trend is detectable in fainter subsamples , but the shape of the distribution does not change in a monotonous manner . [ fig : shapeshift ] ]    figure  [ fig : shapeshift ] shows a possibly significant change of the radio loudness distribution shape implied from our results for quasars with @xmath110 ( the brightest subsample in each redshift bin ) .",
    "this apparent shift of the rl peak and the change in its width could be indicative that the radio loudness distribution becomes increasingly bimodal at high redshift .",
    "a monotonous change in the radio loudness distribution shape is clearly visible for our subsamples with @xmath110 , indicating that radio - loud quasars are rarer , louder and less spread out in their loudness at high redshift .",
    "the same general trend is roughly detectable for subsamples with @xmath111 , but the change of the radio loudness distribution shape is not nearly as clear and continuous as for the @xmath110 subsamples .",
    "we wish to emphasize that we understand selection effects for the @xmath110 subsample much better than for the @xmath111 subsample .",
    "first , the quasar targeting is complete only for @xmath18 candidates .",
    "second , the quasar variability will introduce an rms scatter of 0.2 - 0.3 magnitudes and thus blur this supposedly sharp flux limit .",
    "hence , our choice of @xmath110 binning defines the faintest sample for which the simple sdss optical selection function is highly reliable .",
    "the lack of clear and continuous change in fainter samples may be reflecting the lower reliability of the @xmath111 objects in the sdss quasar sample , or indicate that the dependence of the radio loudness distribution on redshift or optical luminosity is not monotonous .",
    "we plan to investigate this in the future with more complex model and different statistics ( e.g.  maximum likelihood ) , so that more information may be extracted from the existing data .      previous work on the issue of the bimodality in the radio loudness distribution of quasars were either based on small samples of quasars , or large but less reliable ones . for example , @xcite and @xcite used spectroscopically confirmed samples of 636 , 141 and 195 radio - detected quasars , respectively , while @xcite used photometric samples with @xmath24400 and @xmath210,000 radio - detected quasar candidate sources . in comparison to those results , the results presented here have considerably better statistics and reliability . our result",
    "that a two - component model with a direct proportionality between radio and optical luminosities fits the observed data best is consistent with @xcite , who have used a method similar to ours on a much smaller heterogeneous sample . using a stacking analysis of the first data to probe faint radio fluxes",
    ", @xcite also found a strong dependence of the median radio luminosity of quasars on the optical luminosity .",
    "our results can be compared to some of the previous ones as plotted in figure  [ fig : usporedba ] .",
    "the prominent minimum separating the rq and rl gaussians observed at @xmath1121.3 by @xcite and @xcite is likely due to the incompleteness of the first survey at its faint end .",
    "in the region around @xmath113 , first is not more than @xmath270% complete for the faintest radio sources , but this was not taken into account in the earlier works .",
    "the plot also shows how our result would change in the case where we neglect first incompleteness and assume it is 100% complete down to its flux limit  in that case we would have found a weak bimodality with a minimum at @xmath1121 .",
    "its relative weakness in comparison to previous results can be understood as a difference in the fraction of optically faint quasars in the sample , which is lower in our case ( 45% here compared to @xmath275 in other cases ) , and which limits the influence of incompleteness to lower values of @xmath57 .",
    "note that the flux limit in the radio is the same for all three studies compared in figure  [ fig : usporedba ] , so optically fainter samples introduce incompleteness at a higher value of @xmath57 .",
    "some of the difference with previous results may also be related to the uncertainties arrising from k - corrections and optical variability .     versus @xmath114 .",
    "the thick solid line is the intrinsic radio loudness distribution ( @xmath57 ) with parameters given in table  [ tab : results - all ] for model m4 .",
    "the thick dashed line shows the result one would obtain with our sample by not accounting for the incompleteness of first survey near its flux limit .",
    "[ fig : usporedba ] ]    a small degree of discrepancy exists in the fraction of rl quasars between our and previous results ; @xmath115 ( inferred here ) compared to @xmath116 from @xcite and @xmath117 from @xcite .",
    "we have defined the radio - loud quasar fraction as the ratio between the areas under the rl and rq gaussians , denoted in our models as parameter @xmath64 .",
    "in other words , the fraction of rl quasars is the fraction of quasars whose radio loudness is determined by the rl gaussian .",
    "note that with this definition the range of radio loudness between the rl and rq peaks is shared by both types of quasars .",
    "@xcite have used that definition as well , but @xcite defined radio - loud quasars as the ones having @xmath118 .",
    "this definition is more practical and a radio loudness may be unambiguously assigned to each individual quasar . with this definition ,",
    "our rl fraction is @xmath119 , consistent with the results of @xcite .",
    "@xcite have found that the fraction of rl quasars depends both on optical luminosity and redshift , practically independent of the exact definition of an rl quasar .",
    "they have found that the fraction of rl quasars , when defined with a threshold in radio loudness is higher for optically bright quasars and at low redshift .",
    "our results tentatively confirm that such trends exist , albeit at low significance ( see the lowest panel in figure  [ fig : izbins ] ) . with our definition of the rl fraction ( the fraction of quasars in the radio - loud gaussian , @xmath64 ) the trend with respect to the optical luminosity seems to be just the opposite ",
    "@xmath64 tends to be lower for optically brighter quasars .",
    "note , however , that even if the radio loudness distribution shape changes ( e.g.  as in our @xmath110 results shown in figure  [ fig : shapeshift ] ) , the fraction of rl quasars defined with a threshold in radio loudness can remain constant or have an opposite trend than parameter @xmath64 .",
    "in order to check for consistency with @xcite , we have performed additional fits to subsamples derived from the original main sample by dividing it into narrow bins in apparent optical magnitude .",
    "as displayed in figure  [ fig : narbins ] , the fraction of rl quasars calculated from the best - fit m4 models for each subsample , using a threshold in radio loudness , matches the data from @xcite very well .",
    "magnitude ( grey symbols and lines ) . for comparison ,",
    "the same result from jiang et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) is plotted in black .",
    "m4 model parameters for each subsample were obtained independently and radio - loud fraction was calculated by integrating the analytic form of the best - fit radio loudness distribution function ( e.g.  it is not the @xmath64 parameter of model m4 ) .",
    "[ fig : narbins ] ]    in broad agreement with previous work by other authors , our current results imply that the radio loudness distribution did not have the same shape at all times in cosmic history .",
    "it might be possible to investigate this in the future using deep radio imaging of samples in thin redshift slices .",
    "for example , @xcite have used deep imaging with evla to probe a statistically complete sample of quasars in a narrow redshift bin at @xmath120 .",
    "they found that the radio loudness distribution can be well explained with a superposition of two qso populations ( radio - loud , which is agn - dominated and radio - quiet , dominated by star formation in the host galaxy ) , and their distribution of radio luminosity appears similar to the best - fit two - component model presented here . since currently available survey data lacks either depth in the radio or significant sky coverage , the data from the newer generation of radio instrumentation ( jvla , ska ) will be essential in order to fully constrain the radio loudness distribution and ultimately , understand its physical origin .",
    "in this paper we present monte carlo simulations of the optically - selected quasar population fine - tuned to study the radio loudness distribution of quasars . we investigate four different models based on single and double gaussian distributions and different radio - to - optical luminosity relationships .",
    "our aim was to investigate the long - standing ambiguity in the existence of the intrinsic difference between radio - quiet and radio - loud quasars and in particular , the existence of bimodality in their radio loudness distribution .",
    "the sample used here , based on sdss dr7 quasar catalog matched to the first survey , is the largest ever analyzed ( 8307 radio - detected quasars ) , uniformly selected and reliable ( spectroscopically confirmed ) , and the method properly accounts for uncertainties in the k - corrections , optical variability and survey incompleteness .",
    "we find that the best - fit model for this sdss - first quasar sample is a two - component model , but the components overlap so that radio loudness bimodality ( i.e.  a minimum between the radio loud and quiet portions of the distribution ) is not apparent .",
    "statistics of our fits indicate that even our best - fit model does not describe the data optimally , although it is significantly better than any other model we used . our main result , that the radio loudness distribution of quasars likely consists of at least two components , agrees with earlier findings indicating the existence of two distinct populations of quasars . in the framework of the simple two - component models presented here",
    ", we conclude that bimodality is not likely in a sample which , like ours , covers a broad redshift and optical luminosity range , even if it is present in narrower redshift and magnitude bins ( e.g. at @xmath121 and @xmath110 ) .",
    "we also conclude that the distribution is unlikely to be universal , i.e.  independent of redshift or optical luminosity .    investigating possible redshift and optical luminosity dependence of the radio loudness distribution",
    ", we have found that a monotonous change of its shape is visible for quasars with @xmath110 .",
    "it would imply that at high redshift radio - loud quasars were rarer , on average louder and less spread out in radio loudness .",
    "the same general trend is marginally detectable for fainter quasars in the sample , but the smooth change of the radio loudness distribution shape is not nearly as apparent as for @xmath110 . we further conclude that the radio loudness distribution is likely dependent on redshift and/or optical luminosity , but we can not disentangle the two dependencies with current models and data .",
    "we expect more sophisticated two - component models to adequately describe the two classes of quasars in future work on this topic .",
    "the research leading to these results has received funding from the european union s seventh framework programme under grant agreement 229517 .",
    "i. acknowledges support by nsf grant ast-0807500 to the university of washington , nsf grant ast-0551161 to lsst for design and development activity , and by the croatian national science foundation grant o-1548 - 2009 .",
    "v.  s. acknowledges support from nasa grant hst - go-09822.31-a .",
    "m.  b. acknowledges support from the international fulbright science and technology award .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/. the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "barthel , p.  d. 1989 , , 336 , 606 becker , r.  h. , white , r.  l. , & helfand , d.  j.  1995 , , 450 , 559 blandford , r.  d. , & znajek , r.  l.  1977 , , 179 , 433 blandford , r.  d.  1990 , active galactic nuclei , 161 bondi , m. , et  al .",
    "2003 a&a , 403 , 857 bower r.  g. , benson a.  j. , malbon r. , helly j.  c. , frenk c.  s. , baugh c.  m. , cole s. , lacey , c.  g. 2006 , , 370 , 645 cirasuolo , m. , celotti , a. , magliocchetti , m. , & danese , l.  2003 , , 341 , 993 cirasuolo , m. , celotti , a. , magliocchetti , m. , & danese , l.  2003 , , 346 , 447 croton d.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 365 , 11 fan , x. , et al .",
    "2003 , 125 , 1649 fan , x. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 131 , 1203 fanidakis , n. , baugh , c.  m. , benson , a.  j. , bower , r.  g. , cole , s. , done , c. , & frenk , c.  s.  2010 , , 1547 garofalo , d. , evans , d.  a. , & sambruna , r.  m.  2010 , , 406 , 975 hamilton , t.  s.  2010 , , 407 , 2393 hardcastle , m.  j. , evans , d.  a. , croston , j.  h.  2006 , , 370 , 1893 hodge , j.  a. , becker , r.  h. , white , r.  l. , richards , g.  t. , zeimann , g.  r. 2011 , arxiv:1103.5749 hughes , s.  a. , & blandford , r.  d.  2003 , , 585 , l101 ivezi ,  .",
    ", et al .",
    "2002 , , 124 , 2364 ivezi ,  . , et al .",
    "2004 proceedings of iau symposium no .",
    "222 , p. 525",
    "( also astro - ph/0404487 ) ivezi ,  . , et al",
    ".  2004 , asp conf .",
    "ser .  311 : agn physics with the sloan digital sky survey , 311 , 347 ( also astro - ph/0310569 ) jiang , l. , fan , x. , ivezi ,  . , richards , g.  t. , schneider , d.  p. , strauss , m.  a. & kelly , b.  c. 2007 , , 656 , 680 kellermann , k.  i. , sramek , r. , schmidt , m. , shaffer , d.  b. , & green , r.  1989 , , 98 , 1195 kimball , a.  e. , ivezi ,  . , 2008 , , 136 , 684 kimball , a.  e. , kellermann , k.  i. , condon , j.  j. , ivezi ,  . , perley , r.  a.  2011 , , 739 , 29 lacy , m. , laurent - muehleisen , s.  a. , ridgway , s.  e. , becker , r.  h. , & white , r.  l.  2001 , , 551 , l17 lagos , c.  d.  p. , padilla , n.  d. , & cora , s.  a.  2009 , , 395 , 625 laor , a.  2000 , , 543 , 111 laor , a. , & behar , e.  2008 , , 390 , 847 la franca , f. & cristiani , s.  1997 , , 113 , 1517 le fvre , o. , saisse , m. , mancini , d. et  al .",
    "2003 , proc .",
    "spie , 4841 , 1670 mclure , r.  j. , & jarvis , m.  j.  2004 , , 353 , l45 metropolis , n. , rosenbluth , a. w. , rosenbluth , m. n. , teller , a. h. , & teller , e. 1953 , j. chem .",
    ", 21 , 1087 miller , l. , peacock , j.  a. , & mead , a.  r.  g.  1990 , , 244 , 207 narayan , r. , igumenshchev , i.  v. & abramowicz , m.  a. 2000 , , 539 , 798 peacock , j.  a. , miller , l. , & longair , m.  s.  1986 , , 218 , 265 richards , g.  t. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 123 , 2945 richards , g.  t. et al .",
    "2006 , , 131 , 2766 schneider , d.  p. et al .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 2360 schlegel , d.  j. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , & davis , m. 1998 , , 500 , 525 sesar , b. , ivezi ,  . , lupton , r.  h. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 134 , 2236 shankar , f. , sivakoff , g.  r. , vestergaard , m. , & dai , x.  2010 , , 401 , 1869 sijacki , d. , springel , v. , di matteo , t. , hernquist , l.  2007 , , 380 , 877 sikora , m. , stawarz ,  .",
    ", & lasota , j .-",
    "2007 , , 658 , 815 smoli , v. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 177 , 14 smoli , v.  2009 , , 699 , 43 strittmatter , p.  a. , hill , p. , pauliny - toth , i.  i.  k. , steppe , h. , & witzel , a.  1980 , , 88 , l12 urry , m.  c. & padovani , p.  1995",
    ", , 107 , 803 white , r.  l. , et  al .",
    "2000 , , 126 , 133 white , r.  l. , helfand , d.  j. , becker , r.  h. , glikman , e. , & de vries , w.  2007 , , 654 , 99 york , d.  g. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579 zamfir , s. , sulentic , j.  w. , & marziani , p.  2008",
    ", , 387 , 856"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the dichotomy in the radio loudness distribution of quasars by modelling their radio emission and various selection effects using a monte carlo approach . </S>",
    "<S> the existence of two physically distinct quasar populations , the radio - loud and radio - quiet quasars , is controversial and over the last decade a bimodal distribution of radio loudness of quasars has been both affirmed and disputed . </S>",
    "<S> we model the quasar radio luminosity distribution with simple unimodal and bimodal distribution functions . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting simulated samples are compared to a fiducial sample of 8,300 quasars drawn from the sdss dr7 quasar catalog and combined with radio observations from the first survey . </S>",
    "<S> our results indicate that the sdss - first sample is best described by a radio loudness distribution which consists of two components , with @xmath0% of sources in the radio - loud component . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> the evidence for a local minimum in the loudness distribution ( bimodality ) is not strong and we find that previous claims for its existence were probably affected by the incompleteness of the first survey close to its faint limit . </S>",
    "<S> we also investigate the redshift and luminosity dependence of the radio loudness distribution and find tentative evidence that at high redshift radio - loud quasars were rarer , on average louder , and exhibited a smaller range in radio loudness . in agreement with other recent work , </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the sdss - first sample strongly suggests that the radio loudness distribution of quasars is not a universal function , and that more complex models than presented here are needed to fully explain available observations . </S>"
  ]
}