{
  "article_text": [
    "jets and outflows always accompany the star formation process , both in the low - mass and in the high - mass regime @xcite .",
    "though outflows from low - mass stars are in general understood as resulting from magnetically - driven disk winds during the accretion process , the formation of high - mass outflows from ionizing stars with masses in excess of @xmath1 is less understood , as we argue in the next section , both from the observational ( section  [ sec : obsout ] ) as well as the theoretical ( section  [ sec : theo ] ) point of view .",
    "the recent finding by @xcite that ionization feedback from massive protostars can drive bipolar molecular outflows has suggested that these could explain the observations of high - mass outflows . in the present paper ,",
    "we compare the morphology of these molecular outflows with synthetic co @xmath2 observations ( section  [ sec : synobs ] ) .",
    "we demonstrate that the synthetic observations fail to consistently reproduce observations of molecular outflows in section  [ sec : disc ] . in section",
    "[ sec : conc ] , we discuss the implications and limitations of this result , and speculate on the actual origin of the observed outflows .",
    "bipolar outflows from high - mass stars are , in many ways , scaled - up versions of their lower - mass counterparts .",
    "they do , however , carry significantly more momentum ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and are often less collimated ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "outflows are launched from accretion disks around young stellar objects ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "disk - like structures have recently also been found around high - mass protostars @xcite , and even in situations where disks can not be resolved , rotation of the molecular @xcite and ionized @xcite gas can still be detected . in many of these regions , bipolar molecular outflows originating from the center of rotation and oriented perpendicular to the rotation",
    "have been detected as well , suggesting a causal connection between rotation and outflow .",
    "if high - mass outflows were driven magnetically like their lower - mass analogs , then one would expect a corresponding magnetic field structure along the outflow .",
    "indeed , recent observations suggest a correlation between magnetic field orientation and the presence of outflows from high - mass sources @xcite . however , whether these maser and dust polarization measurements indicate that the outflows organize the magnetic field or the magnetic field collimates the outflows is less clear .",
    "the momentum and energy imparted to molecular outflows by high - mass protostars scales with the luminosity of the powering source @xcite .",
    "once the high - mass protostar becomes luminous enough to ionize its surroundings , the interaction between outflow and h  ii  region further complicates the picture .",
    "observations suggest that the outflows originate within the ionized gas ( @xcite , klaassen et al .  in prep .",
    ") , and that they can continue into a molecular outflow beyond the ionization boundary ( e.g.  k3 - 50a ; @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "in order to make statistical arguments about the nature of outflows from protostars of at least intermediate mass , we rely on single dish surveys to characterize their properties .",
    "@xcite looked at ten sources with bolometric luminosities exceeding @xmath3 @xmath4 and only found 5 bipolar outflows at a resolution of 60@xmath5 , noting that for the other sources , two had multiple velocity components , and the other three had signal to noise ratios too low to draw conclusions from .",
    "@xcite , at a spatial resolution of 11@xmath5 , looked at higher luminosity sources ( @xmath6 @xmath4 ) and found outflows for each of the nine sources they mapped , and strong line wings in the other two sources .",
    "most of these last sources are associated with h  ii  regions .",
    "@xcite studied the gas motions from 15 high - mass star forming regions with ultracompact h  ii  regions and found evidence for outflows towards 10 of them .",
    "however , at a spatial resolution @xmath7 , this detection fraction should be used as a lower limit .",
    "the five sources without outflows were amongst the nearest sources in their survey , suggesting that distance did not play a role in the non - detections . in each of these studies ,",
    "outflow masses range from 3 to @xmath8 @xmath0 , and their energies are of the order @xmath9 erg or greater .    with interferometers",
    "one gains a better understanding of which source is responsible for the large - scale outflows seen in the single dish surveys . with current instruments",
    "we are limited in the number of sources for which detailed analyses can be performed .",
    "nonetheless , in - depth observations have been made by many groups in an attempt to better understand the powering sources and their relationships with their environments .",
    "generally , these high resolution ( @xmath10 ) studies show that the outflow originates at the brightest continuum object in the field .",
    "these sources include : g29.96 @xcite , g24.78a @xcite , w51e2 @xcite , g5.89 @xcite , ngc 7538 irs 1 and g28.2 @xcite , g31.41 @xcite , g75.78 and g75.77 @xcite .    in many of these sources , rotation of the warm gas surrounding the h  ii  region",
    "has also been detected perpendicular to the outflow direction ( see @xcite , etc . ) .",
    "@xcite and @xcite showed that molecular outflows appear at the edges of the h  ii  regions already at high velocities , suggesting these outflows are powered from within the h  ii  region .",
    "in fact , the radio recombination line study of @xcite displayed velocity shifts in this ionized gas tracer from k3 - 50a , suggesting an ionized outflow .",
    "the molecular observations of @xcite are consistent with this outflow penetrating the ionization boundary and continuing as a molecular outflow . observations of ionized outflow lobes have also been reported for g48.75 @xcite .",
    "furthermore , @xcite discuss the possibility that the outflow in g31.41 originates from an ionized jet , and @xcite suggest that an ionized jet in iras 16562 - 3959 is the energy source of a molecular outflow in the same region .",
    "we now consider the problems with existing explanations of outflow driving .",
    "protostellar outflows around low - mass protostars are generally attributed to magnetic fields , either through the launching of disk winds @xcite , magnetic tower flows @xcite or through the interaction between the protostellar magnetosphere and the disk field @xcite .",
    "recently , the applicability of these driving mechanisms in the high - mass regime has been questioned @xcite on the grounds that severe gravitational instability in the accretion flow surrounding the massive star destroys the coherent rotational motion in the disk plane that is required for all these models to work , and the ionization feedback disrupts the magnetic field structure .",
    "the statistical distribution of orbital separations with a peak at a semimajor axis of @xmath11au found by @xcite in the massive binary data of @xcite suggests that the inner disk region is gravitationally unstable as well , making magnetic jet launching very difficult .",
    "furthermore , magnetically driven jets around low - mass stars may be collimated at the disk - magnetosphere boundary @xcite , and massive stars are known to have relatively weak magnetospheres compared to low - mass stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . to fully model this process we need to resolve the inner disk region ( radii less than 1  au ) where magnetic launching is expected",
    "this will require high - resolution radiation - magnetohydrodynamical calculations that connect the larger - scale gravitationally unstable accretion flow ( radii of several thousand au ) to the inner disk region .",
    "@xcite tried to fill this gap in two - dimensional calculations that include both ideal magnetohydrodynamics as well as the effects of radiative pressure in the line - driving approximation .",
    "they find that initially well collimated outflows can widen up as the central star grows in mass and its luminosity increases .",
    "this could explain the observational proposal that more evolved outflows around massive stars have larger opening angles than very young ones @xcite . because of the restricted geometry in the vaidya et al .",
    "work , however , these studies can not consider the effects of disk fragmentation , so further analysis is required .",
    "a more consistent treatment of the complex interplay between the fragmentation behavior of the inner disk , magnetic fields , and radiative processes has been presented by @xcite .",
    "their three - dimensional radiation - magnetohydrodynamics calculations indicate that magnetic braking efficiently removes angular momentum from the disk , leading to high accretion rates and luminosities .",
    "this heats the disk and reduces the degree of fragmentation at small radii .",
    "because these calculations are prohibitively expensive , they could not follow the evolution into the realm of massive stars where ionizing radiation becomes important .",
    "this regime has been covered by @xcite with somewhat lower resolution .",
    "they find that magnetic fields can not completely suppress fragmentation at large disk radii ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "additional evidence against magnetic driving mechanisms comes from the notable lack of observations of extremely high - velocity jets associated with high - mass outflows .",
    "since magnetically launched jets form deep within the gravitational potential well around the star , and the potential well around high - mass stars is deeper than around low - mass stars , jets would be expected with velocities comparable to those of line - driven stellar winds , exceeding 1000kms@xmath12 . instead",
    ", the observed structures never propagate faster than jets from low - mass stars .",
    "however , even if there were very high - velocity jets , they might be immediately slowed by interaction with the accretion flow , which is expected to be stronger for high - mass than for low - mass stars .    radiation pressure on the accretion flow could also drive outflows .",
    "@xcite used a gray flux - limited diffusion method to simulate this effect .",
    "they found that the radiation pressure creates bubbles around the massive star that get destroyed by rayleigh - tayor instabilities .",
    "these radiation bubbles are morphologically dissimilar to molecular outflows . additionally , by the time",
    "the bubbles form , the star would be massive enough to ionize the interior of the bubble , so that the bubble would become an h  ii  region and not be molecular anymore .",
    "@xcite , using a frequency - dependent treatment of the direct stellar radiation combined with gray flux - limited diffusion , do not see these rayleigh - tayor instabilities . as possible reasons for this difference",
    "they suggest a better modeling of the first absorption of photons with their numerical scheme , but it could also be that they will see the instability once their bubbles reach the same size as those of @xcite or that their density distribution has led to a decelerating , thus stable , bubble . a more recent study @xcite , in which both the frequency - dependent treatment and gray flux - limited diffusion are applied to the same initial conditions , seems to confirm that the instability is an artifact caused by the gray approximation of the direct stellar radiation . in any case , ionization would also fill the stable radiation - driven bubbles of @xcite with ionized gas , so that stable radiation pressure - driven outflows can not account for the observed high - mass molecular outflows either .",
    "another source of momentum is line - driven winds of high - mass stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . indeed ,",
    "some of the observations show high - mass outflows that are poorly collimated and seem to be consistent with being wind - blown bubbles ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , typical massive outflows have momentum fluxes that are two orders of magnitude higher than those produced by stellar winds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . hence , stellar winds can not be the primary drivers of high - mass outflows already for reasons of momentum conservation , and they are certainly not responsible for the more collimated outflows found in earlier phases of high - mass star formation ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "recently , @xcite have shown that ionization feedback can drive bipolar molecular outflows . contrary to classical understanding of h  ii  region growth , these simulations show that the h  ii  regions around massive protostars do not expand monotonically as long as the high - mass star is still embedded in an accretion flow . instead , the h  ii  region flickers whenever the ionizing radiation gets shielded by dense filaments formed in the gravitationally unstable accretion flow @xcite .",
    "this rapid fluctuation of the thermal gas pressure drives bipolar molecular outflows parallel to the net angular momentum vector : the pressure increase during the ionization process drives the material away from the density enhancement in the plane of rotation , and the subsequent recombination lets the blown - out material become a molecular outflow .",
    "we use synthetic alma observations of co to characterize the ionization - driven outflows found by @xcite .",
    "we describe the input models ( section  [ sec : inpmod ] ) and the co emission maps ( section  [ sec : coemma ] ) .",
    "the simulations use an extended version of the adaptive - mesh numerical hydrodynamics code flash @xcite with sink particles @xcite to follow the collapse beyond the formation of the first objects , allowing us to describe the early evolution of the disk that builds up , and our improved hybrid characteristics raytracing method @xcite that propagates the ionizing and non - ionizing radiation on the grid .",
    "we refer to @xcite for details on the numerical algorithm and initial conditions .",
    "a thorough description of the spatial and temporal h  ii  region evolution in these simulations can be found in @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we analyze two simulations .",
    "both simulations start from a @xmath13 , spherical molecular cloud of diameter @xmath14pc .",
    "the cloud is initially in solid body rotation with angular velocity @xmath15s@xmath12 . during the collapse of this massive core , a rotationally flattened structure forms that quickly becomes gravitationally unstable and fragments . in one simulation ( run  b )",
    ", we form a full stellar cluster in this rotating accretion flow , including radiative feedback by both ionizing and non - ionizing radiation . in another simulation (",
    "run  a ) , also including radiation feedback , we artificially prevent the formation of all stars after the first one and run the simulation with a single star only . in run  b , three massive stars with masses around @xmath16@xmath17 form , each creating an h  ii  region around itself , along with numerous lower mass stars .",
    "in contrast , the star in run  a reaches more than @xmath18@xmath17 .",
    "a thorough discussion of the effects of radiative feedback and the suppression of fragmentation can be found in @xcite .",
    "the massive stars in both simulations drive bipolar outflows with their ionization feedback .",
    "the basic mechanism , as already mentioned in section  [ sec : theo ] , is the repeated shielding of the ionizing radiation by dense streams of gas in the accretion flow around the massive star .",
    "the ionizing radiation accelerates the molecular gas around the h  ii  region down the steepest density gradient , perpendicular to the rotational flattening .",
    "when the ionizing radiation gets shielded by the filamentary accretion flow , the ionized gas can recombine on timescales as short as @xmath19yr , and then the outflow becomes molecular , given that the formation timescale of molecular hydrogen in these dense outflows is less than a year @xcite .",
    "the molecular outflow continues to expand by momentum conservation .",
    "since the outflow is not driven anymore without the thermal pressure of the ionized gas , the outflow can escape from the gravitational potential well of the stellar cluster only if its initial velocity permits .",
    "after the loss of thermal support , the outflow decelerates and eventually falls back onto the rotationally flattened structure by its gravitational attraction .",
    "the online material of @xcite contains movies of density slices showing this process for both runs .",
    "generally , the outflows in run  a are much more powerful than the outflows in run  b. the reasons are the stronger accretion flow in which the massive star is embedded and the larger ionizing luminosity",
    ". though run  a is not a realistic model of massive star formation globally , the driving of the molecular outflow by the interaction of the ionizing radiation with the accretion flow is modeled correctly .",
    "these stronger accretion flows could be realized in simulations with multiple stars by , for example , starting from a more massive core , using a more centrally concentrated density profile ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or reducing the initial rotational motion of the core ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the online material for this article contains animations of the ionization - driven outflows for both simulations .",
    "the videos show volume renderings of gas density ( left ) and thermal pressure ( right ) .",
    "the direct comparison of the two images allows the identification of the h  ii  regions and illustrates how the thermal pressure of the ionized gas drives the molecular fountains . for comparison",
    ", we also show an animation of a third simulation , run  e ( see @xcite ) , in which an additional large - scale outflow is driven by magnetic fields and interferes with the ionization - driven outflows . though the interplay between the different types of outflows is highly complex , the morphological differences between the magnetically - driven outflows and the ionization - driven outflows becomes very clear .",
    "we have previously used the three - dimensional adaptive - mesh radiative transfer code radmc-3ddullemond / software / radmc-3d/ ] to generate maps of free - free and dust emission from our simulation data @xcite .",
    "here we use the capability of radmc-3d to model molecular line emission ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . in order to trace the bulk dynamics of the gas",
    ", we have chosen to model the co @xmath20 transition at 230.538  ghz .",
    "we have simulated observing the outflows at a distance of 1.3  kpc , the same distance as g5.89 - 0.39 @xcite .",
    "this source is believed to be powered by a 25  @xmath0 star , and is so directly comparable with one of the stars in run  b.    co is an excellent tracer of the bulk gas dynamcis in star - forming regions because of its relatively low critical density , and relatively high abundance ( @xmath21 with respect to molecular hydrogen , @xcite ) .",
    "it is the most abundant molecule after h@xmath22 and is therefore a good tracer of large - scale structures .",
    "its low critical density means that it is detected even in the tenuous high - velocity gas in outflows .",
    "sio , another excellent outflow tracer , was not used because it emits on much smaller scales and its emission is directly tied to the type of shocks produced in the outflow ( i.e. si is liberated from dust grains by sputtering during the extended passage through c - shocks mediated by ion - neutral drag , but not by classical j - shocks @xcite ) .    for simplicity , we assume local thermodynamic equilibrium ( lte ) conditions .",
    "we use the co einstein coefficients from the leiden atomic and molecular database @xcite .",
    "these 3d data cubes were then converted into skymaps , and observations with alma were simulated using the `` simobserve '' and `` simanalyze '' tasks in casa 3.4 @xcite .",
    "the native resolution of the original datacube was 49  au .",
    "assuming the source was at the distance of 1.3  kpc , this gives a native resolution of @xmath23 .",
    "this is much higher than the final resolution achieved in our alma simulations .",
    "we simulated observing with alma in a moderately high resolution mode ( `` alma.out10.cfg '' ) , achieving a resolution of 0.5@xmath24 at 230  ghz with a channel spacing of 1  km s@xmath12 .",
    "the rms sensitivity for the alma observations should be 1.2 mjy / beam for a 0.5@xmath24 beam . noise was added in the uv plane to simulate 4@xmath25 quartile observing conditions .",
    "we also simulated observing with carma in its c configuration .",
    "this resulted in a final image resolution of @xmath26 .",
    "the casa simulator assumed a system temperature of 200 k for the carma observations .",
    "for all simulations , we assumed a total integration time of four hours .",
    "for the alma mosaic , we required six pointings , and with carma , two .",
    "cleaning was done non - interactively using natural weighting and a 3 @xmath27 cutoff .",
    "zeroth and first moment maps were created using line wing emission , excluding emission from within 3  km  s@xmath12 of the source rest velocity .",
    "the zeroth moment ( integrated intensity ) maps were used to compute the column density following the procedure described in @xcite , assuming a temperature of @xmath28k . because the size of the emitting region can be determined from the images , the number of molecules was calculated from the column density assuming a co abundance of 10@xmath29 with respect to h@xmath22 . from this , the gas mass was determined ( see the first column of table  [ table : obs_outflow_param ] ) . from the first moment ( intensity weighted velocity )",
    "maps , characteristic velocities of the outflowing gas were derived .",
    "these values are presented in the second column of table  [ table : obs_outflow_param ] .",
    "the uncertainties in table  [ table : obs_outflow_param ] reflect the noise output from the alma observation simulator which were propagated ( in quadrature ) through the equations used to derive the outflow properties .",
    "outflow momentum was calculated from @xmath30 , and energy from @xmath31 .",
    "outflow luminosities and mass loss rates were determined by dividing the outflow energies and masses by the kinematic age of the outflows ( 400  yr ) .",
    "more details on this type of calculation can be found in @xcite .",
    "for each of our modelled outflows , we find that many outflow properties as measured by alma are about a factor of two higher than those observed with carma .",
    "[ cols=\"<,>,>,<,>,<,>,<,>,<,>,<,>,<,^,^ \" , ]     [ table : direct ]",
    "our results show that ionization feedback is able to drive molecular outflows around high - mass stars that have properties consistent with some observed ones .",
    "however , the measured properties are rather on the lower boundary of the typical values of high - mass outflows , which makes it unlikely that ionization feedback is the main driver of high - mass outflows . additional feedback mechanisms like radiation pressure and stellar winds or magnetic fields might help , but as discussed in the introduction , there is no strong evidence that this is indeed the case",
    ".    we note , however , that lower - mass companions naturally form with high - mass stars in their gravitationally unstable accretion flow @xcite , in agreement with the observation that massive stars are typically found as members of higher - order multiple stellar systems and clusters @xcite .",
    "we propose that it is the joint outflow activity of the low- and intermediate - mass companions that we are seeing .",
    "we tested whether the low- and intermediate - mass companions in the accretion flow around the massive stars in our simulations at least in principle are able to reproduce the characteristics of high - mass outflows with a simple model .",
    "we assume that a factor of @xmath32 of the accreted material onto the stars is ejected again as an outflow with an initial velocity of @xmath33kms@xmath12 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the momentum injected into the surrounding gas by a single star per unit time is then @xmath34 for an accretion rate @xmath35 .",
    "figure  [ fig : lowmass ] shows the integrated total momentum @xmath36 as function of time for all stars in the cluster .",
    "the figure shows that even with conservative assumptions the low- and intermediate - mass stars alone can easily produce outflow momenta in the regime of observed high - mass outflows .",
    "their contribution is orders of magnitude larger than the momentum in the ionization - driven outflows .     according to the outflow model from the stars in the cluster as function of time @xmath37 .",
    "the joint momentum injected by the low- and intermediate - mass stars is well within the regime of high - mass outflows.,width=302 ]    further simulations that simultaneously include ionization feedback from massive stars as well as the mechanical feedback from their low- and intermediate - mass companions are required to thoroughly test this proposal .",
    "we thank herwig zilken from the jlich supercomputing centre for his help with visualizing our simulation data .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for useful comments that helped to improve the paper . t.p .",
    "acknowledges financial support as a fellow of the baden - wrttemberg stiftung funded through contract research under grant p - ls - spii/18 in their program _ internationale spitzenforschung ii _ and through snf grant 200020137896 .",
    "was partly supported by nsf grant ast 11 - 09395 .",
    "r.s.k . acknowledges funding from the _ deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft _ dfg via grants kl  1358/14 - 1 as part of the priority program spp 1573 _ physics of the interstellar medium _ as well as via the collaborative research project sbb  811 _ the milky way system _ in subprojects b1 , b2 , and b4 .",
    "r.b . acknowledges funding from the dfg via the grant ba 3706/1 - 1 .",
    "we acknowledge computing time at the leibniz - rechenzentrum in garching , the texas advanced computing center through grant tg - mca99s024 from the extreme science and engineering discovery environment ( xsede ) , which is supported by the national science foundation grant number oci-1053575 , and at jlich supercomputing centre .",
    "the flash code was in part developed by the doe - supported alliances center for astrophysical thermonuclear flashes ( asci ) at the university of chicago .",
    "richer , j.  s. , shepherd , d.  s. , cabrit , s. , bachiller , r. , & churchwell , e. 2000 , in protostars and planets iv , ed . v.  mannings , a.  p. boss , & s.  s. russell ( tucson : the university of arizona press ) , 867"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the formation of massive stars exceeding 10 @xmath0 usually results in large - scale molecular outflows . </S>",
    "<S> numerical simulations , including ionization , of the formation of such stars show evidence for ionization - driven molecular outflows . </S>",
    "<S> we here examine whether the outflows seen in these models reproduce the observations . </S>",
    "<S> we compute synthetic alma and carma maps of co emission lines of the outflows , and compare their signatures to existing single - dish and interferometric data . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the ionization - driven models can only reproduce weak outflows around high - mass star - forming regions . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that expanding h  ii  regions probably do not represent the dominant mechanism for driving observed outflows . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest instead that observed outflows are driven by the collective action of the outflows from the many lower - mass stars that inevitably form around young massive stars in a cluster . </S>"
  ]
}