{
  "article_text": [
    "about a decade ago , numerical simulations of star formation revealed that the first generation of stars may have been super - massive @xcite , holding great promise to discover them , not as stars , but rather through their catastrophic explosions . @xcite and",
    "@xcite proposed that for stars sufficiently massive the production of e@xmath5e@xmath6 pairs from   annihilation would lead successively to an implosion , a thermonuclear runaway , and an explosion leaving no remnant behind .",
    "these events are termed pair - instability supernovae ( pisne ) . in the coming decade , the opportunity to identify pisne and study them in detail may be realized with new observatories such as lsst and jwst @xcite .",
    "however , there is considerable uncertainty and speculation concerning the first generation of massive stellar objects , impacting our understanding of their formation , their evolution , and their explosion .",
    "recent simulations for the formation of the first stars has significantly altered the original picture .",
    "the initial mass function seems no longer to be heavily biased towards super - massive stars .",
    "instead , it stretches down to lower masses , even very low masses @xcite , perhaps exhibiting a bimodal distribution @xcite .",
    "binaries should also be created @xcite , although the binary fraction is largely unknown .",
    "simulations including feedback , in particular in the form of uv radiation , suggest that the circumstellar disk feeding mass into the primordial star is evaporated soon after the onset of steady thermonuclear burning .",
    "this feedback leads to the truncation of mass accretion and sets an upper mass limit for the newly - formed star of @xmath330  @xcite .",
    "theoretically , primordial star formation does not seem to differ significantly from present - day star formation .",
    "paradoxically , it fails to explain the existence in the local universe of super - massive stars like @xmath7 car @xcite , massive stars in the galactic centre @xcite , or the spectacular r136 nursery @xcite .",
    "since super - massive stars in the local universe systematically belong to dense star clusters , they may form not in isolation but instead dynamically and chaotically from merger events ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "more generally , the nature of superluminous sne remains perplexing .",
    "the interaction between two separate shells , which converts kinetic energy to thermal and radiative energy , is one way to boost the luminosity of a sn , because standard sne typically have a hundred times more kinetic energy than time - integrated luminosities .",
    "another way of producing a bright display is by depositing magnetar radiation into the sn ejecta @xcite .",
    "the energy lost by the magnetar leads to the spin down of the magnetar which eventually quenches the magnetar radiation . for a dipole field ,",
    "the spin - down time scale is @xmath8d , where @xmath9 is the magnetic strength in units of 10@xmath10 g and @xmath11 is the rotation period @xmath12 in units of 10ms .",
    "depending on the magnetar parameters , its spin - down timescale may be comparable to the decay timescale of , making it an attractive substitute for models that require a larger - than - average production of   for powering luminous sne .",
    "while a pisn may synthesize a maximum of 57  of  @xcite , it is unclear how much a ",
    "standard \" core - collapse sn can produce .",
    "this reflects the poorly known core properties at the time of death , and the viability of the neutrino and magneto - rotational explosion mechanisms .",
    "the collapsar model is one instance where copious amounts of  may be produced @xcite , but the required core compactness to form such collapsars seem far more rarely matched by stellar evolution models , favoring instead the formation of proto - magnetars @xcite .    restricting our focus to very low metallicity environments",
    "the ansatz of the current study is that super - massive stars do form , populating the mass range 140260 .",
    "provided they do not lose much mass during the hydrogen - burning stage , they form a helium core with a mass in the range 64 - 133  that should experience the pair - production instability and lead to a thermonuclear explosion that completely disrupts the star @xcite . how often this occurs is completely speculative as it depends on the unknown formation rate of the progenitors as well as their evolution .",
    "a major component of this uncertainty is mass loss since it determines whether the star will explode as an extended blue - supergiant ( bsg ) , as a very extended red - supergiant ( rsg ) star , or instead as a very compact wolf - rayet ( wr ) star .",
    "this , in turn , impacts the supernova ( sn ) light curve morphology and thus the potential detectability and reliable identification of these events @xcite .",
    "as we discuss here , a h - rich pisn from a rsg star at 10@xmath0   leaves little ambiguity about the origin of the event while connecting a superluminous type ic event with a h - deficient pisn is more challenging .",
    "it is unclear today if we have seen either h - rich or h - deficient pisne @xcite .",
    "mass - loss in metal poor massive stars is highly uncertain .",
    "@xcite found that metal - poor massive stars are pulsationally stable and , based on this analysis , should die with their hydrogen envelope .",
    "the metallicity dependence of radiation driving in massive - star winds suggests that this other form of mass loss , critical for ob and wr stars at solar metallicity , should be largely inhibited at very low metallicity @xcite .",
    "as is quite typical for proto - stellar collapse in star formation , the collapsed core is endowed with a large amount of angular momentum at birth @xcite , which may affect its evolution in a number of ways @xcite .",
    "for example , by increasing the oxygen core mass , fast rotation can lower the minimum main - sequence mass needed to encounter the pair - production instability @xcite , thereby affecting the -mass to ejecta - mass ratio and the resulting pisn radiation properties @xcite .",
    "high luminosity poses a severe strain on the hydrostatic equilibrium of stars @xcite , especially near break - up rotation speeds @xcite , establishing ideal conditions for centrifugally - driven mass loss ( a disk ) and/or a continuum - driven wind @xcite . in this context",
    ", radiation- and/or rotation - driven mass loss may in fact compete with the episodic pulsations expected to occur in stars with a helium - core mass in the range 4063  @xcite .    currently , the most promising pisn candidate is sn2007bi @xcite , although this association raises several issues .",
    "the observations capture only the light - curve peak and beyond , making the explosion time uncertain , compromising the inference of the ejecta mass and  mass .",
    "furthermore , sn2007bi took place in an environment of 0.20.3 ; a hydrogen - deficient pisn at such a high metallicity seems difficult to accommodate with stellar evolution @xcite .",
    "the nebular spectral analysis of @xcite suggests a large ejecta mass , i.e. , much larger than in standard core - collapse sne , but the accuracy of this inferrence does not unambiguously support a pisn  within the errors these masses are compatible with a progenitor that would not experience the pair - production instability .",
    "the alternative core - collapse scenario of @xcite for sn2007bi requires extreme properties , which may be acceptable given the scarcity of these events , but it is also in contradiction with the environmental metallicity .",
    "their proposed model yields a 36b ( @xmath13erg ) ejecta kinetic energy , which , combined with the binding energy of the progenitor , requires the remarkable extraction of @xmath450% of the gravitational energy of a typical neutron star .",
    "@xcite and @xcite have fueled this controversy further by obtaining equally satisfactory fits to the sn 2007bi bolometric light curve using either a magnetar model or a pisn model .",
    "in contrast , in a recent study based primarily on the simulations presented here @xcite , we emphasized that pisn models systematically have red colors and narrow lines after light - curve peak  properties that are in strong contradiction with the observations of sn2007bi .",
    "@xcite suggest that delayed energy injection , as from a magnetar , into a lower mass ejecta would be more amenable to producing both blue colors and broad emission lines typical of such superluminous sne .",
    "an independent problem with pisne , if they were to be the first chemical nurseries in the universe , is that their distinctive nucleosynthetic yields @xcite are in apparent contradiction with those inferred from extremely metal poor stars @xcite .",
    "such abundance studies suggest that the metals arose from `` standard '' core - collapse explosion of stars of moderate mass @xcite , although a contrived scenario involving a combination of sn with strong fallback and highly - energetic sne was proposed by @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we perform a quantitative study of pisn explosions arising from rsg , bsg , and wr star progenitors , investigating their photometric and spectroscopic signatures , and documenting in more details the results presented by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we allow for non - lte at all times and include non - thermal processes , which are not just important for exciting helium atoms in sne ib @xcite  they directly affect all species by driving level populations away from lte .",
    "they also indirectly affect the thermodynamic state of the gas by channeling a fraction of the decay energy into excitation and ionization of ions and atoms rather than into heat .",
    "we compute the full time - dependent radiative transfer within the non - lte framework , allowing the computation of the spectral evolution from the photospheric to the nebular phase .",
    "multi - band light curves are obtained by integrating the resulting spectra over specified bandpasses .",
    "this unique approach allows to compute light curves and spectra simultaneously and with the same level of complexity .",
    "it also allows us to start from physically - consistent ejecta resulting from stellar evolution and explosion modelling .",
    "this detailed study aims at providing the key spectroscopic signatures of the three possible types of pisn explosions , with the hope of identifying the critical signatures that would help lifting the ambiguities surrounding the association of pisne with events like sn 2007bi @xcite .    in the next section ,",
    "we review the numerical setup for our calculations , including the pre - sn evolution from the main sequence ( sect .",
    "[ sect_presn ] ) , the pair - instability explosion mechanism ( sect .",
    "[ sect_expl ] ) , and the setup for the radiative - transfer calculations presented in this work ( sect .",
    "[ sect_setup_cmfgen ] ) .",
    "we then describe the bolometric light curve of our pisn models , and compare them with those arising from  standard \" core - collapse sn explosions of 15 - 25  rsg , bsg , and wr stars evolved as single or binary stars ( sect .",
    "[ sect_lc ] ) . in sect .",
    "[ sect_phot ] we connect these light - curve properties to those at the photosphere .",
    "we then describe in detail the spectral evolution for each group of progenitors during the pisn photospheric and nebular phases ( sect .",
    "[ sect_spec_evol ] ) .",
    "we compare our simulations to pisn candidates sn2007bi and sn2006gy in sect .",
    "[ sect_comp_obs ] ; additional information , in particular the proposition that the sn 2007bi light curve is more compatible with magnetar power , can be found in @xcite .",
    "we finally advocate the potential use of pisn explosions as a diagnostic of the environmental metallicity in sect .",
    "[ sect_z_indic ] .",
    "we summarize our results and discuss their implications in sect .",
    "[ sect_disc ] . to limit the length of the main body of the paper ,",
    "we provide additional results in an appendix ( provided as online material only ) , covering in more detail the evolution of the ejecta properties ( e.g. , ionization state and optical depth ; appendix  a ) , the atomic data and model atoms ( appendix  b ) , and the dependency of our results on model atoms ( appendix  c ) .",
    "we finally provide tabulated values for the luminosity and magnitudes for all time sequences ( appendix  d ) .",
    "the work presented in this paper was produced in several independent steps .",
    "first , a large grid of massive - star progenitors was evolved from the main sequence until all models underwent collapse due to the pressure deficit following pair production .",
    "these simulations were then remapped into a 1d radiation - hydrodynamical code , with allowance for ( explosive ) nuclear burning and radiation transport , and followed through the explosion phase for a few years .",
    "a detailed discussion of the results from these two steps will be presented in a separate paper ( waldman et al .",
    ", in prep . ) . here , we focus on a subset of four pisn models from this large grid of models , and specifically arising from the explosion of a rsg star , two bsg stars , and a bare he core .",
    "this paper discusses the evolution of these ejecta and their radiation taking into account both non - lte and time - dependent effects . in sect .",
    "[ sect_presn][sect_expl ] , we present briefly the first two steps and then present the setup for the radiative - transfer calculations in sect .  [ sect_setup_cmfgen ] .",
    "additional information is provided in the appendix .      using the 1-d stellar - evolution code  @xcite , we perform calculations of super - massive stars from the main - sequence until the onset of the pair - production instability .",
    "we focus on progenitors with main - sequence masses between 160 and 230 , adopt a metallicity of 10@xmath0   and neglect rotation . in this paper , we focus on a small sample of pisn progenitors that synthesize a large amount of  suitable to produce a superluminous sn .",
    "we thus ignore the less massive progenitors that encounter the pair - production instability but produce low explosion energies with a small  mass ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "we treat convection by the well known mixing length theory ( mlt ) using the schwarzschild criterion and a mixing length parameter of 1.6 , and ignore convective overshoot . during",
    "core hydrogen and helium burning the `` basic '' 8-species nuclear reaction network of  is used , including the following isotopes : h , he , c , n , o , ne , mg . from the onset of core carbon burning , the nuclear reaction network is expanded . for the he100 model ( see details below ) the @xmath14-chain elements are added , while for the other models , in order to account for more nuclei that may manifest in the resulting spectra , we use a more elaborate nuclear reaction network provided with .",
    "in addition to the @xmath14-chain elements , it includes the intermediate elements linking those through @xmath15 reactions , namely : n , p , he , c , n , o , f , ne , na , mg , al , si , p , s , cl , ar , k , ca , sc , ti , v , cr , mn , fe , co , ni . pair creation is treated in the equation of state used in , as well as in 1d  ( see below and , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "a crucial ingredient in the models is mass - loss .",
    "apart from the he100 model , which was evolved without mass loss , we use two standard mass - loss prescriptions that are functions of the effective temperature , @xmath16 , of the stellar model . for cool stars , defined by @xmath17k",
    ", we use the formula of @xcite , multiplied by the metallicity - dependent factor @xmath18 @xcite . for hotter stars",
    ", we use the formula of @xcite , which contains a @xmath19 metallicity dependence , where @xmath20 depending on the effective temperature . using these mass - loss prescriptions ,",
    "the pair - instability is encountered when the star is a rsg .",
    "our representative model for this scenario is r190 .",
    "none of our models , evolved from the main sequence , lose enough mass to become a wr star , defined by @xmath21 and @xmath22k .",
    "this is expected  at the low metallicity of 10@xmath0  adopted here , radiation - driven winds will be significantly inhibited during the object s life as an o star .    to allow for uncertainties in mass loss ( as well as for giant - eruptions , such as that associated with @xmath7 car , which are not covered by the above procedures ) , we perform additional simulations .",
    "to mimic the possibility of a stronger mass loss , we artificially truncate the hydrogen envelope of the rsg progenitor immediately before explosion , reducing the total mass and surface radius , and producing a bsg progenitor ( models b190 and b210 ) . to mimic an even greater mass - loss rate by means not understood today (",
    "although mass - transfer in a binary may be an option ) , we also evolve objects directly from a bare helium core ( model he100 ) .",
    "we summarize the properties for these four models in table  [ tab_pre_pisn ] . in our nomenclature , rx ,",
    "bx , and hex refer to explosions as rsg , bsg , and he ( wr ) stars , where x is the initial mass .    the evolution is generally followed using s hydrostatic mode . when an hydrodynamic instability is encountered , which occurs invariably at central carbon exhaustion , the code is automatically switched to the hydrodynamic mode , and the run is continued until ne is exhausted at the stellar center .",
    "at this time , before o burning turns on , the profile is remapped into the 1d radiation hydrodynamical code v1d @xcite .",
    "we find that the nucleosynthetic outcome is insensitive to the remapping epoch between hydrodynamic instability and neon exhaustion , but does change for later remapping epochs , mainly due to differences in the reaction networks used in the two codes .",
    "our models typically reside on the main sequence for about 2.5myr , gradually cooling from an o - star of about 80,000k and @xmath310 , finally settling by the end of core helium burning , which lasts about 0.2 - 0.3myr , as a k - type supergiant of about 4300k and 40005000 . throughout its evolution",
    ", the luminosity of the star does not experience dramatic changes  it is 34@xmath2310@xmath24 , on the zams , gradually growing by about a factor of 1.5 towards the end of the main sequence , and remaining virtually constant through the rest of the evolution",
    ". the star burns hydrogen and helium in shells for a period on the order of 10@xmath25yr , while its core contracts , until carbon is ignited at the center at @xmath2610@xmath27k , @xmath282@xmath2310@xmath25g@xmath29 .",
    "since the carbon mass fraction is relatively low ( on the order of 0.06 ) the energy release can not prevent the continued contraction of the core .",
    "central carbon is exhausted in less than a year .",
    "an hydrodynamic instability , which typically starts at @xmath261.2@xmath23  10@xmath27k and @xmath286@xmath2310@xmath25g@xmath29 , then occurs and this is followed by central neon exhaustion that takes several hours to be achieved . at this stage @xmath262@xmath2310@xmath27k and @xmath284@xmath2310@xmath30g@xmath29 , while infalling velocities typically reach several 100 .",
    "the main properties of the models at the onset of the hydrodynamic instability are given in table   [ tab_pre_pisn ] .",
    "we also show a kippenhahn diagram for the rsg model r190 that illustrates the evolution of the internal structure and surface properties prior to the pair - production instability ( fig .",
    "[ fig : kip ] ) .    with our small grid ,",
    "we thus cover the 3 different stellar types under which massive stars may explode , i.e. , as rsg , bsg , or wr stars , resulting in explosions as sne ii - p , ii - pec , and ib / c .",
    "the only configuration not considered here is sn iin , which could stem from interaction between consecutively ejected shells following pair instability pulses @xcite .                              , e. , bonifacio , p. , franois , p. , spite , m. , spite , f. , zaggia , s. , ludwig , h .-",
    "g . , steffen , m. , mashonkina , l. , monaco , l. , sbordone , l. , molaro , p. , cayrel , r. , plez , b. , hill , v. , hammer , f. , & randich , s. 2012 , , 542 , a51          , k.  j. , heger , a. , & almgren , a. 2012 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "453 , advances in computational astrophysics : methods , tools , and outcome , ed .",
    "r.  capuzzo - dolcetta , m.  limongi , & a.  tornamb , 115                                                                                                                                                          , a. , sauer , d. , taubenberger , s. , mazzali , p.  a. , nomoto , k. , kawabata , k.  s. , benetti , s. , elias - rosa , n. , harutyunyan , a. , navasardyan , h. , zampieri , l. , iijima , t. , botticella , m.  t. , di rico , g. , del principe , m. , dolci , m. , gagliardi , s. , ragni , m. , & valentini , g. 2006 , , 370 , 1752"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present non - lte time - dependent radiative - transfer simulations of pair - instability supernovae ( pisne ) stemming from red - supergiant ( rsg ) , blue - supergiant ( bsg ) and wolf - rayet ( wr ) star rotation - free progenitors born in the mass range 160230 , at 10@xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> although subject to uncertainties in convection and stellar mass - loss rates , our initial conditions come from physically - consistent models that treat evolution from the main - sequence , the onset of the pair - production instability , and the explosion phase . with our set of input models characterized by large  and ejecta masses , and large kinetic energies , we recover qualitatively the type ii - plateau , ii - peculiar , and ib / c light - curve morphologies , although they have larger peak bolometric luminosities ( @xmath1 to @xmath2 ) and a longer duration ( @xmath3200d ) . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the spectral properties for each model during the photospheric and nebular phases , including balmer lines in ii - p and ii - pec at early times , the dominance of lines from intermediate - mass - elements ( imes ) near the bolometric maximum , and the strengthening of metal line blanketing thereafter . having similar he - core properties , </S>",
    "<S> all models exhibit similar post - peak spectra that are strongly blanketed by feand fe  lines , characterized by red colors , and that arise from photospheres / ejecta with a temperature of @xmath44000k . combined with the modest line widths after bolometric peak , these properties contrast with those of known superluminous sne suggesting that pisne are yet to be discovered . </S>",
    "<S> being reddish , pisne will be difficult to observe at high redshift except when they stem from rsg explosions , in which case they could be used as metallicity probes and distance indicators .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    radiation hydrodynamics  stars : atmospheres  stars : supernovae - stars : evolution  stars : supernovae : individual : 2007bi , 2006gy </S>"
  ]
}