{
  "article_text": [
    "large graphs and networks are natural mathematical models of interacting objects such as computers on the internet or articles in citation networks . numerous examples can be found in the biomedical context from metabolic pathways and gene regulatory networks to neural networks @xcite . the present work is dedicated to one type of such biomedical network , namely epidemic networks @xcite : such a network models the transmission of a directly transmitted infectious disease by recording individuals and their contacts , other individuals to whom they can pass infection .    understanding",
    "the dynamic of the transmission of diseases on real world networks can lead to major improvements in public health by enabling effective disease control thanks to better information about risky behavior , targeted vaccination campaigns , etc .",
    "while transmissions can be studied on artificial networks , e.g. , some specific types of random networks @xcite , such networks fail to exhibit all the characteristics observed in real social networks ( see e.g.@xcite ) .",
    "it is therefore important to get access to and to analyze large and complex real world epidemic networks .",
    "as pointed out in @xcite , the actual definition of the social network on which the propagation takes place is difficult , especially for airborne pathogens , as the probability of disease transmission depends strongly on the type of interaction between persons .",
    "this explains partially why sexually transmitted diseases ( std ) epidemic networks have been studied more frequently than other networks @xcite .",
    "we study in this paper a large hiv epidemic network that has some unique characteristics : it records almost 5400 hiv / aids cases in cuba from 1986 to 2004 ; roughly 2400 persons fall into a single connected component of the infection network .",
    "std networks studied in the literature are generally smaller and/or do not exhibit such a large connected component and/or contain a very small number of infected persons . for instance",
    ", the manitoba study ( in canada , @xcite ) covers 4544 individuals with some std , but the largest connected component covers only 82 persons . the older colorado springs study @xcite covers around 2200 persons among which 965 falls in connected component ( the full network is larger but mixes sexual contacts and social ones ; additionally , the sexual networks contains only a very small number of hiv positive persons ) .",
    "while the large size and coverage of the studied network is promising , it has also a main negative consequence : manual analysis and direct visual exploration , as done in e.g. @xcite , is not possible .",
    "we propose therefore to analyze the network with state - of - the - art graph visualization methods @xcite .",
    "we first describe the epidemic network in section [ sec : cuban - hiva - datab ] and give an example of the limited possibilities of macroscopic analysis on this dataset .",
    "then section [ sec : visual - mining ] recalls briefly the visual mining technique introduced in @xcite and shows how it leads to the discovery of two non obvious sub - networks with distinctive features .",
    "the present work studies an anonymized national dataset which lists 5389 cuban residents with hiv / aids , detected between 1986 and 2004 .",
    "each patient is described by several variables including gender , sexual orientation , age at hiv / aids detection , etc .",
    "( see @xcite for details . )      the cuban hiv / aids program produces this global monitoring using several sources that range from systematic testing of pregnant women and all blood donations to general practitioner testing recommendations .",
    "in addition , the program conducts an extended form of infection tracing that leads to the epidemic network studied in this work .",
    "indeed , each new infected patient is interviewed by health workers and invited to list his / her sexual partners from the last two years .",
    "the primary use of this approach is to discover potentially infected persons and to offer them hiv testing .",
    "an indirect result is the construction of a network of infected patients .",
    "sexual partnerships are indeed recorded in the database for all infected persons .",
    "additionally , a probable infection date and a transmission direction are inferred from other medical information , leading to a partially oriented infection network . while this methodology is not contact tracing _",
    "stricto sensu _ as non infected patients are not included in the database ( contrarily to e.g. @xcite ) , the program records the total number of sexual partners declared for the two years period as well as a few other details , leading to an extended form of infection tracing .",
    "( see @xcite for differences between contact and infection tracing . )",
    "the 5389 patients are linked by 4073 declared sexual relations among which 2287 are oriented by transmission direction .",
    "a significant fraction of the patients ( 44 % ) belong to a giant connected component with 2386 members .",
    "the rest of the patients are either isolated ( 1627 cases ) or members of very small components ( the second largest connected component contains only 17 members ) .",
    "as the sexual behavior has a strong influence on hiv transmission , it seems important to study the relations between the network structure and sexual orientation of the patients . in the database ,",
    "female hiv / aids patients are all considered to be heterosexual as almost no hiv transmission between female has been confirmed @xcite .",
    "male patients are categorized into heterosexual man and `` man having sex with men '' ( msm ) ; the latter being men with at least one male sexual partner identified during their interview .    the distributions of genders and of sexual orientations is given in table [ tab : gender : so ] : the giant component contains proportionally more msm than the full population ; this seems logical because of the higher probability of hiv transmission between men @xcite .",
    ".gender and sexual orientation distributions in the whole network and in the giant component [ cols= \" > , > , > , > , > \" , ]",
    "-1.2em    this analysis shows that the two groups made of atypical clusters are far from each other compared to their internal distances .",
    "this is confirmed by the detection date analysis displayed on figure [ fig : groups : year ] .",
    "it appears that the epidemic in the giant component has two separated components .",
    "one mostly male homosexual component tends to dominate the recent cases ( note that even typical clusters contain at least 57 % of msm ) , while a mixed component with a large percentage of female patients was dominating the early epidemic , but tends to diminish recently .",
    "it should also be noted that this mix component is dominated by the growth of the homosexual component , but seems to decay only slightly in absolute terms . in other words ,",
    "the reduction should be seen as an inability to control the growth homosexual epidemic rather than as a success in eradicating the heterosexual epidemic .",
    "the proposed visual mining method for graphs has been shown to provide valuable insights on the epidemic network .",
    "it is based on links between modularity and visualization and leverages recent computationally efficient modularity maximizing methods .",
    "future works include the integration of the proposed methods in graph mining tools such as @xcite and its validation on other aspects of epidemic networks analysis .",
    "clmenon , s. , de  arazoza , h. , rossi , f. , tran , v.c . : hierarchical clustering for graph visualization . in : proceedings of xviiith",
    "european symposium on artificial neural networks ( esann 2011 ) .",
    "bruges , belgique ( april 2011 ) , to be published            kwakwa , h.a . , ghobrial , m.w . : female - to - female transmission of human immunodeficiency virus . clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the infectious diseases society of america 36(3 ) ( february 2003 )          noack , a. , rotta , r. : multi - level algorithms for modularity clustering . in : sea 09 : proceedings of the 8th international symposium on experimental algorithms .",
    ". 257268 .",
    "springer - verlag , berlin , heidelberg ( 2009 )    rothenberg , r.b . , woodhouse , d.e .",
    ", potterat , j.j . , muth , s.q . ,",
    "darrow , w.w . ,",
    "klovdahl , a.s . : social networks in disease transmission : the colorado springs study . in : needle , r.h . , coyle , s.l .",
    ", genser , s.g .",
    ", trotter  ii , r.t .",
    "social networks , drug abuse , and hiv transmission , pp .",
    "318 . no .",
    "151 in research monographs , national institute on drug abuse ( 1995 )    varghese , b. , maher , j. , peterman , t. , branson , b. , steketee , r. : reducing the risk of sexual hiv transmission : quantifying the per - act risk for hiv on the basis of choice of partner , sex act , and condom use .",
    "sexually transmitted diseases 29(1 ) , 3843 ( january 2002 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show how an interactive graph visualization method based on maximal modularity clustering can be used to explore a large epidemic network . </S>",
    "<S> the visual representation is used to display statistical tests results that expose the relations between the propagation of hiv in a sexual contact network and the sexual orientation of the patients . </S>"
  ]
}