{
  "article_text": [
    "modern observing facilities can reach galaxy groups and clusters at @xmath8 and beyond .",
    "the number of such high-@xmath7 systems has been increasing in recent years and we are now in the process of building a statistical sample which will give us a detailed picture of group / cluster evolution at high redshifts . it is a widely accepted fact that galaxy clusters today are dominated by quiescent early - type galaxies , while a significant fraction of field galaxies are star forming late - type galaxies .",
    "this clearly shows that the formation and evolution of cosmic large - scale structure affects galaxy evolution .",
    "however , the interplay between galaxies and their surrounding structure remains unclear .",
    "one observational approach to this question is to study groups and clusters over a range of redshift to directly trace their evolution and to identify the epoch when quiescent early - type galaxies become the dominant population .",
    "groups are statistically likely progenitors of the present - day clusters and they are thus key objects to improve our understanding of the origin of the environmental dependence observed in the local universe .    in this respect ,",
    "the current frontier of high-@xmath7 systems is at @xmath9  a number of such systems have been reported to date .",
    "@xcite reported on the discovery of a rich @xmath10 cluster .",
    "it is very massive @xcite and exhibits a tight red sequence @xcite .",
    "star forming galaxies are absent in the cluster core @xcite .",
    "@xcite discovered a cluster at @xmath11 based on infrared photometry from spitzer .",
    "@xcite carried out a spectroscopic follow - up observation of the cluster and confirmed more than 10 members .",
    "they also presented a spectroscopically confirmed cluster at @xmath12 selected from the spitzer photometry .",
    "@xcite presented a cluster located at @xmath13 .",
    "follow - up spectroscopic observations and chandra observations are reported in hilton et al .",
    "( 2007 , 2010 ) .",
    "although exhibiting a prominent red sequence @xcite , this cluster also hosts a significant number of emission line objects in the core @xcite . in the last few years , the redshift barrier of @xmath8 has been broken .",
    "@xcite and @xcite independently confirmed a group at @xmath14 in the subaru / xmm - newton deep field ( sxdf ) .",
    "@xcite performed a chandra observation of the group .",
    "although the exposure time was rather short and the detection was marginal , they reported a consistent flux with that of @xcite .",
    "the xmm - newton deep cluster project reported the discovery of a few x - ray bright clusters at @xmath9 @xcite .",
    "even higher redshift systems are now detected .",
    "@xcite reported on a possible x - ray group at @xmath15 and @xcite recently presented a spectroscopically confirmed x - ray cluster at @xmath15 .",
    "@xcite presented a color - selected group at @xmath16 .",
    "there are a few more photo-@xmath7 selected group candidates at @xmath17 @xcite . however , some of these very high-@xmath7 systems still require convincing confirmation with spectroscopic redshifts .    at @xmath18 ,",
    "there are few securely confirmed , gravitationally bound systems but a number of authors have reported the discovery of so - called proto - clusters .",
    "the definition of a proto - cluster is often ambiguous , but here we define it as a system that exhibits a significant over - density of galaxies but is yet to be gravitationally bound .",
    "such proto - clusters have often been identified by tracing emission line galaxies or color - selected galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "distant radio galaxies have been frequent targets for such observations ( see @xcite for a review ) . some of the reported proto - clusters may collapse and evolve into a cluster at later times .",
    "these proto - clusters tend to show a significant fraction of star forming galaxies .",
    "this is at least partly due to the way they are identified , but a large population of star forming galaxies at high redshift is not unexpected .",
    "galaxy formation occurs at density peaks  thus proto - clusters are an obvious place to find active star formation in the early universe .",
    "clusters change their nature with time from a place for star forming galaxies to a place for quiescent , passively evolving galaxies .",
    "to identify this key , cradle - to - grave transition epoch remains an important , but as yet unfulfilled goal .    in order to address these questions",
    ", we are conducting a systematic survey of groups and clusters of galaxies using x - ray and optical - nearir data in deep fields such as cosmos , cfht deep fields , and sxdf @xcite .",
    "these group catalogs include systems over a wide redshift range ( @xmath19 ) and are a powerful probe of cosmology ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "at the same time , they provide an ideal data set to study the evolution of galaxies across environment and time . as part of this project ,",
    "we have constructed an x - ray group catalog in the chandra deep field south ( cdfs ) as presented by finoguenov et al .",
    "( 2012 in prep ) . during the course of this work , we have identified a high redshift group located at @xmath20 .",
    "this system is in the large - scale structure at @xmath20 discovered by @xcite and is the first gravitationally bound , x - ray detected system in that structure .",
    "it happens to fall within the area covered by the candels survey @xcite , where deep , high - quality hst imaging data are available .",
    "the near - ir candels images neatly probe the rest - frame optical wavelengths of galaxies at @xmath20 .",
    "we take this unique opportunity to study the galaxy population of this @xmath20 group with a depth equivalent to that typically only found at @xmath21 .",
    "the layout of this paper is as follows .",
    "we review the data that we use in this work , including the creation of our x - ray group catalog in section 2 , followed by analyses of the @xmath20 group detection via extended x - ray emission and color - magnitude diagrams in section 3 .",
    "we perform a detailed analysis of spectral energy distributions ( seds ) of the group galaxies in section 4 and examine morphology of the galaxies in section 5 .",
    "section 6 discusses implications of our finding for the origin of the environmental dependence of galaxy properties and section 7 concludes the paper . unless otherwise stated , we assume a flat universe with @xmath22 , @xmath23 and @xmath24 . magnitudes",
    "are given in the ab system .",
    "we use the following abbreviations : agn for active galactic nucleus , bgg for brightest group galaxy , cdfs for chandra deep field south , fwhm for full - width at half maximum , imf for initial mass function , pdf for probability distribution function , psf for point spread function , sed for spectral energy distribution , sfr for star formation rate , and sxdf for subaru / xmm - newton deep field .",
    "we base our analysis on a wealth of public data available in cdfs .",
    "we first summarize the x - ray and optical - ir data that we use .",
    "we then briefly describe our x - ray group catalog .",
    "the chandra deep field south has been a frequent target of x - ray observations with both chandra and xmm - newton . after the first 1ms chandra observation ( @xcite ) ,",
    "the exposure was recently extended to 2 ms ( @xcite ) and later to 4ms ( @xcite ) , via a large director s discretionary time project .",
    "cdfs now provides our most sensitive 0.58 kev view of distant agns , starburst galaxies , normal galaxies , and galaxy groups . for the detection of extended sources , of value",
    "is both the 3.3 ms xmm coverage @xcite and the extended area covered by chandra ( @xcite ) .",
    "the group studied in this paper is detected independently in both chandra and xmm data with a consistent source flux in the observed 0.5 - 2 kev band ( see next section ) .",
    "we briefly outline the reduction of these data sets below .",
    "we note that we combine the chandra and xmm - newton data for the group identification in finoguenov et al .",
    "2012 ( in prep ) , but we primarily use the chandra data in this paper due to its superb spatial resolution .    in the chandra analysis , we have applied a conservative event screening and the modeling of the quiescent background .",
    "we have filtered the light - curve events using the lc_clean tool in order to remove normally undetected particle flares .",
    "the background model maps have been evaluated with the prescription of @xcite .",
    "we estimated the particle background by using the acis stowed position ( http://cxc.cfa.harvard.edu/contrib/maxim/acisbg ) observations and rescaling them by the ratio @xmath25 .",
    "the cosmic background flux has been evaluated by subtracting the particle background maps from the real data and masking the area occupied by the detected sources . rapidly broadening chandra psf with off - axis angle produces a large gradient in the resolved fraction of the cosmic background , which is the dominant source of systematics in our background subtraction .",
    "however , we note that the group that we study in this paper is only @xmath26 arcmin away from the field center , where the chandra psf is still sharp .",
    "we combine the data with and without point source subtraction and analyze them independently in sect 3.2 .    for the xmm - newton analysis",
    ", we have followed the prescription outlined in @xcite on data screening and background evaluation , with updates described in @xcite . after cleaning those observations ,",
    "the resulting net total observing time with xmm - newton are 1.946ms for pn , 2.552ms for mos1 , 2.530ms for mos2 .",
    "we carefully remove point sources following @xcite and @xcite .",
    "this is done independently from the chandra data to allow for agn variability and difference in the astrometry .",
    "furthermore , we do not detect individual sources and catalog them , but instead we directly work with images .",
    "this is important for xmm - newton because it is confusion limited at the depths of cdfs ( in the soft band ) and the source deblending is not trivial .",
    "we are left with extended sources in the combined image .",
    "we describe the source detection in sect 2.3 and 3.2 .",
    "we base our analysis mainly on two public sets of optical - ir photometry drawn from music @xcite and candles @xcite .",
    "in addition , we make extensive use of photometric redshifts based on the deep multi - band photometry available in this field in order to identify group members .",
    "the music catalog is a deep , multi - wavelength catalog of the cdfs field @xcite .",
    "the catalog that we use is from @xcite , which is an extended version of the one presented by @xcite and contains 15-band photometry spanning from the @xmath27-band to 24@xmath28 . for details of the catalog construction ,",
    "readers are referred to @xcite and @xcite .",
    "but , in short , the objects are first detected in the acs @xmath7-band and photometry in the other bands is performed by convolving the @xmath7-band image to match with the psf in the other bands and scaling the fluxes .",
    "objects that are not detected in the @xmath7-band are detected and measured in the @xmath29 and irac @xmath30 images with the @xmath7-band detected objects masked out .",
    "in addition to the music catalog , we use the deep acs and wfc3 imaging data from candels @xcite .",
    "candels is a public imaging survey using the acs and wfc3 camera on board the hubble space telescope .",
    "the observation is made mainly in three bands : f814w , f125w and f160w .",
    "we make stacked f814w , f125w , and f160w images by combining data from the first 4 epochs of deep observations using the weight maps supplied by the candels team .",
    "the resultant images reach limiting magnitudes of 28.3 , 27.3 , and 27.0 within an aperture of size @xmath31fwhm .",
    "the psf of the f160w image is @xmath32 arcsec and the psfs of the other images are smoothed to this size using the gaussian kernel .",
    "object detection and photometry is performed using source extractor @xcite .",
    "objects are detected in the f160w image and photometry in the other bands is performed in dual image mode .",
    "we adopt mag_auto for total magnitudes and use magnitudes measured in @xmath31fwhm apertures for colors . for simplicity , we often denote f814w , f125w , and f160w as @xmath33 and @xmath34 , respectively , in what follows .",
    "we do not make an attempt to combine the music and candels catalogs because the photometry is performed in different ways and the music catalog already contains the @xmath35 , @xmath36 , and @xmath34-band photometry measured in a self - consistent manner .",
    "candels goes deeper than music , but most of our analyses is not limited by depth of imaging . for these reasons ,",
    "we use the catalogs separately for complimentary analyses .",
    "@xcite computed photometric redshifts ( photo-@xmath7 s ) using a combined photometric catalog collected from the literature @xcite .",
    "they used the public photo-@xmath7 code zebra @xcite .",
    "we note that they focused on agns in their paper , but they computed photo-@xmath7 s for all galaxies within the extended cdfs . by comparing the photo-@xmath7 s with spectroscopic redshifts , they achieved @xmath37 with an outlier rate of 4% for bright galaxies with @xmath38 . here",
    "outliers are defined as those with @xmath39 . for fainter galaxies",
    ", the accuracy degrades to @xmath40 and an outlier rate of 14% , although the spectroscopic sample is heterogeneous .",
    "we denote their photo-@xmath7 s as @xmath41 .",
    "later in the paper , we perform the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) fitting of group galaxies using the music catalog .",
    "the photometric redshift is fit as part of this procedure , and we shall make extensive use of these photo-@xmath7 s .",
    "we denote photometric redshifts from our sed fitting as @xmath42 .",
    "we use @xmath41 and @xmath43 for the selection of group members .",
    "in addition to those sources of photometric redshift , we also examine photo-@xmath7 s from @xcite , which we denote @xmath44 .",
    "their photo-@xmath7 s are based on the multi - band data from the musyc survey @xcite . with 18 medium - band photometry in the optical ,",
    "they have achieved excellent photo-@xmath7 s for bright objects @xcite . however , their broad band imaging is shallower ( and covers a wider area ) , and the catalog is @xmath45-selected .",
    "this means that the fainter and redder candidate group members are not included in their catalog . for this reason",
    ", we do not use @xmath44 for the primary selection of group members .    as each data set",
    "has its own strengths , we use different catalogs for different purposes . to be specific ,",
    "the selection of the group member candidates is based on @xmath42 and @xmath41 .",
    "we use the candels data for the color - magnitude diagrams in section 3 because the high quality candels photometry neatly probes the wavelengths around the 4000  break .",
    "the candels data are also used for structural analysis in section 5 .",
    "we base our analysis of sed fitting of the group members on the multi - band music catalog in order to cover a wide wavelength range in section 4 .",
    "we remind the readers of which photometric catalog is used at each stage of the analysis .      using the x - ray data and @xcite photo-@xmath7 catalog described above , we construct a catalog of x - ray groups in cdfs",
    ". we will give a full detail of the catalog construction in finoguenov et al .",
    "( 2012 in prep ) .",
    "but , we briefly outline our algorithm here .    on the mosaic of coadded xmm and chandra images ,",
    "group candidates are first identified as extended sources through a classical wavelet transform technique with a careful removal of point sources @xcite . in order to identify optical counterparts of the extended x - ray emission",
    ", we apply an efficient red sequence finder as described by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the red sequence finder computes a significance of the red sequence in the region of an extended x - ray source , assuming a given redshift , by comparing observed magnitudes and colors of galaxies with a model red sequence at that redshift constructed using the recipe by @xcite .",
    "we achieve an efficient removal of fore-/background galaxies from the red sequence in question using the excellent photometric redshifts @xcite .",
    "then , for each redshift at which a significant signal is detected the red sequence is visually inspected , and the group is assigned a redshift and confidence flags .",
    "we use all the public spectroscopic redshifts from the literature @xcite to help identify each system and obtain its spectroscopic redshift during this final step .    in total , we have spectroscopically identified 39 systems .",
    "we have another 8 systems with low quality flags .",
    "the secure groups are located mostly at @xmath46 , but a good fraction of them have higher redshifts .",
    "most of the identified systems are low - mass groups with @xmath47 .",
    "such low - mass x - ray groups at relatively high redshift are interesting , and the unprecedented x - ray depth in the cdfs field provides an exciting opportunity to study these systems .",
    "we will discuss properties of these groups and their brightest members in wilman et al .",
    "( in prep ) .",
    "the group we focus on in this paper is the spectroscopically confirmed , highest redshift group in our group catalog .",
    "( 170mm,80mm)fig1.eps    during the course of the group identification , we have discovered a promising high-@xmath7 group candidate .",
    "we have detected extended x - ray emission not far from the center of the chandra field of view .",
    "a red sequence finder has yielded a significant signal around @xmath20 for this x - ray source .",
    "if we assume a group redshift of @xmath20 , the group has a very low x - ray luminosity , which suggests that it is a low - mass group .",
    "such a high-@xmath7 , low - mass group is an interesting object because it is likely a progenitor of a present - day cluster of typical mass . for this system , a wealth of deep , multi - wavelength data are available , and",
    "furthermore , the group has recently been observed by candels and the deep optical - nearir images taken with wfc3 are publicly available .",
    "using the candels images , we present a color picture of the group in fig . [",
    "fig : color_pic ] . in this section ,",
    "we provide evidence that this system is a group located at @xmath0 with extended x - ray emission .",
    "first , we make a robust analysis of the x - ray emission and show that it is extended .",
    "we then show that there is a clear over - density of galaxies at @xmath20 around the extended x - ray emission and that the brightest group galaxy ( bgg ) is spectroscopically confirmed at @xmath0 .",
    "furthermore , the galaxies form a tight red sequence , which is a ubiquitous feature of rich groups and clusters , at least at lower redshift .",
    "all of these results lead us to conclude that this system is a real group located at @xmath0 .",
    "below , we describe each piece of evidence in detail .      the chandra observation reveals a number of point sources in and around the group . together with the point sources , we detect extended , larger - scale emission around the group based on the wavelet analysis ( outer contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] ) .",
    "the reader is referred to sect .",
    "3 of @xcite for technical details of the wavelet analysis .",
    "the system is only @xmath26 arcmin away from the center of the chandra field of view where the psf is very sharp and well - behaved ( @xmath48 arcsec , estimated using the profile of nearby point sources ) . as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] , we detect the extended x - ray emission over a scale of 20 arcsec in radius , which is significantly larger than the psf size .",
    "the extended flux is only @xmath49 as detailed below , but it is one of the two brightest extended objects in the chandra best psf area of the cdfs field ( @xmath50 from the center ) . the other object is a group at @xmath51 mentioned by @xcite . extended x - ray emission can be caused by the inverse - compton scattering of the cmb photons off energetic electrons in radio jets ( e.g. , @xcite ) , but there is no radio source around the x - ray emission @xcite .",
    "such non - thermal origin of the x - ray emission is thus unlikely .",
    "we perform a simple test to prove that the extended emission is real .",
    "we carry out a simple and robust analysis of counting photons around the group by masking point sources in the chandra raw photon image .",
    "we first detect point - like objects in the image with source extractor @xcite .",
    "the detected objects are then masked out .",
    "the masking radius is set to be three times the half - width at half - maximum ( hwhm ) , which visual inspection shows us is large enough to exclude point sources and their extended psf wings .",
    "we have confirmed that our conclusion does not change if we change this radius to twice or four times the hwhm .",
    "we have also confirmed that our result remains the same if we use the point source catalog of @xcite to mask the point sources .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)fig2.eps    fig .",
    "[ fig : xray_ext ] shows the average photon counts per unit area in annuli with a width of 10 arcsec for the 0.52 kev and 28 kev bands . here",
    ", we take the bgg as the center . in the soft band ,",
    "the average photon counts are clearly higher in the center and the x - ray emission is extended to 20 arcsec in radius , which is consistent with the x - ray extent from the wavelet analysis . if we subtract the local background using the average counts from a radius of 30 - 60 arcsec , and interpolate over each masked area assuming the average counts within that annulus , we measure a total photon count of @xmath52 within an aperture of 20 arcsec radius from the center ( i.e. , @xmath53 detection ) . if we take the center of the wavelet contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] as the center , we still obtain a signal of @xmath54 .",
    "we apply the same analysis using the 0.52 kev chandra image independently reduced by @xcite and obtained the same result  there is a clear excess in the photon counts at the center and we measure a significant photon count from the group ( @xmath55 ) .",
    "the photon count is fully consistent with ours .",
    "the group is not detected in the hard band at a significant level as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : xray_ext ] ; we measure a photon count of @xmath56 within 20 arcsec radius after the background subtraction ( i.e. , @xmath57 ) .",
    "the extended x - ray emission is therefore soft .",
    "this is consistent with the extended emission being due to intra - group medium and it rules out a significant contamination from unresolved , obscured sources .",
    "furthermore , the flux limit for point sources in the 4ms chandra data at the location of the group is about @xmath58 in the soft band . in order to explain the x - ray flux of the group",
    ", one needs at least 15 unresolved point sources , which would correspond to an over - density of factor 30 on the scale of 15 arcsec .",
    "this is highly unlikely to happen given the clustering properties of agns on these scales .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)fig3a.eps ( 80mm,80mm)fig3b.eps    given the slightly low signal - to - noise ratio of the x - ray detection , we perform a further analysis by carefully subtracting point sources following finoguenov et al .",
    "( 2009 , 2010 ) .",
    "we present a chandra and xmm - newton x - ray maps fig .",
    "[ fig : xray_map ] .",
    "the x - ray emission is not readily seen by eye in the chandra map , but this is not unexpected because the significance of the detection is not very high . from our experience , only high significance ( @xmath59 ) extended emission can be easily recognized by eye on a 2d x - ray map . if we measure the flux following @xcite , we obtain @xmath60 ( @xmath61 ) from the chandra image ( i.e. , @xmath61 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the extended emission is relatively easily seen in the xmm - newton data thanks to the larger photon collecting area .",
    "the emission is clearly extended over @xmath62 in radius , which is consistent with the wavelet detection in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] .",
    "although we carefully removed point sources in the xmm - newton data , one may worry about the point source contamination due to the poor spatial resolution of xmm - newton .",
    "we argue that such contamination is likely small .",
    "we measure an x - ray flux of @xmath63 at a significance level of @xmath64 in the xmm - newton data .",
    "this flux is consistent with the chandra flux quoted above .",
    "the overlap in the error bars is not large between the two fluxes and this might be indicative of a small residual of point source fluxes in xmm - newton , but the contamination is small in any case .",
    "these independent detections of the x - ray emission with consistent fluxes from chandra and xmm - newton is strong evidence for the extended x - ray emission .",
    "based on all the analyses presented here , we conclude that the detected x - ray emission is real and it originates from hot thermal plasma trapped in a deep potential well of the system .",
    "we obtain consistent fluxes between chandra and xmm - newton , but we base our analysis on the chandra flux to be conservative in what follows .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)fig4.eps    finally , we note that we obtain tentative evidence for a cool core in the group .",
    "the compact x - ray emission around the bgg ( object - a as defined later ) is slightly more extended than the psf as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cool_core ] , although the difference is not large .",
    "if confirmed , this group would be the highest redshift system with a cool core .",
    "it may also help explain the galaxy population because a group with a cool core is unlikely to have recently experienced a violent merger event ( we will elaborate on this point in section 5 ) .",
    "however , given the large error bars in fig .",
    "[ fig : cool_core ] , the object may well be a faint agn .",
    "bgg is not detected in the 2 - 8 kev band and the lower limit on the photon index is @xmath65 @xcite , which does not rule out either an agn or cool core origin for the emission .",
    "having detected the extended x - ray emission , we now look for the optical counterpart using deep optical - nir imaging . for this",
    ", we have run a red sequence finder as described in section 2.3 .",
    "we have detected a @xmath66 signal at @xmath1 after calibrating the model red sequence with observed color of galaxies using the music catalog .",
    "no other significant red sequence signal is found at other redshifts .",
    "there are three galaxies at @xmath67 within the x - ray contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] , but we argue that they are not the primary counterpart of the x - ray emission in appendix 1 .    in order to define group member candidates , we use @xmath41 and @xmath43 . given that photo-@xmath7 s are sensitive to a change in input photometry and templates , we use both photo-@xmath7 estimates in order to reduce any systematic uncertainties arising from photo-@xmath7 s .",
    "we define a member candidate as a galaxy with    @xmath68    where @xmath69 is the group redshift ( @xmath70 as discussed later ) and",
    "@xmath71 is the photometric redshift probability distribution function ( pdf ) from the fitting procedure .",
    "@xcite s photo-@xmath7 s have an accuracy of @xmath72 for faint sources .",
    "motivated by this , we integrate the pdf over the interval of @xmath73 to @xmath74 .",
    "if the integrated probability exceeds 0.16 we define the galaxy as a group member candidate . in other words , if a galaxy is consistent with being at @xmath75 within @xmath76 , it is a candidate for group membership .",
    "the two photo-@xmath7 s agree for most objects , but there are some discrepant cases .",
    "we define two categories here :    * _ good candidates _ are those with photo@xmath77 s consistent with being at @xmath69 ( see eq .",
    "1 ) both from @xmath41 and @xmath43 . *",
    "_ likely candidates _ are those that have @xmath43 consistent with being at @xmath69 , while they have lower / higher @xmath41 .",
    "note that even if both photo-@xmath7 s are consistent , an object can fall in this category if its photo-@xmath7 s are not very reliable ( e.g. , bad @xmath78 ) .",
    "there is obviously a third category of galaxies with @xmath41 at @xmath69 , but with lower / higher @xmath43 .",
    "there is no such galaxy in the core of the group and we do not include the third category in the following discussions .",
    "we refer to the bright ( @xmath79 ) good / likely candidates as object - x , where x is an upper / lower case letter , respectively , in the order of the @xmath34-band brightness .",
    "we do not discuss fainter galaxies in detail because their photo-@xmath7 s are uncertain and their field contamination probabilities are high ( see section 3.4 ) .",
    "table [ tab : photoz ] summarizes photo-@xmath7 s of the candidates .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,>,^,>,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     figs .",
    "[ fig : galfit ] and [ fig : galfit2 ] show the input image , best - fit model image , residuals , and mask image for the good and likely candidates , respectively .",
    "the fits are generally good and the residuals are relatively small for most objects . this verifies that the assumption of a single srsic profile is reasonable .",
    "we fail to fit object - d due to its irregular morphology and to its close proximity to the bgg .    here",
    "we focus on two of the most important structural parameters ; srsic index ( @xmath80 ) and half - light radius .",
    "we quote half - light radius as @xmath81 , where @xmath82 and @xmath83 are half - light radius measured along the semi - major and semi - minor axes , respectively .",
    "we estimate an error on each of the srsic index and half - light radius by monte - carlo simulations .",
    "first , we generate the same background level as in the real @xmath34-band data assuming gaussian noise and place a model galaxy with a given brightness , effective radius and srsic index .",
    "we then run galfit and measure the structural parameters .",
    "we allow the brightness , effective radius , and srsic index to vary and repeat the analysis above .",
    "a difference between the input and output parameters is fairly small ( a few percent ) for bright objects with @xmath84 mag . for fainter objects , the systematic offset and dispersion increases to 5% and 10% respectively for objects with @xmath85 mag .",
    "this is roughly the average brightness of the objects that we study in this section . for objects with @xmath86 , we measure a 10% systematics and a 20% scatter .",
    "we note that all of the objects studied here are brighter than @xmath86 .",
    "we then perform another set of simulation .",
    "we generate background noise of the same level as in the real data assuming gaussian noise and place the group members at the same relative location with the same srsic indices and half - light radii as the values measured in the candels image for each galaxy .",
    "we exclude object - d because we fail to fit this object and therefore can not use the fitted parameters for the simulation .",
    "we then run galfit on a simulated image and store the output parameters .",
    "we repeat this procedure on 2000 simulated images and adopt the 68% interval of the output parameters as errors . in the figures ,",
    "we show this error or the error estimated in the first simulation , whichever is larger . in most cases ,",
    "the latter error is larger . for systematic offsets ,",
    "we find that the input parameters and the median of the output parameters agree within 10% for all the galaxies .",
    "this is consistent with the systematic offsets estimated in the first simulation and this 10% is a reasonable estimate of the systematics .    as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] , there are a few x - ray point sources among the group member candidates .",
    "this x - ray emission is likely due to nuclear activity . to make sure",
    ", the presence of agn does not impact our analysis , we repeat the galfit analysis with the central 3 pixels in radius masked out .",
    "the derived structural parameters are summarized in table [ tab : galfit_props ] .",
    "we also show axial ratios ( @xmath87 ) for reference .",
    "note that the structural parameters derived with the central masking do not differ significantly from those derived without it .",
    "let us now compare the structural parameters of the group galaxies with those measured at @xmath21 to quantify the morphological evolution .",
    "for this comparison , we use data from the sloan digital sky survey @xcite .",
    "we use galaxies in the main sample @xcite located at @xmath88 .",
    "the f160w filter of wfc3 probes rest - frame @xmath89 at @xmath20 , which is very close to the effective wavelength of the @xmath90-band filter in sdss @xcite .",
    "therefore , the morphological @xmath91-correction is negligible .",
    "the psf of the stacked f160w image is @xmath92 arcsec , which corresponds to 1.7 kpc at @xmath20 .",
    "the average seeing in sdss is @xmath93 arcsec , which is also 1.7 kpc at the median redshift of our sdss sample .",
    "the surface brightness limit is much deeper for sdss than for the @xmath20 galaxies .",
    "but , we have performed a monte - carlo simulation to quantify uncertainties on our structural parameter estimates at @xmath20 as described above and the shallow limit at @xmath20 is folded into the uncertainty . for the srsic index and half - light radius of @xmath21 galaxies , we use the new - york university value added catalog @xcite .",
    "the stellar mass for the sdss sample is taken from @xcite who fitted the sdss spectra with @xcite model templates assuming the chabrier imf .",
    "note that a correction for the fiber loss is applied in a crude way by assuming that the light within a fiber is representative of the light from the entire galaxy .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)fig13a.eps ( 80mm,80mm)fig13b.eps    fig [ fig : sersic_vs_smass ] presents the srsic index , @xmath80 , and half - light radius plotted against stellar mass .",
    "as can be seen in the left panel , most of the @xmath21 galaxies have srsic index between 1 and 2 .",
    "this is the typical range for late - type galaxies .",
    "the index shows a tail towards a larger index at high mass , which shows that most massive galaxies tend to be early - type galaxies .",
    "we separate early and late - type galaxies at the srsic index of @xmath94 as shown by the horizontal dashed line in the left panel .",
    "if we turn our attention to the @xmath20 galaxies shown as the large circles in the left panel , we find that most of them have @xmath95 .",
    "in other words , most of the galaxies in the @xmath20 group are early - type galaxies . we know that groups and clusters at @xmath21 are dominated by early - type galaxies @xcite , but it is surprising that a group at such a high redshift is also dominated by early - type galaxies .",
    "we have shown in the previous section that these galaxies are mostly quiescent galaxies .",
    "therefore , the group appears fairly similar to groups and clusters in the local universe .",
    "in addition to the srsic index , another interesting structural parameter of galaxies is their physical size .",
    "the size evolution is particularly interesting given the recent observations that distant quiescent galaxies are compact compared to @xmath21 counterparts ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "it would therefore be interesting to study whether the size evolution depends on environment .",
    "@xcite studied a cluster at @xmath96 and suggested that the cluster and field galaxies at the same redshift have similar sizes .",
    "the newly confirmed group is one of the highest redshift systems discovered so far where high quality wfc3 images are available , allowing us to investigate galaxy sizes in the group .",
    "we show half - light radius , @xmath97 , against stellar mass in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sersic_vs_smass ] . as a @xmath21 reference",
    ", we show the size - mass distribution of local early - type ( @xmath95 ) galaxies as well as a size - mass relation of the local early - type galaxies from @xcite .",
    "we note that @xcite measured sizes in the @xmath7-band , while we use the @xmath90-band .",
    "therefore , care needs to be taken when comparing these two samples .",
    "we also note that the resolution limit of the f160w image is @xmath98 and thus all the @xmath20 galaxies plotted are well resolved .",
    "the figure also shows the size - mass relation for quiescent galaxies from @xcite .",
    "their quiescent galaxies typically have early - type morphology with @xmath99 and their result is directly comparable to ours .",
    "they did not characterize the environment of the galaxies . however , most of the galaxies in their sample are likely field galaxies and we refer to their sample as a field sample .",
    "the bgg is within the scatter of the local and @xmath100 size - mass relations and it appears that the bgg in the @xmath20 group already has a similar size to local massive galaxies .",
    "the low - mass galaxies with @xmath101 are also consistent with both relations .",
    "only object - b and c are clearly below the local relation , and they are consistent with the @xmath100 field relation .",
    "overall , the size - mass relation of the group galaxies seems to fall in between the @xmath100 and @xmath21 relations .",
    "@xcite claimed that galaxies in another @xmath20 group in sxdf exhibit smaller sizes at fixed stellar mass compared to the local galaxies , but they are larger than field galaxies at the same redshift .",
    "our result in fig .",
    "[ fig : sersic_vs_smass ] may be consistent with their finding .",
    "@xcite reported on a similar trend in a @xmath102 proto - cluster .",
    "however , the statistics in all these studies , including this paper , are not sufficient to allow a clear conclusion .",
    "@xcite reported on an elevated merger / interaction rate in the @xmath14 system in sxdf .",
    "only one of the 8 group member candidates ( object - d ) shows a highly distorted morphology and all the other galaxies have well - defined early - type morphologies . we also do not observe a strong elevated rate of nearby companions ( see fig . [",
    "fig : galfit ] ) .",
    "we may tend to miss interacting galaxies due to possibly poor photo-@xmath7 s for such objects . to be sure",
    ", we visually inspect all the bright galaxies with @xmath79 located within @xmath103 without using photo-@xmath7 s .",
    "fore-/background galaxies with secure spec - z s are excluded from this exercise .",
    "we find 3 clear cases for disturbed morphology in addition to object - d .",
    "we have carefully examined the seds of the 3 objects and find that only one of them is marginally consistent with being at the group redshift .",
    "the other seds look normal and they are likely at @xmath104 .",
    "although the statistics are very poor , it is unlikely that a large fraction of the group galaxies are undergoing interaction .",
    "the possible different trend between the two systems might be due to their different dynamical states .",
    "that is , the newly confirmed @xmath0 group in this paper is a more relaxed system than the one in sxdf .",
    "if the x - ray emission around object - a is partly due to a cool core , it lends support a relaxed system with no recent merger events .",
    "it would then not be a surprise that few group members are undergoing interactions with other galaxies .",
    "on the other hand , the group in sxds shows a somewhat irregular distribution of the members and it potentially has a companion group ( but see also the shallow chandra observations by @xcite ) .",
    "the possibly different dynamical states could explain the different merger / interaction rates in these two groups at the same redshift .",
    "finally , we briefly mention the ellipticity of the @xmath20 galaxies . as shown in table [",
    "tab : galfit_props ] , most of them have an axis ratio of @xmath105 . by excluding object - d , which we fail to fit , we measure an average axis ratio of @xmath106 with a scatter of @xmath107 .",
    "this axis ratio is consistent with field galaxies at similar redshifts ( @xmath108 ; @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite found that cluster early - type galaxies have the median axis ratio of @xmath109 and this does not strongly evolve at @xmath46 .",
    "our finding here may extend the result by @xcite to a redshift of @xmath20 , although the cluster mass ranges explored are very different ( our group has a much lower mass than those studied by @xcite ) .    to summarize",
    ", we find that most of the galaxies in the @xmath20 group are early - type galaxies with srsic index @xmath95 .",
    "there are a few galaxies that have smaller physical sizes than their local counterparts , but the overall size - mass relation of the group galaxies does not seem to be significantly different from the local relation . in all of these aspects ,",
    "the group is strikingly similar to local groups and clusters and the environmental dependence of galaxy properties is clearly in place by @xmath20 .",
    "our primary finding in this work is that the newly discovered , poor group of galaxies at @xmath0 in the cdfs is dominated by quiescent early - type galaxies .",
    "this result is possible because of the exquisite , high quality data available in this field .",
    "we started this paper by saying that high-@xmath7 groups hold a key to understanding the origin of the environmental dependence of galaxy properties observed locally because they are the progenitors of present - day clusters .",
    "the galaxy populations in the group appear strikingly similar to those in groups in the local universe .",
    "a naive interpretation of our results is that the environmental dependence is established at @xmath110 .",
    "in fact , @xcite found tentative evidence that a fraction of galaxies in a ( proto-)cluster at @xmath111 show suppressed star formation activities .",
    "@xcite reported on galaxy concentrations at @xmath112 in the cosmos field and suggested that a red sequence is present , which might support the view of an environmental dependence already in place by @xmath113 .",
    "groups and clusters form from statistical fluctuations of the density field and they are thus statistical objects in nature .",
    "they do not all form at the same time and they do not all evolve in the same way . at a given redshift , groups naturally show a diversity in their properties and we can not generalize our results in this paper to the average group properties at @xmath20 . however , it is still important that we find one system that is dominated by quiescent early - type galaxies .",
    "the environmental dependence of galaxy properties is thought to be due to both nature and nurture effects .",
    "most of the group member candidates are consistent with the formation redshift of @xmath5 , which is only @xmath114 gyr prior to @xmath20 under the assumption of a single burst model ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd1 ] ) . given that galaxies need time ( of order hundred myr ) to settle onto the red sequence even after a sharp quenching",
    ", the galaxies must have grown to @xmath115 and then quenched on a time scale of @xmath116 gyr .",
    "what physical process is responsible for such rapid evolution in this low mass group at this high redshift ?",
    "the @xmath20 group shows one significant difference from local groups and clusters ; the high agn fraction .",
    "recently , energy feedback from agns has been suggested as a promising quenching mechanism . theoretical work based on a simplified recipe of agn energy feedback seems to do a good job of reproducing some observed galaxy properties ( e.g. , @xcite ) , although the exact form of the energy feedback is still highly uncertain .",
    "our finding that the group hosts a large fraction of agns might indicate some role of agn feedback in quenching .",
    "a fraction of agns with @xmath117 at @xmath118 among galaxies with @xmath119 is about 10 - 20% in the field @xcite .",
    "if we use object - a to e , which are @xmath120 within the error , we find an agn fraction of @xmath121 .",
    "the fractions are consistent within the errors , but the large agn fraction in groups is not unexpected based on the increasing agn fraction with redshift in @xmath122 groups and clusters @xcite . even in a proto - cluster at a higher redshift of @xmath123 , @xcite observed an enhanced fraction of agns .",
    "however , an enhanced agn fraction is only circumstantial hint  we do not observe any direct evidence that agns quench the galaxies .",
    "another interesting aspect of the high agn fraction in high-@xmath7 groups is that it may help explain at least partly the apparent diversity of the observed properties of high-@xmath7 group galaxies .",
    "@xcite claimed that the sfr - density relation reverses in a group at @xmath14 in sxdf .",
    "we go comparably as deep as @xcite in this study , but we do not find the group as an active place for star formation ( see table [ tab : physical_props ] ) .",
    "we do not observe an enhanced mips population in our group either .",
    "not only the group studied by @xcite , but another massive cluster at a similar redshift ( @xmath13 ) seems to host a large population of emission line objects in the core @xcite .",
    "it is still unclear whether these mips sources and emission line objects are due to enhanced star formation or agn activity .",
    "the latter possibility is not unlikely given the recently observed high agn fractions in high redshift groups and clusters as mentioned above and agns may contribute at least partly to the observed fraction of emission line galaxies .",
    "agn feedback is a possible process to quench galaxies , but are there any other physical processes that could explain the observed trend ? physical processes like ram - pressure stripping @xcite and harassment @xcite may not be very efficient in groups because these processes are expected to be effective in rich clusters .",
    "strangulation @xcite may work in groups , and it may be able to suppress the star formation on a short enough time scale to bring the galaxies onto the red sequence within @xmath116 gyr .",
    "galaxy interactions and mergers may play some role in quenching as well , although we do not observe a hint of frequent interactions in the group .",
    "if interactions are important , they must have happened at higher redshifts , which would then be closely linked to the nature effects .",
    "the observed large fraction of agns makes us speculate their roles , but as discussed earlier , we do not have direct evidence for the agn feedback . in order to further constrain the physical processes ,",
    "it would be interesting to perform deep near - ir spectroscopy to measure the balmer absorption features .",
    "these absorptions are strongest in a - type stars and by combining them with a continuum shape ( e.g. , a strength of the 4000  break ) , one can put a constraint on the quenching time scale , which will then constrain the physical processes .    although the discovery of the high-@xmath7 poor group filled with quiescent early - type galaxies is interesting , we need a larger sample of groups at high redshifts to fully address the questions raised in the first section .",
    "we are now in the process of building such a statistical sample of high-@xmath7 groups .",
    "up - coming large imaging surveys such as the one by hyper suprime - cam will provide a huge data set that allows us to construct a statistical sample of high redshift groups and study the group evolution up to @xmath124 and beyond . if increasing agn activity in high-@xmath7 groups is a real trend , it might imply that future deep x - ray surveys aiming at distant groups might benefit from moderately high angular resolution .",
    "the xmm - newton data of the group appears dominated by a collection of point sources as one can easily imagine from the chandra data shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] .",
    "we are able to subtract such contamination and detect the extended component in the xmm data ( see sect .",
    "3.2 ) , but the detection of extended x - ray is obviously harder where point source contamination is more severe .",
    "high angular resolution x - ray missions such as wfxt @xcite and smart - x would be ideal for identifying high redshift groups and clusters .",
    "we have discovered a group of galaxies at @xmath0 in cdfs using the deep x - ray , optical , and near - ir data .",
    "this is the lowest mass system discovered so far at such high redshifts and it provides an interesting system to study galaxy evolution in groups at high redshift .",
    "our primary findings can be summarized as follows .",
    "* we detect extended x - ray emission from the group , which suggests that the group is gravitationally bound .",
    "* the photo-@xmath7 selected galaxies at @xmath20 exhibit a clear concentration of red galaxies around the extended x - ray emission .",
    "a few of them , including the bgg , are spectroscopically confirmed at @xmath125 . *",
    "the group members form a pronounced red sequence , and are mostly consistent with a simple model population formed at @xmath5 .",
    "we fit our seds with models assuming stellar populations are formed with exponentially declining star formation histories .",
    "the best fits suggest that stellar populations are predominantly old and passively evolving , with low star formation rates , sfr@xmath126 .",
    "our galaxies lie clearly below the sfr - mass relation for normal star forming galaxies at similar redshifts .",
    "* we have performed a morphological analysis using the wfc3 data and found that most of the group members show early - type morphology with srsic index @xmath95 . *",
    "although the statistics are poor , the group appears to exhibit a very high fraction of agns ( 3 out of 8 good / likely candidates are agns ) , indicating an elevated agn activity in high redshift groups .",
    "these findings lead us to conclude that quiescent , early - type galaxies have already become a dominant population in the group .",
    "the group thus appears similar to present - day groups and clusters with one possible difference of its high agn fraction .",
    "this is a surprising result given the very low - mass of the system and its very high redshift .",
    "a naive interpretation of our result is that the environmental dependence of galaxy properties is in place in this group and it must have come in place at @xmath113 .",
    "however , the physical process or processes responsible for the galaxy quenching remain unclear .",
    "furthermore , there appears to be significant diversity in the observed properties of group / cluster galaxies at @xmath127 . to better understand high redshift groups , statistical samples will be necessary .",
    "future surveys will yield such samples which will hopefully allow us to address the long standing issue of the interplay between structure evolution and galaxy evolution .",
    "we thank the anonymous referees for useful comments , which helped improve the paper . this work was supported by world premier international research center initiative ( wpi initiative ) ,",
    "mext , japan , by kakenhi no . 23740144 , and by sao grants sp1 - 12006b and sp8 - 9003c to umbc .",
    "wnb and yqx acknowledge support from chandra grant sp1 - 12007a and jsm acknowledges support from chandra grant sp1 - 12006a .",
    "yqx also acknowledges support from the youth 1000 plan ( qingnianqianren ) program and the ustc startup funding .",
    "this work is based on observations taken by the candels multi - cycle treasury program with the nasa / esa hst , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.",
    "there are three objects at @xmath129 within the x - ray contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : color_pic ] . in this appendix",
    ", we argue that they are not the primary counterpart of the x - ray emission .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd_z10 ] , we show @xmath130 color against @xmath7-band magnitude of galaxies at @xmath131 around the extended x - ray emission .",
    "most of the galaxies are blue and there is only a weak red sequence .",
    "in fact , our red sequence finder described in section 2.3 gives a signal of only @xmath132 at @xmath128 .",
    "as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cmd1 ] , the red sequence is clearly more pronounced at @xmath20 .",
    "furthermore , the brightest galaxy at @xmath67 is 1 mag .",
    "fainter than @xmath133 and there is no @xmath133 galaxy around the x - ray emission at @xmath134 .",
    "the lack of bright galaxies does not favor the interpretation that they form an x - ray bright group .",
    "although we can not completely reject the possibility of the @xmath131 galaxies contributing to the extended x - ray emission , they are highly unlikely the primary counterpart of the x - ray .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)fig15.eps    model templates based on a stellar population synthesis code are subject to systematic uncertainties .",
    "such uncertainties include flux errors in the input stellar spectra used in a code and errors in the stellar evolutionary track .",
    "these systematics cause a mismatch between model spectra and observed spectra of galaxies .",
    "a way to crudely reduce such systematics is to apply flux corrections to model templates as a function of rest - frame wavelength . in principle",
    ", one could apply such correction to templates of a given spectral type .",
    "however , degeneracies between model parameters and a limited number of high quality spectra covering a wide enough wavelength window are major obstacles .",
    "one could instead apply a single master correction to all the templates to crudely correct for the systematics . here",
    "we construct a master _ template error function _ using the photometry of spectroscopically observed objects in cdfs and apply the error function to all the templates used in the sed fits .",
    "as noted in the main body of the paper , our conclusions do not change at all if we do not include the template error function in our analysis .",
    "we first select galaxies with secure spectroscopic redshifts from the public spectroscopic redshift catalogs in the literature .",
    "we then fit seds of these galaxies with redshifts fixed to their spectroscopic redshifts using the photometry from the music catalog .",
    "the dots in fig .",
    "[ fig : template_errfn ] show the ratio between observed fluxes and best - fit model templates .",
    "the large points are the median of the ratio in each wavelength bin and the associated error bars are the @xmath76 scatter in the ratio after subtracting the photometric error .",
    "the template error function defined here is a set of two quantities : the flux stretch and dispersion .",
    "we use both information in the sed fitting performed in the main body of the paper .",
    "we first apply flux stretches to the model templates and then take into account uncertainties in model fluxes in a given band in the fits .",
    "the latter procedure is important as pointed out by @xcite because the accuracy of model templates is dependent on wavelength .",
    "our model templates are most reliable ( i.e. , the dispersion is smallest ) in the rest - frame optical , where population synthesis models are calibrated to real data .",
    "they become less reliable at shorter and longer wavelengths .",
    "sed fits can be improved by taking such model uncertainties into account .",
    "the template flux uncertainties can be larger than photometric uncertainties especially for bright objects and this makes a fit too good ",
    "reduced @xmath78 of a fit for a bright object is typically below 1 .",
    "this does not mean that observed photometry has pessimistic errors , but it simply means that model templates are uncertain .",
    "in fact , the template error function increases the error ranges of all the physical parameters such as sfr and stellar mass , but the increased uncertainties likely represent more realistic uncertainties on the physical parameters .",
    "note that the template error function does not completely remove the systematics .",
    "for example , as mentioned in the main body of the paper , we assume @xmath135-models , but no real galaxies would exactly follow the exponential decay .",
    "we force them to fit with @xmath135-models , which introduces systematic uncertainties .",
    "there is no straightforward way to quantify such systematics and it remains one of the major uncertainties in our analysis .",
    "andreon , s. , maughan , b. , trinchieri , g. , & kurk , j.  2009 , , 507 , 147 balestra , i. , mainieri , v. , popesso , p. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 512 , a12 balogh , m. , mcgee , s. , wilman , d. , bower , et al .",
    "2009 , , 398 , 754 bauer , a.  e. , grtzbauch , r. , jrgensen , i. , varela , j. , & bergmann , m.  2011 , , 411 , 2009 bertin , e. , & arnouts , s.  1996 , , 117 , 393 bielby , r.  m. , finoguenov , a. , tanaka , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 523 , a66 blanton , m.  r. , schlegel , d.  j. , strauss , m.  a. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 129 , 2562 bower , r.  g. , benson , a.  j. , malbon , r. , helly , j.  c. , frenk , c.  s. , baugh , c.  m. , cole , s. , & lacey , c.  g.  2006 , , 370 , 645 brammer , g.  b. , van dokkum , p.  g. , & coppi , p.  2008",
    ", , 686 , 1503 brodwin , m. , stern , d. , vikhlinin , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 732 , 33 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s.  2003 , , 344 , 1000 calzetti , d. , armus , l. , bohlin , r.  c. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 533 , 682 cardamone , c.  n. , van dokkum , p.  g. , urry , c.  m. , et al .  2010 , , 189 , 270 chabrier , g.  2003 , , 115 , 763 cimatti , a. , pozzetti , l. , mignoli , m. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 391 , l1 cooper , m.  c. , yan , r. , dickinson , m. , et al .  2011 ,",
    "arxiv:1112.0312 comastri , a. , ranalli , p. , iwasawa , k. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 526 , l9 cristiani , s. , appenzeller , i. , arnouts , s. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 359 , 489 croom , s.  m. , warren , s.  j. , & glazebrook , k.  2001 , , 328 , 150 croton , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 365 , 11 daddi , e. , renzini , a. , pirzkal , n. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 626 , 680 damen , m. , labb , i. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 727 , 1 doi , m. , tanaka , m. , fukugita , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 1628 doherty , m. , bunker , a.  j. , ellis , r.  s. , & mccarthy , p.  j.  2005 , , 361 , 525 dressler , a.  1980 , , 236 , 351 eastman , j. , martini , p. , sivakoff , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 664 , l9 elbaz , d. , daddi , e. , le borgne , d. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 468 , 33 fassbender , r. , nastasi , a. , bhringer , h. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 527 , l10 fassbender , r. , suhada , r. , & nastasi , a.  2012 , arxiv:1203.5337 feldmann , r. , carollo , c.  m. , porciani , c. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 372 , 565 finoguenov , a. , guzzo , l. , hasinger , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 182 finoguenov , a. , connelly , j.  l. , parker , l.  c. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 704 , 564 finoguenov , a. , watson , m.  g. , tanaka , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 403 , 2063 gawiser , e. , van dokkum , p.  g. , herrera , d. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 162 , 1 giacconi , r. , zirm , a. , wang , j. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 139 , 369 giodini , s. , pierini , d. , finoguenov , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 703 , 982 gobat , r. , daddi , e. , onodera , m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 526 , a133 granato , g.  l. , de zotti , g. , silva , l. , bressan , a. , & danese , l.  2004 , , 600 , 580 grazian , a. , fontana , a. , de santis , c. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 449 , 951 grogin , n.  a. , kocevski , d.  d. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1105.3753 gunn , j.  e. , & gott , j.  r. , iii 1972 , , 176 , 1 henry , j.  p. , salvato , m. , finoguenov , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 725 , 615 hayashi , m. , kodama , t. , koyama , y. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 402 , 1980 hickox , r.  c. , & markevitch , m.  2006 , , 645 , 95 hilton , m. , collins , c.  a. , stanford , s.  a. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 670 , 1000 hilton , m. , lloyd - davies , e. , stanford , s.  a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 718 , 133 holden , b.  p. , franx , m. , illingworth , g.  d. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 693 , 617 jee , m.  j. , rosati , p. , ford , h.  c. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 704 , 672 jelic , v. , smolcic , v. , finoguenov , a. , et al .  2012 , arxiv:1204.2552 kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .  1998 , , 36 , 189 koekemoer , a.  m. , faber , s.  m. , ferguson , h.  c. , et al .  2011 , arxiv:1105.3754 kodama , t. , & arimoto , n.  1997 , , 320 , 41 kurk , j.  d. , cimatti , a. , di serego alighieri , s. , et al .  2004 , , 422 , l13 kurk , j. , cimatti , a. , zamorani , g. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 504 , 331 larson , r.  b. , tinsley , b.  m. , & caldwell , c.  n.  1980 , , 237 , 692 leauthaud , a. , finoguenov , a. , kneib , j .- p . , et al .",
    "2010 , , 709 , 97 leauthaud , a. , tinker , j. , bundy , k. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 744 , 159 le fvre , o. , vettolani , g. , garilli , b. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 439 , 845 lehmer , b.  d. , brandt , w.  n. , alexander , d.  m. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 161 , 21 lehmer , b.  d. , alexander , d.  m. , geach , j.  e. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 691 , 687 lidman , c. , rosati , p. , tanaka , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 489 , 981 lotz , j.  m. , papovich , c. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1110.3821 luo , b. , bauer , f.  e. , brandt , w.  n. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 179 , 19 luo , b. , brandt , w.  n. , xue , y.  q. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 187 , 560 martini , p. , sivakoff , g.  r. , & mulchaey , j.  s.  2009 , , 701 , 66 maraston , c. , pforr , j. , renzini , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 407 , 830 martini , p. , mulchaey , j.  s. , & kelson , d.  d.  2007 , , 664 , 761 matsuda , y. , yamada , t. , hayashino , t. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 128 , 569 mignoli , m. , cimatti , a. , zamorani , g. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 437 , 883 miley , g. , & de breuck , c.  2008 , , 15 , 67 miller , n.  a. , fomalont , e.  b. , kellermann , k.  i. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 179 , 114 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a.  1996 , , 379 , 613 mullis , c.  r. , rosati , p. , lamer , g. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 623 , l85 nastasi , a. , fassbender , r. , bhringer , h. , et al .  2011 , , 532 , l6 newman , a.  b. , ellis , r.  s. , bundy , k. , & treu , t.  2012 , , 746 , 162 nonino , m. , dickinson , m. , rosati , p. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 183 , 244 noeske , k.  g. , weiner , b.  j. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 660 , l43    pacifici , c. , charlot , s. , blaizot , j. , & brinchmann , j.  2012 , , 421 , 2002 papovich , c. , momcheva , i. , willmer , c.  n.  a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 716 , 1503 papovich , c. , bassett , r. , lotz , j.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1110.3794 peng , c.  y. , ho , l.  c. , impey , c.  d. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2002 , , 124 , 266 peng , c.  y. , ho , l.  c. , impey , c.  d. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 2097 pierre , m. , clerc , n. , maughan , b. , et al .  2011 , arxiv:1109.6194 polletta , m. , tajer , m. , maraschi , l. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 663 , 81 popesso , p. , dickinson , m. , nonino , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 494 , 443 popesso , p. , biviano , a. , rodighiero , g. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 537 , a58 postman , m. , & geller , m.  j.  1984 , , 281 , 95 quadri , r.  f. , williams , r.  j. , franx , m. , & hildebrandt , h.  2012 , , 744 , 88 rafferty , d.  a. , brandt , w.  n. , alexander , d.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 742 , 3 ravikumar , c.  d. , puech , m. , flores , h. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 465 , 1099 reddy , n.  a. , steidel , c.  c. , fadda , d. , et al .  2006 , , 644 , 792 rettura , a. , rosati , p. , nonino , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 709 , 512 santini , p. , fontana , a. , grazian , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 504 , 751 santos , j.  s. , fassbender , r. , nastasi , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 531 , l15 shen , s. , mo , h.  j. , white , s.  d.  m. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 343 , 978 spitler , l.  r.,labb , i. , glazebrook , k. , et al .  2011 , arxiv:1112.2691 springel , v. , di matteo , t. , & hernquist , l.  2005 , , 361 , 776 stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , brodwin , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 634 , l129 stanford , s.  a. , romer , a.  k. , sabirli , k. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 646 , l13 stanford , s.  a. , brodwin , m. , gonzalez , a.  h. , et al .",
    "2012 , arxiv:1205.3786 strauss , m.  a. , weinberg , d.  h. , lupton , r.  h. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 124 , 1810 strolger , l .- g . ,",
    "riess , a.  g. , dahlen , t. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 613 , 200 szokoly , g.  p. , bergeron , j. , hasinger , g. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 155 , 271 tanaka , m. , kodama , t. , arimoto , n. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 362 , 268 tanaka , m. , kodama , t. , kajisawa , m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 377 , 1206 tanaka , m. , finoguenov , a. , & ueda , y.  2010a , , 716 , l152 tanaka , m. , de breuck , c. , venemans , b. , & kurk , j.  2010b , , 518 , a18 tanaka , m. , finoguenov , a. , lilly , s.  j. , et al .",
    "2011 , arxiv:1110.0979 tanaka , m.  2011a , arxiv:1111.0132 tanaka , m.  2011b , arxiv:1111.0133 taylor , e.  n. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 183 , 295 toft , s. , van dokkum , p. , franx , m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 671 , 285 tran , k .- v .  h. , papovich , c. , saintonge , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 719 , l126 trujillo , i. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , rudnick , g. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 650 , 18 york , d.  g. , adelman , j. , anderson , j.  e. , jr . ,",
    "et al .  2000 , , 120 , 1579 van der wel , a. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2004 , , 601 , l5 vanzella , e. , cristiani , s. , dickinson , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 478 , 83 venemans , b.  p. , kurk , j.  d. , miley , g.  k. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 569 , l11 venemans , b.  p. , rttgering , h.  j.  a. , miley , g.  k. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 461 , 823 vikhlinin , a. , murray , s. , gilli , r. , et al .",
    "2009 , astro2010 : the astronomy and astrophysics decadal survey , 2010 , 305 williams , r.  j. , quadri , r.  f. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p. , & labb , i.  2009 , , 691 , 1879 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , kleinheinrich , m. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 421 , 913 wolf , c. , hildebrandt , h. , taylor , e.  n. , & meisenheimer , k.  2008 , , 492 , 933 wuyts , s. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , van der wel , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 742 , 96 xue , y.  q. , brandt , w.  n. , luo , b. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 720 , 368 xue , y.  q. , luo , b. , brandt , w.  n. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 195 , 10 zirm , a.  w. , toft , s. , & tanaka , m.  2012 , , 744 , 181"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the discovery of an x - ray group of galaxies located at a high redshift of @xmath0 in the chandra deep field south . based on the 4msec chandra data , the group is first identified as an extended x - ray source . </S>",
    "<S> we use a wealth of deep multi - wavelength data to identify the optical counterpart  our red sequence finder detects a significant over - density of galaxies at @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the brightest group galaxy is spectroscopically confirmed at @xmath0 based on published spectroscopic redshifts . </S>",
    "<S> using this as a central redshift of the group , we measure an x - ray luminosity of @xmath2 , which then translates into a group mass of @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> this is the lowest mass group ever confirmed at @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> the deep optical - nearir images from candels reveal that the group exhibits a surprisingly prominent red sequence and most of the galaxies are consistent with a formation redshift of @xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> a detailed analysis of the spectral energy distributions of the group member candidates confirms that most of them are indeed passive galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , their structural parameters measured from the near - ir candels images show that they are morphologically early - type . </S>",
    "<S> the newly identified group at @xmath0 is dominated by quiescent early - type galaxies and the group appears similar to those in the local universe . </S>",
    "<S> one possible difference is the high fraction of agn  @xmath6% of the bright group member candidates are agn , which might indicate a role for agn in quenching of star formation . </S>",
    "<S> however , a statistical sample of high-@xmath7 groups is needed to draw a general picture of groups at this redshift </S>",
    "<S> . such a sample will hopefully be available in near future surveys . </S>"
  ]
}