{
  "article_text": [
    "supernova explosion is one of the most spectacular events in the universe .",
    "it is not only the death of massive stars but also an engine for the evolution of the galaxies .",
    "apart from the classification according to the spectroscopy , it is thought that there are two mechanisms of the explosion .",
    "while type ia supernova is caused by the thermonuclear explosion of white dwarfs , the other types of supernovae are driven by the core collapse of massive stars .",
    "unfortunately , however , details of the supernova explosion remain unsolved .    as for the collapse - driven supernova , the physics which makes the explosion is not well understood . while many numerical simulations for the gravitational collapse of massive stars have been done so far ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for recent reviews ) , there is no consensus on the explosion mechanism of collapse - driven supernovae .",
    "however , a rough sketch of the scenario shown below is widely accepted .",
    "the core of massive star becomes gravitationally unstable at the end of evolution and starts to collapse .",
    "the collapse is bounced by the nuclear repulsion force and the shock wave is launched .",
    "a supernova explosion is observed when the shock wave successfully propagates up to the stellar surface and expels the envelope material .",
    "finally the neutron star or black hole is formed as a remnant .",
    "however , the general difficulty in numerical simulations for successful explosions is that shock waves tend to stall before blowing out the stellar envelopes .",
    "a possible mechanism to revive the stalled shock waves is energy input by strong neutrino radiation from the newborn neutron stars (  the delayed explosion scenario  ; e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but it is still a matter of debate whether this single process is sufficient for successful explosions .",
    "an aspherical hydrodynamic turbulence , such as the convective instability and standing accretion shock instability , may help the shock revival ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "other proposed mechanism or physical processes to account for explosions include qcd phase transition @xcite , acoustic wave @xcite and magnetic field @xcite .",
    "the collapse - driven supernova is important also as a target of neutrino astronomy .",
    "as is well known , supernova neutrinos from sn1987a have been detected by the two water cerenkov detectors , kamiokande ii @xcite and imb @xcite .",
    "since the large magellanic cloud , where sn1987a appeared , is @xmath250  kpc away from the earth and detectors at the time were not as large as the present - day experiments , the event number was small ( eleven for kamiokande ii and eight for imb ) .",
    "nevertheless , many theoretical studies tried to extract various information about physics of supernovae and/or neutrinos from these data ( e.g. * ? ? ? * for a recent review ) .",
    "if a supernova occurs now near the galactic center ( @xmath210  kpc away from the earth ) , about 10,000 events will be detected by superkamiokande , which is the largest , currently operating neutrino detector around mev @xcite . therefore details of a collapse - driven supernova such as the explosion mechanism , as well as the neutrino physics such as mass and its hierarchy , mixing and oscillation , or any exotic physics , could be investigated by high - statistics light curve and spectrum of a future supernova neutrino burst event .    another potential opportunity to observe neutrinos from supernovae",
    "is the relic background radiation , which gives valuable clues about e.g. , the cosmic star formation history and/or stellar initial mass function ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the cosmic metallicity evolves with time and , as stated in section  [ proge ] , the stellar evolution depends not only on its mass but also on its metallicity .",
    "since the metal - free and very metal - poor massive stars are formed in the high redshift universe and explode immediately , their contribution to the relic neutrino background would be small @xcite .",
    "however , galaxies whose metallicities are about one order of magnitude lower than the solar value reside within the redshift @xmath3 @xcite . to predict the flux and spectrum of the relic supernova neutrinos , one must model the integrated spectrum of supernova neutrinos for various ranges of progenitor stars .",
    "considering these situations , it would obviously be useful to provide the results of supernova neutrino emission calculated by state - of - art numerical simulations , for various types of progenitor stars .",
    "such a comprehensive datab ase of theoretical predictions can be used as templates to simulate supernova neutrino detection of a future neutrino burst event , or to construct a realistic prediction for the relic neutrino background .",
    "however , most of numerical simulations so far followed only within @xmath41  s ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) after the core collapse because solving the neutrino transfer with hydrodynamics for a long term is a numerically tough problem .",
    "such simulations are not satisfactory for the above purpose , because a significant fraction of the total gravitational energy is emitted as neutrinos after this early phase , with a typical decay time scale of @xmath210  s. such a simulation result for a long term was shown in @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite showed long term neutrino signals for two models , an ordinary collapse - driven supernova and an electron - capture supernova , which is a subcategory of collapse - driven supernovae .",
    "as for the electron - capture supernova , long term simulations were also performed by @xcite computing neutrino signals . on the other hand , neutrino diffusions in the late phase were separately investigated by evolutionary calculations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , there is no comprehensive data set yet for numerical long - term supernova neutrino signals from various types of progenitor stars .    in this study",
    ", we construct a publicly available database for numerical simulations of supernova neutrino emission , including eight simulations for normal single stars in the initial mass range of 13-@xmath0 for two different values of stellar metallicity ( @xmath5 and 0.004 , i.e. , the solar abundance and its @xmath6 , respectively ) . to follow the long - term evolution for many simulations , we use two different simulation methods : general relativistic neutrino - radiation hydrodynamic ( @xmath7rhd ) simulations for the early phase , and general relativistic quasi - static evolutionary calculations of neutrino diffusion in a nascent neutron star for the late phase .",
    "though the @xmath7rhd simulations do not lead to a natural supernova explosion , we introduce a parameter , shock revival time , which reflects the unknown explosion mechanism , and phenomenologically connect the early and late phases by this parameter based on physical considerations .",
    "although the connection between the two phases is not perfectly consistent as a physical simulation , this approach allows us to provide reasonably realistic supernova neutrino light curves and spectra from the onset of a core collapse to @xmath210  s after that , for various progenitor stellar models .",
    "the organization of this paper is as follows . in section  [ proge ] , the progenitor models used in this study",
    "are described .",
    "the early phase of supernovae , from the onset of collapse to the shock propagation , is described in section  [ colla ] . in section  [ pnsc ] , the quasi - static evolutionary calculations of neutrino diffusion in the dense core for the late phase",
    "are described .",
    "the connection between the early and late phases are discussed in section  [ neusg ] .",
    "section  [ disc ] is devoted to a summary and discussion .",
    "massive stars with the initial mass @xmath8 are known to undergo gravitational collapse at the end of their lives .",
    "they synthesize heavy elements through some nuclear burning stages during the quasi - static evolutions .",
    "finally the iron core , where all nuclear reactions become equilibrium to inverse reactions of themselves and various elements called `` iron '' ( fe , ni , co , mn and so on ) are created , is formed at the center .",
    "the iron core has density of @xmath910@xmath10  g/@xmath11 and is supported by the degenerate pressure of relativistic electrons . on the other hand ,",
    "the condition for the gravitational instability is written , using the adiabatic index , @xmath12 , as @xmath13 where @xmath14 , @xmath15 and @xmath16 are the pressure , density and entropy , respectively .",
    "since the adiabatic index of relativistic ideal gas is @xmath17 , the iron core is marginally stable .",
    "there are two processes which destabilize the iron core .",
    "the first one is an electron capture by protons belonging to nuclei : @xmath18 this reaction is caused because the sum of rest mass and kinetic energy of the relativistic electrons exceeds the mass difference between neutron and proton due to high density .",
    "diminution of electrons causes a deficit in pressure and makes the iron core unstable .",
    "the second is the photodisintegration reaction of nucleus such as @xmath19 this process works for high temperature as @xmath20  k. while the energy per nucleon , @xmath21 , reaches a minimum at @xmath22fe , the helmholtz free energy per nucleon , @xmath23 , is minimized in finite temperature .",
    "because of @xmath24 , matter becomes thermodynamically stable by the increase in entropy due to the photodisintegration of nuclei .",
    "nevertheless , this is an endothermic reaction so that the pressure does not increase so much as to suspend the core collapse .",
    "this is an onset of the collapse - driven supernova .",
    "the lower mass limit for the progenitors of collapse - driven supernovae is determined whether the iron core is formed or not .",
    "note that , for somewhat low mass cases , the core collapse may be triggered only by electron captures before ne ignition , which is called an electron - capture supernova .",
    "they can be regarded as a subcategory of collapse - driven supernovae because their scenarios after the collapse are thought to be similar .",
    "@xcite investigated stellar evolution sequences with initial masses between 6.5 and @xmath25 and the solar metallicity using three different codes and found that the lower mass limit for core collapse is 9-@xmath26 .",
    "observationally , @xcite found that it converges to @xmath27 investigating the collapse driven supernovae observed in a fixed 10.5-year period within a distance of 28  mpc .",
    "the upper mass limit is determined whether the supernova explosion succeeds or not .",
    "it is theoretically uncertain because the precise understanding on the explosion mechanism is still absent .",
    "nevertheless , generally to say , the density profile of progenitor is important because the shock wave should run through the star .",
    "what makes a situation more awkward is uncertainty in the theory of stellar evolution , the mass loss rate and convection .",
    "the effects of rotation and binary interaction may also affect the stellar evolution .",
    "@xcite showed numerically that nonrotating stars with initial masses @xmath28 fail to explode and form black holes directly while the mass loss was not considered in the progenitor models adopted by them .",
    "note that , the black holes could be also formed after the explosion , which is probably weak , via fallback accretion .",
    "recently , @xcite performed the core collapse simulations for many progenitor sets with the spherically symmetric ( 1d ) models involving simplified neutrino transfer .",
    "they implied that the upper mass limit for the explosion depends severely on the evolutionary calculations , while their estimation was based on the calculations with an artificially increased energy deposition .",
    "observational constraints on the upper mass limit are also obscure .",
    "@xcite suggested that the maximum mass for the progenitors of type ii - p supernovae is @xmath29 and the majority of more massive stars may collapse quietly to black holes where the explosions remain undetected .",
    "however , @xcite , who investigated the observed fractions of the collapse - driven supernovae , claimed that they will produce other types of supernovae which are not ii - p . on the other hand , massive stars with the mass of @xmath30",
    "lose the outer layer due to their strong stellar winds and form wolf - rayet stars , where the helium cores are exposed @xcite .",
    "they are thought as progenitors of type ib and ic supernovae and , according to the light curve models by @xcite , the progenitors of some luminous type ic supernovae called hypernovae have the masses of @xmath31 .",
    "they implied that the fate of massive stars beyond @xmath32 depends on the stellar rotation and the hypernova progenitors are rotating .",
    "note that , @xcite suggested that a certain fraction of such massive stars produce type iin supernovae from luminous blue variables .",
    "they also pointed out the importance of binary interactions to account for type ib and ic supernovae .",
    "recently , extremely luminous supernovae such as sn2006gy ( type iin ) and sn2007bi ( type ic ) are observed and they are suggested to have a progenitor mass of @xmath33 , while they may be pair - instability supernovae , whose explosion mechanism is different from that of the collapse - driven supernovae .",
    "it should be emphasized that , as described above , the fate of massive stars is a hot subject under active discussion , but we deal progenitors provided from a single treatment for the stellar evolution in below .    in this study",
    ", we prepare eight progenitor models with the initial masses @xmath34 , @xmath35 , @xmath36 and @xmath0 , and the metallicities of @xmath5 ( solar ) and 0.004 ( small magellanic cloud ) .",
    "they are computed by a henyey type stellar evolution code which is fully coupled to a nuclear reaction network .",
    "this code is also used in @xcite and its descriptions , such as the treatment of convection , are given in @xcite .",
    "as for the mass loss rate , we adopt the same model with `` case a '' of @xcite for the main sequence stage ( see also , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we set the empirical mass loss rate @xcite scaled with the metallicity as @xmath37 for the wolf - rayet stage @xcite .",
    "the effects of rotation and binary interaction are not taken into account .",
    "the density profiles of our progenitor models are shown in figure  [ inidnsall ] and the composition profiles for two reference cases , @xmath38 and @xmath39 , are shown in figure  [ inicom ] .",
    "note that , as shown in table  [ keyprm ] , the total progenitor masses when the collapse begins , @xmath40 , are different from @xmath41 due to the mass loss .",
    "the progenitors have the onion - like structure : central core is surrounded by shells of lighter elements .",
    "we regard the region of oxygen depletion as a core hereafter . in figure",
    "[ coremas ] , the core mass is plotted as a function of the initial mass for all models . since the mass loss rate is larger for high metallicity , the models with @xmath42 have higher core mass than those with @xmath5 . the models with @xmath43",
    "become the wolf - rayet stars losing large amount of their mass and final core masses are somewhat low , which may correspond to type ic supernovae . as a result , the core mass of the model with @xmath44 is the highest for each metallicity case .",
    "to evaluate the spectra of neutrinos emitted from the collapse of above progenitor models , which is the goal of this paper , we put the assumptions on the fate of our progenitors .",
    "for the equation of state by @xcite , which is adopted below in our simulations , the maximum mass of neutron stars is @xmath45 in the gravitational mass and @xmath46 in the baryonic mass .",
    "we assume that the model with @xmath47 forms a black hole , because its core mass is larger than the maximum baryon mass . while whether the other models can make explosions or not is unclear , we regard them as `` supernova '' progenitors .",
    "the correspondence between the initial mass and core mass is not well - established , however , the outer region far enough away from the core does not influence the dynamics and neutrino emission of the collapse .",
    "therefore , we believe that the systematics discussed in this study will be helpful for other progenitor sets if their core masses are known .",
    "in this section , we follow the early stage of the collapse - driven supernova showing the results of our numerical simulation . here , we utilize the general relativistic neutrino radiation hydrodynamics ( @xmath7rhd ) code , which solves the boltzmann equations for neutrinos together with the lagrangian hydrodynamics under spherical symmetry @xcite .",
    "we can compute the neutrino transport as well as the dynamics of collapse .",
    "we consider four species of neutrino , @xmath48 , @xmath49 , @xmath50 and @xmath51 , assuming that the distribution function of @xmath52 ( @xmath53 ) is equal to that of @xmath50 ( @xmath51 ) .",
    "neutrino oscillation is not taken into account , because it does not occur in the core region and also not affect the dynamics in this stage @xcite .",
    "a detailed description of the numerical simulations such as general relativistic hydrodynamics , transport and reaction rates of neutrinos can be found in @xcite .",
    "referring the resolution dependences shown in @xcite , we use 255 mesh points for the radial lagrangian coordinate and 20 and 4 mesh points for the energy spectrum and angular distribution , respectively . as the initial conditions ,",
    "the eight progenitor models described in the previous section are adopted and the outer boundary is settled far from the core region .",
    "we utilize an equation of state by @xcite , which is based on a relativistic mean field model @xcite , and inhomogeneous matter distribution is described in the thomas - fermi approximation @xcite .",
    "the density profiles at the time with the central density of @xmath54  g  @xmath55 are shown for all models in figure  [ inidns ] .",
    "we can recognize that their profiles are very similar for the inner most @xmath56 and the progenitor dependence is seen in the envelope and outer region of the core .",
    "the difference will affect the emitted neutrino signal of the collapse - driven supernova .",
    "as the density increases due to the collapse , the mean free path of neutrinos gets shorter . in the collapse stage",
    ", the emitted neutrinos are mostly @xmath48 by the electron capture ( [ ecp ] ) .",
    "their main opacity source is coherent scattering off nuclei ; @xmath57 when the density exceeds @xmath58",
    "g  @xmath55 , neutrinos are trapped .",
    "the neutrino optical depth @xmath59 at the radius @xmath60 is defined as @xmath61 where @xmath62 is the stellar radius and @xmath63 is the mean free path of neutrino .",
    "roughly speaking , the neutrino trapping occurs inside the neutrino sphere , whose radius , @xmath64 , is defined as @xmath65 once the neutrinos are trapped , the inverse process of the electron capture ( [ ecp ] ) takes place and @xmath66-equilibrium for the weak interaction is achieved . as a result , the lepton fraction is kept nearly constant and the neutronization is moderated .",
    "these trends are shown in figure  [ prebnc ] where the profiles of density , electron fraction and lepton fraction are plotted for the model with @xmath38 . here , the lepton fraction @xmath67 is related with the electron fraction @xmath68 and the electron - type neutrino fraction @xmath69 as @xmath70 .",
    "note that , the electron fraction of the inner region decreases even after the neutrino trapping because it is determined by the @xmath66-equilibrium for the given lepton fraction .",
    "the collapse of the core does not halt until the central density exceeds the nuclear density ( @xmath71  g  @xmath55 ) .",
    "the infalling core is divided into two parts , to which we refer as the inner and outer cores .",
    "the inner core contracts subsonically and homologously ( @xmath72 ) while the outer core infalls supersonically like free - fall ( @xmath73 ) . roughly speaking",
    ", it is known that the inner core mass corresponds to the chandrasekhar mass @xmath74 , and does not depend on the progenitors .",
    "when the inner core density reaches the nuclear density , nuclei are closely packed and regarded as uniform matter .",
    "then , the adiabatic index increases suddenly due to the repulsive nuclear force and the core restores stability .",
    "the influence of nuclear repulsion propagates through the inner core and the collapse is decelerated . on the other hand , since the pressure wave transmits at the speed of sound , the outer core region is still falling supersonically .",
    "therefore , on the boundary of inner and outer cores , the shock wave is formed and launched outward . in the meanwhile ,",
    "the falling outer core matter is swept by the shock wave and accretes onto the bounced inner core .",
    "this compact object is called a proto - neutron star .",
    "a successful explosion is achieved by the shock breakout through the stellar surface .",
    "the explosion without the shock stall is called a prompt explosion .",
    "however , this scenario is not promising according to recent studies and the shock wave is thought to be stalled .",
    "the shock wave propagation is prevented by the photodisintegration reaction of nucleus ( [ photodis ] ) and the neutrino emission .",
    "as already mentioned , the photodisintegration reaction is an endothermic reaction and consumes the kinetic energy of the shock wave .",
    "after the shock wave passes through the neutrino sphere , neutrinos produced by various sorts of reactions can escape carrying out the internal energy behind the shock front .",
    "moreover the shock wave should overcome the ram pressure of the supersonically infalling outer core .",
    "the dynamical features described above are seen in figure  [ velo ] where the snapshots of velocity profile are shown for the model with @xmath38 .",
    "the stalled shock wave becomes accretion shock and would revive leading to a supernova explosion in some way .",
    "this is called a delayed explosion .",
    "unfortunately , however , the detailed scenario is still an open question . except the qcd mechanism in which a phase transition to deconfined quark matter makes the second collapse and shock formation and triggers the explosion @xcite , spherically symmetric ( 1d ) models are thought to fail . in this case , the ram pressure of accreting matter is higher and prevents the shock revival . on the other hand , if the sphericity is broken , the accretion rate is partially reduced and the explosion has an advantage .",
    "in fact , the morphology of collapse - driven supernovae is observationally indicated aspherical ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , most of the recently promising scenarios are based on multi - dimensionality .",
    "the neutrino heating mechanism has been discussed for years .",
    "while , as already mentioned , the neutrinos cool the inner region , they contribute the heating just behind the shock front , where free nucleons produced by the photodisintegration reaction ( [ photodis ] ) absorb a small part of neutrinos escaping from the inner region . with the aid of this heating ,",
    "the shock wave is considered to revive on a time scale of the order of 100  ms .",
    "this scenario was initially proposed by @xcite according to their numerical simulation with 1d model whereas no other group was able to confirm .",
    "recently , employing multi - dimensional simulation , some groups have reported that the onset of the neutrino - driven explosion would be helped by aspherical hydrodynamic turbulence such as the convective instability ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and standing accretion shock instability ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "another candidate for the explosion scenario is the acoustic mechanism @xcite .",
    "the turbulence generated on the accretion shock travels inward and excites oscillation of the proto - neutron star .",
    "then , the acoustic wave originated in the oscillation propagates outward and deposits energy on the accretion shock , which causes the shock revival and explosion . in this hypothesis ,",
    "the time scale for the shock revival is estimated as @xmath9500  ms , which is longer than that of the neutrino heating mechanism .",
    "magnetic fields may also be important for some supernovae ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in fact , neutron stars with strong magnetic fields ( magnetars ) are observed and their progenitors might also have strong magnetic fields . in the mhd mechanism , the rotational energy converts to the explosion energy via magnetic fields amplified by the field wrapping and/or magnetorotational instability .",
    "while , as discussed above , neutrinos would play a key role for a successful explosion , it is a small part of them that are absorbed near the shock wave and contribute to the explosion .",
    "the amount of emitted neutrinos is mainly determined by the released gravitational potential of the accreted matter and thermal energy of the nascent proto - neutron star . since the neutrino energy deposition for the explosion has an insignificant effect , our @xmath7rhd simulation can be regarded to represent the neutrino signal before the shock revival . in reality , the shock wave would move outward again and the mass accretion stops while when it occurs may depend on the explosion mechanism .",
    "however , the shock may not be able to revive if the core is too massive .",
    "it is probable for our model with @xmath47 and we assume that it fails to explode . in this case , we follow the collapse and neutrino emission up to the black hole formation . for other models ,",
    "our @xmath7rhd simulations are terminated at 550  ms after the bounce , within which the shock revival is assumed to occur .",
    "the evolution after the shock revival is dealt in the next section .    in figure",
    "[ pstbnc ] , we show the evolutions of density , temperature and electron fraction after the bounce .",
    "they are the results of our @xmath7rhd simulation for the models with @xmath38 and @xmath39 . for both models",
    ", since the proto - neutron star mass gets larger by the accretion , the density and temperature rise due to gravitational compression .",
    "while the density profile is monotonic , the peak of temperature profile resides not at the center but at the medium region .",
    "this is because the shock wave does not run from the center and heats the outer matter , as seen in figure  [ velo ] .",
    "since the protons created by the photodisintegration reaction ( [ photodis ] ) cause the electron capture ( [ ecp ] ) , the electron fraction decreases for the shocked region . as recognized in the comparison of the models with @xmath38 and @xmath39 , the profile at the bounce does not depend on the progenitor because , as already mentioned , the bounced inner core mass does not differ among progenitors . on the other hand ,",
    "since the accretion rate is determined by the density profile of the outer core , the proto - neutron star mass differs among the models for several times 100  ms after the bounce . as a result",
    ", it is also reflected in the proto - neutron star structure .",
    "after the shock propagation , the proto - neutron star settles into a hydrostatic configuration .",
    "however , the proto - neutron star of the model with @xmath47 recollapses suddenly and forms a black hole at 842  ms after the bounce .",
    "the qualitative features of black hole formation are same as results in @xcite",
    "we evaluate the neutrino luminosities and spectra in the late phase ( after the shock revival ) by the proto - neutron star cooling ( pnsc ) simulation except for the black - hole - forming case . in this method ,",
    "quasi - static evolutions of proto - neutron stars are solved with the neutrino transfer by multigroup flux limited diffusion scheme under spherical symmetry with general relativity @xcite . here , we follow the hydrostatic structure of the proto - neutron star at each time by the oppenheimer - volkoff equation while , in @xmath7rhd simulations , the equations for hydrodynamics are fully solved .",
    "we deal the boltzmann equations in the angle - integrated form for @xmath48 , @xmath49 and @xmath75 , where @xmath50 , @xmath51 , @xmath52 and @xmath53 are treated collectively as @xmath75 .",
    "in contrast , @xmath50 and @xmath76 are treated individually in our @xmath7rhd simulations .",
    "note that @xmath50 and @xmath76 have the same type of reactions and the difference in coupling constants is minor .",
    "in fact , the difference between the distribution functions of @xmath50 and @xmath76 is typically @xmath41% in our @xmath7rhd simulations .",
    "the equation of state , binning of neutrino energy and neutrino reactions taken into account are set to the same with the @xmath7rhd simulation shown in the previous section . in this section ,",
    "we describe the late stage of collapse - driven supernova with our pnsc results .",
    "since the time scale of the neutrino diffusion is @xmath210  s , the evolution is followed till 20  s after the bounce .",
    "we use the results of our @xmath7rhd simulation as initial conditions of our pnsc simulation .",
    "the central parts up to just ahead of the shock wave are picked up .",
    "here , we take the profiles of electron fraction and entropy as functions of the baryon mass coordinate from the @xmath7rhd results and , using them , reconstruct hydrostatic configurations with almost steady flow of neutrinos , which are used as pnsc initial models .",
    "it is confirmed that , except for the close vicinity of surface , the obtained density profile is consistent with that of the original @xmath7rhd result as expected because the velocity of shocked region is negligible ( see figure  [ velo ] ) . since , as already mentioned , detail of the explosion is not known , we set the shock revival time @xmath77 and @xmath7rhd profiles at @xmath77 are used as pnsc initial conditions .",
    "here , we investigate three cases as @xmath78  ms , 200  ms and 300  ms for each progenitor model . when an explosion mechanism is assumed , corresponding @xmath77 would be determined .",
    "therefore , we can regard that the explosion scenario described above are parameterized by the shock revival time . in the pnsc simulation",
    ", we follow the evolution of proto - neutron stars without accretion because amount of matter which falls back onto the proto - neutron star would be minor after the successful explosion .    in figure  [ plpnsc ]",
    ", we show the evolutions of density , temperature and electron fraction given by our pnsc simulation for the model with @xmath79 .",
    "one can see that the shocked outer mantle of proto - neutron star has relatively high temperature and is thermally expanded at initial moment ( solid lines ) .",
    "neutrinos can easily escape from there carrying out thermal energy and , therefore , the outer mantle shrinks in a short time scale to be denser and hotter while the entropy decreases there ( see figure  [ etrp ] ) .",
    "note that diffusion fluxes of @xmath80 and @xmath75 initially transport heat inward from the mantle into the central region in parallel outward to the surface because number densities of thermal neutrinos have maxima in the hot mantle .",
    "this heat flux attributes to the initial entropy increase in the central region .",
    "once the temperature profile becomes monotonic , the entire proto - neutron star cools down gradually .",
    "in addition to the neutrino cooling , the net flux of electron - type neutrinos ( @xmath81 ) out of the proto - neutron star carry away the electron - type lepton number of the proto - neutron star .",
    "this deleptonization just corresponds to the neutronization of the proto - neutron star .",
    "the nascent proto - neutron star is lepton - rich and composed also of considerable protons initially .",
    "it becomes the ordinary neutron star with less protons achieving the neutrino - less @xmath66 equilibrium in which there remains small amount of protons and electrons .",
    "the net number flux of electron - type neutrinos is at most @xmath220% of the number flux of @xmath48 .",
    "the decrease of electron fraction shown in figure  [ plpnsc ] represents this process well .",
    "the density evolution from the onset of collapse to 20  s after the core bounce is illustrated in figure  [ denstot ] .",
    "the features of proto - neutron star evolution described above are qualitatively common among the models investigated in this study .",
    "after the revival , the shock wave propagates into the stellar envelope and finally blows it off . since , in the envelope , the energy losses owing to the photodisintegration and neutrino emission is quite tiny and the binding energy is subtle , the shock wave is not prevented from running outward . while the time scale of the neutrino diffusion is @xmath210  s , it takes from several hours to days for the shock wave to reach the stellar surface . since",
    "supernova explosion can be observed optically only after the shock breakout , the neutrino signal reaches to the earth in advance .",
    "finally , the shock wave blasts through the interstellar medium and forms a supernova remnant , such as the crab nebula . on the other hand ,",
    "a neutron star remains at the center . in figure",
    "[ nsmass ] , the gravitational mass of neutron stars @xmath82 considered in our model is plotted .",
    "while , according to general relativity , the gravitational mass of a neutron star is different from its baryonic mass @xmath83 ( see table  [ keyprm ] ) , there is a one - to - one correspondence between them .",
    "we evaluate @xmath82 from the baryonic mass accreted within the shock revival time @xmath77 assuming the equation of state by @xcite .",
    "since the accretion rate is higher , @xmath82 depends on @xmath77 especially for the progenitors with larger initial mass @xmath41 . while the neutron star mass could be increased by the accretion from a binary companion , the distribution of neutron star masses may give a hint of the explosion mechanism .",
    "neutrinos emitted from the collapse - driven supernova release the gravitational potential of the accreted matter and cool the nascent proto - neutron star . for convenience ,",
    "we divide the neutrino flux after the shock stall , @xmath84 , into two terms as @xmath85 where subscript @xmath86 denotes the species of neutrinos and @xmath87 is a neutrino energy .",
    "the first term , @xmath88 , is an accretion term and related with the accretion luminosity , @xmath89 , which is approximated as @xcite @xmath90 where @xmath91 is the outer boundary radius of our @xmath7rhd simulation and @xmath92 is a radius of the neutrino sphere at the time @xmath93 defined by equations ( [ depth ] ) and ( [ sphere ] ) .",
    "@xmath94 , @xmath95 and @xmath96 are the gravitational constant , the mass accretion rate and the mass enclosed by @xmath92 , respectively . the second term , @xmath97 , is a cooling term which comes from the thermal energy loss of the proto - neutron star . while the accretion term is dominant for the early phase ( @xmath98  ms ) , only the cooling term remains after the shock revival leading the explosion .",
    "as already mentioned , supernova explosion is not successful in most of 1d simulations owing to the high mass accretion rate",
    ". this would be over estimate because some multi - dimensional effects such as the convective and standing - accretion - shock instabilities reduce the mass accretion in reality .",
    "therefore , we can regard that our 1d @xmath7rhd simulation gives the maximum case of the mass accretion rate",
    ". thus our @xmath7rhd results of the neutrino flux , @xmath99 , can be regarded as the upper limit : @xmath100 where @xmath101 is the maximum possible value of the accretion term . in figure",
    "[ nurhd ] , we show the time profiles of luminosities and average energies of emitted neutrinos evaluated from @xmath7rhd simulation for all models . the end point of the model with initial mass @xmath102 and metallicity @xmath42 is a moment of the black hole formation .",
    "the peak of @xmath48 just after the bounce ( @xmath103  s ) corresponds to the neutronization burst . when the shock wave propagates through the outer core , nuclei are dissociated into free nucleons and produce a large amount of @xmath48 by the electron capture ( [ ecp ] ) .",
    "a short burst of these neutrinos occurs after the shock breakout through the neutrino sphere .",
    "this is called a neutronization burst . while the peak luminosity exceeds @xmath104  erg  s@xmath105 , the duration time is the order of 10  ms and the emitted energy is minor comparing with the whole emission of the supernova neutrino .    the persistent emission after the neutronization burst originates from the mass accretion and proto - neutron star cooling , as described in equation ( [ devide ] ) . in this stage ,",
    "@xmath48 and @xmath49 , which are abundantly emitted by the electron and positron captures , respectively , have higher luminosity than @xmath75 ( @xmath106 ) .",
    "nevertheless , the contribution of @xmath75 is not minor because the pair processes such as the electron - positron pair annihilation , plasmon decay and nucleon bremsstrahlung occur .",
    "thanks to the shock heating , the accreted matter is enough hot for electron - positron pair processes . on the other hand ,",
    "the average energy of @xmath75 is higher than those of @xmath48 and @xmath80 . since @xmath75 does not have charged - current interactions with matter consisting of no @xmath107 , its mean free path is longer at the same position than those of @xmath48 and @xmath49 and its neutrino sphere is smaller as recognized by equations ( [ depth ] ) and ( [ sphere ] ) .",
    "therefore the temperature on the neutrino sphere is higher for @xmath75 , which makes their average energy also higher . as for the progenitor dependence , since the progenitors with higher density for the range 1.5-@xmath108",
    "( see also figure  [ inidns ] ) have the higher mass accretion rate , their neutrino luminosities are higher as expected from equation ( [ acclumi ] ) .",
    "their average energies are also somewhat higher but the progenitor dependence is not clear especially for the first @xmath2100  ms .",
    "note that the neutrino emission stops when the proto - neutron star collapses to a black hole for the model with @xmath47 .",
    "the results of our pnsc simulation are just corresponding to the cooling term in equation ( [ devide ] ) .",
    "obviously , they give the lower limit of the neutrino flux because accretion induced neutrino flux is not included : @xmath109 in figure  [ nupnsc ] , we show the time profiles of luminosities and average energies of emitted neutrinos evaluated from pnsc simulation for some models .",
    "they decrease in time as the proto - neutron star cools .",
    "the neutrino energy hierarchy ( @xmath110 ) is same as that in the accretion phase .",
    "the neutrino signals of the models with different initial mass @xmath41 and shock revival time @xmath77 are compared in figure  [ nupnsc ] .",
    "the luminosity and average energy are higher for the models with larger neutron star mass @xmath82 ( see also figure  [ nsmass ] ) while the difference is not so large .    with inequalities ( [ frhd ] ) and ( [ fpnsc ] )",
    ", we construct the light curve models of neutrino . for this",
    ", we introduce a fraction factor of the accretion term to its maximum , @xmath111 , as a function of time : @xmath112 while @xmath111 may also depend on the species and energy of neutrino , we ignore their dependences for simplicity . it is required for @xmath111 to satisfy @xmath113 for the early phase ( @xmath98  ms ) and @xmath114 for the phase after the explosion . using @xmath111 ,",
    "the neutrino flux is expressed as @xmath115 the details of explosion dynamics would determine the function @xmath111 .",
    "for instance , a neutrino signal of the early explosion model corresponds to a rapidly decaying @xmath111 and a small neutron star mass @xmath82 . on the other hand , slowly decaying @xmath111 and large @xmath82",
    "give a neutrino signal of the late explosion model .",
    "when supernova neutrinos are actually detected , this study would help us to probe the nature of progenitor and remnant . as discussed above , the neutrino luminosity in the accretion phase ( @xmath2100  ms after the neutronization burst )",
    "is determined by the progenitor model especially for the density profile .",
    "the signals in the cooling phase ( @xmath210  s after the neutronization burst ) would provide hints for the mass of remnant neutron star .",
    "moreover , if the transition from the accretion phase to the cooling phase is observed , a restriction for the explosion mechanism may be possible .",
    "our results can be hopefully utilized as immediately comparable templates for a neutrino detection .",
    "one may be able to use our results for modeling of the supernova neutrino signals . in figure  [ nucont ]",
    ", we demonstrate examples of the neutrino light curve and spectrum .",
    "they are drawn under the assumption , @xmath116 for the model with @xmath117 .",
    "the junctions of this interpolation are shown in figure  [ nujct ] .",
    "since @xmath111 corresponds to the fraction of mass accretion rate to its maximum , the decay time scale @xmath118 would be a propagation time scale of the revived shock wave .",
    "when the shock revives at the radius @xmath119 with the escape velocity @xmath120 , it takes @xmath121 for the shock wave to pass the core with the size of @xmath122 . here",
    ", @xmath119 is the most ambiguous parameter but at least @xmath123 would be satisfied .",
    "therefore , we adopt 300  km as a typical value and get @xmath124  ms . note",
    "that , this value corresponds to also the free - fall time scale of inner core .",
    "the time shift @xmath125 is needed for the following two reasons .",
    "first , @xmath84 is evaluated as the neutrino flux on the outer boundary of our @xmath7rhd simulation at the time @xmath93 .",
    "the outer boundary of our pnsc simulation is the proto - neutron star surface while that of our @xmath7rhd simulation is located in the envelope .",
    "the correction of the light traveling time of the distance between two boundaries ( @xmath126  ms ) is needed .",
    "second , results of pnsc simulations for very early phase are not reliable because , as already mentioned , the static density profiles are not consistent with those of @xmath7rhd simulations in the close vicinity of surface .",
    "it is needed @xmath127  ms for the relaxation .",
    "therefore we set @xmath128  ms , as a typical value . incidentally , to evaluate the flux numerically , @xmath111 is settled to zero for @xmath129  ms , where @xmath130 in equation ( [ itplft ] ) .",
    "hereafter , for simplicity , we take @xmath124  ms and @xmath128  ms for all cases . note that , the neutrino number emitted during the period of this interpolation is about 5 - 15% of the total amount .    in figure",
    "[ fdfit ] , the neutrino number spectra are compared with fermi - dirac distributions that have the same luminosity and average energy with zero chemical potential . while fermi - dirac spectra roughly fit our results , the deviation is not small .",
    "it is shown that high energy neutrinos are emitted in the accretion phase because the low density outer region has high temperature due to shock heating .",
    "on the other hand , after the shock revival , this region becomes dense and the proto - neutron star surface is not heated any more in the cooling phase .",
    "therefore , the deficit of high energy neutrinos can be seen in the spectra of late time .",
    "figure  [ fdfitint ] compares , as in figure  [ fdfit ] , numerical results and fermi - dirac distributions for some cases of time integrated neutrino number spectra over the duration of the simulations .",
    "we find that , for the supernova models , the spectrum given by our simulations is relatively well fitted by fermi - dirac distribution up to @xmath230  mev but has high energy tail originated in the accretion phase .",
    "even for the black - hole - forming model , the fermi - dirac distribution roughly fits our spectrum while the numerical uncertainty is larger for the high energy regime .    in figure  [ etot ] and table  [ keyprm ] ,",
    "we show the total neutrino energy emitted till 20  s after the bounce for all models with the interpolation ( [ itplft ] ) .",
    "note that , since the model with @xmath47 form a black hole , the total neutrino energy emitted till the black hole formation followed by @xmath7rhd simulation is plotted .",
    "we can see that the total emission energy is related to the core mass rather than the initial mass ( see also figure  [ coremas ] ) , and it is larger for the explosion models with large @xmath77 because the accretion phase is longer and the neutron star mass is larger .",
    "these features are shown more explicitly in figure  [ etotsp ] , where the total emission energy is plotted for the core mass .",
    "the shock - revival - time dependence of the total emission energy is larger for the models with higher core mass because the mass accretion rate is higher .",
    "since the neutrino luminosity is approximated as equation ( [ acclumi ] ) , the emission energy during the accretion phase is roughly proportional to the product of the mass accretion rate and shock revival time .",
    "moreover , the resultant proto - neutron star mass depends on this product .",
    "therefore , also in the late phase , the shock - revival - time dependence is larger for the models with higher core mass . on the other hand ,",
    "the shock - revival - time dependence is larger for @xmath48 and @xmath131 than @xmath75 .",
    "this feature is also seen for the mean energy of emitted neutrinos , as shown in figure  [ emean ] . as already stated , in the accretion phase , @xmath48 and @xmath131 are emitted more abundantly than @xmath75 .",
    "therefore the signals of @xmath48 and @xmath131 is sensitive to the duration of this phase , i.e. the shock revival time .",
    "the purpose of this study is to construct a comprehensive data set of long - term ( up to @xmath210  s from the onset of the collapse ) supernova neutrino signal for variety of progenitor stellar models with different initial masses and metallicities , which would be useful for a wide range of research related to supernova neutrinos . to achieve this goal avoiding the difficulty of long - term full numerical simulations",
    ", we combined two different schemes of numerical simulations . the early phase of the collapse - driven supernova , at which the collapsing core is bounced and the shock wave is stalled due to the matter accretion , has been followed by the general relativistic neutrino radiation hydrodynamics ( @xmath7rhd ) code .",
    "the late phase after the shock revival has been dealt by the general relativistic proto - neutron star cooling ( pnsc ) simulation which solves quasi - static evolutions with the neutrino diffusion .",
    "the two phases are combined phenomenologically , taking into account the uncertainty about the explosion mechanism , and the shock revival time is introduced as a parameter connecting the two phases .",
    "although this connection is not perfectly consistent as a single physical simulation , this is currently the best way to follow supernova neutrino signals up to @xmath210  s for many progenitor stellar models .",
    "there are still many uncertainties about collapse - driven supernova physics ( e.g. , equation of state ) , but we have chosen the standard or most popular parameters , to provide theoretical supernova neutrino emission models expected from the standard picture of collapse - driven supernovae . therefore , the database presented here would serve as a standard guideline or template for the supernova neutrino signals .",
    "it is interesting to compare our result with the past calculations of long - term supernova neutrino emission .",
    "@xcite presented the supernova neutrino model till 18  s after the bounce for a progenitor with @xmath132 and investigated the detectability in detail . in their model , the neutrino luminosity decreases by two orders of magnitude within @xmath210  s , which is similar to our results",
    "however , their average energy gets higher with time , which contradicts our results .",
    "recently , @xcite showed the supernova neutrino spectra till 20  s after the bounce for a progenitor with @xmath133 . while they mimicked explosion with an artificially enhanced neutrino reaction rate ,",
    "their results are qualitatively consistent with ours .",
    "in particular , the drops of neutrino luminosity and average energy due to the onset of shock wave revival , where the matter accretion vanishes , are also seen in their models . roughly speaking ,",
    "the light curve by @xcite is similar to our models with @xmath134  ms .",
    "incidentally , the neutrino average energy is important for the nucleosynthesis such as @xmath60-process and @xmath7-process ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "because we have calculated many models with different properties of progenitors in a consistent manner , we can examine the dependence of supernova neutrino emission properties on progenitors .",
    "it is quantitatively confirmed that the total emission energy of supernova neutrinos is related with the core mass of progenitors .",
    "thus it is larger for the progenitors with lower metallicity , but is not monotonically related to the initial mass of progenitors due to the mass loss during the pre - collapse stages .",
    "the total neutrino energy emitted also depends on the shock revival time that determines the explosion time ; it increases with @xmath135 because of more material accreting to the collapsed core .",
    "the increase is @xmath2 2050% by changing @xmath135 from 100 to 300  ms .    in the following we discuss some potential applications of the theoretical supernova neutrino data set for various studies .",
    "first , our results could be used as immediately comparable templates for the future detection by neutrino detectors . as mentioned repeatedly ,",
    "the explosion mechanism of collapse - driven supernovae is still unknown .",
    "the detection of neutrinos would give a clue to the diagnosis of the explosion mechanism , because they come from deep inside the supernova as shown in this paper .",
    "especially , the drops of luminosity and average energy of neutrinos are important as the observational signature of the explosion",
    ". our models would give a quantitative guideline to search such signatures in future detections .",
    "furthermore , a sudden stop of neutrino emission would be a signature of a black hole formation , like our model with @xmath102 and @xmath42 , providing an exciting opportunity to directly observe the birth of a black hole .",
    "the neutrino signal reaches to the earth earlier than the electromagnetic signal , and hence triggering the signal by working neutrino detectors and rapidly informing astronomical communities are of crucial importance .",
    "the various models presented here would be useful to construct such triggering systems , especially for optimizing the efficiency around the detection threshold level",
    ".    it would be possible to predict the spectrum of supernova relic neutrinos using our results because we have evaluated the spectra for various progenitor models with different initial masses and metallicities .",
    "the supernova relic neutrinos are the integration of neutrino flux emitted by all collapse - driven supernovae in the causally - reachable universe . according to the search for supernova relic neutrinos at super - kamiokande @xcite ,",
    "the signal was still not seen but the upper limit was close to the standard predictions @xcite .",
    "if the signal of supernova relic neutrinos is actually detected , it would give us a unique constraint on the cosmic star formation history and initial mass function .",
    "a significant excess of diffuse supernova neutrino flux compared with that expected from observed supernova rate may indicate a contribution from failed supernovae , most likely black hole forming events , like our model with @xmath102 and @xmath42 @xcite .",
    "supernova neutrinos are valuable not only for astrophysics but also for physics of neutrino itself .",
    "while we have not taken into account the neutrino oscillation in calculations of the models presented here , it can easily be dealt as a post - process to predict final neutrino signal reaching detectors on the earth .",
    "( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "recently , as indicated by the results from t2k @xcite and minos experiments @xcite , the mixing angle of neutrino oscillation @xmath136 is confirmed to be nonzero and evaluated as @xmath137 by the results from reactor neutrino experiments such as daya bay @xcite , reno @xcite and double chooz @xcite .",
    "thus , at present , the most undetermined parameter in the neutrino oscillation is the mass hierarchy .",
    "since , for @xmath137 , the survival probabilities of @xmath131 , @xmath76 and @xmath138 in the stellar envelope are different for the normal and inverted mass hierarchies , detections of the supernova neutrinos would give useful information of the mass hierarchy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the supernova neutrino signal depends on the equation of state , especially for the black - hole - forming case @xcite .",
    "the effect of hyperons , which is not taken into account in our equation of state @xcite , would be important not only for the black hole formation @xcite but also for the proto - neutron star cooling @xcite .",
    "however , hyperonic equation of state is an unsettled hot topic . in particular , recently , the mass of the binary millisecond pulsar j1614 - 2230 was evaluated as @xmath139 @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , this remarkable precision thanks to a strong shapiro delay signature excludes almost all models of hyperonic equation of state , because the maximum mass of neutron stars gets lower by the hyperon inclusion ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "neutrino interactions in matter are also affected by equation of state . in this study , we have adopted a single nuclear equation of state of @xcite without hyperons , which is based on mostly standard assumptions and can be regarded as a baseline model . while there are some issues beyond the scope of this study , we hope that the result of this paper will be useful for further progress of the related fields in astrophysics and neutrino physics .    in this work , numerical computations were partially performed on the supercomputers at center for computational astrophysics ( cfca ) in the national astronomical observatory of japan ( naoj ) , research center for nuclear physics ( rcnp ) in osaka university , the university of tokyo , yukawa institute for theoretical physics ( yitp ) in kyoto university , japan atomic energy agency ( jaea ) and high energy accelerator research organization ( kek ) .",
    "this work was partially supported by grants - in - aid for research activity start - up from the japan society for promotion of science ( jsps ) through no .  23840038 , and for the scientific research on innovative areas from the ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology ( mext ) in japan through no .",
    "the authors acknowledge supports by grants - in - aid for the scientific research from mext in japan through nos .",
    "22540296 ( k.s . ) and 24105008 ( k.n . ) .",
    "the numerical data of supernova neutrino emission computed in this study are publicly available on the web at + http://asphwww.ph.noda.tus.ac.jp/snn/ + this data set is open for general use in any research for astronomy , astrophysics , and physics .",
    "not only the original data of @xmath7rhd and pnsc simulations but also combined data from the onset of collapse to 20  s after the core bounce with the interpolation ( [ itplft ] ) are provided . on the web ,",
    "the differential neutrino number flux @xmath140 and differential neutrino number luminosity @xmath141 at the time @xmath142 are prepared for each neutrino species @xmath143 and energy bin @xmath144 .",
    "moreover , the spectral data integrated from the onset of collapse to 20  s after the core bounce with the interpolation ( [ itplft ] ) are also shown .",
    "abe , k. , et al .",
    "2011 , phys .",
    ", 107 , 041801 abe , y. , et al .",
    "2012 , phys .",
    "d , 86 , 052008 adamson , k. , et al .",
    "2011 , phys .",
    "lett . , 107 , 181802 ahn , j. k. , et al .",
    "2012 , phys .",
    "lett . , 108 , 191802 an ,",
    "f. p. , et al .",
    "2012 , phys .",
    "lett . , 108 , 171803 ando , s. , & sato , k. 2004 , new j. phys .",
    ", 6 , 170 bays , k. , et al . 2012 , phys .",
    "d , 85 , 052007 bethe , h. a. , & wilson j. r. , 1985 , , 295 , 14 beacom , j. f. 2010 , ann .",
    ", 60 , 439 bionta , r. m. , et al .",
    "1987 , phys .",
    "lett . , 58 , 1494 blondin , j. m. , mezzacappa , a. & demarino , c. 2003 , , 584 , 971 burrows , a. , klein , d. & gandhi , r. 1992 , phys .",
    "d , 45 , 3361 burrows , a. & lattimer , j. m. 1986 , , 307 , 178 burrows , a. , livne e. , dessart , l. , ott , c. d. & murphy , j. 2006 , , 640 , 878 chakraborty s. , fischer , t. , mirizzi a. , saviano , n. , & toms , r. , 2011 , phys .",
    ", 107 , 151101 dasgupta , b. , oconnor , e. p. , & ott , c. d. 2012 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 85 , 065008 de jager , c. , nieuwenhuijzenm h. , & van der hucht , k. , 1988 , a&as , 72 , 259 demorest , p. b. , pennucci , t. , ransom , s. m. , roberts , m. s. e. & hesseles , j. w. t. 2010 , nature , 467 , 1081 fischer , t. , et al . , 2011 , , 194 , 39 fischer , t. , martinaz - piedo , g. , hempel , m. , & liebendrfer m. , 2012 , phys .",
    "d , 85 , 083003 fischer , t. , whitehouse , s. c. , mezzacappa , a. , thielemann , f .- k . , & liebendrfer m. , 2010 , a&a , 517 , a80 fryer , c. l. 1999 , , 522 , 413 fryer , c. l. , & warren , m. s. 2002 , , 601 , 391 herant , m. , benz , w. , hix , w. r. , fryer , c. l. , & colgate , s. a. 1994 , , 435 , 339 hirata , k. , et al . 1987 , phys .",
    "lett . , 58 , 1490 horiuchi , s. , beacom , j. f. , & dwek , e. 2009 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 79 , 083013 hdepohl l. , mller b. , janka h .- th . , marek , a. , & raffelt , g. g. , 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "lett . , 104 , 251101 ishizuka , c. , ohnishi , a. , tsubakihara , k. , sumiyoshi , k. , & yamada , s. , 2008 , j. of phys .",
    "g , 35 , 085201 janka h .- th . , 2012 , ann .",
    "nucl . part .",
    ", 62 , 407 keil , w. , & janka h .- th . , 1995 , a&a , 296 , 145 kotake , k. , sato , k. , & takahashi , k. 2006 , rep .",
    "phys . , 82",
    ", 2644 kotake , k. , takiwaki , t. , suwa , y. , iwakami nakano , w. , kawagoe , s. , masada , y. , & fujimoto , s. 2012 , arxiv:1204.2330 [ astro-ph.he ] , accepted by advances in astronomy kudritzki , r. , pauldrach a. , puls j. , & abbott , d. , 1989 , a&a , 219 , 205 leblanc , j. m. , & wilson , j. r. 1970 , , 161 , 541 lien , a. , fields , b. d. , & beacom , j. f. 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 81 , 083001 lunardini , c. , 2009 , phys .",
    ", 102 , 231101 malek , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , phys .",
    "lett . , 90 , 061101 marek , a. , & janka h .- th . , 2009 , , 694 , 664 murphy , j. w. , dolence , j. c. , & burrows , a. 2012 , arxiv:1205.3491 [ astro-ph.sr ] , submitted to nakazato , k. , furusawa , s. , sumiyoshi , k. , ohnishi , a. , yamada , s. , & suzuki , h. 2012 , , 745 , 197 nakazato , k. , sumiyoshi , k. , & yamada , s. 2007 , , 666 , 1140 nomoto , k. , tominaga , n. , umeda , h. , kobayashi , c. , & maeda , k. 2006 , nucl .",
    "phys . , a777 , 424 obergaulinger , m. & janka h .- th . , 2011",
    ", arxiv:1101.1198 [ astro-ph.sr ] , submitted to a&a oconnor , e. , & ott , c. d. 2011 , , 730 , 70 ott , c. d. 2009 , class .",
    "quantum grav . , 26 , 063001 oyamatsu , k. 1993 , nucl . phys . ,",
    "a561 , 431 peeples , m. s. , & somerville , r. s. 2012 , arxiv:1208.4366 [ astro-ph.co ] , accepted by mnras .",
    "poelarends , a. j. t. , herwig , f. , langer , n. & heger , a. , 2008 , , 675 , 614 pons , j. a. , reddy , s. , prakash , m. , lattimer , j. m. , & miralles , j. a. , 1999 , , 513 , 780 qian , y .- z . , & woosley , s. e. 1996 , , 471 , 331 raffelt g.g . , 2012 ,",
    "arxiv:1201.1637 [ astro-ph.sr ] roberts l.f . , 2012 , , 755 , 126 shen , h. , toki , h. , oyamatsu , k. , & sumiyoshi , k. 1998a , nucl .",
    ", a637 , 435 shen , h. , toki , h. , oyamatsu , k. , & sumiyoshi , k. 1998b , prog .",
    "phys . , 100 , 1013 shen , h. , toki , h. , oyamatsu , k. , & sumiyoshi , k. 2011 , , 197 , 20 smartt , s. j. , eldridge , j. j. , crockett , r. m. , & maund , j. r. 2009 , mnras , 395 , 1409 smith , n. , li , w. , filippenko , a. v. , & chornock , r. 2011 , mnras , 412 , 1522 sugahara , y. , & toki , h. 1994 , nucl .",
    "a579 , 557 sumiyoshi , k. , suzuki , h. , & toki , h. , 1995 , a&a , 303 , 475 sumiyoshi , k. , yamada , s. , & suzuki , h. , 2007 , , 667 , 382 sumiyoshi , k. , yamada , s. , suzuki , h. , & chiba , s. , 2006 , phys .",
    "97 , 091101 sumiyoshi , k. , yamada , s. , suzuki , h. , shen , h. , chiba , s. , & toki , h. 2005 , , 629 , 922 suzuki , h. 1994 , in physics and astrophysics of neutrinos , ed .",
    "m. fukugita & a. suzuki ( tokyo : springer ) , 763 takiwaki , t. , kotake , k. & sato , k. , 2009 , , 691 , 1360 takiwaki , t. , kotake , k. & suwa , y. , 2012 , , 749 , 98 tanaka , m. , et al . , 2009 , , 699 , 1119 thielemann , f .- k . , hirschi , r. , liebendrfer m. , & diehl , r. , 2011 , in lecture notes in physics , vol .",
    "r. diehl , d.h .",
    "hartmann & n. prantzos ( berlin : springer verlag ) , 153 thompson , t. a. , burrows , a. , & pinto , p. a. , 2003 , , 592 , 434 totani , t. , sato , k. , dalhed , h. e. , & wilson , j. r. , 1998 , , 496 , 216 totani , t. , sato , k. , & yoshii , y. , 1996 , , 460 , 303 umeda , h. , & nomoto , k. 2008 , , 673 , 1014 umeda , h. , yoshida , t. , & takahashi , k. 2012 , prog .",
    "phys . , 2012 ( 1 ) , 01a302 vink , j. s. , de koter a. , & lamers , h. j. g. l. m. , 2001 , a&a , 369 , 574 woosley , s. e. , hartmann , d. h. , hoffman , r. d. , & haxton , w. c. 1990 , , 356 , 272 woosley , s. e. , heger , a. , & weaver , t. a. 2002 , rev .",
    ", 74 , 1015 yamada s. 1997 , , 475 , 720 yamada , s. , janka h .- th . , & suzuki , h. , 1999 , a&a , 344 , 533 yoshida , t. , & umeda , h. 2011 , mnras , 412 , l78"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new series of supernova neutrino light curves and spectra calculated by numerical simulations for a variety of progenitor stellar masses ( 13-@xmath0 ) and metallicities ( @xmath1 and 0.004 ) , which would be useful for a broad range of supernova neutrino studies , e.g. , simulations of future neutrino burst detection by underground detectors , or theoretical predictions for the relic supernova neutrino background . to follow the evolution from the onset of collapse to 20  s after the core bounce , we combine the results of neutrino - radiation hydrodynamic simulations for the early phase and quasi - static evolutionary calculations of neutrino diffusion for the late phase , with different values of shock revival time as a parameter that should depend on the still unknown explosion mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> we here describe the calculation methods and basic results including the dependence on progenitor models and the shock revival time . </S>",
    "<S> the neutrino data are publicly available electronically . </S>"
  ]
}