{
  "article_text": [
    "nuclear emulsions have been used as a particle detector for their excellent submicron spatial resolution , e.g. in experiments studying short - lived particles such as charm and bottom hadrons  @xcite or double-@xmath1 hypernuclei  @xcite .",
    "some recent neutrino experiments also make use of the nuclear emulsions in a hybrid apparatus  @xcite . in such experiments ,",
    "both production and decay vertices of short - lived particles are reconstructed from the measurements of the parent and daughter particle tracks in nuclear emulsion films .",
    "however the practical application of its excellent spatial resolution is limited to an area of a few mm@xmath2 in the vicinity of the interaction and decay vertices because of deformation of emulsion films due to various reasons such as the thermal expansion and distortion of the emulsion layers .",
    "this deformation deteriorates the track position measurement accuracy over a larger area .",
    "for example , the momentum of a charged particle can be estimated by measuring precisely its multiple coulomb scattering(mcs ) in an emulsion could chamber(ecc ) brick consisting of emulsion films interleaved with thin metal plates . for a track with a large angle with respect to the perpendicular to the emulsion films , the measurement of its mcs requires precise track position measurement over a large area , which is affected by the deformation of emulsion films  .",
    "usually , the effect of the emulsion deformation is corrected by using high momentum reference tracks with a similar angle passing near the track of interest . however",
    ", this method can not be applied in the case , such as in long baseline neutrino oscillation experiments in an underground laboratory , where few references are available . even though cosmic ray for alignment of ecc brick are irradiated , the angle of their tracks are not necessarily the same as interesting track .    in this paper , we present a new method to correct the deterioration in the track measurement accuracy due to the deformation and report on the results of a muon beam exposure which was performed to demonstrate the performance of the method by estimating the momenta of beam muons from their mcs measurements .",
    "the method will allow the nuclear emulsion to be used as a tracking device in a wide range of applications such as the emulsion spectrometer technique  @xcite , an emulsion detector placed in a magnetic field , proposed for future neutrino oscillation experiments .",
    "the major part of the deformations in emulsion originates from the development process . since the reference marks printed before the development retain their initial positions , we can know the deformations in the emulsion film by comparing measured positions of the reference marks with their designed values ,",
    "then we can subtract them . by this technique",
    ", the whole area of an emulsion film will become a position detector with one micron accuracy .",
    "we must manufacture a photomask as a printing mask to transfer the reference marks with submicron accuracy to the whole emulsion film .",
    "reference marks in past emulsion experiments were transcribed from a negative film  @xcite or x - ray sources with 0.1 mm slits  @xcite .",
    "these marks had position accuracy of 10 - 30 m and they were used as guides to lead the microscope view to the interested position such as an interaction vertex .",
    "the role of our reference marks is completely different from that of the marks in past experiments .",
    "the arrangement of the reference marks on the photomask is designed according to the nature of the deformations in emulsion .",
    "the deformation size depends on the interested position in an emulsion films : it is small at the central part , but it is large at the edge part .",
    "the typical deformation sizes are 0.3 m within the area of several hundred m@xmath2 at the center , 1 m in a few cm@xmath2 and 10 m in one hundred cm@xmath2 respectively .    in order to validate this correction method ,",
    "we have tried to determine the momentum of beam muons using the mcs measurement , which requires the precise position measurement over a large area in emulsion films .",
    "we carried out a muon beam exposure of an ecc brick at cern sps t2-h4 beam line in july 2007 .",
    "the ecc brick was composed of 28 nuclear emulsion films interleaved with 1  mm thick lead plates as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : ecc ] .",
    "the ecc brick was contained in an acrylic resin box and enclosed in an opaque vacuum bag .",
    "furthermore the brick was enclosed in an extruded polystyrene ( styroform^^ ) container for heat insulation .",
    "the emulsion film is the one developed for the opera experiment  @xcite .",
    "it was made of a 205  m thick triacetyl cellulose ( tac ) base with 44  m thick emulsion layers on both faces .",
    "the ecc brick size was 12.5  cm wide , 10.0  cm high and 3.6  cm thick which corresponds to 5 radiation lengths .",
    "the ecc brick was exposed to 30 , 40 and 150  gev/@xmath4 muon beams and inclined horizontally to the beams with @xmath50.3 , @xmath50.1 and @xmath50.2  rad respectively .",
    "a 150  gev/@xmath4 muon beam was exposed perpendicularly for reference .",
    "the exposed beam density was controlled to be about @xmath6/cm@xmath2 .",
    "the beam density is almost uniform in the central region whose size is 3  cm @xmath0 3  cm , and it is lower in the surrounding regions .",
    "full width at half maximum of beam profiles are around 7  cm @xmath0 7  cm .",
    "the beam angular spread was about 1  mrad and its momentum accuracy 1% .",
    "the emulsion handling was performed with great care .",
    "the ecc brick was dismantled in the dark room soon after the exposure .",
    "grid marks were printed on each emulsion film using a photomask   153  mm @xmath0 6.35  mm .",
    "a chromium oxide layer is deposited over the glass substrate , forming a light shielding film 0.4  m thick .",
    "light transmittance of this layer is about 1% .",
    "the pattern on the chromium layer was made by using a photomechanical and etching process .",
    "] made of synthetic quartz with a small thermal expansion coefficient of @xmath7  k@xmath8 .",
    "grid marks were printed over a 127  mm @xmath0 127  mm area .",
    "[ fig : photomaskdesign ] shows the design pattern of grid marks on the photomask .",
    "square shape grids , of 5  m ( 15  m , 400  m ) side , were printed at intervals of 1  mm ( 10  mm , 100  mm ) .",
    "the accuracy of the intervals is 0.1  m. the printed grid image is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fiducialmark ] .",
    "the printed image is not square but rather circular because the light from an electric flash in contact printer is not parallel , it scatters in the emulsion layer , and the contact between the photomask and the film is not perfect .",
    "it took only 4.5 hours from the beginning of the exposure to the end of the grid mark printing .",
    "such a fast operation minimizes the emulsion film deformation due to the environmental change during transportation to the processing room .",
    "[ fig : condition ] shows the temperature and the relative humidity variations as a function of time .",
    "the maximum changes in the temperature and humidity were 1.5@xmath9 and 4.5% respectively .",
    "for a typical film , fig .",
    "[ fig : deformation ] shows the difference of the grid mark coordinates between the original ones and the measured ones .",
    "each vector shows the size and direction of the displacement , mainly caused by the development processes .",
    "position displacements of a few  m in the central region and larger than 10  m near the edges are observed .",
    "this is an example of the deformation that the method described in this paper is aiming to correct .",
    "positions of track segments and grid marks are measured using a fully automated system called ultra track selector ( uts )  @xcite .",
    "the uts is a microscope with a motor controlled three axes stage and an image processing unit .",
    "an image is taken by a ccd camera , whose pixel size corresponds to 0.29  m@xmath00.23",
    "m on the emulsion film .",
    "the positions of the stage are encoded by the ls406 of heidenhain co.ltd .",
    "the uts reads out 16 tomographic images through the 44  m thick emulsion layer , then the image processing unit extracts tracks with a slope smaller than 0.4  rad in the field of view . just before the track segments are recorded by uts ,",
    "grid mark images are taken and automatically recognized .",
    "their center positions are measured by a shape fitting algorithm .",
    "the accuracy of grid mark center of 5  m square size is @xmath10  m in each directions .",
    "only 5  m grid marks are used to correct the emulsion deformation because their positions can be measured most precisely .",
    "an emulsion film is continuously expanding or shrinking under the influence of environmental temperature and humidity , even on the microscope stage .",
    "to get rid of this effect , we measured a well - defined reference position of the emulsion film at short intervals during the scanning of an area .",
    "we performed measurement of track segments in every 7  mm @xmath0 7  mm area at 2  cm intervals on the emulsion film .",
    "the measurement of the grid marks and the track segments in the central 1  mm @xmath0 1  mm area of each scanning area took about 30  minutes ( 10  minutes ) in the central part ( in the edge part ) of the film .",
    "position shift in the edge part by the environmental variation is greater than the central ones .",
    "that is why the correction must be done more frequently in the edge part . to evaluate the reproducibility of the measurements",
    ", all emulsion films were scanned twice in succession .",
    "the reproducibility of the track positions is found to be 0.5  m at one standard deviation .",
    "after the scanning , the two corresponding track segments in the emulsion layer on both sides were connected across the 205  m thick plastic base ; so - called base tracks were produced .",
    "the position coordinates of each base track are defined as the position of the silver grain closest to the plastic base in the upstream emulsion layer .",
    "base tracks are connected between consecutive emulsion films , then muon tracks are reconstructed over the whole ecc brick .",
    "a connection between 2 films was accepted if the positions of the track segments agreed within a tolerance of about 10  m ( 3  @xmath11 ) .",
    "after the connection , the positions of the base tracks of the 150  gev/@xmath4 reference muons are determined with respect to the neighboring grid marks .",
    "the printed position shifts @xmath12 and rotation angle @xmath13 of the photomask are then calculated , for each film , as the values which minimize the sum of the square of 2d position difference of all the pairs of base tracks between two consecutive films .",
    "the minimization process is done by the whole area of the film so as to get larger lever arm for determination of rotation angle .",
    "the average difference of the printed positions of the photomask are @xmath14  mrad and @xmath15 mm , 0.15 mm@xmath16 .",
    "then the original , exposed , track position is recovered by using the nearest grid mark . since the edge part are severe deformation , we use the nearest grid mark . the deformation correction by using the grid marks are made for 2d vector shift .",
    "we compare the residuals of muon positions in @xmath17 direction with or without this correction in fig .",
    "[ fig : area_distr ] .",
    "small , less than 1  m , and almost constant residuals are obtained in the central region .",
    "we still notice some deterioration of position resolution in the edge region .",
    "we think those are mostly due to deformation of the emulsion films in the brick package .",
    "those should be avoided in the future by an improved packing procedure .",
    "meanwhile , we confine the rest of the analysis to the central 5 cm @xmath0 7 cm area of the emulsion films .",
    "[ fig : density ] shows the dependence of the alignment accuracy on the number of reference muon tracks used in the minimization procedure described above .",
    "we obtain 0.6  m residual by using 50 or more muon tracks but we note that submicron alignment is achievable with as few as 10 muon tracks .",
    "in order to confirm the effectiveness of the above correction method , we evaluated its effect on the determination of the muon momenta of the different beams from their multiple coulomb scattering in the brick .",
    "the momentum of each muon track is estimated from position displacement by multiple coulomb scattering  @xcite .",
    "the position displacement of each track in one projection is expressed as @xmath18 so - called  second difference \" , where the base track position at @xmath19th film ( @xmath20 ) is @xmath21 .",
    "observable root mean square ( rms ) of the second difference @xmath22 becomes the convolution of the signal of multiple coulomb scattering @xmath23 and the measurement error @xmath24 , and @xmath23 has the relationship : @xmath25 where @xmath26 and @xmath27 are the momentum and velocity of the particle , @xmath28 is the thickness of the material  @xcite .",
    "we use  cell length \" as unit of thickness of the material , cell length = 1 is a 1  mm thick lead plate plus an emulsion film , used to measure the second difference @xmath29 .",
    "[ fig : cell ] shows how to obtain the second difference as a function of cell lengths .",
    "the second differences of cell length = 1 and 2 are measured by the pattern 1 and 2 respectively .",
    "the measurement error @xmath24 of the second difference is composed of the position measurement accuracy of uts , the alignment accuracy and the position displacement by the emulsion deformation .",
    "there is an approximate relation of @xmath30 between the measurement error @xmath24 and the overall track position measurement accuracy @xmath31 at each film after alignment .",
    "the distribution of @xmath22 is approximately described by a gaussian distribution for each muon track .",
    "the momentum of the track is extracted from the observed standard deviation of this distribution .",
    "this determination can in principle be performed for different choices of the cell length . in our analysis ,",
    "the cell length was defined as the shortest possible one for which the expected @xmath23 exceeds the estimated measurement error .",
    "the application of the correction method described in section 4 allows to reduce the measurement error and , thus , in some cases , to reduce the cell length , which further contributes to improve the momentum resolution .",
    "second differences , the position differences at the film intervals , without ( with ) correction in @xmath17 direction are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : sd ] for each muon beam , where the results obtained from a geant4  @xcite based simulation are overlaid .",
    "the geant4 simulation includes residuals obtained from this analysis .",
    "since an angle of track is larger in @xmath32 projection , the momentum is estimated from the second difference in @xmath17 projection  @xcite .",
    "total behaviors of second differences with respect to the cell lengths are in agreement with the geant4 simulation .",
    "[ fig : moment ] shows the second difference distributions scaled to give @xmath33 for 30 and 40 gev/@xmath4 muons .",
    "these distributions are fitted by gaussian functions with standard deviations of 77% ( 64% ) and 100% ( 63% ) for those without ( with ) correction of 30 and 40  gev/@xmath4 muons , respectively .",
    "new correction method of the emulsion deformation has been developed to recover the spatial resolution of the nuclear emulsion over a large area .",
    "the method recovers the position resolution deterioration due to the deformation mostly in the development process .",
    "the method employs a precise photomask , careful treatment of nuclear emulsion , and alignment technique among emulsion films in order to enhance the positioning accuracy .",
    "position measurement accuracy of 0.6  m is obtained over the area of 5  cm @xmath0 7  cm .",
    "the method allows to measure positions of track segments with submicron accuracy in an ecc brick with 10 reference tracks for alignment .",
    "it will be applied to long baseline neutrino oscillation experiments where only a few reference tracks for alignment are expected .",
    "it will also be useful for other applications of emulsion films as a tracking device such as the emulsion spectrometer technique proposed for future neutrino oscillation experiments .",
    "we would like to thank the colleagues of the fundamental particle physics laboratory , nagoya university for their cooperation .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge the financial supports from the promotion and mutual aid corporation for private schools of japan and the futaba electronics memorial foundation .",
    "we thank hoya corporation for providing the photomask used in this study . for the beam exposure",
    ", we acknowledge the support of the sps staff at cern .",
    "we would like to thank p. vilain for his careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "00 k. niu , _ et al_. , prog .",
    "theor . phys .",
    "46 ( 1971 ) 1644 .",
    "n. ushida , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 224 ( 1984 )",
    ". s. aoki , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a274 ( 1989 )",
    ". k. kodama , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a289 ( 1990 ) 146 .",
    "s. aoki , _ et al_. , prog .",
    "85 ( 1991 ) 1287 .",
    "h. takahashi _",
    "et al_. , phys .",
    "87 ( 2001 ) 212502 .",
    "k. kodama , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a493 ( 2002 ) 45 .",
    "e. eskut , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a401 ( 1997 ) 7 .",
    "r. acquafredda _",
    "et al_. , jinst 4 ( 2009 ) p04018 .",
    "m. de serio , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a512 ( 2003 ) 539 . n. agafonova , _ et al_. , new j. phys . 14 ( 2012 ) 013026 .",
    "k. kodama , _ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth",
    ". a574 ( 2007 ) 192 .",
    "c. fukushima _ et al_. , nucl . instr . and",
    ". meth . a 592(2008)56 .",
    "_ et al_. , jinst 4 ( 2009 ) t05001 .",
    "et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a 447(2000)361 . t. nakamura _",
    "et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and .",
    "meth . a 556 ( 2006 ) 80 .",
    "et al_. , nucl . instr . and meth .",
    "b 51 ( 1990 ) 466 .",
    "t. nakano , buturi 56 ( 2001 ) 411 ( in japanese ) .",
    "_ et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 568 ( 2006 ) 578 .",
    "k. morishima and t. nakano , jinst 5 ( 2010 ) p04011 .",
    "k. nakamura , particle data group , _ et al_. , j. phys .",
    "g 37 ( 2010 ) 075021 .",
    "s. agostinelli _",
    "et al_. , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a 506 ( 2003 ) 250 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a new method to correct the emulsion deformation , mainly produced in the development process , is developed to recover the high accuracy of nuclear emulsion as a tracking device . </S>",
    "<S> the method is based on a precise photomask and a careful treatment of the emulsion films . a position measurement accuracy of 0.6 m </S>",
    "<S> is obtained over an area of 5 cm @xmath0 7 cm . </S>",
    "<S> the method allows to measure positions of track segments with submicron accuracy in an ecc brick with as few as 10 reference tracks for alignment . </S>",
    "<S> such a performance can be important for hybrid emulsion experiments at underground laboratories where only a small number of reference tracks for alignment are available .    nuclear emulsion , deformation , photomask </S>"
  ]
}