{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of pulsars by antony hewish , jocelyn bell , et al . was announced in the 1968 february 24 issue of nature .",
    "just 13 days later , on march 8 , the first parkes pulsar observations were made by a combined csiro radiophysics / sydney university team led by brian robinson and including tom landecker who is present at this meeting . by great coincidence , i commenced employment at parkes on february 12 , just 12 days before the discovery announcement .",
    "as a raw young pre - post - doc nobody knew , i stood at the back of the control room on march 8 and watched the first pulses from cp1919 come through .",
    "this was the burst that ultimately appeared on the first australian 50-dollar note along with the telescope itself and various other astronomy - related images .",
    "it was a lucky scintillation maximum and i do nt think the pulsar was seen as clearly again during those observations .",
    "these march 8 observations @xcite were a `` rapid - response '' triumph  probably the best - ever example of the versatility of a single - dish radio telescope .",
    "four receivers covering bands from 85 mhz to 2700 mhz were able to observe the pulsar simultaneously .",
    "[ fg : cp1919 ] shows , the quality of the resulting individual - pulse observations was amazing and gave what is still one of the best , if not the best , sets of such multi - frequency data .",
    "these results were published in nature on june 22 , but this was not the first pulsar publication from parkes . @xcite used the same multi - frequency observations reported by @xcite to measure an accurate period for cp1919 .",
    "the parkes telescope was able to track the source for three hours per day over several consecutive days , whereas the cambridge measurements were mostly based on 4  min observations at transit each day .",
    "the parkes observations , published in nature on april 20 , showed that the cambridge group got the period of cp1919 wrong by one pulse per day , again illustrating the benefits of a large fully steerable single - dish radio telescope .",
    "although other pulsar work was done at parkes in the meantime , the next major published result was the detection by @xcite of the very high linear polarisation of the vela pulsar mean pulse profile and the swing of polarisation position angle ( pa ) through the pulse ( fig .",
    "[ fg : vela_poln ] ) .",
    "these observations strongly supported the rotating neutron - star model where the emission beam is directed outward from a magnetic pole and the observed pa is related to the projected direction of the magnetic field lines @xcite .",
    "this idea became famous and is now known as the `` rotating - vector model '' for pulsar polarisation . as fig .",
    "[ fg : rvm ] shows , this model predicts that pa swings will be more rapid when the line of sight passes close to the direction of the magnetic axis as the star rotates .",
    "subsequent observations of other pulsars provided many examples of pa swings conforming to this model .",
    "as i had some familiarity with using the oh receiver for polarisation observations ( from my work with brian robinson and miller goss on oh - line studies ) , i had been asked to help rad with the vela observations .",
    "we set up the system , including the ridl signal averager that was used to integrate the signals synchronously with the pulsar period , and pointed the telescope at the vela pulsar . to our consternation ,",
    "the pulses on the ridl were drifting across the screen , indicating an error in the folding period for the signal averaging .",
    "exhaustive checks of the system and observations of other pulsars revealed no problems and eventually we were forced to conclude that the vela pulsar period was not what we expected .",
    "further observations over the next week or so confirmed this ( fig .",
    "[ fg : vela_glitch ] ) and led to the publication of the first detection of a pulsar glitch @xcite .",
    "as an aside , my wife barbara also worked at parkes in 1968 and 1969 , not on pulsars , but as a research assistant for john bolton and miller goss .",
    "as typing `` manchester '' into the astrophysics data system for 1969 will reveal , she wrote two papers based on this work , one on sources from the 1410 mhz galactic plane survey @xcite and one , with miller , on an 11 cm map of the vela region @xcite .",
    "as the vela observations of @xcite clearly demonstrated , a large symmetric and steerable dish like parkes is ideally suited to polarisation studies ",
    "its polarisaton reception properties are essentially independent of pointing direction and are relatively easy to calibrate .",
    "great advantage was taken of this in subsequent years .",
    "systems providing simultaneous direct and cross products , allowing a full description of the polarisation in a single observation , were developed in the early 1970s by peter mcculloch and his colleagues @xcite .",
    "these systems were used for an extensive set of studies of the mean - pulse - profile polarisation of pulsars at 400 mhz , 610 mhz and 1612 mhz @xcite as well as other observations of particular pulsars ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "[ fg : b0628 ] illustrates the strong linear polarisation and swing of position angle that is often observed .",
    "similar observations made at various observatories around the world ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) were very important for our understanding of radio pulsar beaming ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "[ fg : poln ] shows polarisation profiles for eight multicomponent pulsars illustrating the high degree of linear polarisation often observed and the characteristic `` s''-shaped pa swings which closely conform to the rotating - vector model .",
    "one case , psr b1857@xmath026 , also illustrates the effect of orthogonal - mode switching that is often observed in pulsar polarisation data ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "although this complicates the appearance of the pa curves , when it is allowed for , the underlying pa swing is generally in accordance with the rotating - vector model .        in later years at parkes , many more studies of the mean pulse polarisation of pulsars",
    "were undertaken ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and these have contributed to a growing understanding of the pulse emission mechanism .",
    "pulsar polarisation is also one of the best ways to investigate the structure of the galactic magnetic field .",
    "pulsars typically high linear polarisation allows rotation measures ( rms ) to be measured relatively easily , they are distributed throughout the galaxy at approximately known distances , thereby allowing a tomographic analysis of the field structure , and are point sources with no intrinsic faraday rotation .",
    "[ fg : gal_rm ] shows the distribution of rms from pulsar measurements , mostly done at parkes , projected on to the plane of the galaxy .",
    "these results suggest that the galactic disk magnetic fields follow spiral arms with counter - clockwise fields in the arms and clockwise fields in the inter - arm regions @xcite .",
    "the parkes radio telescope has an amazing record in searching for pulsars , with the discovery of about two thirds of the known pulsars to its credit . put another way , this means that parkes has discovered twice as many pulsars as the rest of the world s telescopes put together !",
    "there are several reasons for this great success .",
    "the first is its southern location  the galactic centre passes almost overhead at parkes and pulsars are more numerous in the inner parts of the galaxy .",
    "the second is the world - leading receiving systems that have been and continue to be developed by our engineers and astronomers .",
    "the outstanding example is the 20 cm multibeam receiver and the associated filterbank back - end system , installed on parkes in 1997 and responsible for about three - quarters of the parkes discoveries . finally , the research groups involved in the more successful pulsar searches at parkes were very experienced in the techniques of pulsar searching and discovery .",
    "the first successful pulsar search at parkes was carried out by @xcite .",
    "they pioneered a two - dimensional fourier analysis technique that largely overcomes the effects of interstellar pulse dispersion .",
    "this allowed the discovery of highly dispersed and distant pulsars in the galactic plane , most notably psr b1641@xmath045 , one of the most radio - luminous pulsars known with a dispersion measure ( dm ) of 478 @xmath1  pc and an estimated distance of 5.3 kpc .",
    "the next major survey to be undertaken was the second molonglo pulsar survey , a joint effort between the university of sydney and csiro @xcite . with its large collecting area at 408 mhz and @xmath2-wide beam in declination",
    ", the molonglo radio telescope was used as the initial finding telescope , scanning the entire sky between declinations of @xmath3 and @xmath4 , approximately 67% of the celestial sphere . in order to maximise the sensitivity , we constructed 88 pre - amplifiers and installed them close to the output of each feed bay , resulting in a system - equivalent flux density of 47 jy , a factor of 2.5 improvement over the original system .",
    "in addition , the university of sydney group developed a multibeam configuration that gave an observation time of about 45s at the equator .",
    "data were processed using the csiro s cyber 76 computer , located in canberra , and with the university of sydney s cyber 72 computer .",
    "candidates from this analysis were then observed at parkes with a 408-mhz receiver by scanning in declination along the molonglo beam , and processing the data in real time to determine an improved position , period and dispersion measure for any confirmed pulsar .",
    "the survey was outstandingly successful , discovering 155 previously unknown pulsars , more than doubling the number of pulsars known at the time .",
    "the distribution on the celestial sphere of the 155 newly discovered and the 69 previously known pulsars detected in the survey is shown in fig .",
    "[ fg : mol2 ] .",
    "most of the new discoveries are at relatively low galactic latitudes and in the fourth galactic quadrant , that is , concentrated in the disk of the galaxy and towards the galactic centre .",
    "another notable parkes achievement was the discovery by @xcite of the first extra - galactic pulsar . using a dual - channel receiver at 645 mhz and a multi - channel dedispersion system",
    ", they searched 29 beam areas toward the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) , spending two hours on each position . from a fourier analysis of the data and subsequent folding at candidate periods and dms , they confirmed one pulsar , psr b0529 - 66 , with a period of 0.975s and a dm of 125 @xmath1pc .",
    "[ fg : magcld ] shows that this pulsar lies well outside the distribution of dm@xmath5 for galactic pulsars which , with its position , confirmed its location in the lmc .",
    "this search was extended with an improved receiver system by @xcite who discovered four pulsars , one in the small magellanic cloud ( smc ) , two in the lmc and one foreground pulsar .",
    "further timing at parkes by @xcite showed that the smc pulsar , now known as psr j0045@xmath07319 , is in an eccentric 51-day binary orbit around a massive star , which was optically identified as a b - star by @xcite .",
    "after the advent of the 20 cm multibeam receiver , @xcite made a much deeper survey of the smc , discovering one pulsar likely to be in the smc and also found a pulsar in the lmc in a separate search .",
    "a much more complete survey of both magellanic clouds was undertaken by @xcite ; they discovered a further nine pulsars associated with the lmc and three with the smc . together with two pulsars discovered at x - ray wavelengths @xcite this brought the total number of pulsars known in the magellanic clouds to 20 .",
    "these remain the only extra - galactic pulsars known .    after the second molonglo pulsar survey ,",
    "the next major pulsar survey at parkes was the parkes southern galactic plane survey @xcite .",
    "this survey was restricted to @xmath6 of the galactic plane and was the first of the major 1400 mhz ( 20 cm ) surveys , complementing a similar survey of the northern galactic plane at jodrell bank @xcite .",
    "the higher frequency allowed deeper penetration into the galactic disk before the effects of interstellar dispersion and scattering became a limiting factor .",
    "the survey was very successful with 46 previously unknown pulsars discovered and a total of 100 pulsars detected .",
    "half of the new discoveries have dms greater than 300 @xmath1pc , illustrating the much greater sensitivity of this survey to high - dm pulsars .",
    "[ fg : pks1 ] )        the most interesting pulsar discovered in this survey is undoubtedly psr b1259 - 63 @xcite .",
    "this pulsar had the shortest period of all those discovered in the survey , 47  ms , but more than that , it turned out to be in a long - period and highly eccentric orbit around a massive star , later optically identified as ss  2883 , a 10th magnitude be star . initially , the orbital period and eccentricity were not well defined , but later measurements @xcite showed that they were 3.4 years and 0.87 , respectively .",
    "the pulsar is eclipsed by the emission - line disk surrounding the be star every periastron and the system also emits transient radio @xcite , x - ray @xcite , gamma - ray @xcite and tev @xcite emission as the pulsar ploughs through the disk around periastron .",
    "the discovery by @xcite of a millisecond pulsar ( msp ) in the globular cluster m  28 and subsequent discoveries in other clusters showed that the dense stellar environment of the cores of such clusters are conducive to the formation of msps .",
    "the first parkes discovery of a pulsar associated with a globular cluster was by @xcite who found a 5.75-ms pulsar in 47 tucanae .",
    "subsequent observations of 47 tucanae @xcite detected a total of 20 msps in this one cluster , giving it the highest concentration of msps known  until the detection of 21 msps in terzan  5 by @xcite which brought the number of pulsars known in that cluster to 24 . timing observations of the 47 tucanae pulsars have revealed many interesting results , for example , the first detection of ionised intra - cluster gas in a globular cluster @xcite and the proper motion of the cluster @xcite .",
    "parkes searches of other clusters have resulted in a dozen or so msp discoveries ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "although searching globular clusters is certainly a productive way to find msps , for many applications it was ( and is ) important to find msps in the galactic field .",
    "the gravitational interactions with other cluster stars introduce perturbations into the observed pulse periods , and , while these are intrinisically interesting , they limit the application of these pulsars to many precision timing projects .",
    "also , since msps have a very long lifetime compared to `` normal '' pulsars , they can be expected to lie at large distances from the galactic plane and hence at relatively high galactic latitudes . with these ideas in mind ,",
    "a survey of the entire southern sky with rapid sampling to give sensitivity to msps was planned .",
    "to cover such a large area , it was necessary to use a relative low frequency and a receiver system centred at 436 mhz was constructed @xcite .",
    "the survey was very successful with 101 new discoveries including 17 msps and a total of 298 pulsars detected @xcite .",
    "[ fg : pks70 ] shows , most of the msps were at high galactic latitudes , in accordance with expectations .",
    "the most important discovery from this survey was the very bright and nearby msp psr j0437@xmath04715 @xcite .",
    "this pulsar has a period of 5.75  ms , dm of just 2.64 @xmath1pc and a mean flux density at 1400 mhz of about 140 mjy , an order of magnitude greater than any other msp .",
    "precise timing observations of this pulsar have allowed measurement of the `` annual orbital parallax '' , the apparent change in the projected orbit size due to the annual motion of the earth , giving a constraint on the longitude of the ascending node and hence allowing an independent test of the predictions of general relativity @xcite .",
    "these measurements also gave a precise measurement of the pulsar distance , @xmath7  pc , based on the apparent change in orbital period due to transverse motion of the system @xcite .",
    "this timing distance is fully consistent with the even more precise vlbi measurement of @xcite , @xmath8  pc .",
    "the extraordinary signal / noise ratio obtainable in observations of this pulsar can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fg : j0437poln ] which shows the mean pulse profile polarisation at 1400 mhz @xcite .",
    "the 1996 commissioning of the 20 cm parkes multibeam receiver @xcite resulted in a quantum leap in the efficiency and effectiveness of pulsar surveys at parkes .",
    "not only did the 13 beams allow searches to cover the sky more than an order of magnitude faster , but the low system temperature of the receivers , about 21  k , gave excellent sensitivity .",
    "a large number of pulsar surveys have been undertaken with this receiver .",
    "[ fg : pksmb ] shows the galactic distribution of all currently known pulsars with those found in searches using the multibeam receiver highlighted . by far",
    "the most successful survey ( so far ) is the parkes multibeam pulsar survey which covered a @xmath9 strip along the galactic plane with unprecedented sensitivity .",
    "the six main papers from the survey @xcite reported the discovery of 759 pulsars , but various reprocessing efforts ( eg . , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have now raised that to 785 discoveries . in total , this single survey has detected 1065 pulsars , more than half the total number known , giving a wonderful database for studies of the galactic distribution and evolution of pulsars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the plot of the rate of period increase @xmath10 versus period @xmath11 is one of the basic diagrams of pulsar astrophysics .",
    "it reveals the various families of pulsars , separating , for example , the millisecond pulsars and the anomalous x - ray pulsars ( axps ) from the `` normal '' pulsars . fig .",
    "[ fg : ppdot ] shows this diagram , with the pulsars discovered in the main parkes multibeam surveys marked .",
    "millisecond pulsars are concentrated in the lower - left corner of the diagram with very long characteristic ages , often greater than @xmath12  years , and relatively weak implied dipole magnetic fields .",
    "in contrast , axps are located in the upper - right part of the diagram with ages typically around @xmath13  years and very strong implied magnetic fields , @xmath14  g ( @xmath15  t ) , hence the term `` magnetar '' for these pulsars .",
    "the vast bulk of normal pulsars have characteristic ages of between @xmath16 and @xmath17  years and surface dipole fields of @xmath18  g. one of the notable achievements of the parkes multibeam pulsar survey was the discovery of a whole new class of pulsars with implied magnetic field strengths and , in some cases pulse periods , approaching those typical of the magnetars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in fig .",
    "[ fg : ppdot ] these are located just below the @xmath19  g line .",
    "these pulsars raise intriguing issues about why magnetars differ from radio pulsars and whether or not there is an evolutionary relationship between the two groups ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "without doubt , the `` jewel in the crown '' of the parkes multibeam surveys was the discovery of the double pulsar , psr j0737@xmath03039a / b @xcite in the parkes high - latitude survey .",
    "psr j0737@xmath03039a , seen as a circled orange @xmath20 just below the @xmath21  g line in fig .",
    "[ fg : ppdot ] , is part of a large group of mildly recycled pulsars discovered in the multibeam surveys .",
    "most of the binary systems in this group are thought to be double - neutron - star systems , where the companion star , as well as the pulsar , is a neutron star . however , psr  j0737@xmath03039a / b was distinguished both by its very short orbital period , 2.4  hours , and by the fact that it was the only known double - neutron - star system where pulses are observed from both neutron stars , thus making it the first , and to date only , double - pulsar system known .",
    "pulsar a is a mildly recycled pulsar with a pulse period of 22.7  ms , whereas pulsar b has a long period , 2.77  s and a much stronger magnetic field  it can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fg : ppdot ] just above the @xmath22  g line near the right - hand edge of the pulsar distribution .",
    "pulsar b was the second - born of the two pulsars and , during its pre - supernova evolution , spun up or recycled pulsar a to very close to its current short period .",
    "another distinguishing feature of the double pulsar system is its orbital inclination . by great good fortune  or some aspect of pulsar astrophysics that we do nt currently understand ",
    "the orbit is almost exactly edge - on to us , allowing investigation of a number of interesting and sometimes unique phenomena .",
    "the double pulsar system , named by science magazine as one of the top ten scientific break - throughs of 2004 , has proved to be a remarkable laboratory for the investigation of relativistic astrophysics .",
    "because of the very short orbital period , relativistic perturbations to the orbit dynamics are easily observed , with five measured so far @xcite .",
    "these , together with the mass ratio for the two stars , determined from their observed doppler shifts and unique to the double pulsar , give four independent checks on the gravitational theory used to interpret them , namely einstein s general theory of relativity ( gr ) . already in 2006 , these showed that gr is accurate at the 0.05% level in the strong - field regime , easily surpassing tests based on the original hulse - taylor binary pulsar @xcite .",
    "the double pulsar has other claims to fame .",
    "some of the most important arise from the fact that the orbit is seen nearly edge - on ; the orbital inclination measured from pulse timing is @xmath23 @xcite .",
    "this leads to eclipses of the radiation from pulsar a by the magnetosphere of pulsar b , giving a unique probe into pulsar magneto - hydrodynamics .",
    "the eclipses last only 30 seconds in the 2.4-hour orbit , showing that most of b s magnetosphere is blown away by the relativistic wind from pulsar a. more than that , they are modulated at half the period of pulsar b @xcite .",
    "this modulation has been fitted by a model in which the eclipses are due to synchrotron absorption occurring in the closed - field - line torus of pulsar b @xcite . @xcite",
    "have shown that the exact form of the eclipse curve changes in time because of the relativistic precession of b s spin axis , giving yet another independent test of gr .",
    "@xcite detected another fascinating aspect of the interaction between pulsar a and pulsar b ",
    "the emission from pulsar b is modulated at the rotation frequency of pulsar a ( doppler - shifted by the relative motion of a and b around their orbit ) .",
    "this implies that some aspect of the magneto - hydrodynamic wind from pulsar a is affecting the magnetosphere of pulsar b to such an extent that it shuts off , or maybe redirects , b s pulsed emission every a period .    the precession of b s spin axis has had another interesting consequence ",
    "since observations of the system began in 2003 , the pulsed emission from pulsar b has been getting steadily weaker and its pulse profile has been getting broader @xcite . in 2008",
    "pulsar b became undetectable so the system is no longer a double pulsar ! however , the prediction based on a model for the emission beam is that pulsar b will reappear before 2035 and maybe as early as 2014 @xcite .",
    "more details on the double pulsar system are in the paper by marta burgay in these proceedings .",
    "the importance of pulsars rests largely on their incredibly stable pulse periods .",
    "this stability is a direct result of the large mass , @xmath24  m@xmath25 , and tiny radius , @xmath26  km , of neutron stars .",
    "these properties make it extremely difficult to change the spin rate of a neutron star or , equivalently , the pulse period .",
    "pulsar timing has a huge range of applications , ranging from investigations of the interior of neutron stars to the detection of gravitational waves . to determine accurate pulse periods  and they way in which they vary  it is necessary to make frequent observations over long time intervals , typically several years or even decades .",
    "each observation yields a pulse time of arrival ( toa ) at the telescope .",
    "a series of these toas is compared with the predictions of a model for the pulsar , including its position , proper motion and sometimes annual parallax , the pulse frequency and its derivatives and , if necessary , the parameters of its binary motion .",
    "the differences between the observed toas and the model predictions are known as timing residuals .",
    "systematic deviations of these timing residuals from zero indicate either errors in the assumed pulsar model or the existence of unmodelled phenomena affecting the observed pulse period .",
    "errors in the timing model can be determined by a least - squares fit to the residual variations , thereby improving the model .",
    "if unmodelled residual variations can be identified , then terms for these can ( in principle ) be included in the model .",
    "the parkes telescope has provided the platform for many pulsar timing investigations dating right back to 1968  some of these have already been mentioned above .",
    "many were follow - up timing observations of pulsars discovered in the various pulsar searches at parkes .",
    "such observations are vital to understanding the properties of newly discovered pulsars and have of course led to many important results - the timing of the double pulsar is just one example . over the past few years , our main project has been the parkes pulsar timing array ( ppta ) .",
    "this project differs from most other pulsar timing projects in that it involves observing a relatively large sample of msps at regular intervals over a long data span .",
    "the aim is to detect tiny signals that affect all pulsars in the array in a correlated way .",
    "our main objectives are the direct detection of gravitational waves and establishment of a pulsar - based timescale , but there are many secondary objectives . for the ppta we observe 20 msps at three frequency bands , 10 cm , 20 cm and 50 cm , and at intevals of 2  3 weeks .",
    "regular observations commenced in 2004 and they are still continuing . the ppta project is described in more detail in the paper by george hobbs in these proceedings .",
    "the parkes radio telescope has been a wonderful instrument for the discovery and study of pulsars and i feel priviliged to have been part of that history .",
    "many important contributions have been made and some parkes pulsar papers are among the most highly cited australian astronomy publications",
    ". some of this success results from the location of parkes in the southern hemisphere with its favourable view of our galaxy , the milky way .",
    "of course , it also rests on the foresight and determination of taffy bowen and others to realise the dream of a giant fully steerable `` dish '' in australia .",
    "but , after that , most of the credit belongs to the great collaborations between our engineers and scientists to conceive , design , build and operate world - leading receiving and signal - processing systems .",
    "it is a tribute to them that parkes has been and remains at the forefront of international radio astronomy research , especially in the field of pulsar astronomy . with continued development of instrumentation and continued support from cass , we can look forward to many more decades of great science !",
    "i thank my colleagues for their invaluable contributions to the various collaborative projects described in this review .",
    "the parkes radio telescope is part of the australia telescope national facility which is funded by the commonwealth of australia for operation as a national facility managed by csiro .                , m. , damico , n. , possenti , a. , manchester , r.  n. , lyne , a.  g. , joshi , b.  c. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , kramer , m. , sarkissian , j.  m. , camilo , f. , kalogera , v. , kim , c. , & lorimer , d.  r. 2003 , nature , 426 , 531    , m. , possenti , a. , manchester , r.  n. , kramer , m. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , lorimer , d.  r. , stairs , i.  h. , joshi , b.  c. , lyne , a.  g. , camilo , f. , damico , n. , freire , p.  c.  c. , sarkissian , j.  m. , hotan , a.  w. , & hobbs , g.  b. 2005 , apj , 624 , l113                              , g. , faulkner , a. , stairs , i.  h. , camilo , f. , manchester , r.  n. , lyne , a.  g. , kramer , m. , damico , n. , kaspi , v.  m. , possenti , a. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , lorimer , d.  r. , burgay , m. , joshi , b.  c. , & crawford , f. 2004 , mnras , 352 , 1439                        , m. , bell , j.  f. , manchester , r.  n. , lyne , a.  g. , camilo , f. , stairs , i.  h. , damico , n. , kaspi , v.  m. , hobbs , g. , morris , d.  j. , crawford , f. , possenti , a. , joshi , b.  c. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , lorimer , d.  r. , & faulkner , a.  j. 2003 , mnras , 342 , 1299    , m. , stairs , i.  h. , manchester , r.  n. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , lyne , a.  g. , ferdman , r.  d. , burgay , m. , lorimer , d.  r. , possenti , a. , damico , n. , sarkissian , j.  m. , hobbs , g.  b. , reynolds , j.  e. , freire , p.  c.  c. , & camilo , f. 2006 , science , 314 , 97    , d.  r. , faulkner , a.  j. , lyne , a.  g. , manchester , r.  n. , kramer , m. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , hobbs , g. , possenti , a. , stairs , i.  h. , camilo , f. , burgay , m. , damico , n. , corongiu , a. , & crawford , f. 2006 , mnras , 372 , 777      lyne , a.  g. , burgay , m. , kramer , m. , possenti , a. , manchester , r.  n. , camilo , f. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , lorimer , d.  r. , damico , n. , joshi , b.  c. , reynolds , j. , & freire , p. c.  c. 2004 , science , 303 , 1153                                                , m.  a. , lyne , a.  g. , lorimer , d.  r. , possenti , a. , manchester , r.  n. , camilo , f. , stairs , i.  h. , kramer , m. , burgay , m. , damico , n. , freire , p.  c.  c. , joshi , b.  c. , & bhat , n.  d.  r. 2004 , apj , 616 , l131                                              , w.  m. , manchester , r.  n. , van straten , w. , reynolds , j.  e. , hobbs , g. , wang , n. , bailes , m. , bhat , n.  d.  r. , burke - spolaor , s. , champion , d.  j. , coles , w.  a. , hotan , a.  w. , khoo , j. , oslowski , s. , sarkissian , j.  m. , verbiest , j.  p.  w. , & yardley , d.  r.  b. 2011 , mnras , 414 , 2087"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the first pulsar observations were made at parkes on march 8 , 1968 , just 13 days after the publication of the discovery paper by hewish and bell . since then , parkes has become the world s most succesful pulsar search machine , discovering nearly two thirds of the known pulsars , among them many highly significant objects . </S>",
    "<S> it has also led the world in pulsar polarisation and timing studies . in this talk </S>",
    "<S> i will review the highlights of pulsar work at parkes from those 1968 observations to about 2006 when the parkes multibeam pulsar survey was essentially completed and the parkes pulsar timing array project was established . </S>"
  ]
}