{
  "article_text": [
    "within the last decade range cameras and scanners are established as an important dominant acquisition modality in computer vision and multimedia community .",
    "applications where range cameras are successfully employed include digital heritage @xcite , industrial inspection , filming and 3dtv @xcite , gaming @xcite etc .",
    "range cameras operate on a variety of technologies involving laser scanning @xcite , time - of - flight imaging @xcite and structured or coded lighting @xcite which determine aspects such as accuracy , resolution , speed of acquisition and cost . for instance",
    ", there exists laser - based and structured - light - based scanners provide accurate and high resolution ( hr ) range scans , but the acquisition is typically slow and requires a good amount of manual effort . on the other hand ,",
    "the low - cost laser scanners , time - of - flight scanners and light - coding range scanners ( e.g. kinect @xcite ) acquire range images much faster and with little manual intervention , but are limited in accuracy and resolution .",
    "such a trade - off motivates the development of computational approaches to enhance the resolution and accuracy , so as to make range scanning more affordable , less time - consuming .",
    "the low spatial resolution is a common issue with low - cost range scanning .",
    "often , the acquired range image resolution is of the order of 100 to 200 pixels ( in one direction ) @xcite . as compared to digital cameras ( which typically span megapixels ) , these acquisition grids are too small to capture sufficient scene detail , edges etc . hence , the resolution needs to enhanced by large factors ( e.g. 4 , 6 etc . ) .",
    "naive approaches of enhancing the resolution by image interpolation methods results in heavy loss of accuracy . as a result ,",
    "recent years has seen the rise of various sophisticated approaches @xcite to enhance the resolution of range images which involve preserving edges as well as maintaining good accuracy .    a key",
    "to enhance the spatial resolution of range images by large factors , is to utilize a high - resolution registered colour image of the same scene , as done in these approaches .",
    "the colour image can be easily captured using any off - the - shelf digital camera .",
    "the use of an hr colour image is motivated by an observation that commonly , the prominent depth discontinuities ( such as those between different objects in a scene ) coincide with colour discontinuities @xcite .",
    "thus , information about the presence / absence of colour discontinuities and local similarity of colour information , which is derived from the hr colour image helps in localizing range discontinuities and estimating dense range information on the hr grid .",
    "such a cue from the colour image has also been used in many stereo disparity estimation approaches .    in this work",
    ", we notice that the problem of range super - resolution ( sr ) can , in fact , be interpreted as that of reconstructing a range image from sparsely captured data . in this context , we recently reported an approach from reconstruction of dense range maps from sparsely captured range data @xcite , which uses a similar cue from the registered colour image via its segmentation .",
    "the advantages of this approach include a relatively simple local estimation approach , good accuracy , and computational efficiency . here , we demonstrate that this approach would also hold for the task of range super - resolution .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in the next subsection",
    "we discuss some related work .",
    "section 2 covers our methodology , which includes a brief description of the basic approach in @xcite .",
    "we then provide some results in section 3 , and conclude in section 4 .",
    "as mentioned earlier , the idea of using a colour image has been explored for range super - resolution in various ways .",
    "for example , the work in @xcite interpolates the range image and , by exploiting the assumption that depth discontinuities coincide with color edges , improves estimation at discontinuities .",
    "similar improvements are shown in mrf - based energy minimization approaches that also uses a hr optical image @xcite . however",
    ", these approaches are not known to perform for large super - resolution factors .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     we now provide some results for our range super - resolution method described in the previous section .",
    "we conducted experiments with range images from the middlebury dataset @xcite , which also has colour images associated with the range data .",
    "some examples of the colour images corresponding to the scenes used in our experiments are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : colourimg](a , b , c ) .",
    "the original resolution of the range images is of the order of 400 @xmath0 400 pixels .",
    "we down - sample these images and use the down - sampled versions as lr range images .",
    "we then compare our sr results with the original range images ( or ground truth ) .",
    "the results for the case of sr by a factor of 4 ( fig . [ fig : upby4 ] ) .",
    "the low - resolution images are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : colourimg](d , e , f ) .",
    "one can observe that it is difficult to distinctly perceive the image content in the lr images .",
    "note that for a factor of 4 , the bicubic - interpolated image is very blurred at the edges ( figs .",
    "[ fig : upby4](a , d , g ) ) .",
    "hence , the object shapes clearly lack proper localization . in comparison , our super - resolution result ( fig .",
    "[ fig : upby4](b , e , h ) ) shows clear improvements over the interpolated image .",
    "such an improvement in the localization is the essence of range super - resolution .",
    "moreover , in addition , one can also notice that high - level of fidelity when the super - resolved range images are compared with the ground - truth ( fig .",
    "[ fig : upby4](c , f , i ) ) .",
    "as mentioned earlier , the factor of 4 case has a total of 93@xmath1 missing data in its sparse interpretation .",
    "inspite of this , our approach is able to maintain localization and fidelity in the eventual result .",
    "lastly , for completeness , we reassert that our super - resolution approach takes less than a couple of minutes for each of the above cases , on a xeon 3.2 ghz cpu with 12 gb ram , with a matlab implementation .",
    "thus , we believe that our approach also performs well from the point of view computational efficiency . the efficiency of our method can be attributed to its local nature ( i.e. there is no global energy minimization ) , as well as its segment - based ( and not an explicit pixel - based ) processing .",
    "in this work , we investigated the problem of range super - resolution from the point of view of reconstructing dense range maps from sparse data . based on the realization of lr images as sparse samples at the hr grid , we employed a recently proposed method for sparse range reconstruction , and demonstrated is applicability for the task of range super - resolution .",
    "our approach shows promising results even for large resolution factors such as 4 . in future",
    ", it would be interesting to gauge the performance of the approach and investigate further improvements under noise and non - exact registration between the range and colour image .",
    "m.  fischler , r.  bolles .",
    ", _ random sample consensus : a paradigm for model fitting with applications to image analysis and automated cartography _ , communications of the acm , vol .",
    "24(6 ) , pp .",
    "381395 , ( 1981 ) .",
    "q. yang , l. wang , r. yang , h. stewenius , d. nister . , _ stereo matching with color - weighted correlation , heiarchical belief propagation , and occlusion handling_. ieee trans",
    ". pattern anal .",
    "31(3 ) , pp . 492504 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose a method for super - resolution of range image . </S>",
    "<S> our approach leverages the interpretation of lr image as sparse samples on the hr grid . </S>",
    "<S> based on this interpretation , we demonstrate that our recently reported approach which reconstructs dense range images from sparse range data by exploiting a registered colour image , can be applied for the task of resolution enhancement of range images . </S>",
    "<S> our method only uses a single colour image in addition to the range observation in the super - resolution process . using the proposed approach , </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate super - resolution results for large factors ( e.g. 4 ) with good localization accuracy . </S>"
  ]
}