{
  "article_text": [
    "fu orionis is the prototype of a small class of rare , eruptive young stars .",
    "`` fuor '' outbursts are generally interpreted as episodes of significantly enhanced accretion in the early stages of disk evolution in young low - mass t tauri stars . in 1936 ,",
    "the apparent magnitude of fu orionis brightened by 6 magnitudes and the object has been slowly fading since then @xcite .",
    "only a few other sources have been identified to undergo similar eruptive phenomena with v1057 cyg and v1515 cyg @xcite serving along with fu orionis as the classical examples .    in the optical ,",
    "the absorption spectra of fuor objects resemble broadened f - g type supergiants along with strong wind / outflow signatures in balmer and other lines ( e.g. caii , na i , k i , li i ) ; and in the near - infrared they have spectral absorption features similar to broadened k - m supergiant atmospheres .",
    "they generally lack the rich emission - line spectrum that is characteristic of rapidly accreting young low mass stars .",
    "fuor objects also exhibit strong infrared through millimeter excesses , consistent with the presence of an accretion disk and/or a circumstellar envelope of dust . based on these diagnostics ,",
    "about a dozen additional sources have been identified as `` fu ori - like '' , with a growing number of them known as wide binary systems ( e.g. l1551 irs5 , @xcite , rno 1b / c @xcite , ar 6a / b @xcite ) , including fu ori @xcite . for a more exhaustive description of the observational properties of fu ori stars , we direct the reader towards the review papers by and @xcite .",
    "the accretion disk model for fuor systems , and fu orionis itself in particular , has been constrained using interferometric measurements and developed to a sophisticated level by @xcite .",
    "these authors consider broad - band photometry , spectrophotometry , and high dispersion spectroscopy to derive a model size for the outbursting region of the inner disk extending outward to 0.5 - 1.0 au , with an accretion rate of @xmath4 onto a central star of mass @xmath5 .",
    "interferometric measurements by @xcite , building on those of and @xcite , confirm the rotating accretion disk model for this source .",
    "chandra characterization of fu orionis unveiled a hot heavily absorbed variable emission component ; the variability is thought to be the signature of coronal emission in the close vicinity of the star , seen through the accreting gas @xcite .",
    "this interpretation seems consistent with the recently reported presence of strong magnetic field in the innermost region of the accretion disk by @xcite , and reinforces the explanation of the outburst which invokes a major increase in the surface brightness of an accretion disk because of sudden increase in the accretion rate .",
    "an alternative to the accretion disk model for fuors , is the hypothesis of a fast rotating g - supergiant photosphere .",
    "@xcite also showed that the optical and infra - red spectroscopic features of fast rotating g - supergiants can reproduce fuor observations if the  boxy \" line profile shapes can be attributed to core line emission rather than to a rotating disk . in an effort to reconcile both models",
    "@xcite recently proposed a modified accretion disk model with a puffed inner edge , that is consistent with the hst / stis spectrum of fu orionis .",
    "@xcite however fit the @xcite disk model with @xmath6 mag to the same uv spectrum though @xcite comment on the blue excess shortward of 2500 - 2600  .",
    "since the star / disk source is also embedded in a dust shell , extinction plays a crucial role in the spectral characterization of fu orionis at short wavelengths , and @xcite suggested using the known companion to fu orionis as a reference to obtain a model independent estimate of the optical extinction .",
    "fu ori s , a stellar companion located @xmath7 to the south west of fu ori , was first discovered by @xcite using adaptive optics imaging at k - band .",
    "@xcite discussed , based on statistical arguments using on j and k colors , that the discovered object was most likely gravitationally bound to fu ori .",
    "follow up ao observations by @xcite did not establish common proper motion due to the large uncertainties on the proper motion of fu orionis ( a result of the large distance to fu ori @xmath8 pc @xcite ) but provided further evidence of the young age of fu ori s based on infrared excess inferred from jhkl colors .",
    "spectral line diagnostics in the k - band suggest a late g or k spectral type if the inference of @xcite is correct that na i and ca i are present in their spectrum while co absorption is lacking .",
    "speckle interferometry observations at @xmath9 micron by @xcite find @xmath10 mag towards fu ori s , provided the star is of spectral type g9 or later .",
    "the temperature of the best fitting ( unreddened ) blackbody to the k - band continuum was @xmath11 and , based on this , it was suggested that fu ori s exhibits a considerable infrared excess .",
    "l - band photometry is also available from these authors .",
    "@xcite recently reported high spectral resolution j h and k band ( @xmath12 ) spectra of fu ori s , obtained with the gemini nifs integral field spectrograph .",
    "based on line diagnostics they showed that fu ori s was a highly accreting k5 type star and suggested that this object might be the more massive component of the system .",
    "n - band interferometric measurements by @xcite detected the companion , which confirms a substantial infrared excess , but no flux density was reported .",
    "@xcite identified a centroid offset towards fu ori s in the soft x - ray component of chandra observations , and argued that the most likely explanation was that fu ori s was a weak soft x ray emitter .",
    "all of the evidence is consistent with fu ori s being a young low - mass , perhaps k - type , t - tauri star .",
    "precision astrometry on follow up ao observation of fu ori , with a baseline longer than the time elapsed between the @xcite and @xcite epochs can firmly establish whether or not fu ori and fu ori s are gravitationally bound .",
    "obtaining a well - constrained sed of this object in these spectral regions would allow characterization of fu ori s independently of fu ori n. in particular , sed measurements covering the spectral region expected to be dominated by stellar ( as opposed to circumstellar ) flux can provide an extinction estimate .",
    "this measurement may or may not be applicable to both components of the binary ( fu ori n as well as to fu ori s ) depending on the geometry of the circumstellar and circumbinary material .",
    "independent knowledge of the extinction to fu ori n is necessary to validate the findings based on accretion disk models @xcite in which the extinction is either a derived parameter of the models or a required input to them .",
    "understanding the extinction therefore provides helpful insights concerning the nature of the primary ( fu ori ) star as well as the geometry of its surroundings , including the companion .    in an effort to further elucidate the nature of fu ori s by quantifying the spectral type and the reddening , and to assist in interpretation of the dust shell encircling the fu orionis n / s system",
    ", we observed this source with the project 1640 ( p1640 ) integral field spectrograph ( ifs ) .",
    "we first summarize our observations , our data reduction and establish the binary nature of the fu orionis system based on our data .",
    "then we reconstruct the @xmath13 to @xmath14 micron sed using previously published observations and discuss our photometric points in the context of the literature . based on this reconstructed sed we seek to characterize the near infrared emission of fu ori s. our models lead to estimates of an object heavily reddened , a@xmath15=8 - 12 , with an effective temperature of @xmath3 4000 - 6500 k. we furthermore quantify the amplitude of the infrared excess produced by circumstellar dust around fu ori s , using our j and h sed as a photometric baseline for interferometric data published by @xcite , reprocessed for the purpose of this paper .",
    "we finally put these results in perspective in the context of the fu ori n - s system and argue that our analysis provides evidence that fu ori s might be the hotter and therefore more massive component .",
    "fu ori was observed at palomar on march 17 th 2009 within the @xmath16 field of view of the p1640 integral field spectrograph . the ifs design prioritizes , for a given field of view , fine spatial sampling over spectral resolution for ( when compared to other microlens based isf such as osiris @xcite ) .",
    "this design provides the chromatic information necessary to discriminate faint point sources from optical artifacts @xcite in high contrast observations .",
    "specifically , the ifs features a moderate spectral resolution ( @xmath17 ) and high spatial resolution ( @xmath1845 - 72 mas ) .",
    "detail of the instrument can be found in @xcite .",
    "the data consist of twelve exposures of 127 seconds with the primary star occulted ( behind the coronagraphic mask ) and two 2 second exposures with the primary star unobscured ( off the coronagraphic mask ) .",
    "each exposure produces a set of @xmath19 spectra on the infrared detector , each spectrum corresponding to the dispersed image of a micro - lens in the focal plane of the ifs .",
    "this raw data is then converted to a cube of @xmath20 image slices , each slice corresponding to the image of the focal plane microlens array at a given wavelength .",
    "the wavelength solution of the spectrograph is derived using a set of calibration frames obtained prior to and during the observing sequence @xcite .",
    "determination of the spectrograph response in the particular case of fu ori is detailed in  .",
    "[ sec::spectralcalibration ] .",
    "the fu ori system is seen through an optical train consisting of the palomar adaptive optics system ( palao ) , the apodised pupil lyot coronagraph @xcite and the p1640 spectrograph @xcite . the calibrated data ( data cubes with speckles that have not been suppressed by post - processing ) , with slices integrated over the j and the h bands are shown on the top panel of fig .  [ fig::imagesfuori ] .",
    "we detect fu ori s at a separation of @xmath21 and a position angle of @xmath22 with respect to fu ori n. the contrast sensitivity of the data are to @xmath23 mag and @xmath24 mag for companions at @xmath0 separation , somewhat worse contrast than typical of p1640 contrast curves ( e.g. @xcite ) due to the early stage of the data .",
    "while the companion fu ori s can be identified in h band , it is as bright as the speckles in j and thus can only be distinguished from them using the chromatic diversity provided by the ifs .",
    "recent upgrades of the palomar high contrast near - infrared system , including a new adaptive optics systems @xcite and an interferometric wavefront calibration system @xcite , will further improve the speckle noise level .",
    "direct extraction of the fu ori s spectrum using the raw slices that were integrated to produce the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig::imagesfuori ] , leads to over - estimating the companion s spectro - photometry because of the speckles outward motion at the location of the object as the wavelength increases .    in order to mitigate for this effect we sought to improve the signal to noise ratio ( snr ) on fu ori s using the p1640 speckle calibration pipeline presented in @xcite",
    "this method takes advantage of the chromatic diversity of the ifs @xcite and combines it with optimal point spread function ( psf ) subtraction algorithms , e.g. loci ; @xcite .",
    "the processed images are shown in the bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ fig::imagesfuori ] and demonstrate that our reduction approach considerably increases the snr of fu ori s.          calibrating simultaneously the wavelength solution , the atmospheric dispersion and the dispersion intrinsic to the instrument with the low spectral resolution ( @xmath17 ) of p1640 is a delicate exercise . indeed , since the telluric sky lines are averaged over each wavelength channel , they can not be used as a reference to derive the wavelength solution @xcite .",
    "we thus first calibrate the wavelength solution off - line , using a laser tunable source and follow the procedure detailed in @xcite .",
    "moreover , the relatively small field of view of p1640 prevents us from simultaneously obtaining observations of a calibration star in a science exposure and the presence of the coronagraph prevents us from using the primary star as the calibrator .",
    "we call the spectral response function ( srf ) the wavelength dependent relationship between the spectrum of an astronomical source and its counterpart seen by the p1640 detector . in order to derive an accurate srf",
    ", we use the non - coronagraphic images of fu ori",
    "n that were acquired right before the coronagraphic observation of fu ori s , combined with the published spectrum of fu ori in @xcite . to do",
    "so we first need to establish that the j and h sed of fu ori n has not varied since the 1994 epoch published by @xcite .",
    "we first derive three spectral response functions using three well characterized stars ( @xmath25 of spectral type f8v , @xmath26 / a7v , and @xmath27 / k2v ) that were observed the same night as fu orionis .",
    "we then compare our observed spectrum of fu ori n , respectively normalized by each one of these three response functions .",
    "[ fig::spectrumcalibrator ] illustrates this comparison and shows excellent agreement for the calibrator within @xmath28 airmass of fu orionis ( hd109011 ) . from this agreement",
    "we conclude that the @xmath29 p1640 j and h sed slopes of fu ori n have not varied since 1994 , and thus combine the data from @xcite with our non - coronagraphic images to derive the final spectral response function we use to characterize fu ori s , as illustrated in the bottom right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig::spectrumcalibrator ] .",
    "note that the effect of using a calibrator at an airmass that differs from the fu orionis system is most severe in the blue and red ends of the sed and in the water absorption band between j and h. since the airmass change occurring during our coronagraphic observing sequence is @xmath28 ( i.e. identical to the difference between the fu ori and the hd109011 exposures , bottom left on fig .  [ fig::spectrumcalibrator ] ) it is very difficult to constrain the spectral calibration uncertainties in these regions of sed .",
    "we thus chose to discard these points for our analysis of the sed of fu ori s.                                                  , s. , oppenheimer , b.  r. , zimmerman , n. , brenner , d. , parry , i.  r. , crepp , j.  r. , vasisht , g. , ligon , e. , king , d. , soummer , r. , sivaramakrishnan , a. , beichman , c. , shao , m. , roberts , l.  c. , bouchez , a. , dekany , r. , pueyo , l. , roberts , j.  e. , lockhart , t. , zhai , c. , shelton , c. , & burruss , r. 2011 , , 123 , 74    , s. and monnier , j.  d. and oppenheimer , b.  r. , roberts , jr .",
    ", l.  c. , ireland , m. and zimmerman , n. , brenner , d. and parry , i.  r. , martinache , f. , lai , o. , soummer , r. , sivaramakrishnan , a. , beichman , c. , hillenbrand , l. , zhao , m. , lloyd , j.  p. , bernat , d. , vasisht , g. , crepp , j.  r. , pueyo , l. , shao , m. , perrin , m.  d. , king , d.  l. , bouchez , a. , roberts , j.  e.,dekany , r. and burruss , r , 2001 , , 726 , 104 +    , s. , oppenheimer , b.  r. , brenner , d. , zimmerman , n. , roberts , jr . , l.  c. , parry , i.  r.,soummer , r. , sivaramakrishnan , a. , simon , m. , perrin , m.  d. , king , d.  l. , lloyd , j.  p. , bouchez , a. , roberts , j.  e. , dekany , r. , beichman , c.,hillenbrand , l. , burruss , r. , shao , m. , vasisht , g. , 2010 , 712 , 421 - 428                                      , justin crepp , douglas brenner , ben r. oppenheimer , neil zimmerman , sasha hinkley , ian parry , david king , gautam vasisht , charles beichman , lynne hillenbrand , richard dekany , mike shao , rick burruss , lewis c.roberts , antonin bouchez , jenny roberts , & remi soummer 2012 , , 199 , 6                        , g. , ligon , l. , roberts , l. , shao , m. , zhai , c. , oppenheimer , b.  r. , hinkley , s. , & parry , i. 2010 , in proceedings of the conference in the spirit of lyot 2010 : direct detection of exoplanets and circumstellar disks .",
    "october 25 - 29 , 2010 .",
    "university of paris diderot , paris , france .",
    "edited by anthony boccaletti ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report low resolution near infrared spectroscopic observations of the eruptive star fu orionis using the integral field spectrograph project 1640 installed at the palomar hale telescope . </S>",
    "<S> this work focuses on elucidating the nature of the faint source , located @xmath0 south of fu ori , and identified in 2003 as fu ori s. we first use our observations in conjunction with published data to demonstrate that the two stars are indeed physically associated and form a true binary pair . </S>",
    "<S> we then proceed to extract j and h band spectro - photometry using the damped loci algorithm , a reduction method tailored for high contrast science with ifs . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first communication reporting the high accuracy of this technique , pioneered by the project 1640 team , on a faint astronomical source . </S>",
    "<S> we use our low resolution near infrared spectrum in conjunction with @xmath1 micron interferometric data to constrain the infrared excess of fu ori s. we then focus on estimating the bulk physical properties of fu ori s. our models lead to estimates of an object heavily reddened , @xmath2 , with an effective temperature of @xmath3 4000 - 6500 k . </S>",
    "<S> finally we put these results in the context of the fu ori n - s system and argue that our analysis provides evidence that fu ori s might be the more massive component of this binary system . </S>"
  ]
}