{
  "article_text": [
    "one might expect star - planet and close binary star systems to have well - aligned orbital and rotational angular momenta , since they originate from the same portion of a molecular cloud . however , there are also reasons to expect misaligned systems .",
    "star formation is a chaotic process , with accretion from different directions at different times possibly leading to misalignment between the stellar and orbit rotation axes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there are also processes that could alter the stellar and orbital spin directions after their formation .",
    "for example a third body orbiting a close pair on a highly inclined orbit can introduce large oscillations in the orbital inclination and eccentricity of the close pair @xcite , thereby introducing large angles between the stellar spins and orbital angular momentum of the close pair .",
    "close encounters and possible exchange of members in binary systems ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) would leave , among other clues , a fingerprint in the form of misalignment between the components .",
    "tidal forces will over time erase these clues , because dissipation will tend to bring the axes into alignment while also synchronizing the rotational and orbital periods ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus the degree of alignment between the stellar rotation axes and the orbital axis depends on its particular history of formation and evolution",
    ". therefore measurements of stellar obliquities  the angle between stellar equator and orbital plane  allow us to test theories of formation and evolution in close star - planet and star - star systems .",
    "for example the formation of star - star systems with orbital distances of only a few stellar radii is not completely understood .",
    "it seems unlikely that the stars formed at these orbital distances because they would have overlapped during their pre - main sequence phase , when they had larger sizes .",
    "therefore the orbital distance likely decreased after formation .",
    "a possible mechanism is kctf  kozai cycles with tidal friction @xcite , which requires a third body on a wide orbit around the close pair .",
    "@xcite found that @xmath2 of binary stars with orbital periods less than @xmath3  days have a third companion on a wide orbit while only @xmath4 of binaries with orbital periods larger than @xmath5  days have a third companion .",
    "additional evidence for kctf would be a misalignment between the stellar spin axes and the orbital spin , assuming that close binaries have aligned axes at birth , and that tides have not had enough time to align the spin axes .",
    "thus measurements of stellar obliquities in close binary systems together with a good understanding of tidal dissipation in these systems might lead to a better understanding of binary formation .    for the case of close star - planet ( hot - jupiter ) systems",
    "such an approach has been fruitful .",
    "hot - jupiters are thought to have formed much further from the star than their current orbital distances , mainly because not enough material would have been available so close to the star .",
    "different processes which could have transported the planet inward would lead to different spin - orbit angles , and indeed systems with both small and large spin - orbit angles have been found ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in addition @xcite and @xcite presented evidence that all hot - jupiter systems once had high obliquities , and that tides are responsible for the frequently observed low obliquities .",
    "this suggests that the inward migration of hot jupiters involves changes of the orbital planes of the planets .    with the banana project ( binaries are not always neatly aligned ) we aim to get a better understanding of the formation of close binaries as well as their tidal spin evolution . here",
    "we study the epcru binary system .",
    "this is the fourth system which we study as part of the banana project ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* papers i  iii ) .",
    "we also refer the reader to @xcite , for a description of a similar project by other investigators . while most of the stars in our sample are of early spectral types , their eblm project focuses on eclipsing systems harboring low - mass stars .",
    "epcru was only recently characterized by @xcite .",
    "table  [ tab : nsv5783_overview ] gives some system parameters .",
    "we selected this system because @xcite found it to be similar to diher , for which we already found the spin - orbit angles to be very large @xcite .",
    "in particular the orbital parameters , the stellar masses , and the projected stellar rotation speeds ( @xmath6 ) , are similar in these two systems . here",
    "@xmath7 indicates the equatorial rotation speed and @xmath8 the inclination of the stellar rotation axis along the line of sight ( los ) .",
    "there is one important difference between the two systems : the age of the stars . @xcite",
    "estimated an age of @xmath9  myr for the two stars in the epcru system while diher is essentially a zero age main sequence ( zams ) system with an estimated age of @xmath10  myr @xcite .",
    "therefore by studying epcru we have the opportunity to learn if according to our current understanding of binary evolution one system is simply an older version of the other , or if they had different childhoods altogether .",
    ".general data on epcru [ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]",
    "having established the absolute dimensions , age , and state of rotation in the epcru system we can now compare epcru to its apparently younger sibling diher . in table  [ tab : compare ] we reprint some of the values from epcru . according to these values the two systems are similar , apart from two characteristics : 1 ) their ages , epcru is about an order of magnitude older , 2 ) epcru appears to have aligned axes which is definitely not the case for diher .",
    "we would like to find a picture in which the misalignment in the young diher system can be explained as well as the alignment in the older epcru system .",
    "knowing that the scaled radii are large enough in these systems to allow for substantial tides , we might suspect that the difference in spin - orbit alignment is a result of observing these systems at different stages in their evolution rather than them having two different formation and evolution paths .",
    "the hypothesis would be that both stars had misaligned axes , and we see epcru with aligned axes only because it is older and tides have had enough time to align the axes .    the large eccentricities seen in both diher and epcru is consistent with this hypothesis , because tides first align and synchronize rotation and only on a longer timescale do they circularize the orbit .",
    "this is mainly due to the higher amount of angular momentum stored in the orbital motion compared to the stellar rotation , and for systems with a low - mass secondary this is not necessary the case .",
    "however another finding makes the hypothesis difficult to reconcile with current tidal theories .",
    "the stars rotate at @xmath11 times the speeds expected for synchronized or pseudosynchronized states ( table  [ tab : compare ] ) .",
    "thus tides have not yet synchronized the stellar rotation speeds in the epcru system .",
    "formulations of tidal interactions predict that damping of any significant spin - orbit misalignment should occur on the same time scale as synchronization of the rotation @xcite .",
    "this is because in these tidal models , a single coefficient describes the coupling between tides and rotation .",
    "when stellar rotation is much faster than the synchronized value rotation around any axis is damped by about the same amount .",
    "thus the angle between the overall angular momentum and stellar spin does not change : only the rotation speed is reduced .",
    "when the stellar rotation around a axis parallel to the orbital angular momentum approaches the synchronized value than rotation around this axis couples less to tides .",
    "rotation around any other axis is still damped by tides , which only ceases when the rotation around these axes stops .",
    "the stellar rotation aligns to the orbital axis .    to illustrate this point we used the topple tidal - evolution code developed by @xcite . for this simulation we used the epcru parameters from table  [",
    "tab : compare ] but with initial obliquities taken from diher , and an initial faster stellar rotation speed at zero - age main sequence .",
    "the results are shown in figure  [ fig : tides ] .",
    "the stellar obliquities remain large until the stellar rotation speeds approach synchronization , at which point obliquities are damped .",
    "this suggests that epcru had aligned axes when it was as young as diher , implying in turn that diher and epcru do not represent different stages of one evolution , but rather two different evolution paths .",
    "* tidal evolution of a system similar to epcru , but with misaligned spin axes . *",
    "the blue and red lines show the evolutions of primary and secondary obliquities ( angle between stellar spin and orbital plane ) in a system with the parameters of epcru .",
    "however we started the run with obliquities which have been measured in the diher system and faster stellar rotation .",
    "we included the stellar evolution ( in particular the change of the stellar radii with time ) of the system as estimated with the y@xmath12-evolutionary tracks @xcite and set the viscous time ( @xmath13 ) to 50000 years , about 1000 times larger than what is normally assumed for late type stars .",
    "( a lower value of @xmath14 would lead to an overall faster tidal evolution but will leave the ratio of the alignment and synchronization timescales unchanged . ) there is little evolution in the stellar obliquities until the rotation speeds approach the pseudo - synchronized value for rotation ( @xmath15 ) , which is indicated by the vertical line and is currently similar for the two stars ( table  [ tab : compare ] ) .",
    ", width=302 ]    at the moment it is not possible to make more general statements as only a few measurements of obliquities have been carried out in close double - star systems .",
    "furthermore most of these have been conducted in algol systems which have undergone mass transfer ( see table  1 of * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "obliquity observations should be carried out in a variety of systems . of particular interest",
    "would be young systems with short orbital periods with and without a third star .",
    "the systems should be young to minimize the influence of tides , they should have orbital periods ranging from few days to few tens of days .",
    "obliquity measurements in these systems would be helpful in testing predictions of kctf and thereby of close binary formation .",
    "measurements of obliquities in wider systems would probe the length scale over which the primordial angular momentum was influential .",
    "conducting such measurements is the aim of the banana project .",
    "we have analyzed high resolution spectra of the eclipsing close double star system epcru .",
    "we obtained absolute dimensions and showed that the rotation axes of both stars are aligned with each other and the orbital rotation ( @xmath16 and @xmath1 ) .",
    "epcru is similar in its orbital and stellar characteristics to diher .",
    "the two exceptions are that diher is younger and has two strongly misaligned stellar rotation axes .",
    "we have been unable to show that both systems represent different stages of one evolution path .",
    "this is because the stars in epcru rotate at a few times their synchronized value and tidal theory predicts that synchronization occurs around the same time as alignment .",
    "therefore the two systems likely represent two different formation scenarios rather then two different evolutionary stages .",
    "the sample of close double star systems for which the obliquities are measured remains small .",
    "we plan to ratify this situation by measuring obliquities in more close double star systems in the framework of the banana project .",
    "the authors are grateful to peter eggleton for insightful discussions on binary evolution and for making his topple code available to us .",
    "we thank john southworth for providing us with the spectra used in the study by @xcite .",
    "s.a . acknowledges support during part of this project by a rubicon fellowship from the netherlands organisation for scientific research ( nwo )",
    ". work by s.a .  and j.n.w .",
    "was supported by nasa origins award nnx09ab33 g and nsf grant no .  1108595 .",
    "d.c.f . acknowledges nasa support through hubble fellowship grant hf-51272.01-a , awarded by stsci , operated by aura under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "this research has made use of the following web resources : simbad.u-strasbg.fr , adswww.harvard.edu,arxiv.org , http://arxiv.org"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with observations of the epcru system , we continue our series of measurements of spin - orbit angles in eclipsing binary star systems , the banana project ( binaries are not always neatly aligned ) . </S>",
    "<S> we find a close alignment between the sky projections of the rotational and orbital angular momentum vectors for both stars ( @xmath0 and @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we also derive precise absolute dimensions and stellar ages for this system . </S>",
    "<S> the epcru and diher systems provide an interesting comparison : they have similar stellar types and orbital properties , but diher is younger and has major spin - orbit misalignments , raising the question of whether epcru also had a large misalignment at an earlier phase of evolution . </S>",
    "<S> we show that tidal dissipation is an unlikely explanation for the good alignment observed today , because realignment happens on the same timescale as spin - orbit synchronization , and the stars in epcru are far from synchronization ( they are spinning 9 times too quickly ) . </S>",
    "<S> therefore it seems that some binaries form with aligned axes , while other superficially similar binaries are formed with misaligned axes . </S>"
  ]
}