{
  "article_text": [
    "the fate of star clusters and the binaries in them are closely intertwined .",
    "dynamical encounters between single stars and binaries affect the stellar velocity distribution , and thus the evolution of the cluster as a whole ; vice versa , the dense environment of a cluster can trigger interactions that affect the binary properties .",
    "open clusters allow detailed studies of complete samples of binaries , with the advantage that their age , distance , and composition are known from cluster membership . surveys like the wiyn open cluster study @xcite now enable a detailed comparison between observations and numerical models of the evolution of stellar clusters and their binary populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . until the early 1990s",
    ", the study of old open clusters was not pursued with x - ray observations .",
    "the reason for this is that the expected contribution of single stars to the x - ray emission of old stellar populations is small . in low - mass stars",
    "x - rays are emitted by the hot gas of the corona surrounding the star .",
    "the level of x - ray emission is linked to the stellar rotation rate , as rotation powers the magnetic dynamo that is responsible for heating the corona ; the lower the spin rate , the weaker the x - ray emission .",
    "the rotation of late - type single stars declines over time as a result of angular - momentum loss through wind outflows along the stars magnetic field .    for stars that are part of a binary ,",
    "a high level of x - ray emission can be maintained despite an advanced age .",
    "systems in which mass is exchanged between the binary companions are bright in x - rays if one of the stars is a compact object .",
    "examples are cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) where the compact star is a white dwarf , or low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) that contain a neutron star or black hole .",
    "strong tidal interaction between detached main - sequence stars in a close binary locks their rotation to the orbital period .",
    "the rapid rotation induced by the synchronization keeps the dynamo active , and thus the process responsible for the x - ray production .",
    "such systems are called magnetically - active binaries , or abs in short . for a study of the interacting binaries in an old stellar population ,",
    "x - ray emission is an excellent tracer .",
    "x - ray observations are therefore crucial for studying how the environments of star clusters affect the binary numbers and binary properties . in this paper",
    "i review what we have learned from x - ray studies of old open clusters , a field to which utrecht has contributed significantly .",
    "i start with an overview of x - ray studies of old open clusters in sect .",
    "[ sec_obs ] . in sect .",
    "[ sec_classes ] i describe the various classes of open - cluster x - ray sources . sect .",
    "[ sec_glob ] compares the x - ray properties of old open and globular clusters . the chapter by frank verbunt gives an overview of x - ray studies of globular clusters .",
    "the first old open cluster that was the target of a pointed x - ray observation is m67 ( ngc2682 ) .",
    "belloni , verbunt , and collaborators used the _ rosat _ position sensitive proportional counter ( pspc ) to observe this 4-gyr old cluster down to a limit of about @xmath2 erg s@xmath1 ( 0.12.4 kev ) in 1991 .",
    "the photometric monitoring campaign by @xcite , aimed at looking for solar - like oscillations in members of m67 , had just serendipitously discovered the first cv in an open cluster ( eucnc ) .",
    "the light curve of this optically - faint object showed large - amplitude brightness variations at a period of 2.09 h that resembled the variability of so - called amher systems  cvs that contain a white dwarf with a strong magnetic field ( @xmath3 mg ) .",
    "the main motive for the x - ray observation by belloni et al .  was to do x - ray follow - up for this specific object ; as cvs with accurate distance and reddening estimates were ( and still are ) rare , this was an excellent opportunity for an accurate measurement of the intrinsic x - ray luminosity ( assuming cluster membership ) .",
    "the x - ray counterpart was readily detected , and the softness of its x - ray spectrum in the _ rosat _ band agreed with its amher classification @xcite .",
    "later , the magnetic nature was also confirmed by its optical spectrum @xcite and _ rosat _ light curve @xcite .",
    "although this initial observation of m67 was not optimally pointed at the cluster center , it did reveal that at least six more likely members of m67 were similarly bright in the _ rosat _ band as the cv .",
    "thanks to the wealth of optical information available for this well - studied cluster , it quickly became clear that most of these ( in fact : _ all _ of these , as we now know ) are binaries with periods @xmath445 d , including many with circular orbits . since the theory of tidal interaction predicts that synchronization occurs before circularization ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , this suggests that in these systems the stellar rotation is coupled to the orbit .",
    "@xcite therefore suggested that these sources are abs in which the x - rays are the result of magnetic activity .",
    "a second _ rosat _ observation ( this time centered on the cluster ) , combined with new optical results , detected many other binaries in m67 and refined the classification of some of the earlier detections @xcite .",
    "surprisingly , this old cluster that at first seemed like an unexciting target for an x - ray study , revealed an enormous variety of x - ray sources .",
    "more details on the different source classes are given in sect .",
    "[ sec_classes ] .",
    "several other old open clusters , both younger and older than m67 , were studied with _",
    "rosat_. in order of increasing age , these are ngc6940 ( 0.61 gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , ic4651 ( 11.5 gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , ngc752 ( 2 gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and ngc188 ( 6.5 gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "classification of the x - ray sources in each of these resulted in a similar picture as for m67 : cross - correlation of the source lists with optical catalogs pointed at a high incidence of binaries among the candidate counterparts .",
    "an unexpected discovery was that some known binaries that were detected did not fit the profile of being circular , tidally - locked abs .",
    "for example , some _ rosat _ sources were identified with eccentric systems having orbital periods of years , far too long for tidal coupling strong enough to induce rapid rotation . at present",
    "we still do not understand the x - rays of most of these long - period binaries ( sect .",
    "[ sec_longperiod ] ) .",
    "overviews of the _ rosat _ results can be found in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "none of the other clusters showed an x - ray source population so rich and varied as m67 .",
    "however , as m67 was studied with the highest sensitivity ( in part because of its proximity and low reddening ) or with the largest fractional coverage , a systematic comparison between clusters based on the _ rosat _ data is difficult to make .",
    "positional uncertainties of the _ rosat _ sources range from about 5 to 25 , and in some cases multiple candidate counterparts lie inside the error circles . by repeating their x - ray / optical matching with artificial source lists , belloni et al .",
    "estimated that the chances for random coincidences were relatively small , and in fact many proposed identifications were later confirmed with _",
    "chandra _ or _ xmm - newton _ observations .",
    "indeed , the fraction of known binaries among the possible counterparts is too large to be entirely coincidental . on the other hand , in individual cases",
    "it is wise to be wary of the possibility of a spurious match .",
    "an example is the source x45 in ngc752 , which @xcite identified with the blue straggler and long - period binary h209 in ngc752 .",
    "this identification prompted a comparison with the detection of the blue straggler s1082 in m67 , which was found to be a ( possibly physically - bound ) multiple system consisting of a long - period and short - period binary , in which the latter is responsible for the x - rays ( see also sect .",
    "[ sec_longperiod ] ) .",
    "but extensive optical follow - up by @xcite did not reveal any sign of a close binary in h209 .",
    "while it can not be excluded that the parameters of h209 are unfavorable for finding optical signatures for s1082-like multiplicity , the option that the fainter optical source in the 90% error circle is the true counterpart should be seriously considered ( fig .",
    "[ fig_h209 ] ) .",
    "low - resolution optical spectra are needed to classify this alternative counterpart ; given the @xmath517-separation from the bright blue straggler , such spectra should be easy to acquire .      with _ chandra _ and _",
    "xmm - newton _ more sensitive studies have been done of clusters that had already been observed with _",
    "rosat_. @xcite describe a detailed _ chandra _ study of m67 , ngc188 was observed with _",
    "xmm - newton _",
    "@xcite , and a deep study of ngc752 with both satellites  mainly aimed at studying the x - ray emission of single solar - type stars  can be found in @xcite .",
    "the sensitivity and positional accuracy of the new instruments also allowed more distant , compact , or reddened open clusters to be studied , thus enabling exploration of the x - ray source populations over a broader range of cluster parameter space .",
    "so far , especially the addition of the old ( 8 gyr ) , massive cluster ngc6791 @xcite has been useful for gaining new insights thanks to the many x - ray sources detected and the extensive body of available optical data ( deep photometry , proper motions , variability , follow - up spectroscopy ) .",
    "there are now two parallel ongoing efforts aimed at studying the x - ray properties of old and intermediate - age open clusters .",
    "survey by van den berg et al .",
    "focuses on the oldest clusters ( @xmath6 gyr ) while the survey by pooley et al .",
    "with _ xmm - newton _ also includes several younger ones .",
    "_ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ observations have not ( yet ) led to the discovery of any fundamentally different source classes than those already found with _",
    "rosat _ , although , if validated by follow - up spectroscopy , the candidate quiescent low - mass x - ray binary ( qlmxb ) in ngc6819 reported by @xcite could turn out to be the first of its kind to be uncovered in an open cluster ( sect .  [ sec_other ] ) .",
    "however , the much - improved positional accuracy has significantly reduced the chances for spurious identifications , and the broader spectral response has facilitated source classification .",
    "after the discovery of eucnc in m67 , four more open - cluster cvs were found , all in ngc6791 @xcite .",
    "eucnc is quite faint ( @xmath54@xmath710@xmath8 erg s@xmath1 , 0.37 kev ) , while b8 in ngc6791 is two orders of magnitude brighter .",
    "most were first identified as cv candidates through their optical colors or variability , while cx19 in ngc6791 is the first x - ray  selected cv in an open cluster .",
    "its proposed optical counterpart was chosen as a high - priority target for follow - up spectroscopy based on the blue color ; balmer and he  ii emission lines confirm its cv nature .",
    "for cvs in globular clusters it is a point of discussion as to whether they have intrinsically different properties than those in the field .",
    "the on - average larger x - ray luminosities , higher x - ray  to  optical flux ratios , and possibly lower outburst rates for globular - cluster cvs could perhaps be explained if there is a prevalence of magnetic systems among them , or if the typical accretion rates are lower @xcite .",
    "these differences could then be related to their formation scenarios , which may have involved dynamical interactions . as there are only a handful of confirmed cvs in open clusters ,",
    "it is difficult to make a comparison with either the field or globular - cluster cv population . besides eucnc",
    ", cx19 is possibly magnetic @xcite , which is in line with the finding that many field cvs that turn out to be magnetic are bright in x - rays and are first discovered in x - rays .",
    "what can be said is that scaling the number of cvs in ngc6791 by cluster mass results in a cv density that is consistent with estimates for the cv density in the field , which points at a primordial origin and does not require any dynamical formation or destruction processes .",
    "if the density of cvs in open clusters is indeed similar as in the field , the reason why some cv searches have not been successful is likely because of the relatively small number of cluster members surveyed ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a few candidate cvs in open clusters have been identified through dwarf - nova  like outbursts ( v57 in in the 23 gyr old ngc2158 , @xcite ; 15877_2 in the @xmath53.5 gyr old ngc6253 @xcite ) , or their x - ray spectral properties and uv / optical colors ( x2 in ngc6819 , @xcite ) .",
    "more follow - up is needed to establish the nature and membership status of these candidates .",
    "some of the faint , blue candidate counterparts to _ chandra _ or _ xmm - newton _ sources may also turn out to be cvs ( or other compact accreting binaries ) , although , at least for those in m67 and ngc6791 , it is estimated that they are mainly background galaxies .",
    "active binaries , including both detached systems and contact binaries , are the most common open - cluster x - ray sources .",
    "they are among the brightest sources , but found down to the detection limit of the observations ( @xmath52@xmath710@xmath9 erg s@xmath1 , 0.37 kev , for m67 ) .",
    "the study of coronal activity of m67 sources by @xcite found no relation between the _ rosat _ x - ray luminosity and stellar parameters like optical magnitude or orbital period . as we now know , this was the result of wrong or incomplete information on orbital or rotation periods , by the inclusion of sources with likely more complex evolutionary histories than regular abs , and by the high limiting flux of the initial _ rosat _ pointing ( which , as it turns out , was only sensitive enough to detect regular abs with orbital periods between @xmath50.5 and 1.5 d ) .",
    "later studies with larger , and cleaner , ab samples _ do _ reveal an activity - rotation relationship in the sense that the coronal x - ray luminosity decreases as a function of orbital period up to the limiting period for tidal circularization @xcite ; for m67 this period lies around 12 d. the explanation is that the stellar rotation , and hence the level of activity , is lower in tidally - circularized ( and thus synchronized ) binaries with longer periods . as is seen for the x - ray emission of single stars ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) , saturation of the x - ray activity occurs for stars in binaries with the shortest orbital periods and highest rotation rates , such as contact binaries . since the time scale for tidal synchronization is shorter than for circularization , it is possible that the rotation of stars in eccentric binaries is locked to the orbital period around periastron where the interaction is strongest ( so - called pseudo - synchronization ) . if the resulting rotation is fast enough to generate activity , such binaries can also show up as abs .",
    "an example is the @xmath532-d period binary s1242 in m67 , which has an eccentricity of 0.66 and whose photometric period of 4.88 d @xcite corresponds to the corotation period at periastron .",
    "@xcite compared the number of abs inside the half - mass radius with @xmath10 erg s@xmath1 ( 0.37 kev ) for three old open clusters that were observed with _",
    "chandra _ or _ xmm - newton_. surprisingly , they find that this number does not scale with cluster mass , as would be expected for a primordial population .",
    "ngc6791 is 4.56.4 times more massive than m67 , but has 0.91.6 times the number of abs .",
    "ngc6819 has 2.4 times the mass of m67 , but only has a fraction ( @xmath50.13 ) of the number of abs . at this point",
    "we have no explanation for this , and ( deeper ) studies of more clusters are required .",
    "possibly , m67 has lost a higher fraction of its initial mass compared to the other two clusters .",
    "if it lost preferentially single , low - mass stars through evaporation while retaining more binary stars that sunk to the core due to mass segregation , the current binary population would appear as representative of a much more massive cluster",
    ". the small number of x - ray sources in ngc188 could therefore not just be the result of limited sensitivity of the _ rosat _ pointing , as was suggested by @xcite .      among the brightest ( up to @xmath510@xmath11 erg s@xmath1 , 0.37 kev ) x - ray sources in old open clusters are binaries that lie below or to the red of the sub - giant branch , the so - called sub - subgiants or red stragglers .",
    "this name derives from the fact that their photometry can not be explained by the combined light of two ordinary cluster members .",
    "over a dozen sub - subgiants are known in open and globular clusters , and they are typically detected in x - rays .",
    "all show signs of binarity , but they include very distinct source classes ( detached binaries , cvs , and at least one neutron star with an evolved companion ) .",
    "it is possible that they exist in the field as well , but the poorly constrained ages and distances of field stars make it difficult to recognize them as sub - subgiants",
    ".    given their x - ray spectral properties and signs of chromospheric activity ( caii h&k and h@xmath12 emission ) , the x - ray emission of sub - subgiants in old open clusters is likely the result of coronal activity .",
    "this explanation is not without problems for all systems , though . while the optical variability of the sub - subgiant s1113 in m67 suggests that the rotation is synchronized to the orbit @xcite , the light curve of the other m67 sub - subgiant s1063 ( an eccentric binary in a 18.4-d period ) displays what looks like spot modulation on a period that is longer than both the pseudo - synchronous and orbital period ( fig .  [ fig_s1040 ] ) .",
    "tidal locking , which sets the stellar rotation in normal abs , may not have been achieved yet , or another mechanism drives the spin rate in s1063 . a recent or ongoing episode of mass transfer has been invoked to explain the optical photometry of cvs in 47tuc that lie in the sub - subgiant region of the color - magnitude diagram @xcite .",
    "but for s1063 the eccentric orbit argues against mass transfer in the recent past , as a ( nearly ) roche - lobe filling star would have quickly circularized the orbit @xcite .",
    "sub - subgiants are not uncommon in old open clusters , and their numbers appear to scale with cluster mass ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also table  [ tab_glob ] ) .",
    "this suggests that the explanation of their anomalous properties lies in a hitherto overlooked binary - evolution path , and is not the result of a short - lived perturbed state .",
    "n - body simulations by @xcite created one star below the sub - giant branch , which resulted from the merger of two stars in a binary after instable mass transfer .",
    "this star is single though , and some basic ingredient ( primordial triples ? ) is still missing from the models .",
    "another class of poorly - understood x - ray sources are those that are identified with wide binaries . in such systems tidal interaction is far too weak to lead to enhanced stellar rotation rates . in most cases",
    "the suggested optical counterparts also have anomalous optical properties : based on their photometry they are classified as blue or yellow stragglers , which is a sign of a complex past that may have involved mass transfer , a merger , or perhaps some kind of dynamical encounter .",
    "it is not clear if their x - ray emission is always intrinsically linked to their evolutionary histories .",
    "an example of a wide spectroscopic binary with `` normal '' colors is the _ rosat _ source # 6 ( vr111 ) in ngc6940 , which has a period of almost 3600 d @xcite .",
    "blue stragglers are found in most old clusters , and it is a matter of debate if they are formed through binary evolution , dynamical encounters , or both ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "x - ray emission is not a common property of blue stragglers . as the x - rays indicate that some kind of binary interaction is currently active , tracking down their origin can also provide clues to what led to a system s formation .",
    "the best example is s1082 in m67 .",
    "studies triggered by its x - ray detection showed that it contains two stars that are blue stragglers on their own account , and that a close and wide binary contribute to the optical light @xcite .",
    "if these are bound , at least six stars must have been involved in creating s1082 , making a dynamical formation most likely @xcite . other x - ray  emitting blue stragglers in wide orbits are s997 in m67 @xcite , h209 in ngc752 ( sect .",
    "[ sec_rosat ] ) , and possibly l44 in ic4651 @xcite .",
    "m67 features three yellow stragglers , i.e.  stars between the blue stragglers and the red - giant branch , which all have wide orbits ( @xmath1340 d ) and secure _ chandra _ detections .",
    "the eccentric binaries s1072 and s1237 show no signs of chromospheric activity @xcite ; possibly a faint close binary in these systems is overwhelmed by the light of the primary .",
    "s1040 is an interesting system for which @xcite predicted the presence of a white - dwarf secondary based on the circular , 42.8-d orbit .",
    "they argued that the radius of the yellow - straggler primary is too small to be responsible for the circularization , which must then be attributed to a former primary that was much larger in the past and filled its roche lobe .",
    "the white dwarf was indeed discovered in a uv pointing of m67 @xcite .",
    "magnetic activity of the yellow straggler is manifested in the coronal x - ray emission , but also in chromospheric emission lines ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and is possibly a relic of the previous phase of mass transfer .",
    "the rotation rate as derived from photometric variability is lower than expected for synchronous rotation ( see fig .",
    "[ fig_s1040 ] ) .          continued loss of angular momentum in a contact binary can lead to a merger of the two stars .",
    "it is expected that the result is a single , rapidly - rotating star .",
    "the brightest ( @xmath52@xmath710@xmath11 erg s@xmath1 , 0.12.4 kev ) _ rosat _ source x29 in ngc188 was identified with such an fkcom - type giant @xcite . as the x - rays are driven by rotation , this class of coronal emitter",
    "is closely related to the abs .",
    "a few x - rays sources have been identified with cluster giants that show no signs of binarity .",
    "some are among the brightest sources in the cluster .",
    "examples are the _ rosat _ sources # 13 ( vr108 ) in ngc6940 @xcite and x19 ( s364 ) in m67 @xcite , and the _ chandra _ source cx9 in ngc6791 @xcite",
    ". these could be truly single stars or very wide binaries ; in both cases the x - rays remain a mystery . alternatively",
    ", these stars could be spurious matches ( although vr108 does show weak signs of ca  ii h&k activity ; @xcite ) .",
    "optical spectroscopy of the faint blue counterpart to a very soft _ rosat _ source revealed it to be a hot white dwarf @xcite .",
    "there are no indications for binarity of this star , and given the estimated temperature of about 68000 k @xcite it is most likely a thermal x - ray emitter . while pasquini et al .  argue that it is a member because single x - ray  emitting white dwarfs are rare , the proper - motion study by @xcite suggests a low probability for cluster membership .    based on its soft x - ray spectrum and limits on the x - ray  to  optical flux ratio , @xcite tentatively classify the brightest x - ray source detected in the field of ngc6819 as a qlmxbs .",
    "as the chances of finding any primordial lmxbs in a cluster the size of ngc6819 are low , they suggest that  if its qlmxb nature is confirmed  this object likely has a dynamical origin .",
    "so far , no qlmxbs have been found in open clusters .",
    "@xcite suggested that the soft and highly variable x - ray source cx2 in m67 could be a good candidate , but follow - up spectroscopy showed that the candidate optical counterpart is an active galaxy .",
    "it has been known for a long time that as a result of their high central stellar densities , globular clusters are very efficient in forming objects that are rare in the field such as lmxbs and their descendants , the milli - second pulsars or msps ( see the contribution by frank verbunt ) .",
    "@xcite pointed out first that , when bright ( @xmath14 erg s@xmath1 ) lmxbs in globular clusters are disregarded , the integrated _ rosat _ x - ray luminosities per unit mass of most globular clusters is lower than that of m67 .",
    "this raised the questions of whether globular clusters are efficient at destroying those binaries that are responsible for most of the x - ray emission in old open clusters ( i.e.  abs in the case of m67 ) , or whether m67 contains an exceptionally high fraction of abs . at the time , this problem could not be tackled directly by observations because of the lack of sensitivity and spatial resolution to detect and identify abs in globular clusters .       with the excellent imaging capabilities of _ chandra",
    "_ we can revisit this issue .",
    "although almost 80 globular clusters have been studied with _",
    "chandra _ , only a handful have been observed with sufficient sensitivity to access a significant part of the ab x - ray luminosity function .",
    "@xcite made a detailed comparison between the numbers of cvs , abs , and sub - subgiants down to @xmath15 erg s@xmath1 in those old open and globular clusters for which the most comprehensive source classifications are available ( see also table  [ tab_glob ] ) .",
    "it turns out that both suggested scenarios appear to be relevant for explaining the integrated x - ray properties of old clusters . as discussed in sec .",
    "[ sec_abs ] , among old open clusters m67 has a high ab frequency for its mass . on the other hand ,",
    "not just m67 but also ngc6791 has a higher x - ray emissivity than the two globular clusters .",
    "all three main source classes are under - represented in globulars when scaling by mass .",
    "the specific frequency of cvs appears to be less disparate than that of abs ; a possible reason is that in globulars they are dynamically created as well @xcite .",
    "the x - ray emission from qlmxbs and msps in globular clusters , i.e.  types of faint x - ray sources of which there are no confirmed cases in old open clusters , can not make up for the lack of cvs and coronal sources . in a study of a larger sample of globular clusters , heinke et al .",
    "( in preparation ) find that their x - ray emissivity is lower than that of old low - density environments in general .",
    "the suppressed numbers of cvs and abs is in line with the overall low binary frequency in globular clusters compared to open clusters @xcite .",
    "this suggests that in the intricate process of forming and breaking up binaries in the cores of globulars , the balance is tipped in favor of binary destruction  not just for wide systems but also for close , interacting binaries that dominate the x - ray emission of old populations .",
    "much remains to be done to classify , dissect , and compare the populations of faint x - ray sources in different settings in more detail .",
    "old open clusters , with their rich x - ray source populations that are relatively accessible for optical follow - up work , can play a crucial part in these studies .",
    "i would like to thank frank verbunt , josh grindlay , haldan cohn , phyllis lugger , and craig heinke for many discussions on the topic of x - ray sources and close binaries in old open and globular clusters .",
    "this research was partly supported by various _",
    "grants for go programs .",
    ", r.  d. 2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , edited by r.  pallavicini , g.  micela , & s.  sciortino , vol .",
    "198 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , 517        , a.  p. , piotto , g. , bedin , l.  r. , aparicio , a. , anderson , j. , sarajedini , a. , marino , a.  f. , moretti , a. , davies , m.  b. , chaboyer , b. , dotter , a. , hempel , m. , marn - franch , a. , majewski , s. , paust , n.  e.  q. , reid , i.  n. , rosenberg , a. , & siegel , m. 2012 , , 540 , a16 .",
    ", f. 2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , edited by r.  pallavicini , g.  micela , & s.  sciortino , vol .",
    "198 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , 421 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i review the current status of studies of the x - ray sources in galactic old open clusters . cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) , magnetically - active binaries ( abs ) , and sub - subgiants ( ssgs ) dominate the x - ray emission of old open clusters . </S>",
    "<S> surprisingly , the number of abs detected inside the half - mass radius with @xmath0 erg s@xmath1 ( 0.37 kev ) does not appear to scale with cluster mass . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of the numbers of cvs , abs , and ssgs per unit mass in old open and globular clusters shows that each of these classes is under - abundant in globulars . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that dense environments suppress the frequency of even some of the hardest binaries . </S>"
  ]
}