{
  "article_text": [
    "solar cycle 24 has produced several major flares since nasa s helioseismic and magnetic imager ( hmi ) instrument ( schou et al .",
    "2011 ) on nasa s solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) satellite ( pesnell et al .",
    "2012 ) began observing continuously in march 2010 .",
    "hmi vector magnetogram series covering some of these major flares have been released to the community since late 2011 .",
    "sdo / hmi produces full - disk vector magnetograms with @xmath0 pixels every 12 minutes . from filtergrams in six polarization states at six wavelengths on the fe  i 617.3  nm spectral line , images for the stokes parameters , @xmath2 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 and @xmath5 are derived , which are inverted for the magnetic vector components by the very fast inversion of the stokes algorithm ( vfisv ) code ( borrero et al .",
    "the @xmath6 azimuthal field ambiguity is resolved using the `` minimum energy '' method ( metcalf  1994 , leka et al .",
    "2009 ) . in this paper",
    "we analyze six 12-hour series of vector magnetograms covering six major flares occurring near the main magnetic neutral lines of four active regions , noaa 11158 , 11166 , 11283 and 11429 .",
    "we describe the abrupt and permanent field changes that occurred during each flare and characterize the associated lorentz force vector changes near the main neutral line of the region and within the neighboring sunspots . here",
    "a change is deemed `` permanent '' if its effects last until at least several hours after the flare .",
    "abrupt photospheric field changes have been observationally linked to flares in the past two decades ; see the discussions in sudol and harvey  ( 2005 ) and wang  ( 2006 ) .",
    "wang  ( 2006 ) found an unshearing movement parallel to the neutral lines in flare - related longitudinal magnetic field changes in all five @xmath7-spot flares that he studied , implying an overall release of shear , but that the two polarities converged towards the neutral line during some events and diverged during others .",
    "wang and liu  ( 2010 ) studied 11 x - class flares for which vector magnetograms were available , and found in each case an increase of transverse field at the polarity inversion line .",
    "wang et al .  (",
    "2012 ) , sun et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and petrie  ( 2012 ) analyzed the hmi vector data for the 2011 february 15 x2.2 flare , and found similar behavior , as did liu et al .",
    "( 2012 ) for the 2011 february 13 m6.6 flare .",
    "the hmi vector data for these two major flares from ar  11158 have already been studied in several papers using a variety of methods ( wang et al .",
    "2012 , gosain  2012 , sun et al .",
    "2012 , liu et al .",
    "2012 , petrie  2012 , jing et al .",
    "sun et al .",
    "( 2012 ) calculated nonlinear force - free field models for the coronal field from the hmi vector measurements and argued that the increase in magnetic shear observed at the photosphere is localized at low heights and the shear decreases above a certain height in the corona ( see also jing et al .",
    "petrie  ( 2012 ) found an increase in strength of the field vector at the neutral line at the time of the flare , particularly its horizontal component parallel to the neutral line , accompanied by a large , abrupt , downward vertical lorentz force change and a horizontal lorentz force change acting in opposite directions on each side of neutral line , with the two sunspots at each end subject to abrupt torsional un - twisting forces .",
    "the downward and un - shearing forces were consistent with a collapse and contraction of fields near the neutral line .",
    "these observations support the coronal implosion interpretation ( hudson 2000 , hudson , fisher and welsch 2008 , fisher et al .",
    "2012 ) where , after a coronal magnetic eruption , the remaining coronal field contracts downward resulting in the field become more horizontal at the photospheric level .",
    "petrie and sudol  ( 2010 ) analyzed one - minute gong longitudinal magnetograms covering 77 flares of goes class at least m5 and , exploring the relationship between increasing / decreasing longitudinal fields and azimuth and tilt angles at various positions on the disk , found that the overall distributions of longitudinal increases and decreases at different parts of the disk was found to be consistent with hudson , fisher and welsch s  ( 2008 ) loop - collapse scenario .",
    "fletcher and hudson s  ( 2008 ) physical description of flaring field changes remains the only detailed explanation of how a coronal event could cause permanent change in the photospheric field .",
    "the goal of this paper is to use the high - cadence hmi vector data covering six major flares to extend and clarify the above results .",
    "for example , if the transverse field component generally increases near neutral lines during flares , do the magnetic shear changes also follow a general pattern , and , if not , why not ? we expect a flare to involve the relaxation of magnetic stresses built up during the preceding hours and days .",
    "can the photospheric field measurements shed light on how magnetic stresses are relieved during flares ?    the paper is organized as follows . in section  [ s : magch ]",
    "we will present the vector fields observed by hmi before and after the main flare - related field changes took place , discussing the differences between these vector fields in each spatial dimension and plotting the vector field evolution in time . in section  [",
    "s : potential ] we will discuss the magnetic changes with reference to potential fields . section  [ s : current ] will describe the associated electric current changes that occurred during the flares . we will derive the accompanying lorentz force changes in section  [ s : lorentzfch ] .",
    "we will conclude in section  [ s : conclusion ] .",
    "[ flaretable ] +    .flares studied in this paper . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     we use the results of fisher et al .",
    "( 2012 ) to estimate the changes in the lorentz force vector acting on the volume below the photosphere as a result of each flare . assuming that the photospheric vector field is observed over a photospheric area @xmath8 at two times , @xmath9",
    "before the field changes begin , and @xmath10 after the main field changes have occurred , the corresponding changes in the lorentz force vector components between these two times are given by equations  ( 17 ) and ( 18 ) of fisher et al .",
    "( 2012 ) :    @xmath11    and @xmath12 where at a fixed location in the photosphere @xmath13    the lorentz force acting on the atmosphere above the photosphere is equal and opposite to the force acting on the volume at and below the photosphere ( fisher et al .",
    "2012 ) .    figure  [ fig : dfr ] shows for each flare a spatial map of the lorentz force changes @xmath14 and @xmath15 , derived by evaluating the integrals in equations  ( [ eq : deltafr ] , ) and ( [ eq : deltafh ] ) pixel by pixel .",
    "the sums of the distributions shown in figure  [ fig : dfr ] over the entire photospheric area gives the estimate for the total lorentz force vector described by fisher et al .",
    "petrie  ( 2012 ) argued that this calculation also gives a useful estimate of the spatial distributions of the lorentz force vector components across the region for well - resolved changes in major magnetic structures .",
    "alvarado - gmez et al .",
    "( 2012 ) gave an analogous argument for the corresponding volume integral within the solar interior .",
    "figure  [ fig : dfr ] shows the spatial distributions of the changes in the lorentz force components during the flares . as we saw in figures  [ fig : frnlt ] and [ fig : fparanlt ] , the horizontal field changes @xmath16 near the main neutral line increased the horizontal field strength , @xmath17 , and were significantly greater than the vertical field changes @xmath18 .",
    "equation  [ eq : deltafr ] therefore leads us to expect the vertical lorentz force changes to have been predominantly downward near the neutral lines .",
    "the plots in figure  [ fig : dfr ] confirm that near the main neutral lines the lorentz forces clearly acted downwards into the photosphere during each flare .",
    "this behavior was anticipated to occur near neutral lines of flaring active regions by hudson , fisher and welsch ( 2008 ) and fisher et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , and has been found in past estimates of lorentz force changes by wang and liu  ( 2010 ) , petrie and sudol  ( 2010 ) and petrie  ( 2012 ) .",
    "we now analyze the horizontal lorentz force changes in a similar fashion . according to equation  ( [ eq : deltafh ] ) , wherever the vertical field does not change significantly compared to the horizontal changes and is positive / negative , the horizontal lorentz force changes @xmath19 should be parallel / anti - parallel to the horizontal field changes @xmath20 .",
    "we already know from figure  [ fig : dbr ] that on both sides of the neutral line @xmath20 pointed approximately parallel to the neutral line in all cases except the 2011 march 9 flare whose pattern is not so clear . figure  [ fig : dfr ] shows that , during the other five flares , the lorentz force acted in opposite directions on each side of the neutral line , with the changes on the positive side pointing parallel to @xmath20 and those on the negative side anti - parallel to @xmath20 as expected .",
    "figure  [ fig : dfrnlt ] shows the lorentz force changes @xmath21 in the vertical direction as functions of time .",
    "the red and blue curves in figure  [ fig : dfrnlt ] represent positive ( upward ) and negative ( downward ) force changes , respectively .",
    "they were derived by taking running differences between consecutive image pairs and were integrated over the areas @xmath22 represented by the black rectangles shown in figures  [ fig : br ] , [ fig : dbr ] and [ fig : dfr ] .",
    "the running difference plots in figure  [ fig : dfrnlt ] show sharp , spiked signatures of the abrupt downward lorentz force changes well above the noise levels during all six flares .",
    "it is clear from equations  ( [ eq : deltafr ] ) and ( [ eq : deltafh ] ) that the lorentz force changes should resemble the time - derivatives of the field changes .",
    "step - like field changes of brief but finite duration , such as those seen in figure  [ fig : dfr ] , produce the brief spikes of lorentz force change in figure  [ fig : dfrnlt ] .",
    "the fact that the dominant downward spikes in these plots are not matched by upward changes implies that the force changes were permanent .",
    "the black curves in figure  [ fig : dfrnlt ] show force changes derived by fixed differences with respect to the first image .",
    "these curves confirm that all of the flare - related force changes were permanent .",
    "they also show evidence of a steady net upward lorentz force before three of the flares , the 2011 february 15 x2.2 , september 6 x2.1 and september 7 x1.8 flares , perhaps associated with pre - flare inflation of the fields near the neutral lines .",
    "gosain  ( 2012 ) described a pre - flare rise phase in a study of aia observations of the 2011 february 15 x2.2 flare .",
    "the sizes of these force changes , ranging from about @xmath23  dynes to about @xmath24  dynes , are comparable to those found in the previous estimates of flare - related lorentz force changes by wang and liu  ( 2010 ) and petrie and sudol  ( 2010 ) . for the 2002 july 26 m8.7 flare wang and liu  ( 2010 ) found a downward force change of @xmath25  dynes .",
    "petrie and sudol  ( 2010 ) found a range of longitudinal force change estimates up to about @xmath26  dynes .",
    "petrie and sudol s estimates are likely to have been underestimates because they included only information on the longitudinal field component .",
    "figures  [ fig : dfparasgnnlt ] and [ fig : dfperpsgnnlt ] show the lorentz force vector changes , @xmath27 and @xmath28 , in the horizontal directions parallel and perpendicular to the neutral line as functions of time .",
    "the forces are integrated over the areas @xmath22 represented by the black rectangles shown in figures  [ fig : br ] , [ fig : dbr ] and [ fig : dfr ] .",
    "the parallel directions are the directions of the long edges of the rectangles , pointing approximately west .",
    "the perpendicular directions are the direction of the short edges of the rectangles , pointing approximately north .",
    "figures  [ fig : dfparasgnnlt ] shows significant and abrupt force changes at the time of every flare .",
    "the red and blue curves describe the parallel force changes occurring on the positive and negative sides of the neutral line , respectively . in each case",
    "the force changes are directed in opposite directions on the two sides of the neutral line .",
    "the corresponding perpendicular force changes , shown in figure  [ fig : dfperpsgnnlt ] , were smaller and less significant , and were generally not permanent .",
    "table  [ dftable ] summarizes the directions of the parallel and perpendicular lorentz force changes , @xmath27 and @xmath28 , associated with the six flares . in all cases where permanent changes of lorentz force were detected on the northern / southern side of the neutral line , the perpendicular force change ( columns 7 and 8 of table  [ dftable ] )",
    "was directed south / north , i.e. , towards the neutral line .",
    "both sides of the neutral line were observed to undergo significant , permanent perpendicular force change during only one flare , the 2011 march 9 x1.5 flare .",
    "there were no significant , permanent changes on either side of the neutral line during the 2012 march 7 x5.4 flare , and one side underwent permanent change during the four other flares .",
    "the parallel force changes ( columns 5 and 6 of table  [ dftable ] ) were more significant , and were detected in both polarities during all flares except the 2011 march 9 x1.5 flare , when the north side of the neutral line underwent significant , permanent change while the south side did nt . in each case",
    "when both sides of the neutral line experienced permanent parallel lorentz force changes , these occurred in opposite directions on each side of the neutral line . in columns 5 and 6 of table  [ dftable ]",
    "the directions of the positive polarities are in bold typeface .",
    "these directions agree perfectly with the axial field directions ( column 4 ) .",
    "this implies that the positive polarity footpoints of the fields near the neutral line were pulled towards the corresponding negative footpoints .",
    "meanwhile , the negative footpoints were being pulled towards the positive footpoints during five of the six flares , and underwent no permanent change during the remaining flare . ignoring vertical movements , a convergence of footpoints along the direction parallel to the nl with no movement in the perpendicular direction would produce a decrease of shear , whereas a convergence of footpoints along the direction perpendicular to the nl with no movement in the parallel direction would produce an increase of shear .",
    "these interpretations ignore the effects of vertical movements such as loop collapse .",
    "the parallel force changes alone would therefore have relaxed the shear of the neutral line fields , whereas the perpendicular forces acted towards the neutral line and would have tended to increase the shear .",
    "the perpendicular force changes were not generally significant compared to the background evolution . furthermore , comparing the sizes of the force changes parallel and perpendicular to the neutral line , the ratio @xmath29 is less than 0.1 for the large flares and less than 0.5 for the small flares . for comparison ,",
    "the ratio @xmath30 ranges from about 0.3 to about 0.5 ( figures  [ fig : fparanlt ] and [ fig : fperpnlt ] ) .",
    "the horizontal force changes therefore ca nt explain the changes of azimuthal difference and shear angles seen in figures  [ fig : azimdiffnlt ] , [ fig : shear ] and [ fig : shearh ] .",
    "they likely represent the contraction of the collapsing , line - tied loop fields , trying to pull the two sides of the neutral line towards each other .",
    "in 12 hour time series of 12-minute sdo / hmi vector field observations covering six major flares we have found consistent patterns in the field and lorentz force vector changes near the main magnetic neutral lines of the flaring regions .",
    "we summarize the main results before drawing conclusions from them .    1 .   near the main magnetic neutral lines , the field vectors became stronger and more horizontal during all six flares .",
    "this was almost entirely due to an increase in strength of the horizontal field components parallel to the neutral line in each case .",
    "the horizontal perpendicular and vertical components did not show comparably significant and permanent changes during the flares . even during the 2011 september 7 flare ,",
    "when the vertical field did change significantly and permanently , the change in the horizontal parallel field was more significant .",
    "the magnetic tilt angle increased significantly during all flares with the arguable exception of the 2011 september 7 flare .",
    "the neutral line fields were less tilted than their corresponding potential fields before all six flares and relaxed abruptly and permanently closer to potential field tilt angles during every flare .",
    "the horizontal fields became significantly and permanently more aligned with the neutral line during the four largest flares .",
    "the ( full and horizontal ) shear angle with respect to the reference potential field increased significantly during only two of the flares .",
    "the electric current near the neutral line showed a marked change of behavior around the times of most of the flares but there was no consistent pattern in the character of this change .",
    "the vertical lorentz force had a large , abrupt , permanent downward change during each of the flares .",
    "the sizes of these force changes , ranging from about @xmath23  dynes to about @xmath24  dynes , are comparable to those found in the previous estimates of flare - related lorentz force changes .",
    "the horizontal lorentz force component parallel to the neutral line showed significant , permanent changes acting in opposite directions on each side of neutral line during each of the six flares , comparable in size to the vertical force changes . in all cases the shearing forces were consistent with a decrease of shear near the neutral line , whereas the field itself became more aligned with the neutral line as a result of the increase in the horizontal field strength . the horizontal force changes perpendicular to the neutral line tended to act towards the neutral line but these were not as significant as the parallel changes .",
    "the abrupt and permanent increase in magnetic field strength near the neutral line during a flare , accompanied by corresponding increase in magnetic tilt and downward lorentz force change , is most easily explained by the flux near the neutral line being compressed from above .",
    "because the changes in the horizontal field were generally not accompanied by corresponding changes in the vertical field , the resulting changes of field tilt can not have been the result of simple rotation of the magnetic vector towards the neutral line but must have come from the collapse of nearly horizontal magnetic field towards the photospheric magnetic neutral line from the surrounding volume . in each case",
    "the pre - flare field was less tilted than the reference potential field and abruptly collapsed during the flare to a tilt angle much closer to that of the potential field .",
    "this implies that , before each flare , the field was supported in a more vertical configuration and relaxed closer to a potential - field tilt angle during each flare .",
    "the large downward lorentz force changes observed during all six flares are consistent with the interpretation of sheared loop collapse .",
    "we find that the tilt angles of the observed fields with respect to the potential fields has a stronger increasing pattern than the tilt with respect to the vertical direction , whereas the behavior of the azimuthal angles of the observed fields is more consistent with respect to the neutral line than with respect to the potential fields .",
    "the observed field change during each flare was dominated by an abrupt , permanent and significant increase in the horizontal component parallel to the neutral line , and horizontal field became significantly more aligned with the neutral line during the four largest flares in the study .",
    "these results imply that the collapsing field was almost aligned with the neutral line in each case , and more aligned on average with the neutral line than the pre - flare neutral line field .",
    "on the other hand , the average shear angle increased during two flares and decreased during one , demonstrating that the flare process does not generally relieve magnetic stresses associated with magnetic shear .",
    "the lack of a general pattern in the vertical electric current changes also reflects this .",
    "the change in parallel horizontal fields and increased alignment between neutral line fields to neutral lines appear simply to be consequences of the relaxation of stresses associated with the non - potential tilt angles .",
    "wang  ( 2006 ) found an unshearing movement parallel to the neutral line in flare - related longitudinal magnetic field changes in all five events that he studied , consistent with overall release of shear . in our results ,",
    "the un - shearing pattern of the generally dominant parallel horizontal lorentz force changes would by themselves have reduced the shear of the field near the neutral lines during each flare , but the magnetic shear only decreased significantly during one of the six flares .",
    "these un - shearing patterns can be interpreted as a signature of the neutral line fields contracting during the flare , pulling the two sides of the neutral line towards each other .",
    "it seems that the horizontal force changes did not prevail in un - shearing the neutral line fields because the line - tying effect of the dense photospheric plasma makes it much more difficult to move photospheric footpoints laterally than to change their tilt angle .",
    "this may explain the differing physical effects of the horizontal and vertical lorentz forces : vertical , tilt - related magnetic stresses appear to be much more easily relieved by flares than horizontal , shear - related stresses .",
    "nonlinear force - free field extrapolations have presented a consistent picture of a sheared structure collapsing towards the neutral line , leaving a void above that is filled by more relaxed field ( jing et al .",
    "2008 , sun et al .",
    "2012 , liu et al .",
    "this modeling work suggests that if magnetic shear increases at low altitudes during flares it may decrease above a certain height , producing a net decrease of shear in the system as a whole .",
    "our results suggest that the main flare - related field changes are caused by the release of magnetic stresses associated with non - potential tilt / dip angles , and that the consequent strengthening of the parallel horizontal field component may or may not increase photospheric magnetic shear .",
    "the scenario of sheared loop collapse developed above would lead to a reduction of shear higher in the atmosphere in agreement with the modeling results .",
    "we have only studied the effects of major flares on fields near neutral lines in this paper .",
    "while clear patterns have emerged from this sample , it will be instructive to examine a large sample of high - cadence vector - field measurements from hmi and the national solar observatory s synoptic optical long - term investigations of the sun ( solis ) telescope to discover if these patterns are generally dominant , and whether an analogous pattern can be found in the flare - related magnetic changes observed in sunspots .",
    "i thank the referee for a stimulating review that helped to develop the project .",
    "i thank sanjay gosain and alexei pevtsov for discussions .",
    "sdo is a mission for nasa s living with a star program .",
    "this work was supported by nsf award no .",
    "106205 to the national solar observatory .",
    "alvarado - gmez , j.d .",
    ", buitrago - casas , j.c .",
    ", martnez - oliveros , j.c . ,",
    "lindsey , c. , hudson , h. & calvo - mozo , b. 2012 , solar phys . , accepted , doi 10.1007/s11207 - 012 - 0009 - 6 aulanier , g. , janvier , m. & schmieder , b. 2012 , a&a 543 , a110 borrero , j. m. , tomczyk , s. , & kubo , m. et al .",
    "2010 , sol .",
    "phys . , 251 , 267 fisher , g.h . ,",
    "bercik , d.j . ,",
    "welsch , b.t .",
    "& hudson , h.s .",
    "2012 , sol .",
    "277 , 59 fletcher , l. & hudson , h.s .",
    "2008 , apj 675 , 1645 gosain , s. 2012 , apj 749 , 85 hudson , h.s .",
    "2000 apj 531 , l75 hudson , h.s . , fisher , g.h . & welsch , b.t . in subsurface and atmospheric influences in solar activity , asp conf .",
    "series 383 , 221 jing , ju , park , sung - hong , liu , chang , lee , jeongwoo , wiegelmann , thomas , xu , yan , deng , na , wang , haimin 2012 , apjl 752 , 9 jing , ju , wiegelmann , thomas , suematsu , yoshinori , kubo , masahito , wang , haimin 2008 , apjl 676 , 81 leka , k. d. , barnes , g. , & crouch , a. d. et al . 2009 , sol .",
    "phys . , 260 , 83 liu , c. , deng , n. , liu , r. , lee , j. , wiegelmann , t. , jing , j. , xu , y. , wang , s. & wang , h. 2012 , apjl 745 , 4 liu , y. , hoeksema , j. , & hayashi , k. et al . 2011b , baas , 43 , 2102 longcope & welsch 2000 , apj 545 , 1089 metcalf , t. r. 1994 , sol .",
    "phys . , 155 , 235 pesnell , w. d. , thompson , b.t . , & chamberlin , p. c. 2012 , sol .",
    "phys . , submitted petrie , g. j. d. 2012 , solar phys .",
    "submitted , arxiv1202.4192p petrie , g. j. d. , sudol , j. j. 2010 , apj 724 , 1218 .",
    "schou , j. , scherrer , p.h . , bush , r.i .",
    "2011 , solar phys .",
    ", doi : 10.1007/s11207 - 011 - 9842 - 2 sudol , j.j . & harvey , j.w .",
    "2005 , apj 635 , 647 sun , x. , hoeksema , t. , liu , y. , wiegelmann , t. , hayashi , k. , chen , q. , & thalmann , j. 2012 , apj 748 , 77 wang , h. 2006 , apj 649 , 490 wang , h. & liu , c. 2010 , apjl 716 , l195 wang , h. , varsik , j. , zirin , h. , canfield , r.c . , leka , k.d . , & wang , j.1992 , sol .",
    "142 , 11 wang , s. , liu , c. , liu , r. , deng , n. , liu , y. & wang , haimin 2012 , apj 745 , l17"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze the spatial and temporal variations of the abrupt photospheric magnetic changes associated with six major flares using 12-minute , @xmath0  pixel@xmath1 vector magnetograms from nasa s helioseismic and magnetic imager instrument ( hmi ) on the solar dynamics observatory satellite . </S>",
    "<S> the six major flares occurred near the main magnetic neutral lines of four active regions , noaa 11158 , 11166 , 11283 and 11429 . during all six flares the neutral line field vectors became stronger and more horizontal , in each case almost entirely due to strengthening of the horizontal field components parallel to the neutral line . </S>",
    "<S> in all six cases the neutral line pre - flare fields were more vertical than the reference potential fields , and collapsed abruptly and permanently closer to potential field tilt angles during every flare , implying that the relaxation of magnetic stress associated with non - potential tilt angles plays a major role during major flares . </S>",
    "<S> the shear angle with respect to the reference potential field did not show such a pattern , demonstrating that flare processes do not generally relieve magnetic stresses associated with photospheric magnetic shear . </S>",
    "<S> the horizontal fields became significantly and permanently more aligned with the neutral line during the four largest flares , suggesting that the collapsing field is on average more aligned with the neutral line than the pre - flare neutral line field . </S>",
    "<S> the vertical lorentz force had a large , abrupt , permanent downward change during each of the flares , consistent with loop collapse . </S>",
    "<S> the horizontal lorentz force changes acted mostly parallel to the neutral line in opposite directions on each side , a signature of the fields contracting during the flare , pulling the two sides of the neutral line towards each other . </S>",
    "<S> the greater effect of the flares on field tilt than on shear may be explained by photospheric line - tying .    </S>",
    "<S> = 1 </S>"
  ]
}