{
  "article_text": [
    "the mose project ( modeling eso sites ) aims at proving the feasibility of the forecast of the optical turbulence ot ( @xmath0 profiles ) and all the main integrated astro - climatic parameters derived from the @xmath0 i.e. the seeing ( @xmath1 ) , the isoplanatic angle ( @xmath2 ) , the wavefront coherence time ( @xmath3 ) above the two eso sites of cerro paranal ( site of the very large telescope - vlt ) and cerro armazones ( site selected for the european extremely large telescope - e - elt ) .",
    "the ot forecast is a crucial cornerstone for the feasibility of the elts : it is fundamental for supporting all kind of ao facilities in an astronomical observatory and for performing the flexible - scheduling of scientific programs and instrumentation through the service mode .",
    "the mose project aims at overcoming two major limitations that we normally encounter in studies focused on the optical turbulence forecast with atmospheric models : * ( 1 ) * the difficulty in having independent samples of measurements for the model calibration and model validation to estimate if and how the correlation between measurements and predictions decreases with the increasing of the number of nights used for the calibration ; * ( 2 ) * the difficulty in having a large number of simultaneous measurements done with different and independent instruments for the ot estimates ( in particular vertical profilers ) .",
    "this project is performed with the non - hydrostatic mesoscale atmospherical models meso - nh@xcite joined with the astro - meso - nh package for the calculation of the optical turbulence@xcite to perform the ot forecasts .",
    "an extended data - set of observations ( meteorological parameters and optical turbulence ) have been considered in the project . in this contribution",
    "we focus our attention on the model performances in reconstructing the meteorological parameters near the surface as well as in the free atmosphere .",
    "at paranal , observations of meteorological parameters near the surface come from an automated weather station ( aws ) and a 30  m high mast including a number of sensors at different heights .",
    "both instruments are part of the vlt astronomical site monitor @xcite .",
    "absolute temperature data are available at 2  m and 30  m above the ground .",
    "wind speed data are available at 10  m and 30  m above the ground . at armazones , observations of the meteorological parameters near",
    "the ground surface come from the the site testing database @xcite , more precisely from an aws and a 30  m tower ( with temperature sensors and sonic anemometers ) .",
    "data on temperature and wind speed are available at 2  m , 11  m , 20  m and 28  m above the ground . at 2  m ( armazones ) temperature measurements from the aws and the sonic anemometers are both available but we considered only those from the tower ( accuracy of 0.1@xmath4c)@xcite .",
    "those from the aws are not reliable because of some drift effects ( t. travouillon , private communication ) .",
    "wind speed observations are taken from the aws ( at 2  m ) and from the sonic anemometers of the tower ( at 11  m , 20  m and 28  m ) .",
    "the outputs are sampled with a temporal frequency of 1 minute .",
    "at paranal we access also to 50 radio - soundings ( vertical distribution of the meteorological parameters in the @xmath5 20  km above the ground ) launched above this site in the context of an intense site testing campaign for water vapor estimates@xcite and covering 23 nights in 2009 , 11 nights in summer and 12 in winter time . in a subsample of these nights ( 16 ) ,",
    "a few radio - soundings ( two or three ) have been launched at different times in the same night .",
    "observations of the optical turbulence at paranal , relate to the site testing campaign of november - december 2007@xcite , come from a generalized scidar , a dimm and a mass .",
    "the generalized scidar measurements have been recently re - calibrated@xcite .",
    "optical turbulence measurements at armazones come from a dimm and a mass@xcite that have been used for the tmt site selection campaign .",
    "the meso - nh atmospherical mesoscale model can simulate the temporal evolution of three - dimensional meteorological parameters over a selected finite area of the globe .",
    "the system of hydrodynamic equations is based upon an anelastic formulation allowing for an effective filtering of acoustic waves .",
    "it uses the gal - chen and sommerville@xcite coordinates system on the vertical and the c - grid in the formulation of arakawa and messinger@xcite for the spatial digitalization .",
    "it employs an explicit three - time - level leap - frog temporal scheme with a time filter @xcite . for this study",
    "we use a 1d mixing length proposed by bougeault and lacarrre @xcite with a one - dimensional 1.5 turbulence closure scheme @xcite .",
    "the surface exchanges are computed by the interaction soil biosphere atmosphere - isba scheme@xcite . the grid - nesting technique @xcite , employed in our study , consists of using different imbricated domains of the digital elevation models ( dem i.e orography ) extended on smaller and smaller surfaces , with increasing horizontal resolution but with the same vertical grid .",
    "the standard configuration of this study includes three domains ( fig.[pgd ] and table [ tab_orog ] ) with the lowest horizontal resolution equal to 10  km and the highest horizontal resolution equal to 0.5  km .",
    "the orographic dems that we used for this project are the gtopo ] with an intrinsic horizontal resolutions of 1  km ( used for the domains 1 and 2 ) and the istar with an intrinsic horizontal resolution of 0.5  km ( used for the domain 3 ) . along the z - axis",
    "we have 62 levels distributed as the following : the first vertical grid point equal to 5  m , a logarithmic stretching of 20  @xmath6 up to 3.5  km above the ground , and an almost constant vertical grid size of @xmath5600  m up to 23.8  km .",
    "the model has been parallelized using open - mpi-1.4.3 and it run on local workstations and on the hpcf cluster of the european centre for medium weather forecasts ( ecmwf ) .",
    "the second solution permitted us to achieve relatively rich statistical estimates of these analysis .",
    "orography of the region of interest as seen by the meso - nh model ( polar stereographic projection ) for all the imbricated domains of the grid - nesting configuration : ( a ) domain 1 , ( b ) domain 2 , ( c ) domain 3 .",
    "the black dots report the position of cerro paranal and cerro armazones .",
    "see table [ tab_orog ] for specifications of the domains ( number of grid - points , domain extension , horizontal resolution ) . ]",
    "0.2 cm    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]      cumulative distribution of the temperature at 10  m and 30  m for the bias and the rmse at cerro paranal .",
    "the bias and the rmse are calculated with respect to the values related to the individual nights i.e. the statistical sample is 20 nights.,title=\"fig:\",width=491 ]   cumulative distribution of the temperature at 10  m and 30  m for the bias and the rmse at cerro paranal .",
    "the bias and the rmse are calculated with respect to the values related to the individual nights i.e. the statistical sample is 20 nights.,title=\"fig:\",width=491 ]     cumulative distribution of the temperature at 2  m , 11  m , 20  m and 28  m for the bias at cerro armazones .",
    "the bias is calculated with respect to the values related to the individual nights i.e. the statistical sample is 20 nights.,width=491 ]     cumulative distribution of the temperature at 2  m , 11  m , 20  m and 28  m for the rmse at cerro armazones .",
    "the rmse is calculated with respect to the values related to the individual nights i.e. the statistical sample is 20 nights.,width=491 ]    fig.[temp_surf_wind ] shows the temporal evolution of the average , the bias and the rmse ( at different levels and above cerro paranal and cerro armazones ) of the wind speed .",
    "table [ par_wind ] reports the corresponding statistical bias and the rmse calculated with respect to the values observed all along the night . at cerro",
    "paranal the maximum bias is 2.23 m@xmath7s@xmath8 while at armazones is 3.59 m@xmath7s@xmath8 .",
    "the rmse has maximum values respectively of 3.24 and 4.81 m@xmath7s@xmath8 above cerro paranal and cerro armazones .",
    "we note a general tendency of the model in underestimating the wind speed all along night , particularly at the first level ( 2  m ) even if the model seems to show a better behavior above cerro paranal than cerro armazones .",
    "even if the bias and the rmse are still small in absolute terms , considering the typical absolute values of the wind speed at this heights , we can have a not negligible relative error . in a further study lascaux &",
    "masciadri@xcite presented in this conference , we performed an analog statistical analysis with a different model configuration ( five imbricated models with the higher horizontal resolution of 100  m ) to check if the model performances in reconstructing the wind speed near the surface in proximity of these summits can be improved .",
    "we found that such a new configuration definitely and substantially improves the model performances in reconstructing the wind speed near the surface of around the 50@xmath6 .    which are the model performances in reconstructing these parameters night by night ?",
    "fig.[par_bias_rmse_ind_nights ] shows the cumulative distribution of the bias and the rmse of simulations versus observations for the temperature at 2  m and 30  m achieved by the model at cerro paranal night by night .",
    "fig.[arm_bias_ind_nights ] and fig.[arm_rmse_ind_nights_rmse ] show respectively the bias and the rmse obtained at cerro armazones at each height : 2  m , 11  m , 20  m and 28  m. we note that the level of the model accuracy is very satisfactory above both sites .",
    "the median value of the bias is always within 0.60@xmath4c with a maximum absolute value of the quartiles equal to 1.07@xmath4c .",
    "the median value of the rmse is within 0.93@xmath4c if we take into account all the model levels analyzed with a maximum third quartile of 1.23@xmath4c .",
    "in this contribution we present the preliminary results obtained in the context of an extended feasibility study ( mose project ) aiming at performing a feasibility study for the forecast of the optical turbulence and the atmospherical parameters above cerro paranal and cerro armazones .",
    "we focus here on the atmospheric parameters in the free atmosphere as well as at the surface .",
    "we proved that the meso - nh mesoscale model , using a configuration made by three imbricated domains ( horizontal resolution of 10  km , 2.5  km and 0.5  km ) , provides vertical distribution ( from the ground up to @xmath5 20 km ) of the main classical atmospheric parameters ( wind speed and direction , temperature and relative humidity ) with excellent levels of correlation with observations .",
    "the residual discrepancies are mainly due to the initial conditions .",
    "we showed that , at present , the meso - nh mesoscale model can be a very useful tool to calculate and predict the temporal evolution of the wind speed for the calculation of the wavefront coherence time ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "this method offers a very advantageous solution in terms of accuracy and temporal coverage .    near the ground , in proximity of the surface , the forecast of the temperature calculated at different heights in the first 30 meters shows excellent performances above both sites ( paranal and armazones ) with a statistical bias with respect to observations whose median value is well smaller than 1@xmath4c ( at some heights well inferior to 0.2@xmath4c ) and a rmse always inferior to 1@xmath4c .",
    "the statistical sample is very rich considering a set of couples of values sampled at a frequency of 1 minutes , extended on 9 hours ( night time ) for a total number of 20 nights . a similar analysis performed for",
    "the wind speed indicated that the model shows , in this case , a tendency in underestimating the wind speed , particularly at the first level .",
    "this effect is more evident for a strong wind speed .",
    "the biases are not important in absolute terms : order of 2.23 and 3.59 m@xmath7s@xmath8 at 2  m and a little weaker for the higher levels at 20  m , 28  m and 30  m ( order of 2 - 2.5 m@xmath7s@xmath8 ) .",
    "however the model tendency is systematic and it is therefore reasonable to investigate on how to improve the model behavior in this context . in a further dedicated study ( lascaux & masciadri@xcite ) we presented in this conference how to overcome this limitation .    beside a statistical analysis performed on a rich statistical samples , we presented in this contribution a detailed analysis of the model performances in forecasting the atmospherical parameters night by night . for what concerns the vertical distribution",
    ", the level of accuracy shown by the model is impressive . in",
    "basically all the cases studied the model is able to reconstruct the different features of the wind speed observed in three different instants during the nights ( example in fig.[radio_mnh ] ) . for what concerns the state of the atmosphere in proximity of the surface we proved that the median values of the biases ( calculated for each single night and calculated at different heights : 2  m , 11  m , 20  m , 28  m , 30  m ) is within 0.60@xmath4c above cerro paranal and cerro armazones with a maximum absolute value of the quartiles of 1.07@xmath4c",
    "the median value of the rmses is within 0.93@xmath4c if we take into account all the model levels analyzed with a maximum third quartile of 1.23@xmath4c .",
    "we conclude , therefore , that the meso - nh model appears as an extremely useful system to predict the temperature near the ground with excellent levels of accuracy .",
    "such a system can play a fundamental role in monitoring and forecasting the thermal stratification of the first few tens of meters above the ground and to infer the status of thermal stability i.e. the value of the @xmath0 in the shallow surface layer .",
    "this definitely can play a fundamental role in the service mode operation of scientific programs .",
    "meteorological data - set from the automatic weather station ( aws ) and mast at cerro armazones are from the thirty meter telescope site testing - public database server@xcite .",
    "meteorological data - set from the aws and mast at cerro paranal are from eso astronomical site monitor ( asm - doc.n .",
    "vlt - man - eso-17440 - 1773 ) .",
    "we are very grateful to the whole staff of the tmt site testing working group for providing information about their data - set as well as to marc sarazin for his constant support to this study and for providing us the eso data - set used in this study and florian kerber for his valuable support in accessing at radio - soundings data - set .",
    "simulations are run partially on the hpcf cluster of the european centre for medium weather forecasts ( ecmwf ) - project spitfot .",
    "this study is co - funded by the eso contract : e - sow - eso-245 - 0933 .",
    "lafore , j .-",
    "p . , stein , j. , asencio , n. , bougeault , p. , ducrocq , v. , duron , j. , fischer , c. , hereil , p. , mascart , p. , masson , v. , pinty , j .- p . , redelsperger , j .- l . ,",
    "richard , e. , vil - guerau de arellano , j. , `` the meso - nh atmospheric simulation system .",
    "part i : adiabatic formulation and control simulations '' , 1998 , _ annales geophysicae _ , 16 , 90 - 109 , ( 1998 )          schoeck , m. , els , s. , riddle , r. , skidmore , w. , travouillon , t. , blum , r. , bustos , e. , chanan , g. , djorgovski , s. g. , gillett , p. , gregory , b. , nelson , j. , otrola , a. , seguel , j. , vasquez , j. , walker , a. , walker , d. , wang , l.,``thirty meter telescope site testing i : overview '' , _ pasp _ , 121 , 384 - 395 , ( 2009 )    skidmore , w. , travouillon , t. , riddle , r. , `` report of the calibration of the t2-armazones , 30-m tower air temperature senosrs and sonic anemometers , the cross comparison of weather stations and sonic anemometers and turbulence measurements of sonic anemometers and finewire thermocouples '' , _ internal tmt report _ , ( 2007a )    chacn , a. , cuevas , o. , pozo , d. , marn , j. , oyanadel , a. , dougnac , c. , cortes , l. , illanes , l. , caneo , m. , cur , m. , sarazin , m. , kerber , f. , smette , a. , rabanus , d. , querel , r. , tompkins , g. , `` measuring and forecasting of pwv above la silla , apex and paranal observatories '' , _ rmxac _ , 41 , 20 - 23 , ( 2011 )    dali ali , w. , ziad , a. , berdja , a. , maire , j. , borgnino , j. , sarazin , m. , lombardi , g. , navarrete , j. , vazquez rami , h. , reyes , m. , delgado , j.m .",
    ", fuensalida , j.j . ,",
    "tokovinin , a. , bustos , e. , `` multi - instrumentent measurement campaign at paranal in 2007 .",
    "characterization of the outer scale and the seeing in the surface layer '' , _ a&a _",
    ", 524 , a73 , ( 2010 )    masciadri , e. , lascaux , f. , lombardi , g. , fuensalida , j.j . , vzquez - rami , h. , `` recalibrated generalized scidar measurements at cerro paranal ( site of the very large telescope ) '' , _ mnras _ , 420 , 2399 - 2418 , ( 2012 )                stein , j. , richard , e. , lafore , j.p . ,",
    "pinty , j.p . ,",
    "asencio , n. , cosma , s. , `` high - resolution non - hydrostatic simulations of flash - flood episodes with grid - nesting and ice - phase parameterization '' , _ meteorol .",
    "_ , 72 , 203 - 221 , 2000 .",
    "lascaux , f. & masciadri , e. , `` mose : zooming on the meso - nh mesoscale model performances at the surface layer at eso sites ( paranal and armazones ) '' , _ spie astronomical telescopes and instrumentation _ , amsterdam , 1 - 6 july , 2012"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present very encouraging preliminary results obtained in the context of the mose project , an on - going study aiming at investigating the feasibility of the forecast of the optical turbulence and meteorological parameters ( in the free atmosphere as well as in the boundary and surface layer ) at cerro paranal ( site of the very large telescope - vlt ) and cerro armazones ( site of the european extremely large telescope - e - elt ) , both in chile . </S>",
    "<S> the study employs the meso - nh atmospheric mesoscale model and aims at supplying a tool for optical turbulence forecasts to support the scheduling of the scientific programs and the use of ao facilities at the vlt and the e - elt . in this study </S>",
    "<S> we take advantage of the huge amount of measurements performed so far at paranal and armazones by eso and the tmt consortium in the context of the site selection for the e - elt and the tmt to constraint / validate the model . a detailed analysis of the model performances in reproducing the atmospheric parameters ( t , v , p , h , ... ) near the ground as well as in the free atmosphere , is critical and fundamental because the optical turbulence depends on most of these parameters . </S>",
    "<S> this approach permits us to provide an exhaustive and complete analysis of the model performances and to better define the model operational application . </S>",
    "<S> this also helps us to identify the sources of discrepancies with optical turbulence measurements ( when they appear ) and to discriminate between different origins of the problem : model parameterization , initial conditions , ... preliminary results indicate a great accuracy of the model in reproducing most of the main meteorological parameters in statistical terms as well as in each individual night in the free atmosphere and in proximity of the surface . </S>",
    "<S> the study is co - funded by eso and inaf - arcetri ( italy ) . </S>"
  ]
}