{
  "article_text": [
    "topological quantum computation in which information is encoded into non - abelian anyons is a promising approach to realize scalable quantum computer .",
    "topological qubits hold the merit of resistance to some local fluctuations due to their non - local property .",
    "recent progresses in the physical realization of non - abelian anyons of ising type - majorana fermion ( mf ) have drew much attention in this field .",
    "it has been shown theoretically that mf can exist as quasiparticles in many condensed matter systems , including @xmath1 superconductor @xcite , topological insulator - superconductor heterostructures @xcite , and semiconductor - superconductor heterostructures alicea10,sau10,oreg10,lutchyn10 .",
    "very recently , several groups have reported the observation of mf zero energy mode at the ends of semiconductor nanowire with the combination of spin - orbit coupling , proximity - induced superconductivity and applied magnetic field @xcite .",
    "in addition , alicea _ et al . _ have shown that in the nanowire networks mf , which obeys non - abelian statistics , can be braided by simply adjusting gate voltages .",
    "this system may furnish as a platform for topological quantum computing .    for processing quantum information , two mf @xmath2",
    "could be combined to form a dirac fermion with creation and annihilation operator as : @xmath3the two states of the dirac fermion , corresponding to @xmath4 could function as a qubit . because braiding any two mf can not change the parity of @xmath5 , the same parity states of four mf are used to code one topological qubit .",
    "for example , one typical choice is @xmath6    however , by braiding mf one can not generate a complete set of universal quantum logic gates required for quantum computation .",
    "it is well known that single qubit @xmath7 phase gate and non trivial two - qubit gate can not realized solely by braiding the object mf without auxiliary qubit .",
    "therefore , we could not put whole information process under topological protection .",
    "moreover , for practical quantum computation it is essential to transfer information between topological qubits and other qubits . to fullfill these functions ,",
    "people have proposed many composite systems which consists of topological qubit and conventional qubits , including superconducting flux qubit @xcite , transmon @xcite , quantum dot bonderson11,flensberg11,leijnse11 . in this paper",
    "we investigate the hybrid system of superconducting qubit and semiconductor nanowire which hosts mf .",
    "it has been shown that flux qubit can be used to measure the state of topological qubit using aharonov - casher effect [ 12 ] .",
    "one can also entangle two qubits ( topological qubit or double dot qubit or combination of them ) [ 11 , 14 ] by jointly measuring them . here",
    "we propose several important schemes toward this direction .",
    "first , we show how to completely turn off the coupling between flux qubit and topological qubit by setting appropriate voltage on the capacitor . with this in hand",
    ", we can optimize the @xmath7 phase gate of topological qubit .",
    "second , we employ landau - zener transition to store the information of flux qubit into topological qubit .",
    "third , we present a scheme to retrieve the state of topological qubit back to a well - coherence flux qubit .",
    "it is worth to emphasize that this is not a simple inverse of the storage process .",
    "because one flux qubit is occupied to measure topological qubit , another flux qubit has to be used to receive the information .",
    "borrowing the technique of tunable coupling between flux qubits [ 22 ] , we have conceived a top - flux - flux composite system to realize the information retrieval scheme .",
    "our proposals build a viable interface between topological and conventional qubits .",
    "the hybrid system consists of a superconducting flux qubit coupled with a nanowire which hosts some mf at its boundaries of topological and un - topological parts ( fig 1 ) .",
    "the flux qubit is made up of a superconducting loop interrupted by three josephson junctions .",
    "the junctions have josephson energy @xmath8 , and charging energy @xmath9 respectively . in order to measure qubit and transfer information",
    ", we choose @xmath10 for optimizing aharonov - casher effect .",
    "the hamiltonian of the flux qubit is @xmath11where @xmath12 and @xmath13 are pauli matrices .",
    "@xmath14 is the magnetic energy of two diabatic energy states @xmath15 and @xmath16 , corresponding to the clockwise and counterclockwise persistent current respectively .",
    "the magnetic energy is adjustable by the external magnetic flux threading through the superconducting loop @xmath17 .",
    "@xmath18 is the single flux quantum .",
    "@xmath19 is the persistent current in the loop generated by @xmath20 .",
    "@xmath21 is the tunneling splitting . at the energy level",
    "anti - crossing @xmath22 ( so called optimal point ) , the two energy states is degenerate and the tunneling coupling mixes them , resulting a ground state @xmath23 @xmath24 and a excite state latexmath:[$|e\\rangle= (    splitting @xmath21 . because of aharonov - casher effect , the tunnel splitting is modulated by the total charge on island and gate capacitor @xmath26 where @xmath27 .",
    "@xmath28 = 0 ( 1 ) denotes the eigenvalue of the even ( odd ) parity of the state of the fermion formed from the two mf located at the island .",
    "@xmath29 is the total electrical charge in the island and gate capacitor .",
    "if we calibrate the charge @xmath29 to zero , the splitting will be maximized when the fermionic state is in even parity state .",
    "when the ferminon parity is odd , the splitting will be zero . in this case",
    ", the energy of the two state is conditioned on the state of the topological qubit .",
    "therefore , we can measure the topological qubit state by probing the tunneling splitting of the flux qubit.however , the goal we are going to achieve using flux qubit is not only to measure the state of topological qubit , but also to coherently transfer information between them .",
    "hence , it is necessary to switch on and off the coupling efficiently and accurately .",
    "our trick is to tune the voltage of the capacitor to make sure that the both states of the topological qubit lead to the same tunneling splitting of the flux qubit . in this case , the eigenenergies of the flux qubit are not affected by the topological qubit , which indicates that the two qubits are decoupled . from equation 4 , it is easy to see that this can be realized by setting @xmath30 . the value of the corresponding voltage added to the capacitor can be obtained in the calibration step described above",
    ".     added to the island through a capacitor.,width=151 ]      @xmath7 phase gate in topological qubit system can not be obtained by braiding mf .",
    "we have devised a scheme to accomplish it with the assistant of flux qubit .",
    "firstly , the flux qubit is magnetically biased away from @xmath32 and stay at its ground state . before moving the mf to the island , the electrical charge on the island and the capacitor",
    "is tuned to @xmath33 .",
    "therefore , when the topological qubit is introduced to the system , it is uncoupled to the flux qubit",
    ". then we switch on the coupling quickly . depending on the state of the topological qubit ,",
    "the ground state have eigenenergy @xmath34    therefore , the two states of the topological qubit coupled to the flux qubit have a energy difference @xmath35",
    ". we can realize any phase gate , including @xmath36 phase gate , by controlling the coupling time via tuning the capacitor voltage .",
    "it is well known that transferring information between two qubits can be realized by using cnot gate combined with hadamard gate and single - qubit measurement @xcite . following this method ,",
    "we have designed a scheme for transferring information from flux qubit to topological qubit ( fig 2(a ) ) .",
    "initially , the flux qubit is at an unknown pure state @xmath37 , and the topological qubit stays at @xmath38 .",
    "then apply operations as following : hadamard gate on the topological qubit , cnot gate conditioned on the topological qubit , and measurement on the flux qubit . if the measurement result is @xmath39 at bias @xmath40 .",
    "the condition @xmath41 is required for the landau - zener transition at the anti - crossing point well - defined .",
    "the topological qubit stays at a superposition state @xmath42 after a hadamard operation , and then is loaded to the island .",
    "the flux qubit and topological qubit is uncoupled at this moment . then switch on the coupling by setting @xmath43 , and sweep the flux bias through the anti - crossing point .",
    "if the topological qubit is @xmath44 @xmath45 .",
    "based on this feature , we can choose a sufficient low sweep velocity to guarantee that the flux qubit evolutes adiabatically to the end without destroying its state if the topological qubit state is @xmath38 , and exchanges its ground state and excite state in the other case .",
    "finally , turn off the coupling and measure the flux qubit .",
    "it is clear that the sweeping process is equivalent to a cnot gate operation .",
    "now , we estimate the minimum time to achieve the cnot gate . in the landau - zener transition formulism ,",
    "the transition ( between the ground state and excite state ) possibility is expressed as @xmath46where @xmath47 . assuming the final energy bias is @xmath48 , we have @xmath49 . to make @xmath50 , we get @xmath51 . if @xmath52 @xmath53 , @xmath54 should much larger than @xmath55 @xmath56 .",
    "we could choose @xmath57 @xmath56 , which is much shorter than the coherence time of the flux qubit .     from the flux qubit to the topological qubit .",
    "( b)transfer a unknown state @xmath58 from the topological qubit to the flux qubit.,width=264 ]",
    "in the previous section , we have addressed the question of how to `` write '' the data of the flux qubit to the topological qubit . similarly , `` read '' the data of the topological qubit , i.e , transferring information from topological qubit to flux qubit , is also important for the hybrid system . in principle , it can be done by constructing a similar process like that in the last section .",
    "the initial state of the topological qubit and flux qubit is @xmath59 and @xmath60 respectively .",
    "apply in order the operations : cnot gate , hadamard gate , and measurement on the topological qubit [ fig 2(b ) ] . at last , add a not ( identity ) operation to the flux qubit if the readout result is @xmath61 .",
    "its eigenergies are insensitive to charge fluctuation due to the absence of the aharonov - casher effect .",
    "hence , its coherence time could be longer than qubit 1 , which makes it more suitable as an information receiver.before showing the information transfer procedure , we briefly describe how the two flux qubits couple .",
    "generally , two flux qubits can interact directly through geometric mutual inductance @xcite . however , the generated interaction is not prone to be switch off , which makes individual qubit operation unrealistic .",
    "instead , we adopt the scheme proposed and demonstrated experimentally by niskanen et al.@xcite .",
    "qubit 1 and qubit 2 are coupled through a third qubit between them .",
    "when both qubits are biased at the optimal point with splitting @xmath62 respectively , applying a microwave with frequency @xmath63 to the coupler qubit turns on the interaction with form in rotating frame : @xmath64where @xmath65 is the oscillation frequency between @xmath66 and @xmath67 of them .",
    "we will demonstrate in the following that the entanglement state can also be generated with qubit 2 prepared at its excite state .",
    "initial state of qubit 1 is approximately @xmath15 .",
    "ever since the mf are loaded into the island of the qubit 1 , turn on the coupling between topological qubit and qubit 1 .",
    "then , we sweep the bias of qubit 1 adiabatically to the anti - crossing point . as a result",
    ", the state of qubit 1 will remain at the ground state if the topological qubit is @xmath68 because the splitting at the anti - crossing point is maximized .",
    "if the topological qubit is @xmath69 , qubit 1 will stay at its initial state @xmath15 without mixing with @xmath16 .",
    "then we add the microwave with frequency @xmath70 to the coupler to switch on the interaction between qubit 1 and 2 .",
    "due to the resonance condition the flux qubits interact only if the topological qubit is @xmath71 , we have @xmath72now the topological qubit is entangled with two flux qubits .",
    "the next step is separating the qubit 1 from the entanglement .",
    "this is achieved by adiabatically sweeping the external flux bias of the qubit 1 across the anti - crossing point to point b ( see fig 4 ) which is far away from the anti - crossing . at the end ,",
    "the state @xmath15 of qubit 1 is equal to @xmath73 . therefore the final state of topological qubit and qubit 2 is @xmath74 .",
    "the remaining operations are straightforward : braiding the mf to realize hadamard gate , measure the topological qubit with qubit 1 , and so on .",
    ", along the dashed line when topological qubit is @xmath69 .",
    "after shortly coupling with qubit 2 at the optimal point , bias is swept adiabatically to right until the point b , where qubit 1 stay at excite state for both states of the topological qubit.,width=162 ]    it is worth to note that adiabatic condition is needed in the bias sweeping process for qubit 1 .",
    "the adiabatic condition can be characterized by landau - zener transition possibility , and is satisfied if the transition probability in the sweeping process is vanishing .",
    "the landau - zener transition probability is @xmath75 where @xmath76 is the energy splitting at the optimal point when topological qubit is at @xmath38 , @xmath49 , @xmath77 is the bias energy at the initial bias , @xmath54 is the time of the sweeping . the adiabatic condition @xmath78 is met when @xmath79 . assuming @xmath80 ,",
    "the time scale of this process should be much longer than @xmath81 .",
    "it is sufficient if we set the duration of the sweeping process @xmath82 . besides , the coupling time of qubit 1 and 2 scales as @xmath83 which is typically @xmath84 @xcite . in all",
    ", the generation of the entanglement between the topological qubit and qubit 2 can be done within @xmath85 , which is much shorter than the coherence time(@xmath86 ) of qubit 2 .",
    "we have noticed that implementing @xmath7 phase gate of topological qubit with the help of flux qubit was considered by hassler _",
    "et al_. before @xcite .",
    "they also employ the energy difference @xmath87 of the ground state of the flux qubit resulting from the parities of different topological states to accumulate phase difference .",
    "finally , they decouple the two qubits by biasing the external flux of flux qubit far away from the optimal point .",
    "however , this method can not turn off the coupling completely because even when we bias flux far from the optimal point to make @xmath88 , the energy difference @xmath87 is non - vanishing up to the first order of @xmath89 .",
    "this brings error to the @xmath7 phase gate .",
    "our scheme gets rid of this problem because we can turn off the coupling completely by electrical control .",
    "people also suggested using transmon @xcite , a variant of superconducting charge qubit , to measure and communicate with topological qubit @xcite .",
    "one can simply consider transmon as two superconductor islands connected by a dc squid .",
    "the advantage of using it is that the coupling with topological qubit can be switched on and off with exponential accuracy @xcite .",
    "however , there are two drawbacks in their measurement scheme : 1 . for measuring single topological qubit , all four mf consisting of the qubit",
    "should first be moved to one island of a transmon , then two of them are transfer to the other island .",
    "the process is much more complex than that of using flux qubit , and the situation is even worse when doing joint measurement .",
    "2 . the state calibration is very challenging . if the capacitances of the two islands are not symmetry , the period of the charge vs the frequency of the transmon is not @xmath90 ( see appendix of ref @xcite for detail ) .",
    "therefore when the four mf are loaded into one island of the transmon , the two constituent state @xmath91 and @xmath92 correspond to different frequencies of the transmon , which makes the calibration of the charge on the islands impossible .",
    "hence , the asymmetry of the the islands will reduce the practicability of transmon as a topological qubit measurer . on the contrary ,",
    "flux qubits are not bothered by this kind of asymmetry . from this point of view",
    ", flux qubit might be a better candidate for measuring topological qubit .",
    "that is why we choose it as a interface between topological and conventional qubit system .",
    "we have present a method to electrically control the coupling between topological qubits and flux qubits from which we can implement @xmath7 phase gate of a topological qubit . combined with generating entanglement through joint measurement of two topological qubits and the braiding operations of mf , the hybrid system of semiconductor nanowire and flux qubit possesses a set of universal quantum logic gates for realizing universal quantum computation .",
    "we also propose a scheme to transfer information from a flux qubit to a topological qubit via landau - zener transition .",
    "in addition , we have conceived a structure of top - flux - flux to retrieve the information stored in a topological qubit .",
    "therefore , we have constructed a viable interface between topological qubit system and conventional quantum system . +",
    "this work was supported in part by most of china ( 2011cb922104 , 2011cba00200 ) , nsfc ( 91021003 , 11274156 ) , the natural science foundation of jiangsu province ( bk2010012 ) , and papd .",
    "n. read and d. green , phys .",
    "b 61 , 10267 ( 2000 ) .",
    "l. fu and c. l. kane , phys .",
    "100 , 096407 ( 2008 ) .",
    "j. d. sau , r. m. lutchyn , s. tewari , and s. das sarma , phys .",
    "104 , 040502 ( 2010 ) .",
    "j. alicea , phys . rev .",
    "b 81 , 125318 ( 2010 ) .",
    "r. m. lutchyn , j. d. sau , and s. das sarma , phys . rev",
    "105 , 077001 ( 2010 ) .",
    "y. oreg , g. refael , and f. von oppen , phys . rev",
    "105 , 177002 ( 2010 ) .",
    "v. mourik , k. zuo , s. m. frolov , s. r. plissard , e. p.a . m. bakkers , and l. p. kouwenhoven , science 336 , 1003(2012 ) . m. t. deng , c. l. yu , g. y. huang , m. larsson , p. carok , and h. q. xu , arxiv:1204.4130 ( 2012 ) .",
    "a. das , y. ronen , y. most , y. oreg , m. heiblum , and h. shtrikman , arxiv:1205.7073 ( 2012 ) .",
    "j. alicea , y. oreg , g. refael , f. von oppen and m. p. a. fisher , nature phys , 7 , 412(2011 ) j. d. sau , s. tewari and s. das sarma , phys .",
    "a , 82 , 052322(2010 ) f. hassler , a. r. akhmerov , c - y hou and c. w. j. beenakker , new j. phys , 12 , 125002(2010 ) l. jiang , c. l. kane and j. preskill , phys .",
    "lett , 106 , 130504(2011 ) p. bonderson and r. m. lutchyn , phys .",
    "lett , 106 , 130505(2011 ) f. hassler , a. r. akhmerov and c. w. j. beenakker , new j. phys , 13 , 095004(2011 ) k. flensberg , phys .",
    "lett , 106 , 090503(2011 ) m. leijnse and k. flensberg , phys .",
    "lett , 107 , 210502(2011 ) m. a. nielsen and i. l. chuang , quantum computation and quantum information ( cambridge university press)(2000 ) j. koch et al .",
    "a 76 , 042319 ( 2007 ) .",
    "j. b. majer , f. g. paauw , a. c. j. ter haar , c. j. p.",
    "m. harmans , j. e. mooij , physical review letter , 94 , 090501(2005 ) .",
    "a. o. niskanen , y. nakamura , et al .",
    ", physical review b , 73 , 094506(2006 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a composite system of majorana - hosted semiconductor nanowire and superconducting flux qubit is investigated . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that the coupling between these two subsystems can be controlled electrically , supplying a convenient method to implement @xmath0 phase gate of a majorana - based topological qubit . </S>",
    "<S> we also present a scheme to transfer information from the flux qubit to the topological qubit using landau - zener transition . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , a structure named top - flux - flux is proposed to retrieve the information stored in the topological qubit . with the demonstration of the entanglement of two topological qubits </S>",
    "<S> , it is very promising to do quantum information process with this hybrid system . </S>"
  ]
}