{
  "article_text": [
    "a variety of laboratory evidence shows that the catastrophic recombination of hydrogen atoms and other accumulated radicals in a solid may abruptly raise the temperature of the solid to @xmath0 k. @xcite proposed that for hac dust grains in the interstellar medium , such temperatures are sufficiently high to permit the grains to radiate in the so - called unidentified infrared bands ( uibs ) associated with carbonaceous materials , lying between 3.3 and 11.3 @xmath1 m .",
    "recently , @xcite have shown that h@xmath2 molecules released from hac grains in such abrupt temperature excursions caused by the recombination of a sufficient number of accumulated h - atoms could not only account for the populations in rotational levels of h@xmath2 observed in the `` hot component '' of h@xmath2 in diffuse clouds , but also produce amounts of ch@xmath3 and oh comparable with those observed in diffuse clouds .",
    "this theory of radical recombination - driven mantle explosions is very similar to that described by @xcite except that the mechanism for mantle explosion is the spontaneous internal recombination of trapped hydrogen atoms , rather than an external heating source .    in this paper",
    ", we consider an application of the idea of abrupt temperature excursions caused by radical recombination to dark clouds where ices have been deposited on dust grain surfaces . if the abrupt temperature excursions are of the magnitude discussed by @xcite then any ices present will be abruptly converted to gas and evaporated explosively . as pointed out by @xcite , hereafter paper i",
    ", the density in the expanding gas can be so high that three - body reactions have the potential to create new and more complex species from the ice constituents . here , we extend the ideas of @xcite to the gas formed by the exploding ices .",
    "interstellar ices are deposited on dust grains in dark interstellar clouds in regions where the visual extinction exceeds some critical value , typically a few visual magnitudes .",
    "the ices in quiescent lines of sight towards low mass stars are observed to contain h@xmath2o , co , co@xmath2 , ch@xmath4 , nh@xmath5 , h@xmath2co , ch@xmath5oh , ocn@xmath6 , and some other species of low abundance @xcite",
    ". the ices may also contain radicals created from these molecules by photodissociation , where the dissociating radiation is the cosmic ray - induced radiation field @xcite .",
    "thus , h@xmath2o may give rise to oh , ch@xmath4 to ch@xmath5 , etc .",
    ", and the population of these radicals is associated with the bulk of the ice . the various reactions resulting from the accretion of atoms and molecules from the ambient gas as well as processing by ultraviolet photons and cosmic rays",
    "must always be incomplete and will , for example , lead to the presence of trapped h - atoms at weak binding sites on or near the surface . according to @xcite , when a critical number of these weakly bound h - atoms is accumulated",
    ", then a localised recombination of a few hydrogen atoms can trigger a chemical runaway which releases all of the chemical energy stored in the grain .",
    "this can include both the hydrogen recombination energy and the energy stored in other radicals as well as the grain substrate .",
    "this leads to a runaway explosion which abruptly heats the ice mantle and grain core to temperatures on the order of one thousand k. @xcite show that the number of h - atoms required to cause this explosion is equivalent to about 5% of the total number of atoms in the grain plus mantle .",
    "we postulate that the recombination of trapped h atoms to h@xmath2 drives the explosion but that the heavy , and less mobile , molecular radicals are released into the gas phase .    in the work presented here",
    ", we follow the time - dependent gas - phase chemistry in a dark interstellar cloud ; we compute the deposition of ices and the accumulation of weakly bound h - atoms that are assumed to trigger the explosions when their number on a grain reaches the critical value .",
    "thus , in this model , the frequency of the episodic temperature excursions is controlled by the cloud chemistry .",
    "when a temperature excursion occurs , the ices are assumed to be instantaneously sublimated , and three - body reactions involving radicals produce products in the very high density expanding gas .",
    "this gas is assumed to undergo a free expansion which occurs on a timescale on the order of nanoseconds ; however , the density in this sublimate is so high that many collisions occur before the gas has relaxed to more normal interstellar conditions . in this picture",
    ", the episodic explosions therefore enrich the interstellar gas with the products of the three - body reactions , and the material undergoing this enrichment is accumulated during the interval between explosions .",
    "the interstellar gas may be enriched by a number of successive events , if the timescales for accumulation of ices and h - atoms ( typically , on the order of one million years in canonical dark cloud conditions ) are suitable .",
    "evidently , if the interval is very short ( as will occur if the h - atom abundance in the gas is high ) , little material can be accumulated as ices .",
    "our model for molecular cloud chemistry has some similarity to that described by @xcite to account for chemical complexity in hot cores .",
    "the accumulation of radicals within ices is adopted in both our model of chemistry in molecular clouds and that of garrod et al . in hot cores . in our model ,",
    "the radicals are released through the abrupt warming in episodic explosions , while in the garrod et al .",
    "model of hot core chemistry the radicals are released in the slow warm - up of material in the early hot core phase .",
    "we describe the model in section 2 .",
    "the results are presented in section 3 , and we give a discussion of the implications and make our conclusions in section 4 .",
    "to test the hypothesis described above , we first of all constructed a simple ` proof of concept ' model of the time - dependent chemistry .",
    "the first stage considers the chemistry ( gas - phase , plus freeze - out ) , for moderately dense conditions ( density @xmath7@xmath8 , temperature @xmath9k , extinction @xmath10 ) where we expect the atomic hydrogen abundance to be high , so as promote the rapid accumulation of radicals in the ice mantles . during this phase",
    "limited surface chemistry is allowed to occur , so that full hydrogenation of c , n , o , and s - hydrides to ch@xmath4 , nh@xmath5 , h@xmath2o and h@xmath2s are allowed . a fraction ( 10% ) of the co",
    "is allowed to react with o and oh on the surface of grains to form co@xmath2 .",
    "it is further assumed that no ( continuous ) desorption mechanisms are operating .",
    "after a specified period ( @xmath11 years ) the ice mantles ( composed of co , ch@xmath4 , nh@xmath5 , n@xmath2 , o@xmath2 , h@xmath2o , na , h@xmath2co , co@xmath2 , hcn , hnc , hno , h@xmath2s , c@xmath2s , hcs , o and oh ) are released back into the gas phase .",
    "no change of temperature or density is included and no high - density chemistry is included .",
    "the cycle is then allowed to repeat .",
    "the results from this model show that , for most species , a limit cycle is achieved after only one or two mantle explosions .",
    "ions and unsaturated species tend not to be strongly affected by the process , but the simple saturated species ( such as h@xmath2o , ch@xmath4 etc . )",
    "are very strongly enhanced .",
    "a few species , such as co and co@xmath2 show a slower , more steady rise in abundance over several cycles .    we have therefore constructed a more realistic and comprehensive two - phase model which considers the time - dependent chemistry at a single point in a molecular cloud .",
    "the parameters for this model are given in table  [ tab : parameters ] .",
    "this model utilizes the lsode integration package @xcite and has been sub - divided to describe the two chemical phases .",
    "phase i represents the ( standard ) dark cloud chemistry , with freeze - out and ( limited ) surface chemistry , whilst phase ii considers the chemistry in the high density , rapidly expanding gas , in the immediate vicinity of a dust grain following ice mantle sublimation .",
    "the two phases are physically and chemically distinct from each other , but the output from each phase feeds into the other as material cycles between the two .",
    "the characteristics of the two phases are described below:-      the physical and chemical parameters for phase i ( as given in table  [ tab : parameters ] ) are discussed below .",
    ".physical parameters in the standard model - see text for description [ cols=\"<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the results show that , despite the large number of poorly - constrained free parameters , the results are fairly insensitive within the range of values that we have investigated .",
    "significant enhancements of the abundances of large molecular species are obtained in the cases of a combination of an elevated cosmic ray ionization together with a high gas - phase density , or when then the rate of formation of radicals in the ices is increased .",
    "it is interesting to compare the predictions of our dark cloud model with observations .",
    "however , in so doing , it is important to note that a direct comparison is not possible ; a major conclusion of our study and result from the model is that we predict the presence of appreciable abundances of large molecules in dark clouds .",
    "so far , it has only been possible to detect these species towards hot core sources .",
    "never the less , despite the very different physical conditions , our models are able to reproduce the hot core abundances for all species except for the largest ones , e.g. acetamide ( hconh@xmath2 ) and glycolaldehyde ( ch@xmath2ohcho ) : however we note that acetamide has only been observed towards the galactic centre whilst glycolaldehyde has been detected towards the galactic center and one hot core only , hence the observed abundances may not be typical .",
    "our model is general and not specific to any one source .",
    "however , although we defer specific modelling and a detailed comparison with the dark cloud source tmc-1 ( cp ) to a future study , we can make some rough comparisons .",
    "some of the species given in these tables ( nh@xmath5 , h@xmath2o , h@xmath2co , h@xmath2s , ch@xmath5oh , hcooh and ch@xmath5cho ) have been observed in tmc-1 ( cp ) and their abundances have been determined by @xcite .",
    "these abundances are generally in very good agreement with our models , with the notable exception of methanol ( ch@xmath5oh ) which in most of our models is apparently over - produced by a factor of up to @xmath12100 .",
    "however , there are two reasons why this is probably not discrepant ; ( i ) there is considerable flexibility / uncertainty in the physical parameters ( given in table  [ tab : parameters ] ) which determine the efficiency of the formation of complex molecules , and ( ii ) as described in the previous section , we have probably underestimated the loss rate for large molecules in the quiescent phase ( phase i ) .",
    "our model also over - produces water .",
    "however , the clumps in tmc-1 are known to have substructure @xcite which means that ultraviolet penetration into cp is easier than it would be in a uniform region - as we have assumed .",
    "so , we would expect that the time - averaged h@xmath2o abundance should be lower than the values we have computed for the non - specific case .",
    "in addition , we also note that the efficiency of the surface reaction converting o to h@xmath2o is required by observations to be high , but is undetermined . we have assumed a value of 100% but a factor of a few less than this would still be compatible with the observed strengths of the water ice features . looking ahead , we expect that the predicted presence of hot - core type molecules within molecular clouds are at levels that can be detected with new facilities , such as alma .",
    "as it stands , the model is largely hypothetical .",
    "we have been able to give reasonable estimates for the key parameters . however , we require further experimental study of the explosion mechanism .",
    "in addition , we need confirmation of the viability of the proposed three - body reaction pathways and quantification of the reaction rates . however , several conclusions can already be drawn from this study ;    * from our results it can be seen that our model predicts the presence of detectable ( observationally verifiable ) gas - phase abundances of ` large species ' in molecular clouds .",
    "however , the mechanism that we describe has a limiting effect on the size of molecules that can be made , because of the very short time available for rapid 3-body reactions to take place .",
    "* our model also suggest that there could be significant amounts of undetectable molecules , such as c@xmath2h@xmath13 , present in dark clouds .",
    "if so , these species - which tend to be ignored in chemical networks - may also play a role in the formation of observed larger species , through ordinary gas phase ion - molecule reactions .",
    "for example , a reaction sequence involving c@xmath2h@xmath13 and ch / c@xmath2h radicals can lead to the formation of benzene ( c@xmath13h@xmath13 ) in dark cloud environments @xcite .",
    "* in recent years , spectral line surveys of dark cores , such as those of tmc-1 , have revealed a surprising repertoire of complex molecules and large carbon chain species including propylene ( ch@xmath2chch@xmath5 ) .",
    "this latter species , expected in hot cores rather than in dark clouds , has been detected in tmc-1 @xcite but not in orion . in general , other more common species , such as hnco and ch@xmath5oh , are suprisingly abundant in some dark cores .",
    "pure gas - phase models at low temperatures ( @xmath1210 k ) can not reproduce their abundances and grain surface reactions on icy mantles are often invoked .",
    "however , it is not clear what mechanisms are responsible for the release of icy mantles in cold cores ; it is unlikely that non - thermal desorption alone would suffice and the presence of shocks inducing explosive injection of grain mantles has been suggested in the past ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "our model provides a novel mechanism for the production of large complex molecules in cold dark clouds . * methanol ( ch@xmath5oh ) and formaldehyde ( h@xmath2co ) are found in ices in quiescent regions . in our model",
    "these species are synthesised in the gas phase following the ice mantle explosions , are ejected and subsequently frozen onto the grains in the next cycle .",
    "this is different from the conventional picture in which they are made by the hydrogenation of co in the ice .",
    "although we allow for the partial conversion of co to co@xmath2 we have deliberately suppressed the solid - state conversion of co to ch@xmath5oh in our models , so as to clearly separate the significance of our mechanism from the conventional channel .",
    "we find that both processes may be effective . *",
    "the composition of the ice mantles and the nature of gas - grain interactions differ from previous models .",
    "we have postulated an alternative desorption mechanism which should be considered alongside other desorption processes .",
    "our model predicts that the ices will probably be more chemically complex than previously recognised .",
    "moreover , the chemical processing is cumulative , so that we expect the the chemical complexity of ices in molecular clouds to grow in time . *",
    "the presence of trace metal elements , such as na , in the hot sublimated gas together with oh radicals may lead to the formation of naoh .",
    "naoh has a large dipole moment , a rotational constant of @xmath14ghz and an observationally detectable rotational spectrum @xcite . *",
    "the chemical network that we employ in the high density phase ( phase ii ) is highly speculative , probably incomplete , and somewhat pessimistic in that it only involves reactions with h@xmath2o as a _ passive _ third body ; i.e. one that stabilizes associating species , but does not chemically react with them .",
    "our results should therefore be considered as lower limits to the large molecule formation efficiencies .",
    "we can speculate , for example , that the abundant species co ( which is technically a radical ) could be involved as an _ active _ third body in which it chemically combines with the other reactants . if , for example , these were nh@xmath2 and ch@xmath2oh radicals then it may be possible to form a large molecule , such as glycine ( nh@xmath2ch@xmath2cooh ) , in a single step process .",
    "* the model may provide a mechanism for the formation of larger molecules , of biochemical importance , in molecular clouds .",
    "if we consider c@xmath2h@xmath4o@xmath2 , then three isomers of this molecule are detected in hot cores ; acetic acid ( ch@xmath5cooh ) , methyl formate ( hcooch@xmath5 ) and glycolaldehyde ( ch@xmath2ohcho ) .",
    "no detections of these species have been made in molecular clouds .",
    "however , in hot cores , acetic acid and glycolaldehyde are only detected rarely ( such as in sgr b2(n ) and w51 ) , whilst methyl formate is more abundant and is observed in many sources .",
    "thus , for example , the relative abundances of ( acetic acid):(glycolaldehyde):(methyl formate ) are @xmath121:4:26 in sgr b2(n ) .",
    "this is consistent with the observation that interstellar molecules with a c - o - c backbone structure are preferred over those with a c - c - o structure @xcite .",
    "+ our model only specifically identifies glycolaldehyde as a reaction product .",
    "it is possible that methyl formate could be formed as a result of a three - body reaction involving the radicals ch@xmath5o and hco .",
    "however , even if this assumption is made , then the model predicts methyl formate abundances that are less than those of glycolaldehyde .",
    "there are three possible explanations for this apparent discrepancy : ( i ) the physical and chemical conditions in hot cores are very different to molecular clouds , so that molecular ratios determined from hot core observations may not apply , ( ii ) as is highly likely to be the case , our phase ii reaction network is neither fully accurate , nor complete and/or ( iii ) alternative mechanisms may be operating which produce the methyl formate . indeed a variety of mechanisms have been proposed for methyl formate formation , including the solid - state reaction of methanol and co in cosmic - ray irradiated ices @xcite , the solid - state reaction of formic acid and methanol ( hollis et al . 2000 ) and gas - phase reaction of methanol and formaldehyde in hot cores @xcite . + looking at the structure of these three isomers we see that methyl formate , glycolaldehde and acetic acid have a central o - atom ( ether group ) , methylene group and carbonyl group respectively . as we do not have atomic oxygen in our phase ii chemistry",
    "it is therefore perhaps not surprising that methyl formate is not produced in our model .",
    "+ if we go on to speculate about the possible formation of larger bio - molecules then we should note that methyl formate is less important that the other two ( c - c - o structure ) isomers ; glycolaldehyde is the simplest sugar , whilst acetic acid is only an nh@xmath2 group away from the simplest amino acid , glycine ( nh@xmath2ch@xmath2cooh ) . indeed",
    ", it is highly likely that the main synthesis channels for glycine involve acetic acid so that it may be something of an essential pre - cursor to bio - molecule formation @xcite .",
    "+ whilst acetic acid is not specifically included in our reaction scheme , it is a perfectly feasible product of the reactants that are present in the high density phase ( phase ii ) of our model - indeed more so than methyl formate .",
    "it is also worth noting that our model does produce formic acid ( hcooh ) with typical fractional abundances of @xmath15 .",
    "formic acid is also believed to be a significant species in glycine synthesis @xcite .",
    "an alternative mechanism for the formation of complex organic molecules was proposed by @xcite in which radicals are created in ice mantles by uv photolysis . in that model ,",
    "the grains are heated by grain - grain collisions and the radicals react with each other _ in the mantles_. chemical explosions release the complex organics , including glycine and glycolaldehyde into the gas - phase .",
    "there is no reason why the mechanism that we are proposing and that of @xcite should not be both possible and may indeed complement each other .",
    "buckle j.v . , rodgers s.d . ,",
    "wirstrm e.s . ,",
    "charnley s.b .",
    ", markwick - kemper a.j .",
    ", butner h.m .",
    ", takakuwa s. , 2006 , faraday discuss . , 133 , 63 caselli p. , hasegawa t.i . , herbst e. , 1993 , apj , 408 , 548 cecchi pestellini c. , rawlings j.m.c .",
    ", viti s. , williams d.a .",
    ", 2010 , apj , 725 , 1581 cecchipestellini c. , duley w.w .",
    ", williams d.a .",
    ", 2012 , apj , 755 , 119 duley w.w .",
    ", williams d.a .",
    ", 1984 , interstellar chemistry , academic press , london duley w.w .",
    ", williams d.a . , 2011 ,",
    "apj , 737 , l44 garrod r.t . , widicus weaver s.l . , herbst e. , 2008 , apj , 682 , 283 greenberg j.m . , 1976 ,",
    "ap&ss , 39 , 9 hindmarsh a.c . , petzold l.r . , 1995 , computers in physics , 9(2 ) , 148 hollis j.m . , lovas f.j . ,",
    "jewell p.r . , 2000 , apjl , 540 , l107 jones b.m .",
    ", zhang f. , kaiser r.i . ,",
    "jamal a. , mebel a.m. , cordiner m.a . ,",
    "charnley s.b . , 2011 , pnas , 108 , 452 marcelino n. , cernicharo j. , agndez m. , roueff e. , gerin m. , martn - pintado j. , mauersberger r. , thum c. , 2007 , apjl , 665 , l127 modica p. , palumbo m.e .",
    ", 2010 , a&a , 519 , a22 berg k.i .",
    ", boogert a.c.a . ,",
    "pontoppidan k.m .",
    ", van den broek s. , van dishoeck e.f .",
    ", bottinelli s. , blake g. , evans n.j .",
    "ii , 2011 , apj , 740 , 109 occhiogrosso a. , viti s. , modica p. , palumbo m.e .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 418 , 1923 pearson e.f . ,",
    "trueblood m.b .",
    ", 1973 , apjl , 179 , l145 peng r. , langer w.d .",
    ", velusamy t. , kuiper t.b.h .",
    ", levin s. , 1998 , apj , 497 , 842 prasad s.s .",
    ", tarafdar s.p . , 1983 ,",
    "apj , 267 , 603 rawlings j.m.c . ,",
    "hartquist t.w . ,",
    "menten k.m .",
    ", williams d.a .",
    ", 1992 , mnras , 255 , 471 rawlings j.m.c , keto e. , 2012 , apj , in preparation smith i.w.m . ,",
    "herbst e. , chang q. , 2004 , mnras , 350 , 323 snyder e. , 2006 , proc .",
    ", 103 , 12243 sorrell w.h . , 2001 ,",
    "apjl , 555 , l129 viti s. , williams d.a . , 1999 , mnras , 305 , 755 watanabe n.a . , kouchi a. , 2002 , apjl , 571 , l173 woodall j. , agndez m. , markwickkemper a.j .",
    ", millar t.j .",
    ", 2007 , a&a , 466 , 1197"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a model for the formation of large organic molecules in dark clouds . </S>",
    "<S> the molecules are produced in the high density gas - phase that exists immediately after ice mantles are explosively sublimated . </S>",
    "<S> the explosions are initiated by the catastrophic recombination of trapped atomic hydrogen .    </S>",
    "<S> we propose that , in molecular clouds , the processes of freeze - out onto ice mantles , accumulation of radicals , explosion and then rapid ( three - body ) gas - phase chemistry occurs in a cyclic fashion . </S>",
    "<S> this can lead to a cumulative molecular enrichment of the interstellar medium .    a model of the time - dependent chemistries , based on this hypothesis </S>",
    "<S> , shows that significant abundances of large molecular species can be formed , although the complexity of the species is limited by the short expansion timescale in the gas , immediately following mantle explosion .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that this mechanism may be an important source of smaller organic species , such as methanol and formaldehyde , as well as precursors to bio - molecule formation . </S>",
    "<S> most significantly , we predict the gas - phase presence of these larger molecular species in quiescent molecular clouds and not just dynamically active regions , such as hot cores . </S>",
    "<S> as such the mechanism that we propose complements alternative methods of large molecule formation , such as those that invoke solid - state chemistry within activated ice mantles .    </S>",
    "<S> astrochemistry   molecular processes   ism : clouds   ism : molecules </S>"
  ]
}