{
  "article_text": [
    "the submillimetre waveband , which encompasses the spectral range from 0.3 to 1 mm , contains a wealth of information about the cold universe .",
    "observations of gas and dust probe the earliest stages in the formation of galaxies , stars and planets .",
    "for example , the blackbody emission of a 10k source ( or a 40k source at redshift @xmath13 ) will peak around 300@xmath0 m .",
    "the continuum emission from dust is usually optically thin , so observations can probe to the heart of the most crucial processes , with the consequence that , for example , embryonic star - forming core masses and the surrounding structure of their molecular clouds are determined in a less model - dependent way than in the optical and infrared ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "on larger scales , much of the uv / optical light emitted from stars inside young galaxies is trapped within enshrouding dust clouds and re - emitted in the submillimetre . only by observing at these longer wavelengths can the total energy budgets be determined .",
    "this is essential to derive an unbiased census of the star formation rate density with redshift and thus determine the `` formation epoch '' of galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "undertaking submillimetre observations from ground - based observatories has always been fraught with difficulty , since atmospheric transparency is often poor and the high background power and sky emission variability limit the observing sensitivity .",
    "nevertheless , 1015 m class single - dish telescopes , routinely operating with high efficiency for the past 25 years , have led to enormous advances in our understanding of the formation of galaxies , stars and planets .",
    "for example , over the past two decades remarkable discoveries have taken place including the discovery of ultra - luminous high redshift galaxies responsible for the majority of the far - ir background ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , pin - pointing cold dense regions in molecular clouds where new stars are forming ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and imaging of vast clouds of cold dust around nearby stars believed to be analogues of the kuiper belt in our solar system ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the submillimetre revolution began in earnest in the late 1990 s with the arrival of the first imaging cameras , sharc @xcite on the caltech submillimeter observatory telescope ( cso ) and the submillimetre common - user bolometer array ( scuba ; @xcite ) on the jcmt .",
    "however , with two arrays containing only 91 and 37 bolometers , mapping even moderately - sized areas of sky ( tens of arcminutes across ) with scuba to any reasonable depth was painfully slow .",
    "bolometer cameras with similar total pixel counts also followed on other ground - based telescopes , such as bolocam @xcite and sharc - ii @xcite at the cso , laboca @xcite on the atacama pathfinder experiment telescope , and the mambo cameras @xcite on the institut de radio astronomie millimetrique 30 m telescope . with existing bolometer technology being non - scalable to more than a few hundred pixels , the next challenge was to develop a way to increase substantially the pixel count by up to a factor of 100 .",
    "the solution came in the form of new detectors incorporating superconducting transition edge sensors ( tes ; @xcite ) , and the ability to adapt techniques such as high - precision silicon micro - machining to produce large - scale array structures @xcite .",
    "furthermore , superconducting quantum interference device ( squid ) amplifiers could also be chained together to form a complementary , multiplexed readout system @xcite .",
    "these technology advances meant that cameras of many thousands of pixels became conceivable for the first time , and thus formed the major motivation for the scuba-2 project .     field - of - view on the sky .",
    "ceramic printed circuit boards ( pcb ) are wire - bonded to the arrays and these fan out the signal connections to ribbon cables that run to the 1k amplifiers and eventually via additional cables to room temperature.,width=340 ]        scuba-2 is a dual - wavelength camera with 5120 pixels in each of two focal planes .",
    "a focal plane consists of 4 separate sub - arrays , each with 1280 bolometers , and butted together to give the full field ( as shown in fig .",
    "1 ) . both focal planes have the same field - of - view on the sky and are used simultaneously by means of a dichroic beam - splitter .",
    "the instrument operates at the same primary wavelengths as scuba , namely 450@xmath0 m for the short and 850@xmath0 m for the long waveband .",
    "scuba-2 was delivered from the uk astronomy technology centre ( edinburgh ) to the joint astronomy centre ( hilo , hawaii ) in 2008 april with one engineering - grade sub - array at each waveband .",
    "the first two science - grade sub - arrays ( one for each focal plane ) arrived at the jcmt in late 2009 , and a period of `` shared risk observing '' was undertaken between february and april 2010 .",
    "the remainder of the science - grade sub - arrays were delivered in summer 2010 and the first astronomical data with the full array complement were taken in early-2011 .    in this paper section 2 gives an overview of the instrument design including the optics and cryogenics .",
    "section 3 describes in detail the design , manufacture and testing of the superconducting detector arrays . in sections 4 and 5",
    "we discuss how the instrument takes data and processes the information into astronomical images .",
    "section 6 describes the rudiments of flux calibration whilst section 7 presents the initial on - sky performance , including sensitivity and optical image quality . in section 8",
    "we give an overview of the algorithms used in reducing scuba-2 data to produce publication - quality images .",
    "finally , section 9 illustrates the scientific potential of scuba-2 with a selection of early results .",
    "the opto - mechanical design of scuba-2 is driven by two principal requirements : ( 1 ) to maximise the available field - of - view ; and , ( 2 ) to provide an ultra - low detector operating temperature in the 100mk regime . the re - imaging of a large field onto a relatively small detector array ( section 3.1.1 ) , as well as infrastructure limitations at the telescope , results in a complex optical path necessitating some extremely large mirrors ( up to 1.2 m across ) .",
    "furthermore , to minimise power loading on the detector arrays , the last 3 of the re - imaging mirrors are cooled to temperatures below 10k . together with the complex cryogenic system",
    ", this leads to a large cryostat , the vacuum vessel of which is 2.3 m high , 1.7 m wide and 2.1 m long , with a pumped volume of 5.3m@xmath2 and a weight of 3400 kg .",
    "early designs clearly showed that it was not possible to accommodate scuba-2 in the jcmt `` receiver cabin '' close to the cassegrain focus . the left - hand nasmyth platform ( as viewed from the rear of the telescope ) , previously home to scuba , was a more realistic location in which the unvignetted field - of - view of the jcmt is @xmath111arcmin in diameter , restricted by the aperture of the elevation bearing . given that the focal - plane has a square geometry ( as dictated by the array manufacturing process ) , a maximum field of 8 @xmath3 8arcmin was possible .",
    "hence the scuba-2 optics re - image the field at the cassegrain focus to a size compatible with the focal plane footprint at the arrays . to maximise the sensitivity of the instrument and provide excellent image quality",
    "this has to be achieved with high efficiency and minimum field distortion .",
    "the optics are also designed to ensure that a high - quality pupil image of the secondary mirror is produced at a cold - stop within the cryostat thereby minimising `` stray light '' that could potentially degrade detector sensitivity .",
    "subsequent changes to the array size ( section 3.1.1 ) restricts the final field - of - view to @xmath145arcmin@xmath4 .",
    "the detailed optics design and manufacture of the re - imaging mirrors are described by @xcite . referring to fig .",
    "2 , the design consists of a tertiary mirror located in the receiver cabin just above the nominal cassegrain focus . at the exit of the cabin a relay of three mirrors ( labelled c1c3 ) re - images",
    "the telescope focal plane at a point just beyond the elevation bearing on the nasmyth platform , thereby converting the f/12 telescope beam to f/7 .",
    "a second relay ( n1 and n2 ) re - images the focal plane at f/2.7 just inside the instrument , thereby allowing for a small cryostat window diameter .",
    "the cold optics , consisting of a further 3 mirrors ( n3 , n4 and n5 ) , forms an approximate 1:1 system that re - images the focal plane at f/2.7 onto the detector arrays .",
    "the mirrors were manufactured by tno science and industry to have complex free - form surfaces that provide sufficient degrees of freedom to optimise the optical design .",
    "this proved necessary to maintain a high strehl ratio across the field as a function of telescope elevation , as well as minimum field distortion .",
    "packaging the optics within the overall structure of the telescope results in a cryostat location just below the existing nasymth platform and tilted at an angle of 22@xmath5 to the vertical .",
    "this required a large amount of infra - structural changes at the telescope , as documented in @xcite .",
    "the overall optical path length is @xmath120 m from the tertiary mirror to the arrays .",
    "an alignment accuracy of @xmath60.25 mm , well within acceptable tolerances , is achieved in all axes using an optical datum positioned in the bearing tube @xcite .",
    "m ( red ) , superimposed on the atmospheric transmission curve for mauna kea for 1 mm of precipitable water vapour ( pwv ; grey curve ) .",
    "the atmospheric transmission data are provided courtesy of the caltech submillimeter observatory.,width=321 ]      submillimetre observations from ground - based sites are restricted to wavebands within transmission windows in the atmosphere . for a good observing site such as mauna kea these windows extend from 300@xmath0 m to 1 mm and throughout the region atmospheric water vapour is the main absorber of radiation from astronomical sources .",
    "the selection of observing wavelength is made by a bandpass filter , which as shown in fig .",
    "3 , is carefully tailored to match a particular transmission window . for scuba-2 , these are multi - layer , metal - mesh interference filters @xcite , located just in front of the focal planes , and have excellent transmission ( typically peaking around 80 per cent ) and very low ( @xmath70.1 per cent ) out - of - band power leakage .",
    "the half - power bandwidths of the bandpass filters are 32 and 85@xmath0 m at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , respectively , corresponding to @xmath8@xmath114 and 10 .",
    "a decision was made early in the design to conservatively filter the instrument .",
    "hence there are a series of thermal and metal - mesh edge filters @xcite to ensure that heat loads and stray light are kept to a minimum in such a large instrument .",
    "4 shows the position of all the filters within scuba-2 , including the dichroic that reflects the shorter wavelengths and transmits the longer .",
    "the addition of extra low - pass edge filters at 4,k and 1,k is not a large penalty compared with potentially having to track down stray light sources that could mar image quality , or contending with additional heat loads that could degrade sensitivity .",
    "for example , at the entrance of the 4,k optics box it is necessary to keep the thermal power to a minimum to prevent heating of the optics and possible subsequent loading of the 1,k stage . to ensure good frequency selection low - pass edge filters are also used with the bandpass filters .",
    "the net transmission of the instrument , in both wavebands and including the cryostat window and the detector absorption efficiency , is @xmath140 per cent .",
    "the cryostat is made up of a series of sub - systems ( see fig .",
    "2 ) and is designed with nested radiation shields and baffles to minimise stray light and magnetic fields . for example , the arrays themselves contain squid amplifiers ( section 3.2.2 ) that are sensitive magnetometers and so must be shielded from magnetic fields . immediately inside the vacuum vessel is a high magnetic permeability shield , a multi - layer insulation blanket and a radiation shield operating at @xmath150k .",
    "these provide radiation shielding for the main optics box , that houses the cold re - imaging mirrors at @xmath14k .",
    "the radiation shield and optics box are cooled by a pair of pulse - tube coolers ( section 2.5 ) .",
    "the main optics box provides the support for the three cold mirrors and the 1k enclosure ( `` 1-k box '' ) .",
    "mounted within the 1-k box are the two focal plane units ( fpus ) that contain the cold electronics and the detector arrays .",
    "the still and the mixing chamber of a dilution refrigerator ( dr ) cool the 1-k box and arrays respectively ( section 2.5 ) . the 1-k box and the outer casing of each fpu",
    "are also wrapped in superconducting and high magnetic permeability material @xcite .",
    "the removable 1-k box creates the required environment for the detector arrays @xcite .",
    "in addition to radiation shielding , it provides a cold - stop aperture at the entrance to help minimise stray light .",
    "furthermore , it gives mechanical support for magnetic shielding , a cold shutter ( used to take dark frames ) , filters , and the dichroic that splits the incoming beam onto the two focal planes .",
    "the 1-k box consists of an outer shell with aluminium alloy panels that hold the high permeability material for magnetic shielding @xcite .",
    "in addition , the box accurately and reproducibly supports and positions the fpus with respect to the cold - stop . fig .",
    "5 ( left ) shows a 3-d cad drawing of the box , highlighting the main components .",
    "there are two separate focal plane units , each containing four sub - arrays ( section 3.1.1 ) .",
    "key elements of the fpu design include the thermal link to the dr , optical filtering and further magnetic shielding .",
    "the 1-k box is a separate sub - system and interfaces to the main cryostat assembly via a support frame .",
    "5 ( right ) shows a photograph of the fully assembled 1-k box during installation into the instrument .",
    "the overall thermal design of scuba-2 is described by @xcite . in summary ,",
    "two cryomech pt410 pulse - tube coolers keep the radiation shields and the @xmath1300 kg of cold optics at 50 and 4k , respectively .",
    "however , since their cooling power is insufficient for the initial cool - down phase on a reasonable timescale , pre - cool tanks are attached to the 50 and 4k shields .",
    "after pre - cooling with liquid nitrogen ( ln@xmath9 ) the instrument is kept cold without the need for any liquid cryogens in the main instrument .",
    "a modified leiden cryogenics dilution refrigerator was commissioned to run with a pulse - tube cooler ( pt410 ) and joule - thompson heat exchanger , eliminating the need for a conventional 1k pot and liquid cryogens .",
    "the still of the dr cools the 1-k box , whilst the mixing chamber cools the @xmath130 kg of focal planes to around 100mk .",
    "the dr is a key element of the system and has to cope with a substantial thermal load from the arrays themselves , heat leaks down the mechanical array supports and wiring , as well as radiation loading from the warmer parts of the instrument , telescope and sky @xcite .",
    "the thermal design is complex , with the need to transfer cooling power at temperatures of 1k and 100mk over a distance of 1.5 m to various locations in the fpus , and to support the arrays rigidly whilst keeping sufficient thermal isolation to the 100mk stage .",
    "a large number of thermal links are therefore required , with the added need for several bolted interfaces to allow the fpus to be removed from the instrument .",
    "nevertheless , with the benefit of extensive thermal modelling , the instrument reached the required cryogenic performance on the first cool - down . under a total thermal load of 70@xmath0w the mixing chamber of",
    "the dr achieves a base temperature of 70mk in regular operation @xcite .",
    "early operation on the telescope revealed two main problems .",
    "the first was that the dr was prone to blocking after only 45 weeks of continuous operation .",
    "this was due to a gradual build - up of contamination not removed by the ln@xmath9 cold traps , which over time causes a blockage , most likely in the flow impedance of the cold insert .",
    "an additional external 4k cold - trap ( cooled by liquid helium ) significantly extended the run - time , allowing the instrument to remain cold for more than 6 months continuously .",
    "the second issue was that a very distinct oscillation ( period @xmath1025s ) was seen in the bolometer output signals .",
    "this was traced to a temperature oscillation originating in the still of the dr .",
    "the oscillation is a result of both tilting the dr to 22@xmath5 and the strong interaction between the still and the circulation of @xmath2he gas ( this being a consequence of using the still to condense the gas as part of the new dr design ; @xcite ) .",
    "a new temperature control system on both the support structure underneath the arrays and 1-k box minimised the amplitude of the oscillation .",
    "the temperature fluctuations have been reduced by at least a factor of 10 , to @xmath620@xmath0k at the array supports . under temperature control",
    "the mixing chamber achieves a base temperature of 78mk .",
    "to fully nyquist sample the sky instantaneously , the detector spacing must be @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the final focal ratio of the optics . with f/2.7",
    "this corresponds to a spacing ( and approximate detector diameter ) of 0.61 and 1.14 mm at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , respectively . to cover the maximum available field - of - view requires approximately 25,600 and 6,400 bolometers for the two wavebands .",
    "early design work showed that there was an approximate 1.1 mm minimum constraint on the size scale of the multiplexer ( mux ) unit cell , rendering a fully - sampled 450@xmath0 m focal plane impractical . the detector size and",
    "spacing was therefore relaxed to @xmath1@xmath13 at 450@xmath0 m producing an array that under - samples the sky by a factor of 4 , leading to a subsequent reduction in mapping speed ( section 7.3 ) .",
    "however , this decision greatly simplified the fabrication process , since the multiplexer wafers became identical at the two wavelengths ( section 3.2.2 ) .",
    "furthermore , fabrication limitations meant that the maximum size of an individual detector or mux wafer was 50mm@xmath4 , and hence the focal planes are populated with four separate quadrants , or sub - arrays .",
    "finally , the need for space on the mux wafer for wire - bond pads , extra bump - bonds , and the second stage squid configuration , means that the size of a sub - array is further restricted to 32 columns by 40 active rows ( section 3.2.2 ) .    [ cols=\"<,<,^,^ \" , ]      fig .",
    "15 shows high signal - to - noise images of the beam shapes at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , based on , respectively a 54 and 80 image mosaic of daisy scans of uranus ( typical disk diameter of 3arcsec ) .",
    "the beams are fitted using two gaussian components , namely a narrow main - beam and a wider secondary component .",
    "the main - beam widths ( full - width at half - maximum ) , after de - convolving the uranus disc , are 7.9 and 13.0arcsec at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , respectively , whilst the secondary component has widths of 25 and 49arcsec .",
    "it is estimated that the main - beam widths are 6 and 2per cent higher than expected from a perfect optical system .",
    "the two component fit reveals that the main - beam has an amplitude of 94 and 98per cent at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , respectively , which equates to integrated power levels of 60 and 75per cent ( i.e. 40 and 25per cent of the total power lies in the secondary component ) . the large ring visible in fig .",
    "15 is due to scalloping of the telescope panels since the focal length of the primary dish and panels are not exactly the same .",
    "this has an amplitude @xmath10.1per cent of the peak at 450@xmath0 m .",
    "further details of the beam characterisation can be found in @xcite .",
    "m with contours set at 0.1 ( white ) , 1 ( green ) and 10per cent ( white ) of the peak amplitude , bottom : 850@xmath0 m with contours set at 0.1 ( white ) , 1 ( black ) and 10per cent ( blue).,width=321 ]    to reconstruct maps to the highest possible degree of accuracy and image quality the relative position on the sky of each bolometer in the focal plane must also be determined .",
    "this is achieved by scanning every single bolometer in each focal plane across a bright source ( such as saturn or mars ) , so that a map can be created from each bolometer .",
    "since the position of the planet and telescope are known , the relative position of the bolometers can be determined .",
    "the results also demonstrate that there is very low field - distortion ( @xmath12per cent ) across each focal plane .",
    "scuba-2 data are reduced and images constructed using the submillimetre user reduction facility ( smurf ; see the companion paper chapin et al . 2012 ) , a software package written using the starlink software environment @xcite . by utilising smurf within the data reduction pipeline fully - calibrated",
    ", publication quality images can be obtained .",
    "the foundation of map - making within smurf is an iterative technique that removes most of the correlated noise sources in parallel with a simplified map estimator . to accomplish this an overall model of the observed signal",
    "is constructed , breaking down the contributing components as appropriate .",
    "for example , the signal will have a time - varying component due to atmospheric extinction , a fixed astronomical source signature and various other sources of noise .",
    "the typical map - making algorithm is shown in the flowchart in fig .",
    "the initial step in the map - maker takes the individual sub - scans and combines the data into a contiguous time - series .",
    "pre - processing applies the flat - field correction , re - samples the data at a rate that matches the requested output map pixel scale , and finally cleans the data by repairing spikes / dc steps and subtracting off a polynomial baseline from each bolometer .",
    "the iterative section then commences with estimating and removing a common - mode signal ( com ) , usually dominated by the atmosphere , and scaling it accordingly for each bolometer ( gai ) so that a common calibration can be applied later for an entire sub - array .",
    "the com model component is the average signal from all working bolometers on a sub - array at each time - step and flags bolometers as bad if their response does not resemble that from the majority of other bolometers .",
    "a time - dependent extinction correction factor ( ext ) is then applied based on measurements from the wvm ( section 6.1 ) .",
    "the data are subsequently fourier transformed and a high - pass filter is applied to remove residual excess low - frequency noise ( flt ) . the resulting cleaned and extinction - corrected data are re - gridded to produce an initial map estimate using nearest neighbour sampling . since each map pixel will contain many bolometer samples the noise",
    "is significantly reduced compared to the raw time series data .",
    "the map is then projected back into the time domain , thus producing the ast model containing signals that would be produced in each bolometer by the signal represented in the map .",
    "this model is then removed from the time - series data giving a residual signal from which the noise for each bolometer can be determined ( noi ) with an associated value of @xmath14 used to monitor convergence . since each signal component is slightly biased by signals from other components the entire process is iterated using a convergence tolerance .",
    "if the map has not changed from the previous iteration within this tolerance then the final output map is produced .",
    "if the map has changed , then the process is repeated .",
    "the map - making process is controlled by versatile configuration files that contain all the model settings and user - definable control parameters . for example , the high - pass filter cut - off is one parameter that can be easily adjusted .",
    "the convergence tolerance can also be bypassed by setting a fixed number of iterations . however , in reality , there are a small number of standard config files that are customised for use with different types of observations .",
    "more details can be found in @xcite .",
    "the key scientific driver for scuba-2 is the ability to carry out large - scale surveys of the submillimetre sky .",
    "six `` legacy - style '' survey programmes have been developed that are very broad - based , ranging from the studies of debris disks around nearby stars to galaxy populations and evolution in the early universe .",
    "these surveys have been approved to run from 2010 february 1 until 2014 september 30 . in summary",
    "these surveys are :    m. contours start at 3-@xmath15 and increase in steps of 2-@xmath15 .",
    "the `` star '' symbol shows the position of fomalhaut with respect to the disc .",
    "the diameter of pluto s orbit in our solar system is also shown , indicating that the disc may represent a kuiper - belt like structure around the star .",
    "image provided courtesy of the sons legacy survey team.,width=321 ]    * galactic plane survey : 200+deg@xmath4 to a 1-@xmath15 depth of 15mjy at 850@xmath0 m in 450h * gould s belt survey : mapping of molecular clouds ( @xmath1500deg@xmath4 ) to 3mjy ( 850@xmath0 m ) in 412h * debris disk survey : survey of 115 nearby stars to a depth of 1.4mjy ( 850@xmath0 m ) in 270h * local galaxy survey : imaging of 150 nearby galaxies down to 1.6mjy ( 850@xmath0 m ) in 100h * cosmology survey ( 850@xmath0 m ) : 10deg@xmath4 ( several fields ) to 1.2mjy ; ( 450@xmath0 m ) : 0.25deg@xmath4 to 1.2mjy , for a total time of 1778h * scuba-2 ambitious sky survey : 1100deg@xmath4 down to 30mjy at 850@xmath0 m in 480h    although the main strength of scuba-2 is in wide - field mapping , the camera can also image compact sources very quickly .",
    "17 is a short ( 2hour ) 850@xmath0 m observation of the famous debris disc surrounding the main sequence star fomalhaut @xcite which extends to just under 1arcmin in length .",
    "debris discs arise from collisions amongst planetetesimals in which the dusty residue spreads into a belt around the host star .",
    "their study reveals much about the material left over after planet formation , the size of such systems compared with our own , the clearing out of comets that preceded the appearance of life on earth , and even the detection of distant debris - perturbing planets ( e.g. exo - neptunes ) that can not be found by any other technique .",
    "the scuba-2 image took just one - fifth of the time of the previous scuba map to the same s / n level .",
    "given that the per - bolometer nefd values are very similar , the gain over scuba for compact and point - like source is largely due to not having to employ sky chopping to remove the atmosphere and `` jiggling '' of the seconday mirror to produce a nyquist - sampled image .",
    "the disc is comparable to the size of the kuiper belt in our own solar system and studying such discs therefore gives valuable insight into planetary system formation and evolution in our galaxy .",
    "m. the ridge of compact cores extending to the lower right in the figure runs parallel to the galactic plane .",
    "the field size of this image is @xmath11deg and the dynamic range is such that cores ranging in flux density from 40jy to @xmath720mjy are detected .",
    "image provided courtesy of scuba-2 commissioning team.,width=302 ]    wide - field imaging of sites of star formation in our own galaxy is one of the key elements of several of the legacy surveys .",
    "a full understanding of the star formation process also requires an appreciation of how the rare , massive stars form and shape the evolutionary history of giant molecular clouds and subsequent star and planet formation .",
    "the early stages of high - mass star formation are not well understood , largely because they occur so fast and are consequently rare .",
    "a census of high - mass star formation throughout the galaxy is possible with scuba-2 .",
    "18 shows a scuba-2 map at 850@xmath0 m of the w51 star forming region , containing a ridge of massive star - forming cores runing parallel to the galactic plane .",
    "studies such as this will show the rarest of evolutionary phases and allow an understanding of what defines the highest mass end of the stellar initial mass function .",
    "the sensitivity of scuba-2 equates to a mass sensitivity of 1m@xmath16 at a distance of 3kpc and bf 180m@xmath16 at 40kpc , sufficient to detect all the significant high - mass and cluster forming regions throughout the galaxy .",
    "another key area of the survey programme is to image the cold dust in nearby spiral galaxies .",
    "the bulk of star formation activity in nearby spirals is often missed by ir studies , since most of the dust mass resides in cold , extended , low - surface brightness discs , often far from the galactic nucleus .",
    "the studies so far have revealed that up to 90per cent of the total dust mass can be located within galactic discs .",
    "dust temperatures are around 1020k and so radiate strongly in the submillimetre region .",
    "19 shows a _ hubble space telecope ( hst ) _ image of the famous `` whirlpool galaxy '' m51 ( and associated companion ngc5195 ) overlaid with scuba-2 colours ( blue for 450@xmath0 m ; red for 850 ) .",
    "scuba-2 clearly detects the nuclei of these two interacting galaxies and the fainter 850@xmath0 m emission traces the optically - hidden dust lanes .",
    "furthermore , the imaging power and spatial resolution achievable allows the study of regions of hot star formation in the outer arms of the spiral galaxy .",
    "m ; red for 850 ) superimposed on a green - scale _ hst _ image .",
    "scuba-2 traces star formation via the emission from cold dust in the outer most regions of galaxy .",
    "the scuba-2 image is provided courtesy of todd mackenzie , and the hst image is acredited to nasa , esa , s. beckwith ( stsci ) and the hubble heritage team ( stsci / aura).,width=340 ]    the final example of the versatility of scuba-2 is an observation of one of the most massive known cluster lenses , abell 1689 at @xmath17 = 0.18 .",
    "rich clusters are nature s telescopes that can be used to more efficiently study distant , star - forming galaxies .",
    "figure 20 is a 850@xmath0 m deep daisy map of the abell 1689 cluster field .",
    "the total field is approximately 13arcmin in diameter and is known to contain over 50 lensed sources spanning a redshift range from 16 .",
    "when scuba observed this field it detected 2 sources with snr of greater than 4 and another 5 with tentative 3-@xmath15 detections @xcite .",
    "scuba-2 imaged the field in a fraction of the time and detects 15 sources at greater than 5-@xmath15 with many dozens at greater than 3-@xmath15 , confirming a mapping speed of over 100@xmath3 scuba .",
    "scuba-2 is clearly a very powerful instrument for studying the distant universe .",
    "scuba-2 is the world s largest format camera for submillimetre astronomy .",
    "it represents a major step forward in submillimetre instrumentation in terms of the detector and array architecture , observing modes and dedicated data reduction pipelines .",
    "the new technologies developed for scuba-2 represent a major strategic investment on behalf of the jcmt and instrument funding agencies .",
    "the instrument has already shown incredible versatility with astronomy applications being very broad - based , ranging from the study of solar system objects to probing galaxy formation in the early universe .",
    "an imaging polarimeter @xcite and fourier transform spectrometer @xcite will also be available to allow the mapping of magnetic field lines and imaging medium - resolution spectroscopy , respectively .",
    "scuba-2 maps large - areas of sky 100150 faster than scuba to the same depth , and such improved imaging power will allow the jcmt to exploit fully the periods of excellent weather on mauna kea .",
    "scuba-2 is currently undergoing a series of 6 unique legacy surveys for the jcmt community .",
    "these are highly complementary to the wider , but shallower , surveys undertaken by _ herschel _ , and are vital to fully exploit the capabilities of the new generation submillimetre interferometers and future facilities such as alma , ccat and _",
    "spica_.    m. the central inset shows the approximate region observed by scuba and the top right inset shows an _ hst _ acs image of the field .",
    "the new scuba-2 map detects 15 far - ir sources seen through the massive core of this cluster .",
    "the foreground mass amplifies the fluxes of the background source , enabling fainter sources to be detected , below the blank - field confusion limit of the jcmt .",
    "image is provided courtesy of the scuba-2 guaranteed - time team.,width=321 ]",
    "the jcmt is operated by the joint astronomy centre on behalf of the science and technology facilities council of the united kingdom , the netherlands organisation for pure research , and the national reserach council of canada .",
    "additional funds for the construction of scuba-2 were provided by the canada foundation for innovation .",
    "ade p. a. r. pisano g. , tucker c. , weaver s. , 2006 , in zmuidzinas j. , holland w.s . , withington s. , duncan w. d. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "6275 , millimeter abd submillimeter detectors and instrumentation for astronomy iii .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 62750u          audley  m.  d. , pisano  g. , holland  w.  s. , duncan  w.  d. , parkes  w. , ade  p.  a.  r. , 2004 , in zmuidzinas j. , holland w. s. , withington s. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "5498 , millimeter and submillimeter detectors for astronomy ii .",
    "spie bellingham , p. 416",
    "bastien p. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , in bastien , p. , manset n. , clemens d. p. , st - louis n. , eds .",
    ", asp conf .",
    "449 , astronomical polarimetry 2008 : science from small to large telescopes .",
    "soc . pac . , san francisco , p. 68",
    "bintley  d. et al . , 2010 , in holland w. s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds . ,",
    "spie conf .",
    "7741 , millimeter , submillimeter , and far - infrared detectors and instrumentation for astronomy v. spie , bellingham , p. 774106",
    "bintley  d. , kuroda j. t. , starman e. g. , craig s. c. , holland w. s. , 2012a , in holland w. s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "8452 , millimeter , submillimeter , and far - infrared detectors and instrumentation for astronomy vi .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 84523c",
    "bintley  d. , et al .",
    ", 2012b , in holland w. s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds . , proc .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "8452 , millimeter , submillimeter , and far - infrared detectors and instrumentation for astronomy vi .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 845208",
    "craig  s.  c. et al .",
    ", 2010 , in holland w. s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "7741 , millimeter , submillimeter , and far - infrared detectors and instrumentation for astronomy v. spie , bellingham , p. 77411k",
    "di francesco j. , evans n.j .",
    "ii . , caselli p. , myers p. c. , shirley y. , aikawa y. , tafalla m. , 2007 , in reipurth b. , jewitt d. , keil k. , eds . ,",
    "protostars and planets v , university of arizona press , tucson , p. 17",
    "economou f. et al . , 2011 , in evans i. n. , accomazzi a. , mink d. j. , rots a. h. , eds .",
    ", asp conf .",
    "442 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xvii .",
    ", san francisco , p. 203",
    "gao  x. et al . , 2008 , in duncan w. d. , holland w. s. , withington s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds . ,",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "7020 , millimeter and submillimeter detectors and instrumentation for astronomy iv .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 702025",
    "gaudet , s. , dowler p. , goliath s. , redman r. , 2008 , in bunclark p. s. , lewis j. r. , eds .",
    ", asp conf .",
    "394 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xvii .",
    ", san francisco , p. 135",
    "gom  b. , naylor d. a. , 2010 , in holland w. s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "7741 , millimeter , submillimeter , and far - infrared detectors and instrumentation for astronomy v. spie , bellingham , p. 77412e",
    "gostick d. , montgomery d. , mcgregor h. , woodcraft  a. , gannaway f. , 2004 , in moorwood a. f. m. , iye m. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "5492 , ground - based instrumentation for astronomy .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 1743",
    "hollister  m. i. , mcgregor  h. woodcraft  a. , bintley  d. , macintosh  m. j. , holland  w. s. , 2008 , in duncan w. d. , holland w. s. , withington s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "7020 , millimeter and submillimeter detectors and instrumentation for astronomy iv .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 702023",
    "hollister  m. i. , woodcraft  a. , holland w. s. , bintley  d. , 2008 , in duncan w. d. , holland w. s. , withington s. , zmuidzinas j. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "7020 , millimeter and submillimeter detectors and instrumentation for astronomy iv .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 70200y",
    "jenness t. , berry d. s. , cavanagh b. , currie m. j. , draper p. w. , economou f. , 2009 , in bohlender d. a , durand d. , dowler p. , eds . , asp conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "411 , astronomical data analysis and systems xviii .",
    ", san francisco , p. 418",
    "tucker c. , ade p. a. r. , 2006 , in zmuidzinas j. , holland w.s . , withington s. , duncan w. d. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "6275 , millimeter abd submillimeter detectors and instrumentation for astronomy iii .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 62750",
    "t    walther c. a. , gao x. , kelly b. d. , kackley r. d. , jenness t. , 2010 , in radziwill n. m. , bridger a. , eds .",
    "spie conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "7740 , software and cyberinfrastructure for astronomy .",
    "spie , bellingham , p. 77400y"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> scuba-2 is an innovative 10000 pixel bolometer camera operating at submillimetre wavelengths on the james clerk maxwell telescope ( jcmt ) . </S>",
    "<S> the camera has the capability to carry out wide - field surveys to unprecedented depths , addressing key questions relating to the origins of galaxies , stars and planets . with two imaging arrays working simultaneously in the atmospheric windows at 450 and 850@xmath0 m , </S>",
    "<S> the vast increase in pixel count means that scuba-2 maps the sky 100150 times faster than the previous scuba instrument . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we present an overview of the instrument , discuss the physical characteristics of the superconducting detector arrays , outline the observing modes and data acquisition , and present the early performance figures on the telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we also showcase the capabilities of the instrument via some early examples of the science scuba-2 has already undertaken . in february 2012 , scuba-2 began a series of unique legacy surveys for the jcmt community . </S>",
    "<S> these surveys will take 2.5years and the results are already providing complementary data to the shorter wavelength , shallower , larger - area surveys from </S>",
    "<S> _ herschel_. </S>",
    "<S> the scuba-2 surveys will also provide a wealth of information for further study with new facilities such as alma , and future telescopes such as ccat and _ </S>",
    "<S> spica_.    [ firstpage ]    instrumentation : detectors , bolometers  telescopes : submillimetre , jcmt . </S>"
  ]
}