{
  "article_text": [
    "motivated both by the desire for deeper understanding of basic physics and of numerous potential applications , there has been a great deal of work over the last few years devoted to cooling small molecules @xcite and molecular ions @xcite .",
    "this follows up on a few decades of exciting progress in cooling and trapping of atoms and atomic ions .",
    "molecules , of course , are far more challenging , due to their complex internal structure , particularly their many internal degrees of freedom , such as vibrational and rotational levels , in addition to fine and hyperfine structure .",
    "a number of approaches have been pursued , with varying degrees of success .",
    "while making molecules cold has been achieved in numerous ways , reaching the ultra - cold regime , and particularly the quantum degenerate regime , has been limited .",
    "the most general methods of cooling molecules use buffer gases and supersonic expansion @xcite , or velocity filtering @xcite techniques .",
    "another direct approach is stark decceleration @xcite . on the other hand , direct laser cooling of molecules , in analogy to the very successful approach for neutral atoms ,",
    "was long deemed impractical due to the complex level structures .",
    "the simplest and most widespread method of direct laser cooling of atoms is doppler cooling , where radiative forces originate from momentum transfer to atoms from a laser field , and subsequent spontaneous emission of slightly higher energy photons into random directions .",
    "repeating this optical cycle tens of thousands of times cools neutral atoms very quickly to the doppler limit ( which is mass dependent , but typically reaches sub - mk temperatures ) . for molecules ,",
    "the problem with the conventional scheme is that excited states can radiatively decay out to a multitude of other states .",
    "this leads to decays that destroy any closed cycling transitions .",
    "exciting population from all these states back to the starting point requires an impractically large number of lasers .",
    "only recently has laser cooling of a special class of molecules been demonstrated @xcite based on insights from earlier work @xcite .",
    "most successful at reaching into the ultra - cold regime are methods that create the molecules from previously cooled atoms .",
    "however , the number of molecules produced in this way is fairly small @xmath0 .",
    "such methods include photoassociation @xcite and magnetoassociation ( exploiting feshbach resonances ) @xcite .",
    "while the former has been a well - established technique to produce homonuclear dimers from cold atoms , its application to produce heteronuclear molecules from two different species of laser - cooled alkali atoms is more recent .",
    "such diatomic molecules can be polar , and this is of particular interest ( see , for example , reviews in @xcite ) .",
    "the usefulness of polar molecules arises because they , unlike neutral atoms , interact via the characteristic long - range , anisotropic dipolar interaction , making them controllable by external electric fields . on the other hand , they are less strongly coupled to the environment than ions , making them less prone to decoherence @xcite .",
    "this makes them attractive for quantum manipulation , such as for quantum information processing @xcite , and precision measurements to test symmetries @xcite and the constancy of fundamental  constants \" @xcite .    additional interest lies in alkali - alkali earth dimers such as lisr , one of the molecules studied here .",
    "in contrast with alkali dimers , the unpaired spin makes them able to be manipulated with both external electric and magnetic fields .",
    "this provides an avenue for different physics to be explored , whether in fundamental tests , as qubits , in optical lattices where the competing interactions are important , or potentially even for use in atomic clocks where atoms such as sr are already showing great potential @xcite .",
    "cooling , trapping and quantum manipulation of polar molecules will have an important impact on a diverse range of fields beyond just fundamental tests and quantum computing .",
    "one such example is in condensed matter physics , through quantum  emulation \" or simulation of many - body quantum physics that is inaccessible to even today s ( and any day s ) high - performance computers , let alone to analytical solution ( for example @xcite ) .",
    "cold polar molecules trapped in optical lattices make an extremely interesting many - body system ( with long - range dipole - dipole interactions ) promising a rich variety of novel quantum phases , such as supersolids and topologically ordered states @xcite .",
    "one can imagine many other novel strongly - correlated quantum phases , particularly in reduced dimensions @xcite .",
    "local control of the density or orientation of polar molecules may allow one to create or simulate charge density waves or ( pseudo- ) spin - density waves , or even a random , glassy system .",
    "another and rapidly emerging area is ultra - cold chemistry @xcite . in the regime where the de broglie wavelength of the molecule becomes comparable , or even orders of magnitude larger than the molecule itself ,",
    "the classical notion of a reaction coordinate is at odds with quantum mechanics .",
    "coherent population transfer methods ( e.g. , stirap ) have already produced a gas of fermionic @xmath1k@xmath2rb molecules with a temperature of a few hundred nano - kelvin at a phase - space density getting very close to that needed to achieve degeneracy . in this regime one",
    "expects entirely new phenomena in looking at chemical reactions at ultralow energies @xcite .",
    "in addition to just potential energy surfaces being relevant , the ultracold reaction rate is controlled by quantum statistics and quantum coherence effects , including tunneling . moreover ,",
    "quantum statistics only allows certain collisions , and tunneling leads to threshold laws .",
    "in this regime , quantum control also can take on new meaning , with resonance - mediated reactions and collective many - body effects becoming prominent .",
    "polar molecules also provide a handle for control through application of relatively weak electric fields .    among applications ,",
    "cold molecules hold great promise for improving sensors of all sorts .",
    "so far , all demonstrated matter - wave interferometric sensors utilize atoms .",
    "using dipolar molecules instead of atoms could lead to orders - of - magnitude improvements in the sensitivity of such sensors @xcite .",
    "the advantage comes from the ability to guide the molecules with modest electric field gradients , thereby creating steeper confining potentials .",
    "steeper potential gradients allow one to load waveguide structures more efficiently ; this leads to a larger number of particles and better statistical sensitivity . also because of the steeper potentials",
    ", molecules can be kept further away from the wires and guiding surfaces , thus improving performance , as these are major sources of decoherence . moreover , because sensitivity ( e.g. , to rotation ) is proportional to the area enclosed by an interferometer , a large - area storage ring ( with electrostatic guiding ) @xcite becomes a possible interferometer .",
    "bi - alkali molecules produced thus far include rbcs @xcite , krb @xcite , nacs @xcite and lics @xcite .",
    "photoassociation and magnetoassociation can be combined with stirap to allow coherent population transfer into a low - energy bound state , and significantly enhances the rate of molecular production @xcite .",
    "the strength of the dipole moment in these diatomics is critical to their possible uses , ranging from their potential as qubits , their use in precision measurement experiments , the nature of their quantum phase transitions , as well as simply their ability to be manipulated .",
    "this motivates our study , which is focused on applying first principles methods to two polar diatomics , one a bi - alkali , and one an alkali - alkali earth .",
    "specifically , we use quantum monte carlo in combination with basis set methods to look carefully at krb and lisr , both in their ground states ( @xmath3 and @xmath4 , respectively ) .",
    "since the bonds in all these systems are weak , and consist of a mixture of covalent and van der waals bonding mechanisms , first principles calculations tend to be quite involved and highly sensitive to basis sets , degree of correlation included , nature of approximations , and other factors .",
    "density functional theory ( dft ) for van der waals systems is often less than satisfactory , typically showing a varying degree of overbinding without any obvious systematic trends .",
    "several new dft functionals with corrections for dispersion interactions have been proposed very recently ; see for example , @xcite .",
    "however , thorough testing and benchmarking of these new dft approaches is necessary before they can be reliably applied across a variety of systems .",
    "dispersion interactions result from transient - induced polarizations between the interacting constituents , and are therefore subtle many - body effects which are difficult to capture in the functionals framework .",
    "on the other hand , the powerful arsenal of basis - set correlated methods , such as configuration interaction ( ci ) , have their own challenges for systems such as these .",
    "for example , the dipole moment can be very sensitive to the basis set , and convergence for weakly bonded systems can be very slow @xcite .",
    "in addition , the dipole moment appears highly sensitive to the level of correlation used , especially for problems which require multi - reference treatment .",
    "this is well known , but a systematic study can be found in ref .",
    "our ci results here also demonstrate this .",
    "it is therefore important to explore other types of methods to understand the impact of many - body effects more thoroughly .",
    "a highly accurate alternative approach is quantum monte carlo ( qmc ) @xcite .",
    "qmc is very attractive since it is in principle exact ; in practice due to approximations it has a residual weak sensitivity to the size of basis sets , and it captures the correlations at a level of 90 - 95% @xcite .",
    "that is something that is quite difficult to achieve by correlated methods based on expansions in basis sets .",
    "in fact , there are previous studies of molecular dipole moments calculated by qmc methods for a few molecular systems .",
    "schautz and colleagues carried out qmc study of the carbon monoxide molecule and obtained a very good estimate for this non - trivial problem in which correlation reverses the sign of the dipole obtained at the hartree - fock level @xcite .",
    "the dipole moment of the lithium hydride molecule was computed by fixed - node diffusion monte carlo ( dmc ) in a good agreement with experiment @xcite .",
    "recently , several transition metal monoxide molecules have also been calculated by qmc methods .",
    "besides the binding energies and equilibrium bond lengths , the dipole moments were also calculated , all with reasonably good agreement to experiment @xcite .",
    "in addition , transition dipole moments such as for the li atom were calculated by qmc approaches some time ago @xcite .      for our calculations here",
    ", we employ the two most common qmc methods , variational and fixed - node diffusion monte carlo ( vmc and dmc ) @xcite .",
    "we summarize just the main points of the algorithms .",
    "vmc is based on the variational principle , and the monte carlo method of evaluation of multi - variate integrals .",
    "given a trial wavefunction @xmath5 , we sample a set of points in the 3@xmath6 dimensional space of electron  configurations \" according to the probability density @xmath7 , where @xmath8 denotes the set of spatial coordinates of all electrons . the expectation value of an operator @xmath9 is evaluated over @xmath10 samples , and is given by    @xmath11 + \\epsilon_{stat}\\ ] ]    where @xmath12 labels the samples (  random walkers \" ) , and @xmath13 is the statistical error , which scales as @xmath14 .",
    "+ diffusion monte carlo in contrast is based on a stochastic process which solves the imaginary - time many - body schrodinger equation , projecting out the ground state through iteration of a short - time green s function as @xmath15 where @xmath16 .",
    "the wave function @xmath17 is the solution we are seeking , while @xmath5 is a trial function , and @xmath18 is the green s function or propagator that evolves @xmath19 @xcite .",
    "the fixed - node approximation is imposed by preventing walkers from crossing the nodal hypersurface of @xmath20 ( i.e. , the zero locus of @xmath5 ) .",
    "this condition restricts @xmath21 so that the sampled probability density remains non - negative everywhere . in this manner",
    "we can evade the well - known fermion sign problem @xcite .",
    "since the nodes of the trial function are not necessarily precisely those of the exact wave function , the fixed - node condition introduces a bias . from a large body of work using this method , we know that the typical size of the fixed - node bias is between 5 and 10% of the correlation energy , essentially for all systems , including molecules , clusters and solids @xcite .",
    "the quality of the trial wave function plays two roles .",
    "first , highly accurate trial functions lead to smaller statistical fluctutations and faster qmc sampling and convergence .",
    "second , better trial functions typically go hand - in - hand with improvements of the nodal hypersurfaces , and hence result in smaller fixed - node bias .",
    "clearly , we want to use the best trial function we can .",
    "traditional methods , including correlated approaches , provide a convenient starting point in this respect .",
    "in addition , however , quantum monte carlo can employ explicitly correlated wave functions as well , without prohibitive computational cost .",
    "this enables us to reach beyond the limits of traditional approaches , even before beginning to project out the true ( fixed node ) ground state .    in our calculations ,",
    "we have used the slater - jastrow trial wave functions @xmath22 which embody both the traditional computational chemistry starting point and explicit correlation in the two factors . the antisymmetric part @xmath23 is often given by a single configuration state function which is a product of slater spin - up and spin - down determinants , or , more generally , by a linear combination of such configurations .",
    "this linear combination of configurations with , say , single and double excitations , becomes the configuration interaction ( ci ) expansion @xmath24 the orbitals for our slater determinats are obtained from hartree - fock calculations , and our ci expansion is calculated using the gamess package .",
    "the jastrow factor contains electron - ion , electron - electron , and electron - electron - ion correlation terms .",
    "the electron - electron correlation functions build in the correct electron - electron cusps .",
    "the actual forms we use for the jastrow factor are described in detail in ref @xcite .",
    "the jastrow variational parameters and the ci expansion coefficients are optimized in vmc by minimizing a linear combination of the variational energy and the variance of the local energy , @xmath25/\\psi_t$ ] .",
    "the optimized trial function is then employed in our fixed - node dmc runs .      in diffusion monte carlo ,",
    "expectation values of quantities which commute with the hamiltonian are exact @xcite ; however , expectation values of non - commuting operators , @xmath26 , are estimated by mixed estimators , i.e. , with the distribution @xmath27 , instead of @xmath28 .",
    "one can correct for this in a number of ways @xcite .",
    "a commonly used approximation is @xmath29 exact sampling of @xmath28 , while computationally more complex and significantly more costly , is also possible @xcite .",
    "accuracy gained from exact sampling methods is limited by any approximations involved , both fundamental and technical .",
    "these include , e.g. , the fixed - node restriction and the localization approximation in treating the nonlocal effective core potentials ( see below ) .",
    "since the optimization of the wave function is done stochastically on finite samples , it is difficult to eliminate a possible optimization bias reflecting differences in the localization error with different jastrows .",
    "this is especially so in the case of weakly bonded systems such as lisr ( with bonding of the order of 0.006 a.u . ) .",
    "therefore , with any likely improvements to be invisible , the results below are based on the mixed estimator , which provides a good balance between accuracy and efficiency of the calculations .      for heavy atoms we use effective core potentials ( ecps ) to eliminate the core electrons .",
    "in particular , we employ energy consistent , small - core ecps @xcite for the atoms beyond the first row . for this work we explored ecps with different core sizes , and we found that the results appeared to converge with the small - core ecps .",
    "in fact , two different sets of small - core ecps provided essentially the same overall picture of the electronic structure as described below . in the context of the qmc calculations , the ecps are localized by a projection onto the trial function , making the ecps contributions to the local energy formally similar to the other terms in the hamiltonian , as described in detail elsewhere @xcite .",
    "the pseudopotential we ultimately used for the bulk of the calculations here removes small cores for the elements beyond the first row , with the resulting configurations of valence electrons in krb given as k(@xmath30 ) and rb(@xmath31 ) .",
    "gaussian basis sets used in the calculations were gradually increased in size until we observed saturation to about @xmath32 0.001 @xmath33 at the self - consistent level ; basis sets of 25s22p13d/[4s4p3d ] were used for both k and rb . in the lisr calculation , we kept all li atom electrons in the valence space , while for sr we eliminated 18 core electrons , so that the valence configuration became sr@xmath34 . quite extensive basis sets for sr and li , with sizes 7s6p5d1f/[7s4p2d1f ] and 27s7p1d/[7s5p1d ] , provided saturated hf energies at the level of 0.001 @xmath33 or better .",
    "a proper description of the dipole moments requires high - quality correlated methods .",
    "this is true in particular for lisr , which does not exhibit any binding at the hf level .",
    "( krb , on the other hand , has a single @xmath35 bond , so that using a single - reference wave function , and ci with single and double excitations , was deemed to be appropriate in this case . ) for lisr we explored several correlation levels and sizes of active occupied and virtual spaces . in particular , we carried out singles and doubles ( sd ) with 5 active occupied and 70 virtual orbitals ; sd and triples ( sdt ) with 5 active occupied and 55 virtual orbitals ; sdt and quadruples ( sdtq ) with 3 active occupied and 48 virtual orbitals .",
    "excitations beyond doubles proved to be important for the lisr dipole moment .",
    "even with quadruples included , it remained difficult to be certain that the correlations were adequately described .",
    "this is where qmc methods provide an important alternative , and a powerful option to probe for correlations beyond what is practical with ci . for qmc",
    ", the ci wave functions only serve as a starting point  as trial functions .",
    "they are truncated to only their most significant terms by imposing a cutoff on the weights of the configuration state functions .",
    "different cutoff values from 0.05 to 0.01 were tested .",
    "it turned out that the optimal cutoff value is around 0.03 - 0.05 .",
    "( values smaller than this no longer decreased the qmc energy within the detectability of the error bars . ) using a cutoff of 0.05 for lisr and 0.03 for krb , we were able to improve the nodal surfaces ( evidenced by lower qmc energy ) with reasonable efficiency and statistical consistency .",
    "the energy that we obtain as a function of bond length is shown in fig .",
    "1 , for lisr in fig . 1a , and krb in fig .",
    "we compare our best ci calculation with the diffusion qmc ( dmc ) results . for lisr , we show the qmc results with two different trial functions , dmc1 and dmc2 .",
    "we see that the qmc correlation energy for both molecules is considerably better than that found by the ci method , and provides significant overall improvement of the potential energy surfaces .",
    "we show only correlated methods , as hf gives no binding at all for lisr .",
    "as previously discussed , the dipole moment of lisr is particularly sensitive  to pretty much everything ( basis set size , level of correlation in the theory , nodes in the qmc trial function , etc . ) .",
    "we show in fig . 2 this sensitivity with respect to amount of correlation in the theory .",
    "as is clear , ci sdt , which is often sufficient , has not converged here .",
    "it would be difficult to know if even ci sdtq is sufficient were it not for our qmc calculation . in fig .",
    "3a we compare the ci sdtq result for the dipole moment with our two qmc calculations with different trial functions . while the two qmc results are not identical , they vary immensely less than the different ci calculations",
    ". moreover , the qmc with refined nodes from the multi - reference trial function gives almost the same results as ci sdtq .",
    "this provides additional confidence in this result .",
    "this can be seen better in the expanded figure 4 , where we compare the dipole moment of lisr as computed from only correlated methods , and compare our results against a recent result in the literature as well .",
    "[ cols=\"^ , > \" , ]",
    "we have carried out careful calculations of the dipole moments and potential energy curves for the krb and lisr molecules using hartree - fock , configuration interaction , and fixed - node diffusion quantum monte carlo methods .",
    "the calculations show significant effects of the electronic correlations on the magnitude of the dipole moments over the whole range of the investigated interatomic distances .",
    "although single determinant qmc already captures most of the correlation energy , the low - lying excitations need to be explicitly included into the trial function for the lisr dimer , particularly for accurate computation of the dipole moment .",
    "the need is clear from the fact that the weights of some configurations beyond the reference hf configuration are significant .",
    "comparisons of ci(sd ) with ci(sdtq ) clearly illustrates the multi - reference nature of the ground state .",
    "the accuracy of our results is supported by the consistency between our most extensively correlated ci approach and our methodologically quite distinct qmc results .",
    "in addition , the high percentage of the correlation energy recovered by qmc ( @xmath32 90% ) captures most of the dynamical correlation , and therefore provides much more extensive insight into how correlations affect sensitive molecular properties .",
    "e. r. hudson , phys .",
    "a. * 79 * , 032716 ( 2009 ) ; x. tong , h. winney , and s. willitsch , phys .",
    "lett . * 105 * , 143001 ( 2010 ) ; d. i. schuster , lev s. bishop , i. l. chuang , d. demille , and r. j. schoelkopf , phys .",
    "a * 83 * , 012311 ( 2011 ) ; f. h. j. hall , m. aymar , n. bouloufa - maafa , o. dulieu , and s. willitsch , phys .",
    "lett . * 107 * , 243202 ( 2011 ) .",
    "a. andre , d. demille , j. m. doyle , m. d. lukin , s. e. maxwell , p. rabl , r. j. schoelkopf , and p. zoller , hybrid quantum information processing with polar molecules , in _ international conference on atomic physics ( icap 2006 ) _ , ed .",
    "by c. roos , h. hffner , and r. blatt * 20 * , 128 ( 2006 ) .",
    "a. d. ludlow , t. zelevinsky , g. k. campbell , s. blatt , m. m. boyd , m. h. g. de miranda , m. j. martin , j. w. thomsen , s. m. foreman , jun ye1 , t. m. fortier , j. e. stalnaker2 , s. a. diddams , y. le coq , z. w. barber , n. poli , n. d. lemke , k. m. beck , c. w. oates , science * 319 * , 1805 ( 2008 ) ; m. d. swallows , m. bishof , y. lin , s. blatt , m. j. martin , a. m. rey , j. ye , science * 331 * , 1043 ( 2011 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> heteronuclear dimers are of significant interest to experiments seeking to exploit ultracold polar molecules in a number of novel ways including precision measurement , quantum computing , and quantum simulation . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate highly accurate born - oppenheimer total energies and electric dipole moments as a function of internuclear separation for two such dimers , lisr and krb . </S>",
    "<S> we apply fully - correlated , high - accuracy quantum monte carlo methods for evaluating these molecular properties in a many - body framework . </S>",
    "<S> we use small - core effective potentials combined with multi - reference slater - jastrow trial wave functions to provide accurate nodes for the fixed - node diffusion monte carlo method . for reference and comparison </S>",
    "<S> , we calculate the same properties with hartree - fock and with restricted configuration interaction methods , and carefully assess the impact of the recovered many - body correlations on the calculated quantities . for lisr we find a highly nonlinear dipole moment curve , which may make this molecule s dipole moment tunable through vibrational state control .    </S>",
    "<S> ultracold polar molecules , lisr , krb , quantum monte carlo , fixed - node approximation , electron correlation , quantum simulations . </S>"
  ]
}