{
  "article_text": [
    "optical gyroscopes are precision instruments widely applied in inertial guidance of aiplanes , rockets and vessels . the scientific applications of gyroscopes include geophysical and general relativity measurements @xcite .",
    "research - type gyroscopes for the measurement of the fluctuations of the earth rotation rate @xmath0 have been successfully implemented as active ring laser gyroscopes . in these ,",
    "counter - propagating laser waves oscillate and generate a beat signal .",
    "the ring laser gyroscope at fundamentalstation wettzell ( germany ) currently exhibits the best long - term stability .",
    "it has a ring area @xmath1  m@xmath2 and reaches approx . @xmath3",
    "relative resolution in @xmath0 for integration times of 1 hour to 1 day @xcite .",
    "this is made possible by operating the gyroscope in a ( passively ) very stable laboratory environment , and employing active stabilization techniques , which suppress fluctuations of ring area and of other properties of the gyroscope .",
    "since the potential sensitivity of gyroscopes scales with the enclosed area , early on large gyroscopes were conceived and implemented , in particular one reported by michelson and coworkers in 1925 with enclosed area @xmath4",
    "km@xmath2 and recently a 834  m@xmath2 ring laser gyroscope in new zealand @xcite . in interferometric ( passive ) fiber - optic gyroscopes @xcite",
    ", a large sensitivity may be achieved in a compact footprint by coiling a fiber with thousands of turns , yielding areas of tens of m@xmath2 .",
    "it is of interest to consider alternative approaches to the established ones , for example in view of increasing the number of operating gyroscopes , so as to improve the combined signal - to - noise ratio of the measurement of fluctuations of @xmath0 .",
    "the recent development of long - distance , fiber - based optical frequency transfer links @xcite provides important information for such approaches .",
    "these links use commercial or research network underground telecommunication fibers in the 1.5  m spectral range . in the immediate future , it is intended to use such links to compare atomic clocks located in different laboratories , in order to characterize their performance and to set up a network of clocks implementing a future new definition of the unit of time .",
    "it is also foreseen to use comparisons between distant clocks for local measurements of the gravitational potential of the earth , making use of the general - relativistic effect of time dilation .    in view of these developments , we discuss here whether existing fiber links could enable a complementary application , namely gyroscopes .",
    "that is , we consider applying the concept of the small - scale interferometric fiber gyroscope to an already installed underground fiber network .",
    "consider the geometry shown in figure  [ fig : schematic - of - a fiber g ] , which is similar to a usual passive fiber gyroscope .",
    "the fiber loop ( ring ) would in practice be formed by sections of existing underground fiber that are selected to form a closed path , enclosing an area @xmath5 . from a station",
    "a ( frequency - stable ) laser wave of angular frequency @xmath6 is sent around a fiber loop in the two opposite directions . if the fiber loop is very long , at intervals of ca .",
    "200 km amplifiers are required that coherently amplify the two counter - propagating waves .",
    "after their respective round - trips , the two waves are brought to interference .",
    "the interference signal contains the sagnac phase ,    @xmath7 which does not depend on the index of refraction of the fiber .",
    "for example , for a circular loop of circumference @xmath8  km , assumed for simplicity to be perpendicular to @xmath9 , and for earth s rotation rate @xmath10  , the sagnac phase for a wavelength 1.5  m is @xmath11  rad . usually , the phase itself is not of interest , but its time variations .",
    "one condition for proper operation of such a large - area fiber interferometer is that the amplifiers introduce only a small nonreciprocal phase shift .",
    "this appears to be fulfilled by using the recently demonstrated brillouin amplifiers @xcite .",
    "a second condition is that the `` fast '' fiber length noise , i.e. that due the spectral components with fourier frequency larger than @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the light propagation time around the fiber , and which would prevent the two counter - propagating waves from experiencing the same optical path , is sufficiently averaged out . by using a long enough integration time @xmath14 , the fiber noise will be common to both light waves .",
    "this is discussed in more detail in section iii .",
    "b.    [ figure : fiber network](color online ) schematic of a fiber gyroscope using part of an existing fiber network ( red ) .",
    "a wave produced by a laser source in the transmitter node is split and sent around the loop in both directions ( black arrows ) . at the same node",
    "the waves are received and interfered , producing the sagnac signal . @xmath15",
    "are the loop length and enclosed area , respectively.,title=\"fig : \" ]    ( color online ) optical layout of the fiber gyroscope .",
    "four waves of equal frequency are propagating around the loop .",
    "full lines denote clockwise propagating waves , dashed lines counter - clockwise propagating ones .",
    "d1 , d2 , d3 are photodetectors at which interference of two waves occurs .",
    "their signals contain information about relative phases and their time variations .",
    "@xmath16 is the phase from which the sagnac phase @xmath17 is determined . ]",
    "figure [ fig : optical - layout - of ] shows in more detail the set - up considered here . originating from a common laser source , one wave ( @xmath18 )",
    "is injected clockwise into the loop and one wave ( @xmath19 ) is injected counterclockwise .",
    "the phases at the ends of their loops are    @xmath20    @xmath21    here , @xmath17 is the sagnac phase , @xmath22 is the usual propagation phase shift ( @xmath23 is the propagation constant ) , @xmath24 is the kerr phase shift caused by the presence of the optical waves having finite intensity , and @xmath25 is a non - reciprocal phase shift of thermal origin ( shupe effect @xcite ) . at the end of their loop propagations , waves @xmath26 are partially extracted and interfere on a photo - detector d1 , producing the sagnac signal .",
    "it is given by    @xmath27    note that it is modified by kerr and shupe contributions .",
    "in addition , at the end the loop , each wave is partially reflected ( possibly frequency - shifted by an acousto - optic modulator ) and sent back to the loop beginning .",
    "these waves , denoted by @xmath28 and @xmath29  , experience the phase shifts    @xmath30    @xmath31    from these waves we can form two more signals @xmath32 at the detectors d2 and d3 , respectively , which carry information about the round - trip phases ,    @xmath33    @xmath34    a stabilized fiber is one in which one of these two , say , @xmath35 is measured and kept constant in time by active feedback .",
    "finally we can form ( electronically ) the difference round - trip phase    @xmath36    this signal carries information only about disturbances .",
    "consider the state - of - the - art long - buried - fiber link ( @xmath37 km ) of terra _ et al . _",
    "@xcite , at the wavelength 1.5  m. in effect , they have implemented a device that can measure the sagnac phase , although their loop had essentially zero enclosed area .",
    "it is not a conventional sagnac interferometer with counter - propagating waves for which the propagation phases cancel , but a single - wave geometry in which the round - trip propagation phase @xmath35 is kept constant by fiber stabilization .",
    "the crucial measurement performed by them in this context is the phase noise present on the wave traversing the stabilized link once ( i.e. half a round - trip ) , i.e. on the signal @xmath38 .",
    "this is equivalent , in absence of the shupe and kerr effect contributions , to one - half the phase noise of the sagnac signal @xmath17 .",
    "terra et al . measured a spectral noise density @xmath39rad@xmath40hz for @xmath41hz @xmath42  hz .",
    "it may be assumed that this value holds also for lower frequencies @xmath43 , since the fiber is stabilized .",
    "thus , the phase error incurred over an integration time @xmath14 is @xmath44 .",
    "the corresponding relative sensitivity of the earth rotation rate measurement is @xmath45 .",
    "if this noise would average down ideally , for a one - day - long integration ( @xmath46  h ) the extrapolated relative resolution of the earth rotation rate would be @xmath47 .",
    "the non - orthogonality of the loop and earth rotation axes and the above factor one - half will moderately increase this number .",
    "it has been predicted @xcite and confirmed for @xmath48 km @xcite that @xmath49 and therefore @xmath50 scale as @xmath51 the sagnac phase , however , scales as @xmath52 for a circular loop .",
    "thus , the relative resolution could improve for longer fiber links as @xmath53 , if no unexpected other effects show up .",
    "the expression for the sagnac phase shows that for reaching a desired sensitivity for determining changes in @xmath54 requires the instability of the frequency @xmath6 and of the enclosed area @xmath5 to be correspondingly small over the desired integration time .",
    "the frequency @xmath6 can be kept constant to the @xmath55 relative level or better by stabilizing the laser frequency to an atomic clock reference , so this influence is negligible .",
    "however , an active stabilization of the area @xmath5 does not seem possible , due to lack of a way of directly determining the area ( independently from measuring the sagnac effect ) .",
    "the following considerations indicate the relevance of variations of @xmath5 and approaches which may be useful in reducing them .",
    "the first approach relies on the passive stability of the fiber .",
    "consider the fiber length @xmath56 ( ring perimeter ) stability as an indicator of enclosed area stability .",
    "fibers that are installed underground are `` quiet '' with respect to their optical length noise .",
    "several groups have characterized the level of frequency instability achievable in optical carrier wave transmission along long , unstabilized fiber links .",
    "terra et al .",
    "@xcite measured the relative frequency instability @xmath57 imposed on an optical wave after passage through a 480  km unstabilized , dark fiber link to be @xmath58 or less for integration times @xmath14 between 10  s and 500  s , the longest integration time reported in their study .",
    "kefelian et al .",
    "@xcite observed a roughly constant level below @xmath59 for @xmath14 up to 100 000  s in a 108  km long fiber link .",
    "lopez et al .",
    "@xcite measured a similar level for 150  km of telecommuncation fiber carrying internet data .",
    "the corresponding optical phase instability is approximately @xmath60 .",
    "for the first example , @xmath61  rad at @xmath62  s and correspondingly higher at longer integration times . referred to a @xmath63500 km length , this implies a relative instability of the optical path length of @xmath64 at @xmath65  500  s ( @xmath66 is the refractive index of the fiber ) .",
    "it is dominated by fluctuations of the index of refraction of the fiber , whose temperature sensitivity is significantly larger than that of the length . at first sight ,",
    "the above value would indicate a relative area instability of less than @xmath67 for integration times up to 500  s. however , there may be area variations not related to perimeter length variations , e.g. by ground movement .",
    "assume for simplicity a circular ring .",
    "requiring an area instability @xmath68 ( a necessary condition if a earth rotation rate sensitivity better than the best gyroscopes is aimed for ) for a ring of @xmath69  km , leads to the requirement @xmath70  m for the ( ring - averaged ) radius change .",
    "such a level may be realistic over sufficiently short time intervals ( minutes to hours ) .",
    "the level of instability of the area over medium and long averaging times is of fundamental importance and should be determined experimentally .",
    "the second approach is an active one .",
    "the optical phase accumulated over the loop ( ignoring the sagnac phase ) may be written as    @xmath71 where the dependence of the fiber index on the strain @xmath72 and the temperature @xmath13 along the fiber has been introduced . a taylor expansion of the integral for small , but position - dependent variations in the fiber length , the strain , and the temperature around their respective mean values @xmath73 yields the phase deviation as    @xmath74    @xmath75 denotes the overall length variation .",
    "the subscripts @xmath72 and @xmath13 indicate partial derivatives of the refractive index with respect to strain and temperature , respectively .",
    "note that the refractive index depends on the optical frequency @xmath6 , but its derivatives do so as well .",
    "consider sending three sufficiently spaced frequencies @xmath76 ( which should lie in the spectral region in which the fiber has low propagation loss and for which optical amplifiers are available ) around the ring and measuring the three corresponding phase deviations @xmath77 as a function of time . in order not to accumulate sagnac phases ,",
    "the measurement is done by the sending the waves around the ring and back the same way ( as in fiber link stabilization procedures ) , whereby each total phase is twice the single - turn phase ( after fast fluctuations are averaged out ) .",
    "the corresponding signal is given in eqs.([eq : phi_a , rt ] ) or ( [ eq : phi_b , rt ] ) . by linear combination of the three phase deviations",
    "@xmath78 with weights determined by the refractive index partial derivatives , we may extract information about the loop length variation @xmath75 .",
    "this variation may be actively compensated using e.g. a special piece of fiber being part of the ring , whose temperature or strain can be actively modified .",
    "based on the achievements in long - distance fiber links it is expected that the fiber geometrical length @xmath56 can be stabilized to a relative level far below @xmath79 for all relevant integration times .",
    "this stabilization could be helpful in reducing also the area fluctuations and this hypothesis should be tested experimentally .",
    "however , the link stabilization can not compensate variations of the encompassed area @xmath5 that are not due to variations of the link length @xmath56 .",
    "it should be noted that this approach is conceptually related to the active perimeter stabilization implemented in the large ring laser gyroscope @xcite .",
    "we suggest as a third option a more complicated link network to reject such area variations , shown in figure  [ fig : proposed - fiber - network ] ( left ) . in it , one link is added which splits the original area @xmath5 in two approximately equal parts @xmath80 .",
    "this results in three gyroscopes , i , ii , and the combined loop i - ii , which can be operated independently , either simultaneously or alternating . consider now a change in area of the combined gyroscope i - ii due to a spatial displacement of link section @xmath81 .",
    "this will result in a signal in the i - ii gyroscope , but also in the smaller gyroscope i , while not in the gyroscope ii . by detecting such a signature ,",
    "the signal on the i - ii gyroscope would be identified as a disturbance .",
    "a similar reasoning applies if the i - ii gyroscope area changes due displacement of other sections . in contrast , a change in rotation rate @xmath54 yields a common ( but unequal ) signal on all three gyroscopes .",
    "the sensitivities of the three gyroscopes to rotation differ because of the different areas , but these areas can be computed from a measurement of the geometry ( e.g. using gps ) and taken into account in the disturbance rejection analysis .",
    "more complicated geometries can be considered , e.g. the one shown in figure  [ fig : proposed - fiber - network ] ( right ) , containing two stations and four gyroscopes . with such geometries , the rejection of disturbances might be even more effective .",
    "in addition to the instability of the enclosed area we point out that the sagnac phase contains the scalar product @xmath82 .",
    "variations in the orientation of the fiber loop with respect to the earth axis will thus also produce signals . these may be undesired for some applications but possibly useful for others .    [",
    "figure : more complicated geometries](color online ) proposed fiber network geometries for the discrimination of area changes . left : simplest geometry with three gyroscopes i , ii , and i - ii .",
    "the laser waves traveling in these three gyroscopes from the single station are indicated by the red , green , and black arrows , respectively .",
    "right : more complex geometry .",
    "station 1 operates the outer fiber loop enclosing areas @xmath83 .",
    "station 2 operates ( possibly alternating ) the three smaller individual loops i , ii , iii .",
    "laser waves are indicated by arrows , but are not color - coded .",
    "for example , a change in the outer loop area by deformation of the outer loop link subsection @xmath81 can be detected and rejected by correlation with of the sagnac signal from gyroscope i and non - correlation with signals from gyroscopes ii and iii .",
    "if instead a deformation of the link subsection @xmath84 occurs this would not appear in the outer gyroscope signal , but can nevertheless be detected by anti - correlation between the signals from gyroscopes i and iii and noncorrelation between the signals from gyroscope i and gyroscope ii.,title=\"fig:\"](color online ) proposed fiber network geometries for the discrimination of area changes .",
    "left : simplest geometry with three gyroscopes i , ii , and i - ii .",
    "the laser waves traveling in these three gyroscopes from the single station are indicated by the red , green , and black arrows , respectively .",
    "right : more complex geometry .",
    "station 1 operates the outer fiber loop enclosing areas @xmath83 .",
    "station 2 operates ( possibly alternating ) the three smaller individual loops i , ii , iii .",
    "laser waves are indicated by arrows , but are not color - coded .",
    "for example , a change in the outer loop area by deformation of the outer loop link subsection @xmath81 can be detected and rejected by correlation with of the sagnac signal from gyroscope i and non - correlation with signals from gyroscopes ii and iii .",
    "if instead a deformation of the link subsection @xmath84 occurs this would not appear in the outer gyroscope signal , but can nevertheless be detected by anti - correlation between the signals from gyroscopes i and iii and noncorrelation between the signals from gyroscope i and gyroscope ii.,title=\"fig : \" ]        the shupe effect @xcite is caused by the presence of a time - dependent inhomogeneous temperature distribution in the fiber . in a conventional fiber - optic gyroscope , there are two counter - propagating waves .",
    "the wave sections reaching the detector at the same time have crossed every section of the fiber loop , except the one at the center , at a different time . at the two times of passage the respective values of",
    "the temperature will differ ( due to temperature drift ) , causing a different phase shift for the two waves due to the finite thermo - optic coefficient @xmath85 and the fiber thermal expansion coefficient @xmath86 .",
    "the differential phase accumulates over the length of the fiber , giving rise to a non - reciprocal phase shift @xmath25 which adds to the sagnac phase .",
    "as the temperature drift @xmath87 is not constant in time , @xmath25 and therefore the total phase drifts .",
    "according to the model given by shupe , the time interval @xmath14 between the passages of the clockwise and counterclockwise wave through a fiber section located at a distance @xmath88 from one end is given by @xmath89 , where @xmath23 is the propagation constant .",
    "then , the total nonreciprocal phase is    @xmath90    here , @xmath91 has been used . note that @xmath92 vanishes if the temperature change rate is constant over the fiber length . a model assumption for the inhomogeneous temperature change in the fiber discussed by shupe",
    "is @xmath93  .",
    "shupe proposed and studies have been performed on particular winding ( coiling ) geometries in order to reduce the effect .",
    "these special geometries are obviously not applicable here .    in order to model the shupe effect for a long buried fiber ,",
    "we divide the length @xmath56 into @xmath94 intervals , each of which has a particular temperature drift rate uncorrelated with that of the neighboring intervals .",
    "the temperature drift rates are assumed to have a gaussian random distribution with zero mean and standard deviation @xmath95k / h , a typical value for buried fibers @xcite .",
    "a numerical modeling shows that the total phase also has a gaussian distribution with zero mean , and a standard deviation approximately given by @xmath96  . for a loop length @xmath97 km and @xmath98 intervals ,",
    "@xmath99 22  rad .",
    "this is a large value and time - varying temperature drift rates will overwhelm any earth rotation rate fluctuation signal .",
    "consider now the configuration used in fiber noise cancellation ( figure [ fig : optical - layout - of ] ) : a wave running in one direction around the loop , reflected back at the end and returning to the emitter .",
    "now , the sum of time delays for reaching the same fiber section @xmath88 on the forward and backward trips , is always @xmath100  .",
    "therefore @xmath101  .",
    "the difference @xmath102  between the two round - trip phases , introduced above in eq.([eq : delta phi_rt ] ) , is therefore independent of the shupe effect and only contains information about the kerr effect .    for concreteness",
    ", we explicitly state the shupe effect contributions for the four one - way propagation phases introduced in eqs.([eq : a , cw],[eq : b , ccw],[eq : a , ccw],[eq : b , cw ] ) ,    @xmath103    here we have introduced the parameter @xmath104 , and the short - hand notation @xmath105  .",
    "@xmath24 are kerr phases discussed further below .",
    "we see that @xmath106 always occurs in combination with @xmath107  .",
    "this part of the shupe contribution is therefore always measured together with the sagnac phase .",
    "it is not possible to determine @xmath17 alone from any linear combination of the above four phases .",
    "returning to the sagnac signal , eq.([eq : sagnac signal ] ) , we ignore the kerr effect for the time being and have    @xmath108    although both @xmath17 and @xmath109 are proportional to @xmath6 , the latter coefficient has an additional ( weak ) dependence on @xmath6 through the factor @xmath110 .",
    "therefore , we can again consider the possibility of using waves of different frequencies @xmath6 . with two frequencies",
    ", we may produce the signals @xmath111 and @xmath112  .",
    "they are not linearly dependent , and we may produce an appropriate linear combination and extract the sagnac phase @xmath113 and the shupe contribution@xmath114 independently .",
    "thus , it is in principle possible to measure the shupe effect of the standard sagnac configuration by measuring at different optical frequencies , at least if we neglect the influence of the kerr effect .",
    "it therefore should be possible to correct for the shupe effect , although to what level is a question that experiments have to answer .",
    "this correction is compatible with active stabilization of one of the two round - trip phases .      the intensity of any wave propagating inside a fiber changes the refractive index via the optical kerr effect . in the standard sagnac geometry with two counter - propagating waves of powers @xmath115 @xmath116",
    "there arises a nonzero differential phase shift @xmath117 if the average powers of the two waves are not equal , since for each fiber length interval @xmath118 , there arises both a self - kerr phase shift and a cross - kerr phase shift ( which has an additional factor 2 ) , given by @xmath119 @xmath120 where @xmath121 is the kerr coefficient @xcite .",
    "obviously , the solution to this problem consists in equalizing the two powers @xmath122 by appropriate means and this has been implemented experimentally by several groups @xcite .",
    "another approach , recently demonstrated @xcite , is the use of a photonic crystal fiber instead of a standard fiber , but this solution is not compatible with already installed fibers and also exhibits much higher fiber loss .",
    "for a long - distance fiber link , where optical amplifiers are present , the situation becomes more complex .",
    "for example , in the approach of using brillouin amplification @xcite , the power @xmath123 of the pump waves injected into the fiber ( of order tens of mw ) also induces a change of the index of refraction .",
    "however , the effect on the phases of the two counter - propagating waves is equal because it is a cross - kerr effect , @xmath124 and this particular kerr contribution cancels in the standard sagnac geometry .",
    "we now extend the discussion to the configuration of fig .",
    "[ fig : optical - layout - of ] .",
    "we take into account that in each fiber section there are five waves present : the pump wave ( @xmath125 ) ( there is no need to differentiate the contributions in cw and in ccw direction , only the total power is considered ) and the four `` signal '' waves @xmath126  and @xmath127 , each with arbitrary position - dependent powers",
    ". therefore ,    @xmath128 and analogously for the other three signal waves .",
    "the kerr contributions to the sagnac signals are therefore    @xmath129    @xmath130    for the round - trip phase difference introduced in eq.([eq : delta phi_rt ] ) , we have @xmath131    this signal is certainly useful for monitoring how large the fluctuations of the average powers are .    how to perform active stabilization of one of the kerr contributions , say @xmath132 ?",
    "ideally , we would measure and control both length - averaged powers @xmath133 and @xmath134 .",
    "but these average values appear not to be easily measurable .",
    "for example , if we turn off alternating either wave @xmath18 or @xmath19 in order to determine its effect in the sagnac signal @xmath16 or on @xmath102  , we also loose these signals",
    ". we may instead reduce the input power of the @xmath18 and of the @xmath19 waves by a fixed fraction ( as set by an accurate power measurement ) .",
    "this will not necessarily reduce the average power by the same fraction , since there may be saturation effects inside the fiber due to the amplification stages .",
    "nevertheless , the difference in the signal with full and reduced power might be used as the quantity that is kept constant by acting back on the input power .",
    "another option is to stabilize the @xmath18 and @xmath19 powers exiting the fibers and reaching the detectors .",
    "a test of the suitability of this approach could be performed by implementing this stabilization for the four waves appearing in eq.([eq : delta phi_rt explicit power dependence ] ) , and characterizing the resulting stability of @xmath102 .",
    "it seems possible to extend these procedures to the case of use of multiple frequencies considered in sec .",
    "[ sub : shupe - effect ] .    in another potential solution ,",
    "one is led to measure the powers at several locations along the loop and stabilize their values actively , e.g. by using a feedback servo on the amplifier pump source closest to the measurement point ( note that brillouin amplification is unidirectional ) or to the laser source . while it is possible to distinguish between the @xmath135 and @xmath136 waves using directional couplers , it is less straightforward to distinguish between the waves @xmath137 and @xmath138 running in the same direction , as they have nearly the same frequency .",
    "one possibility consists in amplitude - modulating with different frequencies the two waves @xmath18 and @xmath19 before entering the fiber , and detecting the corresponding power modulation signals .",
    "other noise sources exist in fiber gyroscopes , such as rayleigh back - scattering . the scaling derived for usual fiber gyroscopes",
    "@xcite indicates that the effect is strongly reduced for large rings .",
    "the link stabilization technique will compensate for changes in the effect arising from the round - trip wave propagation , but the rotation signal will have a contribution that depends only on the counterclockwise wave propagation .",
    "thus the stabilization technique does not appear to provide a means to compensate for the effect .",
    "however , modulation techniques that have been suggested for fiber gyroscopes should also be applicable to giant rings .",
    "in this note , we proposed the use of optical fibers belonging to installed underground fiber networks for an implementation of gyroscopes with potentially high sensitivity , thanks to the giant encompassed area , on the order of @xmath139  m@xmath2 .",
    "the stability of the gyroscope is of crucial importance if a high sensitivity is to be attained . while a study of the perturbations affecting large ring laser structures has uncovered difficulties @xcite ,",
    "it is here suggested that in a stabilized , buried fiber - based gyroscope the perturbations may be of different type .",
    "the most basic requirements for the implementation were discussed .",
    "it was furthermore pointed out that the shupe effect may be measured using a multi - frequency approach , allowing to correct the sagnac signal which is affected by it .",
    "no elegant measurement concept for determining the kerr effect was found , so that an indirect technique is required instead .",
    "approaches considered for achieving an approximate stabilization of the relevant loop - averaged powers are a point - wise stabilization of each wave s power , or an output power stabilization , or a stabilization of the round - trip phase difference .",
    "a further crucial requirement is a time - stable enclosed area @xmath5 .",
    "the level of instability of large fiber loop areas has not been measured so far , to the author s knowledge , and and should be determined experimentally .",
    "a gyroscope that aims at being a competitive instrument for earth rotation rate studies requires a relative area instability of @xmath67 or less ( i.e. an area variation not larger than on the order of 10  m@xmath2 for a giant fiber loop ) .",
    "it is an open issue whether this is achievable , but even a much higher instability could lead to useful applications , since a giant fiber gyroscope implements an averaging over a larger area , and thus a different kind of measurement as compared to conventional instruments . in the best case , the passive stability of buried fibers will provide sufficient area stability due to averaging of disturbances over a large spatial scale , in particular if the measurement can be performed within a sufficiently short time .",
    "this would come at the expense of sensitivity , however , since a short averaging time does not allow to average down the noise significantly .    in another ,",
    "still favorable case , there might be a partial correlation between area change and geometric path length change , in which case a measurement of length fluctuations and their active compensation or correction could represent a partial solution .",
    "extensions of long - distance fiber link stabilization techniques , aiming to stabilize the geometric path length @xmath56 instead of the optical path length @xmath140 are suggested for this purpose .    as a third option ,",
    "more complex fiber network gyroscope geometries might be helpful for spurious signal rejection due to area changes .",
    "they require more , but not fundamentally different infrastructure as compared to the simplest ring geometry .",
    "the latter two approaches may be helpful in achieving low gyroscope instability also on long time scales .",
    "finally , it is suggested that experimental studies are undertaken to verify the concepts proposed here . to be specific ,",
    "it is desirable to extend the noise measurements performed by terra et al . to lower frequencies ; to verify the suggestion of dual frequency use for extraction of the shupe effect and the use of three frequencies for length stabilization ; to measure the kerr - effect - induced phase fluctuations , and to verify the feasibility of the power stabilization procedures sketched here .",
    "_ note : _ during the finalization of the revised version of this manuscript , the first experimental realization of a large - area fiber sagnac interferometer using existing telecom fiber links has been reported by clivati _",
    "et al _ , arxiv:1212.5717 .",
    "the 20  km^2^ area gyroscope exhibits a noise floor of @xmath141 relative to the earth rotation rate .",
    "f. bosi , g. cella , a. di virgilio , a. ortolan , a. porzio , s. solimeno , m. cerdonio , j. p. zendri , m. allegrini , j. belfi , n. beverini , b. bouhadef , g. carelli , i. ferrante , e. maccioni , r. passaquieti , f. stefani , m. l. ruggiero , a. tartaglia , k. u. schreiber , a. gebauer , j .-",
    "r. wells , `` measuring gravitomagnetic effects by a multi - ring laser gyroscope '' .",
    "physical review d 84 , 122002 ( 2011 ) .",
    "k. u. schreiber , t. klgel , j .- p .",
    "r. wells , r. b. hurst , and a. gebauer , `` how to detect the chandler and the annual wobble of the earth with a large ring laser gyroscope '' , phys .",
    "107 , 173904 - 7 ( 2011 ) , doi:10.1103/physrevlett.107.173904      r. b. hurst , g. e. stedman , k. u. schreiber , r. j. thirkettle , r. d. graham , n. rabeendran , and j .- p .",
    "r. wells , `` experiments with an 834 m@xmath2 ring laser interferometer '' , j. appl . phys .",
    "105 , 113115 ( 2009 ) ; http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.3133245        f. kflian , o. lopez , h. jiang , c. chardonnet , a. amy - klein , g. santarelli , `` high - resolution optical frequency dissemination on a telecommunications network with data traffic '' , opt .",
    "34 , 1573 - 5 ( 2009 )    o. lopez , a. haboucha , f. kflian , h. jiang , b. chanteau , v. roncin , c. chardonnet , a. amy - klein , g. santarelli , `` cascaded multiplexed optical link on a telecommunication network for frequency dissemination '' , opt .",
    "18 , 16849 - 57 ( 2010 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the availability of long - distance , underground fiber - optic links opens a perspective of implementing interferometric fiber - optic gyroscopes embracing very large areas . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the potential sensitivity , some disturbances and approaches to overcome them . </S>"
  ]
}