{
  "article_text": [
    "some binary systems contain rotation powered pulsars which are energetic enough to prevent accretion of matter from stellar winds of companion stars .",
    "these pulsars can create strong pulsar winds which collide with the winds of the companion stars . as a result",
    ", a shock structure appears within the binary system on which particles can be accelerated to relativistic energies .",
    "a few types of such binaries have been discovered up to now .",
    "the most famous is a class of `` black widow '' binaries in which energy output from the millisecond pulsar can even partially evaporate the companion star .",
    "the companion stars in these systems are characterised by small masses , below @xmath6m@xmath7 , and relatively strong winds induced by energy released by the pulsar . in another type of such binaries , the so - called `` redback '' binary systems , the energetic millisecond pulsar forms a binary system with a low mass @xmath8 m@xmath7 star ( see @xcite ) . up to now",
    ", only one binary system has been discovered in the galaxy to contain a classical @xmath0-ray pulsar on a close orbit around the massive , be type , star ( i.e. psr 1259 - 63/ss 2883 , @xcite ) .",
    "it has been proposed that other binary systems can also contain ejecting classical pulsars , e.g. lsi 303 + 61 @xcite , cyg x-3 @xcite or ls  5039 @xcite .",
    "these binaries emit @xmath0-rays in the gev - tev energy range , clearly modulated with the period of the binary system @xcite . in the most popular scenario ,",
    "these @xmath0-rays are produced by relativistic electrons which up - scatter stellar radiation in the inverse compton process , ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "since the stellar radiation field is anisotropic for electrons ejected from the pulsar or accelerated at the shock , the emission has to be modulated with the period of the binary system .",
    "however , a part of relativistic electrons in the pulsar wind can escape from the binary system without significant interactions , i.e. those moving close to the outward direction . in the case of low mass millisecond pulsar binaries ,",
    "most of the accelerated electrons can escape radially from the vicinity of the companion star , due to relatively weak radiation field .",
    "farther from the binary systems , the winds from the pulsar and the companion star have to mix due to the rotation of the binary system . as a result",
    ", it is expected that such mixed pulsar - stellar winds move together with some specific velocity determined by the energy output from the pulsar and the material content of the stellar wind .",
    "therefore , nebulae around binary systems containing rotation powered pulsars should have different structures than nebulae around isolated pulsars .",
    "we propose that such binary systems should be surrounded by nebulae composed of the mixture of the pulsar and stellar winds which expands with non - relativistic velocity .",
    "relativistic particles are expected to be captured and isotropized in the reference frame of this wind .    in this paper",
    "we consider radiation processes occurring in such nebulae .",
    "we calculate the @xmath0-ray spectra produced by relativistic electrons in the inverse compton ( ic ) scattering of thermal radiation from the companion star .",
    "in contrast to the modulated @xmath0-ray emission from the interior of the binary system , we predict the presence of a steady component of the @xmath0-ray emission produced in the nebula around the binary system .",
    "discovery of such additional component by the future cherenkov telescopes ( e.g. cherenkov telescope array , cta , @xcite ) from the binaries containing pulsars should allow to derive important parameters determining the acceleration processes in such binaries and properties of the emission region .",
    "the comparison of the predicted high energy emission with the available observations of the tev @xmath0-ray emission in the low state from already known @xmath0-ray binaries should allow to provide additional constraints on the acceleration efficiency of particles occurring around the rotation powered pulsars in the binary systems .",
    "7.5truecm    as we have outlined above we consider specific type of nebulae around binary systems containing rotation powered pulsars and companion stars with substantial mass loss rate .",
    "in fact , in such type of binaries a double shock structure appears already within the binary system in collision of the pulsar and stellar winds .",
    "its parameters are determined by the energy loss rate of the pulsar and the power of the stellar wind . in the case of spherical winds ,",
    "the distance of the shock from the star is defined by the parameter , @xmath9 @xcite , where the pulsar wind power is @xmath10 erg / s , the stellar wind mass loss rate is @xmath11 m@xmath7/yr and its velocity is @xmath12 cm / s .",
    "the closest , radial distance of the shock from the pulsar is then given by @xmath13 ) , where @xmath14 is the separation of the binary stars .",
    "for the example scaling parameters applied above , the shock should be bound around the pulsar . in the case of binary systems containing energetic millisecond pulsars ,",
    "the shocks are usually bound around the low mass companion stars due to relatively small power of the stellar winds in respect to power of the winds around massive stars .",
    "these shock structures can be much more complicated in the case of non - spherical stellar winds of massive stars of the be type ( see @xcite ) . in this last case",
    "the location of the shock structure can change drastically depending on the location of the pulsar within the polar or equatorial stellar wind .",
    "the shock structure tends asymptotically to a cone characterised by a half - opening angle @xmath15 rad , where @xmath16 min(@xmath17 ) ( see @xcite ) .",
    "however , due to the rotation of the binary system , the cone should be bound at large distances from the stars ( e.g. dubus 2006 , bosch - ramon et al .",
    "2012 ) provided that the velocity of the stellar wind is large in respect to the rotational velocity of the companion star .",
    "for @xmath18 the pulsar wind completely overtakes the stellar wind , creating a torus like structure in the equatorial plane of the binary system ( see .",
    "fig .  1 for schematic geometry ) .",
    "in this case , the pulsar wind can only propagate freely along the polar regions of the binary system . in the opposite case @xmath19 ,",
    "the stellar wind overtakes the pulsar wind . however , again in the equatorial region the pulsar wind mixes with the stellar wind as in the previous case .",
    "there are significant differences between the mixed pulsar - stellar wind in the equatorial region and the freely expanding pulsar wind in the polar region .",
    "relativistic electrons are isotropized in the reference frame of a relatively slowly expanding mixed wind .",
    "these electrons can interact efficiently with the thermal radiation from the nearby companion star .",
    "relativistic electrons in the pulsar wind , expanding in polar directions , move rectilinear from the binary system .",
    "these electrons can be isotropized only far away from the binary system where the density of stellar photons is already very low ( as in the case of pwne around isolated classical pulsars ) .",
    "these electrons are not expected to produce efficiently @xmath0-rays by scattering stellar radiation .",
    "they finally scatter the microwave background radiation and the infrared radiation in the galaxy producing extended @xmath0-ray sources which are more difficult to detect with the cherenkov telescopes .",
    "if the parameter @xmath20 is lower than unity , then the equatorial regions of the binary system are dominated by the mixed pulsar - stellar wind but the polar regions are dominated by the stellar wind . in this case",
    "all electrons in the pulsar wind are expected to be isotropized at some distance from the binary system .",
    "we calculate the factor which determines a part of the hemisphere ( the solid angle divided by @xmath21 ) in which the mixed pulsar - stellar wind ( the toroidal structure in the plane of the binary system , see fig .",
    "1 ) is confined .",
    "this factor is calculated for the known value of the half opening angle , @xmath22 , of the shock created within the binary system in collisions of these two winds .",
    "this part of the hemisphere is equal to @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the solid angle in which the mixed pulsar - stellar wind is confined .",
    "both winds are expected to mix completely at the distance from the binary system which depend on the velocity of the stellar wind and the rotational period of the binary system , @xmath25 where the period of the binary system is @xmath26 days . in the above formula we assumed that the stellar wind velocity is much greater than orbital velocity of the star which is usually the case for the considered binaries . as a result of the mixing process",
    ", the pulsar wind becomes uploaded with the stellar wind matter .",
    "the mixture of both winds starts to move together with the common velocity , @xmath27 , estimated from the energy conservation , @xmath28 where @xmath29 is the kinetic power of the stellar wind .",
    "here we neglect the energy loss of the bulk motion of the mixed winds on the isotropization of the direction of the particles in it . if the stellar wind power dominates over the pulsar wind power , then @xmath30 . in the opposite case ,",
    "@xmath31 resulting in a non - relativistic bulk motion of the mixed winds for the assumed above example parameters .",
    "relativistic electrons accelerated in the inner binary system , either by the pulsar itself or on the shock formed in the pulsar and stellar winds collision , are immersed in the mixed stellar - pulsar wind .",
    "we estimate the maximum energies of the electrons for which they are captured and confined by the mixed wind magnetic field . it is assumed that the magnetic field in the mixed wind is determined by the magnetic field in the stellar wind .",
    "it has a dipole structure only very close to the stellar surface .",
    "farther out , it has a radial structure and finally reaches a toroidal structure due to the rotation of the star ( for details see @xcite ) .",
    "the magnetic field strength with the toroidal structure can be approximated as a function of the distance from the star by the following formula , @xmath32 assuming that the transition between the region of the toroidal and the radial magnetic field occurs at the distance of @xmath33 stellar radii ( where the radius of the star is @xmath34 cm ) . in this formula ,",
    "the surface magnetic field of the star is @xmath35 g , and the distance from the star is expressed as @xmath36 cm .",
    "we assume that relativistic electrons are captured by the wind ( and advected with the wind ) if their larmor radius , @xmath37 , is lower than the characteristic distance scale given by the distance from the massive star , i.e. @xmath38 , where @xmath39 tev is the energy of an electron , and @xmath40 ( measured in gauss ) is the local magnetic field strength in the mixed wind .",
    "based on this condition , we conclude that electrons with energies , @xmath41 should be captured in the mixed stellar - pulsar wind",
    ".    electrons , captured in the magnetic field of the mixed stellar - pulsar wind , are isotropized in the reference frame of the relatively slow wind .",
    "they lose energy on the synchrotron radiation and on the ic scattering of the stellar radiation .",
    "the importance of the synchrotron energy losses can be evaluated by comparing the synchrotron cooling time scale with the advection time scale with the velocity of the winds .",
    "the advection time scale can be estimated from , @xmath42 where @xmath43 cm / s , and the synchrotron time scale from , @xmath44 where @xmath45 tev / s , @xmath46kev and electron energy @xmath47 is expressed in tev . by comparing eq .",
    "[ eq6 ] and  [ eq7 ] , we get the limit on the electron energy above which the synchrotron energy loss time scale is shorter than the advection time scale , @xmath48 this critical electron energy is equal to @xmath49 tev , for the mixture distance of the winds given by eq .  [ eq1 ] and",
    "the velocity of the mixed wind given by eq .",
    "we conclude that electrons with tev energies are not able to lose efficiently energy on the synchrotron process during their advection with the mixed pulsar - stellar wind .",
    "however , at larger energies the synchrotron energy losses should be taken into account .",
    "relativistic electrons , after isotropization by the magnetic field in the mixed pulsar - stellar wind , should lose efficiently energy also on the ic scattering of the stellar radiation .",
    "we estimate the optical depth for the ic scattering process in the thomson regime for electrons at the distance of @xmath50 on , @xmath51 where the density of stellar photons is @xmath52 @xmath53 , and @xmath54 is the characteristic time scale spend by electrons at the distance @xmath50 from the binary system .",
    "note that the scattering in the thomson regime is valid only for electrons with energies below @xmath55 gev .",
    "however , in the case of ls  5039 , the optical depth for the @xmath56tev electrons should be still close to unity , keeping in mind that the klein - nishina cross section drops inversely proportional with the electron energy .",
    "we conclude that electrons with tev energies should efficiently lose energy on the ic scattering of stellar radiation after being isotropized in the pulsar - stellar wind nebula .",
    "however , in the massive binary systems of the ls  5039 type , electrons , moving rectilinear in the pulsar wind in the outward direction from the companion star , are not expected to lose significantly energy already in the binary system due to the small scattering angles between electrons and stellar photons .",
    "the @xmath0-rays produced at the distance @xmath50 from the star should escape from stellar radiation field without significant absorption ( e.g. see the scaling formula given by eq .  26 in @xcite for the optical depths in the stellar radiation field ) .",
    "the nebulae formed by the mixed pulsar - stellar winds can have very complicated structures in the case of binary systems in which the wind of the companion star is non - spherically - symmetric or the orbit has a large eccentricity .",
    "for example , in the case of the eccentricity not far from unity the distance , @xmath50 , differs significantly for the periastron and apastron passages .",
    "these distances can be estimated from , @xmath57 , for the periastron passage and from @xmath58 for the apastron , where @xmath59 and @xmath60 are the time scales describing the passage of the compact object through a half of the orbit centered on the periastron and apastron , respectively . in such eccentric binaries",
    ", nebulae should have the shape corresponding to the shape of the orbit of the companion stars .    in the present paper",
    "we outline only qualitatively the scenario describing the process and properties of the mixing of stellar and pulsar winds and concentrate on the expected high energy radiation produced in such scenario .",
    "the details of the mixing process of the winds are very complicated .",
    "however , the first results of hydrodynamic numerical simulations of collisions of stellar winds are consistent with general features of the scenario described in this section ( see e.g.  pittard  2009 , lamberts et al .",
    "2012 ) .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab3 ]    the @xmath0-ray spectra , expected at the observer , are compared with the sensitivity of the present generation ( e.g. magic ) and future ( cherenkov telescope array , cta ) imaging atmospheric cherenkov telescopes ( iacts ) .",
    "detection of the considered here tev @xmath0-ray emission from the redback millisecond binary j1816 + 4510 with the present instruments is unlikely .",
    "however , with a deep exposure of 100 hr , such emission could be detected by cta as long as the energy conversion efficiency , @xmath3 , is at least 10% . the @xmath0-ray spectrum obtained from the _",
    "fermi_-lat observations of that source does not constrain the product of part of the hemisphere subtracted by the mixed wind and the energy conversion efficiency for this source , i.e. @xmath61 .    the @xmath0-ray spectra expected from the ls  5039 are @xmath562 orders of magnitude above the expected sensitivity of cta . with the assumed energy conversion efficiency from the pulsar to relativistic electrons ( @xmath62 )",
    ", such emission should be clearly detected even by the presently operating cherenkov telescopes . the tev emission observed from ls  5039 by the h.e.s.s .",
    "telescopes is modulated with the orbital period . on the other hand ,",
    "the emission expected from the presented here model should contribute as a constant component in the whole emission of the system .",
    "therefore , we can use the low state observed by h.e.s.s .",
    "telescopes to constrain the parameters which determine the energy transferred to the tev electrons which escape from the binary system .",
    "this power depends on the product of a part of the hemisphere in which the mixed stellar - pulsar wind is confined , @xmath2 and the energy conversion efficiency , @xmath3 .",
    "derived upper limits on @xmath61 are reported in table .  3 for different spectra of electrons in the case of ls  5039 .",
    "for the broad range of the model parameters , @xmath61 is severely constrained to be @xmath63 .",
    "it is believed that the energy conversion efficiency from the pulsar to relativistic electrons , in the inner pulsar magnetosphere and in the shock acceleration scenario , is of the order of @xmath62 .",
    "then , the part of the hemisphere in which the mixed wind is confined should be also below @xmath64 . as shown in sect .  2 , this factor depends on the half opening angle of the shock within the binary system which is determined by the value of the parameter @xmath20 . for the value of @xmath20 , calculated for the supposed shock structure in ls  5039 , @xmath2 is larger than required above ( see table 2 ) .",
    "in fact , different phenomena can effect the estimated value of @xmath2 .",
    "at first , the value of @xmath20 might be much larger than @xmath560.08 , i.e the stellar wind may not effectively confine the pulsar wind .",
    "in fact the winds around be type massive stars are expected to be aspherical with the dense and slow equatorial wind and the fast and rare poloidal wind . if the pulsar is mainly immersed in the poloidal wind , than the shock structure might even bend around the star ( see calculations in @xcite ) , i.e. the value of @xmath20 is larger than unity . in such case",
    "only a part of the pulsar wind can mix with the stellar wind .",
    "second , the electrons could be injected anisotropically from the pulsar or accelerated anisotropically in the pulsar wind . in fact , the pulsar winds are expected to be highly anisotropic with the dominant equatorial component ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "such aspherical pulsar wind will introduce significant complications to the discussed scenario .",
    "more energy in relativistic electrons will be directed to the equatorial regions of the binary system resulting in much larger effective value of @xmath20 ( even larger than unity ) .",
    "however the solid angle , in which mixed stellar - pulsar wind is confined , will become lower .",
    "simple estimations , which base on the formulae in sect .  2 , show that the increase of significant effective power of the wind in the equatorial direction results in more power transferred in the form of relativistic electrons to the nebula . however , in such a case a significant part of the particles , accelerated by the pulsar towards the companion star , could not be able to escape from the binary system due to efficient ic interactions with the stellar radiation . therefore , the final effect of the anisotropic pulsar wind on the energy transferred to nebula in the form of relativistic particles is difficult to estimate without more detailed calculations .",
    "the third possibility is that more electrons could be accelerated in the general direction towards the companion star .",
    "this might happen in the case of a significant collimation of the relativistic particles in the pulsar winds by the shock structure ( e.g. see @xcite . then , electrons lose efficiently energy on ic process before they manage to escape into the mixed wind region .",
    "we conclude that the derived limits on the parameter @xmath61 , determining the high energy emission from the nebula around ls  5039 , indicate on either different parameters of the stellar wind than usually expected in the literature , or on the importance of anisotropic stellar and pulsar winds , or on the anisotropic injection / acceleration of relativistic electrons within the binary system .",
    "we considered nebulae around binary systems which contain rotation powered pulsars and hot companion stars with a relatively large mass loss rate .",
    "such nebulae differ significantly from the pulsar wind nebulae around isolated rotation powered pulsars since a part of ( or whole ) the pulsar wind becomes loaded with the mass from the companion star . as a result , the pulsar wind relativistic plasma slows down and mixes with the matter of the stellar wind .",
    "the mixed pulsar - stellar wind moves from the binary system in the outward direction with a reduced velocity determined by the power of the pulsar wind and the mass of the stellar wind .",
    "we argue that the distance at which these two winds have to mix completely is determined by the orbital period of the binary system .",
    "this mixing process can concern the whole pulsar wind ( for @xmath19 the stellar wind pressure dominates over the pulsar wind pressure ) or only a part of the pulsar wind for @xmath18 . in the latter case ,",
    "the rest of the pulsar wind ( along polar regions of the binary system ) expands freely interacting with the interstellar medium at large distances from the binary system as observed in nebulae around isolated pulsars .",
    "due to the efficient mixing , relativistic electrons are isotropized in the reference frame of the mixed wind relatively close to the binary system .",
    "therefore , they can efficiently comptonize thermal radiation from the companion star .",
    "this is in contrary to the nebulae around isolated pulsars where the inner part of the nebula is non - radiative due to the almost radial motion of the plasma from the pulsar .",
    "we calculate the @xmath0-ray spectra produced by leptons in the ic scattering process in the case of the mono - energetic particles ( leaving the light cylinder radius of the pulsar ) and in the case of the power law spectra of leptons formed as a result of re - acceleration at the shocks produced in the pulsar - stellar wind collisions . note that this @xmath0-ray emission should be steady , i.e. independent on the phase of the binary system . as an example , we show the @xmath0-ray spectra for the supposed pulsar in the binary system ls  5039 and for the recently discovered redback type millisecond binary system j1816 + 4510 , containing relatively hot companion star . it is found that if electrons take a part of the pulsar wind energy loss rate defined by the product of the part of the hemisphere , in which the mixed pulsar - stellar wind expands , and for the acceleration efficiency of electrons @xmath65 equal to @xmath62 , than the tev @xmath0-ray emission from the millisecond binary system is comparable to the sensitivity of the cherenkov telescope array ( cta )",
    ". however , in the case of ls  5039 , electrons with such value of @xmath65 should produce @xmath0-ray emission on the level clearly above the sensitivity of both the present cherenkov telescopes and cta . by comparing",
    "the @xmath0-ray spectra predicted for ls  5039 with the tev @xmath0-ray emission in the low state established by the h.e.s.s .",
    "telescopes , and with the average _ fermi_-lat observations , we put strong limits on @xmath4 . such low limit suggest that either the parameters of the stellar wind are less extreme than considered up to now in the literature or the injection of electrons from the inner pulsar magnetosphere and/or accelerated at the shock is highly anisotropic .",
    "most of relativistic electrons might be directed towards the companion star and lose efficiently energy already within the binary system .",
    "it seems that the tev @xmath0-ray binary containing classical radio pulsar psr b1259 - 63 should be also a good candidate source for the application of the above considered model .",
    "however , this pulsar is on a very elongated orbit around the companion star .",
    "therefore , the nebula around this binary system is expected to have complicated , non - spherically symmetric shape . in this paper we provided calculations only for the binary systems which are expected to produce nebulae",
    "which can be more or less approximated by a symmetric shape .",
    "the more complicated case of the nebula around binary system , such as that containing psr b1259 - 63 , will be discussed in detail in a future paper .",
    "this work is supported by the grants from the polish mniszw through the ncn no .",
    "2011/01/b / st9/00411 and through the ncbir no .",
    "era - net - aspera/01/10 .",
    "abdo , a.a .",
    "2009 apj 706 , l56 actis , m. et al .",
    "32 , 193 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "2005 , science , 309 , 746 aharonian , f.a .",
    "et al . 2006 a&a 460 , 743 albert , j. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 693 , 303 aleksi , j. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "phys . , 35 , 435 ball , l , dodd , j. 2001 pasa 18 , 98 bednarek , w. 1997 a&a 322 , 523 bednarek , w. 2006 mnras 368 , 579 bednarek , w. 2009 a&a 495 , 919 bernlhr , k. , et al .",
    "2012 , arxiv:1210.3503 blumenthal , g.r . ,",
    "gould , r.j .",
    "rvmp 42 , 237 bogovalov , s.v .",
    "2008 mnras 387 , 63 bogovalov , s.v . ,",
    "khangoulian , d.v .",
    "2002 mnras 336 , l53 bosch - ramon , v. et al .",
    "2012 a&a 544 , 59 casares , j. et al .",
    "2005 mnras 364 , 899 casares , j. et al .",
    "2012 , in preparation dubus , g. 2006 a&a 456 , 801 dubus , g. et al .",
    "2010 mnras 404 , l55 eichler , d. , usov , v. 1993 apj 402 , 271 hadasch , d. 2012 , ijmp , conf .",
    "ser . 8 , 61 harding , a.k . , gaisser , t.k .",
    "1990 apj 358 , 561 girard , t. , willson , l.a . 1987 a&a 183 , 247 johnston , s. et al .",
    "1992 , mnras 255 , 401 johnston , s. et al .",
    "1994 , mnras 268 , 430 kaplan , d.l .",
    "2012 apj 753 , 174 a. lamberts , a. et al .",
    "2012 a&a 546 , 60 maraschi , l. , & treves , a.  1981 , mnras , 194 , 1 moldon , j , ribo , m. , paredes , j.m .",
    "2012 , a&a , in press ( arxiv:1209.6073 ) pittard , j.m .",
    "2009 mnras 396 , 1743 roberts , m.s.e .",
    "2011 , in proc .",
    "radio pulsars : an astrophysical key to unlock secrets of the universe , aip , v. 1357 , p. 127",
    "- 130 ( arxiv:1103.0819 ) sierpowska - bartosik , a. , bednarek , w. 2008 mnras 385 , 2279 stovall , k. et al .",
    "2012 , in preparation tavani , m. , arons , j. apj 477 , 439 usov , v.v . , melrose , d.b .",
    "1992 apj 395 , 575 volpi , d. et al .",
    "2008 a&a 485 , 337"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we consider nebulae which are created around binary systems containing rotation powered pulsars and companion stars with strong stellar winds . </S>",
    "<S> it is proposed that the stellar and pulsar winds have to mix at some distance from the binary system , defined by the orbital period of the companion stars and the velocity of the stellar wind . </S>",
    "<S> the mixed pulsar - stellar wind expands with a specific velocity determined by the pulsar power and the mass loss rate of the companion star . </S>",
    "<S> relativistic particles , either from the inner pulsar magnetosphere and/or accelerated at the shocks between stellar and pulsar winds , are expected to be captured and isotropized in the reference frame of the mixed wind . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , they can efficiently comptonize stellar radiation producing gev - tev @xmath0-rays in the inverse compton process . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the @xmath0-ray spectra expected in such scenario for the two example binary systems : j1816 + 4510 which is the redback type millisecond binary and ls  5039 which is supposed to contain energetic pulsar . it is concluded that the steady tev @xmath0-ray </S>",
    "<S> emission from j1816 + 4510 should be on the 100 hr sensitivity limit of the planned cherenkov telescope array , provided that @xmath1 of the rotational energy lost by the pulsar is transferred to tev electrons . on the other hand , the comparison of the predicted steady tev @xmath0-ray emission , expected from @xmath0-ray binary ls  5039 , with the observations of the tev emission in a low state , reported by the h.e.s.s . </S>",
    "<S> collaboration , allows us to put stringent upper limit on the product of the part of the hemisphere in which the mixed pulsar - stellar wind is confined , @xmath2 , and the energy conversion efficiency , @xmath3 , from the supposed pulsar to the tev electrons injected in this system , @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> this lower limit can be understood provided that either the acceleration efficiency of electrons is rather low ( @xmath5 ) , or the parameters of the stellar wind from the companion star are less extreme than expected , or the injection / acceleration process of electrons occurs highly anisotropically with the predominance towards the companion star .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : general  pulsars : general  radiation mechanisms : non - thermal  gamma - rays : theory </S>"
  ]
}