{
  "article_text": [
    "the attempts to model the supernova - driven ism can be traced to the seminal models of cox & smith ( 1974 ; cs74 ) and mckee & ostriker ( 1977 , mo77 ) . in the former supernovae ( sne )",
    "maintain an interconnected tunnel network filled with x - ray emitting gas , while in mo77 the gas is distributed into three phases in global pressure equilibrium . in both models the galactic volume ( 50% in cs74 and 70 - 80% in mo77 ) is filled with hot ( @xmath0 k ) low - density gas .",
    "further ramifications include the break - out of the hot intercloud medium , cooling and condensing into clouds ( galactic fountain ; shapiro & field 1976 ) or escaping as a wind ( e.g. , chimney model ; norman & ikeuchi 1989 ) .",
    "although these early works capture some of the essential physics , more complex and sophisticated models were devised by taking advantage of numerical simulations .",
    "these comprise the evolution of a patch of the galactic disk in two dimensions ( 2d ) ( hydrodynamical ( hd ) : bania & lyon 1980 ; chiang & prendergast 1985 ; chiang & bregman 1988 ; rosen et al .",
    "1993 ; magnetohydrodynamical ( mhd ) : vazquez - semadeni et al .",
    "1995 ) , and in three - dimensions ( 3d ) , e.g .. the mhd evolution of a @xmath1 pc@xmath2 region ( balsara et al . 2004 ) and the cosmic - rays driven amplification of the field in a differentially rotated domain ( @xmath3 $ ] kpc@xmath2 ; hanasz et al . 2004 ) . the first disk - halo evolution models ( 2d  hd )",
    "were developed by rosen & bregman ( 1995 ) . with increasing of computer power ,",
    "3d hd ( de avillez model in 2000 and upgrades - see avillez & breitschwerdt 2007 ; joung & mac low 2006 ) and mhd ( korpi et al . 1999 ; avillez & breitschwerdt 2005 ; gressel et al . 2008 ; hill et al . 2012 ) models have been developed .",
    "in general the disk - halo models consider parameters according to observations ( e.g. , initial matter distribution with height , sn rates , background uv radiation field ) .",
    "differences are found in the number of physical processes included ( magnetic fields , cosmic rays , heat conduction , etc . ) , numerical techniques , type of grid ( fixed or differentially rotated using the shear box technique ) , and grid resolutions and sizes .",
    "resolutions are fixed or benefit from the use of the adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) technique ( berger & oliger 1984 ) . the highest resolutions cover a wide range from 0.5 pc to 10 pc , passing through 2 and 8 pc .",
    "the grid sizes in the vertical direction range from 0.1 kpc to 15 kpc on either side of the galactic midplane .",
    "however , grids extending up to 2 kpc imply that the disk - halo - disk cycle can neither be established nor tracked - the simulations are valid for a small period of time before the gas escapes from the top and bottom boundaries .",
    "these simulations showed that : ( i ) the ism does not become saturated by sn activity , ( ii ) the disk expands and relaxes dynamically as sn rate fluctuates in time and space , ( iii ) the turbulent field builds up exponentially within 20 myr of disk evolution , ( iv ) the magnetic field does not strongly correlate with density , except for the densest regions , ( v ) the magnetic field does not prevent the matter escape into the halo as it only briefly delays the disk - halo cycle , ( vi ) the volume filling factor of hot gas in the galactic disk is only @xmath4 % , ( vii ) there are large pressure variations in the disk in contrast to mo77 with the thermal pressure dominating at high temperatures ( @xmath5 k ) , magnetic pressure at @xmath6 k , and ram pressure elsewhere .",
    "all models referred previously assumed the ism plasma to be in cie , represented by a unique and general cooling function ( cf ) taken from different sources ( e.g. , dalgarno & mccray 1972 ( dm72 ) ; sutherland & dopita 1993 ; gnat & sternberg 2007 ) .",
    "cie assumes that the number of ionizations is balanced by recombinations from higher ionization stages . however , cie is only valid provided the cooling timescale ( @xmath7 ) of the plasma is larger than the recombination times scales of the different ions ( @xmath8 ) , something that occurs at @xmath5 k ( see references above ) . for lower temperatures @xmath9 , and deviations from cie",
    "are expected ( see , e.g. , dm72 ) .",
    "these departures affect the local cooling , which is a time - dependent process that controls the flow dynamics , feeding back to the thermal evolution by a change in the density and internal energy distribution , which in turn modifies the thermodynamic path of non - equilibrium cooling .",
    "a major improvement in ism studies is therefore to carry out time - dependent multi - fluid calculations of the joint thermal and dynamical evolution of the plasma , i.e. to follow each fluid element s thermal history by determining its ionization structure and cf at each time - step .",
    "radiative losses are folded into the energy equation with the internal energy including also the potential energies associated to the different ionization stages .",
    "historically , there have been a number of simulations , which have included part of the ionization history into hd simulations , ( cox & anderson 1982 ; innes et al .",
    "1987 ; borkowski et al . 1994 ; smith & cox 2001 ; among others ) , misty tailored for specific astrophysical problems .",
    "the effect of delayed recombination has been emphasized by breitschwerdt & schmutzler ( 1994 ) , who have modelled the soft x - ray background .",
    "melioli et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , following the formation and evolution of hiclouds , only considered the time evolution of selected ions ( hi , hii , cii - civ , and oi - oiii ) for temperatures below @xmath10 k , using a fit to the sutherland & dopita ( 1993 ) cf for @xmath11 k. this setup has severe implications in the cooling of the gas as their calculation does not trace the relevant ions recombining to civand oiii .",
    "recently , owing to the development of the atomic+molecular plasma emission code ( ea+mpec ) and its coupling to a ppm based amr code , it has been possible to carry out multi - fluid calculations of the ism tracing both the thermal and dynamical evolutions of the gas self - consistently .",
    "the ionization structure , cooling and emission spectra of h , he , c , n , o , ne , mg , si , s , and fe ions ( with solar abundances ; asplund et al .",
    "2009 ) are traced on the spot at each time step assuming an equal maxwellian temperature for electrons and ions ( see details and references in avillez & breitschwerdt 2012 ) .",
    "these simulations showed several interesting effects : ( i ) in a dynamic ism , the ionization structure and , therefore , the cf , varies with space and time , depending on the initial conditions and its history , ( ii ) the cooling paths in general do not follow the one predicted by static plasma emission calculations , ( iii ) non - equilibrium ionization x - ray emission in the @xmath12 kev band of gas with @xmath13k can dominate the corresponding cie emission at even @xmath14 k as a result of delayed recombination , ( iv ) the presence of oviions at temperatures @xmath15 k corresponding to 70% of the total ovimass , and ( v ) a large fraction of electrons are found in the thermally unstable regime and have a log normal distribution with similar properties ( mean and dispersion ) to those derived from observations against pulsars with known distances .",
    "the dynamical and thermal evolution of the ism are strongly coupled , because the ionization structure determines the cf , which in turn controls the dynamics and thereby the ionization structure , closing a feedback loop .",
    "consequently , strong deviations from cie occur due to severe mismatches between the different ionization / recombination and dynamical time scales of the plasma",
    ". similar effects due time - dependent cooling are expected in other astrophysical contexts ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> until recently the dynamical evolution of the interstellar medium ( ism ) was simulated using collisional ionization equilibrium ( cie ) conditions . however , the ism is a dynamical system , in which the plasma is naturally driven out of equilibrium due to atomic and dynamic processes operating on different timescales . </S>",
    "<S> a step forward in the field comprises a multi - fluid approach taking into account the joint thermal and dynamical evolutions of the ism gas . </S>"
  ]
}