{
  "article_text": [
    "in february 15 2013 at about 09:20 local time a large fireball followed by a huge explosion was seen in the skies of the chelyabinsk region in russia .",
    "cameras all across the region registered the historic event creating an ah - hoc network of instruments able to potentially provide enough visual information for a reconstruction of the trajectory of the body in the atmosphere and from it the orbit of the meteoroid .",
    "the ballistic reconstruction of the orbit of bodies associated to bright fireballs is one of the tools used to study the nature and origin of these bodies .",
    "there are a relatively small number of bright - bolides whose orbit has been succesfully reconstructed , even despite the relatively large number of cases reported every year ( see e.g. @xcite ) . in some cases",
    "the lack of enough number of observations or a limited quality in the available observations renders impossible the reconstruction of the orbit .    in the case of the chelyabinsk meteoroid",
    "the number of observations and the quality of some of them seem to be enough for a successful reconstruction of the meteoroid orbit .",
    "more than several tens of videos , ranging from amateur videos , videos recorded by onboard vehicle cameras and cameras of the public transit and police network are readily available in the web ( for a large although incomplete compilation of videos see http://goo.gl/rbdzm )    in this letter we present one of the first rigorous attempts to reconstruct the orbit of the chelyabinsk meteoroid .",
    "we use here the recording of a camera located in the revolutionary square in chelyabinsk and one video recorded in the close city of korkino .",
    "both observations are used to triangulate the trajectory of the body in the atmosphere .",
    "the method used is here was first devised by stefen geen and published in one his blog , _ ogle earth _",
    "http://goo.gl/vcg3y in february 16 2013 .",
    "further details , updates , videos and additional images and plots that those released on this letter are available at http://astronomia.udea.edu.co/chelyabinsk-meteoroid .",
    "although an analysis of the data taken by scientific instruments in the affected area , combined with further analyses of the abundant information gathered by eye witnesses and in situ cameras , would allow a precise determination of the meteoroid orbit , a first attempt to reconstruct the orbit of the meteoroid would help us to ellucidate its nature and origin and would certainly improve the on - going research on the event .",
    "to reconstruct the trajectory in the atmosphere we use the same method and images originally used by stefan geen and publickly available in his blog _ ogle earth_. the original blog entry is available here http://goo.gl/vcg3y .",
    "it is interesting to stress that at using the methods and results published in the geen s blog , we are recognizing the fundamental contribution that enthusiastic people would have in specific scientific achievements .",
    "similar cases of interaction between active enthusiastic contributors ( a.k.a .",
    "_ citizen astronomers _ ) and professionals have been recently seen in other areas in astronomy ( see e.g. @xcite and @xcite )    the method cleverly devised by geen uses the shadow cast by light poles at the revolution square of chelyabinsk during the flyby of the fireball , to estimate the elevation and azimuth of the meteoroid at different stages if its impact with the atmosphere ( the original video can be found at _",
    "http://goo.gl/nncvq_ ) .",
    "to calculate elevations he height of the light poles is estimated by comparing them with their separation as given by google earth images and tools .",
    "azimuts are calculated from the angle subtended by the shadows and the border of the prospect lenina street in front of the square .",
    "the street and the square are almost perfectly aligned with the east - west and south - north directions .    for our reconstruction of the trajectory we have selected two particular times in the images recorded by a public camera located in front of the square .",
    "the first one correspond to the point when the fireball reaches a brightness enough to give clear shadows of the poles .",
    "we call this point the `` brightening point '' ( bp )",
    ". a local elevation @xmath0 and an azimut @xmath1 were found after analysing the corresponding video frame .",
    "the second time coincides aproximately with the closest point of the trajectory to the observing point .",
    "it also coincides with the time where the bolid starts to fragmentate .",
    "we call this second reference point the `` fragmentation point '' ( fp ) . the fp elevation and azimut",
    "are measured as @xmath2 and @xmath3 . the time required by the meteoroid to travel between those two points",
    "is estimated from the time stamps in the video and it was found equal to @xmath4 s. we assume that the local time of the meteoroid passage by bp is precisely provided by the time stamps in the video .",
    "hereafter we will assume @xmath59 h 20 m 29 s. this time could be affected by uncertainties up to few seconds .",
    "the information provided by a single observer is not enough to determine the meteoroid trajectory in the atmosphere .",
    "in particular we need an independent observation to estimate for example the distance and height of bp and fp with respect to the revolution square .",
    "there are several tens of independent and publickly available videos shoot at very different points in a radius of almost 700 km .",
    "however most of them were recorded by amateur equipment or cameras in vehicles making complicated to find a suitable parable of the `` virtual observations '' performed at revolution square . at the time of writing of this letter",
    "no video was yet identified with the required information to triangulate in a precise way the meteoroid trajectory .",
    "there is an extraordinary coincidence that help us to constraint the distance of the meteoroid to the center of cheliabinsk .",
    "eye witnesses and videos show that at korkin a small city to the south of chelyabinsk , the fireball streak across the local zenith . in the video publickly available here",
    "http://goo.gl/0hhdr it can be seen how the meteoroid was moving close to the zenith when the body exploded above the place were the video was shot .",
    "the precise location of the recording camera has not been yet reported by the author .",
    "other observers at korkino registered in video the huge contrail left by the meteoroid .",
    "their observations confirm that the fireball passed almost through the first vertical . in those cases again no precise information of the geographic location of the camara was either provided by the authors .",
    "finally a third vantage point should be selected to complete the triangulation of the meteoroid . as originally suggested by stefan geen the third point",
    "was chosen to be the surface of lake chebarkul , one of the many lakes in the chelyabinsk region and so far the only place where a large hole in the ice were preliminarly associated with the impact of a large fragment of the meteoroid .",
    "assuming that the fragment traveled in the same direction that the meteoroid in the atmosphere , lake chebarkul provie the intersection of the meteoroid trajaectory with the earth surface .",
    "combining the information provided by the shadows at the center of chelyabinsk , the videos and observations of the fireball and its contrail at gorkin and the impact at lake chebarkul , the trajectory of the meteoroid in the atmosphere can be constrained to the region depicted in figure [ fig : trajectory ] .",
    "there are six critical properties describing the trajectory in the atmosphere and that we need to estimate in order to proceed at reconstructing the orbit in space . the linear height @xmath6 of the reference point bp ; the elevation @xmath7 and azimuth @xmath8 of the meteor radiant which is the same elevation and aizmut of the trajectory as seen from the impact point ; the latitude @xmath9 , and longitude @xmath10 of the surface point right below bp , and the velocity @xmath11 of the meteoroid at sp that we will assume equal to its orbital velocity .",
    "all these properties are function of a single unknown free parameter : the distance @xmath12 between the central square at chelyabinsk(c ) and the surface point below bp ( see right panel in figure [ fig : trajectory ] .",
    "each value of @xmath12 correspond to a value of the azimut of the trajectory compatible with the fact that the fireball streaks the sky close or at the zenith at some points in korkino .",
    "the latter condition implies that @xmath12 is between 50 and 72 km .    in table 1",
    "we present the properties of the trajectories defined by the extreme values of the independent parameter @xmath12 .",
    ".properties of the trajectory for two extreme values of the horizontal distance @xmath12 between the revolutionary square at chelyabinsk and the meteoroid brightening point ( bp ) .",
    "the equatorial coordinates of the radiant @xmath13 and ra were calculated assuming that the meteoroid was at bp at 9 h 20 m 29 s. heights and velocity are measured with respect to the surface of the earth . [",
    "tab : trajectory ] [ cols=\"<,<,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     as expected , a large uncertainty in the impact velocity leads to large uncertainties in the orbital elements .",
    "the most affected is the semimajor axis .",
    "orbits with @xmath7 as large as 2.2 au and as small as 1.4 au were found varying the parameters of the meteoroid trajectory in the atmosphere . despite the uncertainties ,",
    "several bulk characteristics of the orbit can be reliably established .",
    "eccentricity and perihelion distance are determined at a level of around 10% error or less .",
    "the inclination , although still uncertain is in the order of magnitude of what we would expect .",
    "longitude of the asscending node and argument of the periapsis are essentially determined by the point in the meteoroid orbit where it intersects the earth s orbit .",
    "since all the orbits satisfy the condition to be in the same position at the same date ( the impact date ) these two elements are essentially the same across the whole sample .    to illustrate graphically this results we show in figure [ fig : orbits ] the reconstructed orbit and two extreme orbits compatible with the uncertainties of our reconstruction .",
    "we see in that although we can not individualize a given orbit , the general features of the meteoroid trajectory were reconstructed successfully with our procedure .",
    "finally we want to classify the meteoroid by comparing its orbit with that of already known asteroidal families . to achieve this goal we have plotted in an @xmath14 diagram the orbital elements in the random sample and compare them with that of already known asteroids belonging to the apollo , amor and atens families .",
    "the results is depicted in figure [ fig : a - e ] .",
    "we can better appreciate here the large uncertainties in semimajor axis arising from this type of reconstruction procedure . according to this figure the chelyabinsk meteoroid belonged inequivocally to the apollo family of asteroids .",
    "we have reconstructed the orbit of the chelyabinsk meteoroid .",
    "we used the most reliable information that can be found in the increasing amount of evidence recorded in video in the affected area .",
    "this is not the first attempt at reconstructing the orbit of this important object and will not be the final one .",
    "however it is the most rigurous reconstruction based solely in the evidence gathered in situ by amateur and public cameras .",
    "there are several important assumptions and hypothesis supporting our results . in the first place",
    "we assume that the time stamps used by the camera at the revolution square in cheliabinsk are precise .",
    "being a public camera recorder it is expected that some care is put at maintaining the clock of the camera on time .",
    "this is not precisely the case in most of the rest of videos available in the web where camera clocks display times off by seconds to minutes with respect to the time of the event .",
    "we have verified by running a small monte carlo sample of 10 orbits that the statistical conclusions presented here are not affected when the initial time is shifted up to 5 seconds with respect to that shown in the camera log .",
    "the largest source of uncertainty in our reconstruction , is the qualitative nature of the observational evidence in the second vantage point used in the `` triangulation '' of the meteoroid trajectory .",
    "although every video filmed at korkin shows that the fireball crossed the small city skies almost vertically there are not quantitative evidence supporting this or allowing us quantifying how `` vertical '' the phenomenon actually .",
    "further efforts to clarify this point should be attempted to reduce the uncertainties in the direction and velocity of the reconstructed trajectory .",
    "assuming that the hole in the ice sheet of lake cherbakul was produced by a fragment of the meteoroid is also a very important hypothesis of this work .",
    "more importantly , our conclusions relies strongly onto assume that the direction of the trajectory of the fragment responsible for the breaking of the ice sheet in the lake , is essentially the same as the direction of the parent body .",
    "it could be not the case .",
    "after the explosion and fragmentation of the meteoroid fragments could acquire different velocities and fall affecting areas far from the region wher we expect to find .",
    "our estimation of the meteoroid orbital velocity assume that this quantity is constant during the penetration in the atmosphere .",
    "although velocities larger than 10 km / s should not be modified too much before the meteoroid explosion or break up the points of the trajectory used in our reconstruction were close to time of explosion and fragmentation of the meteoroid .",
    "accordingly we would expect that our estimations of the velocity will underestimates the orbital velocity outside the atmosphee .",
    "a consequence of this would be that the size of the actual orbit could be larger than that obtained here .",
    "we appreciate the discussion with our colleagues at the institute of physics , prof .",
    "pablo cuartas , juan carlos muoz and carlos molina .",
    "we thank to mario sucerquia by discovering and atracting our attention to the blog of the stefan geen on which the method used in this work was based .",
    "fischer , d.  a. , m.  e. schwamb , k.  schawinski , c.  lintott , j.  brewer , m.  giguere , s.  lynn , m.  parrish , t.  sartori , r.  simpson , et  al . 2012 .",
    "planet hunters : the first two planet candidates identified by the public using the kepler public archive data. .",
    "lintott , c.  j. , k.  schawinski , a.  slosar , k.  land , s.  bamford , d.  thomas , m.  j. raddick , r.  c. nichol , a.  szalay , d.  andreescu , et  al .",
    "galaxy zoo : morphologies derived from visual inspection of galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey.   _ 389_(3 ) , 11791189 .",
    "trigo - rodrguez , j.  m. , j.  m. madiedo , i.  p. williams , a.  j. castro - tirado , j.  llorca , s.  vtek ,  and m.  jelnek 2009 . observations of a very bright fireball and its likely link with comet c/1919 q2 metcalf .   _",
    "394_(1 ) , 569576 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in february 15 2013 a medium - sized meteoroid impacted the atmosphere in the region of chelyabinsk , russia . after its entrance to the atmosphere and after travel by several hundred of kilometers the body exploded in a powerful event responsible for physical damages and injured people spread over a region enclosing several large cities . </S>",
    "<S> we present in this letter the results of a preliminary reconstruction of the orbit of the _ chelyabinsk meteoroid_. using evidence gathered by one camera at the revolution square in the city of chelyabinsk and other videos recorded by witnesses in the close city of korkino , we calculate the trajectory of the body in the atmosphere and use it to reconstruct the orbit in space of the meteoroid previous to the violent encounter with our planet . in order to account for the uncertainties implicit in the determination of the trajectory of the body in the atmosphere , we use monte carlo methods to calculate the most probable orbital parameters and their dispersion . </S>",
    "<S> although the orbital elements are affected by uncertainties the orbit has been sucesfully reconstructed . </S>",
    "<S> we use it to classify the meteoroid among the near earth asteroid families finding that the parent body belonged to the apollo asteroids .    </S>",
    "<S> meteors , asteroid , dynamics </S>"
  ]
}