{
  "article_text": [
    "the resonance transitions of the most abundant species in the universe as well as the electronic transitions of the most abundant molecules are in the ultraviolet ( uv ) range of the spectrum . hence , access to the uv range is instrumental for progress in astrophysics @xcite .",
    "the world space observatory - ultraviolet ( wso - uv ) space telescope will grant this access in the post - hubble space telescope era .",
    "wso - uv is a 170  cm diameter primary telescope with an efficient ritchey - chrtien configuration that will be operational in the 20172027 time frame .",
    "wso - uv is a russian - led mission and will be equipped with instrumentation for uv spectroscopy and imaging ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ".    the imaging and slitless spectroscopy instrument ( issis ) will be a key part of the wso - uv instrumentation .",
    "issis is the first uv imager to be flown to high earth orbit , above the earth geocorona .",
    "therefore , the uv background will be dominated by the zodiacal contribution and the diffuse galactic background due to dust - scattered starlight @xcite .",
    "the instrument has been designed to make full benefit of the heritage left by the galactic evolution explorer ( galex ) mission .",
    "galex has surveyed about 80% of the sky at uv wavelengths , providing for the first time a nearly complete view of the uv universe @xcite .",
    "however , galex spatial resolution was @xmath0  arcsec and had very moderate spectroscopic capabilities .",
    "issis resolution will be @xmath1  arcsec .",
    "the fine guiding system of the wso - uv telescope will guarantee a very high pointing stability ( better than 0.1  arcsec at 3@xmath2 ) .",
    "moreover , issis will be equipped with gratings for slitless spectroscopy with spectral resolution 500 in the full 11503200    spectral range . in imaging mode , the issis effective area is about 10 times that of the galex imagers .",
    "issis is designed to be an instrument for analysis of weak uv point sources or clumpy extended sources , especially those with well defined geometry .",
    "uv imaging instruments have been often equipped with prisms or very low dispersion grisms .",
    "the rapid decay of the resolution of prisms , such as the available in the solar blind channel of the advanced camera system , makes very difficult its use to map extended line emission at wavelengths above some 1350   .",
    "as the transmittance of narrow band filters in the far uv is @xmath3% , integral - field low - resolution spectroscopy is the main mean to map nebular emission .",
    "issis gratings will make feasible to use the powerful uv diagnostic tools to determine the location of dusty blobs and measure electron densities and temperatures . in this contribution , the science that has driven to issis design is described in section  2 .",
    "issis design is presented in section  3 and its performance is described in section  4 .",
    "issis planning and a brief summary are provided in the concluding section  5 .",
    "the key scientific drivers of the wso - uv project are :    * galaxy formation : the evolution of the star formation rate with redshift ( @xmath4 ) and the role of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) as a mass supply for star formation at moderate redshifts ( @xmath5 )  to study the characteristics of the diffuse baryonic content of the universe and its chemical evolution ; to determine , in particular , the baryonic content of the warm and hot igm and of damped lyman-@xmath6 systems ; and to investigate the role of starbursts in the chemical evolution of galaxies and the igm . * the formation and evolution of the milky way  to estimate the energy inputs of the gas interacting with stars ; and to investigate the role of magnetic fields on star formation .",
    "* the physics of accretion and outflows : the astronomical engines  to study stars , black holes , interacting binaries and , in general , all those objects where mass accretion has a relevant impact in the system evolution ; and to analise the efficiency and time scales of these phenomena as well as the role of magnetic fields , radiation pressure and disk instabilities . * extrasolar planetary atmospheres and astrochemistry in presence of strong uv radiation fields  to measure the uv radiation field from t  tauri stars and its impact on the chemical evolution of young planetary disks and planetary atmospheres .    for this purpose ,",
    "the wso - uv telescope is equipped with the imaging instrument issis and the three wso - uv spectrographs ( wuvs ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) :    * vuves , the far - uv high - resolution echelle spectrograph operating in the 11151760    range with resolution r@xmath750,000 . *",
    "uves , the near - uv high - resolution echelle spectrograph in the 17403100    range with resolution r@xmath750,000 . *",
    "lss , the long - slit spectrograph ( lss ) for low - resolution ( r@xmath8 ) long - slit spectroscopy .",
    "the width of the slit will be 1  arcsec and the spatial resolution 0.5  arcsec .",
    "lss and issis provide together a powerful tool to study extended sources since the high resolution imaging of issis complements the lss field selection capability .",
    "both issis and lss have similar spectral resolutions .",
    "the main topics that could be investigated with the instrument issis cover a wide range of astronomical issues :    * solar system  the atmospheres of the planets and satellites will be investigated as well as the impact of the solar radiation in their evolution . the connection between the solar system and extrasolar planetary systems , especially the magnetospheric processes in jupiter and saturn and the photoevaporative processes in comets , will be addressed .",
    "* stars in the milky way  the studies concerning our galaxy will focus on various subjects : stellar clusters , for which an uv atlas will be constructed and information about proper motions and stellar evolution will be obtained ; planetary nebulae , their proper motions , expansion and shocks , as well as the search for companions in infrared - bright asymptotic - giant - branch and proto - planetary nebulae @xcite ; protostellar jets and the mechanisms at work in these interesting phenomena @xcite ; the connection between magnetic activity and mass from solar - like stars to brown dwarfs and planets @xcite ; peculiar objects , such as some of the members of the @xmath2 orionis cluster , which will provide information about the complete spectrum of stellar masses in the uv from o stars down to t  tauri stars and brown dwarfs @xcite ; absorption features in the stellar radiation by the atmospheres of transiting planets @xcite . * extragalactic astronomy",
    " the issis instrument will be able to observe efficiently extragalactic objects : studies of gravitationally lensed quasars will reveal the intrinsic variability of the nuclear continuum , as well as the effects on the lensing galaxy @xcite . lyman-@xmath6",
    "emitters up to redshift @xmath9 not visible from earth can be investigated with the wso - uv ; atlases of massive stars in galaxies of the local group will be built , together with a detailed inspection of their winds @xcite .",
    "high - mass x - ray binary systems and their environments will be monitored @xcite .",
    "the issis scientific requirements @xcite driving the design are the following :    * high - resolution mapping of weak and nebulous sources such as microjets or gravitational lenses . * mapping of uv emission lines in extended emission nebulae ( h  ii regions , supernovae remnants , planetary nebulae ) and jets ( from protostars or compact objects ) .",
    "* efficient spectroscopy of weak sources such as brown dwarfs , micro jets or star forming galaxies at low redshift ( @xmath10 ) . * resolution of at least r@xmath7500 to study the absorption of stellar radiation by transiting planets , or to derive the terminal velocity of winds from o stars in the local group . * enhancement of the dynamic range with coronographs or masks in order to map the faint emission close to bright sources ( e.g. disks , jets , binary components ) . * short time resolution to track the evolution of instabilities in disks surrounding compact sources .",
    "the instrument is located below the primary mirror and above the optical bench .",
    "this location imposes additional constraints to the design , in terms of weight and size : a maximum of 61.5  kg on the optical bench is allowed , and the full instrument has to be fit within a flat cylinder of height 17  cm .",
    "issis is fed by the central part of the beam but a pick - up mirror is required to fold the beam from the telescope adding one reflection ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "+     the final design is a compromise between the scientific requirements and the telescope / platform requirements @xcite .",
    "2 shows the layout of the instrument .",
    "issis has two channels for imaging and slitless spectroscopy :    * the far ultraviolet ( fuv ) channel : working in the range 11501750   . *",
    "the near ultraviolet ( nuv ) channel : covering wavelengths in the 18503200    interval .",
    "both channels are equipped with photo - cathods with micro channel plate ( mcp ) amplifiers and cmos reading .",
    "csi and cste photocathods have been selected for the fuv and nuv channels , respectively .",
    "the use of mcps imposes strong constraints to the instrument capabilities , in particular on the field of view ( fov ) , barely 70  arcsec , and on the dynamical range .",
    "there are ongoing studies to increase the dynamical range by using masks .",
    "a set of neutral filters has been included to be able to satisfy the sensitivity requirements keeping the possibility to observe sources of moderate brightness .",
    "slitless spectroscopy is not only an efficient mean to analyse multi - objects fields , but at the same time it acts as a narrow - band filtering technique .",
    "the issis layout is arranged as a telephoto system , where positive elements are followed by negative elements , to enlarge the overall focal length .",
    "a refocusing mechanism , located at the coupling stage between the telescope and issis , changes the distance between the intermediate image from the telescope and the first mirror of issis .",
    "the operation modes are imaging , spectroscopy , and calibration , and are selected through a mode selection mechanism ( msm ; see fig .",
    "3 ) :        * imaging : the msm uses flat mirrors aligned to direct the light into the selected channel ( fuv or nuv ) .",
    "the optical filters are accommodated on two wheels for each channel ; there are long - pass and narrow - band filters for specific investigations , as well as two neutral filters for each channel , to increase the dynamical range .",
    "* spectroscopy : the beam is directed to the dispersive elements , which are reflection gratings located at the msm . in the nominal spectroscopy mode ,",
    "the filter wheels are positioned into a hole configuration ( no filter ) .",
    "the fuv diffraction grating has peak efficiency at 1400    and groove density of 450  lines / mm , while the nuv one has the peak at 2300   and 250  lines / mm .",
    "* calibration : a shutter is used to block the light from the telescope , and the beam is directed to the calibration subsystem in order to take flat - field images on a pixel - to - pixel basis .",
    "the calibration unit includes the lamp , optics and shutter .",
    "the total throughput of issis includes the reflectivity of the t-170 m telescope and issis mirrors , the diffraction grating reflectivity and the sensitivity curves of the mcp detectors . the expected value for the imaging mode will be of about 1% at 1300    ( fuv ) and 7% at 2500    ( nuv ) ,",
    "while for slitless spectroscopy the peaks will be about 0.4% at 1300    and 3% at 2500    ( fuv and nuv , respectively ) .",
    "the radiometric sensitivity of issis can be evaluated using the exposure time calculator ( etc ) described below .",
    "4 shows the throughput of the various components and the estimated total throughput in the whole wavelength range .",
    "+     one of the issis key drivers is the mapping of extended sources ; this implies a proper sampling of the the point spread function ( psf ) .",
    "the fine guiding sensors in the wso - uv should provide a spatial resolution of 0.1  arcsec at 3@xmath2 .",
    "thus , the issis optical system modifies the t-170 m focal length to have this psf sampled by 23 pixels . according to optical simulations",
    ", an asymmetrical psf is expected : this effect can not be avoided at uv wavelengths , since the optical quality is dominated by geometrical , non - symmetric aberrations .",
    "the asymmetry in the psf is close to 17% and to 8% in the fuv and nuv channels , respectively .",
    "5 displays an example of psf simulation on two different scales ; since the two channels share the same optics , a similar psf behaviour is expected for both of them .",
    "the field of view is limited by the photocathods sensitive area in the mcp detectors and the spatial resolution to @xmath71.2  arcmin .",
    "this field of view will permit direct imaging as well as obtaining images of extended nebular objects in the most prominent spectral lines in the slitless spectroscopy mode .",
    "table  [ tabissis ] shows a summary of the main issis characteristics .",
    ".characteristics and performance of the issis instrument . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tabissis ]      astronomers can use the etc developed by the science team at universidad complutense de madrid to evaluate the exposure time needed for an observation , in order to achieve a desired signal - to - noise ratio ( s / n ) , and vice versa . the etc is a web - based application available through the project website at http://www.wso-uv.es .",
    "it appears as a user - friendly interface with five main fields shown in fig .  6 , which are :        * channel : to select among the two issis channels ( fuv and nuv ) .",
    "* mode : for each channel the spectroscopy or imaging mode are allowed , and the user can select the optical filters on the wheels . *",
    "input data : the input can be given as a continuum flux , setting its value , a spectral line ( absorption or emission ) , or a predefined distribution uploaded by the user as an ascii file .",
    "other options are a blackbody distribution",
    "( by choosing the effective temperature and magnitude ) , or an atlas9 atmosphere model by @xcite .",
    "* parameters : in this section the user gives the desired s / n , and obtains the exposure time from the calculations , or vice versa .",
    "the output window shows the calculated s / n or time , depending on the user s choice , and three plots showing the input spectral distribution , the system throughput ( telescope + issis optical system ) , and the final observed flux .",
    "the user is allowed to see the results as a table , either in ascii or html format .",
    "this article presents issis design at the end of phase b. the instrument will be a versatile tool to analyse the uv sky that complements the other instruments onboard the wso - uv space telescope .",
    "issis flight model is due to be deliver to the russian federal space agency ( roscosmos ) in 2015 for final integration and assembly .",
    "the wso - uv launch is foreseen for 2017 .",
    "issis development is being funded by ministry of industry , tourism and commerce of spain .",
    "we acknowledge the spanish science team for their support in this project .",
    "we also would like to thank to the referees for their detailed revision of this manuscript .",
    "the science team at universidad complutense de madrid acknowledges the financial support of the ministry of economy and competitivity through grants aya2008 - 06423-c03 - 01 and aya2011 - 29754-c03-c01 .",
    "bianchi , l. , herald , j. , efremova , b. , et al .",
    "galex catalogs of uv sources : statistical properties and sample science applications : hot white dwarfs in the milky way .",
    "ap&ss 335 , 161 - 169 , 2011 .",
    "blay , p. , rib , m. , negueruela , i. very peculiar wind from bd+53@xmath112790 , the optical counterpart to 4u 2206 + 54 .",
    "ap&ss 320 , 145 - 148 , 2009 .",
    "caballero , j.a . ,",
    "martn , e.l . , zapatero osorio , m.r .",
    "a&a 445 , 143 - 153 , 2006 .",
    "castelli , f. , kurucz , r.l .",
    "new grids of atlas9 model atmospheres .",
    "arxiv astrophysics e - prints : astro - ph/0405087 , 2004 . also available in the proceedings of the iau symp .",
    "no 210 ; modelling of stellar atmospheres , eds .",
    "n. piskunov et al .",
    "2003 , poster a20 ( cd - rom publication ) .",
    "coffey , d. , bacciotti , f. , woitas , j. , et al .",
    "rotation of jets from t - tauri stars : new clues from hst / stis observations .",
    "ap&ss 292 , 553 - 558 , 2004 .",
    "garca , m. , herrero , a. , najarro , f. wso and the winds of massive stars : the gate to the metal - poor local universe .",
    "ap&ss 335 , 91 - 96 .",
    "goicoechea , l.j .",
    ", shalyapin , v.n .",
    "time delays in the gravitationally lensed quasar h1413 + 117 ( cloverleaf ) .",
    "apj 708 , 995 - 1001 .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i . , robles , a. herbig - haro objects .",
    "esa sp-1237 , 1999 .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i .",
    ", wamsteker , w. , barstow , m. , et al .",
    "fundamental problems in astrophysics .",
    "ap&ss 303 , 133 - 145 , 2006 .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i .",
    ", maz - apellniz , j. , rodrguez , p. , et al .",
    "the imaging and slitless spectroscopy instrument for surveys ( issis ) for the world space observatory - ultraviolet ( wso - uv ) .",
    "ap&ss 335 , 283 - 289 , 2011 .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i .",
    ", marcos - arenal , p. extended magnetospheres in pre - main - sequence evolution : from t  tauri stars to the brown dwarf limit .",
    "apj 749 , i d .",
    "190 , 2012 .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i .",
    ", snchez doreste , n. , sestito , p. , et al .",
    "scientific requirements for the imaging and slitless spectroscopy instrument for surveys ( issis ) for the world space observatory - ultraviolet ( wso - uv ) , editorial complutense , madrid , 2012a .",
    "gmez de castro , a.i .",
    ", snchez , n. , sestito , p. , et al .",
    "issis : the imaging and slitless spectroscopy instrument for surveys in the world space observatory - ultraviolet telescope .",
    "proceedings of the spie 8443 , i d . 84432w , 2012 .",
    "guerrero , m.a .",
    ", ramos - larios , g. , massa , d. a fuse view of winds from the central stars of planetary nebulae .",
    "pasa 27 , 210 - 213 , 2010 .",
    "guerrero , m.a . ,",
    "ruiz , n. , hamann , w .- r . , et al .",
    "rebirth of x - ray emission from the born - again planetary nebula a30 .",
    "apj 755 , i d .",
    "129 , 2012 .",
    "lecavelier des etangs , a. , vidal - madjar , a. , mcconnell , j.c . , et al .",
    "atmospheric escape from hot jupiters .",
    "a&a 418 , l1-l4 , 2004 .",
    "lecavelier des etangs , a. , ehrenreich , d. , vidal - madjar , a. , et al .",
    "evaporation of the planet hd 189733b observed in h i lyman-@xmath6 .",
    "a&a 514 , i d .",
    "a72 , 2010 .",
    "martin , c. , barlow , t. , barnhart , w. , et al . the galaxy evolution explorer .",
    "proceedings of the spie 4854 , 336 - 350 , 2003 .",
    "murthy , j. , henry , r.c . ,",
    "sujatha , n.v .",
    "mapping the diffuse ultraviolet sky with the galaxy evolution explorer .",
    "apj 724 , 1389 - 1395 , 2010 .",
    "sachkov , m. uv observations of sdb stars and prospects of wso - uv mission for such studies .",
    "a&ss 329 , 261 - 266 , 2010 .",
    "sachkov , m. , shustov , b. , gmez de castro , a.i . , et al .",
    "adspr , this volume , 2013a .",
    "sachkov , m. et al .",
    "adspr , this volume , 2013b .",
    "shustov , b. , sachkov , m. , gmez de castro , a.i . , et al .",
    "world space observatory - ultraviolet among uv missions of the coming years .",
    "ap&ss 335 , 273 - 282 , 2011 .",
    "sujatha , n.v . ,",
    "murthy , j. , karnataki , a. , et al .",
    "galex observations of diffuse uv radiation at high spatial resolution from the sandage nebulosity .",
    "apj 692 , 1333 - 1338 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the imaging and slitless spectroscopy instrument ( issis ) will be flown as part of the science instrumentation in the world space observatory - ultraviolet ( wso - uv ) . </S>",
    "<S> issis will be the first uv imager to operate in a high earth orbit from a 2  m class space telescope . in this contribution , the science driving to issis design , as well as main characteristics of issis are presented .    </S>",
    "<S> ultraviolet : general ; space vehicles : instruments    = 0.5 cm </S>"
  ]
}