{
  "article_text": [
    "at radio wavelengths , the jets of active galactic nuclei ( agns ) emit synchrotron radiation which is characterised by appreciable linear polarization , the plane of polarization being perpendicular to the sky projection of the source magnetic field .",
    "the polarization structure of jets provides information about the structure of their magnetic fields , which in turn influence their evolution and emission properties .",
    "magnetic field structures in agn jets are of great importance , for instance , they affect jet stability . a knowledge of magnetic field structure is required in order to translate radio images into jet structure and also provides constraints on jet formation models . despite much observational effort",
    "the magnetic field structures of agn are not yet well understood .",
    "three types of observational results inform our present thinking about the magnetic field structures in parsec - scale jets .",
    "first , there is a tendency for polarization angles to lie either parallel or perpendicular to the jet .",
    "a tendency for bl lac objects and quasars to display magnetic polarization directions respectively perpendicular and parallel to the jets has long been known ( e.g. gabuzda et al .",
    "1992 ; cawthorne et al .",
    "1993 ) , and modern surveys ( lister & homan 2005 ) have confirmed these general trends . in quasars",
    ", there is a broad distribution of misalignments but such differences are often reduced when faraday rotation is taken into account ( e.g. hutchison et al .",
    "this type of polarization structure requires an axisymmetric magnetic field ; a helical magnetic field is one example , although the production of apparent jet magnetic fields that are either parallel or perpendicular to the jet direction is not a unique property of helical fields .",
    "secondly , transverse faraday rotation gradients have been reported across a number of agn jets ( e.g. asada et al .",
    "2002 , gabuzda et al .",
    "these results , though somewhat controversial ( e.g. zavala & taylor 2010 ) , suggest the existence of a toroidal magnetic field component .",
    "thirdly , a significant number of agn jets possess obvious asymmetries in total intensity and linear polarization or other transverse structures that are reminiscent of those revealed in the helical field simulations of laing ( 1981 ) .",
    "note that the presence of transverse faraday rotation gradients does not provide any information about whether or not the poloidal field component is ordered .",
    "generally , speaking , it is only the asymmetry of the transverse intensity and polarization profiles that can distinguish observationally between a helical field ( with an ordered poloidal field component ) and a toroidal field ( with a disordered poloidal field component ) .",
    "these observational results lead to the main question addressed in this paper : can a helical magnetic field explain the observed intensity and polarization profiles of parsec - scale agn jets ?",
    "of course , asymmetries in the transverse profiles could also be attributed to physical asymmetries , such as pressure gradients or other forms of jet asymmetry . however",
    ", a helical magnetic field threading the jet of an agn could potentially describe the observations without requiring special conditions in the jet environment .",
    "the main advantage of such models is that they can produce the observed transverse structures while avoiding physical asymmetries which might cause the jet to deflect or possibly destabilise .    in recent years , laing et al .",
    "( e.g. 2006a , 2006b , 2008 ) have also investigated whether ordered magnetic fields are present in the jets of fr1 radio galaxies on scales much larger than those investigated in this paper . the synchrotron emission from various magnetic - field configurations",
    "was calculated based on three - dimensional models , with the aberration calculations done via numerical integration for the correct spectral indices .",
    "these theoretical results were compared to the observed total intensity and polarized emission from several fr1 sources , via fitting to two - dimensional brightness distributions containing more than 1000 independent pixels .",
    "this work indicates that the polarization data for larger - scale jets are compatible with , but do not require , the presence of an ordered toroidal component ; at least some kiloparsec - scale observations seem to be inconsistent with the presence of a strong , ordered , large - scale poloidal component , as is expected on theoretical grounds ( e.g. begelman et al .",
    "1984 ) , suggesting that large - scale helical fields may be ruled out in some cases .",
    "however , a transition from a helical field configuration on parsec scales to an ordered toroidal ( + disordered poloidal ) field configuration on kiloparsec scales is plausible , so that a lack of support for the presence of a helical field component on kiloparsec scales need not imply the same for parsec scales .",
    "the present paper describes an approach to fitting model jet total intensity and polarization profiles to observed profiles taken across vlbi jets .",
    "the observed jet profiles for the bl lac object mrk501 are considered as an example , using a model with a cylindrical jet threaded by a helical magnetic field , as in laing ( 1981 ) .",
    "the method presented here provides a new means to search for evidence for a helical magnetic - field component in parsec - scale jets , that does not depend on measurements of faraday rotation gradients , whose reliability can be difficult to determine in some cases .",
    "the method yields estimates of the viewing angle and helical - field pitch angle in the jet rest frame , which can be used to derive the corresponding quantities in the observer s frame when combined with observations of the apparent speeds of jet components .",
    "laing ( 1981 ) investigated three different helical magnetic field models , which can be used to predict the total intensity and polarization profiles across a jet using only two parameters , the helical pitch angle @xmath7 and the jet s angle to the line of sight @xmath8 , both defined in the co - moving frame ; it is assumed that the velocity of the jet remains constant across the jet width . in applying these models to",
    "the parsec - scale jets of several agns , papageorgiou ( 2005 ) found the best agreement between observed and model profiles arose for the third of these models , in which a helical magnetic field of constant pitch angle threads a cylindrical jet .",
    "it is therefore this model that is the focus of the present work .    because the quantity @xmath9 is antisymmetric , where @xmath10 is the electric vector position angle ( evpa ) , the contributions to the integral of @xmath11 along the line of sight made by the far and near sides of the helical field cancel , so that this integral is zero",
    "; therefore , the polarization distribution across the cylinder corresponds fully to @xmath0 ( laing 1981 ) , with    @xmath12    in other words , the integrated magnetic vector position angle is transverse for @xmath13 and longitudinal for @xmath14",
    ". the derivation of stokes @xmath2 and @xmath0 for this model can be found in laing ( 1981 ) .",
    "note that there is a typographical error in his final equation for @xmath15 in his appendix a  the sign of the second term is incorrect , and the correct expression is @xmath16.\\end{gathered}\\ ] ]    the analysis of papageorgiou ( 2005 ) showed that this helical - field model produced profiles that are considerably more strongly polarized than observed .",
    "the model was therefore modified by introducing a disordered ( tangled ) magnetic field component ( see , e.g. , burn 1966 ) .",
    "this requires a third model parameter , the degree of entanglement , @xmath17 , defined as the fraction of the magnetic field energy density in tangled form : @xmath18 + where @xmath19 and @xmath20 are proportional to the magnetic energy densities of the tangled and helical magnetic field components . increasing the degree of entanglement in the field ( i.e. increasing @xmath17 ) reduces the degree of asymmetry of the total intensity profiles predicted by the model in addition to decreasing the degree of polarization .    making the same assumptions as laing ( 1981 ) ( spectral index @xmath21 = 1 , where @xmath22 , and constant electron density throughout the cylinder )",
    ", profiles for total intensity ( @xmath23 ) and polarized intensity ( @xmath15 ) across the jet can be derived analytically : @xmath24 @xmath25 where @xmath26 and @xmath27 are the line - of - sight integrated stokes parameters for laing s helical - field model , @xmath28 is distance from the jet axis ( projected on the sky ) and @xmath29 is the radius of the jet cylinder . for @xmath0 positive and negative , the evpa is parallel to and normal to the jet direction , respectively .",
    "the model described so far describes only the emission mechanism in the rest frame of the jet .",
    "if the jet is relativistic then , although the overall levels of flux density will be changed by the doppler effect and aberration , the transverse profiles will remain unchanged provided that the jet s velocity is constant across its width .",
    "the stokes parameters @xmath2 in the observer s frame ( unprimed ) are related to those in the rest frame of the jet ( primed ) by @xmath30 where @xmath8 is the viewing angle in the observer s frame , @xmath31 is the viewing angle in the rest frame of the jet , @xmath32^{-1}$ ] is the doppler factor ( @xmath33 is the lorentz factor and @xmath34 the jet velocity divided by the speed of light ) and the value of @xmath35 is @xmath36 , where @xmath21 is the spectral index ( scheuer and readhead , 1979 ; rybicki and lightman 1979 , chapter 4 ) .",
    "strictly speaking , equation ( 2.5 ) refers to the intensity , @xmath37 , from a continous , optically thin jet , but also applies to the flux density per unit length from a cylindrical jet .",
    "the stokes parameters @xmath0 and @xmath11 transform in precisely the same way .",
    "if the velocity is constant across the width of the cylindrical jet , the doppler factor is the same for every point in the jet .",
    "therefore , in this case , the doppler factor will affect only the overall level of the intensity , not the shapes of the @xmath2 , @xmath0 or @xmath11 profiles . more precisely , the jet profiles @xmath23 , @xmath15 and @xmath38 viewed at angle @xmath8 in the observer s frame will be identical in shape to the profiles @xmath39 , @xmath40 and @xmath41 viewed at angle @xmath31 in the jet rest frame . because the fits were obtained by comparing only the shapes of the @xmath0 and @xmath2 profiles , without using the absolute intensities of these profiles , the resulting fitted profiles correspond directly to the pitch angle and the viewing angle in the rest frame of the jet",
    "further , the profiles of the polarization angle and the fractional polarization will be identical in the two frames . to be explicit , a prime is used to denote quantities in the rest frame of the jet , and absence of a prime to denote quantities in the rest frame of the observer .",
    "although the viewing angles in the observer s frame are likely to be small , of the order of @xmath42 , where @xmath33 is the jet lorentz factor , the rest - frame viewing angles will be much larger , and it is these rest - frame values that we have derived from our profile fits and quote in the text and tables below .",
    "this is essentially the approach taken by claussen - brown , lyutikov and kharb ( 2009 ) , except that they use a force - free magnetic field configuration ( and a gaussian jet profile ) defined in the jet s rest frame , whereas a simple helical field threading a uniform jet has been used here .",
    "this choice was made because the objective of this work is precisely to look for observational signatures of a helical field component , rather than to look for additional features that will inevitably be present in more sophisticated models .",
    "( note that claussen - brown et al .",
    "( 2009 ) quote observer - frame viewing angles , but these can only be given in terms of the ( unknown ) lorentz factor . )    zakamska , begelman and blandford ( 2008 ) consider a relativistic mhd jet with a toroidal magnetic field .",
    "the main difference between this model and laing s is the existence of a poloidal field component in laing s .",
    "a purely toroidal field configuration can give rise to ` spine ",
    "sheath ' polarization structure and systematic transverse faraday - rotation gradients , but not to asymmetric transverse intensity and polarization structure ; therefore , it is of interest to try to investigate such asymmetric structures using the model presented here .",
    "broderick and loeb ( 2009 ) and broderick and mckinney ( 2010 ) consider theoretical simulations of transverse faraday rotation measure gradients produced by helical jet magnetic fields .",
    "the latter simulations , in particular , directly demonstrate the generation of a helical field and associated faraday - rotation gradients due to the combination of the rotation of the jet base and the jet outflow .",
    "these fully relativistic simulations show that the resulting transverse faraday - rotation gradients can sometimes prove to be more complex than is predicted by simple helical - field models ; however , their origin remains the toroidal component of an essentially helical jet magnetic field .",
    "while detailed models for relativistic jets and their magnetic fields have been investigated in these and other studies , the least model - dependent way to seek evidence for a helical field component is to is to use results for a purely helical field ; this amounts to focusing on the basic features of transverse jet profiles rather than aiming to describe them in detail in the face of many unknown parameters . if high - quality , high - resolution data become available for jet profiles , then it may become feasible to investigate more detailed models",
    "for convenience , the most notable features predicted by this model ( laing 1981 ) , visible in the sample grid of profiles of total and polarized intensity for a range of @xmath43 and @xmath31 values given in fig .  [ profiletable ] , are summarised here .    1 .   except for purely toroidal magnetic fields ( @xmath44 ) or viewing angles ( in the rest frame of the jet ) perpendicular to the cylinder axis ( @xmath45 ) ,",
    "the distributions of total and polarized intensity are usually asymmetric .",
    "these asymmetries arise because the change in the sky - projected magnetic - field direction occurs most rapidly along the helical field line on the side of the jet where the angle between the field and the line of sight is smallest .",
    "this results in a greater level of polarization cancellation along the line of sight on one side of the jet than the other .",
    "the profile asymmetries are clearly seen in cases where neither the helical pitch angle nor the viewing angle equals 90@xmath46 in fig .",
    "[ profiletable ] .",
    "displacements between the total intensity profile maxima and polarized intensity profile maxima are common .",
    "the fractional polarization varies considerably across the profile .",
    "4 .   the polarized intensity distribution can have one , two or three local maxima , and the orientation of the projected magnetic field can be either longitudinal , transverse or a combination of both within a given profile .",
    "further examination of the polarization profiles produced by this model shows that 4 different magnetic field distributions are possible , as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ profiletable ] .    1",
    ".   longitudinal all across the jet ; e.g. , @xmath47 and @xmath48 2 .",
    "longitudinal on one side and transverse on the other ; e.g. , @xmath49 and @xmath48 3 .",
    "longitudinal at the edges and transverse at the centre ; e.g. , @xmath49 and @xmath50 4 .",
    "transverse all across ; e.g. , @xmath44 and @xmath45    configuration 2 only occurs when @xmath51 and configuration 4 only occurs when @xmath52 .",
    "these special cases would not often be expected in nature .",
    "however , the effects of finite resolution , in which the true jet profile is convolved with a gaussian beam , increase the range of parameter values for which configurations 2 and 4 are observed [ see figure 2 , adapted from papageorgiou ( 2005 ) ] .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "as described earlier , the fractional polarization from the helical field model is generally lower on the side of the jet where the field lines are closest to the line of sight .",
    "if the magnetic field threading the faraday rotating medium is comoving with the jet and is threaded by the same magnetic field , the magnitude of the faraday rotation measure will be highest on the side of the jet where the field lines are closest to the line of sight , i.e. , on the side with the lower fractional polarization .",
    "it is therefore of interest to check whether the transverse polarization and faraday - rotation profiles observed for the mrk  501 jet are consistent with this picture .",
    "in particular , gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) reported the detection of a transverse faraday rotation measure ( rm ) gradient across the mrk  501 jet , based on 2 + 4 + 6  cm vlba polarization observations , and interpreted this as evidence for a helical magnetic field associated with this jet .",
    "croke et al .",
    "( 2010 ) subsequently reported a transverse rm gradient in the same sense based on 4 + 6 + 13 + 18  cm vlba polarization observations .",
    "taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) have recently questioned the validity of reported transverse rm gradients , and proposed a number of criteria for the reliable detection of such gradients , namely that there be ( i ) at least three `` resolution elements '' ( taken to mean three beamwidths ) across the jet , ( ii ) a change in the rm of at least three times the typical error @xmath53 , ( iii ) an optically thin synchrotron spectrum at the location of the gradient , and ( iv ) a monotonic , smooth ( within the errors ) change in the rm from side to side .",
    "the more recent monte carlo simulations of hovatta et al .",
    "( 2012 ) suggest that a more reasonable limit for the distance spanned by the rm values comprising the gradient is two beamwidths if the rm values differ by at least @xmath54 , and as little as 1.5 beamwidths in the case of higher signal - to - noise ratios .    as part of their study , taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) consider several rm maps based on multi - wavelength 24  cm vlba data , searching for rm gradients specifically in regions where the rm distributions span more than three beamwidths . on this basis , they report an absence of significant transverse rm gradients in the mrk  501 jet , based on profiles taken roughly 10  mas from the core , and therefore call into question the earlier results of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and croke et al .",
    "we do not wish to analyze this discrepancy between the results of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and croke et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , on the one hand , and taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) , on the other hand , in full detail here .",
    "however , for transparency , we will make some remarks concerning this , as a justification for our further consideration of the results of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) below .",
    "the transverse rm gradient reported by gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) essentially satisfies the last three criteria of taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) , but not the first ; however , because the gradient spans approximately 1.7 beamwidths , it marginally satisfies the modified criterion of hovatta et al .",
    "the gradient reported by croke et al .",
    "( 2010 ) spans roughly four beamwidths across the jet , and satisfies all four criteria of taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) .",
    "note that the profile considered by taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) is further from the core than the region considered by gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , where the magnitude of the rm values would be expected to be lower ; the region considered by croke et al . ( 2010 ) overlaps with the region of the profile of taylor & zavala ( 2010 ) , but the data of the former study were considerably more sensitive to small amounts of faraday rotation , since they included observations at the longer wavelengths of 13 and 18  cm .",
    "thus , while the resolution of the images of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , analyzed in the same general region as our own profiles , may not represent conclusive proof of a uniform transverse rm gradient , their results can reasonably be considered at least tentative evidence for a faraday - rotation gradient across the mrk  501 jet , particularly in light of the subsequent , better - resolved results of croke et al .",
    "therefore , we feel justified in using these results as a working hypothesis .",
    "we emphasize that we are interested here only in the very crude question of whether there seems to be a higher typical rm magnitude on one or the other side of the vlbi jet , and whether this is consistent with the side predicted by our simple model .",
    "after convolution with a gaussian beam with a fwhm one - quarter the size of the profile to mimic the effects of finite resolution .",
    "the region numbers correspond to the configuration types listed in section  3 . ]        in the regions of the jet considered here , comparing the two sides of the jet , the northern side ( corresponding to the left - hand sides of the plots in figs.56 ) generally displays higher fractional polarization , i.e. , more negative values of @xmath55 .",
    "it follows that the faraday rotation measures on the northern side of the jet , rm@xmath56 , are expected to be smaller in magnitude than those on the southern side , rm@xmath57 .",
    "this is consistent with the observational results of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , based on the same 26  cm vlba data considered here : @xmath58",
    "rad / m@xmath59 , @xmath60  rad / m@xmath59 .",
    "the effect of the measured galactic rotation measure in the direction toward mrk  501 [ @xmath61  rad / m@xmath59 , rusk ( 1988 ) ] was subtracted from the observed polarization angles before the faraday rotation map was constructed , so that the residual observed rotation measure should correspond to faraday rotation occurring in the vicinity of the agn . if the galactic rotation measure is instead taken to be the value typical of the region within a few degrees of mrk  501 in the catalog of taylor , stil and sunstrum ( 2009 ) , @xmath62  rad / m@xmath59 , these two values become @xmath63  rad / m@xmath59 , @xmath64  rad / m@xmath59 .",
    "we can crudely estimate the expected quantitative difference between the magnitudes of the faraday rotation measures on either side of the jet if the faraday rotating material is concentrated in a relatively thin shell in outer layers of the jet using eq .",
    "( 2 ) of laing ( 1981 ) : for @xmath65 and @xmath66 , this indicates a difference of about 35% , somewhat smaller than the observed value of about @xmath67 .    considering this one case , and given the limited transverse resolution of the rotation - measure image of gabuzda et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , it could be a coincidence that the model considered correctly predicts the side of the jet that should have the higher faraday rotation .",
    "however , our analysis here illustrates the sort of comparison that could , in principle , usefully be carried out once profile - fitting results for a greater number of agns are available .",
    "of course , the sign of the faraday rotation measures can not be predicted by our model , as the polarization profiles do not depend on the polarity of the magnetic field .",
    "the line of sight angle @xmath69 in the rest frame of the jet is related to the corresponding angle in the observer s frame , @xmath8 , by @xmath70}\\ ] ] where @xmath33 is the lorentz factor for the motion and @xmath68 ( rindler 1990 ) .",
    "in addition , the apparent speed of a component moving along the jet can be written @xmath71    it follows that , if @xmath72 is known from component motion and @xmath31 is known , for example , from profile fitting such as that carried out in this paper , equation ( 8.4 ) can be rearranged to give @xmath73^{-1/2}\\ ] ]    the profile fitting has indicated @xmath74 for the mrk  501 jet . taking this together with the superluminal motion reported by piner et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , @xmath4 , gives @xmath75 and @xmath5 .",
    "using the range of @xmath31 values given by the various profile fits , @xmath76 , does not change the resulting values of @xmath8 by more than @xmath77 .",
    "these results are consistent with the conclusion of giroletti et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , based on completely different information , that @xmath78 and @xmath79 , with @xmath80 allowed only for @xmath81 .",
    "although these particular results are somewhat uncertain , since the relevant superluminal motion corresponds to a weak feature whose position is difficult to determine precisely , this illustrates the potential of this approach .",
    "note as well that using the more typical subluminal speeds obtained for the jet of mrk  501 , e.g. @xmath82 ( piner et al .",
    "2010 ) , implies angles to the line of sight @xmath83 and @xmath84 , which are not reasonable , since they can not provide the observed one - sided vlbi structure .",
    "this implies that the very low component speeds typically observed in mrk  501 are incompatible with its observed polarization structure , and so must represent pattern speeds rather than physical speeds ( in other words , they do not represent highly relativistic motion viewed at a very small angle ) .",
    "the approach taken in this section is similar to that used by canvin et al .",
    "( 2005 ) on kiloparsec scales , in that both analyses fit a jet model to the observed profile in order to determine the angle between the jet axis and the line of sight in the rest frame of the flow .",
    "one advantage of applying this technique on parsec scales is that it is possible to obtain constraints on the underlying flow speed fairly directly using observations of superluminal components , whereas , in the kiloparsec case , more indirect estimate must be used , such as the jet  counterjet brightness ratio .",
    "in general , the procedure described above has yielded good fits to the polarization data for mrk  501 .",
    "the deviations between the model and observed @xmath0 values for slices 1 and 2 are less than the estimated @xmath85 uncertainties for the observed @xmath0 profiles , while the discrepancies for the somewhat uncertain slice 3 are less than @xmath86 ( hovatta et al .",
    "the model has thus successfully reproduced the main features of the observed polarization .",
    "the total intensity fits were much less successful , with the model profiles generally being appreciably more symmetrical ; differences between the observed and model @xmath2 profiles were within @xmath86 for the 6-cm slice 3 , but frequently exceed @xmath54 for the other slices considered .",
    "whether this discrepancy between the model and observed @xmath2 profiles is due to other factors giving rise to asymmetry in the observed @xmath2 profiles or unsuitability of the model is not clear .",
    "for this reason , the results presented here should be considered tentative .",
    "formally good model fits were not expected using the procedures described in this paper ; the main goal was to determine whether a simple helical - field model such as that considered here is able to qualitative reproduce the shapes of the observed profiles , particularly in @xmath0 .",
    "in fact , there are many reasons why it would be unreasonable to expect a formally good fit to both @xmath2 and @xmath0 .",
    "the structure of the jet may differ in many ways from the simple structure used here .",
    "for example , any deviation from perfect cylindrical symmetry , or an emissivity that changes with distance from the jet axis , would introduce features that could not be reproduced by the model .",
    "some such physical deviations may be responsible for the double  peaked @xmath2 structure in the @xmath87 cm profile in fig.6 , which is poorly represented by the model . attempting to introduce further parameters into the model would result in fits that were much more poorly constrained by the data .",
    "given the simplicity of the model used , its ability to reproduce the @xmath0 profiles so well is striking .",
    "thus , the most important result of our profile fitting is that even the simple helical - field model considered here can reproduce most of the qualitative features of the polarization profiles , lending support to the hypothesis that a helical magnetic - field component is present in the jet of mrk  501 on parsec scales .      given the observed bends in the jet of mrk  501 , it is natural to ask whether the observed polarization structure is associated with curvature of the jet . as the jet bends , the jet plasma is squeezed and stretched at the inside and outside edges , respectively . if , as seems to be the case here , the magnetic field is highly disordered , but with a mean value of @xmath88 greater than @xmath89 , where @xmath90 and @xmath91 are the magnetic fields along and perpendicular to the jet , then squeezing the plasma along the jet axis will increase @xmath89 , reducing the degree of polarization , while stretching the plasma in this same direction will have the opposite effect .",
    "this effect would increase / decrease the degree of polarization at the outside / inside edges of jet bends .    to investigate this",
    ", we constructed a map of the degree of polarization @xmath92 at 6  cm , shown in fig .",
    "the observed fractional polarization is greatest at the edges of the jet ( reaching values @xmath93 ) , as is expected for curvature - induced polarization .",
    "however , the locations of highest fractional polarization are on the _ inside _ edges of local bends in the jet ( the northern side of the jet between slices 1 and 2 , and the southern side of the jet beyond slice 2 ) , whereas curvature - induced polarization should be highest on the _ outside _ edges of these bends",
    ". therefore , we find no evidence that the longitudinal polarization observed at the edges of the mrk  501 jet is primarily induced by the curvature of the jet as it bends .",
    "a method for comparing model and data profiles for total intensity and polarization in astrophysical jets has been described and demonstrated .",
    "the method has been used to compare observed profiles of the parsec - scale jet of mrk  501 with the predictions of a model in which a cylindrical jet is permeated by a magnetic field with a uniform helical component and a disordered component .",
    "the jet of mrk  501 shows several characteristics that are consistent with a helical jet magnetic field , most strikingly the spine ",
    "sheath transverse polarization structure observed in the region of our slice 2 .",
    "the best model fits obtained correspond to pitch angles in the jet rest frame @xmath94 and viewing angles in the jet rest frame @xmath95 .",
    "these fits describe the polarization structure well , though the total intensity fits are generally poorer .",
    "however , given the extremely simple nature of the helical - field model , for example its rigid cylindrical symmetry and uniformity of emission , its success in reproducing the general features of the @xmath0 profiles is noteworthy , and suggests that further comparisons , using higher resolution data and data for other sources , would be worthwhile .",
    "the best fit values of the line - of - sight angle are very similar for all the analyzed 4  cm , 6  cm , 13  cm and 18  cm slices across the mrk  501 jet , within the estimated @xmath85 uncertainties ( apart from the fitted viewing angle for the somewhat more uncertain slice 3 , which differs from the other values by @xmath96 ) .",
    "this suggests that , as expected , the large apparent changes in jet direction are in fact very small bends that are greatly amplified by projection .",
    "the fitted pitch angle increases from the first to the second 6  cm slice , bringing about the observed transition in polarization structure ( from configuration 1 to configuration 3 as described in fig.2 ) .",
    "the fraction of energy in the disordered magnetic - field component seems to decrease with distance along the jet .    together with the tentative superluminal speed reported by piner et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , the estimate for the viewing angle in the jet rest frame obtained through the profile fitting , @xmath95 , enables determination of the viewing angle and jet velocity in the obsever s frame , @xmath97 and @xmath98 .",
    "although these values are somewhat uncertain in the case of mrk  501 , since this superluminal velocity was determined for a weak feature whose position is only poorly defined , the joint analysis of transverse polarization profiles and apparent superluminal speeds provides a new tool for disentangling @xmath8 and @xmath34 .",
    "the jet of mrk  501 must be fairly close to the line of sight , yet carrying out this analysis for the typically subluminal speeds observed in the mrk  501 vlbi jet yields viewing angles of about @xmath99 ; this essentially demonstrates that these subluminal motions must represent pattern speeds in a much more highly relativistic flow , rather than highly relativistic motion viewed at a very small angle .",
    "calculation of @xmath2 and @xmath0 profiles for the helical - field model is greatly simplified if the spectral index @xmath21 is assumed to be unity . whilst this is almost certainly incorrect ( observed values are usually @xmath100 ) the assumption that @xmath101 has been shown to have very little impact on the profiles , and hence on the values of the best - fit model parameters .",
    "the results demonstrate that this method provides a new approach to studying the magnetic fields in parsec - scale jets .",
    "we are in the process of identifying other agn jets that are well resolved and straight , display clear transverse polarization structure , and possess reliable component speed measurements , which we hope will prove fruitful subjects of analyses similar to those carried out here .",
    "funding for this research was provided by the irish research council for science engineering and technology ( ircset ) .",
    "we would also like to thank andreas papageorgiou for his previous work in this area and for useful discussions , and the anonymous referees for comments which we believe have helped make the paper more complete and clear .",
    "asada k. , inoue m. , uchida y. , kameno s. , fujisawa k. , iguchi s. and mutoh m. 2002 , pasj , 54 , 39 broderick , a. e. and loeb a. 2009 , apj , 703 , l108 broderick , a. e. and mckinney j. c. 2010 , apj , 725 , 750 burn b. j. 1966 , mnras , 133 , 67 .",
    "canvin j. r. , laing r. a. , bridle a. h. and cotton w. d. 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1223 cawthorne t. v. , wardle j. f. c. , roberts d. h. and gabuzda d. c. 1993 , apj , 416 , 496 clausen - brown e. , lyutikov m. and kharb p. 2011 , mnras , 415 , 2081 de vaucouleurs g , de vaucouleurs a , corwin h. g. jr .",
    ", buta r. j. , paturel g. and fouqu p. 1991",
    ", third reference catalogue of bright galaxies ( new york : springer ) gabuzda d. c. , cawthorne t. v. , roberts d. h. and wardle j. f. c. 1992 , apj , 388 , 40 gabuzda d. c. , murray e. and cronin p. j. 2004 , mnras 351 , l89 .",
    "gabuzda , d. c. , vitrishchak , v. m. , mahmud , m. and osullivan , s. p. 2008 , mnras , 384 , 1003 giroletti m , giovannini g , feretti l. , cotton w. d. , edwards p. g. , lara l. , marscher a. p. , mattox j. r. , piner b. g. and venturi , t. 2004 , apj , 600 , 127 giroletti m , giovannini g , cotton w. d. , taylor g. b. , perez ",
    "torres m. a. , chiaberge m. and edwards p. g. 2008 , a&a , 488 , 905 hovatta t. , lister m. l. , aller m. f. , aller h. d. , homan d. c. , kovalev y. y. , pushkarev a. b. and savolainen t. 2012 , aj , in press ( arxiv : 1205.6746 ) hutchison j. m. , cawthorne t. v. and gabuzda d. c. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 525 kronrod a. s. 1964 , doklady akad .",
    "nauk sssr 154 , 283 .",
    "laing r. a. 1981 , apj , 248 , 87 laing r. a. 1996 , in energy transport in radio galaxies and quasars , ed .",
    "e. hardee , a. h. bridle and j. a. zensus , asp conf .",
    "series 100 , p. 241",
    "laing r. a. , bridle a. h. , parma p. , ferreti l. , giovannini g. , murgia m. and perley r. a. 2008 , mnras , 386 , 657 laing r. a. , canvin j. r. and bridle a. h. 2006 , astron .",
    "nachr . , 327 ( 5/6 ) , 523 laing r. a. , canvin j. r. , bridle a. h. and hardcastle m. j. 2006 , mnras , 372 , 510 lister m. l. and homan d. c. 2005 , aj , 130 , 1389 papageorgiou a. 2005 , phd thesis , university of central lancashire piner b. g. , pant n. , edwards p. g. and wijk k. 2009 , apj , 690 , l31 .",
    "piner b. g. , pant n. and edwards p. g. 2010 , apj , 723 , 1167 .",
    "pushkarev a. b. , gabuzda d. c. , vetukhnovskaya y. n. and yakimov v. e. 2005 , mnras , 356 , 859 rusk r. 1988 , phd thesis , university of toronto taylor a. r. , stil j.m . and",
    "sunstrum c. 2009 , apj , 702 , 1230 . taylor g. b. and zavala r. 2010 , apj , 722 , l183 zakamska n. d. , begelman m. c. and blandford r. d. 2008 , apj , 679 , 990"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper describes a method of fitting total intensity and polarization profiles in vlbi images of astrophysical jets to profiles predicted by a theoretical model . as an example , the method is used to fit profiles of the jet in the active galactic nucleus mrk  501 with profiles predicted by a model in which a cylindrical jet of synchrotron plasma is threaded by a magnetic field with helical and disordered components . </S>",
    "<S> this fitting yields model stokes @xmath0 profiles that agree with the observed profiles to within the @xmath1 uncertainties ; the @xmath2 model and observed profiles are overall not in such good agreement , with the model @xmath2 profiles being generally more symmetrical than the observed profiles . </S>",
    "<S> consistent fitting results are obtained for profiles derived from 6  cm vlbi images at two distances from the core , and also for profiles obtained for different wavelengths at a single location in the vlbi jet . </S>",
    "<S> the most striking success of the model is its ability to reproduce the spine  sheath polarization structure observed across the jet . </S>",
    "<S> using the derived viewing angle in the jet rest frame , @xmath3 , together with a superluminal speed reported in the literature , @xmath4 , yields a solution for the viewing angle and velocity of the jet in the observer s frame @xmath5 and @xmath6 . </S>",
    "<S> although these results for mrk501 must be considered tentative , the combined analysis of polarization profiles and apparent component speeds holds promise as a means of further elucidating the magnetic field structures and other parameters of parsec - scale agn jets .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  galaxies : jets </S>"
  ]
}