{
  "article_text": [
    "the diversity of exoplanetary systems has been revealed through a variety of detection techniques which are sensitive to different kinds of planets .",
    "the majority of planets have been detected indirectly via the radial velocity ( rv ) and transit methods , but the technique of direct imaging has made important contributions by detecting young planets at wide separations ( @xmath0  au ) .",
    "direct imaging is a difficult technique to execute and requires the use of adaptive optics and high contrast imaging to distinguish the flux of the planet from that of the host star @xcite .",
    "the characteristic properties of atmospherically - induced speckle noise can be treated using adaptive optics techniques @xcite .",
    "speckle noise due to telescope / optics imperfections require more advanced techniques such as angular differential imaging ( adi ) @xcite , spectral differential imaging ( sdi ) @xcite , and polarimetric differential imaging ( pdi ) @xcite .",
    "the list of both technical and scientific achievements from exoplanet imaging surveys is far too exhaustive to describe here in detail , but include such milestone exoplanet discoveries as beta pic b @xcite , the hr  8799 planetary system @xcite , and fomalhaut  b @xcite .",
    "planet separations explored by the imaging and rv techniques are complementary to each other since the rv method is biased towards shorter orbital periods . although the imaging technique requires considerable follow - up observations to constrain the orbits of the planets detected , rv planets provide complete keplerian orbital solutions at the time of discovery which may be used to study the overall statistics of exoplanetary systems .",
    "the eccentricity distribution has been investigated for rv planets @xcite and also compared to that of the kepler candidates @xcite .",
    "the origin of the observed distribution has also been studied in the context of planet formation scenarios and early dynamical evolution @xcite .",
    "if this eccentricity distribution applies also to the kinds of planets detected via direct imaging then the detectability of those planets will depend on where they are in their orbit since the star  planet separation is time dependent @xcite .    here",
    "we investigate the effects of exoplanet orbital eccentricity on the detection efficiency of imaging surveys .",
    "we describe the constraints on observing planets in eccentric orbits depending upon the sensitivity of direct imaging experiments to the inner region of the system and the cadence of the observations .",
    "we calculate the percentage of the orbit for which the planet will be detectable as a function of eccentricity and the sensitivity threshold .",
    "we study the known eccentricity distribution as a function of semi - major axis and star  planet angular separation .",
    "finally , we use this distribution to estimate the detection efficiency of direct imaging for eccentric exoplanets .",
    "in addition to the science requirements of imaging experiments for achieving high - contrast observations that allow one to detect the extreme star  planet flux ratio , one also needs to contend with the limit of how close to the host star can reasonably be probed for planets .",
    "the angular resolution needed for achieving this is limited by the diffraction - limited resolution where the objects are separated by @xmath1 where @xmath2 is the aperture diameter of the telescope . in practice , there are further techniques that may be brought to bear on the problem that can further suppress the starlight and enhance the contrast ratio .",
    "these techniques vary enormouslessly in both their effectiveness and their number . here",
    "we quantify the problem in terms of a uniform inner region around a star for which planet detections are inaccessible .",
    "we refer to this region as an _ exclusion zone _ with radius @xmath3 .",
    "although a practical exclusion zone will be quite complicated non - uniform pattern due to diffraction and speckle effects , this allows us specify a lower - limit which may be adapted to any particular experiment .        the problem of detecting eccentric exoplanets for which the star ",
    "planet separation is time - dependent is portrayed in figure [ orbits ] .",
    "the shaded region represents the exclusion zone for a given star .",
    "the three orbits shown represent three keplerian orbits which have identical components with the exception of eccentricity , shown here for @xmath4 , 0.6 , and 0.9 . the argument of periastron",
    "is set to @xmath5 for this example .",
    "the semi - major axis in all cases is set to @xmath6 , such that a circular orbit would lie on the threshold of detectability .",
    "the orbits are shown as points which indicate the planet location in equal time increments to illustrate the relative amount of time the planet spends at different phases of its eccentric orbit . in this example , there are clear advantages for highly eccentric planets whose orbits result in a larger angular separation from the host star and a larger percentage of the orbit outside of the exclusion zone .",
    ".,width=309 ]    the percentage of the orbit during which the planet is in the detectable region depends on the eccentricity and semi - major axis relative to @xmath3 .",
    "this is shown in figure [ percentage ] for four different values of @xmath7 ( in units of @xmath3 ) . for @xmath8",
    "there are large swathes of eccentricities for which the orbit never exits the exclusion zone .",
    "the limit at which the planet never exits the exclusion zone is found from evaluating the star ",
    "planet separation at apastron , that is where @xmath9 . as @xmath10 approaches unity , this limit is located at @xmath11 . a similar bound on a semi - major axis beyond which the planet never enters the exclusion zone is more open - ended since the periastron boundary condition of @xmath12 approaches infinity as @xmath10 approaches unity .",
    "another observation constraint is that of the observing cadence .",
    "the planet is moving at its slowest speed when the star ",
    "planet separation is approaching maximum .",
    "thus even sparse sampling should in principle allow the tracking of the planetary orbit .",
    "there are however two things to consider here .",
    "firstly , if the movement of the planet is less than the positional accuracy of the planetary point - spread - function then this will create degeneracy in the derived keplerian solution for the planet . on the other hand",
    ", too sparse sampling could result in the planet being missed in future ( or past ) observations if the apastron is near the detection threshold , such as the @xmath13 case shown in figure [ percentage ] .",
    "note that the examples shown here aid in defining the problem posed by eccentric orbits , but assume face - on orbits for the specific numbers calculated .",
    "we discuss the effects of inclination in section [ deteff ] .",
    "here we briefly discuss the eccentricity distribution of the known exoplanets , particularly at relatively long periods . to do this , we utilize the orbital parameters stored in the exoplanet data explorer @xcite .",
    "we extracted the data of 513 planets , along with the host star properties , with data current as of 20th november 2012 .",
    "these data include all planets with the necessary keplerian orbital solutions as well as stellar distances .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     to quantify the effect of all these aspects on the detection efficiency of imaging experiments",
    ", we performed a detail monte - carlo simulation .",
    "this simulation calculates the percentage of the orbit which lies outside the exclusion zone for each of the known exoplanets described in section [ eccdist ] .",
    "we calculate this a function of the exclusion zone expressed as an angular separation which uses the known distance to the star .",
    "we also consider three inclinations for all planets ; @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 .",
    "we then randomly determine if the planet lies outside the exclusion zone , thus using the percentage of time outside the exclusion zone as a probability distribution .",
    "the results of this simulation are shown in figure [ montecarlo ] where we have calculated the percentage of the planets recovered in each of the simulations for each exclusion radius .",
    "we consider the range of exclusion radii from 0.01to 0.2 , a range for which many of the known exoplanets , particularly those at short periods , will remain elusive . for comparison ,",
    "the angular separation of hr  8799  e from the host star is 0.37@xcite , and the inner working angle of selected future ground - based imaging instruments described by @xcite range from 0.03to 0.17 .",
    "the results of this simulation support the conclusion from figure [ incarray ] that face - on inclinations are more favorable for detection .",
    "more importantly though , it demonstrates the dramatic dependence on the exclusion radius for the known exoplanets .",
    "this dependence on the exclusion radius is true even if all the orbits are circular .",
    "note that assuming an isotropic distribution of orbital inclinations by randomly selecting the inclination for each planet in the monte - carlo simulation results in a dependence that is roughly equivalent to the @xmath17 case shown in figure [ montecarlo ] .    ) which would be detected using direct imaging as a function of the exclusion radius for that particular experiment .",
    "since we can not assume an inclination , we have performed this simulation for inclinations of @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16.,width=309 ]    finally , we performed a simulation which uses the observed eccentricity distribution described in section [ eccdist ] .",
    "we first used the eccentricities of the planets between 0.00.1  au to represent near circular orbits .",
    "this consists of 165 planets which we use as the seed for the monte - carlo simulation whilst fixing all semi - major axes to a given value . as for the previous simulation ,",
    "we choose random points in the orbital phase for each planet and determine if the planet is detected ( outside the exclusion radius ) or undetected ( inside the exclusion radius ) . for semi - major axes of @xmath18 , 76% of planets are detected , whereas for @xmath19 , 100% of planets are detected .",
    "we then repeated this simulation by using the eccentricities of the planets which lie between 1.02.0  au ; a sample which is more representative of planets at longer orbital periods where imaging experiments are more sensitive . for semi - major axes of @xmath20 , 62% of these planets",
    "are detected , and for @xmath21 , 96% of planets are detected .",
    "this is consistent with the results shown in figure [ percentage ] and indicates that the vast majority of eccentric planets with @xmath22 should be detectable at any given time .",
    "note that this assumes that the eccentricity distribution between 1.02.0  au continues at longer orbital periods .",
    "figure [ exoplanets ] suggests that the mean eccentricity may decline beyond 2.0  au .",
    "however , it is unclear if this is an astrophysical reality or a symptom of rv survey incompleteness to eccentric orbits at longer periods @xcite .",
    "there are numerous imaging surveys which have considered the detection limitations of their particular experimental designs @xcite .",
    "these often treat the eccentricity distribution as a basic gaussian function based upon the rv exoplanets .",
    "examples of the methods explored are the commonly used probability density distribution approach described in appendix a of @xcite and the monte carlo simulation code ( mess ) developed by @xcite .",
    "the difference with our approach here is that ( a ) we use the rv eccentricity distribution directly rather than infer a function from that distribution , and ( b ) we specifically determine the effect of eccentricity and the correlated parameters of periastron argument and inclination on detection efficiency .",
    "the monte - carlo simulation we perform in section [ deteff ] uses the eccentricity distribution of rv planets at long - periods as a proxy for the expected distribution at even larger separations .",
    "however , as was noted at the conclusion of the section , it is unclear if this distribution does indeed persist in this fashion .",
    "additionally , the samples of rv host stars and imaging survey targets tend to represent quite different stellar demographics in terms of their distances and ages .",
    "eccentricity studies of binary stars by @xcite indicate that the distribution peaks at @xmath23 for @xmath24  days , whereas the mean eccentricity of the known rv planets between 1.02.0  au is 0.27 ( see section [ eccdist ] ) .",
    "however , considering the very different formation mechanisms between stars and planets , such a comparison may be of dubious value . constraints on the orbital eccentricity of beta pictoris b by @xcite and on the eccentricities of the hr  8799 planets by @xcite have shown that these eccentricities are relatively low ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "thus the number of imaged planets are small enough and the eccentricities low enough such that little may be discerned regarding the eccentricity distribution from these planets alone .",
    "increasing this sample by a factor of 10 would start to produce meaningful insight into the distribution of eccentricities beyond that which is currently being probed by rv surveys .",
    "as imaging experiments are able to decrease the exclusion radius and provide adequate observational cadence , the ability to detect the orbital motion of detected planets ( and thus constrain the keplerian properties of that orbit ) will correspondingly increase .",
    "the exoplanet detection method of direct imaging is a powerful technique which is rapidly developing in both technical and scientific contexts .",
    "the major frontier push is to not only to detect smaller masses , but to detect those at smaller separations from their stars .",
    "thus the overlap between the semi - major axis parameter - space of the rv and imaging techniques is becoming larger at a rate such that it s prudent to investigate the kinds of keplerian orbital solutions the imaging technique may expect to encounter with new discoveries .",
    "here we have shown the impact of orbital eccentricity on exoplanet detectability through simulations , the observed distribution of keplerian orbital parameters , and the use of a simplistic model of the exclusion zone for a particular experiment . in practice ,",
    "the exclusion zone is not well - defined and is a complex function of the diffraction and speckle effects in the resulting images .",
    "the exclusion zone used here though well represents an inner region where detections are rendered virtually impossible by the flux of the star .",
    "these results show that the eccentricity can have a profound effect of the detection of eccentric exoplanets whose semi - major axis lie in the range @xmath26 .",
    "we have also quantified the effects of inclination on these results and shown how face - on orbits can increase the detection efficiency for eccentric orbits . as the techniques for direct imaging improve and further epochs",
    "are acquired for the known imaged systems , the precise effect of eccentricity on these experiments will be become abundantly clearer and add enormously to our knowledge of the eccentricity distribution as very long orbital periods .",
    "the author would like to thank thayne currie for several enlightening discussions on this topic , and also to natalie hinkel for providing useful feedback on the manuscript .",
    "thanks are also due to the anonymous referee , whose comments improved the quality of the paper .",
    "this research has made use of the exoplanet orbit database and the exoplanet data explorer at exoplanets.org .",
    "this research has also made use of the nasa exoplanet archive , which is operated by the california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration under the exoplanet exploration program .",
    "beichman , c.a .",
    ", et al . 2010 , pasp , 122 , 162 bonavita , m. , chauvin , g. , desidera , s. , gratton , r. , janson , m. , beuzit , j.l . , kasper , m. , mordasini , c. 2012 , a&a , 537 , 67 brandeker , a. , jayawardhana , r. , khavari , p. 2006",
    ", apj , 652 , 1572 butler , r.p . , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 646 , 505 chauvin , g. , et al .",
    "2010 , a&a , 509 , 52 chauvin , g. , et al .",
    "2012 , a&a , 542 , 41 cumming , a. 2004 , mnras , 354 , 1165 currie , t. , thalmann , c. , matsumura , s. , madhusudhan , n. , burrows , a. , kuchner , m. 2011 , apj , 736 , l33 currie , t. , fukagawa , m. , thalmann , c. , matsumura , s. , plavchan , p. 2012a",
    ", apj , 755 , l34 currie , t. , et al . 2012b , apj , 760 , l32 delorme , p. , lagrange , a.m. , chauvin , g. , , bonavita , m. , lacour , s. , bonnefoy , m. , ehrenreich , d. , beust , h. 2012 , a&a , 539 , 72 duquennoy , a. , mayor , m. 1991 , a&a , 248 , 485 ford , e.b . ,",
    "rasio , f.a .",
    "2008 , apj , 686 , 621 hinkley , s. , carpenter , j.m . ,",
    "ireland , m.j . ,",
    "kraus , a.l .",
    "2011 , apj , 730 , l21 hogg , d.w . ,",
    "myers , a.d . , bovy , j. 2010 , apj , 725 , 2166 janson , m. , bonavita , m. , klahr , h. , lafrenire , d. 2012 , 745 , 4 kalas , p. , et al .",
    "2008 , science , 322 , 1345 kane , s.r . , gelino , d.m .",
    "2011 , apj , 729 , 74 kane , s.r . ,",
    "ciardi , d.r . ,",
    "gelino , d.m .",
    ", von braun , k. 2012 , mnras , 425 , 757 kley , w. , nelson , r.p .",
    "2012 , ara&a , 50 , 211 lafrenire , d. , marois , c. , doyon , r. , nadeau , d. , artigau , e. 2007a , apj , 660 , 770 lafrenire , d. , doyon , r. , nadeau , d. , artigau , e. marois , c. , beaulieu , m. 2007b , apj , 661 , 1208 lafrenire , d. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 670 , 1367 lagrange , a .- m . , et al .",
    "2010 , science , 329 , 57 macintosh , b. , et al .",
    "2007 , crphy , 8 , 365 malmberg , d. , davies , m.b .",
    "2009 , mnras , 394 , l26 marois , c. , doyon , r. , racine , r. , nadeau , d. , lafreniere , d. , vallee , p. , riopel , m. , macintosh , b. 2005 , jrasc , 99 , 130 marois , c. , lafrenire , d. , doyon , r. , macintosh , b. , nadeau , d. 2006 , apj , 641 , 556 marois , c. , macintosh , b. , barman , t. , zuckerman , b. , song , i. , patience , j. , lafrenire , d. , doyon , r. 2008 , science , 322 , 1348 marois , c. , zuckerman , b. , konopacky , q.m . , macintosh , b. , barman , t. 2010 , nature , 468 , 1080 moorhead , a.v . , et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 197 , 1 namouni , f. 2005 , aj , 130 , 280 nielsen , e.l .",
    ", close , l.m . ,",
    "biller , b.a . ,",
    "masciadri , e. , lenzen , r. 2008 , apj , 674 , 466 nielsen , e.l .",
    ", close , l.m .",
    "2010 , apj , 717 , 878 oppenheimer , b.r . ,",
    "hinkley , s. 2009 , ara&a , 47 , 253 quanz , s.p . ,",
    "birkmann , s.m . , apai , d. , wolf , s. , henning , t. 2012 , a&a , 538a , 92 racine , r. , walker , g.a.h . , nadeau , d. , doyon , r. , marois , c. 1999 , pasp , 111 , 587 ribas , i. , miralda - escud , j. 2007 , a&a , 464 , 779 shen , y. , turner , e.l .",
    "2008 , apj , 685 , 553 vigan , a. , moutou , c. , langlois , m. , allard , f. , boccaletti , a. , carbillet , m. , mouillet , d. , smith , i. 2010 , mnras , 407 , 71 vigan , a. , et al .",
    "2012 , a&a , 544 , 9 wright , j.t . , et al .",
    "2011 , pasp , 123 , 412"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the detection of exoplanets through direct imaging has produced numerous new positive identifications in recent years . </S>",
    "<S> the technique is biased towards planets at wide separations due to the difficulty in removing the stellar signature at small angular separations . </S>",
    "<S> planets in eccentric orbits will thus move in and out of the detectable region around a star as a function of time . here </S>",
    "<S> we use the known diversity of orbital eccentricities to determine the range of orbits which may lie beneath the detection threshold of current surveys . </S>",
    "<S> we quantify the percentage of the orbit which yields a detectable signature as a function of semi - major axis , eccentricity , and orbital inclination and estimate the fraction of planets which likely remain hidden by the flux of the host star . </S>"
  ]
}