{
  "article_text": [
    "ultra - compact binaries refer to double stars with orbital periods typically less than about one hour .",
    "they come in two general flavours : detached systems and interacting binaries in which mass is transferred from one star to the other .",
    "the limit of about one hour is derived from a very simple argument , dating back to ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also @xcite ) .",
    "each component in a binary has a radius at most the size of its roche lobe , which for a star of mass @xmath0 and radius @xmath1 with a companion of mass @xmath2 can be approximated as @xmath3 @xcite . when combined with kepler s third law to eliminate @xmath4 ( and @xmath2 ! ) using the orbital period @xmath5 this yields @xmath6 .",
    "therefore , the smaller the period , the higher the density of the objects and for periods smaller than one hour , the densities are too high for main sequence stars .",
    "ultra - compact binaries therefore consist of evolved components : white dwarfs , neutron stars , he stars or black holes , which makes them a class apart .",
    "because both components in ultra - compact binaries are evolved stars , their formation is a probe of different uncertain processes in binary evolution : common - envelope evolution , magnetic braking , massive star evolution and ns / bh kicks .",
    "three different formation channels have been proposed ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) :    in the wd channel : :    the primary evolves to become a compact object that then is engulfed    in a common envelope with the secondary . after the common envelope the    secondary becomes a wd and gravitational wave ( gw ) radiation brings    the wd into contact with the primary at a period of a few minutes .",
    "if    the mass transfer is stable ( see  [ stab ] ) , the orbit will widen again    ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "in the he star channel : :    the evolution is largely the same , except that the core of the    secondary after the common envelope is a core he burning star that    starts mass transfer to the primary at periods of several tens of    minutes and first evolves to shorter periods , until a minimum of    around 10 minutes is reached and then turns around . in the evolved main - sequence channel",
    ": :    the secondary fills its roche lobe to the compact object when it just    reaches the end of the main sequence .",
    "it first evolves as a normal    low - mass x - ray binary or cataclysmic variable , until the h depleted    core of the star becomes exposed .",
    "the system essentially merges onto    the he star channel , although in many cases the transferred material    still shows traces of h ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "work done in utrecht showed that    in order to get to very short orbital periods , fine tuning of the    initial binary parameters as well as strong magnetic braking is needed    @xcite .",
    "[ fig : pmdot ]    the onset of mass transfer is an extremely interesting phase in the case of a wd donor .",
    "because wd have an inverted mass - radius relation , the donor will always be the lower mass object .",
    "the stability criterion ( @xmath7 and @xmath8 at all times ) immediately gives an upper limit to the mass ratio of the system ( see * ? ? ?",
    "but even if in principle the mass transfer can be stable , the time scales of the evolution due to gw emission are short and the mass transfer rates high ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "for ns ( and bh ) accretors this means the mass transfer is highly super - eddington .",
    "assuming radiation liberated by accretion is used to expel the excess matter from the inner lagrangian point ( l1 ) one can derive a ( likely ) upper limit on the mass transfer that can still be stable @xcite .",
    "because the mass transfer scales with the donor mass this puts an upper limit to the initial mass of a wd donor of @xmath9 .",
    "therefore he core wd can survive the onset of mass transfer more easily .    for wd accretors",
    "another interesting issue arises : at these very short periods , the accretor is relatively big compared to the orbit and in many cases the mass stream from l1 will hit the surface of the accretor directly ( so - called direct impact , see fig .  1 ) .",
    "this complicates the stability analysis of mass transfer , as the usual condition that the angular momentum that the donor loses to the stream is stored in the disk that forms and then via tides put back in the orbit ( and thus can effectively be ignored , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is not obvious anymore .",
    "this could seriously destabilise the mass transfer ( see fig .  1 ) , unless there is strong tidal interaction between the orbit and the spinning accretor ( which is unknown , @xcite ) .",
    "the evolution around the onset of mass transfer can give rise to various explosive phenomena : if the mass transfer is unstable the two stars will merge . in the case of two wds with enough mass ,",
    "this has been proposed as a possible origin of type ia supernovae . for lower mass wd",
    "the outcomes are more likely r crb or sdb stars @xcite .",
    "less work has been done on the merger of a wd with a ns , but recently @xcite suggested they may produce sub - luminous supernovae .    even if the mass transfer is stable , there may still be fire works .",
    "the two known classes of objects are ultra - compact x - ray binaries ( ucxbs ; a ns accreting he or a c / o mixture , see @xcite and am cvn stars ( a wd accreting he , ( see * ? ? ? * ) ) .",
    "the mass transfer is driven by gw emission and is characterised by rapidly dropping mass transfer rates ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "in am cvn stars the mass transfer rate of he onto a wd in the early phase is high enough to produce he novae . at periods of around 10 min ,",
    "the mass transfer rate has dropped enough that the ignition mass becomes so large that the layer is degenerate enough for the burning to proceed on a dynamical timescale , leading to a thermonuclear explosion , observable as a sub - luminous supernova , called .ia supernova @xcite . with the advent of wide - field variability surveys such as pan - starrs and pft , there are good chances of finding these supernovae .",
    "indeed several new types have been found ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but it is ( yet ) unclear which observed types belong to which theories !",
    ") and outer edge of the disk according to several authors as function of mass ratio .",
    "right : sph calculation of a disk in an extreme mass ratio case . from @xcite.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=50.0% ] ) and outer edge of the disk according to several authors as function of mass ratio .",
    "right : sph calculation of a disk in an extreme mass ratio case . from @xcite.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=50.0% ] [ fig : late ]    if the systems survive the early violent evolution , the mass transfer rate continues to go down ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "the mass ratio becomes very extreme ( @xmath10 ) , and the disk has to grow larger and larger to redistribute the angular momentum and it has been suggested that this would be impossible , leading to an instability .",
    "however , @xcite already showed that that was likely not the case and recent sph calculations indeed confirm that the disk becomes large and the system survives ( see fig .  2 and @xcite ) , leading to a large pile up of systems at long orbital periods .",
    "for am cvn systems indeed many long period systems are found ( see * ? ? ? * ) . however , this is not the case for ucxbs .",
    "we explored the options to explain this and conclude that either the systems are invisible most of the time ( e.g. due to thermal instabilities in the disk ) , or the evolution is sped up by x - ray induced wind mass loss from the donor , which is also consistent with the average x - ray luminosity of the few long - period ucxbs and the idea that the millisecond radio pulsar system psr j1719@xmath111438 is a remnant of ucxb evolution ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the evolution of ultra - compact binaries is largely driven by gw radiation .",
    "it is therefore maybe not unexpected that they are important gw sources .",
    "indeed , space detectors such as the elisa mission @xcite should be able to detect several of the known am cvn stars and a detached double wd with a period of only 12 min @xcite .",
    "they thus are guaranteed or verification sources .",
    "more interesting , elisa should detect several thousand new ultra - compact binaries most with periods shorter than 10 minutes !",
    "it should detect _ all _ ns star ( and bh ) binaries with periods shorter than 35 min in the whole galaxy ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a short overview of the formation and evolution of ultra - compact binaries . </S>",
    "<S> they are relevant to a surprisingly large number of astrophysical phenomena ( binary interactions , mass transfer stability , explosive phenomena such as type ia supernovae and gravitational waves ) . </S>"
  ]
}