{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf galaxies play a key role in @xmath2cdm - large scale structure formation scenarios , e.g. @xcite .",
    "indeed , according to this model , the dominant process of galactic growth is the accretion of small galaxies , and the large stellar halos found around massive galaxies such as our own milky way have been assembled thanks to the infall ( and merging with ) of many small dwarf galaxies @xcite .",
    "prior to their capture , dwarf galaxies are often disrupted through large tidal forces generated by their host galaxies , which form stellar streams and shells around their hosts ( see review by * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "although such fine structures have a lifetime of a few gyr in isolated environments , they are much shorter lived in dense cluster environments , where they interact with the cluster potential and are quickly dispersed out @xcite .",
    "disrupted satellites may also be contributing stars to the intra - cluster light , where the debris generated by numerous interactions over the lifetime of the cluster is observed as a vast diffuse halo around the most massive galaxies @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , the cores of tidally stripped galaxies of intermediate mass may become compact ellipticals ( ces ) , and the nuclei of tidally stripped dwarfs may become ultra - compact dwarf galaxies @xcite .",
    "the scenario is commonly known as tidal threshing @xcite .",
    "because of their being stretched out , disrupted dwarf galaxies experience a strong dimming of their surface brightness and become very difficult to detect . until recently , very few candidate  disrupted dwarfs \" were known outside of the local group . with the advent of sophisticated instruments and the development of data analysis techniques optimized to detect low surface brightness ( lsb ) structures ,",
    "the number of detections is growing @xcite .",
    "however , most of the observed features  filaments , warps , plumes and shells  are left - overs from rather old collisions , as their progenitors are no longer visible or identifiable .",
    "the deep imaging survey of nearby spirals carried out by @xcite with robotic facilities such as the 0.5 m blackbird telescope show a number of cases of dwarf galaxies currently undergoing tidal disruption .",
    "these include a pair of dwarf satellites of the virgo spiral galaxy ngc  4216 which are associated with extended tidal tails , whose brightest parts , cataloged as independent dwarf galaxies in virgo cluster cataloge ( vcc ; @xcite ) , are visible on shallower sdss images @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we revisit this system , using images obtained as part of the next generation virgo cluster survey ( ngvs , @xcite ) .",
    "the excellent image quality of the survey allowed us to disclose new objects , especially a couple of filaments and disrupted dwarfs , and to perform a surface photometry and color analysis .",
    "ngvs observations and data reduction are presented in sect .",
    "[ observations ] . the results , in particular the photometric properties of the newly discovered features , are detailed in sect .  [ results ] . in sect",
    ".  [ discussion ] , we investigate the origin of the streams , their age and fate . from a global view provided by the ngvs , we consider the overall uniqueness of the ngc  4216 system within the virgo cluster .",
    "the observations were carried out as part of the ngvs deep imaging survey using the megacam instrument @xcite on the 3.6 m canada - france - hawaii telescope ( cfht ) .",
    "the observational strategy , data reduction procedure and data quality control are described in @xcite . in brief , the multi - band ngvs survey benefits from the very wide field of view of the camera ( @xmath3 1@xmath4 @xmath5 1@xmath4 ) , and its very good image quality ( 0.6``-0.9 '' ) obtained through optimizing the observing conditions . the images are processed with a dedicated data reduction pipeline , elixir - lsb , which is explicitly designed to optimize the detection of very low surface brightness structures such as intra - cluster light ( icl ) , faint stellar streams and ultra - faint dwarf galaxies ( @xcite ; cuillandre et al . , in preparation ) .",
    "the output products of elixir - lsb are single frames and stacks in which the sky background has been modeled and removed ( @xcite ; gwyn et al . in preparation ) .",
    "further image analysis has been done using standard routines of iraf and idl .    for the study , we made use of ngvs images obtained in the @xmath6 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 bands , @xmath9 , @xmath10 in the rest of the paper ] .",
    "total exposure times were 0.88 , 0.57 and 1.2 hours respectively .",
    "since the @xmath11-band image is the most sensitive and the cleanest , i.e. , it contains the least number of artifacts such as ccd imprints and reflection halos ( see below ) , it was preferentially used for our photometric analysis .",
    "surface photometry of very low surface brightness objects is notoriously difficult .",
    "the precision of their measured parameters is affected by several factors , including the accuracy of the photometric calibration , sky background variation and artifacts due to imperfect optics .",
    "the photometric calibration of the ngvs has been done using the sdss photometry with a level of accuracy corresponding to a 1% variation in the photometric zeropoint ( see @xcite ) . at the surface brightness limit of the survey ( 29 mag arcsec @xmath1 in the @xmath11-band ) , the main limitations to the lsb structure analysis and photometry are due to the reflection halos around the bright sources ( stars but also the nuclei of bright galaxies with steeply rising surface brightness profiles ) , which show up as large disks that can not easily be removed from the images ( see an example of one of these halos in the upper - left corner of figure [ main ] ) .",
    "we therefore exclude in our analysis the contaminated areas where reflected light becomes dominant over the actual lsb feature .",
    "foreground stars and compact background galaxies were removed applying a ring filter to the images , and residuals were manually subtracted with the iraf task @xmath12 .",
    "the apertures used to carry out the photometry of the faint filaments and plumes , shown in figure  [ label ] , were defined visually as their surface brightness is too low for an automatic detection .",
    "the errors in the photometric measurements are to a large extent determined by those in the sky determination .",
    "although a master sky background is subtracted from each image , for our aperture photometry measurements we sampled the sky background at multiple positions around the targets .",
    "the number of sky probes ranged between 5 and 100 , depending on the size of the objects .",
    "each individual sky region consisted of 20 @xmath5 20 pixel boxes .",
    "the median value and errors were then computed .",
    ".basic properties of ngc  4216 and its companion galaxies .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]     [ ctb ]    band image of the field around vcc  165 .",
    "the main features have been labeled : the streams f2 and f4 , the progenitor candidate of f4 , the disrupted dwarf d , with its possible nucleus , n , and the background agn . see the inset in figure [ main ] for another view in color on this complex structure.,width=302 ]     delineates the region traced for the profile .",
    ", width=302 ]",
    "in the carnegie atlas of galaxies @xcite , the spiral galaxy ngc  4216 is described as ",
    "one of the most famous galaxies in the sky because it is often used in textbooks to illustrate the bulge , disk , dust content , and spiral pattern of typical luminous galaxies near the middle of the sb classification sequence \" .",
    "the deep ngvs images we have presented here show many additional features around this prototypical galaxy , in particular a complex network of interlaced plumes , streams and filaments . although a detailed interpretation is not straightforward , the large number of low surface brightness stellar tails is consistent with predictions from numerical simulations about the mass assembly of galaxies @xcite .",
    "this raises the question why all massive galaxies do not show a similar level of fine - structures . in the following , we propose scenarios accounting for the various features seen around ngc  4216 and discuss what is so special ( or not ) about this galaxy .",
    "disentangling real features from artifacts is essential to the goals of this paper .",
    "although multiple internal reflections in ccds and stellar halos also produce low surface brightness structures , these instrumental features usually have somewhat regular geometric shapes , like disks , long thin straight lines or grids , while the shapes of the cosmic structures of interest to us are significantly different in appearance : broad filaments , arcs and irregular plumes . in the case of ngc 4216 , a number of the faint structures we noted are ( barely ) visible on sdss images @xcite and more convincingly detected by @xcite .    as a reminder , the principal features observed around ngc  4216 and possibly associated with collisional debris",
    "are the following : + ( a ) two long filaments ( f1 and f2 ) , with frail evidence that they are physically connected , forming a possible loop in the north - west quadrant of ngc 4216 .",
    "three dwarf galaxies ( a , b and c ) are found projected onto , and we argue , associated with filament f1 ; + ( b ) a less extended very low surface brightness arc - like structure east of ngc4216 ( f3 ) .",
    "the dwarf satellite b is found at the intersection of f3 and f1 ; + ( c ) a relatively high surface brightness filament wrapping around the dwarf galaxy companion vcc  165 , likely emanating from a newly discovered disrupted dwarf ( d ) ; + ( d ) several broader and short filaments coming out from main body of ngc  4216 ( f5 - 7 ) .",
    "undoubtedly , all the stellar filamentary structures observed in the field of ngc  4216 have been shaped by tidal forces .",
    "however the origin of their stars may be debated .",
    "given the high frequency of fine structures around the spiral , one may wonder if they were all produced by a single event : either an old merger with a relatively high mass companion , or ongoing tidal interaction with dwarf galaxies . in these two cases ,",
    "the dwarfs seen along filament f1 would not be the original progenitors of its stars , but they would instead be tidal dwarf galaxies ( tdgs ) born in situ from the collisional debris .",
    "in fact , the three aligned dwarfs a , b and c show similarities with the three also aligned tdg candidates recently discovered along a prominent tidal tail associated with the elliptical galaxy ngc  5557 , which was interpreted as an old merger @xcite",
    ". however the latter are gas - rich , contrary to the ngc  4216 dwarfs .",
    "ngc  4216 has at least one relatively massive companion , the edge - on spiral ngc  4222 , and two luminous dwarf satellites , vcc  165 and vcc  200 ( see table [ stb ] ) .",
    "the latter two galaxies are likely not massive enough to tidally disrupt their host ( though the filament f7 pointing towards vcc  200 is intriguing ) .",
    "an on - going collision between the two spirals would generate tidal tails in the plane of their stellar disks ( see review by @xcite ) .",
    "in fact , all the new features discovered around the galaxy ( the stellar protuberances , plumes and filaments ) are located along its minor axis , i.e. , perpendicular to its main plane , and not towards the outermost regions of its stellar disk plane , where the isophotes remain regular ( see in particular figure  [ main ] ) . in hi",
    ", @xcite did not find any clear indications of interactions between the two galaxies either , though they noted mild distortions in the kinematics at the edge of the disk in both systems .",
    "a major merger in ngc  4216 is thus very unlikely .",
    "furthermore , the outer regions along the major axis of the galaxy , g1 and g2 ( see figure  [ label ] ) , are slightly bluer in @xmath0 by 0.2  mag than the regions along the intergalactic stellar streams .",
    "this likely means that the stellar streams and outer disk of the galaxy do not share the same stellar populations , and thus that the stars in the filaments did not originate from the spiral .",
    "alternatively , the filamentary structures may result from dwarf galaxies tidally stirred by ngc  4216 . in that case , the tails are shaped by both tidal forces and the orbit of the satellite around the host galaxy @xcite . inside several of the filaments ,",
    "stellar bodies with higher surface brightness are found that are good filament progenitor candidates .",
    "the most promising one is object a , which shares with filament f1 its orientation and color . scrutinizing figure",
    "[ main ] , one may see that the filament has a s - shaped structure close to the dwarf , due to the presence of two slightly misaligned tails on each side of the galaxy , possibly the leading and trailing tidal tails .",
    "this provides an additional evidence that a is the progenitor .    on the other hand ,",
    "it is hard to determine whether object b belongs to filament f1 or f3 , or if it is just a chance superimposition .",
    "its main body is not aligned with any of the filaments while its @xmath0 color agrees with that of filament f1 ( the s / n of f3 is too low to determine its color ) .",
    "if objects b , as well as c , are indeed associated with f1 , their presence along a single filament remains mysterious .",
    "it is unlikely that their common progenitor broke in two or even three stellar cores . alternatively ,",
    "if a , b and c were all pre - existing objects , and subsequently tidally disrupted by ngc  4216 , one would a priori expect them to be originally on different orbits and therefore to generate filaments with different orientations .",
    "note however that according to cosmological models , satellite accretion occurs along privileged directions .",
    "the dwarfs might thus belong to a common cosmological stream .",
    "a chance superimposition of b and c is obviously an hypothesis worth exploring .",
    "having spectroscopic data , and in particular information on the radial velocity and chemical abundances , would help to determine the nature of the dwarfs .",
    "alternatively , b and c might be substructures born in situ in the tidal tail of a. such a formation mechanism would differ from the one at the origin of tdgs , as it would not involve a major wet merger .",
    "it would rather resemble the one responsible for the formation of the stellar clumps that are commonly found in the tidal streams of milky - way globular clusters ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "note that in our own local group , the distribution of dwarf satellites inside narrow disks , the so - called disks of satellites , ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , is also puzzling and no satisfactory solution to account for them has yet been found .",
    "+ finally , the origin of the filamentary structures that do not show any obvious progenitor , such as f2 ( unless it is connected to f1 and shares the same progenitor ) , and of the three plumes - like filaments ( f5 - 7 ) is even less constrained .",
    "the progenitors might have been totally disrupted or their remnants might already have been swallowed by the massive spiral .",
    "in fact , object d near vcc  165 is likely a case of a dwarf in the process of total disruption . whether it is disrupted following its interaction with vcc  165 ( around which its tidal tail , f4 , wraps ) or with the more massive but slightly more distant galaxy ngc  4216 , or both ,",
    "is unclear . vcc  165 itself does not seem to be affected by gravitational interactions .",
    "the discovery of numerous filamentary structures around ngc  4216 , and tidally stretched stellar clumps within them , revealed an impressive number of in - falling satellites caught it the act of disruption .",
    "when has such a bombardment started and where in the cluster did it occur ?      could ngc  4216 belong to a sub - structure , like a group that has been accreted by the virgo cluster ? within the cluster , ngc  4216 is located in a moderately dense environment : the local projected number density of galaxies is nearly half that of the cluster core .",
    "the spiral is the most luminous galaxy within this sub - structure . for each virgo galaxy more luminous than m@xmath13 = -18 , we estimated in the sdss dataset the number of companions within a 100 kpc radius and radial velocities of @xmath14300 kms@xmath15 .",
    "ngc 4216 turns out to have a significantly higher number of faint companions ( m@xmath13 @xmath16 -18 , with spectra available ) , compared to its fellow galaxies .",
    "the probability of an increased number of dwarfs being demolished is thus higher there .",
    "the statistics on the ratio of dwarfs to giants is still to be extended to the many faint and ultra - faint dwarfs that are being discovered by the ngvs survey .",
    "low velocity collisions able to generate multiple tidal tails are expected in groups . as a matter of fact",
    ", examples of tidal interaction and possibly ram  pressure have been observed in several in - falling groups of clusters , which are suffering a so  called  pre - processing \" ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , during which the properties of their galaxies are changed within the group before being affected by the cluster environment .      a time scale for the satellite accretion / destruction process may be obtained from the survival time of the debris : whereas around isolated systems , streams may remain visible for several gyrs , within a cluster , the life expectancy of tidal debris is largely reduced due to dynamical heating and mixing @xcite .",
    "they should evaporate on a time scale shorter than the cluster crossing time , typically 1 gyr @xcite .",
    "this suggests that the bombardment has either started within the virgo cluster itself or in a pre - processed group that was accreted by the cluster only recently .",
    "the gas content of the ngc  4216 system somehow differs from that of the pre - processed groups so far reported in the literature .",
    "the filamentary structures detected in claimed pre - processed groups ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are usually gas  rich , host hii  regions , and are thus probably star - forming .",
    "there is no evidence for intergalactic hi  gas around ngc  4216 , at least in the alfalfa single - dish survey    the tails are red , presumably made of old stars .",
    "the dwarf satellites around ngc  4216 had their gas stripped long ago , either due to long - lasting interactions with the massive galaxies in the group , or because globally the group members had their gas reservoir stripped before the accretion event .",
    "as noted in sect .",
    "[ environment ] , the hi   disk of ngc  4216 seems truncated , which is normally interpreted as a consequence of ram pressure stripping in the cluster environment : the outer gaseous halo of a spiral galaxy is stripped away when it passes through a high density medium such as the core of a cluster @xcite .",
    "this might indicate that the ngc  4216 group already suffered a ram - pressure stripping episode , and therefore that is has already been in the cluster for a long time .",
    "the ram pressure needed to strip a spiral down to the observed outer hi  radius @xmath17 ( 15  kpc ) is @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the hi  surface density ( 3 m@xmath20 ) , @xmath21 the rotation velocity ( 250  km s@xmath15 ) and @xmath22 the galaxy velocity in virgo cluster ( 1500  km s@xmath15 ) .",
    "this yields an icm density , @xmath23 of @xmath24 @xmath25 .",
    "according to @xcite , such a density occurs at a cluster radius of about 0.5 mpc or 1.7 degrees . at the present epoch ,",
    "ngc  4216 is located at projected distance of 2.5 and 3.6 degrees respectively from the central cluster galaxies , m86 and m87 .",
    "thus , the value of its hi  truncation radius suggests a stripping episode that occurred at least 1 gyr ago , given the galaxy velocity , and closer to the cluster core , which would imply that the galaxy has ventured through that environment in the past0.6 mpc for this galaxy .",
    "the group thus may be located further from m87 , at @xmath32 mpc ( calculated 3d distance using radial and projected distance 1.7 and 1.2 mpc respectively ) .",
    "this yields a travel time from the centre of virgo cluster to the current position of nearly 2 gyr . ] .",
    "the bombardment of ngc  4216 and the multiple dwarf destruction must then have occurred later on .",
    "alternatively , the hi  truncation of ngc  4216 might be possible without invoking the virgo intra cluster medium , if the group were sufficiently massive and x  ray luminous @xcite .",
    "there is however no evidence for extended x - ray emission at the location of the galaxy to support the hypothesis of an in situ ram pressure event ( see figure  7 in * ? ? ?",
    "finally one should note that one of the main characteristics of the gas property of ngc  4216 , more striking than the disk truncation , is its overall low hi  surface density for a spiral galaxy of its size .",
    "such a global depletion of hi   might in fact be due to the effect of turbulent viscous stripping @xcite rather than ram pressure stripping .",
    "taking furthermore into account the fact that the companion galaxy , ngc  4222 , has a regular hi  distribution , it is still difficult to firmly conclude that the group of ngc  4216 did experience a ram pressure event during a past journey through or near the cluster core .",
    "how special is ngc  4216 within the virgo cluster ? as part of the ngvs project ,",
    "we have identified in a systematic way low - surface brightness stellar tails , and cases of tidally disrupted dwarfs .",
    "our preliminary analysis over most of the virgo cluster area indicates that there are only a rather small number of them , especially around spiral galaxies ( duc et al . , 2013 in prep .",
    "this may be an additional argument in agreement with a recent accretion of ngc  4216 as part of a group .",
    "on the other hand , even in the field and in groups , a bombardment like the one suffered by ngc  4216 seems pretty rare .",
    "none of the spirals mapped by @xcite have a similar number of filaments and disrupted dwarfs around them . in some systems , what appears to be multiple loops",
    "may in fact be due the wrapping of a single tidal stream around its host ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in the case of ngc  4216 , several independent filaments",
    "are observed ; they emanate from at least 2 , likely 4 , different disrupted dwarfs .",
    "the on - going deep imaging survey with megacam of atlas3d field galaxies @xcite , which has a similar depth and sensitivity to low - surface brightness structures as the ngvs , has so far also failed to detect the same wealth of debris of minor mergers observed around ngc  4216 .",
    "on the other hand , multiple stellar streams and dwarf satellite progenitors have been identified in the halo of our own milky way @xcite .",
    "they are however of much lower surface brightness . were the ngvs able to reach the surface brightness limit achievable with resolved stellar populations  32 instead of 29 mag arcsec@xmath1",
    " then the number of filaments and satellites is expected to strongly increase according to numerical simulations ( * ? ? ?",
    "* michel - dansac et al . , 2013 , in prep . ) .",
    "we have presented a study of the properties and origins of a complex series of interlaced narrow filamentary stellar structures , loops and plumes located in the vicinity of the edge - on virgo cluster spiral galaxy ngc  4216 .",
    "they were detected on multi - band extremely deep optical next virgo cluster survey ( ngvs ) images .",
    "some streams had already been identified in previous surveys , e.g. @xcite .",
    "several others , with @xmath11band surface brightness levels fainter than 28.5 mag arcsec@xmath1 are reported here for the first time .",
    "+ whereas the tidal origin of the filamentary structures seems rather obvious , determining the progenitors of their stars is less straightforward .",
    "the high resolution of the megacam camera , besides its high sensitivity to low surface brightness features , allowed us to identify progenitor candidates and to further explore the complexity of the system .",
    "this is illustrated by the detection of satellites of satellites : a filament was found wrapping itself around the luminous dwarf vcc  165 , which itself is probably orbiting around ngc  4216 .",
    "the alignment of three dwarfs along an apparently single stream is also intriguing .",
    "projection effects might be an explanation unless some of them are second - generation objects formed in - situ in tidal debris , or if all the dwarfs were accreted from the same cosmological filament .",
    "the dominant spiral itself does not show any strong evidence of having experienced a recent merger or being currently involved in a tidal interaction with a massive companion .",
    "the stellar streams most likely result from the disruption of dwarf satellites , some of which are still visible but look highly highly disrupted on the ngvs images . + while dwarf galaxy accretion , with an associated high rate of satellite destruction and the formation of stellar streams , is a priori expected for massive galaxies ",
    "cosmological semi - analytical models and simulations predict that they grow at low redshift through minor mergers @xcite - their presence in a cluster environment is rather surprising .",
    "a possible explanation is that ngc  4216 is the central galaxy of a group that has recently fallen into the virgo cluster , and that the merging activity seen in its surroundings might be considered as evidence for pre - processing .",
    "this scenario does not fully explain the apparently truncated hi  distribution of the spiral galaxy , however , if caused by a ram - pressure stripping event .",
    "the level of ram - pressure required to account for the hi  deficiency might imply that the spiral has already passed closer by the central regions of the cluster at least @xmath31 gyr ago .",
    "this hypothesis would raise the question of the survival of stellar streams in the cluster environment , which might be longer than once believed .",
    "however , other processes that do not request an interaction with the central icm are also able to truncate the hi  disk .",
    "follow - up observations , in particular a spectroscopic survey to get dynamical information on the system , would be needed to determine how long ago the group of ngc  4216 , including its numerous satellites , joined the virgo cluster .",
    "+ we have carried out a preliminary comparison of the fine structure index of ngc  4216 with that determined in other spiral galaxies in the virgo cluster , but also around massive galaxies in the field and in groups .",
    "ngc  4216 seems to have a particularly high number of streams typical of minor mergers , and associated dwarfs caught in the act of being disrupted .",
    "we intend to confirm this as part of other on - going deep surveys with the megacam camera on the cfht .",
    "the significance and implications of our results should also be probed using numerical simulations of galaxy evolution which may tell whether ngc  4216 has indeed had an unusually rich recent accretion history , if on the contrary its fellow - members have had a much less important minor merger activity than predicted , or whether our knowledge of stellar streams and its associated time scales should be revisited .",
    "we wish to express our gratitude to the cfht personnel for its dedication and tremendous help with the megacam observations .",
    "many thanks to the anonymous referee for his useful and relevant comments . this work is supported in part by the french agence nationale de la recherche ( anr ) grant programme blanc virage ( anr10-blanc-0506 - 01 ) , and by the canadian advanced network for astronomical research ( canfar ) which has been made possible by funding from canarie under the network - enabled platforms program .",
    "thanks the nsf for support through grant ast-1108964 .",
    "p.r.d acknowledges support from nsf grant ast-0908377 .",
    "this research used the facilities of the canadian astronomy data centre operated by the national research council of canada with the support of the canadian space agency .",
    "the authors further acknowledge use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "o. , charlot x. , abbon p. , aune s. , borgeaud p. , carton p .- h . , carty m. , da costa j. , deschamps h. , desforge d. , 2003 , in iye m. , moorwood a.  f.  m. , eds , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series vol .  4841 , p. 72",
    "p .- a . , renaud f. , 2013 , in souchay j. , mathis s. , tokieda t. , eds , lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag vol .",
    "861 of lecture notes in physics , berlin springer verlag , tides in colliding galaxies .",
    "p.  327",
    "l. , ct p. , cuillandre j .- c . , gwyn s.  d.  j. , peng e.  w. , macarthur l.  a. , duc p .- a .",
    ", boselli a. , mei s. , erben t. , mcconnachie a.  w. , durrell p.  r. , mihos j.  c. , jordn a. , lanon a. , puzia t.  h. , 2012 , , 200 , 4                  r.  a. , lewis g.  f. , conn a.  r. , irwin m.  j. , mcconnachie a.  w. , chapman s.  c. , collins m.  l. , fardal m. , ferguson a.  m.  n. , ibata n.  g. , mackey a.  d. , martin n.  f. , navarro j. , rich r.  m. , valls - gabaud d. , widrow l.  m. , 2013 , , 493 , 62"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the final stages of mass assembly of present - day massive galaxies are expected to occur through the accretion of multiple satellites . </S>",
    "<S> cosmological simulations thus predict a high frequency of stellar streams resulting from this mass accretion around the massive galaxies in the local volume . </S>",
    "<S> such tidal streams are difficult to observe , especially in dense cluster environments , where they are readily destroyed . </S>",
    "<S> we present an investigation into the origins of a series of interlaced narrow filamentary stellar structures , loops and plumes in the vicinity of the virgo cluster , edge - on spiral galaxy , ngc  4216 that were previously identified by the blackbird telescope . using the deeper , higher - resolution and precisely calibrated optical cfht / megacam images obtained as part of the next generation virgo cluster survey ( ngvs ) , we confirm the previously identified features and identify a few additional structures . </S>",
    "<S> the ngvs data allowed us to make a physical study of these low - surface brightness features and investigate their origin . </S>",
    "<S> the likely progenitors of the structures were identified as either already catalogued vcc dwarfs or newly discovered satellites caught in the act of being destroyed . </S>",
    "<S> they have the same @xmath0 color index and likely contain similar stellar populations . </S>",
    "<S> the alignment of three dwarfs along an apparently single stream is intriguing , and we can not totally exclude that these are second - generation dwarf galaxies being born inside the filament from the debris of an original dwarf . the observed complex structures , including in particular a stream apparently emanating from a satellite of a satellite , point to a high rate of ongoing dwarf destruction / accretion in the region of the virgo cluster where ngc  4216 is located . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the age of the interactions and whether they occurred in a group that is just falling into the cluster and shows signs of so - called `` pre - processing '' before it gets affected by the cluster environment , or in a group which already ventured towards the central regions of virgo cluster . in any case , compared to the other spiral galaxies in the virgo cluster , but also to those located in lower density environments , ngc  4216 seems to suffer an unusually high heavy bombardment . </S>",
    "<S> further studies will be needed to determine whether , given the surface brightness limit of our survey , about 29 mag arcsec@xmath1 , the number of observed streams around that galaxy is as predicted by cosmological simulations or conversely , whether the possible lack of similar structures in other galaxies poses a challenge to the merger - based model of galaxy mass assembly . </S>"
  ]
}