{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsph ) galaxies are believed to be the most dark matter ( dm ) dominated stellar systems known .",
    "they have low stellar content and are poor in , or entirely devoid of , gas .",
    "they are widely thought of as the smallest cosmological structures containing dm in the universe @xcite and are regarded as key objects in the formation of larger galaxies . according to the @xmath0-cdm cosmological model , complex structures are formed hierarchically @xcite in the potential wells of dm haloes , having density distributions following a navarro , frenk & white ( nfw ) profile @xcite . the dsph galaxies would be formed first in small haloes , and then become involved in the mechanisms of forming larger , complex objects .",
    "the dsph galaxies are characterized by absolute magnitudes in the range @xmath1",
    "m@xmath2 @xmath3 @xcite .",
    "their total estimated masses , considering both the stars and the dm halo , is of the order of @xmath4  m@xmath5 to @xmath6  m@xmath5 , within their half - light radii . with the advent of the sloan digital sky survey  ( sdss",
    "* ) , many new faint and ultra - faint dsph galaxies were detected around the milky way ( mw ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and many more ) .",
    "many of these dwarfs are less luminous than a globular cluster ( or even an open cluster ) yet they exhibit high velocity dispersions ( given their luminous mass ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and , similarly to the so - called  classical  dsphs , are not rotationally supported @xcite .",
    "should these objects be in virial equilibrium , they are the most dark matter ( dm ) dominated objects known in the universe .",
    "they would exhibit mass - to - light ( m / l ) ratios of more than a thousand ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "recent works have demonstrated that dsph galaxies are dm dominated objects @xcite .",
    "they have observed that the stellar velocity dispersion of the classical dsphs is of the order of @xmath7  kms@xmath8 and that it remains approximately constant with distance from the centre of the galaxy .",
    "there are several models that attempt to explain the origin of dsph galaxies by considering different mechanisms .",
    "some of them are based on tidal and ram - pressure stripping @xcite . in these models ,",
    "the dsph galaxies are formed due to the interaction between a rotationally supported dwarf irregular galaxy and a mw - sized host galaxy .",
    "these models show that dsph galaxies tends to appear near a spiral galaxy , but they do not explain the presence of distant isolated dsph galaxies , such as tucana and cetus .",
    "the model proposed by @xcite considers a mechanism known as resonant stripping and can be used to explain the formation of isolated dsph galaxies . basically , these objects are formed after encounters between dwarf disc galaxies and larger systems , in a process driven by gravitational resonances .",
    "there is another model that explains the formation of dwarf galaxies based on energy and momentum conservation when gas - rich galaxies interact @xcite . in this model",
    "the dsph galaxies are regarded as second - generation objects , devoid of dm , forming in the tidal tails of gas - rich interacting galaxies .",
    "all the models cited above consider the interaction between two or more galaxies to explain the formation of dsph galaxies .",
    "there are models which consider dwarf galaxies in isolation @xcite but they usually take only a smooth gas distribution into account and/or focus on higher masses for the dwarfs .",
    "@xcite , for example , perform cosmological re - simulations of dwarf haloes in the mass - range @xmath9 to @xmath10  m@xmath5 using an sph code with a star formation recipe . where the density of the gas is sufficiently high ( amongst other , more sophisticated criteria to mimic a correct global star formation ) , they convert gas particles into star particles , having masses of about @xmath11 to @xmath12  m@xmath5 .",
    "they do not take into account , that those masses in stars would form in an association or in a small dissolving cluster , because it is below their resolution , nor that more massive star clusters could form in a single star forming event .    here , we present a different approach .",
    "we also perform numerical simulations of isolated galaxies ( i.e.  no other galaxy is involved ) but we distribute the newly formed stars into dissolving star clusters within a dark matter halo , which allow the formation of objects that resemble classical dsph galaxies . our model is based on the assumption that stars never form in isolation but in hierarchical structures ( i.e.  star clusters ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the star formation events range from slowly forming stars in small clusters and associations to intense star - bursts , in gas - rich environments , typically producing a few to a few hundred young star clusters , within a region of just a few hundred pc ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "those star clusters form embedded inside a molecular gas cloud and eventually will expel their remaining gas via various feedback processes such as stellar winds , uv - radiation and finally the onset of supernovae ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and many more and references therein ) .",
    "if the star formation efficiency ( sfe ) is low then the star clusters are not able to form bound entities and instead they will disperse their stars and dissolve .    in this paper ,",
    "we propose that the dynamical evolution of these star clusters , i.e.  their dissolution due to gas expulsion , may explain the formation of classical dsph galaxies . in our scenario",
    "we simulate scs within a dm halo , as a natural extension of the work of @xcite .",
    "the star clusters form with low sfe and , thus , are designed to dissolve inside the dm halo to form the luminous component of the dsph galaxy .",
    "we follow the evolution of the star clusters within the dm halo for 10 gyr , and then we measure the properties of the object .    in our models , we observe fossil remnants of the formation process in the velocity space of the final objects of our simulations , providing predictions for kinematic observations in the future that could test our scenario .    in the next section",
    "we explain our idea in more detail followed by sect .",
    "[ sec : setup ] in which we describe the setup of our simulations .",
    "we present the results of our fiducial model in sect .",
    "[ sec : res ] and discuss them in the final section .",
    "our fiducial model is supported by two widely accepted theories .",
    "one of them is the structure formation in the @xmath0-cold dark matter ( @xmath0-cdm ) paradigm . in this scenario",
    "galaxies form hierarchically in the potential well of dm haloes and small haloes form first .",
    "@xmath0-cdm cosmology with its large n - body models of the universe ( e.g. millennium ii simulation of * ? ? ? * ) and the local universe around the mw ( via lactea incite simulation of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) predict that a galaxy like our mw should be surrounded by many of small dm haloes , which should / could host a dwarf galaxy as the luminous component .",
    "the second theory describes the star formation inside of galaxies .",
    "it is now widely accepted that stars form in a clustered mode ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* and follow - up publications ) . in extreme star bursts as in collisions of gas - rich galaxies massive star clusters or even cluster complexes , i.e.  clusters of massive star clusters ( e.g.  the knots in the antennae * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are formed .",
    "low star formation rates form open clusters or associations , which have low sfe and are more likely to dissolve .    in our scenario",
    "we simulate the dm halo of a dwarf galaxy . in its central region ,",
    "i.e.  where the luminous component is formed out of the assembled baryons , we insert star clusters which have a low sfe and therefore are designed to dissolve .",
    "these star clusters orbit the central region of the halo , while they are dissolving , thereby forming the faint luminous component of the dwarf .",
    "we have to use dissolving star clusters to form the low - density luminous component , as the merging of bound star clusters will only form bound compact objects ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "but as the dsph galaxies are expected to only form stars with a very low star formation rate , this assumption might be justified ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "dsph galaxies which show globular clusters might have formed some star clusters with a high sfe , which allowed some of them to survive and still orbit their dwarf galaxy .",
    "we follow the evolution of the dwarf galaxy for ten gyr and measure its properties at the end .",
    "[ cols=\">,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     = 5.8 cm = 5.8 cm = 5.8 cm = 5.8 cm = 5.8 cm = 5.8 cm    in left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sigma ] we show the line - of - sight velocity dispersion profiles ( @xmath13 ) for our four simulations and the crosses again show the average of three of our realizations and the three cartesian sight - lines . even though the profiles seem to be quite below @xmath7",
    "kms@xmath8 ( we see a mean central velocity dispersion of about @xmath14  kms@xmath8 ) the profiles are almost flat , out to a radius of @xmath15  pc .",
    "we see similar velocity dispersion profiles in leo  ii and sextans @xcite .",
    "the lines show the dispersion profiles of each sight - line and each realisation . here",
    "we see again mostly flat profiles but some profiles show wiggles , dips or bumps .",
    "while observers usually would have large error - bars and would use a smooth curve to fit through the data , we argue that those deviations from a smooth curve are real and due to our formation process .",
    "we also included error - bars for the data - points of the single simulations , single sight - line data - points . but these error - bars are smaller than the actual size of our small symbols as each data - point is based on 1,000 to 60,000 single velocities .",
    "in fact these wiggles and bumps might be the only possible way , with the observations we have today , to verify our scenario .",
    "only realisation 2 shows a very high dispersion , which we discuss in a separate section below .",
    "again we exclude this realisation from our mean values .",
    "the results of our four realisations are also given in tab .",
    "[ tab : vel ] .",
    "= 4.5 cm    finally , in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sigma ] we show the radial velocity of our particles of simulation  1 as function of their radius . in the top panel",
    "we show one percent of our particles to emphasise how well we are able to resolve the velocity space .",
    "the lower panel shows one particle in 1,000 , which compares with the best available observational data , present to date .",
    "again , in this low - resolution plot , such as could be obtained from current observed data , we do not see a strong sign of coherent motion , even though an inspection by eye of the full simulation data ( upper panel ) of fig  [ fig : sigma ] would suggest some bi - modality in the very centre .",
    "if we use all stars within a radius of @xmath15  pc to compute an overall velocity dispersion we get @xmath16  kms@xmath8 which resembles the values observed in classical dsphs as reported by @xcite .",
    "this mean value of the velocity dispersion velocity is calculated considering the lines - of - sight along the three coordinates , because the sight - line of the dsph galaxy towards us with respect to our formation scenario is unknown .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] , we show the dynamics of the first realisation within @xmath15  pc as two - dimensional pixel maps with a resolution of @xmath17  pc . in the left panel",
    "we show the line - of - sight velocity dispersion calculated for each pixel separately .",
    "we see regions of high velocity dispersion of more than @xmath7  kms@xmath8 in the central area but also at the locations where the off - centre density peaks are . in high resolution",
    "the distribution of dispersions is far from being smooth .",
    "in fact we see even more sub - structure than in the density plots . while the dm cusp was able to erase most of the structure in positional space , the structures in velocity space survived .",
    "we call these structures in velocity space which stem from the formation process of the dwarf fossil remnants. still we see high values of velocity dispersion throughout the visible part ( surface brightness above @xmath18  magarcsec@xmath19 ) of the dsph galaxy .    in the middle panel",
    "we show the mean velocity of all particles within a pixel .",
    "the figure shows clearly regions which seem to exhibit coherent streaming motions with velocities differences of up to @xmath20  kms@xmath8 .",
    "this means , even after @xmath7  gyr of evolution we still see the stars of dissolved star clusters , which were on rather circular orbits in coherent motion .",
    "the panel shows at least two structures of opposing radial velocities .",
    "a similar scenario was proposed by @xcite to explain the velocity structure of umi ( though in the plane of the sky and therefore with no detectable offset in mean velocity ) .",
    "we define a @xmath21-parameter : @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the mean velocity measured in the radial bin or later in a pixel and @xmath24 is the velocity dispersion measured within a projected @xmath15  pc radius .",
    "this parameter allows us to quantify how strong coherent motions in the object are .",
    "the function @xmath21 corresponds to a re - normalization of the mean velocities , which allows to see easily regions where the mean velocities are distinct from zero .",
    "higher values of @xmath21 correspond to regions where streaming motions and/or rotation are present .",
    "while the value of the @xmath21-parameter depends on the strength of the velocity deviations in our model , the significance of those values , i.e.  if they could be due to noise in the data - sample , depend on the number of velocities in the sample .",
    "if we would apply a strict criterion to regard only the deviations which have @xmath21-values higher than possible @xmath25-deviations ( due to noise ) as real , then we have to have values larger than @xmath26 , @xmath27 and @xmath28 for sample sizes of @xmath7 , @xmath29 and @xmath30 stars respectively . for more detailed values",
    "see table  1 in @xcite .",
    "the right panel shows the @xmath21-parameter .",
    "if no streaming motion is present we expect the @xmath21 values to be randomly distributed without correlation . as our high resolution plots have more than 300 and up to 3000 particles in each pixel , the @xmath21 values we see of up to @xmath31 are definitely significant and not due to noise produced by low particle numbers .",
    "we speculate above that our fossil remnants could be related with star clusters which dissolved on rather circular orbits . in fig .",
    "[ fig : s28 ] we show the particles of one of our dissolved clusters .",
    "its initial orbit is shown as a green line on top of the particles , which got spread out to much larger distances than the original orbit .",
    "still they form a ring - like structure , where at the upper end of the ring are more particles with negative velocities , while at the lower end we see particles with positive velocities .",
    "but the ring is too large for its ends to be the explanation of the two places of high delta values we see in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] ( top right and lower left area ) .",
    "if we zoom in ( right panel ) , we see that even though the ring is much larger there are areas where the particles of this dissolved cluster have predominantly positive or negative velocities ( circles ) .",
    "these areas coincide with the pixels of high delta values .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : vdist ] we focus now on one pixel with a relatively high @xmath21-value of @xmath32 .",
    "it is located in the upper right area of fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] .",
    "we plot the histogram of radial velocities of all 808 particles in this pixel ( taken from all dissolved scs , including the one we show in fig .",
    "[ fig : s28 ] ) .",
    "the top histogram , which has a good resolution of @xmath33  kms@xmath8 , shows that we have a complicated structure with several peaks and that the majority of particles have negative velocities .",
    "if we fit a gaussian to this data we obtain a mean value of @xmath34  kms@xmath8 and a @xmath35  kms@xmath8 ( skewness : @xmath36 ; kurtosis : @xmath37 ) .",
    "if we would have a normal non - rotating velocity distribution , the mean value has to be zero and the velocity dispersion reflects the strength of the potential according to the jeans equation .",
    "in reality , our histogram reflects many different streams of particles from many different dissolved star clusters rather than a smooth distribution of a uniform object in virial equilibrium .",
    "therefore , the peak is shifted and the measured velocity dispersion is much higher than expected .",
    "this is clearly visible if we look at the cumulative histograms of the different dissolved star clusters , which are shown as the thin , solid lines ( black ) in fig .",
    "[ fig : vdist ] .",
    "larger areas without lines show where some star clusters deposit a lot of stars ,",
    "i.e.  we have a stream of stars from that particular cluster inside this pixel .",
    "we also see that we do not have @xmath18 large areas inside this pixel , i.e.  we do not find stars from every cluster in this pixel .",
    "this reflects the complicated velocity structure we have throughout the dwarf galaxy .",
    "the particles of the different scs are not distributed evenly and smoothly throughout the whole available phase - space . some of them still occupy distinct regions , reflecting the former orbit of the sc they came from .",
    "the better the resolution is , with which we view the object ( smaller areas , larger particle samples ) the more visible are these structures . in the lower panel",
    "we plot the same velocity sample with half the resolution and the complicated multi - peak structure disappears , only the shifted mean and the large @xmath38-value remain .",
    "if we sample the same amount of velocities randomly from all over the dwarf ( red , dashed histograms in fig .",
    "[ fig : vdist ] ) the distribution is indistinguishable from a normal gaussian ( skewness : 0.055 ; kurtosis : 3.305 ) .",
    "the mean value is centred on zero ( @xmath39 ) and @xmath40  kms@xmath8 ( remember , we sample from the whole object , i.e.  also from the very outer parts showing low dispersions ; the velocity dispersion of all particles within @xmath15  pc is still @xmath41  kms@xmath8 ) .",
    "the result of these complicated velocity structures or fossil remnants as we dub them is that we could see regions with high velocity dispersion and regions with deviations in mean velocity , if we have high enough resolution , i.e.  having both : small pixel size and still enough stellar velocities per pixel . if we do not have the necessary resolution we still could see bumps and wiggles in the velocity dispersion profiles and we might observe a velocity dispersion that is enhanced relative to the equilibrium value for a smooth model . if we use the jeans equations to estimate the mass of the system we could then be biased to larger values of the mass .",
    "again we have to discuss our singled out model separately .",
    "[ fig : sigma ] shows that this model exhibits a cold core with a rising velocity dispersion outside the nucleus , reaching up to @xmath42  kms@xmath8 and dropping again to values similar to the other random realisations . as said in the previous section",
    ", this simulation exhibits a nucleus , which we do not find in the known dsph galaxies of the mw .",
    "but as expected for a nucleus inside a prominent dm halo we see a dip in the velocity dispersion .",
    "the maximum in the dispersion is due to the fact that in this particular model quite a lot of the luminous mass got trapped in the nucleated centre instead of being more distributed like the other models .",
    "= 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm = 4.1 cm    we try to compare our model with the available fornax data in fig .",
    "[ fig : lores ] .",
    "the top left panel shows the velocity differences of the central part of our model with a resolution of @xmath29  pc per pixel .",
    "overlaid is a contour of the surface brightness . within this contour",
    "the velocity structure could be mistaken as a signal of rotation around the minor axis or a velocity gradient of about @xmath20  kms@xmath8 . underneath",
    "we see that the pixels showing the strongest deviation have a @xmath21-parameter of about @xmath43 .",
    "now with our particle resolution we have more than 10,000 velocities in each pixel and we can be sure that this velocity structure is real and not due to noise .",
    "still , with this low resolution most signals of our complicated velocity structure are erased .",
    "the biggest structure is just visible in the top panel due to a dark red and a dark blue pixel and in the bottom panel through one dark pixel on either side of the object .",
    "we conclude therefore , that having only low resolution one can not see coherent motions ( several pixels together showing the same behaviour ) but rather has to search for symmetric pixels with high deviations .",
    "on the right hand side we try to produce a similar figure of the inner part of fornax .",
    "fornax has almost 2,000 radial velocities publicly available . in the region",
    "printed we have about 800 velocities .",
    "still , we have just around 20  velocities per pixel ( minimum value : 8) even with pixels this large .",
    "there are pixels which show high deviations in the mean velocity but first of all the strength of these deviations is still within the possible noise ( about a one - sigma deviation from the system velocity , a @xmath25-deviation due to noise would result in delta values of @xmath26 for ten stars or @xmath44 for @xmath17  stars ) and second we can not detect any symmetry between the pixels with high values .",
    "so we have to conclude that the presently available data of fornax does not show any visible fossil remnant , as we do not have sufficient data to disentangle possible sub - structure in velocity space from the possible level of noise .    once again",
    ": even though our model and fornax show deviations from the systemic velocity of the same strength , in our model these deviations are well above any noise and show symmetries , while fornax lacks sufficient data to enhance any structure , if present , above the possible level of noise .",
    "if we would degrade our data to the same low resolution in pixel size _ and _ particle sampling , as available for fornax , not a single fossil remnant would remain visible above the noise level .",
    "in this section we discuss in more detail the observational detectability in real dsphs of the features we have seen in our simulation .    if we analyse fig .",
    "[ fig : smooth ] in terms of detectability we find that the visible sub - structure in the surface brightness ( bottom left panel ) amounts to tiny differences in actual mass - densities . within a @xmath45  pc pixel",
    "the difference between the dark red and red pixels amounts to a difference of about @xmath17  m@xmath5 . in our simulations we can easily resolve such mass differences . in reality , regarding the fact that most of this mass - difference will be in faint low - mass stars , which are hard to detect at the distance of the dsph galaxies even with modern telescopes , these sub - structures will be below the detection limit .",
    "maybe the next generation telescopes like e - elt , tmt or gmt will be able to make those structures visible .",
    "but effects like slightly off - centre nuclei ( sextans ) , secondary density peaks ( ursa minor ) or dents in the contours ( draco ) ( as seen in @xcite ) are now potentially explainable with our scenario as low - resolution counterparts of a more complicated structure due to the formation process .    looking at the velocity dispersion profiles of our fiducial models , we find similar radial profiles to some of the classic dwarfs of the mw . if we recall the profiles of the different realisations of our standard model in fig .",
    "[ fig : sigma ] we see that some of them show not only an almost flat profile but also bumps or dents . in our simulations",
    "these deviations from a smooth curve are not due to noise ( as we have 1,000 to 60,000 velocities in one bin ) but are intrinsic deviations stemming from our formation scenario .",
    "they are hints to the fact that a more complicated velocity structure exists in our model . in reality",
    "@xcite we see similar bumps in carina , leo  i and sculptor , even though the observational error - bars are still much larger than the deviations .    even though some of the classical dwarfs have now more than 2,000 radial velocities , it is still not feasible to produce 2d velocity maps of the dispersion or the mean velocity with a sufficiently high resolution to detect fossil remnants , as we see in fig .",
    "[ fig : lores ] where we compare our simulations with fornax data set .",
    "if with next generation telescopes several thousands of radial velocities more for each dsph galaxy would become available , significant sub - structure in velocity space might emerge above the expected level of noise . in our fiducial model",
    "we found a maximum @xmath21-value of @xmath46 , if we degrade our resolution to a pixel - size of @xmath29  pc . in order for this feature to be detectable above the noise at a statistically significant level",
    ", we would need at least @xmath29 velocities per pixel ( to be above a @xmath25 noise level ) .",
    "another interesting property of our model is that if you would draw an imaginary line along the maximum extension of our object in surface brightness ( red / orange area in the left panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : smooth ] or grey area in the middle panels of the same figure , i.e.  the projected major axis ) , the position angle of this line would be different to a similar line drawn through the maximum extension of high velocity dispersion ( red / orange area in the left panel of fig .  [",
    "fig : overview ] ) .",
    "furthermore , a line through the two regions of high mean velocity deviations ( blue and red area in the middle panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] or two main dark areas in the right panels of the same figure ) , again would show a different position angle .",
    "in other words , if one would fit ellipses of constant surface brightness and constant velocity dispersion to our data shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : smooth ] and fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] ( left panel ) , their position angles would differ .",
    "furthermore , searching for the position angle along which we see the highest velocity gradient in our data ( middle panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : overview ] ) , this angle would differ from the other two .",
    "this is something which might only occur in our formation scenario and therefore would be a measurable quantity .",
    "unluckily , a perfect alignment would not exclude our scenario .",
    "just a perfect alignment in all known dwarfs would render our scenario very unlikely .",
    "one important ingredient of our models is the low sfe and therefore the subsequent dissolution of the scs . only with the dissolution of the scs we are able to lower the phase space density of the stars sufficiently to obtain low luminosity objects like dsph galaxies .",
    "merging scs without expansion always lead to compact objects , even without the presence of a dm halo @xcite .",
    "we see the difference in our model  2 , which had a chance merger early on in the centre , thereby preventing the merged scs from dissolving . as such objects as model  2",
    "are not observed , we could conclude that the scs which formed the known dsph had even lower sfes and slower sfr than adopted in our model .",
    "last but not least , this paper only talks about our fiducial model , i.e.  one particular set of parameters that without much tweaking results in an object which resembles ( as shown in the section above ) a classical dwarf spheroidal galaxy in terms of appearance , scale - length and velocity dispersion ( without matching one particular dwarf of the mw in every aspect ) . a thorough investigation of the vast possible parameter space ( @xmath47 , @xmath48 , @xmath49 , shape of the dm halo , distribution and virial ratio of the scs , ... ) will be dealt with in the follow - up papers we wish to publish .",
    "finally , one should bear in mind that after all , our model is still a toy model making a lot of simplifications ( all scs form at the same time , have the same mass and sfe , gas is lost entirely from the system , ... ) , some justified , some because we have no better knowledge . also here",
    "we have to investigate a much larger parameter space , which we will do in the future .",
    "a somewhat delayed formation of some of the scs might be a plausible explanation of the spread in metallicity we see in dsph galaxies .",
    "if not , a low sfr with low sfe also implies that we will lack high - mass stars and strong super - nova explosions @xcite which might be able to blow the remaining gas out of the dm halo . retaining the gas could then lead to another epoch of star formation later on .",
    "in this paper we tested a possible scenario for the formation of dsph galaxies with numerical simulations using the particle mesh code superbox . in our simulations we considered the evolution of @xmath50 star clusters within a dark matter halo with an nfw profile .",
    "we observe that these star clusters dissolve due to the low sfe @xmath51 assumed and form an extended luminous object which resembles a dsph galaxy and after @xmath7  gyr of evolution has a projected diameter of about @xmath52  kpc .    one major result to take away from our models",
    "is that even @xmath7  gyr of evolution is not enough to erase sub - structures stemming from our formation process inside of the dsph .",
    "these substructures are mainly visible in velocity space . because of these sub - structures , i.e.coherent motions , the measurements of the velocity dispersion of the object may be affected .",
    "for this reason our fiducial model can mimic the observations of a classical dsph galaxy even within a halo that only has @xmath53  m@xmath5 , a value somewhat lower than the canonical values @xmath54 @xcite obtained by using the measured velocity dispersion and assuming complete virial equilibrium without coherent motions .",
    "the external structural remnants of the formation process in our model are very faint , too faint to be observed in current data sets .",
    "the central structures which are within @xmath15  pc , have observable luminosities comparable to the luminosity of the dsph galaxies of the mw .",
    "but the sub - structures stemming from the formation process visible in the two - dimensional brightness distribution of our model are only visible through our ultra - high particle resolution and are currently unobservable , as long as we can not see all the stars of the dwarf . if such structures are present , only future telescopes like the e - elt might be able to observe them .      in velocity space",
    "the object has the overall properties of a typical classical dsph galaxy .",
    "we show that the velocity dispersion of this object is around @xmath7  kms@xmath8 and that it has a flat velocity dispersion profile in projection .",
    "again this resembles closely the observations of the known classical dwarfs .    besides we show the existence of streaming motions in this object even after @xmath7  gyr of evolution .",
    "these streams are fossil remnants of the dissolving star clusters considered in our simulations , mainly of those with more circular orbits . as mentioned above these kinematical sub - structures only become visible in high - resolution pixel - maps .",
    "the current state of the art measurements in real dsph galaxies using up to and more than 2,000 velocities in total is astonishing but do still not give enough resolution to find those fossil remnants , predicted by our model , in reality .",
    "our model showed one strong fossil remnant , which might be detectable in real observations possible today .",
    "this structure is still visible if we reduce our resolution to a resolution possible with present day observational data .",
    "it might be an explanation for the ring - like structure suspected in umi or it could be easily mistaken as a velocity gradient throughout the luminous component , as for example observed with uma  ii and her .",
    "it is important to note that these structures have 1d counterparts .",
    "we see in the dispersion profiles dents and bumps . in our simulations",
    "these are not errors of the measurement but real features .",
    "the same behaviour is visible in some of the mw dsph galaxies . in observational papers",
    "these dents or bumps are smoothed over because the data - points have much larger error - bars but according to our scenario some of them could be real .",
    "our simulations show that our new scenario for the formation of dsph galaxies , joining two basic astronomical principles , indeed works .",
    "we are not only able to reproduce the observational data we have today , but our models also provide observers with predictions for future high - precision and high - resolution observations .",
    "+ * acknowledgments : * pa wishes to thank w. dehnen for his help with the nfw profiles .",
    "m. metz for his support with superbox .",
    "pa gratefully acknowledges support from a conicyt phd studentship , mecesup fms0605 , fondap no .  15010003 , basal cata grant pfb-06/2007 , fondecyt no .",
    "1100540 and fondecyt no .",
    "mf acknowledges financial support through fondecyt grant no .",
    "1095092 and basal .",
    "miw acknowledges the royal society for support .",
    "rs is funded through a comite mixto grant and fondecyt no .",
    "3120135 .",
    "belokurov v. , zucker d.b .",
    ", evans n.w .",
    ", wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m . , irwin j.m . , gilmore g. , willman b. , vidrih s. , newberg h.j . , wyse r.f.g .",
    ", fellhauer m. , hewett p.c . ,",
    "cole n. , bell e.f . , beers t.c .",
    ", rockosi c.m . , yanny b. , grebel e.k . , schneider d.p .",
    ", lupton r. , barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j .",
    ", krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , smith j.a . ,",
    "snedden , s.a .",
    "2006 , apj , 647 , l111    belokurov v. , zucker d.b .",
    ", evans n.w .",
    ", kleyna j.t . , koposov s. , hodgkin s.t . , irwin m.j .",
    ", gilmore g. , wilkinson m.i . , fellhauer m. , bramich d.m .",
    ", hewett p.c . , vidrih s. , de jong j.t.a . , smith j.a . ,",
    "rix h .- w .",
    ", bell e.f . ,",
    "wyse r.f.g . ,",
    "newberg h.j .",
    ", mayeur p.a . , yanny b. , rockosi c.m . , gnedin o.y . ,",
    "schneider d.p . , beers t.c .",
    ", barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j . , krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , snedden , s.a . 2007 ,",
    "apj , 654 , 897              bressert e. , bastian n. , gutermuth r. , megeath s.t .",
    ", allen l. , evans n.j.ii , rebull l.m . , hatchell j. , johnstone d. , bourke t.l .",
    ", cieza l.a . , harvey p.m. , merin b. , ray t.p . , tothill n.f.h .",
    "2010 , mnras , 409 , l54                                            koposov s.e . , gilmore g. , walker m.g . , belokurov v. , evans n.w .",
    ", fellhauer m. , gieren w. , geisler d. , monaco l. , norris j.e .",
    ", okamoto s. , penarrubia j. , wilkinson m. , wyse r.f.g . , zucker d.b .",
    "2011 , apj , 736 , 146                                                              willman b. , dalcanton j.j . , martinez - delgado d. , west a.a .",
    ", blanton m.r .",
    ", hogg d.w .",
    ", barentine j.c . ,",
    "brewington h.j . , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j . , krzesinski j. , long d. , neilsen e.h.jr . ,",
    "nitta a. , snedden s.a .",
    "2005 , apj , 626 , l85      zucker d.b . , belokurov v. , evans n.w . , wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , sivarani t. , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m .",
    ", irwin j.m . , gilmore g. , willman b. , vidrih s. , fellhauer m. , hewett p.c . , beers t.c . , bell e.f .",
    ", grebel e.k . ,",
    "schneider d.p . ,",
    "newberg h.j . ,",
    "wyse r.f.g . ,",
    "rockosi c.m . , yanny b. , lupton r. , smith j.a . , barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j .",
    ", krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , snedden s.a .",
    "2006 , apj , 643 , l103"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use numerical simulations to study a formation scenario for dwarf spheroidal galaxies in which their stellar populations are the products of the dissolution of open star clusters and stellar associations within cosmological dark matter haloes . </S>",
    "<S> this paper shows that this process gives rise to objects which resemble the observed dwarf spheroidal satellites of the milky way without invoking external influences . </S>",
    "<S> the presence of long - lived kinematic substructures within the stellar components of these objects affects their projected velocity dispersions . </S>",
    "<S> we find that this in turn affects mass estimates based on the projected velocity dispersion profiles which may over - estimate the actual dark matter halo mass depending on the amount of substructure which is present . </S>",
    "<S> our models make predictions about the detailed kinematic and photometric properties of the dsphs which can be tested using future observations .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : dwarfs  galaxies : star clusters  methods : n - body simulations </S>"
  ]
}