{
  "article_text": [
    "lots of research has been done to control energy utilization in the network layer of wsn .",
    "clustering technique got great attention in resolving energy utilization issue . in clustering technique ,",
    "data is first gathered and then forwarded to base station ( bs ) .",
    "a uniform distribution of nodes and optimum number of chs in each round helps to control load distribution in clustering technique which , ultimately utilizes energy efficiently .    as a second step controlling the number of clusters formed during network operation enhances the network stability and lifetime .",
    "a network is said to be stable if difference between first node died time and last node died time is minimum @xcite .",
    "optimum number of chs not only control load distribution but also uses energy efficiently .",
    "one of the problem in clustering technique is the creation of energy holes . in random distribution of nodes",
    "chs which are overloaded cause the creation of energy holes . in multi - hop data forwarding technique , nodes near the bs consume large energy .",
    "these area of nodes are also called hotspots @xcite .",
    "energy depletes quickly in the hotspot areas of network .",
    "hienzelman , a.p .",
    "chandrakasan and h. balakrishnan proposed leach @xcite ; one of the first clustering routing protocol for wsns .",
    "according to leach algorithm , selection of ch for current round is probabilistic .",
    "therefore , in this approach , of ch selection chs formed are not uniformly distributed , which may cause existence of disconnected nodes .",
    "leach - centralized ( leach - c ) is an extension of leach which is proposed by balakrishnan , chandrakasan and heinzelman @xcite .",
    "the plus point of this algorithm is that , bs makes sure that node with less energy does not become ch .",
    "however in large scale network , nodes far away from bs are unable to send their status to bs .",
    "multihop - leach protocol is proposed by nauman israr and irfan awan @xcite .",
    "multihop - leach has mainly two modes of operations , i.e. , multihop inter - cluster operation and multihop - intra cluster operation .",
    "in the leading operation nodes sense the environment and send their data to ch , this data is received by bs through a chain of chs , while the lagging operation is performed in time out period . however , in both modes of operations ch is selected randomly . this agreement does not guaranty full area coverage of the entire network which , it is monitoring .",
    "et al_. @xcite proposed leach - selective cluster ( leach - sc ) .",
    "ch selection in leach - sc is like leach .",
    "the algorithm changes the theme of cluster formation in such a way that node finds ch closest to the mid point between itself and bs , then joins that cluster . however , number of chs fluctuate as rounds proceed .",
    "localization problem is discussed in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "authors divided the network area in to sub areas .",
    "the localization technique helps to improve the coverage hole problem .    in this research work",
    "we introduce a new clustering technique of routing layer communication . in density",
    "controlled divide - and - rule ( ddr ) , nodes are distributed uniformly in the network and randomly distributed in different segments of network ; to control the density . in this way coverage hole problem can be avoided . secondly in ddr ,",
    "clusters formed are static and number of clusters remain fix during network operation .",
    "the number of clusters formed are near to optimum number .",
    "this helps in efficient energy utilization and uniform load distribution .",
    "rest of the paper is organised as under .",
    "in this section , we introduce ddr .",
    "first we describe how the network area is logically divided into segments then we find out the energy consumption in these segments .",
    ".notations used in mathematical model [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     by increasing network area and number of nodes with a ratio of @xmath0 per node ; for 134 nodes we divide network area into four concentric squares , incase of 167 and 200 nodes we divide network area into five and six concentric squares respectively . in such situations communication distance is no more ; less than or equal to reference distance and overhead on chs near to bs increases as a result stability period and network lifetime decreases to an extent .",
    "in this article we focused on energy efficient routing in wsns . our technique , ddr is based on static clustering and optimum number of ch selection in each round . in ddr",
    "we divided the network field into logical segments .",
    "the segmentation process helps to reduce communication distance between node and ch and between ch and bs .",
    "multi - hop communication in inter - cluster further reduces communication distance . in ddr",
    "we have tried to overcome the problem of coverage hole and energy hole through density controlled uniform distribution of nodes in different segments of network .",
    "optimum number of chs in each round helps to achieve balanced load distribution . which enhances stable period and network life time .",
    "00 a. liu , p. zhang , z. chen , theoretical analysis of the lifetime and energy hole in cluster based wireless sensor networks , journal of parallel and distributed computing 71 ( 10 ) ( 2011 ) 13271355 .",
    "w. heinzelman , a. chandrakasan , h. balakrishnan , energy - efficient communication protocol for wireless microsensor networks , in : system sciences , 2000 .",
    "proceedings of the 33rd annual hawaii international conference on , ieee , 2000 , pp . 10pp .",
    "w. heinzelman , application - specific protocol architectures for wireless networks , ph.d .",
    "thesis , massachusetts institute of technology ( 2000 ) .",
    "n. israr , i. awan , multihop clustering algorithm for load balancing in wireless sensor networks , international journal of simulation , systems , science and technology 8 ( 1 ) ( 2007 ) 1325 .",
    "w. jun , z. xin , x. junyuan , m. zhengkun , a distancebased clustering routing protocol in wireless sensor networks , in : communication technology ( icct ) , 2010 12th ieee international conference on , ieee , 2010 , pp .",
    "r. sugihara , r. gupta , sensor localization with deterministic accuracy guarantee , in : infocom , 2011 proceedings ieee , ieee , 2011 , pp .",
    ". m. jin , s. xia , h. wu , x. gu , scalable and fully distributed localization with mere connectivity , in : infocom , 2011 proceedings ieee , ieee , 2011 , pp .",
    ". j. lian , l. chen , k. naik , t. otzu , g. agnew , modeling and enhancing the data capacity of wireless sensor networks , ieee monograph on sensor network operations"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cluster based routing technique is most popular routing technique in wireless sensor networks ( wsns ) . due to varying need of wsn applications efficient energy utilization in routing protocols </S>",
    "<S> is still a potential area of research . in this research work </S>",
    "<S> we introduced a new energy efficient cluster based routing technique . in this technique we tried to overcome the problem of coverage hole and energy hole . in our technique </S>",
    "<S> we controlled these problems by introducing density controlled uniform distribution of nodes and fixing optimum number of cluster heads ( chs ) in each round . </S>",
    "<S> finally we verified our technique by experimental results of matlab simulations .    </S>",
    "<S> energy , efficient , routing , wsn , static , clustering , hole . </S>"
  ]
}