{
  "article_text": [
    "the bragg reflection polarimeter ( brp ) was the student experiment on the nasa gravity and extreme magnetism small explorer ( gems ) mission @xcite .",
    "the experiment existed under the nasa education and public outreach program , and its primary purpose was to train students in the field of space exploration .",
    "the scientific goal was to examine the geometry of spacetime surrounding accreting black holes using x - ray polarization .",
    "a team of students at the university of iowa ( ui ) was tasked with the design , construction , testing , integration , and operation of a soft x - ray polarimeter under the guidance of ui faculty and nasa personnel .",
    "the brp instrument and the gems mission passed the preliminary design review at goddard space flight center ( gsfc ) .",
    "however , the mission was subsequently canceled for budgetary reasons . at the time of cancellation ,",
    "the team was developing flight hardware and preparing for the critical design review .",
    "this paper reports on the development of the multilayer reflector for this instrument , following an earlier conference proceedings publication on this topic @xcite .    a conceptual diagram of the operation of the gems brp .",
    "the multilayer reflector is placed in the optical path of the main experiment .",
    "the proportional counter monitors the x - ray count rate that is modulated as a function of spacecraft roll angle , depending on the polarization of the incoming beam . ]    the basic instrument concept is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : brpconcept ] . glancing incidence wolter type",
    "i mirrors focus a cone of light toward the primary experiment ( xpi : x - ray polarimeter instrument @xcite ) .",
    "the multilayer reflector is placed in this optical path at a nominal @xmath2 incidence angle , reflecting a narrow energy band centered at about 0.5 kev to the multiwire proportional counter ( mwpc ) . due to the polarization dependence of reflection , the reflected intensity will vary based on the polarization of the incoming beam and the roll angle of the spacecraft . as the spacecraft rotates about the optical axis , the mwpc monitors the count rate to obtain a polarization measurement of an astrophysical source .",
    "three main components make up the brp : the multilayer reflector , the mwpc , and the electronics box .",
    "the reflector consists of a polyimide membrane substrate mounted on a metallic frame and coated with an ultra - short - period multilayer coating .",
    "the mwpc is loosely based on the design of the rosat pspc @xcite , and possesses discrete regions for x - ray detection and charged particle background rejection .",
    "the electronics box supplies high voltage to the mwpc , shapes and digitizes mwpc pulses , and communicates with the spacecraft .",
    "a common figure of merit for a polarimeter is the minimum detectable polarization ( mdp ) , defined as the 99% confidence limit that a polarization amplitude is not measured by chance . for a source rate",
    "@xmath3 , background rate @xmath4 , and observation time @xmath5 , the fractional mdp is given by @xmath6 where the modulation factor @xmath1 is the polarimeter response to a 100% polarized source @xcite . in the x - ray band ,",
    "brewster s angle for 0% reflection of p - polarized light is @xmath7 , and so for a bragg polarimeter operating at @xmath2 incidence @xmath8 .",
    "brp mdp estimates were made using the energy spectrum of the crab nebula , the only x - ray source to have its polarization reliably measured ( 15.7% and 18.3% at 2.6 kev and 5.2 kev , respectively @xcite ) in the past .",
    "theoretical reflectance curves ( see  [ sec : modeling ] ) for various multilayer designs were convolved with the crab energy spectrum @xcite to predict the source rate @xmath3 , and a rough estimate for the detector background rate @xmath4 ( 0.006 cts / sec ) was obtained using the background rates , scaled for the detector size , on the oso-8 wisconsin experiment @xcite . the crab observation time was fixed to that in the gems observing plan ( @xmath9 sec ) .",
    "the multilayer integrated reflectance at a fixed incidence of @xmath2 was used to quantify the reflector sensitivity requirement , which was set at 0.08 ev based on the reflectance curve of the multilayer design with the highest permissible predicted mdp ( 10% ) .",
    "the rms slope of the reflector surface , calculated at spatial wavelengths between 1 mm and the full aperture , was required to be @xmath10 arcmin to ensure the reflected photons pass through the 11.2 mm diameter detector window .",
    "a larger window with sufficient mechanical strength and soft x - ray transmission was not commercially available .    in order to not reduce the xpi sensitivity",
    ", the reflector must have high transmission in the 210 kev band .",
    "transmission curves were calculated and convolved with the xpi effective area to predict the reduction in sensitivity due to the brp . in this calculation , the polyimide substrate thickness was fixed at 2 @xmath1 m and the number of bilayers was varied for each candidate multilayer material pair .",
    "a 70% transmission requirement was set at 2.7 kev using the calculated transmission curve that produced the maximum allowable reduction in xpi sensitivity .",
    "this energy is at the low end of the xpi energy band , where the transmission is expected to be the worst .",
    "also , it is straightforward to measure transmission at this energy using an x - ray tube and a rhodium target  the full transmission curve can then be extrapolated from this measurement .",
    "a clear aperture requirement was set at 32 mm so that the metallic frame would not occult the light cone seen by the xpi window .",
    "a thin film substrate for the multilayer coating was necessary to satisfy the transmission requirement .",
    "approximately @xmath11 m thick polyimide samples were obtained from luxel corp .  for surface quality and x - ray transmission measurements .",
    "the polyimide membranes were mounted on aluminum rings with a 28.6 mm inner diameter .",
    "the ultimate reflectance achieved by a multilayer structure is reduced from its theoretical maximum due to imperfections in the individual interfaces .",
    "sources of imperfection include surface roughness , interdiffusion of adjacent layers , and even the size of the atoms themselves .",
    "typically , substrate surface roughness propagates through the layers of a multilayer .",
    "a rule of thumb is to choose a substrate with rms roughness @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the period or bilayer thickness of the multilayer @xcite .",
    "the bragg equation ( @xmath14 ) leads to a bilayer thickness of @xmath15 nm for a peak reflectance at @xmath16 kev .",
    "therefore , we sought a thin film substrate with roughness @xmath17   rms .    one dimensional psds of the luxel polyimide sample , calculated using 1 @xmath18 afm measurements and averaged over 512 scans .",
    "the blue line shows the psd of the surface of the film exposed to vacuum ( top ) during substrate fabrication , whereas the green line shows the psd of the surface making contact with the si wafer ( bottom ) . ]",
    "the spatial frequency range of surface imperfections that degrade soft x - ray reflectance is approximately 1100 @xmath19 @xcite .",
    "atomic force microscopy ( afm ) is the only metrology technique able to access this frequency range . using the asylum research mfp-3d located at the ui central microscopy research facility ,",
    "profiles of both surfaces of a polyimide sample were mapped out using 1 @xmath18 scans with 512 by 512 points ( 1 scan per surface ) .",
    "one dimensional power spectral densities ( psds ) were calculated and are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : luxelpsds ] .",
    "the bottom surface refers to the side of the film making contact with the si wafer during substrate fabrication .",
    "the roughnesses obtained by integrating the psds in fig .  [ fig : luxelpsds ] over the 1100 @xmath1m@xmath20 range are 6.76   and 1.34   rms for the top and bottom surfaces , respectively .",
    "the roughness of the bottom surface closely matches the ultra smooth si wafer onto which it was deposited , which has a typical 1   rms roughness in the same spatial frequency range .    ]    ]      variation of surface heights in spatial frequencies @xmath21 has little effect on reflectance throughput , and instead determines the quality of the reflected image .",
    "a reflector with significant slope error ( i.e. waviness ) will act to smear the point spread function of the image at the detector window ( 11.2 mm diameter ) , resulting in a lower encircled energy fraction .",
    "combined with the pointing wobble of the spacecraft , this effect will increase the uncertainties in a polarization measurement . to limit this impact ,",
    "slope error is required to be @xmath10 arcmin in the spatial period range of 1 mm to the full aperture of the reflector .",
    "the clear aperture of the brp reflector for the flight instrument is required to be @xmath22 mm .",
    "for testing purposes , the polyimide substrates discussed in this manuscript have a diameter of 28.6 mm .",
    "using luxel supplied confocal microscope scans ( fig .",
    "[ fig : luxelscan ] ) of the polyimide substrate , psds were calculated over the spatial frequency range of @xmath23@xmath24 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : confocalpsd ] ) .",
    "as discussed later in  [ sec : ripples ] , ripples such as the one observed in the right side of the x scan in fig .",
    "[ fig : luxelscan ] are expected to nearly disappear under the environment of a low earth orbit .",
    "they would also be less pronounced if a material with a smaller coefficient of thermal expansion was used for the membrane support ring .",
    "therefore , we restricted the slope error calculation to ripple - free slices of the membrane surface as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : luxelscan ] .",
    "the slope error was quantified by integrating the second moment of the resultant psds , and was 3.47 arcmin and 1.34 arcmin for the x and y scans , respectively .",
    "both of these numbers are well within the 5 arcmin requirement .",
    "the x - ray transmission of the substrate alone was tested at normal incidence prior to reflector development in order to ensure that the 70% transmission requirement for the multilayer - coated substrate could be met at 2.7 kev .",
    "the experimental setup is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : transsetup ] .",
    "a collimated beam generated by an oxford x - ray tube enters the chamber and impacts a target consisting of a copper plate covered with aluminum foil .",
    "the tube s rhodium anode is varied between trials over 2025 kv in order to produce a strong bremsstrahlung continuum for fluorescing aluminum and copper .",
    "an amptek xr-100cr silicon detector is positioned off - axis to monitor the resulting 8 kev copper and 1.5 kev aluminum lines .",
    "the polyimide sample is moved in and out of the path between the target and the detector with a linear vacuum feedthrough .",
    "the aluminum line count rate with the sample in the fluorescence path divided by that with the sample out of the fluorescence path is taken as the transmission .",
    "the copper line , which has @xmath25 transmission through the polyimide , is used to normalize spectra from run to run due to the varying x - ray tube flux .",
    "m maximum variation in the polyimide thickness . ]    m maximum variation in the polyimide thickness . ]    the results of the measurement are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : subtrans ] .",
    "the black points indicate the 76.7% and 78.6% measured transmission values for two samples of luxel polyimide .",
    "theoretical transmission values were calculated over the gems energy range using the center for x - ray optics online database@xcite .",
    "the measurements are consistent with the theoretical transmission values within the @xmath26 uncertainty in the film thickness , lending confidence to the ability to predict substrate transmission using tabulated optical constants .",
    "the extrapolated transmission at 2.7 kev and a @xmath2 incidence angle is 94.0% , deemed sufficient for the reflector substrate .",
    "multilayer modeling using the imd software package was used to select the multilayer materials and optimal parameters @xcite .",
    "the primary considerations were the theoretically achievable reflectance and transmission , systematic errors induced by the spacecraft pointing wobble , and the potential stress put on the substrate by the multilayer coating , which should be minimized to ensure polyimide membrane survival .",
    "the candidate material pairs were wc / sic and al@xmath27o@xmath28/v .",
    "wc / sic was specifically designed to have near - zero compressive stress , and al@xmath27o@xmath28/v  has high theoretical reflectance below the vanadium l@xmath29 edge at 512 ev .",
    "although the brp reflector s nominal incidence angle is @xmath2 , the converging x - ray cone hitting the reflector will have an inherent spread in incidence angles of approximately @xmath30 , dictated by the geometry of the wolter i mirrors .",
    "an approximate form of this incidence angle distribution was determined using a simplified 2d model of the mirrors .",
    "this angular distribution was used to weight reflectance curves calculated for incidence angles covering the @xmath30 range , which were then summed together to arrive at the true reflector response versus energy .",
    "[ fig : blendedcurve ] shows two wc / sic reflectance curves .",
    "the sharply peaked curve represents the predicted response for a nominal @xmath2 incidence angle .",
    "the smooth , broadly peaked curve is the result from the weighted averaging of reflectance curves over the @xmath31 range . while the peak reflectance of the weighted curve is significantly lower than in the ideal case , the broader energy response acts to preserve the integrated reflectance .",
    "because the optical constants of vanadium are rapidly varying in our energy range , integrated reflectivity is not preserved under this transformation for al@xmath27o@xmath28/v  multilayers .",
    "[ cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "we have developed , fabricated , and characterized a reflective / transmissive multilayer polarizer element for operation in the 515 ev photon energy region .",
    "it consists of an ultra - short - period wc / sic multilayer coating deposited on a 2 @xmath1 m polyimide substrate of 28.6 mm diameter , mounted on an aluminum frame .",
    "two prototype reflectors have been fabricated in this manner and meet nearly all of the gems brp requirements .",
    "the reflectance and transmission achieved are more than adequate and are reliably predictable .",
    "both reflectance and transmission properties were stable after vibration and thermal cycling tests .",
    "ripples were observed due to thermal expansion effects and raised temperature control concerns , but selection of an appropriate frame material ( invar , kovar , or titanium ) would alleviate this issue . were it not for the gems mission cancellation",
    ", the final step would be to obtain and multilayer - coat candidate reflectors supported by frames with ctes well - matched to that of the polyimide membrane .",
    "the reflectance and transmission , and the thermal and vibration stability of these elements would be verified using the processes discussed in this manuscript .",
    "the reflector element with optimum performance would then be selected for flight .",
    "the authors would like to thank bruce lairson of luxel corp .  for providing helpful advice , many polyimide samples for analysis , and confocal microscope data .",
    "we also thank steve mcbride for use of his thermal cycling chamber , and john tomsick for making the arrangements .",
    "ryan allured and philip kaaret are grateful to takashi okajima and yang soong at gsfc for guidance during the early stages of reflector development .",
    "we acknowledge that nearly all of our multilayer modeling was made possible with david windt s imd software .",
    "this work was performed under the auspices of the u.s .",
    "department of energy by lawrence livermore national laboratory under contract no .",
    "de - ac52 - 07na27344 and by the university of california lawrence berkeley national laboratory under contract no .",
    "de - ac03 - 76f00098 .",
    "the advanced light source is supported by the director , office of science , office of basic energy sciences of the u.s .",
    "department of energy under contract no .",
    "de - ac02 - 05ch11231 .",
    "ryan allured and philip kaaret acknowledge partial support from nasa grant nnx08ay58 g .",
    "allured , r. , fernndez - perea , m. , soufli , r. , alameda , j.b . ,",
    "maxwell , a. , pivovaroff , m.j . ,",
    "gullikson , e.m . , & kaaret , p.  proc .",
    "spie , 8502 ( 2012 ) .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.930093 black , j.  k. , deines - jones , p. , hill , j.  e. , et al .  proc .",
    "spie , 7732 , 25 ( 2010 ) briel , u.g . , & pfeffermann , e. nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a242 , 376 - 381 ( 1986 ) bunner , a.  n. , apj , 220 , 261 ( 1978 ) fernndez - perea , m.  ultra - short - period wc / sic multilayer coatings for x - ray applications .",
    "instrum .  & methods in physics research a ( 2012 ) http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.nima.2012.10.066 .",
    "henke , b.  l. , gullikson , e.  m. , & davis , j.  c. , atomic data and nuclear data tables , 54 , 181 ( 1993 ) jensen , c.p .",
    ", madsen , k.k . , & christensen , f.e . , `` small d - spacing wc / sic multilayers for future hard x - ray telescope designs , '' experimental astronomy 20(1 - 3 ) , pp .",
    "93 - 103 ( 2005 ) soufli , r. , baker , s.  l. , robinson , j.  c. , et al .",
    "spie , 7361 , 7361u19 ( 2009 ) spiller , e. , soft x - ray optics , spie optical engineering press , bellingham , wa ( 1994 ) standard , general environmental verification .",
    "nasa goddard space flight center .",
    "gsfc - std-7000 ( 2005 ) swank , j.  et al .",
    ", x - ray polarimetry : a new window in astrophysics by ronaldo bellazzini , enrico costa , giorgio matt and gianpiero tagliaferri .  cambridge university press , p.  251",
    "( 2010 ) underwood , j.h .",
    "& gullikson , e.m .",
    ", `` high - resolution , high - flux , user friendly vls beam line at the als for the 50 - 1300 ev energy region , '' j. electron .",
    "rel . phenom .",
    "265 - 272 ( 1998 ) weisskopf , m.  c. , elsner , r.  f. , kaspi , v.  m. , et al . , astrophysics and space science library , 357 , 589 ( 2009 ) weisskopf , m.  c. , cohen , g.  g. , kestenbaum , h.  l. , et al . ,",
    "apj , 208 , l125 ( 1976 ) windt , d.l .",
    ", waskiewicz , w.k . , & griffith j.e . ,",
    ", 33 , 2025 - 2031 ( 1994 ) windt , d.l .",
    ", imd - software for modeling the optical properties of multilayer films , computers in physics , 12 , 360 ( 1998 ) zombeck , m.  2007 , handbook of space astronomy and astrophysics : third edition , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk ( 2007 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a soft x - ray , beam - splitting , multilayer optic has been developed for the bragg reflection polarimeter ( brp ) on the nasa gravity and extreme magnetism small explorer mission ( gems ) . </S>",
    "<S> the optic is designed to reflect 0.5 kev x - rays through a @xmath0 angle to the brp detector , and transmit 210 kev x - rays to the primary polarimeter . </S>",
    "<S> the transmission requirement prevents the use of a thick substrate , so a 2 @xmath1 m thick polyimide membrane was used . </S>",
    "<S> atomic force microscopy has shown the membrane to possess high spatial frequency roughness less than 0.2 nm rms , permitting adequate x - ray reflectance . </S>",
    "<S> a multilayer thin film was especially developed and deposited via magnetron sputtering with reflectance and transmission properties that satisfy the brp requirements and with near - zero stress . </S>",
    "<S> reflectance and transmission measurements of brp prototype elements closely match theoretical predictions , both before and after rigorous environmental testing .    </S>",
    "<S> example.eps gsave newpath 20 20 moveto 20 220 lineto 220 220 lineto 220 20 lineto closepath 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}