{
  "article_text": [
    ".specifications of the warkworth 12-m antenna .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     the 30-m cassegrain beam - waveguide nec antenna was used by telecom nz after construction in 1984 .",
    "it was handed over to aut in 2010 .",
    "renovation of the 30-m started in 2011 .",
    "old azimuth and elevation motors have been removed and replaced with new ones ( see figure [ fig:30 m ] ) .",
    "a new control system from control techniques , uk , very similar to the system used on the 12 m was installed .",
    "a new cable wrap system has been installed and new cables pulled through . in mid february 2013 mark godwin will be on - site to commission the new control system .",
    "a bolt replacement program by a local rigging contractor has started .",
    "we are in the process of negotiating a maintenance contract with them for both the 30 m and the 12 m .",
    "additional dbbc and mark 5c have been ordered for the 30 m .",
    "work continues on using the existing satellite receiver in c - band , but we are also talking with other parties about receiver systems .",
    "obviously we would like to go l , s , c and x but are unsure of the waveguide optics .",
    "we continue to e - transfer data to the correlators .",
    "we have installed a new 10gbit switch in the 30 m computer room .",
    "this provides fibre point to point connectivity between the dbbc and mark 5c via the fila10 g interface and gives us a 10gbit backbone at the observatory .",
    "the network topography was changed so that the 12 m is now a spur from the 30 m karen pop .",
    "warkworth now has a direct ip presence on karen , so data transfers should no longer go through the university campus any more ( of mutual benefit to us and campus lan users ) .",
    "it is hoped with the upgrades taking place with the karen network that we will have 10gbps international connectivity to / from the observatory in the near future .",
    "the 30 m building has been wired cat6 and fibre has been installed from the computer room through to the pedestal room beneath the dish where the wave guide terminates .",
    "in addition equipment has been installed for distribution of 1pps and 10mhz from the maser at the 12 m over to the 30 m pedestal room using a symmetricom rf via fibre system .",
    "in march 2012 we had a visit by gino tuccari with jim lovell and jamie mccallum from hobart for a mini workshop on the dbbc looking at diagnoses and issue resolution .",
    "later in the year during september ed himwich also paid a visit , during which he installed the new field system dbbc support components .",
    "now when we drug the generated schedule prc file contains the appropriate commands to program and setup the dbbc .",
    "we have successfully installed sdk 9.2 on our mark 5b to support diskpacks larger than 8 tb .",
    "we now have a station pool of five 16 tb diskpacks which we will be using for lba and the austral experiments with auscope antennas in australia .",
    "in addition to the ivs and lba observations the wark12 m is now also a tracking station for spacex on their supply missions to the international space station .",
    "co - operative observation for geodetic purposes with nict ( japan ) and university of tasmania ( australia ) started .",
    "the baseline of wark12 m and kashim11 is a long north - south baseline of over 8,000-km .",
    "the first observation of the wark12m - kashim11 baseline was carried out in april 2012 and the baseline length has been determined as 8,075,003,545@xmath0150 mm . by repeating the observation , we expect to obtain information about the relative tectonic motion of japan and new zealand .",
    "also , we are working to establish the ability to derive eop ultra - rapidly by utilising this baseline , existing ut1 products ( such as from the ivs int2 sessions ) and data transfers by high - speed network .",
    "the university of tasmania operates three 12-m radio telescopes located in hobart ( hobart12 ) , yarragadee ( yarra12 m ) , and katherine ( kath12 m ) under the auscope project @xcite .",
    "these three telescopes and wark12 m are located on the australian tectonic plate and consequently are ideally placed for measurements of intra - plate deformation .",
    "wark12m - auscope observations started in july 2012 .",
    "monthly 24-h observations and a series of multi - day observations together with auscope antennas will be scheduled from early 2013 .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows the baseline length changes of warkworth - hobart baseline derived from both gnss and vlbi data sources for the epoch 2011 - 2013 .",
    "we checked all of the baseline of auscope and wark12 m .",
    "gnss results indicate a small intra - plate deformation . on some baselines",
    "current vlbi results appear to be in disagreement with the gnss data . at this stage",
    "it is not possible to comment further on this discrepancy due to the statistically small number of vlbi observations .",
    "our proposed co - operative observations will add vital data points , reduce the noise and compensate for this current vlbi weakness .",
    "lovell , j. e. j. , mccallum , j. n. , reid , p. b. , mcculloch , p. m. , baynes , b. e. , dickey , j. m. , ... bignall , h. e. , the auscope geodetic vlbi array , _ journal of geodesy _ , 1 - 12 .",
    "doi:10.1007/s00190 - 013 - 0626 - 3 , 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the warkworth 12-m radio telescope is operated by the institute for radio astronomy and space research ( irasr ) at aut university , auckland , new zealand . here </S>",
    "<S> we review the characteristics of the 12-m vlbi station and report on a number of activities and technical developments in 2012 . </S>"
  ]
}