{
  "article_text": [
    "the structural data of materials are of fundamental importance to our understanding their properties .",
    "usually , the structures are determined from experiments , such as the x - ray powder diffraction experiment . however , when materials are in very complex or extreme conditions , such as high pressure and/or high temperature  @xcite , or their compositions are beyond our chemical intuition ,  @xcite experiment is often difficult or even impossible to identify their structures . however , from the theoretical aspect , the crystal structure prediction ( csp ) methods are often efficient , economic , and convenient to determine the structures of materials .",
    "maddox claimed the  scandal in the physical sciences \" of the inability to predict the structure of a material from its stoichiometry two decades ago .",
    "@xcite nevertheless , many groups have made great success in csp based on different stochastic optimization algorithms .",
    "currently , the mature csp methods are the metadynamics ,  @xcite the minima hopping ,  @xcite the evolutionary algorithm ( ea ) ,  @xcite the particle swarm optimization ( pso ) ,  @xcite and the random search technique .",
    "@xcite using these methods , many groups have discovered plenty of novel materials under ambient and extreme conditions .",
    "the post - perovskite phase of mgsio@xmath0 ,  @xcite the new structure of p ,  @xcite and so on , were found using the metadynamics technique .",
    "z - carbon ,  @xcite the @xmath1-disilane ,  @xcite the new structure of lialh@xmath2 ,  @xcite the new polyneric phases of alanates ,  @xcite etc , were discovered with the minima hopping method .",
    "novel structures of b ,  @xcite na ,  @xcite ca ,  @xcite geh@xmath2  @xcite , nah@xmath3 ( n@xmath41 ) ,  @xcite libeb ,  @xcite etc , were predicted using the ea .",
    "based on the pso algorithm , zhu _ et al .",
    "_ determined the long - puzzled high pressure structures of bi@xmath5te@xmath0 .",
    "@xcite the new high - pressure structures of li ,  @xcite h@xmath5o ,  @xcite cah@xmath6 ,  @xcite etc , were also successfully predicted using the pso algorithm .",
    "high - pressure phases of silane sih@xmath2 ,  @xcite al ,  @xcite and so on , were predicted by the random search technique .",
    "@xcite all these cases proved the success of csp algorithms in the determination of crystal structures even when experimental data are unavailable .",
    "nowadays , the theoretical predictions usually direct the orientations of experimental syntheses . meanwhile",
    ", the csp technique can be a powerful tool of the theoretical design of materials .",
    "the ideas of some optimization algorithms come from natural processes .",
    "for example , the ea was inspired by biological evolution : the process of whole population s evolution is the process of the survival of the fittest .",
    "the operators of ea mimic the mutation , reproduction , recombination , and selection of biological evolution . for csp ,",
    "this algorithm is realized by introducing similar evolutionary operators .",
    "similar to the theory of biological evolution , we often call a particular candidate structure as an individual , and the set of all structures generated in a single iteration of the algorithm as the generation .",
    "@xcite all generations forms the crystal population .",
    "@xcite the modification of an individual is accomplished by the variation operators . the evolution direction and speed of the crystal population",
    "are up to the evolutionary operators , including the variation and the selection operators .",
    "the variation operators control the diversity of the crystal population , and the selection operator mainly determine the direction of evolution .",
    "the idea of simulated annealing ( sa ) algorithm was from the natural process of annealing in metallurgy , which hastens a melted material to be crystal by controlled cooling .",
    "the sa algorithm improves its efficiency through the introduction of two tricks : the so - called metropolis selection rule  @xcite and lowering the `` temperature '' .",
    "the basin hopping ( bh ) algorithm is just as its name that means trying to escape from the local minima by hopping .",
    "all the optimization algorithms are stochastic and have their own advantages and disadvantages .",
    "the ea is powerful in global optimization and multi - objective optimization , but it is week in local optimization . while , the bh algorithm that is based on atoms small random moves has better local optimization ability .",
    "it has no exchange of information between different individuals .",
    "the sa has the good global optimization ability and it can easily control the choice of high - energy structures to increase the population diversity .",
    "but it strongly depends on the initial structures .",
    "if we combine some of these algorithms to let them work collaboratively , we can manage to overcome disadvantages and make full use of their advantages .",
    "i refer to this idea as the multi - algorithm collaborative ( mac ) crystal structure prediction . presently , i combined three algorithms : the ea , sa , and bh algorithms , to construct a multi - algorithm - collaborative universal structure - prediction environment ( muse ) . to further strengthen the search ability of muse in future",
    ", i keep it open and other algorithms can be included .",
    "the reasons why the three algorithms are chosen for combination are : firstly , some higher energy structures should be kept for crystal population diversity using the sa algorithm . secondly , to prevent the solution from being trapped in local minima we can help it to escape from the local minima using the bh algorithm .",
    "thirdly , the three algorithms are conceptually simple and can be combined easily .    in this paper ,",
    "i focus on the implementation of mac technique and how it works .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  [ compdet ] is the algorithm implementation .",
    "i will show some results predicted by muse in section  [ results ] .",
    "the predicted systems includes metallic , covalent , and ionic systems .",
    "the conclusions are presented in section  [ disconcl ] .",
    "muse was written in python and uses mac algorithm to search the stable structures of materials .",
    "the mac algorithm is expected to overcome the shortcomings of an individual algorithm and improve the search efficiency .",
    "furthermore , the evolution of the crystal population and the choice of the operators are designed to be self - adaptive ( for details , see section  [ sae ] ) . in other words , in the search",
    ", the crystal population will undergo a self - adaptive evolution process .",
    "so , muse seeks materials stable structures effectively under certain conditions .",
    "the implementation of mac crystal structure prediction is based on the manipulation of crystal structures in real space , i.e. , the operations on the crystal structures made by the variation operators .",
    "a crystal structure is described by the shape of the lattice cell and the atoms positions therein . in the evolution process of crystal population ,",
    "the fitness function can be free energy , hardness , volume , band gap , and so on . at present",
    ", muse can predict the stable structures according to energy criterion .",
    "the fitness function is thus the free energy of each structure .",
    "the structure with lowest free energy has the best fitness .",
    "the selection operator is to select the low free energy structures for variation operators to generate new structures .",
    "muse depends on external local optimization codes . at present",
    ", muse uses the vienna ab initio simulation package ( vasp ) ,  @xcite siesta ,  @xcite quantum espresso ,  @xcite and lammps  @xcite as the local optimization tools .",
    "it determines the space group number of each optimized structure immediately after the optimization is done .",
    "the duplicate structures are eliminated according to the space group numbers and the nearest triangles formed by the nearest three atoms ( for details , see section  [ ed ] ) .",
    "more importantly , muse generates the random structures of the first generation with symmetry constraints , which largely shortens the local optimization time of the first generation and increases the diversity of crystal structures .",
    "the random structures are created according to the randomly chosen space group numbers from 2 to 230 , and wyckoff positions must be fit to the atom numbers ratio . especially for large systems ,",
    "the constraints on symmetry will avoid unphysical disorder crystal structures , similar to glass state .",
    "muse can also pick up ( restart ) a previous interrupted search from where it stopped .",
    "a single algorithm has more or less inherent disadvantages . using the combination of multi algorithms , or hybrid",
    ", we can overcome their disadvantages and make full use of their advantages .",
    "the efficiency of the mac search also depends on the diversity of crystal structures .",
    "to increase the diversity of crystal structures , i created ten variation operators in muse : cross over , mutation , permutation , cross - over - mutation , permutation - mutation , slip , twist , random move , ripple , and mutation - ripple .",
    "the multi - algorithm collaboration and coupling are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : flowchart ] .    whether the optimized structure is kept or not in the main loop is controlled by the metropolis algorithm .",
    "@xcite this couples the ea and sa algorithms . to avoid prematuration ,",
    "i coupled the main loop with bh algorithm ( fig .",
    "[ fig : flowchart ] ) . after the main loop",
    "is converged , muse can turn into the pure bh loop to help the solution to escape from local minima if the solution is possibly trapped in local minima in the main loop . while , the pure bh loop is optional and we can run the main loop without the pure bh loop . as we know",
    ", the smaller systems that have smaller number of formula units often converge faster than larger ones , because they have smaller configurational space . for larger systems , muse has the trick to prepare seed structures from the converged smaller systems . to test this trick",
    ", i used the 12-atom libc system .",
    "the number of structures in each generation is 20 .",
    "tests show if we pick out the low - energy structures from the smaller system ( 6 atoms ) to prepare seeds , we can easily converge the larger system ( 12 atoms ) with the help of seeds ( see table  [ testseeds ] ) .",
    "so we are encouraged to go from smaller systems to larger ones .",
    "this process is automatic in muse .",
    "if all the defined systems are converged , muse will terminate the search and exit .",
    ".tests of seeds on search efficiency .",
    "the test system is libc at 0 gpa .",
    "n@xmath7 is the number of atoms in the system .",
    "p@xmath8 is the population size .",
    "n@xmath9 is the number of runs for statistics .",
    "mean n@xmath10 is the averaged generation number to find the lowest - energy structure .",
    "the seeds were prepared from the 6-atom search . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      to further study the efficiency and success rate of mac search , i performed intensive tests on the al@xmath5o@xmath0 system containing 10 atoms at 0 gpa . in detail",
    ", twenty searches were performed for each individual algorithm and their combination .",
    "the random structures in the first generation were generated with symmetry constraints .",
    "the statistical data were achieved by averaging all the test data ( see table  [ comp ] ) .",
    "mean n@xmath10 is the averaged generation number to find the lowest - energy structure .",
    "it is calculated from @xmath11 , where n@xmath12 is the total number of optimized structures , p@xmath8 is the population size , and n@xmath9 is the number of searches .",
    "we note the sa and bh algorithms have lower success rates .",
    "the ea has 100% success rate but slightly lower efficiency .",
    "as we expected , the mac search has 100% success rate and higher efficiency . for the newly introduced operators slip and twist , from the comparison with ea we note they",
    "enhance the search ability of muse reasonably ( ea2 data in table  [ comp ] ) . in the mac search ,",
    "the selection of operators is up to the success rates of operators in the last generation . in other words ,",
    "the evolution of crystal population is self - adaptive in the manner of breeding offspring . to test such a scheme",
    ", i also performed tests on libc system with 12 atoms .",
    "tests show the self - adaptive scheme abviously improves the mac search efficiency ( table  [ compsa ] ) .",
    "from these tests , we see that the efficiency of muse is greatly improved with the help of the mac algorithm , the two newly introduced operators , and the self - adaptive scheme .",
    "in conclusion , i detailed the implementation of mac crystal structure prediction technique and the testing of the mac performance , the two new operators , and the self - adaptive scheme .",
    "tests show the multi - algorithm collaborative method is more efficient than individual one . with help of two new variation operators , slip and twist , the search ability of muse are enhanced . in order to further increase the search efficiency of muse",
    ", i increased the number of variation operators to ten .",
    "more importantly , i also introduced the competition scheme among the ten variation operators to realize the self - adaptive evolution of crystal population .",
    "the symmetry constraints in the first generation , the mac algorithm , ten variation operators , and the self - adaptive evolution are all key to improve the efficiency of csp in muse .",
    "present tests show that muse has very high efficiency and 100% success rate .",
    "the research was supported by the national natural science foundation of china ( no . 11104127 ) , the henan research program of basic and frontier technology ( no .",
    "102300410213 ) , and the science research scheme of henan education department ( no .",
    "2011a140019 ) .",
    "m.  amsler , j.  a. flores - livas , l.  lehtovaara , f.  balima , s.  a. ghasemi , d.  machon , s.  pailhs , a.  willand , d.  caliste , s.  botti , a.  san  miguel , s.  goedecker , m.  a.  l. marques , phys .",
    "( 2012 ) 065501 .",
    "p.  giannozzi , s.  baroni , n.  bonini , m.  calandra , r.  car , c.  cavazzoni , d.  ceresoli , g.  l. chiarotti , m.  cococcioni , i.  dabo , a.  d. corso , s.  d. gironcoli , s.  fabris , g.  fratesi , r.  gebauer , u.  gerstmann , c.  gougoussis , a.  kokalj , m.  lazzeri , l.  martin - samos , n.  marzari , f.  mauri , r.  mazzarello , s.  paolini , a.  pasquarello , l.  paulatto , c.  sbraccia , s.  scandolo , g.  sclauzero , a.  p. seitsonen , a.  smogunov , p.  umari , r.  m. wentzcovitch , j. phys .",
    "matter 21 ( 2009 ) 395502 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the algorithm and testing of the multi - algorithm - collaborative universal structure - prediction environment ( muse ) is detailed . </S>",
    "<S> presently , in muse i combined the evolutionary , the simulated annealing , and the basin hopping algorithms to realize high - efficiency structure predictions of materials under certain conditions . </S>",
    "<S> muse is kept open and other algorithms can be added in future . </S>",
    "<S> i introduced two new operators , slip and twist , to increase the diversity of structures . in order to realize the self - adaptive evolution of structures </S>",
    "<S> , i also introduced the competition scheme among the ten variation operators , which is expected to further increase the diversity of structures . </S>",
    "<S> the symmetry constraints in the first generation , the multi - algorithm collaboration , the ten variation operators , and the self - adaptive scheme are all key to enhance the performance of muse . to study the search ability of muse </S>",
    "<S> , i performed extensive tests on different systems , including the metallic , covalent , and ionic systems . </S>",
    "<S> all these present tests show muse has very high efficiency and 100% success rate . </S>"
  ]
}