{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the main goals of computer vision is to enable computers to replicate the basic functions of human vision such as motion perception and scene understanding . to achieve the goal of intelligent motion perception",
    ", much effort has been spent on visual object tracking , which is one of the most important and challenging research topics in computer vision .",
    "essentially , the core of visual object tracking is to robustly estimate the motion state ( i.e. , location , orientation , size , etc . ) of a target object in each frame of an input image sequence .    in recent years",
    ", a large body of research on visual object tracking has been published in the literature .",
    "research interest in visual object tracking comes from the fact that it has a wide range of real - world applications , including visual surveillance , traffic flow monitoring , video compression , and human - computer interaction .",
    "for example , visual object tracking is successfully applied to monitor human activities in residential areas , parking lots , and banks ( e.g. , @xmath0 system  @xcite and vsam project  @xcite ) . in the field of traffic transportation , visual object tracking",
    "is also widely used to cope with traffic flow monitoring  @xcite , traffic accident detection  @xcite , pedestrian counting  @xcite , and so on . moreover ,",
    "visual object tracking is utilized by the mpeg-4 video compression standard  @xcite to automatically detect and track moving objects in videos . as a result ,",
    "more encoding bytes are assigned to moving objects while fewer encoding bytes are for redundant backgrounds .",
    "visual object tracking also has several human - computer interaction applications such as hand gesture recognition @xcite and mobile video conferencing @xcite .",
    "note that all the above applications heavily rely on the information provided by a robust visual object tracking method .",
    "if such information is not available , these applications would be no longer valid .",
    "therefore , robust visual object tracking is a key issue to make these applications viable .      in general ,",
    "a typical visual object tracking system is composed of four modules : object initialization , appearance modeling , motion estimation , and object localization .    * _ object initialization_. this may be manual or automatic .",
    "manual initialization is performed by users to annotate object locations with bounding boxes or ellipses .",
    "in contrast , automatic initialization is usually achieved by object detectors ( e.g. , face or human detectors ) . *",
    "_ appearance modeling_. this generally consists of two components : visual representation and statistical modeling .",
    "visual representation focuses on how to construct robust object descriptors using different types of visual features .",
    "statistical modeling concentrates on how to build effective mathematical models for object identification using statistical learning techniques . * _ motion estimation_. this is formulated as a dynamic state estimation problem : @xmath1 and @xmath2 , where @xmath3 is the current state , @xmath4 is the state evolution function , @xmath5 is the evolution process noise , @xmath6 is the current observation , @xmath7 denotes the measurement function , and @xmath8 is the measurement noise . the task of motion estimation is usually completed by utilizing predictors such as linear regression techniques  @xcite , kalman filters  @xcite , or particle filters  @xcite . * _ object localization_. this is performed by a greedy search or maximum a posterior estimation based on motion estimation .",
    "many issues have made robust visual object tracking very challenging , including ( i ) low - quality camera sensors ( e.g. , low frame rate , low resolution , low bit - depth , and color distortion ) ; ( ii ) challenging factors ( e.g. , non - rigid object tracking , small - size object tracking , tracking a varying number of objects , and complicated pose estimation ) ; ( iii ) real - time processing requirements ; ( iv ) object tracking across cameras with non - overlapping views  @xcite ; and ( v ) object appearance variations ( as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : appearance_change ] ) caused by several complicated factors ( e.g. , environmental illumination changes , rapid camera motions , full occlusion , noise disturbance , non - rigid shape deformation , out - of - plane object rotation , and pose variation ) .",
    "these challenges may cause tracking degradations and even failures .    in order to deal with these challenges ,",
    "researchers have proposed a wide range of appearance models using different visual representations and/or statistical modeling techniques .",
    "these appearance models usually focus on different problems in visual object tracking , and thus have different properties and characteristics .",
    "typically , they attempt to answer the following questions :    * what to track ( e.g. , bounding box , ellipse , contour , articulation block , interest point , and silhouette , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : what - to - track ] ) ? * what visual representations are appropriate and robust for visual object tracking ?",
    "* what are the advantages or disadvantages of different visual representations for different tracking tasks ? * which types of statistical learning schemes are suitable for visual object tracking ? * what are the properties or characteristics of these statistical learning schemes during visual object tracking ? * how should the camera / object motion be modeled in the tracking process ?",
    "the answers to these questions rely heavily on the specific context / environment of the tracking task and the tracking information available to users .",
    "consequently , it is necessary to categorize these appearance models into several task - specific categories and discuss in detail the representative appearance models of each category .",
    "motivated by this consideration , we provide a survey to help readers acquire valuable tracking knowledge and choose the most suitable appearance model for their particular tracking tasks .",
    "furthermore , we examine several interesting issues for developing new appearance models .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] shows the organization of this survey , which is composed of two modules : visual representation and statistical modeling .",
    "the visual representation module concentrates on how to robustly describe the spatio - temporal characteristics of object appearance . in this module ,",
    "a variety of visual representations are discussed , as illustrated by the tree - structured taxonomy in the left part of fig .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] .",
    "these visual representations can capture various visual information at different levels ( i.e. , local and global ) .",
    "typically , the local visual representations encode the local statistical information ( e.g. , interest point ) of an image region , while the global visual representations reflect the global statistical characteristics ( e.g. , color histogram ) of an image region . for a clear illustration of this module ,",
    "a detailed literature review of visual representations is given in sec .",
    "[ sec : feature_description ] .    as shown in the right part of fig .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] , the statistical modeling module is inspired by the tracking - by - detection idea , and thus focuses on using different types of statistical learning schemes to learn a robust statistical model for object detection , including generative , discriminative , and hybrid generative - discriminative ones . in this module ,",
    "various tracking - by - detection methods based on different statistical modeling techniques are designed to facilitate different statistical properties of the object / non - object class . for a clear illustration of this module",
    ", a detailed literature review of statistical modeling schemes for tracking - by - detection is given in sec .",
    "[ sec : statistical_modeling ] .",
    "moreover , a number of source codes and video datasets for visual object tracking are examined to make them easier for readers to conduct tracking experiments in sec .",
    "[ sec : benchmark ] . finally , the survey is concluded in sec .",
    "[ sec : conclusion ] .",
    "in particular , we additionally address several interesting issues for the future research in sec .",
    "[ sec : conclusion ] .      in the recent literature ,",
    "several related surveys ( e.g. , @xcite ) of visual object tracking have been made to investigate the state - of - the - art tracking algorithms and their potential applications , as listed in tab .",
    "[ tab : survey_list ] . among these surveys ,",
    "the topics of the surveys  @xcite are closely related to this paper .",
    "specifically , both of the surveys  @xcite focus on low - level tracking techniques using different visual features or statistical learning techniques , and thereby give very comprehensive and specific technical contributions .",
    "the main differences between these two surveys  @xcite and this survey are summarized as follows .",
    "first , this survey focuses on the 2d appearance modeling for visual object tracking . in comparison , the surveys of @xcite concern all the modules shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] .",
    "hence , this survey is more intensive while the surveys of @xcite are more comprehensive .",
    "second , this survey provides a more detailed analysis of various appearance models .",
    "third , the survey of @xcite splits visual object tracking into three categories : point tracking , kernel tracking , and silhouette tracking ( see fig . 7 in  @xcite for details ) ; the survey of @xcite gives a very detailed and comprehensive review of each tracking issue in visual object tracking .",
    "in contrast to these two surveys , this survey is formulated as a general module - based architecture ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] ) that enables readers to easily grasp the key points of visual object tracking .",
    "fourth , this survey investigates a large number of state - of - the - art appearance models which make use of novel visual features and statistical learning techniques . in comparison ,",
    "the surveys  @xcite pay more attention to classic and fundamental appearance models used for visual object tracking .",
    "the contributions of this survey are as follows .",
    "first , we review the literature of visual representations from a feature - construction viewpoint .",
    "specifically , we hierarchically categorize visual representations into local and global features .",
    "second , we take a tracking - by - detection criterion for reviewing the existing statistical modeling schemes . according to the model - construction mechanisms , these statistical modeling schemes are roughly classified into three categories : generative , discriminative , and hybrid generative - discriminative . for each category ,",
    "different types of statistical learning techniques for object detection are reviewed and discussed .",
    "third , we provide a detailed discussion on each type of visual representations or statistical learning techniques with their properties .",
    "finally , we examine the existing benchmark resources for visual object tracking , including source codes and databases .",
    "a global visual representation reflects the global statistical characteristics of object appearance .",
    "typically , it can be investigated in the following main aspects : ( i ) raw pixel representation ; ( ii ) optical flow representation ; ( iii ) histogram representation ; ( iv)covariance representation ; ( v ) wavelet filtering - based representation ; and ( vi)active contour representation . tab .",
    "[ tab : feature_descriptor ] lists several representative tracking methods using global visual representations ( i.e. , rows 1 - 14 ) .    * raw pixel representation . as the most fundamental features in computer vision ,",
    "raw pixel values are widely used in visual object tracking because of their simplicity and efficiency . raw pixel representation",
    "directly utilizes the raw color or intensity values of the image pixels to represent the object regions .",
    "such a representation is simple and efficient for fast object tracking . in the literature ,",
    "raw pixel representations are usually constructed in the following two forms : vector - based  @xcite and matrix - based  @xcite .",
    "the vector - based representation directly flattens an image region into a high - dimensional vector , and often suffers from a small - sample - size problem .",
    "motivated by attempting to alleviate the small - sample - size problem , the matrix - based representation directly utilizes 2d matrices or higher - order tensors as the basic data units for object description due to its relatively low - dimensional property . + however , raw pixel information alone is not enough for robust visual object tracking .",
    "researchers attempt to embed other visual cues ( e.g. , shape or texture ) into the raw pixel representation .",
    "typically , the color features are enriched by fusing other visual information such as edge  @xcite and texture  @xcite . * optical flow representation . in principle , optical flow represents a dense field of displacement vectors of each pixel inside an image region , and is commonly used to capture the spatio - temporal motion information of an object . typically , optical flow has two branches : constant - brightness - constraint ( cbc ) optical flow  @xcite and non - brightness - constraint ( nbc ) optical flow  @xcite .",
    "the cbc optical flow has a constraint on brightness constancy while the nbc optical flow deals with the situations with varying lighting conditions .",
    "* histogram representation .",
    "histogram representations are popular in visual object tracking because of their effectiveness and efficiency in capturing the distribution characteristics of visual features inside the object regions . in general , they have two branches : single - cue and multi - cue .",
    "+ \\(i ) a single - cue histogram representation often constructs a histogram to capture the distribution information inside an object region .",
    "for example , bradski  @xcite uses a color histogram in the hue saturation value ( hsv ) color space for object representation , and then embeds the color histogram into a continuously adaptive mean shift ( camshift ) framework for object tracking .",
    "however , the direct use of color histogram may result in the loss of spatial information .",
    "following the work in  @xcite , comaniciu et al .",
    "@xcite utilize a spatially weighted color histogram in the rgb color space for visual representation , and subsequently embed the spatially weighted color histogram into a mean shift - based tracking framework for object state inference .",
    "zhao et al .",
    "@xcite convert the problem of object tracking into that of matching the rgb color distributions across frames . as a result ,",
    "the task of object localization is taken by using a fast differential emd ( earth mover s distance ) to compute the similarity between the color distribution of the learned target and the color distribution of a candidate region .",
    "+ \\(ii ) a multi - cue histogram representation aims to encode more information to enhance the robustness of visual representation .",
    "typically , it contains three main components : a ) spatial - color ; b ) spatial - texture ; c ) shape - texture ; + for a ) , two strategies are adopted , including joint spatial - color modeling and patch - division . the goal of joint spatial - color modeling is to describe the distribution properties of object appearance in a joint spatial - color space ( e.g. , ( x , y , r , g , b ) in  @xcite ) . the patch - division strategy is to encode the spatial information into the appearance models by splitting the tracking region into a set of patches  @xcite . by considering the geometric relationship between patches , it is capable of capturing the spatial layout information . for example , adam et al .",
    "@xcite construct a patch - division visual representation with a histogram - based feature description for object tracking , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : patch_division ] .",
    "the final tracking position is determined by combining the vote maps of all patches ( represented by grayscale histograms ) .",
    "the combination mechanism can eliminate the influence of the outlier vote maps caused by occlusion . for the computational efficiency ,",
    "porikli  @xcite introduces a novel concept of an integral histogram to compute the histograms of all possible target regions in a cartesian data space .",
    "this greatly accelerates the speed of histogram matching in the process of mean shift tracking .",
    "+    + [ fig : patch_division ] + for b ) , an estimate of the joint spatial - texture probability is made to capture the distribution information on object appearance .",
    "for example , haralick et al .",
    "@xcite propose a spatial - texture histogram representation called gray - level co - occurrence matrix ( glcm ) , which encodes the co - occurrence information on pairwise intensities in a specified direction and distance .",
    "note that the glcm in  @xcite needs to tune different distance parameter values before selecting the best distance parameter value by experimental evaluations . following the work in  @xcite , gelzinis et al .",
    "@xcite propose a glcm - based histogram representation that does not need to carefully select an appropriate distance parameter value .",
    "the proposed histogram representation gathers the information on the co - occurrence matrices computed for several distance parameter values .",
    "+ for c ) , the shape or texture information on object appearance is incorporated into the histogram representation for robust visual object tracking .",
    "for instance , haritaoglu and flickner  @xcite incorporate the gradient or edge information into the color histogram - based visual representation .",
    "similar to  @xcite , wang and yagi  @xcite construct an visual representation using color and shape cues .",
    "the color cues are composed of color histograms in three different color spaces : rgb , hsv , and normalized @xmath9 .",
    "the shape cue is described by gradient orientation histograms . to exploit the textural information of the object , ning et al .",
    "@xcite propose a joint color - texture histogram for visual representation .",
    "the local binary pattern ( lbp ) technique is employed to identify the key points in the object regions . using the identified key points",
    ", they build a confidence mask for joint color - texture feature selection . * covariance representation . in order to capture the correlation information of object appearance ,",
    "covariance matrix representations are proposed for visual representation in  @xcite . according to the riemannian metrics mentioned in  @xcite",
    ", the covariance matrix representations can be divided into two branches : affine - invariant riemannian metric - based and log - euclidean riemannian metric - based .",
    "+ \\(i ) the affine - invariant riemannian metric  @xcite is based on the following distance measure : @xmath10 where @xmath11 are the generalized eigenvalues of the two covariance matrices @xmath12 and @xmath13 : @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 is the @xmath17-th generalized eigenvector . following the work in  @xcite , austvoll and kwolek",
    "@xcite use the covariance matrix inside a region to detect whether the feature occlusion events take place .",
    "the detection task can be completed by comparing the covariance matrix - based distance measures in a particular window around the occluded key point .",
    "+    + \\(ii ) the log - euclidean riemannian metric  @xcite formulates the distance measure between two covariance matrices in a euclidean vector space .",
    "mathematically , the log - euclidean riemannian metric for two covariance matrices @xmath18 and @xmath19 is formulated as : @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the matrix logarithm operator . for the descriptive convenience ,",
    "the covariance matrices under the log - euclidean riemannian metric are referred to as the log - euclidean covariance matrices .",
    "inspired by  @xcite , li et al .",
    "@xcite employ the log - euclidean covariance matrices of image features for visual representation .",
    "since the log - euclidean covariance matrices lie in a euclidean vector space , their mean can be easily computed as the standard arithmetic mean . due to this linear property ,",
    "classic subspace learning techniques ( e.g. , principal component analysis ) can be directly applied onto the log - euclidean covariance matrices .",
    "following the work in  @xcite , wu et al .",
    "@xcite extend the tracking problem of using 2d log - euclidean covariance matrices to that of using higher - order tensors , and aim to incrementally learn a low - dimensional covariance tensor representation .",
    "inspired by  @xcite , hong et al .",
    "@xcite propose a simplified covariance region descriptor ( called sigma set ) , which comprises the lower triangular matrix square root ( obtained by cholesky factorization ) of the covariance matrix ( used in  @xcite ) .",
    "the proposed covariance region descriptor characterizes the second order statistics of object appearance by a set of vectors .",
    "meanwhile , it retains the advantages of the region covariance descriptor  @xcite , such as low - dimensionality , robustness to noise and illumination variations , and good discriminative power .",
    "* wavelet filtering - based representation . in principle",
    ", a wavelet filtering - based representation takes advantage of wavelet transforms to filter the object region in different scales or directions .",
    "for instance , he et al .",
    "@xcite utilize a 2d gabor wavelet transform ( gwt ) for visual representation .",
    "specifically , an object is represented by several feature points with high gwt coefficients . moreover , li _ et al . _",
    "@xcite propose a tracking algorithm based on three - layer simplified biologically inspired ( sbi ) features ( i.e. , image layer , s1 layer , and c1 layer ) . through the flattening operations on the four gabor energy maps in the c1 layer , a unified sbi feature vector is returned to encode the rich spatial frequency information , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : gabor - representation ] . * active contour representation . in order to track the nonrigid objects , active contour representations",
    "have been widely used in recent years  @xcite . typically , an active contour representation ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : contour - representation ] ) is defined as a signed distance map @xmath22 : @xmath23 where @xmath24 and @xmath25 respectively denote the regions inside and outside the contour c , and @xmath26 is a function returning the smallest euclidean distance from point @xmath27 to the contour @xmath28 . moreover",
    ", an active contour representation is associated with a energy function which comprises three terms : internal energy , external energy , and shape energy .",
    "the internal energy term reflects the internal constraints on the object contour ( e.g. , the curvature - based evolution force ) , the external energy term measures the likelihood of the image data belonging to the foreground object class , and the shape energy characterizes the shape prior constraints on the object contour .          without feature extraction ,",
    "the raw pixel representation is simple and efficient for visual object tracking .",
    "since only considering the color information on object appearance , the raw pixel representation is susceptible to complicated appearance changes caused by illumination variation .",
    "the constant - brightness - constraint ( cbc ) optical flow captures the field information on the translational vectors of each pixel in a region with the potential assumption of locally unchanged brightness .",
    "however , the cbc assumption is often invalid in the complicated situations caused by image noise , illumination fluctuation , and local deformation . to address this issue , the non - brightness - constraint optical flow is developed to introduce more geometric constraints on the contextual relationship of pixels .",
    "the single - cue histogram representation is capable of efficiently encoding the statistical distribution information of visual features within the object regions . due to its weakness in characterizing the spatial structural information of tracked objects , it is often affected by background distractions with similar colors to the tracked objects . in order to capture more spatial information ,",
    "the spatial - color histogram representation is introduced for visual object tracking .",
    "usually , it encodes the spatial information by either modeling object appearance in a joint spatial - color feature space or taking a patch - division strategy .",
    "however , the above histogram representations do not consider the shape or texture information of object appearance . as a consequence ,",
    "it is difficult to distinguish the object from the background with similar color distributions . to alleviate this issue , the shape - texture histogram representation is proposed to integrate shape or texture information ( e.g. , gradient or edge ) into the histogram representation , leading to the robustness of object appearance variations in illumination and pose .",
    "the advantages of using the covariance matrix representation are as follows : ( i ) it can capture the intrinsic self - correlation properties of object appearance ; ( ii ) it provides an effective way of fusing different image features from different modalities ; ( iii ) it is low - dimensional , leading to the computational efficiency ; ( iv ) it allows for comparing regions of different sizes or shapes ; ( v ) it is easy to implement ; ( vi ) it is robust to illumination changes , occlusion , and shape deformations .",
    "the disadvantages of using the covariance matrix representation are as follows : ( i ) it is sensitive to noisy corruption because of taking pixel - wise statistics ; ( ii ) it loses much useful information such as texture , shape , and location .    a wavelet filtering - based representation is to encode the local texture information of object appearance by wavelet transform , which is a convolution with various wavelet filters . as a result ,",
    "the wavelet filtering - based representation is capable of characterizing the statistical properties of object appearance in multiple scales and directions ( e.g. , gabor filtering ) .",
    "an active contour representation is designed to cope with the problem of nonrigid object tracking .",
    "usually , the active contour representation adopts the signed distance map to implicitly encode the boundary information of an object . on the basis of level set evolution ,",
    "the active contour representation can precisely segment the object with a complicated shape .          as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : interest_point ] , local feature - based visual representations mainly utilize interest points or saliency detection to encode the object appearance information . in general , the local features based on the interest points can be mainly categorized into seven classes : local template - based , segmentation - based , sift - based , mser - based , surf - based , corner feature - based , feature pool - based , and saliency detection - based .",
    "several representative tracking methods using local feature - based visual representations are listed in rows 15 - 22 of tab .",
    "[ tab : feature_descriptor ] .    * local template - based . in general ,",
    "local template - based visual representations are to represent an object region using a set of part templates .",
    "in contrast to the global template - based visual representation , they are able to cope with partial occlusions effectively and model shape articulations flexibly . for instance , a hierarchical part - template shape model is proposed for human detection and segmentation  @xcite .",
    "the shape model is associated with a part - template tree that decomposes a human body into a set of part - templates . by",
    "hierarchically matching the part - templates with a test image , the proposed part - template shape model can generate a reliable set of detection hypotheses , which are then put into a global optimization framework for the final human localization . *",
    "segmentation - based .",
    "typically , a segmentation - based visual representation incorporates the image segmentation cues ( e.g. , object boundary  @xcite ) into the process of object tracking , which leads to reliable tracking results .",
    "another alternative is based on superpixel segmentation , which aims to group pixels into perceptually meaningful atomic regions .",
    "for example , wang et al .",
    "@xcite construct a local template - based visual representation with the superpixel segmentation , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : superpixel ] .",
    "specifically , the surrounding region of an object is segmented into several superpixels , each of which corresponds to a local template . by building a local template dictionary based on the mean shift clustering ,",
    "an object state is predicted by associating the superpixels of a candidate sample with the local templates in the dictionary .",
    "+    * sift - based .",
    "usually , a sift - based visual representation directly makes use of the sift features inside an object region to describe the structural information of object appearance .",
    "usually , there are two types of sift - based visual representations : ( i ) individual sift point - based ; and ( ii ) sift graph - based . for ( i ) , zhou et al .",
    "@xcite set up a sift point - based visual representation , and combine this visual representation with the mean shift for object tracking .",
    "specifically , sift features are used to find the correspondences between the regions of interest across frames .",
    "meanwhile , the mean shift procedure is implemented to conduct a similarity search via color histograms . by using a mutual support mechanism between sift and the mean shift ,",
    "the tracking algorithm is able to achieve a consistent and stable tracking performance .",
    "however , the tracking algorithm may suffer from a background clutter which may lead to a one - to - many sift feature matching .",
    "in this situation , the mean shift and sift feature matching may make mutually contradictory decisions . for ( ii ) ,",
    "the sift graph - based visual representations are based on the underlying geometric contextual relationship among sift feature points .",
    "for example , tang and tao  @xcite construct a relational graph using sift - based attributes for object representation .",
    "the graph is based on the stable sift features which persistently appear in several consecutive frames",
    ". however , such stable sift features are unlikely to exist in complex situations such as shape deformation and illumination changes . * mser - based .",
    "a mser - based visual representation needs to extract the mser ( maximally stable extremal region ) features for visual representation  @xcite .",
    "subsequently , tran and davis  @xcite construct a probabilistic pixel - wise occupancy map for each mser feature , and then perform the mser feature matching for object tracking .",
    "similar to  @xcite , donoser and bischof  @xcite also use mser features for visual representation . to improve the stability of mser features , they take temporal information across frames into consideration . *",
    "surf - based . with the scale - invariant and rotation - invariant properties ,",
    "the surf ( speeded up robust feature ) is a variant of sift  @xcite .",
    "it has similar properties to those of sift in terms of repeatability , distinctiveness , and robustness , but its computational speed is much faster .",
    "inspired by this fact , he et al .",
    "@xcite develop a tracking algorithm using a surf - based visual representation . by judging the compatibility of local surf features with global object motion ,",
    "the tracking algorithm is robust to appearance changes and background clutters . *",
    "corner feature - based .",
    "typically , a corner feature - based visual representation makes use of corner features inside an object region to describe the structural properties of object appearance , and then matches these corner features across frames for object localization .",
    "for instance , kim  @xcite utilizes corner features for visual representation , and then perform dynamic multi - level corner feature grouping to generate a set of corner point trajectories . as a result",
    ", the spatio - temporal characteristics of object appearance can be well captured . moreover , grabner et al .",
    "@xcite explore the intrinsic differences between the object and non - object corner features by building a boosting discriminative model for corner feature classification .",
    "* local feature pool based .",
    "recently , local feature pool based visual representations have been widely used in ensemble learning based object tracking . usually , they need to set up a huge feature pool ( i.e. , a large number of various features ) for constructing a set of weak learners , which are used for discriminative feature selection . therefore , different kinds of visual features ( e.g. , color , local binary pattern  @xcite , histogram of oriented gradients  @xcite , gabor features with gabor wavelets  @xcite , and haar - like features with haar wavelets  @xcite ) can be used by fssl in an independent or interleaving manner . for example , collins et al .",
    "@xcite set up a color feature pool whose elements are linear combinations of the following rgb components : @xmath29 . as a result",
    ", an object is localized by selecting the discriminative color features from this pool .",
    "grabner and bischof @xcite construct an ensemble classifier by learning several weak classifiers trained from the haar - like features  @xcite , histograms of oriented gradient ( hog )  @xcite , and local binary patterns ( lbp ) @xcite .",
    "babenko et al .",
    "@xcite utilize the haar - like features to construct a weak classifier , and then apply an online multiple instance boosting to learn a strong ensemble classifier for object tracking .",
    "* saliency detection - based . in principle , saliency detection is inspired by the focus - of - attention ( foa ) theory  @xcite to simulate the human perception mechanism for capturing the salient information of an image .",
    "such salient information is helpful for visual object tracking due to its distinctness and robustness .",
    "based on saliency detection , researchers apply the biological vision theory to visual object tracking  @xcite . more recently ,",
    "yang et al .",
    "@xcite construct an attentional visual representation method based on the spatial selection .",
    "this visual representation method takes a two - stage strategy for spatial selective attention . at the first stage ,",
    "a pool of attentional regions ( ars ) are extracted as the salient image regions . at the second stage",
    ", discriminative learning is performed to select several discriminative attentional regions for visual representation .",
    "finally , the task of object tracking is taken by matching the ars between two consecutive frames .",
    "the aforementioned local feature - based representations use local templates , segmentation , sift , mser , surf , corner points , local feature pools , or saliency detection , respectively . due to the use of different features ,",
    "these representations have different properties and characteristics . by representing an object region using a set of part templates ,",
    "the local template - based visual representations are able to encode the local spatial layout information of object appearance , resulting in the robustness to partial occlusions . with the power of image segmentation , the segmentation - based visual representations are capable of well capturing the intrinsic structural information ( e.g. , object boundaries and superpixels ) of object appearance , leading to reliable tracking results in challenging situations .",
    "since the sift features are invariant to image scaling , partial occlusion , illumination change , and 3d camera viewpoint change , the sift - based representation is robust to appearance changes in illumination , shape deformation , and partial occlusion .",
    "however , it can not encode precise information on the objects such as size , orientation , and pose .",
    "the mser - based representation attempts to find several maximally stable extremal regions for feature matching across frames .",
    "hence , it can tolerate pixel noise , but suffers from illumination changes .",
    "the surf - based representation is on the basis of the `` speeded up robust features '' , which has the properties of scale - invariance , rotation - invariance , and computationally efficiency . the corner - point representation aims to discover a set of corner features for feature matching .",
    "therefore , it is suitable for tracking objects ( e.g. , cars or trucks ) with plenty of corner points , and sensitive to the influence of non - rigid shape deformation and noise .",
    "the feature pool - based representation is strongly correlated with feature selection - based ensemble learning that needs a number of local features ( e.g. , color , texture , and shape ) . due to the use of many features ,",
    "the process of feature extraction and feature selection is computationally slow .",
    "the saliency detection - based representation aims to find a pool of discriminative salient regions for a particular object . by matching the salient regions across frames , object localization can be achieved . however , its drawback is to rely heavily on salient region detection , which is sensitive to noise or drastic illumination variation .",
    "in general , the global visual representations are simple and computationally efficient for fast object tracking . due to the imposed global geometric constraints , the global visual representations are susceptible to global appearance changes ( e.g. , caused by illumination variation or out - of - plane rotation ) . to deal with complicated appearance changes , a multi - cue strategy is taken by the global features to incorporate multiple types of visual information ( e.g. , position , shape , texture , and geometric structure ) into the appearance models .",
    "in contrast , the local visual representations are able to capture the local structural object appearance .",
    "consequently , the local visual representations are robust to global appearance changes caused by illumination variation , shape deformation , rotation , and partial occlusion .",
    "since they require the keypoint detection , the interest point - based local visual representations often suffer from noise disturbance and background distraction .",
    "moreover , the local feature pool - based visual representations , which are typically required by discriminative feature selection , need a huge number of local features ( e.g. , color , texture , and shape ) , resulting in a very high computational cost . inspired by the biological vision , the local visual representations using biological features attempt to capture the salient or intrinsic structural information inside the object regions .",
    "this salient information is relatively stable during the process of visual object tracking .",
    "however , salient region features rely heavily on salient region detection which may be susceptible to noise or drastic illumination variation , leading to potentially many feature mismatches across frames .",
    "recently , visual object tracking has been posed as a tracking - by - detection problem ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : svm_classification ] ) , where statistical modeling is dynamically performed to support object detection .",
    "according to the model - construction mechanism , statistical modeling is classified into three categories , including generative , discriminative , and hybrid generative - discriminative .",
    "the generative appearance models mainly concentrate on how to accurately fit the data from the object class .",
    "however , it is very difficult to verify the correctness of the specified model in practice . besides",
    ", the local optima are always obtained during the course of parameter estimation ( e.g. , expectation maximization ) . by introducing online - update mechanisms",
    ", they incrementally learn visual representations for the foreground object region information while ignoring the influence of the background . as a result",
    ", they often suffer from distractions caused by the background regions with similar appearance to the object class . tab .",
    "[ tab : generative_tracking ] lists representative tracking - by - detection methods based on generative learning techniques .    in comparison ,",
    "discriminative appearance models pose visual object tracking as a binary classification issue .",
    "they aim to maximize the separability between the object and non - object regions discriminately .",
    "moreover , they focus on discovering highly informative features for visual object tracking . for the computational consideration , online variants are proposed to incrementally learn discriminative classification functions for the purpose of object or non - object predictions .",
    "thus , they can achieve effective and efficient predictive performances .",
    "nevertheless , a major limitation of the discriminative appearance models is to rely heavily on training sample selection ( e.g. , by self - learning or co - learning ) . tab .",
    "[ tab : discriminative_tracking ] lists representative tracking - by - detection methods based on discriminative learning techniques .",
    "the generative and discriminative appearance models have their own advantages and disadvantages , and are complementary to each other to a certain extent .",
    "therefore , researchers propose hybrid generative - discriminative appearance models ( hgdams ) to fuse the useful information from the generative and the discriminative models . due to taking a heuristic fusion strategy , hgdams can not guarantee that the performance of the hybrid models after information fusion is better than those of the individual models .",
    "in addition , hgdams may add more constraints and introduce more parameters , leading to more inflexibility in practice .",
    "[ tab : hybrid_tracking ] lists representative tracking - by - detection methods based on hybrid generative - discriminative learning techniques .",
    "typically , this type of generative appearance models adaptively learns several components to capture the spatio - temporal diversity of object appearance .",
    "they can be classified into two categories : wsl mixture models and gaussian mixture models .",
    "* wsl mixture models . in principle",
    ", the wsl mixture model  @xcite contains the following three components : @xmath30-component , @xmath31-component , and @xmath32-component .",
    "these three components characterize the inter - frame variations , the stable structure for all past observations , and outliers such as occluded pixels , respectively . as a variant of  @xcite , another wsl mixture model  @xcite",
    "is proposed to directly employ the pixel - wise intensities as visual features instead of using the filter responses ( e.g. in  @xcite ) . moreover ,",
    "the @xmath32-component is discarded in modeling the occlusion using robust statistics , and an @xmath33-component is added as a fixed template that is observed most often . * gaussian mixture models .",
    "in essence , the gaussian mixture models  @xcite utilize a set of gaussian distributions to approximate the underlying density function of object appearance , as shown in fig .  [ fig : gmm ] .",
    "for instance , an object appearance model  @xcite using a mixture of gaussian density functions is proposed to automatically determine the number of density functions and their associated parameters including mean , covariance , and weight .",
    "rectangular features are introduced by averaging the corresponding intensities of neighboring pixels ( e.g. , @xmath34 or @xmath35 ) in each color channel . to capture a spatial - temporal description of the tracked objects , wang et al .",
    "@xcite present a spatial - color mixture of gaussians ( referred to as smog ) appearance model , which can simultaneously encode both spatial layout and color information . to enhance its robustness and stability , wang et al .",
    "further integrate multiple cues into the smog appearance model , including three features of edge points : their spatial distribution , gradient intensity , and size .",
    "however , it is difficult for the gaussian mixture models to select the correct number of components .",
    "for example , adaptively determining the component number @xmath36 in a gmm is a difficult task in practice . as a result , the mixture models often use ad - hoc or heuristic criteria for selecting @xmath36 , leading to the tracking inflexibility .          kernel - based generative appearance models ( kgams ) utilize kernel density estimation to construct kernel - based visual representations , and then carry out the mean shift for object localization , as shown in fig .  [ fig : mean_shift ] .",
    "according to the mechanisms used for kernel construction or mode seeking , they may be split into the following six branches : color - driven kgams , shape - integration kgams , scale - aware kgams , non - symmetric kgams , kgams by global mode seeking , and sequential - kernel - learning kgams .",
    "* color - driven kgams .",
    "typically , a color - driven kgam  @xcite builds a color histogram - based visual representation regularized by a spatially smooth isotropic kernel . using the bhattacharyya coefficient as the similarity metric",
    ", a mean shift procedure is performed for object localization by finding the basin of attraction of the local maxima .",
    "however , the tracker  @xcite only considers color information and therefore ignores other useful information such as edge and shape , resulting in the sensitivity to background clutters and occlusions .",
    "another color - driven kgam  @xcite is developed to handle multi - view color variations by constructing the convex hull of multiple view - specific reference color histograms .",
    "* shape - integration kgams . in general , the shape - integration kgams aim to build a kernel density function in the joint color - shape space .",
    "for example , a shape - integration kgam  @xcite is proposed to capture the spatio - temporal properties of object appearance using color and boundary cues .",
    "it is based on two spatially normalized and rotationally symmetric kernels for describing the information about the color and object boundary .",
    "* scale - aware kgams .",
    "in essence , the scale - aware kgams are to capture the spatio - temporal distribution information on object appearance at multiple scales .",
    "for instance , a scale - aware kgam  @xcite using the difference of gaussian based mean shift features is presented to cope with the problem of kernel scale selection by detecting local maxima of the difference - of - gaussian ( dog ) scale - space filters formulated as : @xmath37 where @xmath38 is a scaling factor .",
    "based on a new probabilistic interpretation , another scale - aware kgam  @xcite is proposed to solve a maximum likelihood problem , which treats the coordinates for the pixels as random variables . as a result , the problem of kernel scale selection is converted to that of maximum likelihood optimization in the joint spatial - color space .",
    "* non - symmetric kgams .",
    "the conventional kgams use a symmetric kernel ( e.g. , a circle or an ellipse ) , leading to a large estimation bias in the process of estimating the complicated underlying density function . to address this issue ,",
    "a non - symmetric kgam  @xcite is developed based on the asymmetric kernel mean shift with adaptively varying the scale and orientation of the kernel .",
    "in contrast to the symmetric mean shift ( only requiring the image coordinate estimate ) , the non - symmetric kgam needs to simultaneously estimate the image coordinates , the scales , and the orientations in a few number of mean shift iterations . introducing asymmetric kernels can generate a more accurate representation of the underlying density so that the estimation bias is reduced .",
    "furthermore , the asymmetric kernel is just a generalization of the previous radially symmetric and anisotropic kernels .",
    "+    * kgams by global mode seeking . due to the local optimization property of the mean shift ,",
    "large inter - frame object translations lead to tracking degradations or even failures . in order to tackle this problem , shen et al .",
    "@xcite propose an annealed mean shift algorithm motivated by the success of the annealed importance sampling , which is essentially a way of assigning the weights to the states obtained by multiple simulated annealing runs  @xcite . here , the states correspond to the object positions while the simulated annealing runs are associated with different bandwidths for the kernel density estimation .",
    "the proposed annealed mean shift algorithm aims to make a progressive position evolution of the mean shift as the bandwidths monotonically decrease ( i.e. , the convergence position of mean shift with the last bandwidth works as the initial position of the mean shift with the next bandwidth ) , and finally seeks the global mode .",
    "* sequential - kernel - learning kgams .",
    "batch - mode kernel density estimation needs to store the nonparametric representations of the kernel densities , leading to a high computational and memory complexity .",
    "to address this issue , han et al .",
    "@xcite develop a sequential kernel density approximation ( skde ) algorithm for real - time visual object tracking . the skde algorithm",
    "sequentially learns a nonparametric representation of the kernel density and propagates the density modes over time .",
    "* discussion .",
    "the color - driven kernel - based tracking algorithms mainly take the color information into consideration . however , complicated factors may give rise to drastic tracking degradations , including scale changes , background clutters , occlusions , and rapid object movements . to address this issue ,",
    "various algorithmic extensions have been made .",
    "the aim of scale - aware tracking algorithms is to capture the multi - scale spatial layout information of object appearance .",
    "thus , they are capable of effectively completing the tracking task under the circumstance of drastic scaling changes . moreover ,",
    "the edge or shape information is very helpful for accurate object localization or resisting background distraction .",
    "motivated by this consideration , shape - driven kernel - based tracking algorithms have been developed to integrate the edge or shape information into the kernel design process .",
    "normally , the kernel - based tracking algorithms utilize symmetric kernels ( e.g. , a circle or an ellipse ) for object tracking , resulting in a large estimation bias for complicated underlying density functions . to tackle this problem , non - symmetric",
    "kernel - based tracking algorithms are proposed to construct a better representation of the underlying density .",
    "conventional kernel - based tracking algorithms tend to pursue the local model seeking , resulting in tracking degradations or even failures due to their local optimization properties . to address this issue ,",
    "researchers borrow ideas from both simulated annealing and annealed importance sampling to obtain a feasible solution to global mode seeking . in practice ,",
    "the factors of computational complexity and memory consumption have a great effect on real - time kernel - based tracking algorithms .",
    "thus , sequential techniques for kernel density estimation have been developed for online kernel - based tracking .      in visual object tracking , a target",
    "is usually associated with several underlying subspaces , each of which is spanned by a set of basis templates . for convenience , let @xmath39 denote the target and @xmath40 denote the basis templates of an underlying subspace .",
    "mathematically , the target @xmath39 can be linearly represented in the following form : @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the coefficient vector .",
    "therefore , subspace learning - based generative appearance models ( slgams ) focus on how to effectively obtain these underlying subspaces and their associated basis templates by using various techniques for subspace analysis .",
    "for instance , some slgams utilize eigenvalue decomposition or linear regression for subspace analysis , and others construct multiple subspaces to model the distribution characteristics of object appearance . according to the used techniques for subspace analysis",
    ", they can be categorized into two types : conventional and unconventional slgams .          in general , conventional subspace models",
    "can be split into the following two branches : linear subspace models and non - linear subspace models .    * linear subspace models . in recent years , linear subspace models ( lsms )",
    "have been widely applied to visual object tracking . according to the dimension of the used feature space , lsl",
    "can be divided into ( i ) lower - order lsms and ( ii ) higher - order lsms . the lower - order lsms  @xcite needs to construct vector - based subspace models ( e.g. , eigenspace by principal component analysis shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : eigenbasis ] ) while the higher - order lsms needs to build matrix - based or tensor - based subspace models ( e.g. , 2d eigenspace by 2d principal component analysis and tensor eigenspace by tensor analysis ) .",
    "+ for ( i ) , several incremental principal component analysis ( pca ) algorithms are proposed to make linear subspace models more efficient .",
    "for instance , an incremental robust pca algorithm  @xcite is developed to incorporate robust analysis into the process of subspace learning .",
    "similar to  @xcite , skocaj and leonardis  @xcite embed the robust analysis technique into the incremental subspace learning framework , which makes a sequential update of the principal subspace .",
    "the learning framework considers the weighted influence of both individual images and individual pixels within an image . unlike the aforementioned robust pca algorithm based on weighted residual errors ,",
    "the incremental subspace learning algorithms in @xcite utilize incremental singular value decomposition ( svd ) to obtain a closed - form solution to subspace learning .",
    "however , these incremental pca algorithms can not update the sample mean during subspace learning . to address this issue , a subspace model based on r - svd ( i.e. , rank - r singular value decomposition )",
    "is built with a sample mean update  @xcite .",
    "moreover , wang et al .",
    "@xcite apply partial least square analysis to learn a low - dimensional feature subspace for object tracking . in theory",
    ", the partial least square analysis is capable of modeling relations between sets of variables driven by a small number of latent factors , leading to robust object tracking results .",
    "+ for ( ii ) , a set of higher - order lsms are proposed to address the small - sample - size problem , where the number of samples is far smaller than the dimension of samples .",
    "therefore , many researchers begin to build matrix - based or tensor - based subspace models . for instance , wang et al .",
    "@xcite directly analyze the 2d image matrices , and construct a 2dpca - based appearance model for object tracking .",
    "in addition to the foreground information , they also consider background information to avoid the distractions from the background clutters .",
    "moreover , li et al .",
    "@xcite and wen et al .",
    "@xcite take advantage of online tensor decomposition to construct a tensor - based appearance model for robust visual object tracking .",
    "* nonlinear subspace models .",
    "if the training data lie on an underlying nonlinear manifold , the lsm - based tracking algorithms may fail .",
    "therefore , researchers attempt to employ nonlinear subspace learning to capture the underlying geometric information from target samples . for the robust human tracking , a nonlinear subspace model  @xcite is built using nonlinear dimension reduction techniques ( i.e. , local linear embedding ) . as a nonlinear generalization of pca , a nonlinear subspace model  @xcite based on kernel principal component analysis ( kpca )",
    "is constructed to capture the kernelized eigenspace information from target samples .      in general , unconventional subspace models can also be used for visual object tracking .",
    "roughly , they can be divided into three categories : sparse / non - sparse representation , autoregressive modeling , and multi - subspace learning .",
    "* sparse / non - sparse representation .",
    "typically , a set of target samples is associated with an underlying subspace spanned by several templates .",
    "the likelihood of a candidate sample belonging to the object class is often determined by the residual between the candidate samples and the reconstructed samples derived from a linear representation . to ensure a sparse linear representation , an @xmath43-regularized optimization procedure is adopted to obtain a sparse linear representation solution  @xcite .",
    "based on the sparse representation technique in  @xcite , jia et al .",
    "@xcite propose a tracking method that further improves the tracking accuracy by using the block - division spatial pooling schemes ( e.g. , average pooling , max pooling , and alignment pooling ) .",
    "moreover , zhang et al .",
    "@xcite present a multi - task sparse optimization framework based on a @xmath44-regularized least - square minimization cost function . instead of treating test samples independently",
    ", the framework explores the interdependencies between test samples by solving a @xmath44-regularized group sparsity problem .",
    "when @xmath45 , the framework degenerates to the popular @xmath43 tracker  @xcite . +",
    "to achieve a real - time performance of the @xmath43 tracker  @xcite , a subspace model  @xcite based on compressive sensing is built by solving an orthogonal matching pursuit ( omp ) optimization problem ( i.e. , random projections ) , which is about 6000 times faster than  @xcite .",
    "similar to  @xcite , zhang et al .",
    "@xcite make use of compressive sensing ( random projections ) to generate a low - dimensional compressive feature descriptor , leading to a real - time tracking performance .",
    "alternatively , bao et al .",
    "@xcite take advantage of the popular accelerated proximal gradient ( apg ) approach to optimize the @xmath43-regularized least square minimization problem , which has a quadratic convergence property to ensure the real - time tracking performance .",
    "another way of improving the efficiency of the @xmath43 tracker  @xcite is to reduce the number of @xmath43 minimizations in the process of evaluating test samples  @xcite .",
    "this task is accomplished by estimating the minimal error bound of the likelihood function in particle filtering , resulting in a moderate improvement in tracking efficiency . from an viewpoint of signal compression ,",
    "li et al .",
    "@xcite construct a compact 3d - dct object representation based on a dct subspace spanned by cosine basis functions . with the power of fast fourier transform ( fft ) , the proposed 3d - dct object representation is capable of efficiently adapting to spatio - temporal appearance variations during tracking , leading to robust tracking results in complicated situations .",
    "+ on the other hand , the sparsity of the linear representation is unnecessary for robust object tracking as long as an adequate number of template samples are provided , as pointed out in  @xcite .",
    "therefore , a non - sparse metric weighted linear representation ( with a closed - form solution ) is proposed to effectively and efficiently model the intrinsic appearance properties of the tracked object  @xcite . * autoregressive modeling",
    ". since tracking is a time - dependent process , the target samples from adjacent frames are mutually correlated . to characterize the time dependency across frames , a variety of appearance models",
    "are proposed in recent years .",
    "for instance , a dynamical statistical shape representation is proposed to capture the temporal correlation information on human silhouettes from consecutive frames  @xcite .",
    "the proposed representation learns a linear autoregressive shape model , where the current silhouette is linearly constrained by the previous silhouettes .",
    "the learned shape model is then integrated into the level - set evolution process , resulting in robust segmentation results .",
    "+    * multi - subspace learning . in order to capture the distribution diversity of target samples , several efforts establish the double or multiple subspaces for visual representation .",
    "for example , fan et al .",
    "@xcite present a bi - subspace model for visual tracking .",
    "the model simultaneously considers two visual cues : color appearance and texture appearance .",
    "subsequently , the model uses a co - training strategy to exchange information between two visual cues . for video - based recognition and tracking , lee and kriegman  @xcite present a generic appearance model that seeks to set up a face appearance manifold consisting of several sub - manifolds .",
    "each sub - manifold corresponds to a face pose subspace .",
    "furthermore , kwon and lee  @xcite construct a set of basic observation models , each of which is associated with a specific appearance manifold of a tracked object . by combining these basic observation models , a compound observation model is obtained , resulting in a robustness to combinatorial appearance changes .",
    "* active appearance models ( aams ) .",
    "usually , aams  @xcite need to incorporate two components : a ) shape and b ) appearance , as shown in fig .  [ fig : aam ] . for a ) , the shape s of an aam can be expressed as a linear combination of a base shape @xmath46 and several shape vectors @xmath47 such that @xmath48 where the shape s denotes @xmath49 that are the coordinates of the @xmath50 vertices making up the mesh . for b ) , the appearance of the aam can be represented as a linear combination of a base appearance @xmath51 and several appearance images @xmath52 such that @xmath53 where @xmath54 is a pixel lying inside the base mesh @xmath46 .",
    "therefore , given a test image , the aam needs to minimize the following cost function for the model fitting : @xmath55 , { } \\ ] ] where @xmath56 denotes a piecewise affine warp that transforms a pixel @xmath54 into aam .",
    "the lower - order linear subspace models ( lsms ) usually learn vector - based visual representations for visual object tracking .",
    "for the tracking efficiency , several incremental lsms ( e.g. , incremental pca ) are developed for online visual object tracking .",
    "since the vector - based visual representations suffer from the small - sample - size problem , researchers construct higher - order matrix - based or tensor - based visual representations . however , the above lsms",
    "potentially assume that object appearance samples lie on an underlying linear manifold . in practice , this assumption is often violated because of complex extrinsic / intrinsic appearance changes .",
    "motivated by this consideration , non - linear subspace models are developed for visual representation . however , the problem with these non - linear subspace models is that they are computationally expensive due to the non - linear subspace learning ( e.g. , nonlinear dimension reduction ) .    in recent years",
    ", unconventional subspace models have been proposed for visual object tracking .",
    "these models either enforce the sparsity constraints on the linear representation solution or have different assumptions of subspace properties",
    ". however , the sparsity - constrained linear representation typically induces a high optimization complexity , which motivates researchers to develop an efficient optimization method ( e.g. , apg and omp ) for a real - time tracking performance . without the conventional single - subspace assumption , bi - subspace or multi - subspace algorithms",
    "are proposed to more precisely model the distribution diversity of the target samples , but at the cost of an additional computation .      in the last decade , boosting - based discriminative appearance models ( bdams ) have been widely used in visual object tracking because of their powerful discriminative learning capabilities . according to the learning strategies employed",
    ", they can be categorized into self - learning and co - learning bdams .",
    "typically , the self - learning bdams utilize the discriminative information from single source to guide the task of object / non - object classification , while the co - learning bdams exploit the multi - source discriminative information for object detection . more specifically",
    ", the self - learning bdams first train a classifier over the data from the previous frames , and subsequently use the trained classifier to evaluate possible object regions at the current frame . after object localization , a set of so - called `` positive '' and `` negative '' samples",
    "are selected to update the classifier .",
    "these `` positive '' and `` negative '' samples are labeled by the previously trained classifier . due to tracking errors ,",
    "the training samples obtained in the tracking process may be polluted by noise .",
    "therefore , the labels for the training samples are unreliable .",
    "as the tracking process proceeds , the tracking error may be accumulated , possibly resulting in the `` drift '' problem .",
    "in contrast , the co - learning bdams often takes a semi - supervised strategy for object / non - object classification ( e.g. , co - training by building multiple classifiers ) .    on the other hand , bdams also take different strategies for visual representation , i.e. , single - instance and multi - instance ones .",
    "the single - instance bdams require precise object localization .",
    "if a precise object localization is not available , these tracking algorithms may use sub - optimal positive samples to update their corresponding object or non - object discriminative classifiers , which may lead to a model drift problem .",
    "moreover , object detection or tracking has its own inherent ambiguity , that is , precise object locations may be unknown even for human labelers . to deal with this ambiguity ,",
    "the multi - instance bdams are proposed to represent an object by a set of image patches around the tracker location .",
    "thus , they can be further classified into single - instance or multi - instance bdams .",
    "based on online boosting  @xcite , researchers have developed a variety of computer vision applications such as object detection  @xcite and visual object tracking  @xcite . in these applications ,",
    "the variants of boosting are invented to satisfy different demands .",
    "* conventional bdams . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : online_boosting ] , the conventional bdams first make a discriminative evaluation of each feature from a candidate feature pool , and then select the top - ranked features to conduct the tracking process  @xcite . to accelerate the feature selection process ,",
    "liu and yu  @xcite utilize gradient - based feature selection to construct a bdam .",
    "but this bdam requires an initial set of weak classifiers to be given in advance , leading to difficulty in general object tracking .",
    "the above - mentioned bdams often perform poorly in capturing the correlation information between features , leading to the redundancy of selected features and the failure to compensate for the tracking error caused by other features .",
    "+ to address this issue , a feature weighting strategy is adopted to attach all the features from the feature pool with different weights , and then performs weighted fusion for object tracking . for instance , avidan  @xcite constructs a confidence map by pixel classification using an ensemble of online learned weak classifiers , which are trained by a feature weighting - based boosting approach .",
    "since needing to store and compute all the features during feature selection , the feature weighting - based boosting approach is computationally expensive .",
    "furthermore , parag et al .",
    "@xcite build a feature weighting - based bdam for object tracking , where the weak classifiers themselves are adaptively modified to adapt to scene changes .",
    "namely , the parameters of the weak classifiers are adaptively changed instead of replacement when the new data arrive .",
    "the common property of the feature weighting - based bdams is that they depend on a fixed number of weak classifiers .",
    "however , this property may restrict the flexibility of the trackers in practice . * dynamic ensemble - based bdams .",
    "the conventional bdams need to construct a fixed number of weak learners in advance , and select these weak learners iteratively as the boosting procedure proceeds .",
    "however , due to the time - varying property of visual object tracking , they are incapable of effectively adapting to dynamic object appearance changes . to address this problem , a dynamic ensemble - based bdam  @xcite is proposed to dynamically construct and update the set of weak classifiers according to the ensemble error value .",
    "* noise - insensitive bdams .",
    "to make visual object tracking more robust to noise corruption , a set of bdams are proposed in the literature . for instance , leistner et al .",
    "@xcite point out that the convex loss functions typically used in boosting are highly sensitive to random noise . to enhance robustness , leistner et al .",
    "@xcite develop a generic bdam called online gradientboost , which contains a set of noise insensitive loss functions .",
    "in essence , this bdam is an extension of the gradientboost algorithm  @xcite and works similarly to the anyboost algorithm  @xcite . *",
    "particle filtering integration - based bdams . to make visual object tracking more efficient , researchers embed feature selection into the particle filtering process . for example , wang et al .",
    "@xcite and okuma et al .",
    "@xcite propose two online feature selection - based bdams using particle filtering , which generate the candidate state set of a tracked object , and the classification results of adaboost is used to determine the final state .",
    "* transfer learning - based bdams .",
    "typically , most existing bdams have an underlying assumption that the training samples collected from the current frame follow a similar distribution to those from the last frame .",
    "however , this assumption is often violated when the `` drift '' problem takes place . to address the `` drift '' problem ,",
    "a number of novel bdams  @xcite are proposed to categorize the samples into two classes : auxiliary samples ( obtained in the last frames ) and target samples ( generated in the current frame ) . by exploring the intrinsic proximity relationships among these samples , the proposed bdams are capable of effectively transferring the discriminative information on auxiliary samples to the discriminative learning process using the current target samples , leading to robust tracking results .          in general ,",
    "the self - learning bdams suffer from the `` model drift '' problem due to their error accumulation caused by using the self - learning strategy . in order to address this problem",
    ", researchers adopt the semi - supervised learning techniques  @xcite for visual object tracking .",
    "for instance , grabner et al .",
    "@xcite develop a bdam based on semi - supervised online boosting .",
    "its main idea is to formulate the boosting update process in a semi - supervised manner as a fused decision of a given prior and an online classier , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : co - learning ] .",
    "subsequently , liu et al .",
    "@xcite make use of the co - training strategy to online learn each weak classifier in boosting instead of only the final strong classifier .",
    "the co - training strategy dynamically generates a series of unlabeled samples for progressively modifying the weak classifiers , leading to the robustness to environmental changes .",
    "it is proven that the co - training strategy can minimize the boosting error bound in theory .      to deal with the underlying ambiguity of object localization",
    ", multiple instance learning is used for object tracking , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : multi - instance ] . in principle",
    ", it represents an object by a set of image patches around the tracker location .",
    "* self - learning multi - instance bdams .",
    "for example , babenko et al .",
    "@xcite represent an object by a set of image patches , which correspond to an instance bag with each instance being an image patch .",
    "based on online multiple instance boosting , a tracking system is developed to characterize the ambiguity of object localization in an online manner .",
    "the tracking system assumes that all positively labelled instances are truly positive , but this assumption is sometimes violated in practice .",
    "furthermore , the tracking system trains the weak classifiers based only on the current frame , and is likely to be over - fitting . instead of equally treating the samples in each bag  @xcite , zhang et al .",
    "@xcite propose an online weighted multiple instance tracker , which incorporates the sample importance information ( i.e. , the samples closer to the current tracker location are of greater importance ) into the online multi - instance boosting learning process , resulting in robust tracking results . to characterize the cumulative loss of the weak classifiers across multiple frames instead of the current frame ,",
    "li et al .",
    "@xcite propose an online multi - instance bdam using the strong convex elastic net regularizer instead of the @xmath43 regularizer , and further prove that the proposed multiple instance learning ( mil ) algorithm has a cumulative regret ( evaluating the cumulative loss of the online algorithm ) of @xmath57 with @xmath58 being the number of boosting iterations .",
    "* co - learning multi - instance bdams .",
    "zeisl et al .",
    "@xcite and li et al .",
    "@xcite combine the advantages of semi - supervised learning and multiple instance learning in the process of designing a bdam .",
    "semi - supervised learning can incorporate more prior information , and multiple instance learning focuses on the uncertainty about where to select positive samples for model updating .",
    "as mentioned previously , bdams can be roughly classified into : self - learning based and co - learning based ones .",
    "self - learning based bdams adopt the self - learning strategy to learn object / non - object classifiers .",
    "they utilize previously learnt classifiers to select `` positive '' and `` negative '' training samples , and then update the current classifiers with the selected training samples . as a result",
    ", tracking errors may be gradually accumulated . in order to tackle this problem , co - learning based bdams are developed to capture the discriminative information from many unlabeled samples in each frame .",
    "they generally employ semi - supervised co - learning techniques to update the classifiers with both labeled and unlabeled samples in an interleaved manner , resulting in more robust tracking results .    on the other hand ,",
    "conventional bdams take a single - instance strategy for visual representation , i.e. , one image patch for each object .",
    "the drawback of this single - instance visual representation is to rely heavily on exact object localization , without which the tracking performance can be greatly degraded because of the sub - optimal training sample selection . to address this issue , mil is introduced to visual object tracking .",
    "it takes into account of the inherent ambiguity of object localization , representing an object by a set of image patches around the tracker location . as a result",
    ", the mil - based tracking algorithms can achieve robust tracking results , but may lose accuracy if the image patches do not precisely capture the object appearance information .",
    "however , all bdams need to construct a huge local feature pool for feature selection , leading to a low computational speed .",
    "additionally , they usually obtain a local optimal solution to object tracking because of their focus on local features rather than global features .",
    "sdams aim to learn margin - based discriminative svm classifiers for maximizing inter - class separability .",
    "sdams are able to discover and remember informative samples as support vectors for object / non - object classification , resulting in a strong discriminative power .",
    "effective kernel selection and efficient kernel computation play an importance role in designing robust sdams . according to",
    "the used learning mechanisms , sdams are typically based on self - learning sdams and co - learning sdams .    *",
    "self - learning sdams . in principle , the self - learning sdams are to construct svm classifiers for object / non - object classification in a self - learning fashion . for example , avidan  @xcite proposes an offline sdam for distinguishing a target vehicle from a background .",
    "since the sdam needs substantial prior training data in advance , extending the algorithm to general object tracking is a difficult task . following the work in  @xcite ,",
    "williams et al .",
    "@xcite propose a probabilistic formulation - based sdam , which allows for propagating observation distributions over time . despite its robustness , the proposed sdam needs to fully encode the appearance variation information , which is impractical in the tracking process .",
    "tian et al .",
    "@xcite utilize an ensemble of linear svm classifiers to construct a sdam .",
    "these classifiers can be adaptively weighted according to their discriminative abilities during different periods , resulting in the robustness to large appearance variations .",
    "the above sdams need to heuristically select positive and negative samples surrounding the current tracker location to update the object / non - object svm classifier .",
    "+ to avoid the heuristic and unreliable step of training sample selection ( usually requiring accurate estimation of object location ) , two strategies are adopted in the literature .",
    "one is based on structured output support vector machine ( svm )  @xcite , and the other is based on ranking svm  @xcite .",
    "the key idea of these two strategies is to integrate the structured constraints ( e.g. , relative ranking or voc overlap ratio between samples ) into the max - margin optimization problem .",
    "for instance , hare et al .  @xcite propose a sdam based on a kernelized structured svm , which involves an infinite number of structured loss ( i.e. , voc overlap ratio ) based constraints in the structured output spaces .",
    "in addition , bai and tang  @xcite therefore pose visual object tracking as a weakly supervised ranking problem , which captures the relative proximity relationships between samples towards the true target samples .",
    "* co - learning sdams . in general , the co - learning sdams rely on semi - supervised / multi - kernel learning to construct svm classifiers for object / non - object classification .",
    "for instance , tang et al .",
    "@xcite adopt the co - training svm technique to design a semi - supervised tracker .",
    "the disadvantage of this tracker is that it requires several initial frames to generate adequate labeled samples , resulting in the inflexibility in practice .",
    "lu et al .",
    "@xcite and yang et al .",
    "@xcite design svm classifiers using multi - kernel learning ( mkl ) for visual object tracking .",
    "mkl aims to learn an optimal linear combination of different kernels based on different features , including the color information and spatial pyramid histogram of visual words .      with the power of max - margin learning ,",
    "the sdams have a good generalization capability of distinguishing foreground and background , resulting in an effective svm classifier for object localization .",
    "however , the process of constructing the sdams requires a set of reliable labeled training samples , which is a difficult task due to the influence of some complicated factors such as noisy corruptions , occlusions , illumination changes , etc .",
    "therefore , most existing sdams take a heuristic strategy for training sample collection ( e.g. , spatial distance based or classification score based ) , which may lead to the instability or even `` drift '' of the tracking process . to address this issue , the structured svm is applied to model the structural relationships ( i.e. , voc overlap ratio ) between samples , resulting in a good tracking performance in terms of generalization and robustness to noise . during tracking , a hard assignment of a sample to a class label",
    "usually leads to the classification error accumulation . to alleviate the issue ,",
    "the ranking svm ( a weakly supervised learning method ) is also introduced into the tracking process , where the relative ranking information between samples is incorporated into the constraints of max - margin learning .",
    "the common point of the above sdams is to take a self - learning strategy for object / non - object classification without considering the discriminative information from unlabeled data or multiple information sources .",
    "motivated by this , the co - learning sdams are developed to integrate such discriminative information into the svm learning process by semi - supervised / multi - kernel learning .",
    "the co - learning sdams emerge      more recently , randomized learning techniques ( e.g. , random forest  @xcite and ferns  @xcite ) have been successfully introduced into the vision community . in principle , randomized learning techniques can build a diverse classifier ensemble by performing random input selection and random feature selection .",
    "in contrast to boosting and svm , they are more computationally efficient , and easier to be extended for handling multi - class learning problems . in particular , they can be parallelized so that multi - core and gpu implementations ( e.g. , @xcite ) can be performed to greatly reduce the run time . however , their tracking performance is unstable for different scenes because of their random feature selection .    inspired by randomized learning ,",
    "a variety of rldams are proposed in the field of visual object tracking , including online random forests  @xcite , random naive bayes classifiers  @xcite , and miforests  @xcite .",
    "for instance , godec et al .",
    "@xcite develop a visual object tracking algorithm based on online random naive bayes classifiers .",
    "due to the low computational and memory costs of random naive bayes classifiers , the developed tracking algorithm has a powerful real - time capability for processing long - duration video sequences .",
    "in contrast to online random forests  @xcite , the random naive bayes classifiers have a higher computational efficiency and faster convergence in the training phase . moreover , leistner et al .",
    "@xcite present a rldam named miforests , which uses multiple instance learning to construct randomized trees and represents the hidden class labels inside target bags as random variables .",
    "discriminant analysis is a powerful tool for supervised subspace learning . in principle",
    ", its goal is to find a low - dimensional subspace with a high inter - class separability .",
    "according to the learning schemes used , it can be split into two branches : conventional discriminant analysis and graph - driven discriminant analysis . in general , conventional dadams",
    "are formulated in a vector space while graph - driven dadams utilize graphs for supervised subspace learning .",
    "typically , conventional discriminant analysis techniques can be divided into one of the following two main branches .",
    "* uni - modal dadams . in principle , uni - modal dadams have a potential assumption that the data for the object class follow a uni - modal gaussian distribution . for instance , lin et al .",
    "@xcite build a dadam based on incremental fisher linear discriminant analysis ( iflda ) . this dadam models the object class as a single gaussian distribution , and models the background class as a mixture of gaussian distributions . in  @xcite , linear discriminant analysis ( lda ) is used for discriminative learning in the local texture feature space obtained by gabor filtering .",
    "however , there is a potential assumption that the distributions of the object and the background classes are approximately gaussian ones with an equal covariance .",
    "li et al .",
    "@xcite construct a dadam using the incremental 2dlda on the 2d image matrices .",
    "since matrix operations are directly made on these 2d matrices , the dadam is computationally efficient .",
    "moreover , another way of constructing uni - modal dadams is by discriminant metric learning , which aims to linearly map the original feature space to a new metric space by a linear projection  @xcite .",
    "after discriminant metric learning , the similarity between intra - class samples are minimized while the distance between inter - class samples are maximized , resulting in an effective similarity measure for robust object tracking .",
    "note that the above dadams are incapable of dealing well with the object and background classes having multi - modal distributions .",
    "* multi - modal dadams .",
    "in essence , multi - modal dadams model the object class and the background class as a mixture of gaussian distributions .",
    "for example , xu et al .",
    "@xcite take advantage of adaptive subclass discriminant analysis ( sda ) ( i.e. , an extension to the basic sda  @xcite ) for object tracking .",
    "the adaptive sda first partitions data samples into several subclasses by a nearest neighbor clustering , and then runs the traditional lda for each subclass .          researchers utilize the generalized graph - based discriminative learning ( i.e. , graph embedding and graph transductive learning ) to construct a set of dadams for visual object tracking .",
    "typically , these dadams mainly have the following two branches :    * graph embedding based dadams . in principle , the goal of graph embedding based dadams is to set up a graph - based discriminative model , which utilizes the graph - based techniques to embed the high - dimensional samples into a discriminative low - dimensional space for the object / non - object classification . for instance , zhang et al .",
    "@xcite design a dadam based on graph embedding - based lda , which makes a basic assumption that the background class is irregularly distributed with multiple modalities while the object class follows a single gaussian distribution .",
    "however , this basic assumption does not hold true in the case of complex intrinsic and extrinsic object appearance changes .",
    "* graph transductive learning based dadams . in general , graph transductive learning based dadams aim to utilize the power of graph - based semi - supervised transductive learning for the likelihood evaluation of the candidate samples belonging to the object class .",
    "they make use of the intrinsic topological information between the labeled and unlabeled samples to discover an appropriate decision hyperplane for object / non - object classification , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : transductive_learning ] . for instance , zha et al .",
    "@xcite develop a tracker based on graph - based transductive learning .",
    "the tracker utilizes the labeled samples to maximize the inter - class separability , and the unlabeled samples to capture the underlying geometric structure of the samples .",
    "the goal of dadams is to learn a decision hyperplane to separate the object class from the background class .",
    "however , the traditional dadams perform poorly when both the object class and the background class have multi - modal statistical distributions . to overcome this limitation ,",
    "multi - modal discriminant analysis is adopted to explore the training data distributions by data clustering . to make a non - linear extension to the conventional dadams ,",
    "graph - based dadams are proposed .",
    "these dadams try to formulate the problem of discriminant analysis as that of graph learning such as graph embedding and graph transductive learning .",
    "however , a drawback is that these algorithms need to retain a large amount of labeled / unlabeled samples for graph learning , leading to their impracticality for real tracking applications .      in principle",
    ", cldams need to construct the foreground and background codebooks to adaptively capture the dynamic appearance information from the foreground and background .",
    "recently , yang et al .",
    "@xcite construct two codebooks of image patches using two different features : rgb and lbp features , leading to the robustness in handling occlusion , scaling , and rotation . to capture more discriminative information , an adaptive class - specific codebook  @xcite is built for instance tracking .",
    "the codebook encodes the information on spatial distribution and appearance of object parts , and can be converted to a more instance - specific codebook in a probabilistic way ( i.e. , probabilistic votes for the object instance ) .",
    "inspired by the tracking - by - detection idea , andriluka et al .",
    "@xcite establish object - specific codebooks , which are constructed by clustering local features ( i.e. , shape context feature descriptors and hessian - laplace interest points ) extracted from a set of training images .",
    "these codebooks are then embedded into a part - based model for pedestrian detection .",
    "therefore , cldams often consider the discriminative information not only from the background but also from other object instances .",
    "however , it is very difficult to construct a universal codebook for different scenes or objects . as a result ,",
    "it is necessary to collect different training samples for different scenes or objects , leading to inflexibility in practice .",
    "in addition , determining the codebook size is a difficult task in practice .",
    "as discussed in  @xcite , the generative and the discriminative models have their own advantages and disadvantages , and are complementary to each other to some extent .",
    "consequently , much effort has been made to propose a variety of hybrid generative - discriminative models for combining the benefits of both the generative and the discriminative models in visual object tracking .",
    "these hybrid generative - discriminative models aim to combine the generative and the discriminative models in a single - layer or multi - layer manner .",
    "hgdams via single - layer combination aim to fuse the generative and the discriminative models at the same layer .",
    "they attempt to fuse the confidence scores of the generative and the discriminative models to generate better tracking results than just using them individually .",
    "typically , they have two kinds of combination mechanisms : decision - level combination and intermediate - level combination .",
    "* hgdams via decision - level combination . in principle ,",
    "such hgdams focus on how to effectively fuse the confidence scores from the generative and the discriminative models .",
    "for instance , a linear fusion strategy  @xcite is taken to combine the log - likelihood of discriminative and generative models for pixel classification .",
    "it is pointed out in  @xcite that the performance of the combined generative - discriminative models is associated with a balance between the purely generative and purely discriminative ones .",
    "in addition , lin et al .",
    "@xcite propose a hgdam that is a generalized version of the fisher linear discriminant analysis .",
    "this hgdam consists of two components : the observation sub - model and the discriminative sub - model . *",
    "hgdams via intermediate - level combination . in principle , the hgdams via intermediate - level combination aim to simultaneously utilize both low - level features and high - level confidence scores from the generative and the discriminative models .",
    "for instance , yang et al .",
    "@xcite impose three data - driven constraints on the proposed object appearance model : ( 1 ) negative data ; ( 2 ) bottom - up pair - wise data constraints ; and ( 3 ) adaptation dynamics . as a result",
    ", the object appearance model can greatly ameliorate the problem of adaptation drift and can achieve good tracking performances in various non - stationary scenes .",
    "furthermore , grabner et al .",
    "@xcite propose a hgdam based on a boosting algorithm called eigenboosting , which requires visual features to be discriminative with reconstructive abilities at the same time . in principle , eigenboosting aims to minimize a modified boosting error - function in which the generative information ( i.e. , eigenimages generated from haar - like binary basis - functions using robust pca ) is integrated as a multiplicative prior .      in principle , the goal of the hgdams via multi - layer combination is to combine the information from the generative and discriminative models at multiple layers .",
    "in general , such hgdams can be divided into two classes : hgdams via sequential combination and hgdams via interleaving combination .",
    "* hgdams via sequential combination . in principle , the hgdams via sequential combination aim to fuse the benefits of the generative and discriminative models in a sequential manner .",
    "namely , they use the decision output of one model as the input of the other model .",
    "for example , everingham and zisserman  @xcite combine generative and discriminative head models .",
    "a discriminative tree - structured classifier is trained to make efficient detection and pose estimation over a large pose space with three degrees of freedom .",
    "subsequently , a generative head model is used for the identity verification . moreover , shen et al .",
    "@xcite develop a generalized kernel - based hgdam which learns a dynamic visual representation by online svm learning .",
    "subsequently , the learned visual representation is incorporated into the standard ms tracking procedure .",
    "furthermore , lei et al .",
    "@xcite propose a hgdam using sequential bayesian learning .",
    "the proposed tracking algorithm consists of three modules . in the first module ,",
    "a fast relevance vector machine algorithm is used to learn a discriminative classifier . in the second module",
    ", a sequential gaussian mixture model is learned for visual representation . in the third module , a model combination mechanism with a three - level hierarchy",
    "is discussed , including the learner combination ( at level one ) , classifier combination ( at level two ) , and decision combination ( at level three ) . *",
    "hgdams via interleaving combination . in principle , the goal of the hgdams via interleaving combination is to combine the discriminative - generative information in a multi - layer interleaving manner .",
    "namely , the decision output of one model is used to guide the learning task of the other model and vice versa .",
    "for instance , yu et al .",
    "@xcite utilize a co - training strategy to combine the information from a svm classifier and a generative multi - subspace model  @xcite in a multi - layer interleaving manner .",
    "to evaluate the performance of various tracking algorithms , one needs the same test video dataset , the ground truth , and the implementation of the competing tracking algorithms . tab .",
    "[ tab : tracking_datasets ] lists the current major resources available to the public .",
    "another important issue is how to evaluate tracking algorithms in a qualitative or quantitative manner .",
    "typically , qualitative evaluation is based on intuitive perception by human .",
    "namely , if the calculated target regions cover more true object regions and contain fewer non - object pixels , the tracking algorithms are considered to achieve better tracking performances ; otherwise , the tracking algorithms perform worse . for a clear illustration ,",
    "a qualitative comparison of several representative visual representations is provided in tab .",
    "[ tab : feature_evaluations ] in terms of computational speed as well as handling occlusion , illumination variation , and shape deformation capabilities . moreover , tab .",
    "[ tab : model_evaluations ] provides a qualitative comparison of several representative statistical modeling - based appearance models in terms of computational speed , memory usage , online adaptability , and discriminability .",
    "in contrast , a quantitative evaluation relies heavily on the ground truth annotation .",
    "if objects of interest are annotated with bounding boxes , a quantitative evaluation is performed by computing the positional errors of four corners between the tracked bounding boxes and the ground truth .",
    "alternatively , the overlapping ratio between the tracked bounding boxes ( or ellipses ) and the ground truth can be calculated for the quantitative evaluation : @xmath59 , where @xmath60 is the tracked bounding box ( or ellipse ) and @xmath61 is the ground truth .",
    "the task of ground truth annotation with bounding boxes or ellipses is difficult and time - consuming .",
    "consequently , researchers take a point - based annotation strategy for the quantitative evaluation . specifically , they either record object center locations as the ground truth for simplicity and efficiency , or mark several points within the object regions by hand as the ground truth for accuracy ( e.g. , seven mark points are used in the dudek face sequence  @xcite ) .",
    "this way , we can compute the positional residuals between the tracking results and the ground truth for the quantitative evaluation .",
    "in this work , we have presented a survey of 2d appearance models for visual object tracking .",
    "the presented survey takes a module - based organization to review the literature of two important modules in 2d appearance models : visual representations and statistical modeling schemes for tracking - by - detection , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : architecture ] .",
    "the visual representations focus more on how to robustly describe the spatio - temporal characteristics of object appearance , while the statistical modeling schemes for tracking - by - detection put more emphasis on how to capture the generative / discriminative statistical information of the object regions .",
    "these two modules are closely related and interleaved with each other . in practice , powerful appearance models depend on not only effective visual representations but also robust statistical models .      *",
    "balance between tracking robustness and tracking accuracy .",
    "existing appearance models are incapable of simultaneously guaranteeing tracking robustness and tracking accuracy . to improve the tracking accuracy , more visual features and geometric constraints",
    "are incorporated into the appearance models , resulting in a precise object localization in the situations of particular appearance variations . however , these visual features and geometric constraints can also lower the generalization capabilities of the appearance models in the aspect of undergoing other appearance variations . on the other hand , to improve the tracking robustness , the appearance models relax some constraints on a precise object localization , and thus allow for more ambiguity of the object localization . thus",
    ", balancing tracking robustness and tracking accuracy is an interesting research topic . *",
    "balance between simple and robust visual features . in computer vision , designing both simple and robust visual features is one of the most fundamental and important problems . in general ,",
    "simple visual features have a small number of components . as a result",
    ", they are computationally efficient , but have a low discriminability .",
    "in contrast , robust visual features often have a large number of components .",
    "consequently , they are computationally expensive , and have sophisticated parameter settings .",
    "therefore , how to keep a good balance between simplicity and robustness plays an important role in visual object tracking . *",
    "2d and 3d information fusion .",
    "2d appearance models are computationally efficient and simple to implement . due to the information loss of 3d - to-2d projections",
    ", 2d appearance models can not accurately estimate the poses of the tracked objects , leading to the sensitivity to occlusion and out - of - plane rotation .",
    "in contrast , 3d appearance models are capable of precisely characterizing the 3d pose of the tracked objects , resulting in the robustness to occlusion and out - of - plane rotation .",
    "however , 3d appearance models require a large parameter - search space for 3d pose estimation , resulting in expensive computational costs . therefore",
    ", combining the advantages of 2d and 3d appearance models is a challenging research topic . to accelerate the pose estimation process of the 3d appearance models , a possible solution is to use the tracking results of the 2d appearance models as the initialization of the 3d appearance models",
    "however , how to effectively transfer from 2d tracking to 3d tracking is still an unsolved problem .",
    "* intelligent vision models .",
    "inspired by the biological vision , a number of high - level salient region features are proposed to capture the salient semantic information of an input image .",
    "these salient region features are relatively stable during the process of tracking , while they rely heavily on salient region detection which may be affected by noise or drastic illumination variation .",
    "unreliable saliency detection leads to many feature mismatches across frames .",
    "consequently , it is necessary to build an intelligent vision model that can robustly track these salient region features across frames like what human vision offers . *",
    "camera network tracking .",
    "typically , the appearance models are based on a single camera , which provides a very limited visual information of the tracked objects . in recent years",
    ", several appearance models using multiple overlapping cameras are proposed to fuse different visual information from different viewpoints .",
    "these appearance models usually deal with the problem of object tracking in the same scene monitored by different cameras .",
    "often they can not complete the tracking task of the same object in different but adjacent scenes independently . in this case , tracking in a large camera network needs to be established for a long - term monitoring of the objects of interest .",
    "however , how to transfer the target information from one camera sub - network to another is a crucial issue that remains to be solved .",
    "* low - frame - rate tracking . due to the hardware limits of processing speed and memory usage , mobile devices or micro embedded systems usually produces the video data with a low frame rate ( e.g. , abrupt object motion ) , which makes the tracking job challenging .",
    "in this situation , the appearance models needs to have a good generalization and adaptation capability of online coping with the object appearance variations during tracking .",
    "therefore , it is crucial to construct a robust appearance model with efficient visual modeling and effective statistical modeling for real - time applications .                                                        ,",
    "lipton , a.  j. , kanade , t. , fujiyoshi , h. , duggins , d. , tsin , y. , tolliver , d. , enomoto , n. , hasegawa , o. , burt , p. , and wixson , l. 2000 .",
    "a system for video surveillance and monitoring .",
    "tech . rep .",
    ", vsam final report , carnegie mellon university .",
    "technical report cmu - ri - tr-00 - 12 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> visual object tracking is a significant computer vision task which can be applied to many domains such as visual surveillance , human computer interaction , and video compression . despite extensive research on this topic </S>",
    "<S> , it still suffers from difficulties in handling complex object appearance changes caused by factors such as illumination variation , partial occlusion , shape deformation , and camera motion . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , effective modeling of the 2d appearance of tracked objects is a key issue for the success of a visual tracker . in the literature , researchers have proposed a variety of 2d appearance models .    to help readers </S>",
    "<S> swiftly learn the recent advances in 2d appearance models for visual object tracking , we contribute this survey , which provides a detailed review of the existing 2d appearance models . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , this survey takes a module - based architecture that enables readers to easily grasp the key points of visual object tracking . in this survey </S>",
    "<S> , we first decompose the problem of appearance modeling into two different processing stages : visual representation and statistical modeling . then , different 2d appearance models are categorized and discussed with respect to their composition modules . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we address several issues of interest as well as the remaining challenges for future research on this topic .    </S>",
    "<S> the contributions of this survey are four - fold . </S>",
    "<S> first , we review the literature of visual representations according to their feature - construction mechanisms ( i.e. , local and global ) . </S>",
    "<S> second , the existing statistical modeling schemes for tracking - by - detection are reviewed according to their model - construction mechanisms : generative , discriminative , and hybrid generative - discriminative . </S>",
    "<S> third , each type of visual representations or statistical modeling techniques is analyzed and discussed from a theoretical or practical viewpoint . </S>",
    "<S> fourth , the existing benchmark resources ( e.g. , source code and video datasets ) are examined in this survey . </S>"
  ]
}