{
  "article_text": [
    "star clusters are natural laboratories for many astrophysical processes . in the simplest description , cluster stars",
    "may be thought of as being ( almost ) coeval point masses  an n - body system  and their motion traces their mutual gravitation and the possible influence of an external galactic tidal field . in more complex situations ,",
    "stars evolve , gas may accrete into the cluster , new stars may form out of that gas , and the gas may be expelled from the cluster quickly by supernovae or more slowly by radiation pressure and stellar winds .",
    "a typical cluster is subject to several long - term mass - loss processes , including losses due to stellar evolution and removal of the outermost stars by the galaxy s tidal field .",
    "these processes compete with relaxation processes to define the equilibrium state of the cluster .    setting aside the complexities of intracluster gas , simple models combining a few basic physical processes  stellar dynamics , stellar evolution , and tidal effects ",
    "have proved very useful in the study of star clusters .",
    "these simulations combine differing treatments of multiple physical processes , and must be carefully calibrated to ensure their reliability .",
    "@xcite ( noted as `` cw '' throughout this paper ) combined a simple stellar evolution prescription with fokker - planck simulations of stellar dynamics and a highly idealized tidal field to produce a seminal `` baseline '' set of cluster simulations , starting from king @xcite initial models .",
    "this survey , together with subsequent studies by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite ( abbreviated as `` tpz '' for the remainder of this paper ) , using other formulations of stellar evolution and both n - body and fokker  planck treatments of stellar dynamics , have resulted in comparative catalogs of parameter space that now serve as tests of any new code .    part of the purpose of this paper is to validate parts of amuse the astrophysical multipurpose simulation environment  against known results and then to show new applications of the framework to stellar cluster dynamics .",
    "amuse is a new software framework designed for simulations of dense stellar systems , inspired by the earlier muse project described by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "a detailed technical account of amuse is beyond the scope of this article ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a summary is presented in  [ sec : computation ] to provide the reader with some context on the software used .",
    "we set out to test amuse against known results , but found that comparing different simulations at any meaningful level of precision is a non - trivial task . in order to accomplish this goal",
    ", we employ an n - body stellar dynamics code , several stellar evolution codes , and a simple escaper removal algorithm as the three basic simulation components , and compare amuse with the results of tpz .",
    "this line of inquiry led to a description of the dissolution modes of king models within a tidal cut - off .",
    "we demonstrate that competition between the relaxation , dynamical and stellar evolution timescales leads to a split between dissolutions dominated by relaxation processes and those dominated by dynamical processes . by sampling the relevant timescales ,",
    "the boundary is mapped .",
    "we also generate a comparison of different stellar evolution codes linked to the same dynamics code and run against the same initial conditions , demonstrating that the specifics of the choice of stellar evolution recipes are amplified by the stellar dynamics , and impact the results of the simulation .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows : in  [ sec : computation ] we describe amuse and its specific use for the dissolving star cluster problem .",
    "this is followed by  [ physmodel ] where the physical model , including details of the cw stellar evolution approximation , are detailed . ",
    "[ resultssec ] contains the validation of amuse runs (  [ validationsec ] and  [ sec : comparisontpz ] ) , a study of the consequences of the variance in initial conditions on simulations (  [ sec : sources ] ) , an exploration of the types of dissolution which can disrupt a king model (  [ sec : typesofdis ] ) , and a direct comparison of stellar evolution codes (  [ secomp ] ) .",
    "finally ,  [ futurework ] summarizes the results and proposes future work .",
    "this paper is the first in a series of papers describing work with amuse . in this series",
    "we will lay the groundwork for future studies by demonstrating that amuse can reproduce well - known published results .",
    "future work will explore various types of n - body codes ( direct integration , tree , etc . ) as well as the inclusion of binaries and multiple stars .",
    "the series begins with a relatively simple model ( single stars in a cluster using a tidal cut - off ) , and is intended to progress to more realistic models in later work .",
    "it is important to establish the reliability of the amuse framework through comparison with existing work .",
    "we can demonstrate the utility of the modular framework along the way by conducting comparisons between codes that were prohibitively difficult without out it .",
    "historically , astrophysical simulation codes have been constructed by a single author or by a small group working closely together .",
    "the typical course of the development begins with a simple solver for a specific physical problem ( for example , an n - body integrator for a collisionless system ) and then gradually extends to cover more varied physics ( to continue the example , collisional physics or stellar evolution effects might be added ) .",
    "this approach has been very successful , but is limited when it comes time to compare codes and implementations , or to extend a simulation to include a new piece of physics ( to continue the example again , radiative transfer processes may need to be included ) . in the case of comparison ,",
    "the types of physics studied are tightly coupled to a specific implementation .",
    "it is non - trivial to change from one stellar evolution recipe ( to give one example ) to another , unless the authors of the code have included both recipes . in the case of extension , the team of authors behind the code may need to grow to bring in experts in the newly - required fields of physics .    despite these difficulties",
    ", a number of very successful codes have been developed . among these",
    "are the nbody series of codes ( for a review , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , gadget @xcite , flash @xcite and starlab @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , it is becoming clear that the limits of the traditional approach are being reached . in order for new physics to be added to these packages , the programmer ( or team of programmers ) must be an expert in the new physics being added , as well as in every physical domain already present in the tightly coupled code .",
    "this , combined with the difficulty of modifying any existing physics in these packages , limits the effectiveness of further work .",
    "the amuse philosophy is to move away from a general - purpose multiphysics `` solver '' and toward a suite of standardized special - purpose `` evolver '' modules .",
    "each evolver knows about only a single physical domain , and is responsible for advancing a known system state through time by implementing the physics specific to that domain .",
    "in particular , an evolver is not expected to take into account any physics outside its own domain in its calculations .",
    "the amuse standard defines four physical domains of interest : gravitational dynamics , stellar evolution , hydrodynamics and radiative transfer .",
    "a standard interface to an evolver is defined for each of these domains .",
    "for example , the stellar dynamics interface specifies how particles are communicated to the evolver ( added , removed , updated ) and how to make the evolver step forward a given number of time units .",
    "similarly , the stellar evolution interface specifies how to communicate star properties ( mass , age , metallicity , etc . ) to the evolver and how to make the evolver advance to a specified time .",
    "all evolvers for a given physical domain are accessible within the amuse environment through this standard interface .",
    "this means that evolvers within a domain are interchangeable . as shown in ",
    "[ resultssec ] , it is possible for a researcher to switch between several stellar evolution models to test the effect of changing the physical approximations used on the behaviour of the entire system .",
    "the same is true of the other physical domains .",
    "this decoupling of the underlying science codes from the simulation logic is powerful .",
    "users who are not experts in the details of the scientific modules can `` mix and match '' reliable existing work to produce new types of simulations .",
    "wherever possible , the amuse approach is to re - use existing codes instead of writing new ones .",
    "this means that many special - purpose stand - alone solvers can be turned into amuse modules .",
    "the framework provides a quick and easy method for wrapping an existing code in one of the standard interfaces and making it available within the amuse environment .",
    "the decoupling of science codes is a benefit to code authors , as they now need produce only a solver for an individual physics domain in order to run a realistic simulation .",
    "the other physical domains , in which they may not be experts , can be `` borrowed '' from the amuse community codes directly . at the discretion of the author , such a module may also become part of the amuse package distributed on the web to interested researchers .",
    "alternately , it is possible to create a `` private '' amuse module which exists only on the author s computers .    in order to make use of amuse ,",
    "the researcher writes a `` top - level '' script ( using the python scripting language ) which instantiates a set of evolvers relevant to the problem being studied .",
    "all communication and synchronization between the evolvers are handled by this script . in this work , the top - level script creates a stellar dynamics evolver ( in our case , an n - body code ) and a stellar evolution evolver .",
    "it then begins a loop in which dynamics and evolution are advanced in tandem , with synchronization between them as needed .",
    "it also implements a tidal cut - off by removing escapers from the simulation at fixed time intervals .",
    "amuse uses the message - passing interface mpi ( see , for example , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) to allow each evolver to exist in its own process , possibly in parallel and on a different machine than the controlling python script .",
    "each evolver is written in the language of choice of its original author .",
    "already present in amuse are modules written in c , c++ , python , fortran and java .",
    "mpi was chosen based on the experience of muse ( which used swig and f2py instead ) , and allows for both parallelization and for each module to reside in its own , unique namespace .",
    "amuse is compatible with openmpi or with mpich2 , or variants thereof . in this work",
    "we have used the mvapich2 implementation of mpi because it supports the infinibad networking present on our gpu computing cluster .",
    "amuse is also capable of running on a grid for massively parallel calculations @xcite .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xmath0",
    "we first set out to test whether or not the amuse framework could reproduce known results .",
    "cw produced a well studied catalog of fokker ",
    "planck code simulations .",
    "tpz performed runs for the same initial parameters using both a fokker ",
    "planck code and an n - body code , calibrating the removal of escapers in the former against the latter .",
    "our initial goal was to see if , and how well , amuse could replicate the tpz n - body results .    in tpz",
    ", curves for four choices of parameters are published . using the notation @xmath1 , they are : ( 3 , 2.5 , 1 ) , ( 3 , 2.5 , 4 ) , ( 7 , 1.5 , 4 ) and ( 7 , 2.5 , 1 ) .",
    "we therefore generated initial conditions for each of these cases and ran them using amuse .",
    "figure [ valfig ] shows the result of our attempt to reproduce selected tpz runs .",
    "the qualitative shape of the curves are similar , but it is difficult to make any quantitative statement about the agreement or disagreement between the two sets of simulations .    an obvious suspect for these variances is the difference in stellar evolution recipes , which are known to be similar but not identical .",
    "tpz used seba @xcite to model stellar evolution , while we have used sse .",
    "it is likely that small differences in the handling of main sequence lifetime and remnant masses for short - lived o and b stars could alter the later evolution of the cluster due to early mass loss .",
    "this is not the only possibility .",
    " [ secomp ] reviews the variance introduced by the choice of stellar evolution model .",
    "one known difference is in the handling of kicks in supernova formation .",
    "our top - level amuse script ignores any kick prescriptions built into the stellar evolution codes .",
    "however , some of the models ( for example , cw and sse ) leave a zero - mass `` remnant '' for some initial stellar masses . this represents the detonation of the remnant during the supernova , and the ejection of any remaining material .",
    "our amuse script treats this as the star disappearing .",
    "slight differences in these prescriptions are likely to contribute to variations seen between stellar evolution codes .",
    "it is unlikely , however , that this was the dominant source of variation .",
    "this led us to consider the inherent spread in our results due to random variations in the initial conditions ( individual star masses , positions , and velocities ) , as opposed to systematic differences between the integrators .",
    "we conducted multiple random realizations of each of our chosen initial parameter sets .",
    "each parameter set ( for example , @xmath2 ) describes a continuous model , and we transform this model into a discrete mass spectrum and set of spatial and velocity data using a variable random number seed .",
    "we refer to a set of random realizations of a given parameter set as `` formally equivalent . ''",
    "+    figure [ 21runplot ] shows the results of 21 different realizations of three selected models .",
    "these models are the @xmath3 combinations ( 3 , 1.5 ) , ( 7 , 2.5 ) and ( 3 , 2.5 ) with all four families simulated for each case .",
    "this subset is 12 of the 16 possible combinations of @xmath4 , @xmath5 and family for the tpz choices of these parameters .",
    "we do not show ( 7 , 1.5 ) as it is largely uninteresting : the cluster dissolves quickly , much like the ( 3 , 1.5 ) case .",
    "furthermore , this is not a useful parameter set for validation because tpz do not publish their cluster mass evolution curves for these combinations of parameters .    the variation due to randomness in the initial conditions is small , except for the case @xmath6 , where the cluster dissolves , but `` slowly '' relative to stellar evolution .",
    "`` slowly '' refers to the fact that the initial mass loss driven by supernovae of o and b stars is not sufficient to disrupt the cluster .",
    "we explore this in further detail in  [ sec : typesofdis ] . for @xmath7 ,",
    "the early stellar evolution loss due to massive stars dominates the cluster s evolution , and it dissolves before differences in initial conditions can have much effect .",
    "conversely , for @xmath8 , the cluster is quite long - lived and the effects of initial condition variability are smoothed out over time .",
    "figure [ tpzcompplot ] also shows curves derived from tpz s starlab runs overplotted on an amuse simulation made using 21 runs done with ph4 and the seba module . despite using the `` same '' stellar evolution recipe",
    ", the results clearly do not agree .",
    "this is due to `` drift '' in the seba code since the tpz paper was published in 2000 .",
    "`` drift '' refers to changes in the code underlying seba over time as the stellar evolution model is improved .",
    "figure [ sebadrift ] shows one such change : the remnant mass kept by the code has changed in the 12 yr between the publication of tpz and the current seba .",
    "the lesson to simulators is clear : codes can change with time , and these changes can produce significant differences in the results of simulations .",
    "we would like to know why some of the curves in fig .",
    "[ 21runplot ] have such large spreads in their tracks while others are constrained to a narrow area .",
    "in particular , the @xmath9 case behaves quite differently from the other cases .",
    "there are two obvious places in the discretization process where random variations might play a decisive role ",
    "the masses of the most massive stars , which explode early and can eject a significant amount of material from the cluster , and their locations , since mass ejected from the cluster center is much more destructive to the cluster than mass ejected from the outer regions @xcite .    to separate these two effects , we explored the consequences of holding one of these `` random '' parameters constant and varying the other .",
    "for each of the two parameters we ran 11 simulations with random choices of the other .",
    "figure [ splitfig ] illustrates the results .",
    "it is clear from the plot that varying the masses while holding the positions fixed has a larger effect than holding the masses constant and varying the positions .",
    "the mass spectrum effect is larger than the spatial effect by a factor of about 2 .",
    "these two effects are of the same order , and neither is negligible when comparing simulation results .",
    "we now focus our attention on those systems whose dissolution timescale is significantly shorter than that due solely to relaxation - driven mass loss , but longer than that due to early stellar - evolution mass loss",
    ". these clusters lifetimes may be as long as several gyr , but their dissolution should still be considered dynamical .",
    "this behaviour was also observed by @xcite .",
    "@xcite explained the mechanism of final disruption as a result of the loss of dynamical equilibrium within the cluster .",
    "we have examined the boundary between the ratios of the various timescales involved , in order to map the boundary separating the slow and rapidly dissolving regimes .",
    "there are three competing timescales in this simulation : the stellar mass loss timescale @xmath10 ( which is of order a few tens of myr at the beginning of the simulation , and scales proportionally to @xmath11 as the evolution of the cluster progresses ) , the dynamical timescale @xmath12 ( defined in equation [ eq : tdyn ] ) and the relaxation timescale @xmath13 ( defined in equation [ rheqn ] ) . for a given choice of mass function slope",
    "@xmath5 the stellar mass loss timescale is fixed ; it is an intrinsic property of the stars themselves and not of their dynamical phase space configuration .",
    "the runs shown in fig .",
    "[ 21runplot ] show two modes of cluster dissolution : the flat slope of the long - lived ( @xmath14 , @xmath15 ) runs or the short - lived `` ski jump '' curve of the short - lived ( @xmath16 , @xmath15 ) runs .",
    "the ( @xmath16 , @xmath17 ) runs live extremely short lives .",
    "nevertheless , it is clear from examining the family 4 curve that the `` ski jump '' is present in them too , and that they are more similar to ( @xmath16 , @xmath15 ) than to ( @xmath14 , @xmath15 ) .",
    "it is clear that the lifecycle of massive stars plays a role in the disruption of the cluster in the short - lived `` ski jump '' cases . in the long - lived case of ( @xmath14 , @xmath15 )",
    ", the cluster survives the early stellar mass loss and evolves according to relaxation processes .",
    "this inspired additional runs , conducted for @xmath18 , @xmath19 , and @xmath20 with @xmath15 .",
    "a randomly - realized selection of 10 runs was conducted for each family , and the results are plotted in fig .",
    "[ additionalruns ] . the case ( @xmath21 , @xmath15 , family=@xmath22 ) is particularly interesting since it dissolves via dynamical processes while the remainder of the ( @xmath21 , @xmath15 ) models dissolve via relaxation processes .",
    "+    figure [ theofig ] is a schematic of the relationship between the three timescales for @xmath23 .",
    "we have subdivided the permitted region into two areas . in the right - most region ,",
    "the stellar mass loss timescale is much smaller than the dynamical timescale .",
    "this corresponds to the behaviour seen in the ( @xmath16 , @xmath17 ) runs : the cluster is rapidly disrupted by the death of massive stars early in its life . in this region",
    ", clusters dissolve due to disruption .    in the left - most region ,",
    "the opposite is true . in the left - most region as the ratio of the dynamical to stellar mass loss timescales decreases so do the effects of stellar mass loss on the cluster structural evolution . for systems in this region",
    "( e.g. the family of models with ( @xmath14 , @xmath15 ) ) , the cluster dissolution is driven mainly by two - body relaxation mass loss . in our terminology",
    ", the cluster dissolves due to relaxation .",
    "there is a small forbidden region near the horizontal axis which is not shown due to its small size .",
    "this region is forbidden because @xmath24 can not be smaller than @xmath12 .",
    "similar diagrams exist for other values of @xmath25 and @xmath5 .",
    "the intermediate region ( shown as a line in fig . [ theofig ] ) is an interesting case .",
    "we have seen that for ( @xmath16 , @xmath15 ) the cluster dissolves due to disruption .",
    "however , in published plots such as @xcite , there are cases within this region of cluster dissolution due to relaxation .",
    "we suspected that this was a change in behaviour caused by a differing ratio of the relaxation time to the dynamical time . in order to control this ratio",
    ", we adjusted the number of stars @xmath25 for the case ( @xmath16 , @xmath15 , family=@xmath26 ) .    the result is plotted in fig .",
    "[ changen ] . in this plot",
    ", it appears that @xmath27 ( or @xmath28 ) could be either a relaxation or disruption curve .",
    "however , if it were to be a relaxation curve , we would expect to see a longer lifetime for the cluster than the @xmath28 case ( comparing , for example , to fig .",
    "[ 21runplot ] ) . the @xmath27 lifetime is shorter than the @xmath28 lifetime , though , which places the @xmath27 case in the disruption region .",
    "a similar argument holds for the @xmath28 case .",
    "these small @xmath25 runs are , in fact , more analogous to the ( @xmath16 , @xmath17 ) runs from fig .",
    "[ 21runplot ] . in these cases , the cluster is dissolving in a small number of dynamical times .",
    "this set of runs therefore shows that all of the dissolutions for this set of parameters have a dynamical disruption character .",
    "one should note that dynamical disruption does not have to be a rapid process relative to a hubble time .",
    "while there are certainly cases of clusters being disrupted within a few tens of myr , there are also dynamical disruption cases where the cluster survives for several gyr .",
    "figure [ compfig ] shows a single @xmath29 model ( @xmath30 , @xmath15 , @xmath31 ) evolved using different stellar evolution models .",
    "amuse easily allows switching stellar evolution models in the same code .",
    "we used the sse module , as used in the previous sections , as well as the idealized `` vsse '' ( `` very simple stellar evolution '' ) module described previously , and an implementation of the recipes given by @xcite .",
    "all curves used were computed by amuse using ph4 for gravitational dynamics . also included",
    "is a plot of the population synthesis ( stellar evolution only ) results for these initial conditions using the different stellar evolution models .",
    "the small differences in the mass loss rates of the stars in the various models are amplified by the effects of gravitational dynamics and removal of escapers to produce differences in overall cluster lifetime of approximately @xmath32 .",
    "the early supernovae experienced by o and b stars drives the cluster toward a faster dissolution because the relationship between the mass loss and shrinking tidal radius is self - reinforcing .",
    "when mass is lost , the tidal radius shrinks , which may leave some stars beyond the `` edge '' of the cluster , thus leading to additional mass loss and starting the cycle over again .",
    "these are systematic differences comparable in magnitude to the random run - to - run variations discussed in the previous section .",
    "in this paper , we examined whether or not amuse could be compared to published runs , in particular those of tpz that reproduce prior work in cw .",
    "we also studied the source of variance between formally equivalent simulation runs , and compared the effect of varying the stellar evolution model on the lifetime of a star cluster . the dissolution mechanism ( disruption versus relaxation ) for star clusters was explored .",
    "our amuse runs agree with @xcite ( which agrees with @xcite ) , when all variances are taken into account .",
    "the sources of understood variances are : the specific differences in the random realization of the mass spectrum , the random realization of the initial spatial distribution of stars , and the difference in remnant masses produced by the 2000 and 2012 versions of seba .",
    "these small differences are amplified by the dynamical interactions of stars over the cluster s lifetime .",
    "it is not surprising that the remnant mass prescriptions have changed over the past 12 yr , as this has been a topic of active research in the community .",
    "the direct comparison of stellar evolution codes has yielded an interesting result : prescriptions which differ by no more than a few percent in population synthesis studies can drive otherwise identical star cluster simulations to evolve at paces that differ by up to 25% .",
    "the cause is an amplification effect between mass loss due to stellar evolution and mass loss due to stars escaping the cluster .",
    "as the cluster loses mass , particularly due to early supernovae of o and b stars , the tidal radius of the cluster shrinks and more outlying stars are stripped from the cluster by the galaxy",
    ".    the use of random realization to generate initial conditions was also examined , and we found that formally equivalent ( i.e. : same @xmath4 , @xmath5 and cw family ) initial conditions do not always follow the same evolutionary tracks .",
    "this effect is important in those cases where the star cluster neither dissolves rapidly ( such as the loosely bound @xmath16 case with a top - heavy mass function of slope @xmath17 ) nor remains tightly bound over a hubble time ( such as @xmath33 ) . only in the intermediate regime ( i.e. : @xmath9 ) does this effect matter .",
    "variation in the evolution and dissolution time of a star cluster in the intermediate range is due primarily to the variation in masses of the most massive cluster members , but the effect of the differences in stellar spatial distribution due to random realization is also non - negligible . as had been expected , the population of o and b stars dominates the early cluster evolution because the effects of mass loss from supernovae are amplified as the cluster ages .",
    "the specific random realization of the spatial distribution also affects the overall cluster evolutionary track , but only at about half of the significance of the top - end of the mass spectrum .",
    "this leads us to believe that the fraction of o and b stars alone is not sufficient to describe the variance they introduce ; we must also consider the position within the cluster of those stars .",
    "we have shown that there is a parameter - space boundary between king models that dissolve via dynamical processes and those that dissolve via relaxation processes .",
    "figure [ theofig ] shows the location of this boundary in the space of the three relevant timescales : the stellar evolution mass loss timescale , the cluster s relaxation timescale and the cluster s dynamical timescale .",
    "the amuse framework shows promise as a new method of binding together domain - specific physics codes to form a larger simulation .",
    "future work will be directed toward improving the abilities of this young framework relative to existing monolithic codes .",
    "specifically , new dynamical modules have recently been added to handle close encounters between stars as well as the formation , evolution and destruction of binary and multiple stars .",
    "the addition of these modules will allow amuse to follow the evolution of a star cluster into core collapse and beyond .",
    "in parallel to this development , the amuse team has also implemented modules to provide gas dynamics ( generalized hydrodynamics , in fact ) and radiative transfer processes . using these modules ,",
    "amuse should be able to perform production quality simulations including all of these components .",
    "the modular structure of amuse facilitates comparison of physics modules and enables exploration of assumptions and approximations that is difficult or impossible with other simulation codes .",
    "we have used amuse to compare the effect of changing the stellar evolution prescription on an otherwise identical simulation , and used that to demonstrate that `` small '' differences between prescriptions are , in some cases , significant in the cluster s evolution .",
    "the ability to directly compare individual scientific codes within a multi - physics simulation is a novel property of a modular framework .      *",
    "the users of simulation codes , who may now select codes from a `` menu '' of choices , * those who interpret simulation results , who can now easily compare different implementations of the same underlying physics head - to - head , and * authors of new codes , who may focus their code on a single area of physics , knowing that it may be linked to a multi - physics environment easily , and that cross - validation of their work with existing codes can be accomplished by performing controlled experiments against established modules .",
    "we thank arjen van elteren for his help with the new amuse interfaces .",
    "this work has been supported by nasa grants nnx07ag95 g and nnx08ah15 g , and by nsf grant ast0708299 . amuse is developed at the leiden observatory , a faculty of leiden university , and is funded by nova and nwo ( grants vici [ # 639.073.803 ] , amuse [ # 614.061.608 ] and lgm [ # 643.200.503 ] ) .",
    "part of the work was done while the authors visited the center for planetary science ( cps ) in kobe , japan , during a visit that was funded by the hpci strategic program of mext .",
    "another part was done while visiting the lorentz center .",
    "we are grateful to these centers for their hospitality .",
    "aarseth , s.j .",
    "1999 , , 111 , 1333 aarseth , s.j . &",
    "heggie , d.c .",
    "1998 , , 297 , 794 casertano , s. & hut , p. 1985",
    ", , 298 , 80 chernoff , d.f . &",
    "weinberg , m.d .",
    "1990 , , 351 , 121 drost , n. , maassen , j. , van meersbergen , m.a.j . ,",
    "2012 , arxiv:1203.032 eggleton , p.p . ,",
    "fitchett , m.j .",
    ", & tout , c.a .",
    "1989 , , 347 , 998 eggleton , p.p . , fitchett , m.j .",
    ", & tout , c.a . 1990 , , 354 , 387 ernst , a. , just , a. , berczik , p. , & olczak , c. 2011 , a&a , 536 , 64 fryxell , b. , olson , k. , ricker , p. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 131 , 273 fukushige , t. & heggie , d.c .",
    "1995 , , 276 , 206 gaburov , e. , harfst , s.m & portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "2009 , newa , 14 , 630 garcia , v. 2008 , phd thesis , universit de nice - sophia antipolis , sophia antipolis , france garcia , v. , debreuve , e. , & barlaud , m. 2008 , proc . of the cvpr workshop on computer vision on gpu , anchorage , ak , usa harfst , s. , gualandris , a. , merritt , d. , et al .",
    "2007 , newa , 12 , 357 harfst , s. , portegies zwart , s.f . , & mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    "2008 , astronomische nachrichten , 329 , 885 hurley , j. , pols .",
    ", & tout , c.a .",
    "2000 , , 315 , 543 iben , i. & renzini , a. 1983 , , 21 , 271 king , i.r .",
    "1966 , , 71 , 64 mcmillan , s.l.w . , portegies zwart , s. , van elteren , a. & whitehead , a.j . 2011 , in asp conference proceedings , 453 , 129 miller , g.e . &",
    "scalo , j.m .",
    "1979 , , 41 , 513 , f.  i. & portegies zwart , s. 2012 , , 420 , 1503 pelupessy , f.  i. , van elteren , a. , de vries , n. , mcmillan , s.l.w . , drost , n. , & portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "2013 , a&a , in press portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "& verbunt , f. 1996 , , 309 , 179 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "makino , j. , mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    ", & hut , p. 1999",
    ", , 348 , 117 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "mcmillan , s.l.w . , hut , p. , & makino , j. 2001 , , 321 , 199 portegies zwart , s.f .",
    ", mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    ", harfst , s. , et al .",
    "2009 , newa , 14 , 369 portegies zwart , s.f . , mcmillan , s.l.w . , & gieles , m. 2010 , , 48 , 431 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    ", van elteren , a. , pelupessy , i. , & de vries , n. 2013 , computer physics communications , 184 , 456 salpeter , e.e .",
    "1955 , , 121 , 161 springel , v. , yoshida , n. , & white , s.d.m .",
    "2001 , newa , 6 , 79 takahashi , k. & portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "2000 , , 535 , 759 vesperini , e. , mcmillan , s.lw .",
    ", & portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "2009 , , 698 , 615 walker , d.w .",
    "1994 , parallel computing , 20 , 657"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we perform a series of simulations of evolving star clusters using amuse ( the astrophysical multipurpose software environment ) , a new community - based multi - physics simulation package , and compare our results to existing work . </S>",
    "<S> these simulations model a star cluster beginning with a king model distribution and a selection of power - law initial mass functions , and contain a tidal cut - off . </S>",
    "<S> they are evolved using collisional stellar dynamics and include mass loss due to stellar evolution . after studying and understanding that the differences between amuse results and results from previous studies are understood </S>",
    "<S> , we explored the variation in cluster lifetimes due to the random realization noise introduced by transforming a king model to specific initial conditions . </S>",
    "<S> this random realization noise can affect the lifetime of a simulated star cluster by up to 30% . </S>",
    "<S> two modes of star cluster dissolution were identified : a mass evolution curve that contains a run - away cluster dissolution with a sudden loss of mass , and a dissolution mode that does not contain this feature . </S>",
    "<S> we refer to these dissolution modes as `` dynamical '' and `` relaxation '' dominated respectively . for salpeter - like initial mass functions </S>",
    "<S> , we determined the boundary between these two modes in terms of the dynamical and relaxation timescales . </S>"
  ]
}